

Opportunities exist at Baltimore Aircoil for 
engineers interested in design, research and · development, manufacturing, and marketing. A constant search for new and innovative ideas and the application 
of Baltimore Aircoilproducts across a broad range of market areas creates a need for many types of . · -· engineering knowledge and experience. · 
._'A:persorinel-representative . -from Baltimore Aircoil will be here for interviewing 
on _Thursday, Feb. 20th .·­
-Don't. miss this _opportunity! 
_Con.tact your employment counselor . . for exact time . 
. r .. 




Editor 
James Gresser 
Art Director Bill Weyland 
Production Manager John Phelan ·;' · 
Managing Editor' ­Sally Stanton -­
News Editor 
Jane Thornton 
Arts Editor · Katy Sullivan 
Sports Editor Bill Delaney 
Business Manager Sarah Bartzen 
Circulation Manager Paul DeBacco 
Staff Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Thomas J. Waldoch, Dave Beno, Annemarie Sullivan, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, Tara Carey, Mark Luppino, John Kenward, Mark Ondash, Dave Dreyer, John Harding, Tom Birsic, · Jack Pizzolato, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Kathy McEJroy, Dave Miller; Mike Sarahan, Nick Strittmatter, John M. Murphy, Mary Digan, Chris Meehan, Lonnie Luna, Mike Feord, Patrick Smid, Mark Hopkins, Bethann McGregor, Bob Gilroy, Rich Odioso, Tom McHale, Gregg Bangs, Eileen O'Grady, Paul Hess, John Vincent, Tom Moskow: 
Art ·& Photography Ed Brower, Bill Weyland, Bill Foglia, Joe Kuspin. 
The opinions expressed In the SCHOLASTIC 
aro those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, 
Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly 
during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address.all manu­scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. . copyright ® 1975 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be re­produced without permission. 

Volume 116, No. 9 January 31, 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINER 

4 Regional Diversity at ND ND students from across the country share their impressions of their homes. 
5 Boston 6 Southern Illinois 6 Philadelphia 7 Colorado 8 Montana· 8 Tampa 9 The Southwest 
10 Connecticut 10 Cleveland 11 Washington, D.~. 12 Iowa: 13 · Louisville 
FEATURES 

24 . Dan Devine -A candid interview with the new coach about his expectations for the upcoming year. 

27 The Autobiography of James S. Ward. 
REGULARS 14 Pe.ople Behind ND~. 15 Week in Distortion. 16 People at ND. 17 Perspe~tive. 26 , . Irish Sport Shorts. 29 -The Last Word. 
' ' 

Iilustrations: Photos on cover, 3, 4, 5, 13; 24, 25 by Bill Weyland / Photo on 7 by Rich Rohan / Photo on 9 by Bro. Just Paczesny / Photos on 11, 14, 16, 26, 29 by Ed Brower / Photo on 17 courtesy· of Notre Dame Magazine I Art on 32 by Foglia and Kuspin / Cover by Phelan / Photos on 27, 28 by Ralph Pennino / Photo on 30 courtesy, Delma Studios.­


Unity Without Uniformity? 
Unity without uniformity is a concept almost always associated with "the American Dream." For many Americans it means the opportunity for people with diverse backgrounds, interests, customs and abilities to live together and share themselves without losing their individuality. Diversity has therefore been seen as a_ way of enriching culture, a way to add more and deeper dimensions to the people called Americans. 
·But perhaps the melting pot is working too well. Fostered by the rapid, almost insane growth of tech­nology, and overbearing allure of affluence, perhaps what America faces is not unity without uniformity, but a stagnant homogenization. The comment so often made is that the country is getting smaller and smaller. You can travel from Atlanta to Chicago inside four hours. You can drive from South Bend to Denver inside a day. People change home towns at a staggering rate. The· family unit has grown from large, supportive groups to rootless, isolated units.. What does all this mean? 
_What about clothes? What about art? What about food? · Is there no way to kick the golden · arches habit? 
What about speech? What h~s happened and is 
happening to a rich, varied, colorful language? Nowa­
days it sounds like everybody's from Ohio. · · · 
Or what about the cities? Are they the cultural 
focal points of our society, or only like so many huge 
bins for a nation's waste? Is Miami another New York, 
Chicago another Los Angeles, Atlanta another Denver? 
If not, what is it that these cities still distinctly retain? 
What is happening to our land and natural re­
sources? 

As do most major universities, Notre Dame draws its students from all over the country. In the articles that follow, we asked·the members of our staff to make a personal response to their particular locale:· We asked them to try to answer the questions asked above. Their responses are varied and very personal. It would be . impossible to judge adequately the extent to which sterile homogenization is affecting our· country in tlie -amount of space we have available here. Nonetheless, perhaps these stories will give some small insight into 
the direction the country is taking. 
__:._James·Gresser 


Boston 
If you amble up onto the front porch of the Red I...ion Inn in Stock­bridge, Massachusetts, pick out a big wooden chair, and settle yourself down to · watch the town's main street go about its business, you'll probably get a good idea of the pace of.life inStockbridge. The town may impart to you a bit of its "atmo­sphere," its sense of itself-and, at the same time, you can rest your feet. Not a bad proposition. ,. 
the bad, the common and the un­common, the dignified and the ridiculous-and their precarious bal­ance cari fairly claim to represent Boston. If you would search these out, then explore the -streets and alleys, the parks, the prominent places and the hidden corners. Look at the institutions; listen to the peo­ple. Walk through Boston liKe a king surveying a newly acquired territory, and set no limits on· your 

· • If, on the other hand,· you ever tear yourself ·away from. that com­fortable chair, head east, and , find yourself in Boston wondering how to get a sense of what the city's about,· ·don't · even consider· sittirig down and :waiting for the place to unfold before you. The difference be­tween Stockbridge and Boston is more than just a' hundred'and twen­ty miles of turnpike;· an afternoon on a park bench in Boston ·will-show you, at best, a very narrow slice of the city..Like any other, it wears a thousand faces. Only a sense-of the juxtaposed elements_:,,_the good and 
JANUARY 31, 1975 curiosity. 
If you come in on ·. the subway and emerge from the underground station at Copley Square, you'll find yourself on Boylston Street, next to the main branch of the public li­brary. A vendor by the side door, hunching his shoulders against the cold, is peddling pretzels. Across the street, the Store 24 lists its merchan­dise in· the window: Milk, Bread, Toys, Friends, Eternal Life. Two blocks away, the Prudential Tower climbs fifty stories to the top of the skyline. If · you're not afraid of heights, you :can ride to the top and look out over the city. You won't 
really see Boston, though, unless you 
come back down and start walking. 
Around the corner, the stone steps 

of the library face on Copley Square, 
an oasis of open space hedged in by 
office buildings · and old Trinity 
Church,. recently sandblasted clean 
and· looking not a day over ninety­
five. The architecture is out-of-place, 
but its long history makes it invul­
nerable to encroaching progress. On 
the other side of Boylston are the 
first in an alphabetical procession of 
streets: Arlington, Berkeley, Claren­
don, Dartmouth, Exeter. And, in the 
center ring, the new John Hancock 
building pokes even higher into the 
sky than the· Prudential.' In'spite of 
·the distinction, it's a skyscraper with 
problems. When it neared comple­
tion and the windows were installed, 
onshore winds shattered them all, 
and the superstructure was boarded 
up while a team at M.I.T. worked on 
the matter. The answer?' Thicker, 
stronger windows that are now re­
placing the boards. Another detail 
that seems to have eluded architect 
I. M. "Wind Tunnel" Pei remains a problem: the position and size of the building funnel and intensify winds at the ·street levei as well, and a windy day is a tough one for pedestrians. 
Don't stand around waiUng for a 

breeze to spring up; head up Boyl­
ston and take a look at Boston Gar­
den. In the summer, it is at its best. 
The Swariboats then make their slow 
way around the lake; children throw 
bread to the ducks while their par­
ents hang onto their shirts to keep 
them aboard. The benches and walks 
are not very crowded. Old men rest 
on the benches, students read ·on the 
.grass, and businessmen pass through 
on their way to someplace else. On 
one side the · stately Ritz-Carlton 
· surveys the scene, and oh _another, the Boston Common stretches away towards· the narrow streets of the shopping district. In warmer weath­er the ·Hare Krishnas in saffron robes chant. on ·the sidewalk to a largely disinterested group of pas­sersby. The wall near the Park Street subway station is covered 
(Continued on page 18) 

Southern 
Illinois 
Three words characterize the peo­ple of southern Illinois-friendly, cons,ervative, and content. Without being smug about it, they-or rath­er we-are happy in our small towns..We live in. a comfortable world at a moderate pace-faster than the states to the south of us, but i:iot quite as frenzied as Chicago 
·to the north. Because the small-town atmosphere is so unique, it is not unusual for any citizen with a com­plaint to walk over to his mayor's house, call him by his first name, and sit down and talk over what­ever is the problem. There aren't many political scandals in our com~ munities because everybody knows everybody else and there are few secrets that . can be kept for long. There is also . an,. easy familiarity with the members of the police force and the fire department-how can there not be when they are all neigh­bors of . either · oneself or one's friends? 
Of course, there is the local news­paper, the miniature weekly Chicago Tribune in which everybody gets his name and/or picture at least once a year, and the other necessities for small-town life: the churches and bars. It seems that no matter how small our villages are, one is sure to .find at least three churches and three taverns in them. I suppose this is indicative of the type of sim­ple pleasures ,we ·engage in. For example, in our area bowling easily beats golf in popularity, and fishing and hunting have a great edge over racquetball. The latest pastime to strike the imagination of our youth, however, is ice hockey. We already have our fanatically devoted fans, and many families have made the long journey west to see the St. Louis Blues in action. 
Summer is a great time to visit our part of the". state. The region abounds with'county fairs and home­comings. People flock from miles , around to compete in or observe the many 4-H contests and livestock shows. There are rides, food, and entertainment. On a smaller basis,. but just as much fun, are the city­wide homecomings. Usually for the larger cities, these celebrations also offer many rides;-games, and shows in a carnival-type atmosphere. In the winter months high school sports are an important diversion for the popu­lation. Of course there are many cul­tural opportlinities in St. Louis­art museums: classical and rock con­certs, -lectures and universities-but the "Gateway to the West" is some distance away for many rural inhab­itants. Sometimes hayrides and wie­ner roasts just have to do. 
The p_eople's conservatism even in recreation can be seen in a recent 
(Continued on page 19) 


Philadelphia 
Your sense of smell is filled with a scent as crisp and fresh asthat of a series· of brand-new dollar bills; your ears, with the· sweet gurgle of gently filling swimming pools. Wa­tered by these · laughing ponds of pleasure, gently rolling tennis court hills · lie verdant with life and hope. All is peace and serenity; you are visiting the home of the American Dream-the Main Line of Phila­delphia. .· The Penn · Central railroad oper­ates a commuter line which runs northwest out of Philadelphia for about 20 miles. This set of tracks stretches from downtown Philadel­phia to a town called Paoli, in the 
_ area of Valley Forge Park, and gives the Main Line its name. A series.of towns and villages developed along this line, first as ·"country" homes for the wealthy, leading families of 
the city; later developing into a modern suburban sprawl but retain-. ing its . exclusivity. However,. as 
urban sprawl: ;follows suburban•·· the most fund-raising events, to keep 
sprawl, the Lower·: Main Line has been infiltrated by common elements,' and the true spirit of upper middle class regularity is now found to. be concentrated in the Upper Main Line -that half of the Main Line which is closer to Paoli and Valley Forge than it is to Philadelphia. 
Its location gives rise to a strange irony-the Upper Main Line, a sym­bol of the American Dream, next door to Valley Forge Park, a symbol of the American Ideal. At· Valley 
· Forge, the men of the Continental Army survived a cruel winter by working together. and sharing the few essentials they had. The Amer~ 
ican Ideal of freedom and equality which they fought and· suffered to­gether for is commemorated there. Inythe Upper Main Lirie, · people struggle desperately to accumulate · the signs of financial success, to ful.; fill the American Dream-to have two cars in every·garage (or at least . a two-car garage on every house), to have a steak in every broiler, to belong to the local country club, to have clean-cut, all-American kids, to give the best luncheons, to appear at 
ahead of the Joneses, to be. alive, upper, middle class, American and regular. _Their Dream is to be more powerfui' than others, to. be higher in the· social hierarchy than most. The Ideal commemorated at Valley Forge was a country, where no one would be more powerful than anyone else, a country whose social hier­archy would only . consist . of one position. But maybe not. 
Perhaps there is a subtle contra­diction of that irony. Dotted around Valley Forge are small wooden huts about .six feet tall, six · feet long and four.. wide. These huts or ones 
>. (Continued on page 21) 
.THE SCHOLASTIC 



Colorado
. . ­

There are places in the mountains 
Where I've often been before 
I go thdre to be thoughtful .· 
To make peace with my own world 
I walk in the gentle valleys 
And lean upon the trees · I talk to simple solemn peaks· 
And listen to the streams 
Yesl've come to know the mountains 
And they've come to know me 
And in our quite solitude . · 
There'.s respect and there is peace 
. Colorado is definitely an outdoors-

man's paradise, no matter what the 
time of year or how .you· find your 
pleasure. In summer, the sun rises 
over ·thousands_ of · mue campfires 
that mark the resting places of tour­
ists, like George and Martha Land­
owner from East Orange, N.J., who 
have established their residency in 
huge Air Stream trailers. -In most of 
our National and State _Parks and 
Forests you can move _in for any 
length of time with all the comforts 
of home and still enjoy the majesty 
of the Western Wilds. However, in 
many places, horses have been re­
cently replaced by numerous trail-
motorcycles that are everywhere 
buzzing through meadows, around 
trees (usually), over boulders and 
across the remains of what used to 
be called wildlife. (If the life was 
wild before, it is now dangerous!) 
But there are also dude ranches 

where, for a nominally outrageous 
price, you may have more than the 
comforts of your own-hoine while 
experiencing the old West as it never 
really was, due to a lack of basic 
electricity. Horses, square dances, 
chuck-wagon dinners and hay rides 
are all included, and golf, swimming, 
saunas and .cattle (lurking behind 
authentic barbed-wire fences), are 
optional; but worth the extra price. 
However; if you are a local fellow, 
or like to think of yourself as such, 
there is still another optiori open to 
you. You may choose to save your 
dollars (and it takes a lot of dollars 
these ,days), until you can afford to 
JANUARY 31, 1975 buy a very light-weight nylon pack, a pair of hiking boots that you could set a broken ankle in, a down sleep­ing bag and an assortment of uten­sils that may be carried for unknown numbers of miles a day upon your very own back. . 
My friends and I are definitely members of this: latter group, and like to head across country to where no man has ever been before (Ha! Fat chance of that!). It's quite a feeling · · of independence knowing that you carry your home with you, and are; for the most part, respon­sible for yourself. One time,'iny best friend and_ I had packed rather far into the wilderness, only to be forced into our little two-man tent to es­cape a heavy rainstorm. In the middle of the night the storm blew the tent down, and as we struggled 
. to put it back up we thought we were being watched by a bear. Now here's a suggestion for you: if you think a bear is interested in your activity, stop your activity immedi­ately and pretend you do not exist, because if you don't, the chances are that you'll never get to pretend again. (Wilderness Rule #1: Do Not Feed the Bears.) 
But now, you might be wondering why a civilized man would want to carry a 35-50-pound pack into the uninhabited wilderness. Well, think the answer is to be found in my question (which is convenient for me); some of us just need to go where other people are not likely to be found. Any place that is easy to get to is bound to be more or less crowded, and the crowds somehow spoil · the scenery. Backpacking is something you enjoy doing if ·the wind bl_ows within you an·d not against you, and if you have that insatiable curiosity that makes you want to hike to whatever might be over the next hill, or around the next ledge, or up in the next tree. It's these things and a sort of_ social frustration, that make you want to include Nature as one of your very best· friends, and one that you must visit with intimately . 


But, of course, it's not always summer in Colorado .... 
A freezing night beneath the stars A Harvest moon that stares Summer's not been long enough For all the things we dare Colors played like· kaleidoscopes Are salted through the hill.s . A,s memories like leaves will float Around our fires fighting chills And it's slowly coming to me How quickly time must fall If it wasn't for the seasons I'd miss the changing of it all 
The arrival of fall in the Rockies is a sight to be seen from around 
(Continued on page 22) 
The Chinook wind is our built-in 

Montana 
Montana: The Treasure State, Big 

Sky Country, Land of Shining Mountains. To most people, Mon­tana is no more than a slogan or a picture from a brochure promoting a chance to escape from crowded polluted city . life· to a beautiful wilderness area. The people who live there, however, ~nd life to be quite ordinary..With a population of less than 700,000, the state boasts under 4 people/sq. mi. on its more than 147,000 sq. mi. of land. Billings and .Great Falls are the state's two largest cities, each with a population · of about 80,000. I live in Great Falls which is located on the Mis­souri River just east of the Rocky 
Mountains. · 
Four distinct seasons make up 

Montana's climate. Each season is 
characterized not only by its weather 
conditions but also by the multitude 
of outdoor activities associated with 

Tampa 
In the lastcity election, the major issue discussed by the city council and mayoral candidates was the city's growth; and with good cause. Last year, according to a recent article in The Tampa Tribune, new residents poured into the state of Florida at a rate of 7,700 per week, and the burden of these new resi­dents fell, of course, primarily on those areas of the state already densely populated: Miami, Jackson­ville, Orlando and the . Tampa-St. Petersburg area. It. is projected.that the state's population will reach ten million by 1979. 
That kind of growth can't help but tremendously affect· the makeup and the character of· the state and its cities. 
The question oi growth that is . foremost in the minds of Tampa citizens is not at all restricted to this it. Our lives ·are closely linked with our natural surroundings, and we seek to spend every spare moment outside. , 
Our longest season is .winter and Montana winters can be rough. There are always a few . days. when the temperature never gets above 20 below. The ground is frozen thick with snow. The sky, blue-black and cloudless. When it's this cold, the moisture in the air freezes and in­finitesimal ice crystals form. These particles are so small that you can't feel them, but you can see them glit­tering everywhere in the air. It can­not snow when the temperature is so low. These cold days do not halt our lives, however.· We keep a fire going in the fireplace for additional heat and we bundle up before 'going outside. It is rare for Montana busi~ nesses and schools to close due to inclement weather. 
town. The amazing inflow of north­
ern people and northern money is 
being felt in areas throughout the 
southern states. It is possible, how­
ever, to look at Tampa as a southern 
microcosm and see in its successes 
and failures those being experienced 
throughout the South. 
Tampa is · undergoing the same growth process that is having devas­tating effects on most of the South's larger.cities. Tampa, like the others, is finding itself forced to lose its charm and southern lifestyle to the furious lifestyle of northern cities (by northern, I mean just about everything that isn't southern). Be­cause it is located in a boom state . like Florida, Tampa's sprawling ex­pansion has had even greater effect. It has often been said that Florida is not really a part of the true South, and while basically I would tend to 
relief from the subzero tempera­
tures. A warm, dry wind which 
descends the eastern slopes of the 
Rockies, it . is a welcome visitor 
throughout the winter. When it 
"Chinooks," the temperature rises to 
40 degrees, the snow melts, and we 
enjoy one or two spring-like days in 
the middle of winter. 
There is a lot of skiing to be found around Montana. We frequent a "day-area" about 70 miles . from Great Falls which is known for its deep powder. A Saturday , or Sunday , is well-spent skiing. We enjoy, the local area mostly because of its con­venience. There are also larger re­sorts which are fun for a weekend or so. They aren't· as elaborate as the famous Colorado areas, but they are much less crowded and provide ex­cellent skiing'. Most ski areas in the state open in November and op'erate until March or April __:, the "sun~ , bathe on the slopes" months .. · As the snow gets mushy and the rocks re­appear, however, the ski · season 
melts into spring. . . 
(Continued on page 23) 

disagree, it is tnie that of all the southern states perhaps it has lost and is losing the most of its char~ acter. Look at cities like Atlanta, Nashville and Mobile' and you know that what's happened to ,Florida can't be too far off for the rest of the region. 
Unfortunately, ·the major mani­festation. of the loss · of · southern character is the cities, and Tampa is no exception. Outside, this city and the other· major Florida cities, in otherwords in the northern and cen­tral portions of the state, one can still see ·much· of.the southern char­acter.~-Tampa, like other cities," has been forced to become not a center of cultural :growth serving the rest of the state,· but just a larger con­centration of people; people trying to live.at the faster pace of northern cities at the expense of everything good in the southern way of life. 
Tampa used to be known as the center of Latin culture in the·state. The Spanish .and Italian influences are very :strong in the state, es­pecially in Tampa, and the city bore their marks in its food, its entertain­ment, its ·architecture and in many 
(Continued on page 20) 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

sense of direction. A stick is placed in his hands so that he can try to hit the pinata in three tries. If he is . 
unsuccessful, the next youngster takes over. This continues until the pinata is broken and all the candy
The Southwest 
The land of the tumbleweeds,· the saguaro. cactus, the migrant worker, the burrito and chile, where dust storms prevail and rain is. scarce ­this region is scarred by mountains and blemished by forests; this is the Southwest. This acreage .has • seen many a war and many a_ flag. This territory . once. knew the Spanish conquistado7:es in .. search of: the Cities. of Gold, th_e missionaries sent to Christianize the Indians, the many Indian. tribes -:-:-Apache, Papago, Hopi, Navajo, Comanches and many others. 
The Spanish culture has touched almost every. aspect of life ·in the Southwest, a relatively dry terrain except for the forests of Arizona and New Mexico; avestige of the Iberian culture exists in ninety percent of the names in . the · area. In New Mexico, for example, in Lincoln Na­tional Forest, there is a town called Ruidoso, or "noisy," appropriately called by the Spanish visitors be­cause of the noisy brooks and streams that echoed in the moun­tains of Lincoln National Forest. An­other town, in the · same region, is called Carrizozo, or "very reedy"; the word carrizo means "ditch reed." The city of Albuquerque, the home of the University of New Mex­ico,· located in the northwestern mountains, is named. after the Duke of Albuquerque, a duke during the reign of Spain. Likewise, in .El Paso· del Norte, the city was given this name because, at that time, it was · the ·only_ "pass ·of the north" to the rest oi the Southwest. · The conquistadores · would depart from Tenochtitlan, or . Mexico City, and journey northward and establish the city of El Paso on the western­most tip of Texas as a stopping point before continuing their journey. However, in northern New Mexico, the town of Taos is named after, the Taos Indians. · Arizona is character­ized by .the Indian culture and when the Spanish journeyed through the state, they began to intermarry. and thus cause the intermingling of the 
two cultures. This did not in any 
.way change the Spanish life-style and. culture but instead added to it. The Indian_s taught. the Spanish.the arts of farming, pottery making and many other things. 
The , life-style in Phoenix is no different than in El Paso, Las Cru-. ces, or Albuquerque. Culturally, they are aH sister cities, neighbors even though they are geographically sep­arated. Mexico, a cousin to the Southwest, will remain a close in­fluence, a close intimate. The South­western culture is a . mixture of spills from the entrails. An occasipn like this is quite alegre. Another oc­casion that Americans do not cele­brate is a girl's 15th birthday. On this day it is the custom of her par­ents to. proclaim .''legal to date" by giving her a .quinzaniera.. A quin­zaniera is very.enjoyable because it assumes a wedding-like appearance. The girl having the . quinzaniera chooses fifteen·. of ·her girl friends with their escorts, symbolic of her fifteenth year of life: The occasion begins with a Mass with the girl and her boyfriend at the altar, _as if in a wedding: · Following the Mass, a re­ception where all the girl's relatives give her their regards and congratu-

Spanish and · American. For. every occasion the Americans have,. there is. a certain way the Mexican-Ameri­cans celebrate it. On birthdays, for example, the celebration is entirely different. As is the American cus­tom, the child receives gifts butfrom there on, the party takes on a differ­ent perspective; A beautifully dec­orated pinata. :(a clay pot, .deco­rated with different .colors of crepe paper.and newspaper in the form.of an animal. or bird, filled to the brim with edibles) hangs.in the, patio, or courtyard,· awaiting the young­sters. The birthday child begins the fun by being blindfolded and then spun around ;to ; make, him ·1ose his lations follows. After a .brief rest after the. reception, a magnificent dance follows. The birthday girl· is introduced to the general dance pub­lic as in a wedding and then is followed by her "bridesmaids." · At the dance, the girl has become legal for dating. 
The ·mere mention . of• the South­west brings water to. the mouth as the thought of all the. delicious exotic foods runs through the hungry mind. The one food typical of this region is the ·little green. flame· ­the jalapeno. This three-inch green pepper. has caused much discomfort in the bowels of the. eaters. The 
(Continued on page 19') 

· Understandably, it is the people of Cheshire more than any of these an­cestral relics that are most memor­


Connecticut 
Cheshire, Connecticut, is a small New England town that has many of the characteristics most people ac­quaint with such communities. The center of town looks much as it did ~hen Cheshire was· first founded, a cluster of meticulously cared for white clapboard houses surrounding a town green· bearing · Civil War, WWI and WWII memorials. A Prot­estant church with a majestic steeple reaching proudly into the sky faces the town hall, last renovated during the depression by the Works Prog­ress Administration. 
A modern concession is the re­placement of the hard-to-maintain clapboard with aluminum siding, a sacrilege our forefathers would curse as loudly, and probably as effectively, as they cursed automobiles and wom­en's suffrage. The Congregational church has been expanded and the steeple was brought down and re­built, voluntarily, in the late '60's to prevent its falling down on its own. The .nearby Episcopalian church, founded in the early 1700's and· re­built following a spectacular blaze in the mid-1800's, still has the orig­inal graveyard alongside its now red brick· walls. 
Many of the town's founding fam­ilies, whose names can be found on the streets and oldest businesses in town, have their names etched into these now weatherbeaten tombstones. One of the most popular days in Sunday School was the day first-and second-graders carried pieces of charcoal and tracing paper out to the site to try and reveal where their great-great-grandparents might have been laid to rest. 

Cleveland 
.,.:·?::· . A city loses no time, it draws no )]fs-?.'·:co'ndusions; it cannot be subtle, can­"'~0Z~\ riot·· compare · the possible to the 
·>):~<probable: it is and is because it is · ,. ·, only a possibility that reaches the length it does; but here . now is a singular impression, a thought on one day of a thought one day which was turned to the direction of a sight. Midwest means from the suburbs (right now) To the city (right then) whatever you mean the land to be. The land is no .virgin; no young one to shelter -the skin· is parched, dried and surfaced in concrete, and much is to do anymore else to do the bastard child up right. Yes once and once upon a time was once a time one could know the sun would clear the musty holds and shiver from the night, rise in its way despite any holds 
10 
imposed by morning -mourning now the particles collected, detriments, detrimental, deleterious to survival; the smoke of a factory smokes smoke cinders forever more you cari answer. No need to visit, no need to cringe under the sea ·_ your you're·must needs be needed, must needs be anymore 
than some one more enveloped next week: 
stare at the stairs, the words rhyme, the 
clock is timed. Sounds, occasion certainty away, animal throats anthem experience proffered.-animals know and no, you do not, know. Ribbon, wax, propound your step, retract your gait on exit: the chairs too knowable to neglect, the life able. The landmarks stand out only as an outward indication of where the townspeople's sentiments lie. The old buildings remain intact and even refurbished because generations of Cheshire's families have grown up with them and look upon them as structural extensions of their own homes. For a ·parent in Cheshire, tearing up the town green would be like dismantling' the swing set ·or tree for( he built in his backyard. Both will remain as long as children are around to enjoy them. · 
This resistance to change is the strength and the . weakness of my hometown and its positive and nega­tive aspects· can be seen in the class­mates from my graduating class. After three years· have gone by, the graduates from my class at Cheshire High School still in town at Christ­mas time can generally be divided into three groups: those who. are going to college, . those · who fried university life and rejected it or were rejected by it and. those who never left. Each of these groups can 
(Continued on page 21) 

jacket loosed foo tightly, an answer too ready to answer. Time was once, was once, there once was a time when once you once onced like a black hole.·· and knew the perimeter of the stars; winter skies now coldly rest in shades only parodied by the ground -the· white like your life you thought was white when now is once a time you cannot once away -for every carcinogen it expels, the air breathes. Every wheel that crosses, turns, . rides the skin to tired-ti.med limits, scrapes along the long way· around -n'.o enigmas, no challenges, no questions -yes assurance, . yes recurrence, yes to be at place in fifteen minutes; do not step lightly, · step hard, step down, you too are turning , a wheel, a wheel turning you;· a real too much of a real for you to surface, circumvent or expound: 
(Continued on page 22) 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Washington, D.C. 
It is hard for me to react to Washington, D.C. -without consider­ing the Watergate incident and the fall of the President. While these events have now_ receded from the public view in favor of the economy and energy, .the city seems clearest to me seen through the experience of the past summer, for it emphasized that Washington was, in fact, a human habitation. 
The city, with its monuments and monumental public figures, often im­presses both visitors and residents with the sense of its being larger than life, beyond the scope of the everyday concerns of other cities. Wit_h the ready availability of na­tional prominence and influence who are called ·by the promise of change (whether for the better or for profit). And they come each year, looking for that chance opening to \he center of the structure. 
An unfortunate few do find their way to the upper levels. President. Vice-President. "President's right­hand man." Here the power they dreamed of can turn back on them and destroy them. For the Watergate defendants it happened so quickly that, in many cases, it was just a moment of decision or indecision that could not be reversed. 
But it was the city that would not let it be reversed since under its blinding scrutiny no ambitious man could admit human limitations. And 

within its boundaries, it does afford the opportunity for a step outside the normal flow of life. Watergate's les­son, however, was that there are lim­its: one's steps must not take one too far from realities.: 
That is easier said than done in the environment of Washington, for 
.it nurtures dreams and dreamers. The city is characterized, of course with justification, as a place where decisions are reached, where things happen, and many are drawn to this concentration of power as if by mag­netic attraction. These are the dreamers -people of great ambi~ tions and natural human limitations 
JANUARY 31, 1975 it was Washington; D.C., that led to the rise of the problem for the Ad­ministration in the first' place. Egil Krogh, in his testimony before. the Watergate committee, said that there was no way to prepare a man for the power that this city is will­ing to give him; · · 
Put simply, Washington serves as a catalyst for the grand schemes and personal perspectives that can, ·and do, -lead -to disaster. It brings to its borders men with egos large enough to think they can lead the 200-plus millions of the nation, and, incred­ibly, it invites them in, not with res­ervations, but with open arms. I 
The city, then, is .power for those willing to exercise it. But what of stability in the city of the nameless and the powerless? What of the limi­tations to power that basic humanity can offer? · 
Permanence is here, to be sure, in some instances almost to the point of stagnation. But its influence. is usually unseen, sandwiched in some­
-
where between the glaring super­ficialities of the "official" Washing­ton and the network of interlaced secrets by which the city really oper­ates. 
The tempering human element of the city, however, did make a rare. public appearance in the progress of the Watergate investigations and trials. In this conflict between power and justice, the offenders, . the. po­litical elite, were shown· to be un­mistakably, of our own species, and it was even expected that they should be. Ruth Gould, one of the jurors in the conspiracy trial brought to a close on January 1, gave her reason for the conviction of the major figures: "They should have to do things the way that we do." 
The simple logic of this statement presents a great hope for the city because it cuts through the aura of power, but it should not be taken too far.· The limits on power in Wash~ ington are not strong . and not usually invoked. 
To believe that stability will ever be the controlling interest in Wash­ington is to misunderstand the city, for while its people will not allow their leaders to blatantly break the law, they certainly do not expect the upper level to "do things the way we do" in all respects. Washingto­nians_ glory in the reflected light of camera flashes. They enjoy the close, though vicarious, association with power. 
But this is, after all, another side of human nature. And Washington is a human city.. In the underlying strength of the city demonstrated by the Watergate investigators and the gross delusions of Nixon'. and· his men, in the sophistication of the celebrity and the unabashed boor­ishness of his fan; and in the ideal­ism of the uninitiated and'the jaded cynicism of those who have stayed too long -in all these ways and many more, the city is a measure of man himself. 
-Mike Sarahan 

25,000 Iowans, is just one of many people-free environment, all em­companies that turn out farm equip­barrassment and ridicule have van­

Iowa 
"... Iowa, Iowa, that's where the tall corn grow,s." That's the way the song goes. Iowans have enjoyed singing this line for years, but re­cently, the facts behind the words give Iowa's immense agricultural productivity a new meaning. 
As the problem of feeding the world becomes more acute, increased demands will fall upon food pro­ducing areas for additional output. Iowa, with its gigantic and well-oiled agricultural machine, will · play a vital -'role in confronting this enor­mous task of battling world hunger. Today, from its rolling pastures and endless . fields, Iowa .ranks first in the nation in value of agricultural output. It ranks second in . agri­cultural exports to other countries, pointing up Iowa's importance in feeding a hungry world. 
As the lyrics indicate, corn does grow in Iowa and it is, indeed, tall. Corn remains Iowa's number one crop. It is this staple which makes the state's corn-fed beef a desirable commodity throughout the nation. At first sight, the amount of corn planted is overwhelming. On ·. an August drive through· the country­side, cornfields seem to engulf one's entire vision .. The farmhouses dot­ting the horizon appear as tiny islands in a vast, green· sea. Iowa's soil is as rich as soil anywhere. Not only is Iowa bountifully blessed with fertile -land, but also with· a proper mixture of the right amount of rain­fall and . hot summers · necessary for the production of coin. 
With the current recession the na­tional unemployment rate has grown · to over seven per cent, while Iowa's has remained less than half that fig­ure. The state's vitalic economy is a result of . a convenient balance of agriculture arid industry. The · tie between the two is.unique, as much of the state's. industry is agricul­turally related: Just as the business of raising food is important, so also is the business of harvesUng it. To do this, farm machinery is needed and the. manufacturing of these ma­chines forms a major industry in the state. John· ·Deere, which ·employs 
ment. Buyers of this equipment 
come not only from the Midwest, but 
from the entire country and around 
the world .. Other industries such as 
meatpacking, the making of fertil­
izers and seeds, and food processing 
give jobs to thousands and at the 
same time erase the necessity of'.go­
ing outside the state to supply its 
agricultural needs. 
The ·harmony between agriculture 

and industry is not only evident · in 
the larger cities, but in the smaHer 
ones as well. A considerable portion 
of -Iowa's industry is located in· the 
numerous rural towns of three .to 
ten thousand people. Iowa is. for­
tunate in that it contains no one ma­
jor city to siphon off an overshare of 
the .state's resources. Des Moines is 
the capital and largest city with 
only a quarter of a million people. 
For this reason, much of the indus­
trial burden is left to small towns 
which causes even greater symmetry 
in the economics of Iowa. 
With no major city, an abundance of small towns, and farmland which appears to continue forever, a visitor to Iowa gets the impression that not too many people live in the state. A · population of just over three million 
shows that observation to be not far· 
from correct. Few Iowans, however, 
are · complaining. They enjoy the 
freedom that comes .with a scarcity 
of people and they aren't anxious to 
relinquish it. ' 
In fact, during the:1960's, Iowa's 

population declined steadily;· az:~us­
ing some concern about· the· state's 
future. Since 1970, however, as are­
sult of the current exodus from ur­
ban to rural life, Iowa's population 
is once again on a· slow upward 
trend. The state's job market of re­
cent years has been such as to pro­
vide opportunities both in the cities 
as well-_as .the towns. As .a. result, 
people moving to Iowa have been 
able, in most cases, to settle in the 
type of city which suits them best. 
Unlike the inhabitants of many cities 
across the country, Iowa city-dwell­
ers are never more than. a few.min­
utes away from wide-open spaces .. 
Iowa has always retained its small­. town character, even in its larger 
cities. · This used to be a subject of 
embarrassment and ridicule. How­
ever, with the present desire to move 
out of the big city and into a more 
ished. ·As tliis shift in population becomes. fashionable, Iowa appears to be·right in style... 
.It is only fitting that some of the state's most notable people have come.from the hamlets of Iowa. For instance, Glenn Miller, the "King of Swing" who, entertained millions during World War TI with his big band sound; was born in Clarinda, Iowa, a town of six thousand people. Twenty miles southwest of Clarinda is the community of Corning, the hometown of. comedian Johnny Carson, with, a population of two thousand. The. first president born west of the· Mississippi River was Herbert Hoover in West Branch, Iowa, a town half the· size of Corn­ing. As a boy, Baseball Hall of Farner Bob Feller developed his fastball by '. pitching roe.ks against the side of a barn on a farm near Van Meter, Iowa. Van Meter has four hundred inhabitants. Artist Grant Wood achieved national fame for his painting "American Gothic" and also depicted rural scenes near his home in Stone City, Iowa. Today, one hun­dred people live there. 
Iowa's educational opportunities continue to be plentiful as evidenced by the state's llaving the highest literacy rate of any state in the union. Its unusually large number of private universities attract speakers, touring symphonies, and dramatic productions direct from Broadway for all Iowans to take advantage of. 
Iowans are very much aware that in their state they have a good thing going/ A recent program designed to take a look at Iowa's future called "Iowa 2000 Project" has gotten tens of thousands of·-. people thinking, 
working, and planning_ on the Iowa 
of· tomorrow. The state contains no towering snowcapped . peaks, death­defying canyons, or rushing moun­tain streams. · But Iowans take a deep pride in the beauty stemming from Iowa's immense land productiv­its that would be difficult to match anywhere else. As ·th.e world's food situation continues to. deteriorate, this beauty will unfold even. more. Iowans are extremely conscious of the happy oalance that exists be­tween . farms,• factories, . ·cities, and towns, which all add up to the "good life" in the Hawkeye State. 
·.. --Nick Strittmatter 
•. THE SCHOLASTIC 

English, Irish, Scots, Africans (dating from original settlement) 
and· Germans who represent the V city's only major influx due to im­·migration. This population make-up 
has remained the same since then. 


Louisville 
Louisville is a river city. It is the focal point of a state that has rivers as Colorado has mountains, as Mich­igan has·_ lakes, as Arizona has deserts.· Kentucky has more miles of navigable streams_ than any other state except Alaska., And Kentucky owns the stretch of the Ohio River at Louisville, all the way to the Indiana shore. Geographically, however, it's the undisput~d natural '. boundary betweeJ?,_ Louisville. and. the towns of New Albany and Jeffersonville, Ind. 
Louisvillians are very proud of the river. The tallest· and· newest buildings orient· the downtown to­ward it. Homes line the. shore and mansions crown -the river bluffs in the suburbs. To the east are the private clubs with terraces overlook­ing the' river.' To the west are the huge water-linked= industrial com­plexes . 
. The boat. is 1.ot.iisville's favorite form ·of recreation equipment. From May to October trailer-mounted boats and st:rapped~down canoes are a -common sight -on· expressways leading to and :from the water. The 
· river . itself. is . a:.·· twe~ty".'four-hour panorama of ·sailboats .and house­boats, of fishermen and. water skiers, of cruisers ·and huge barges _laden 
. with raw· freight. But the :Belle· of ·Louisville; • a_ one~and-orily stem­·wheeling, ·calliope-tooting ghost from the past is tfre _focus of the river wheneve~' it makes orie of' its after­nooii or ~vening cruises. The "Belle" is orily one of -the examples of a charmed history which gives Louis­ville a character of its own.. ' ' 
:In 1773 Louisville's first -tempo­rary. settlement was made but it was not, until 1779 that the area was permanently settled. The site. of ~his permanent··settlement:.was. at. the mouth of the Beargrass Creek• on the ·southern side. of the Ohio River, just above the Falls of the Ohio. The falls· are more like, rapids but they did pose enough.of a barrier to force travelers to stop, at least·momentar­ily. This in·. itself was. enough to 
JANUARY 31, 1975 force asettling of the ·area, but in addition to the necessity of this site selection is the -alluring beauty of the area. Above the falls for six miles the river stretches out·· i~to a broad smooth sheet of water, a· mile in width, and the Kentucky shore offers an immense surface of level area which gave the site a par­ticular. potential for urban devel­opment. 
The first• major jump ·in. popula~ tion coincided-with the_ . beginnings of the· first • of . two major eras . of prosperity. • In 1811 the · steamboat appeared, bringing • with -it_ an in­crease in population ·from. i300 to 4000 between 1810 and 1820. Louis­ville developed ·as a commercial _cen­ter with· Main Street and the wharf providing the focus for city activity. But ·until· 1822, when · the, swampy low-lying areas surrounding the city ... were drained,.there were severe epi­demics of. disease which ·-brought the label "Graveyard of the West" and severely . limited. population growth. By 1825 ·the city finally built a canal to allow river traffic to bypass-the ar~a· of the falls,, and by 1831 Louisville had become the largest pork • and · tobacco market in the United States;· The city popula­tfon at"this ·time was made up of 
In 1850 the railroad arrived ·in Louisville beginning the second era of prosperity and giving the city a new focus of activity. The city re­oriented itself 'to the new center of commercial life, the raHroad station, leaving the riverfront to become an 
. area . of warehouses. The r~ilroad also brought. a change in the source of Louisville's vitality. The entrepot characteristics of the steamboat era gave way as the railway gave Louis­ville a cheap source of power (the Kentucky coal basin lies directly to 
' . 

the west) and-_magnifled the .poten­
tial of its central location; The most 
essentiaJ aspect, of_ this. shift toward 
industry is that the success of indus­
try in Louisville -was based on _cheap 
power and efficient transportation, 
and this appealed to a diverse _range 
of industrialists. _ _ ..· 
The industrial influx__ reached its height· in -the 1880's and Louisville enjoyed .a·• high le'Vel _of -• prosperity into the 1920's. Louisville was a Pl"Q­gressive . thriving . center ,of trans­portatioµ.and industry. It,was also a _center of. education and the arts. But as the end. of the 1920's ap-· proached, . the city~s prominence began to decline. _• . The.end of-Louisville's most pros­perous era came. because. the pro­gressive •. vitality of _the .city was 
•stifled into an indifference which 
(Continued on,pa.ge 20) 



.People ,ehind. ND 
Patty Fenelon: Librarian 

One of the characteristics that 
seems to make Notre Dame some­
what unique among university com­
munities is the almost inexplicable 
warmth and satisfaction that univer­
sity employees feel for having been . 
connected with it. Such is certainly 
the case with·Patty Fenelon, assist­
ant reference librarian in the Notre 
Dame Memorial Library. But as she 
finds this community and the library · 
work extremely fulfilling, . many 
others, students and faculty alike, 
find Patty herself to be rather mem­
orable as well. · · 

Davenport, Iowa, happened to be the place where she was born and therefore also the first segment of her life until high school gradua­tion. From 1952-1956, she attended Cardinal Stritch College in Mil­waukee, receiving a Bachelorof Arts degree in History. At that time, she was fortunate, and bright enough, to attain a Woodrow Wilson Fellow­ship in Oriental Studies for graduate work at the University of Pennsyl­vania. She stayed there for one year, concentrating on South Asia. To qualify for this Fellowship, she was required to have a background in four languages, which she had. .She knew Latin,· Greek, French. and German, and picked up Sanskrit at Pennsylvania; "Languages are my thing," Patty explains. But it seems that there was a lot more to her than just that. After completing her fellowship, she then came to Notre Dame as a: clerk for a number of years, when she experienced the first feeling of compassion for a place that she originally sought as a sane­
tuary. · 
"After I left Penn," Patty said, "I 
had no idea what to do so I came to 
Notre Dame~" Why? "Because it was 
Catholic." With this basic rationale 
working apparently in her favor, she 
decided to devote herself completely 
to the library field. She attended 
Columbia Library School in New 
York City for two years during the 
tumultuous protest demonstrations 
of the late sixties. It was there that 
Patty first discovered a phenomenon 
that has . been ·with her ever since. 

While observing a demonstration ·during the famous Columbia student strike of 1968, a student walked up to her and asked if she worked at the library at Notre Dame. · 
As Patty explains, "You can't get 
away from Notre Dame. I had a 
friend who went vacatio.ning. at 
Mount Kilimanjaro and · the first 
thing he. saw there, after leaving 
here, was· a Notre Dame ·sweatshirt." 
This worldwide identification with 
other Notre Dame people surfaces 
even· today, Patty claims. Talking 
about· all the communication· and 
correspondence she still receives 
from graduated Notre Dame stu­
dents· who · knew· her, she says, 
"They've called from the Canary 
Islands." Hardly anyone would dis­
pute that Patty is quite unforget­
table. . 
· After· completing her study at Co­

lumbia, she .came back to Notre Dame and has worked full-time as a librarian and part-time as a student for the pastfive years. She just qual­ified for her PhD .in English from Notre Dame last September. Three years ago, she received a Master. of Arts· degree in English here as well. · So now she· has established herself here, having bought a house in South Bend, and. committed herself to Ii­brary work. Besides the fact that 
she is editor of the Library News­letter ("I've· been an editor all my life, since high school.") and has interviewed such literary notables as John Matthias and Carvel Collins for that publication, ·she also has. some rather interesting ideas about a col­lege library. 
"We've got to be connected With what the kids are doing," she says in relating her belief that the library should have a direct relation to the university curriculum so. as to'help students more adequately. "I be­lieve we (the librarians). are phe­nomenally involved with teaching the kids," she continued. · · 
As well as being an assistant refer­ence librarian, Patty is also "the whole Collection Development De­partment. There's nothing more important than buying · books and libr;irians that read them," she said in reference to 'q.er claim that li­brar!ans have a responsibility to be iI_1tellectually link~ with the stu­dents. While nobody. who knows Patty doubts the validity of that achievement in her case, it is even more interesting to hear her· views about this Notre Daine community to which she has decided to commit 
.• -. . 
herself. 

Of all the things that Notre Dame means to Patty Fenelon, perhaps the most poignant of descriptions she re­lated ·was an ironiclll comparison. She said, "Notre~.Dame's book col­lection is like cheese: sweet as cam­embert, but full of holes like Swiss." 
Revealing· a sense. of perception beyond· compare with that insight, she went on to say that<'I have the same intellectual and religious at­tachment for this place .that Frank O'Ma:lley had." Why does she feel 
-.THE SCHOLASTIC 

this way? "Because Notre Dame is the last bastion for humanism in the country; not just Christian human­ism, either. In political science here, you can still study Hegel." In addi­tion, Patty has strong opinions about the social atmosphere: "Everybody here is a family. It's the greatest. When you come to Notre Dame, you don't just come to a school,, you join ·a ·social group. We don't have the atomic family· atmosphere. We haven't gone big-city -yet." Does she ·think we are becoming "big-city"? "We are becoming more technological. The main buildings on this campus used to be the Dining Hall and the Church.· Now it's the library and the ACC. We are more secular and that's why the library has to maintain a humanist stance." 
tor in the larger sense of the word-and a psychologist.. And to be a uni­versity librarian, one must be an intellectual and I must say I am that." But perhaps her best remark, displaying a real honesty that so many others shun in today's society, was in response to a question of her goals, her direction from here. She replied, "My vocation is to do what Frank O'Malley told me to do: guard . the intellectual integrity of this library." 
With an ultimatum like that in her possessiO!), Patty should have 
With a voice of experience and in­telligence in these remarks, Patty then used the same qualities in describing herself: "I'm the last of the old-fashioned Catholics. I'm not 
her hands full. But as those who know her can attest, she will live up to the challenge. But above all else, she is a vibrant, sensitive, con­cerned individual, who is dedicated 
a part of technology. I'm an educa-. • to the full enjoyment of life and 
, Week In Distortiorr:/••·i·· ··•·.··· i? .. ··. · ··· ·I 
' 

r ... ·. . > .·· ..····.· ·, ... ....• ...... ...•=::: ·. ....· ,.... ,::f >: , . . .... .. 
L.......,.,--~..s,>->",,c.,•.-•-·~-~~~,.,.'.-~!;:_(2...~0~ "._,.' ~:··•C.,,,--·--:·,.. ·,,,,'_,_ ·: -:_,._~" ~/ -~ -..-.-: .---•.•_.~l-~:-·'.'...>·· -___ ,,,..~-~ .. ~--h-. 
For many of us undergraduates, it is difficult to believe that we are back at Notre Dame. Indeed it is another. semester that we are into, and surprisingly enough, three weeks of it are already in the past. How­ever, if you are still. incredulous, we have come up with a little check list to show you beyond a shadow of a doubt that you are once again a citzen of Du Lac. We present:, You know you are atNotre Dame when: 
watching Mary Tyler Moore seems like a good way to spend a Saturday night; 
doughnuts and peanut butter become staples of your diet; 
the Observer runs clinical reports about sex. codes and attitudes at the University; 
Rusty Rhodes. is due to make an­other lecture appearance; 
you can count sunshiny days on one hand; · 
"viable,'.' ''relevant," and "human condition" creep into your vocabu­lary once more; 
tentative tuition increases become definite; 
JANUARY 31, 1975 administrators adopt a "wait and see" policy; 
senior job_-rejection •letters are re­deemed for beerat the senior bar; 
room picks are presided over by a riot squad; 
the median age of a security guard . is 65; 
the infirmary runs its winter special: throat cultures and-Chlorasep!ic; 
talk of forcing students off campus begins once more; 
you miss "clean sheet" day because you.have an·U class at the Rock and a 1 class at O'Shag; 
"the committee fails to reach a de­cision"; 
a Burtchaell '.'suggestion" becomes law; 
secretaries take three-~our lunches; 
all of the shower stalls have cold and cold running water; 
Fran DeMarco passes you on the quad and asks seductively, "Wan­na boogie?" 
self-improvement. Still pursuing her interest in languages, she remarked, "I'm starting Arabic today because of my recently developed passion for the Mid-East." Students would do well to make use of her. She con­siders it a "privilege" to work with them. "They're really bright," she contends. · And one couldn't find a more thoughtful and caring librar­ian, when one needs real· construe­tive intellectual advice. Patty surely complements this university com­munity. 
-Dave Dreyer 

.>T •i ..·. ·. . > < < .. j 
. . ·~--~·-·.;,:,.,,._~..... -1 
you have to specify which "library" you're going to; 
a new academic calendar has classes starting on July 15; 
co-education is still. talked about; 
the ND-SMC shuttle runs .predict­ably off-schedule; . 
next. semester tuition . bills arrive before last-semester grades; 
; 

the . dining hall schedules "Make Your Own Peanut Butter and Jelly Sandwich" night; 
freshmen spend Thursday nights in seclusion; 
seniors spend .Thursday nights at Nickie's; 
you're glad to get junkmaH; . 
you answer junk mail; 
traces.·of blood· are discovered in your.alcohol system; 
the maids' clanging waste .. cans serve as alarm clocks; 
"tomorrow, and tomorrow, and to­morrow creeps ...." John M. Murphy 

The directors of the Study Group on the Nature and Extent of Re­search Involving LivingFetuses have announced the appointment of Notre Dame Professor Harvey A. Bender to the group. 
Created by Congress, the: study group will be working under a fed­eral contract to Yale University and will aid the Nation.al Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Re­search in its task of assessing fetal research. The role of the group is to review and compile all information concerning "the nature and· extent of research involving living fetuses, the purpose for which such :research has been undertaken, and alternative means for achieving such purposes." Prof. Bender explained that this in­volves "an attempt to review all the world literature on the subject;" since substantial works have · been done in countries such· as Germany, France, and Japan, this· requires quite a bit of difficult translation for Prof. Bender and his · colleagues. Prof. Bender's congressionally as­signed task carries with it · a two.;. month time limit and his findings will seriously affect the future legal­ity of fetal research; ..,. 
A distinguished member ·of :the Notre Dame faculty since 1960, Prof. 
Bender has returned this year from Yale University where he spent a year as a. visiting professor at the Yale School of Medicine. He has spent nine years on the-Board of Directors of the Council for the Re­tarded of St. Joseph County and his professional memberships include tlie American Association for the Ad~ vancement of Science, the Amei;ican 

. Society of Human Genetics, and the Society. for Religion in Higher.Edu~ cation. 
The dean of the,Notre Dame Law School, Thomas· L. Shaffer has been elected. to the executive committee of the Association of American·Law 

. Schools at the association's annual meeting in San Francisco. The AALS is the accrediting group for law schools and is generally· con­sidered the· official national spokes­man.for legal education .in America. 
Shaffer's term·on the eight~mem­ber board will run for two years, during which he. will participate.in· governing ·the· organized affairs ·of the 158 law schools holding mem­bership in the AALS. In addition to his newly appointed duties, 'Shaffer will be serving a second term on the board of advisors to the Journal of Legal·Education. 
Each year the Sophomore , Liter­ary Festival credits its· class with one of the· campus'· most• prestigious cultural events and makes its chair­man· one of the-busiest people on campus. No one realizes ·this more than this YE:ar's chairman, Chris l\lahon. 
Since his appointment last · April, the sophomore English major has been working · to get the annual everit ready for its presentation in early-March. The event requires an enormous · amount of · organization and dedication. from its chairman and staff. Contacts with the authors, publicity, scheduling .of presenta­tions and activities during. the Fes­tival week. and making accommoda­tion arrangements. are ·among the most pressing tasks facing Chris and · his committee.. Chris ·credits . most of the ·Festival's·· progress to the efforts' of ·the• thirty-plus· mem­bers of· the committee.· : · 
Chris hopes that the Literary Fes­
tival, will· ·help to,: '-'increase--the 
awareness· that literature is .more 
than· •just print.;' He·· believes that 
"although the printed·word_can have a stirring effect;.the:spoken word ­· especially if it is'from the artist him­
self -is often more stimulating." 
-Thomas Birsic 
· THE SCHOLASTIC 

'-~~~SP~~ti;ti' •->--' ~ . •· ·• -:~, ,.-·-··.. · • -.. . •-·--· · 
t'-••--• •·. • • ..-••~,. •~ ,.,•...,~-><,><""' .•.·,•:~•·•,,:·•-. •_.••--~,:,; ,._..,,• ....,..~; • 0 -•-"-',....c..,•.....,.-.:~.h-~-~-...:..:...-• ·--"'.'~.,~---~• ·,;,,• ·-~~~./.",,.,.._;,,•:..··,,.~,........:......_,__.-, •• _,.,.....,_•••-••--•.-.-> . -4
,•••.·:··• ;,.•,,; ~~•-/·' ',.v'S'•-'""•­


A Search For Wholeness 
By Prof. Joseph W. Evans 



"For Jane Thornton" 
Dr. Joseph W..• Evans, Associate Professor of PhilosophyandDirector of the Jacques Maritain Center is also a:'re~ipient of tiie Charles E. Sheedy· ::iward for Excellence in Teaching. ·scholastic is honored that he is the first contributor to this column: devoted to writings of Notre Dame professors,· students. and ad­ministrators. 
To See a World in a Grain of Sand, 
And aHeaven in a Wild Flower, 
Hold Infinity in the palm of your·· 
hand, 

And eternity in an hour.· . 
·William Blake,' Auguries ·of 
Innocence 

How thankful I am -how I thank God· andthank my lucky stars -for William Blake's gift to the world of these beautiful lines. It is not that I think that without them I would have ·· been entirely and unredeem­ably without ·the insight expressed in them. No, Tthink I can say I had a 'beginning' of this insight quite early in life _:_ and indeed every child has it to some degree, every man has it to some degree. In my own •case, it was nurtured by an en­vironment of 'sweet especial rural scenes,' and by much silence & soli~ · tude & quiet • study. Later, it was nurtured· still more by my study of philosophy _-,:::· especially ·(and I think, very fortunately) the thought of ·St. Thomas .• Aquinas· and of Jacques Maritain. Later, too (life is 
JANUARY 31, 1975 ambivalent!) the insight was at times hampered and curtailed -at times well-night 'imprisoned in a dungeon' within me -by my study of philosophy, or better, by all of the 'trappings' and gamesmanship and 'obstable courses' than often sur-· round the st~dy of philosophy in the Academy. But always Blake's ·lines have been there -to activate and to stimulate, to• quicken, to deepen, a thirst that I think I have (or at least aspire to have)· for Wholeness -to see things WHOLE, and to love things WHOLE. 
To my mind, the objective realism of a St. Thomas Aquinas · best grounds such a thirst :_ and for myself this realism has come alive thanks to the writings -and to the person -of Jacques Maritain. Mari­tain has such a: sense of the synergy of being -of the .dynamic conti­nuity· and vital solidarity of · being, and of beings. And • he is such a master -both iri his thought and in his life --' of 'Distinguer pour unir' _;_ 'Distinguish 1n order to unite.' And he has such a sense ofthe exist­ent -and of how attentively our gaze should be fixed on the existent -and of· the 'intelligible mystery' that is any existent ...:.:.. and of how the gaze of ·our intellect,· falling on any existent, ·should ricochet off it, onto and into and . over and under, and all-around, every other existent. 
Josef Pieper has:. been another godsend for me -especially his book Leisure the Basis of Culture. 
Pieper -to my mind -does not have the depth of insight of a Mari­tain, nor the same sense of the com­plexity of things, or of. the com­plexity of human existence. But he can express · the realism of St. Thomas Aquinas with a wonderful lucidity and freshness. One of his expressions has been particularly helpful to me -namely, his saying that man is capax universi. Man is capax universi -capable of the universe (capable· of·· relating ·him~ self'--in these activities that we call knowi_ng and loving -to the whole universe, to anything at all that is), and also (the two go toge~er) ca~ pableof the universal (capable of at­
. taining -however dimly, and how­ever 'never exhaustively' -to the essences of things) . Speaking of the 'world' of man, as compared with the 'world' of the · animal and the 'world' of the plant, Pieper writes felicitously: "... there is just one more observation to be made on· the structure of the world in the context of 'spirit': if is not, of · course, merely in the matter of quantitative size that the world, in this context· is differentiated from ·the 'environment' of: plants and ani­mals -a fact which many discus­sions about world.·and environment so often overlook: The world as co­ordinated to spirit is·not merely the world of all things but-at the same time of the essence of things., And that is why · ari animal's world is limited: because the essence of 
things is concealed from it. And, contrariwise, it is only because man, being a spirit, is capable of attaining the essence of things, that he can embrace the totality of things ­this interrelationship was tradition­ally expressed in. the following terms: both ·the essence of things and the universe are 'universal'; and in .the. words of Aquinas, 'the spir­itual soul is capable of the infinite be­cause it can grasp the universal.' To know the. universal essence of things is ·to reach a point of view from which the whole of being and all ex­isting things become visible; at the same time the spiritual outpost thus reached by knowing the essence of things enables man to look upon the landscape of the whole universe." 
As regards this 'seeing things WHOLE,' anything at all will do as a starting point, although admittedly some things do do better than other things. A human person d,aes better than anything. I myself like to start with: a pebble, or a ripple in a stream, or a blade of grass, or a rose, or a sapling, or a robin red­breast, or a star, or a starlet, or telestar, or a wisp of hair, or a smile, or a jet_ (an 'ordinary' jet), or a Concorde Supersonic jet, or a 'Jet-Pak,' or a 'whirling dervish,' or a 'surrey with the fringe on top,' or a family, or a village, or a 'so­ciety for the preservation of barber­shop quartet singing,' or a body politic, or a 'flash in the pan,' or a 'jack-of-all-trades,' . or 'someone crazy enough to give me a daisy.' 
Tennyson once started with a "flower in a crannied wall.'' Behold what he saw in it:. 
Flower in the crannied wall, I pluck you out of the crannies, I hold you here, root and all, in my 
hand, Little flower --'--but if I could under­stand · What you are, root and all, and all in all, r I should know what God and man is. 

Boston 
(Continued from page !J.) 

with graffiti; occasionally it forms a background for a pair of street mu­sicians who set down a hat and fiddle to the circle of listeners that gathers. 
· Several blocks_ away and out of sight, the Combat Zone, the . city's red-light district, shares an uneven border with .the theatre district. The powers-that-be in the city govern-. ment, making a stab at upgrading the· area, have rechristened it with a wholesome, patriotic sort of name: Liberty Tree. Not a soul in Boston, of course, thinks of the Combat Zone as anything but the Combat Zone, and "Liberty Tree"·just draws stares and blank looks.· 
Up on the other side of the Com­mon, Beacon Hill runs past the gold­capped State House and down by an unobtrusive building marked "Bos­ton School Committee.'' The scene is oddly removed from the turbulence of the city's schools; here. there is little sign of urgency and violence. Still farther down the hill, a huge copper kettle .hanging . outside a corner restaurant puffs steam, and beyond, a wide stone plaza .separates the John. Kennedy building and the new Government Center which houses the mayor's office. The court­house is a block away; at noon the streets and restaurants fill with law­yers and city officials. 
A little closer to the harbor, the 

pavements of the financial .district are crowded with bankers convers­ing in pa_irs. The waterfront just beyond is quieter. At a distance there are shipyards and restaurants, but here the lots are empty. Three long old buHdings seem to await either a wrecking crew or a total renovation. The only sign of life is a red curtain in a small window and a faded sign that proclaims "Res­taurant.'' Inside, a dumbwaiter lowers food to the single cramped room crowded with patrons and yi­brating with noise. The hall .that runs the length of the building is lined with fruit stores and delicates­sens that must survive on the busi­ness of old and regular customers. There is little sign from outside that the place harbors anything but dust. The relative quiet is a rare virtue, 
. especially on the coastal side of the city. Logan Airport, stretched over filled-in marshland, lies uncomfort­ably close. to residential east Boston. When the landing pattern brings a jet screaming down over the three­deckers, the thunder deadens all other sound. 
In comparison, the noise of the city .may seem blessedly subdued. You may even escape the grinding of traffic and discover some of the city's good sounds: the Pops in Sym­phony .Hall, the crowd · in Fenway Park, the. quiet of the small shops. 
Stay a little longer, and you'll run into some of the ugly sights and sounds. Most'of the country has now taken a hard look at the ones in South Boston's schools. More are hidden in an alley deeper in the city, where the Pine ·Street Inn does its business in adecaying building. H is not a hotel. It is aplace where alco­holic, homeless men who live on the streets. can be deloused and get a meal and a bed for the night. Church groups· supply some of the meals, which are greeted by hungry eyes and. a long line. At times, small bat­tles for a place in line break out. -College students occasionally show up .to get a free meal, but it· is the · older men who form the core of.the 
. . . . . 

project. Many are the relics of trag­
edies. Some merit a· small piece in 
the newspaper when they are found 
frozen to death iri an alley, They are· 
as real a part of Boston as the shop­
keepers on the waterfront or the 
lawyers in Government Center. · 
All of this, in the end, may not 

cohere .into a sense of the city. In­
numerable -nooks .. remain. to be 
peered into; . countless ~ostonians 
have yet to be encountered. It may 
be, too, · that no single : impression 
can encompass all of its characteris­
tics and contradictions.-Before dusk 
falls, though, follow , the Charles 
River until you find an empty bench; 
the last sailboats .are returning to 
shore. The city behind you, slowly 
darkening, is full of politicians that 
are devious and one-way streets that 
are infuriating. Still, you may _find 
yourself wanting to go back. 
· . ,,:-Mary Digan 


Southern Illinois· 
(Continued from page 6) 
small-town crisis. It seems that some local shopkeeper had the nerve to open up a pool hall in one .of the more respec_table parts of towri and only two blocks from a large public high school. Cries of outrage and accusations of loose morality .· and degradation poured forth from the community. The uproar lasted more than a few weeks, but the hall re­mained open for lack of a legal way to close it. 
Even .the younger . generation is fairly conservative. Although some kids grow long hair and · smoke to be rebellious, this is usually reserved for the real · "freaks.'' The ·Student Council, Homecoriling' an_d prom-type atmosphere is very prevalent· in the high schools. After graduation only a few options are available for 'the future, but few seem to · mind. 
Having been familiar with the sim­ple lffe-style all their lives, most students feel comfortable about get­ting ·a job on a farm or in a nearby factory · and getting married . soon after they complete twelve years of education · like their parents . did. Some do continue their schooling at a local· junior college, and some go up to the big state universities, but · few venture north· of them: Life, then, is to be enjoyed in the teen­age )'.ears before one has to settle down. In that spirit we often fol­lowed the fads· which came from the big city-St. · Louis. While we ·thought we were cool, we never realized that they had entered the United States from the cosats many months before. Some of the fads and records never even reached us. It was a long time before long hair 
came to our area, and in fact it is 
· held under considerable suspicion by our families and employers. The arrival of drugs took some time also, but we have gotten used to hearing about drug raids even in our com­munity. 
The people of southern Illinois are not backward, however. We realize that times are changing and that w_e must too. We are still mostly middle class with only a few extremes · in either direction. We still feel such a unity that for­eigners stand out _.:._ even visitors from Chicago ·can easily be deter­mined by their accent. Our popula­tion is beginning to rise, however. Many of our farms are deserted, and although our industries are doing well, the pollution they cause is having a damaging effect on our environment. We are becoming ur­banized at a faster rate. Chain 
·stores, motels and nursing homes are multiplying like rabbits. We have weathered change before, how~ ever, though not quite as dramatic, 
. and we shall adapt again. · -Chris Meehan 

The South\Nest 
. 

(Continued from . page 9) 
·jal.apeno comes in various degrees of heat ..:._ hotter than boiling water but not·as hot as fire. The more acid the soil and the drier the climate, the hotter the jal.apeno. This pepper is used in many foods: by itself, in chile verde con carne or· chile .con queso (chile with cheese). And along with. the jalapeno comes ·the food known and made famous by Pancho Villa__..::.'tortillas, beans and· burritos. The tortilla was the bread of the Mexican and · now · has become the main "bread" of .the · Southwest. There are two kinds of tortillas ­corn and flour. The corn tortillas are used for enchiladas, tostadas, tacos and quesadillas. The_ flour tor­. tilla, on the other hand, is used for the burrito -bean, chile con carne or guacomole (acocadoes) :_ or as toast in the mornings with breakfast. One breakfastthat is really delicious is huevos ·rancheros or ·. "ranch­style eggs." This breakfast features · two eggs, sunny-side up,· covered in 
chile con queso, beans, hash browns, and plenty of tortillas. The breakfast is followed by plenty of · delicious sopapill.as cove1;ed with honey. An­other specialty is chiles rellenos or "stuffed . chile. peppers.'' Long green peppers are stuffed with cheese and then fried with eggs. One other delicacy is the gordita ·or "little fat girl." The gorditas are pouches made from corn meal filled.with meat and topped with cheese, lettuce, to­mato and that good· old ja.1.apeno 
chile. · · Many people seem to think that the Southwest is no place for snow but, on the contrary, it gets its share of · snow, especially in the north of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. Al­though the winters· are generally , mild; there are a few instances where the temperatures reached zero de­grees. Quite unusual, I must say. The winter sports are not totally un­known · but they are not exactly played very often. The sports played 
in the Southwest include everything from . A-Z. The sun shines· ninety percerit of the year so this allows people down there to wear cut-offs, T-shirts, etc. The worst time of the year to bein the area is when spring is in the air. · With the change . of season come the infamous South­western dust storms that flare up every afternoon. But after ·spring turns into summer, that is the best time to be there -•if one can take the heat. This part of the country is notorious for its high temperatures -•122°F at times in various parts of the region. But because the air is dry, the heat is not bad at all. One has to look at the better things of the climate. · The high temperatures drive the luscious babes to · the . many swimming pools in their pink, ·white, green and many othercolored skimpy bikinis seeking the coolriess of the water. After the pools close and the scorching sun sets and after a brief rest, the night leaves itself open to the antics of the inhabitants. A typical night out · on the town may. take in a few nightclubs, a little dinirig and dancing, the movies or a trip to Old Mexico. One drink that is famous and the best is Mexico's tequila-ah, yes, the fire in the bottle. Inexpensive, this bottle has been the center of fights in the cantinas or "bars." One particular brand of tequila is Mezcal, the te­quila with the worm. Many a man has died for the pleasure of devour­ing the small insect at the bottom of the vanquished bottle. Almost every~ body knows how to partake of this beverage, but for those who do not, here is how it is done: 1) Put salt on your hand and-Hck it. 2) Drink the shot of tequila and immediately follow with a suck.off a half-lemon. -Ninety to . ninety-eight proof, the drinker will not last too long. But for the smart drinker who wishes 
to survive, there is always the Te­quila Sunrise. Another delicious cocktail is the Margarita -crushed ice, lime juice and tequila. After a night on .the town the poor soul is ready for bed to recover for tomor­row's work. 
The Southwest is experiencing a boom. Land is selling quite rapidly, cities are. expanding. and businesses are·· opening every day. One unfor­tunate occurrence of this boom· is the migrant workers. _They cross by the hundreds in search of jobs to support their families, · The migrant workers follow the crops. ·• Because they are migrant workers, they are not eligible for_ minimu_m wages or wage barg?,ining. · This makes their labor cheap and profitable to . the farmer or business. · Many consider the migrant. workers-. assets to ~the farmer and a pain to the job-seeker. 
The sun sets in its gold, orange, red and yellow array behind the cur­tain of the western sky as the:stars begin to appear. The moon makes its bold entrance as its light ·exposes the mysterious•desert landscape; the lonely coyote howls to the motionless moon in searcli:of a mate.. A-gentle warni desert breeze rustles. through the mezquite as slumber culminates. to await tlie brilliant . sunrise 'in the Lam:i' of the Vaquero.' · 
. ·:. -Lonnie Luna 


Tampa 
(Continued from 'J)O,!Je 8) 
other ways. Now,· in what sounds 
like an epitaph of modern cities, 
much of that is .being sacrificed.to 
big business, expressways and other 
forces of homogenization. 
Tampa's problems seem to-be re­
flected in its politics. For the most 
part, those in political power for the 
past years have-been willing to sell 
out .the city.. They have allowed 
large development corporations to 
come. irito the town and force-it to 
grow irresponsibly. _ They have 
courted industry into .the town and 
placed no restrictions . on what it 
could do to. the city. As a result, 
much of the industry has taken 
great advantage of the city's natural 
resources with less than adequate 
repayment. The last mayoral elec­
tion, in which.· the . candidate of the 
builders, developers and corporations 
was . chosen, seems to indicate that 
this trend will not be ending soon. 

Another aspect_ of the political in­dex which indicates the South's prob~ !ems, and especially Tampa's, is the problem of civil rights~ Though in rio· ·way to be_ shamed ._ by its falsely liberal northern.· counterparts, Tam­. pa ·and other -southern . cities have :s~ll. ~een . un~ble to adequately deal 
with the problem that has _been their characteristic disgrace for over a century, . racial intolerance. While much of the value .of southern cul-:­ture is being systematically de­stroyed, this. one aspect, perhaps _the most negative aspect, has not found sufficient . eradication. . . . 
Closely tied to the political issue is the problem faced in Tampa and its surrounding area of _the uncon­trolled waste of its natural resources. Tampa's air and water are in worse­shape than almost all the other Flor­ida cities. By allowing big businesses and developers to come and abuse all the land, that too has lost much of its characteristic beauty. 
I believe it is a peculiarly Florid­ian phenomenon that shows this so well. . -That . phenomenon . is the "planned .. community.'; Begun by land developers like the Mackle Bros. corporation, these utopian com­munities are sweeping the state. The usual_process is to strip the land of all its natural beauty and . build a very organized system of residential, recreation and shopping ar~as. It sounds idyllic, but the reality)s more often sterilizing dullness ... For some reason; tliE?se . plannec( communities have destroyed the concept of neigh­borhood'. . ~erythirig.. is . so . regi­mented. that no sense of community is developed. among _the ·re_sidents... 
More than. a~y . 'other . r~gion, .the South .has always .considered. itself as separate . and. distinct .from the rest of.the nation~ It has usually de~ fined ii:s~lf. vis-a-vis the other parts of the_ cou'ntry~ Perhaps· it is good riow that the Soutli is rejoining the Union, but .the fonn ·ot'·that reunion is quite, disturbing.. In the I process; the goal 0is: said to. be equality, ·but 

. the reality is·_ that diversity_ is lost arid equ·ality is noteven approached. .. As John Egerton points out in his book, The Americanization. of Di:x:ie, and Tampa points out so well in its · ·· current situation, the South and. the rest of the nation seem closer than ever before. As :they draw closer, though, the.South.seems to be losing its · principle of hospitality, Us sio_wly pac~ life style, its_ language, · its grace and its beauty~ _And rather than losing its political and socio­logical disgraces,. the rest of the·na­tion seems to· be adopting· thein:· . . It appea~Sthat the South;the city of Tampa in particular, and the na­tion are not exchanging ·strengths in _this amalgamation· process ·a:s _much as they are exchanging faults: They are sharing and spreading the. worst in each other while the best is being 
. Ieff to· deteriorate. . _"· · · '·' .-. ­
:.·: . . .. . .. 


. ' ~ . ­. ter of. the .south. _The wealth of:the • This d~line, was cliecked.only_by 
city was controlled by ,a few con-. ,World. War ri as Louisville~ ~as. re~ servative individuals who were .wfll-vitalized by the .needs -of wartime (Continuedfron-,, page 13) ing. to i "leave .well enough--alone" · industry.:Louisville was again thrust · · , _ .. and did not push to keep the vitality ,into a pos:itior1 o(P,romi~e:11ce, and 
.. counteracted Louisville's natural ap-· of the'past alive. Without this vital"'. .. after. the. war. projections ,'for the · peal and· marked the.end of Louis-ity-:·Louisville allowed itself to _.be-. future we~e bright.)n·a gove~~ent ville's. role as the distributive cen-· come a mu~eum of past glories. . study made:, immed!a~ely a~~er :~_e 

,L.O-uisville· 
. 20 : .THE SCHOLASTIC 


war, Louisville was ranked with Atlanta and Houston as cities of greatest potential growth:· But atti-· tudes had not changed, ·and the city did not push for growth but stum~ bled into a period of decline , even more intense than before. 
Only in the past ten years has the city begun to grow again. The suc­cess of Kentucky Fried Chicken brought huge . sums of new money into the city and helped shake up the conservative money. Industrially the city is very sound, being the na­tion's leading producer of synthetic rubber, paint and varnish, and whis­key, and the nation's second leading producer of cigarettes and home ap­pliances. 
With conservative attitudes shaken, there has been a large amount of new building. These mod­ern structures give Louisville .its first semblance .of a skyline and have brought new life to the riverfront. In the same area very ornamental cast-iron facades adorn beautiful old buildings which are now being ren­
ovated into an area of night-life center. These developments, along with the city's beautiful park· sys­tem, fine reputation as a medical · center, and very noticeable southern charm and hospitality give it great appeal By reaching into the past for the charm and beauty of a southern river city and reaching into the fu­ture as a regional center, Louisville may reach its potential·as the cross­roads between the north and south; 
'-Bill Weyland 

Conneticut 
(Continued from page 10) 
be further divided into those individ­uals who accept the road they've chosen ~~d those who have yet t.o choose. · Cheshire's strength is her stable, peaceful atmosphere, devoid of distractions which confuse the kind of sincere decision-making these friends must make. Cheshire's big~ gest weakness is that life there is so pleasant, as opposed to the. real world, that the decision to leave is very hard. to. make. Unfortunately, if a high school graduate wants to continue to grow he or she must leave because few opportunities to do so exist in town. . . 
One of my classmates, whom . I will call Daryl, is taking advantage of one opportunity left to those :who don't go on to college; ·work in one of Cheshire's family businesses. Daryl reserved a niche for himself by working part-time during school, full-time iri 'the· summer and, prob­ably mosdmportantly, by being the son of his . father: There are not enough businesses to allow all those students who would Jike to stay all their lives the chance to gradually be assimilated into a lifelong occupa­tion. Daryl is one of a lucky minor­ity.. 
Mary is more typical of those who had no intention of furthering their education. She considers herjob as a dental assistant temporary, until something more challenging .or in­teresting comes along. Mary's days are spent at the office, her nights are divided between those .. spent vegetating .before, the TV set and those passed equally unproductively at ·cine of Cheshire's two deterio­rating red-neck b.ars. During the Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks the tempo . picks up. some and she might travel to one or two of the more respectable bars in the neigh­boring·· towns, but. these evenings only serve to increasingly depress Mary as she hears the tales her ex-:­high school friends relate about their college or· occupational . life-styles. Since. Mary is living in Chesh~re re­luc:tantly and few opportunities to do otherwise are available, she is under­
.standably harsh on . Cheshire's in­tririsic values. "There's nothing to do ... none of my frienas are still around.....I can't wait to ieave this place," are. some comments I've heard her make. . 
Anumber of my friends have.de­cided Cheshire has much more than they had thought it had to offer 
... them. One or. two faltering years in school was enough to convince them that classroom education ·was not going to satisfy them. They have ~~ turned to work atgas stations and in supermarkets, and some aren't work­ing at all, much to the chagrin, of their parents. Some, like Dave, com­mute to Hartford to work, but the energy crisis and overall price hikes in town have convinced •him that moving is inevitable. 
The high cost of living in Cheshire is the tragic flaw that faces the par­ents who have preserved our town's historical integrity. In saving Chesh­ire's landmarks .for their children, parents have. priced their children out of the market. This is the quan­dary facing those classmates of mine pursuing a college education in hopes 
. of being able to afford to eventually live in Cheshire permanently; we.all figure to return someday, but, it may not b~ until we retire! 
Cheshire's problem is not unusual and its consequences have been ex­perienced. by other towns like ours. Parents do all they can to keep their town attractive . for . their children but their childr~n cannot afford to live. there: Newcomers, who have not grown up appreciating Cheshire's rural atmosphere, buy the houses in­stead.;My· greatest. hope is. that my parents and enough. of their friends wili continue to act on behalf of the newcomers' children, if not 
-their own, so that anyone fortunate enough to live in Cheshire will see it as I did, a historical showcase sur­viving in a tradition-starved world. 
~Ed Byrne 


Phi1c1.delphia 
(Continued from page 6). 
like them each sheltered six of the · luckier men· that winter; those not· so lucky had to· make do with worse. However, in .the middle of· the park is a fairly large, well-furnished, two­storied stone house, now preserved as it was. while it· served as Wash­
ington's headquarters that year. In that house,· the good General George, father of our country and hero of so many illustrious campaigns, spent that cruel winter with a quartermas­ter's corps .to keep his stomach full, and Martha ·to keep· his bed. warm. Maybe if the American Ideal had been more . a part of American Life back then, Americans would strive today for the Ideal rather than the Dream. 
As it is, the Upper Main Line exists more as the shrine---a shrine to the American Dream. Valley Forge exists not so much as a shrine to commemorate the Ideal, but to serve the Main Line and its Dream-'­a pleasant interruption in the land­scape of shopping malls, country clubs and $60,000-and-up houses. 
-Michael D. Feord 

President Ford was at Vail recently packing equipment on over a lot of 

Colorado 
(Continued from page 7) 
ten thousand feet up, where you can really view the panorama that is splotched with fire-like colors. The leaves of the Aspen in ·particular, scattered among the Evergreens and Pines, turn into a form of non­negotiable gold that becomes pre­cious to anyone·who sees them. This is the "off-season," when hunters are filled with the craze to shoot 

-something (anything), and when locals drive about looking at .the changing scenery and counting the new cabins that have been· built through ·the summer months. It's a: quiet time of year when you start to talk about snowfalls, and wonder if the slopes will ever have enough powder to satisfy your needs. 
Snowfalls cover up the trails I'd come to know so well I guess there's no mistaking The stories Nature tells A picture book of paintings Etched and colored white Everything seems waiting Like dreams that hide in night I'll have to get to know the cold And enter with my skis 
· A few of us take time alone To cross the country frozen in sleep 
Colorado is probably best known for its skiing, arid rightly · so be­cause throughout the state· one can find some of the best skiing of any­where in the world. Aspen and Vail, Steamboat and Winter Park are magic names to many people . . . perhaps too many people! When 


Cleveland 
(Continued from page ·10/ 
what can be the hurry? The story, before, you've hear~ the 
·. ·story. · Oils weaken, broken· down to.·' confuse your lungs .;_ _the point's the point, nothing more. Do not yield your you're to a whistle, 
.or hands ungenerate of . · any being;· :. you know more you know than 
·. more you know they were handling the area's skier capacity per hour, 18,000 people, which is a lot of skiers to be on the mountain at the same time! (Colo­rado Locals Rule #53: Don't Bother Trying to Ski at Holiday Time.)· 
I've been skiing for a number of years now and my favorite areas are. Aspen, Vail and Copper Mountain. The runs there are long and wide and the. peaks command amazing views of .the surrounding mountain ranges, and the snow is of the. pow­der or heavy powder type. But every· place is getting crowded these days and, therefore, some of its basic appeal is being outshone by the glit­ter and glamor of those vast num­bers of skiers with ... money. Skiing, I think, is at its best when it's early in the day, you're at the top of the mountain with a couple miles of trails ahead of you, and the urge to become poetry in motion becomes your reason to live (if you can imagine that). However,. there are so ·many would-be poets these days that it's not often we can fr~ ly express ourselves on the slopes. 
If you're determined to learn 
about weather conditions, and wax­ing techniques, and physical fitness (not to mention wines and cheeses); then this could become your sport. Although trails are fo be found throughout_ the state,. I am more in­. clined to make my own trail, making new tracks into the virgin White Wilderness. Experience and the right sort of companions are definitely needed before doing anything exten­sive in this type of skiing, but even­tually you may want to pick up here where you left off in the summer. All you.have to do is put your back-
or ever more than once a tiine, once a time ... Who._ shows you the sum sign, breaks the anarctic of clouds in 

..blue, turns your head's ears in an 
·. : ·animal:direction, turns a matter like you around? The winds cannot" answer if no· winds can question, you cannot · question the wind; what shows you where, shows you how. the. , 
· origins move in unison-?· Not in your files or your staples can you discern a reason, not in·any thing a thing' . · can be named can you know a 
warm clothing and you're ready to 
carry a winter camp! (Winter Com­
mon Sense Que~tion #1: Do You 
Know How Cold It Gets in the 
Winter?!) 
But, of course, not too many peo­
ple go winter ski-packing and those 
who do.are the real outdoors fanat­
ics. In fact, the. average Coloradan 
is not all that outdoors-oriented, al­
though the natural beauty of the 
state infects ,everything. and every­
one in it. The Denv_er Post says, 
"'Tis a pleasure to Live in Colorado," 
and no,,matter what you_do there, I 
think this saying holds true. There 
are even cities there, like. Denver, 
where"all sorts of interesting things 
are happening (at least that's what 
I've ·been told), but you'll have to 
look elsewhere for information on 
that. As far' as I am concerned, 
Colorildo means the mountains, and 
when the snows turn into streams, 
and the fields fill with flowers, and 
the woods . weave . living tapest~ies 
and I, can hike through the hills in 
humble amazement, then. I know I'm 
home. So come to God's Country and 
be welcome, but. when you leave, 
buy a postcard instead of land. . . . 
Tracing sunrise Westward 
Wings are on· the way · 
There's magic in the·heai:ts of us 
As skies forget their grey . . 
I guess you must be Springtime · · · .Though you. seem a bit too young. Like a child that's lived a lifetime 
With the warming of the.sun 
Aspen leaves returning_· . . 
And gentle winds that say 
"Sorry that you're leaving us . 
But snow you're iri the way" 
· -Patrick Smid 

reason; try .to listen, to try tci hear to try to hear. One blank page of your. notes surrounds the corners: of· your eyes, you may disguise your dates but you may not deny your measures and : weightswaiting.for.yciur feet to feet the road; one question,' one'answer.. one more question to answer ' ' another question: the cities grow ,; too.much with us, grow-too much despite our growth;· you; we,· all all brarich like· ·an · elm.to know.. All things left undone, · songs unsung to anyone, . · all movements cease; 
-THE SCHOLASTIC 

but we do not cease, do not in­crease to cessation: there to parallel the stones and mortar, the wires· and frames, there to join is the knowing of the land, parting of . the soils to stem from .roots an opposite· of reason; a coming of the plants sown so beneath the paperweights of a desk. You need not know to answer, but answers you need to know; we plant· a city, cities can. plant us: but \\'.e. can but we can leave an ice of the glass on glass, the glass: pane. only sai:id; only sand 
, at last. Wasting is convenient, saving expedient, we are all the children of our age, of our age who were children of an age once distance to this removed, it is not easy to impress the noetics of a thought, to express the areas bounded by maps, to relate to paper some birds in flight: but this is the region, this is the reason of a consideration in retrospect already considered, already upheld. True, .you must needs time stay, must possibly oftentimes remain ;_ 
. you may impose upon the words for 
·the syntax they're worth; that here now is the region, here now is the season is here now the writing -the context is as much as the print; a coin so well spent is not rolled further than its metal lasts: -just so the cities, just so the reasons you hold; that for some the dawn moves and for some the dawn stays consider the being of a child; but what you choose, what I choose, what we use to decide is the 
•changing of a sound, the learning of a now: the writing of a town faceless if not a town not traced to any 
· other than the town traced down. -M. Thomas Hopkins 
: is not too busy. Most of its 52 resi-the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific 
· dents,-that is,· people living within · Ocean, and the Hudson Bay.Montana 10 miles of the "city center," make . Summer ends in August and Sep­their living as ranchers. Babb's only tember brings turning leaves ·and (Continued from '{Kl,ge 8) major retail outlet is Oscar Thron-cooler nights. But fall means hunt­son's General Store. It serves as the ing season, and_to many Montanans 
Springtim·e in the Big Sky Country area grocery store, hardware store, this is an important time of year. turns the dormant foliage to beau-sporting goods store, post office, and A lot of families depend on a deer, tiful 'green.·· This· is an important . is also sort of a local newspaper.. ; . moose or antelope for their winter time of year for the state's largest Since everyone in town trades with supply of meat· and many· schools industry, agriculture. The· winter Oscar, he is well informed on area even allow boys to. miss two class wheat which farmers · planted last · developments. The Babb Bar pro-days for hunting purposes. fall is just beginning to grow and ·.: vides "locals" with the ultimate in The people themselves play a large the spring wheat must be·planted. A nightlife activity -and tourists role in the beauty of the Big Sky spring evening is the. perfect time -generally shy away. A couple years Country. Montana is an agricul­for ·a· party, with friends. There are ago the bar was the scene of a shoot-tural state· with a large rural popula­a lot ofgreat places to hold such an out which still has the town talking. tion engaged in farming and ranch­event not too far from town on the. . It seems the owner shot a man, in-ing. Since it takes a lot of dry Mon­banks of the Missouri River. Once juring him in· the shoulder and was tana acres • to produce a profitable we're· there, all it takes is. a blazing . ···forced·. to take· refuge in Canada. · · crop, the average farm size is about bonfire, a : newly tapped · keg of Since then· the bar has been open,· 2000 acres. The farmers have to "Oly" and a friend's guitar playing but no one's sure who's running ·it... · work many long hours during the the best in sing-along favorites. Babb; . obviously, is not what at-hot summer days. The money they 
Summer is just the opposite of ·tracts one to the area. Glacier Na-earn from this year's harvest is all winter. July. and Augusfare. hot tional Park sits just on the other they and their families have to live months, but the dry Montana air : side· of ·the ·mountain behind our on.until the next year's crop is ready. makes the 90-degree days more en-cabin. The park contains approxi-· For this reason, it's not hard to see joyable. There are so many things to mately 40 glaciers . today ·but ac-· why. the .state· is notably 'conserva:. do , during the summer that there's tually gets its name because huge· tive. These people, whose, physical no,excuse for boredom. We like to Ice Age glaciers carved its spectac".'. labor. earns them every cent,'they spend as much time as possible at . ular terrain. With over 900 miles of· . make,· are not too eager to spend our cabin . on St. Mary's Lake, two trails, we spend a lot of time hiking their money on social programs for miles outside 9f Babb, Montana. into remote areas. The. trail. over . those who can't or won't work., Yet; 
Situated in the Northwest corner Dawson and Pitamakon passes takes conservative as they may be; Mon­of the Blackfoot Indian Reservation, . you along the continental divide to · tanans are famous for their friend­
U.S. 89 and State Road 17 keep the -· Triple Divide Peak (elev .. 8020). liness. Most would bend over back­town of Babb in existence. These·. From. the top of •this mountain you . wards to help a neighbor: whose crop two highways carry most U.S. and ; can· stand in one place and, pour has been destroyed by hail .In Mon­Canadian Otraffic into the Waterton-· water into three bodies .of water. -.. tana·a man is-judged·by his worth Glacier International Peace Park. This is the only place on the North as a person, not by the money in his which lies in a rugged section of American continent from which the · bank account.· the Rocky·Mountains. Life in Babb .water flows in three directions: into -,-Bethann McGregor 


D 
e 
V 
I¦ 

n 
:e 
(Ara Parseghian resigned as· Head Football Coach for the University of Notre Dame Sunday, December 15, 1974. On :Tuesday, December 17, Father Edmund. P. .Joyce, Executive Vice-President of the University intro­duced Dan Devine as the new head coach of the Fight­ing Irish. 
· Succeeding a legend is very hard to do; but Devine has the credentials to do so. He brings with him a col­legiate· record of 120-40-8· compiled .. at Arizona State and Missouri, ranking him 30th among the win­ningest major-college coaches. After four years as an assistant coach at Michigan State; he took over the head duties at Arizona State, compiling a 27-3-1 record. His record at Missouri (93-37-7) was the second-best record in the school's history. He has · guided teams through victories in an Orange (1961), a Sugar (1966) and a Gator (1969) Bowl. . 
-With the sudden resignation during final examina­tion weekend last semester, the Scholastic deemed it necessary to bring an interview to the student body, in an attempt to introduce Notre Dame'_s twenty-third football coach in eight-six seasons. Schouu;tic Sports Editor Bill Delaney and Art Editor Bill Weyland con­ducted the interview with Coach Devine.) 
I' 24 


An Interview 
Scholastic: To begin with, how does it feel ·to get back into the College Ranks?·· 
Devine: Well of course, I'm very happy to return, but remember, I've been a College Head Football Coach for 16 years. No, I've enjoyed every bit of it, ·and I wouldn't trade my past experiences· for anything. There is a special something about college campuses that I really can't describe, but it's great. 
Scholastic: Is Notre Dame the most glamorous col­lege football position? 
Devine: Definitely>Because of the tradition, spirit and nature of Notre Dame, no other schoo_l can top it. There have been two places where I always wanted to coach. Secretly, Army and Notre Dame have been my dreams, for the spirit at these two schools is so great. And I'm a great believer in spirit. 
Scholastic: You said you enjoy the college campus. Why? 
Devine: I've always· had a, great relationship with student bodies, since the time I was the. faculty advisor for a Catholic Fraternity at Missouri. I respect the ideas of students, and I hope they respect mine. 
Scholastic: Turning to the football program here at Notre Dame, you're losing your entire-offensive line with the exception of Al Wujciak at guard. Is your biggest problem filling the.gaps on the offensive line or trying to arrive at a feasible quarterback situation? 
Devine: I really don't think we can put any of these problems into a specific priority as to what should be handled before anything else. I like Allocco. I'm not try­ing to say that Frank will be the starter, but it'is logi­cal that he would be the logical guy to step in there at spring practice. 
Scholastic: At your press conference in December when you were appointed Head Coach, you were asked about the offense you considered ·_most· effective; Could you elaborate on this? 
Devine: I like a quarterback-orientated offense. If we don't have a quarterback that can. run the option, then the option won't be very much a part of our game plan. · Scholastic: We do have a number :of fine. players returning for you to work with i11 the upcoming season, but the. key problem appears that :practically· all of them·have had little or no game experience this season. I guess the question I.want to ask is what is spring ball going to be like for the program? 
Devine: We'll try to get the experience to the guys that didn't get it because the games were so close. Your minutes· played again gives an unusual· indication, of how things went this season. Now Allocco, who was the number-two quarterback, logged only 44 minutes the entire season. Clements had 318 I?inutes, Samuel 274, 
. THE. SCHOLASTIC 

'. 

Bullock 277. And Parise played 66 minutes, which isn't much for avery good back, but the nature of the season dictated that certain members had to play. It just puts us in a situation where we don't hav.e a great deal of experience. 
Scholastic: They say you're defensively oriented. At Missouri,.you liked kids that hit, and you commented about this at your press conference. Is this still a valid 
statement?. . ·. . .·· · · · .Devine: I think I'm defense~orie~ted to this extent­that you've got to have a good defense to win. There's no other way. Offense entails a lot of skill; if you've got differe11_t teams due to passing and receiving, then you'll have.different offenses. When I.had .Mel Gray at Missouri, we did a lot of passing. And for some reason, we were better (Gray is an all-pro with the St. Louis. Cardinals). You have to be sound with your defense, which takes up· about one-third of the ballgame, with the remaining two-thirds spread evenly between the offense and kicking games.· In order to win big,· you've got to have all three. . Scholastic: Which brings us to the next question: the kicking game. Freshman Dave Reeve returns, as does punter Tony Brantley, who handled all of the punting chores in .1974_ Will you work with these two (and Pat McLaughlin, who is eligible to return)? Devine: l haven't looked at the kicking game as much as I have at the offense and defense, but I'm aware of the strengths and weaknesses of these people. But we'll improve any place where we can. Doesn't MacAfee punt? · Scholastic: Yes, he does. He was working out earlier in the season. Lopienski and Joe Montana, the freshman quarterback have also seen action in practice. Scholastic: We're an independent school. Missouri was in the Big Eight, and Michigan State was in the Big Ten. Devine: And when I was at Arizona State, we were in the Border Conference, which has now changed. Scholastic: Do you like that? Do you like being an independent? But have the pressures of not being re­stricted to any bowl for post-season play (as is the case in the Big Ten and Pac Eight, for example)? · Devine: Well, being an independent is similar to the schedule,.the weather-nothing I can do about it. So I like them all; I like the schedule, weather ... You know, you're going to· play whether it's 85 degrees, or if it's 12 degrees. Whether it snows or it rains. We've got to play that schedule whether I like it or not. 
Scholastic: What about bowls? 
Devine: I've been in a position many times, the last in 1969, where with the exception of the Rose Bowl,' could've had our pick of where we wanted to play. I've been in that position before, and I like that feeling. 
Scholastic: What about next year, with the addi:.. tions of Boston College and North Carolina to the schedule? · · · 
Devine: We do hit a number of teams that are on their way up. Boston College probably. has one of the finest programs it's had· in the last few years. Purdue and Michigan State have shown great signs of improve­ment.. Georgia Tech is on their way back. Pittsburgh has had one of their best teams· since the thirties. They have more stature now since World War II. And I think Miami, despite the fact' that we beat them here, the only team that beat Miami decisively was Notre Dame. We went out ahead I remember, and I do believe we were the only team to do that to. them all season. But ofcourse, I've been on the other side of the fence be­fore, and I was at Michigan State in 1950 and· 51, and we beat Notre Dame. Now,. to. me, I felt that at that time, since we weren't in the Big Ten,. beating Notre D·ame twice did as much getting us in the Big Ten than any other victory. We could've beaten Army 100-0, but we beat Notre Dame 36~33 inSouth Bend, and the next year, we. beat them something like 35-0. I kriow how Boston College can not only make their year but in that fact, the century, by beating Notre Dame. I'm .well aware that every time you step on the field that if you could term it a "disadvantage" then it would fit. That's not ·a good choice of words, but you're never going to sneak up on anybody. Never. Plus the fact that you're an underdog, and that's a big game on everybody's schedule. 
Scholastic: Any final thoughts or comments regard­ing the football program? . 
Devine: Most of the schools we play next year have been. opponents to .me in the past, and I've taken a couple of teams to Air Force, Northwestern, etc. I think that's an advantage. Pepper Rodgers was ati Kansas when we played them, and Majors was at Iowa State, and Pete Elliot .was at Illinois when we played him. And there's Agase. So I know about half of the coaches we'll meet, which should help us. · 
Scholastic: Final words to the student body? Devine:· Just the fact that I don,.t expect respect right now, but I'll earn it. Andthat's a promise. 
,---.----···-·~-----------~-,,-------~-----··---~~~> 
i . . ·..•• . ·,. <· .·.• ·•· : .. ·:··.··.·,.·.. :., ,. > . •·. 

Li Irish Sport Shorts · 
L,__ . ..,..;,_. ·~~>>< ·,= · .. ·-·-··-'· ··.· ..:.... 


.The fortunes of the Irish Tennis Team are being built this winter with their winter·conditioning in the ACC. According to Coach Tom, Fallon, this period will determine the starting positions of the team for their spring season; which commences with a southern trip to Texas for midsemester matches. Sophomore Randy Stehlik and senior Chris Kane are two of the key vet­erans returning for Fallon. Freshmen Brian Hainline and Tony Bruno are being carefully watched, and may be called on later in the season. . 
Matches with perennial powers Ohio State and Illi­nois follow the southern trip for the team, who are shooting for a possible invitation to the NCAA's in April. But for the time leading to the trip to Texas, the upcoming weeks will be c~ticalfor the Irish netters... 
The coaching turnover in the football department has created many new changes in the football program, according to Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause and new Head .Football Coa.ch Dan . Devine. The de­fensive staff of Linebacker Coach George· Kelly,. Line Coach Joe Yonto and Backfield Coach Paul Shoults have beeri retained, as weir as assistants· Greg Blache, Mike Stock and Brian Boulac. Devine in the past weeks has announced the appointments of Johnny Roland as spe­cialty teams coach,· Mervin Johnson as· offensive· co­ordinator and line . coach, and Pete Kuhlman as · of­fensive backfield coach. W,ith a complete staff, the ex­haustive and demanding jobof recruiting can now go ahead; the first test for the new crew at Notre Dame-­
the Devine team. . . . . . 
The Irish Fencing team returned home a winner af­ter a long Eastern trip with some of the finest collegiate fencing teams in the nation. Victories over Penn State, Baruch, Maryland and Princeton twice brought the Notre Danie name in fencing to areas where football was the dominant sport. A five-point loss to defending National Champions NYU (16~11) and a tough loss to Army were the only blemishes for the Irish. Standouts for the trip included Tim Glass and John Strauss in epee; Sam DiFiglio in sabre and Pat Gerard and Mike McCahey in foil. 
"It was a great experience to meet and go up against ihe best, and our record during the trip bears out the success of our program," said Tim Glass about his reactions of the trip. For Glass· and the team's, the 
: . ··:·.·. ,....... ; ·> ... ·.·.·.,• .. : 
< · > ...·. ·..·.·.·. <.. 
.._ ~-e·•~--~· 
.. ' . " ! 
•. ·. ·.. ! 
·.·.·.~ ..······· , ·. 1 
... ~-·--· ....,....... >-­


"harder" portion of their schedule is just .beginning with key encounters with Ohio State and Wayne State a few weeks away. Btit for now, the Irish Fencers can sit back and think ab~ut one of their finest weeks in their long and great history: 
Women's basketball is ·the latest sport. to hit the Notre Dame scene, and Basketball Coach Digger Phelps had better watch out for some good players of· the fairer. sex interrupting" his practices every · afternoon. The women under coach Jeanne Murphy have an eight­game . schedule, including cross-road ·rival St. Mary's, Ball State anci the UniversUy of Toledo. Attaining club status for their team"this season, the girls have shown that their hard work and determination have brought
results. . ' . ' . . . . 
· The United States Junior Olympic Team has chosen 
sophomores Jack Brownschidle and Clark Hamilton 
from the Irish Hockey Team·.to represent .the United 
States in the upcoming Junior games. The team will 
travel to Germany on March 18 for a month to play in 
the World.Ga~es, which is a preliminary to the trials 
for the Olympic squad.. 
. Brownschidle, noted for his excellentstick handling, . and Hamilton (the finest skater on the team) tried out 
for· the· team last fall, and·are looking forward to· the 
opportunity in representing America in the games. 
-Finally, one of the more emotional moments of the 
year (perhaps in many years) was at the halftime fes­
tivities·of the UCLA-Notre Dame game last Saturday. 
Student. Body President Pat McLaughlin presented 
Head ·Coach Ara ·Parseghian ·and· his •wife.· Katie with 
presents for their accomplishments over the past eleven 
seasons-his for winning football games, .and hers for 
putting up with him for the games he lost. 
"We've always considered you more than a football 
coach, Ara, and this you proved,,, said McLaughlin of 
the. legend of Notre Dame. "You won, but you .did it 
honestly. You lost, and you were honorable about· it. 
But you were more than that, Ara~you took pride in 
Notre Dame, and we took pride in you.~•. ­
And so it ended as it had begun_.:.;;,_at -halftime. 
Eleven years ago, the unknown Parseghian was intro­
duced to· the Notre Dame Student Body in the Old 
Fieldhouse. Saturday afternoon; the Era of Ara came to 
a close in the new ACC. But not to an end. 
-Bill Delaney 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



An .··Autobiography 
On Saturday, January 11, 1975, James Ward, a senior pre-med student, died in Hollywood, Florida, . while on a concert tour with the·St. Mary's Collegiate Choir. A consistent dean's list student and editor of the Notre Dame Science Quarterly, Ward wrote the follow­ing autobiography to accompany his applications for admission to medical school. 
As one who is walking through a forest and is ob­serving the seemingly random associations of those things making up the forest, so it sometimes appeared as I have lived these' twenty-one years and have tried to correlate the many persons, places, and events that I have encountered. However, · when one leaves the forest, steps out, and looks back, as I am stepping out of the present and .reflecting upon my past, one is able to see those particulars as they compose the whole, the 

By James S. Ward 
forest, or, in this case, my life, and discern a meaning. The purpose of this essay then, is to explore the more salient, particular influences in my life and how they have affected an understanding of myself, my friends, and my God in hope of discerning a sense of my present and my direction into the future. 
At this point, it is almost redundant to say that my encounters with the out of doors have played a con­siderable part in my development. The many hours spent in the wilderness with my family and friends served to deepen my .respect for the natural proc­esses, to enhance my reverence for their Creator, to strengthen my relationships between myself, family and friends, and also to· spark a curiosity toward this · life pulse I felt while in the woods. These strong feel­ings for the natural not only deepened a sense of per­sonal responsibility for their maintenance, but also spawned an inquisitiveness for their basis, the laws governing and regulating their functions. So, growing older and progressing in school, I was led to the study of the sciences. The realization that my education in school was not divorced from what I knew and had ex­perienced outside of school was the first impetus given to my learning process. Even in grade school, I was motivated in the classroom by trying to use my new­found knowledge in outside activities. 
My involvement with the out of doors and with science cop.tinued through high school as I made several 
· Canadian canoe trips, was· a member of an Explorer · Scout unit, and in school pursued an accelerated college prep curric~lum. In high school, however, the scope of my activities broadened and I became increasingly in­volved in community affairs. Serving as president of my Student Council and Catholic. Youth Organization, I came into contact with a wide variety of people froll_l many different. educational· and social climates. I took part in such varied activities as organizing a "Hunger Walk". through which several thousand dollars were earned, and speaking at public forums on such topics as race relations and the quality of education in our town. Out of these experiences came a community awareness, a societal commitment, and a concern for my fellow nian. Coupling my community concerns with my· increased curiosity and knowledge of nature and science, I was drawn more and more to an interest in the seeming perfection of the natural processes, man. 
My college years have served to strengthen and en­large my earlier involvements. I have been fortunate in · experiencing a variety of activities and people while at Notre Dame which have help~d me to broaden .my reli­
gious, social, and educational perspectives. My par­ticipation in the Neighborhood Study tutoring program for underprivileged youth and work at St. Joseph's Hospital have allowed me to actively function within the community and have convinced me of my need to apply my interest in science within a societal context. Throughout my life and college years I have tried to be a participant and not a spectator in the affairs around me, using as a· foundation my interests and education. I have tried to structur~y college education as an integrative mechanism to enable me to see the whole as well as the particular and to prepare me for my future work and a functional place in society. So, while I have tried to pursue a rigorous program in the sci­ences, I also have attempted to develop myself in those humane disciplines to better relate to those around me. My growth as a humanitarian as well as a scientist has been a primary concern and, for example, next year in addition to being editor of the Science Quarterly Maga'­zine, I will be teaching a freshman humanities course. 
In summation, my twenty-one· years, although not without their variation and seemingly untimely change, have seen · a steady progression in the basic values leading to my decision for this vocation. My life experi­ences, particularly the death of my father freshman year, have impressed upon me, and convinced me of, the fragility and the value ·of the' natural and the human life. My intent, then, is to follow a career and a way of life dedicated to the preservation of the quality of life in all of its forms and more·specifically man's, and I am certain that medicine will provide a rewarding and stimulating means of expressing my values, goals, and ideals.· 

I 

l\lEl\lORIAL EVENTS Wednesday, February 12-1\lemoria.I Concert featuring the Notre Dame Jazz Band and Jazz Combo; 
8:30 p.m. Washington Hall;' donation $.50. 
--.; . 

Saturday; February 15 -l\lemorial Concert; featuring campus talent; 8:30 p.m. Washington Hall; donation $.50. 
Sunday, February 16 -St. l\lary'.s' Collegiate Choir; 
8:00 p.in. O'Laughlin Auditorium; admission free. 
All proceeds will be donated to charity in Jim Ward's name. 


& 

JaJDes ·Ward's .Prefaee· to 
The .Science .Qua.-terly 
The following is James Ward's editor's introduction to the November 19,14 issue of the Notre Dame Science· Quarterly. • It is gratefully reprinted here with the per­mission of the Science ·Quarterly: · 
Something should be said, in this first issue, of the purpose, the raison d'etre, of the magazine and our reasons for putting it together. Let me begin by saying that there is a definite need within the scientific com-· munity for such a publication.· In a universe bent on achieving a state of maximum disorder (the Second Law, students), we sorely need the cohesive force of corimmnicatiori. To pause, reflect, and discuss ourselves imd our relation to the wider circle of activity around us are vital processes in these formative years. We need to know one another and· what each of us is doing. Everyone is important arid ·everyone has that innate desire to be heard, to have his importance affirmed. Can we take the time to leave the limited realm of means and ends, look abou.t us and interact? Are we trapped in the immediate goals of courses arid careers and for­getting the meaning of our long-range educations and lives? A backward step is necessary for a moment out of•the mainstream, the ordinary, to analyze our collec-· tive past and future directions. , 
And so, how can an eternally dull scientific magazine serve to· quicken these idealized goals?· Can this collec­tion of supposed raw scientific. articles serve.as .any­thing other than a literary substitute for Soininex? . Hopefully, the magazine won't be merely a compilation of "interesting" articles, but rather a series of· articu­late' people's interests. The fact t_hat we are not scien-· tists first,· but rather. people who·enjoy science, should not go unnoticed. Let us come together then, on the human level, and share our experiences and dreams. We all are· awakening our senses.and expanding our effec­tive environments by pursuing our interests. These in­terests are important, not only to ourselves as individ-.· uals but also to the community as a whole. •In order to grow,· to become, we need the• stimulative forces .and encouragements of.our fellows. Possibly, then,· the mag­azine will serve as a forum for our particular ideas in order, to forge a .common ground for new understand­ings.. Our. ideas are all we really have. Eternalize them, for they are valuable; . . . . 
· · I ask you to take a part in this shared educational responsibility; not just to make the magazine worth­while, but to catalyze the concomitant .interchange· of our experiences. In the words of the philosopher Pascal, . · "We are not, we hope to be." We all can become, but we. need one another. 
_JANUARY 31, 19_75 
j 
. .. cll 

, ~.. by Jim Gresser 
. . . ··• ..\,J .! My life experiences, particularly 
I. .· ..·..·• •·• ·1 the death of my father freshman. , lillrraml j year, have impressed upon me, and ! j convinced me of, the fragility and
o·· 

i_ ,.. •.· ...· • • · . . ! the value of the natural and the 1human life. 
t ·~... ITo ilie past year,:•::::me
[ !community has been forced to accept! j a great number of personal losses. l From the student bodywe have lost l Beth Storey, Boni Burton, Jim ·· ] Gallagher, B6b Rieman and Peter 
..·.. ·, ··•·.. lLardy. From the faculty we have 
1. j lost P.rof~ssor Frank O'Malley. Add i · i to this hst the names of deceased 

.. . ·.·...·.....'. . .··. . -. · .•. l alumni mentioned on the back pages 
...ro· 

. j of Notre Dame Magazine and the · · 1 l number is quite large. Multiply that 
·.··. < J:~~::; :~/e:;\;i;i;:,m~!ie~:i:~ : · : " • l reaches paralyzing intensity. · 

(' jl 

So let's stick to. Notre Dame. If j the names on that list mean nothing 

V· · /1.\ 

i to you, it is probably easy to over­!'; '-II j look even the small recognition 
[ ·: · · > · · ·•·• ··· · . l!:::;:::~.d;t::~:n:t :~/:~: 
r:(·[ l~;:t~::~::~a;;:g~:~n~,:o~~::~ 





· t /t\'."•, .! ~§.~~~~1E~r.;~r.°¥:::
·/' . -· · l other name was added to that list: ~:: : ; • • · '· } Jim Ward. For many people per-L.. · ·. .:'-,:: · j haps his name foo is "just another I'. . l name," and, for them, anything said ·. \:~ · · i about Jim would be sloppy, · senti~ If > 1mental· and possibly meaningless.f;. .1 But those who knew him, of course, J::: / j know that.· his is not "just ·another ·;, j name." They see all too clearly what : , !an inestimable loss (please allow the f' l use of that term for now) his death·r:.··. /_.. ·.·· ., really v.:as. But even to. those who .
0 

k:.«=..~--~~-M,.:..;.".-"' loved Jim Ward, and there were 
many, what should be said? Should they be told of his academic and so­cial achievements? There is no need. Should they be told of the way he looked, or the way he talked? Or of the phrases he used, or the thoughts he thought? Or even of the way he laughed or smiled? There's no way. 
If none of these questions are to be answered, then perhaps you ask, what else is there to say, and why should Jim Ward's death be singled out above all the others?'The answer is not easy but, for me, it is very important, not only as it relates to Jim, whom I was lucky enough to call my friend, but as it relates to all those names on the list. Let me apol­ogize beforehand for my awkward, insufficient explanation, but I believe that while it's impossible to say ade­quately what Jim Ward meant, per­haps one can share what Jim Ward 
taught. 

In the most honest way, Jim Ward taught those who knew him what it means to wonder. 
He knew what it meant to wonder at life, in all its facets and potenti­alities, including death. He .saw in every part of nature an essential relatedness with every other part; in the single object he saw the beau­ty of every other object. A brilliant student and . potential physician, he sought knowledge wherever he could find it-in the humanities as well as the sciences-with insatiable desire. His intellect, however, was not a proud one, and he approached the ultimate questions humbly. He did not demand pat explanations, but was content to observe in mystery. 
Perhaps his ability to wonder was best shown in his love for people. As Fr. Charles Bober said in his sermon at Jim's funeral, "More than anything else in the world, he was a realist." He never expected perfect happiness, and yet whenever he ex­perienced even the smallest joy or pleasure, especially with people, he was therefore able to view it not as something falling far short of perfection but as a beautiful gift to be treasured and cherished. He saw that gift, that special essence, in every person he met. He didn't seek out people for, what they could do for him, but considered each person to be as significant as all others and asked only to share his friendship. 
With characteristic gentility, Jim was willing to give his friendship to anyone who asked for it, and in his friendship that person became uniquely significant: to Jim's life. Jim knew the essential life in one person was as wonderful as the life in any other, but he did his best to affirm that wonder in those par­ticular people it was his opportunity to meet. As he wrote in his introduc­tion to the last issue of the Notre Dame Science Quarterly, "Everyone is important and everyone has that innate desire to be heard, to have his importance affirmed. Can we take the time to leave the limited realm of means and ends, look about us and interact? ... In the words of the philosopher Pascal, 'We are not, we hope to be.' We all can become, but need one another.'' In a passage from Kurt Vonnegut's God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater which Jim 

found particularly interesting, this idea found a similar expression: · 
"people need all the uncritical love they can get . . . you've got to be kind.'' . 
Strangely enough, his desire to share himself seems not to have found a frustration in his death, but a fulfillment. And more than ever be-· fore he seems a part of the wonder of life. It's as if his human desire to share himself was inhibited by. his human nature: With •his death, that great desire, so long trapped in a body, has been let loose. When 
. his friends and family began crowd­ing into Beaver's SS. Peter and Paul Church, it was not as if Jim Ward was gone, but as if he was everywhere, in every face. And though it's a difficult feeling to de:­scribe, it's not even as though Jim has really left those of us here at Notre Dame; he is here in a way more infusive than ever before. 
Jim Ward always wondered at the greatness of the whole, which he saw in the essence of the particular. His death teaches that ultimately the two are united. His death has become a fulfillment, not a cancella­tion, of his life. 
During the drive down to his funeral, a comment was made about what kind of person Jim was. He was ther kind who didn't just talk about getting up early to watch the sunrise; he did it. Significantly, he did so the day he died. Someone then said how sad it was that he would never see that event again. Well maybe that's not quite true. If Jim Ward has been let loose in the world, he,--!Ilay . not only see the sunrise again, but he will see it everyday, and he'll see it every time someone who knows him sees it. 
Jim saw in everyone the essence and the value of the; universe. That's what he taught us in his, life and. is now showing us so much _more fully. If you try to see things the way he saw, or know things the way. he knew, with wonder at the tremen­dous . mystery of life, no single human life, or death, is less ,signifi­cant _than any other, or all of them. Each life is as important as, and contains in its essence, .the totality of life. 
He taught us .to open our eyes and appreciate the world .and, most of all, the peopie around us. His life and death should be singled ·out for teaching us how much every life, here at Notre Dame or anywhere, is worth. If there are to be any regrets, they should me not for Jim but for ourselves. Why do we. need someone to die to show us how to live? 
I said before that . Jim Ward's death ,was a great loss for. those who loved him. If we believe what he believed, however, we .must see his death as a great gain, for now he is in a. way closer .to his family and his friends than ever. before. He stood in wonder before human life and before the unifying possibility of human relationships. In his death, and he would say in anyone's death, that relationship can paradoxically become closer and more beautiful than ever. That's a wonderful gift. 
"We all can become, but we need one another." 


.... w. 

International· Harvester­
has unmatched,oppo--tunities
for people majoring -in: -·-..--­
·Accounting Agricultural-Engineering Business· Administration Business Management: -.. Civil Engineering · -. ,· '. . Computer Science ·:· . : · Economics· ' .,-..·· _. Electrical Engi:ne~:dng. __. Engin'eering Technology, ··:: .• 
.Finance -_ -. 
•-lndtistrial-Engineering_ · ­Marketing . -.--­Mathematics .--. Mechanical E,:ngineeri:i-{g_ 
Metalh.1.rgy _· _ _ . __ · __-:· . ____ Metallurgical -Engineering._•
. ,, ·"' ,..·. •·. ­... . . . 

·Maich \6 ·}: : .;--_ ._ . __ -.-.-_-----. is y~ur ch,~nce:-to.-take a•~~k_atth~ni 
... Make a~. app;i°ri.tm~n'.L~fthe Plac~ment OHic~: tb' see the International·Harvester_College· Relations _ 'Representative'. He'll be here .to tell you what · kind of people·-we're looking for, how 'we.wcfrk -. -. and more about the opportunities wehave to offer:· ·. ­._. _In the meantime; stop by : · . . · . _the Placement Office and-:_ . __ •·_ ·_,1•11·_
pick up a copy ofour new -­recruitmentbrochure. ' . INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER 







