
BiS i,^. ^3®-1. '^4




The Notre Dame

SCHOLASTIC
& h
&
I

PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
«
A4,^xSv^«r\
&
Number 11 |
DECEMBER 13. 1940
Volume 74








hoot tteChfiftfM$ red	j&yh vhttcy


<If ifts that last for years .... from Notre Dame
"LESSONS IN LIBERTY"
— by Prof. Clarence Manion. A study of God in Government that has been acclaimed by the press of America. Timely, authoritative, very interestingly written — this volume gives full evidence that you will find "the root and stem of democracy in Christianity." $1.50 the volume
"T. E. B."
— Father Tom Burke's yearbook of poems, many of which have been printed in "The Wake of the News."
Now only 15c per copy

T E B
REVIEW OF POLITICS
International in the range of its contributors, this quarterly review deals with "the philosophical and historical approach to political realities" ... interpretations of current problems by the world's great minds.
$2.50 the year
AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST
Primarily, though not exclusively, devoted to the natural history of the middle west. Papers on botany, geology, paleontology and zoology — published bi-monthly.
$5.00 the year
SCHOLASTIC and SCRIP
Publications of the undergraduates of the University. Academic and sports news are to be found in the SCHOLASTIC, a weekly magazine — 13 issues a semester. SCRIP is the literary quarterly — 72 pages.
$3.00 the year (for both)
Address orders to
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS
Room 121, Administration Building
Notre Dame, Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
~ RAYMOND J. KELLY	। —
Out of our mail bag
The Parade has always looked with envious eyes at the work of other columnists who could take up an entire page, writing about the letters that they received from their readers. We always wanted to get mail but it was only a few days ago that w’e actually did. We received a long letter from our friend, the sports editor of the Ohio State Lantern, whose article about the Dartmouth-Cornell game we had criticized the week before last. He explained that he felt that under no circumstances should the decisions of the referee be reversed; regardless of any human errors that might have occurred there should be no appeal. We agree with him that the decision of the referee should be final, that to constantly reverse his decisions would cause mix-ups and loss of respect both for him and the whole game of football. It is foolish to condemn a team which profits by a referee’s mistake. And referees will make mistakes as long as they are human beings. What I objected to was the idea of razzing a coach who had done something definitely different and very sporting.
We both had our own opinions and we both still have them. However, I’m glad that the whole thing came up if but for the one reason that it enabled me to become acquainted with a darn fine fellow, John Dietrich of Ohio State.
The retort brutal
The Minnesota Daily told an engaging tale of a co-ed who persuaded a fellow to fall in love with her. He gave her his fraternity pin but not satisfied with one, she went out and convinced three other fellows that they, too, were in love with her. Each of these, knowing that she cared for him alone gave her his frat pin. With four bright pins to her collection she met a freshman lawyer and proceeded to fall in love with him. He knew of the four pins she already had and told her to give them back “and I will give you my pin.” She really liked this freshman lawyer so she gave all four of the pretty fraternity pins back
COVER DRAWING
The drawing on the SCHOLASTIC cover this week is by Mr. Frank J. Hanley, instructor in the art department of the University.
to their owners. Then, in the smirking manner of freshmen lawyers he gave her his pin—an ordinary safety pin. He has ignored her ever since.
❖
Practical jokes
We have always relished stories about practical jokers. Not those wiseacres who pull chairs out from under people, but those clever lads who use their head to provide everyone, including the victim with a good time. British school life seemed to encourage this vice, if you would call it that. There is the story, forever immortal, of the two Oxford students who daubed their hands and faces with stain, arrayed themselves in outlandish robes, and came aboard the flagship of the fleet to inspect it as the official representatives of the Sultan of Abyssinia.
Perhaps, that same spirit is being revived over here. The day before the Yale-Harvard game, several dastardly Harvards stole on the Yale campus and put padlocks and chains on every door of Harkness Hall so that the students and professors at class inside had to call from an upper window for the campus police before proceeding to their other classes.
“These things get more fantastic every year!”
At Holy Cross, one of the seniors, attired in Boman collar and cassock visited a number of freshmen where he was introduced by his companion, also a senior, as “Mr. Kelly, S.J.” After giving the frosh a lecture on the evils of strong drink, he had them sign a pledge. When the pledge with the list of names under it appeared on the bulletin board many were the red faces for the poor frosh found that they had signed after such dignitaries as “I. M. Wette, Nere Beer, Sloe Gin.”	'
. ❖
Notes
Larry Clinton vras chosen for the first Union Formal at Indiana U. in a student poll, beating out such boys as Ted Weems, Dick Jergens, Glen Gray, and Will Osborne.... The Auburn Plainsman reports that Boston College has probably the worst band in the country. Even the student body at B. C. admits it, according to the story, which quoted one of the Bostonians in regard to the outfit, “They feature individuality. Yeafi, every man for himself and the guy that finishes foist gets a prize.”.... The student board at Wisconsin U. is sponsoring a campaign to improve working conditions for employed students. Beginning with the fraternity houses, all campus groups, employing part - time student help, as well as off-campus employers, are asked to sign a contract establishing' a minimum wage of 35 cents an hour, regulating overtime work, eliminating breakage charges, and setting up definite standards for student workers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
—- FRANK WEMHOFF-^
Top of the Week
Look Homeward, Angel.
Dear Eddie
Your letter drove me nearly frantic. I had just finished washing my hair and you know how it looks after I do that. Well, Mother hollers up and says I’ve got a letter from Eddie! Was I surprised! I ran downstairs with the water simply dripping all over the new blue carpet that Daddy got a huge discount on. Gee, but you write nice letters. Sorta warmish and sentimental-like. I told Zoe Beckley all about you last month and she wrote me back the nicest answer in the Evening Blade. She said I should keep you dangling on the string and pit you against my other love interests. That woman is positively psychic. I’d never have thought of that in a coon’s age.
About those dates you asked me for during the holidays. I shall be overjoyed to see you when I can. But I must pursue my new policy, however. So I have had mimeographed copies drawn up of my date schedule from December 20th to New Year’s Day. You will have to pay strict attention to it or I will be mad at you.
Dec. 20—Harry. Lydia Pinkham’s Almanac says this is a clear night and Harry has a roadster.
Dec. 21—Felix. Lydia says snow and Felix loves to ski.
Dec. 22—Honey - Bunny. Lydia says rain.
■ Dec. 23—We girls are having a hen party at 22 West Madison, the second house from the corner on the right side of the street, and no crashers allowed.
Dec. 24—Eddie. Lydia says this is Christmas Eve when Santa comes.
Dec. 25—Daddy says he is going to see me then.
Dec. 26—Henry. His dad owns a brewery.
Dec. 27—Frank. Gray Gordon at the Notre Dame Ball ($2.20 per couple).
Dec. 28 to 30—I have a friend at Dartmouth.
Dec. 31—I welcome the New Year
with Bill Seagram, an intoxicating fellow.
So there, Eddie dear, I’ve gone and done it. Don’t think for a single awful minute that I’ve slighted you. After all, I saved the best night of the year for my little Eddie. Besides, Zoe Beckley says that a girl of my obvious capabilities should not bury her light under a basket.
Charmingly,
Thelma.
Dear Thelma,
Brrraaaccckkk !!!
Pip pip,
Little Eddie
Strictly kosher
The Caseys set something for the “Outward Bounders” to shoot at... they did.... It was a shame to give anyone first prize.... almost everyone deserved it.... Jack Whalen rates a big blow for his m.c. job and for the Tunney gag but flatted a fine show with that handkerchief trick._the piano work was great.... Bill Mooney and his pard, Ming Toy, and even “Shifless Skonk” Kaltenbach were super.... Al Plotkin presented the evidence that got him 9,227 votes on Major Bowes’ program... Snuff Kelley’s crack about two professors who were fighting over who should have a lone seat at “Outward Bound.”... They stood in the aisle and snarled at each other. — “I’m older’n you”.... “But I’m bigger’n you”.... “Yeah, well how many books have you written?”
Rambling
The campaign against culture on the campus continues, in spite of alliteration, with the disappearance of Whizzer White’s ’ book The Brothers Karamazov .... some shameless bibliophile could collect a reward for its return.... more alliteration.... something fell on my head the other night.... I looked and it was me.
❖
Bottom of the Week
The Road Back.
OPINION
Coaches whose teams opposed the 19^0 Irish squad give their estimate of it!
Amos Alonzo Stagg, of College of the ; Pacific: “From my observations of the Notre Dame team in her game with the College of the Pacific, I was convinced ; that Notre Dame was due for one of her best seasons. I was greatly impressed by the speed and power and deception of the Notre Dame attack. The team also demonstrated excellent capacity and resourcefulness in her use of the forward pass.”
W. A. Alexander, of Georgia Tech: “The Notre Dame team this fall was typical of the best teams tutored by Rockne and later by Layden. Clean play was as usual a feature much appreciated by opponents and characteristic of the JJotre Dame tradition. The running pass so superbly executed in the Georgia Tech game was impressive.”
Dr. Edward Baker, of Carnegie Tech: “The Notre Dame team we played on October 19th was the finest offensive unit we had met all year. What particularly impressed me was the speed and power of such backs as Piepul, Juzwik, Evans, Crimmins; the precision, timing, and execution of plays with good blocking by the line and quarterback. The defense was alert and took advantage of our lapses when we became desperate. In short it was the best Notre Dame team I have seen under Coach Layden.”
Robert C. Zuppke, of Illinois: “Notre Dame impressed me as a well-organized, intelligent team which showed the results of fine coaching. Your boys seemed to know what to do every minute. I never saw better blocking. It was at a level which a team, however strong, seldom reaches again in a season. It was Notre Dame’s misfortune probably to reach its peak in our game, something no coach can do anything about. At that stage a test against a team with dangerous backs : would have been better.”	?
Howard Jones, of Southern California: 1 “Notre Dame’s team played fine, clean I football against us in winning 10-6 and j deserved the victory. The boys struck us | on an unusually hot day for December | and although unaccustomed to the 1 weather they bore up very well under I the strain. I believe that the superiority 1 of Notre Dame’s reserves over ours was 1 the deciding factor of the game. When j a team can run in good men like Evans 1 and Ebli as substitutes, it is tough on an I opponent whose ability falls far off after ® the opening lineup.”	®
—Carl Rohrer ®
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana, Acceptance for Trailing at special rate of poetage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Volume 74
December 13, 1940
Number 11
St. Joseph Valley Alumni Honor Football Squad
20th Annual Banquet Monday Night
The Notre Dame football squad, accustomed to being looked down upon every Saturday afternoon, now finds itself in the enviable position of being looked up to. Due to a change in the program policy of the 20th annual football banquet, which will spotlight the players, the seating arrangement in the East Dining Hall has been readjusted to afford each player dramatic publicity. The squad will be seated at raised tables at the north and south ends of the hall in clear view of the banquet guests. This innovation is effected in accordance with the express wish of guests who want to familiarize themselves with the squad, formerly only names in print.
Thus, the final cheers of. the 1940 Irish grid season will echo Monday night in the ears of the Notre Dame squad, who will be guests of honor at the 20th annual football banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley. The banquet will be held in the East dining hall and will be attended by approximately 1,000 persons.
A band of celebrities, studded with prominent figures in the athletic world, will be present to participate in the celebration. Gene Tunney, former world’s heavyweight boxing champion, will be a principal speaker and guest of honor.
Pat O’Malley, NBC artist and narrator of the adventures of ’erbert ’awkins and Sam Small appearing on Alec Templeton’s program, will be toastmaster.
At the speakers’ table, awaiting Mr. O’Malley’s introduction, will be the following coaches whose teams have tested Notre Dame this season: Capt. Bill Wood of Army; Major E. E. Larson of Navy; Dr. Eddie Anderson of Iowa; and Lynn Waldorf of Northwestern. And of course the Irish coach, Elmer Layden, will be there to present his remarks for the occasion, as will that other member of the Four Horsemen quartet, Harry -Stuhl-dreher of Wisconsin. Baseball, now pre
paring for its seasonal debut, will be represented by: Jimmy Wilson, newly appointed manager of the Chicago Cubs, and Jimmy Dykes, colorful manager of the Chicago White Sox.
The comments of the coaches should prove interesting to listeners. Serviceschool coaches Wood and Larson might
Gene Tunney, guest of honor
offer a statement as to how it feels to be trimmed by the Irish, while mentors Anderson and Waldorf may tell the audience their reactions after chalking up a victory over Notre Dame.
Notre Dame speakers other than Coach Layden will be the Rev. J. Hugh
(Turn to page 26)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Select Eight Members
For 1941 Debate Squad
Milton Williams
The eight men
After a four hour verbal barrage of facts, figures, and theories last Friday afternoon and night, William J. Coyne, director of debate, selected the members of this year’s varsity debating squad. These final tryouts were held in the Law auditorium and the topic was this year’s intercollegiate debate question: “Resolved, that the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.” icked to represent
Notre Dame in debate were: The “A” squad Affirmative; John O’Loughlin, Bangor, Me., or John Burke, Sioux Falls, S.Dak., and William Meier, Faulkton, S. Dak.; Negative—Thomas Grady, Farmer City, Ill. and Milton Williams, Elkhart, Ind.; the “B” squad Affirmative— John O’Loughlin or John Burke and Fred Holl, Honesdale, Pa.; Negative— Edward Meagher, Seattle, Wash., and Mark Lies, Riverside, Ill. Williams, Gra-day, Meier, O’Loughlin, and Burke were squad members last year.
The debate question this year requires constant watch on the day to day happenings in the foreign situation on the part of the debaters. To the affirmative side goes the task of showing the need and practicality of a union; to the negative, the job of offering their own solutions to the present problems of the nations of the Western Hemisphere in regard to foreign affairs.
The debate schedule for this year has not yet been completed. The Notre Dame squad, however, always opens its season at the Manchester tournament held by Manchester College, North Manchester, Ind., in the last week of February.
—Robert LeMense
Attends Kiley Ceremonies
z Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident, represented the University of Notre Dame at the ceremonies attending the assumption of office of judge of the superior court of Cook County, Illinois, by Mr. Roger Kiley, former N. D. athlete and member of the class of 1922. The ceremonies were held Dec. 1 in
. the county court building in Chicago.
Father Cavanaugh delivered the invocation which was a part of the ceremonies.—Edward Drinkard
IbS S+uden+s Receive Employment On Campus
More than one-fifth of Notre Dame’s present.enrollment of students are employed in some manner, and thus earn a part of their University expenses, according to figures obtained from Francis W. Lloyd, comptroller, and 'E. J. Murray, supervisor of student employment.
Seven hundred and sixty-five is the actual number of students employed at present. Of this number about 290 are aided under the provisions of the National Youth Act.
Amounts earned vary from $120 a year to a normal maximum of $250 a year. However, there is special consideration in unusual jobs such as translators, special laboratory workers, and in all assignments which require some particular skill.
Hourly rates range from 47 cents to a high of 75 cents.
Students are assigned to approximately 30 different positions according to their qualifications. Two hundred and sixty are employed in the dining-hall and cafeteria, mainly as waiters. One
Meet Garcia Robles - A Spanish Count
A very American Spanish count is Carlos Jorge Garcia Robles y Dunkin Conde de Fuente Piedras, 306 Badin Hall. Known to his friends as “Pete,” a name given him while at school in England, he has settled at Notre Dame for the longest period of time at one school in his life.
Pete was born in Barcelona, Spain, in 1920. He travelled throughout Southern Europe before coming to America in 1934. His father was born in Mexico of Mexican parents. His mother was bom in London, England, of Scotch-Spanish-Italian descent. One sister, since deceased, was born in London, a brother there also, and another brother in Paris, France.
The first part of his full name, which
POST OFFICE FORWARDS MAIL
All students remaining on the campus during the Christmas vacation are requested to inform the Notre Dame Postmaster of this fact immediately. The postmaster announces that all first class mail will be forwarded to the student’s home address after Dec. 20 unless otherwise specified.
hundred seventy are correctors and secretaries for professors. Fifty-three work in the library: ordering books, classifying and filing, and obtaining books requested by students from their different locations in the stacks.
More unusual positions held by various students include the student photographer who accompanies the football team about the country and takes movies which are used by coaches to demonstrate the weakness involved in particular plays.
A few students are employed as coaches for other students who have physical handicaps of one sort or another.
Six students are engaged as guestmasters in the Main building. Their* particular duties are to receive visitors and give brief accounts of the University’s history, and to tell the background of the paintings found in the halls of the Main building.
Out of the total number, 60 students work in the archives indexing Catholic Americana.—Edward Drinkard
he seldom uses except for legal writings, is taken from his father’s family. The Dunkin is his mother’s maiden name, and the latter part is his title. The title of count has been in his family for longer than he is able to trace back. It is handed down from generation to generation to the oldest son of each succeeding family.
Pete is a well-travelled young man, and the longest time he has remained in one country for one stretch of time was in France, where the family lived in Paris for five years. Their present home is in Coyoacan, Mexico D.F., Mexico. He has made friends in Europe, Mexico, and the United States. In the latter part of 1936 he came to the States for prep-schooling at Danvers, Mass. Since he has come to Notre Dame his two brothers have gone to Danvers also.
As a native of Spain, Robles was ordered to return and fight in the recent Civil War. But, claiming exemption as a Mexican because of his father’s nationality, he didn’t go. He may be called now, however, in the Mexican compulsory military service which is similar to the draft. The War has caused some grief, though, in that his family property in Spain was lost, and his god? : father and godmother, have not been heard from in five years.—John Lynch
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
g Christmas iflcSsage
In keeping zvith the coming Christmas season, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the Uzziversity, very gz'aciously cozzsented to zvrite this znes-sage foz- the SCHOLASTIC.
—Editor’s note
Perhaps at no time in the history of the world is it more important for the true Christian to take a supernatural
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
view of Christmas than at the present. With most of the world at war and a pagan philosophy of zzo-God oz' azzti-God permeating even the nations at peace, it behooves all of -us to look beyond this earth to our true home in heaven, as we reflect once again on the scene at Bethlehem.
Let us intensify our faith during the Christmas season, with renewed prayer and mortification. Let us revive our hope as we contemplate the emptiness of this world and all worldly goods. And may the charity of Christ enkindle in our hearts a real love of fellowman, in contrast with the hate and prejudice existing in so many countries abroad. Then, and only then, can we fully appreciate the lesson of “peace to men of good will” which Bethlehem teaches.
In the true spirit of the supernatural, I wish a very blessed Christmas to both faculty and students of the University, as well as their dear ones. And, in conformity with the wish of Christ’s Vicar on Earth, Pius XII, I ask you during this holy season to join with him and all Christians in his prayer for peace, as contained in the concluding paragraphs of his last radio address:
“O Lord, may the charity of Thy Divine Spirit reign and triumph over’ the world. May the peace
of concord and justice among nations be restored. May our prayers be acceptable and welcome to Thy meek and humble heart.... Speak the word which will still the storm, which will heal the sick, which is light to the blind and hearing to the deaf and life to the dead.... Peace among men. which Thou desirest, is dead. Bring it back to life, O Divine Conqueror of death__ May justice and charity on one side and on the other be in perfect balance, so that ’ all injustice be repaired, and the leign of right restored, all discord and rancor be banished from men's minds. Amen.”
Grotto Favorite Spot
of Students and Alumni
Mecca for Notre Dame students from early morning until night is the Grotto. It is one of the most scenic spots on the campus, and rare is the returning alumnus who does not go there almost instantly.
The idea of constructing a facsimile of the French Grotto, Our Lady of Lourdes, was conceived by the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University, after a visit to the famous shrine in France in 1873. It took 18 years to complete, as construction was held up at various times through the lack of funds. It was finally finished, mainly through the generosity of the Rev. Thomas Carroll of Oil City, Pa., a theology student at Notre Dame.
That the choosing of the site of the Grotto was not a haphazard matter is shown by this excerpt from the Scholastic of Aug. 20, 1896: “Just behind the Presbytery is a little wooded dell which has always been regarded as one of the charming spots of Notre Dame. For years past the pilgrims from Kalamazoo and Jackson have chosen it as a resting place after their long journey; it has been a favorite walk with visitors at all times; and during the spring and autumn those who live at Notre Dame seek it instinctively for the coolness and attractiveness.”	*
The Grotto is constructed wholly of unhewn rock, some of the giant boulders weighing as much as three tons. The mound from which the cavern was hollowed out is covered with pines, and numerous rock and flower gardens surround the grounds immediately around the Grotto. In the right side of the Grotto a statue of the Blessed Virgin stands in an elevated niche. This is illuminated at night, the result of the work of the Rev. Lawrence V.' Broughal, C.S.C., for many years faculty advisor of the Scholastic, who also had the stairway lights put in.
When laborers were digging for the foundation, a spring of pure, clear water was struck just to the left of the Grotto in approximately the same spot as the _ miraculous waters of Lourdes in France. It exhausted itself after a few weeks, however, and the spot is now marked by a water fountain.
7
During the month of May, which is dedicated to the Virgin Mary, special devotions are held there every night.
—Bill Welch
University Theatre Plans
To Stage "The Gondoliers"
For the first time in more than three years a light opera will be presented by a group of University students in Washington Hall. The Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., director of the University Theatre, announces that the next production by that group will be the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, “The Gondoliers.” Mr. Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech, has been named director of the operetta because of his past experience acting in and producing this type of musical drama.
Tryouts for “The Gondoliers,” the most tuneful of Gilbert and Sullivan works, will be held shortly after the opening of the second semester in February. It will be presented about a month later, perhaps sometime in the early part of March.	'
Mr. Birder, a Notre Dame alumnus, joined the University faculty at the beginning of the 1940-41 schoolyear. He had previously held a teaching position at the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. While he was at St. Thomas, Mr. Birder’s mixed choral groups, organized in cooperation with nearby St. Catherine’s College, received nation-wide acclaim for their Christmas and Easter radio programs. He also produced several of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas at the St. Paul institution. Before - he began his teaching career, Cecil Birder had several years’ experience on the professional stage.—John Casey
Theatre Group Closes
"Outward Bound" Tonight
After playing to a full house last' night, “Outward Bound” will be presented for the last time, at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall this evening. Sutton Vane’s somewhat eerie but delightful old play marks the first presentation of the current schoolyear by the University Theatre, supervised by the Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C. The cast and a short review of the play appeared in last week’s issue of the Scholastic.
Death and the judgment after death comprise the principle subject matter of the play. All the action takes place on a boat that is carrying eight spirits to what awaits them after death. Vern Witkowski, who plays the part of the Rev. William Duke in the play, assisted Father Coyle in the active direction of the play.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By William K. Mulvey
On March 18, about a decade before the “big crash” and all the ensuing
nonsense, Charles
Charles Dillon
Pennsylvania oil,
Dillon came screaming into this world. Just missing Saint Patrick’s day by two hours and being blessed with Irish parents, Charlie was born practically with a Shamrock in one hand and a shilla-lah in the other.
He spent his first years in the small western Pennsylvania town of Bradford. In the early days of Bradford was a boom
town, but by Charlie’s time it had settled down to a calm and ordinary existence.
At Butler High school, he wasn’t known as a politician. He spent most of his time swimming for the high school team, and in his senior year, he gave the coach a break, and went out for football. Then, as his days in high school became numbered, Charlie’s father and older brother, who is an ex-Notre Dame man, began to apply the pressure. In September of 1937, Charles Dillon matriculated at Notre Dame.
Finding the competition on the gridiron rugged, and the swimming team non-existent, Mr. Dillon was lost for a time. But the Novice track meet for all freshman offered him a chance to apply himself once more to his hobby of sports. He placed third in the half mile of that interhall meet, but he paid painfully for his efforts. His friends had to walk him around for an hour after the race to keep him from tightening into a knot.
In his sophomore year, he continued following athletics. By this time the Rockne Memorial building had opened, and Charlie was able to return to his first love, swimming. He has picked up medals consistently since then in the Straight, Place and Show divisions. Interhall basketball kept him busy during the winter, and his team emerged as champions. Then came the spring, and under the influence of roomy Bruce Heb-enstreit, he turned to boxing. He did quite well, until he met one Dick Leahy. The decision was not popular, but
Uncover Important Letters of Father
Basil Moreau, C.S.C., In University Archives
Recent calendaring in the University Archives has uncovered a group of letters dealing with an important episode in the life of Rev. Basil Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross. These letters deal particularly with his connection with Saint Mary of Saint Euphrasia Pelletier and the reorganization of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd.
In the years 1833 to 1835 Saint Mary of Saint Euphrasia, who was canonized last May, changed the organization of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd from a series of independent houses to a general community, in this process she was opposed by Father Moreau, superior at the house at Le Mans, France, who was represented as desiring to keep the local community under his protection. This correspondence, discovered in the personal papers of Archbishop Napoleon Perche of New Orleans, shows that Father Moreau was not prompted by any personal interest, but was defending the plans of the original founder, Saint John Eudes, and following the instructions of his bishop.
Included in the collection are autographs of the newly canonized saint, other members of her community, and Father Moreau.
Rev. Henry Bergeron, C.S.C., who is
it stuck, and Charlie was eliminated.
In his Junior year, politics reared its ugly head, and our boy was made Stu-den Council representative from Dillon Hall. Under his guidance, that hall won the campus-wide contest for the best decorations on home-coming week-end. During the winter, he turned once again to interhall basketball, and came out as a member of the championship team. This spring, instead of more boxing, Charlie turned to more politics. In a torrid campaign, he managed to down Bill Cotter for the presidency of the Senior Class. That brings us up to date.
When I approached him for an interview, I found him communing with his campaign manager, Larry McLaughlin, in a barren room in Walsh. He was bemoaning the fact that the room was supposed to be part of a suit, but in the interim between registration and occupation, the connecting door was boarded up, leaving him only his little cheesebox. But to add insult to injury, the price of the room remained the same: suite prices for a single room.
When not busy swimming, or playing basketball and football for various inter
preparing a new life of Father Moreau considers these letters important in clearing up this misunderstanding in Father Moreau’s early life. The letters will be used in the cause for beatification of Father Moreau.
These letters somehow became the property of Father Perche who was chaplain of the Good Shepherds in Le Mans in 1831-1832 and was active in the vicinity until 1837. The reason for the documents being given to him is uncertain.
Apparently these documents were carried with him to the missions he had in France and were brought with his other belongings to the United States in 1837. From 1837 to 1842 Father Perche was a missionary in the diocese of Bardstown, Ky. In 1842 he went to New Orleans where he was chaplain at the Ursuline convent until he became Archbishop of New Orleans. During his years at the convent he founded a Catholic newspaper, Le Propagateur Catho-lique.
Archbishop Perche’s papers have been in the University Archives since 1895 but the contents of the collection concerning Father Moreau was not discovered until the documents were being arranged for calendaring a short time ago.
—Bob Nenno
hall teams, Charlie may be found either at Student Council or Schoolman meetings. If not there, you might try St. Mary’s — of the Woods, preferably. There is a rare possibility that he might be in his room studying.
Charlie has very few dislikes, and tries to like all people, though in some cases he admits this is difficult. His only violent dislike is cigars. In his freshman year one of these stogies made him deathly ill, and turned him a pale green. Ever since then he has made a wide detour when they are passed around.
His future is indefinite. He might take graduate philosophy work, he might just look for a job. He might even turn to medicine after attaining his cultural foundation in philosophy, or the Army might get him. As uncertain as this may be, he just smiles up at the ceiling.... He’s not a bit worried.
’’Scrip"
Students are invited to submit manu- | scripts for the January issue of “Scrip” | to the editor, 268 Alumni Hall, not later | than January 6.	f
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Seniors Advised to Begin Work on Job Contacts
Seniors are advised by William R. Dooley, director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, to use the coming Christmas vacation to make or renew contacts which will be helpful to them in obtaining work after graduation.
“It is the responsibility of each individual to find his own job, and his every effort should be put into an intelligent campaign to find that job,” said Mr.
William R. Dooley
Dooley. “The earlier he begins, the better will be his results. We in this bureau are glad to give any assistance we can — as much as we are able with our limited time and personnel — though the initial efforts must come from the student himself.”
—John Aselage
PLACEMENT NOTICE
Prospective graduates of 1941 who wish to have the assistance of the Placement Bureau in finding jobs should procure placement application blanks at the Alumni Office in the Main Building. These are to be filled out and returned to the Alumni Office as soon as possible.
W. R. Dooley
Director, Placement Bureau
Quintet Wins $30 Prize in K. of C. Vaudeville
Before an audience that was jam-packed in old Washington hall, Reggie Flynn and his swing quintet Tuesday night carried off first place and $30, in the second annual revival of Knights of Columbus vaudeville. Members of the winning quintet were besides guitarist Flynn, drummer Ted McDonald, pianist Phil Foote, trumpeter Dan Donahue, and sax-man Louis Spagnuolo.
$20 and second honors went to the twin piano team of Bill Mooney and Joe Savord; and third prize of $10 was awarded hill-billies Joe Kaltenbach and Tom Delia.
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
If some one had told us last week, that the meek, agrarian, faculty member who is an expert on the French Revolution had dramatic inclinations, we would have scoffed; we might even have sneered. But now we know better. Only the other day, this professor of history gave his class a detailed account of a battle between the Russian and Prussian armies, supplying the sound effects by means of vocal “booms” and the manner of the Prussian approach by chalk marks on the black-board. He had his students anxious and excited as he marched the Prussian troops towards the top of an important hill, he had them in a frenzy as he placed a chalk dot on the top of the mount. Then he faced the class. “But at this point,” he said, “the Prussians turned and marched down the hill. Why? Nobody knows.” Well, we are not particularly curious to learn the Prussians fled, but we would like to know why more of our faculty members do not employ dramatic methods in class. The old Paul Revere tale would give an instructor great opportunities for roving theatrics, and the famous act of Martin Luther could be recreated with the use of a thumbtack, a religious bulletin, and the class-room door. That there are difficulties, we admit. We know that some students would insist on playing Brutus to the professor’s Caesar.
* * *
With Christmas just a few short weeks from us, the Postal Telegraph has deemed it wise to distribute its list of special holiday messages. After a close inspection we have decided that No. 357 —Social and No. 330—Business are the best of an exceptionally fine group. In case you are interested, here they are: “Here’s hoping Kris Kringle, the Merry Old Soul, will make your chimney his very first goal. Merry Christmas to you all.” (357) And “For a merry holiday season may we suggest you visit our store where the choicest wines and spirits await your selection. Merry Christmas and a big money New Year is our wish to you.” (330) That bit about a big money New Year is what makes No. 330 especially attractive to us.
* * *
We are in complete disagreement with those persons who claim that the faculty group is a drab body. We need only to cite two members of the Commerce De
partment to show how false this conception is: there is the instructor who wears his hat with the brim up, college fashion, and smokes a bright yellow pipe; and there is the professor who uses an extralong, ultra-modem cigarette holder with all the finesse of a Chinese mandarin (Hollywood). Our faculty members may be many other things, but they are certainly not drab.
* * *
There was a time when an ordinary person could scribble his views in the margin of a book and go away without any fears of reprisal. The reader could make such remarks as ‘Trite 1” “good,” “does he mean this?” “import.” and feel that his secret comments would be appreciated, or at least respected by all future readers. But things have changed. In these days when nation has turned against nation, the marginalia men are also engaged in a bitter struggle. Not long ago we came upon this observation “terrible, morbid”; directly below was voiced this bit: “it is not, you’re a sissy.” We came away with heavy hearts, seeing no end in view of this hateful practice. For all we know, there may be a third comment in the margin now. It is quite possible that another reader has put in something like this: “both of you are nuts.”
* * *
Recently, the lights in the Law Library have been burning until the early hours of the morning. It may be heretical to imply something illegal about the meeting place of the legalists, but we feel sure that the lex loci is being ignored these days. Just who is frequenting the sanctum sanctorum while the campus sleeps? Do they have permission to thumb through the torts or are they searching without a warrant? Let’s call Mr. Dies in on this case. We want a clean-up.
* ♦ *
No matter what we hear of the prowess of Tyrone Power, (we might easily have said “power of Power”) we refuse to believe that he is superior to Errol Flynn with the sword. And no matter what we are told, we will never be able to accept any other duelling villain but Basil Rathbone. Of all the swordsmen in pictures, from Doug Fairbanks on, none can compare with Basil when it comes to losing. He is such a nice “bad-man P*
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM
"Parole, an Integral Part of Criminal Justice"
By James G. Newland . .
“Why,” we sometimes question, “must some of our more prominent social institutions, newspapers for example, exist in an atmosphere
Jazr.es Newland
of ignorance, rather than in a state of harmony with truth and wisdom?” A policy of the Chicago Tribune affords a striking example of what we mean. For high in the editorial columns of the Tribune reads the following caption : “The Tribune’s platform for Illinois and Chica
go — End the parole business.”
Parole, first of all, is a device which provides for the progressive reformation of the prisoner in civil society. When an offender is granted a parole from an institution, the protection of the community as well as the interest of the parolee is at stake.
Men are sent to prison, not for punishment, but as a punishment. Theoretically, the sentence itself constitutes the punishment, rather than the treatment the offender receives within the institution. Practically, this is not and has not been the case in many of our correctional programs. To say that something should be done is one thing, ■and then to see to it that it is done is an entirely different proposition. So it is today with the problem of reformation of offenders in prison. The programs for the ostensible purpose of reforming prisoners in many institutions are not sound and consequently are not successful. Many untrained institutional officials are politically selected for prison positions. As an obvious consequence, they are incapable in most every way for the successful fulfillment of the positions they hold. With improper officials, therefore, it is no wonder that the process of reform is now being carried on in an environment historically developed to imprison and not to reform offenders. This statement cannot logically be'questioned. We do not infer that every prison in the United States is a breeding place for criminal activity. Some correctional institutions are doing good work, despite
unnecessary handicaps. The majority are not.
The Tribune has stressed or “played up” the failures of parole and “played down” its successes. A basic question in discussing the merits of parole is this: “Is outright release better than supervised release?” The Tribune’s attitude is destructive. It has misrepresented facts. Its attitude has resulted in many .misinformed and uninformed persons of prominence criticizing parole.
Parole is a gradual transition from a daily, conventional, routine prison life. Without parole, the individual would be liken to a boat that tumbled over a sudden falls—wrecked and worthless. Common sense tells us that few individuals would prove successful on a direct release without supervision after- having lived in an extremely artificial environment. We should not expect them to jump successfully from a life where they are denied social intercourse; where they are told what to wear, what to eat, what to do; where they become frustrated, buffeted about, ordered around; where they become hostile toward the officers and toward the society they represent; to a social pattern based on liberty and mutual recognition of it.
The Tribune apparently expects this impossibility, when it advocates “End the parole business.” Perhaps the Trib misconstrues parole as diminution of punishment,, as a reward for good conduct while in prison. Although the offender’s record is an important factor in his eligibility for parole, it has no direct bearing on what lies behind the idea of parole. Studies in Illinois have shown that those on indeterminate sentences and eligible for parole actually serve a longer time than those who are committed on determinate or flat sentences, and who are- not eligibile for parole. Parole may' be many things, but it is not leniency.
Individuals released on parole often represent the failure of institutions and community agencies to make them law abiding. The home, the church, the school, the social agencies, the juvenile court—somewhere along the line, one of-these agencies has failed. Why, therefore, would we expect a reformatory, a prison, to successfully perform this difficult task without a system of parole?
In our prisons we have offenders liv-(Continued on Page 26)
Colloquium Report Is
Issued By Math. Dept.
The second issue of the “Reports of a Mathematical Colloquium,” edited by Karl Menger, Ph.D., head of the University department of mathematics, has been released by the University Press. These reports contain papers representing research done at Notre Dame by members of the staff. The present issue includes one paper by Mr. Leonard M. Blumenthal and Mr. Charles V. Robinson, of the University of Missouri, which is closely related to research done at Notre Dame and has been presented here at a departmental symposium. This fall Dr. Robinson joined the staff at Notre Dame.
The present issue also contains two papers by Dr. Menger, one by Professor Ai tin, three by Dr. Milgram, one by Dr. Pepper, and the second part of Mr. Jenk’s Notre Dame doctor’s thesis, on non-Euclidean geometry.
The latest issue of the Rice Pamphlet^*, published by the Rice Institute of Houston, Texas^is devdted to three lectures delivered-’ by Dr. Menger there on Dec. 11, 12, and 13, 1939. These lectures contain a summary of research done during the past few years by the author and his collaborators. In the second lecture, a section is devoted to the results of F. P. Jenks and another to those of J. C. Abbott, who is continuing the development of a new system of postulates for non-Euclidean geometry. A section of the third lecture deals with Milgram’s theory of partially ordered sets in topology.—Bob Fitzpatrick
Dr. A. E. Haas Seriously
III at Chicago Hospital
Dr. Arthur E. Haas, professor of physics at the University since September, 1936, is seriously ill at the Cook County Hospital, Chicago, after having had a heart attack in that city on November 23.
Dr. Haas was educated at the University of Vienna and became a professor of physics there, and later at the University of Leipzig and the University of London. He came to the United States in 1927.
The Notre Dame professor, noted for his contributions in the field of atomic theory, quantum chemistry, relativity, cosmology, and natural physics, is best known in the United States for his standard textbooks on physics which have been published in ten languages. Among his more important works in English are: Introduction to Theoretical Physics; The Atomic Theory; The New Physics; The World of Atoms; Quantum Theory; and Wave Mechanics and the Neiv Quantum Theory.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
'CQ' Calling John Kersten - 'CQ' Calling
Modest, unassuming John Kersten, of Fort Dodge, Iowa, and Morrissey Hall, is an amateur radio operator — more commonly known as a “ham.” He explained there are about 55,000 amateur radio stations, and about 200 to 300 of them are operated by girls.
John was reluctant to talk about himself, but finally revealed how he became interested in his hobby: “My brother started as an amateur radio operator five years ago, and I have had a license for three years.”
John’s set which is valued at $100, is capable of broadcasting and receiving all over the world, but due to the present war, amateur radio stations are now required to confine their operations to this country. However, John has talked to Australia, the Philippine Islands, Hawaii, South America, and other countries. He has also held interesting conversations with relatives in Texas and California. When asked how he conversed with “hams” in foreign countries, John explained that most of them speak English.
The process of operating one of these stations is very simple. For a “pick-up” on the air, the operator merely calls “CQ” and listens for someone else calling. For calls with certain friends, the time is pre-arranged, and they are able to contact one another in that way.
Among John’s interesting calls, he particularly likes those with his brother
John Kersten—Morrissey “Ham” extraordinary
back home, and a friend out west. Oftentimes after meals, the three of them enjoy a conversation though hundreds of miles apart. Since John is a premedical student, he also enjoys talking to doctors and remembers the time when he and his brother talked to a doctor in Baltimore for> two and a half hours. One thing which he stressed was the fact that an amateur radio operator meets all types of people: lawyers, truck drivers, students and others from all walks of life.—James P. O’Laughlin
Haley, Jones Named
To New Positions
Chosen to head the newly created department of public relations at the University, J. Arthur Haley, former business manager of athletics will assume control of his new duties immediately.
The change was announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University to take care of the arrangements for publicity occasioned by the forthcoming centennial celebration of the University.
Herbert Jones will take over Haley’s former position. Mr. Jones has been in charge of athletic ticket sales for many years. Hhe was graduated from Notre Dame in 1927 and has been associated with the athletic department in one capacity or another since that time.
—Edward Drinkard ■
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
“Death to priestcraft.-” . . . The man who had this epitaph chiselled on his grave-stone contributed to the perpetuation of an historical hate rather than to the clarification of an historical meaning. . . . Priesthood, or a mediating agency between God and;man, is an instinctive need of human nature. . . . This much is evident from the- history of mankind.
The Hebrews, under divine inspiration, were the first to give it organic form. . . . The choice of persons, the ends and the duties of the office were rigorously defined. . . . Abuses could and did occur. . . . But these attached to the persons, not to the institution itself.
Christ became man and our first High Priest and Mediator. . . . He elevated the priesthood to the dignity of a sacrament with all its attendant powers and graces. . . . The Ember Days of this week are made the occasion of conferring orders on new candidates. . . . Thus is brought into relation the coming of all Grace and the perpetuation of its channels.
“Every high priest taken from among men, is ordained for men in the things that appertain to God, that he may offer up gifts and sacrifices for sins.” (Hebrews 5, 1). . . . The whole chapter is a detailed exposition of the character and duties of the priesthood.
The priest is primarily a witness unto Christ. . . . Whatever- else he may become through the cultivation and exercise of Iris natural talents is only secondary and accidental. . . . Other excellencies are good and desirable but only in relation to “the things that appertain to God.” ... A proper understanding of these things removes many misunderstandings.
Truly does this third week of Advent open a note of subdued joy. . . . “The Lord is nigh,” sings the Introit. . . . The joy is dependent upon our readiness to receive the Lord. ... A glimpse of the joy serves as a spur to our faintheartedness in preparation.
(Mass Calendar on Page 25)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
T HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON. Jr.. Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER
Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C.
Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building: Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Word of the Season
For many years, being romantic at heart, we have adhered to the naive theory that snow fell at Christmas time not as an inevitable seasonal phenomenon, but rather as a symbol preconceived to indicate palpably' the amplitude of charity that possesses the earth at this time. Snow has many virtues—it softens the hard contours of the world; it glosses over with thin silver its unseemly parts. It tempers the cold by laying plump white muffs on the bare bones of winter’s trees. To religious eyes it suggests manna in its silent, endless falling.
Christmas snow has fallen upon the Scholastic. In retrospect the ragged, frantic efforts of the past have somehow achieved an evenness of texture. For the first time we see that madness and bewilderment sometimes conspire ultimately to method. And so we are grateful for the defects now hidden under this new evenness, but we are more grateful for the pleasing, very human incidents that characterize the cooperative efforts necessary to produce the Scholastic.
Valedictory
The self-appointed critics, the second guessers, and the psychological theorists of Notre Dame’s football world will kindly take a back seat next Monday evening. At that time the alumni body of St. Joseph Valley will honor the 1940 Notre Dame football team at the Annual Testimonial Banquet.
At the banquet a spirit of cordiality, of appreciation, and of kinship will predominate. Every person in attendance will know that Notre Dame’s football team has lost two games this year. Yet everyone will be there to honor that team.
Why should anyone want to pay tribute to a bunch of football players, called supermen at the year’s beginning, who failed to live up to pre-season predictions? Aren’t the sages of the sports writing world infallible?
No, the sports writers are not infallible. On the contrary they are wrong more often than not. Of course, it is no discredit to them to guess incorrectly at times. Rather it is a compliment to them that they have spunk enough to make predictions, and praiseworthy that they are right as often as they are.
But the main reason why the Notre Dame team is honored year after year, regardless of the record, is that fans appreciate that football is not purely “a lot of fun.” Football requires study,
headwork, day after day of bone-shaking physical contact. There is always a possibility of serious injury.
Every man on the Notre Dame squad from the freshmen, through the B squad, and up to the first team spends three months in the fall and a month in spring conditioning himself to play the game. None of them ask any favors; none of them expect to be pampered. They are playing for the school, for the coaches, and for themselves.
When the season is over, if they have been world - beaters, the limelight is theirs. Everyone loves a winner. But, if they lose, the crowd of followers thins out rapidly.
Sometimes, a team that loses is, nevertheless, a good team. That statement applies to the Irish squad of this year.-It was unfortunate for the team, and for the fortune tellers, that opposition was so poor in the first three games. The inclination was for onlookers to see the scores, not the weaknesses. The deficiencies in the line showed up later against superior opponents.
Notre Dame has lost twice. The team has been deserted by the “win or else gang”; others have cried for the heads of coaches and some players; a third group is still part of the team — the team that sticks by week after week. They will be at the banquet Monday to honor Notre Dame’s 1940 football squad, every man of it.—John Patterson
It is difficult to remember all, and there can be no guarantee that all are here—but we must remember Bob in the “morgue” who searches his dusty files weekly for us; Mr. and Miss in the Publicity Office where all roads meet; the cartoonists new and old who make our pages smile; the folk who pose for our pictures and photoman Jerry Grant; the generous and scholarly lot who fill our Student Forum; the Student Council whom we love advisedly; the columnar men on every page who so often deserve better than their lot; the composing room which puts our words into lead—Brothers Mark, Anselm and Finan, Joe Guentert, R. V. Collins, and “Red” Early; yes, the pressmen, too; even Bagby’s and the Engravers who are always with us. Most of all we thank the staff of fifty who write our pages, who are belabored unto sweat and seldom thanked; and our patient readers. Last and most we thank Him for bringing us as far as we are.
As once before
Blue starlight from afar
Rejoiced wise King on King— So too, beloved
For you may this fair star
The selfsame gladness bring.
Even so, the Scholastic finds itself inadequate to express all that it feels at this moment. So it begs to be allowed to summarize its gratitude in one word— the WORD MADE FLESH. May It express what the Scholastic cannot.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
A Christmas Carol, 1999
by John A. Reilly
The sharp outlines of the hut faded before their eyes as the old man spoke. The flickering light thrown off by the lone candle barely touched his ageless face, then vanished in the blackness that was a wall. His voice was almost completely emotionless, and as it rose and fell in timeless cadence the dream mercifully shrouded reality. . . .
. . but the snow was different then, somehow or other. It seemed so clean, so tingling, — almost as if a million invisible hands were stroking your face. It used to pile up, sometimes, so that the land was like a white sea with the houses riding peacefully at anchor. You couldn’t tell where your field left off and your neighbor’s began, but nobody cared. We knew the land was there — that was all that mattered. Boundaries weren’t so important then.
“It was nice being all alone then. We never felt hemmed in, because you see we had our own little world — and a busy world it was, too. We boys would do our usual chores — a little faster, maybe — and then we’d help Pa put up the tree. It was always a big fir from the grove back of the house. Pa liked trees a lot. Always hated to cut them, but when Ma told him to get one for the house he always picked the best one. He told me once that as long as trees had to die anyway, they might as well go out in a blaze of glory. They did, too, at our house. When we finished decorating that tree you could hardly stand to look at it, it was so bright. If you squinted up your eyes and looked at it steadily all you could see was a million colored stars shining through a silvery haze. We’d all just stand there and sort of gape at it, ’ until Ma thought of all the work still to be done and shooed us away. .
“Ma was mighty particular about her cooking and that day she aimed at perfection. Of course, the girls helped some, but Ma did most of the work. That kitchen was a sight, I tell you, with Ma hustling from the stove to the table and back again, and the piles of food getting bigger all the time, and steam clouding over everything. I remember I used to try to steal a handful of dressing mixture when Ma wasn’t looking — but she
always knew when I was there, though she wouldn’t turn around until she was sure I’d gotten what I was after. Nobody fooled Ma much — unless it was the tramps who came to the back door every day. But I don’t think she was fooled even then, when I come to think of it, because she always had a kind of twinkle in her eyes when she scolded them. That’s why nobody minded Ma’s scolding, I guess. She never meant any of it — it was just her way.
“Towards the end of the day came the best part of all. When the supper dishes had been cleared away we’d all gather in the kitchen and stand in a circle around the table. Then Ma would light a big candle and put it on the table. When she thought everything looked solemn enough, she’d lead us in singing hymns. It’s too bad they stopped people from singing hymns. Sometimes I think those people were right — but I don’t know. I only know I’d like to hear one of those songs again — the one that began with something about a little town in Bethlehem. Anyhow, after we’d sung a few hymns Ma would look over at Pa and nod her head. Then he’d get all fussed over finding the right place in the book he was holding. When he began to speak, though, he was as calm as you please. He was a fast reader, but there was one part he always read slowly and carefully. When he came to that part he’d stop and
Winter
Toothless houses sticking the rock-candy limbs of elms brittle with ice;
Old houses showing untidy fringes of hair above the eaves, straggling -white hairs down the steep, gray roofs;
■ Houses adjusting thick storm windows to their eyes to read the haggard five o’clock news of clerk, foundry-man, negro scrubwomen passing in tired headlines across the spread-out snow;
And at the end of the street,
One old house (never quite right) bewildered at the silent scourge of limp, white moths.
—Ebert McCullough
look at each one of us and then he’d take a deep breath and say, ‘And on earth peace to men of good will.’ .. .”
■ * * *
The old man’s voice faded into nothingness — but the dream remained for all. Suddenly a whistle shrilled through the night. The men stirred restlessly and one by one began to get to their feet and move towards the door.
The leader looked at the old man for a moment, then abruptly exclaimed, “Gotta go now. Better stay here for a while, Gramp. You’ll never make it back today — not with all the hell that’ll break loose around here. Stick around, and I’ll send you back with the chowhounds tonight. It’s a helluva world, so take it easy while you can. Come on, kid, let’s go.”
The boys started to follow, then . turned and softly murmured, “Thanks, Gramp. Maybe it’s all hokum, but I guess it means something to you, so I’ll say it anyway. ‘Merry Christmas, Gramp.’” Turning quickly, he fled from the hut.
More and more whistles broke the stillness of the night. A staccato burst from a distant machine-gun became the overture to a symphony of discord. The candle flared once and went out, but the hut was still not dark. It was dawn on the twenty-fifth dav of 1 — -year of Our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine. - -
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WISCONSIN’S ENGLUND MAY BE NOTRE DAME’S WATERLOO
Keoganites Battle Wisconsin Quintet Tomorrow; Both Teams Undefeated
Sobek Still Missing From Irish Lineup
Tomorrow evening at Madison, Wis., Captain Eddie Riska will lead his teammates into the fray against a highly rated Wisconsin quintet. Notre Dame holds a four to one edge over its oppon-nents in their series to date, and will - be fighting hard to augment this lead.
Wisconsin will swing into the game with two victories under its belt, having defeated Ripon in the opener and Marquette . in a hotly contested intrastate battle.	.	.
The Badger lineup will have lost none of the satellites from last year’s great team which lost to a Purdue powerhouse by one point and ended the season in a burst of brilliance. Kotz, who two years ago burned up all Wisconsin high school basketball, will be at forward for the Badgers and will be the only new man. Englund, veteran center, represents Notre Dame’s biggest worry for the evening.
The Irish attack will be greatly weakened by the absence of George Sobek who is still catering to an injured knee. Riska and Carnes will hold down the forward posts in his absence. Quinn and Singer are still battling for the center assignment, while Ryan and Smith will function as guards.
Backed by able substitutes, these Irish starters will attempt to down a tough Wisconsin team on the Badger’s home court. Like the Brooklyn Dodgers of baseball fame the Badgers are great home players.
Commenting on the contest, Coach
George Keogan is far from confident of victory. Says he, “Wisconsin has the edge on us and should win this ball game. I look to Englund to be the best center in the Western Conference.”
—Mark McGrath
Illinois Wesleyan Five
Scares Irish, But Loses
Scrappy Illinois Wesleyan threw a-scare into the Notre Dame basketball ranks before succumbing, 34-28 in the local fieldhouse, Saturday night. A crowd of 2,800 saw Notre Dame score its fifth straight victory over Wesleyan.
The locals displayed little of the finesse and precision they utilized so effectively against Monmouth and Kalamazoo recently. They were unable to throw their powerful, offensive machine in gear. Wesleyan’s highly efficient middlezone defense checked the Irish fastbreak plays.
In accumulating their quota of points, Notre Dame did so without the aid of a single free throw. The four charity tosses, that were offered by the officials, all failed to find the hoop.
Each team used only three substitutes and only once during the contest did either unit enjoy much of an edge. The Irish showed to best advantage shortly before the half at which time they led, 18 to 9.
Bob Smith, senior guard, garnered scoring laurels for the victors with four baskets. Individual scoring honors for the evening, however, were captured by Wesleyan’s Bob Crabtree who sank four buckets and a pair of free throws.
—Frank L. Kunkel
Frosh Basketball Squad
Will be Sliced Monday
Freshman basketball has suddenly taken on new complexities with the arrival of approximately 12 freshman footballers to add to the former crew of 29. The new men reported to Coach Tony Romeo Tuesday of this week. Cut-ing of the squad ot 25 members will take place Monday.
According to Romeo, no outstanding individual ability has been demonstrated on the squad up to this time, and his policy is to try many different combinations daily. The basic purpose of freshman squad work is to teach the boys the Notre Dame cage system.
In glancing over the list of players there are many familiar names: Bill Wukovits, brother of Tom who operated at a guard position in the days of Moir and Nowak; Ray Ruetz, a brother of Joe who played guard in that Ohio State football game of ’35; and Mark De Mots, a brother of a once famous N.D. basketbailer, who later coached the Frosh. Then there’s Ed Dehner and Buster Hiller, two boys who made the AllNational Catholic Tournament team at Chicago in the Loyola high school tournament last March. Jim Meagher, Barney Barnicelli and Ray Kuka, three fine guards, made All-State in Indiana, Minnesota, and Montana, respectively. Bob Faught, the team’s center, draws attention with his well-knit 6 ft. 3 in. frame. In addition to his basketball prowess, Faught is one of the national ranking junior tennis players. Omer Sturm is from Jasper, Ind., the town which also boasts varsity eager Cy Singer.
Other boys who round out the squad are: Honore Berg, Pat Brennan, Dick Doerner, Paul Dohr, Dan Downey, Gerald Dunne, Dick Grant, Bill Harford, Bill Holtel, Frank Kiely, John Moore, John Niemiera, Dick Nickson, Bob Nelson, Barney Pyne, Joe Rigney, Bill Rogers, Ziggy Sagerson and Red Trim-born.
Student Bowling League
Meets at LaSalle Alleys
Some 60 Notre Dame students have been bowling on the LaSalle alleys each Thursday afternoon for the past six weeks. The boys have organized a league which is well under way with most of the bowlers reporting for action each Thursday.
Interest in the league has been encouraged by the generosity of several South Bend merchants, to whom the bowlers wish to express their thanks. The Palace Theater has given two tickets weekly as a door prize. Max Adler, Rose & Katz, and Gilbert’s clothing stores have consented to award prizes to the first three teams.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Fencing Coach Langford
Concludes Explanation
This article, entitled “Sabre Fighting and Concluding Remarks,” is the third uid final in a series of three ivritten by fencing coach, Walter Langford. The series has been prepared so readers may watch fencing matches with greater interest and appreciation.—Ray Donovan
The sabre has a flexible blade and has a rounded guard or covering for the protection of the hand. There are theoretical cutting edges along the entire front and one-third of the back of the blade, so that points may be scored by cutting as well as by thrusting. The valid target includes everything above the waist-line (trunk, head and arms) and a bout is won by the fencer who first scores five touches. In intercollegiate competition there will be either two or three men in a sabre team, so' that there will be four or nine bouts with this weapon. As in foil, the attacking contestant has the right of way and his opponent must, generally speaking, parry before counter-attacking.
In sabre and in foil a touch which lands on any part of the body other than the target is called a foul; except when a contestant by the use of a parry forces his opponent’s attack to land on an invalid portion of the body. A foul halts the bout and nullifies any subsequent touch by either fencer in that particular “phase” or bit of action. Principally because of the fact that it permits touches to be made by cuts as wejl as by thrusts, sabre fighting usually involves a greater amount of action and excitement than foil or epee, which is to say that sabre carries much spectator appeal.
Fencing is a sport of which it can be said that brains play a greater part than brawn. Neither size nor strength can be considered as necessarily constituting any advantage in fencing and may indeed amount in some cases to a distinct handicap. Speed and mental alertness are among the most valuable assets the fencer may possess.
The science of fencing has been developed through centuries of competition in many nations and the present accepted technique is regarded as the best that can be achieved under existing regulations. Therefore, if two fencers of equal physical talents and acquired technical skill are brought together, the victory will fall to the one who most often outguesses and outmaneuvers his opponent. That is the essence of fencing —to deceive without being deceived.
—Walter M. Langford
Splinters From the Press Box ~~ JAMES NEWLAND ——■ ■
Seven victories — two defeats! Not a bad record for any team. If you don’t think so, take a . quick glance over the nation and see how many teams can match it. . . . Splinters recognizes and congratulates Coach Elmer Layden and the Irish. . . . You’ve taken more than a bruising tackle and a stiffening block this yeai- — by writers and second-guessers who don’t know what it is to play under a terrific strain every Saturday, with every opponent “pointing” for you; by those who have never been jolted to the teeth by hard, cracking tackles; by individuals who have never been carried off the field stunned and dazed; by those persons who stand quietly by, week after week, ■waiting to scoop up the gravy if you win — and waiting to “blow you off” if you lose. . . . You proved you could come back by thundering over Southern California. . . . You didn’t have a great year, but you had a. good year. . . . And we’ll bet an old castanet the teams you played will never forget your sparkling play. . . . Deep down inside “how you played the game” is still all important.
Notre Dame, according to some newspapers, didn’t play a football team last Saturday. . . . No, they played a weak, sick, lacking in strength squad of Trojans. . . . One Chicago sheet screamed “Irish Defeat Bedridden Trojans” . . . Yes sir, Bob Peoples was all but on crutches when he stampeded through the Irish line on his touchdown march. . . . And Bob Robertson was a floating invalid when he consistently broke up Notre Dame passes. . . . Even in victory, Layden and his boys don’t receive the credit they deserve. . . . Milt Piepul proved himself a great fullback on the coast. . . . That’s something they can’t take from him. . . . Literary orchids to Joe Petritz, local sports publicity director. . . . His account of the game in the S. B. “Trib” was a masterpiece. . . .
“Red” Barber, whose sports announcing is just as nifty as the blue-bladed company he works for, said the Chicago Bears in their 73 to 0 rout of the Washington Redskins last Sunday, was the greatest football team he has ever seen. . . . How do you like this lineup for an All - American backfield powerhouse? Harmon and Evasheski, from you know where; Paffrath, of Minnesota; Piepul, Notre Dame; Reagan, Pennsylvania; Muha, Carnegie Tech; Hahnenstein, of Northwestern; and Kracum, of Pitts
burgh. . . . These boys will explode in the annual East-West charity game on the Pacific coast, January 1. ... In our four years at Notre Dame, Coach Layden has coached a better line than he had this year, but not a better backfield. . . . His best line, we think, included Skoglund, McCarty, Ruetz, Kuharich, Beinor and Sweeney. . . . Tom Gallagher is scheduled to line up with the North on New Year’s day, when the Blue of the North meets the Gray of the South. . . . Most of our senior gridmen have received offers to play pro ball. ... So far as we know, none have accepted.
Did you ever hear of a “dumb” gymnasium? . . . One Notre Dame freshman has. . . . Sitting behind us Saturday night at the B.B. game trying to eat one of Adolph’s “aupples” all in one bite, one free-thinking first year man blossomed forth with “Boy, the guy what built this place was psychic. I’ve never seen such a dumb gym.” ... Notre Dame cheer leaders were conspicuous by their absence at the game after the “Victory March.” ... A football victory after two successive losses helps voices of local students. . . . We’ve never heard our song sung louder or better than in the fieldhouse Saturday night. ... The Illinois Wesleyan game proved N.D. is woefully lacking in height. . . . Maybe it’s best the center jump is missing after all.
During the last four years Notre Dame has won 28 football games, lost- seven • and tied one. . . . Can you name another team in the mid-west to match that record? . . . The Irish will not play any post-season games, but Notre Dame will be represented in more ways than one. . . . Frank Leahy, Boston college mentor and former local student, says his pres--ent undefeated and untied team is the “swellest bunch of players I’ve ever associated with.” . . . They will play Tennessee in the Sugar Bowl. . . . Henry Mac-Lemore wants to know why players don’t have a say-so about post-season games. . . . He figures if they are old enough to vote, they’re old enojigh to have some say about the games in which they want to participate. . . . An interesting observation, to say the least.
We invite all students interested in the manly art of self-defense to start thinking about the coming “Scholastic”-sponsored Bengal Bouts. ... A definite date for this annual event is not available. . . . They were held last year in mid-March.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
—i ^BY ALBERT DEL ZOPPO
The 1940 football season is over. All that remains now for Notre Dame’s gridiron men is the banquet to be held-next Monday night. It’s going to be a big event — steaks, celebrities, awards. But more than that it’s going to be the occasion for some senior members of the football squad to give speeches — speeches which they have prepared for four years and which they have never been called upon to give. I’m not referring to the “Mbose,” Saggau, Kelly and the other monogram - winning seniors. I’m referring to those boys who sat in the upper stands of the fieldhouse during the pep rallies, and seldom, if ever, heard the chant of their names from the student body — Koch, O’Meara, Korth, Leonard, Doody, Maloney, Papa, Mc-Gannon, Schmid, Schrenker, Cassidy. Most of them will have funny stories to tell Monday. Some will probably give their opinions as to why Layden didn’t use them in this or that particular game. But none of them, you can be sure, will complain of having spent four football seasons on the Notre Dame squad. They won’t complain because they love to play football. And it is this love for the game that has kept these boys practicing night after night, picking up bruises and bumps, knowing all the while that there was only a faint hope of their ever receiving any of the glory that is heaped upon the stars.
There are many reasons "why these players have not played on any of the first three teams. Some have been ham- . pered by injuries; some lacked size. Others failed to find themselves after being shifted to new positions. And still others failed to fit their particular abilities to the N.D. system of play.
The following men have not gained fame, but they are worthy of recognition. If not for their persistency, at least for the frequent lickings they administered to the varsity in practice sessions.
Bob Koch — Calumet City, III. — quarterback — a player with a lot of pep and spirit; a fast runner but unable to use this asset in his position.
Frank Doody — Oak Park, Hl. — quarterback — considered by his teammates as the best blocker on the squad.
Howard Korth — Saginaw, Mich. — guard — one of hard luck players on the squad; he was laid up one year with an appendectomy; and was slated for a position on the squad travelling to Southern California last week, but an
attack of scarlet fever sent him to the infirmary. Korth came here as a tackle but was shifted to guard. A very aggressive ballplayer but not too fast.
Bob Leonard — Cincinnati, Ohio — fullback — a good line plunger and a fine line-backer; slowed down by injuries. He’s a good fellow to know, not only because of his happy-go-lucky attitude, but because he is the gum distributor on campus.
John Maloney — center — played well as a halfback in his freshman and sophomore years, but he was converted into a center because of the plentiude of good halfbacks. The shift hurt his chances for success.
Bill Me Gannon — Evansville, Ind. •— halfback — a slashing, hard-running back with plenty of guts; a hard man to bring down in the open. Bill is also good on defense. His size, and weakness in passing and kicking were obstacles in his path to a first-string berth.
Walter O’Meara — Stamford, Conn. —quarterback — called “Head” by bis teammates because he knows what plays to call and when to call them. Lack of height and weight have proved to be too big a handicap for him to overcome. He already has a coaching job lined up when he graduates from the Phy. Ed. school this June.
Charles Schmid — Detroit, Mich. •— tackle — a midget compared to other N.D. tackles, but he’s a midget with a lot of fight.
Henry Schrenker — Elwood, Ind. — guard — another scrappy ball-player; the squad’s politician and legal adviser.
Joe Papa — Pittsburgh, Pa. — tackle — his conversion from fullback to tackle failed to produce the desired results. Joe is dumb — like a fox. He is credited with some of the best quips ever heard on Cartier field. Joe is probably better known around campus than any other substitute on the squad.
Don Cassidy — Altoona, Pa. — halfback — one of the best prep school stars in Pa. — handicapped by size and injuries. Don is well-liked by all of his team-mates.
The Notre Dame graduate school offers advanced courses in seventeen departments. There are five colleges in the undergraduate school.
Handy, Mahoney Prepare
For 1941 Track Schedule
Dr. Al Handy, former hammer-thrower at the University of Iowa, is now working with head track coach, Bill Mahoney, in conditioning varsity and freshman runners and field men into shape for the several scheduled indoor meets, the first of which will be held about Feb. 1.
As yet it is difficult to determine the caliber of the many sophomore additions to the squad of runners. There are,
Track Coach Mahoney
according to Mahoney, a few good freshman runners for the track events but there is a decided lack of field event men.
Teams to meet Notre Dame varsity runners in the indoor ovals have all been scheduled. However, approval of the athletic department is pending. For freshmen there will be several telegraphic meets with Big-Ten freshmen.
Dr. Handy, new assistant coach of track, is a graduate of the University of Iowa where, as a field star, he won several important titles in hammer-throwing and shot-putting. He has been a member of the Notre Dame depart ment of physical education since 1931.
—Francis Carver
In 1905 the Arts and Letters college at Notre Dame had 66 students; there was no Commerce College. In 1940 the Arts and Letters College had 1088 students enrolled; the College of Commerce had 1177.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
17
Notre Dame Ends 1941 Grid Season With Seven Victories and Two Defeats
Irish Score 168 Points to Their Opponents 67
The 1940 football season is over. A Notre Dame team which had its good days and its bad ones has compiled the very respectable record of seven games won and two lost against typical Notre Dame opposition.
This seven and two record cannot be the true story of the Notre Dame season for Coach Elmer Layden is but a mere shadow of himself. Layden has just seen a potential national championship team rise to the greatest heights only to be toppled by-----(you name it; we cant). The team, badly beaten, made a great comeback as “Fighting Irish” teams have a habit of doing and ended the season with flashes of former glory.
Now on the long cold winter evenings to come, Coach Layden can sink down in his easy chair and reminisce on a season that produced one of the most erratic of all Notre Dame teams. However, he won’t rest long for there’s another nine-game schedule coming up next fall and graduation as usual will take its toll. Replacements will have to be found for such men as Bob Osterman, Tom Gallagher, Johnny O’Brien, and Pete Kelly. But most of all, next year there won’t be any “Moose.”
The following paragraphs briefly recall to readers high-lights of the 1940 season. Coach Layden’s seven-year record now stands at 47 wins, 13 losses, and 3 ties.
Notre Dame 25; College of Pacific 7
The 51st season of Notre Dame football opened with the 307th Irish victory. A great last half offensive show led by Captain Milt Piepul broke a 7-7 halftime tie score and gave Notre Dame an 18-point victory. Right halfback Steve Juzwik scored the first Irish touchdown on a seven-yard smash through the Tiger line. Captain Piepul place-kicked the extra point. Reserve fullback Bernie Crimmins scored the winning points at the start of the third quarter; and the final period saw Piepul and Juzwik put the finishing touches to one of the worst defeats ever handed a Pacific team under Coach Alonzo Stagg, the grand old man of football.
Notre Dame 26; Georgia Tech 20
The Irish first team played only one quarter, the second, but that was enough. A pass, Bob Saggau to Bob Hargrave, was good for the initial score.
Steve Juzwik converted and then followed by zigzagging 60 yards off tackle to make the score 13-0. A few minutes later Bob Saggau swept right end for another touchdown. Captain Piepul converted to make the score 20-0. John Hancock, a third string Yellow Jacket back, took the ensuing kickoff on his own eight and charged 92 yards through the Irish defense for a Tech score. In the third quarter, substitute tackle Jim Brutz scored what proved to be the margin of victory of Notre Dame’s 400th football game. Brutz recovered a blocked Tech kick and ambled over the goal line.
Notre Dame 61; Carnegie Tech 0
And the Irish backs went marching by—. A juggernaut of 67 blue and gold clad warriors relentlessly beat out a touchdown tattoo that completely overwhelmed a brave little crew of Tartans. Before the game was six minutes old, end Johnny O’Brien blocked a Tech punt and recovered to run 24 yards for a touchdown. It was Juzwik, and Piepul, and Piepul again, Crimmins thrice, and Lee twice before the adding machine took over and showed Coach Layden the largest Irish victory margin in his seven yeai- regime as Notre Dame coach.
Notre Dame 26; Illinois 0
For the fourth successive Saturday,
1937—N.D. 51-Kansas 0; but that season was spoiled too.
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish looked like a super-team as the Laydenmen coasted through Illini defenses for 374 yards gained, 18 first downs and four touchdowns. The second stringers started the scoring in the first period with a “South Bend” pass from “Dippy” Evans to Steve Bagarus. A pass, Saggau to Juzwik, was good for the second touchdown three plays after the first stringers entered the game. Piepul converted. Fullback Crimmins plunged over from the two-yard line for another six pointer. Johnny O’Brien completed the scoring when he converted the extra point after Juzwik’s fourth period score.
Notre Dame 7; Army 0
A great Notre Dame team lost most of its lustre as a greatly inspired Cadet eleven pushed them all over Yankee Stadium, outdoing them in everything but . the scoring. Near the end of the first period Steve Juzwik snatched an intended Army touchdown pass out of the air on his own 19-yard line and streaked down the sideline, outstepping would be Cadet tacklers, to payoff territory. Captain Piepul added the extra point and the Irish defense did the rest as Army racked up 16 first downs to four for the Irish, and out-gained the winners by 175 yards. Thus did Notre Dame gain her 20th victory of the 3 8-year-old series over “the weakest Army team in history.”
Notre Dame 13; Navy 7
A fourth-down seven-yard run around end by Bob Saggau in the closing min
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
utes gave Notre Dame her sixth straight win as the Irish were again outplayed in every respect but the scoring. Notre Dame took a six-point lead in the first quarter when Bob Saggau faded back from the Navy 32 and sailed a long pass to left end Bob Dove in the end zone. Flathmann, Middie tackle, blocked the try for the point. Navy went ahead on substitute Bob Leonard’s extra point after Gebert had slipped off tackle for 30 yards and a touchdown. Then on the subsequent kickoff the Irish passing attack, sparked by Saggau, sailed 78 yards cut of reach of the Navy anti-aircraft guns; and it was all over but the shouting.
Iowa 7; Notre Dame 0
It can’t happen here; but it did. 50-000 people stood hushed in Notre Dame stadium, the final gun had barked and these 50,000 who had seen it still could not believe it. Fifteen white-uniformed Hawkeyes, led by Fullback Bill Green and Capt. Mike Enich, upset the mighty Irish. Two big lines hammered away at each other until the break came in the last quarter. Iowa recovered a Notre Dame fumble on the Irish 24-yard line; here Green took charge and on the fourth try plunged over for the score.
Northwestern 20; Notre Dame 0
A truly great Northwestern line smothered the Irish attack while two excellent backs, Bill DeCorrevont and Don Clawson, collaborated to hand the Irish their worst defeat by a Wildcat team. Clawson started the scoring in the second period on a pass from DeCorrevont. Then in the third period, DeCorrevont dashed around end for another score. Dick Erdlitz converted. Clawson scored the final touchdown soon after. E”^1' again converting. Notre Dame’s bright spot in the game, which was much closer than the score showed, was a one-man riot job by Captain “Moose” Piepul.
Notre Dame 10; Southern California 6
It Was billed as Notre Dame versus Southern California but ended up a fullback’s field day, Piepul 10-Peoples 6. Irish Captain “Moose” Piepul played probably the best game of his three-year careeF as he almost single-handedly beat a Trojan team that was playing its best game of the year. The game was not five minutes old when the “Moose,” on fourth down, booted a 20-yard field goal that put the. Irish ahead. On the third play after kickoff, Bob Peoples roared through the center of the Notre Dame defenses for 46 yards and a touchdown to give the Trojans the*lead. In the second period the Irish, sparked by “Dippy” Evans, marched 82'yards in ten plays to the. Westerners’ three-yard line. Piepul crashed through center for the touchdown and added the extra point that put Notre-Dame ahead for keeps.
—Bill Reynolds
Irish Varsity Selects
1940 All-Opponent Squad
In response to a telegraphed request from the Scholastic, student manager Bill Hawes air-mailed from Los Angeles the results of All-Opponent team poll of the varsity football squad immediately after their victory over a dangerous Southern Cal team last Saturday. The result is a first and second team composed of men whom the Irish gridders feel offered their best competition this season.
When compared with the various All-American selections that have their appearance recently, the squad’s All-Opponent choice shows a definite agreement especially when one considers the limitation on their choice. Many players on the All-Opponent outfit have received at least honorable mention on the more inclusive All-American selections, where many excellent players have been overshadowed by still brighter gridiron luminaries.
It should be remembered that the caliber of some of this season’s opponents was not as high as it had been in the past. Nevertheless, the Irish of 1940 had their hands full in most of this year’s contests.
Another factor to be considered is that for the most part the selection was made on the performance of that particular player against the Irish. Injuries may have hampered him before or after that game; or, as is so often claimed, their opponents may have played inspired ball against Notre Dame. What other explanation is there for the close one against “the weakest Army team in years,” or that big disappointment at the hands of Iowa, who broke their string of four straight defeats at Notre Dame’s expense?
Northwestern, who dealt the Irish their most decisive setback of the season, placed five Wildcats on the All-Opponent squad. Southern Cal, who met Mr. Layden’s boys in true Trojan fashion, was second with two men on each team. Army, Navy and Iowa tied with three each on the squad. Georgia Tech placed two men, and College of the Pacific and Illinois each came through with one man oh the first and second teams respectively.
Complete line-ups as chosen by the varsity are:
KrueRer (USC) .2___L.E_Butherus (NWU) Bauman (NWU)  L.T.  Walker (Iowa) Lokanc (NWU)  L.G  Weidner (Army) Gillis- (Army) ________C  Harwood (Navy)
Vitucci (Navy)  R.G....... Sohn	(USC)
Enich (Iowa) ______R.T..... Flathman (Navy) Boyarski (C.ofP.) _R.E.— Ison (Ga.Tech) Green (Iowa) __________Q.B_______ Richards (NWU) Madur (Army) __________L.H. — Bosch (Ga.Tech.) Robertson (USC). ______R-H___ Peoples (USC) Clawson (NWU) _________F.B. Bernhardt (Illini)
■—Jack Dinges
St. Edward's and Dillon Tie for Interhall Title
Under cloudy skies, and with a biting wind sweeping across the muddy stadium gridiron, St. Edward’s and Dillon halls battled each other to a scoreless draw last Saturday afternoon, in a game that was scheduled to decide the Inter-hall football championship of the University.
A hundred and fifty fans who braved frigid temperatures to witness the festivities, watched an outmanned St. Ed’s eleven fight valiantly against a hard-charging Dillon line, which repeatedly ripped gaping holes in St. Ed’s forward wall. Dillon sent its fast-stepping backs through for long gains, only to be repulsed when pay-dirt seemed imminent.
Dillon missed its first scoring opportunity in the opening period when its 55 yard march to St. Ed’s 28 ended with Bob Donhoe’s fumble. Hugh Mallon of St. Ed’s fell on the ball to end the threat.
In the last quarter, a poor kick by Frank Platt, who had played brilliantly for St. Ed’s all afternoon, set up another Dillon threat which failed to materialize. Gene Goeller ran Platt’s punt' back to St. Ed’s 17 yard line, where an attempted field goal by Jim Bellinger, fell short.
The honor for the longest run of the day went to Vince Daigler, shifty Dillon halfback, who intercepted one of George Marcucci’s passes, and returned it 70 yards to the St. Ed’s 12 yard line, only to have the play nullified by a clipping penalty. Platt, Johnny Kilbane, Jesse DeLois and Bill Hartman, all played outstanding ball for St. Ed’s, while Daigler, Matty Byrne, Jim Burke and Larry Kelley, performed sensationally for Dillon.
The championship, and the right to claim the gold football charms, as well as the silver trophy to be presented by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will be decided by the flip of a coin, when the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, calls together a meeting of the rival coaches of the two halls; “Doc” Handy, Physical Education instructor in charge of the tournament and the president of the Student Council, sometime in the near future. It is expected that the awards will be made sometime after the Christmas holidays, when all the teams will gather together in the University dining halls, for an Inter-Hall football banquet.
According to Mr. Handy, next year’s tournament will be started much earlier. It will be run along the same lines as this year’s, with a slight change in a few of the rules to be decided upon at a later date.
At this time the Scholastic, and the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
University in general, wishes to express its gratitude to the following men of the Physical Education Department, who played such a tremendous part in making the tournament the huge success it was: Instructors, “Doc” Handy and Joe Sait-ta; and coaches: Wally Borer and J. C. Brennan (Dillon); Joe Rogalia (St. Ed’s); Sebastian Nowicki (Cavanaugh); “Red” Rice (Brownson); Dan Cullinane (Carroll); John Jaworski (Breen-Phillips) ; Bill Fallon (Zahm); Joe Harrington (Badin); Bill Timmel (Howard); Joe Papa (Walsh); Lester Fahey (Lyons) ; Norman Trembly (Morrissey); Joe Semenczuk (Sorin); and, Jim Mac-Govern (Alumni).
The final standings of the clubs are as follows:
LEAGUE ONE	LEAGUE TWO
W. L. T.	W. L. T.
1.	St. Edward’s 5	0	1	J. Dillon .......4	1	1
2.	Badin _______3	0	3	2.	Lyons _______4	2	0
3.	Cavanaugh	.... 3	3	0	2.	Sorin _______4	2	0
4.	Brownson	.... 2	3	1	4.	Morrissey ___3	2	1
5.	Zahm ________2	3	0	5.	Walsh „......2	2	1
6.	Breen-Phillips 14 1	6. Alumni .........14	0
7.	Carroll ____ 0	5	0	7.	Howard ______0	5	1
The “Scholastic’s” 1940 All-Campus Team
L.E. Larry Kelley (Dil.) ; John Gilligan (Mor.) L.T. Joe Shields (St. Ed’s.) ; Jim Burke (Dil.) L.G. Ed Palman (Badin) : Paul Deery (Howard) C; Bill Hartman (St.Ed) ; Bob McSweeney (Mor) R.G. J. O’Connell (Lyons) ; D. Bradley (Walsh) K.T. Matt Miller (Dil.) ; Bob Degenhart (Badin) R.E. Leo Donati (B.-P.) ; Dan Broderick (Sorin) Q.B. Tommy Miles (Alumni) ; Matty Byrne (Dil.) L.H. Jesse DeLois (St. Ed) ; J. Campagna (Mor.) R.H. Vince Daigler (Dil.) ; Bill Johnson (Lyons) F.B. “Track” Sheriff (Sorin) ; J. Kilbane (St.Ed)
Coaches: Joe Rogalia (St. Edward’s) : Wally Borer and J. C. Brennan (Dillon).
—Jim, Clemens
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
College men prefer ARROWS, if for no other reason than downright good looks. Arrow Shirts cost no more. Come in tomorrow for your Arrow selections.
It's Adler's for Arrows!
Beaux Arts Institute
Honors Local Students
Returning from New York last week where he received laurels on behalf of the architecture students, Prof. Francesco Montana announced the awards, given by the Beaux Arts Institute.
For designing a wading pool and a park shelter, Joseph Sherer received a “first mention place” which is the highest award attainable. Edward Holland was given a “first mention,” the second highest award. Mark Pfaller received a “mention hold” which entitles him to the possiblity of a higher merit. James Gallagher, Paul Godaller and Robert Hack-ner received awards of “mention.” “Half-mention” awards were given to William Bond, Lloyd Mass, James McDowell and Ugo Rossi.
In semi-professional competition, held during the summer months Joseph Sherer received a “first mention.” Sherer won the award for designing a railroad station.—Bob Nenno
Who’s Who at a House Party
THE CRINKLE CHEST (Every fraternity has one). He’s miserable enough with his ancient off-color dress shirt, but when it buckles and leaves its “crinkle crunch” he dies a million deaths.
Since you can’t keep him locked in the cellar, tell him about Arrow Shoreham, the soft pleated bosom dress shirt with the comfortable semi-soft' collar attached; • -$3. See your Arrow dealer.
(For tails — Arrow Kirk, very smart, very smoothfitting. S3.)
ARROW SHIRTS
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VACATION ECONOMY: fcnrf yaw Luggage heme tmd hath by handy.... RAILWAY EXPRESS!
Right from college direct to your own front door and vice versa, without extra charge, in all cities and principal towns.
And all you do is phone Railway Express. We’ll call for your trunks, bags and bundles. Away they’ll go at passenger train speed, and .be delivered straight to the street address. The rates are low, and you can send "collect,” you know, by Railway Express, same as college laundry goes. Yes, it is a very popular service So when you’re packed, strapped and locked, just phone us and take your train with peace of mind.
RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY
S06 W. South St., So. Bend, Ind. Phone 3-6121
Railwa^Expre ss AGENCY Inc.
-	■	- NATION-WIPE KAIL-AIR SERVICE = = '■= —■
The Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., was the first president of Notre Dame. The thirteenth successor to Father Sorin and the present holder of that office is the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
The Notre Dame campus occupies 1700 acres. St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s Lakes on the campus are about 24 acres each. Forty-five buildings on the campus are used for University purposes.
Magazines Considering
Young Writers—Frederick
“Magazines are showing more open-mindedness toward young writers,” John T. Frederick, professor at the Medill School of Journalism and a member of the Notre Dame department of English revealed recently. Professor Frederick believes the young writer of today has a better chance of getting his writings published than did those of a few years ago.
Professor Frederick was a member of this year’s committee of judges for the “O. Henry Memorial Award.” Appearing in this anthology are the best short stories of the year as selected by sponsors of the award. Third place prize winner is a story, “The Kill,” by Edward Havill, appearing in Harper’s Bazaar. This story especially impressed Mr. Frederick.
When questioned concerning the status of the O. Henry anthology as compared with the O’Brien anthology of the year’s best short stories, Mr. Frederick said he believed them to be about on a par at the present time.
Professor Frederick broadcasts a short program of interest to lovers of literature over South Bend station WSBT at noon on Saturday. A transcription of this program is broadcast by Chicago WBBM at 10:30 o’clock Sunday morning.—Joe Stephen
Plan Christmas Dance For Buffalo, N. Y. Club
Erwin Gluksman and his orchestra, western New York’s most popular dance band, will be featured at the annual Christmas formal of the Notre Dame club of Buffalo the evening of Dec. 26. The dance is to be held in the grand ballroom of Hotel Statler from 10 until 2, and co-chairmen George Ferrick and Allen Mago say the decorations will reflect the winter scene. Bids are $2.75 in advance and $3.00 at the door.
The club has been especially active this fall, having included in its activities a Communion Breakfast on Oct. 27, a skating party at the Playland Roller Rink on Nov. 8, and a meeting on Nov. 26 at which .sound pictures of the Ohio State-N. D. game of 1935 were shown. These pictures, with a commentary by Joe Boland, were loaned to the club by the Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C.
Buffalo Club officers for this school year are: Dick Ball, president; Vince Daigler, vice president; Bob Nenno, secretary; and John Doerr, treasurer.
—Carl Rohrer

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Pack up your Christmas
GIFTS from the N. D. Bookstore
More time to select your Gifts at leisure now . . . and more time to relax when you get home.
All Gifts wrapped FREE!
For Any CHRISTMAS C CARD in the store — some scenes of the Campus included.
Suggestions:
N. D. LAPROBES
N. D. PILLOWS PEN and PENCIL SETS STATUES PRAYER BOOKS ROSARIES
and many other items
Glee Club to Stage	|
Concert Sunday Night I
The Notre Dame Glee Club, conducted by Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, will bring a week crowded with entertainment to a close on Sunday evening, at 8 o’clock when it presents its first concert in Washington Hall for this year.
After two successful concerts in South Bend and Mishawaka, the Glee Club is in form for the occasion. A delightful program has been prepared and will include several solos and a group of Christmas songs in keeping with the seasonal spirit. A specialty number for the evening will consist of an instrumental quintet accompanying the Glee Club.
The complete program is as follows:
Part I. a. Ave Maria, Bach-Gounod, Tenor Solo, Anthony Donadio; b. O Lord, Increase My Faith, Orlando Gibbons; c. Sing, Maiden, Sing, Palmgren; d. Dirge for Two Veterans, Holst. Trumpets, Joseph Hruby, John Sheedy, Arthur Starr; trombone, Paul DeLay; drum, Ted MacDonald.
Part II.	Christmas Songs.
Part III.	a. Believe Me If All Those Endearing Young Charms, Irish; b. Kerry Dances, Irish; c. Deep River, Negro Spiritual; d. Keep in the Middle of the Road, Negro Spiritual; e. Liebestraum, Liszt.
Part IV. a. Dear Land of Home, Sibelius; b. Winter Song; c. The Sleigh, Kountz; d. The Hopeful Serenader, Grieg; e. When the Foeman Bares His Steel, Gilbert-Sullivan, From “Pirates of Penzance”; f. Victory March, Shea.
Name Faculty Members
To Graduate Study Unit
The Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., professor of sociology^ and Dean Henry B. Froning, head of the College of Science, have been appointed to the University’s committee on graduate study, headed by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, it was announced this week by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president.
Head of the department of sociology, Father Murray has been a member of the faculty since 1926. He is co-author with Prof Frank T. Flynn of Social Problems, a. textbook widely used for university instruction. He is also the author of many other volumes on sociological subjects.
Dean Froning has been on the faculty since 1920 before which he had figured prominently in teaching and in industrial chemistry. Mr. Froning is continuing his work as head of the departments of chemistry and chemical engineering although he was appointed dean of the College of Science last summer. .
—Edward Drinkard
FLY!
MAKE YOUR CHRISTMAS VACATION LAST LONGER
Fly Home and Back by Flagship ...
American Airlines Flagships serve 57 Major U. S. cities directly. Excellent connections out of South Bend to points East, Southwest and West. Ten percent saving on round trip fares. Meals aloft complimentary. Stewardess on every snip. See American Airlines representative — Jim White — St. Vincent's Society — 4-1264.
American Airlines (M.
Route of the Flagships
Gift wrapped and mailed to any place in the world for price of postage only.
HANS-RINTZSCH
LUGGAGE SHOP Miehipu at Colfax
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NEXT “SCHOLASTIC” JAN. 17
The next issue of the “Scholastic” will appear on Friday, Jan. 17, 1941. The January issue of “Scrip,” literary quarterly, will be published on Jan. 31, 1941 — according to Editor Felix Pogliano.
“The PURS-onality Store”
HANDBAGS
Others $1.00 to $35
GLOVES
$1.00 to $4.50
COMPACTS
$1.00 to $1.95
N. D. insignia, or her initials embossed in gold FREE on any article purchased here.
f HWEI SUM
TAe fEATHER. Shop.
121 West Washington Ave.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Juniors Set February 21
As Date for Annual Prom
On the night before George Washington’s 208th birthday, the Notre Dame Junior Class will dance to the rhythms of a yet unnamed orchestra at its annual Prom.
General Chairman James Fayette and Junior Class President Gene Schumacher are at present working on preliminary arrangements for the dance. Fayette announced that there will be a tea dance Saturday afternoon, and that a section will be reserved for prom-goers and guests at the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech basketball game Saturday night.
To the student who writes the best Prom song, to be judged by a faculty committee headed by Professor Pedtke, a free ticket to the dance will be issued.
Bands mentioned as possibilities at this early date are Woody Herman, Bob Chester, and Tommy Reynolds.
—John Patterson
New Ave Maria Building
To Have Modern Presses
The new Ave Maria building, located north of the heating plant, is rapidly nearing completion. The single floor, well-lighted structure is 170 feet long and 140 feet wide. According to the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria, it is to be equipped with the most modern printing presses.
The building will consist of three main rooms, composition, press, and mailing. Offices for the heads of all school publications have been provided. All floors except those of the offices are to be covered with wood bricks, lined with creosote. This covering is found today in all modern factories to improve working conditions.
The press room measures 90 feet by 45 feet, and is well lighted by large windows and skylights. The basement is
I
I Notice!
| THE BARBER SHOP
I;	WILL BE OPEN
:	AFTER SUPPER
| :	on
i ■	FRIDAY, SATURDAY,
| MONDAY, TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY j ‘	UNTIL 8:00 O’CLOCK
L	Happy Christmas
1_________________________
divided into type melting and storage rooms. A freight elevator connects the basement rooms with the main floor.
Father Carroll expects this new building to be occupied around the first of the year. Next to the Ave Maria building will be a new power plant for the department of engineering, the foundation of which was laid last Monday. Completion of this plant is probable for the early months of the next year.
—Jack Shine
ASK US TO PLAN YOUR HOLIDAY TRIP
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Our agent can handle your every travel detail to and from home.
Inquire about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time, to any section of the United States or Canada.
Many students have already arranged their holiday trips. Plan yours now without further delay. The South Shore ticket office is open daily until midnight.
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent ■ Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
LAST MINUTE SHOPPERS
We have help for you and many gifts from which to choose.
SOMETHING TO PLEASE ♦ ANYONE ON YOUR LIST —you decide the price you wish to pay . . . then come in to WYMAN’S and ask for any of the persons listed here. They’ll be glad to help with your shopping.
Miss “Lil” Manion—first floor
Mr. Jim O’Neill
— men’s shop, first floor
Mrs. Jane Stevens —first floor
Mrs. Doris Mclnerny
— second floor
Mr. “Wallie” Stahl —third floor
Mrs. Richard Baker
— office, fourth floor
Miss Ruth Michels—lower floor
Mr. John Cushman
—	(Notre Dame, class of ’29) Home Appliance Dept., 219 N. Michigan
Joan Navarre
—	Wyman’s Personal Shopper
If the purchase is $1.95 or over we will gift-wrap it beautifully— and ship it any place for the price of postage alone.
GEORGE WYMAN AND COMPANY
The Store is open until 9 p. m. from now until Christmas
Jersey Club Lays Plans For Holiday Activities
The New Jersey campus club held its annual pre-Christmas business meeting Monday night, when President Sal La-
Sal LaPilusa
Pilusa introduced the Rev. George G. Claridge, O.Praem., who has just been appointed as club chaplain.
' All the arrangements have been made for the trip East, on both the N. Y. Central and the Pennsylvania R. R. The Penn
line will be used by the students from western New Jersey.
Three dances will be held during the Christmas holidays. The New Jersey alumni club will hold a formal dance on New Year’s Eve at the Hotel Robert Treat in Newark, and an informal gathering will be held by the club at the Meadowbrook supper club for its members on Jan. 3.
President LaPilusa has invited every one who may be in New Jersey at that time to attend. Reservations should be made in 320 Walsh Hall by all who plan to go.
The Met club has invited Jersey club members to attend their Christmas Formal at the Hotel Astor on Dec. 27.
Alumni Hall Debaters
Battle Carroll Tonight
The Alumni hall debate squad, under the tutelage of Milt Williams, will vie tonight with the Carroll hall team coached by Jerome O’Dowd, for the right to meet the winner of last night’s Dillon-Breen-Phillips battle in the interhall debate finals. In last night’s debate Dillon, guided by Jack Hennessey switched sides and took the negative side against the Breen-Phillips affirmative. Don Casey, Rog Young and Jim McVay made up the Dillon team; Bill Talbot, Harold Haley and James O’Dea the Breen-Phillips team.
In the other semi-final debate, which will be run off tonight at 7:40 p.m. in the Law building, Alumni will take the affirmative while Carroll will uphold the negative. Tom Carty, Joe Mulligan and Paul Vignos will strive to put Alumni on top; Gerald Hogue, Bob Nelson and Bill Kellow will try to upset them. William Mahoney will judge the debate.
The winners in the semi-finals will meet next Friday at 7:40 p.m. in the Law auditorium. The finals will be judged by William J. Coyne, Director of Debate. The winning team will be awarded the Wrangler’s Club interhall debate trophy.—Robert LeMense
BOSTONS
124 S. Michigan Street
N. D. MEN ...
at home with a new pair of kicks!
For Your
Smartest Attire
■ They're a hit with young men —our broguish,Modem Aristocrat shoes with the exclusive, ,mellow-rich CORDWAINER Hand Finish. See them today.
GIFT SLIPPERS for everyone on your list, 98c to $2.98
Boston . . . does it again!
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
^Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
The Shirt that Knows P.M. Etiquette
Does your dress shirt look, as if you’ve been on a War Dance along about midnight? Pleats caved ir^ like an accordion? Tsk! Tsk! Manhattans... black or white tie... never act up that way. Bosoms stay crumple- and criticism-proof, collars maintain a well-behaved attitude. That’s because of the fine cloth used in tailoring them, followed by skilled workmanship (of real interest to you only for its marathon results!)
SIZE-FIXT
Average fabric shrinkage 1% or less MKJWOKiSED shaped to masculine contours
COLLAR-PERFECT styled to stay set just-so
Indian Jive. . .
Charlie Barnet makes a bid for a few more feathers in the bonnet with the release of “Redskin Rhumba,” a stomp war dance. Very reminiscent of the sax solo in his “Cherokee,” the number is strictly jazz with plenty of dirty trumpet and alto sax. The reverse is “Southern Fried,” another rock tune featuring Charlie on tenor sax this time and Bill Miller’s piano. (Bluebird)
Crosby Thumps the Hide. . .
Bob Crosby and his orchestra have finally got around to recording “Drummer Boy.” They do a good enough job, but the vocalizing of the Bob-o-links steals the show. “Ain’t Goin’ Nowhere” * is the flipover. It was written by Jess Stacy and it features him at the piano. His playing saves this disc from flopping. (Decca)
The Spotlight Shifts. . .
You’ve heard Alvino Rey and orchestra before as accompaniment behind the King Sisters. Now the outfit steps out as the headline attraction and delivers a tremendous version of the “St. Louis Blues,” backed by “Row, Row, Row Your Boat.” Alvino and the boys display an astonishing virtuosity and full band power. The King Sisters take short but extremely effective choruses on both sides. The vocal they do on “St. Louis Blues” is four feet thick. (Bluebird)
“Hi Ya Mr. Chips” . . .
... is Will Hudson’s latest offering. It sounds like a sequel to “Peekin’ at the Deacon” (disregarding the incongruity of the titles) which is nothing against it. “On the Verge” is the reverse. Both numbers are done in medium swing tempo with excellent solos giving variety. (Decca)
Hal Kemp Individuality. . .
। Hal Kemp’s original style pays off on • “So You’re the One” and “Walkin’ By the River,” both sung by Janet Blair. In bright bounce tempos, the Kemp saxes and triple-tonguing trumpets are.set in fine arrangements. “Walkin’ By the River” is the result of collaboration between Frank Sauer and Bluebird artist Una Mae Carlisle. (Victor)
Pee Wee Hunt Tells a Story. . .
in Glen Gray’s latest recording, “Cot-। tonwood Corners,” the amusing tale of lazy, lazy people in that locality. Kenny Sargent sings the reverse, “Head on My Pillow.” (Decca)
Also Recommended. ..
“Missouri Scrambler” and “Southern Fried”—Terry Shand on Decca.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
Mass Calendar Dec. 15-21
Sunday, 15 — Third of Advent. 2d prayer, Octave Day of the Immaculate Conception.
Monday, 16—St. Eusebius, Bishop, Martyr. Mass: Sacerdotes (in Common). Second prayer, the Feria (from Sunday), 3d, the Blessed Virgin (in Advent) , 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem
Tuesday, 17—Feria. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, the Blessed Virgin (in Advent) 3d, the Church, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 18 — Ember Wednesday. Mass proper. 2d, 3d and 4th prayers as yesterday.
Thursday, 19—Feria. Everything as on Tuesday.
Friday, 20—Ember Friday. Vigil of St. Thomas, Apostle. Ferial mass proper. 2d prayer, the Vigil, 3d, the Blessed Virgin (in Advent), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Last Gospel of the Vigil. Alternate mass, of the Vigil. 2d prayer, the Feria, 3d and 4th as yesterday.
Saturday, 21—Ember Saturday. Saint Thomas, Apostle. 2d prayer, of the Saturday, Credo, Preface of the Apostles. Last Gospel, of the Saturday.
Dr. McMahon Presides
At Philosophical Meet
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, completing his term as president, will preside at the Sixteenth Annual Meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association to be held at the Hotel Statler, Detroit, Dec. 30-31. Dr. Yves Simon of Notre Dame, will speak at the meeting. The Association is convening under the patronage of His Excellency, the Most Rev. Edward Mooney, Archbishop of Detroit, and the Catholic universities, senior colleges, and seminaries of the Detroit area.
For his retiring presidential address, Dr. McMahon will speak on “Metaphysics and Culture.” Dr. Simon will speak on “Liberty and Authority.” The general subject to be discussed is “The Problem of Liberty.”
Among the representatives of more than 100 colleges belonging to the association, are speakers well-known at Notre Dame: the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton Sheen, Bernard Muller - Thym, Anton Pegis, and Mortimer Adler.
The Pottawatomi Indians formerly inhabited the territory on and about the present campus of Notre Dame.
Soph Wins Contest
John E. Finnigan of Badin Hall and Sioux City, Iowa, is richer by one §45.00 overcoat, plus one §45 suit, as a result of emerging victorious in Parker-Win-terrowd’s score-picking contest. Finnigan was the closest out of a field of over 700 entrants. x
In winning, Finnigan failed to pick an exact score but his total of 233 points for Notre Dame and opponents differed from the actual result by two points. His closest score was for the Navy game in which he picked 14 to 7 instead of the 13 to 7 outcome.
This contest is the first of its kind to be sponsored on the campus by the South Bend clothing store.
LOST—Silver pencil. Return to 234 Walsh.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTH)
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E C. BERRY. O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
,
houdmW.
COST
& L...

a
&

One Way		Round Trip
New York City	11.75	19.80
Cleveland	3.60	6.50
Washington	9.95	17.95
Springfield, Mass. 12.00		21.60
Chicago	1.25	2.25
Akron	4.15	7.50
Pittsburgh	5.50	9.90
Detroit	3.00	5.40
Philadelphia	10.50	18.90
Binghamton, N.Y.9.25		16.65
Boston	13.05	21.70
Providence, R. I.	13.05	21.70
Buffalo	6.25	11.25
St. Louis	5.20	9.40
Kansas City, Mo	. 7.95	14.35
Syracuse	8.20	14.80
Toledo	2.25	4.05
Cincinnati, Ohio	4.45	8.05
Louisville	4.70	8.50
Wheeling, W. Va. 5.50		9.90
HE reindeer has had
his day,
A says the well-known Mr. Claus. ‘Tm getting just as modem as the college crowd this year—I’m going by Greyhound and really enjoy my trip.”	.
That’s a break for the old fellow who’s always giving everybody else a break. Like you, he’ll enjoy the warmth and comfort and friendliness of a Super-Coach trip.
Perhaps you’ll meet him on your way home for the Holidays—anyway you’ll think there’s a Santa Claus around somewhere when you figure out how much you save going by Greyhound. Merry Christmas!
UNION BUS DEPOT
133 S. Lafayette, So. Bend Phone 3-8283


26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Headquarters for COCA - COLA
“The Huddle”
PIPE TOBACCO and CANDY

Delicious and
There’s always a moment for the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. The . taste of ice-cold Coca-Cola delights your taste. It brings you a refreshed feeling that is always welcome. Millions enjoy it daily.
"New Moon" Coming To Washington Hall
The MGM musical film “New Moon,” starring Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald, will be presented tomorrow evening at Washington Hall. A Walt Disney cartoon and an RKO newsreel will complete the program.
Student Forum
(Continued from Page 10) ing at the expense of the public, housed in some of the worst institutions in the civilized world, who cannot, by any stretch of the imagination, be expected to alter their way of life in such a perverted atmosphere. Many of them could be outside, working under the supervision of a parole officer. The parolee is released, but he is by no means, discharged.
Perhaps a statement of the National Parole Conference, called April 15, 1939 by Attorney General Robert Jackson at the request of President Roosevelt, will prove significant. “The parole program of treatment and training should be an integral part of a system of criminal justice.”

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
Football Banquet
(Continued from Page 5) O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; Capt. Milton J. (Moose) Piepul, captain of the 1940 Fighting Irish; and the 1941 captain-elect. Announcement of the 1941 captain will be made at the banquet following an election by monogram winners earlier in the day. It is customary for the captain to be chosen from the senior lettermen of the next year’s squad. The election of Piepul, a fullback, broke a precedent of many years’ standing and there is considerable speculation as to who will lead the squad in 1941. Presentation of their awards will be made to members of the 1940 squad who have earned monograms.
Ray J. Eichenlaub, president of the National Notre Dame Alumni association and former Notre Dame football player; Warren Brown, noted Chicago sports writer who has appeared before appreciative Notre Dame gatherings in the past years; and Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend will also appear on the program.
A portion of the program will be broadcast from 8:30 p.m. until the end of the banquet over Stations WSBT and WFAM in South Bend, and WJJD in Chicago, 8:45 to 9:30 p.m. The banquet starts at 7:00. Tickets, selling at $3.00 each, are available at the Notre Dame Athletic Association ticket offices.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Magnetic Materials Explained By F. B. Doane
F. B. Doane, vice-president of Magna-flux Corporation, was speaker at Wednesday night’s meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals. His address included a review of the development and of the principles of a valuable non-destructive method for testing magnetic materials
for hidden defects, which he discovered. Test specimens were shown and the address was illustrated by lantern slides.
At the chapter’s next meeting, to be held Jan. 8, Dr. Oscar E. Harder, assistant director of Battelle Memorial Institute and president of American Society for Metals, will deliver the main address.
M. F. Stauder, Notre Dame seniar, has been made a new junior member of the society.—James V. Cunningham
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
For More Fun Out of We Chew Delicious
DOUBLEMINI 6UM DarU
; Highspot your days	GDM'
i to ot chewtag	doOTLEMINT gum
j The velvety sm<^ ^
:S adds to taenatur J tan	^eyour mouth
cooltog.real-un1^™^
feel refreshed. - .a	inexpensive treat
Chewtag this healtU. a.ds youI diges-
1 helps sweeten youi b	attractive.
non .. • helps keeP^ heaBhM, delicious
' Treat yourself daily
’ noUBLEMlNT GUM.
i Msessuauu.iwta™"1"""?.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X- RAYS
>U2 J M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
403 ASSOCIATES BUILDING °HONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.	. M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.	M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
RQSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s. 623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
i
! DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
•	ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND..
in the attractive Gift carton
Chesterfields with their MILDER BETTER TASTE will give your friends more pleasure than anything
f/te cigarette $afSatts^es
the money.
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Mros Tobacco Co.
