A
The Notre Dame Scholastic
707
NOTES ON LIVING
Corliss Engine
Last night we were in a power house, standing on a gallery above the machinery. Below us there were two Corliss Engines, one silent, the other in motion. At first there was merely a monotonous noise; and then this noise became a hard, cold, but precise and unfailing music.
The piston hammered time with swift, sure blows; the flywheel spun round like the earth on her axis; lakes of oil drenched the machinery and were promptly tossed back by the plunges of the piston. Space seemed shattered, and time seemed to melt into the clean lunges of a golden cylinder; the music that the earth makes was trapped in this mathematical paralysis of motion. A Corliss engine struck the air.......
Oak Tree
The play Macbeth opens with some witches on a blasted heath, prophesying the future. They tell Macbeth what he will be, and in the telling they strike some weird poses, rendered more weird by the grotesque curve of their long, bony fingers. In their fingers seems to rest knowledge of the future; the very curve has about it a certain mournful music.
The other evening, about twilight, we happened to notice an oak tree. Leaves were gone, and the fantastic twisting of the curled branches reminded us of the hands of the witches. The whole of the play quivers with music; and these branches shook with a certain mournful music of their own. For a moment we thought that ’ Shakespeare’s play was simply a vast symbol with natural objects given life, yet retaining their knowledge of the future.
Then, dropping this idea, we again watched the slow, musical toss of the branches.
~~ Ghe
No^re Dame 5cholaslJ ic
Disce- Quasi- Semper-Victurus«>Vive-Quasi>CTas-Morilunis
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Joseph B. Reedy.....
J. Archer Hurley... Walter Langford.... William Knapp....... Ramon G. Smith...... Paul J. Hallinan...
EDITORIAL STAFF
z
Edward
E. Brennan
... .Editor-in-Chief .Graduate Manager
........Managing.Editor .Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor .The	Week ........The College Parade
..........Music	and Drama .........Campus	Clubs .......Features.Editor .........Script.Editor
s
James Collins Howard Webster Austin Boyle John Motz
William J. Magarral
Harry A. Sylvester.
Jr.
A Corliss engine and an oak tree! The sight of each, different and commonplace as they are, a heightening of life! And that is the key to true living!	—m. H. L.
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, Neu-s Editor Neil Hurley Lawrence Dunda George Allan Richard J. O’Donnell James Kearney*
Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody Leslie Raddatz
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
F. Granger Weil
Henry B. Asman
James E. McFeely, Jr.
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman.....Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick N. Davis James L. Rizer. ...
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
Vol. LXIII.
.. .Local Advertising Manager Foreign Advertising Manager
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda
Andrew McGuan
Norman E. Duke
MARCH 21, 1930
No. 23
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece _________________ Coming Events_________________ Music and Drama—William Knapp_ March Issue of Alumnus Now on Sale_______ A Man About the Campus—JosepK B. Reedy___ Notre Dame—Facts and Figures—Neil Hurley_ Campus Clubs—Ramon G. Smith___ Editor’s Page_________________ Lyons, Morrissey, Howard—W. Leslie Raddatz— The Wink______________________-__________
College Parade----•----------------------------------------
Fifteen Second Kayo Features S. A. C. Bouts—John A. Kiener-
Two-Mile Team Winner at Illinois Relays-------------------- Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester------------
On Down the Line-------------------------------------------
708
709
710
714
716
718
719
720
722
723
724
733
736
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronace of ■ All Notre Dame Men.
708	The Notre Dame Scholastic

The
Notre Dame Scholastic
709
►---—------------------♦
Coming Events
♦— --------------------❖
SATURDAY, March 22 — Movies, “The Winning of Barbara Worth,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, March 23—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Debate, Western Reserve vs. Notre Dame, South Bend High School Auditorium, 8:00 p. m.
MONDAY, March 24—-Mid-semester exams: classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period; classes taught at other hours will have regular class.— Debate, New York University vs. Notre Dame, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
i
i
TUESDAY, March 25—Mid-semester exams: classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period; classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will hold regular class.—Scribblers meeting, Howard Hall “rec” room, 7:45 p. m.— Wranglers meeting, Walsh Hall public speaking room, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 25 — Midsemester exams: classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will have quizzes at the regular class hour, while classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will have regular class.
THURSDAY, March 27—Mid-semester exams: classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period, while classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will hold regular class.—Spectators meeting, Journalism room of the Library, 7:45 p. m.—Spanish Club meeting, Law building, 7:30 p. m.
FRIDAY, March 28—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications offices, Main building, 7:00 p. m.— Connecticut Valley Banquet, Rose Marie Tea Room, 7:00 p. m.
DEBATERS WIN OVER PURDUE
By their clear, persuasive arguments, the Affirmative debating team, composed of Walter Stanton, Francis McGreal, and Thomas Keegan, won the decision in a close contest with Purdue last Sunday evening in Washington Hall. The debate was attended by an unusually large audience, including a number of St. Mary’s students.
The delivery and argumentation of all three Notre Dame speakers were forceful and convincing. Thomas Keegan was especially effective; and the rebuttal of Walter Stanton was equally outstanding. W. C. Otto was" the leading speaker- for Purdue. His teammates were W. C. Jackson and R. L. Zell, both seniors. The Purdue speakers declared that disarmament was a visionary plan, one of those things that look well at first glance but lose their glitter on closer view; that arms, in the ultimate analysis, are not a cause of war; and that some armies and navies are still necessary to safeguard security. The Notre Dame team insisted that arms mean war; that peace can be attained only through the abolition of armaments; and that conflicts among nations could be handled more rationally and more effectively by a court of arbitration, the decrees of which could be enforced by an economic boycott if necessary.
Purdue’s representatives presented their material very ably, but the Notre Dame speakers were generally superior, especially in the rebuttals. _ The Notre Dame team was at least two jumps ahead of its opponents throughout the entire discussion. Impressed by their convincing case, Professor Claude Sifritt, Director of Debate at Butler University, who served as critic judge for the occasion, awarded the decision to Notre Dame. Mr. William Coyne, instructor in the Department of Speech, acted as chairman.
PROMINENT ALUMNUS DIES
Ferdinand E. Kuhn, of the class of ’83, died at his home in Nashville, Tennessee, on Monday, March 17. Since he was the president of the Alumni Club in Nashville, he was known by all students from Tennessee. He was prominent in alumni activities, and in Notre Dame affairs.
COMMERCE FORUM MEETS
At a meeting held early this week the Board of Directors of the Commerce Forum announced definite plans for the remainder of the year*.
The final meeting of the membership board will take place next week. Junior members have been allotted special assignments, for delivery at an early date.
The program of speakers for the remaining weeks is near completion. Thus far, the Forum has had good fortune in obtaining inspiring and interesting men to address it.
William Sherman, chairman, announced plans for a banquet in May, and a special farewell dinner for seniors to be held later. The meetings to date have been exceptionally well attended, and it is thought that an affair of this kind should prove an appropriate way of closing the school year.
DEBATERS TO MEET NEW YORK AND WESTERN
RESERVE
Students will be afforded two more opportunities to hear the-varsity debaters in the coming week. Next Monday evening there will be a debate in Washington Hall with a team from New York University. This will be the first time that representatives from this school have appeared here. . The debate will be judged by Professor John Magee of Purdue University; Dean J. E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce will serve as chairman. The Notre Dame speakers will meet the eastern school in a return debate sometime during the Easter holidays.
On Sunday evening the Negative team is to lock horns with Western Reserve University. This debate is to be held in South Bend, at the Senior-High School Auditorium. Professor P. E. Lull, who is director of debate at Purdue, will be critic judge for the event. The Hon. Dudley M. Shively of South Bend will preside as chairman.
hugh McCaffery visits campus
Hugh McCaffery, LL. B., ’27, visited the campus last week enroute to his home in Pennsylvania. He is at present on a furlough from Kelly Field, Texas, where he has just completed a course in flying.
While at Notre Dame, McCaffery was captain of the swimming team.
710
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROF. HOYER TO CONDUCT 10-DAY BOY LEADER-
SHIP COURSE
Prof. Raymond A. Hoyer, director of the Boy Guidance Department of the University, will conduct a ten-day course in Boy Leadership, to be given here at Notre Dame, commencing on July 8. The course is offered under the auspices of the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus.
Any Catholic man over eighteen years of age may enroll. The course is designed for those interested in the leisure-time guidance of Catholic boys. Students of the regular Summer Session may attend the lectures if they wish, without the payment of fees.
The purpose of this short course of instruction is to train Catholic men in the methods of training Catholic boys. It will strive to foster an appreciation of the nature and the leisure-time needs of the boy and to demonstrate methods of satisfying these needs to the advantage of the boy, his Church, and his home.
FRONING, MAHIN, AND MOOTZ ATTEND DEDI-
CATION
Professors Froning and Mahin, together with Mr. Frank Mootz of the Chemistry Department, attended a regular meeting of the Indianapolis Section of the American Chemical Society on Friday of last week. The special occasion of the meeting was the dedication of the new Reilly Research laboratories. Over 100 chemists, and guests from most of the Indiana colleges were present. A dinner was served, after which the Laboratories were inspected. In the evening, Dr. Harry N. Holmes of Oberlin College spoke on “Colloid Chemistry.”
The president of the Republic Creosote Company, Mr. Peter C. Reilly for whom the Laboratories were named, has been of considerable aid to Notre Dame in the past, having shown much interest in the Department of Metallurgy with his contributions of material and apparatus.
❖----------------------------a
NOTICE!
■ Midnight tonight is the deadline for all Dome write-ups. The limit line has been extended twice, and today is absolutely the “last chance.”
*----------------------------«
❖
MUSIC AND DRAMA
Kirk Lucas is back at the Oliver. That may mean nothing to the Freshman cavorters but to those staid upperclassmen who had the opportunity to enjoy Kirk Lucas last year at the Oliver it is an indication that the new management is doing something. While Mr. Lucas is obviously not Glenn Hunter, he is just as obviously pretty good, nevertheless. And his return may mean the return of better drama to the Oliver. Last year was notable for a number of good things, and we hope not in vain.
Among the current speculations in which you can lose or win money is that concerning Mei Lan Fang. According to the forecast of the New York Times (with a bow to our eminent, and so charming alumnus) appearance of Monsieur Mei is only probable. Mr. Mei is to proceed from New York to China with a stop-over at San Francisco. That means a ruined week-end for ye editor if it’s true. Of course the Times may have been wrong. Again we hope we hope not in vain. We really can’t afford a trip to China to see Mei Lan Fang. We don’t even get “raspberries” for this column. At least we haven’t yet.
Elbel’s have several good records. In the Master Series, Sir John Stainer’s Crucifixion has been recorded with Lawrence Tibbett and Richard Crooks as soloists. Mark Andrews is at the organ and the choral work is done by the Trinity choir. The recording is perfect. If you have
GLEE CLUB EASTER TRIP IS PLANNED
H. Jerome Parker, business manager of the University Glee Club, has been in direct communication with many cities in the eastern part of the United States in an attempt to contract many engagements for the singers. All plans, however, are of but a tentative nature at present.
Parker was forced to turn down a week’s engagement at the Roxy Theatre in New York City due to a conflict in the starting dates. S. L. Rothafel (“Roxy”), president and general manager of the Roxy Theatre Company, offered the club a contract for the week commencing April 18, but this was refused, of necessity, as it would compel the club’s appearance on Good Friday. Mr. Rothafel and
♦
ever heard Richard Crooks sing, you undoubtedly like his tone, while ( Lawrence Tibbett always has a pleasing voice. The Trinity choir takes the prize. It comes off the disc as naturally as anything you want to ' think of, and is at least perfect.
Leo Reisman has a new record, , “Puttin’ on the Ritz,” which is a ? violent departure from Reisman’s 1 smooth “What Is This Thing Called Love?” There is a trumpet that will tear away your ear (lovely thought, f what?), and it is as good as Duke Ellington’s best any day. Rumor has 1 it that Reisman will not do many more records just now. Victor is go- ’ ing to bring out Coon-Sanders again, which is good news indeed.	,
Another record which Elbel’s had a ‘ hard time keeping, was the recording of “Strike Up the Band,” by Ohman f and Arden and their orchestra. And < if we’re not mistaken there is going to be a demand for Wayne King’s ' “Song of the Islands” .... talk about tropical music! And what’s more, Wayne King has some smart orches- _ tration in this one.
Bernie Cummins and his New Yorkers have done one called “Cooking Breakfast for the One I Love,” on the other side of which is a good piece, over which part of the third floor of Sorin went wild a week or so ago. And mostly because of the little lady (don’t you love that?), who croons the lyrics, and no mistake. And so on.	T
Parker had been corresponding in regard to another date, but plans for it * were definitely cancelled this week when it was found that the time allowed the club for its trip would be < required in other cities. .
Parker has been assisted in arranging the tour by Peter J. Wacks and J. Edward Phelan, assistant managers. Many cities are under consideration and the exact schedule will be ready for publication in the near ' future, the managers stated.
James K. Collins, sophomore manager of the University Glee Club, has been handling the extensive publicity ' work of that organization under the direction of Jerome Parker. Collins has been writing, editing, and mailing write-ups about the club to newspapers in the cities where it will appear on its tour.
l
The Notre Dame Scholastic	711
BAND IN BENEFIT PERFORMANCE AT OLIVER
The University Band gave its first public concert of the year last Wednesday evening at the Oliver Theater in South Bend, for- the benefit of the St. Joseph Hospital Fund. The Oliver was filled to capacity for the event. The program itself was a widely diversified one, covering every possible type of composition designed for rendition by a band. There were marches, overtures, intermezzi, and songs of the campus; and there was a very fine cornet duet by Moroni and Sullivan.
The variety of the presentations found favor with the audience. One number, especially, “On the Mall,” in which the band whistles the refrain, won added applause through its genuine novelty. Outstanding for rendition were the famous “Pomp and Circumstance,” and Victor Herbert’s “Babes in Toyland.”
“When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” the newest of Notre Dame’s fine songs, seem even better with repiti-tion. There is a swing to it that is the equal of that of the “Hike Song” and of the “Victory March.” Mr. Casasanta and the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who wrote music and words, respectively, are to be congratulated for producing a song that promises to be as popular and as widely known as Notre Dame's other marches.
A. C. S. MEETS IN WASHINGTON HALL
A regular meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society was held last Wednesday evening in Washington Hall.
A very interesting talk was delivered by Mr. R. A. Hayward, general manager of the Kalamozoo Vegetable Parchment Company of Kalamazoo, Michigan. In his talk on “The Manufacture of Paper,” Mr. Hayward brought out some interesting facts. He stated that there were between 10,000 and 12,000 distinct types of paper now in existence, and that a modem paper making machine is capable of producing 150 tons in one day, in contrast with the 10 or 12 sheets a day produced by hand when the industry was in its infancy. Various processes of producing paper were also discussed and films were shown, illustrating the talk.
The lecture was attended by the members, and students and guests from South Bend and. neighboring towns.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
MEN RECEIVE KEYS
Last Tuesday evening, a dozen young men, members in good standing of the Notre Dame Academy of Science, were given their keys by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S C.
Following the presentation, the author of a paper on the Academy, which appeared in the March Alumnus, read the article to the members. Mr. Stephen C. Bocskei who graduated last year, pointed out, in his article, the brilliant rise of the Notre Dame Academy of Science.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., wrho presented the keys, arose to give the forty-six members a short address. In his talk he spoke of religion in science as a guiding light in the darkness, adding that it has always been so since Albertus Magnus and Friar Bacon. “A scientist” he said, “must have courage, and confidence” and concluded: “Men are men always, and the real man will be a success.” That the talk was appreciated was shown by the way the members stood and applauded.
The Academy members who received the keys foi' their scholarship were: Paul W. Carney, Frank D. Canole, Louis W. Esposito, Wm. V. Gadek, Robert H. Gore, Freeman Longwell, Mario V. Ramacciotti, Yvo T. Oester, Karl W. Scherer, Edward S. Smith, Marshall S. Wallner, and Aubrey M. Williams.
The business meeting, held after the presentation, took up the question of the membership of those presented keys, and it was decided that these men, once having been presented keys, were to be members through graduation, regardless of scholastic standing. This decision was accepted as an amendment to the constitution of the Academy. As soon as it is possible, the entire College of Science will attend a Mass for the repose of the soul of Reverend G. W. Albertson, C.S.C., beloved Moderator of the Academy, and Former Acting Dean of the College of Science.
SYLVESTER TO APPEAR IN “COLUMBIA”
Harry A. Sylvester, of Brooklyn, New York, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, will have a story in a fall issue of Columbia, the official magazine of the Knights of Columbus. The story is a psychological study in football.
BASKETBALL BANQUET NEXT TUESDAY
Plans for the fourth annual civic testimonial banquet in honor of Coach George Keogan and the varsity basketball team of 1930, to be held in the Faculty Dining hall on next Tuesday evening, under the auspices of the Villagers’ Club, are rapidly nearing completion under the direction of Norman Hartzer, general chairman.
Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics at the University, will be the principal speaker- of the evening, this being Mr. Rockne’s first appearance at a public function since his return from Florida. Other speakers include a number of prominent basketball luminaries and University officials. Those expected to be present include: the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president, and chair-man of the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president and chairman of the Faculty Board of Athletics; George Veeneker, coach of basketball at the University of Michigan; Arthur “Dutch” Londborg of Northwestern; Ward Lambert of Purdue; George Keogan of Notre Dame; Jimmy Fox, sports editor of the Indianapolis News, and Archie Ward of the Chicago Tribune.
Music for the occasion will be rendered by the “Jugglers,” under the direction of Joseph Casasanta, and by Jerry Roach, tenor.
At the conclusion of the affair the letter-men will meet and select their leader for next year. Gold basketballs will also be given Captain Clarence Donovan, Ed Smith, John Mc-Cai-thy, and Marshall Kizer, the graduating members of the team, by Paul Gilbert, South Bend merchant.
There are still a limited number of tickets on sale for students. Those desiring to attend may procure ducats from a member of the Villagers’ Club.
LENTEN SERMONS DE-
LIVERED IN MORRISSEY
A series of five Lenten sermons are being presented to the residents of Morrissey Hall, in the hall chapel by the Reverend Arthur B. Hope, C.S.C., Assistant Superior and Professor of Philosophy at Moreau Seminary. The topic discussed on succeeding Wednesday nights is the subject of Sin.
712
The Notre Dame Scholastic
TRAFFIC PLANS FOR NEW STADIUM CONSIDERED
Plans for railroad transportation which will bring trains within two hundred feet of the new Notre Dame stadium are probably of principal interest to Notre Dame’s far-flung battle line. Michigan Central engineers are considering several possible arrangements with this end in view.
Of equal, and perhaps of greater, importance is the construction of roads and the plans made for the accommodation of traffic at the home games. The outstanding developments which have already been arranged for and which have been approved by the St. Joseph County board of commissioners and the county council, are as follows:
The Eddy Street or Juniper road (running North-South) in front of the stadium will be widened to a width of sixty feet from Cleveland Road to South Bend Avenue and will be paved to a width of twenty-two feet, with an eight foot berme on either side. Angela Avenue (running East-West) through what was formerly University property, just south of the golf course, will be extended eastward from Notre Dame Avenue to the point where the Edison road joins the Eddy Street road and will be made eighty feet in width, paved to a width of twenty-two feet with an eight foot berme on either side. The Edison road (running East-West) will he made sixty feet in width and paved to a width of twenty-two feet, with a berme of eight feet on either side, from the Eddy Street road to the Ironwood road (East of Eddy Street and running North-South). Ironwood road is already paved southward and connects with the Kline Street brdige across the St. Joseph River, a bridge which is now in the process of construction. A road will be opened up east of the stadium which will connect the field east of the stadium with the improved Edison road.
The field just east of the cemetery and north of Angela Avenue, the field south of the stadium, and the field east of the stadium can all be used for the parking of automobiles, and approach to these fields can be made from any part of the Angela Avenue pavement, the Edison road pavement, or the Eddy Street road pavement.
JUGGLER “FASHION NUM-
BER” COMMENDABLE
The “Fashion Number” of the Juggler made its appearance last Friday night and met with an enthusiastic reception. Filled with smart humor in the height of up-to-the-minute funmaking, the “Fashion Number” is a model for what the well-versed young collegian will read this month.
Staff members and contributors have taken fashions in dress, etiquette, books, letters, songs, and other contemporary phenomena and have given them a gentle “razzing.”
Joe Lopker’s cover catches the eye at once and sets the tone for the contents of the issue. We find the center-spread devoted to an hilarious parody on books of etiquette. Advice is freely given on such debatable topics as how to board a street car, come late into a class-room or Washington Hall, and how to cut in at a dance.
A full page on spring fashions reprinted from an 1851 issue of Harper's Magazine is included. This feature is not uproariously comical but seems quaint indeed in a modern publication. Miss Katherine Skidmore, one of the comely cast of “Nina Rosa,” graces the theatre section with a fetching photograph. The Funny Fellow reviews for us “Jenny” and “Let Us Be Gay,” now current in Chicago.
The next issue of the Juggler will be the long-awaited “Girls’ Number,” to appear in April. Any girl interested is invited to submit art work or written material. A Juggler key will be awarded to the girl doing the best work in each. Deadline for the issue will be March 29.
SHORT STORY BY FATHER CARROLL PUBLISHED
A short story by the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., entitled “Thunder,” appeared in the March number of the Catholic World. The story deals with Irish life, the favorite theme of the author. It has been said, “A man does best what he likes best,” and the saying is truthfully applied to the works of Father Carroll. His unaffected use of Celticisms and his knowledge of Irish life make his stories and poems dealing with Ireland not only entertaining but instructive as well.
SKETCHES BY FATHER
CARROLL WIN PRAISE
A series of sketches by the Reverend P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., ’ll, “Memories of an Irish Lad,” appearing in the Ave Maria, are attracting the at- ' tention of literary America to Notre Dame, and especially that part of it which is interested in the Gaelic influence. Father Carroll’s facile pen has contributed much poetry and prose to the literature of modern ; America that has been highly praised, but this latest series is to all appearances his greatest work to date. The Ave Maria and the author have received hundreds of letters of praise. The Scholastic has selected several as typical and significant:
Rt. Reverend William H. Turner, 1 LL. D., ’26, Bishop of Buffalo, writes: “I am enjoying your ‘Memories of An Irish Lad.’ In my opinion they 1-are what is called real literature. I enjoy them all the more, of course, j because I come from what you call j the southern part of the county. But I know your locality very well too . . . . Let the Limerick of your ‘Memories’ rank with Daniel Corkery’s ‘Stormy Hills.’
Frank H. Spearman, LL. D. ’17, popular and prominent author, and one of the leading converts of the Church in this country, writes: “I must tell you, even on a post card, how much we are enjoying your Irish sketches. I read them to my wife and _ we get a good laugh out of them. I delight in the Celtic idioms and enjoy the subtle humor of your textual -treatment.”	'T
Dr. Ellen Ryan Jolly, the only woman holder of an LL.D, from Notre Dame, ’18, adds: “I’ll present > Patch to the audience (at Pawtucket) and in reading his memories will give ■ the friends another proof of Notre Dame’s loyalty to high Irish ideals and give them an insight into the charms of a Catholic home in Limerick on the Shannon.”	*
Father Michael Pathe, C.S.S.R., comments: “I have been following your ‘Memories of An Irish Lad,’ in the Ave Maria whenever I was fortunate enough to run across the splendid magazine in my mission wanderings. Last month I was down > through Alabama and it would have done your heart good to see with ' what avidity the boys looked for- 4.. ward for the next issue. We bore all our hardships and settled all our differences with your own Irish, ‘Ah, dear’.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic	713
ABSURDITIES TO SHOW ON "	APRIL 2, 3 AND 4
*	- On the evenings of April 2, 3, and
4, promptly at 8:00 o’clock, a half dozen young men will interpret for the crowds gathered in Washington j Hall the dances of old India, of Romany, and of Broadway. There will ’’ be appropriate music and appropriate costumes to make the interpretation |	realistic.
11 There will be clever parodies on campus occurrences, skits featuring t the gym, the candy shop, and the :	student haunts. There will be songs
of all kinds, all original. Frank I Carideo and Joe Savoldi will hold the 1 spotlight in a string duet, singing and playing songs of “sunny Italy.” Nordy ■ Hoffman, Larry Mullins, and Art Mc-' Manmon will sing new numbers written especially for the show by Joe __Casasanta and Jack Folks.
|	All this is for the occasion of the
- annual “Monogram Absurdities.” This year the affair is to be decidedly mu-f sical, what with theme songs and special chorus music and string duets. The chorus,, made up of Hoffman, Vik, Kennealley, Metzger, Howard and Conroy, has mastered a routine that includes widely different types of dancing, while the vocalists have been carefully chosen.
Tickets may be obtained from the _ members of the Monogram Club.
The price for reserved seats is . _ seventy-five cents, and for general admission, fifty cents.
r PROF. SMITH SPEAKS ON
-	CONSERVATION
•	Professor Knowles Smith of Notre
' Dame, member of the state conservation commission, gave an interesting address on conservation in Indiana, Thursday afternoon at the _ meeting of the Civics and Philanthropy department of the Mishawaka Woman’s Club.
The speaker* stated that conserva-> tion of the earth’s natural resources, soil and mineral deposits, was essential to the existence of man, and , cited the case of the starving millions of China as a result of the destruction of the soil.
He also stressed the natural beauty ' of Indiana state parks, especially the beauty of the Dunes State Park near Gary where a program of improvement is now being developed by the commission.
GLEE CLUB CONCERT TO FEATURE SOLOISTS
The University Glee Club’s annual concert, which will be presented in Washington Hall on March 30, will have the added attraction of new stage effects made especially for its presentation this year. H. Jerome Parker, business manager of the club, has drawn up a stage plan of special lighting and settings which will distinguish the concert from those of other years. A committee composed of Morton Goodman, chairman, David Barry, Herbert Petzel and William Waltz will assist Parker in the carrying out of the stage plan.
This concert will afford the student body its first opportunity of the year to hear the club in person. Its only other performance was its broadcasting last fall.
Many new faces will be looking over the footlights for the first time, while others who have sung only in the ensemble, previously, will be the soloists. Gerald Roach, baritone, Tom Kerrigan and Herman Ziffrin, first tenors, and William McAleer, second tenor, will be among the soloists. The quartet and trio chosen from the club is also expected to appear.
Director Joseph J. Casasanta expects to have every member of the club on the stage for the first concert. From this large group the travelling club will be chosen to take the trip during the Easter holidays.
The program of the concert has not been disclosed by Director Casasanta, but it is expected to be chosen from the large number of songs which the club has been rehearsing daily since the beginning of the school year. About fifteen songs will be included, among them “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” Director Casasanta’s new piece.
FOREIGN STUDENTS ATTEND ROTARY
LUNCHEON
Approximately twenty-five students from foreign countries, now at the University, attended the weekly luncheon of the South Bend Rotary Club given in the Oliver Hotel Wednesday noon.
Each student addressed the club in his native language on the subject of the good will existing between the United States and his respective country. The important points of each speech were later translated into the English language.
COON-SANDERS TO PLAY FOR SENIOR BALL
Coon-Sanders Nighthawks, famous Chicago orchestra which is known the country over for its recording and broadcasting, will furnish the music for the Senior Ball of 1930, Peter J. Wacks, chairman of the Music Committee, announced this week. This makes the second time that this noted band has played for a Notre Dame Senior Ball, the other time having been in 1928. Negotiations are now under way to have the same orchestra play for the Tea Dance which is held in conjunction with the Ball at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club on Saturday afternoon, May 10.
Plans for the Ball are almost completed ; the orchestra has been chosen, the committeemen are working, the stage is set, the curtain has started to rise. Francis Dailey, general chairman, announces that every detail for making the class dance of this year a “grand affair” is attended to. Early preparations indicate that the Ball will be one of the most elaborate affairs ever given by a graduating class of the University.
Tickets for the senior dance are now available, the price being twelvefifty, including tea dance and favors. Seniors are requested to obtain tickets as early as possible, so that arrangements relative to the number attending can be made.
“ ‘THE WOMAN OF ANDROS’
MASTERFUL,” SAYS
PROF. PHILLIPS
Speaking before the Scribblers, at their regular meeting last Tuesday night, on the subject of simplicity in literature, Professor- Charles Phillips declared Thornton Wilder’s recently published novel, “The Woman of Andros,” to be a “masterful performance.”
He read several passages from the book, and compared them, as exercises in simplicity, with attempts at lucidity by Sherwood Anderson and Gertrude Stein.
He pointed out the element of primitivity that is implicit in the work of Anderson and Stein, and laid especial stress on the fact that such atavism militates against the upward march of humanity.
The meeting concluded with a discussion of simplicity and sanity in literature.
714
The Notre Dame Scholastic
March Issue of “Alumnus” Is Now On Sale
The March issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus has been released from the press, and the outstanding articles contained therein are concerned with Hon. William J. Granfield, G. K. Chesterton, and the Washington birthday exercises.
Hon. William J. Granfield of the class of 1913, probably better known by intimate friends as “Peaches,” was elected to Congress last month, from the second district of Massachusetts. “Peaches” Granfield was graduated from the College of Law in 1913, and during the time he was a student at the University, he was a noted baseball and basketball player.
The article gives a brief biography of the eminent alumnus and goes on to tell of how he came to be known to his fellow students as “Peaches.” In brief, we are given an account of one of the many alumni of whom the University is particularly proud.
Many alumni will be interested in the announcement that Gilbert K. Chesterton had been engaged to give a series of lectures at the University this spring, and these same alumni may be a little disappointed to learn that the eminent Catholic writer and lecturer has postponed his lecture course until next fall.
In view of the fact that the Senior Class observed Washington’s birthday by carrying out the traditional ceremonies of presenting a flag to the University, the Alumnus gives to its readers a detailed account of the proceedings of the exercises, including the acceptance address of the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C.
Mr. Frank Hering is still being honored, and indeed rightly deserves to "be, by noted speakers and writers in the United States, for being the author of the idea which has resulted in the national institution of Mother’s Day. The Alumnus again comments upon Mr. Hering’s success in instituting an annual observance of this kind, and the-praise which has been given to him by many.
Mr. Hering is not only to be commended for his meritorious work in instituting Mother’s Day, but also for the testimony which he gave recently in connection with old-age pensions
before a Congressional committee. He has fully realized the problems which confront the average wage earners in industrial communities, in that their chances of being financially independent in old age are rather narrow. Mr. Hering sincerely believes that it will be necessary to have old-age pensions if we are to be able to greatly increase the income of the average wage earner, or greatly decrease living costs.	'
The editorial in this month’s Alumnus appears under the title, “Twenty-four Million vs. the Grace of God.” The writer makes a brief comment on the great housing plans which are being inaugurated at Harvard and Yale universities, the gift by Mr. Edward S. Harkness of $12,000,000 foi' that purpose, and states that with a little imagination one can see what Notre Dame might be, so far as material needs are concerned, had it a like endowment.	_
The Alumnus also contains an explanation of the new season ticket plan for the new stadium, Woman’s Club notes, news of alumni clubs, and personal news from numerous alumni.
SCHEDULE FOR MID-SEMESTER TESTS
The following is a schedule of the mid-semester examinations which begin next week.
The mid-semester tests will be held on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, March 24-27, as follows:
Monday, March 24—Classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period. Classes taught on that day at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will hold regular class.
Tuesday, March 25—Classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period, while classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will hold regular class.
Wednesday, March 26 — Classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will have quizzes, while classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will hold regular class.
Thursday, March 27 — Classes taught at 9:00, 11:00 and 2:15 will have quizzes during the regular class period, while classes taught at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15 will hold regular class..	.
SEAT RESERVATION SALE , OPEN APRIL 1
Plans relative to reservations in the new football stadium, now under construction, were announced this week ' by J. Arthur Haley, ’26, business / manager of athletics. Concessions for season tickets will be on sale from April 1 to September 1, 1930.
The three-year plan for season tickets gives accommodations to holders, beginning at the fifty-yard line. The price is sixty dollars, pay- / able in three installments of twenty dollars each, on March 1, April i 1, and September 1, 1930, respectively. Special application blanks -for games played away from home will be given with three-year season , tickets. Under this plan the right to ; reserve the same seats at the expiration of the 1932 season is also given. ;
The single season tickets for home games on Notre Dame’s 1930 schedule will be placed on sale simultaneously with the release of the three-year t tickets. The price for these tickets 3 is fifteen dollars, five dollars payable ’ at the time of application and balance -due August 1. Distribution for the current year will be on the west side of the field, immediately following those allotted in the three-year plan.
For the Army-Notre Dame game a season ticket holder will receive priority equal to the same number of -?■ season tickets he has purchased. Special ticket application blanks for this game will be mailed to all holders of season tickets the latter part of July. Army tickets will be on sale August 1.
A number of games are already *= scheduled besides those for 1930. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Northwestern, and Southern California are in line for 1931. Negotiations are under way for games in 1932.
4------------------------------4
I-C Gleanings
4------------------------------
Franklyn Doan, publicity director ' for the University last year, and a graduate of the class of ’29, is at present residing in New York City. Doan is working for- Colliers and is writing stories for the Publisher’s Weekly and other periodicals.
Micky McMahon, ’29, who played the piano in Washington Hall during the Saturday evening movie, is holding a position with the Insurance Company of North America. He is located in Cleveland.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
715
PRESS CLUB PLANS FOR BANQUET
According to Jack Motz, president * of the Press Club, all arrangements have been completed for the banquet 4, which the campus journalists are i.* giving in the Faculty Dining Hall next Thursday, March 27. An elab-A ' orate dinner has been chosen from among the menus submitted by Mr. Borland, and the meal should be especially attractive. An additional feature which has been scheduled for - tr- the banquet is a five piece orchestra which will supply music during the ~ evening. As was announced in last week’s Scholastic, Quin Ryan, noted journalist and radio announcer, of WGN will be the principal speaker of the evening, and Mr. Daniel a. O’Grady, of the Philosophy Department of the University, will be toastmaster. The Reverend John W. Cav-- anaugh, C.S.C., • President Emeritus of Notre Dame, and Mr. Charles Phillips, author, lecturer, and professor* in the English Department, will r'. also be speakers on the program.
The sale of tickets for the banquet opened on Wednesday, March 19th. Representatives of the Press Club have been appointed in all of the residence halls to take care of the distribution. Tickets may be secured r from these men until Tuesday of next week, which date has been set as the deadline.
PENNSY CLUBS TO HONOR CONLEY
The various clubs of Pennsylvania have joined together, and will honor Tom Conley, Captain-elect of the 1930 Football team, at a banquet to be held in the University Dining Hall, Tuesday evening, April 1. The affair is expected to be one of the largest of its kind held this year.
Coach Knute Rockne will act as. the principal speaker and will be well supported by such men as Reverend Michael M. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Vice-President of the school, George Keo-gan, basketball and baseball coach, and Paul Castner, former football star. These men will be introduced by an able toastmaster in the person of Professor Daniel O’Grady of the Philosophy Department.
The affair will be open to the student body. Tickets will be on sale in all the halls and a list of those in charge of the tickets will be posted. Anyone desiring further information should see Harry Francis, Sorin Hall, or Thomas Murphy in Walsh Hafl.
PROF. JACQUES’ ART EXHIBIT WINS FAVOR
For the past week (and until the thirtieth of this month) Professor Emil Jacques has been exhibiting some forty of his oil paintings in the First and Union Galleries of the National Bank Building, South Bend. The exhibition is sponsored by the South Bend Art Association, which hopes that it is making a step forward in the establishment of an Art Institution in South Bend.
Although the majority of the paintings in this exhibit are landscapes, there are some rather excellent ones which convince even the most un-artistic visitor that Prof. Jacques paints still life and figures equally as well as heroes and landscapes. One painting, “The Chinese Pot,” is distinctive because of the unique way in which the usually glaring Chinese colors are presented in a subdued tone, this being extremely effective. The oil, “Resignation,” stands out as the best of the portraits in the exhibition. It pictures an old man in a gray garb, probably the garb of a prisoner, with the facial features of one utterly resigned to Fate. One look at the face of the man portrays decidedly the state of his mind, that of hypochondria.
That Jacques possibly was under the influence of his fellow countryman Wertz, the eccentric Flemish painter, is evidenced by his painting entitled “Absinthe.” This, although a comparatively small canvas, presents a great deal of thought in a striking manner. It shows a hideous human skull drinking from a wfine glass, and in the background are pictured many figures in perfect harmony with the foreground of the picture. It' is indeed remarkable, and reminds one of the paintings of Wertz.
BOY GUIDANCE STUDENTS HEAR EUGENE BIRD
Last night Mr. Eugene Bird, agricultural adviser of St. Joseph County, addressed the Boy Guidance and Sociology students of the University. His topic was “Four H Clubs and Other Work for Rural Boys.”
Next Thursday, March 27, Mr. C. C. Robinson, director of vocational guidance for the International Committee of the Y. M. C. A., will speak before the same group. Mr. Robinson is known nationally for his work, and is the author of several books.
♦-------------—--------------------& | College of Law Notes
Judge M. M. Oshe and Hugh J. McCaffery, of Chicago, were visitors at the Law School last Tuesday. They spent some time conferring with Dean Konop, and attended the “Hoynes Night” banquet in the Faculty Dining Hall.
Professor Wright, representative of the Law Book Company, lectured to the Law School on Saturday, March 15, on “Short Cuts in Finding the Law.” Prof. Wright illustrated his talk with a number of slides.
Tuesday evening marked the annual banquet given each year in honor of Colonel William Hoynes, Dean Emeritus of the College of Lavr, on “Hoynes Night." Robert Eggeman, President of the Law Class, presided as toastmaster of the affair, attended by some 150 law students and lawyers.
Among the speakers were Dean Thomas Konop, Mr. Dudley Shively, Prof. Clarence Manion, City Attorney Walter Clements of South Bend, and Judge M. M. Oshe and Hugh J. Daily of Chicago. “The Colonel,” as he is called, expressed his appreciation of the honor paid to him, and expressed the hope that he might be able to attend many more such affairs.
Colonel Hoynes founded the College of Law in 1869, and served as Dean for thirty-five years, during the period of the College’s greatest development. Hoynes Hall, which houses the present Law College, was named in his honor. The Colonel is now retired, at the age of eighty-five.
A. S. T. S. HEARS W. E.
DITTRICH
The regular monthly meeting of the American Steel Treaters Society was held in Chemistry Hall on Thursday, March 15.
Mr. W. E. Dittrich, head metallurgist for the Inland Steel Company of Indiana Harbor, spoke on “The Manufacture of Sheet Steel and Its Attendant Metallurgical Problems.” A detailed description of the process of manufacture was given, and the various difficulties encountered were explained. Special stress was laid on the fact that sheet steel has a wider use than any other steel made.
716
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
It is rather peculiar that many of the personalities for 1930 are men whose ambitions are of a legal nature. The unexpected debut of our embryonic lawyers presents the question of professional popularity at Notre Dame. But the merits have been distributed, the choice is deserving, and
Harrington J. Noon
to the members of the Law School we must give applause. This week the gentleman in review is Mr. Harrington J. Noon.
Henry (or as you probably know him, “Hank”) is a senior in the College of Law. For the past two years he has chosen “Corby-by-the-Lake” as his domicile, and there he has faithfully combed the books that are sometimes thought necessary to mount the lawyer’s final barrier, “the bar exam.” What work it takes to perform this action can be told by any protege of Dean Konop.
To dwell exclusively on the subject of law in connection with our friend “Mid-day,” (yes, Noon responds to that appellation too), would be an injustice, for it happens that this gentleman is also a business man. He is circulation manager of the Scholastic, and has been for the past four years. When he bids farewell to his alma mater in June he can recall with a reminiscent smile the 342,000 copies he has supervised in the Publications office. He states that the number might be illuminating to the Audit Bureau Circulation Association.
As a campus artist Henry is also renowned. It was he who painted the portrait of Rockne three years ago and brought out those dominant characteristics peculiar to the countenance ' of the Irish mentor. Serving as publicity chairman of the Lawyers’ Ball
THIRD ISSUE OF “SCRIP” UNDER WAY
Preparations for the third issue of “Scrip” are well under way. Louis-C. Heitger, the editor, reports that two plays and several short stories have already been submitted. As yet, however, very few poems have been contributed, nor is the editor’s mail-box overloaded with critical essays or personal essays. The third number of “Scrip” will be published the week of April the 6th. The deadline on material for this issue has been set at March the 29th.‘
this year, his artistic ability was used in featuring the ebony hued face of ■Marion Hardy and his Alabamians. So you see “Mid-day” is somewhat of a versatile gentleman, having the combined ability of a lawyer, business executive, and artist.
Henry has given himself the proverbial “break” of true college life. As a freshman lie gave the matter of choice in roommates due consideration. In his first year at Notre Dame it appears that he was eager for social contact and consequently chose Freshman Hall as his abode. Whether three companions were too many we do not know, but it is said that he resolved, at the end of the year, to live ever after in seclusion. But times have changed and now Henry may_.be found living with a very distinguished student, and senior in Law, Mr. John O’Malley.
John is file clerk, also door keeper, and all ‘who enter the Noon-O’Malley law sanctum must first present credentials at the entrance. Whenever such a matter as right of privacy is the question of the hour, John is head man. “Mid-day,” -whose escritore is farthest from the door, always takes final judgment.
“But concerning that Man About the Campus,” remarked John when the interview was ended,, “don’t forget that I have a few supplements.” As yet he has not thought to turn them in.
❖
NOTICE!
Contributions for “Scrip”— poems, essays, short stories, and plays—should be sent to Louis C. Heitger, 308 Walsh Hall. The deadline on material for the April issue is March the 29th.
FISK GLEE CLUB HERE MARCH 28
The Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., announces that he has made arrangements for a comprehensive set of concerts, in Washington Hall, for this spring. He has succeeded in obtaining the Fisk Glee Club for March 28; the Notre Dame Glee Club will render their selections on March 27; and on March 30 the students will hear Maxwell, Lamant, andLazzari, well-known opera stars.
The Fisk Glee Club, which will appear on March 28, was started in 1871. Since then it "has won acclaim here and abroad; with the money since obtained a dormitory was built at their school in Nashville, Tennessee. The glee club is made up of thirty young college men from Fisk University, one of the most interesting-educational institutions of highei-learning for the negro people. Born of a race with a sense of rhythm and beauty of expression, they have a poise which is seldom seen in men so young.
Although the repertoire will contain a generous amount of spirituals, the program is by no means confined to them. Most of the stand-bys of all of the glee clubs of America will be sung, with the unique contribution of the negro spirituals and folk songs of other peoples, sung as only negroes can sing them.
Professor John W. Work, the director of the club, is from a family of musicians and he himself is a director of genius and a talented composer. His father wrote “The Gold and Blue,” the Alma Mater song with which the club always closes their program. Selections from Professor Work’s arrangement of “The King’s Henchmen” will be heard, together with his arrangement of the “Volga Boatman.” The song is a hackneyed thing as most glee clubs sing it, but he has given it a new emotional depth.
ENGLISH MAJOR EXAMINATION FINISHED
The final part of the English major examination was given last Sunday, March the 16th. Students who took the examination are to attend a meeting March the 30th; at this meeting they will learn their grades in the examination, and the members of the English faculty will advise them about the selection of courses for the school-year of 1930-1931.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
717
NOTRE DAME-FACTS AND FIGURES
If we peer back exactly twenty-five years into the past of Notre Dame, we find some 150 students, scattered throughout four residential halls, totalling the undergraduate population. This small handful of men came from all over the world. The various sections of these United States were all represented, while it is an established though surprising fact that in the year 1905 there were more foreign powers represented on the campus than there are at present.
This handful of men has grown into striking proportions during the past quarter century. The enrollment today stands.at 3,125 students. Or, in other words, Notre Dame may boast of an enrollment increase of over two thousand per cent within ths past twenty-five years.
We find that the fame and glory of Notre Dame have penetrated even to the far corners of the earth. We see on the campus men from Spain, South America, and the Philippine Islands. We attend classes with students from Austria, Cuba, and Palestine. Others travel from Canada, China, and Mexico. Many of the industrial and political leaders of the great foreign countries point to the Golden Dome of Notre Dame as the inspiring symbol of their alma mater. '
This present year has shown an increase in enrollment which is in keeping with other years. In this present age an enrollment increase is not aimed at, however, and the officials are making an effort to keep it down, believing that the present number is the ideal number for a college student body.
Notre Dame has proved herself an institution international in scope and one that is so appreciated throughout the land that all but three states— Nevada and the two Carolinas—are represented among the make-up of the student body. It is worthy of note that of the remaining states thirteen are represented by less than five. In this respect Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Idaho, New Mexico, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Maine, Maryland, Rhode Island, Utah, and Virginia are delinquent.
Notre Dame is the destination of many scholars from foreign lands. Tom Horan, who comes all of the way from Kalbar, Queensland, in Aus-trailia, resides in Morrissey Hall, and is a second year student in electrical
By NEIL HURLEY
engineering. For distance travelled to reach school, however, the record goes to Ralph Mollor, a freshman in Howard Hall, who hails from 33 Avenue Edward VII, Shanghai, China. He is closely followed by one student who comes all the way from Palestine. His exact home is in -Pamallah, Jerusalem. In the number of students from foreign lands residing at the University the Republic of Mexico is first, being represented by fourteen men, which is an increase of two over last year. Of these fourteen, only two come from Mexico City proper, the others apportioned throughout the land. Canada runs second with eight students to her credit. Three men journey ' from South America; coming from the countries of Chile, Argentina, and Peru. The Philippine Islands send two students. From Spain, four more men come. Louis Godoy journeys from Campanio Carrera, Centralori-ente, Santiago de Cuba, or in other words, Oriente, Cuba. All in all, the University has thirty-five foreign pupils in her midst.
While we are on the subject of distance, it should not be amiss to mention the travelling done by Notre Dame’s American population. California, the farthest state in the Union, has sent us thirty-three students. Oregon sends eight. Four come from Maine; ninety-nine hail from somewhere in New Jersey. It is this way all down the list. We find the student body is a mixture of practically every state, nay, of every locality, in the country. Quoting from an article on this subject in the Scholastic of last year, one may hear the “maple-sugar twang of the Vermonter’s sharp-edged speech; the round full-waisted r’s of Pennsylvania and Ohio; and the soft, indolent vowels of the South.” Truly, Notre Dame is a blend of localities.
Again, another fact, in regard to transporting the student body to and from the campus. It has been estimated that about eighty-five thousand dollars is spent by the men collectively in going to or coming from their homes. This is spent entirely - on railroad fare, which should give some sort of an idea as to the distance travelled by Notre Dame men.
Despite general opinion the home staters are not in a majority in regard to student population over all
other states. At present, it is found that Illinois is securely in first place by scoring 531 students, which is an increase of more than forty ovei' last year. New York tabulates 461 men, nosing out Indiana for second place-The Hoosiers, last year second in population, now have only 43’7. Following them comes Ohio in fourth position with 260 representatives. A tie results for fifth between Michigan and Pennsylvania, both having 193 "local boys” in attendance at the University. Wisconsin has sent 120 sons, which entitles it to seventh place.
It is interesting to note that although forty-five states and nine foreign countries are represented on the enrollment, exactly half of Notre Dame’s population is from six states. New York, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Michigan are the ones with the necessary population. The remaining fifteen hundred men are scattered throughout the entire nation.
In respect to cities, Chicago as usual reigns supreme. Half of the Illinois delegation, or 272 men, come from the Windy City. New York in this rating is second to Chicago.
It might prove interesting to pursue the table of enrollment increase since the year 1905, which is far enough back for all practical purposes. In short form the table is as
follows:			
Year	Enroll.	Year	Enroll.
1904-05—		150	1917-18—		579
1905-06—		201	1918-19—		716
1906-07—		227	1919-20—		1039
1907-08—		274	1920-21—		1185
1908-09—		275	1921-22—		1263
1909-10—		350	1922-23—		1480
1910-11—		437	1923-24—		1992
1911-12—		438	1924-25—		2125
1912-13—		452	1925-26—		2490
1913-14—		530	1926-27—		2774
1914-15—		575	1927-28—		2993
1915-16—		587 -	1928-29—		3070
1916-17—		656	1929-30—		3125
Thus we see that Notre Dame is a splendid mixture of spices ranging from Shanghai in the mysterious Orient to the Everglades of Florida, and from the innermost portions of our Great American Desert to the creaky tenements of our larger cities. Men from all over the land look to Notre Dame for education. The call rings from the Golden Dome and is answered by youth the world over.
718
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Campus clubs are still somewhat active, and the spirit within them is now something to be admired. For an example, we might mention the activities of the CLEVELAND CLUB for the past two weeks. Charles Rohr, Joe Gavin, and Joe Butler journeyed to Cleveland on March 7, to present a cup to St. Ignatius High School, the winner of the Cleveland Catholic High School league. The cup was presented to the team in their gymnasium before the assembled student body. This cup has been presented for two years. Any school winning possession of it for three years in a row is awarded permanent ownership. Last year it was won by the Holy Name High School.
Medals—kind and number—for the coming indoor baseball tournament were discussed by the club. A meeting of all captains of the various clubs will be held to determine what rules are to be followed in the games. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of this week were devoted to eliminations, in this club, of the handball men.
—o—
The AKRON CLUB held a smoker in Brownson “Rec” room last Tuesday. The speakers were excellent, the entertainment good, and refreshments were enjoyed. At the smoker it was decided that an Easter dance will be held in Akron, probably on Universal Notre Dame Night.
The SPANISH CLUB has been more active this year than ever before. Meetings of the club have been livelier, more interesting, and more regular than in the past. A banquet is to be held by the club May 1. At the regular meeting on March 13 several members of the organization read interesting papers. Joseph Apodaca, of Las Cruces, New Mexico, read a history of that state. Mr. Foley read his own translation of a Shakespearian play. Mr. Anthony Diaz read a story once told him in the Indian language. The meeting closed with a humorous sketch by the Reverend Francis T. Maher, C.S.C., honorary president of the club. Last Saturday a Mass was held in Sacred Heart Church for the repose of the soul of the father of Professor Pedro de Landero. The mass was well attended by many friends of the professor as well as by all members of the Spanish Club.
—o—
The CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB will hold a banquet, April 3, at the Rose-Marie Tea Room. Ray Snyder, chairman of the affair, will have tickets on sale in all halls this week. It was first decided that the banquet would be held on March 28, but because that date falls on Friday it was suggested that it be held the following Thursday. President Toomey announces that plans are practically complete. Good food, good speakers, and some fine entertainment will be the order of the evening. At the banquet it is hoped that plans may materialize for a summer dance.
At a meeting of the CHICAGO CLUB held March 13, the guest of honor was Mr. Frank Fitzsimmons, president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. He discussed the advantages of having the two clubs work together in the matter of providing entertainment on Universal Notre Dame Night. Jimmie Martin, vice-president, James Ronan, secretary, and Cliff Noonan, treasurer of the Alumni organization, were also present. James Armstrong, editor of the Alumnus, was introduced and gave a short talk.
The PACIFIC NORTHWEST CLUB held a meeting last Friday evening at 6:30 in the Law Building, and made final arrangements for a banquet to be held in the near future.
—o—
First mention is made here of a “club” that is possibly	*
the oldest on the campus. Last Saturday evening four men	J
enjoyed what they termed a “banquet” at the South Bend Inn. Chester M. Ashman, living in the Mission House, A. Richard Schreiner, living in the Gymnasium, Edward Dempsey, living in Cadillac Hall, and Ramon G. Smith, * living in Science Hall, were the men who attended the banquet. They are the only remaining members of an organization long termed THE EXILES. Years ago there * was some mention of THE EXILES winning interhall football, basketball, and track championships. Last spring one of the members of this organization had the temerity to enter the interhall track meet. He succeeded in tying Mor- b rissey Hall for last place! Since the four men eat together in the West Dining Hall they had nothing of importance to discuss, but the banquet was, nevertheless, an enjoyable -one. Mr. Ashman and Mr. Smith are tied for the honor . of being the “oldest exile.”
—o— ■	-	i
Because of the lack of pictures, write-ups, and suggestions, the Club Editor of the Dome is helpless as far as “make-up” of pages for the following clubs is concerned: the CALIFORNIA CLUB, the ST. LOUIS CLUB, the NEW " JERSEY CLUB, the FORT WAYNE CLUB, the UTICA CLUB, the AKRON CLUB, the GRAND RAPIDS CLUB, the VILLAGERS, the WISCONSIN CLUB, and the AU- , BURN CLUB. Will the officers of these clubs be so kind as to take it upon themselves to insure their clubs getting in the Dome of 1930? The Dome editor may be seen tomorrow afternoon, from 1:00 to 3:00, in Science Hall, north 1 side of the building, Room 7A. If for some reason he is not in, write-ups may be left at the Western Union office in Washington Hall.
-	The Notre Dame Scholastic	'	719
I “LCCEEVE TO ALL THAT**
!$.	Growing out of the dynamo of Night, those bright flowers of power, our days, continually quiver
with charges of light, yet their glow is its own reward; and as they torch our lives it is easy to see that, for them, possession of the power that is virtue, is its own reward; the very essence of our wak-| ing moments presents a study in restraint, and contemporary society might well heed the lesson of the C days.
u	In a recent issue of America, the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., points out that one of the
most noticeable marks of the age is the tendency of present-day life to parade virtue and exhibit ' goodness for one or both of two reasons: recognition by others and financial exploitation of confes-r sion of virtue.
These two reasons, in turn, are indicative of certain contemporary states of mind, as deep seated as they are active in practical affairs: desire for material gain, and equally strong desire to attract r. the attention of others.
•	Of the first we shall only say that the material will be a cold cinder long after the spirit is still
y but a bud on the rose bush of Infinity; to the second, the desire to sway others by sudden starts of , power, either financial or mental, we would oppose a gleaming passage from a recent work by Mr.
Thornton Wilder: “True influence over another comes not from a moment’s eloquence nor from any ► happily chosen word, but from the accumulation of a lifetime’s thoughts stored up in the eyes.” And the true thoughts of a lifetime always store themselves in their thinker’s eyes, rather than in an exhibition heap before him.
-	An English author, a few months ago, recalled the scenes of the War, and, after reviewing them
. and recognizing their core of horror, bade “Goodbye to all That.”
r"	We only hope that consideration of the above fragmentary remarks on certain trends in con-
». temporary thought and action may eventuate in a sincere and intelligent “Goodbye to all That.”
—M. H. L.
.J,
&
IN I I ADVELSITA s
, Patronize the advertiser is a common enough phrase, though considerably modified in significance, Sand rendered less effective in its import and meaning, through frequent repetition. On the other hand, this 'phrase is not merely a pleasing combination of words, inserted at random in a publication, to please some whim of the publisher. It is the publications’ effort to gain the support the advertiser deserves.
h	The majority of magazines have two distinct sections in their make-up: the reading matter and
It the advertisements. The financial support of the latter, in most cases, makes the continuance of the publication possible. Upon the advertiser depends the existence of the magazine. These men, as busi-[ ness executives, however, bestow their patronage solely with the expectation that it will mean returns 7	in the future. It is their understanding that benefits will be received for the benefits they have given.
1	In short, student co-operation is expected, as a result of the purchase of advertising space.
U-	Our support to various organizations is constantly asked for. Once more, an appeal is directed
to our sense of loyalty and fairness, to justify the thoughts of those who deem advertising in school publications a profitable investment; an appeal to return the support of those who support our publications. It is a fair appeal. It calls for no charity or exertion on our part, other than a small amount of preference for those who advertise when we make our purchases. Their messages in the pages of our publications should not be scorned; their offerings should not be ignored. They should be made to feel that they have gained, in the students, a loyal and appreciative clientele; they should - be confident that their patronage has not gone unnoticed, their investment made for nothing. Fair. ness and loyalty demand the student’s co-operation in this regard.	—N. d.
Page 720—The Notre Dame Scholastic
Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C. Rector of Lyons
ALL for one and one for all: that’s Notre Dame’s “Gold Coast.” As the successors to Walsh, these three halls,— Morrissey, Howard and Lyons,—pride themselves on their newness and their
beauty. Too modern to have ghosts and traditions, they look serenely down upon any efforts at publicity. The Gold Coast is the show place of the campus, and a beau
tiful show place it is.
Originally the three halls were designed to accommodate freshmen only. Howard, at first called “Old Students” Hall, was the first to be built. It was begun in 1924 and completed a year later. Howard was not very old before the freshmen in Brownson, Carroll and Freshman halls began a bar-
Lyons----And the Arch
LYCNA H< I I i cy w.
rage of suggestions that are still (sometimes) heard.
Reverend John J. Margraf, C.S.C., was the first rector of Howard. In September of this year, he was succeeded by Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C. Under Father Murch Howard has won the interhall debating championship. This year, the Howard football and basketball teams have helped to brighten the competition in their fields, although neither has been able to capture the championship.
Morrissey, like Howard, was originally designed for freshmen only. A great freshman quadrangle was to concentrate all of the first year men in one part of the campus. This idea was soon abandoned and Morrissey was given over to the sophomores. In the four years of its existence, however, Morrissey has brought within its walls everybody — freshmen, sophomores, juniors, seniors, and post-graduates.
Like the other Gold Coast halls, Morrissey has no ghosts, few traditions. Its rector, Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., has succeeded in keeping quiet all aspiring ghosts. A few years ago the fact that the editors of the Scholastic and the Juggler, as well as a number of other campus luminaries, lived in Morrissey caused it to be known as the “Students’ Hall.”
Besides being the most beautiful of the campus halls, perhaps Morrissey’s greatest
pride is the Chapel of the Little Flower-Here Mass is said the morning after clas dances for the guests of the “Cotillion the “Prom,” and the “Ball.” It is here tha students bring visiting parents and friencl Romanesque in design, Byzantine in cWoi Morrissey chapel is certainly a beautifi,
spot. The solid oak statues, the Statior
i
Howard--------jj )
of the Cross, designed by Mr. Errt«_-.j
Thompson (formerly of the art depart: ment), are a few of the reasons for it: prominence as a religious haven. v
In addition to its chapel, Morrissey i:
noted for its unique entrance the aid of Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, of the art department, this gathering place for hall residents is assuming a new beauty. In each of the square panels that make up the walls there is being placed the coat-of-arms of some college. Eventually the walls will contain a complete record of collegiate heraldry.
Morrissey is really a beauty spot. When one goes
hall. VJitl !
Rev. Raymc
J
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page ~2i
SET, I ( WAI I £ RADDATZ
>ygh
Ved /
its doorway, under the tablet in-“Lux-Rex-Pax-Lex,” he feels that
$8* in a world apart. Morrissey more n makes up for its lack of traditions by gracefulness, both inside and out.
;jS»fts, the newest of the Gold Coast Is. is allegedly for juniors and sophoras only. A glance at the hall list shows
Freshmen
it is as democratic as Morrissey. jAably the most noteworthy feature of ps is its arch, immortalized on the high-cSlored postcards. Looking through this 'cn is a quieting influence upon even the
with his camera. Between the arch and the entrance to the hall is the office of Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C., rector of Lyons. Like Father Haggerty, he has succeeded in dispersing all the hall ghosts. Lyons, like its fellow halls, seems too modern to be ghost-ridden. Perhaps ghosts will come in a few years when newer halls have stolen the “glory that once was theirs” .... who knows?
Lyons, Morrissey, and Howard were all designed by Messrs. Kervick and Fagan, professors in the architecture department. All are of the asymmetric type of architecture, of which few examples are to be seen in this country. Fireproof, modern “to the last nail,” are these three halls, proud of their newness and beauty. Why should they worry because Sorin and Corby have a few traditions? Do not Sorinites and Corbyites show off the Gold Coast to visitors? Are not Gold Coast pictures the most prominent in all articles about the University?
Nevertheless, with the passing of the years the Gold Coast is being redeemed. The sneers and jibes of the other halls are no longer. Recognition in the various fields of activities' has placed the triumvirate of Morrissey, Howard, and Lyons in the foreground. Campus athletes, editors, and prominent personalities are to be found in that section of the campus. The labor and skill of these men enable the Gold Coasters to hold their heads high. They have proved themselves.
Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C. Rector of Morrissey
The Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., Professors James A. Lyons and Timothy Howard are really honored in having these three halls named after them. It is fitting also that three such great men should be immortalized in this way: Father Morrissey was one of the University’s most famous presidents; Professor Lyons gave his whole life to Notre Dame; and Professor Howard brought fame to his alma mater in the courts of Indiana; distinguished men all.
It would take pages to name the men of recent Notre Dame history that have received either their start or their finish within the halls of the Gold Coast. The present residents realize this and are comforted. Lack of ghosts is being overlooked by these men of the new Gold Coast. They are making tradition now for others to follow in future years. They are the trail blazers and are proud of it.	'
hurried
student, for here is probably the best view on the campus. The Golden Dome may be majestic; Walsh may be impressive; Sorin may have historic towers; Morrissey may be graceful; but Lyons arch somehow seems to outshine all of them. To the homesick student the sight of the lake through the arch brings thoughts of vacation; to the art lover* a feeling of pleasure; to the photographer the desire to capture it
Morrissey and Its Tower
122
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUES
“And the night shall be filled with music, And the cares that infest the day Shall fold their tents like Arabs, And as silently steal away.”
—Longfellow.
Cameo, in his wide and varied peregrinations over the world, accidentally came upon this very strange curiosity. In fact it is so curious that the question presents itself as to just what is it. Is it a barn? No, it can’t be a barn because a barn has windows. Is it a general store? No, it can’t be a general store because this happens to be a “private” affair (Haw Haw). Is it the Panama Canal? No, it can’t be the canal because of the fact that the locks of the canal lock and unlock, whereas the locks of this curiosity merely curl. Well then, what in the name of common sense is it? Cameo has come to our recue and explained that it is an airplane view of the Sir Thomas Lipton Yacht Races. We can’t decide just which or who is winning, but it must be a good race because the sails seem to be so full of wind. Considering the trouble we had in deciphering this picture, we promise to severely reprimand Cameo and instruct him to give iis understandable pictures henceforth, .because it is quite evident that no one of us has ever seen anything like the above.	-	/
And then there’s the one about the Scotchman who never came to this country because he still had two suits of his grandfather’s kilties to wear out.
“LIFE’S WAY”
In the course of my work I have met you;
In the way of the world, learned to love you, But noiv that I see I have lost you I hardly know what to do.
When I had you, I never had grasped you,
And in vain, when you left, sought to hold you;
But now that you’re gone, I tvant you;
I’m wishing only for you.
I was rash tvhen I said what would hurt you.
I was foolish in trying to scold you.
I only tried to protect you;
I only sought to aid you.
In the course of my life I may meet you
And calmly explain it all to you.
- And then when I say why I hurt you, You’ll know that I cared for you.
.	—Wazmus.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
723
* & i
r
f
Co-eds in the state of Minnesota proabably can’t see anything funny in the passage of a law which declares that any co-ed found wearing a fraternity pin shall be subject to a “fine of $50 or sixty days in jail.” That must cramp their style considerably, and no doubt it’s very galling too, for when a woman takes a notion she wants something— well, there is nothing in the world as stubborn as a stubborn woman!
A certain gentleman, who makes cabinets and paddles around the University of North Carolina, complains that unless the fraternities change their methods the paddle business will soon be a thing of the past. He laments the fact that the Carolina fraternities are now much easier on their pledges than formerly, and points out that, although the price of his paddles has been decreased from twenty-five to twenty cents at the same time that the weight and the quality have been increased, his sales have fallen off from 700 paddles in 1927-28 to 150 this year. In conclusion, he pleads that something be done about it.
It doesn’t pay to let books taken from the library of Emory College become overdue. A Junior- in the college, being assigned the ever unpleasant task of preparing a term paper, took four books from the library on Saturday evening and labored almost unceasingly until dawn of Monday. Then he fell into a deep slumber from which he awakened in mid-afternoon, and then he rushed to the library with the books. There the librarian smilingly informed him that, as the books had been due since early in the morning, she would be compelled to impose a fine upon him, only a small fine, of course, but nevertheless a fine. When she figured up just how small the fine would be, she found that it amounted to a mere six dollars. Naturally the student insisted that she accept much more than that, seeing that he had deliberately kept those four books out of the library for several hours when there were probably hundreds of other students clamoring for them. But the honest librarian refused, saying that her sense of duty would not allow her to accept any more, though she realized full well that six dollars was a very paltry fine to impose upon anyone. On top of all this the poor student learned that during his sleep of exhaustion he had taken three cuts more than he was supposed to. So, all in all, his term paper seems to have been quite a success—at least, from a negative point of view.
—o—
Co-eds at the University of Georgia have risen up in demand for “more and longer dates.” They are now allowed dates only on week-end nights, and, finding this state of affairs very unsatisfactory, the women have called a meeting to draw up a petition asking that they be allowed to have dates on any night in the week. They are, moreover, going to demand that they be allowed to stay out till the shocking hour of eleven o’clock, on their dates.
The complacency of one of California’s varsity crews was rudely shaken recently, when, just after finishing a two-mile sprint, the shell entered into a little argument with a submerged log and came out second best. A hole some ten feet in length was tom in the boat, which then gave up the fight and sank with all hands aboard right in the middle of the estuary. Aside from a rather thorough wetting the crew was rescued none the worse for the little accident, but the shell didn’t fare quite so well, being pretty well torn up.
We were considerably surprised to find in The Daily Californian a headline to the effect that the track coach is going to use moonshine as an aid to track training, but then we decided everything was all right when we saw that it was heavenly moonshine he referred to and not the hand-made variety. The coach thinks that training in the moonlight will serve to relieve, somewhat, the monotony of the training grind in the spring. Perhaps he also thinks that some of his performers may look faster in the semidarkness.
The coming of spring has evidently gone to the heads of the Dartmouth freshmen, who have become thoroughly rebellious. One night last week they organized in front of Dartmouth Hall and dared the sophs to come out and fight like men. But the sophs didn’t want to be men. They much preferred to remain in the safety of their hall and pretend not to hear. Being pitifully outnumbered, they reasoned that discretion was the better part of valor and proceeded to govern themselves accordingly. Finding their challenges unanswered, the freshmen built a huge bonfire in the middle of the campus and kept it burning by throwing their freshman caps upon it. Presently came the news that the sophs were mobilizing in South Massachusetts Hall, and so thither marched the yearlings. There they attempted to enter the hall by storm, but it seems that “Palaepitus intervened here and prevented them from injuring either the dormitory or the outnumbered sophomores.” All we have to say is that the sophs had better be glad they had this guy Palaeopitus on their side.
A certain father sent his son to Princeton, and then became indignant when he learned that, as undergraduates are not allowed to have cars on the campus, his little boy would have to walk to class in all kinds of weather. Immediately he went forth and built his son a twelve-room house directly opposite the university and equipped it with butler, maid, and chauffeur.
And another young fellow went to Princeton and studied so hard that he injured his health. His father was by nature and training opposed to study, so that when the son came home for a week-end he took him into his office, glared at him, handed him ten $100 bills, and roared: “Spend this by Saturday night or never darken my door again ” Now you tell one.
724
The Notre Dame Scholastic
5 POMS
Fifteen Second Kayo Features S.A.C. Bouts
Bob DEWALD of St. Edward’s Hall, a huge, strapping heavyweight, floored Jerry Duwan of the same hall in fifteen seconds of the first round of the final bout in the heavyweight class, and the concluding fight on the evening’s program, to put the finishing touches to an already successful boxing tournament held in the University gymnasium last Friday evening. Ap-. proximately 1,000 students were gathered around the ringside to watch the twelve bouts sponsored by the Students’ Activities Council.
Plans for a similar tournament were announced immediately after the fights and if permission can be obtained this second series of preliminaries will be held next Friday evening. Those in charge of the affair were well pleased with the large turnout of the student body, and the keen enthusiasm shown during the bouts proved that future boxing contests will attract an even greater audience.
Duwan was knocked out by Dewald, within fifteen seconds after the start of the first round in their battle, by a stiff right to the jaw. DeWald rushed out of his corner and pum-meled Duwan with hard lefts and rights and finally clipped Duwan with the knockout punch; his victim fell to the floor on his face but recovered consciousness in about a half-minute and was able to walk from the ring.
In the first heavyweight elimination bout, DeWald got the decision over Pat Hodgins, fighting a careful battle and tying Hodgins into hopeless knots. Jerry Duwan advanced to the finals by virtue of his strong aggressiveness against Carl Dawes. Dawes’ long reach put Duwan at a bad disadvantage, but the aggressor pounded his victim with short damaging body punches which won for him the verdict.
Billy Magarral took an easy three round battle from Jimmie Kellehe^ in the 118 pound class. Neither landed any damaging blows but Magarral pounded open the loser’s
weak defense, driving him against the ropes frequently with stiff blows It was the best boxing exhibition of the evening, nevertheless, as the fight found two exceptionally clever boys trading blows.
After defeating Louis Godoy in the first bout, John McElwee was forced to default his final match with Harold Shumate in the 147 pound class. McElwee came back strong in his fight with Godoy to take the second round after losing the first; a spurt in the final round gave him the decision but he hurt • his left hand and was forced to withdraw from the final go. Shumate drew Morris Hull in his initial bout, and got an unpopular judges’ decision amidst boos from the crowd.	'
Willie Hendricks and Leonard Dunn fought to a draw for the 160-pound title after eliminating Joe Miller and Herman Bustamante, respectively, in earlier Fouts. Hendricks and Miller, both lanky boys, waged an almost even contest but Hendricks closed in on Miller in the third round and got the decision. Dunn piled up an early two-round margin against Bustamante which carried the fight for him. Bustamente, fighting with his head and shoulders low, left plenty of room for Dunn, a slow, careful boxer. Dunn mauled his opponent frequently, in hard drives against the ropes, covering Busta-mente’s body, and landing solid punches to the chest and head.
Bud Torrell won the 126 pound title in a listless bout with Joe Maxwell. Torrell forced Maxwell to his knees with a terrific blow in the second round but the latter rose immediately. The winner took all three rounds by a wide margin. Johnny Preece got the nod over Ted Eger in a 135 pound embroglio; Preece waited his opponent out and stung him with staggering rights and lefts to the head and face.
Pat Conway sent Fred Davis to the canvas in the third round of their 175 pound encounter. Conway saved his power and drive, opening the third round strongly and landing
heavy blows. One of Conway’s pun- S' ishing rights caught Davis on the jaw and the latter went down to the floor grasping for the ropes. Conway was awarded the decision by the judges.
The winners in the final bouts of the various classes received suitable gold medals for their conquests. The	>
medals, in form of watch charms,	’
have “Notre Dame” engraved on top __ with “Interclub” below. A figure of two boxers is between the two inscriptions, and the name of the winner and his weight are engraved on the back.
The results:	’
147 Pounds—John McElwee (Morrissey) , won decision over Louis Godoy (Badin); Harold Shumate (Off-Campus) won decision over Morris Hull (St. Edward’s); Harold Shumate won over McElwee in final '4 bout by default.
160 Pounds—Willie Hendricks (St. Edward’s) won decision over Joe Mil- _ ler (St. Edward’s); Leonard Dunn (St. Edward’s) won decision over Herman Bustamente (Off-Campus); Leonard Dunn and Hendricks fought to a draw in the 160-pound final.
118 Pounds—Billy Magarral (Morrissey) won decision over Jimmie “ Kelleher (Lyons).
126 Pounds—Bud Torrel (Sophomore) won decision over Joe Maxwell J (Off-Campus).
135 Pounds—John Preece (Walsh) won decision over- Ted Eger (Off- , Campus).	' ‘
140 Pounds—Bud Matthews (Off-Campus) won decision over Ed King (Brownson).	v-
175 Pounds—Pat Conway (Corby) won decision over Fred Davis (Walsh). .	_
Heavyweight—Bob De Wald (St. Edward’s) won decision over Pat Hodgins (St. Edward’s); Jerry Du-wan (St. Edward’s) won decision over Carl Dawes (Howard); Bob DeWald knocked out Jerry Duwan in first round of final heavyweight bout, time, 15 seconds.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Two Mile Team Winner at Illinois Relays
THE running of Notre Dame’s two-mile relay team proved to be one of the big features, of the annual Illinois Indoor Relays last Saturday night, in the Illini fieldhouse at Champaign. Conceded practically no chance of even placing, Coach Nicholson’s quartet of halfmilers won in the greatest walk-away of the evening.
Brant Little, running the first leg of the race, was nearly fifteen yards ahead of his nearest opponent when he handed the baton to Joe Quigley. Joe, whose race was possibly the most outstanding of the four Blue and Gold runners, “kicked” the last lap of his 880 to give Captain Joe Abbott nearly thirty-five yards at the start of the second mile. Abbott, running despite the spike wound he received last week in practice, added another fifteen yards to the Notre Dame lead before he turned the anchor job over to Alex Wilson. Alex ran his usual steady race and picked up his share of yardage to win by nearly a quarter of a lap over Northwestern, the favorite. Chicago, picked to fight it out with the Wildcats for the victory, took third. Notre Dame’s time, 7:58 2/5, could undoubtedly have been improved on, had the runners been forced at any time during their race. As it was, each man seemed to be running an individual race.
The one-mile relay team composed of Captain Abbott, Little, Wilson and Bradley, took second in their heat but the time recorded failed to give them a place in the final result. It was unfortunate that Coach Nicholson’s men had to run in the two events in so short a period of time.
Roy Bailie took third place in the 70-yard low hurdles after failing to place in the high “sticks.” Roy kicked over one of the hurdles in the highs, and this, besides the loss of the heat, slowed him down considerably for his favorite low hurdles.
Ken Boagrii reached the semi-finals in the 75-yard dash but failed to qualify for the final which was won hy , George Simpson of Ohio State. Gene Howery and Jim Biggins took fifth and sixth places in the 1500-yard event won by Orval Martin of Purdue. Martin has never been beaten in college competition.
U
The better you feel, the more you can do for your-
Man Who Has Done the Most for
self as well as everyone else. The “senior who has done most for his college” is the one who always has the energy and strength to put things over.
Shredded Wheat helps you to lead in campus activities. Two Shredded Wheat Biscuits swimming in whole
His College”
milk every morning will put you on your toes for the business and pleasure of the day. It gives, in readily digested form, all the food elements essential to a nourishing vitality-producing breakfast.
QhiihiihihhiiI
726
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP
A. M. MYERS, Prop.
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS SERVICE
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
o
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Floivers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice. .
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE.
TELEPHONE 3-5149
Constant study and modern instruments have made us competent in correcting muscular defects of the eye and prescribing glasses that are beneficial.
LEMONTREE’S
OPTOMETRISTS
222 1-2 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
A Better Optometric Service
Follow The Crowd, Men,
to
The Rainbow
Restaurant
South Bend’s Most Beautiful Place Opposite Palais Royale
—o—
We serve
Special Breakfasts, Lunches , and Dinners.
Mid-night Specials also.
—o— OUR COOKING AND FOOD ARE WONDERFUL.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
727
DIAMOND PLAYERS PREP FOR OPENING GAME
With almost 100 candidates for baseball reporting for practice, Coach George Keogan has begun to whip a crew of fast moving ball tossers into trim in preparation for the first game to be played here against Armour Tech on April 14. The infielders and the pitchers are running through their paces in the gymnasium, whereas the boys who will cavort around the outer gardens this year have taken to the wide open spaces on Cartier- Field in order to renew acquaintances with the “old apple” as it comes swooping down from above.
The varsity field is being conditioned in the event that the home guards may get fair weather and an opportunity to get out of doors en masse before the initial contest against Armour Tech, according to Robert Hellrung, senior baseball manager.
Three capable infielders will be fighting for the right to hold down the third base position this year. O’Keefe, Mahoney, and Heenan are the crop of applicants for the “hot corner” job. Sullivan and Feehery, the latter a varsity outfielder last year, are the likely candidates for the first base position. Feehery has been moved to the infield in order- to assure plenty of material for a snappy combination. Askew, utility second
baseman last year, Duffy,' guardian of the keystone bag for the Freshman nine last season, or Hooley Smith will receive the call from Keogan for the post this spring.
Joe Palermo, varsity shortstop last season, will have plenty of competition in the person of Charles Cush-wa, who is snapping the horsehide around the field house with plenty of vim. Francis, Moran, and Nolan are the likely candidates for the outfield positions. Keogan does not expect to experience any trouble with his pitching staff which will probably be composed of Lisicki, Mannix, Dilley, Palt, DelPrete, Wise and D. Smith. Capt. Lordi, Koiski, and Dolan will be seen behind the bat for the Fighting Irish this spring.
morning on hundreds of campuses from coast to coast. Try it for breakfast tomorrow. Crisp. Golden. Delicious with milk or cream. And what could be better for a late bed-time snack!
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.

CORN
hakes
SK
a
728
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In the May Elections
Vote for
W. N. Wolanski for JUSTICE of the PEACE
A former Notre Dame man who is now a prominent local lawyer.
CHAPIN STATE BANK BLDG.
Phone 3-3466
SUNDAY AND MONDAY
MARY BRIAN and FREDERIC MARCH
w THE
MARRIAGE , PLAYGROUND
Unique
in
TUESDAY—WEDNESDAY—THURSDAY
THE LOST ZEPPELIN”
with Virginia Valli Conway Tearle Ricardo Cortez
STATE
A Public Theatre
All-Talking Thrill-Packed Tale of Adventure!
Also Publix Specialties
OLIVER
NOW PLAYING
“The Butter and Egg Man”
By the author of “Merton of the Movies” The best thing of the Oliver Stock Company season Featuring KIRK LUCAS and PAUL NORRIS and Cast of Twelve
SOON - “MADAME SHANG HAI
SODAS	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
—and—
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:S0 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
cigars	cigarettes
The Notre Dame Scholastic
729
LEADING SCORERS OF INTERHALL BASKETBALL SEASON
Heavyweights
Name and Hall	Points
Law (MoiTissey)_________________74
Harrison (Carroll)______________58
Izo (Sophomore) ________________46
Duffy (Morrissey) ______________44
Campbell (Brownson) ____________43
Dolan (Lyons)___________________43
Bait (Lyons) _________________43
Ziliak (Badin) _______________40
Bloom (Corby) ________________37
Hertz (Off-Campus)____________36
O’Donnell (Brownson)__________36
Igo (St. Edward’s)____________35
Medland (Walsh) ______________32
Kremer (St. Edward’s)_________32
O’Neil (Freshman)_____________28
Lightweights Name and Hall	Points
Waterson (Sophomore) _________78
Rohrbach (Badin)______________66
Oakes (Lyons)_______’________65
Duke (Corby) ---------------61
Thompson (St. Edward’s)_____60
Thompson (Brownson) ________54
Reaume (Walsh)______________52
Montgomery (Carroll)________42
Arthmeyer (Brownson)40
Gorman (St. Edward’s)_______38
Angstei- (Badin)____________36
Sullivan (Freshman)________._35
Malloy (Sorin)______________29
Clark (Morrissey)___________28
Golden (Off-Campus)_________28
There’s a Silver Lining
in
Pause that refreshes
— LISTEN IN——
Grantland Rice — Famous Sports Champions — Coca-Cola Orchestra —Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T. — Coast to Coast NBC Network —•'
So many unhappy things can happen to increase that old inferiority complex. Deans and Doctors, Mid-years and Finals, all dedicated to the cause of making life a burden. Coca-Cola was made for times like these. Here’s a drink that will quickly invest you with some of its life and sparkle. Give you exceeding joy in its tingling, delicious taste. And leave you with that cool after-sense of refreshment in which a righteous megalomania may wax fat and prosper.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
9 MILLION A DAY~ IT HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE
CW-3
IT IS
730
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FRESHMAN TAKES INTERHALL TRACK TITLE;
HOWARD SECOND
Freshman Hall annexed its first major interhall title of the year in the finals of the annual track meet last Saturday afternoon. Taking four firsts and tying for another, besides a goodly number of other places, the men of the “pasteboard palace” counted 48% points Howard, counting chiefly upon the work of Abbatemarco, pressed Freshman all the way but failed by just eight and one-half points to catch their rivals. Brownson, counting in every event with the exception of the two jump-events, took third place with 25 points. The other points were divided as follows: Sophomore 13; Carroll 11; Walsh 6%; St. Edward’s 4; Lyons 3; Off-Campus 3.
High scoring honors went to Abbatemarco, of Howard, by a comfortable margin. The stocky Gold-Coast star rang up 18 points by virtue of his victories in the 60-yard dash, high jump, and broad jump. Garrett, a teammate, won the hurdles as well as a place in the dash in two good races. Both he and Abbatemarco ran on the relay team which finished second to Freshman.
Freshman’s strength was not centered in any one event or man. Showing great all around power, the boys from the far side of the campus counted at least a third in every event except the dash and the hurdles. Troy, after running a heady race in the mile, was disqualified for traversing inside the boundary line. The victory was given to Lane of Sophomore who pressed Troy all of the way. Lane clipped four seconds off the old interhall record made by Bob Brennan three years ago.
Freshman’s relay team covered the three-quarters mile in one and three-tenths seconds better than Sophomore’s 2:28 2/5, made in 1928.
Abbatemarco broke the record made by Gough of Carroll in the broad jump of the preliminary meet held three weeks ago. His leap of 22 ft. 3 in. is one of the best made in the University gymnasium this year.
Summary:
Pole Vault—Jaskwich (Fr.) and Dennartz (Bron.), tied for first; Malas (Fr.), third; Burich (Soph.), (Turn to Pase 731)
MEN - ALONE WITH DEATH
Have never been portrayed on the screen so daringly as in “.^EN WITHOUT WOMEN” -— the photoplay that bids fair to set the motion picture world agog-it upsets all precedents -— shows you how lovable -— how miserable man can be — the greatest drama since the dawn of the talkies -— majestic in its stark realism!
MEN without WCMEN with
Kenneth MacKenna Frank Albertson Paul Page
Walter McCrail Warren Kymer Farrell MacDonald Stuart Erwin
You’ll hear these death doomed men discuss their lives . . . Idealized affections, as their under sea boat lies helpless on the ocean-bed!!
HANADA
............  ummiimiiniiiimiiiiiiiiiiiHiimiiiiii.............................ami.....aaaaaaa..niniii.........
COLLEGE COLORS FOR A FLOODLIGHTED CAMPANILE
The South Dakota State College campanile, a 165-foot chimes tower on the campus at Brookings, South Dakota, is to be illuminated at night with yellow and blue, the college
STARTING MARCH 22ND
colors, by means of thirty floodlighting projectors, some with clear, some with yellow and others with blue lenses. The shaft, visible for twenty miles in the daytime, will be visible to aviators a hundred miles away at night for an 8,000,000-candlepowei-revolving beacon and a directional beacon will be mounted atop the structure.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
731
fourth; Simmons (Bron.), fifth.
Height, 10 feet, 6 inches.
880-Yard Run—Won by Macbeth (Fr.) ; Gilfoil (St. Ed.), second; Woods (Lyons), third; Powell (Bron.), fourth; Masterson (Fr.), fifth. Time 2:07.5.
Shot Put—Won by Lejeune (Fr.); Brantford (Fr.), second; Beaudin (How.), third; Dilling (Bron.), fourth; Frey (Walsh), fifth. Distance, 41 feet, 1% inches.
Mile Run—Won by Lane (Soph.); Renier (Soph), second; Duke (Bron.), third; Hoyt (How.), fourth; Troy disqualified. Time 4:47.9.
60-Yard Dash—Won by Abbate-marco (How.); Dilling (Bron.), second; Kempf (O-C.), third; Garrett (How.), fourth; O’Malley (Soph.), fifth. Time :06.4.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Kelly (Fr.); Schricte (Fr.), second; Schneller (Car.), third; Egan (Bron.), fourth; McKeever (Fr.), fifth. Time, :52.4.
65-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Garrett (How.); Gough (Car.), second; Henifin (Bron.), third; Corcoran (How.), fourth; Redmond (Walsh), fifth. Time :07.7.
Three-fourths Mile Relay—Won by Freshman (Kelly, Schricte, Troy, Macbeth, Bice, McCarthy); Howard, second; Brownson, third. Time 2:27.1.
Broad Jump—Won by Abbatemarco (How.); Gough (Car.), second; Vejar (Fr.), third; Frey (Walsh) and Bice (Fr.), tied for fourth. Distance, 22 feet, 3 inches.
High Jump—Won by Abbatemarco (How.); Hughes (Fr.), Frey (Walsh), Kenny (How.), tied for second; O’Hara (How.), fifth. Distance, 5 feet, 6 inches.
RUSH WORK ON NEW
STADIUM
With the approach of spring and warm weather, the materialization of Notre Dame’s new football stadium is becoming more evident. The foundation work was completed last fall, but because of the inclement weather during the past few months, things have slowed up.
Work, however, was begun a fortnight ago in earnest. Next week the form work will be erected, and the concrete will be poured the first few
days in April. Plans have also been < made to start the brick work before the end of May.
Coach Rockne will personally supervise the placing of the sod on the playing field. This is to be done about May 1, so there will be ample time to nurse the field into excellent condition for the opening game with Southern Methodist.
Extensive parking grounds will be made, and work is being done to simplify the traffic problem from the stadium to the main thoroughfares of South Bend.
By next October Notre Dame’s dream of a modern football arena will come true, and the students, especially the present Freshmen, will have an opportunity to become better acquainted with the team, which has been more or less distant to them in the last year or two.
Technique First—
then up and al
Fordham Law School
Woolworth Building, New York Co-Educational Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar Room 2853
Office 3-6978
Res. 2-6741
SMOKING a pipe is like flying an airplane—you really ought to know how, if you’re hoping to enjoy it-much.
Pipe technique can be picked up through experience, or it can be learned outright. Master it now, to relish your pipes!
Rule One for Pipe-smoking is “Find your tobacco.”
Rule One stops some beginners. They look here. They search there. They hunt . . . we must discard false modesty! Rule One means Edgeworth!
Rule Two' is . . but would you learn all the secrets of pipe technique? Then let us send you our Rifles for Pipe-smoking—and a free-for-nothing trial packet of genuine old Edgeworth, the tobacco made for pipes. Think of it—rules and Edgeworth, the how and the what of pipe-smoking, all for your 2^ stamp and that coupon there below.
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms — “Ready Rubbed”and “Plug Slice”—15e pocket package to pound humidor tin.
Office Phone 2-1067
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotei
SOUTH BEND, IND.
LARUS St BRO. CO. .
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
Nami-
Streets___________	— --
Town and State___________
Now let the Edgeworth come! V
To
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Starts Saturday for 4 Days
HERE’S “HONEY” EVEN SWEETER THAN “SWEETIE” NANCY CARROLL '	in
“Honey” Nancy Carroll as you’ve longed to see her! A lovely girl in a peppy story!
With
HARRY GREEN LILLIAN ROTH ‘SHEETS’ GALLAGER STANLEY SMITH
A LACE
3 DAYS COMMENCING SUNDAY ITS LAUGH WEEK
AND EVERYBODY’S GOING TO “The Big Party” And have the time of your sweet life with these Snappiest, Peppiest, Steppiest Youngsters SUE CAROL—DIXIE LEE WALTER CATLETT WHISPERING JACK SMITH And 200 Others.
A Gala Stage Revel
JIMMY BURCHILL
AND
“Blondes of 1930"
The Kind Gentlemen Prefer.
Marshall Montgomery
America’s Foremost Ventriloquist.
A NAUTICAL ODDITY AT 4 BELLS
OTHER BIG ACTS!
Wed., thru Fri.
He took her for a ride and had to walk home himself! Why? See .. .
WILLIAM HAINES
in	■
“THE GIRL
SAID NO”
With
LEILA HYAMS POLLY MORAN MARIE DRESSLER
O)LFAY
THEATRE/W
One of the Publix Theatres
T
4 Days Commencing Wednesday
ITS STILL LAUGH WEEK—AND HOW!
For years people have split their sides over the comical complications in the stage play—but never was it as funny as in the talkies.
“Twin Beds"
With
JACK MULHALL PATSY RUTH MILLER And a Corking Stage Show.
MARION WILKINS in
THIS YEAR’S STYLE IN DANCES With Harris Twins and Jack Meyers.
THE DIXIE FOUR
Those Versatile Boys—BUSH BROS.
The Ship-Ahoy Boys
DELL O’ DELL
Corralling the Elusive Laugh.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
733
Splinters from the Press Box
$-----------------------------$
The United States may not be the weak sister in the long distance events at the next Olympics after all. The colleges seem to be developing some outstanding distance men. Putnam of Iowa State, who hung up a new meet record for the 1500 meter run at the Illinois relays last Saturday, is one likely prospect. But the outstanding one is slim Joe McCluskey, a freshman at Fordham. He has won every championship event he has been entered in since last fall, and some of the best distance men in the country have trailed him to the tape. He has been brought along slowly and there is little fear of him being burned-out before the next Olympics, for he is only eighteen.
One cannot help noticing the fact that although most major sports are at a standstill, the spring baseball practices and training games are getting somewhat less publicity than they once did, especially in the Eastern papers. Some may attribute this to the so-called decline of baseball, but this fancied decline appears to be so only because more people are indulging in athletics than ever before, and the games they are favoring do not include baseball to any great extent. Baseball is at a standstill while the other sports are progressing. Naturally the newspapers must give publicity to the sports which many of their readers are interested in, and so it is that baseball not only suffers from a lack of competitors, to a certain extent, but also from a lack of the former pre-season publicity.
But the affaii- has not yet reached a state where the policies of several - major universities in cutting baseball off the major sport list is justified. It is not wise to turn one’s back on old traditions and institutions too hastily. It is to be hoped that these sports, but newly discovered by the multitude, will continue to advance and prosper, but not over the body of baseball.
If George Keogan is able to develop a couple of pitchers, the baseball team should be right up there, as the boys have it, this season. The team is lighter than the average college club, but they don’t come much niftier than Joe Palermo or Harry Francis, no matter how big they are made.
The rest between seasons will be welcome to no one more than it is to Boy Bailie and Alex Wilson. These two men have gone through a season
734
The Notre Dame Scholastic
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
Campus
Comment
by
Knute K. Rockne
A feature of our Sport Pages every day. Published in South Bend exclusively by
THE
NEWS - TIMES
Duneland
Perhaps you are like many other people—living close to some remarkable place but unfamiliar with it.
Get acquainted with Indiana’s Duneland—Nature’s unique wonderland.
Take a South Shore Line train to Tremont, Gateway to the Dunes, and enjoy a day rambling. Take your camera for a permanent record of your outing.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
e Notre Dame Scholastic
735
L 1
of the stiffest kind of competition without faltering once. In addition to running some fifty races between them, they were placed under strains peculiar to themselves. Wilson was a marked man in every race because of his Olympic record, and Bailie, while competing in his own events, had to concentrate on mastering a new one, and when John O’Brien was injured, found himself the burdenbearer in the high-hurdles as well as the lows and the broad jump. And to top it all, he had more than his share of injuries; most of them petty it is true, but nevertheless, they did not add to his peace of mind. A couple of “tough” men, these two, in the true sense of the term.
Gene Howery seems to be regaining the form which made him one of the foremost scholastic runners in the country some four or five years ago. He ran a fine race last Saturday, and a little more speed work should put him up with the best milers in the country when the outdoor season rolls around. The Blue and Gold has not been worn by a great miler since the days of Charlie Judge, that is, the palmy days of the effervescent Charlie, but Howery may be the next Irish track man to run this classic distance around 4:20.
peting in the final meet of the season.
The swimming instructors appointed to coach the men in the various halls are all members of the Physical Education Department. The halls and coaches assigned are as follows: Howard, Oullette; Off-Campus, Conley; Sophomore, Reaume; Lyons, Carideo; Morrissey, O’Brien; Corby, Kaplan; Walsh, Artman; Sorin, Romanin; Badin, Butorac; Brownson, Cunningham; Carroll, Kos-ky; Freshman, Savoldi; St. Edward’s, Busch.
The officials for the first interhall swimming meet to-night are as follows: referee, J. A. Scannell; clerk of course, Dan Halpin; scorer, Cesare Janiskeski; judges at finish, Frank Duffy, Ed. Karnes, J. J. O’Connor; timers, Frank Leahy, J. E. Oullette, Frank Eaton; starter, J. E. Peterson; announcer, Joe Jachym; inspector of turns and lanes, James Dilley, Pete Moroni, Tom Brown, and John Nichols; manager of meet, J. T. Masterson.
Five points will be scored for first place and three for second; one point will be credited for third place. Only those winning first or second places in their respective events tonight, will qualify for the finals.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS ENTERTAIN AT OPEN
MEETING
Frank McGreal, Lecturer, and Dan Cannon, Chairman of the House Committee, provided some two hundred and fifty members and guests with novel entertainment at the Notre Dame Council’s open meeting, held last Wednesday in the local council chambers. Three two-round boxing matches started the evening’s entertainment. “Spike” McAdams refereed, and the bouts brought the approval of those assembled. The first was between Bud Torrell and Walt Noonan; the second, between Mickey Ryan and Harry Moss, and the third was a heavyweight bout between Pat Conway and Frank Butorac.
Following the bouts the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., Chaplain of the Council, spoke concerning the worth of the order. After Father Reynolds, Frank Carideo and Jack Cannon, both members of the local Council, were introduced, and Jack Cannon talked at length concerning his recent trip to San Francisco for the East-West football game.
FIVE HALLS VIE IN SWIM MEET TONIGHT
The first of the three preliminary swimming meets for the purpose of selecting qualifiers foi’ the final interhall swimming meet to be held April 11, will take place this evening in the University natatorium at 8 o’clock. The five halls taking part in the first contest are as follows: Walsh, Badin, Lyons, Morrissey, and Howard.
Practice sessions were arranged for the members of the various squads this week, at which time the coaches assigned to the respective halls sent the men through their tank workouts.
There will be eight events on tonight’s program, and each hall is limited to three entries in each of the following: 40-yard back-stroke, 40-yard free style, plunge for distance, 100-yard back-stroke, 100-yard breaststroke, 100-yard free style, 220-yard medley relay, (80-yard breast, 40-yard back, 100-yard free).
A week from tonight, Sorin, St. Edward’s, Brownson, and Carroll will engage in the second series of eliminations, and on Friday, April 4, Corby, Sophomore, Off-Campus, and Freshman will vie for the honor of com-
RE-NU
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
Bring your hat to be blocked and your suit to be pressed when you go to the show and both will be ready when the show is over.
Suits Pressed While You Waif
736
The Notre Dame Scholastic
1855 • SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY • 1930
Never-ending search for truth
Today, in a locked room in the Crane laboratories, can be seen a cherry-red bar of metal. In a specially devised air-tight cylinder, under constant temperature of 16000 F., at fixed stress, it is being given the 1000 hour “flow” test. At the same temperature, at various stresses, it will be given the same test for the same time-period.
The tests are being made at the request of an oil man who has asked for valves for an experimental still, to operate at 15000 and 2500 pounds. Can he have them? At the end of the exhaustive tests, Metallurgist L. W. Spring will be able to tell him, exactly, authoritatively.
Since the first Crane chemical and testing laboratory was founded in 1888, thousands of similar questions so vital to safe and economical industrial progress, have been asked and answered. The contribution made by Crane metallurgists to scientific knowledge of the reaction of metals under high pressures and temperatures is known and respected throughout the world, is familiar to every oil man who has used the cracking process and every engineer who has to do with piping.
The truths discovered and scientific data collected are embodied in a book, Pioneering in Science. This is a reference manual invaluable to engineering students. Write for your copy.
i C R A N E
Fittings
On Down the Line
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM, LIQUIDS, OIL GAS. CHEMICALS
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE.. CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 W. 44th STREET
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Ninety Cities '
. . . GEORGE SNIDER, 18-year old right handed pitcher from Los Angeles, is the youngest athlete on the 1930 roster of the Philadelphia Athletics . . . Honors in the “hit by pitcher column” of official American League statistics went to Wally Schang and Jimmy Dykes . . . each was plunked seven times by rival moundsmen . . . The professional golfers’ title has belonged to but three individuals since 1922 . . . HAGEN and SARAZEN held a monopoly from 1922 until 1928 and DIEGEL has won it the last two times . . .
* * *
. . . LIONEL CONACHER never had a pair of skates until he was 16 . . . today he is playing manager of the New York American’s hockey team . . . He made a big name for himself in Canadian amateur circles . . . DAVIE LIVVIE, prominent golfer says “The proper stance for putting is purely a matter of individual taste, and can not properly be taught” .-. . “Adopt the stance that enables you to stroke in the most free and unstrained manner,” he continues . . .
$ $ ’
. . . More than 1,000,000 persons play amateur soccer in the United States . . . Professional teams include 3,000 devotees of the sport . . . Sons and daughters of FAIR PLAY, the thoroughbred racer -who died recently, at the age of 24, took honors for highest prize winners sired by one horse in 1920, 1924 and 1927 . . . HENRY CANBY, Iowa pole vaulter in liis first competition this year, cleared 13 feet . . . He did not make that figure until the end of last season and is now preparing to break some of the existing records . . .
* * *
. . . WALTER HAGEN GENE SARAZEN, AL WATROUS, CHICK EVANS, FRANCIS OUIMET, JOHNNY FARRELL, and HORTON SMITH, all prominent American golfers graduated from the caddies’ rank . . . EARL AVERILL, slugging Cleveland Indian outfielder, once quit baseball because he “threw” his arm away . . . The town florist organized a team . . . AVERILL was coaxed to come out and play ... he did and Seattle in the coast league grabbed him up as a likely prospect . . . Anfl Cleveland paid §50,000 to get him after he played three seasons with San Francisco . . .

The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
St. Joseph Loan & Trust Company
-0—
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
—o—
J. M. S. BUILDING
Movie
Reviews
Miss Hope Halpin displays rare judgment in all her comments on current theatrical offerings. Her writings are free of press agentry. Read her .criticisms every day on the theatrical page. You’ll like them.
THE
NEWS - TIMES
A Better Optometric Service
Our work is devoted to the interest of the patient, and not the sale of just a pair of spectacles.
The eyes of our patient are examined by competent optometrists who are thorough in their methods and use the most modern of instruments.
LEAiONTREE’S
OPTOMETRISTS ■
2221/) S. Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Over 25 years of service to humanity.
738
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing the smarter attire for
EASTER
HERE, indeed, are Clothes that will help every collegian step out from the crowd of commonplace wearers. Distinction of appearance is gained through selection of finer styles, better fabrics and improved tailoring. In these Suits and Topcoats you will find workmanship without fancy trimmings—needlework without flaw. For their style value, for their wear value there are no better Clothes made at the price.
Society Brand . Two Trouser Suits
ADLER BROTHERS