

are~ upgraded?* 
version 3.0 . 

friday august 27th 2004 live at the Joyce Center -$10 tickets www.nd.edu/,...,theshow 
*last year we brought you guster and the black eyed peas stay tuned during the summer for this year's bands 


TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO 
RYAN GREENBERG 
~ •':'°.,\•,»• , 4 ;··• )<;'._,"•op,•; ....,••~---~•--•1-.... : .... :-,· 
-~~~~-~-::.;~:~:-f?·"(~~~i~:~:'. }:_-~;:-i.;~ ~~-­
·---..-_·· .·· ·_ . 


1-,",=-L~L::{:::~S;•f~~BC:~ 

., ' ., ~. : ,' .. ' . -.-. . ' -. ' ' ; 
_·" TABLE op-·c_oKlTENE'fS . . . . ' 
» Faces to Remember by Mike Borgia.Jim Ryan &Annie 12 Robinson 
» Perfect Strangers by Nick Kolman-Mandie 19 
» Pack it Up. Move it Out. by Jennifer Osterhage & Lauren 24 Wilcox 
» Sports Stories ofthe Year by Chris Meskill 32 
» Is There Anything to Do Around Here? by Ryan Greene & 35 Nick Kolman-Mandie 
From the Editor .2 Week in Distortion 30 
ND Notebook. .4 Restaurant Reviews 38 
Campus Watch. 22 Final Word ..... 40 
__-·--~----·•: ­
-·:.-_....z:;;-~-7-::.. 
~--:_:~~~~ . 
$§-~~: 
~---_---,~"':,,.• . 
..,.,. ~ ------­
'._::----~---~_=::;;:;._-...,,~ 
..;::· --~ 
. --5~~~ -·-~-~;:t·:~~-::::-_: 
-~::~~7~~: 

~\t:;i 




Vol.146, No.OJ • SUMMER 2004 


SCHOL8STIC 
nEditor In Chief Ryan Greenberg 
i: ·.1 Managing Editor 
Sean Dudley 
I 
Executive Editor 
Jim Ryan 
News 
Mike Borgia 
Annie Robinson 
Jim Ryan 
Campus Life Lauren Wilcox, editor Katie Solan, assistant 
Spof!S 
Christopher Meskill, editor 
Entertainment 
Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor 
Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments 
Mike Healy, editor 

.j Design 
·:·.·.·1 NickAbrams,editor
Nell Ryan 
: Photography 

· , Phil Hall, editor 
l Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design 
Christine Graham, editor 

i Copy ·. Mo Ertel, chief .·j. Jennifer Wadkins, assistant 
~:i~~~t:::.ger 
Business 
Christopher P. Kelly, manager 
Online 
Jimmy Atkinson, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurt/S Vive Quasi C,-as iWoriturt/S 


· • Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright 2003 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whOle or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspon• dence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune 
Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46S56.To be published 

. . in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue.You think you're too cool for school, but I've got a news flash for you,Walter Kronkite: ... you aren't.All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
j Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. ·1 Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after ··, publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate ........ is $35 per year.A.vailable back issues are $2.50 per copy; 
:-· please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the :;_•, annual football review are avajlable at $5 per copy.Adver•
1

_.:'· tising rates available on request_The opinions expressed \":· j 1n Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of theLJ University of Notre Dame or the student body. 

You Found Us 
Let me be the first not to congratulate you. By now, you've heard "con­grats!" so many times that it's starting to fall on deaf ears. Really, it's a lot like the growing pile ofmail from Notre Dame. There is letter after letter to tell you all about dozens of university related things, but there's just so much ofit that it's hard to pay attention. Speaking ofwhich: Congratulations. Somehow, you've managed to sort through all of that mail and come to find Scholastic's guide to your freshman year. I congratulate you because reading this is one ofthe many smart decisions you're going to need to make it through college. Starting freshman year might be an emotional time for some ofyou. Or maybe you're just excited to be leaving the house and moving on to new things. Whatever you're thinking, we've got loads of information for you. Our goals is to give you the 4-1-1 (as the kids are calling it these days) so you know what's going on when you arrive in the fall. Did you know that a new university president was elected at the end ofthe look for school year? There's coverage on that and other big news and sports stories, ISSUE 02 plus the rundown about who's who on campus. We also answer questions 
on 
like What should I pack? Where should I make my parents take me to eat? and
SEP 09 
What do I do ifmy roommate hates me? 
It's a mixture of facts and advice that we sincerely hope will help you get started with freshman year. 
On the topic of advice, I have some of my own: don't take too much advice. I know that seems mildly ironic, but it's a good idea. Advice is just people talking about what happened to them. Take it all with a grain ofsalt. Unless, of course, it's coming from your parents, in which case you should keep in mind who writes the checks. At some point, you have to stop tak­ing advice and start figuring life out for yourself. Now seems like a pretty good time. Good luck. 
By the way... 
It's a simple fact of life that magazines don't print themselves. Scholastic, Notre Dame's bi-weekly campus newsmagazine, has been coming off the presses every year for the last 13 7. When you're that old, you need help. We're always looking for new writers, photographers, designers, and savvy business minds. Everybody has their place at Nore Dame -maybe we're yours. Stop by and say hello at Activities Night ifyou're interested, or send me an email. And please don't let the crazy looking guy on the cover scare you. He's mostly harmless. 
~½ 
Ryan Greenberg, Editor 

2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


"In the discernment ofGod's call, we are a brotherhood at the service ofthe universal church under the pastoral direction ofthe Pope." 
---Constitutions of Holy Cross, V.51 

Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
Ordination Class of 2004 

Discover You 
www.nd.edul,_vocation 

ILearn Your Irish Vocabulary A lexicon of key words you'll want to know when arriving on campus 
CHRISKELLY 
Bengal Bouts: annual student-run box­ing tournament that benefits charity. Bookstore Basketball: the largest 5­on-5 outdoor basketball tournament in the world, held every spring on courts around campus. CoMo: the Coleman-Morse center, which offers study space and free soft drinks. D6, D2/D2000: student parking lots lo­cated near South Quad and North Quad, respectively. DART: the system by which students register for classes. Now on the Internet, it gained the nickname from the days of telephone registration. DeBart: Debartolo Hall; located next to the stadium, itis the most frequently used ·classroom building on campus. Doghook: the photo directory of Notre Dameand St.Mary'sfreshmen; a, tradition­al aid for finding blind dates to dances. Grab 'n' Go: take-out dining-hall meals in a paper sack. Just don't take more than five items. The Huddle: a convenience store in LaFortune Student Center. 
IrishLink: online system for accessing 
academic information, such as semester 

grades and available courses. JACC ('jack''): Joyce Athletic and Convo­
cation Center; home ofbasketball and hockey 
games as well as other campus events. 
LaFun: LaFortune Student Center; con­
tains many services for students -laun­
dromat, computer cluster, travel agency 
and barbershop-as well as Eurger King, 
Subway, Starbucks and Sbarro. 
Main Building: home of the Golden 
Dome; located on God Quad, it's the 
university's administrative headquarters. 
O'Shag: O'Shaughnessy Hall; home ofthe 
College ofArts and Letters. 
Parietals: dorm visiting hours that permit 
members ofthe opposite sex to be present 
only during certain times ofthe day. 
RallyintheAlley: a very large party in the 
"alleys" ofTurtle Creek; occurs during the 
first weekend of the school year in August 
and on the last day of classes in May. 
Reckers: a 24-hour restaurant located 
behind South Dining Hall. 
ResLife: Office of Residence Life and 
Housing; the most despised compound word on campus, it's where you go ifyou break parietals -or any other rules. The Rock: Knute Rockne Memorial; an old exercise facility on South Quad. Rolfs: modern exercise facility on the east side of campus. Stepan (Center): a hideous geodesic dome building on the north end of campus (not to be confused with Stepan Chemistry Hall). Stonehenge: war memorial fountain at the south end ofNorth Quad; a popular location for many unofficial freshmen orientation activities. SYR: officially called a "theme dance," "Screw Your Roommate" got its name from the legendary ritual of setting up one's roommate with a date from the Dogbook. TouchdownJesus: officially known as the 

-Word ofLife Mural, a famous mosaic on the south wall ofthe Hesburgh Library. Turtle Creek: apartment complex popu­lar among ND seniors; located very close to campus, it's a traditional party haven for freshmen. . 
Ten Questions 
with Smart E. Pants 
Sarah 
The Class of 2004 Valedictorian 
Sarah Streicher, this year's valedictorian, graduated with a double major in English and French. She lived in Pangborn for nvo years, spent herjunior year abroad in France, and moved to an off-campus apartment as a senior. During her undergraduate career at Notre Dame, she managed to pull in a 3.99 cumulative grade point average, work at the university Writing Center, volunteer at a retirement home and serve in student government. Scholastic caught up with Sarah while she was busy memorizing her valedictory address. 
What is your favorite memory from your time at Notre Dame? 
I really liked waiting in line for the U2 concert [in 2001]. After everyone stopped getting upset it became really funny, and everyone was just giddy and wanted their tickets. Kind of a moment ofschool unity. 

Wheredid you lose .O I grade points?What happened? 
Donald Sniegowski's "Literature of Southern Africa." I have no idea [what happened]. Ask him. Eut it was a great class, which is why I'm not that upset. 
What is yourfavorite way to procrastinate? 
I think Instant Messenger. This is so lame, but I would sit there with that blank away message screen, thinking ofsomething cre­ative slash funny to write. Finally I would just click the "X" and end wi.th nothing. 

"Dillon Hail is the Texas :of Notre.Dame: l~r~~. obnbxious and sec­; tii>nalist:' · · · · · · · 
·.· ::. over~earci ~tilrif~rd l-l~n ;~si~~~t and Indiana-native. 
· "I guess my school was elitist, but that's because we were better than everybody else:• -overheard student 
,::it·-;. 
''The tests are g~d~d and I've got good news: Everbody passed.Of course, some people passed other people:• 
.. theology professor commenting on class exams 

~;~::;;':;:;"!~::~~-~ro,:::,:::m, 
That was difficult. 
What is your favorite "brain food" while studying? favorite brain music? 
Super pretzels in the Huddle, the big soft ones, with cream cheese. Springsteen, ex­cept none ofhis depressing ballads. 
Is it hard to balance work, extracurricular activities, free time, and sleep? Which did you sacrifice the most of? 
It is extremely difficult to find that bal­ance. There were a lot of nights when I didn't sleep, and I often felt like I was re­ally compromising my health. On a social level, it was really difficult, as well. 
How did you spend your free time ••• that is, 
if you were ever able to find any? People probably see me at Rolfs. I went to Rolfs quite a bit. And I really like going to eateries and eating with friends. Panera is huge, especially this year. 
Whatis onething everyone at Notre Dame 
should do before they graduate? 
Study abroad. I think when you are abroad, you will make at least one major life change.Just getting a new perspective, at least one. That kind of thing needs to happen somewhere along the line. 
What part of your experience at Notre Dame was most instrumental in forming who you are today? 
I thinkI won't know until I leave. I haven't 1128 Years Ago · An Ideal Freshman 0 n September 6, 1876, Scholastic "ventured on giving a little counsel ... to those who begin their college life this year." The freshmen will be "placed in the midst ofcomrades hailing from all parts of the country ... They have good and bad qualities, both ofwhich may exercise some influence on· his conduct in life." Each student should only "endeavor to cultivate the friendship ofsuch as maybe distinguished for their virtue and intel­ligence." Like the good and bad compan­ions, there are good and bad inclinations: "If he would become an estimable and accomplished man, faithful to the du­ties of life, he must follow faithfully the promptings ofhis good inclinations and banish at once those ofthe bad." The administration strongly adheres to this severe philosophy. Now is the time to begin the banishing, so as to ar­rive on campus prepared to become "an estimable and accomplished man." 
-Meghan Gowan 

really figured out who I am in terms ofmy spiritual self and God. I think it's when I leave Notre Dame that I will really be faced with having to form myself and form that side of me. I'll definitely use the people I've met as models. 
What are your plans for the real world? 
Nextyear I'm teaching English in France to French high school students. And then after that, I want to write travel books. 
Billy Joel says that if you try to be a straight-A student, you think too much. Is that true? 
Probably. 
-Sean Dudley 
SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK S 






I DomeLights
ti COMPILED BY JIM RYAN Source: Son Nguyen, admissions counselor 
You're a very lucky / intelligent/ athletic / talented I well-rounded incoming freshman. Seriously. Way back in December there were a whole lot of you. And now just the strongest, wisest and bravest remain. I 1,483: Number of applicants for 2004-2005 freshman class (second highest 3-5:Approximate number of students who defer enrollment each year ever) 
3,359: Number of applicants accepted Compared to 5 years ago: 2,983: Number of early action applicants I 0,0 I 0: Number of applicants for 1999-2000 freshman class 1,324: Number of early action applicants accepted 3,500: Number of accepted applicants for 1999-2000 freshman class 1,975:Target number for students enrolled in class I. ,971: Number of students enrolled in I 999-2000 freshman class I00-150: Number of students on wait list who will be accepted in the summer 
I_.; Judgment Calls
5i Opinions and observations 

FROSH·O 
If you get tired of constantly repeating your name, dorm and hometown, try making up a new alias each time. 

FLEX POINTS 
They're like free money, for 
everything from Burger King to 
Starbucks. So much fun, you almost 
forget that your parents paid for 
them. 

NEW ROOMMATES 
Sometimes they turn out to be your best friend, other times, your worst enemy. Either way, play nice:They'll be taking your phone messages. 

MEIJER 
From CDs to paper towels, extension cords to throw rugs, this place sells everything you've ever wanted -and more. 

PARIETALS 
Sure, they make gender relations awkward. But you won't have to worry about finding excuses to leave a party early, and your roommate can't sexile you from your room for too long. Well, legally at least. 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME! 

[:'E~ghtv$~11'g. ~.;~·A1m.~.,'1at~r->< :·_] 
The songs you'll need to know for the first home football game. 
Many incoming freshmen have the luxuryofalready having the Fight Song and Alma Mater ingrained in their minds since birth. Perhaps your mother was an alumna and sung you to sleepwith theAlmaMater. Orperhaps you grew up in the South Bend area and have attended numerous Masses at the Basilica or the Grotto. But for most freshmen, the first time they hear such songs will be during their first pep rally or the opening school-wide Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an intro­duction to the lyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2008, you'll know as well as your own name. 
The Fight Song 
Honored by college football as "the greatest of all college fight songs," the "Notre Dame VictoryMarch" was written by two Notre Dame graduates -brothers Michael Shea, a priest, and John Shea, a monogram winner in baseball-in 1908. It· was first performed on campus in the Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday in 1909. Memorize the songnowand you'll save yourself some flack from upperclass­men come the first home football game. (Hint: You really only need to know the chorus.) 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: 
Sing her glory and sound herfame, 
Raise her Gold and Blue 
And cheer with voices true: 
Rah, rah!for Notre Dame 
We will fight in ev'ry game, 
Strong ofheart and true to her name 


We will ne'erforget her And will cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus: 
Chee1; cheerfor Old Notre Dame, Uiake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons go marching Onward to victory. 
Notre Dame, Our Mother (The Alma Mater) 

The Notre Dame Alma Mater is per­formed at the end of every football game atNotre Dame Stadium, win or lose. Itwas written in 1930 byJoseph]. Casasanta, a 1923 N.D. graduate, in honor ofthe dedica­tion ofNotre Dame Stadium-the House that Knute Built. The song also is sung at the end ofevery football weekend. Mass at the Basilica, proving that, at the university thatis home to TouchdownJesus and First­down Moses, ·it is virtually impossible to separate religion and football. 
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true, Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold and Blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, 'Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame; And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame! D 
6 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 



INFORMATION DESK and BOX OFFICE 
· INFORMATION AND TICKETS FOR CAZVlPUS EVENTS 
· GEN:ERAL NOTRE SOUTH BEND INF 
·SHUTTLE&·.. SCHEDULES 

WEEKlY TOURNAMENTS 
ALSOFEATUBING... 
UPS SHIPPING SE.BUICE SAME DAY PHOTO DEUElOPING 


JIMRYAN 
On April 30, the Board of Trustees voted the Rev. John Jenkins, C.S.C, and John Af­fleck-Graves the university's President­and Executive Vice President-elect, respectively. Jenkins' term will begin after June 2005. Affleck-Graves took office in June 2004. Jenkins graduated from Notre Dame in 1976 and also holds a masters degree from the university. He holds two phi­losophy degrees from Oxford. A phi­losophy professor at Notre Dame since 1990, Jenkins was named vice president and associate provost in 2000. He also served as the religious superior of the Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame for three years. Jenkins has been on sabbatical for the past year, serving as a visiting professor at the University ; of Chicago. Affleck-Graves, a native of South Af­rica, graduated from the University of Cape Town. He served on the faculty at his alma mater for 11 years, and in 1986, he joined the Notre Dame faculty as a professor in the Department ofFinance. From 1998-2000, Affleck-Graves served 

NEW FACES Jenkins (al)ove) will replace Malloy (below, right) as president following the end of Malloy's
as the chairman ofthe Department ofFi­
term in June 2005.Affleck-Graves (below, left) will become executive vice president.
nance and Business Economics. He was named vice president and associate pro­vost in 2001. Affleck-Graves will become the first layperson to occupy the position of executive vice president .. 
:1 Jenkins will be the 17th president in the university's history and only the third since 1952. He will replace the Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., who has served as president since 1987. Malloy will work with Jenkins over the next year to familiarize him with the requirements of the office. At the announcement of his election, Jenkins said he is honored. "I thank the Board of Trustees for the tremendous honor and responsibility of leading the 



8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
University of Notre Dame," he said. "I examine the credentials of our faculty, long search for an executive vice presi­look forward to working closely with and the outstanding qualifications of our dent that began with the resignation of Father Malloy in preparing for a· smooth student body to realize what he has accom­the Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C. last transition." plished for Notre Dame. He leaves a truly June. Affleck-Graves is unconcerned 
Before the announcement ofJenkins's remarkable record and legacy." about being the first layperson to oc­and Affleck-Graves's election, Board pf After stepping down next June, Malloy cupy the position of executive vice Trustees chair PatrickMcCartan expressed plans to take a sabbatical and finish some president; he merely wants to fulfill gratitude for Malloy's contributions to the writing projects. He will remain at Notre the duties of the office. He said: "It's University. He said: "All one needs to do is Dame as a minister and as a professor. an enormous challenge, but one I look to tour our campus, consult the rankings, Affleck-Graves?s election ends a year-forward to." . 
Students Wear Orange T-shirts in Support of Gay/Straight Alliance 
0 n both March 18 and April 21, in the classrooms, in letters to the campus -official recognition because it feels over 1,000 students and a hand­newspaper and in the administration. that the promotion of the homosexual ful of faculty members donned According to the Gay/Straight Alli­lifestyle runs contrary to the Catholic orange t-shirts reading "Gay? Fine by ance, the university denied the group character of the university. The group Me." The demonstrations were itself says that it merely supports a show of support for the Gay/ 
homosexuals and notes that a Straight Alliance, an organization similar group is recognized at that was denied recognized club Boston College; in fact, Boston status by the Office of Student College's director of gay, les­Affairs on March 4. The purpose bian, bisexual and transgender of the Gay/Straight Alliance is to issues visited Notre Dame and promote tolerance of homosexuals spoke to students. at Notre Dame, which is ranked No. The Student Senate came out 1 · on the Princeton Review's list of in support of the Gay/Straight schools where "Alternative Lifestyle Alliance. It unanimously ap­Is Not an Alternative." proved an open letter to the The Gay/Straight alliance es­administration recommending timated that it sold 1,600 shirts club recognition for the orga­before the March 18 demonstra­nization. The university says tion. They made 300 more shirts the issue is too complex for a before the April 21 demonstra­student group and has appointed tions, and all were sold within 45 a Standing Committee on Gay minutes. The demonstrations set and Lesbian Student needs. It off a. debate about the treatment has also declined to include ofhomosexuality on campus, a de-· :ouos FOR DEMONSTRATION On two occasions over 1,000 homosexuals in its legal non-bate that was evident in the dorms, •students-spor.ted this t-shirt in support of homosexuals on campus. discrimination clause. . 
\ 

Student Body President. ·steps Down
At the end of the fall semester, ernment. Lao chose sophomore Emily a new governing body composed of student body President Pat Chi~, Halla~an's fo~mer chie_f of staff, the executive cabinet and the student Hallahan stepped down from as his new vice president. Neither Lao senate. The combination of the two his post to pursue a job with the nor Chin sought office i_n. this year's bodies was intended to create a more Democratic National Convention. Hal-student government elections. unified student government. Other lahan, a senior political science major, Hallahan was elected last February accomplishments of the Hallahan ad­graduated and received his diploma in after receiving 2 8 % of the votes in a · ministration included the promotion of January. field of 7 candidates and 51% of the a Church in Africa conference, progress Hallahan was replaced by his vice votes in a runoffagainst 2003 and 2004 toward the publishing ofteacher/course president, junior Jeremy Lao. It was runner-up, Charlie Ebersol. Hallahan's evaluations (TCEs), and the establish­the first transition of power from .a administration initiated a major te-· ment of "The~logy on tap," a religious president to a vice president in the structuring ofstudent government. He lecture series ·held in the on-campus history of Notre Dame student gov-created the Council ofRepresentatives, club, Legends. . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 

Father Edmund Joyce Dies 
On .May 2, the Rev. Edmund P. life that was as wonderful a human being ing that announcement, Affleck-Graves Joyce, C.S.C, Notre Dame's ex­as NedJoyce." Hesburgh recalled his first praised Joyce, saying, "He set the stan­

ecutive vice president emeritus, passed away at the age of 87. His poor health began with a stroke in September 2002.Joyce died at the Holy Cross House, north of campus. 
Joyce served as the executive vice presi­dent under university president emeritus Rev. Theodore Hesburgh for all 35 years ofHesburgh's presidency, 1952 -1987. In addition to being Hesburgh's right hand man and trusted advisor, Joyce was his good friend. 
Joyce was laid to rest in the Holy Cross cemetery on campus following a funeral .Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on .May 5. Over 80 priests attended. Hesburgh honored Joyce in the eulogy, saying, "I've never known anyone in my 
None of the four former Notre Dame football players that were indicted for the 2002 rape of a ­Notre Dame student was found guilty of rape. · Abram Elam, the first defendant_ to stand trial, was accused offondling and holding a woman her against her will while another man raped her. Taking the stand in his own defense, Elam said the act was consensual. On Aug. 28, l).e was convicted ofsexual battery but acquitted oftwo more serious charges ofconspiracy to commit rape and criminal deviate con­duct. He received two years probatio~ and 
Rape Charges against Former Football Players Dismissed 

During Notre Dame's 2004 student body elections, some people began to compare it to the 2000 national presidential election, a debacle few want to repeat. When the dust settled, Adam Istvan and Karla Bell were elected student body president and vice-president for the 2004 -2005 school year. In the runoff election between Istvan and the Charlie Ebersol/ James Leito ticket, Istvan received 49% of the vote, Ebersol received 44%, and the remain­ing voters abstained. Rather than select­ing the winner, however, the runoff only 
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
encounter with "Fr. Ned," Joyce's ability dard for what an EVP should be." 

to navigate crises, and their travels around the world fol­lowing their retirements. The Rev. Edward ".Monk" .Malloy, C.S.C., also spoke at the ser­vice, as well as the Rev. John D'Arcy, Bishop of the Fort Wayne/South Bend diocese. Presiding at the wake was the Rev. E. William Beauchamp, c.s.c., Joyce's successor as executive vice president and the current president of the Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C. 
University of Portland. 
Joyce's death came only two days after the announcernent of a new executive vice president, John-Affleck Graves. Follow-
Joyce, a 1937 graduate of Notre Dame, is per­haps best known for his contributions to Notre Dame athletics and to the NCAA. He was an outspoken proponent for academic integrity in in­tercollegiate athletic pro­grams. Joyce also helped establish the College Football association, and he served as its treasurer­secretary. Notre Dame's 

multi-sport arena, the Edmund P.Joyce Athletics and Convocations Center, bears his name. D 
200 community service hours. 
Donald Dykes was second to stand· trial, and on Sep. 15, he was acquit­ted of all charges. The foreman of the jury, which was composed of seven men and five women, said that testimonial inconsistencies led to the "not guilty" verdict. Charges against the remaining defendants, Lorenzo Crawford andJustin Smith, were dropped. . 
The Elam trial created controversy about the university's disciplinary pro­cess. The young woman testified that associate vice president for residence life Bill Kirk told her not to report the rape 

to the police. Kirk denied this allega­tion in his owµ testimony, saying that he might have told the woman it would be easier for her to handle the incident solely through the university's disciplin­ary process. The four accused assailants · were expelled from the university fol­
lowing the allegations. 
The woman later filed a lawsuit against 
the university for its failure to protect 
her from the alleged criminal acts of the 
football players. She also filed a lawsuit 
against her alleged assailants, seeking 
compensation for emotional distress and 
income loss. D 
Student Body President Elected Amid Controversy 
complicated matters. The student govern­ment constitution requires the winner to have the majority of the votes, not just a plurality. 
According to the constitution, student senators were charged with voting for their dorms in an electoral college -style system, which provided the possibility that the winner might not be the winner of the popular plurality. Said eventual winner Istvan, "it was tragically nerve­wracking." 
Part oflstvan's plans for the next year include changing this provision of the student election process. Istvan thinks the fix will be a simple one: "You just go with who gets the most votes in the runoff or eliminate abstention. There's no abstention in the national election. If you're going to abstain, you just don't go." 

The Istvan administration's other ma­jor goals include returning student dances to dorms and establishing a DVD rental center in LaFortune. Some goals will be achieved more quickly than students expect. Says Istvan, "I'll be here this sum­mer setting it up. When students get back in the fall, there will be DVD rental in LaFortune." D 



JEN Kl NS: Last April, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. was elected the 17th president ofNotre Dame by the Board ofTrustees. He will be the university's third president since 1952 when he takes office inJune 2005. · Jenkins, 50, is a 1976 graduate ofNotre Dame.. He received a master's degree from the university in 1978. A Thomist, he also holds a B.Phil and a D.Phil from Oxford University. Jenkins was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1983. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1990 as a professor in the Department of Philosophy. From 1997 -2000, Jenkins served as the religious superior for the Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame. In 2000, he was named vice president and associate provost of the university. During the 2003-2004 school year, Jenkins was on sabbatical, serving as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago. The announcement of Jenkins's election came as a surprise to many students. While he has not revealed the direction he would like to take the university, he will work closely with Father Malloy over the next year 
12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
to learn how to handle the role of the presidency. 
WILLINGHAM:Perhaps no one has 
been the topic of more conversations on 
campus over the past two years than head 
football coach Tyrone Willingham. A vet­
eran of 25 seasons of coaching experience 
at the professional and collegiate levels, 
he arrived at Notre Dame in December 
2001 following a seven-year tenure as 
head coach at Stanford University. 
Following a 10-3 mark in his first sea­
son that included wins over high profile 
teams 1ike Michigan and Florida State, 
many Irish faithful and college football 
analyists predicted that Willingham's 
coaching ability combined with Notre 
Dame football's recruiting power could 
soon make for a national championship 
team. 
Willingham was not as successful in 
his second season, leading the team to a 5-7 record. Willingham was the sub­ject-of much criticism toward the end of the season. But with a stable ofyoung and impressive players, as well as the continued progress of the "West Coast Offense," Irish fans are eager to see if ·Willingham can duplicate the success of 
' 

his first season in 2004. 
POORMAN: The Rev. Mark Poor­man, C.S.C., now is beginning his sixth year as vice;..president of student affairs, a position in which he oversees several programs including Campus Ministry, Student Activities, multicultural and in­ternational student affairs, Notre Dame Security/Police and the Office of Resi­dence Life and Housing (ResLife). When he accepted the position in April of 1999, he said that his new responsibilities gave him a chance to "serve [the] students," a task which he admits is "at once daunting and exciting." 
Controversy swirled around the student affairs vice president two years ago when he abruptly announced changes to the alcohol policy, banning in-hall dances and consumption of hard alcohol on campus. 
Prior to serving as vice-president, Poorman was an associate director of Campus Ministry, rector of Dil­lon Hall and a priest-in-residence in Grace Hall before that building was converted into offices. Poorman re­ceived his bachelor's degree from the University of Illinois and a Master of Divinity from Notre Dame. He later earned a doctornte in Christiaµ Ethics from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Cal. 
WHITE: Entering his fifth year as athletic director, Kevin White con­tinues to pursue his primary goal to rehabilitate Notre Dame's legendary football program. His tenure has al­ready been marked by national cham­pionships in fencing and women's bas­ketball. White has also overseen three 1986. He has served as a professor ofthe­ology since 1974. Malloy is remarkably accessible for a university president, as he conducts a freshman seminar each semes­ter and resides in Sorin College (an un­dergraduate residence hall). Several years ago, before a knee injury, Malloy even played an occasional game of basketball with students. He received undergradu­ate and graduate degrees in English from Notre Dame, a second master's in theol­ogy while studying for the priesthood and a doctorate in Christian ethics from Van­derbilt University. He also has received . 
Congressional Gold Medal and the Medal ofFreedom. 
Despite his many commitments, "Fa­ther Ted" still finds time to connect with students, often guest-lecturing in the classroom and presiding over Mass in residence haHs. His presence is ubiquitous -the library, center for international studies and the public service program all bear his name. 
BREY: Brey joined the Irish in July 2000 after leaving the University of 

top 15 finishes for Notre Dame in the NACDA Director's Cup, a measure of an athletic program's overall success (At press time, Notre Dame was 15th in this year's competition). 
White worked. as Arizona State University's athletic director for four years before coming to Notre Dame. He has served on several NCAA com­mittees, on the executive committee of the Division I-A Athletic Directors Association, and as chairman on the Pacific-10 Conference's television and bowl committees. In 1997, White re­ceived the Alumni Achievement Award at Saint Joseph's College, where he studied as an undergraduate. He then earned a master's degree at Central Michigan University and a doctorate at Southern Illinois University. He has also done postgraduate work at Harvard University's Institute for Educational Management. 
MALLOY: The Rev. Edward A. "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., currently is serving his final term as president of Notre Dame. He is the university's 16th president, a position that he has held since countless awards, including 12 honorary degrees. Malloy currently is co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (a component of the Na­tional Institutes of Health), and chair of the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. 
HESBURGH: The Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., served as Notre Dame's 15thpresidentfrom1952 to 1987, the longest tenure ofany active American university president. As president emeri­tus to the university (the position that he currently holds), Hesburgh played a pivotal role in developing several of Notre Dame's academic institutes. 
Perhaps Hes burgh's most distinguished contributions are those he has made to na­tional and international public service. He has held 15 U.S. presidential appointments involving many of the major social issues including civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, treatment ofVietnam offenders, Third World devel­opment and immigration reform. Among the recognition that he has received are the Delaware. He made his excitement about coaching at Notre Dame clear in his first press conference: "I've only been to South Bend twice before today, road games when I was at Duke University," he said. "[I] left on the _bus ... and drove off this campus many times, [thinking] 'I wonder if I could ever be good enough to [coach] at a place like this.' All I can say is, wow, we're here." 
Now that he is here, Brey has left his mark. In 2001, he led the Irish to its first NCAA tournament appearance since 1990. He has since led the team to two more tournament appearances, including a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2003. Earlier that season, Brey's Irish defeated three top-ten opponents, the first such occurrence in Notre Dame history. He also coached three consecu­tive 20-win teams for the first time in Notre Dame history. 
Brey's career winning percentage in eight years as an NCAA head coach is .665. Before coaching at Delaware and Notre Dame, Brey served as an assis­tant at Duke under Mike Krzyzewski and as head coach at prep powerhouse DeMatha in Maryland. . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 


Compiled by Jen Osterhage and Sean Dudley 
Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions of its residence halls. Read on for a brief introduction to some ofthese time-honored events -from the charitable to the bizarre. 
"THE BANNER" The Vermin of Carroll Hall may live all the way across the lake, but that doesn't stop them from showing off their spirit in a big way-and by "big;• we mean 30 feet by 90 feet. 
WelshFamily:Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and is traditionally a sports powerhouse on campus. The dorm orga­nizes one of the more unique events on campus: the Welsh Family Feud, a game­show style competition that pits dorms against each other, part of a spirit week full ofevents centered around dorm pride. Also in the spring, the Whirlwinds host 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
a Dance-a-thon to raise money for diabetes patients. 
Keough: The Kangaroos put on the annual Keough Chariot Race, for which each dorm builds its own 
chariot to win fame, Ben Hur-style. For their White Wedding Dance -with themes such as "Pirates" and "Mafia" -the men of Ke­ough nominate one 'Roo from each section to compete for the title of Captain Keough. Everyspring Keough holds AussieFest, a cookout with live music and a volleyball tournament with an Australian twist. 
McGlinn: With a mascot close to the _Leprechaun's heart, the Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for their Casino Night, where they host a night of gam­bling and games. Each Shamrock invites up to five friends who can buy raffle tick­ets and place bets with fake money. All proceeds from the event (real money, this time) benefit the Catholic Worker House. 

O'Neill: Built as the first male residence hall on the West Quad in 1996, O'Neill has been home to some of the most ac­tive and rowdy men on campus ever since. Known as "The Angry Mob," the men of O'Neill show their dorm pride marching loudly toward pep rallies and in signature events like the Miss ND pageant. 



Week in the fall, involving a series ofcompetitive and not-so-competi­tive events, cul­minating in a Mr. ND Pageant and the Walsh Hall Fall Frolic. The 

Sorin College: University President Monk Malloy lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s, when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Viet­nam War. Sorin hosts an off-color talent show on one of the first home football weekends each year. 
Walsh: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited with instituting the university's first intercollegiate football team. The Wild Women host the Walsh Wild wraps). Their De­cade Dance each February is always good for a laugh, as Zahmbies and their dates dress up in throwback outfits. Zahm is 

Cavanaugh: The women of Cavanaugh have an annual Father-Daughter Weekend in the spring, during which dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall of Fame. Co-hosts of the Winter Carnival, the "Chaos" work with Zahm to bring a petting zoo and other kid stuff to campus. Each winter, they also put on a spiritweekleadingup to their Snow Ball, an annual formal dance held in LaFortune. 
Zahm: The most infamous dorm on campus, Zahm transforms its incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahm­bies. Before the first pep rally each year, the men ofZahm perform the Torquema­da (a ceremony mysteriously kept under 
Frolic is a dance for which the Wild Women dress up as Britney-esque Catholic schoolgirls. 
Lewis: Lewis Hall is the largest wom­en's dorm on campus, and its residents, the Chicks, participate in the SK Chicken · Run to kick off their spirit week. Each resident anonymously invites a date to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which polishes off the week of dorm activities. Lewis also won the the title of women's interhall sports hall of the year in 2003-2004. 
St.· Edward's: St. Ed's is the oldest building now used as a dorm, although it didn't become a residence hall until 
also home to the 

weekly Spanish Mass. 
Keenan: Connected to Stanford Hall by the beautiful Chapel ofthe Holy Cross, the Keenan Knights distinguish themselves with their signature event, the wildly successful Keenan Revue. A sell­out crowd attends this collection oforigi­nal student comedy every February. The Knights have been awarded Men's Hall of the Year and Hall of the Year two out ofthe last four years, and took home two interhall sports championships last year. 
Stanford Hall: The men of Stan­ford live directly across the quad from North Dining Hall. The Griffins were once known as the Studs, but changed 1929. Living in the only dorm without an official mascot, "The Men of St. Ed­ward's Hall" hold an annual event called Founders Day, which includes a 5K run that has raised money for many charitable causes, including the post-9/11 run rais­ing funds for New York firefighters and their families. The dorm is also honie to the St. Ed's Players, who put on a play each year at Washington Hall. 
Carroll: Overlooking St. Mary's Lake from the west edge of campus, Carroll Hall offers quite possibly the best view of all the residence halls. Located far from the rest of campus, the Vermin enjoy a close-knit environment, as Carroll has the fewest residents ofany dorm. ''A Car­roll Christmas," featuring a tree-lighting ceremony and performances by university choirs, is the hall's signature event. Carroll kicks off spring finals week with Fusic, a day of food and live music. The Vermin also have won the Fisher Regatta four of the past five years. 
their mascot in tribute to former rector the Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Every spring they host the Benefit Bash, a late­night event including concerts and food, with proceeds supporting an orphanage in Chile. 
Farley Hall: Farley Hall, home ofthe "Finest," has been a women's dorm since ND went coed in 1972. Farley plans on welcoming its residents back in the fall with a Welcome Home BBQ on the Quad. Pop Farley week, which culminates with a dance, is perhaps the best-known event of the Finest, who decorate their hallways to correspond with the dorm theme. Farley has a secondary mascot, the dorm dog, Farley, a cute little Pekingese who barks at boys after parietals. 
Breen-Phillips Hall: The Babes ofBP raise money each year for diabetes pa­tients with their Meal Auction. Students orfacultymembers bid to eatwithcampus celebrities who have volunteered for the event. In the la~e winter/early spring, Breen-Phillips provides relief from the cold with its Beach Week. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 


ever-athletic Ramblers were the 2003-2004 interh­all football champs and overall men's sports champs. 
Knott: Known for their perhaps 

overly enthusi­astic support of the ND women's volleyball team, the Juggernauts easily are spotted in their orange and blue attire. Each spring, they hold Knott on the Knoll, an after­noon of free food and entertainment from campus bands. 
Pasquerilla West: Nicknamed PW or P-Dub, this dorm is home to the Purple Weasels. In the spring, Queen 

Siegfried: The Ramblers ofSiegfried Hall compete annually against Knott in the Flanner Cup, a week's worth of events including tug-o-war matches, arm wrestling and relay races. The week culminates with a dance co-sponsored by the two men's dorms. Siegfried also sponsors the annual Rambler Scrambler, a putt-putt tournament where sections in the dorm construct each hole. The 
• 

Week, an intradorm event, fosters inter­section competitions and ends in a dance, where one girl from the winning section is crowned Queen. 
Pasquerilla East: PE is the home ofthe Pyros and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (a.k.a. PEMCo), which stages a complete musical every February. This troupe's history includes productions of 
Godspell, Guys and Dolls, Damn Yankees, and Into the Woods. This past year's play was West Side Story. PE is also proud ofits annual intradorm event, the PyrOlym­pics. The sections compete against each other in relay races and costume contests, among other events. PE is unique because its first through fourth floors are num­bered five through eight, to differentiate it from Pasquerilla West. 

keynote speakers, ND cheerleaders and Dillon's hon­orary freshman, the Teen Wolf. 
Fisher: You'll know Fisher Hall by the gigantic green 'F' on the 
front of the build­ing. Every spring, Fisher hosts the Fisher Regatta, a campus-wide boat race on St. Mary's Lake. Each fall the Green Wave hosts a 50-hour roof-sit where the RAs and students from around campus take turns sitting on Fisher's roof for charity. As the brave souls do their sitting, Fisher has events for the weekend, and make fun ofthe residents stuck outside on the roof. Plus, Joe Montana lived there. 
Pangborn: Pangborn Hall sits on the far west end ofSouth Quad. It hosts Phoxy Facts (a trivia contest) and a 3-on-3 vol­leyball tournament in the spring. It is also the site for A Life Uncommon, a group that meets regularly to help students deal with eating disorders. The dorm's interior was remodeled only two years ago. 
Lyons: Easily recognized by its fa­mous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, this women's dorm sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run every fall, in honor of a freshman resident killed by a drunk driver in 1993. Money raised from the 

Alumni: Conveniently located at the intersection of God Quad and South Quad and known to its residents as "The Center of the Universe," Alumni Hall is home to the Dawgs. Each spring, the Dawgs host the Wake, an event steeped in tradition and shrouded in mystery. Alumni Hall loves its hockey team, whose games feature costume themes and songs. Alumni Hall's biggest rival is its immediate neighbor, Dillon, and this fall, the rivalry will be re-ignited with Rivals Week, during which Alumni and Dillon will compete in different sports. 
Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, housing over 350 of the most desirable men at ND, Dillon was voted Hall of the Century. Its signature events are the Dillon Pep Rally, which is hosted before the first football game, and Opening Day, a weeklong event to celebrate the start of the baseball season. The annual Pep Rally satirizes life at ND and includes 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
event goes to a student scholarship fund. The Lyonites host a beach-themed dance each fall, complete with grass skirts and Hawaiian shirts. 
Morrissey Manor: The building isn't just its residents' home, it's also their mascot, the Manor. You'll know Mor­rissey men because they often wear togas and paint themselves black and yellow, the dorm colors. Morrissey is the second larg­est men's dorm on campus, located directly across South Quad from Fisher Hall. Its rooms aren't huge, but they have some of the most character on campus. 
Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the first snowfall of the school year (arguably the only time that the arrival of snow is welcomed). Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete against each other in an annual Parade of Rooms. Every fall they host the Howard Ho-down, a semiformal dance to kick off the school year. 
Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second-oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women of Badin host a campus-wide karaoke and dance competi­tion, the Badin Spring Breakdown. Con­testants are judged on accuracy, style and performance. Their scores from the first round qualify them for a chance to spin the karaoke "Wheel ofDeath" to compete for gift certificates at local restaurants. . 

Do you have yours yet? 

The Shirt 2004 

! I 
I 
!l 
r, 
'IIi 
II
ii 
I ! 

I. 



NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
Welcome to your dorm room. Inside you will find a bed, a desk and a roommate. Have a good year! It may be true that at some universities there exist gigantic supercomputers (the kind which fill whole rooms) whose sole purpose is to match incoming freshmen with a roommate of compatible sleeping and study habits, musical taste and neatness factors. Alas, at Notre Dame there is no such system. Roommate pairings are randomly selected, and you will not be receiving any sort of personality questionnaire to feed into any supercomputer, as some of your high school friends have. But, fear not. The indiscriminate process ofthe ResLife Office is not without its mer­its. For many of you, college will be your first experience living in the same room with another human being. Even for those who currently share rooms with siblings, your dorm situation will be much differ­ent. It is no longer feasible, for example, to resolve every disagreement with a punch in the arm orrelentless teasing. While the RA one door down has taken the place ofyour parents and is there to help you with your problems, you'll find that banging on the wall and constant finger-pointing will get you nowhere. Rarely, however, will a situ­ation arise which needs more than a little heart-to-heart talk. Rooming with a complete stranger is a unique opportunity. Your freshman year will perhaps be the first time in your life where you are given the resource and reason to adapt to life with another person. Despite NotreDame's unsystematic approach, you'll find that you are more capable of dealing with a shared room than you think. What's more, theamountofinfluence you currently have on the matter is, well, none. Fretting about your future roomie is a waste ofyour 
precious summer time, so don't lose sleep over it. 
The spectrum of roommate relations can be divided into three simple categories. Note: remember that your roommate-to­be is probably reading this same thing right now. You both have the opportunity to make your living situation as comfortable as possible. 
Kindred Spirits 

You may move in on your first day, meet your roommate and pledge your eternal friendship to him I her within an hour. Or the engagement may take a couple weeks. In either case, count yourself among the lucky ifyou find a best friend in your roommate. You'll both love John Mayer and hate rap. You'll own the same shower sandals, and you'll have more fun playing in the box your Gateway was shipped in than actually using the computer. Withina month, you'll know each other inside and out. · 
While rare, this situation is certainly pos­sible. Always having someone around with whom you enjoy spending time adds to your comfort level, and you'll likely meet people together and share a good number offriends. Beware, though. Don't box yourself in dur­ing freshman orientation weekend. Use itas achance to meet as many fellow students as possible. Remember to be your own person, and for goodness' sake, don't pass up a chance to play volleyball with your brother-sister dorm because you and your roommate are busy battling it out on the X-box. 
I'm OK, You're OK 

Maybe the most common situation for roommates, there is absolutely nothing wrongwithnotaskingyourfirst-yearroom­mate to be best man or maid-of-honor at your wedding. Your roommate is nice, con­siderate, relatively neat and gives you your space. Whatever the personality may be, it's notdifficult to live with this person. In this scenario, you'll both make friends of your own, but have pizza and watch a movie together every once in a while. At the very least, you'll have a comrade to join you as you head to the dining hall those first few nights, or to throw a Frisbee on the quad after class. 
You'll get to meet all ofyour roommate's friends, and you can introduce himorherto yours. Failing to achieve communal nirvana in your own room will send you down the hall, to another floor or to another dorm for your best friends. Themore effortyoumake, the more people you meet, the more likely you are to make those life-long friends. 
It Wasn't Meant to Be 

Sadly, some roommates just don't get along. You may verbally argue on several room-related points, or your roommate could be so inconsiderate that you actu­ally look forward to parietals. Whatever the case may be, don't hesitate to askyour RA for advice. The worst rooming situa­tions can warrant room changes, but this scenario is rare. 
On the bright side, you will have an es­peciallystrongimpetus for makingfriends outside the room, and a good reason to get involved in extracurricular activities. Don't let the personyou share a room with taint your overall college experience. 
Chances are, despite your assigned room­mate, your first year atNotre Dame will be among the greatest ofyour life. Take heart in the fact that your future roommate has the same reservations youmighthave about living with someone you've never met. To ensure a good year, be yourself, be consid-· . erate and, perhaps most important of all, keep your mess confined to your side ofthe room. . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19 


: 
Thursday~ Frida
' 
! 
I I All ND students~ all ages 
l 
! i 

Shows & Club free with r0 
Ridiculous Conce:rt,s 


Student Performances Nightclub Rocks *til 4AM Amazing Food 
i;~'8I-Z-·,--·;;:···,···•,r·c····;..••, :··;·Js·.·1,.,.. H·.-·Di'········:;·· .'T't• '.c:''?7')\?rc?--:1;j.]jJ-{lfEiit?l 
~,;t;),'.i:C/iiC•··•·'•.::•.·•.··.·;;, •.•. 1.o,0....··.'~-rds;.. siouth..;.. of.... ttie....s~d1um.;;.,>';Xi.;',·:c?:,.<,•.··;::,,i,t·
... 

.@it\t,: \.···<•···•. /.·,.\,.·•.•.... ,....·.· i:, .... c. ··•··•·•··.·· , :c.·•··>:: '/"< ,: · •..·•••..···.. ··•<>··.··· ..• >< , .,.:< •"'ii> , ,· ,:::. 'i::·;;~:.: i>}/?r]w·Y 


the best "tips" received since the last publication. This is where you come in. As readers, you will provide the bullets that allow Gipp to make his fortnightly character assassinations. The Gipper needs you to be his eyes and ears. So screw loyalty to your roommate, friends, and lovers. Ifit's funny, juicy, or obscene, Gipp needs to know about it. You report, Gipp derides. 
You may be asking what a typical Gipp tip is. Well, there's no exact definition, but try this for a rule of thumb: Ifone of your friends does something so asinine thatyou know any true friend would keep it quiet, it will make a good tip. Let's give some examples. Your roommate skips class to drink half a case ofNatty Lite ­don't tip the Gipp. Your roommate skips class to participate in extra-curricular activity in the bushes behind Main Building-tip the Gipp. And remember, Gipp loves to print photos. 
The Gipper would love to give some examples of past classic tips, but unfortunately we can't go into too much detail in this issue. After all, Mom will probably peruse through it after you're finished. But, come this fall, you will all learn by example Gipp's unique M.O. 
Anyways, enough self-promotion; the Gipper feels a duty to let you know the things they don't tell you in the welcome packets. 
You've probably heard a few times that Notre Dame is all about Jesus. Actually, 
22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 

many students say tl1at Notre Dame is all about football, beer, and strained gender relations, but Gipp supposes that,_ to some extent, it still is about ol' JC. After all, his mosaic is the officially recognized signaler oftouchdowns, and that's kind of important. Plus, you can't spit in the air on this campus without hitting a chapel. But for the sake of brevity, Gipp will try to give you a run-through ofthe heathen, 
~~~ 

secular aspects of our campus life. 
Let's start with the beer. Traditionally, the ND bigwigs had a beautifully-crafted "if we don't see it, it's not happening" policy that let all of us lushes toss 'em back like candy as long as the dorm room doors were shut. But over time, that glory faded away. Now, it's technically illegal to consume hard liquor on campus, so be careful. (But what isn't technically illegal?) 
Now, on to dorm life. While ND doesn't have Greek life, it does have a pretty solid system of on-campus housing. Compared to our peers, we have an amazingly high percentage of students living on campus, and almost everyone stays in the dorm they were assigned to freshman year. There is one gigantic catch to our dorms, though. Boys and girls, the Gipper hath seen illogical repression, and thy name is Parietals. Your dictionary can give you an exact definition, but just know this: If you came to college hoping to get closer to a special someone after 12 on weekdays or 2 on weekends, you might be in for a-rude awakening. Some people will tell you that parietals are a good thing, because they signal the end of the night and let everyone get to rest. Right...because college students aren't old enough to decide when the night is over for themselves. 

Like a lot ofthings in college, the prob­lems you'll have with the aforementioned issues will largely depend on your Resi­dent Assistant. RAs are the seniors who, either because they didn't have enough friends to live off-campus or wanted to save Daddy a few bucks, will live amongst you in the dorms to make sure you're at least attempting to follow the rules. The degree to which RAs actually give a crap varies greatly, but in general ladies get the shaft when it comes to power-tripping RAs, which in some female cases.appar­ently means "Retentive, Anally." In any case, Gipp advises you to befriend your RA ASAP, because it can't hurt to have him/her as a friend ifyou ever appear in front ofthe Supreme Irish Court known as Residence Life. 
Thatshould be all for now, young ones. The Gipper hopes you are as excited to start your time here as he is to ruthlessly embarrass you on these pages. Please don't be nervous as you enter this bawdy new world of GippLand, because Gipp promises that you'll adjust quickly. By mid-September you'll be hoppin' 'cross South Quad on your way to LaFun to get some QDs, complaining about ResLife and debating whether to askyour crush from the Rock or that cutie from FYC to your SYR. Sounds fun, eh? 
Enjoy the rest ofyour summer, and do try to lose 15 pounds in August -just so things are back to even byFall break. And ifyou remember one thing when you step onto this campus, it's this: Tip.the Gipp! See ya soon. . 

\. .. ::: .. \ 
·i~-~~~\, 


·Do.you ·See yourself on · our staff? 

MAYBE YOU SHOULD. Whether you're interested in photography, writing, design or business, we're interested in you. You need something to do outside class and we need new talent to produce Notre Dame's biweekly newsmagazine. Coincidence? You decide. 
For information on joining our staff, send us an email at scholast@nd.edu or check out the Scholastic booth atActivities Night. 
SCHOLaSTIC 

• 
,'l;~t--,~~'. 
; 
; 

} ·-· ~ 
. .
' . 
~::::::::2·1·:'· _,_ ~--~,,y;.,,. 
'· 
1.-. 

JENOSTERHAGE AND LAURENWILCOX 
It's time to begin that daunting task of packing. "Where dolstart?" you ask. Never fear. Whether you're a listmaker or a bag-stuffer, Scholastic has the low-down on dorm room necessi­
i' ­
I 
I 

. down comforters for the cold winters, etc. -whatever will make you feel comfort­able. Body pillows are great for lying on the floor and studying. . 
Some dorms have beds that can be bunked while others have modular fur­niture, which means you can bunk your bed on top of your desk and wardrobe. 
ties. When you arrive ~~-~amp11~, _clo~'.~--Ify~11E_.~!"_m does_ n<2~J1.ave modular 
bediscouraged by thelooks of your room. While they come with the standard desk, bed and closet, empty dorm quarters tend furniture and you would like to loft your bed, you can purchase a loft kit at a local hardware store, such as Home Depot, when you arrive. 

Ifyou do not have a handyman mov­ing you in, store employees often will assemble a loft for a fee. But if you're really feeling adventurous, you can even try building your own from scratch. But remember· to bring a toolbox complete with drills, wrenches and a hammer. 
To make for a homier crib, you might want to bring a couch or futon. Sturdy and comfortable futons may be found at the Futon Factory. Ifspace, money or transportation is a problem, canvas lawn chairs or bean bag chairs are clutch. You may also want carpet or rugs to cover the hard floor, which becomes very cold to walk on in the winter. A carpet sale takes place on campus at the Stepan center dur­ing Freshman Orientation weekend, so usually you can find the right fit for your room at the campus sale. Room dimen­sions vary, so it would be wise to wait until you get here to buy floor coverings. 
Pack a shower caddy to tote your soap and shampoo to and from the commu­
nity bathrooms. A robe or large towel 
• and shower shoes (i.e., flip-flops) also are necessary. 
As far as laundry goes, you can do it 
yourself or use St. Michael's Laundry 
Service. Most dorms.have coin-operated 
washers and dryers, but some do not. 
St.Michael's is an on-campus laundry ser­
vice that will pick up your dirty cl~!tE:~, 
wash th~m and return them for a fee. If 
you decide to do your own laundry, bring 
rolls of quarters, a laundry basket or bag 
to haul your duds to the laundry room, 
detergent, stain remover and a drying rack 
for clothing you'd rather not shrink. Also, 
ifyou do not want to lug those quarters 
around, you may purchase Domer Dollars 
on your student card. Many ofthe dorms 
have laundry facilities that allow you to 
swipe your student card to do laundry 
instead of using quarters. 
One of the most important decisions 
will be whether to bring a computer and 
whether to use a desktop or a laptop. 
Some students prefer to write papers and 
e-mails from the comfort oftheir rooms, 
but ifyou choose not to bring a computer, 
you can use one in a _computer cluster on 
campus, some ofwhich are open 24 hours. 
Many students find it easier to bring a 
laptop computer to school. This allows 
students more freedom when working on 
papers or using the Internet. 
There are many connections in La Fortune and the library for Internet use on your 'laptop. ·Many campus buildings like Hesburgh Library and the LaFor­tune Student Center have recently been outfitted with wireless Internet connec­tions. You may want to bring a wireless Internet card to make connecting outside the dorm convenient. For non-wireless computers, there are standard etherhet jacks available around campus, too. Printers in the computer labs only print in black and white, so ifyou want to print in color regularly you should bring your own printer. 

As far as entertainment goes, bring whatever tickles your fancy. Most students bring televisions for those much-needed study breaks. Ifyou and your roommate are movie addicts, you may want to bring aVCR or DVD player, since rooms have no cable. A CD player will give you a little musical variety -South Bend does not have many quality radio stations. Get in touch with your roommate to divvy up the more expensive items you'll share. 
For those few hot nights at the begin­ning and end ofthe school year, you may want to bring a fan or two. Aside from West and Mod Quad dorms, most are without air conditioning. A fan might also come in handy in the winter when the heat is on full blast and you're a little too toasty. 
One thing to remember is that micro­waves are not allowed in the dorm rooms. Most floors in the dorms have a microwave in the common room for making popcorn or Easy Mac late at night. It is also a good idea to bring a hot pot that will boil wa­ter so you can make ramen noodles, the quintessen­tial college 
What to Bring: 

Each room has a phone complete with voicemail, call waiting, caller ID and three-way calling. You might want a cordless phone, though, for those late-night conversations when your room­mate is trying to sleep. In order to see who is calling you on caller ID, you may want to bring a phone that will show you the phone number, because the university phones do not have this available. 
As far as wardrobe goes, there are a few must-haves. Don't forget warm clothing for the infamous South Bend winter.. You'll need a warm coat, gloves or mit­tens and a hat ifyou don't want to freeze. Bring a raincoat, umbrella or poncho 
for rainy walks to class and football games. 

Remember to bring lots of green outfits as wel_l as shirts with your dorm color to show your spirit at pep rallies. Since most of the closets are small, you may want to buy some plastic shelving containers that are cheap and practical or under the bed plastic containers. 
A swimsuit is a must for the mandatory swim test that all freshmen take at the beginning of the year. Each dorm will have a couple of dances -both formal and semi-formal -each semester. Pack a fun dress or two or a jacket or suit and tie for such occasions. 
Don't forget a camera to capture all the fun memories you are about to experience with the football games, pep rallies and dorm events. 
Ifyour suitcases are stuffed, or if you forget something, do notworry. Although South Bend may not be a buzzing me­tropolis, it does have plenty of retail stores. The University ParkMall is com­plete with a Macy's, L.S. Ayers, Banana Republic, Gap, Express and many other stores. And if you absolutely must have · your favorite teddy bear or your bottle cap collection, Mom and Dad are just a 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 25 


I.AIJ:{L_E_TJ_CJ 
Notre Dame offers a wide variety of athletic opportunities even if you aren't a varsity ath­lete. Playing interhall sports can be an exciting way to compete for your dorm, or you can join a club team and travel around the country. 
*Scholastic choice: 
The 73-year~old Bengal Bouts boxing tournament offers an opportunity for men with varying levels of experience to compete to raise money for Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. Ifyou are into boxing and happen to be female, check out the Women's Boxing Club, a recently formed group. 
Students addicted to speed can join the Cy­cling Club, which does mountain bike racing in the fall and road racing in the spring, or the Ski Club, which competes in both giant slalom and slalom events in Michi­gan, Wisconsin and Canada. 
Ifyou get your kicks from heights rather than speed, check out the Climbing Club. It sponsors rock-climb­ing trips to places like the Red River Gorge in Kentucky, and it pro­vides all the necessary gear and training for participants of all levels of experience. 
The field hockey team was started two years ago. It offers both men and women of all skill levels a chance to participate. The team practices four days a week in the spring and fall and competes against other club teams in the area. 
If you are a horse­lover, Notre Dame has several equestrian clubs. The equestrian team takes weekly lessons at stables located about 15 minutes from campus. Riders of all levels are welcome to join, and do not need to own a horse. The team participates in competitions sponsored by the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association throughout the year. 
Ifsteer-wrestling, goat-tying and bull-rid­ing are more your style, then you might want to check out the Rodeo Club. Students formed the club to educate oth­ers about rodeo, giving them the opportunity to work toward competing in a particular event. 
For those who would rather play in water than on dry land, Notre Dame has a few excel­lent aquarian "clubbing" opportunities. The 
Notre Dame Sail­ing Club, which prac­tices on St. Joe Lake on campus and at a nearby lake in Michigan, races throughout the Midwest and the nation. The 
men's water polo team 
is consistently one of the top performers in the Midwest. Its offi­
cial season is in the fall. Team members travel to places such as Florida for their more relaxed spring season. 
The women's wa­ter polo team has won the Regional Midwest Championship three times in the last five years. Last year the team was ranked ninth in the nation. 
Frozen water is good, too. The Figure Skat­ing Club started up in 

1999 and was recognized as the athletic club of the year for 2001-2002. The team skates against varsity and club teams, and they have competed at two national cham­pionships, achieving eighth place in 2000 and seventh in 2002. The 
women's club hockey 
team will play around 
3 0 games this year. 
The Women's Run­ning Club was named the 2000-2001 athletic club of the year. They compete in road races in the area, roughly 10 per year, and sponsor two big events: the Aloha Run and the Relay for Life, on-campus races that raise money for charity. 
Ifyou like running around in bare feet and leaping through the air, the Ultimate Frisbee Club could be for you. The team competes at tournaments nation­wide. 
Or you might want to try the Gymnas­tics Club, which wel­comes athletes of many experience levels. In the spring semester, the team travels to and competes against other gymnastic clubs throughout the country. In spring 2003, the club 
.won the gymnastics na­tional championship. 
On a more local scale, the Notre Dame Pom Squad is a group of 14 women from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, dedicated to enhanc­ing the spirit of Notre Dame through the per­formance of dance rou­tines. The Porn Squad performs at pep rallies, basketball halftimes and campus-wide and dorm 
functions such as the , Notre Dame Activities Night and the Dillon 
Hall Pep Rally. 
.. 
IAt_A'.D~E:~_I_C] 
Academic clubs offer a wide range of activities in fields ranging from anthropology to engi­neering. 
*Scholastic choice: 
One ofthe largest 
student organiza­
tions at Notre Dame, 
the Student Interna­
tional Business Coun­
cil (SIBC) is the only 
one ofits kind in the 
nation. Open to all 
majors, the SIBC is 
dedicated to providing 
students with real-
world professional 
experience and interna­
tional development. Ev­
ery summer, the SIBC sends dozens ofstudents 
around the world on 
international summer 
internships and teach­
ing positions. 
The Marketing Club 
provides the oppor­
tunity for marketing 
majors to interact with 
each other and profes­
sors through social, 
spiritual, educational 
and service-oriented 
events, including guest 
speakers, career days, 
educational trips and 
barbecues. 
The Entrepreneur 
Club is an active group 
of individuals who plan 
to start or have already 
started their own busi­
nesses. Throughout the 
year, the "E-Club" trav­
els to national confer­
ences, sponsors campus 
speakers, guarantees 
internships and job 
opportunities for club 
members, and prepares 
members to write busi­ness plans and compete in competitions. 
The pre-vet club of Notre Dame offers an opportunity for any stu­dent to learn about and interact with animals. It also provides a fun and supportive forum and source of information for students interested in attending veterinary school. 
Ifworking with · humans is more your style, the Pre-Dental Club at ND is a pre­med style club designed to give those students considering dentistry a more in-depth view into the profession. They bring guest lecturers to campus, including local dental professionals and admissions representa.,­tives from a number of different dental schools. Club members are also provided with the op­portunity to shadow lo­cal dentists in the South Bend area. 
Like the Pre-Dental Club, the Pre-Physi­cal Therapy Club is an academic club that seeks to give support and guidance to students who want to attend a graduate school physical therapy program. 
The Society of Wom­en Engineers works to foster a sense of com­munity among women in engineering through social activities, career aid, service and academ­ic support. 
The Computer Appli­cations Honor Society serves as the honor soci­ety for Arts and Let­ters students who have Computer Applications (CAPP) as a second major. 
Many majors also have their own clubs. The 
Anthropology Club, 
for example, aims to establish connections between the students and faculty within the department. These clubs generally are open to everyone, but students within the major are especially en~ouraged to join. 
(E~--ld~C I
:•: ;;_:.::.:. C ;:_ ·,. ;c· ·:,, o ._J 
Although the universi­ty has an essentially ho­mogenous ethnic body, there are a number of student organizations 
dedicated to expanding 
awareness and support of other cultures. 
*Scholastic choice: Perhaps the most in­teresting ethnic club is the Texas Club, which boasts 500 Texan stu­dents. The club orga­
nizes dances, rides to andfrom the Lone Star State and has an alum­ni network. Plus, they get cool t-shirts. 
One of the largest ethnic clubs on campus is La Alianza, which formed about five years ago when several other groups merged. It edu­cates and entertains stu­dents through programs that include Hispanic Heritage Month Cel­ebrations and the Latino Formal. 
The Korean Student Association (KSA) plans to reach out to a broader spectrum of people on campus this year and provide more opportunities for expo­sure to the Korean cul­ture. The Asian Ameri­can Association (AAA) of Notre Dame proudly celebrates Asian Ameri­can heritage through fellowship, service, and 

events that showcase the 
unique values of various 
Asian cultures. They 
hope through their 
efforts to positively 
reflect the essence of 
being Asian American. 
Na Pua Kai Ewalu, also known as the Hawaii Club, works to share the culture of Hawaii through various social and educational activities, including a luau each spring. Open to all students, the club also acts as a support system for students from Hawaii, especially for incoming freshmen, who are 5,000 miles away from home. 
There are a variety of other ethnic / lan­guage clubs, including the Russian, Italian and German clubs. The Russian Club sponsors museum trips, ethnic dinners, movies and other events. The Ital­ian Club's activities in­clude regular opportu­nities to eat and practice speaking Italian, cook­ing classes, monthly movie nights, trips to Chicago's Italian neigh­borhood and two sports tournaments each year. The German Club's two yearly highlights are Ok"domer" fest and a trip to Chicago's famed Christkindlmarkt. 
¦J~<r~1rs1 
*Scholastic choice: The Dome Yearbook is always looking for writ­
ers and photographers to help with spreads. The time commitment is very flexible and al­though experience helps, 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
it is not necessary. 
The Juggling Club is a group of students who get together for a couple of hours every few weeks to juggle. Nuff said. 
In September, the Swing Club will re­start its series of "East Coast" swing dancing lessons. The club cur­rently has about 50 to 75 members who come weekly for two hours of lessons and dance time. The class is geared to­ward beginning dancers, but they do have student instructors who work privately to challenge and teach intermediate and advanced dancers. 
Those interested in public service should look into the College Democrats and Col­lege Republicans, who hope to raise political awareness and participa­tion among university students. This fall the College Democrats will be working on a variety of campaigns and orga­nizing a voter registra­tion drive. 
Notre Dame has a few martial arts clubs. The Aikido Club practices Aikikai-style Aikido, a vigorous, noncompeti­tive martial art suitable for people of '.111 ages and ideal for those in­terested in self-defense and conflict resolu­tion. The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute 
(NDMAI) teaches the unique techniques and applications of Vee Jitsu Ryp. Jujitsu and Chung Do K,wan Tae Kwon Do. 
Students who begin as 
freshmen can reach the 
rank of black belt in both arts by the end of 
their junior year. 
ND's World Tae Kwon Do Club is a recreational club that provides the opportuni­ty for anyone to learn an ancient Korean martial art that teaches power, strength, flexibility, and athleticism. Taught by seventh-degree black belt Master Soon Pil Hong, a veteran coach of numerous Olympic athletes, the students of Tae Kwon Do learn sparring techniques and self-defense tactics such as joint locks and the manipulation of pres­sure points. 
The university bands include the marching band, several concert bands, jazz bands, and brass and percussion ensembles. Tryouts for the bands are open to all students, ur,.dergraduate and graduate, who are enrolled at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College. 
If you've been bitten by the performing bug but don't play an instru­ment, there are a num­her of acting and sing­ing groups on campus. The Farley Players, the St. Ed's Hall Play­ers, and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo) are a few of the groups that put on student productions each year. Harmonia is a female a cappella group with about 15 members from the ND com­munity. Notre Dame's all-male choir, the Glee Club, has a strong fraternal atmosphere and focuses on vocal technique and style. The group performs on campus and travels extensively in the US and abroad. They plan to tour in the Caribbean next summer. 
The Chess Club meets biweekly to in­crease student interest in chess while providing challenging games for players of all strengths. They also teach chess to younger children in the South Bend community and form a four-member team to travel to compe­titians. 
l[siE rtS.(J>C;EJ 
Students looking to volunteer in the South Bend community have many options. 
*Scholastic choice: 
The Notre Dame Gen­
terfor Social Concerns 
offers a number ofvery popular service trips 
overfall and spring 
breaks. Students travel 
to southern Florida 
to work with migrant farmers, to Appalachia to assist the poor, and to D.C. to learn about the pro-life movement. 
These trips are espe­
cially goodfor freshmen 
who want to meet other 
Notre Dame students 
while making a differ­
ence in the country. 
Members of Circle K completed more than 7,000 hours of com­munity service in the Greater South Bend area this year. The club offers around. 20 proj­ects covering a wide range of interests, from playing with animals at the Humane Society to working at the Juvenile Justice Center. This is the kind of club to join if you can't decide what kind of service you want to do. 
The nationally re­


nowned South Bend· Center for the Homeless always welcomes student assistants, and Food·,. share is a Notre· Dame service club that deliv'­ers leftover dining-hall: food to the center and' other homeless shelters in-South Bend. 
Students involved in the Logan Recreation Club have the oppor'­tunity to form friend­ships with individuals who, have developmental disabilities by sponsor­ing and participating in weekly activities like bowling, Saturday recre­ation and dancing. 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program provides volunteer tu­tors to local schools and community centers with children in need of academic assistance. Campus Girl Scouts' goal is to bridge the gap between participat­ing as a girl scout and· volunteering as a troop leader. They host activi­ties for local troops as well as perform their own service activities. 
. On campus, C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) is a student-awareness group aimed to prevent rape and help those affected by rape and sexual assault to deal with the overwhelm­ing consequences. They sponsor a Sexual Assault Awareness Week in the fall and host speakers and other events during Sexual Assault Aware­ness Month, in April. 
The ND/SMC Peace Coalition is sponsored by the Center for So­cial Concerns and was started by a group of students critical of the 
War on Terrorism. The 
World Hunger Coali­tion is dedicated to rais­ing· awareness of hunger issues..and raising money to support hunger relief efforts worldwide. The 
. WHC annually raises 
. about$20,000 for dona­tions to hunger organi­zations throughout the world with the Lunch Fast, in which students sign up to give up one meal a week from their meal plans. 
. A health-related orga­nization is the First Aid Services Team. The team serves as the first level of the emergency medical system for events and athletics on campus. Team members hold Red Cross certifi­cations in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. 
The Community Alli­ance to Serve Hispan­ics (C.A.S.H.) works with local community centers and offers a num­ber of opportunities for students to serve as translators and English­language instructors to the Hispanic community. 

*Scholastic choice: The Basilica ofthe Sa­cred Heart has a num­ber ofministries open to new members. Their choirs include the Folk Choir, the Liturgical Choir and the Women's Liturgical Choir. If you would like to be in a choir but sing like Scuttle from The Little Mermaid, you can join the Handbell Choir. Also, the Basilica is always looking for new readers, Eucharistic ministers; .. and acolytes (altar servers), so ifyou are interested, keep an eye open for announce­ments about training. 
The group Iron Sharpens Iron is an interdenominational, student-led Bible study that seeks to foster solid Christian relation­ships and to challenge and encourage students to grow in their faith through fellowship, praise and worship, Biblical teaching arid prayer. 
Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit is an ecumenical Chris­tian group similarly dedicated to building up faith and friendship through weekly meet­ings, small groups and parties. The Knights of Columbus is a Catholic men's organization fo­cused on service to the community and loyalty to the Church. At Notre Dame, they are dedi­cated to the principles of the nationwide Order through many activities, the most notable being their Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for charity. 
The Baptist Colle­giate Ministry (BCM) is an organization open to all Christian tradi­tions that focuses on fellowship, faith-shar­ing and Christian living. They hold weekly Bible study meetings, church visits, retreats, shared meals and other activi­ties. 
For Muslim students seeking fellowship, support and prayer op­portunities, the Notre Dame United Muslim Association (NDUMA) helps them to continue on their faith journey. 
I~~~~ 
Addicted to student 
government? You can 
continue to get your fix 
in college. 
Notre Dame student gov­
ernment, called ·the Student 
Union, consists ofseveral 
groups. The Office ofthe 
President is a group that 
represents the student body 
to the university adminis­
tration, and also provides 
direct services to students. 
The Campus Affairs Council, which has one representative from each dorm, also serves as a voice for students. The Judicial Council pro­vides peer advocates to students facing disciplin­ary hearings. 
The Campus Pro­gramming Council, 
formerly known as the 
Student Union Board 
(SUB), plans campus­
wide events, including 
movies and concerts. Each 
class has a council that 
also plans events. Fresh­
men can get involved in 
student government by 
running for their class 
council in the fall, joining 
the staffs of the Office 
of the President, SUB or 
one of the Senate's policy 
committees. 
FlipSide is a student-run 
group whose purpose is 
to program weekly events 
on Fridays and Saturdays 
that do not involve alcohol, 
such as dances, bowling, 
ice-skating, mini-golf · and trips to Chicago. The events are open to all stu­dents and hope to provide . alternatives to drinking on campus. D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 29 



A Calendar for Freshman Year 
The month-by-month rundown pertaining to all things non-academic 
during these months is the traveling varsity tackle football team. They tend to hold frequent inter-scholastic matches on Saturdays against rival squads, and these matches are open to the public. I strongly suggest you check these out, as football weekends draw people to campus from more places than a UN summit. 
November/December: At this point, it will be cold in South Bend for what seems like the next seven years of your life. Winters in South Bend combine the 
cold of a Chicago January with the snow ofan alpine blizzard and the bleakness of a Smashing Pumpkins album. That being said, bring warm clothes with you. More importantly, make friends with the people in your dorm, as you will leave your build­ing only for food, a really good party, or possibly class. Also, finals are in Decem­ber, but don't worry, they won't seem like as big a deal to you then as you probably think they will in the fall (not that they are not still a big deal). This is because professors here have an innate knack for making all ofyour major assignments and tests in every one of your classes due at Well, Class of 2008, your time is coming near. Very soon, you will come to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame to meet some of the finest students from all over the world, much like Jean Claude Van Damme in Bloodsport, or Best ofthe Best, or The Quest, or Lionheart or Bloodsport 2 (except Van Damme encountered warriors rather than students). I myself was once in your posi­tion, so I know what it will take for you to survive until sophomore year. Here is a month by month breakdown ofwhat you will need to know. August: Your life here at Notre Dame will begin with the time-honored ritual known as Frosh-O. If you have never been able to go to summer camp, here is your chance. Icebreakers and party games abound, as you are almost forced to interact with members of the opposite sex. The key thing to remember dur­ing Frosh-O is to be outgoing. Nobody knows anybody else, and people will al­most invariably be thankful ifyou initiate conversation with them. Ifthey are not, it is possible that there is something wrong ·with them, something wrong with you, or you have wandered off campus and are talking to someone that does not go to school here. September/October: As classes be­gin, you will be amazed at how much free time you have. While there is quite a workload for most students at ND, there is ample time to complete everything-if you are smart about it. With a view to­wards learning how to manage your time well, or do almost anything well, for that matter, do not be afraid to consult your RA. Wiser than Mr. Miyagi (and often taller), the resident assistants at Notre Dame are an invaluable resource to first year students attempting to understand the particulars of college life, such as why it is impossible to get up before 10: 30, and why there is crap (although much of it is free) all over the place. Another thing you will no doubt take notice of the same times of the semester, in some­thing everyone (actually no one) refers to as "perfect storm weeks." After surviving three or four ofthese weeks, finals should be manageable. If they are not, you can probably stop reading, because second semester doesn't get any easier. 
January-Spring Break: (I know, this is not a month by month breakdown.) These months seem to meld together, and all you will remember from them is the cool things that you do with your friends. Remember this: while grades are important, doing cool stuffis even more important. This is why it is important to keep on top ofyour schoolwork, so that if an opportunity for awesomeness presents itself, you will be able to take advantage of it. Past that, just try to survive until spring break, because after that will be the best part of the year. 
The Final Months: After returning from spring break, you will notice a new vitality on campus. The weather will improve, people will start going outside again, and the party scene will improve considerably. Then it will get cold and 
. snow again. After that, though, it is all gravy. When actual spring does come around, it will be as nice here as it was in the fall, but the main difference for you will that you actually know a good number ofpeople. There will be numer­ous fun things to do, from hanging out on the quad, to the Blue-Gold game, to the Fisher Regatta. It is at this point, as things are becoming most enjoyable, that the year will end and you will have to go home. Try to stay for Senior Week if at all possible; Notre Dame is best experi­enced sans homework, and you'll get to party like you're already graduating. Af­terwards comes summer, and then you'll get to come back and do it all again. D 
''A Calendar for Freshman Year" was writ­ten by Mike Healy. As evidenced by the Van Damme reference, Mike is not to be taken completely seriously. 
Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 

T 


SUPPORT 

•. •

Second Annual Notre Dame 
RELAY 
FOR LIFE
• 
-
r .,_,.-.-G..-~--~•.,,,.,r 

September 17-:18, 2004 6:00 p.m.-10:00 a.m. 
Stepan Center 


Join us for: 
• A celebration ofsurvivorship 
• Aluminaria ceremony 
• Games & contests 
• 
Team unity • On-5ile fundraising 

• 
Loisofmusic &dancing • Enler1Dlment 

• 
camaraderie 


• A 16-hourevent held atthe Stepm Cenlel", where teams of10-15 people lake turns waldng,whleraising valuable funds tocombat cancer 
Contact Kalie ZelT atzear.3@nd.edu for more informalion 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

a


Notre Dame athletics are an integral part of this university's character. Un­fortunately, some years are better for athletics than others. The 2003 -2004 athletic year wasn't a great one, headlined by a disappointing Irish football team that struggled to a 5-7 record. But there were still several bright spots for Notre Dame athletics in 2003 -2004. Here are the top ten moments of the year. 
Julius Jones 
Sets Single 
Game ·Rushing 
Record against 
Pittsburgh 
In a season where all hope had seemed to have faded, Julius Jones gave the Irish the spark they needed to topple one of the best football teams in the nation, the 15th-ranked Pittsburgh Panthers. In the process of running the Irish to a 20-14victory,Jones set the single-game rushing record at 262 yards, outdoing the likes ofNotre Dame greats Jerome Bet­tis, Paul Hornung, and even the Gipper. In addition to the rushing yards, Jones scored both of Notre Dame's touch­downs on the day, set his personal best for a scoring run at 49 yards, and also broke out to a season-best, 61-yard run. In summary, it was simply a great game for Julius Jones and his Fighting Irish. 
. 
32 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
One Against.Future National Champion, UConn 
Connecticut is invincible, or so it would seem. Entering with a 121-game winning streak against unranked teams, No. 4 Connecticut seemed pretty certain that they could handle the Notre Dame Fighting Irish. However, the Irish had other plans. The Irish jumped out to an early lead and never gave it back. Leading by seven points at the half, the Irish just needed to fend off the defending 'and soon­to-be repeating National Champions. However, the Huskies began to climb back, getting to within two points of Notre Dame's 53-51 lead. But the Irish would not allow Connecticut to get any closer as they went on a 13-0 scoring run to end the game at 66-51. In addi­tion to scoring five ofthe game-ending thirteen points, Jacqueline Batteast led the Irish throughout the game with 23 points and also limited Diana Taurasi to a season-low eleven points. . 
Men's Basketball Notches Win Against Future Natio~al Chanipion, UConn 
Just under a month after the women's basketball team defeated the defend­mg national champion lady Huskies, the men's team bested their male counterparts, who.would win the 2004 title. Guards Chris Thomas and Chris 
· Quinn played brilliantly together when the Irish hosted No. 5 Connecticut. Neither the Irish nor the Huskies ever took a large lead throughout the game, so it all came down to the last fow min-
Baseball Reaches No. 4 Ranking
After suffering a loss in their home opener, the Irish baseball team went on a tear, beating Detroit 16-6 and start­ing one of the longest winning steaks in the 2004 NCAA baseball season. Sweeping Big East rivals West Virginia and Villanova as well as defeating other assorted programs, the Irish entered mid­utes of play. With only three minutes left, Connecticut's Emeka Okafor hit an inside shot to tie the game at 69. However, Thomas quickly hit a three­pointer, and the Irish never looked back. Tom Timmermans and Quinn both hit a couple of late free throws, giving the Irish a 75-69 lead with only 49 seconds left in the game. Despite trying to get back into the game, the Huskies fell to the Irish, 80-74. . 
April on an eleven-game winning streak and ascended the baseball ranks to No. 
4. Notre Dame ended the season with a 51-11 record, which set a school record for victories in a season. The Irish failed to advance out oftheir own regional for the third time in four tries since 1999, losing to Kent State in the opening game. . 

Hockey Team Makes First NCAA Tournament Appearance 
\ A Jhilemany Notre Dame sports teams V V have written their names into the NCAA's record books, hockey has never been the big sport on campus. However, the Irish hockey team enjoyed an unfamiliar and unparalleled success this year. With many keyvictories, the Irish emerged onto the col­legiate hockey scene. The game of the year 
came on October 24, when Notre Dame edged the No. 1 Boston College Eagles. As the season progressed, the Irish climbed to No. 13 in the nation and earned their first NCAA Tournament berth. However, the Irish were slated with a tough first round opponent and were quickly eliminated by No. 3 Minnesota, 5-2. D 
Women's Basketball Loses Epic Battle with Penn State · 
The score was 55-49, but the game was much closer than the score would indicate. Penn State drew first blood, with Kelly Mazzante and Jessica Brungo scor­ing the first few points. However, trailing 13-7, the Fighting Irish went on a 9-0 run, directed by Jeneka Joyce. Then, Brungo and Mazzante returned to hit consecutive three-pointers to give Penn State a 21-20 lead. In the last 50 seconds of the half, the Irish took the lead with a Le'Tania Severe floater, and then they surrendered the lead, as Brungo hit a lay-up. After the half, the game continued to go back and forth, with Jacqueline Batteast and Brungo directing their respective offenses. Unfortunately, the Lady Lions ended the game in better fashion, taking the lead within the last few minutes of play and just barely holding the Irish off. Nonetheless, the game was one of the most exciting games in Notre Dame's basketball history. D 
Fencing Team Finishes Third in the Nation 
Sometimes accomplishments are marred by expectations. No season echoes this more than last year's fencing season. The Fighting Irish entered as the No. 1 team in the nation after winning the national championship the year before. The Irish graduated many of their top fencers, and would rely on their incoming freshmen to pick up the slack. Luckily, the fresh­men performed well; six of the eleven fencers Notre Dame sent to the NCAA Championship were freshmen. However, the Irish just fell short in the big meet, finishing a still very impressive third overall. Nonetheless, many fencers had terrific performances, including Alicja Kryczalo, who took first in women's foil for the third straight year, as well as Valerie Providenza, who became the first Notre Dame fencer to take the gold medal in an event as a freshman when she won women's sabre. D 
Volleyball Earns I 2th Consecutive Tournament Berth 
In July of 2003, the Notre Dame vol­leyball team was slated for one of the toughest volleyball schedules in the nation; they would face ten teams from last year's NCAA Tournament as well as five of the top twelve teams in the country. However, the Irish set the tone for the season, upsetting No. 10 Arizona in the season opener. The Irish battled through their tough schedule, going on 14-match winning streak, the 
longest under head coach Debbie Brown. The team's success can be attributed to the leadership of twin-sister captains, Jessica and Kristen Kinder, as well as the breakout season for sophomore Lauren Brewster, who led the nation in individual blocking. Climb­ing to as high as 12thin the nation, thelrish were a shoe-in for the NCAA Tournament. Unfortunately, Notre Dame fell in the first round to No. 17 Louisville. D 
Men's Soccer Wins Big East Tournament 
Ranked No. 3 in preseason polls, the men's soccer team entered the 2003 campaign with a.lot ofpressure on their backs. While the Irish had a good season this year, they did not meet the preseason expectations, finishing with a No. 13 national ranking and a third place finish in the Big East. The Fight­ing Irish entered into the Big East Tour­nament with a lot to prove. The Irish shut out Connecticut and Providence in the first two rounds, with scores of 2-0 and 1-0, respectively. However, the last hurdle between Notre Dame and the Big East title was No. 4 St. John's. In similar fashion to the other victories, Notre Dame's goaltender Chris Sawyer let nothing past him, as the Irish shut out the Red Storm, 2-0. The victory carried the Irish back to No. 5 in the nation. D 
Men's Track and Field Wins Big East Outdoor Championship 
0 n May 2, the Fighting Irish pulled ahead in the Big East Outdoor Championship, bettering host team Rutgers by 12.5 points. The win was solidified on the second day behind ju­nior Selim Nurudeen, senior Godwin Mbagwu and freshman Ryan Postel, who won the 110-meter hurdles, the long jump, and the 400-meter dash, respectively. In addition, Mbagwu was named the field athlete of the meet, having not only taken first in the. long jump, but also second in the triple jump. This marked the first time that the Notre Dame men's track and field team had taken home the Big East Outdoor Championship in consecutive years. D 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 33 

\ ' . ---­
,, 
....... . ~--------~--­
SUB PROlJDLY BRINGS· You WELC-OME WEEK 2004... 
FALL MALL (Thiirs,/ayAugust 19-S1111day A1igllst2211d@Stepa11 Ce11ter) . No need to leave campus to purchase futons, carpets; towels, etc. Vendorfsuch as Beyond the Wall Posters Bed Bath aiicJ Beyond, and Carpet and Tile· DepQt Also~ dec:01:ate yourtoom \.Vith:po~ters from Beyond t_he Wall, and by famous artist suc:h. as Van Gough, O'Keefe and rnoreJrom the poster sale. F<>r m9re det~il$ chec!c oµtthe Student UniQ11.Bo.arcl website atwww.n_d-~~u/~ub 
NCAA SPORTS CHALLENGE (August26tli-01i.Soutl1 Quad from 4:$0-9:3dp;11) 
DRIVE IN)\(OVIE (Septeiiiber 1st 011NORTH·QUAD@9pm) ._ 1st Acou~tiCafe 8f. l~tSUB Movie (September 2nd, moyiei11 DeBartolo 10! @JOpm) DALE K,.Ci:Jmedian/Hypnotist (September 3rd at Waslzilzgton Hall FREE@ 7:30pm)Sept3-4 SUB movies contifzue ·· · 
SUB MOVIES starting September 2nd• in DeBartolo 1 O 1 for $3; Thursdays• at 1Opm, Friclay and ~at1:1rday at 8p111 and 10:30pm _f llr movi~ title~ checkou~ tbe;,sµB \Vebsite late this summer. SUBAcoustl.Cafe starting on Sept(!mber'2r:id 'iil I:.aFortune Basement. at.lOpm. To sjgn up email M_ikeTaliarico @ Mi~ha~t"V.Tallari~o.I_@ncteciu · · 
The StiJdetUnfoil Boa:rd also brings comedi~ns,large and small concerts, speakers, and more to the Notre Dame campus; 
Want to learnmore.a_bout SUB? Interested in becoming apart of SUB? Visitot . on August 3lstfrom 7-9 inJhe Joyce Center Field l:Iouse or just stop by flndjoin 201 LaFort1,1_i:ie, 
Visit the SUB Website foi'updates and thelatest on pr:ograming at www.nd~ed1i/"1!ub._ 
Is there 
anything·· 
to do.· around here? 
RYANGREENE AND NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
Welcome to South Bend, the city that sleeps. A lot. If you're looking for a lively, ex­citing town to paint red, don't hold your breath. But while the surrounding area is hardly a wealth ofentertaining possibili­ties, campus life can more than make up for any such shortcomings. Here's a handy guide of what to do on those otherwise dull weekends. 
SCREEN AND STAGE 
•NDCinema 
You can catch_the cream ofHollywood, independent and international films in the Hesburgh Library auditorium ev­ery Thursday night. Recent films have included Lost in· Translation, "0" and The Quiet American, .and each feature is pre­ceded by a short student film. Formerly known as Cinema at the Snite, this new project is sponsored by the Department ofFilm, Television and Theatre. · 
• SUB Movies 
. The Student Union Board shows 3­doliar movjes every Thursday, Friday and Saturday night. While it also shows older, second-run films, it tends to focus on larger Hollywood hits, like Kill Bill, Paycheck and Mystic River. 
• Student Film Festival . 
Every January, the films made by Notre Dame's :film-production students are showcased for three .nights at the Snite, courtesy ofNDCinema. Consider this your chance to check out the :films before they hit the indie film-festival 
From classical tragedy to lowbrow comedy to foot-tapping musicals, Notre Dame's got it all. Washington Hall hosts many performances during the year, often featuring the professional English troupe, Actors from the London Stage, in their unique renditions of Shakespeare's plays. Every year, the Pasquerilla East Music Company presents a popular musical to sell-out crowds. Recent hits have included Damn Yankees and West Side Story. Ava­riety of other shows are hosted through additional groups such as ND Opera, The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company, and St. Edward's Hall Players. 
• DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Once completed, this will be Notre I)ame's newest building in an ambitious campus-wide construction plan. It is scheduled to open this Fall. The center will feature five different theaters, includ­ing the Regis Philbin Studio Theater and an innovative 100-seat pipe-organ the­ater. The theaters have been designed so that concerts may be held simultaneously without noise interference from each other. Covering 150,000 square feet and at a cost of nearly $63 million, the performing arts center will be the new home of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and Theater. The new theaters will absorb some of the student perfprmances currently held in Washing-

LIVE MUSIC AND MEDIA 
• AcoustiCafe 
Every Thursday night at LaFortune Student Center, the Student Union Board hosts an open-mic night for student s9lo musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a hankering for some John Mayer and Norah Jones covers or you just want to check out the original music 
· produced by campus talent, this event is free for everyone. If you're interested in performing yourself, SUB has open sign­ups each week. 
• Concerts and Shows 
Not a heck of a lot of bands pass through South Bend, but you can count on Notre Dame to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent per­formers have included Everclear, Guster, Better Than Ezra, Black-Eyed Peas and stand-up comedy by David Spade. Great bands should continue to invade campus with the year's kickoff event, Student Ac­tivities' "The Show." Also keep your eye out for concerts at the JACC, courtesy of 
· local ·radio stations. Past years' offering have included John Mellencamp, Toby Keith and U2. 
• Collegiate Jazz Festival 
This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot of attention from jazz enthusiasts na­tionwide, including Branford Marsalis, 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 35 


FROM MACHIAVELLI TO MAKAVELI Notre Dame students can entertain,themselves on campus,in-a--variety of ways, from attending live theatre at venues like Washington Hall and the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center to listening·.to live-bands at one of several student music festivals. 
who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. 
•NDTV 
The newest addition to student-run media, Notre Dame Television runs a 30-minute, bi-weekly news-magazine program, highlighting campus news, sports, entertainment events, and more. Catch it every other Thursday on Com­castlocal access cable channel 3. 
ARTS AND LITERATURE 
• Sophomore Literary Festival 
For one week each February, a commit­tee of sophomores hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their own work. Going into its 37th year, it has featured such legendary writers as Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, John Irving and Tom Clancy. 
• The Visiting Writers Series 
The Creative Writing Program, a graduate program at Notre Dame, also hosts a number ofwriters throughout the year. These readings don't tend to get a great deal of press, so look around the hallways of O'Shaughnessy for posters, or check out the English department's cal­endar of events at www.nd.edu/~english/ calendar.html. 
• Snite Museum 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Sunday, and admission is free. It tends 
36 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
to be one of Notre Dame's less-traveled treasures, although many students and professors attend the opening ofthe spring exhibit where the MFA and BFA students showcase their work. 
STUDENT ACTIVITY GROUPS 
• Student Union Board (SUB) 
While South Bend isn't exactly an entertainment hub like New York or Chicago, SUB does a good job of bring­ing outside shows and speakers to campus as well as sponsoring various on-campus activities. Divided into several branches, SUB not only provides weekly movies and occasional concerts but also mul­ticultural and intellectual activities in addition to student services like prize raffles, organized trips, and final exam stress relievers. 
• Flipside 
Though looked down on by some as an "anti-drinking" organization, Flipside does a good job of providing consistent student activities, usually on the mellower side. Expect a few video game and board game tournaments and prize nights, as well as organized trips to local mini-golf and bowling establishments. While not the premier source of entertainment on campus, Flipside can be counted on for planned events nearly every weekend. 
CHICAGO 

When the Bend becomes too monoto­nous, consider a day or weekend trip to the Windy City. Freshmen aren't allowed cars first semester, but public transporta­tion has you covered. The South Shore 
.Line can take you from South Bend Air­port and approximately 2 hours later drop you offon Randolph Street in downtown Chi-Town. From there, un-South Bend activities await, like lunch at Gino's Pizza, shopping on Michigan Avenue, or hang­ing out at Navy Pier. 
DJ,Y. l 

If all entertainme11topticms fail, you're i .goingtohave cloityoµrself. '!'hough thislist may seem extensive, it's ahnostguaranteed 
•·· thatyc:iu're goingto hitafewgrayanddismal 
· Saturdayevenings heri; in South Bend. But Notre Dameisn't~9 much apoutthe things . you do• as it, is, abot1t the people you me(;t. .. ·• Whenyourcalendaris emptyand t_he snow ·is piled up outside, there's nothinglike· an impromptu dorm.:room luau or something· as simple as hot ~hocplate andvideos with yournew fi:iends. freshrnanyear can,bethe !,. bestoftimes ~ncl theworst ()ftimes, buta• i little ci-~ativitycango alo11gway. Itcansave. 
'a lot ofmoney,tcio. ..·. .·· . \ .•· ··.. ·.· .. ,· ·.·· ...·. Ofco~rse ifaUelfofailsandy()U find ·. ·yourselfspendingyourFriday11ights star-' 
•ing atthe ;vall, ych1 c:an alw'ays apply for a . 
job atScholastic; . . .. . .· . . . ·· 
L_:·.. ·. < . -·~/---'·-~""'-'--~~c..,...,.c..~~~ 

Want to pursue a career in SPORTS MARKETING? 
CC©m~ W©r~ f©r itlh~ N©itr~ D©1m~ Aitrh~~it~(C§ D~[P©1rtM~Ulit ~ 

Check out our web site at www.und.com and click on the Promos & Giveaways link 

Deadline-to apply is Wednesday, September 1st 
WE SPENT SO MUCH TIME ON OUR FANCY LOGO ~ ......., tV THAT WE OVERLOOKED WHAT THIS AD SHOULD SAY. 
SO WE THOUGHT OF THIS AT THE LAST MINUTE. 
enjoy the logo 
by the way, we're the student-run tv show. visit us at www.ndtv.net don't click on it. its not really a link. but do join us. we need the help... obviously. 



NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
Sometimes the monotony of the dining hall is too much to bear. Perhaps taking that prospective sweetheart or hunk to Reckers just isn't good enougn. Better yet, maybe the parents are in town and want to fulfill their biological duty to feed you.Whatever the reason, getting off campus every now and then will keep your tastebuds in better shape. We propose visiting some of the following venues to satiate your deepest culinary hankerings. 
THE WHITEHOUSE DINER ("FAT SHIRLEY'S") 
Location: Corner of Mishawaka and Twyckenham Prices: Meals range from $2 to $5 
The atmosphere is smoky and the food is greasy, but ma~ is it good. Besides, dining hall fare can be greasy e~ough .-if you're going to eat unhealthily, you might as well do 1t the nght way. The Whitehouse Diner, nicknamed "Fat Shirley's" after a previous waitress's girth, is the place to be after parietals have taken effect and Reeker's becomes a little too played out. The food is cheap, off of a classic diner menu -breakfasts are the house specialty and are served all day and all night (the diner is open 24 hours). Note: Avoid anything labeled "stew." 
YESTERDAY'S 
Location: 12594 State Road 23; Granger, IN Prices: Dinners with salad range from $12 to $25 
Famous for their desserts, Yesterday's is decorated, as its name would suggest, with artifacts from days gone by. The cheesecake is amazing, and most ofthe pies are good, too. While a favo~ite of many, the restaurant is located in nearby Granger, which means you'll have to bum a ride or borrow a car. 
ELIA'S MEDITERRANEAN CUISINE 
Location: 111 Dixieway North Prices: Appetizers range from $1.50 to $4 Entrees range from $ 6 to $10 
Most newcomers -and current students -are surprised at the diversity that South Bend can offer: diversity of food, that is. One Lebanese family operating an ethnic restaurant doesn't exactly mark a boom in the city's cultural demographic, but it does make for interesting eating. The building itself is a veritable "hole in the wall," but it's the menu that makes Elia's a dining choice for such personages as Ara Parseghian and Fr. Hesburgh. The food is, in a word, different. Appetizers include hummus, baba ghannouge, and grape-leaf rolls. Main courses are healthy and most frequently contain rice, chicken, and beans. The spices are mild, almost too mild for a palate accustomed to the seasoned "beef'' at Taco Bell. Desserts, like everything else, are homemade and along with the coffee are delicious. Oh and it's cheap, which you'll soon find is an indispensable spec for popular student restaurants. 
MIKADO 

Location: 402 Dixieway North (Rte. 31) Prices: Dinners range from $6 to $16 
Either sit at a conventional table or up at the teppanyaki coun­ter where the chef will prepare your food right in front ofyou. This Japanese ~estaurant is popular with stu~ents and Sou_th Bend residents alike. Its relaxed atmosphere 1s fine for family dining or a date. ffyou like dar~er meat, we highly r~com~end the sukiyaki steak -thinly sliced steak drenched m a mix of teriyaki and soy sauces, spiced with onions for extra ~avor. If you like sushi, come here to get it fresh. The menu mcludes items for more adverturous eaters like octopus and barbequed eel. Relatively inexpensive, Mikado is fun for a quick break from campus monotony. 
SORIN'S 

Location: On campus, part of the Morris Inn Prices: Appetizers are $6 Main courses range from $20 to $32 
The most expensive joint on this list, Sorin's is high-class. It's located inside the Morris Inn on campus, but because of the prices Sorin's sees fewer students than faculty a;11d admin­istration. Next to the none-too-cheap LaSalle Gnll and the Carriage House, this is some of the best dining around. Good for a really nice date, or a pampering by the 'rents. On a busy weekend, you're more than likely to catch a glimpse of one of ND's big bosses, and maybe even a visiting celebrity or two. You can count on any entree to be excellent, but the filet mignon is especially good. 
BORACHO BURRITO 
Location: 1724 N. Ironwood (I block south of State Rd. 23) Prices: Meals range from $4 to $7 
The philosophy at th}s rundown restaurant is that quantity is quality -and that's a good thing. Boracho's massive bur­ritos are famous among students and the object of many 3 a.m. munchie attacks. You can't go wrong with a steak burrito. The quesadillas are quite good as well, and their nachos come with a tasty helping of salsa verde. 
RITTER'S 

Location: 3921 N. Main St. Prices: Main items range from $3 to $6 
We have to admit dining hall ice cream c:an be pretty good, but dessert aficionados know that when it comes to South Bend it's hard to beat out the frozen custard at Ritter's. What's the difference between ice cream and ice custard? Who knows, but try the Turtle Something or Nst plain Chocolate. Ritter's is open only in the warmer months, so get over there before the fall chill sets in. D 
38 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

2001 & 2002 Indiana Collegiate Press SCHOLaSTIC 
Association News Magazine of the Year 
understand campus events even when you're not on campus 
Il 1ssuEs 35 DOLLARS 
Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars.. 
. . . .
I . . I 
I .PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST.. SEND THIS FORM AND 1 · 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: . I NAME:----------------.SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER I 
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 II ADDRESS:----,-------------, 
I ___________ I I I 
I • • ,. --~­
~ 
. . 
..,_ -------------­
Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university isn't justto shape minds but to move hearts, and that differentiates this place from the college pack. 
Fr. Jim King ('81) just finished hisfirst year as rector ofSorin College. He has served as Direc­tor ofVocations for the Indiana Prov~nce ofthe Con!fYegation ofHoly Crossfor sixyears. 
Get an Education, 
Find a Vocation 
0 nee upon a time, in the late 12th cen­tury, a traveler was wandering through a construction site in a small French city called Paris. The great cathedral ofNotre Dame was merely a muddy hole in the ground, sur­rounded by scaffolding and quarried limestone. The wayfarer saw several men chipping away at it and approached them. "What are you doing?" he asked the first. The stonecutter responded gruffly, "What I do every day, working like a dog, getting blisters from chiseling these lousy rocks." The traveler proceeded a few more yards and stopped before a second worker. "What are you doing?" he asked. "I have a knack for working stone -and, a wife and five kids to support. Hey, it pays the bills," the mason answered. Thewanderer approached the third stonecutter and asked, "What are you doing?" He answered, "I'm using the gifts God gave me to build a beau­tiful cathedral that will glorify Him. It fills my heart with joy." Which ofthese three discovered his true vocation? In a few weeks, your journey of discovery be­gins. You might have been rooting for the Irish since you were three; perhaps your parents and five older siblings came here; or maybe this was simply the best school that sent you a fat en­velope in March. But it makes no difference why you've come; what matters is what you have become by the time you graduate. Sometime after you show up at the main gate with three times as much junk as you need, I hope you realize that you are really here to discover your vocation --which is infinitely · more important than merely lining up a job with Morgan Stanley your senior year. · Regrettably, there are far too many people plunging into mid-life crises at forty-five having spent half their lives doing something they loathe because they thought itwas the best way to make a buck or keep their parents off their backs when they were eighteen. However, it's a waste of time to come to this Catholic university unless you are willing to spend these years looking deep into your soul to discover what most fills your heart with joy and gives meaning to your life. The Congregation ofHoly Cross established Notre Dame in 1842 with a very clear purpose. 
by Rev. Jim King, C.S.C. I 
As our community's founder, Fr. Basil Moreau, 
C.S.C. explained, "We shall always place edu­cation side by·side with instruction. The mind will not be cultivated at the expense of the heart." Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university isn't just to shape minds but to move hearts, and that-differentiates this place from the college pack far more than gold helmets on game day. 
Fortunately, you will be living in a residence hall where the rector will likely know your name within a week,if not before you walk in the door. You will be very well cared for, even though some­times you won't like it, but you should not leave Notre Dame feeling ignored or unchallenged. We graduate 98% of our incoming freshmen, so whatever fears you have about whether you can cut it, the fact is people only flunk out when they want to. You shouldn't have to worry about cutting it, just making the most ofit. 
· I admit that living in a sweaty 116-year-old building with 152 sleep-deprived undergraduates constantly pushing the envelope can be irritating, frustrating and exhausting -for me and them. I Jail runs at 4:00 a.m. are not my favorite thing, ! I;. · and, like people who work in homeless shelters, I·i:my patience for dealing with drunks runs thin i. as the semester drags on. Still, I wouldn't trade 
1·.' 
1::

late nights and noisy hallways for a more normal i-. existence. Watching students grow through their I: 
i,, 
i,.

mistakes and discover their vocations is simply l.'. i. 
the most rewarding (and entertaining) job I can I J.L imagine. Besides, there is no more fun place in God's glorious creation to celebrate Sunday Mass than in a Notre Dame residence hall at 
10:00 p.m. 

I would not be a Holy Cross priest today if it weren't for the people who lived with and men­tored me a generation ago, and there have been thousands like me who arrived thinking they would do one thing until they felt their hearts calling them to do another (think Knute Rockne becoming ·a football coach for a podunk Catholic college rather than a chemistry prof). Lots of people have been changed by Notre Dame and made it a better place, too. 
You each have a path. Dedicate yourself for the next four years to discovering what you love most, and you will find your vocation here at Notre Dame -and end up afterward building something that really matters. . 
40 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 




>The Voic.e of Radio is 1always_ ch~nging.... 
your voice be 
··•---~'-'-' --...· /~,}t
;heard. with WVFI 1 ··_ 
_Worldwi·de 
. -­
. . ' . .. ' . .. . 
rvoic,e· of the .. Fighting·· Irish!­
. . . -
BeaDJatthe. 
. . .. 

only st.udenJ•run· · station-at Notre -·­
. . . 
Dame.· 
'.~Jt-·I.!-·.
.. 

. ·_,. ,.
·: .· --.·: -·­
.. •. ...··.•.'·t'c,:y< . 
-.,,, >tc'

·. i~toadc~tb13,1-lol,alllJ. at 
·•• ••· wvfi.J1.d.e.rJa wit/,_ ~Aow~ foo,n. Bivn.-lam. 7 d"IJ~ a . -·1<·1 -· .";~·,~.. !­
. . .~.;8•;, 
t . wee .· 
_;~~-'i!t~
i;b~,..;:~-­

Stop by our booth. at Student Activities Night in September! · 
fliecl< ou.t mu.!li.c 1tevi.ewt1 an.¢ the cam.pu.~ !lcen.e at vvww.nd.edu/r--., mindset _. 




Domer 
Mail in applkation __________ _ 


I LoC:ai i\ddfe~s 


. · I 

Enclosed is the following amount to open • a Domer Dollar Account. 
$__ (minimum $50) 
Deposit is by: __Cash __Check 

Please mail to: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box 1043 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (5 74) 631 -7814 

PRESORTED STANDARD 
U.S. Postage PAID 
Notre Dame, IN Permit No. 2 

Domer Dollars make campus life easier! 
You don't need to carry cash! 
Simply use your University ID card to 
buy just about anything on campus. 
Domer Dollars are safe, convenient "electronic funds" accessed by using your ID card. 
To find out more about Domer Dollars visit 
www.nd.edu/~cardsvcs 
Opening an account couldn't be easier or faster . 
Just use our web site! It's safe, secure, and very convenient. Remember this site for balance 
inquiries, sales histories and of course, 
future deposits! You can make a deposit using either MasterCard or Visa. 
www.nd.edu/~cardsvcs 
A few Domer Dollar locations; 
Hammes Bookstore 

(Get your books and supplies) 
ND Food Service locations 
(these are just a few) 
Burger King Starbucks Subway Sbarra 
Reckers Legends of Notre Dame 
Vending and Laundry 

The Copy Shop The Copy Center, Hesburgh Library ND Print Services The Morris Inn The OIT Solution Center 






