HOW THE STARS GOT STARTED
FOR MILDNESS AND FLAVOR
amels
agree with more people
THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
I STARTED
SMOKING CAMELS
SMOKING MOST WERE
UKE CAMELS FLAVOR
CAMELS <5*20 YEARS
SINCE I DISCOVERED
FLAVOR AND
s
0
Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey say: “Our Dad led the brass band
in our home town. He started us on our way tooting in the band when
we were eight years old. We watched and studied successful musicians as much as we could, worked real hard and, little
by little, began to get there.”
THE |FABULOUS
DORSEYS
CAMELS SWELL
WONDERFUL MILDNESS
LONG AGO. I WATCHED, AND
THE GUYS WHO ENJOYED
GUYS WHO SMOKED
CAMELS. THERES NOTHING
START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!


A Budding Tradition?
Editor:
Here we go again! For two years the Juniors have been cringing under the derisive taunts of the other classes. At last we have our revenge. So-o-o-o, all together, Juniors: Who is Bill Walker? (Cackle! Cackle!)
Mike Coffey Off-campus ■
Dreamer in Our Midst?
Editor:
For the past few months my neighbors and myself have been discussing among other school policies the same policy your “Editor’s Page” reviewed in the last issue of the Scholastic, that of the limited night lights. Although it didn’t pertain directly to us freshmen, it was quite interesting. The most hopeful note •extracted was the term “Fireside Chat . . .” Hence, we hope that quite a few of the policies will become more liberal.
It seems very apparent to us that except for the fact that some students would create disturbances the policy is very ridiculous. Quite a bit more personal initiative and responsibility would be created if students were allowed to pattern their conduct freely. Should those who can’t conform remain at Notre Dame?
If not established for economical purposes, midnight lights imposed on Juniors and Seniors is absurd. Does it appear logical that adults should have their lights turned out for them at a specified hour or are they considered adults? We leave this to campus judgment.
This letter is written in good faith hoping that a change may possibly come about. If not, maybe a brief elucidation of the aforementioned policies could be given .in the next issue of your excellent publication. This would be thoroughly appreciated.
R. S. Davis
225 Zahm Hall
■
A Lady Heard From
Editor:
Re: Gordon Bergquist’s article on “character” in the March 5 issue, it seems that Mr. Bergquist has tried, and for his own whims, has succeeded, in separating the two synonymic terms of (Continued on Page 30)
See the New Van Heusen Shirts at
RASMUSSEN men's shop MAIN AND WASHINGTON STREETS
A modest little freshman named Caspar Doyle found • himself getting quite neurotic. It seemed that every time a girl looked at Caspar, he blushed. His sallow little cheeks turned a violent crimson. Then he would blush more because he was blushing.
He didn’t get very' far with the ladies and began brooding. Fortunately, he was a wealthy modest little freshman, and he finally bundled his problem off to a psychiatrist.
“I even hate my shirts. I know when I wear a white shirt it’s only going to make my blush look redder,” he dolefully intoned from the couch.
The head-shrinker’s eyes lit up with dollar signs. He said: “Ahem. This trauma is obviously deep-seated and will take a long time to unravel. But meanwhile, try wearing some Vanahue shirts. Van Hensen makes them in lots of colors that, will tone down your blush and you’re bound to like the smart new collar styles. For your practical side, they’re fine smooth broadcloth, color fast and Sanforized.
See my nurse for the bill, please!”
Caspar bought Vanahue in all the colors and smart new collar styles for $3.95 each. It worked. So many of the girls look at . him notv. he blushes constantly. Everybody thinks he just looks rugged and virile.
March 12, 1954
3
Parker-Wiiterrowd Ine.
Complete service to oil Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
hrker-Wiiterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115%-117% No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Scholastic
Vol. 95 March 19, 1954 No. 19
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter		at Notre Dame.
Indiana.	Accepted for mailing ;	at special rate of
postage. June 23.	Section 1101. October 3. 1918.	1917. Authorized
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ................  Features
FRED C. ECKART....................News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ....Assistant News JOHN A. ADAMS ...................  Copy
ROBERT B. FROLICHER .............Sports
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ............Circulation JERRY D. BAIER .............Advertising
BOB FOWLER_________Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE______Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton. Robert Kaufman, John Kelly, Eugene Les-mez, James Mason, James McIntosh. Charles McKendrick, Jack Mullin, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan. Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Norman Wendrowski
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Kit EckI, Gary Gates, John Guegen, Dave Kilkeary, Jack Kirby. Ray Lescher, Dick Mannion, Jim Morris, John Phelan, Bob Ruhl. LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sen-ice, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: The big trophy you see on our front cover this week could be termed—quite aptly—as the symbol of over 70 years’ progress in the art of arguing at Notre Dame.
To be more specific, it’s the Bolger Memorial Trophy—awarded annually to the winner of the Notre Dame debating club’s big invitational tourney held here each Spring.
Arguments for the trophy are going on all this weekend, so if you’ve never taken the time to watch a sharp bunch of speakers, take advantage of the opportunity right now. Finals of the tourney are slated for tomorrow afternoon.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St;
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquete and Partiee
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
RESTRING WITH
At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.
STANDS UP in your racket • Moisture Immune e Lasting Liveliness
STANDS OUT in play e Harder Smashes e Better Cut and Spin
COSTS LESS than gut
APPtOX. STRMGMG COST: Pro-Fected Braid....$6.00 UulK-Ply Braid.$5.00
AShAAAX BRAiDED RACKET STRING
C~c :e c- T"e Champions

4
The Scholastic
have decided that they are all-outofit. So here is the WEEK All-American team (Yep, you guessed it):
Pos.	Player	School
Forward	Joe Bertrand	Notre Dame
Forward	John Fannon	Notre Dame
Center	Dick Rosenthal	Notre Dame
Guard	Junior Stephens	Notre Dame
Guard	Bill Sullivan	Notre Dame
by Ken Murphy
Top of the WEEK
St. Patty’s Day . . .
The Long, Long Wait
It has been insinuated that one of the most marked characteristics of the Notre Dame man is his indomitable love of the sack. In plain Yiddish, he’s tired—he likes to sleep.
We believe we may have hit on the cause of this. After long and tedious work on the matter, our research staff has come up with a few facts and figures (mostly figures).
Presuming that the average school year is approximately 235 days in length, and that one-half hour of each of these days is wasted standing in line over in the Dining Room (ten minutes for morning coffee, ten for lunch and likewise for supper — it figures), our researchers found that 117% hours per annum are passed over in the local food dispensary.
For all you guys who aren’t math majors, that figures out to 470 hours in four years. Add to that number the three hours per year at five minutes per week spent in line at the laundry, the hour and some odd minutes spent twice a year at the B-X, and the four hours spent waiting for the various editions of prom tickets, and it’s little wonder that the Notre Dame man yawns in the face of his St. Mary’s date.
Predilectoral College
Latest safety slogan in the Siberian Steppes is rumored to go something like this:
“Vote Carefully: The Life You Save May Be Your Own.”
Al I-Hardwood
After observing the various AllAmerican basketball quints published by the wire services and magazines, we
“Look over your shoulder. I'm walking behind"
While on the subject of basketball, there’s one thing that’s been bothering us all weekend. How come, since “Long One” Schlundt is an All-American and Rosie isn’t, Schlundt only got one field goal against Rosie. How come, huh? Did you do something unethical to him, Rosie?
It Ain’t on the Map
Either the post office employees are really on the ball, or else they are ail avid football fans. A fellow received a letter the other day which was addressed to “Lattnerville, Indiana.”
Poor Petrillo
Here’s something for you to tiy on a rainy day, when you can’t get outside and play. Put the phrase “you’ll get campussed” behind all of the popular song titles that come to mind.
For example: “One Moment More, You’ll Get Campussed.” You can use it ■with other song titles too, such as “I Wanna Go On a Lovin’ Spree,” “Cross Over the Bridge,” “Some Enchanted Evening,” “Roll Out the Barrel,” “California Here I Come,” “Somebody Stole My Gal,” “Wandering,” “You, You You,” and many, many more.
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . comes only once a year.
^fARLt-SS^OSDICK. by AL CAPP
BARBERS EVERYWHERE RECOMMEND # WILDROOT CREAM-OtLTO REMOVE LOOSE DANDRUFF & KEEP HAIR WELL GROOMED
March 19, 1954
5
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop, by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti" The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made ChiK Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH RB>AIRING
BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates 228 So. Michigan St.
CAMERAS FOUNTAIN PENS

128 W. Washington
MARCH 19
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—The opening night for The Lady's Not For Burning, directed by Mr. Tumpane. Rody Oppenheim, Jerry Godwin and Nancy Irgrang have the principal roles.
AVON (through March 23)—Ride Clear of Diablo (A-2), an action packed western with an abundance of badmen, purty girls, and crucial moments. Audie Murphy plays a youthful sheriff bent on getting revenge for the killing of his father and brother. Susan Cabot serves as a diversion.
COLFAX (through March 24)—Saskatchewan (A-2) offers a rapidly-moving story and some of the most beautiful scenery ever filmed. Alan Ladd, in the role of a Mountie, is as usual, the cool operator who saves the day. Shelly Winters is his romantic interest.	.
GRANADA (through March 25)—Beneath the 12-Mile Reef (A-l) is • CinemaScope production that deals with sponge fishing off the coast of Florida. The story centers around a traditional enmity between Greek and English fishing families. A love affair between Robert Wagner of a Greek family and Terry Moore of an English family ends in the reconciliation that you have been expecting all along.
PALACE (ends tomorrow)—Two pics that promise nothing, Battle of Rouge River (A-l) and Four-Sided Triangle.
STATE (ends tomorrow)—A couple of oldies that most of us saw in the early days in grammar school, Drums Along the Mohawk and Mark of Zorro.
RIVER PARK (ends tomorrow)—All the Brothers Were Valiant (A-2) back for a second try. With it is something called Target Hong Kong.
ST. MARY’S (7:30 p.m.)—The girls from across the Dixie stage their annual variety show. This year it’s called “Time ’n’ Tempo.”
MARCH 20
STUDENT CENTER (3:15-5:15)—Coach Terry Brennan will speak and show football movies as part of Parent-Son Weekend.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:15 p.m.)—The Lady’s Not For Burning in its second night.
ST. MARY’S (7:30 p.m.)—“Time ’n’ Tempo” also in its second night.
MARCH 21
PALACE (through March 25)—Bait (B) is one of those jobs that is tabbed “strictly for the adults” in order to draw big audiences. It’s not worth your curiosity, much less your money. The second feature is Charge of the Lancers (A-2).
STATE (two days—The Bowery boys clown their way through a double feature, Lucky Losers and Blonde Dynamite.
WASHINGTON HALL (2:30 and 8:15 p.m.)—The last chance for you to see The Lady’s Not For Burning.
MARCH 23
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (8 p.m.)—Dr. Robert McCready and Father Francis Cavanaugh take over the Marriage Institute lectures. The subject will be “Psychiatry in Marriage.”
MARCH 24
AVON (one week)—Carleton Heston and Eleanor Parker battle a horde of jungle ants amidst marital difficulties in Naked Jungle. They defeat the ants and live harmoniously ever after.
MARCH 25
COLFAX (a week)—Phantom of the Rue Morgue is based on one of Poe’s most gruesome stories. The movies have succeeded, however, in making it even more gruesome. This one has all kinds of horror devices—killei- apes, mad scientists, wild animals. On the side of innocence, of course, is the pretty girl, played by Patricia Medina.
RIVER PARK (through March 27)—Casanova Brown and It’s a Pleasure.
6
The Scholastic
mm me
THOUGHT OF THE WEEK —amid. nationwide charges of alleged subversion in everything from printing houses to foxholes — comes from the desk of Editor Gordon Hayes, of the Tulane University T ulanian:
“A university is a place where the minds of men . . . are free. Free to explore— free to question—free to think. Without such freedom there cannot be a university.
“The misguided souls who . . . search for false doctrines in the universities do not know that a real university has no doctrines—that a real university is itself a constant and persistent investigation of all doctrines.”
Depends upon whether the “misguided” have “souls,” and what kind of “false doctrines” they’re “searching” with. . .
ONE OF OUR READERS, Mr. R. S. Davis of Zahm Hall, poses some interesting questions about the Seniors’ midnight lights via the “Letters Column,” which you’ll find on page three of this week’s issue.
Mr. Davis is of the opinion that, (unless) they are established for economical reasons, the idea of imposing even midnight lights on students is “absurd.” The contention which Mr. Davis holds isn’t unusual; in fact, you might say it’s legion among Notre Dame students.
The only objection to the policy, which our reader also mentions, is the fact that “some students would (always) create disturbances.” This isn’t just the only objection, however. It’s the heart of the matter. The administration has already hinted that if it weren’t for this particular group of students, the midnight' lights would be granted on a permanent basis not only for Seniors, but for all classes. It might not be too “absurd” to stretch that hint a little farther and say that everybody could possibly have all-night lights if it weren’t for the unnecessary disturbances which a certain few students make even after 11 o’clock.
In proposing that “quite a bit more personal initiative and responsibility would be created if students were allowed to pattern their conduct freely,” our reader brings up the same argument which won the privilege of midnight lights for Seniors in the first place. In other words, the extended lights policy is an experiment to determine if the argument holds water. The report, which Scholastic has compiled for this issue, indicates that a few students who create unnecessary disturbances are forming one of its most serious leaks.
Perhaps it all boils down to the old adage that “for the sins of a few, many must suffer.” We hope not.
In any event, Scholastic’s editors appreciate letters such as Mr. Davis’ which indicate serious thinking and constructive criticism. With this sort of response, there’s a better chance the seemingly “absurd” policies governing student life will take on a complexion of “sanity” more readily.
STUDENT SENATE TAX PROGRAM was derailed for the second consecutive week last Monday night when the Committee for Revisions asked for more time to study the problem and formulate a possible solution. The delay in reaching an agreement on the program might be a trifle embarrassing to President Tom Field and his senators, but we think they should be congratulated for taking their time and giving this important problem as much careful consideration as possible. It needs it.
This is the situation: More than 25 per cent of the undergraduate student body did not pay their student activities fee in January. Many of them used the original loophole permitting immunity because of “financial inabilities” to show the Senate they didn’t like either: (a) the whole idea of paying a student activities tax, or; (b) the specific amount of $1 which they might have thought was too much, or; (c) the differential tax placed on top of dance and special activities prices for those who failed to pay the $1 fee.
The Committee for Revisions is now trying to find out which of these reasons prompted you, if you were one of the non-payers, to shun the tax. It will mean that either: (a) the students don’t want to pay any taxes, and would rather let the administration handle their problems, or; (b) the students want to reduce the present tax rate.
They’ll be discussing it again Monday night. If you have anything to say, speak up. You’re going to pay the taxes.
March 19, 1954
7
Collegians Bowled Over—Say "Arrow GABANARO Fits Perfectly”
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Sports Shirts Feature Exact Collar Sizes and Sleeve Lengths
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
DRRWTURB0W \OPTOMETRIST
— OPTICAL REPAIRS — Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces” ----EYES EXAMINED----------
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
According to college men, Arrow “Gabanaro” is the best-fitting sports shirt on this and every campus— with built-in comfort . . . neater, smarter lines. “Gabanaro” features a wide range of colors in washable rayon gabardine.
MUlOir w----------------- TRADE ® MARK
--- SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR « HANDKERCHIEFS ' SPORTSWEAR -
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
Pizza Spaghetti Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks Open on Sunday Nights You’re always welcome at .. .
ROCCO'S 537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
See the new Arrow Shirts at
Midtigan at Washington — On the Comer
$4,000,000
is the annual amount spent by Notre Dame Students in South Bend.
Tap this rich market with Advertisements in the Scholastic
s
The Scholastic
smn
Volume 95, Number 19
Notre Dame, Indiana
March 19, 1954
Irish Debaters Host 17 Teams This Week-End; Defending Champ, Dartmouth, Vies For Title
By DAVE COHEN
Preliminary rounds got underway this morning in the Second Annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament. Debaters from 17 colleges and universities in the eastern portion of the United States are competing for the Father William A. Bolger rotating trophy, and for several other individual and team awards.
The first six preliminary rounds are being held in the LaFortune Student Center. Tomorrow afternoon the semifinals will be held in the Nieuwland Science Building and the finals in the Law Auditorium.
The defending team champions from Dartmouth College are here to try for the title again although Charles Buchanan and David Horlacher, Dartmouth’s leading individual debaters in 1953 have graduated. Last year’s runner-up, Bradley, didn’t enter. The other schools competing are: Denison, Wake Forest, Pennsylvania, Case Institue, the United States Military Academy, Purdue, Georgetown (foreign service school), Augustana, Pittsburgh, Wisconsin State of Eau Claire, Miami (Fla.), the United States Naval Academy, Western Michigan, Vermont, Loyola, and the host squad from Notre Dame.
Carl Gunderson and Don Dowden will represent Notre Dame in the tournament. Last week Dowden was ranked as the “outstanding speaker” in the Brooklyn College debate tournament in New York.
The question the 17 teams are debating .is, “Resolved: The United States Should Adopt a Policy of Free Trade.” The judges for this event will be qualified persons representing the various visiting teams.
Aside from the Father Bolger team trophy that former debate team members donated last year in the memory of Notre Dame’s ex-debate coach, the outstanding individual speaker will get a permanent plaque. The top four teams will also get permanent plaques. In addition, the top ten individual speakers will receive certificates of merit.
Last year’s outstanding individual de
bater was Denison Ray of Alabama Polytechnic Institute.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, said, “We’re interested in running only the best tournament. The teams coming here are the top teams in the country.” William J. Hank, Notre Dame senior debater and tournament chairman added, “This tournament could be called the basketball NIT of debate.”
The visiting teams arrived on campus
SOMMER, HANK, DOHERTY
In the Middle—the Bolger Trophy
yesterday for registration. They drew their opponents for the opening rounds by lot this morning.
Charles V. Doherty, Notre Dame debate team member and tournament secretary, has been assisting Prof. Sommer and Hank with arrangements for the meet. In discussing the work of putting such an event on, Hank said, “A good deal of work goes into a tournament such as this. We couldn’t have done it without the help of the administration, the several student groups, and the other members of the N.D. debate squad.” He went on to say that all students and faculty members were urged to attend the tournament.
Popular Vote Sought For Senate's Elections
Tom O’Malley, chairman of the Student Senate committee appointed to investigate senate elections, proposed to the Senate at its meeting last Monday night that drastic changes be made with regard to the election of the senate president.
O’Malley reported that the plan adopted by his committee calls for election of the senate president by popular vote of the student body. He called for this action as a part of the over-all campaign by the Senate to arouse student interest in the Senate and its functions.
A nominee under the committee’s proposal, in order to qualify, would have to be a junior and have at least one year of experience on the Student Senate. This experience might be gained in either the freshman, sophomore, or junior’ years.	‘
The proposed plan will greatly broaden the number of men eligible for the Senate presidency and at the same time will insure that the elected officer has previous experience. The present plan of selecting the Senate president calls for election by the senators with the candidates limited to seven juniors who are at that time Senators.
O’Malley indicated to the Senate that he will ask acceptance of this plan at the regular Senate meeting Monday night in the Student Center.
TOURNAMENT SCHEDULE
Tonight—7 p.m. Round four, Student Center.
Saturday—9 a.m. Round five. Student Center.
Saturday—1:30 p.m. Semi-finals, Nieuwland Science Building.
Saturday—3:45 p.m. Finals, Law Auditorium.
Saturday—5 p.m. Presentation of Awards.
March 19, 1954
9
ND Innovates Seminar For U.S. Businessmen
The University of Notre Dame will join with the U. S. Chamber of Commerce in sponsoring an “Explaining Your Business Seminar” here April 4-8, Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce recently announced. Seventy-five business executives from throughout the country are expected to attend the seminar- which has been designed to improve management-employee relations, Dean McCarthy said.
Sessions will be held in the Morris Inn. Co-sponsors of the seminar are the Committee of 100 of South Bend and Mishawaka and the chambers of commerce of the two cities. According to U. S. Chamber of Commerce officials, the seminar will be the first of its kind to be held cn a college campus.
Speakers and their subjects include Paul H. Good, manager of the Education Department, U. S. Chamber of Commerce, “The Power of People”; Dr. J. Donald Phillips, president of Hillsdale College, “The Key to Better Management-Employee Relations”; Charles H. Smith, president of Steel Improvement and Forge Co., “Better Management-Employee Relations Through Good Communications”; and Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., professor of economics at Notre Dame, “Are We Headed for Deflation?”
J. H. Carmichael, president of Capital Airlines, Inc., “Operation Bootstrap—A Case History of Two-Way Communications at Capital Airlines”; John Jones, director of publications and publicity, Weirton Steel Co., “How to ’ Improve Your Written Communications with Employees”; Conger Reynolds, director of public relations, Standard Oil Co. (Ind.), “Building a Community Relations Program for Business”; Thomas Ballantine, president of Louisville Taxicab and Transfer Co., “Small Business Can Tell Its Story Successfully”; and Dr. Frank S. Cellier, Sears, Roebuck & Co., “A New Concept of Economic Education.”
'States of Life' Forum to End Thursday With Military Topic
The final lecture in the current “States of Life” forum will be presented next Thursday evening at 7:30 in room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Hall.
Headlining the lecture bill will be Lt. Col. George Cookson, U.S.A., of the campus Army ROTC unit, and Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau. They will discuss the topic “The Military Service and the Job.” Cok Cookson will speak on the.military
QUARTET PART OF 47-VOICE CHOIR CONCERT WEDNESDAY
(L-R) Robert Ruetz, June Seigmund, John Cassidy, Marjorie Narducci
Sacred Music Concert Will Present Former ND and St. Mary's Students as Solo Artists
The South Bend Deanery Polyphonic Choir under the direction of Dudley Birder will present a concert of sacred music Wednesday at 8:30 in Washington Hall. The featured works of the concert will be Vaughn-Williams’ Mass in G Minor and Salve Regina by Prof. Carl Mathes of the University’s music department.
The 47-voice choir was recently organized “to promote and perform some of the great works that exist in the almost forgotten treasury of sacred music.”
Soloists for the Mass in G will be June Seigmund, soprano; Marjorie Ruetz Narducci, alto; Robert Ruetz, tenor; and John A. Cassidy, bass.
Former St. Mary's Soloist
June Seigmund, formerly a soloist at St. Mary’s is now choir director at the Catholic church in New Buffalo, Mich. She has studied at the Juilliard School of Music and under Madame Sharnova of the Chicago Civic Opera.
service, and Mr. Dooley will discuss jobs after graduation.
Tickets for the evening lectures will be on sale at the door. The lecture is open to all students and the public is cordially invited to attend.
Marjorie Ruetz Narducci has appeared as soloist in Professor Mathes’ Missa Solemnis in G Minor and at the University’s Bach Festival. She sang the role of Laurir in the Linnet’s production of Oklahoma!
Robert Ruetz, a graduate of the University’s Department of Music and former glee club soloist, sang the leading role in The Pirates of Penzance and HALS. Pinafore by Gilbert and Sullivan. He also sang the leading role in the 1948 student musical, It Ain’t Hay.
John A. Cassidy studied with Boris Guldovsky, Dr. Herbert Graft of the Metropolitan Opera Co., and Maestro Mino Campanino of Rome, Italy. He has done much concert, opera, and light opera work in addition to singing with the Balladeers Male Quartet over the National Broadcasting System. He also appeared in a performance of Bach’s St. Matthew’s Passion and Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony under the baton of Serge Koussevitzky. Mr. Cassidy is presently a member of the Department of English.
Besides the two featured works, the choir will also sing Si Ambulem in Medio by Christopher Tye, Panis Angelicas by Palestrina, Ave Maria by Tomas Luis de Victoria, and Only Begotten Son by A. T. Gretchaninov.
10
The Scholastic
Junior Class Hosts Parents This Week-End; President's Dinner, Open-House on Agenda
Many parents have arrived already and the remainder are expected this evening for the 2nd Annual Parents-Son weekend sponsored by the Junior Class. The program of events officially begins tomorrow morning with registration at the Morris Inn between 9 a.m. and noon. The weekend highlight will be the President’s dinner in the student Dining Hall at 7 p.m. Saturday night.
The schedule calls for an active and complete tour of the University. Jim Sherer, junior class president, and the committee have planned the agenda with much care. The Blue Circle has also assisted in planning the weekend and will handle the registration, the information booths, and have a man on each of the busses that leaves the Oliver Hotel.
This evening there will be information booths at the Morris Inn and Oliver Hotel from 5 till 11 p.m.
Luncheon and dinner tickets must be purchased at registration time tomorrow morning. The parents and off-campus students will pay one dollar for the luncheon, while the charge for the President’s dinner will be §2.00.
Tours Begin at 10 O’clock
Transportation for those staying in town will be provided in the morning by busses leaving the Oliver Hotel at 8:15, 9, and 9:30 a.m. The first two will go directly to Dillon Hall where a Mass will be held shortly after each arrival.
Beginning at 10 a.m. there will be guided tours of the campus. The O’Shaughnessy Hall Art Galleries and studios of WNDU will be seen along with various laboratories in the Nieuw-land Science Hall. There will also be busses leaving the Morris Inn at 10, 10:30, and 11:00 a.m. for LOBUND. Should it rain busses will also be available for the trips to O’Shaughnessy Hall and Nieuwland Science Hall.
Information tables will be set up in the Dining Hall Lobby from 10 a.m. till 2 p.m. and in the LaFortune Student Center from 10 a.m. till 3 p.m.
Lunch in the Student Dining Hall will be served from 11:30 a.m. till 1 p.m. Parents will dine with sons under usual student dining conditions.
Brennan and Grid Movies
At 2 p.m. each College will be host to the parents of its students. This time is specifically for the parents to meet the Deans, and the College Faculty. Each building will have a designated place for
this meeting and cookies with punch will be served. ’	.
At 3:15 p.m. the Student Center will offer continuous showing of the movie “Football Highlights of 1953.” Head football coach Terry Brennan will be present to meet the parents personally. There will also be several members of next year’s team present.
The finals of the Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament will be held in the Law Building auditorium at 3:45 p. m. and the parents are invited to attend. Many notable schools, West Point and Annapolis among them, will be represented.
Parents Meet University Officials
The dinner- with the President will begin at 7 p.m. The main speaker will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Jim Sherer will serve as toastmaster and entertainment will be given by the Notre Dame Glee Club. At this time souvenir brochures will be given to the parents. Seated at the main table will be Father Hesburgh, the vice-presidents of the University, the Junior Class Chaplain, Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., and the Junior Class officers and their parents. Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Student Affairs, will give the blessing.
At 9 p.m. there will be an open house for parents and sons in the Student Center. Father Hesburgh and other University officials will be present to meet the parents.
Parents Mass Sunday
On Sunday morning there will be a High Mass at 9 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church. A special section will be reserved for parents and sons. There will be a bus leaving the Oliver Hotel at 8:40 a.m., going directly to the church.
This will bring to a close the planned activities for the parents, some of whom have come from as far away as Dallas, Texas. An estimated 350 parents are expected to attend.
The committee which organized the weekend are: the four Junior Class officers, Jim Sherer, president, Frank Conklin, vice president, Jim Ehret, secretary, and Jerry Hughes, treasurer; the College representatives, Ron Kueber, Commerce, Jim Norton, Science, Larry Buckley, Arts and Letters, Jack Bat-talora, Engineering, Jerry Hughes, Law; and the three Junior Hall Presidents, Tom O’Malley, Dick Burke, and Jim Deline.
Writers'Confab Staff Adds Prominent Critic
Warren Beck, prominent Midwest novelist, short story writer and critic, has been named to the staff of the sixth annual Writers’ Conference at the University June 28-July 3, according to Prof. Louis Hasley, conference director. Beck is a professor of English at Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis.
The annual conference consists of workshops in poetry, fiction and the teaching of creative writing. Henry Rago, Richard Sullivan and John T. Frederick were named earlier* as directors of the three workshops.
Authors Novels, Short Stories
Beck, originally from Richmond, Ind., was educated at Earlham College and Columbia University. He is the author-of three novels, Into Thin Air, Pause Under the Sky, and Final Score, which received the Friends of American Writers Award in 1945. His short stories have been gathered into three collections, The Far Whistle, The First Fish and The Blue Sash. Five of these stories were selected for the annual volumes of Best American Short Stories between 1939 and 1950 and one of them is included in the Best of the Best American Short Stories, 1915-50.
A member of the Rockefeller Committee on Creative Writing in Colleges, 1945-48, Beck was awarded a Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship in creative and critical writing in 1948 and a Ford Foundation Fellowship in 1952-53. He has served on the staffs of several writers’ conferences including those at the Universities of Missouri and Vermont.
MR. WARREN BECK
Joins Writers’ Conference Staff
March 19, 1954
II
Student Production, 'Lady's Not For Burning,' Opens Five-Show Run Before Packed House
Tonight at 8:30 p.m. the Washington Hall stage will again spring to life as the University Theater presents its second performance of The Lady’s Not For Burning. Playing before a capacity opening night crowd, the student production began its five-show run last night.
Miss Eleanor Kaskey and Eugene Gorski are the stars of the student production of Christopher Fry’s Broadway hit. The able supporting cast includes such veteran performers as Jerry Godwin and Miss Rhody Oppenheim.
Miss Kaskey, a South Bend girl, por-
Dr. McCready to Talk At Marriage Institute
Dr. Robert McCready will present “The Doctor’s Point of View” Tuesday night as the Marriage Institute continues at 7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. Assisting in the question and answer session to follow Dr. McCready’s lecture will be Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Dr. McCready is currently practicing medicine at the Little Company of Mary Hospital on Chicago’s South Side.
He has given pre-Cana talks for the past seven years, and has helped the staff of pre-Cana directors in outlining the material which is presented in the pre-nuptial instructions.
Both Dr. McCready and his wife are active members of the Executive Lay Board.
Father Cavanaugh is a native of Owosso, Mich., and was dean of the AB school for 12 years. He received his B.A. from the University and'his Ph.D. from the Catholic University of America.
Presently, ’ Father Cavanaugh is a member of the American Sociological Society and the Indiana Academy of Social Science. His articles have appeared in several publications, including the American Journal of Social Hygiene, American Sociological Revieiv, Commonweal, Catholic Charities Review, and the Ave Maria.
Father Cavanaugh is also the author of Immigration at Work Today and Notes on the Family.
On March 30, Rev. T. McDonagh •null speak on “Spirituality in Marriage.” The series will conclude April 6 with a discussion on “The Success in Marriage” by Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Burke, to be followed by a movie on reproduction.
Tickets for the rest of the series and the individual lectures may be purchased at the door on each of the evenings.
trays Jennet Jourdemayne, a young girl condemned to be burned for witchcraft. Gorski, the baritone soloist for the Glee Club, plays Thomas Mendip, a discouraged soldier who wants to be hung.
Godwin and George O’Donnell are cast in the comedy roles as two brothers, Nicholas and Humphrey. Miss Oppenheim and another St. Mary’s girl, Miss Nancy Irgang, portray Alison Eliot, and Margaret, the wife of the mayor, respectively. Tyson, the mayor, is played by Richard Robison, while John Nolan is Skips, the missing rag man whose disappearance occasions the whole plot. Sophomores William Bellis and Leland Croghan portray Richard and the Chaplain, and Phil Donahue, the final player, is cast as Tapercoom.
The Lady's Not For Burning is a poetic comedy. Prof. John Tumpane of the Department of Speech is directing the show.
Set in a fifteenth century English village, the plot recounts the events which follow the disappearance of Skips. Jennet is accused of turning him into a dog; and Thomas, disgusted with life, confesses that he has murdered Skips. But Skips is not dead—just drunk; and Thomas decides that life is not so bad especially with Jennet around.
After tonight, three performances remain: one Saturday night, a matinee at 2:30 Sunday, and a Sunday evening show. Tickets may be obtained at the Washington Hall box office from 7:30 p.m. until curtain time and at 2 p.m. before the matinee. Priced at 50 cents for faculty members and students, each ducat will cost the general public SI. There are no reserved seats.
GENE GORSKI
Seeks Death, Finds Love in Role
AB Seniors Invited To Alumni Breakfast
On Sunday, March 28, the Alumni Association will honor the seniors of the College of Arts and Letters with a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn.
The purpose of the breakfast is to acquaint the seniors with the operation and aims of the Alumni Association so that upon graduation they can begin at once to participate in the life of an alumnus. Breakfasts for the seniors in the College of Commerce and those in the Colleges of Engineering and Science have already been held.
Mass will be celebrated in Dillon Chapel at 8 a.m. Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will celebrate the Mass and deliver the sermon. Mr. Denis J. O’Neill of the Class of ’26, will deliver an address at the Communion Breakfast at 9 a.m. in the Morris Inn. Mr. O’Neill currently is an executive of the D’Arcy Advertising Agency of Cleveland. Mr. O’Neill was an outstanding poet, editing Scribbler’s Anthology of Verse in 1923-24, and he edited the Dome in 1926.
Since the Morris Inn can only accommodate 175 men, the first 175 seniors to pick up tickets will be able to attend. The tickets are free and will be distributed at the office of the dean of the AB School and in the Dining Hall. Hours for ticket distribution are 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. next Monday and Tuesday in the Dining Hall, and today through Wednesday at the dean’s office.
Commerce Forum to Present Alex Osborn Next Wednesday
At next Wednesday’s presentation of the Commerce Lecture Series, Mr. Alex F. Osborn will speak on “Creative Thinking” at 4:30 p.m. in the Law Building auditorium.
Mr. Osborn is vice-chairman of the board of Batten, Barton, Durstine, and Osborn, Inc., Buffalo, N. Y. He is a graduate of Hamilton College in Clinton, N. Y.
Osborn has worked as a newspaper reporter, as assistant secretary for the Buffalo Chamber of Commerce, and then as sales manager for the Hard Manufacturing Co.
For several years he worked for an advertising firm until, in 1919, he and two other men formed what is now Batten, Barton, Durstine, and Osborn, Inc.
Writing has also interested Mr. Osborn, who has had three of his books published. They are Your Creative Power in 1948, Wake Up Your Mind in 1951, and Textbook on Applied Imagination in 1953.
12
The Scholastic
FATHER DIEKMANN “The Holiness of Marriage"
By BRUCE HARRISON
'Holiness of Marriage' Topic of Aquinas Talk
The ninth annual Aquinas Lenten Series will continue Sunday night when Rev. Godfrey Diekmann, O.S.B., delivers the main address entitled “The Holiness of Marriage.”
These talks are being sponsored by the Aquinas Book Shop of South Bend, and are given each Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Progress Club, 601 West Colfax Ave.
Father Diekmann is a graduate of St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn. A well-known speaker, Father Diekmann conducted Summer courses at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C., and Notre Dame. He has also edited the liturgical magazine, Worship, since 1938.
The following lecture will be held Sunday, March 28. Dr. Patrick Casey of the Department of English at Loyola University will discuss “Sense in Censorship.”
Frosh Choose Prom Queen By Vote on Pictures of Dates
A new, more democratic system for selecting a Freshman Prom Queen has been accepted by the ’54 Prom Committee. It will replace the traditional method of naming the chairman’s date as queen.
The date of any freshman is eligible for the contest. A pamphlet, explaining the procedure to be followed in entering prom dates in the contest, was issued to the freshmen just recently. Hall (Continued on page 32)
An article in a recent paper, reporting the death of Will Hays, said in part, “the ‘Hays office’ code of good taste in movies remained entrenched until recently, when signs of rebellion began to appear.”
This “rebellion” has become quite evident to the public lately, mainly through three events—the release of The Moon Is Bine, the release of Howard Hughes’ The French Line, and the attack on the code by Samuel Goldwyn.
It seems to be the opinion of quite a few people of importance in the movie industry that the censorship code should be studied with the idea of loosening some of the restrictions it imposes, for the purpose of increasing the realism in movies.
Apparently, then, the moguls think that the Great American Public wants to cope with a little more realism than they’ve been getting in movies, and that they’re qualified for it.
There can be no other reason for an increase in realism—we think it will be generally agreed that the motion picture industry is definitely not one of those “art for art’s sake” mediums. The industry as a whole is commercial, and has consistently used as a guidepost not art, but a substitute that might be called “popular appeal” for want of a better name.
The movies produce what the public wants and likes to see, and if by chance what they want to see is something artistic, then the movies will make it.
"Motive Is ‘Box Office' ”
But the motive is “box-office,” and any desire on the .part of the industry for an increase in realism must mean either that Goldwyn, et al., doesn’t pay any attention to morality, or that he feels that the Public is qualified to have more realism. We don’t think that Mr. Goldwyn would like to be accused of the former.
The feeling here is that the motive for putting such phrases as “professional virgin” and “are you going to seduce me” into the movie version of The Moon Is Blue was to shock a good portion of the movie-going public into seeing the movie. It was a gimmick—taking into consideration the typical movie audience it could be only a gimmick. And we feel that when the end of realism is to get people to go and see movies—this gimmick is not justified.
Offhand, we can’t think of a specific class of people in this country to whom the privilege can be given to see or read things not good for the masses as a whole. There isn’t a single large group who can be dispensated, because every large group seems to be composed, primarily, of those same masses.
Certainly the moviegoing audience includes more sensation-seekers than any othei- audience outside of the Spillane fan clubs. The use of some realism in a play can be, but isn’t necessarily, justified—it must be taken into consideration who is going to see the play.
Who’s Up To “Moon Is Blue?”
And likewise with movies, except that with movies you know that you are going to be dealing with many adolescents, of all ages, and in i-eally great proportions. (Just sit in the balcony of the Palace and listen to the combination of South Bend and Notre Dame men on, say, a Sunday afternoon.)
The point is—the amount of perception that a person has depends upon the training and discipline of his mind, and we do not think that moviegoers are up to The Moon Is Blue or any such thing because, to be brutally frank, they simply don’t have the perception for it.
But much more than this—the movie industry has no right to take advantage of this lack of perception, to transform something that possibly has a place for one person in many into a gimmick to draw the masses into the movie houses.
March 19, 1954
Student Accounts Office Captures Spotlight As Room "Choosing Melee Starts Tuesday
Prof. Beckman Blasts
Modem'Streamlining'
The Office of Student Accounts will become a bee-hive of activity this week when room pre-registration begins for the Fall semester.
This year’s room-choosing spree will begin next Tuesday and terminate Friday, April 2. All campus and off-campus students, except those attending graduate school, must register during this period. Pre-registration with the college deans will take place April 6 through 13.
A notice of time and date for each student to register has been mailed. Any student wishing to pre-register and who has not as yet received his notice should immediately contact the office.	’
Class Halls Unchanged
Present allocation of residence halls to the four classes will remain unchanged.. Students will be called in order of class rating and scholastic average as. of June or Summer Session 1953, or as of January 1954 for those who entered last September. Rooms will be selected in that sequence. Students are urged to check class rating and cumulative academic average for possible error. A student possessing a comparatively high average may reserve a room for someone with a lower average to insure their being roommates.
A $50 pre-registration deposit must be paid at the time of pre-registration as
Juniors Auction Prom Bids April 7-8 For 'Fascination'
Tickets for the May 7-9 Junior Prom and weekend will go on sale Wednesday and Thursday, April 7 and 8, in the Dining Hall, it was recently announced by the ticket committee. Five hundred bids will go on the block priced at $8 each.	’
Along with the prom bids, tickets for a Saturday evening dinner dance will also go on sale, priced at $7.75 each. Some 250 Communion Breakfast tickets will also be sold on these days at $2.50 each.
Sometime during the coming week the Prom Committee will distribute mimeographed sheets ’with complete details concerning activities and tickets for the Prom.
“Fascination” merited Dan Sullivan the free bid offered as first prize in the Junior Prom name-the-theme contest. In addition to the free ticket,' Sullivan’s date will receive a corsage from the Prom Committee. Details on the decorations will be released later.
evidence that the reservation for enrollment is made in good faith. No period of grace will be granted for payment of the deposit. There is a ten dollar fine for pre-registration at any other time than that assigned. No residence hall or other accommodations can be reserved for the student who does not pre-register at the time assigned for him. Class absences will be excused where conflicts arise in the schedules.
Campus residents who wish to preregister as off-campus students for the Fall semester must apply for permission at the Office of the Prefect of Discipline. Regardless of age, a letter of parental approval must be sent directly to the Prefect of Discipline from the parents. However, any student 21 or over who is himself responsible for his education may apply without the letter from parents.
Notre Dome Will Bestow Loetore Medal March 28
The 1954 recipient of the Laetare Medal, awarded annually by Notre Dame to an outstanding American Catholic layman, will be named on Laetare Sunday, March 28, by Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Established in 1883, the Laetare Medal has been awarded through the years to 56 men and 15 women who have distinguished themselves by exemplary Catholic lives in their chosen fields of endeavor. Soldiers, statesmen, philanthropists, physicians, writers, scientists, and movie actresses have been among those honored by the University, each fifth Sunday of Lent.
The oil industry executive and philanthropist, I. A. O’Shaughnessy, won the coveted award last year. Mr. O’Shaughnessy is the donor of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts on campus. Thomas E. Murray, a member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, and Gen. Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff of the United States Army, were previous recipients of the award.	•
Among other recent recipients have been Irene Dunne, actress; Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster General of the United States; Carlton J. H. Hayes, historian and former ambassador to Spain; William G. Bruce, publisher; and John Henry Phelan, Beaumont, Texas, philanthropist.
The first Laetare Medal winner was John Gilmary Shea, historian, in 1883.
“The value of streamlining has been oversold to the American consumer,” Prof. Frederick Beckman of the University’s Department of Art contends. “Streamlining, like the gingerbread of the Victorian era, is a fad which has been used as a device by clever merchandisers to capture the public’s imagination and to sell products,” he claims.
“As a result,” Beckman says, “Furniture manufacturers offer us chairs poised for flight, but lacking in comfort and utility. Fountain pens, seemingly designed to break the sound-barrier but not equipped with a good grip, slip through the fingers. The list is .endless,” . Beckman says.
Far more important than streamlining, in Beckman’s opinion, is the basic concept of organic form in any object. Because form is fundamental, students in Beckman’s three-dimensional design class are studying structure, movement, mass, texture and line in the abstract in much the same way as a theoretical physicist would approach a problem in his field.
“Once the student has mastered the principle of good structure,” Beckman says, “he is much better qualified to carry on creative work in three-dimensional form. For example, a chair can be pleasing aesthetically and be comfortable, too,” he says.
“Devotees of streamlining have oversimplified the problem,” Beckman concludes, “by subordinating the function or utility of an object or product to a slick surface treatment in order to make it unusual looking, ‘modern’ and marketable.”
PROFESSOR BECKMAN
Streamlining Value: “Oversold”
14
The Scholastic
The ‘Crooner’ Visits WNDU
By PAUL FULLMER
A big heart is the most-respected quality of any performer in show business.
Most of you who tuned in WNDU’s dedication ceremonies on March 10 expected something special and you got it in the appearance of the fabulous Bing Crosby—by tape of course.
Disk jockey Tom Cassidy, who is the proprietor of the popular “Penthouse Pops” record show, wanted to have a real dash of professional talent on his dedication show. He decided to contact Mr. Crosby and see if Bing would answer a few questions on tape for the big night. On Feb. 15 the letter, tape, and script were mailed to the Los Angeles headquarters of “The Crooner.”
Two weeks later an affirmative answer came back to Cassidy and on Wednesday, March 3,. the completed tape arrived and Cassidy quickly dubbed in his' questions on the tape that Bing had already done. And on March 10, you were the first to hear this unique program.
Bing Says Thanks for the Invite	.
In his typical easy-going manner, Bing expressed his admiration for the Notre Dame spirit on the gridiron during the past season and also greeted the between-half programs as a fine innovation.
One of Bing’s most interesting answers traces his early spot as a drummer in a local band to a member of Paul Whiteman’s Rhythm Boys. He continues, “I went on then to California and I guess I’ve been fooling the people ever since.”
Cassidy quizzed Bing on his “innocent animosity” with Bob Hope and Bing got real honest and replied that, “It’s always been a friendly relationship between Bob and myself though, and when he puts a picture or book out, I’ll make a few cracks about it and he’ll do the same for me and it serves as good publicity for both of us.”
“The Groaner” cited Going My Way as the movie that pre-
Cassidy and the Tape
Bing says thanks for the PH
sented the greatest challenge and was the most rewarding. Asked to name his finest moment in the entertainment world, Bing didn’t hesitate to say, “It was the night in Graumann’s Chinese Theater- when Gary Cooper announced that I was the winner of the coveted Oscar for my acting in Going My Way.”
His immortal recording of Irving Berlin’s White Christmas rates as the record he most enjoyed doing.
Cassidy Will Run Tape Again Tuesday
To give all of you a chance to hear a' re-run of this tape, Cassidy will play it again on his show this Tuesday night between 7:30 and 8:30.
Cassidy, who is the first to admit his good fortune in obtaining this valuable tape, says, “Our opinion of Mr-. Crosby was always one of kindest respect. His response to WNDU’s request certainly points out what a wonderful individual he must be, and we certainly extend our whole-hearted thanks for his kind cooperation. They say an individual is measured in part by his generosity—I guess that would make Bing Crosby somewhat of a giant.”
New Training Routine Announced by WNDU
WNDU has inaugurated a new training program by announcing that the men taking over major departments of the station’s staff next Fall are now being coached for their new responsibilities by this year’s department heads. • Jim Griffin, junior philosophy major from Chicago, will be the new business manager. John Kelsch, who has held the post for the past two years, is teach
ing. Jim the intricacies of accounts and requisitions.
Griffin was formerly traffic manager and his vacancy at this post will be filled by Fred Corkill, freshman commerce student from Long Island, N. Y.
Keeping the station in good operating order will be the job of Charlie Casale, the new technical director. Casale, a junior in electrical engineering from
West Newton, Pa., replaces Tom Byrne.
Jim Bergquist, a junior history major from Council Bluffs, la., will be the new-public relations director, taking over from Steve Steckbeck. Jim has been the station’s record librarian for the past three years, and his post will be filled next year by Don Brophy, a sophomore in AB who has been Bergquist’s assistant for two years. •
March 19, 1954
Three sporting world immortals—Lou
Gehrig, Knute Rockne, and Babe Ruth—huddle in Yankee Stadium before game, 1927
ANOTHER DAY FOR ROCKNE
Twenty-three years ago an airplane crashed on the Kansas plains and took the life of a Notre Dame immoital— Knute Rockne.
The Student Senate will honor Rockne on Wednesday, March 31, with an allday program that is the first in a proposed annual series that will eulogize a Notre Dame great each year.
One Mass in each hall on Wednesday morning will be dedicated to Knute Rockne’s memory and a combined spiritual bouquet will be presented to Mrs. Rockne at the evening’s program.
A wreath will be placed on the bust of Rockne in the foyer of the Rockne Memorial at 1 p.m. Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., who was in charge of athletics during "Rock’s” reign, will speak at the 8 p.m. program at the Student Center.
Mrs. Rockne will be on hand for the program and a movie on the life of “Rock” will be shown after the main speech.
Another tribute to Knute Rockne— the greatest legend in the annals of modern American sport.
16
The Scholastic
SENIOR REPORT: 90 Percent Like Late Lights
If some 203 Seniors had their way, despite a mixed, complacent attitude on the part of their rectors, midnight lights in the three campus senior halls—Alumni, Fisher, and Walsh— would take their glittering position beside such established campus routines as eating, sleeping, and standing in line.
The typical fourth-year man, though he may not be aware of it, is currently reviving a campus policy which dates back to Civil War days when a group of seniors successfully succeeded in procuring a privilege of an extra 45 minutes above the campus bedtime curfew of 8 p.m.!
Given a chance to voice their opinions in an exclusive Scholastic interview, 203 seniors commented overwhelmingly in favor of midnight lights, with a meager 28 dissenting.
Established on an experimental basis in early November last year, the new light system calls for an added hour of electricity solely in the Senior Halls. All other hall currents are cut at 11 p.m. on weekdays and Sundays. Successfully completing the probationary period, the system has since been maintained. “Midnight lights give me time to study after attending a concert or lecture. This means I can now take advantage of such things,” states John Malfa of the second floor of Fisher, definitely in favor of the 12 o’clock lights.
“Keep it. When you come back at 11, you don’t have to grope in the dark while you get undressed,” added Gene Hausmann, also of the second floor of Fisher.
An all-night lights resolution was proposed by a student on the second floor of Alumni. He states, “It’s quiet until the lights go out . . . putting out the lights is a signal to move into the hallway for a bull session.”
Students' ‘Yes’s’ Made with Reservations
Though their votes were “yes,” several students commented with reservation. From the third floor- of Alumni came “They should be for seniors only,” and “They should be for seniors and juniors.” Several students opposed the midnight policy, commenting that “It deprives you of an extra hour’s sleep.” “It is too difficult to keep the floor quiet,” stated a student assistant prefect.
From the first floor of Fisher, John Gordon expressed it thus: “The only thing the rule has meant to many students is another hour out of the sack.”
Hall prefects had still other comments. Stated Rev. George Holderith of the first floor of Alumni, “There is definitely more noise in the halls now, the time for quieting down being moved back one hour.”
The second floor prefect in Alumni was in favor of midnight lights, even' though “the noise had increased,” adding, “If the students would- only use the same consideration for others that they would in a hotel, a Pullman car or their own home, everything would be fine.”
When quizzed as to their study habits between 11 and 12 o’clock, 185 said they used that time for studying, while 30 said “no” and 16 said “occasionally.”
Correlating study habits with academic standing, the Scholastic interviewers also asked the seniors whether their class average had improved since the new system was put into effect. To this 87 replied “yes” while 62 said “no.” Eighty-two were undecided on the question.
To the query, “Do late-comers to the hall keep you awake?” 191 last-year men replied “no,” while 40 of their counterparts said “yes.”
The question which drew varied comments from students and prefects alike was “Do you attend Mass less often since
midnight lights were initiated?” Fifty seniors replied “less” while 34 said “more.” The majority, 133, noticed no appreciable change in attendance at Mass.
From the third floor of Alumni, one senior states, “It does affect Mass attendance; it’s much harder to get up.” The prefect of the second floor of Fisher claims Mass attendance has remained the same.
Father Holderith states that “Mass attendance has been very, very poor before Lent, much worse than last year when the other light regulation was in effect.” Comments a prefect of the same hall, “Mass attendance has been pretty bad all year.”
Commenting on the whole idea of midnight lights Father Holderith replied, “The later lights encourage staying up later for other than studying purposes. Many students now remain in town later; others just waste time in the hall. I personally feel the old light system should be returned for the good of the student.”
Most of the hall prefects and rectors declined further comment other than “It is more trouble keeping quiet in the halls now.”
Connotations of privileges such as the one mentioned concerning extra time for seniors in the Civil War days have changed their meaning somewhat during the years. The difference then was that the students didn’t have their choice of what to do with their extra time: they either studied or went to bed!
In those days everyone rolled out at 5:30 each morning. Each hour of the day there was a set place where each student was expected to be.
The 1862 catalogue dogmatized that “seldom if ever” would “athletic contests with college organizations from without” be allowed. And as late as 1900 the regulation was eased only slightly—allowing “a limited number.”	.
Students Bathed in St. Joseph's Lake
In 1862 the rules stipulated, for instance, that at 4 pan. every Winter Saturday, the students were to wash theii- feet. In the Summer, this rule was superseded by one that sent the students down to St. Joseph’s lake to bathe together.
All students—seniors included—marched in ranks and in silence to the trunk room every Saturday to get their Sunday clothes, and then returned them on Monday morning.
March 19, 1954
-------SPEAKING OF PO
(Left) sional
We
A masterpiece of three dimen-modern art . . . maze of piping . . . numerous valves . . .
By JIM MASON
all take fox- granted that at the
flick of a switch, we will have light, or by turning the handle on the radiator, we will have heat; but there is a story behind that flick of a switch and turn of the handle.
The Power Plant, that is located under the water tower in the northeast corner of the campus under- the new “Silver Dome,” is the throbbing dynamo behind the physical life at Notre Dame.
This story begins when the growling diesel switch engine of the Notre Dame & Western Railroad spots a carload of coal over the hopper on the west side of the Power Plant. As the locomotive moves up the track, a car shaker bounces and shakes the car until its load has sifted down into the hopper.
Running through the bottom of the hopper is an apron conveyor that carries the coal into the plant where it is picked up by a bucket conveyor that carries the fuel to the overhead bin.
From the bunker, a traveling coal lorry picks up the coal and automatically weighs out one ton of coal on each trip to the boilers. In an ordinary day of operation during the Winter months, these coal-eating monsters consume between 80 and 100 tons of fuel. The coal is fed into the boilers by spreadex-stokers, which kick the coal out over a traveling grate. This traveling grate dumps the ash into a hoppex* and from there the ash is drawn to an outside silo by a vacuum.
Clean As Infirmary
Because both coal and ash are handled automatically, the plant is as spotless as the infirmary. Upon entering the boilex- room you might think that it is a masterpiece of three dimensional modern art with the massive boilers, the maze of piping, the numerous valves, and the complicated control boards all framed by the walls of the building.
The boilers are operated from a huge control panel that contains rows of dials and graphs that tell the trained eyes of the operatox- what must be done to supply sufficient heat. Pipelines run through a system of three tunnels. The first supplies LOBUND and the heat-powex-lab with steam, while the othex- two supply the rest of the campus.
Source of All Power on the Campus.
A Newcomer since Last Year’s Overhauling.
Huge Electric Generator:
and also
Besides being the source of heat power fox- the campus the plant is
One of Three Massive Tunnels that lead to Campus Buildings.
the water station. All water used fox-domestic purposes is processed in water softeners that look like a large economy size soup pot with gauges all ovex- the sides and pipes running in and out in all directions. The plant pumps a million gallons of watex- on an average day to the University.
The plant, under the supervision of Brothex- Borromeo, C.S.C., superintendent of utilities, is manned by three Brothers and 15 laymen. These men also provide fire protection fox- the university.
WERHOUSES
Boy, I’ll get ya’ back for that one
BLOOD and
By PAUL FULLMER
Tom Magill’s uphill victory over Jim Connelly in the lightweight title fight highlighted the finals of the 1954 Ben-_gal Bouts Wednesday evening before -4,500 shouting fans in the Fieldhouse. 'Magill got off the canvas twice before finally gaining the repeat victory.
Kid Gavilan, welterweight champion •of the world and current aspirant to the middleweight crown, received the •trophy for “the man who has done the most for boxing in 1953” from Head Football Coach Terry Brennan. Brennan noted that Gavilan is “not only a great boxer but a real inspiration as well.”
The proceeds from this 23rd annual boxing tournament will go to the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India.
The “Keed” presented the winners of •each weight division with their title trophies. Each will also receive a sweater and miniature gold boxing glove. Joe Viani copped the award as the best fighter in the preliminaries and Jim Curtin received the sportsmanship trophy.
Defending champion Magill was knocked to the floor in the opening seconds of the 137-pound title fight by Connelly and again early in the third round. Both boys’ faces were smeared
with blood at the finish. Magill, always pressing his smaller opponent, had Connelly on the verge of a knockout in the final minute. He had Connelly down for an eight count in the third canto.
In the 127-pound championship fight, Harry Higa, a sophomore from Hawaii, used effective flurries to the head in the final round to capture a unanimous decision from John Palumbo. Higa had blood trickling from Palumbo’s nose at the end. Higa’s aggressiveness and counter-punching in the final two minutes proved a shade too much for Palumbo.
A couple of strong early rounds for Sal Profaci enabled him to take a unanimous win from Joe Muldoon in the 142-pound classification. It was a very close bout all the way and Profaci had to hold on to get the nod. Muldoon’s final rally was not enough to offset Profaci’s strong second round in which he hurt Muldoon with a hard right to the temple.
Andy Corrao repeated his 147-pound novice victory in the finals as he managed to squeak by battling Joe Bandiera. Bandiera carried the heavier* guns but Iris aim was bad until the last round.
The third time was the charm for jolting Joe Belfiore in tire 155-pound title fight. After losing in the finals the past two years, Belfiore waded in from
the opening bell with roundhouse lefts and rights against Joe McGraw. Belfiore continually found the range in the third round and referee George Van der Heyden was ready to halt the fight in the third round.
Gavilan stepped into the ring to referee the 167-pound clash. Bob Joseph retained his title with a widely-booed split decision over sharp-shooting Ed Sarna, 1953 light heavyweight winner. Joseph’s desperate rally in the third round overcame Sarna’s early points in the eyes of the judges.
Jerry Boyd also took a disputed title fight in his third try when he took a pier six brawl from Jim Cannon in the 160-pound clash. Both threw punches from all angles and there wasn’t much to choose’ between. Boyd’s heart er hitting in the early stages -was decisive.
Lee Getschow piled up an early lead over Larry Ash and then hung on under Ash’s heavy artillery to get a split decision in 'the 177-pound title fight. Getschow brought blood from A'sh’s nose in the second round although Ash had Getschow rocky and wobbling at the end.
Jim Walsh won the ever-popular heavyweight crown with a hard-earned unanimous decision over footballer Jack Lee. Walsh boxed carefully the first two rounds and then moved in to smash Lee with solid rights in the final round. Walsh’s speed and good left made him a tough target to locate.
Magill moved into the 1954 finals pretty much as he pleased. His only
Here Comes My Haymaker
20
The Scholastic
qualifying win was an easy TKO victory over Dick Plum after* 1:13 of the third round. He is a junior from Allentown, Pa.
Connelly also had only one hurdle before his appearance in the finals. He defeated Art Nakurmura.
Profaci, a heavy puncher for his size won his first bout by scoring a third-round TKO over Jim O’Toole. Profaci is a freshman from Brooklyn, N. Y. Muldoon opened with a victory over Brent Steuerwald and followed with a tight squeak past Profaci. This match was a last minute arrangement to supplement the final fight card.
Corrao waded through three foes be-
Up In Arms
fore facing Bandiera. He nudged Viani, Pat Lally, and Muldoon. The Milwaukee, Wis., battler is a senior.
Bandiera’s lackadaisical style was instrumental in his two wins. He decisioned Tom Queally and then bombed Viani for the second round KO.
Belfiore, the hard-hitting Washington, D. C. boxer, knocked out both Monty Montalvo and Bob Hanrahan on his way to the Wednesday finals.
McGraw picked up wins over Pat Canny, Sars Brennan, and Bob Taylor before bowing to Belfiore.	•
Joseph won unimpressively over Dick Wing and then came back to batter Boyd in the semi-finals. Joseph is from Martins Ferry, Ohio. Sarna beat Joe Hann and Jim Milota on his way to the finals.
Getschow moved into the title fight with a win over George Hubbard. The Kenilworth, Ill. senior dropped his foe for a three-count in the second round.
Ash TKO’d John O’Hara after 43 seconds of the third heat in their preliminary fight.
Walsh, a veteran in the division, beat Charles Connor and Walt Cabral on his
Gridiron Grapplers Put On A Show
way to the finals. The Chicago senior then beat Lee who decisioned Bob Kelly and Jim Donahue earlier.
The opening night’s preliminaries on March 11 ushered in the 1954 Bengal Bouts with fast action that became typical as the annual event wore on to the finals.
Mike Mulrooney, a heavy puncher and stylish boxer, brought the crowd to its feet with a lightning-like 48-second knockout of Bill Donohue.
In another 167-pound tilt, Walt Peeney slipped inside Joe Bonn’s pesky left jab often enough to grab a disputed split decision.
Wing gained his right to tackle Joseph with a win over tough Curtin, knockout artist of the 1953 Bengals.
Jim Casey pushed Augie Freda out of the running by jabbing and pushing his way to a decision.
Now Cut That Out!
In the fast-stepping 157-pound divi--sion Sars Brennan and Ed “Tex” Prudhomme whaled away for three hectic heats before Brennan’s finesse paid off’ in a decision.
Milota beat Jim Roth and Cannon in. 167-pound fights. In a 157-pound scrap. Hanrahan advanced to the semi-finals, by winning a slow fight over John Mulvaney. In the other bout in this class, Taylor gained a split win over tough Charles Mears.
In a 177-pound clash, O’Hara ground out a unanimous decision over Fuller McBride.
The heavies got their first taste of action last Friday. Jim Donohue opened up by taking a close tussle from Ron D’Amico.
Joe Bush and Neil Worden served as seconds for the boxers throughout the tourney.
March 19, 1954
21
Senate Will Use Proven Preferential Ballot For April Elections; Will Issue Second Bulletin
By CHARLES McKENDRICK
Spring elections of class officers and senators from the five colleges of the University, now under the proven preferential ballot system, will headline the program of the Student Senate for the next month. Nominations will close immediately before the Easter vacation and the balloting will take place April 28 and 29.
Tom Field, president of the Student Senate, commented on the election, “The Student Senate is going to do its very best to have a successful campaign. We are going to try to put the real issues before the student body.”
Candidates will be asked to speak before the students on those issues pertinent to the campaign. In that way the Senate hopes to clear up many governmental problems and let the students know what stand the various nominees are taking.
Preferential Ballot Use Planned
This year the Senate changed the balloting procedure by an amendment to its constitution. Instead of the simple plurality which was required in previous elections, a preferential ballot will be used this Spring. This type of voting was first used in the freshman elections last Fall and met with considerable success. In this Spring’s balloting the sophomore, junior, and senior class officers, the senators from the five colleges, and the off-campus senator will be chosen by the same method.
On March 9 the Senate published the first issue of the Student Senate Information Bulletin. The Bulletin explained the program of the Senate, the problems involved in student government, and listed the various activities planned by the Senate for the remainder of this semester.
In explaining the purpose of the Bulletin, Field said, “We didn’t feel the students had enough .information on the Senate and its program. Things like the addresses of senators, office hours, the budget, and tax policy had to be made known to the students. These are items which we feel the Scholastic and WNDU couldn’t and shouldn’t carry.
Facts, Not Views
“The aim of the Bulletin is to give facts, not idealized views of the Senate, and to make known its various services. Although the first .issue was a little too drab for the average student, we believe that it can be remedied in the future. The next Bulletin will come out at election time and we hope to present brief statements by the candidates on campaign issues.”
Annual One-Act Play Festival In Washington Hall April 3-4
The annual One-Act Play Festival will take place here April 3 and 4.
Eight theatrical groups will converge on Washington Hall for the annual two-day tournament which will include five college contingents.
Next Sunday night, March 28, will mark the final performance of the University’s experimental theatre-in-the-round one-act-play group before the April 3 tournament.
Scheduled for Sunday night performances are The Glass Menagerie, by Tennessee Williams, and The Telephone, by Gian-Carlo Menotti. The opening performance will start at 8:15 p.m. in the Student Center. Admission is free.
Flight School Program Open to ROTC Grads
Army ROTC members, upon receipt of their commissions at graduation, will be able to apply for pilot and observer training with the U. S. Air Force, it has been announced by Dr. John A. Hannal, assistant defense secretary for personnel in Washington, D. C. Word of the Defense Department’s new plan was received by the campus Army ROTC unit earlier this week.
Applications under the new ruling would absorb between 3,000 and 4,000 Army ROTC graduates. Approximately 50 per cent would be absorbed in pilot training and the other 50 per cent in the observer program.
The Air Force expects an adequate response to the new announcement because of the advantages received by the officers while in flight school. Officers in pilot and observer training are not required to take the rigorous pre-flight phase of pilot training for cadets. Officers may immediately begin the primary flight school phase of the program. Length of the pilot training program is approximately 14 months; that of the observer program, approximately 12 months.
Upon entering flight and observer training, the officers will receive, in addition to their regular second lieutenant’s salary, the standard flight pay received by all flying officers. Those who are eliminated from flying training will complete the remainder of then- active duty period as non-flying officers.
Hannal earlier this month came to the decision to allow graduates of the Army ROTC to enter pilot training so as to absorb the surplus of incoming ROTC graduates.
Comment from campus ROTC heads was not immediately available. More - details will be made available to ROTC students in the future.
Joe McDolt
by Bob Fowler
22
The Scholastic
Role of Catholicism in Latin American Nations, Need of Priests Cited in Fr. Dunne's New Book
According to Rev. Peter Masten Dunne, S.J., contributor to the soon-to-be-published The Catholic Church in World Affairs, the Roman Catholic faith is alive and strong in every Latin American country despite the inadequate number of priests and the “aggressive methods” of certain Protestant missionaries from the United States.
Father Dunne is presently a professor of history at the University of San Francisco and an authority on Latin American affairs. His chapter on “The Church in Latin America” is one of 16 contributions to the volume on various aspects of the Church in the contemporary world to be published by the University of Notre Dame Press and edited by Waldemar- Gurian and M. A. Fitzsimons.
Disguised Blessing, Maybe
“If Catholics only knew it,” Father Dunne writes, “Protestant activity in Latin America can be a blessing in dis-
Set Mar. 31 Deadline For Law Applications
Prospective law school applicants who plan to take the Law School Admission Test here April 10 have until March 31 to file their completed applications with the Educational Testing Service, Mr. E. R. Quinn, head of the Department of Guidance and Testing, declared recently. Applications for the test must be forwarded so as to reach the Princeton, N. J., office not later than midnight, March 31, Mr. Quinn advised.
Many law schools give first consideration to applicants for entrance in the Fall of 1954 who have taken the Law School Admission Test in November, February or April. Since each law school has its own preferences in these matters, the prospective applicant should first find out from the law schools in which he is interested whether he should take the test.
Applications to take the test on April 10, 1954, and a Bulletin of Information which describes the procedure for making application and shows sample test questions should be obtained from either the Department of Guidance and Testing, Room 251 Administration Building, the College of Law, or- directly from the Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J., several weeks before the testing date.
guise if it acts as a stimulant to increased activity.” He concedes that non-Catholic missionaries have gained converts in recent years but says “they have only scratched the surface. In the entire Latin American population of 143,000,000,” Father Dunne estimates, “there are only three or four million Protestants.”
Aggressive Methods Alienate Latins
Father Dunne suggests that some Protestant missionaries in Latin America have alienated the populations by using “methods which are offensive to laity and clergy alike, and which in themselves are an indication of an aggressive bad taste.”
“Granted that large portions of Latin males reveal ‘basic indifference’ to their Catholicism, yet they are at least in name Catholic and then- culture is Cath-
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, March 20—Saturday of the Second week of Lent.
Sunday, March 21—Third Sunday of Lent.
Monday, March 22—Feast of St. Isidore, the Farmer, Confessor, Patron of the National Rural Life Conference.
Tuesday, March 23—Tuesday of the Third Week of Lent.
Wednesday, March 24—Feast of St. Gabriel, Archangel.
Thursday, March 25—Feast of the Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Friday, March 26—Friday of the Third Week of Lent.
olic. The Latin Amei-ican,” Father Dunne says, “has an instinctive dislike for North American aggressive methods issuing from a Protestant and ‘materialistic’ civilization.”
The Catholic Church in Latin America is handicapped by a shortage of priests and nuns, Father Dunne points out. Whereas there is one priest for every 453 Catholics in the United States, he reports that there is one priest for every 1,397 nominal Catholics in Colombia; in Chile one for every 2,622; in Costa Rica and Venezuela one for every 5,000; in Peru one for every 6,000; in Bolivia one for every 8,750; and in Panama one for every 10,000.
Fr. D'Arcy to Lecture On 'Cultural Crisis'
“The Cultural Crisis” will be the subject of a lecture to be presented by Martin C. D’Arcy, S.J., on Monday evening at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall.
One of the eminent contemporary Catholic thinkers and philosophers as well as one of the most noted Englishspeaking Jesuits, Father D’Arcy, was bom in 1888. He attended Stonyhurst and then Campion Hall, Oxford, of which he was made Master in 1933.
As Master of Campion Hall, Father D’Arcy acted as one of the Heads of Colleges, an academic body that makes up the governing board of the University. Campion Hall is the first Catholic college to be aifiliated as an integral school of the University of Oxford since the Reformation.
In 1945 he took over the duties of Provincial of the English Province of the Society of Jesus.
The list of his distinctions is long, and he holds honorary degrees from Georgetown, Fordham, Marquette, and the National University of Ireland.
A frequent contributor to periodicals, Father D’Arcy is the author of such books as The Idea of God, Catholicism, God and the Universe, The Spirit of Charity, Mirage and Truth, The Problem of Evil, Thomas Aquinas, Death and Life, Belief and Reason, The Nature of Belief, and The Mind and Heart of Love.
'Choose Your Major1 Forum Aids AB's to Select Program
The College of Arts and Letters will hold a “Choose Your Major” forum on Tuesday night, March 31, at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium. A week prior to the forum, all sophomores will be given a collection of brief written statements from various departments expressing the purpose and values of their respective major programs.
Representatives from each of those departments will be present at the forum to answer any questions concerning their major programs. Pre-registration for Arts and Letters students will be held from April 6-13 in Room 134 of the O’Shaughnessy Building.
Aftei* the forum, students who have decided their major will see the head of the department whose major program he is interested in. After conferring with the head, he will receive a card authorizing his entry into that program. Students will then hand the card in at preregistration time.
March 19, 1954
23
fabi» Ah imiet.?
Efficient Placement Effort, Not Recession Fear Reason For Job Activity, Cite Interviewers
By TIM DEVEREUX
Large corporation layoffs have length-■ened unemployment lines in many of the industrial nerve centers of the country, but if lines of job-seekers in the Placement Bureau are any index to the attitude of the large corporations, the employment situation isn’t as bad as it seems.
Student interest in immediate postgraduation employment with large corporations has quickened, but this is not •entirely due to the threat of a possible recession in the coming year, it was revealed to the Scholastic in exclusive interviews with several top-flight corporation interviewers who were recently •conducting placement talks with June graduates.
An increase in student interest concerning these interviews has been cited by Mr. William R. Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau on campus, and commented upon by the visiting interviewers. It was also noted that such is not the case with the student bodies of other colleges.
“We have interviewed three times as many students here at Notre Dame than at any other school,” said W. C. Woodyard, superintendent of administration at Continental Casualty Co. of Chicago. Mr. Woodyard ventured, “Fear of recession, which is especially strong in South Bend, might be one cause for the students to be more concerned about getting a job,” but he thinks that this new interest is due mainly to the efforts of Placement Director Dooley.
“Notre Dame students are fortunate to have a man of Mr. Dooley’s capacity handling their placement department,” he added. “The students at Notre Dame, I have discovered, are well prepared for our campus interviews. They know what we are looking for and come to us with a genuine interest in our firm. A well-run placement department sees that the students to be interviewed are given information concerning a particular company well in advance of the actual day of the interview.”
Genuine Interest Lacking
Mr. Woodyard noticed a lack of genuine interest concerning the personal interviews in some of the students of the other colleges that he visited. “It is true they were interested in a job,” he said, “but they were not interested in a job with Continental Casualty Company. They were more interested in the experience an interview has to offer.
They knew nothing of what we were looking for, and little about our firm.”
A Notre Dame graduate, Thomas B. Hogan, ’39, representing Haskins and Sells, a public accounting firm, said he noticed no special interest in the students he interviewed other than here at Notre Dame. “If there is an increase in the interest of acquiring jobs through the placement department, I think it is due to a change in the attitude of the students,” he said.
No Fear of Recession
“I don’t think it is fear of recession so much that has prompted Notre Dame students to show a greater interest in their campus interviews. It could very possibly be that the students who have yet to serve their two years in the armed forces are finding at wiser to get lined-up with a job before entering the service,” Mr. Hogan continued.
Westinghouse Electric Corporation’s area sales manager and regional educational coordinator, C. W. Mills, who also noticed this increased student interest, said, “It is peculiar here at Notre Dame, and reflects upon those responsible for the efficient handling of the placement office.”
Westinghouse sent particulars to Notre Dame’s placement office with information sufficient to answer any queries that interested students might have concerning job possibilities. This information was sent well in advance of the date set for the campus interviews. “We get screened applicants that way,” said Woodyard, “if the Placement Department puts this information into the hands of interested students.”
Mr. Robert Whitcomb of Marathon Corp., Menasha, Wise., said, “College placement offices are doing a bigger, more effective job. This is seen very well at Notre Dame.”
Whitcomb added, “when industry was booming, college enrollments were lower. Now with larger enrollments you’ll find more interviewing done on the campus than at the company employment offices.”
Aside from native intelligence, poise, personal appearance, and tact, the qualities that the interviewers look for in student candidates vary upon the need, whether it be for the specialist or the pliable-type.
Haskins and Sells, according to Mr. Hogan, is looking for accountants. He said, “Before considering a student he must have a working knowledge of accounting and auditing. Our firm is
W. C. WOODYARD
WILLIAM DOOLEY
THOMAS HOGAN
ROB’T. WHITCOMB
more selective than ever before, though we will take the same number of applicants as last year. Haskins and Sells expects business to boom again and thus has made no special plans in case of a recession.”
Broad Scope Desired
Mi*. Whitcomb of Marathon, a company that sells paper and paper products, is interested in men with a broad scope of marketing and accounting. “We’re looking for potential,” he said. “Marathon wants men who are able to advance to the high managerial level. It is true there aren’t as many jobs now, because most industries are reaching a period of retrenchment. They are watching more closely their personnel picking,” Whitcomb continued. “This is true at Marathon where we want both the specialist and the flexible man.”
“At Westinghouse we are hiring 20 ■ per cent less personnel than last year,” said Mr. Mills. “It is not due to any (Continued on Page 33)
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
WILSONMEN COMPETE IN KC MEETS TONIGHT
Irish Stunned by Penn State, 71-63, in NCAA After Thrilling Upset Victory Over Hoosiers
Harrington Sets New Record at Milwaukee
Notre Dame’s basketball fortunes fell from the pinnacle of jubilation to the depths of disappointment within 24 hours last weekend at Iowa City. On Friday night, the Irish upset Indiana’s defending NCAA champions in a real thriller, 65-64. But on Saturday night, the Irish themselves were upset. Penn State, “Cinderella” team of the tournament, stopped the Jordanmen, 71-63, and thereby crushed Notre Dame’s high hopes of winning the NCAA title.
If the Irish could have performed as well against Penn State as they did against the Hoosiers, they undoubtedly would be competing in Kansas City tonight. Notre Dame outplayed the Big Ten champs in every phase of the game. Coach Johnny Jordan set up his defense to stop Don Schlundt and Bob Leonard, and the Irish players worked the plan to perfection.
Schlundt, the Big Ten scoring champion, was held to one field goal by the sliding Irish defense. He was taken out of the game because of his ineffectiveness in the second quarter and saw little
IRISH UPSET TOP-RATED INDIANA
McGinn, Sullivan Fight for Rebound
action in the second half. Dick Rosenthal, who had one of his greatest nights, played in front of the Hoosier giant and continually intercepted the high lob passes thrown by Leonard and the other IU players. When Schlundt did manage to get the ball, Bill Sullivan or John Fannon dropped back to tie him up. Schlundt was only able to get off four shots all evening. He was, however, his usual deadly self from the foul line, scoring eight of eight.
Leonard, Ill’s great guard, definitely had an off night against ND, but this was largely due to the expert defensive work of Jack Stephens. Many of Leonard’s 20 field goal attempts were forced. Stephens never let him loose. Leonard scored two goals in the first minute of play and two more in the final minute. In the 38-minute interval, he scored only three points, a field goal and a foul.
Notre Dame led Indiana for most of the game. After a see-saw first quarter, that ended with the Irish on top, 17-16, Notre Dame began to slowly pull away, principally on the shooting of Rosenthal and Sullivan, who played the best basketball of his Notre Dame career. At the half, the Irish were ahead, 37-32.
Led by Rosenthal, Notre Dame vaulted to a nine-point lead early in the third period that even brought applause from the strongly anti-Notre Dame crowd. However, with Schlundt on the bench, the Hoosiers suddenly caught fire. With Burke Scott hitting consistently on jump shots, IU scored eight straight points to take the lead, 47-46. The Irish bounced right back, however, and at the close of the quarter, regained the lead, 50-48.
The tension mounted in the final period. .Six times the score was deadlocked. With the score 60-60 and less than two minutes left, Rosenthal tossed in a perfect hook shot that swished the cords. IU immediately lost the ball, and the Irish froze it for more than a minute. Schlundt fouled Ed McGinn with 23 seconds remaining, and the Irish sub
(Continued on Page 28)
Nine members of the Notre Dame track team will travel to Cleveland tonight to participate in the annual Knights of Columbus meets. The Irish will be led by Captain and pole vault artist, Joe Springer. Along with Springer will be the other part of the one-two vaulting punch, Jim Harrington.
Other- members include ace hurdler Harvey Newquist, Bernie Allard in the high jump, Bill Squires in the mile run, and the mile relay team consisting of Jack Alexander, Dennis Malec, Al Schoenig, and Bill Copeland. In the mile run Squires will be running against such outstanding stars as Len Truex, Fred Wilt, and Norm Lamb.
Last Saturday nine members of the Notre Dame cinder squad competed in the fourth annual Milwaukee Relays. The outstanding Irish performance was Harrington’s vault of 14 feet 4 inches. This broke the Notre Dame pole vault record of 14 feet 3% inches which Harrington also set in the Closed Central (Continued on Page 29)
ND DROPS REGIONAL FINAL, 71-63 Penn State Turns Tables on Irish.
March 19, 1954
25
I.
Kline Opens 21st Year as Diamond Mentor; Five Lettermen, Sophs Dominate Candidates
Building a winning club around five returning lettermen is the job Coach Jake Klein faced as the Irish began varsity baseball practice last week in the Fieldhouse.
Coach Kline, who is tutoring the Irish squad for the 21st season, reports a field of 60 men, which will eventually be cut to 30, as squad members are chosen. Sophomores will be dominant in the inexperienced 1954 club, especially on the mound and in the infield.

COACH JAKE KLINE
Baseball Future Not Too Bright
The five mainstays who will form the nucleus of the squad are Captain Hal Reilly, shortstop; Dick Colloton, heavy hitting second baseman who is beginning his third year of varsity competition; two catchers, Dick Farrell and Dick Gaberik; and Mark Tremblay, center fielder whom Coach Kline is depending on to develop into a valuable member of the club’s battery.
Other returnees include pitchers Jim Dalton, Ron Mottle, Jerry Smith, and John Reynolds, none of whom saw much action last year; utility infielder Rog Allan and Tom Pettersch, catcher.
The Irish were hit hard by last year’s graduation. Most of the men who led
the squad to a 16-7 record last season, including six starters, have not returned this year.
Standout pitchers Stan Konopka and Jim Gibbons, both of whom were signed by the Philadelphia Phillies last summer, carried the 1953 mound task almost exclusively. Konopka, who played with Schenectady last summer, won ten games last spring, the most any Notre Dame pitcher has recorded in one year, according to Coach Kline. Gibbons spent the summer with the Salt Lake City club of the Rocky Mountain League.
Roger Braun was last year’s left fielder and leading hitter, although he was closely contested for that honor by Colloton. Other leading 1953 players lost by graduation are infielder Len LeRose and outfielder Dave Costigan, all-around mainstays last year, and Joe Ridge, 1953 captain.
Dick Rosenthal, who held down first base last season and whom Coach Kline terms as a “good baseball prospect,” will be unable to play this year because of his basketball commitments.
Among the more promising recruits reporting for the first sessions are prospective hurlers Ted Bintz, Ang Ca-pozzi, Maurice Cicciarelli, Leo Linbeck, Tom Meglen, Kirk Reilly, Bill Roth, John Smith, Jerry Spaeth, and Dan Yarr; infielders Jack Dumas, Mike Lesso, Al Parillo, Tom Russell, Don Sniegowski, Bill Teschke, and Ron Weber; and outfielders Andy Corrao, Fred Delany, Jim Phillips, and Jim Twohy.
The 1954 schedule, which will include about two dozen games for the Irish squad, is still in the tentative stage. The first trip will be during Easter vacation with a spring training program at Memphis Naval Air Station. Among teams which will furnish opposition there for the ND club will be the Air Station squad, Arkansas State, Arkansas State Teachers, Memphis State, and Southwestern (Memphis).
Coach Kline, who coached in the Greater Halifax League at Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, last summer, has received several honors recently. On March 4, he was named outstanding baseball coach of 1953 by the Rockne Club of Kansas City. Last June he was given a testimonial dinner by the National Notre Dame Monogram Club to commemorate 20 years of coaching and teaching here, and in January he was given another testimonial dinner and sports award in his home town of Williamsport, Pa.
'Rosie' Ends Regular Slate as Top Scorer
For the second straight year Dick Rosenthal led all Notre Dame scorers: with a total of 432 points for the 22-game regular season. The big pivotman was followed by Jack Stephens, junior guard with 381 points. Stephens’’ late season splurge moved him from third to second in scoring.
The other member of the Big Three,. Joe Bertrand, finished with 375 points, and on Dec. 17 set the single game scoring mark with a 35-point output against Loyola of Chicago. Sophomore John Fannon’s performance on the second eastern trip this year raised his total to-195 points for fourth spot. Dependable-Bill Sullivan finished with a 142-point total while playing both guard and forward.
Among the starting five Joe Bertrand, led his teammates in shooting percentages, connecting on 131 shots in 301 attempts for a .435 percentage. However, Lloyd Aubrey, sophomore forward, playing in 11 games, hit 10 of 22 shots, for .455. Stephens made 145 out of 370 for .392; Rosenthal shot 436 times making 148 for .339; Fannon 79 out of 238 for .332; and Sullivan shot 170 times, connecting 52 times, for .306.
Rosie also led the squad in the foul shooting department with 136 out of 179 for a fine .760. Other statistics from the 17-foot line have Bertrand second with 113 out of 172 for .658; Stephens making 91 out of 156 for .583; Fannon, 37 out of 64 for .578; and Sullivan, 38 out of 70 for .543.
Rosie’s regular season’s total of 432 points is the highest total ever produced by a Notre Dame eager in the school’s history.
Cannon Sparks Clevelanders In Drive For Kegler Crown
The Cleveland club moved a step closei- to clinching the Blue League championship as they swept four points from the Irish club last week. Pat Cannon sparked the Cleveland team with a 535 series and a 218 single game.
The Met Club, Cleveland’s closest competitor, dropped three points to the Erie club and fell into a tie for third place with the Philadelphia Club. The AIEE team moved into second place as they picked up three out of four points from the Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club.
The Accounting Club maintained its lead in the Gold League, but the K of C, Garden State, and Detroit clubs are all still within striking distance of first place.
26
The Scholastic
.	I
I
Depth and Balance Strengthen Irish Thinclads
By DAVE KILKEARY
“Our freshman physical education ■class tryouts have benefitted us a great ■deal in the last four years,” Notre Dame track coach Alex Wilson says. “This is mainly why I have the best squad I’ve evei- coached at Notre Dame. These extra few men we get in these tryouts give us the needed depth and balance to put together a strong team.”
Ever since coach Wilson introduced the freshman trials they’ve been paying off. From the tryouts, which were initiated here in Wilson’s first year as coach in 1950, he has on his present squad such outstanding men as Bill Cunningham, in the shot put, Jim Pitcavage in the sprints, and Dennis Malec in the quarter mile.
This year’s squad is highlighted by a strong array of sophomores who have given Wilson the strength that he has "been seeking. “My outstanding sophomores include: Ben Zajeski, in the shot put, Bernie Allard, high jump, sprinters Alex Pestrichella and Tom Rohrer and dependable Bill Squires.
Great hopes were in store for Rohrer, but he pulled a muscle in the opening meet and has been sidelined ever since. From Squires’ earlier performances this season it seems that he’ll crack a few marks in the all-time Notre Dame record book. The wing-footed Soph has already set a new Notre Dame gymnasium record by traveling the mile fun in 4:13.7 bettering Greg Rice’s best of 4:16.2 set in 1937. He also cracked a Notre Dame
TOM ROHRER, ALEX PESTRICHELLA
Sophomore Thinclads Strengthen Irish in Field and Running Events
indoor record in the 880 run, solving the distance in 1:55. This is only one-tenth second slower than the gymnasium record of 1:54.9 set by Michigan State’s Dianetti in 1947. These Sophs along with the returning veterans give the Irish one of the most well-balanced teams since Wilson took over.
Wilson himself is no stranger to the record splintering set. He holds records in the 880 and 440, set when he was an undergrad here from 1928 to 1932. While here he was undefeated in the quarter and half-mile heats and set a national indoor record of :49.3 for the 440 in 1932. In addition to these records he took the Milrose 600 twice and also copped the National AAU 600 once.
In 1928 and again in 1932 Wilson competed for his native Canada in the Olympic games. He came in second in the 880-meter race and third in the 400-meter run at Los Angeles in 1932. In the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics he ran on the Canadian 600-meter relay team.
Although outstanding in the distances as an undergrad Wilson has helped develop two of the finest pole vaulters in Notre Dame history. “Jim Harrington and captain Joe Springer are two of the best pole vaulters I have ever coached.” Wilson is high on both of the record breakers. “Both have cleared 14 feet this year, though Harrington sprained his ankle in the Michigan State Relays Feb. 16 and has been bothered ever since.”
JOE SPRINGER, COACH ALEX WILSON
Captain Discusses Strategy with Coach
After a three-week layoff Harrington did 14 feet in the Central Collegiate meet and last Saturday set a new ND record with a vault of 14’4” in the Milwaukee Relays which broke his all-time high of 14’3%” set last year. Springer was not far behind in second place with 13.8 feet.
In the latest Daily News report both Springer and Harrington were tops in the Midwest in the pole vaulting department. The two were the leading pole vaulters in the nation last year until Fred Barnes of Fresno State sailed to 14.6 feet in the NCAA meet. Even with this Harrington finished first in the nation and Joe Springer third.
The remaining indoor schedule has the harriers on the road for the next two weekends. Tonight they are in Cleveland for the K of C games and in the Windy City for the Chicago Relays next week. “In all of these meets the competition will be rugged, but you can bet that we’ll have representative teams in all three meets. The squad has been prepping long and hard in the fieldhouse for these three dates.”
After the Chicago Daily News Relays the cindermen will move outside for the rest of the season. With the well-balanced squad behind him, along with the experience from the indoor season, Wilson is looking forward to a successful finish.
Unlike the othei- varsity sports, Wilson’s boys don’t seem to have too many scholastic difficulties. Talking about this, Wilson glibly says, “I don’t know which it is, either track makes the boys smarter or the smart boys choose track.”
27
March 19, 1954

by Bob Frolicher

A Great Season, A Great Coach, A Great Team
Last Saturday night in Iowa City brought to an end the hopes of the Notre Dame basketball team to capture their first National Collegiate Basketball Championship, but at the same time it brought to an end the exploits of the greatest cage team in Irish history. The 1953-54 team was not just
BILL SULLIVAN
Shines in Tourney Play
another regular squad. There was something special about this group of athletes.
This team displayed the Notre Dame fight and spirit at its greatest throughout the season. They had their bad nights like every other good team did, but they always gave their best. Seldom did they make the same mistake twice. They were out for perfection and as the season progressed, the results of their conscientious drilling and practice were more noticeable game after game.
According to various polls and magazines, there are better teams with their Petits, their Schlundts, their Selvys and their Palazzis, but we doubt if they really are better. It would be hard, perhaps even impossible, to point out another team in the nation which could match the all-around ability of this squad. They
played like a team. They fought like a team, and they won like a team.
There might have been better individuals on a team but that’s where it stops. Few, if any team, had three players on their squad who averaged better than 16 points a game for the entire season. The Notre Dame opponents had more than their share to handle when they encountered the Fighting Irish. Instead of facing the task of holding only one man down in oi’der to win, ND’s opponents had a triple job and sometimes even worse. They had to hold down the “Big Three” of Captain Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand and Junior Stephens. In other cases they had to deal with guard Bill Sullivan and forward John Fannon, who played some of their best ball under
pressure.
Sullivan is a key example of this. “Sully” was not known for his outstanding scoring punch this season, but he was always there when the extra spark was needed. He picked up the slack where the top scorers left off. This dependable senior played his best ball of the year in the tournament. In the upset over Indiana, defending NCAA champs, “Sully” grabbed many valuable rebounds while dumping in ten important points. He returned the following night again fighting for many rebounds and scoring nine points in a losing cause, as the Irish dropped the regional finals to upset-minded Penn State.
The greatness of this team doesn’t stop with their loss in Iowa City. In the process of posting a very respectable 22-3 slate, they broke seven Notre Dame records. It was also the most wins posted by an Irish cage squad since 1935, and percentagewise the best since 1942.
Rosenthal, the greatest center and one of the greatest players in Notre Dame history, put many of the All-American teams to shame. In two games against the “best” in the Big Ten and tops on many national cage fives, “Rosie” held “the tall one” to a total of 19 points. Over the 25-game season, Rosenthal tallied 506 points and ended up with a 20.2 average. He also topped the previous high ever scored by a Notre Dame eager.
Just the Beginning
Buster Sheary of Holy Cross summed up the opinion of Irish followers when he said: “It is the greatest team I’ve ever seen.” This was extended further when Coach Johnny Jordan was awarded “Coach of the Year.” Little has been said about how far this team extended itself this year, but the records that go down in the books will stand for many years as those set by the greatest of Notre Dame basketball teams.
NCAA Tourney
(Continued from Page 25) connected on the second of two to put the Irish ahead by three.
Leonard drove hard for a field goal a few seconds later, but bowled over Rosenthal in the process. The referee called a foul on Leonard as the partisan crowd booed its disapproval. The ND captain, who had become ill a few minutes earlier, coolly dunked in both foul tries to put his team ahead, 65-62.
With three seconds remaining, Leonard drove for another two points. The Irish let him go through untouched for fear of a three-point play. With one second left, Joe Bertrand tossed the ball in. Rosenthal grabbed it, and the buzzer sounded, setting off a display of joyous delirium around the Irish bench.
For Notre Dame, Rosenthal was high with 25 points, followed by Stephens with 12, Bertrand with 11, and Sullivan with 10. Fannon, who fouled out, had four, and McGinn had three.
For Indiana, it was little Burke Scott who kept the Hoosiers in the game. Scott, who averaged about six points a game during the season, scored 20 against the Irish. Dick Farley had 13 points, Leonard 11, Schlundt 10, Charlie Kraak seven, and Wally Choice three.
Saturday night was an entirely different story. Penn State, which gained a final berth by upending favored Louisiana State, 78-70 the night before, rattled the Irish with their full court press that fell back into a tight zone after the ball was brought past midcourt. Several times in the first half, Notre Dame was unable to get the ball over the center line.
The Irish offense which worked so beautifully around Rosenthal against Indiana, sputtered against the Nittany Lions. When the Irish captain had the ball in the pivot, he was swarmed on by two, and sometimes three Penn Staters. Rosenthal scored only four points in the first half.
Stephens, hitting four* times with his one-hand specialty, spearheaded the Irish attack in the first 20 minutes, but this was not enough to prevent State from taking control of the game. The teams were tied 15-15 at the end of the first quarter and continued to exchange points evenly until late in the second period. Notre Dame was leading 27-26 when State’s star, Jesse Arnelle, dunked two foul shots to put his team in front. They were never behind again. At the half, State led 31-28.
The Irish moved the ball better in the third quarter but couldn’t hit on their shots. The Lions constructed an eightpoint lead that ND shaved to three, (Continued on Page 31)
28
The Scholastic
Fencers Close Season At Cincy Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s fencing squad, with only one setback in 11 outings, will close their present campaign tomorrow in a triangular meet at Cincinnati against the University of Cincinnati and the University of Kentucky.
The Irish bladesmen will also be seeking their ninth and tenth consecutive wins since an early season's loss to Wisconsin. Last year Notre Dame defeated Cincinnati, 16-11, and gained a 17-10 win over Kentucky.
The Irish picked up wins nine and ten last Saturday by sweeping decisive victories ovei- their other two opponents in
DICK HULL, ROD DUFF, GERRY FINNEY Three Musketeers, Irish Version
Chicago’s Bartlett gym. They found little trouble in dropping the University of Chicago, 21-6, and Lawrence Tech of Detroit, 25-2.
Last week fencing coach Walter Langford entered three of his big winners of the season in the NCAA tournament which will be held in Chicago, March 26-27. They are: Captain Rod Duff in the epee, Gerry Finney, who took sixth place in the sabre in the 1953 tourney, and Dick Hull in the foil.
Finney now leads the Irish with an overall record of 26-1 and also compiled the best overall mark last season by posting a 28-5. The Irish finished seventh in last year’s meet and hope to finish up in the top ten this season.
Graduation will take a heavy toll on the present squad which has helped to post the best mark of any varsity sport on campus. However, there are about 25 freshmen working out at present in the fieldhouse, and Langford hopes that he will be able to find some capable replacements from this group.
Track
(Continued from Page 25)
Collegiate Conference Meet last year.
Irish miler Squires finished third in the Collegiate Mile with a time of 4:18.8. Other Irish places were second in the mile relay and a fourth place by Allard in the high jump. The mile relay team of Alexander, Malec, Schoenig, and Copeland finished behind winner Iowa. Allard’s fourth place came with a jump of 6’6”. This was his seasonal high, second only to his record jump of six feet seven inches last year in the Chicago Daily News Relays.
Next week the same squad, with the exception of Harvey Newquist in the hurdles and Bill Squires replacing Bill Copeland in the mile relay, will compete in the Chicago Daily News Relays to be held on Friday, March 27. Three of the Irish will be out to break their own individual records from last year’s event. Allard jumped to his individual high and Captain Springei- went 14 feet one inch which is his competitive record. Harrington is out to break his record in last year’s event when he vaulted 13’6”.
Curran Completes Brennan's Coaching Staff For '54 Season
Francis H. (Frannie) Curran, former Notre Dame basketball captain during the 1946-47 season, was appointed to coach the Notre Dame “B” squad, thus completing Head Coach Terry Brennan’s coaching staff for the coming year.
For the past two years Curran was head football and basketball mentor at South Bend’s St. Joseph’s High School. This past season the 31-year-old Curran directed his teams to an undefeated season in football (9-0), and an outstanding season in basketball (18-2). Over his two-year stretch at St. Joseph’s called South Bend Central Catholic in 1952, Curran’s teams have won 43 and lost 13.
Curran entered Notre Dame in 1941 and won freshman numerals in the three major sports, football, basketball, and baseball. The following year, however, “Frannie” turned his full attention to basketball under the late George Keogan. Entei-ing the Navy in 1943, Curran returned to Notre Dame three years later to captain the 1946-47 Irish basketball squad under Ed “Moose” Krause.
Curran totaled 239 points as captain of that 1946-47 unit, second only to John Brennan’s total of 289. Curran paced his club to 20 wins against only four- defeats that year.
After graduating from Notre Dame in
1947, Curran played one season with the Toledo Jeeps of the National Pro Basketball Association. He followed with two more pro seasons with the Rochester Royals of the NBA. In 1950 Curran accepted a coaching post at Alpena High in Alpena, Mich.
Brennan had previously named Frank “Blacky” Johnston as the new freshman coach. Johnston played with the 1949 National Champs and earned a monogram playing guard with the 1950 team. Johnston returns after a hitch in the anny.
This completes Brennan’s entire staff for the coming year. Both John Druze and Bill Earley remained from Leahy’s staff, and Brennan then appointed former All-American Bill Fischer and George Dickson.
Gymnasts Hold Initial Home Match With Western Illinois
Notre Dame’s gymnastic squad will host Western Illinois in the Drill Hall tomorrow in the first home gym meet in Irish history. Riggings have been completed in the hall for flying riggs and safety belts.
Since its organization four years ago Coach Ray Runkle’s gymnasts have been making trips each year to compete with some of the best schools in the Midwest.
Teams which the Irish have met on the road this year are Michigan, Northwestern, Navy Pier Branch of Illinois, Iowa and Chicago. Additional home meets are planned with Purdue and Ball State. This is the most complete schedule that the Irish have had in four years of competition.
Relay Win Gives Zahm 25-21 Margin Over B-P Swimmers
Zahm Hall won the annual interhall swimming meet by edging Breen-Phillips 25 to 21 in the Rock last week. It wasn’t until the last race, the 200-yard medley, that a winner could be determined. It was Zahm’s medley relay team of Bill Holland, Paul Flattery, Ed Thompson, and Mike Connelly that gave their hall the margin of victory.
B-P’s Bill Kennedy became the meet’s only triple winner as he captured the 200-yard free style, the 50-yard back-stroke, and was a member of the victorious 150-yard medley team. His scoring total of 18 points edged out Bill Holland of Zahm who finished with 16.
In the diving competition Ed Healy of Zahm had to go all out to oust his brother Dan of Dillon. Ed finished with 186.3 points while Dan notched 177.3 points.
March 19, 1954
29
WW Mike Chatter
We really did ourselves up proud Wednesday night. If you’d been listening to the station a few days before the ceremony and on Wednesday night, you know that we dedicated the new studios.
Tom Cassidy had Bing Crosby, by tape recording of course, on his show, and there were telegrams and letters by the dozen from well-wishing show people, radio people, and sponsors.
It marked a big moment in WNDU’s history. All of us up at the station gave ourselves a little pat on the back, and I don’t think that we ought to be ashamed of doing it, either.
“Big Thing To Live Up To”
But like all big moments in history, there’s a little uneasiness, too. We’ve got a layout in the O’Shaughnessy Tower that cost a lot more than just a few thousand dollars. It’s a big thing to live up to.
And it isn’t just that somebody was nice enough to spend a lot of money on us either. It’s what that money represents in the way of a trust that’s really important.
They figure that we’ve grown up now! WNDU isn’t considered just a “plaything for the students” as it was so considered just a few years ago. We’re a self - supporting business venture that has yet to go in the red at the end of the year. The large sum of money that the University lent us for equipment last year will be paid off within the next few years.
More and more, WNDU is becoming an important and integral part of campus life. Bill Ryan, last year’s station manager, told me that when he was a freshman, WNDU was never considered important enough to gripe about. You can’t say t/iat’s true any more.
A lot of us couldn’t get away to the basketball games this season. But we could hear them on the radio—and sometimes only through WNDU. And what about pep rallies, Glee Club concerts, Band concerts, Gene Hull’s fabulous jazz concert three years ago, and other special events? All over WNDU.
“Doubles Average College Time”
The station started just seven years ago. It’s gone from a room in one of the residence halls to the tower of O’Shaughnessy, from a coverage of about 300 students to 3,500, and from a couple of hours of air time a night to 85 hours a week—more than twice the amount of the average college station.
We’re not the worst station in the country. Turning around, we’re not the
30
best, either. We have a long way to go. But people have shown that they think we can go quite a bit of that long way.
We think we can, too. And if we do, it’s going to be because we’ve had a lot of help—and a lot of criticism. We’re thankful for both. And we’re going to try our best to live up to one and live down the other.—John Slavich
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
character and personality. It is an accepted fact that personality is the integrated whole of a person, this integrated whole comprising the general character of the person. It is impossible to separate the idea of the rounded man and that of character. It is character that makes the rounded man, for without it I hardly think that he would become such.
Perhaps one of the reasons for Mr. Bergquist’s rage against this abused word of “character” is because it is referred to in such unfavorable lights as juvenile delinquency, the wayward father, the unfaithful mother, etc. True, this word is tossed around rather frequently in the present day, and unfortunately, “familiarity breeds contempt.” I would, though, suggest to Mr. Bergquist that he consider the source first, and then if he wished, he could categorize the results afterwards.
He mentions that a man is accepted only if he is good regarding his character, rather than a good engineer or doctor. Perhaps it is because in an age as technically advanced as ours, it is necessary to weed the best from the good. The good are the technicians; the best are those who have been able to combine character plus technical skill.
If we dispense with character, we dispense with any acknowledgement of divine or human law, and if Mr. Bergquist wishes to return to the Cult of the Noble Savage, then more power to him. Contrary to what he claims, I do not think he will get as much “fun” out of life.
Very sincerely, Patricia Erwin, Pittsburgh, Pa.
■
Well, What’s an N.D. Man?
Editor:
Scribe Bergquist has me slightly confused with his use of the term “Notre Dame Man.” Does he mean all Notre Darners, or a majority, or a minority? I believe he means more than a majority. If he does, then some of his florid and polysyllabic denunciations are unjustified.
You cannot criticize people for having an abysmal lack of knowledge in the field of literature. Some people are simply not
book people. Denouncing them does no ; good. Some people do not like opera, and ] some people cannot get interested in « literature. It is a sad case, and it has	:
been existing for thousands of years.	1
But nothing to get critical and disdain- ? ful about.	J
I think this movie madness can be • confined to a minority. Some of the boys j do overdo it; but it is not the sweeping j movement that you make it out to be.	<
Admittedly, the student whose conver- | sation dwells on sex, and the excoriation 1 (a word that one should never use among friends) of professors, should be horse- j whipped. But again this is confined to a	>
minority. A minority which admittedly	=
is doing this university little good; and ; this university is doing them little good. '
My boy, what provoked this little as- ;i sault on WNDU. If what you say is true, ■ and it is not, the Holy Cross Fathers would yank that radio station out of ' there pretty darn fast.	j
Oh yes, and one more thing, just out : of sheer curiosity who are Matthew Arn- : old and Jacques Barzun? Saying that they are luminai’ies is the finest generalization I have heard in years.
Sincerely,
Mike Hyland	J
228 Cavanaugh
Fro O'Brien Pamphlet Lauds Convert-Making
Your Bridge to Heaven, a new pamph- ' let on convert-making by Rev. John A. O’Brien of the University has just been published by the Queen’s Work Press. It is the March selection of the Queen’s Work Pamphlet-a-Month Club, numbering thousands of members throughout the country.
Father O’Brien’s new pamphlet de- -scribes the technique used by Robert M. j Panarites, a member of the U. S. Navy, . in winning five converts for the Church. A convert of only five years, Panarites is convinced that every Catholic can average at least one convert each year.
The pamphlet also tells the success stories of other Catholics engaged in convert-making. It recounts how Catherine G. Callahan, a saleslady of High Point, N. C., won 21 converts to Catholicism. It tells, too, how Mr. and Mrs. Lorin Blodget of Knoxville, Tenn., established a Catholic lending library and interested 13 converts in the Faith.
Still other stories of successful convert-making are those of Mrs. Frank P. Kavanaugh of Kalamazoo, Mich., who led more than a dozen of her neighbors to the inquiry class at St. Augustine’s Parish and Margaret T. Zywert of San Diego, Calif., who brought a former minister, Dr. Rudolph M. Lippert, into the Church.
The Scholastic
NCAA Tourney
(Continued from Page 28)
45-42, by the end of the third period. During this spree, Notre Dame played their best ball of the night, making good on several fast breaks.
It seemed the Irish were about to take over, but Penn State came right back with a splurge of their own in the final quarter. The Lions tallied six straight points without return at the start of the quarter, for a nine-point lead. For the rest of the period, ND staged a desperate drive led by Rosenthal, but the Lions matched them point for point to win going away and earn the right to meet LaSalle tonight in the semi-finals.
The high man for Penn .State was their big center, Jesse Amelie. He scored 22 points, did an excellent job on Rosenthal, and rebounded superbly. Captain Jack Sherry scored 14 points and Jim Blocker 13. Blocker, a lithe 6’4” Negro had averaged only 4.4 per game during the season. His uncanny shots in the second half had a great deal to do with keeping his team in front. Other Penn State scorers were set-shot artist Ed Haag with 12 (all in the second half); Jim Brewer with seven; and Ron Weidenhammer with three.
For Notre Dame, Rosenthal and Stephens tied for scoring honors -with 18 apiece. Bertrand had ten, Sullivan nine, and Fannon eight.
Notre Dame, weary from the IU ordeal, did not play good ball last Saturday night, but credit cannot be taken away from Penn State. Their unorthodox defense was the chief cause for sub-par play of the Irish, and when they had to score, they did, with unbelievable accuracy. ND outrebounded their rivals by one, but Amelie and company grabbed them at the crucial times.
For Notre Dame, it was a disappointing conclusion to one of the greatest seasons in Irish basketball history. This ND team was a great one, and might have gone all the way had it not been for a Penn State team that had everything to gain and nothing to lose.
Three Mixers in Center Slated For Next Weekend
One of the most socially productive weekends of the year will begin next Friday night, according to Phil Bolin, Senate social chairman.
A series of parties, to which women from St. Mary’s, St. Joseph’s Nursing Home and High School, the Daughters of Isabella and other Catholic women's organizations in South Bend have been
invited, will be staged in the Student Centei- over the weekend.
Friday night, a party will be held for juniors only. The big night for the third-year men will include dancing, card playing and a special movie—possibly Going My Way with Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald.
The following night the Senate will sponsor another party starting at 8 and ending at 11:30. This one is open to all ND men. Slated for the evening of entertainment are: bingo, bridge, a jitterbug contest, a jam session, and a movie plus dancing for all.
After stations and benediction on Sunday, the Center’s doors will again be open for a day-long party lasting until 8 p.m. This get-together will be similar to the one held on Valentine’s Day, which was reported as one of the most successful of the year. A luncheon will be served.
Outline Reservation Plan For Student Grid Ducats
Because of an unusually early opening of the 1954-55 grid season—two days after University classes begin next Sept. 23—preliminary reservations for student football tickets will be made during the room pre-registration period starting Tuesday and continuing through April 2. The admission ticket will be issued at registration time next September.
As all upperclassmen pre-register with the Director of Student Accounts,
Three Opportunities to See Europe
1.	SUMMER BICYCLE TOUR
Travel through Holland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Germany, Switzerland, France and England. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, bicycle and equipment, room and board at student Hostels. Tour conductor: Dr. Clement H. de Haas from the Univ, of Leyden. Limit: 25 students. Time:
8 weeks. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price___
2.	SEMINAR TOUR IN EUROPE
Special program for students of Political Science. History and Geography, German, Italian. Art and Architecture, and Liberal Arts. Program lasts 95 days and attends Seminars and lectures in famous universities in Holland, Germany, Italy and Austria. Also attend the famous Salzburg Music Festival. Price in-
eludes round trip ocean transportation, room and board, and tuition. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price.________
$895
3.	STUDY AND TRAVEL PROGRAM—Two Semesters
Live in Vienna, Austria and take the English taught courses offered by the University of Vienna. Student groups travel and explore nine countries of Europe and North Africa with competent professors. Courses are creditable. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, complete room and board for lo/s months while in Europe, tuition at the University, travel expenses and special lectures. Deadline: June 1, 1954. Price-
SCHOLASTIC CREDITS WILL BE OFFERED BY NOTRE DAME FOR PROGRAMS NOS. 2 AND 3 For further information see Walter Clemens, 326 Badin Hall between 6:30 and 7:30 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES, 7325 S. Maryland, Chicago 19, ID.
they will be furnished a ticket reservation card in accordance with class ratings. This must be filled in carefully, and additional instructions on the card closely followed to insure the student’s proper seat reservation.
The reservation card must be turned in completed to the Ticket Office in Breen-Phillips Hall any time between next Wednesday and April 14.
Groups of no more than four students wishing to be seated together are asked to clip their reservation cards securely together before handing them in. Group arrangement will be respected only insofar as actual stadium seating alignment permits.
Class preference will be preserved, but seat assignments within the classes will be chosen by lot, and not in order of receipt at the Ticket Office; all cards in each class will be shuffled, and seats assigned by draw.
Married students who are required to pre-register and who wish to obtain an adjacent ticket for their wives must present their ID cards when turning in their reservation cards, and at that time pay the sum of $12 to cover the cost of the wife’s season ticket.
Graduate students who are certain of returning to the University next September will be given an opportunity to reserve tickets at a later date. Full information will be furnished after the Easter vacation.
Tickets for incoming freshmen and for all who fail to pre-register will be assigned during registration next September.
March 19, 1954
31
Frosh Prom Queen
(Continued from page 13)
council members will pick up the pictures of dates entered in the contest. The picture entered will then be judged by the chairmen of the various committees connected with the prom. Those judged the best ten will then be displayed during ticket sales on April 5, 6, and 7.
Voting on the "favorite” will take place during ticket sales and the votes will be counted at the end of the sales. The winner will be announced before Easter vacation.
WEEK-END GOLFER ... OR TITLE HOLDER
THESE CLUBS WILL SAVE YOU STROKES!
Shooting to break 100... 90... 80... or to take a title?
Spalding’s sensational advance in clubs — new ’54 Synchro-Dyned woods and irons — can do more to save you strokes than any other clubs you ever played!
Reason? Try a few swings — and see. Every wood, every iron now has identical contact feel. You naturally swing freer, improve tuning... get the ball away straighter and for more distance.
Will you shoot better golf consistently'? Ask any golfer who owns a Spalding Synchro-Dyned Top-Flite set... and then have your professional fit you.
SpaldinG
Sgnduv'Dgned
TOP-FLITE
KKdlSTEKBB SELF CLUES
SOLD THROUGH GOLF PROFESSIONALS ONLY
New ’Thought' Group Advises Senate Prexy
The Student Senate President’s Advisory Council, a hand-picked group of approximately 30 students from each of the four University classes, initially met last Sunday in the Student Center to discuss the question of “Thought, Not Activity.”
This select discussion group stemmed from a recent NS A symposium which outlined the need for “members of a student government to be 'thinkers’ first and 'doers’ afterwards.”
Contending the Student Senate is not serving the students as well as it should, Tom Field, Senate president, stated: “Senate activity has often not been in line with the students’ needs. Too much emphasis is placed on activity and not enough on the thought which should be the basis of that activity.”
The initial meeting centered on the question “What is the most serious problem facing students on campus.” The major problems fell under three headings: lack of understanding of the ends of the student; lack of a true academic community; and lack of development of leadership at Notre Dame.
Particularly stressed was the need for Freshmen to ascertain as quickly as possible the true role of the college student and the University, especially its administrative heads.
Permanent Residence Explored
The idea of a permanent residence plan was carefully explored regarding an apparent lack of development of leaders on campus. Permanent residence, it was believed, might aid in exposing the underclassmen to contact with older campus leaders and subsequently in developing qualities of leadership. Opportunities were considered definitely lacking in this respect.
Solutions to the problems listed will be the general topic of the next meeting of the Advisory group March 28.
Blue Circle Closes Annual Membership Drive Friday
Midnight next Friday will ring down the curtain on the annual Blue Circle membership drive, which is now under way, it was announced by Gene Howley, head of the Blue Circle. All applications must be submitted in writing to the Committee on Membership, Blue Circle Honor .Society, c/o the Student Center.
Announcement of the members chosen will be made shortly before the Easter vacation, it was announced by Pat O’Malley, committee chairman.
Candidates for membership in the Circle should submit letters which include the reasons for application, scholastic average, college major, and previous activities and honors received in both high school and college.
As preliminary requirements one must have an 80 percent academic average, a satisfactory disciplinary record, have completed at least one semester at the University, and have shown previous interest in the activities of the Circle.
All applicants for membership are to be personally interviewed by members
32
The Scholastic
of the Blue Circle. These members will compose three panels, one for each class, and will have five men each with an officer of the Circle heading each. The Blue Circle’s constitution limits membership to 45 men: nine sophomores, 13 juniors, 17 seniors, and six members at large. There will be room for 18 new members this year.
The Blue Circle has organized and conducted freshman orientation, directed all pep-rallies, conducted all student elections, and organized welcoming committees on football weekends. It also has directed student trips, provided ushers for various University functions, and conducted the first freshman mixer.
At present there is a committee setting up plans and proposals for the decoration and use of the basement of the Student Center. May Day exercises are being organized in honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Efficient Placement Effort
(Continued from page 24)
recession or fear of recession,” he added. “It .is because we are hiring fewer men for our executive ranks and more men for our engineering developmental departments.” Only 26 per cent of Westinghouse’s products are bought by the consumer. Industry and government use up 74 percent of their products, thus eliminating many of the sales jobs. Mills said, “We are looking for men well grounded in general engineering and we will have a greater need for them in the future because of Westinghouse’s expansion.”
Mr. Mills added that a depression or recession will not effect Westinghouse’s developmental program for future technicians and executives “because of the lush amount of money in reserve for this program.”
“We need more men now then ever before,” said Woodyard of Continental Casualty. “Recent figures show that Continental Casualty Co. has had a sound, consistent growth, which has left us thin at the top and continuously creates new career opportunities for young men of ambition and enthusiasm. Obviously, we have no place for the technically trained men, like engineers. Our need is for lawyers, commerce and liberal arts men.”
Mr. Mills expressed perfectly the feelings of the other interviewers when he said, “We don’t care what the military status of the student is; we still want him even if we’have to wait until he serves two years in the armed forces.” They advised students to line up a job before entering the seiwice.
LEARNING
TO DANCE
IS MORE FUN THAN
A NIGHT AT THE
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne
THEATRE
Come in now and join in the
fun at Arthur Murray's ...
Yes, a night at the theatre is over when the curtain falls but your fun is just beginning when you learn to dance at Arthur Murray’s. Not only will you win new friends and popularity through your dancing skill but you’ll be included in all sorts of gay studio parties at Arthur Murray’s, too. So don’t wait. Come in now and get started on this quick and easy way to good times. Studios Air-Conditioned
3339
H City Club’s invitation to good going...
Win a Chevrolet Corvette
lat Mm—’54 Chevrotet Camfta
2nd MIZI—J’.IM M n Cash
MUS 900 Mins—« pair of CITY QUI Amiges
WINNER OF FIRST GRAND PRIZE, if (ntry is on Offi-dal Entry Blank obtained from a City Club dealer, will receive additional cash prize for operating cosfc.
in the big, easy
City Club shoe contest!
— NOTHING TO BUY—ENTER NOW. SIMPLE RULES OF THE CONTEST: —
1.	In 25 word* or Ie** tell why “I like City Club Shoes . . .”
2.	Send in as many entries as you wish, but each must be on a separate piece of paper. Print your name and address clearly.
3.	It is not necessary to use an Official entry blank but handy entry blanks may be procured at your City Club Dealer (they carry an extra advantage—see note above).
4.	Mail all entries to Peters Shoe Company, Dept. C3, Box 5995, Chicago 77, Illinois.
5.	Contest starts March 15—ends May 15, 1954. All entries postmarked before midnight May 15 and received by May 22 eligible.
6.	Entries will be judged on originality, aptness and sincerity by the Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. Judges’ decision final. Duplicate prizes in case of ties. No entries returned. Entries and ideas therein become property of Peters Shoe Company to be used as it sees fit Winners will be notified by mail.	'
7.	Contest open to all residents of continental United States and Canada. Contest not open to employees of Peters Shoe Co., of City Club Dealers, of their Advertising Agency, nor their families. ■
SEE your City Cub dealer. Or for name of your neoroii deohr, write:
Peters Shoe Company, St. Louis 3, Missouri
March 19, 1954
by Gordon Bergquist
To anyone who looks at the Notre Dame scene with a fairly Unprejudiced Eye, it is obvious that there is something missing when Notre Dame is compared to Other Schools. In short, The Question might be phrased, “What ain’t we got?”
There is the usual lineup of obvious things that we do not have, such as all-night lights and unlimited cuts. Any student worthy of the name of a Notre Dame man, could reel off at the drop of a pink toothbrush, a list of things he hasn’t got as a Notre Dame Man.
But it really isn’t these big things that cause the Notre
Dame man to tear out his hair and vend -----------------------
his garments and swear to take up Sackcloth and Ashes. No, it’s the Little Things—you know, the straw that broke the camel’s back.
The big things, the things that the students always complain about when they are here at school and take a sort of Perverse Pride in when they are at home or in the company of students from other, less well-regulated schools— these Big Things a student soon learns to bear—or else he doesn’t stay around long enough to worry about them.
But the Little Things—ah, that’s a different story. Take, just for example, Girls. Now Girls are a small part of the life of the Scholastic Aspirant. Anyone who has roamed the beautiful Notre Dame campus, on a beautiful Spring night—alone, can vouch for This! Girls are not Necessary. But then there are other Little Things.
There are other Little Things like the absence of a light bulb in the third floor washroom of Walsh Hall at periodic intervals. This may sound like a very Trivial Matter but we can assure you that it is Not.
Then—Misspelled Names
Then there is the Little Thing that is the Scholastic. Let us say that they have —just as a wild example—spelled your name wrong. It is extremely doubtful whether you will flunk over such an over-sight but it is galling in the Highest Degree. I can recall one fellow who, upon seeing his name misspelled, at once strove to have the error corrected and
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A Notre Dame Tradition 11:30— 1:30 NOON LUNCHES—75 « 601 N. Niles Ave.
at last report was chasing a past editor somewhere in New York City.
And then there is the Little Thing that is connected with the mail delivery. Imagine the agony of the newly-engaged student who returns from a week-end and patiently waits at the mail box for some hopeful word from the beloved, only to have the mailman deliver the mail just at 8:29, when the student has an 8:30 class. A week of this type of thing has sent many a student over to the infirmary with complaints of psychoneurosis.
And then there is the Hard-Working Student who works like the Very Devil to get his studies out of the way so that he will be able to have time to go to The Movie in Washington Hall on Saturday afternoon—and what greets him but the Screams of Agony from some freshmen who are undoubtedly caught in the folding seats due to a lack of experience with the more complex features of this machine age. It’s almost enough to make a fellow go Downtown to the show.
And one would think that those persons in charge of the Bengal Bouts would make provision that the patrons would not be splattered with the Blood and Gore of the combatants.
Always There Are Lines
Another Little Thing which has reared its Ugly Head in the life of almost every Notre Dame man, is the lines. There are lines and lines—all over the place. It wouldn’t be so bad if the lines moved but there seems to be something about a line at Notre Dame that makes it inherently impossible for it to move. Or then, it could be due to the Vast Numbers of students who detest the line system so violently that they feel obliged to start at the head of it. This is a totally recognizable feeling which has afflicted all from the mo
ment of their entrance to the University of Their Dreams.
We know of one student who has been caught in the toils of one of the most pernicious of Little Things—The Loused Up Record. Undoubtedly the fault lies entirely on the side of the all-powerful I.B.M. machines, but the Lost, , Misplaced, Stolen, or Altered Record has caused more misery in individual lives than a total lack of lights ever could.
There are such things as wrongly-recorded grades, or wrong designations and averages on pre-registration slips. This fellow we know, received such a pre-registration slip and was immediately taken ill and relegated to the Infirmary. It seems he had had the same trouble the year before and after trying diligently to get it changed a year ago, the Second Shock was too much.
Razors, Toothbrushes, and Joer's
There are of course, several other Little Things which can break a man such as a paucity of one’s favorite brand of cigarettes in the cigarette machines or those people who inveigle you to go down to Joer’s when you have given the amber fluid up for Lent. Or again, such Little Things as your roommate using your razor—this could lead to greater things, such as Toothbrushes.
There would then appear to be a Problem connected with the academic endeavor—but don’t worry about it. We seriously doubt if there is anything that can be done about such a Multitude of Aggravations. The moral of the whole thing might be to cease worrying about these Little Things and concentrate on the Evils in Our Midst . . . but we doubt it.
Open Competition for Annual Steiner Engineering Prize
The Father Steiner Prize, given annually to an outstanding junior or senior engineering student will be awarded May 3 during a public speaking contest in the Engineering Auditorium. The $50 cash award goes to an engineering student on the basis of scholastic attainment, participation in extra-curricular activities, qualities of leadership and proficiency in English composition and speech. Those interested in further details on the competition are urged to watch the bulletin boards in the Engineering Building.
In the Fall of 1948 several former pupils of Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., now retired, and dean of the College of Engineering from 1929 to 1939, started contributions toward a fund to establish a prize in honor of Father Steiner. Today the fund is still growing through continued contributions.
34
The Scholastic
What do YOU look for in an employer?
Undoubtedly, you’ll want most of the following characteristics:
1.	Job satisfaction—the chance to do work you really enjoy.
2.	Recognition—the assurance that good work will be noticed, appreciated, and properly rewarded.
3.	Opportunities for advancement—a growing company can provide them.
4.	Security—the knowledge that a company is both stable and progressive.
5.	Pride—a feeling that your company is respected by the public and produces goods which contribute to a better way of life.
6.	Good companionship—a factor which contributes greatly to happiness on the job.
7.	Good pay—not in salary alone, but also in terms of vacation plans, pensions, and other benefits.
8.	Safe working conditions.
How can you obtain this kind of information in advance?
One of the best ways is to discuss the matter with an acquaintance already working for the company you are considering. You will also find it helpful to consult your college placement officer, your professors and company representatives visiting your campus.
The selection of an employer is one of the most important decisions you’ll make. It justifies considerable thought and effort.
SOON AVAILABLE for student ASME chapters and other college groups, a 16-mm. sound colormovie—"MechanicalEn-gineering at Du Pont.” For further information, send post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY

Watch "Cavalcade of America" on Television
Copyright 1954, ItGcnr* Myhs.Tobacco Co.
on
best fob you
Like I tell you

smokers
by the thousands
now changing to
Chesterfield^?
... enjoying the one cigarette that's highest in quality—low in nicotine.
H And remember, only our Chesterfields have this proven record with smokers. No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. Both these statements are a matter of record.

UGGt1"1

CHESTERFIELD