APRIL 24,1959
On (tapis m3*.
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.”)
VIVE LE POPCORN!
CALENDAR
TONIGHT:
7:30 p.m.—Christian Culture Symposium at St. Mary’s College with Rev. D. M. Stanley lecturing on “The Emergence of Christianity from Judaism” in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall. Notre Dame students admitted free.

The other day as I was walking down the street picking up tinfoil, (Marlboro, incidentally, has the best tinfoil, which is not surprising when you consider that they have the best cigarettes, which is not surprising when you consider that they take the best filters and put them together with the best tobaccos and rush them to your tobacco counter, fresh and firm and loaded with smoking pleasure).
The other day, I say, as I was walking down the street picking up tinfoil, (I have incidentally, the second largest ball of tinfoil in our family. My brother Eleanor’s is bigger—more than four miles in diameter—but, of course, he is taller than I). The other day, as I was saying, while walking down the street picking up tinfoil, I passed a campus and right beside it, a movie theatre which specialized in showing foreign films. Most campuses have foreign movie theatres close by, because foreign movies are full of culture, art, and esoterica, and where is culture more rife, art more rampant, and esoterica more endemic than on a campus?
Nowhere; that’s where.
I hope you have all been taking advantage of your local foreign film theatre. Here you will find no simple-minded Hollywood products,marked by treacly sentimentality and machine-made bravura.
Here you will find life itself —in all its grimness, its poverty, its naked, raw passion!
Have you, for instance, seen the recent French import, Le Crayon de Mon Onde (“The Kneecap”), a savage and uncompromising story of a man named Claude, whose consuming ambition is to get a job as a meter reader with the Paris water department? But he is unable, alas, to afford the flashlight one needs for this position. His wife, Bon-Bon, sells her hair to a wigmaker and buys him a flashlight. Then, alas, Claude discovers that one also requires
*
If there’s smoking in the balcony of your theatre, we hope you’ll be smoking Philip Morris—or, if you prefer filters, Marlboro ... Marlboro—new improved filter, fine rich flavor —from the makers of Philip Morris.
a leatherette bow tie. This time his two young daughters, Caramel and Nougat, sell their hair to a wigmaker. So now Claude has his leatherette bow tie, but now, alas, his flashlight battery is burned out and the whole family, alas, is bald.
Or have you seen the lastest Italian masterpiece, La Donna E Mobile (I Ache All Over), a heart-shattering tale of a boy and his dog? Malvolio, a Venetian lad of nine, loves his little dog with every fibre of his being. He has one great dream: to enter the dog in the annual Venetian dog show. But this alas, requires an entrance fee, and Malvolio, alas, is penniless. However, he saves and scrimps and steals and finally gets enough together to enter the dog in the show. The dog, alas, comes in twenty-third. Malvolio sells him to a vivisectionist.
Or have you seen the new Japanese triumph, Kibutzi-San (The Radish), a pulse-stirring historical romance about Yamoto, a poor farmer, and his daughter Ethel who are accosted by a warlord one morning on their way to market? The warlord cuts Yamoto in half with his samurai sword and runs off with Ethel.
When Yamoto recovers, he seeks out Ethel’s fianc6, Red Buttons, and together they find the warlord and kill him. But, alas, the warlord was also a sorcerer and he whimsically turned Ethel into awhoop-ing crane. Loyal Red Buttons takes Ethel home where he feeds her fish heads for twenty years and keeps hoping she’ll turn back into a woman. She never does. Alas.
© 1959 Max Shulman * *
2-5 p.m.—Engineering Open House opens in the Engineering Building, the Drill Hall, and the Aeronautical Engineering Building east of the Stadium.
5-6:30 p.m.—Polls open in the resident halls.
9-1 a.m.—The student government sponsored dance “April Showers” in the d LaFortune Student Center. Music by I Bobby Christian.	,"•1
SATURDAY:	]
10 a.m.—The opening of the University | sponsored “Finance and Industry” 'I forum in the Law Auditorium. .1
9:30 a.m.—Christian Culture Symposium ; I continues at St. Mary’s with Brian Tierney speaking on “Law, Justice I and Christian Society” and Myron P. Gilmore discussing “Erasmus: The I Cause of Christian Humanism.”
10 a.m.-5 p.m.—Engineering Open House I continues.	t< J
2:00 p.m.—Final session of the Christian Culture Symposium at St. Mary’s. I
8:30-11:30 p.m.—Student government spon- I sored “Cabaret Party” in the Student Center.
MONDAY:
3:30-8:30 p.m.—Ticket sales for The Boy''i Friend begin in the Washington Hall I box office. The sales will continue for the next two weeks.	I
TUESDAY:	]
7:45 p.m.—Mariology Lectures sponsored I by the Spiritual Commission in IC of the Student Center.	|
8:00 p.m.—Accounting club meeting in j IE of the Student Center.
WEDNESDAY:	'
6:45 p.m.—Rochester club meeting in the Student Center.	।
7:00 p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in IC of the Student Center.	.	।
THURSDAY:
700 p.m.—Hall President’s . Council meet- * ing in the Amphitheatre of the Student Center.
8:15 p.m.—The University Theatre presents The Boy Friend in Washington Hall.
The Scholastic
the Scholastic
Vol. 100 April 24, 1959 No. 20
Disce Qnari Semper Victurui
Vive Quasi Cm* Moriturus
Founded 1867
PLAUDITS: The past few issues of the Scholastic have carried numerous announcements concerning awards given to members of the University’s staff and to various undergraduates. Notre Dame students fared well in the competitions for the honors and fellowships granted by the Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson,'and National ‘Science foundations. We wish also to congratulate this year’s recipients of the Dome and St. Thomas More awards. The conduct of those honored, both by the national and the local accolades, we feel is not only a fitting reward for their efforts but also a highly complimentary reflection of the University.
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
GOOD BET FOR THE WEEK END: Commerce and AB men please note: this week end the College of Engineering is sponsoring its annual Open House (See “News”) and it should be one of the best in years. The auto and air shows look interesting along with the various departmental exhibits. Should provide some enjoyable moments.
BOB SEDLACK Editor
LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH------------------News	Editor
WALT RUDGE--------------------Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH..................Features	Editor
‘	TEDDY THOMPSON.............Sports	Editor
*	JON SIDDLE.................Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER.................Photography
PETER HASBROOK---------Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI-----------Circulation
ROY RUBELI---------------Assistant	News
AL GENIESSE--------------Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK_______________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA_____________Assistant Features JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER...Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER___________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE----------------Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER------------Assistant Sports
BOB HORN.--------------Assistant Business
| FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
BAND AND GLEE CLUB: We didn’t have room last week to comment on the success of the swinging and singing Irish during their annual Eastertime jaunts around the country. The Band went south to Louisiana, and southwest through Texas while the Glee Club toured the East, beginning in New Jersey, through Massachusetts, Maine, and then down to Maryland.
These two organizations, under the direction of Messrs. Robert F. O’Brien and Daniel H. Pedtke, have won countless friends for Notre Dame and, in the past as well as this year, have been outstanding representatives and press agents for the University. They are to be congratulated for their fine work.
ESCAPE DEPENDS! HELP! UPON ITS FRIENDS! HELP!
ESCAPE WRITERS WANTED: No, we haven’t fired either Jolly John Bellairs or Charming Charlie Bowen, this year’s “Escape” writers, but we are interested in lining up some columnists for next year. Anyone interested in writing this column or the “Back Page” should submit his manuscripts to the Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NO PLACE TO PARK: Now that the nice weather has caught up with the Valley of Progress (at least temporarily, and not as Wiley Rice of Walsh claims: “April showers bring snow ploughers.”) we’re wondering if and when the green benches will be brought out of hibernation by the maintenance crew. The winter has been so long and the spring will be so short that the student body is entitled to the luxuries afforded by the benches. Besides, it would keep us off the grass.
* BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade
Clarke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin, John Hoey, Bob > Kelley. Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak. Tom ■ Romans, Charles Tausche, Tom Wass.
LITURGY: The recent decree by Bishop Pursley of Fort Wayne concerning active participation in the liturgy by the laity should be of special meaning to the student body. If this program is to succeed it will be up to us to effect it. No amount of plead- . ing by the clergy can achieve the results which can be attained by our attentive interest.
W SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Coro, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and v Amodated Collegiate Press. Represented for no-* tional advertising by National Advertising Service, lac., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
' -------------------------- ■ --------------------------
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the ’ school year, except during vacation and wamiiww tian periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, >5.00 a year. Address all manuscript* to Ae Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ADDENDA: This week’s Back Page is, in terms of the author, a “castigation” of those students who neglect to show an interest in the world in which they live— especially with respect to current political events. He cites among other items the lack of consumption on the part of the students of serious periodical literature. He fails, however, to cite something much closer to the academic community—the apparent neglect of the opportunities presented by the lecture program. Occasionally a good turn-out occurs but only in the case of noted visitors. More often the lecturer is confronted with a small audience composed usually of the members of the department’s staff and a few students. The most notable incidences of this occur in those talks sponsored by the religious commission — this is not a good recommendation of the student body’s interest in religious issues. The University has in the past week provided able lectures concerning such timely subjects as existentialism and Darwinism. Both were poorly attended; it is hoped that in the future, the students will make better use of the opportunities afforded them.
S.4S.
April 24, 1959
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Tenth Year
• 1,500 suits in stock
•All the newest styles
•Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•No Deposit for ND Students
• See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including all accessories $59.95
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC INVITES ITS READERS TO
\ WIN A FIN !
LIMERICK LAUGHTER
ENTER NOW! PROCRASTINATION WON’T PAY
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the monthly SCHOLASTIC “Limerick Laughter" Contest. It’s easy. It's fun! You have THREE chances to win every month you enter. Here’s how the contest works:
Each month, the SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners each month will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the April contest must be received by April 30. Names of the winners will be published in the May 15 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
So enter now and keep entering each month.
MARCH WINNERS OF $5.00 FIRST PRIZES:
Leo Sweeny, Conrad Suski, J. H. Murphy
Plus 10 runners-up winners of hilarious new “Happy Talk" game
CHESTERFIELD KING Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
LAMis Low in tar with More taste to it. Don't settle for one without the other.
6
The Scholastic
creativitie runneth amok
by JOHN BELLAIRS
On leading the last few issues of the ► Juggler, and on discovering that my Pierian spring had been poisoned, I decided to revive a noble idea of William M. Malloy (one of the few literate men who formerly wrote this column). That idea is the poetry contest. I had formerly intended to institute the George Eliot-Felicia Hernans Contest For Florid [Phraseology, but Charles Bowen’s last column would make any competition in that field a joke. In fact, he has already been presented with an engraved bust of Mrs. Hernans and a stuffed owl, the coveted symbols of literary pomposity. At any rate, I have already received several contributions which will get the mel°e off to a running start.
The first poem in this collection was wrenched from the restless soul of Bob Vonsackbut, a young artist who first stood in the garish light of fame when his critique of Longfellow’s Evangeline ' was published. He is the first critic ! known to have found a salacious mean-• ing in this poem. I quote from his essay. ' Note the satyrlike suggestiveness of lines such as this:
. “Stand like harpers hoar, with beards I that rest on their bosoms.”
It is no wonder, then, that this young poet was catapulted into a literary career. He is now a senior at this univer' sity, and majors in Cosmic Truth. He has written several notable essays other than the one from which I quoted, among them being: I Admire the Universe, My Tragic Vision and How It Grew, and the completely original The Problem of the Artist in the Modern World. I feel cer-. tain that his latest poem, Anapestic Anhydrides, is as cosmic as anything he ever wrote. In speaking to me of it, Bob * once said, “My bravura technique (not । unlike that of W.H. Auden) has pro-I duced a poem full of symbols drawn from my personal cosmology, which is known only to myself and a young woman in 1 whom I confide while dazed. I don’t ex' pect anyone to really understand my poem (giggle) because I’m an (simper) obscurantist.” With this introduction, then, I present the poem:
ANAPESTIC ANHYDRIDES
The green wind whistles o'er the golden < weir,
Clear creaking anent the whiggish wharf,
Brass bagpipes peal in pterodactyl ptunes
While wheeling wharfrats warble wierdly.
Restlessly riffling in a tumdrum tavern A plum-cheeked drum-woman at my side,
April 24, 1959
I cast aloft my burning soul And uttered thoughts most snide. “There is no luck in cards,” cried I, Plucking at my lute, Therefore I build a pastoral: Come prance ye to my flute.
The second poem in this rapidly disintegrating collection was written by the only neo-Chaucerian poet of my acquaintance, Slingsby Bethel. This gifted youth may be found of an evening at the Tabard Inn in Elkhart, Ind., where he downs draughts of corn-ripe ale and composes poems in a style which has all but vanished from the earth. He has revived the acrostic and combined it with the subtly indefinable music of Chaucer to produce a poem which both delights and instructs:
ACROSTIC FOR ST. SWITHIN’S DAY Syken bryennen Marbrindde frae the oot blibs
I hae naught friOnden swylke ye clyster pipes,
Butte knowe ye thaT mye bargen bee nicht mit
Der OberbraumeisterHausen und nicht unter den
Lindenstrasse, but wEre I to speake wythe tonges
Of fyre, the paypere Really wolde bee a divil of a messe.
The third poet I shall consider represents the Homespun or Aphoristic School which flourishes in New England, where a quaint dialect lends an air of profundity to almost anything that is said. My source of such rock-bound wisdom is Mrs. Zechariah Claggblaggett of Pocum-tuck Ceremonial Hills, Vt. She lives on a houseboat in the middle of a large pond of surplus maple syrup, and utters homely truths as she rocks to and fro on her imitation cane-seated rocker. I camped before her door one day and gathered these granite-hard chips of Yankee wisdom:
Them as has, gets.
Them as ain’t should of been.
Them as didn’t belonged to the wrong pahty.
Them as don’t care can go away. Them as ain’t, is.
Them as reads old New England proverbs is teched, I ’low.
My last selection was penned by a member of the vital and significant Beat Generation, young Bisbee Snarl. This Angry Young Poet first achieved fame during a three-day brawl at the Ginsberg
Saloon in San Francisco. He performed the feat of reading “Howl” backwards in elegiac octameter while fighting off well-wishers with a broken beer bottle. When the tavern burned to the ground during an especially feverish reading of Rexroth, all of Snarl’s works were lost, a calamity not unlike the burning of the Alexandrian library. “I like to think of myself as an angelheaded hipster wandering the Negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix.” He said once, in a burst of beery enthusiasm. The poem which I present now was first written on a table-top in the basement of Frankie’s. It cries out against the cruelty of modern society. It cries out for a reawakening of the soul. When all else fails, it just cries out.
THEM DIRTY COPS
I hate cops.
You heard me dirty stinkin-cops!
I think cops represent all which is socially unsatisfactory in this world of rumsoakedsadanddopefilled slumping lumpsters. Sneer! Hatred! Social Unrest! And other intellectual but banal statements.
With this beginning the contest should produce an incredible volume of erudite trash. Those who wish to climb on the bandwagon which slowly climbs the grassy slopes of Mt. Parnassus should send manuscripts, as the St. Ogmus Day School is having a paper drive next week and I am sorely in need of money.
HOW TO WRITE A THESIS WITHOUT TRYING
I have always prided myself on my ability to do several things at once. For instance, I have been known to attend classes while apparently being asleep, and I continue to write this column while remaining an English major. But my most spectacular recent feat was my attempt to rewrite my Senior Thesis or Onus while listening to a baseball game. (Please note: J. D. Jr.) These results were forthcoming:
“Conrad has many symbols which are doubtless significant, especially his predominant foul ball imagery.”
“Marlow is especially successful m avoiding the natives when he hook-slides around second to avoid the tag.”
Kurtz’s evil tendencies come out—Dat, my foot! He was safe! — when he...
My next attempt will be the typing of a final thesis draft while listening to Ravel’s Bolero. Don’t fail to miss the results.	'
7
Visit The All New
ROCCO’S
18142 South Bend Ave.
Open Noon to 7:00 on Sundays
Entirely new and different Italian foods (also your favorite American dishes). We also specialize in seafoods. Our new turquoise room is available for PRIVATE PARTIES.
Phone CE 4-7224
OUR COVER: Although this is a first cover for Freshman Dennis Luczak, he has come up with a clever satire on the Engineering Open House which is being held this week end.
Though, like all artists, he has not provided a written explanation of his work, a valid interpretation
TGDM jaHd Msatl ZW*XJS oi-stoH
S
3I1HNIS
lV|N|3miV
S
15
24
28
30
34
42
45
48
DEEE
0BE
□□BE
eee ataaa
□EE
3
12
18
33
50
EEEE DO!_____ EEBE EEUDEEEE EEBSEBEDEBE
might include crowded cars the telephone wonder if the
the recent fad of which has replaced booth craze. We students are eyeing
I Vl 3|	" 13 H
the larger Chevrolet which would raise their most-students-in-the-car total. Luczak is an art student from Chicago.
EBDGnE____ EEDDCEHE BEES DEE □□□□ DEEB

H3AASNVTGDM
KODL (CROSSWORD
No. 21
ACROSS
1. They usually come in 3’s
5. Head, back, heart, tooth— they’re related
9. Which was to be demonstrated (L. abbr.)
12.	Retrospective view of a Kool
13.	Kind of miss
14.	Kind of com
15.	Underground blind date
16.	Single girls over 70
18. Sum total of hot music
20.	Symbol of penny
21.	West Point, initially
24. Der Kaiser’s kind
27.	“Mother of the Gods"
28.	Reversible girl
29.	Nobel Prize winner amidst worry
30______buddies
33.	Full of wonder
34.	Scene of bull session
35.	Mild refreshing________
42. Pop’s no longer asked when this is popped
44.	It gave a cruller a different handle
45.	Gobs, initially
46.	Loyal and less than legal
47.	Mazes and municipalities both have dead_________
48.	, drink and
be merry
49.	No half Nelson, he
50.	Part of “afras"
DOWN
1.	Mater’s first name
2.	No smoke is so _________as a Kool
3.	Bridge ante
4.	Draw roughly; very funny!
5.	Wild ox found in an oak
6.	He’s strictly from Gaul
7.	Pilgrimage to Mecca
8.	Giri Herman embraces
9.	TV doings for the brainy set 10. This is final 11. Kind of enchantment 17. Cote d’____ in France
19. It goes with a cry
22.	A boundary
23.	Vark’s first name
24.	Ali____
25.	Scent
26.	Item for a window shopper
31.	Singles
32.	A Yankee
33.	Needy of your constant support
36. Even Stephen 37. He’s in the rackets racket
38. Kind of fooling 39. First name of playwrights daughter, comedian’s wife
40.	Opposite of news—yet extremely mobile
41.	Opposite of more
42.	That’s French 43. Alaska is a part of it
46
49
ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?"
21
27
47
SWITCH FROM
KGDL

• As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
e Finest leaf tobacco—mild refreshing menthol — and the world’s most thoroughly tested filter!
a With every puff your mouth feels clean, your throat refreshed!
Qmeticos MosblMeshing Cgoidlf
... ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER! a 1»5». Brown * Williamson Tobaeco Corp.
K®L
MHO MENTHOL KING-SIZE
The Scholastic
ENGINEERS PREPARE ‘TOMORROW’ TODAY
Layman, Expert Meet In Annual Open House
A week end of wonders and a wealth of informative exhibits is in store for the casually interested layman as well as the technological savant at “Project Tomorrow,” the 1959 Open House of Notre Dame’s College of Engineering.
First event on the agenda is the engineering show beginning this afternoon at 2 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Highlighting the show will be David Eossin, physicist at the Argonne National Laboratory, who is speaking on the advancements made in the field of Atomic Energy by the United States, Eussia, and Great Britain. Also at the show Dean M. J. Goglia of the College of Engineering will present the Technical Review’s “Engineer of the Year” awards to five outstanding engineering seniors.
As in previous years, each engineering department will have its own display, and the ever-popular auto and air shows promise to be bigger than ever.
The Navy Drill Hall will, of course, be the scene of the auto show, which will be held on Friday afternoon, Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 11 a.m. till 5 p.m. Through the efforts of Pete Jandrisevits, a number of varied and fascinating exhibits have been arranged. The biggest attention-getter on the floor will most likely be the Ford Levacar, an incredible experimental car that moves on streams of compressed air instead of on wheels.
A four-foot “Leavascooter,” operating on the same principle as the Levacar, will be used to give demonstration rides to some of the spectators. Also on display will be a Studebaker Hawk, a Buick, and four sports cars, including a Chevrolet Corvette. In addition, there will be engineering displays from Chevrolet, Chrysler, and Ford.
Just to assure that the week end is not without its bit of frivolity, Saturday afternoon will see the traditional chariot race at Cartier Field, directed by Jim Donovan. Each engineering department will enter its own homemade chariot, drawn by the leg power of two of its most stalwart representatives and “driven” by another, in competition for prizes and a trophy to be awared by Eev. Lawrence Broestl. Defending champions are the architects, who have won the event three consecutive years.
Perhaps the most spectacular event of the day will be the air show to be held behind the Aero Building Saturday afternoon. Planned by Bob Quinn, the show will feature various acrobatics and a “spot landing” contest in which the
April 24, 1959
planes will attempt to land near a specific point. Participating in the show will be the South Bend Civil Air Patrol Squadron, several light planes from nearby universities, and numerous private planes.
The aeronautical engineering display, directed by Dave Gundling, will include displays from Bendix Aviation and a wind tunnel built by the Aero Engineer's.
The architects, under the supervision of Jim Howell, have prepared a display giving observers a birds-eye view of the entire five-year Architecture course. Also on display will be numerous original designs of Notre Dame’s architecture department.
Chief attractions of the metallurgical exhibit, Joe Long and Tom Fitzgerald directing, will be a welding demonstration, an Atomic Energy Commission display, and X-ray diffraction apparatus.
The civil engineers’ display, supervised by Joe Schudt, will be built around an exhibit of the Mackinaw Bridge. The display will show the action of water on the bridge piers and the structural components of the bridge floor.
The chemical engineers, whose display was organized by Hank Fenbert, will feature many of the latest advances in the chemical field. Illustrated will be the process of polyurethane production, an iodine stop-watch reaction, and a type of rocket fuel.
In the electrical engineering department, the displays will exhibit some of the types of control systems to be used in the “projects of tomorrow.” Sperry
CHAIRMAN WALTHI, SENIORS BEI1AS AND WDCTB) Is It Plugged In?
Gyroscopes, R.C.A., and other companies will contribute to the display. Also shown will be displays of closed circuit TV, digital computers, solar batteries, and a stereophonic sound exhibit. The display is supervised by Jim Corrigan and Howie Prosser.
Featured by the mechanical engineers will be displays of heat and power apparatus. Also to be shown, under the guidance of Bill Walter, are displays on air conditioning and other thermodynamic operations.
For the first time, the new engineering science department, created last fall, will also present an exhibit. Supervised by Andy Poltorak, the display will show how engineering science is interrelated to other fields of engineering and mechanics.
General Chairman of the Open House is Bob O’Shea, a senior in metallurgical engineering. His assistants are Joe Higgins, business manager; J. Boger O’Neil, coordinator; Dick Sapp, secretary; Tom Shishman, engineering show; Dick Kavaney, outdoor displays; Jack Lane, program; and Denny Eeadey, publicity.
The displays of the individual departments will be open to public viewing during the entire three days of the Open House; guided tours are available to all. Detailed descriptions and commentaries of the exhibitions will be broadcast over WSND from the lobby of the Engineering Building.
—Tom Weiss
‘BOY FRIEND’ CAST AT WORK “Roaring" To Go
Curtain Goes Up on The Boy Friend1 Friday; Ticket Sales for College Farce Start Monday
The Boy Friend, a satirical comedy about college life in the roaring twenties will open in Washington Hall next Thursday night, April 30. Tickets for the performances will be sold from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m. beginning Monday.
A freshman, John Smith, cast as Tony will have the leading male role. Smith has proved himself a capable performer as he has had roles in the University Theatre’s two previous productions, A Hatful of Rain and Murder in the Cathedral. His leading lady, Anne Body, who plays the part of a love-starved coed, is no stranger to Washington Hall audiences either. She has appeared in Oklahoma and Murder in the Cathedral.
The Boy Friend is a musical lampoon of the turbulent twenties. The Jazz Age, the Charleston, and the flapper era all come to life in the story written by Sandy Wilson. Wilson, a young Britisher, originally created the play for a “club theatre” or night club. It was so successful that Wilson expanded it into a full evening’s performance.
After an initial success in a London theater it moved to the West End — London’s Broadway — in January of 1954, and it is still playing there.
American producers Feuer and Martin established an American version in New York in 1954 and there it ran up 483 performances and introduced Julie Andrews to the American public.
The Boy Friend is a deliberately corny caricature of the twenties that served as musical comedies before Porgy and Bess and Oklahoma changed the song and dance shows from vaudeville into adult musical plays. The plot unfolds in a fashionable girls’ finishing
school on the French Rivera in 1926, and concerns a poor little rich girl who cannot marry the boy she loves because he is a lowly messenger boy, quite beneath her station in society. But just as her heart seemed doomed to be broken forever, she learns that her lowly beau is very eligible son of a wealthy British peer.
For sub-plots, the heroine’s widowed father meets up with an old flame from Paris and love is rekindled. Then the heroine’s four girl friends are wooed by as many handsome men, but hold up their answer until the hour of midnight at a costume hall. At the stroke of twelve, hero gets heroine, Pop gets his old flame, and boy friends get girlfriends.
The show’s songs are written with tongue-in-cheek attitude towards the good old songs and include the 1920 chorus line versions of “Poor Little Pierette,” “Won’t You Charleston with Me” and many more.
The price of tickets for the play is $1.50 for the orchestra and $1 for the balcony. These are special student prices. Show dates are April 30, May 1, 2, 7-9.
Karen Kochnemann, Barbara Benford, Terri Crosina, and Diane Crowley play the four girl friends. Their embattled lovers are Rudy Hornish, John Oliver, Tom Karaty, and Tony Mileto.
The production is directed by Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., head of the drama department. Dr. Charles Biondo of the music department will direct the orchestra.
—Bob Kelley
Fellowships Awarded < To Teachers, Student
Two Notre Dame faculty members and * a June graduate have been awarded Fulbright Grants by the United States gov- • ernment to study in Europe during the 1959-60 academic year. The awards go • to Wienczyslaw J. Wagner, associate professor of law, and Ralph M. Mc-Inerny, assistant professor of philosophy, and Andrew J. Connelly.	‘
Wagner will lecture on American and comparative law at the University of -Paris’ Institute of Comparitive Law; he is also scheduled to visit the Uni- ' versity of Rennes.
Wagner, who joined the faculty in 1953, is the author of The Federal States and Their Judiciary, just published by » the Netherlands publishing firm, Mouton I and Co. The volume is a comparative J study in constitutional law and the organization of courts in federal states. Wagner holds advanced degrees from the University of Warsaw, the University of Paris, and Northwestern University of Evanston, III. A leader in ’ Polish affairs in this country, Wagner served with the underground Polish ' forces during World War II.
Mclnerny will engage in philosophical research at the Higher Institute of St. Thomas at Belgium’s University of Louvain. He has been associated with , the University since 1955, prior to which ' he had taught at Creighton University, Omaha, Nebr. His education included 4 periods at the University of Minnesota, * and Laval University, Quebec, which I awarded him his licentiate and doctorate ; of philosophy. He is regarded as one of ' the outstanding authorities on Thomism and existentialism.
Connelly, of College Quiz Bowl fame j will study English literature at Pern- i broke College, Cambridge University | England. Connelly’s home is in New ' ■ Rochelle, N. Y., and he will be awarded an A.B. degree in English this June.
In addition, one of the 12 American fellowships, granted under the title of Marshall scholarships, by the British government will go to John C. Meagher I of Washington, a 1956 Notre Dame grad- , ' uate. He will study under the grant for a year at King’s College, London University.
BYRNE TO RETURN
This week, due to the elections -Thursday, the Student Senate did not convene. The senators were out campaigning for next year’s positions in the political world of Notre Dame. Jim Byrne will present in next week’s SCHOLASTIC a complete summary of the elections and , interesting sidelights of the campaigning. The Senate will again meet this Monday evening in the LaFortune Student Center.
10
The Scholastic
Goudreau Named '59 Debate Team President; Year Record Stands with 97 Wins, 24 Losses
As the current debate season draws to a successful finish, Jerry Goudreau has been named next year’s president. Serving as vice-president this year, Jerry is a junior in civil engineering. A Navy ROTC contract student, he was a member of the YCS for two years. The new president lives in Cleveland, Ohio.
Jay Whitney, a sophomore from Burbank, Cal., is the 1959-60 vice-president.
PRESIDENT JERRY GOUDREAU Forensic Foreman
Fr. R. Murphy Passes Away; Was Director of Admissions
After a long illness, Rev. Richard Murphy, C.S.C., died last Saturday morning in the Student Infirmary. Until his illness Father Murphy was Director of Admissions and chairman of the scholarship committee.
He became the admissions director in 1956. Prior to this he served as an assistant professor of physics in the Science College for six years. He also taught at Portland University in Oregon, and St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas.
Father Murphy was born Jan. 26, 1907 in Lima, Ohio. After attending parochial schools in Marion and Anderson, Ind., he entered the Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. He received his bachelor’s degree in 1931. Following theological studies at Holy Cross College, Washington, he was ordained in Sacred Heart Church on June 24, 1934.
The funeral Mass was offered by Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., Notre Dame religious superior, and was followed by burial in the Community Cemetery.
During Father Murphy’s illness, Rev. James Moran has been acting director of admissions, and acting chairman of the scholarship committee. Fr. Moran is also a prefect in Cavanaugh.
April 24, 1959
Whitney also is an engineer studying chemical engineering. He is a regular in the NROTC. Assuming the position of freshman coach will be Guy Powers, a sophomore from Forrest Hills, N. Y. Guy, a general program student, is also on the student forum committee. He is a member of the History club.
During the year, the team has amassed the highly creditable record of having won 15 trophies and compiled a record of 97 wins and 24 losses.
Starting the season by taking second place in tournaments at St. Joseph’s College in Philadelphia and Wake Forest College in Winston-Salem, N. C., the team went on to win the Midwest Catholic Novice championship at Xavier University in Cincinnati. Other victories were won over such teams as Marquette and included a first place in the Azalea Tournament at Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala.
In addition, the debate team participated in numerous exhibition debates, including a series with the University of Pittsburgh, and exhibitions in Canton, Ohio, Joliet, UI., and at various local civic and PTA meetings.
The Student Forum held here recently on right-to-work laws was sponsored by the debate team, and members of the team also appeared occasionally on panel discussions over WSND.
The final tournament of the year will be at Marquette University in Milwaukee, the first week in May. In addition, the debate team will sponsor a novice tournament among mixed teams from St. Mary’s College and Notre Dame.
Next month, a banquet will be given for the team, in conjunction with the celebration of the sixtieth anniversary of debating at Notre Dame. Butlei- University, with whom Notre Dame first debated in 1898, will be invited for an exhibition debate.
The debate team will lose three members through graduation this year: Bob Dempsey, the outgoing president of the team, along with Bill Barrett and John Sullivan. Returning next year will be four juniors, seven sophomores, and eleven freshmen.
Next season’s topic will be selected in August, and the team members will be notified immediately so that the team can be prepared early in the fall. The debate season extends from September to May.
WE ERRED
Contrary to popular opinion the annual Publications Banquet will be held May 14 instead of May 13 as reported in the SCHOLASTIC last week. At this time the annual DOME awards will be presented to John Hayward, Mike Phenner, and Bob Sedlack.
April Brings 'Showers' To St. Mary's Queen
Thought it is hoped that the title will not be prophetic, “April Showers” will be the highlight of this week end. The dance will be held tonight from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the ballroom of the La-Fortune Student Center.
Queen of the dance is Kathleen O’Connor, date of Dick Hendricks, the general chairman. She is a sophomore at St. Mary’s College and makes her home in Peru, Ind.
Music will be provided by Bobby Christian and his orchestra. The band made an appearance on the campus last fall. Christian, a drummer, has worked under such orchestra leaders as Percy Faith, Paul Whiteman, and Arturo Tos-
KATHY O’CONNOR
Showers Bring Flowers
canini. Known as “Mr. Percussion” by his admirers, Christian plays with a style of his own created from years of experience. His favorite instruments include drums, conga, chimes, and tym-pani. The band plays a variety of songs such as up-tempos, ballads, and some Latin tunes.
Working with an austere budget which was necessitated by the poor response, Don Chmiel has used ingenuity to carry out the theme. There will be a striped awning over the bandstand and a white backdrop with a musical effect across it. Pale pink and pale blue parasols will be suspended from the ceiling.
Besides General Chairman Hendricks and Decorations Chairman Chmiel, there is Chuck Schuler who is in charge of tickets, John Clark handling publicity, and Roger Driscoll who takes care of accommodations.
For tomorrow night the student government is scheduling a Cabaret Party. It will also be in. the Student. Center
(Continued on page 30)
n
certain convention peri* ods, all available Chi* cago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommo* dations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamil* ton — preferred by the family, and business ex* ecutives for -downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates—guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to.you,-the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card9, today ... at no obligation.
. Rates from
U.S. KEDS COURT KING
s

THE NEW HAMILTON
20 SOUTH DEARBORN Preferred by guests in CHICAOO IN KANSAS CITY ITS THS BELLERIVE HOTEL
100% AIR-CONDITIONED
for perfect footwork and comfort Professionally designed by and for top-flight tennis players. Featuring a flexible arch for comfort; an abrasion-resistant sole that stands up to any playing surface; laces to the toe to insure perfect fit, complete support. Fully cushioned, heel to toe. About $8.50.
LOOK FOR THE KEDS LABEL
7%^
Report.
CUBA
JAMES ROSE
Castro seeks support of his reforms by a “spontaneous” Cuban rally. Despite the carnival atmosphere of these spectacles, Castro does have the enthusiastic support of the majority of Cubans.
by BRUCE BABBITT and
HEVOLUCIOM
DIWCTOK:CARLOS FRANQUI
After much preparation, letter writing, personal contact, etc., we began the first leg of our trip to Cuba by hitch-hiking to Miami via Washington. “Notre Dame to Miami” signs were utilized until unkind persons began referring to us as “consumers of fish” at which point we became students from the University of Virginia. From southern Georgia to the door of the Elbow Room in Fort Lauderdale (where we made the last call for drinks), we were Princetonians with a modest, Gothic lettered sign.
Our luxurious plane flight from Miami to Havana (complete with daiquiris) was paradoxical after the previous night’s journey through the sand dunes of North and South Carolina in a 1947 Nash (top speed: 35 mph); after flying through a tropical storm, we landed at Jose Marti Air Terminal not quite knowing what to expect. The Customs officials had their own -ideas as to what to expect; we were frisked completely and every item in our luggage including the pages of our books was examined. We later learned that Batista and his supporters had fled the country with large sums of money
April 24, 1959
which if returned to Cuba could seriously endanger the currency situation. At the Air Terminal we encountered our first armed rebel soldiers; wearing the now traditional long hair and “barbs” indicative of their length of service in the moon-tains, several of the troops casually swung their machine guns, machine pistols, burp guns, or rifles as policemen might do with a nightstick. (We later agreed that the respect accorded a potential thirty rounds of rapid machine gun fire far ex- -ceeded our own respect for a nightstick.) With child-like curiosity but a professional eye, they examined a new gun tne of the soldiers had brought, as they performed their sentry duty at the air terminal. -
At the Catholic student residence where we stayed (the equivalent of a powerful Newman Club at the University of Havana), Father Llorente, a dynamic and popular Jesuit priest provided a room and all possible conveniences for our eight-day stay in Cuba. He wore the same kind of khaki pants under his cassock we were to see on the troops throughout Havana; he had returned that night from the rugged Sierra Maistra mountains which had sheltered Castro while the Revolution was growing. The Catholic students have set up a missionary outpost in this desolate section of the country and Father Llorente had just returned from an inspection trip. ' One evening we tape-recorded his observations of Fidel Castro as a high school student; Castro had attended the Jesuit high school in Santiago, and Father Llorente told of Fidel’s popularity with everyone at the school and his inexhaustible drive and energy. When he wished to become proficient at basketball, he would stay up all night shooting baskets. He seemed - -indefatigable as he trekked through the desolate sections of Cuba for days, climbing the highest hills and most rugged terrain. Father Llorente also told us of the students from the Agrupacion (the name of the place we stayed was the “Agru-pacion Catolica Universitaria”) who had been leaders in the Revolutionary movements, and who had been brutally killed .. by Batista’s police. At the Agrupacion we had the opportunity -of eating dinner with many of the students who had joined. -Castro in the mountains and still wore their arms and uni-

The “collina” or hill of the University of Havana. On these steps university students exchanged fire with the police of Dictator Batista. The university was closed by Batista two years ago, but the faculty and students hope to reopen it soon.
speakers’ sounds slowly emerged from under the plane’s crescendo, and the queerly pointing boxes of the television cameras on the spindly banks of scaffolding returned their blank gaze to the crowd.
Castro, the politician, stood with a young boy in a rebel uniform, whose decorated shirt had one empty sleeve. In back of them was a tall field commander of the Revolutionary Army, whose iron beard was streaked with white. He waved to the ' workers from his own section of Cuba.
That night, as we drove around Havana with young medical students, Fidel Castro continued hour after hour to proclaim the principles of the Revolution. Some of the students and people we saw called it a circus, a roman carnival; we only observed and heard his tired voice echo down dirty, balconied streets, and call for unity from the small cottages in the undeveloped land east of Havana.	'
Castro directly attacked his newspaper critics while the crowd roared its approval and bought the newspaper from the vendors along the street. A beautiful but rather disreputable looking woman was carried by the crowd to Castro; we didn’t think her particular trade had a union. Castro ignored the . roars of the crowd, politely refused her kiss, and drew a great ovation for his handshake with her. Swift revolutionary action was demonstrated as we stood some thirty feet from Castro and watched a young army officer spot a pickpocket, leap feet first from the reviewing stand into the crowd, jostle his way to the spot, his burp gun held aloft like a shark’s fin cutting through the water, seize the fleeing man and turn him over to a regular policeman.	r
We bought copies of the official revolutionary newspaper “Revolucion” which set the number of workers parading at one million of Cuba’s six million population. Our own esti-
forms as they waited for the university to open. The students were quite anxious to have their opinions heard; many of their comments were amusing. One student when asked of his revolutionary activities, replied ‘‘None. I watched the whole thing on TV”; many of them showed themselves to be indoctrinated by the newspapers in regard to the political rallies they were supposed to have participated in. The most surprising fact was the number of students who were openly and violently opposed to the reforms of Castro, although it was expected that such persons would seek us out, we were able to judge more carefully their criticisms of Castro as each day we became more acquainted with the situation.
Our first Sunday in Havana, all businesses on the island were closed by government decree, because this was the day of the “spontaneous rally” in favor of the new Revolutionary Laws. At nine a.m. the principal leaders of the Revolution and the heads of government linked arms in the parade to the presidential palace where the fourteen hour marathon began. All day long workers’ groups from every section of the island carried sign cards proclaiming their support of the Revolutionary Laws read that morning. The area from the plaza in front of the palace down to the Malecon (or ocean wall) was filled with street crowds while millions more watched the spectacle on television.	.
The roof-tops surrounding the Square were covered with rifle-toting soldiers with binoculars who scanned the buildings across from them watching for snipers. Overhead hung a press helicopter like a huge lazy insect in the terrific heat of the tropical afternoon. The droning voice of the narrator periodically rose in levels of pitch to whip the crowd into enthusiasm as each new group of workers paraded past the reviewing stand. The hot political temperament of the Latin mentality, was present in that crowd, as Castro, the consummate politician and leader, the master of ceremonies who stood to one side, waved his tireless arm to each new group of workers. During the course of the long afternoon, when the white-hot sky mercifully produced a brief shower, Castro ordered the roof torn from the reviewing stand so that the dignitaries and government officials might be as wet as the crowd. Every few moments, a propeller-driven P-51 plane sporting the freshly-painted insignia of the new government roared low from the direction of the sea wall and the ancient Morro Castle. Only a hundred feet off the ground, its engine created a chill in the crowd. Afterward, the echoing loud-
Two of Castro's mountain troops with Jim Rose. These “barbudas” are highly regarded as the liberators of Cuba.
14
The Scholastic-
L
mate, computed from the average number passing a point per minute, does not exceed two hundred thousand, but exaggeration seems part of the Latin temperament, as do Castro’s rash, crowd-pleasing statements.
After making contact through the office of the American Embassy, we cautiously approached the student leaders of the Revolution. Spending an entire day with a minor’ official who carefully probed us as to purpose, etc., we gained his confidence and spent the following afternoon talking with the FEU (student government) President Puente Blanco. Quietly, he spoke of his four predecessors who had been killed one by one by Batista’s police. As we rode in the FEU limousine, we passed the University street corner heaped high with flowers where Jose Antonio Echeverria, the President of the FEU and first President of the Directorio (a student-formed revolutionary movement), had been shot by police after he seized the National Television Station and proclaimed Batista’s murder while seventeen of his fellow students were dying in this futile assassination attempt. Blanco related how the students had seized control of the University to make sure that badly needed reforms would be carried out. Many students felt this move an extreme, and we arrived in Havana on the day the students returned the University to the faculty. The grievances of the students against incompetent, state-appointed professors are being arbitrated by a Reform Committee of six students and six professors who will report directly to the Castro government.
We talked with Captain Omar Fernandez, President of the students of the School of Medicine, who was directing the organization of a National Products Exposition, serving in the Revolutionary Army, and preparing to resume his medical studies. After escaping from the country, he bought aims in Miami and flew with the “Rebel Airlines” to Castro’s headquarters, barely eluding the FBI. He fought with Castro in the mountains until the final victory.
The vice-president of the medical students, and a member of the Reform Committee, Roberto Manckucko told us they planted one hundred bombs in one night in public places where no one could be killed in order to discredit the government and disrupt commerce. We learned from his friends that he and Captain Fernandez had been captured (after living from door-to-door for over a year in Havana), brutally tortured by the police, and saved from death only by the independent action of a young American Embassy official.
Students told us of delivering arms in a driver-training car, while one of their wives drove erratically as a “learner”; the back seat of the car was loaded with rifles and small arms. Everywhere in Havana, “26,” the nickname of Castro’s revolutionary movement was scrawled on walls. Batista had closed the University two years before because of the student riots, and we passed the spots where innocent students had been
brutally murdered to teach a lesson to the revolutionaries. We began to see the reason for a medical student’s quiet insistence that the revolutionary trials were just.
In the future: A meeting with the three top Communists in Cuba; Conversations with economists and Castro’s most outspoken critic. . .
Bruce Babbitt points to the more than two dozen bullet marks in the wall where an innocent medical student was shot down at Batista’s orders to serve as an example to the revolutionary students.
YEARS ACO
Fifty Years Ago — Construction was begun on a new hall, which was to be the best and most up-to-date residence hall on any campus in the nation. It was named for Father Walsh, C.S.C., former President of the University. No expense was to be spared in the building of the hall — it was estimated that the cost of construction might run as high as $100,000., The rooms were to have all the modem conveniences: stationary wash-basins and running water.
* * *
Twenty Years Ago — Debate was in progress over the question of whether the University should change to Central Standard Time when South Bend did. A great deal of confusion arose when the students made their journeys to town. Can you imagine getting on the bus at seven o’clock and get-/ ting off at five minutes aftei- eight, and the trip only covered a mile and a half. Unfortunately the administration wasn’t as convinced of the stupidity of the situation as the students. The school even went so far as to set up rules in case they didn’t change times. To avoid allowing the students in town after midnight town time, they decided to make the students
April 24, 1959
be in the halls by eleven fifteen University time — as you can imagine this was very popular — on campus. Fortunately things were cleared up in a few years.
* * *
Ten Years Ago — There was a problem with the babies from Vetville. It seems these nymphes didn’t know enough to keep quiet at Sunday Mass, and their racket was disturbing some of the more pious souls. The problem was finally solved by having all the couples with children attend Mass in the chapel of Farley Hall — and there were quite a few couples with children. The record showed 117 families with children. The large number of juvenile residents near the campus was the source of many jokes and cartoons in the Scholastic. One of these pictured a group of storks standing around a hangar with a sign on it, “Stork Club — Speedy Service.” One stork was limping around on crutches. His beak was bleeding; his eyes were black, and in general he was a mess. Another stork commented, “Poor Oscar, all crippled up and he’s only been on that Vetville run for six months.”
— The Ancient Editor.
15
Kesington Heights lay six miles south along the freeway leading from the center of the city. I remember the hospital quite well though I’d only been there on vacations from college. After Dad’s first attack he gave up his private practice and took a position as staff physician at the asylum where his hours would be easier on his heart and wearied nerves. The family moved out to the hospital and lived along The Grove on the back
boundary of the grounds.
It had been raining, and the night when I came to visit my family was foggy. The cab crossed the slick wooden bridge at the entrance; a few loose boards clacked loudly, and the headlights over the water, held back by the low hanging fog on the pond, disturbed some sleeping ducks. Their quacking and flapping in the water quieted as soon as we turned and passed in front of Men’s Hospital 3-4-5. It was late, long past midnight; hazy circles glowed about each street light. The night-lights inside the Administration Building were barely discernible as we moved by. The globe of the street light there had been broken and a bare bulb gleamed faintly from under the half shell.
Behind the grounds, all the doctors’ homes in The Grove were dark. My own house was silent save for a yellow light on the side door. Not wanting to wake the family, I left my luggage in the outer porch and hastened to find my room.
* * *
I woke late the next morning to the singing of an odd and unfamiliar voice. Having tied my robe, I opened the bedroom door.
“Hiya’, hello! I’m Mary. I work here now for the doctor. You his boy?”
“Why yes,” I said, somewhat taken aback. “I’m Jerry.”
Grabbing my hand and giving my whole arm quite a vigorous shaking, Mary continued, “Well, glad t’ meet ya’, glad t’ meet ya’. Congratulations!”
Whatever the last was for I surely didn’t know; I just smiled and murmured an inaudible thanks. Mary was a character all right — one of the privileged patients who are allowed freedom on the grounds. She was of average height and slender build with straggly hair; her mouth was pulled taut to the side of her face looking like she talked out of her cheek.
That afternoon I toured the grounds With my . father as he made his daily rounds of the wards. My first impression was glaringly ironic. The benign attitude and extreme friendliness of the old doctor was sharply contrasted with his role as a sort of warden. Every door —. and there were many — was always kept locked. Before beginning his round we had
One Afternoon
1
bg Larry Martin

sat in his little office in the Men’s Hospital behind two locked doors. Now as we entered each ward, he had to unlock the entrance, relock it, unlock the vestibule door, relock it, pass down the hall to the ward, unlock its door and relock it.
“With all the modern drugs and tranquilizers, the patients are usually kept very quiet, and only infrequently does one act up or give any sort of trouble. We never know when such a thing will happen, so our only need for vigilance is the possibility of escape. You see there aren’t any bars on the windows but they’re all heavily meshed,” Dad explained.
I had often read of the horrible and inhuman treatment of mental patients many years ago, and of the backwardness still found in many institutions. Certainly many advances have been made, most of them extremely notable, but as I walked down the rows of beds in the hospital, all the horror and fright of an old institution was reflected in the inmates’ faces. None of them had been maltreated, but the dreadful, helpless look each gave to me could only make me wonder why such things had to be.
“We keep many of the older people here in the hospital ward because they need more medical attention. Nearly everyone in this section is over sixty.”
Beginning to feel quite gloomy, I asked, “Have many of these been here very long?” (And I noticed myself referring to them as “these” already. Medicine and psychiatry have made advances, but we have not kept our minds in stride with technology.)
“You see that colored man in the corner bed? He was committed in 1891. He’s 98.”
Committed in 1891 and has spent 66 years confined by and from society — treated as an imbecile, lower than a criminal. He was a small man with grey hair and a heavy, fuzzy beard. He just lay there, eyes wide open, looking out. Who will ever know what he has seen in those 66 years?
“Good morning, Minny. How’s your arm today?” Dad asked a white-haired old woman sitting in a chair as we walked into the women’s wt rd. Her hands were folded in her lap and she was leaning to the right, shaking her head as she looked up and down, first to the right and then to the left. She didn’t answer, just kept bouncing her head about. A young nurse looked up from the bedside of another woman, and smiled a greeting at us — undoubtedly one of the few times she had a chance to smile all day. An old woman, tiny and withered, was propped up by pillows and the nurse was trying to feed her some mashed food. Very patiently the nurse fed her, trying to keep the invalid from spitting out the food. Still, after each spoonful nearly as much was on the woman’s face as she had eaten. Attendants were bringing in trays to the patients. Four nurses werie feeding some of the older ones in the ward.
“Hello, Patty. You’re looking good today. You’re due to go home for a while next week end, Patty. Do you know that?”
“Oh yes, yes, doctor. Look here, I got a letter, I got a letter.”
She gave my father a smudged white envelope; he glanced at the letter, gave it back and said, “Isn’t that nice! We’ll see you now, real soon again.”
We left the medical hospital after much unlocking and

< <
i <
locking of doors. It was a clear, cool day; a few puddles still filled the lower parts of the street. Dad and I walked along a curved sidewalk behind the hospital toward a row of cottages. About 3,200 patients were housed at the asylum in cottages and wards. The Administration Building was in the front center of the grounds, flanked on both sides by large wards.
The Scholastic
Behind it was the main quadrangle bordered by cottages. The i hospital’s golf course lay in front’ of the Administration
Building. The seldom-used tennis courts and ball diamond were in the quadrangle. Only the nurses used the tennis
[ courts. A road ran through the entire grounds.
> As we passed a very large ward at the far end of the quadrangle, Dad continued his description of the asylum.
। “You see this ward here still has the old jail bars on its porch and windows. This Building M is the violent ward. All
, of the serious cases are housed here. Notice how quiet they all are; tranquilizers give us a chance to try to treat them. Just a few years ago, whenever a car passed by or anyone walked in front of this building, any number of patients would " be screaming, yelling, cursing and waving out through the bars. It was a nightmare for the attendants and doctors.”
4. We walked on, stopping to talk with a few privileged patients out for a walk. In the kitchen of Building P a few of the inmates were preparing lunch. The other men were either watching television or sitting out on the sun-porch. They were just sitting — each in his own peculiar position. One, at the end of the bench, sitting with his legs crossed under him, - was mumbling the same few words over and over again, another stood facing the corner, one huddled in a straight-backed chair, cringed from anyone who came near him: “Get away, get away. Let me alone!”
Their bodies, all gaunt and many emaciated, revealed their disease. The far-away looks, the dejected faces — dumb, helpless, unknowing faces — their clothes merely hanging on their bodies, their do-nothingness, their utter lack of ability to do anything, all told of their disease. I suppose our visit was a real change to them, perhaps even a real joy; we were some-l> thing new in their lives. Five minutes later they would have forgotten it.
“Not a very pretty sight, was it, Jerry? We know the names of each of their diseases and their peculiar variations, but we can’t cure it yet. How can we work with them when it’s impossible to get them to respond to ordinary actions? Still, we’re making some progress.”
Walking out, two nurses were with a group of women. - . Many of the women greeted the doctor and he called back to .. many by name.
“You get to know all the characters out here pretty soon and they always speak to you. A simple greeting from one of / the doctors is a source of immeasurable joy to them, and always does more to stabilize their minds than most of our . ~ r drugs.”	_. .
Four inmates in Building R were only youths. As we . walked into the main sitting room, a boy of about 18 jumped . / up, let out a fierce scream, waved his arm above his head and >-galloped through the house. The attendant introduced us to two boys, only about 12 or 13 years old. Both were tall and / gawky.	'
One looked up to my father, pointed at him and said, “You " } a doctor?”	■.
“Yes.”
“Heh, heh h-h-hee, h-h-hee!” The boy laughed loudly and . weirdly, and then followed us wherever we went in the house. ~
We followed the attendant to the back where-there were a few small, secluded rooms. In one, a young man lay nude ■. on a bare mattress on the floor, partly covered by a torn sheet. He glanced up as the door was opened but then covered his ■ shoulders with the sheet and went back to sleep.
“Was once a very promising young doctor,” the attendant / began. “Came from a rich family, real nice folks; went to ■ college and did very well. Only he cracked right after that. We can’t keep any clothes on him. Dress him and in ten min-	;
utes he’ll be undressed again. He rips every sheet we try to	j
put on his bed, so we have to keep him in here~all the time; i he sleeps all day.”	.
“So even the educated aren’t spared from this,” I thought,	i
“years of hard study and training, a future of high promise	f
and then — to break!”	. ।
The dormitory in this building was large and crowded; the iron beds were pushed head to head and their sides but a -space apart from the next, in six long rows. Two men were (Continued on page 21)
I Why pay the big-air price penalty ?
'	Rambler
Pay hundreds of dollars less—save more than ever on gas and upkeep
See why Rambler now outsells most Ing cars. New 100-inch wheelbase RAMBLER AMERICAN
$1835
sibhu ernwrt KnM*a.
Get bigger savings, highest resale, easier parking, plus full 6-passenger room. TVy Personalized Comfort: separate sectional sofa front seats. See your Rambler dealer and save.
SEE YOU RAMBLER REALER TORAY
April 24, 1959
A Letter:
Confraternity of
Christian Doctrine
by John Akalaitis
I remember writing to you several months ago telling you that I was interested in an organization on campus called the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. Well, after learning more about the organization, I became very interested and decided to join. Through C.C.D. we’ve gone out into the various parishes in South Bend to teach catechism to interested high school students. In fact, I’ve been teaching for three weeks now and I’m not sure whether I should beam with pride or hang my head down with shame. Let me tell you a little about the organization and what we do.
Before doing any actual teaching, each member of C.C.D. attends a methods course taught by Father James Maguire, our moderator. On Thursday evening Father Maguire discusses the topic to be taught in the parishes the following week, and while giving us additional information about this topic, he gives various presentations that might interest the average high school student. Once one is actually teaching, he finds it almost necessary to attend these Thursday evening sessions to hear some of Father Maguire’s ideas so that his students don’t catch him off guard with some of their questions.
After attending these weekly meetings for about a month and talking with those who were already teaching, I was told that there was a position open for me in Saint Peter’s parish and that I would be teaching on Wednesday evenings. As soon as I was given this news, I went over to see the fellow in charge of St. Peter’s for C.C.D., Mike. We talked for a while, and he told me what to expect and how to prepare my lesson.
We teach in conjunction with the Saint Mary’s College unit of C.C.D., so I was told that there would be two girls going out to teach with us. Well, after a week of anxious waiting, Wednesday came, and I was about to embark on my first teaching job.
Mike and I set out for the Circle to get a cab over to Saint Pete’s via Saint Mary’s. After a more than short wait, which I take for usual at Saint Mary’s, I was introduced to the other half of our teaching crew, Elaine and Nancy. With the troops assembled for battle, we set out for Saint Peter’s.
Without any additional delays, we arrived at Saint Peter’s on time for the C.Y.O. meeting which takes place before our class. After the C.Y.O. meeting, the teachers split up with their groups for about a fifty-minute class. At Saint Pete’s we’re given classrooms in which to teach, but in some of the
other parishes, the lessons have to be taught in the parish auditorium or in the parish gym. For the most part, the groups are small enough to allow instruction in a seminar method. At the parishes where classrooms are not available, . the groups usually gather together in small circles in some cornei- of the auditorium or gym. In general we’re provided with reasonably good places to teach.
Throughout the year, the C.C.D. teachers work on a prearranged syllabus which allows plenty of time for unexpected problems, and they cover each of the Ten Commandments and the important specific laws and doctrines. Usually several classes are devoted to each of the Commandments, and period of time is allowed for the students to ask questions. Many of the teachers spend additional time on the issues that most interest the students or that are most important to the students at their age.
Using many of Father Maguire’s ideas and approaches, I try to teach by asking questions and hoping that I’ll hear the right answers. Many of the teachers do this, but once a student gives a touchy answer, it’s difficult to connect it with what has been already said. Most of them are able to repeat what they have learned in previous catechism classes, but our problem is in giving them an understanding of what they already know. They know what is right and what is wrong, but they want to know why it is right and especially why it is wrong.
We try not to become involved in specific problems because these are for a confessoi- or a special advisor, but we do try to deal with the general rules that are applicable to the student’s particular problem.
Many of our students attend Catholic high schools and are being instructed in Christian morals there, and although we are interested in these students and devote equal attention to them, we like to see those students who are not receiving an education in their religion attend our meetings because it is they who need our instruction more than the others. Much of our instruction is directed to the student who is not receiving a Catholic education, and it is this student who frequently plays an active part in the group discussion. I don’t mean that we don’t want the other students; they serve as a balance in class to bring out the more involved issues, but the student of a secular school needs us more than the stu-

The Scholastic
, dent of a parochial school. A class of both these types pro* vides the greatest challenge to the teacher and, at the same time, is the most gratifying.
After our teaching period, there is a dance; most of the 1 parishes have some sort of activity after the class in ordei-1 to aid attendance and to give the teacher an opportunity to meet his students on an individual basis. Once in a while, one * of my students will walk up to me at the dance and ask me to go over what I said in class because she didn’t fully understand it.
I’m having a lot of fun teaching these kids because it gives me a great deal of satisfaction to know that there is ► a great possibility that I’m helping one of them. This is a good experience for one interested in teaching as a career, and 4. it’s also an interesting extra-curricular activity for those who want to devote several hours a week in helping others.
r
After what I’ve said, you’re probably thinking that C.C.D. is only concerned with teaching catechism class and at- tending a methods course taught by Father Maguire. C.C.D. does quite a bit more than just teach. We have several ) committees and many members that never do any actual teaching. We have an athletic commission which runs tournaments ; and bouts during the appropriate seasons. During this winter, the athletic commission sponsored a basketball tournament in which all of the parishes entered a team. The social commission is presently engaged in planning a dance for all of the students of the various parishes; its purpose is to obtain additional interest in attending the C.C.D. classes. As you would imagine, these functions increase attendance, in addition to providing the students with an outside interest other than the classes.
The Fisher commission handles many of our special problems and does much of the work in the parishes before the classes are set up in them. The Fisher commission contacts the pastors of the various parishes at the end of the school year or at the beginning of it in order to set up a C.C.D. unit to teach the students of the parish. Where the athletic and social events held in the various parishes and on a city-wide basis are not effective in increasing attendance, the Fisher commission is faced with the problem of finding some solution to increase the attendance. In one pai-ish where the attendance was very poor, this commission found that basketball games among the students and teachers after the class interested the boys while the girls were content to sit and watch. At other parishes the Fishei- commission was able to find other answers to attendance problems.
I
Well, that’s the story of C.C.D. All I can add is that the organization is unique and that it provides its members with a great feeling of accomplishment after doing a good job.
The weather out here has been. . .
- The Confraternity of Christian Doctrine was established at Notre Dame through the efforts of Father Roland G. Si-monitch, C.S.C. In 1946, with a few interested students, Father Simonitch proceeded to organize the Notre Dame unit of C.C.D. At first, there was not a great deal of interest in the organization because there weren’t many teaching positions open to prospective members. ■ But, as Father Simonitch . interested more and more parish pastors in the merits and : successes of C.C.D., more teaching positions became available and membership increased: From its meagre beginning with three parishes and about a dozen members, the Notre Dame unit of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine has grown to , one of the largest units of its kind in the country with over , one hundred members and eleven parishes.
: April 24, 1959
In its initial stages, the Notre Dame unit only sent teach- & ers to students on the high school level; since then, it has organized a grammar school unit to provide an education in Christian morals for those in the primary level of education.
Because increasing duties have prohibited Father Simonitch from devoting enough time to C.C.D., the capable hands of Father James J. Maguire, assistant professor of religion at the University, have been handling the job of moderator. Father Maguire can be seen every Thursday evening teaching the methods course, and he is always willing to devote his time to advise any of the teachers faced with a perplexing problem. Father Maguire is also available to advise the administrative wing of C.C.D. concerning ecclesiastical problems.
Shortly after its formation, C.C.D. found itself in need of funds for some of its functions. Because the Student Senate recognized the value of this organization, the financial commission has been appropriating funds to it for many years.
Under the direction of Joe Albright, C.C.D. president, the organization has experienced magnificent gr owth and development; it is due to his efforts that the social and athletic commissions were instituted. Bill Stehle is vice-president of the organization; he directed a very successful Workshop for Teachers which took place during the first semester and is presently engaged in organizing the annual banquet. As high school chairman, Mike Mulhall is kept busy in seeing that the various parishes have enough qualified teachers to conduct the classes; he has been active both in teaching and as former chairman of the grammar school unit. Mike Murphy has been very active in the organization and now holds the position of social commissioner; he organized a much-welcomed and gratifying Communion-breakfast and is now arranging for the all-city dance to be held for the high school students. John Parker was responsible for the much-heralded basketball tournament held earlier in the semester in his capacity as athletic commissioner. Although they aren’t involved in any actual teaching, much credit is due to these men and to the members of then- commissions for all of their very successful efforts.
The purpose of the college C.C.D. unit is to prepare qualified lay teachers for future work in their home dioceses; recognizing the extent to which the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine unit at Notre Dame has fulfilled this purpose, on March 9, 1958, it was erected to the Confraternity in Rome and now shares in all the special spiritual privileges given _ to that confraternity.
The Editors of the Notre Dome Juggler, the campus literary journal, invite applications for next year’s Editorial Board.
Address to:
JOE RYAN. Room 4, Fisher Hall
19
the I .
Library
“Would you like us to put it on search for you?” This question after one or two unsuccessful hours in the library tempts us to make complaints that seem unreasonable after some consideration.
The chief problem, and one of which the library authorities are acutely aware, is that there are not enough books to go around. The constant acquisition of new books has helped to alleviate this to some extent. The libraries on campus (excluding the Law Library) now have 500,000 volumes, compared to 282,000 volumes in 1952. In 1958 over 100,000 dollars was spent for new books and periodicals. To understand these statistics better we can compare them to Georgetown’s 275,000 volumes or to Princeton’s million and a half volumes. Before a cry of protest rises from every competition-conscious party on campus it is only fair to point out that attendance at Notre Dame has almost doubled since 1940. This sudden and headlong increase has strained our library’s resources while the libraries of older and already expanded universities were able to absorb the shock.
The comparison becomes more meaningless when we realize that number of volumes is only part of the quality and value of a library. This is evident if we remember that the usual complaint is not that the library doesn’t have the book we want, but that it doesn’t have it when we want it.
In its circulation department, a University library has a pi-oblem that public libraries do not; that is, that many people are doing research on the same or related topics in a limited period of time. Education in recent years has put more of an emphasis on term papers and wide background reading, with the result that the library has become a necessity for every student and not only for the outstanding one. When 1500 students use the library and 800 books pass ovei-the check-out counter every day, it is not surprising that two people want the same book at the same time. This problem might be helped if students did not wait until the last minute to do necessary research and if they returned books as soon as possible. No realistic person with any sense would expect this. At the same time we cannot expect the library authorities to predict what will be in great demand at a particular time and get more copies. There are solutions to this problem, but they are not simple. The library realized this long ago and is working as quickly as possible to achieve them.
The security we sometimes feel because the book we want is on reserve can rapidly turn to indignation when the book is not there. While the matter of getting one book out of the stacks and putting it in the reference room seems a simple matter to us, it is quite a chore when multiplied by five
or six hundred. Add to this the fact that many of them must be called in (which doesn’t mean they will be turned in immediately) and that in some cases additional copies must be ordered. For this reason the library asks the faculty members to no-
t i f y them
month vance
in of
time when books will
a ad-the the be
needed. Once they are on the reserve shelf, students sometimes replace them on the wrong shelf, or the slower read-
Schaefer,
Victor
Director of the Library, came to the N. D. library in August, 1952. He received his A.B. degree from St. Benedict’s, Atchison, Kansas, and an A.M.L.S. in Library Education from the University of Michigan.
Who checked for ties at the door?
ers, because there is a time limit, are tempted to turn thief temporarily.
Unfortunately, theft is not confined to reserve books. The < exact loss through theft is inestimable, since there may not be a demand for a particular book until long after it has been smuggled past the check-out desk. Then too, the lost book might merely be misplaced in the stacks, perhaps only a few books away from its proper place. This is a frequent, but I suppose, inevitable occurrence.
Much perverted ingenuity on the part of the students goes into mutilation of books, especially periodicals. The other day, for instance, the cover of one large bound periodical was found standing on the shelf with the entire inside missing. Perhaps < some of the damage is due to the library’s liberal policy. Ours is one of the few libraries that allows periodicals out overnight. Periodicals also have to be sent to the bindery, where they remain for about six weeks; this accounts for then- occasional absence.
There are some aspects of the library that neither the students nor the library authorities can do much about. Certain physical limitations must await remedy in the hoped-for < new library. For one thing there is not enough shelf-space at and around the circulation desk, and the limited floor space 1 there causes jam-ups at rush hours. There are tube stations on five out of the seven decks and workers at four of these stations during rush hours. In the new library, Mr. Schaefer : plans to have quieter and more private study spaces and open stacks where all the students will have immediate access to most of the books. From our point of view a collection of < records and tapes would be a valuable feature of a new library.
However, there are facilities of the present library that the students are either unaware of or use inefficiently. A growing micro-film collection contains many rare books and bulky materials such as the New York Times, issues of which back to 1852 are on microfilm. There are three film-viewers available to students working with this collection. Also, there are several special collections accessible to the students. The : Dante Library, collected by Rev. John Zahm, C.S.C., contains 2,900 volumes in forty languages. Father Zahm also collected a South American Library, supplemented by maps and photographs. The Hiberniana consist of 3,000 volumes, pertaining to Irish history and literature. The Library for Soviet
20
The Scholastic
Studies contains all the library’s books j which are in Slavic languages. Except for the Rare Book Room and the Medieval Institute (open only on week-I day mornings and afternoons), these I> collections are available at all times either in the stacks or with the aid of > library personnel.
One resource that most students neglect is the aid of the librarians themselves. In campus libraries there are twenty-seven professional librarians and theii’ chief duty, says Mr. Schaefer, is k to help the students. Many students do not understand the card catalogue or - the shelving system. Others use them inefficiently. Most hesitate to bother the librarians with what they consider insignificant questions. Yet that is what the librarians are there for. Advice and help from a librarian can pi*event much - waste of time. And that seems to be the student’s greatest concern.
r ________________________________________
At the Movies
At the Gallery
APRIL 21-30 (main gallery) an exhibition of
, THE GOLDEN AGE OF DUTCH ART, the 17th Century — portraits, landscapes, still lifes by such artists as Ravensteyn, Van ’ der He|st, Honthorst and Van Breughel.
(east gallery)
17th and 18th Century British paintings by Constable, Lely, Romney and Raeburn. 19th and 20th Century American painting, sculpture, prints by Eakins, Chase, Gott-leib, Chapin, Heliker and Patterson.
May 3-24
’ The Annual Exhibition of Student Art Work
May 31
Art works by members of the University faculty
One Afternoon
(Continued from page 17) in bed in a middle row; we walked over • to them. Both were held by a thick black strap pulled across their stomachs and fastened to an iron strut by a heavy clamp.
“Hi, doctor, hi,” one yelled out. “I’m sick doctor, real sick. You know, I fought in the Great War; I got wounded and I’ve been sick since then. I’m gettin’ M better though; I can move my leg pretty * good now. . . .”
“A-a-a, my daughter’s coming to see me doctor,” the other broke in. “She’s coming real soon; she always comes to see me. And she’s beautiful, too, and real smart; she works in a drug store.”
Walking back to our house we passed * by the women’s cottages. Many of the privileged women were “dressed-up” to go out daily. They sat on the porch in their rocking chairs, all chatting like fashionable ladies, and occasionally going out for a stroll about the pond on the golf course.
♦ * *
' I stayed at Kesington Heights for two weeks that summer. During my last few days there the fuzzy-bearded colored man, who had been committed in 1898, died. Four other old inmates died too, while I was there, just like the others, helpless.
! April 24, 1959
AVON
Albert Schweitzer: (April 23-29). This documentary about the man who has spent so .many years working among the natives in Africa might very well be worth seeing.
Co-Feature: Bitter Victory. An unorthodox war drama starring Richard Burton, Curt Jurgens, and Ruth Roman. There is in this movie more than straight shooting.
COLFAX
These Thousand Hills: (April 24-30). A. B. Guthrie’s excellent novel has lost much of its quality in the transfer from paper to celluloid. The plot invariably moves from the range to the bedroom, with accompanying dialogue, and stars Don Murray, Richard Egan, and Lee Remick.
Co-Hit: Intent to Kill. Standardized plot and action revolving around a planned political assassination. With Richard Todd, Betsy Palmer, and Herbert Lorn.
GRANADA
Rio Bravo: (April 16-30). Very unlike its corny radio publicity, it stars the boy who earns more than his combined parents: Ricky Nelson. Also starring such notables as John Wayne and Dean Martin, this one looks like a sure box office hit. Ward (Wagon Train) Bond and Walter (Real McCoys) Brennan have been transferred from TV without appreciable loss of character. Angie Dickinson exhibits what is perhaps the longest pair of shapely legs this side of Fort Lauderdale.
PALACE
Count Your Blessings: (April 24-May 7). Deborah Kerr and Rossano Brazzi, as two offsprings of titles, meet head-on in more ways than one until Cupid steps in. This time it’s Maurice Chevalier, who repeats his thickmolasses role of the uncle in Gigi almost from memory. Now, he thanks heaven for titled English ladies.
STATE
House on a Haunted Hill: (April 23-29). Vincent Price regrettably returns to his horrifying alter ego and Carol Ohmart runs out of breath running away from assorted monsters. In Chicago, through a process called Emergo, a skeleton actually flies over the audience. Here, the manager will have to do the trick.
Co-Hit: The Cosmic Monster. Forrest Tucker, the Harold Hill of Chica-goland, turns up in still another B-quality dandy. Gaby Andre (that’s a girl) is also starred in this misunderstood movie.
RIVER PARK
The Proud Rebel: (April 23-26). Alan Ladd does it again, but whatever it is he’s trying to prove nobody knows. This is stock Good vs. Bad material with a Civil War background thrown in for good measure. Olivia deHavilland doesn’t seem to understand the unhappy picture she’s in — and she can’t be blamed. But David, Shorty’s son, is really someone to watch. He not only can act bettei* than Alan, but looks like he’s going to be taller!
WASHINGTON HALL
Bell, Book, and Candle: (April 25). Kim Novak is “a belle in my book to which no other girl can hold a candle.” Credit of another sort is due James Stewart, Jack Lemmon, and dazedly sidesplitting Ernie Kovacs. Plus Elsa Lanchester and Hermione Gingold. Kim tops both ladies, though, not only by her tender age, but also by sheer hypnotic power.
—Tony Wong
21
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales Brasso, ROTC Collar Insignia You Save Every day at GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
Saint Mary’s College presents The Second Annual Christian Culture
Symposium
With such eminent speakers as: Rev. D. M. Stanley Brian Tierney Myron P. Gilmore Louise Bogan and Andre Girard
See Calendar for time, place and further information
Sfuvdi PkiiM
'	EXCITING AFTERNOON
< i Notre Dame’s tennis squad opened its home season against Kalamazoo College this morning and will face Indiana this afternoon and Iowa tomorrow as a part of a quadrangular tennis meet. This meet promises to be the top tennis attraction here
S V at Notre Dame this season. Iowa was the only team to defeat the Irish last season in an 18-game Irish schedule.
This year's tennis squad could be J. the finest in Notre Dame history, and it would be well worth the effort to go out to the courts at least tomorrow afternoon to see the Iowa match.
i Netters Oppose Iowa | In First Major Match
Today the Irish netmen are participating in a round robin tournament at Kalamazoo, Mich., with Iowa, Indiana, i and Kalamazoo. Although the tourna-' ment will determine its winner by the round robin method, the individual matches will be considered dual meets.
Coach Tom Fallon looks for Iowa to provide Notre Dame’s first test of strength this season. The Hawkeyes have rolled easily over their first two opponents. Iowa was the only squad to defeat the Irish last year. First-seeded Art Andrews will lead the Iowa attack, and he may go against Maxwell Brown, j both of whom were All-Americans last 1 l year.
Kalamazoo has a young team since most of their starters graduated this past June. However, they manage to compile a good record every year.
Last week Notre Dame won a quadrangular- meet and copped 34 out of a J possible 36 points. Ohio State, Denison, f and Ohio Wesleyan were the other three teams competing in this meet.
Hector Cabello suffered the only loss in the singles matches when he bowed to Jack Archer of OSU, 6-4, 6-2. He and Ray Bender were the only doubles combination to be defeated, their conquerers , . being Jack Archer and Bill Schosser of ' OSU. Don Ralph, Max Brown, Bill Hein-becker, Ron Schoenberg, and Ray Bender all won their singles matches.
Coach Fallon thinks highly of his squad and feels the team has good depth. He was favorably impressed with the play of his boys against Ohio State.
; Sophomore Ralph from Bethesda, Md., has taken the top rating away from Max Brown who held it most of last season. Heinbecker plays at the third spot and Schoenberg the fourth. Bender, a junior from South Carolina, recently took the (Continued on page 24)
April 24, 1959
Irish Travel to Des Moines for Drake Relays; Medley Relay Team Victorious at Ohio Relays
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame track squad travels to Des Moines, Iowa, to compete in the annual Drake Relays. An 18-man squad is making the trip.
Leading the Irish contingent will be the distance medley relay team of Galen Cawley, Chris Monohan, Dan Rorke, and Ron Gregory which won that same event in the Ohio State Relays last Saturday. Marty Clynes will join Rorke, Monohan, and Gregory in the two-mile relay, and Jerry Fitzpatrick, Frank Hemphill, Mike Breitenbach, and Pat Reilly will compete in the 880-yard relay.
Others making the trip are hurdler Steve Dornbach, weightmen Ken Scarborough, Bill Dixon, and Bill Hickman, Glen Cividin in the pole vault, and high-jumpers Dick Monjeau and John Reilly. Dave Cotton will enter the mile, and Dave Wehlage will run the 3000-meter steeplechase.
In the Ohio State Relays last week end at Columbus, the Irish took one first, a third, and two fifths. The distance medley team of Cawley, Monohan, Rorke, and Gregory edged Michigan State at the finish line to win with a time of 10:02.3. When Gregory took the baton on the anchor lap, he was 50 yards behind Crawford Kennedy of MSU. He made up the deficit with some brilliant running, twice passing Kennedy only to be passed in turn by Kennedy. Finally, he took the lead for good and won going away.
The two-mile relay team of Rorke, Monahan, Gregory, and Clynes took third in that event. Individually for the Irish, Monjeau placed fifth in the hop, step, and jump with a leap of 46 feet, 7/2 inches. Fitzpatrick also finished fifth . in the broad jump competition. His best distance was 23 feet, one-fourth inch.
OUTDOOR PROSPECTS
The Irish appear to be well-fortified in most events. Fitzpatrick, John Foote, and Pete Salsich give the Irish a good trio of sprinters. They compete in the 100- and 220-yard dashes. Fitzpatrick, a sophomore, is the standout in the group. In the 440-yard dash the Irish lost a good man when Ray Ratkowski, top man in this event during the indoor season, decided to forego the outdoor season in favor of spring football. 'So Coach Alex Wilson, the veteran Irish mentor, will have to find some replacements from his other quarter-milers.
The Irish are well fortified in the 880-yard run with the likes of Rorke, Clynes, and Monahan competing in this event. In the mile run, the Irish have a real standout in the person of Gregory. This lithe runner from St. Louis gives promise of becoming one of the great distance runners in Notre Dame history. He has already set a new indoor mile
record for the Fieldhouse. Recently, he ran an anchor 880 in the two-mile relay at the Texas Relays in 1:50.4. He is only a sophomore. Cotton is the main Irish hope in the two-mile run. Gregory may also compete in this event, as well as the 880.
The Irish have an outstanding man in the hurdles in senior, and team captain, Dornbach. He holds the indoor records for both the high and low hurdles.
The, Irish also have good prospects in the field events. Fitzpatrick is the top broad-jumper on the squad. He won this event in both of the indoor meets against Marquette and Purdue, setting a new Fieldhouse record in the process. Monjeau, a sophomore, and Reilly give the Irish a good double punch in the high jump. Cividin and Tom Reichert rank one-two in the pole vault.
The Irish are three deep in both the shot and disc with Scarborough, Dixon, and Hickman. Mike Morando holds the school record in the javelin, and he will be attempting to improve on the record this season.
The Wilsonmen will soon be engaging in their outdoor schedule of dual meets.
The first of these will find the track-sters at Columbia, Mo., on May 9, engaging the Missouri Tigers. The second will find Michigan State, here, the following Friday night.
The Irish will enter in the Central Collegiate Conference (CCC) Championships in early June, and then the big event of the outdoor season, the NCAA meet, takes place on June 20 at Omaha, Nebraska.
Wins Over Wisconsin and Wabash Last Week Highlight Opening of Home Baseball Season
JOHN CARRETTA
Plays infield and outfield
The Notre Danie baseball team opened their home season at Cartier Field on Tuesday, April 14, with an impressive 13-1 victory over Wabash College. Sophomore righthander Jack Mitchell pitched no-hit ball for the first five innings and struck out nine batters. Another sophomore, Nick Palihnich, followed and permitted only one hit for the next three innings. Mike Brennan, just recovering from a shoulder injury, allowed two hits and one run in the ninth.
Although the Irish banged out twelve hits, seven Wabash errors contributed greatly to the victory. John Cai’retta, who had two hits and drove in three runs,
BASEBALL ACTION
Frank Finnegan (21) heads for first after hitting a grounder to the right side in the first game of last Saturday’s double-header against Wisconsin won by the Irish, 8-2 and 7-5. Gene Duffy of Notre Dame races for second as Wisconsin first baseman Jim Rogneby tries to field the ball. Watching the action is Badger catcher Ed Cannon (25).
led the Irish offense. Dan Hagan, Don Costa, and Jack Gen tempo also had two hits. Co-Captain Dick Selcer smashed a two-run homer to aid the Irish cause.
Friday, April 17, was scheduled to be “Baseball Appreciation Day” at Notre Dame. However, rain interrupted the contest between Notre Dame and Wisconsin, and the game was called off. A double-header was scheduled for the following day.
On Saturday, April 18, the Irish swept both games from Wisconsin, boosting their record to 5-1 for the regular season’s play. The Badgers’ record now stands at 7-6.
In the first game, Jack Mitchell picked up his third victory of the season without a loss as he set the Badgers down 8-2. Mitchell gave up seven singles and struck out seven.
Leading the Irish batting attack were Carretta, Hagan, Gentempo, and CoCaptain Gene Duffy. Carretta drove in three runs with a double and two singles while Hagan had two doubles and a single, driving in two runs. Gentempo smacked a double and two singles, and Duffy slapped two singles. Selcer suffered mouth injuries in a first inning collision at second base and was replaced by Sophomore Jack Dorrian.
Nick Palihnich registered his second victory of the season in the second game. Taking over for Charles Scrivanich in the third inning, Palihnich limited the Badgers to four hits and one run for the rest of the game. The Irish went on to win 7-5.
Gentempo and Dorrian each had two hits to pace the Irish second game attack. Duffy smashed a two-run homer for the winners.
On Wednesday, the Irish traveled to
Evanston, Ill. for a game with Northwestern. Tomorrow, Central Michigan College will be host to the Irish basebailers for a double-header at Mt. Pleasant, Michigan. On April 30, the Irish return to Cartier Field to face the University i of Michigan.
Netters Host Iowa
(Continued from page 23)
fifth position leaving Hector Cabello, Sergio Garza, and Charles Stephens to 4 contest for the sixth spot.
Cabello and Garza are from Mexico City, and Stephens is from Louisville, Ky.
This line-up, however, is only temporary; for there is little difference in the quality of tennis played by the top and the bottom man. According to _ Coach Fallon this stiff intersquad competition makes foi’ a solid team.
HECTOR CABELLO
Mexican netter
Baseball and Softball
Interhall Play Opens •<
Interhall baseball and softball leagues began action in the past week. The baseball teams began playing on April 16 as the Dillon Gold team fought to a 3-1 triumph over Sorin, and Dillon Blue and Alumni battled to a 4-4 tie.
There are 15 teams entered for base-ball. They are divided into three leagues of five teams each. At the end of the season, about May 20, the leaders in the three leagues will have a playoff for the championship.
The softball squads got under way. last Monday, but none of the results of the first games were available in time for printing.	f .
The games in both the softball and baseball leagues are held on weekdays, Monday through Friday, at 4:00 p.m., on the fields south of the tennis courts.
The Scholastic.
24
< Gridders Reach Halfway Point in Spring Drills; Kuharich Seeks Freshmen for Depth in Line
* Coach Joe Kuharich’s charges have reached the halfway point in spring foot'd'• ball practice, and the squad is now i readying itself for the Old-Timers game which is scheduled for two weeks from tomorrow.
Kuharich used the first week to ac! quaint the Irish with the new offensive setup he has installed and to make needed personnel changes to plug up the ' weak points on the squad, namely, guard, end, and fullback.
Chief changes made by the new head football coach were at center and halfback where two lettermen were switched _ . to new positions. Myron Pottios, a sophomore center was shifted to guard, , and Jim Crotty, a junior halfback, was * moved to fullback.
Other notable changes made were: Pat Healy, from fullback to end; John Cutillo, from end to guard; Gene Viola,
MOE POTTIOS
Switched to guard
from center to guard; and Bob Pietrzak, ► guard to end.
Kuharich also has had the assistance of his quarterback from last season in Washington, Eddie LeBaron, for five sessions over last week end. LeBaron helped the leading candidates for the signal-calling position swing into the new offense more easily by teaching them the fine points of that new system. He has been working chiefly with George Izo, Don White, Bill Henneghan, and sophomores Tom Bonofiglio and Tom Jorling.
LeBaron, one of the leading passers in the National Football League for the past few seasons, also worked out with ’ the ends and the other backs before leaving last Tuesday. He ran through the new pass patterns and loosened up his passing arm to give some pin-point passing demonstrations.
. Kuharich also has instituted a new
system for taking care of the big (100-man) squad by dividing them into “A” and “B” units. To the “B” unit have been assigned those players who need more practice on the fundamentals and who are weak at some particular aspect of offense or defense. Freshmen coaches Hugh Devore and Johnny Murphy are able to watch more closely under actual conditions with less players to concentrate on, and they can give more specialized help to each player.
On the “A” unit Kuharich has the monogram winnners from last year and those players he is counting on most right now. With these players he is concentrating on installing his new offense. He did not scrimmage “live” at all the first week, except with the linemen to show them the blocking assignments.
Chief emphasis so far has been placed on the fundamentals of blocking and tackling, with both the linemen and the backs getting workouts. The first limited scrimmages were held this week with action due to speed up as the annual spring game approaches.
Much of Kuharich’s hopes depend on the current additions from the freshman squad. He needs these freshmen to provide depth for the 1959 eleven, and he is giving them a good chance to show what they’ve got in these spring drills. When the live scrimmages start, he will be able to see what these frosh can do under actual game conditions.
There are six freshmen who have a good chance of gaining positions on either of the first two units. Three of these six are tackles. George Williams, a 6-2, 220-pounder from Marshfield, Mass., seems to have the nod over the remaining two, Joe Carollo and Bob Bill. Bill is a 6-2, 220-pounder from Garden City, N. Y., and Carolo is 6-2, weighs 230-pounds, and is from Wyandotte, Mich.
1959 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
September 26—
North Carolina,...at Notre Dame
October 3—
Purdue ................at Lafayette
October 10—
California ..........at Berkeley
October 17—
Michigan State....at East Lansing October 24—
Northwestern ....at Notre	Dame
October 31 —
Navy ............ at	Notre	Dame
November 7—
Georgia Tech......at Notre	Dame
November 14—
Pittsburgh  _________at Pittsburgh
November 21 —
Iowa ................at Iowa City
November 28—
So. California____at Notre Dame
Freshmen fullbacks Mike Lind arid Joe Perkowski have also been impressive in these early drills. Lind, who won the “Outstanding Prep Player” award in Chicago two years ago, is 6-0 and weighs 200 even. Perkowski is from Wilkes Barre, Pa., and is the same size as Lind.
Nick Buoniconti has been the best freshman prospect at guard. Buoniconti is 5-11, 210-pounds, and hails from Springfield, Mass.
Kuharich feels that the backs are more promising than the line so far in the spring sessions, but he hopes to uncover some end and tackle prospects once the “live” scrimmages start.
The line-up he has been considering so far seems to be just about set for the first intra-squad scrimmage. This would include Monty Stickles and Jim Colosimo, both monogram winners, at the end slots, Joe Scibelli and either Dick Roth or Williams at the tackles, Pottios and Ken Adamson at the guards, and Bob Scholtz or Dave Hurd at center. Hurd, Scholtz, Scibelli, Pottios, and Adamson are letterwinners from last year.
JIM CROTTY
Switched to fullback
The backfield seems to have George Izo at quarterback, with freshman Tom Jorling close behind, Bill (Red) Mack or Bill Clark at one halfback slot, Crotty or Dan Griffith at fullback and the other halfback slot open.
Kuharich has been lucky so far with injuries as he has worked the squad into, shape slowly with a minimum of contact. The only serious injury thus far was sustained by freshman Bill Ford, a 6-2, 200-pound end. He suffered a shoulder separation and will be sidelined for the rest of the spring sessions.
Kuharich has been optimistic about the team’s showing thus far. He says that he would rather work them in slowly than go too. fast and have injuries or confusion about the new attack.
“We are not ready yet, but we are moving- rapidly now, and we will be ready for the Old-Timers game in fine shape.”
April 24, 1959
25
TIME OUT
The gods for some obscure reason must have opposed “Baseball Appreciation Day” which was last Friday and was to have preceded the first game in a two-game series between the Notre Dame and Wisconsin baseball teams. Rain halted the game after two innings (at the time the Irish trailed 3-0), and it was then rescheduled the next day as part of a doubleheader. The Irish recovered to take both games of the twin-bill, 8-2 and 7-5.
The rain put a damper on the high spirit that accompanied the campuswide effort to bring students out to Cartier Field and acquaint them with the baseball team. Obnoxiously enough, Friday was the only day of the week during which rain fell. The rain on this “Black Friday” curtailed the game, but the festivities of “Baseball Appreciation Day” beat the showers and performed their function of introducing students to Irish baseball well. Let’s just hope they remember then- introduction. It doesn’t rain every day.
RON GREGORY . . . AGAIN
The depth of the Irish track team was displayed at the Ohio State Relays as each of the three relay teams entered by Coach Alex Wilson placed.
The only first was registered by the distance medley team with a time of 10:02.3 in the event which covers two and one-half miles. Dan Rorke led off with a 1:56 half-mile to place the Irish in front. Chris Monahan, ordinarily a half-miler, kept Notre Dame in first place with a good :49.4 quartermile.
Galen Cawley, the only junior on a relay squad composed otherwise entirely of sophomores, ran a creditable 3:07 for the three-quarter mile but fell behind as Michigan State’s Big Ten mile champion ran his three-quarters in under three minutes to give the Spartans the lead going into the final leg, the mile.
The Western Michigan third man barely edged past Cawley to force the Irish back into third place as Ron Gregory took the baton. Gregory immediately surged past the Western Michigan anchor and began closing Crawford Kennedy’s 50-yard lead. Kennedy from Michigan State has won the NCAA cross-country individual championship the past two years. Running his mile in 4:10.5, Gregory made up the entire deficit and finished strong to give the Irish their only relay championship.
The time of 10:02.3 is a new school record, breaking the old one of 10:02.6, set at the Drake Relays in 1955.
TWO EXCELLENT HALF-MILES
Gregory also anchored the two-mile relay quartet that finished third in 7:42.0. The three sophomores also ran on this team while senior Marty Clynes replaced Cawley. Rorke again started the Irish off in front in 1:57.3, Clynes was a close third as he finished his 880 in 1:55.5, but Monahan fell farther behind the leaders, running his half-mile in 1:58.5.
Again it was Ron Gregory who made the news. Although he was unable to pass the second-place finisher, he ran the final 880 in 1:50.7, certainly a very excellent half-mile.
This time compares very favorably with his time at the Texas Relays three week ends ago when this same two-mile quartet established a school record in winning the event with a time of 7:36.9. Gregory then ran the anchor leg in 1:50.4. Not only has he been running good half-miles, but he seems so consistent, consistent at a level of excellence.
GOOD OUTLOOK
Since the tennis team’s only matches at the time this column was written were away from home, students have not had an opportunity to observe the Irish netters. Last year’s squad suffered only one loss throughout the season. The numbers one and two men on that squad are returning; yet this year they are the numbers two and four men respectively. If one may assume that these two men back from last year, Maxwell Brown and Ron Schoenberg, have not regressed in ability, it looks as. though the tennis team, with newcomers Don Ralph and Bill Heinbecker in the first and third slots, should have certainly a creditable season.—T.T.
Golf Team Begins Play With Quadrangular Win
Notre Dame’s undefeated golf squad, owning a 3-0 record, battles Detroit and Northern Illinois in a triangular meet on Burke Memorial golf course tomdr- < row. The meet will be 36 holes, 18 holes in the morning and another round in the afternoon. The competition will be based on a medal play Nassau, and, each team, will be composed of six golfers. /
The linksmen opened the regular season on Monday, April 20, with a clean, sweep of a quadrangular meet against * Kentucky, Bellarmine, and Centre College. The six-man teams played 18 holes over the hilly 6,400-yard Audubon. Country Club in Louisville, Ky. -J.
Bellarmine gave the Irish golfers their ■ stiffest test as Notre Dame won over the Bellarmine linksters, ll%-6%. Ken- ( tucky fell victim to the Irish, 13% -4%, and Notre Dame dnibbed Centre College, 14-4.	;
A soggy course coupled with gusty winds kept the scores in the upper 70’s and lower 80’s. Two golfers from Texas, ? Christy Flanagan, a junior from Port Arthur, and Ray Patak, a sophomore " from Dallas, were co-medalists for the day. These two Notre Dame golfers both shot four-over-par 76’s. Flangan won all nine of a possible nine points from his opponents while Patak picked up eight.
Juniors Frank Hund from Galesburg, Ill., and Budd Zesinger from South Bend, shot 77 and 78 respectively for the ’ Irish. Hund, playing the number two position on the squad, won six and one-half points for Notre Dame while 7^ singer, playing number three man, won eight points.	?
Senior Gerry Webster from Buffalo, N. Y., captain of the Irish squad, and junior Terry Lally from Louisville, Ky., found the course playing difficult as they ( carded 81 and 85 respectively. Webster’s „ score was good enough for seven and one-half points while Lally, playing first' man against the top golfers on the opposing teams, failed to win any points.?
Following the meet this week end with Detroit and Northern Illinois, Father Holderith’s linksters will travel to Evan-‘ ( ston, Ill., on Saturday, May 2, for a: quadrangular match with Michigan State and Wisconsin as well as the host Norths western Wildcats.
The following Monday, May 4, Iowa and the same Michigan State Spartaria will visit Burke Memorial course for st triangular match.	&. ■
KEGLER BANQUET if
Reservations for the 1958-55^. Kampus Kegler banquet must b^-i-made with Ed Silliman, 263 DillonSj.-by Friday of next week. Prices ar^fe; $1.00 for members of the Kegler^g--and $2.75 for all others for the aflfe fair to be held at the Knights o||g|_, Columbus Hall on May 14. ||fe
26
The Scholasi
Veteran Sailors Capture . Fifth in Annapolis Meet
Competing against the top varsity i: teams of the East, the Irish sailors | placed fifth of 14 invited schools in the Annapolis Spring Invitational at Annapolis, Md., April 11-12. Princeton captured first with Navy second.
Dan Schuster and Mickey Pavia skippered for Notre Dame with Ed Bukow-< ski, Jim McCarthy, and John Kroha doing the crewing. With temperatures x'j near* freezing, and with rain, sleet, and । winds up to 25 m.p.h., the sailing was rugged and exciting. Three of the 14-foot sloops capsized in the icy waters I of the Severn. Navy broke a mast in one race.
f This first regatta of the season showed I that the Irish skippers and crews are ’ weak in their handling of sloop-rigged boats but impressively sharp on racing rules and tactics.
On April 18 and 19, the sailing team traveled to Ohio State University. There the freshman squad had its first experience in varsity competition. Commodore Pavia, who accompanied the team on the trip, stated that he was well pleased with the results. However, the Notre Dame squad placed ninth out of eleven participating squads.
The freshman squad is still seriously deficient in experience and knowledge of tactics, having been disqualified seven times out of the 16 races sailed. Skippers on the freshman squad were Ben Fogarty, Jim Kuras, and Jay Wilbur; crewing for the Irish were Jim Wolf and Charles Kramer.
In the finishing part of the regatta, Pavia and Bukowski took over as skippers for the Irish. However, Notre Dame was too far behind at the time to be a contender. Wisconsin took first place in the regatta, followed by the University of Alabama and Tulane University.
The first-string squad will see action again this week end, traveling to Ann Arbor for a contest with the University of Michigan.

IHO SKID IT miST?
A column of incidontal intolligonco by«foC*CV brand
"WHEN IN ROME...”
...do os the Romans do, we say, thus misquoting a line .from Burton’s "Anatomy of Melancholy'*. In this monumental book, the celebrated vicar stated it thusly:
’’When they are in Rome, they do there as they see done.’’
"TO HAVE AND HAVE NOT" The privileged and the underprivileged, the rich and the poor—most of us have a tendency to divide mankind into two dosses. The man who showed us how to do it was Cervantes. In "Don Quixote”, he wrote:
"There are only two families in the world, the Haves and the Have Nets.”
"JACK SPRAT”
No, ’’Anon” didn’t coin the famous quatrain concerning the thin man and his peculiar eating habits. Instead, it was a certain John Clark in something called, "Paraemio-logia”, written in 1639:
“Jack Sprat will eat no fat, And Jill doth lave no lean. Yet betwixt them bath They lick the dishes dean.**
Jockey Underwear
BRAND
Of all the lands of underwear, only Jockey brand is especially tailored to feel better because it fits better. This superior comfort is assured by exclusive construction features that no other underwear can duplicate, lb enjoy real comfort, insist on Jockey brief—the world’s first and finest. Look for Jockey at your campus store.
ND Men Cop Ping Pong Title; Kromkowski Singles Winner
John Kromkowski, a sophomore, and j Paul Kochanowski, a freshman, finished 1 first and second respectively in the National Intercollegiate Table Tennis championships at Minneapolis, Minn., last Saturday.
Kromkowski defeated Kochanowski, 21-15, 22-20, and 21-16, for the singles title, and the two South Bend natives 4 teamed to whip Ken Grabs and Frank < Roshan from South Dakota for the doubles crown. Kochanowski notched ' the novice title with a 21-15, 21-16, 21-12 victory over Bob Rolle of Minnesota.
The Notre Dame duo was sponsored by the Villagers’ Club.
April 24, 1959
27
CANOE TRIPS
Personal service for wilderness canoe trips into the Quetico-Superior wilderness. Camping equipment, Grumman aluminum canoes and choice food supplies only $6.00 per person per day. For complete information, write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS—Box 717C, Ely, Minn.
from our University Shop DISTINCTIVE SPORTWEAR FOR LATE SPRING AND SUMMER
Navy or Tan Heather Orlon*-and- Wool Blazers, $40 Dacron*-and-Cotton Check Odd Jackets, $32.50 Odd Jackets of Hand- Woven India Madras in Unusual Foulard or Paisley Patterns, $37.50 Tropical Worsted Odd Trousers, $19.50 Washable Odd Trousers, $9 and $12.50 Colorful Polo and Sport Shirts, $4 to $9 Bermuda Length Shorts, $7.50 to $11.50 •DuPont’s fibers
ESTABUSMDMIB
Ifens furnishings, Qats $§hots
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK. • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

MAY DAY
The traditional May Day Procession will be held Thursday night, April 30, at 7:30 p.m. Routes for the procession from each Hall to the Grotto will be published in the RELIGIOUS BULLETIN on Wednesday.
School Plans Finance Forum To Study Taxation Problems
The University will sponsor a Finance and Industry Forum in the Law Auditorium tomorrow. The forum will feature six nationally famous estate plan- 1 ning experts.
They will explore a variety of taxation problems and will present a detailed case study of the planning and administrating of an estate. Approximately 200 accountants, attorneys, trust officers, life . underwriters, and corporation executives are expected to attend the sessions.
Panelists will include Rene Wormser, New York City attorney and former lecturer on estate planning at New York University; William J. Casey, New York ' City attorney and former special counsel to the Senate Small Business Committee; Robert J. Lawthers, director of estate planning services for the New England Mutual Life Insurance Co.; James IF. Thornburg, attorney and lecturer at Hie Notre Dame Law School; William E. V Murray, also a New York City attorney and former chairman of the American * Bar Association’s Income of Estates and Trusts Committee; and C. Carberry O’Shea, New York lawyer and lecturer on tax matters.	J
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will address the opening session at 10 a.m. The forum will close with remarks by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation.
Twardowski Wins First In Meet with 'Watchman*
. Jerry Goudreau, president of the Notre Dame debate team, announced this week that Thomas Twardowski, freshman electrical engineering major, from Reading, Pa. has won the annual Breen Oratorical Contest. A member of the Navy ROTC program and news staff of WSND, Twardowski was active in a forensic group at Reading Central High School, where he won several outstanding speech awards before attending Notre Dame. His speech, “Watchman; What of the Night?” gained him the top spot in the competition with eight remaining finalists.	S
The award, created by Mr. Breen, partial donor of Breen-Phillips Hall, w now an 80-year tradition at the University. Its purpose is to promote oratory in its purest form. It can & won only once by a single student.
Competitors are chosen not only on style and delivery, but also on the coi^|. tent and thought that has been put into? their speeches. This year’s contest wm| judged by Jack Martzell and RichandS Schiller, two former debate team pre^^^ dents, who are now law students at thfe|i University.
The Scholastic^..
ROTC Unit Affected by Personnel Changes; Major Huddleston Set for Transfer to Korea
Notre Dame’s ROTC unit has announced that for the coming school year there will be some personnel changes in the cadre.
Majoi- James Huddleston, assistant professor of military science and tactics, and former Commandant of Cadets will he relieved by Captain George Kennedy. Major Huddleston is a West Point graduate, class of ’43.
his replacement. The master sergeant taught at Culver Military Academy for three years and has served as Chief Clerk, 8th Infantry Division in Germany.
Lt. Col. Daniel Gorman was recently attached to the staff of the Army ROTC unit. He is a graduate of Connecticut Teachers College and has received his MA in education from Columbia University.
HAVE BUSES . . .
WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Bspu 263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
f
Following the war he served in the Intelligence division at the Pentagon for one year and then returned to Germany where he was connected with the U. S. Constabulary. He has been at Notre Dame since 1956, a stay that he “found very pleasant.” His present orders only specify Korea as his next assignment.
His replacement, Captain Kennedy, is a graduate of Boston College with a BS in finance. He fought in World War II with the Air Force and is a recipient of the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal with three Oak Leaf clusters.
The second change is Captain Michael Fucci who is being replaced by Captain. Antonio D’Ambrosio. Captain Fucci has been serving as an assistant professor of military science and tactics, drill team advisor, and assistant coach of the wrestling team. He was commissioned at Oklahoma A & M in 1951 as a second lieutenant in the regular army.
Having been here since 1957, Captain Fucci is now being sent to Saudi Arabia to serve with the American Military Assistants Advisory group.
Captain D’Ambrosio, a graduate of Baylor University, has served with the 86th Ordnance Battalion in Europe for the past four years. During the second World Wai- he fought in Europe and received the Combat Infantryman’s Badge.
Although his specific* assignment has not come through, Captain John Brady will also be transferred. After serving in Europe with the 30th Division, Captain Brady was separated in 1945 as a second lieutenant. He went to St. Vincent’s in Pennsylvania where he got a BS degree in political science.
He went to Korea in March of 1954 for one year and was then transferred to Japan as Company Commander. Here at Notre Dame since 1956, Captain Brady will receive his master’s degree in political science in Soviet studies this June.
Owen Slein, sergeant first class, has received orders assigning him to the Pentagon. Sergeant Slein joined the service in 1946. After a year in Korea as a platoon sergeant he was released for reserve duty in Rhode Island. From 1954 to 1955 he was personnel sergeant in Iceland. He has been at Notre Dame since 1956, and has coached both the Army Rifle team and the Army basketball squad besides teaching.
Master Sergeant Robert Muravchick is
The glories of spring and the mood of those Prom week ends. . . . Don’t let them escape without a permanent remembrance for the girl who shares the fun and romance with you. If you haven’t already fallen under this wonderful spell, stop in at the Bookstore office on the second floor and look over the complete selection of miniatures. Make your choice and win her affection forever.	'
Save time and money on the finest at the:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
| April 24, 1959
WILDERNESS CANOE TRIPS
We furnish everything for * thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete romping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!) Border Lakes Outfitting P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
April Brings 'Showers'
(Continued from page 11)
and will run from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. In the ballroom Bruce Cosacchi and his Dixie Ramblers will be featured. Bruce is a junior here at Notre Dame. There will also be continuous entertainment in the Rathskeller. Among the groups being featured is the Boy Friend cast singing selections as well as the Kingmen Trio and the Dorr Sillaway Trio.
General chairman of the dance is John Clark. Tickets will be sold at the door.
<m American Express IQ5Q SfudenfTouts of Europe
Wherever, whenever, however you travel, your best assurance of the finest service is American Express! On American Express Student Tours of Europe you’ll be escorted on exciting itineraries covering such fascinating countries as England ... Belgium ... Germany ... Austria ... Switzerland... Italy... The Rivieras ... and France. And you’ll have ample free time and lots of individual leisure to really live life abroad!
7 Stadeut Toon of Earape . . . featuring distinguished leaders from prominent colleges as tour conductors . . . 40 to 62 days... by sea and by air... $1397 and up.
4 EAKRtfoMi Stadeat Tears of Earape... with experienced escorts — by sea ... 44 to 57 days... and up.
•tter Earapeaa Tears Avadabie... from 14 days ... $672 and up. Nse, Tears to Florida, Benaada, Mexico, West ladies aad Hamai.
You can always Travel Now—Pay Later when you go American Express!
Member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service ... or simply mail the handy coupon.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE
*	65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. e/o Trawi Sales Dimum	*
•	Yes! Please send me complete information	•
*	about 1959 Student Tours of Europe!	*
•	Name......................................... •
•	Address...................................... •
2 City....................Zone....State......... •
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH MBBM EXPRESS UMBERS OKBRES-SPEN CABLE EVERYWHERE imi wow no im cmpwewhbme rrbbcrw express wbruwe coent cmb
Lawyers Swing with Morris At Annual Dance Tonight at 9
The annual spring Law Ball, sponsored by the Student Law Association, will be held this evening at the South Bend Country Club, the scene of last year’s ball. The dance will begin at 9 p.m. and last until 1 a.m.
One of the highlights of the evening will be the crowning of the queen, Miss Sharon O’Malley of Chicago. Miss O’Malley will be escorted by Jon Kubiak, a junior law student from Niles, Mich., who is the chairman of the dance.
Providing the music for the evening’s dancing will be the orchestra of Ken
SHARON O’MALLEY
Morris. The Morris Orchestra was featured at last year’s ball. Saturday afternoon and evening will be spent at private parties.	,
As part of the week-end activities, a Communion Breakfast will be held at 10 a.m. in the Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall following the 9 a.m. Mass at Sacred Heart Church. Tile main speaker at the breakfast will be Joe Kuharich, the newly appointed head of the football team.	?
Give Me "Liberty* }
A film entitled Liberty and Justice | for All, which dramatizes important | constitutional cases regarding civil | I liberties will be shown Wednesday, 4 in the Law Auditorium at 4:15 and? 8:15 p.m.	|
The movie, presented as a prelude^ to Law Day observance on May 1,1 is 30 minutes long and was origi-| nally presented on the “Omnibus”| television program. This will be the>l. only chance for the general student^?.4 body to participate in Law Day|g?-activities, said Richard Cousineau, |B. vice president of the Student Laws' Association.
...............
The Scholastics^
30
US Civil Service to Release | Job Information to Engineers ' The US Civil Service Commission has • released its latest wanted circulars for I engineers in the fields of radio and water irrigation.
The radio engineers are being sought by the FCC for work in radio, telephone, wire, and cable and are being offered as a start, $4,490 a year minimum and $5,430 maximum for outstanding work in college or experience on the graduate level.
f Engineers who are interested in be: ginning a career in the development of ; western water resources are being sought by the Bureau of Reclamation. The jobs to be filled pay starting salaries of $4,490 to $6,285 a year.
Information and application forms are , available from the Placement Bureau and the US Civil Service, Washington 25, D. C.
Law School to Schedule Desegregation Program
A US senator, a bishop, and a superintendent of schools will be among eleven prominent figures who will participate in a Law School symposium on “The Problems and Responsibilities of School Desegregation” here May 8-9. Each of the speakers will address himself to the problems and responsibilities which desegregation presents to his profession.
Participating in the symposium will be Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky; Bishop Vincent S. Waters of Raleigh, N. C.; Dr. Carl F. Hansen, superintendent of schools, Washington, D. C.; former Governor Theodore R. i McKeldin of Maryland; Rev. J. J. Murray, visiting professor at the Louisville ; (Ky.) Presbyterian Theological Seminary and former moderator of the Virginia Synod of the Presbyterian Church; and Mayor William B. Hartsfield of Atlanta.
Also in attendance will be George M. Johnson, director of the Office of Laws, Plans and Research, Commission, on Civil Rights and former Dean of the Howard University Law School, Washington, D. C.; Dr. Harvey Wheeler, professor of political science, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.; Dr. Rufus Clement, president of Atlanta (Ga.) University; Rev. Albert T. Mol-legen, Protestant Episcopal Theological Seminary, Alexandria, Va.; and Howard C. Westwood, Washington, D. C., attorney and a member of the Columbia Law School Board of Visitors.
In naming the symposium panel, Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Law School observed that “if Americans can stop calling names long enough to take a hard look at the practical problems involved in desegregation, and assess our responsibilities in respect to these problems, we will be able to find a viable way out of the present calamitous situation.”
Odd Jacket
his
SPORTSWEAR
The trim-but-casual cut of this jacket tops the line of university-minded sportswear styled by HIS. At men’s shops that appreciate true value. $12.95 to $19.95, depending on fabric. And it’s washable!

MILTON
from Paradise Lost, The Beautiful World, line 1
April 24, 1959
31
EUROPE
DaHu to Ae Iron Curtain; Africa to Sweden. You’re accompanied—not herded arond. College group*. Abo shorter trips $724-$1390. EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
2S5 Sequoia (Bon 6)	Pmdni, CaL
AW UBUtYari INK SUP
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
•
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	JJ&S. Bldg.
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	A Handful of Dust and Decline and Fall
Evelyn Waugh
*	Idea of a University
Newman
*	The Russian Revolution
Leon Trotsky
*	Barefoot Boy with Cheek
Max Shulman
*	The Masters
C. P. Snow
* The Exurbanites
A. C. Spectorsky
* Atme Frank: The Diary of a Young Giri
Save Time and Money Shop at the NOTRE DAME
BOOKSTORE
os4k«-cawp«*
News Briefs
Professor Stanley Sessler, Head of die department of art at Notre Dame has won the Tri-Kappa first award for oil painting. The winning painting was a portrait of Mrs. Sessler pictured with her Siamese cat. This is die second consecutive year that Sessler has won the award given at the Annual Exhibit of the Northern Indiana Art Salon in Hammond, Ind.
Joel Haggard, a mechanical engineer in his sophomore year, won fourth place in the Technical Paper Presentation Conference held at the regional conference of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers at Purdue.
Out of 14 schools present, Notre Dame’s entry was topped only by entries from Kentucky University, Purdue, and the University of Louisville. Haggard’s talk was concerned with radioactive fallout.
Colonel Edwin W. Grenelle, commanding officer of the Notre Dame Anny ROTC unit, recently announced the awarding of the Chicago Tribune medals. Gold and Silver medals, representing a high degree of military achievement, scholastic attainment and character, were awarded to: Sophomore Charles Sacher of Miami, Florida and Freshman Jacques L. Martin of Libertyville, Ill. Both are students in tire College Ot Commerce.
University students and employees are thanked by the Brothers of Holy Cross for their help in the Columba Hall Mission Society card party held at St. Joseph High School for the benefit of the Holy Cross missions.
Mrs. Mary Toth, a University Dining Hall employee for the past ten years, went home with the first prize, a TV set.
Married villagers interested in receiving a. copy of the Vetville Herald, published and distributed by Vetville residents, are requested to contact Mrs. William (Sharon) Leahy, CE 2-2401. The subscription rate is 50 cents-postage for 9 issues (biweekly).
Political Science Professor Paul C. Bartholomew publishes his sixth book this week, Public Administration. The work has as its aim the summary and simplification of the fundamentals of the administration of government. Dr. Bartholomew has taught courses in public administration at both Notre Dame and Northwestern Universities.
College students 19 years and above are being given the opportunity to serve in fifteen camps for children in France this summer. The camps located in various sections of. France from the Cote d’Azur to Normandy have activities similar to those in American camps. The Americans who serve will do so only as volunteers, receiving their board and room but no other renumeration. The all-inclusive travel cost covering transportation and tour in Europe is $775. Those interested in the opportunity are requested to write at once for an application form to Dr. James Halsey, Camp Counselor International. Exchange Program, 491 Park Place, Bridgeport 4, Conn.
LOST
A pair of greenish - brown, horn - rimimNi glasses, in vicinity of the circle. Please . return to: LAHY LEACH. 338 BADIN HAU
Nominal reward offered 5
c
fe

Millions of times a year drivers and students keep awake with safe NoDoz
1
Let NSDoz’alert you through college, too

NoDoz keeps you alert with caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant you enjoy in coffee. Faster, handier, more reliable: nonhabit-forming NoDoz delivers an accurate amount of dependable stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams until you can rest or sleep.
P. S.: When you need NoDoz, iPU probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.

The safe stay awake tablet-available everywhere
■ Last week the annual interhall bridj tournament sponsored by the Gerity F was held in LaFortune Student Center, year’s Sorin Hall foursome dropped to {dace this year as a Dillon team composed Mike Wade, Tony Liotti, Tom Gray, ai Tom Erwin took top honors. Second pla was taken by a senior hall, Alumni.
Other winners include the Village ■ fourth place, Stanford in fifth, and W sixth place. Other participators were Bre Philips, Farley, and Badin Halls.
;	The Scho
n
HASPEL INTRODUCES SOMETHING NEW IN WASH AND WEAR SELFCAIRE FASHION . . . "SIR PERIOR"
Exciting and different Selfcaire fashions from Haspel are an exclusive new blend of 55% Dacron - 45% Orlon. The result is more smartness, more neatness, than you’ve ever known before. For this newly perfected blend of Dacron and Orlon has amazing wrinkle defiance . . . hangs onto its press with bulldog tenacity through day-after-day wear . . . gives you a cool, unmussed look, even during the muggiest weather. And, of course, it never needs coddling when it comes to washing . . . simply wash it, let it drip-dry and it’s ready to wear. All of this plus smart styling and a practical price!
$39.95

On the Campus—Notre Dame
^GILBERT'S
April 24, 1959

.’“'Ps
Rack Pa^e
by PETER V. A. HASBROOK
the torch glimmers
In the past nineteen issues of the Scholastic this page has been filled with commentary and criticism (some facetious, but most serious) on the inner campus life at Notre Dame and life as it applies to university students. The articles culminated last week in a commentary on criticism by Bill Scheckler in which he summarized and stressed the need for constructive criticism.
It is my purpose on this page to go beyond the realm of criticism into that of castigation. My reason for chastisement is the apathy of the majority of the student body about events which are happening outside of class rooms, outside of Student Senate meetings, and beyond the main quadrangle. These events, I feel, constitute the raw material which we as university graduates will have to forge into order for our fellow men. We, as intelligent, Christian, community leaders, will be reaping the benefits of, or paying the penalty for, political and social policies which are being formulated while we work and play in selfimposed oblivion behind the ivy covered walls north of Angela St. It is imperative, therefore, that we know what they are.
Thus, the title for this page and the symbol for my essay. The torch of knowledge is flickering and fading out in a vacuum; a vacuum created mostly by overindulgence in purely academic pursuits and ephemeral social activities. I contend that knowledge is composed of more than Burington’s Mathematical tables, more than Moody’s Industrial Analysis, and even more than Plato’s Republic. I feel that intelligence is based on more than weekly dances and plays. In short, current events are an integral part of our university education and no man can claim a well-rounded education who is not aware of happenings in the world outside and around.
Our first step in mass introspection is to determine whether or not there is indeed a deficiency in our awareness of current events. I contend that there is. To point up the fact, I refer to an incident which occurred in a freshman history class last semester. At the time, the history department was becoming cognizant of the ignorance of students concerning history making events outside of the covers of their textbooks. To verify this premise, certain teachers decided to include the identification of some prominent world figure in their weekly quizzes. With due warning to students concerned, they did just that. The results were in a few cases reassuring, in
34
some cases ludicrous, and in most cases indicative of gross ignorance. Willie Brandt appeared as everything from a Carolinian King to an all-American halfback for S.M.U. Boris Pasternak in • most cases was identified with Russia, but few students seemed to know in what capacity or why he was in the news.
If this ignorance passed with the Freshman Formal, the need for this article would be obviated. To the contrary, however, the majority of the student body goes through graduation into mature life with no more than a vague awareness of the existence (much less the works and significance) of the Willie Brandts and Boris Pasternaks of our time.
Is it any wonder that the number of national news magazines which come through the post office each week is so proportionately small when compared to the sports and humor magazines which belabor our athletic mailmen? Is it that current events of the world are so banal as not to appeal to the intelligence of college students? If this is indeed the case, it would seem that there are many men who are wasting their time and efforts serving the people of our democracy. What then is the reason for our apathy? I present a plausible conclusion. The proximity of daily assignments and pending quizzes and tests precludes any systematic and consistent study of journals designed to increase our comprehension of current events.
Granting that this is to some extent an excuse for being uninformed, we must then ascertain where the blame lies. Is it that professors in their unending drive to achieve academic excellence are overburdening students, allowing time for nothing but scholastic pursuits? Or is it the fault of the student who has not learned to budget his time in such a way that he will be able to cram an overload of class work into his sixteen-hour study day and still have time for the important things like Maverick, bridge, and bull sessions.
I am inclined to place the blame on the latter. The student must be responsible for including intelligent awareness in his daily schedule. This is not something which can be forced upon us by professors. Who is to know if we skip this part of our daily life? We are the only ones who suffer loss by not being aware of the world around us. .
Having determined the problem and placed the blame, it now remains to suggest remedial measures. What can we as university students do to be at least a
vicarious part of life as it goes on apart from us? First, I think, we must recognize and admit our personal failings to the extent that they exist. In this we must be perfectly honest because we will be the only ones who will gain .dr lose by any action we take or fail to take. We have no one to impress but ourselves. We are singly responsible and reap the sole benefits from our contact with current events.	.
When we have decided upon the degree of oui* deficiency, we must then decide our best course of action in correcting it. Good daily papers and editorially honest weekly magazines are our prime source of material. News analysts on radio and television give us mental exercise in formulating opinions and making intelligent comments on world and national problems. We have been taught for years how to read anid digest subject matter. Weekly publications are our best artifacts in the practice of this digestion and dissection.
Lastly comes the most important part of our learning process. We must formulate opinions. Herein lies the essence of awareness. The first objection to arise is the question of personal expert ence. It is wisely said that experience is a good teacher. Yet the absence of personal experience is no excuse for mental indolence. It is also said that to be young is to be radical and young radi7 cals have been changing the course of history since it was first recorded. At the risk of sounding chauvinistic, I contend that it is our duty as future leadf ers of America to have our own definite ideas on the way the world, we will some day govern, should progress. If these , ideas should be logically proven wrong by those who are more experienced than , we, it is then, and only then, we must become informed conservatives. I fed; that we are much more in danger of f Pavlovian conditioning through experi| ence than of right wing radicalism, through the formulation of fresh ideas? and personal opinion.
And so I have criticized, constructive ly, I hope. I do so not in a tone of coni descension for I feel that no man o©? campus can claim to be as completed aware of current events as' he ought to® be. The problem has been presented witsB a possible solution. It .-remains for us|| as individual students, io remedy the® problem as we see fit. It': is somethin® no one can do for us. We will gain . lose personally in accordance with tl^ action we take.
The Scholas^
r
CHESTERFIELD SALUTES THE
MEET STEVE CANYON ON TV MILTON CANIFF'S
AIR FORCE
LEGENDARY HERO COMFS TO LIFE IN AUTHENTIC EPISODES
FUMED ROUND THE WORLD... WITH THE COOPERA TION OF THE
U. S. AIR FORCE... NBC-TV,
5 VI	5

Jets go flashing through the mile-high air! Move in fast and hit the target square!
Mission accomplished... you’ll find a man takes big pleasure when and where he can... Chesterfield King!
Sun-drenched top-tobacco’s gonna mean . . .
That you’re smokin’ smoother and you’re smokin' dean!
Only top-tobacco, full king-size, For big dean taste that satisfies!
Join fiie men who know- NOTHING SATISFIES LIKE THE BIG CLEAN TASTE OF TOP-TOBACCO CHESTERFIELD ©Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
EXTRA LENGTH
top-tobacco filter action... tops in friendly satisfaction!
KING