FOOTBALL REVIEW
5O4
A new idea in smoking!
Created by R J Reynolds Tobacco Company
menthol fresh rich tobacco taste modern filter, too
-
Ever dabble in a brook on one of Spring's first balmy days? That's how a Salem cigarette refreshes your taste. You get rich, full tobacco taste with a new surprise softness. The smoke feels comfortable as never before. Through Salem's pure-white filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. Smoke refreshed . . . smoke Salem!'

MONTY STICKLES	BILL MACK
Stars of the 195g Irish
AL ECUYER	GEORGE IZO
December 5, 1958
There’s More Than Meets ihe Eye I
’	THE DIAMOND
All you can see is a beautiful ring and a price tag. But how can you relate the two and be sure of quality and value? How can you avoid an unwise choice in the diamond ring you buy?
The way to be sure is to choose a genuine registered Keepsake Diamond Ring. Quality in diamonds is judged by color, cut and clarity, and Keepsake's quality is clearly defined in writing for your protection. The Keepsake Certificate signed by your jeweler guarantees a perfect center diamond, regardless of style or price (or replacement assured). Keepsake also registers your ring permanently, assuring lifetime trade-in
n
RING YOU BUY
privilege and protection against loss of diamonds for one year.
The center diamond of every Keepsake engagement ring is a perfect gem . . . free from flaws under ten-power magnification, with fine bluewhite color and expert cut. And behind the matchless beauty of these lovely diamond rings stands the famous name Keepsake, symbol of quality and value for generations.
In making this important lifetime choice, be sure to look for the name "Keepsake” in the ring and on the tag. Many beautiful styles from $100 to $10,000 —at authorized Keepsake Jewelers only.
A. MIAMI Ring $675. Also 225 and 450. Wedding Ring 225. B. ROLAND Ring $400. Wedding Ring 125. C. BAXTER Ring $225. Also 100 to 750. Wedding Ring 20.00. D. GWENN Ring $125. Wedding Ring 42.50. All rings available either natural or white gold. Prices include Federal Tax. Rings enlarged to show details. ®Trade-mark registered.
Dating is really fun ... when you know
THE ART OF DATING
by Dr. Evelyn Millis Duvall
An expert guide to hoppy, successful dating to moke your teens the best years of your life. This fact-filled book is written by Dr. Evelyn Millis Duvall, famous author and counselor. REGULARLY $2.50 in hard cover, this book is yours in the exclusive Keepsake edition for only 50$ AND THIS COUPON AT ANY KEEPSAKE JEWELER'S STORE. If dealer is not listed in yellow pages of telephone book, write to Keepsake Diamond Rings, Syracuse 2, N. Y-, for his name. Do not send money, please.

Football Review
121 W. Washington
The Popular New Guide to
An expert guide to happy, successful dating to make your college days the best years of your life.
Come in — get your copy of this special Keepsake edition — at this big, big saving.
Feel free to come in and look at South Bend’s finest selection of Jewelry.
Credit Available to NOTRE DAME MEN
121 Washington CE 4-1311
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
University of NOTRE DAME
Vol. 100 December 5, 1958 No. 9
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
TEDDY THOMPSON
Football Review Editor
TOM ROSE
Assistant Editor
BOB SCHAEFER
Assistant Editor
GAMES: Art Kanerviko, Teddy Thompson, Ed Rohrbach, Bob Schaefer, Tom Rose, Greg Rogers, Tom Bates, Terry Smith, Tom Edwards, Teddy Thompson.
FEATURES: Greg Rogers. Tom Bates, Jay Kilroy, Ed Rohrbach. William Carrs'.
PHOTOGRAPHY: Bob Fancher, Dave Sommer, Walt Wittenberg, The Associated Press.
SPORTS STAFF: Tim O’Reilly, William Carry, Jay Kilroy, Dick Ciccone, Jim Lee. George Voris, William Reagan, Dick Corso, Pat O’Connor, Vincent Hatt.
BOB SEDLACK
Editor
RON BLUBAUGH.................News	Editor
WALT RUDGE...................Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH................Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON.............Sports	Editor
PETER HASBROOK..........Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI..............Circulation
BOB FANCHER................................Photography DAVE SOMMER................ Photography
LYN RELPH...............Assistant	News
ROY RUBELI..............Assistant	News
BOB MARUYAMA............Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK..............Assistant	Copy
TOM ROMANS..............Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA...........Assistant	Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER....Ass’t	Features
CHUCK MILLER.........Assistant	Features
TOM ROSE.........................Assistant Sports BOB SCHAEFER............Assistant Sports
BOB HORN............ Assistant	Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
News Staff: John Beall, Rich Burke, Wade Clarke, Mike Cummings, Bill Galvin, Bernie Hinds, John Hoey, Tom Marciniak, Fred Reynolds, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss, Roy Zickl.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
BLAZERS
•	Lightweight Wool
•	Custom Tailored
*	Full Range of Sizes
Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
Notre Dame Bookstore on-fhe-campus
December 5, 1958
7
1958 NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH
FIRST ROW—(I. to r.): Adrian Doyle (associate manager), Dick Royer, Lou Manzo, Jim Schaaf, Gary Myers, Frank Geremia, Bronko Nagurski, Chuck Puntillo (Co-Capt.), Al Ecuyer (Co-Capt.), Dick Shulsen, Don Lawrence, Jim Colosimo, Norm Odyniec, Frank Reynolds, Ron Toth, John Leahy (head manager).
THIRD ROW—Gerald McGrath, Tom Rini, Mike Lodish, Mike Graney, Mickey Gorham, Bob Nicolazzi, Mike Muehlbauer, Dick Ciesielski, Al Sabal, Monty Stickles, George Izo, Dave Hurd, Ken Adamson, Jim Crotty, Ollie Flor, Ed Nebel, Dan Deigert, Don White.
SECOND ROW—Pat Doyle, Bob Scholtz, Paul Loop, Dick Beschen, Joe King, Charles Frederick, Dick Selcer, Mike Dugan, Nick Pietrosante, Don Costa, Bob Williams, Bob Wetoska, Jim Just, Neil Seaman, Kevin Burke, Pete Salsich, Chet Hobert (associate manager).
FOURTH ROW—Tom Gardocki, Bill Mack, Henry Wilke, Harold Eatinger, Bill Henneghan, Tom Monahan, John Castin, Tony Sanfilippo, Rich Boyle, Mike Riordan, Bob Koreck, Bob Pietrzak, Joe Scibelli, Charles Hoffman, Hugo Ryan, Richard O'Leary, Mike Baer, Ted Romanowski, Jim Brunette.
FIFTH ROW—Dan Luecke, John Gillin, John Hubbuch, Ray Ratkowski, George Easeley, Bob Scarpitto, Dan Griffith, Paul Nissi, Don Rigali, Jim Kane, Howard Clifford, Ron Pakukta, John Nebel, Bill Nebel, Frank Gargiulo, Bill Clark, Charles Sacher, Myron Pottios, Bill Pentz, Tom Romans.
k
£
Irish Inconsistent in Opener by ART KANERVIKO
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 27 — In the opening game of the 1958 season, the Irish shut out a scrappy Indiana eleven, ± 18-0. This marks the eighth straight Hoosier loss to Notre Dame teams.
ji Although they shed last year’s side’ saddle formation and relied heavily on .. a single-wing, interspersed with a “T” setup, the rebuilt Hoosiers could not muster sufficient power for a sustained drive at any one time.
Inconsistent play by Notre Dame was the major factor in their mediocre showing in relation to pre-game ratings of the two teams. The Irish had 17 chances ' to score, yet capitalized on only three. Di-ives continually stalled after reaching » the 20- or 30-yard line of Indiana.
h Bright spots did appear for the Irish offensively in the running of Nick Pie-trosante, who fought for 75 of the 238 A' rushing yards, and Bob Williams, who weaved beautifully into the end zone from the 20 to culminate a 71-yard drive in the last period.
Defensively, Notre Dame looked strong both in the line and secondary. The Irish linemen constantly broke through $ to drop the Hoosier backs for short yardage or no gain, and Indiana’s end , ran attempts were seldom swift enough to get around the Notre Dame ends and linebackers. The Indiana defense, though . rugged in spots, was torn apart by Pie-^trosante’s off-tackle smashes late in the ". game.
The initial play of the game seemed , a stroke of luck for the Irish when Tom Kendrick fumbled the kickoff return on z the 20-yard line. The Indiana 20-yard
line became somewhat of a jinx even then as Notre Dame failed to capitalize, and the Hoosiers reclaimed possession. Kendrick picked up a first down, but the drive stalled, and McDonald put a fine kick on the Irish 32.
Williams tossed a nine-yard screen to Pat Doyle for a first down. The Indiana defense, strong early in the game, held the Irish, and Pietrosante had to kick.
Another scoring chance came a few minutes later when Williams hit Bill (Red) Mack with a 39-yard throw to the Indiana 20. A fumble killed Notre Dame’s chances of an early score.
The Irish began to move late in the first period. Norm Odyniec and Bob Scarpitto slashed by Indiana tacklers for first down yardage. From the I.U. 47-yard line Don White whipped a long pass to Gary Myers. The pass landed untouched on the 17-yard line, but the officials called interference on Hoosier back Tom Campbell, who screened Myers’ eyes and prevented the catch. The Irish scored four plays later.
White, running the third team backfield which was sent in near the end of the first quarter, handed off to Mack who sliced through for an 11-yard scoring ran. The Irish attempted to jump to an eight point advantage with the new ran, pass, or kick option. White failed to cross the goal line, however, as end Earl Faison forced him out of bounds along the sidelines.
Indiana failed to move after the kickoff and immediately quick-kicked, a weapon they used often and well during the afternoon. Notre Dame went to the
PASS ELUDES DOYLE
air, only to have White’s pass intercepted and kill the Irish drive.	.
Indiana came within striking distance ' of Notre Dame’s end zone just before . halftime. With two minutes left, I.U. came to life' with several power plays . and two passes but were left stranded on the seven-yard line as the dock expired.	- -
Statistics showed Notre Dame to have ~ only 60 yards rushing at the half to Indiana’s 64, but the Irish went on to pick up 178 more yards on a tiring Hoosier line in the final half. Every march . begun in the third quarter seemed to ■< misfire, primarily because of fumbles or dropped passes. The fine running of Pietrosante and Williams, who averaged . five and seven yards per carry respectively, failed to compensate for the other . failures.	,
Williams topped a drive which began at the Notre Dame 29 with his swivel- . hipped TD run of 20 yards with seven minutes remaining. in the contest. Stickles’ usually accurate toe failed in the attempt for the point and the score remained 12-0.	-
A desperation drive by Indiana was thwarted by Scarpitto’s timely defense of Kendrick’s pass to Clark. After re- : ceiving an Indiana punt, the Irish began a drive to the Hoosier 30. Mike Dugan, . ' quarterbacking the Irish, tossed a long pass which was snatched nicely from the ;< grips of two Hoosiers by Scarpitto. The : drive again stalled, and Scarpitto punt- ' ed into the end zone.	< . - :
With three minutes left, Kendrick \ fumbled after a jarring tackle by two : Irish linemen, and Stickles fell on the t;. ball on the Indiana seven. On the see- . ■ : ondplay, Williams lobbed a pm to Stickles from the four-yard line for the score. The conversion attempt, also a pass, was batted down by Kendrick. ;
Indiana came back to end the game ow the Irish six-yard line after a fistic melee caused distracted officials to plane an incompleted- pass at that spot. . -	■
- - ■. '

December 5, 1958
Ground Power Stops SMU
by TEDDY THOMPSON
Dallas, Tex., Oct. 4—Notre Dame used the slashing power of fullback Nick Pietrosante and a 41-yard touchdown run by sophomore halfback Bill (Red) Mack to gain a 14-6 victory over a stubborn Southern Methodist football team here today.
Pietrosante, one of the outstanding fullbacks in the country today, bulled for 94 yards in 18 attempts and set up Mack’s run for the first Irish score. He carried the ball 41 yards in six carries as ND moved from its own ten-yard line to the Mustang 41 from where Mack broke loose for the six points.
On the touchdown play, the Mustangs were forced to watch Pietrosante, and Mack took advantage of this to speed past the linebackers, cut to his right, and follow the sideline to the end zone.
Notre Dame’s second score came midway in the fourth period when quarterback Bob Williams capped a 72-yard drive by driving into the end zone from the one. End Monty Stickles kicked the extra point after both scores.
The Mustangs picked up their only touchdown after exactly four minutes of the second half had been played. Third team quarterback Ken Lowe of the Mustangs intercepted a Williams’ pass and returned it two yards to the Irish 46. On the second play halfback Tirey Wile-mon took a pitchout from Don Meredith, tore around the right side of the Mustang line, and went all the way for the score. Stan Eckert missed on a placekick attempt.
Stickles kicked off to the Mustangs to start the game, but neither team was
MACK BREAKS LOOSE FOR FIRST TOUCHDOWN
able to move against the other throughout the first period. The two teams exchanged punts until Mustang end James Jones fell on an Irish fumble on the ND 31-yard line late in the first quarter.
On the first play of the second quarter, the Irish held Norm Marshall to no gain on a fourth and one play and took over on their own 21.
Then Pietrosante started the Irish rolling. He hit left guard for seven. Jim Crotty got the first down. Williams gained one. Then Pietrosante gained seven. Pietrosante for ten, but after an incompleted pass and two running plays, Notre Dame had to punt.
The Mustangs moved to midfield with most of the yardage coming on a 26-yard run by Wilemon. But at midfield they were stopped and punted to Pat Doyle who returned to the ND ten-yard line. At this point Pietrosante went to work again.
He gained eight, five. Crotty got four. Then Pietrosante ripped up the middle for 16 to the ND 43. After Doyle gained one, Pietrosante bulled for five, four, and three yards. Crotty picked up three, and then Mack broke loose on his TD run.
After the Irish scored, SMU passing star Don Meredith unleashed some of the passes that had been expected all afternoon but which had been withheld up to this time. Meredith completed four of six passes after the kickoff as he moved the Mustangs 56 yards to the Notre Dame 18 in the last two and one-half minutes of the first half.
The Irish moved the ball to their own
GREGORY INTERCEPTS ND PASS
35-yard line after taking the second half kickoff before Williams’ pass was intercepted by Lowe. Two plays later, Wilemon broke away for the SMU touchdown, but the Mustangs’ try for the tying extra point failed, and the Mustangs trailed 7-6.
The Irish took the Mustang kickoff and moved to the SMU 15-yard line with two passes by Williams picking up most of the yardage. But there the Mustangs’ Glynn Gregory snagged Williams’ pass, intended for Jim Just, in the end zone to halt the Irish.
In the fourth quarter drive, Williams employed Norm Odyniec, Just, and Doyle almost equally as the Irish used 16 plays, and Williams threw only one pass, a screen pass to Odyniec which moved the ball from the Mustang 46 to the 23.

Following this 23-yard screen pass, the Irish pushed to the SMU two-yard line.
Here Odyniec, on a fourth and one situation, got the one yard to give the Irish a first and goal on the one. On the next play, Williams sneaked in for the touchdown. Stickles’ kick gave the 4 Irish the eight point lead they held at the game’s end, 14-6.
Lowe threw a desperation 40-yard pass after the Mustangs received the Notre Dame kickoff, but White intercepted for the Irish. Notre Dame couldn’t gain, and Odyniec punted to the SMU 16-yard line.	*
Mustang passes fell incomplete, and Henry Christopher punted from the Mustang 20-yard line to the Irish who put the ball into play on their own 37 ' following a clipping penalty on the I punt return.	I
Notre Dame then ran the ball into the I ground for the final three plays of the I game.	.	I
Football Review I
10
Cadets Stifle Notre Dame
by ED
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 11—The dream that had been fondly nurtured ever since the closing games in the 1957 season— , an undefeated Notre Dame football team in 1958—was rudely shattered this afternoon by Army as the Cadets plummeted the Irish from the unbeaten i- ranks, 14-2.
The game was played in an electrified * atmosphere provided by a new Notre Dame Stadium record crowd of 60,564.
Army, bent on avenging last year’s spectacular defeat by the Irish and t whipping a team that had beaten them with humiliating consistency in the two > schools’ 35 previous gridiron meetings, scored touchdowns in the first and , fourth quarters for their third straight victory of the year. The Cadets, carrying a No. 3 national ranking into the game, displaying a sound, balanced at, tack, capitalized on an exasperating rash of Irish fumbles to give them their ' eighth win in the series begun in 1913.
After quarterback Bob Williams > moved the opening kickoff to the Notre Dame 19-yard line, a determined Irish ground offensive advanced the ball to Army’s 32 where the drive was stopped * by Nick Pietrosante’s fumble. Now in possession of the football, Army impres-‘;'l sively demonstrated their vaunted halfback duo of Pete Dawkins and Bob Anderson who spearheaded a march that was thwarted on the ND four-yard line where Williams intercepted Cadet quarterback Joe Caldwell’s pass. With Pietrosante bulling into the visitors’ i line on three straight plays, the Irish k > netted their fourth first down on the ;	15. Williams and Jim Just, right half-
• back, miscued on the next handoff, and an alert Army defenseman, Bob Novo-► gratz, the game’s outstanding lineman, pounced on the ball on the ND 21. Thrusts by Dawkins and Anderson drove the ball to the 16-yard line where
•» Caldwell fired to end Jack Morrison I who grabbed the pass on the goal line
ODYNIEC BEGINS RUN ON PITCHOUT PLAY
ROHRBACH
and stepped over for the first .touchdown of the game. Jim Kennedy’s try for the placement was wide.
Irish left halfback Pat Doyle took the ensuing kickoff in the end zone and sped up the middle for 31 yards as the first quarter ended. With Notre Dame’s second unit in the game, Ron Toth, fullback, smashed off-tackle for six yards, and sophomore halfback Red Mack added two. First-string Irish signal caller, Williams, kept the next handoff himself and pushed up the middle for seven yards. Army was charged guilty of a personal foul and the 15-yarder advanced the ball to the Cadets’ 38. Three consecutive line bucks by Toth were contained by Army, and on fourth and six Williams’ pass to Mack dropped incomplete.
A clipping penalty marred Dawkins’ pitchback around left end, but Caldwell called the very same play on the next down and the Cadets’ fleet captain picked up eleven yards. Then Anderson made the first down. With a third and six situation, Caldwell passed to “Lonesome End” Bill Carpenter for a 15-yard gain. Two plays moved the Cadets to the Notre Dame 28, and on third Anny callled on Carpenter again. This time he fumbled after receiving the pass, but fullback Harry Walters recovered for a one-yard pickup. With fourth and three, Dawkins scampered up the middle for seven yards and a first down on the enemy’s 21.
Dawkins again led the assault for the Cadets and put them within striking distance of the Irish goal with a first down on the ND nine. The Notre ‘ Dame line buckled itself together and three plays could only advance the ball five more yards. On last down, Caldwell’s pass, intended for Anderson in the end zone, was batted down by Norm Odyniec, reserve Irish fullback, and Notre Dame regained possession.
To open the second half, Dawkins
fielded Monty Stickles* kickoff, and Pietrosante drove him out of bounds on the 17. Two penalties pushed the Cadets back to their one-yard stripe where on third down Caldwell stepped back into the end zone to punt. An inspired rush by Stickles, charging in from his left end post, caught Caldwell behind the goal line, and the officials ruled a safety although the Army quarterback vainly tried to throw the ball to a receiver.
Trailing now by only a scant four point, the Irish seemed, determined to break into the lead. Displaying an imaginative offense for the first time in
DAWKINS AVOIDS TACKLER
the game, ND took the kickoff following the safety and marched swiftly to the Army 34 where they were stopped.
2:53 remained in the quarter as the Irish made another scoring bid. Just broke loose for 15 yards; Odyniec and Pietrosante banged away, driving the ball to the ND 40 as play moved into the final quarter. The march was climaxed as Odyniec streaked around end for 16 yards and a first down on the Army 21. Two incomplete passes after Pietrosante was finally stopped on a line plunge relegated the Irish to a fourth and eleven situation when George Izo, reserve quarterback, entered the game, obviously to pass. Izo, however, dropped the handoff, giving Army possession on the 23.	*
After halting another Cadet offensive series in three plays, Notre Dame took a punt on their 45 and started their third drive of the half. This, too, however, was thwarted as Williams’ screen pass to Toth failed to gain on fourth down and three, and Army regained the ball on their 35. A combination of Dawkins-Anderson cross bucks and Caldwell’s accurate passing steadily moved the visitors down toward the Notre Dame goal as time fleeted by. With seven seconds remaining, Dawkins circled left end and punched into the end zone, placing the Cadets in an impregnable 12-2 lead. Dawkins’ pass found Anderson for the two-points.
December 5, 1953
11-

STICKLES BOOTS WINNING HELD GOAL AGAINST BLUE DEVILS FROM 23 YARDS OUT
12
Football Review
CAROLINA QUARTERBACK CUMMINGS KEEPS ON OPTION
Field Goal Gives ND Nod
by BOB SCHAEFER
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 18 — Notre Dame’s highly rated football squad bounced back from a loss to Army a week ago to take a 9-7 victory from Duke this afternoon in a penalty-marred contest. Coach Terry Brennan’s Irish put on their best offensive show of the season only to have a total of nine major infractions cost them at least one TD and a total of 202 yards rushing.
The victory, before 59,068 spectators, was the third in four starts for the Big Green. This was the first meeting between ND and Duke.
The Irish, whose offensive showing had been anything but outstanding in their first three games, came out and put on a wide open show in the first five minutes of the first quarter. Bob Williams returned the opening kickoff to the Irish 41-yard stripe. Then he passed to sophomore Bill (Red) Mack behind the line of scrimmage, and Mack dropped back and tossed a long pass to Bob We-toska that fell short of the mark. Wetos-ka had an open field ahead of him if the play had worked.
On the play, however, Wetoska was called for interference as he came back to attempt to catch the ball. This was a hint of what was to come. Duke took the 15-yard penalty and set the Irish back to the 25.
Mack then hit for four yards off left guard. He then broke loose for 71 yards and an apparent Notre Dame score, but
SCARPITTO TRIES TO EVADE LUNGING DEFENDER
again the officials detected an infraction committed by the Irish. This penalty set them back to the 18-yard line. Bob Scar-pitto hit for four yards, and Nick Pie-trosante dropped back to kick. His kick was partially blocked, and Duke’s George Dutrow fumbled it as he attempted to field the ball. Bob Scholtz recovered for the Green on the ND 42.
Mack again broke loose and raced for 46 yards to the Duke 13-yard marker. Scarpitto got five yards, but Duke held on the next two plays. With fourth down and five Williams dropped back and fired a touchdown pass to end Monty Stickles. The try for the extra points was no good as a pass fell incomplete. With 10:32 left in the first quarter the Irish led, 6-0.
After an exchange of punts the Blue Devils took over on their own 40-yard line and started to march. Dutrow hit for 11, Wray Carlton made 11, then quarterback Bob Brodhead made a first down on the Irish nine-yard line. Brodhead then passed to Dan Lee for the score. Carlton gave the Blue Devils the lead at 7-6 with his perfect placement. There was 1:48 left in the quarter.
Just after the second quarter began, the Green started to march again. From the Irish 23, Mack hit for eight. Scarpitto got 22 with a nice run, but ND was penalized back to the 36 for clipping.
Williams then passed twice to Bob
Wetoska for two gains of ten yards and two first downs. The Irish were halted M on the Duke 30 when two fumbles stop- ( ped first down plunges.
On the next series of downs for the Green, Scarpitto’s 37-yard scamper sparked a drive to the Duke 25 where Williams’ pass was intercepted by Deems Allie of the Blue Devils.
Just before the half ended, Don White broke into the open on a beautifully executed option play and sped 52 yards to the Duke 25-yard line. The long gain was nullified by a clipping penalty back to the ND 25.
The Irish opened the second half with another threat. Wetoska intercepted a Duke pass and returned it 17 yards to the Duke 45. The drive was halted on the Blue Devils 31 when a fourth down Williams’ pass fell incomplete.
Duke failed to get a first down, and Dutrow punted to Scarpitto who re- j turned to the midfield stripe. Again the Green were penalized for clipping back to the 32.
Williams ran the option for 29 yards and a first down on the Duke 39. Wetoska took a pass to the 18 and another first down for the Irish.
The Blue Devils then rose up to halt the Notre Dame thrust, and on fourth and five Stickles booted a 23-yard field goal, with Williams holding, to give Notre Dame a 9-7 lead.	,
Later in the third quarter the Irish got what proved to be their only break of the game. Pat Doyle went around right end and threaded his way 25 yards down the sidelines to the midfield stripe. But the Irish were called for holding and ended up on their own five-yard line. On fourth down a bad pass from center
(Continued on page 42)
14
Football Review
Irish Rally Falls Short
by TOM ROSE
t Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 25 — Notre Dame’s frenzied fourth quarter rally fizzled out with 1:21 left in the game as the Purdue Boilermakers outlasted the Irish, 29-22, before 59,563 fans in Notre ' Dame Stadium. The game was played in a constant drizzle.
Junior quarterback George Izo came ► off the bench for the Irish in the final period to throw two touchdown passes to Monty Stickles and almost led Notre Dame to victory after the Irish had i. trailed 26-7.
Purdue kicked off to Notre Dame to
ONE OF FEW STICKLES MISSED
The game was broken wide open in the first eight minutes of the third quarter as Purdue capitalized on Irish mistakes to score three quick touchdowns and build a 26-7 lead.
On the opening kickoff of the second half Jim Crotty was spilled hard by Purdue tacklers and fumbled. Richie Brooks recovered for the Boilermakers on the ND 21. Purdue, still relying on its powerful rushing offense, scored seven plays later with Jarus again going over from the one. The PAT was no good as Wilson fumbled the pass from center, and the Boilermakers led, 13-7. .
Purdue quickly scored another touchdown as Wilson intercepted Williams’ pass on the second play after the kickoff and raced 25 yards down the right sideline to the ND five. Jarus then scored his third straight TD, plunging over into paydirt from five yards out. Spoo, attempting the extra point, was smothered by Stickles and Scholtz, and Purdue led, 19-7.
The Irish, after receiving the kickoff, were unable to move the ball on the ground and were forced to punt. Purdue took over on the ND 43 as Kulbacki signalled for a fair catch of Pietro-sante’s kick.
Once again the Boilermakers struck hard and fast as fullback Jack Laraway broke over his own light tackle on first down, cut back to his left, and weaved his way through the Notre Dame secondary for 28 yards and another TD. This time the extra point was good as Fichtner booted a perfect placement to give the Boilermakers a 26-7 lead with 7:18 remaining in the third quarter.
With Izo in the game at quarterback the Irish took over on their own 34 as
Washington punted out of bounds. On the first play Toth got three yards on a draw play. Then Izo threw a 37-yard pass to Mack, which was ruled complete on the Purdue 26-yard line because of pass interference. On the next play Izo again faded back and lofted a pass into the end zone where Stickles went high in the air to wrest the pigskin away from two Purdue gridders. Stickles added the extra point to narrow the Boilermaker lead to 26-14.
Notre Dame attempted an onside kick on the kickoff but the ball failed to go the required ten yards, and Purdue took over on the Irish 46. Spoo then passed to Franckhauser for 25 yards and a first down on the ND 11. Here a 15-yard holding penalty set the Boilermakers back, but Skip Ohl came in on fourth down and kicked a 21-yard field goal to widen the margin to 29-14.
The Irish took the kickoff and marched 67 yards to the Purdue two-yard line. The key plays in this drive were passes from Izo to Crotty, Mack, and Wetoska good for 13, 13, and 11 yards respectively.
But Izo fumbled on the one-yard line and Turner pounced on the ball for the Boilermakers. The Irish picked up two points, however, as Pietrosante nailed Laraway in the end zone on the next play for a safety to cut the Purdue lead to 29-16.
Izo once again brought the excited crowd to its feet as he pitched a pei-fect strike to Stickles on the first play from scrimmage after the free kick by Purdue. The play was good for 43 yards and a TD to narrow the gap to 29-22 with 2:28 to play.
Desperately wanting the football, the Irish tried an onside kick once again, and this time it worked. Izo fell on the ball at the Purdue 43. But the fighting comeback try of the Green was finally thwarted when Purdue stopped Ron Toth for no gain on fourth down and took over the ball and ran out the clock to escape with a 29-22 victory.
> open the game, and Scarpitto returned the ball to the ND 20. Then after making one first down, the Irish were forced to punt. Pietrosante’s boot was taken by Purdue’s Ross Fichtner who fumbled as a result of a jarring tackle by Bob Scholtz. Stickles recovered the pigskin for the Irish on the Purdue 30. Four plays later Bob Williams put the Irish ahead, 6-0, with a 14-yard run over left tackle after he had dropped back to pass and found all of his receivers covered. Stickles kicked the extra point to make the score 7-0.
Late in the first quarter Scarpitto was tackled on the ND one-yard line in attempting to return Clyde Washington’s punt. The Irish were unable to move out of danger against the strong Purdue line, and Pietrosante’s third down kick was downed on the ND 28. From here the Boilermakers scored in six running plays with fullback Bob Jarus going over from the one-yard line on fourth down. Fichtner’s placekick was good, and the game was tied at 7-7.
WILLIAMS PRANCES AROUND LEFT END FOR THE FIRST SCORE
December 5, 1958
15
Now All You Have To Do Is Graduate...
'&II
Now that you've got yourself into college, let safe, handy NoDoz tablets help you get out. Harmless NoDoz helps you keep alert through long, late cramming sessions ... keeps you on your toes during exams. NoDoz tablets are safe as coffee and much more convenient.


and hers
AND YOURS!
only PURITAN knits the Brookview $10.95 and Lady Brookview *10.00
Men's Shop
preferred ^CHICAGO
BUSINESSMEN W- EXECUTIVES 0 FAMILIES
During certain convention periods, all available Chicago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton—preferred by the family, and business executives for downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates — guarantees . (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to you, the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
THE NEW
Rotes froftt
21 HAMILTON
20 SOUTH DEARBORN HOTEL
IN KANSAS CITY IT’S THE BELLERIVE HOTEL
100% AIR-CONDITIONED
Exactly alike in every detail and fully fashioned, of course! Puritan has knitted this handsome pair for us in wonderful, absorbent Ban-Lon yam . . . will not shrink, sag or fuzz, and washes without blocking ... so expect them to keep their good looks indefinitely! Match your colors or be individualists! Our assortment will please you both!	-
{
A
It
•f,
s
c
:l
*('
f
M
Football Review
J


4

4
>


Irish Offense Stuns Middies
by GREG
ROGERS
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 1, 1958 — A dazzling display of offensive power coupled with a crippling defense enabled Notre Dame to smother the Naval Academy, today, 40-20. The Middies, in their bid to win three consecutive games from the Irish, were never in the game as the Irish pounded six touchdowns into the Navy end zone to ran up the highest score in nine years against Coach Eddie Erdlatz’s forces. The Irish struck with lightning speed and dexterity and poured across three touchdowns in the second quarter to sew up the game. The Bren-nanmen unfolded a new starting quarterback in junior George Izo and introduced the winged-T instead of the orthodox T-formation.
It was dark and overcast as 58,000 spectators stood for the kickoff by Navy’s Ray Wellborn. Izo took the boot on the Irish 28 and returned the ball to the 45. After a gain of only two yards in three plays, Pietrosante punted to Joe Bellino on the Navy twelve, and he returned to the 24.
On the first play from scrimmage, Dick Dagampat exploded over left tackle for 13 yards and a first down on the 37. Bellino gained four, and Paul Manko-wich grabbed a Joe Tranchini pass for a first down on the 48. The Middies moved the ball to the Irish 28 but missed a first down by two yards on a Jim Max-field-to-Bellino pass.
The Irish took over and drove to their first touchdown. Crotty shot over the left tackle for nine yards with Pietrosante making the first down on the 39. Mack went off the right side for nine followed by Pietrosante for four more to put the ball on the Navy 48.
Pietrosante then slipped around right end for eleven, and Mack scooted around
PIETROSANTE SWINGS WIDE FOLLOWING PITCHOUT AGAINST NAVY
the left side for five more. From 33 Pietrosante and Crotty carried ball to the Midshipmen nine in
the the five
plays. Then Izo dropped back and hit Mack in the end zone with 4:35 remaining in the quarter. Monty Stickles added the extra point, and the Irish were on top to stay, 7-0.
Navy then threw a scare into the Irish with a fine display of ball handling. Stickles’ boot was taken by Dagampat on the eight-yard stripe. Dagampat moved to the left sideline and handed off to Bellino on the 16. The Irish defenses were caught unawares as Bellino sped down the near sideline for six points, untouched by an Irish defender.
Mack opened the second quarter by taking a pitchout around left end and moving to the 15. Crotty then circled the same end and advanced to the 32. Izo rolled to his right and pitched to Stickles who was finally pulled down from the rear on the Navy 19. Pietrosante picked up eight to the eleven, and Crotty slipped over left tackle to the three-yard marker. It was first and goal as Pietrosante drove around the left end to the zone. Then the hard driving fullback crashed through the center of the Navy defenses for the six points. Stickles added the PAT.
Stickles’ kick went off the side of his foot, and Navy recovered on the Irish 40. An offside penalty coupled with an incomplete pass forced Navy to boot, and the Irish took over on the eleven. Bob Scarpitto, Mack, and Pat Doyle swept outside the Navy defenses and moved the ball to the Navy 34. Royer then sped into the end zone and picked off an Izo aerial for the score. Stickles again added the PAT, and the Irish were out in front 21-6.
DOYLE GRABS TOUCHDOWN PASS
The Green continued to roll when they picked up a fumble on Stickles’ on-side kickoff on the Notre Dame 46. Izo threw to Gary Myers for 12 yards and heaved a screen pass to Fullback Ron Toth for 11 more. With the ball on the Navy 38, Doyle sped down the sideline, took an Izo pass, and scored the second Irish touchdown within two minutes. Don White’s PAT was blocked.
The Irish struck early in the third quarter with only 4:26 gone in the stanza. Mack took a Wellborn punt on the Irish 35 and wiggled away from three would-be tacklers and raced all the way to pay dirt. Stickles again converted, and the Irish lead was 34-6.
Navy struck back with a swift pass play when Bellino slipped behind the Notre Dame secondary and took a Tranchini pass all the way for a score. Bellino then ran for two conversion points and a 34-14 score.
The game then settled down to a punting duel near midfield. With less than a minute remaining in the quarter, the Irish took over on their own 26-yard line.
Bob Williams rolled out to his right and hit Myers with a pass. The senior end went all the way for a touchdown, dragging two Middie tacklers over the goal line with him. White missed the PAT attempt.
With the score-40-14 in favor of the Irish, Coach Terry Brennan cleared Die bench, and the two teams again staged a midfield battle. The Navy took over on their own 24 with about five minutes left and passed their way to. a score. Maxfield tossed to Dick Zembrzuski for the TD. The try for points was stopped, and the Irish won, 40-20.
December 5, 1958
17
Pitt Triumphs in Last Minute
by TOM BATES
Pittsburgh, Pa., Nov. 8—Pittsburgh’s alert and stubborn Panthers outlasted Notre Danie here today, 29-26, to hand the Irish their third defeat of the 1958 campaign.
Panther quarterback Bill Kaliden raced around right end into the end zone from five yards out with eleven seconds left and Notre Dame leading, 2622, to give Pitt its fourth touchdown of the day and a dramatic victory. Norton Seaman’s perfect conversion was anti-climactic as 55,300 limp spectators sank back to their seats.
The Irish had come from behind twice on the deadly accurate passing of quarterback George Izo. Izo’s 332 yards gained passing in the game was the best aerial performance in the collegiate ranks in the past four years. The 205-pound junior passed for two Notre Dame scores and scored the other two himself.
The Panthers, playing what was probably their best game to date, grabbed five Notre Dame fumbles, including one on the Irish two-yard line. This costly bobble came early in the second period and led to the first Panther score. Halfback Dick Haley drove over from the one, and Art Gob caught an Ivan Toncic pass for the two-point conversion.
Three plays later, it was Pitt’s ball again, by virtue of a pass interception by Don Crafton. In a few seconds, Haley scored his second TD, and Seaman booted the PAT, the scoreboard now resting at 15-0.
Notre Dame, undaunted by the 15-point deficit, took the kickoff and marched 80 yards for its first score. Nick Pietrosante opened the drive with a 23-yard burst off right guard, and Izo terminated it with an 11-yard pass to left end Monty Stickles. Sandwiched in between were a 16-yard toss to Jim Crotty and an interference call on a pass to halfback Bill (Red) Mack. A pass for Pietrosante on the point-after was deflected. The score was now 15-6.
Later in the second period, the Irish crossed the goal line following a 36-yard drive. Izo passed to Stickles from eight yards out on fourth down for the score after a 16-yard screen pass to Crotty had put the Notre Darners in scoring position. Pietrosante caught Izo’s toss for the two-point PAT. The half ended with Pitt leading, 15-14.
On the first play, from scrimmage in the second half Pietrosante’s bruising tackle of Panther back Curt Plowman resulted in a fumble. The recovery by Co-Captain Al Ecuyer gave the Irish the ball on the Pitt 24. The bulldozing Pietrosante, a 215-pounder, carried for six, and then a 15-yard piling-on penalty
set the pigskin on the three. After two plunges by Pietrosante, Izo drove in from the one-foot line, just two minutes and nine seconds after the period had started. An attempted pass to Stickles failed on the PAT try.
The Irish were now leading, 20-15, for the first time in the fracas, but it was to be a short-lived advantage. The passing of Toncic and the smashes of Cunningham and Plowman quickly moved the Panthers to the Notre Dame eleven from where Toncic twisted his way over for the third Pitt TD. Seaman’s kick made it 22-20, Pitt.
The determined Brennanmen moved the ensuing kickoff to the Pitt eight, chiefly through the amazing and brilliant pass-catching of Stickles who grabbed three Izo tosses to account for 29 yards of the 53-yard drive. On the eight, Izo fumbled, and Pitt’s Ernie Westwood recovered as the Irish once again paid dearly for an offensive mistake.
An exchange of punts, followed by a second Pitt punt, gave Notre Dame the ball on their own 28 early in the fourth quarter. After two carries by Mack had lost three yards, Izo let loose with a long toss to the sophomore speedster.
Mack took the pass and cut back to the right at the Panther 31 and raced । to the two-yard line before being caught ’ from behind by Haley. The play cov- * ered 72 yards and was the longest of the day by either team. Izo sneaked for t i! his second TD two plays later. The try for two points failed, and ND now led « । ( for the second time, 26-22.	j
On the first play following the kick- , 1 off, the Irish eleven got a break when I tackle Don Lawrence fell on Jim Cun- *	|
ningham’s bobble on the Panther 46. L However, Notre Dame was unable to get ^A its attack under way this time, and : Pietrosante punted eleven yards to the <4 Pitt 27. From here Pitt initiated a devastating attack. Two first downs, one a pass to Ditka, plus an unnecessary roughness penalty when the tackle on t the Ditka-caught pass failed to bring the Panther end to ground, put the ball on the Irish 28. Kaliden completed a fourth down pass to Ditka on the ND *4 16 for a first down, and three plays later, on the runs of Cunningham, Joe Scisly, and John Flara, Pitt was on the Notre Dame five. Cunningham drove * • into the middle of the Irish line for three, but on the next play Kaliden was 1 thrown for a three-yard loss by Dave Hurd.	A ‘ '
On third down, Kaliden’s pass was incomplete, and only eleven seconds re-	■
mained in the game. On the fourth	I
down, Kaliden raced far to his right J I and, with fine blocking, darted into the , I end zone, barely missing the	goal line	'!!
flag. Seaman’s conversion	made it	I
29-26.	'T|
Izo’s desperation pass to Mack was complete on the Pitt 15 as the game ended. The play covered 47 yards.
PLOWMAN GATHERS IN AERIAL DESPITE MACK’S EFFORTS
is
Football Review
Offense Overcomes Tar Heels
by TERRY SMITH
Irish one-yard line, and Klochak scored the go ahead touchdown. Dick Royer stopped Cummings as he attempted to sweep around his own left end for two points, leaving the Tar Heels with a 24-21 lead.
The fleet Jim Crotty sparked the next Notre Dame touchdown drive as the Irish marched 70 yards in two minutes 47 seconds to regain the lead. Crotty got 51 yards in four runs, and Mack went off tackle for the final 15. Stickles
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 15—After a two-game absence, the Irish returned to the Notre Dame Stadium this afternoon and defeated the Tar Heels of North Carolina, 34 to 24. Though a morning rain drenched the field, the Notre Dame offense churned out a total of 474 passing and rushing yards to overpower the North Carolina defense.
The Tar Heels, who were mentioned as prospects for the Sugar Bowl, managed only 94 yards on the ground, but they outpassed the Irish 184 yards to 151 yards.
Four of the five Notre Dame touchdowns were evenly shared by fullback Nick Pietrosante and Bill (Red) Mack, with George Izo going over for the other. The golden toe of Monty Stickles man
SCARPITTO BREAKS AWAY
aged four accurate extra points from placement. And late in the third quarter it appeared that these points might make the difference since Carolina had failed to make an extra point in four tries, missing on three passes and an attempted run.
The initial score of the game was set up early in the first period when the Carolina center, Ronnie Koes, recovered a fumble by Stickles after an eight-yard pass from Izo. The ball was on the Irish 44, and ten plays later Tar Heel quarterback Jack Cummings completed a
four-yard pass for the score and a 6-0 lead.
With three minutes remaining in the first quarter, Izo intercepted a pass from Cummings on the Notre Dame 38. A 25-yard pass to Bob Wetoska was the last of the seven plays that brought the Irish down to the 2-yard line. From there Nick Pietrosante bowled over for the touchdown. Stickles kicked from placement, and Notre Dame led, 7-6.
Early in the second quarter Don Lawrence recovered a Carolina fumble at midfield, and the Irish proceeded to march the 51 yards in nine plays. Pietrosante ran for 24 of those yards and then added two more fox- the touchdown. When Stickles converted, the score was 14-6.
After the Tar Heels failed to make a first down following the kickoff, Cummings glanced an 11-yard punt to the Tar Heel 36 where Notre Dame took over. Four plays latex- Mack scored with a seven-yard run, and Stickles converted.
With less than two minutes to go in the first half, the Tar Heels moved 69 yards in four plays, scoring with a 33-yard pass play from Cummings to Wade Smith. Cummings attempted to pass for the extra two points, but Jim Crotty intercepted the toss meant for Al Goldstein.
In the third period, North Carolina took the kickoff and went all the way down the field fox- a TD, fullback Don Klochak scoring at the end of a 65-yard march. The Irish worked the kickoff back to the Carolina 28, but Emil De-Cantis snatched off a pass that was intended for Stickles.
Cummings led his squad back to the
ODYNIEC FOLLOWS THREE BLOCKERS ON 56-YARD RUN
place-kicked the extra point to put the Irish ahead to stay.	-
Just before the end of the quarter, Irish fullback Noxm Odyniec, a 185-pound senior, broke loose fox- the longest x-un of the day. He took a pitchout from Izo, picked up his blockers, used them beautifully, and streaked down the sidelines for. 56 yards. The Tax- Teels held, however, helped by a 15-yard penalty, and the Irish tried a fake field goal from the 14-yard line as the fourth quartex- began. A pass from Izo to Crotty failed to get the first down, and Carolina took ovex- on theix- own ten.
Notre Dame forced them to punt and stax-ted to move towards the goal again, only to have Wade Smith intercept Williams’ pass in the end zone. Then the middle of the Irish line stopped TaxHeel fullback Klochak, a 235-poundex-, on a third and one and a foux-th and inches situation on the North Carolina 29-yard line.
From here, with the help of 16 rushing yards from Jim Crotty, the Ix-ish advanced to the three-yard line where Izo faked a handoff, pivoted, and rolled into the end zone. This final score of the game put Notre Dame in the lead, 34-24.
This was the yeax- that Nox-th Carolina had its highest hopes of beating the Irish who have won every game of the. nine-game series. Much of the credit fox-the presexwation of this record goes to Pietrosante, Odyniec, and Crotty, in addition to Izo. Odyniec had the highest individual x-ushing average as he gained almost 12 yards pex- try in six attempts. The combined efforts of Crotty and Pietrosante produced 180 rushing yards.
George Izo, the hero of the new open offense that has been used since the foux-th quax-tex- of the Purdue game, completed eleven of the 15 passes that he tried fox- a total of 135 yards...
December 5, 1958
19
Hawkeyes’ Speed Subdues Irish
by TOM EDWARDS
Iowa City, la., Nov. 22—A strongarmed quarterback, a big pass catching end, and a speedy sophomore halfback are not enough to build a winning football team. This was the lesson taught here today. The teacher was Coach Forest Evashevski and his Big Ten Champions—the Iowa Hawkeyes. The pupils were the Fighting Irish of the University of Notre Dame.
And the 31-21 lesson handed to the Irish was given in full view of 60,000 flesh and blood fans as well as millions more across the country who watched the contest on television.
All the onlookers were impressed by the show which the Hawkeyes put on. But none were more impressed than Coach Terry Brennan and his touring group of athletes. They were out-tackled, outblocked, outpassed, and finally outscored by the lads from out where the tall corn grows.
George Izo was again the bright spot in an Irish loss. He completed 11 passes for 247 yards and two Notre Dame touchdowns. He was on the mark with his tosses throughout the afternoon, but the Irish receivers weren’t always up to catching them.
Monty Stickles was the big pass catching end for the Notre Darners. He caught three of Izo’s tosses for 96 yards, one of them being for the first Irish TD. He also kicked all three of the extra points for the Brennanmen.
Red Mack was the third Notre Dame player who performed well. He carried the ball ten times for 71 yards but was hampered by a tendency to fumble early in the game.
The standouts for the Hawkeyes were the entire team. Randy Duncan, Willie Fleming, and Don Norton are just a few
JAUCH INTERCEPTS FOR IOWA
of the names. In the end, though, it was just a case of one team being too much for another team—in skill, in conditioning, in desire.
Iowa got off to their winning ways early in the afternoon by winning the toss and electing to receive. Stickles kicked off to Fleming who returned the ball back to his own 21-yard line.
Quarterback Duncan then gave an idea of what the watchers could expect when he fired a complete pass to end Jeff Langston for 12 yards and a first down. But the Irish defense stiffened, and the Hawks could get only eight yards on three running plays.
The Irish were unable to move and had to punt back. After another exchange of punts, the Hawkeyes began to move, with second team quarterback, Mitchell Ogiego, guiding the team. Ogie-go moved his ball club 57 yards to the Notre Dame six-yard line before the gun sounded, ending the first quarter of play.
On the first play of the second period, Fleming darted around his own left end for the score. Bob Prescott converted, and the Hawkeyes had a 7-0 lead.
The Irish took the following kickoff and looked as if they were going to begin to move. In the first period, they had failed to make a single first down. On the first play, Izo threw a screen pass to fullback Nick Pietrosante, and the Notre Darners had the ball in Iowa territory. However, Mack fumbled on the second play thereafter, and Iowa recovered.
Izo regained possession for the Brennanmen seconds later when he intercepted a Duncan pass on his own 28-yard line. This was one of Izo’s three interceptions for the day.
Mack got 22 yards at right tackle but fumbled, and the Hawkeyes were on the move again.
Halfback Bob Jeter carried for eleven yards around end before Fleming got eight more around the same end. With second down and two to go, Fleming got behind three Irish defenders and took a pass from Duncan and scored. The play covered 36 yards.
The Irish could get nowhere following the kickoff, and the two teams again exchanged punts. With 5:56 remaining in the canto, Notre Dame halfback Jim Crotty gained two yards over left tackle. Then, Izo lofted a beautiful pass to Stickles who raced for the TD. The play covered 69 yards as Stickles averted Fleming at the Iowa 30-yard line with a vicious straight-arm. Stickles kicked the conversion, and the Irish trailed, 13-7.
Notre Dame hopes were high for an upset as the second half began. The second time they had the ball, they moved to the Iowa 24-yard line before
PRESCOTT HOLDS OGIEGO PASS
the attack stalled.
The Hawkeyes took over at that point * on downs and moved for their third score. This time it was all Duncan. He ran and passed with skill. The key play of the drive was a fourth and six play from the Notre Dame 18 when he fired an eleven yard, down-the-middle pass to Alan Miller for a first down. x Three plays later, Captain and fullback John Nocera crashed the final yard for , the score.
It was time for Izo to take to the air.
He hit Norm Odyniec for a 16-yarder ' and then connected on a toss to Gary Myers for nine more yards. On the next play, despite a heavy rush from the Iowa line, he spotted Bob Scarpitto in the clear, and the Irish had another , touchdown. The 52-yard pass play	j
brought the score to 19-14 as Stickles	I
kicked the extra point.	|
The Hawks weren’t rolling over- and J playing dead at this point, though. Duncan faded back and threw a 53-yard pass to Norton for a touchdown on the sixth play following the Notre Dame « kickoff.
Everything was working now for the ■ Hawks. They kicked off to the Irish, and Charles Lee immediately intercepted 9 an Izo screen pass and returned it to the ND one-yard line before being hauled down from behind. Ogiego carried it the final yard on the next Play.
This finished the scoring for the Hawkeyes. But it was more than enough. Izo countered for the Irish on a four-yard keep play with 7:05 left in the game after Mack had carried the ball most of the way on the Notre Dame 65-yard march. Stickles again con- > verted, but the Irish had too little time left.
The 31-21 score held up until the final gun. Evashevski sent his seniors to the dressing room with a few minutes yet to play. He had no worry. The game was won, and the Hawkeyes were looking forward to a Rose Bowl match on Jan. 1.
Football Review I
20
N.D. Gains Comeback Win
I
4
by TEDDY
Los Angeles, Cal., Nov. 29—Notre Dame struck early in the second half for the winning touchdown and then held off a Trojan drive on the one-yard line to preserve a 20-13 victory here today.
The Irish took the second half kickoff and moved from their own 37-yard line to the score in only seven plays as quarterback Bob Williams hit right end Bob Wetoska with a 21-yard jump pass for the score.
Williams then passed to halfback Jim Crotty for the two points after the TD that gave the Irish their winning margin of seven points.
The game started as an offensive battle with both teams scoring twice in the first half. Dave Hurd, Irish center, started Notre Dame on the way to its first score by intercepting a third-and-
CROTTY HURDLES SC TACKLERS
THOMPSON
on the ND 41 as a result of an offside penalty before striking for- the touchdown that put them ahead temporarily.
From the 42 Buford threw a touchdown aerial to right halfback Hilliard Hill who was in the clear behind the Irish secondary.
Don Zachik came in and kicked the extra point that gave the Trojans the lead, 7-6, only two minutes after the Irish had scored the games first touchdown.
After Southern Cal had kicked off following its first score, Izo’s second down pass was intercepted and retui-ned from the Notre Dame 45 to the 13-yard line. On three successive plays, the Trojans picked up two, two, and one yards. On fourth and five, quarterback Tom Maudlin threw incomplete to Jerry Traynham, and the Irish took over.
After the Irish had picked up two first downs and moved the ball to their own 33-yard line, Traynham picked off an Izo pass on his own 35 and swept down to the ND 35. After three plays had netted Southern Cal only one yard, fullback Clark Holden punted out of bounds on the Irish five-yard line.
Norm Odyniec picked up seven yards in two carries before Bob Scarpitto carried for a first down on the 17. Then Scarpitto, helped by a key block by Odyniec, broke loose for 39 yards on a pitchout play to the Trojan 44-yard line. On the very next play Buford gathered in Izo’s aerial and streaked 38 yards to the ND 24.
After a four-yard gain, Buford advanced the ball 15 yards, and the Tro
jans had first and goal on the ND five. A personal foul penalty against Notre Dame placed the ball on the one from where Traynham dove in for the score. Maudlin’s pass for the two points fell incomplete, and Southern Cal had upped its lead to 13-6.
Crotty took the kickoff and returned it to the Notre Dame 30-yard line where the Irish began a march that netted them their second touchdown.
With a third-and-eleven situation on the ND 29, Williams passed to Wetoska for a first down on the Notre Dame 47. From there, the Irish moved the remaining 53 yards in seven plays.
Williams carried the ball to the Southern Cal 41 on an option play. Then Odyniec and Crotty advanced the ball to the 28. Halfback Paul Reynolds swept wide to his right for 13 yards to the USC 15.
Crotty took a pitchout to the ten from where Williams found his way into the end zone. The pass from center on the extra point try was fumbled, and Southern Cal still had a one-point lead, 13-12.
Taking the second half kickoff, the Irish moved straight down the field for the winning touchdown. Odyniec went for six and then for 14. Crotty cut off his own left tackle for eleven. Reynolds moved to the 26, and Odyniec got the first down on the 20. On second down, Williams tossed to Wetoska who bulled his way past the SC defenders for the score. When Crotty added the two points on the conversion, the Irish had their winning margin of 20-13.
Early in the fourth quarter, the Trojans professed their last serious threat. Taking an Irish punt on their own 42, they moved to a first down on the Irish one-yard line. But Notre Dame held the Trojans for no- gain on four plays, and Southern Cal’s last significant threat had died.
ten Trojan pass on the ND 39-yard line and returning it 18 yards to the SC 43.
Nick Pietrosante picked up eleven yards and a first down on the 32. Bill Mack then went for five yards and then for six more for another first down, this time on the 21.
Pietrosante bulled for three and then took a George Izo pass for five. After a third down pass fell incomplete in the end zone, Pietrosante powered his way over the right side of the Notre Dame offensive line to a first down on the Trojan ten-yard line.
Crotty and Pietrosante then each moved the ball four yeards before the Irish fullback pushed the ball across into the end zone with only a little over six minutes gone in the game.
Monty Stickles’ place kick was wide to the left, and the Irish led, 6-0.
Since the Notre Dame kickoff following the touchdown went out of bounds, the Trojans elected to have the Irish kick ovei* from their own 35. This time Don Buford, the Trojans’ 154-pound halfback, brought the kick back 37 yards to his own 47-yard line.
Southern Cal picked up one first down
MACK BULLS FOR FIVE YARDS AGAINST TROJANS
December 5, 1958
21
CHUCK PUNTILLO
Next year’s Notre Dame varsity will be minus 23 football players. This is an unusually high number for any team to lose through graduation, but the mere figure here is entirely insignificant.
Perhaps another indication of their value to Irish elevens, from 1956 through the past season, is that 17 of them earned Notre Dame monograms at one time, or several times, during their collegiate football careers. But this still tells only the superficial story of the three years of Notre Dame football history they were involved in.
Their first year of competition, 1956, was the most disastrous in Irish football history. Four of them started, and six more saw action in that season’s opener, an “upset” loss to Southern Methodist. Alumni and the rest of the heterogeneous group that makes up the Notre Dame football followers were flaber-gasted. They second-guessed: “Why play all those unexperienced sophomores?”
As the dismal season pushed slowly to a close the fact became increasingly clear—the coaching staff had to play sophomores; they were the best material available. At times they seemed to be on the verge of reaching greatness. They studded the lineup that outplayed powerful Michigan State for a half, and they showed improvement with each game.
The 1957 season looked to be almost as dreary. Paul Hornung was gone, and the schedule again was the toughest in the country. But undaunted and determined to show they would not be pushed around, that they were a Notre Dame football team, they paced a team that opened the season with four straight victories. They became a part of the Notre Dame football tradition. The Irish, on sheer spirit, beat a superior Army team and pushed mighty Oklahoma around for 60 minutes. Even before the season was over, the consensus' was: “They will lead Notre Dame to a good Notre Dame football season in 1958—10-0, a National Championship.”
The disillusioning fact that this team,
Irish Seniors ...
23 Finish ND Careers
by ED ROHRBACH
dominated by these men playing as seniors, was overrated is evident, but was simply overlooked through this season’s first two games. Notre Dame beat Indiana and Southern Methodist, but they were by no means impressive. Surely, everyone thought, they would find themselves and whip Army the next week. Unfortunately, the reverse happened, and, when the Irish played Purdue two weeks later, they had to forsake “Notre Dame football” to get back into the ball game. To any impartial observer the signs were clear, but after they wrecked a weak Navy team, the dream was re-established, and
JIM SCHAAF
many speculated that an 8-2 season was in the offing. Then Pittsburgh turned the screws on the myth, and Iowa completely shattered it.
1958 was a strange and disappointing football season. The most dis-stressing point is that “this was the year” in most eyes. But the Army loss alone could have done it, like the tie with Iowa in 1953 did it. That is how this past season will be remembered.
Co-Captain Al Ecuyer was a three year regular at right guard. Injuries plagued him his sophomore year, but in 1957 he' came into his own, making several All-American selections. Though the injury jinx kept Al out of one game and most of two others this past season, he led the team in tackles and again was rated as one of the country’s outstanding linemen. Good-natured Al, whose southern accent seems incongruous with his football frame, is looking forward to a pro career and should make another fine Irish contribu
tion to the NFL.
Nick Pietrosante was one of the finest fullbacks ever to play for Notre Dame. The Irish “bread and butter” ball carrier the past two seasons, Nick could always be counted on to bore through the opposing line for the necessary yardage. An All-American choice as a junior and a sure bet for postseason recognition in 1958, Nick led the team in yards rushing both years. A good punter and an excellent corner line-backer on defense, he, like Ecuyer, wants to go into professional football and should be outstanding. He is best remembered for his stellar play in the 1957 wins over Army and Oklahoma.
The comeback 1957 season was embodied in the comeback play of CoCaptain Chuck Puntillo. He saw no playing action as a sophomore but earned his way into a starting berth at tackle in his junior year. “Pudge” is one of the four senior tackles whose absence on next year’s roster poses one of the coaching staff’s most difficult problems.
Jim Schaaf starting left guard this past season and last, when not out of the lineup with injuries, was probably the most underrated player on the squad. A strong competitor, who tied with Ecuyer for the team leadership in tackles as a junior, Jim, a sure tackler, was especially adept as a line-backer on defense.
Three fine ends closed out their collegiate football careers last Saturday. Dick Royer, Bob Wetoska, and Gary Myers earned nine monograms between them and at one time or another have all been first team ends, never worse



w-- I
I
*
DICK ROYER
22
Football Review
BOB WILLIAMS
was one of the heroes of the 1957 Army game, receiving “Lineman of the Week” recognition. Though pulling a muscle in the Iowa game, he recovered in time for the Southern Cal encounter and ranked high on the team with over 300 minutes of playing time.
A battle for the starting berth at right tackle was waged the past three seasons by graduating seniors Bronko Nagurski and Don Lawrence. Both contenders for the position were big and picked up plenty of football savy in those 30 games. Neither confined their sports activity to football; Bronk participated as a heavyweight on the Irish wrestling team, and Don competed in the Bengal Bouts.
Bob Williams has always demonstrated the most poignant aspect of a Notre Dame quarterback — poise. A rib injury this year detracted some of the luster he achieved as Irish quarterback his junior season. His astute signalcalling in that campaign, particularly in the immortal ND victories over Okla-
DON LAWRENCE
than second from the start of their respective careers. Dick, who excelled on defense and was very seldom blocked out on a wide play, begun the year as starting left end and saw almost 250 minutes of playing time in 1958. Bob started at tackle in the first game of his sophomore year but was switched to end where he has performed the past two seasons. A good receiver who moves well down field and uses his 225 pounds to good advantage, Bob has ranked as one of the team’s most dependable players for three years. Gary Myers, like Wetoska, started at Notre Dame in fine stayle, seeing first string action in the opening 1956 game in his first year of eligibility. Gary’s outstanding play of the past year was his 74-yard scoring pass from Bob Williams in the Navy game.
Frank Geremia, a regular as a sophomore, and a starter in some games as a junior, worked his way back into the first team lineup this year. Frank
by being one of the soundest performers on the second unit, was plagued by injuries all season but still managed to amass one of the best rushing records on the team.	• .,
Jim Just and Mike Dugan were consistent players for three Irish elevens and will be sorely missed next season. Jim picked up his third monogram this fall and was one of the squad’s most dangerous break-away runners. Mike, a defensive specialist at quarterback, was noted for his vicious tackling and undoubtedly would have meant a great deal more to the 1958 team had he not sustained an injury early in the season.
Dick Selcer saw considerable action as a junior but the injury jinx hampered him from repeating his achievements this past season. Don Costa, guard, Dick Beschen and Kevin Burke, centers, and Neil Seaman and Lou Manzo, tackles, have departed from the Irish scene but all experienced very creditable football careers.
BOB WETOSKA
FRANK GEREMIA
homa and Army, paced the Irish,to one of their most glamorous seasons.
Norm Odyniec and Frank Reynolds played their last Notre Dame game Saturday but fashioned some of the finest moments in Irish football history. Norm was an inspiration to the team, even when retired to the bench because ; of injuries but like Frank saw plenty of action in three years of playing. Reynolds’ main contribution was as a blocker, pass receiver, and dependable tackler. > He was the No. 1 left half in his junior year.
Filling in capably for Schaaf at left guard when the latter was injured, Dick Shulsen came into his own in 1958. Dick received starting assignments in several games this fall and proved his worth by making almost 40 tackles during the season.
Ron Toth, who started as an end but was later converted to fullback where he quickly showed his versatility
DICK SHULSBM
December 5, 1958
21
Final 1958 Season Statistics
F TEAM
Notre Dame	Opponents
206 ..........Points Scored........... 173
194 .......... First Downs ........... 141
■	120 ............by Bushing............. 85
66 .............by	Passing ........... 61
8 ............ by	Penalties .......... 6
2136 .......... Yards	Rushing ........ 1441
512 .......... Times	Carried ......... 434
*	4.2 ...........Yards-per-try.......... 3.3
1561 .......... Yards	Passing ........ 1217
198 ........ Passes Attempted......... 183
93 ......... Passes Completed  ........ 85
.470 ......Completion Percentage........464
18 ....... Passes Intercepted by......	22
119 .......Yards Int. Returned........ 185
3697 ....... TOTAL OFFENSE ........... 2658
t 39 ...................Punts............... 52
1305 .......... Total Yards .......... 2026
33.5 ............ Average	........... 39.0
k 405 .........Yards Punts Returned........	85
,	39 .............Fumbles............... 34
1	23 .............Ball Lost............. 13
PASSES CAUGHT
Number Yards TD
.	Stickles ................. 20
$	Mack ..................... 8
Wetoska ................. 12
-	Myers .................... 9
Scarpitto................. 6
Crotty .................. 13
Royer..................... 7
$	Pietrosante...............10
Odyniec .................. 3
$	Doyle..................... 2
s Toth........i............... 3
*	Wilke..................... 1
328	7
227	1
210	1
177	1
155	1
137	0
122	1
78	0
49	0
47	. 1
16	0
15	0
* I		SCORING				
		TD	PAT	SAF.	FG	Pts.
k	Stickles 			 7	15	0	1	60
	Mack 			6	0 .	0	0	36
	Pietrosante ......		 4	1 (pass) 0		0	26
	Izo 			 4	0	0	0	• 24
►	Williams 			 4	0	0	0	24
	Doyle			 1	0	0	0	6
	Royer			1	0	0	0	6
	Myers 			 1	0	0	0	6
	Scarpitto			1	0	0	0	6
	Wetoska 			 1	0	0	0	6
	Crotty 				 0	1 (pass) 0		0	2
	Team 				 0	0	2	0	4
KICKOFFS RETURNED	PUNTING
	No.	Yds.	TD	TC. Yds. Avg.
Crotty			9	228	0	Odyniec 	 3	130 43.3
Mack 						 5	94	0	Scarpitto	 8	273	34.1
Williams ....		4	55	0	Pietrosante	 26	877	33.7
Izo 			3	39	0	Reynolds 	 1	15	15.0
Rini 			 1	24	0	Williams 	 1	10	10.0
Reynolds ....		1	22	0	
Doyle			2	21	9	
Just			 1	19	0	PUNTS RETURNED
Pietrosante		1	17	0	No. Yds. Avg.
Scarpitto ...		 2	16	0	Scarpitto	4	• 142	35.5
Stickles			1	5	0	Mack 	 3	103	34.3
	RUSHING			Crotty	•.	 5	64	12.8 Doyle 	 7	64	9.1 White	 2	22	11.0
	TC.	Yds.	Avg.	Rini	1	6	6.0
Pietrosante		117	556	4.8	Odyniec 	 1	4	4.0
Mack 			71	429	6.0	
Crotty 				 67	315	' 4.7	
Odyniec 			58	273	4.7	DEFENSIVE STATISTICS
Scarpitto ....		 28	149	5.3	Opponents Fumbles Recovered
Williams ....		 44	140	3.2	Stickles, Hurd and Lawrence 2;-
Toth 			 32	111	3.5	Izo, Pottios, Crotty, Nagurski,
Just 			 15	88	5.9	Scholtz, Odyniec and Ecuyer 1.
Doyle 			 28	74	2.6	
Reynolds ....		 7	32	4.6	Tackles
Rini			 4	17	4.3	Ecuyer 78; Adamson 53; Scholtz
White 					 17	17	1.0	51; Mack 48; Pietrosante 44; Law-
Dugan 			 2	4	2.0	rence 43; Geremia 39; Crotty, We-
Selcer				 1	2	2.0	toska, and Hurd 38; Royer and
Izo			21	-59	-2.8	Shulsen 36; Pottios 32; Odyniec and Stickles 31; Puntillo and. Sa-bal 28; Schaaf 26; Williams and
PASS INTERCEPTIONS				Scibelli 23; Izo and Myers 21;
	No.	Yds.	Avg.	Toth 18; Scarpitto 12; Reynolds,
	1	30	o	Doyle, and Nagurski 11; Dugan 9;
Hurd			 2	18	0	White and Just 8; Rini 7; Loop and Pietrzak 4; Burke 3; Lodish
Wetoska .....		 1	17	0	and Muehlbauer* 1.
Ecuyer 				2	16	0	
White 			1	12	0	Passes Broken Up
Tzo	4	11	0	
Scholtz 			Q	'	A	Crotty 4; Williams, Mack, Doyle,
			 J.	O	U	and Pietrosante 3; Stickles, Scar-
Royer				1	6	0	pitto, and Hurd 2; Just, Burke,
Williams .....		3	1	0	White, Lawrence, Toth, Wetoska,'
Pottios 					 1	0	0	Schaaf, Odyniec, Hurd, Rini, and
Crotty			 1	0	0	Sabal 1.	.
PASSING
	Att.	Comp.	Had Int.	Yds.	TD	Pct.
Izo					 118	60	11	1067	9	.508
Williams 				1	 65	26	9	344	4	.400
White 			1	 10	4	2	82	0	.400
Dugan 				 3	2	0	36	0	.666
Pietrosante				 1	1	0	32	0	1.000
Mack 				 1	0	0	0	0	.000 z ;
December 5, 1958 ■
1 -
i
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types
CHARTER A —
CojzjcLUvclL Bojud.
Ph. CE 3-3235 304 National Bank Bldg.
Mans/- Ri ntzsch
WE CAN SOLVE YOUR GIFT PROBLEM
^ILWTURBOW
\pPTOMKTRirr
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX Phone CE 2-5881
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
PAUL’S SHOE SHOP Catering to Students and faculty
SHOE REPAIRING Heels and Soles SHOE ACCESSORIES
Laces and Pads
QUICK and COURTEOUS SERVICE In Rear of Administration Building
1959 PETE REDDEN ALL EXPENSE TOUR
TO THE
Hawaiian Islands
AND THE
N.D. vs. Univ, of California Game
BERKELEY & SAN FRANCISCO — 3 DAYS
NOTICE Leather Sleeved Jackets
GENUINE STEERHIDE LEATHER SLEEVES
24 OUNCE WOOL MILTON BODY IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED
Special S15.9S
MINKOW'S
303 So. Michigan St.
i	NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s t
I	•
i	WATCHES DIAMONDS
I	RADIOS	SHAVERS
> f
; j	EXPERT WATCH
j	REPAIRING
BREEN’S
■	Jeweler
I	325 South Michigan Street
\	Phone AT 7-3630
21 Fun Packed—Inspiring—Restful Days
*	Leave September 23 and return October 13
•	Fly to Hawaii via United Air Lines
*	Return to San Francisco via Matson Lines
•	You have the option to go both ways, by air or ship, if you desire
•	Approximate cost is $900.00
•	Go for as little as $735.00 (air both ways)
*	Spend 8 days on the Hawaiian Islands
WRITE NOW FOR DETAILS) INFORMATION
REDDEN TRAVEL BUREAU
1671 Uncoln Way East
AT 9-8659 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA CE 4-7757
FootballReview
26
COLLEGE SPORTS EDITORS’ ALL-AMERICAN TEAM FOR 1958
“LINEMAN OF THE YEAR” Al Ecuyer, Notre Dame
“BACK OF THE YEAR” Billy Cannon, LSU
1	Jerry Wilson, end..............1.............Auburn
k	Monty Stickles, end.....-...............Notre	Dome
• Vel Heckman, tackle.................................Florida
-	Jim Marshall, tackle.................—Ohio State
> Al Ecuyer, guard--................-.......-....Notre Dame
‘	John Guzik, guard.........-...........  -Pittsburgh
Bob Harrison, center-......................Oklahoma
s	Randy Duncan, quarterback......................Iowa
Billy Cannon, halfback..........................LSU
Pete Dawkins, halfback......................   Army
Bob White, fullback..................... Ohio	State
Paul Dietzel, 'Coach of the Year'---------------LSU
December 5, 1958
27
Notre Dame and Ohio State Each Place Two
On Sports Editors’ Third Annual All-American *
Once again the Scholastic is pleased to announce its Annual College Sports Editor’s All-American football team. This is the third such team to be selected. The poll was initiated by Scholastic sports editor John Glavin in 1956.
The three elevens selected in our poll were chosen by the sports editors of college publications throughout the country. Over 300 editors were sent ballots and asked to pick the top player of the year at each position as well as the outstanding coach of the year.
Besides the three All-America teams and the Coach of the Year, we have also selected a “Back of the Year” and “Lineman of the Year.” The back and lineman receiving the greatest number of total votes were awarded these honors.
The response to our poll this year was very good. More votes were cast than in either of the two previous years. We feel that the Third Annual College Sports Editor’s All-American team represents a comprehensive and authoritative poll.
COACH OF THE YEAR
Paul Dietzel, coach of the unbeaten, untied, national champion Louisiana State Bengals, has won Coach of the Year.
After a mediocre 5-5 season last year, Dietzel this year- guided his team to ten straight victories, the SEC title, and a national championship. He will send his Louisiana State eleven against Clemson on New Year’s day in the Sugar Bowl at New Orleans.
Dietzel’s excellent coaching job this year included victories over such topnotch teams as Mississippi, Florida, Rice, and Duke. Billy Cannon, our Back of the Year selection, is a product of Dietzel’s tutelage.
ENDS
The voting at ends was fairly close
by Tom Rose
as Jerry Wilson of Auburn and Monty Stickles of Notre Dame made the first team.
Wilson, a 6-2 225-pound senior, has been one of the key performers in the Auburn defense which has held opponents this year (through seven games) to an average of 69.7 yards a game. With sore ankles, he caught four passes for 61 yards against Kentucky in Auburn’s 8-0 win in their first game this season.
Stickles is well-known to Notre Dame fans as one of the most capable pass receivers ever to play for the Irish. He is also tough on defense and especially adept at rushing the passer. Stickles is only a junior and comes from Poughkeepsie, N. Y. The Izo-to-Stickles pass was the bread-and-butter play for the 1958 Irish. He was the leading scorer on the Notre Dame team. Stickles stands 6-4 and weighs 225 pounds.
The second team flankers, Sam Williams of Michigan State and Buddy Dial of Rice, were close behind Wilson and Stickles in the voting, both finishing within five votes of them.
Williams, 6-5, 220 pounds, from Dansville, Mich., was one of the few bright spots of the hapless Spartans this year. Besides being the Spartans’ leading pass receiver, he was an outstanding defensive player, and Spartan opponents shunned away from his side of the line. His brilliant play has several times prompted Coach Duffy Daugherty to say: “He’s the best end in the country, and I wouldn’t trade him for any other.”
Dial was easily the outstanding end in the Southwest Conference this year. The 6-1 185-pound senior made a diving, “impossible” catch which football fans in the Southwest are still raving about to score the first TD against Texas in a 34-7 upset win over the Longhorns. Defensively his peak performance was against Army as the Owl line held Anderson and Dawkins to 19 net yards combined.
Heckman is a 6-0 229-pounder from Allentown, Pa. He has been a starting tackle for three years for the Gators and was drafted last year by the San * Francisco 49’ers. His play has been a major factor in the Gator’s becoming '' one of the most respected teams in the South.	i
The second team tackle berths are filled by Ted Bates of Oregon State and Phil Blazer of North Carolina.	,
Bates is a rangy 218-pounder standing 6-3. Generally regarded as the 1 fastest lineman in the West, he can outrun most of the backs on the Oregon 4 State team. His coach, Tommy Prothro, has called him “one of the really great tackles in America.” k
Coach Jim Tatum has said of Blazer: “I haven’t seen and we haven’t played rJ against a better tackle than Phil Blazer.” The 6-1 224-pound senior is an excellent blocker as well as a terror on ' defense. Blazer has also been drafted by the 49’ers.
GUARDS
Al Ecuyer, bulldog right guard for Notre Dame, has won a spot on the first team as well as being voted “Lineman of the Year.” His running mate at guard on the first team is John Guzik of Pittsburgh.
STICKLES	WILSON *
SECOND TEAM
Buddy Dial, end.................  Rice
Sam Williams, end______Michigan State
Phil Blazer, tackle....North Carolina
Ted Bates, tackle__________________Oregon State George Diederich, guard....Vanderbilt Zeke Smith, guard_________Auburn
Max Fugler, center_____________....LSU
Don Meredith, quarterback..................SMU Dick Bass, halfback.............................COP Bob Anderson, halfback____________..Army Nick Pietrosante, fullback..Notre Dame
TACKLES
Jim Marshall of Ohio State and Vel Heckman of Florida are the two tackles on this year’s first team.
Marshall was a big surprise for the Buckeyes this year. The hulking 6-3 230-pounder from Columbus, Ohio, was an anchor of the defensive line. His best day of the year was against Purdue when he scored both of the Buckeye touchdowns in a 14-14 tie against the Boilermakers. The TD’s came on an intercepted pass and a fumble which he picked off in the air and lugged into the end zone.
HECKMAN	MARSHALL
28
Football Review
Ecuyer, an All-America selection last year, once again was all over the field from his defensive middle at guard posi-4 tion as he led the Irish in tackles by a wide margin. Ecuyer, 5-10, 205 pounds, has an instinctive ability to diagnose plays and is very fast. He comes from t New Orleans, La., and has been a regular three years.
Guzik was twice selected “lineman of the week” this year for his outstanding > performances. He is very fast and powerful at 6-3 and 223 pounds, a fierce ■ blocker and tackler. His coach, Johnny Michelosen says that “he is one of the » best middle linebackers I have seen in many years.” Guzik has been drafted by the Los Angeles Rams.
Vanderbilt’s George Diederich and > Auburn’s Zeke Smith have won the guard spots on the second team.
Diederich at 6-1 and 200 pounds is one of the fastest linemen in the country. He is a trackman and holds the Vanderbilt record in the 120-yard high hurdles. His specialty on the gridiron is defense. This year he made himself > or assisted on over 120 tackles. Coach Art Guepe says simply: “Diederich is the greatest guard I’ve ever coached.”
Smith is one of the main reasons why Auburn led the country in team defense this year. Some Dixie experts think the 6-2 210-pound junior is the greatest defensive guard Auburn has ever* had. " He has plenty of speed and was particularly adept at pulling out to lead the Plainsmen’s wide sweeps on offense.
CENTER
The contest for the center position was won convincingly by Oklahoma’s Bob Harrison. Second team honors
went to LSU’s fine center Max Fugler.
Perhaps the best testimonial to Harrison’s ability is former Sooner center Jerry Tubbs’ opinion of him. Tubbs, a two-year All-American himself, says: “As a sophomore, Harrison was doing everything better than I could—and asking me how to do things the right way. He’s the best center I ever saw in college.” A 6-2 210-pounder, Harrison is one of the hardest tacklers in college football.
Although small for a college center at 198 pounds, Fulger is the best linebacker in the SEC according to his coach Paul Dietzel. Fugler this year came from relative obscurity to receive acclaim as one of the nation’s top centers by virtue of his outstanding offensive prowess in front of the speedy LSU backfield and his alert defensive play at crucial moments.
QUARTERBACK
Randy Duncan was possibly the biggest surprise on the team. Almost entirely neglected in preseason polls, the 6-2 200-pounder from Des Moines led the Iowa Hawkeyes to the Big Ten championship and a Rose Bowl bid.
Duncan was the leading passer in the country, yardage-wise, completing 101 of 172 attempts for 1,347 yards. He led the Big Ten in total offense with 1,406 total yards. This was accomplished while playing only a nine-game schedule. Duncan was the number one draft choice of professional football this year, being picked by the Green Bay Packers.
SMU’s brilliant passing master, Don Meredith, is the second team signal caller. Meredith, a lanky 6-3 Texan, is only a junior. For the past two years he has been one of the country’s most sensational passers. Last year he set a collegiate record for passing accuracy by completing 71 passes in 102 attempts. This year he was selected as Sports II-lustrated’s Back of the Week for his play against Texas A&M.
HALFBACKS
Back of the Year is the honor accredited to LSU’s Billy Cannon. Cannon, only a junior, is the most explosive back in the country. Standing 6-1 and weighing 204 pounds, he can run the 100 in 0:9.5.
His coach Paul Dietzel has this opinion of Cannon: “Billy’s by far the best athlete I’ve ever coached. Give him a step and he’s gone. But if there’s no room, he’ll run over you, and when he does, it hurts.”
Peter Dawkins of Anny is the other halfback in the starting backfield. Dawkins, the recipient of this year’s Maxwell Award as the outstanding player of the year, is probably the most versatile player on the team. He is a fast, shifty runner, a capable left-handed passer, and the Cadet’s favorite pass receiver.
Dick Bass of the College of the Pacific was the national leader in total offense and merits a spot in the second team backfield.
DAWKINS, SECOND AMONG BACKS
Bass, a 5-11 189-pound junior, gained over 1300 yards rushing and averaged seven yards per carry. Bass, who has done the 100 in 0:9.8, is now famous on the West coast for a 30-yard jaunt against California where ten men had their hands on him and failed to bring him down. Two California players actually had two shots at him. Pete Elliott, California coach, had this to say: “Bass is another Buddy Young, only bigger.”
Bob Anderson of Army, who made most All-America teams as a sophomore last year, is once again a member of our second team backfield. Playing alongside of Peter Dawkins, Anderson made the Black Knight’s backfield one of the best in the country. The hard-driving halfback from Cocoa, Fla., was the big factor in Army’s win over Navy this year.
FULLBACK
Bob White of Ohio State is the first team fullback. White, a bruising runner and a tireless workhorse, led the Big Ten in rashing yardage and set a new record by carrying the ball 178 times in one season against Big Ten opponents. This broke the old record of 163 held by Paul Giel of Minnesota. He piled up 859 total yards on the ground an average of 3.9 yards per carry for the season.
Nick Pietrosante of Notre Dame is the second team fullback this year. Slowed down by injuries much of the season, Pietrosante was still a punishing runner as well as one of the best linebackers in college football.
THIRD TEAM
Rich	Kreitling,	end__________ Illinois
Dick	Wallen,	end_______________UCLA
Dan Lanphear,' tackle_______.Wisconsin
Ron	Luciano,	tackle_________Syracuse
Tom	Koenig,	guard....’.__i______SMU
Bob Novogratz, guard______________Army
Jackie Burkett, center._________Auburn
Joe Kapp, quarterback_______California
Bill Austin, halfback__________Rutgers
Willie Fleming, halfback__________Iowa
Bob Jarus, fullback____;________Purdue
29
December 5, 1958
I
f
!
i
It takes a lot of spadework
to build-Americas second lamest telephone system.
GENERAL
Past, present, future-Gen Tel has an exciting story to relate!
The past? In just 24 years, Gen Tel has grown from a new company into the nation’s second largest telephone system—a corporation that ranks among America’s top 35 in gross income.
The present? Gen Tel operates over 3V2 million telephones in 30 states—and is installing 3,750 new phones each week.
The future? Gen Tel is “at home” in those suburban and rural areas where America is expanding at a record clip. To meet this ever-increasing need for more and better telephone communication, Gen Tel is investing in new facilities at the rate of almost $200 million a year.
It took a lot of hard work and imaginative planning to put Gen Tel where it is today. And there is no stopping now!
From here on out, as America grows and prospers, so will Gen Tel.
TELEPHONE
Football Revin’
s Two-Point Conversion Rule
i ... For and Against
by BOB SCHAEFER
This season saw the first new change in scoring rules in over 50 years. The new rule governed the point after touchdown try, an event which had become, in many people’s minds, an automatic one point for the scoring team. This season the rules committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association decided it would try out an experiment in order to promote greater spectator interest in the sport’s “dullest moment” and to attempt to eliminate tie games.
The Scholastic decided to inquire into the thoughts of the Notre Dame students in an attempt to get a consensus of opinion on the subject. The question asked was: “Do you think the two-point rule has helped college football, and why or why not?”
The following are a few of the answers received.
Denny Shaul, Student Body President: “Yes. It has made the game more interesting, and it takes away the automatic and dull procedure which followed touchdowns last year and in years previous. The team with a good offense will be helped the most by the rule.”
Don White, Varsity quarterback: “No. I personally don’t like the rule. It puts a lot more pressure on the ballplayers if they are behind 8-0 than if it is only 7-0. There haven’t been that many games decided by the rule. A team which scores first and makes the two points will have a definite advantage. But, in the long run, I don’t think it will be a factor at the end of a game.”
Ed Butler, Junior Class President: “No. I don’t think it adds to the overall excitement of the game. It does add the element of chance or luck in going for the win or tie if the situation demands it. If I was a coach, I would go for seven points unless it meant winning or tying at that moment.”
Mike Ahern, WSND Sports Director: “No. I think it detracts from the glory of the touchdown. It adds life to the point after TD tries, and it puts more emphasis on them. It has far better appeal for the fan than the old one-point automatic PAT. It will add excitement to our brand of football which emphasizes offense. But on the whole the rule is a coach’s nightmare.”
Paul Anderson, Senior Engineer: “Yes. I think it creates more interest in the PAT attempts. It will give the underdog in a game a better chance if it scores first and makes two extra points. A good team will continue to go for the one-point conversion because it is confident in scoring again. I think it will promote more field goal kicking in order to offset the two-point attempts of their opponents.”
Phil Greeley, Pre-Med Sophomore: “No. I don’t think it has made as much
difference as they thought it would. There have been as many tie games as usual, if not more. I have seen very few teams make the two points. The extrapoint kicker will become more important as the teams will try more field goals. I don’t think it has promoted any additional fan interest.”
Paul Mulchay, Commerce Junior: “Yes. It changes the whole strategy of the game. I think next year that there will be more perfected plays to get the two points. The way it is set up it requires more effort to get the PAT now.
Frank Callahan, Commerce Freshman: “No, I’d rather have the one-point rule. The coach will be second guessed more now, especially if he decides to go for the win instead of a tie. Personally, I would rather see a team go for the two points because it is more exciting.”
John M. Smith, Jr., Pre-Med Sophomore: “No. I don’t like it because it has broken a long tradition in football. It doesn’t seem logical to give two points for three yards when often a team has just gone 70 or more for just four more points. It lays the coach open for more criticism when he gets enough as it is. It has not accomplished its purpose in dealing with tie games.”
Dick Neely, AB Sophomore: “Yes, I like it. Since football is a spectator sport, the rule gives more excitement. In a close scoring game, there is always the decision to go for a win or tie. The coaches have more of a burden on their shoulders in making the decision. It gives the fans more of a chance to second guess the coach.”
Marion Brown, Commerce Junior: “Yes. It makes close games more interesting. I haven’t seen too many teams go for it, but in the future I think more teams will go for the two points as they get plays to govern the situation. Those three yards are the hardest to get on the field."
Joe Yovich, Civil Engineer: “No.' I don’t think it has helped as many games as they thought it would. It- hasn’t eliminated tie games as they thought it would either. It does add more spirit to the games. Most guys will go for the win instead of a tie if the game is late in the fourth quarter. The spectators pay more attention to the PAT, but, as a whole, I don’t think it adds to spectator interest.”
Art Delaney, Commerce Junior: “Yes. It gives the underdog a better chance to win. If the favored team is down by 8-0, or some such score, they will be under pressure more than if the situation was turned around. Then they could easily make mistakes and lose the game. It has accomplished its purpose by pro
moting greater fan interest and riimi- . nating tie games.”	_ ,	<
Dave Edwards, Freshman Engineer:	<
“Yes. The rule causes more variety in • ? the game. It hasn’t helped so much thia year, but, when the coaches get the -'j: extra point plays down pat, the two-point scoring will improve. I think it . -is more of a challenge to try for the ,. two points. The coaches will not be criticized for trying for two. If I were -coaching a team, though, I would go for -the tie if I were down one point.” .	.
Andy Poltorak, Engineering Junior: “No. I am against it. It puts too much . ? pressure on the quarterback and coach -in calling the play for the PAT. It is / ■ just one more excuse for losing a game. . It promotes more interest in that it • brings up more controversy over one play.”	. J
Mike Monti, Commerce Senior: “Yes. .
It adds to the suspense of the game and . : creates interest in what used to be the - ' low point of a game, the PAT attempt. '. If a team has a good play to get the 1 points, it deserves to have them even if the game depends on it. There will : be a tendency to put the blame for a loss on the new rule, but I don’t feel ' that the points after touchdown make that much difference in the outcome of a game.”	'
There you have a few of the ideas which are floating around the campus concerning the scoring rule change. The opinion seems to be divided evenly on the usefulness of the new rule.	:
The rules committee could have made a more positive change in the game. The two-point rule is just a novelty to regain the fans which the college game is losing to the pro league.	~
The NCAA could take a more positive step by moving the goal posts up to the goal line and encouraging field goal kicking as the pros have done. This way a team can score by moving the ball in close, and, if they don’t succeed . in scoring a touchdown, they can pick up three points with a field goat
The way the rule is now, it cheapens the value of the touchdown. The point of a football game is to score a touchdown. Two teams battle between the : goal lines to accomplish this goaLIt . . seems unfair that one team gets two points as a bonus and the other team ", only one. The rule defeats the purpose ' of a bonus point or, as it is now, points.
The rule has accomplished one of its -	.
aims, that to create more fan interest in the extra-point attempt. But its other . .■ aim, to reduce tie games, has failed -completely. In the Big Ten this season, ' ? there were more ties than in any previ- \ ous season for a long while' back. All • but one of these ties were a direct re- . 5 ; suit of the new rule. This is not saying that these games would not have ended in ties if the rule did not exist, hot ? merely pointing out that they were in-\ fluenced by the rule.	;	~
The college game needs something to J hold its followers. Maybe in time, the : < J option rule on extra points will do this, =	;
but a more positive change should haw / been made if any change were made st > all.	■	- - • ■ ~
-
■December 5, 1958
BILL FISCHER
TERRY BRENNAN
HENRY STRAM
In five seasons as Irish head football coach, Terry Brennan has compiled the commendable record of 32 wins and 18 losses.
Bill Fischer, guard coach, has been a member of the staff since 1954. Bill Walsh tutors the centers and, like Fischer, is a former Irish star who made an impressive name for himself in professional football. Bernie Witucki joined the staff as line coach in 1955.
End Coach Jack Zilly returned to his alma mater in 1956, a year before Bernie Crimmins, who was an assistant coach six years before undei- Frank Leahy. Henry Stram, the only member of the coaching staff who is not a former Notre Darner, marked his second season with the Irish in 1958. Assistant Coach Hugh Devore, the newest addition to the staff, performed this past year as Freshman coach.
BERNIE WITUCKI

Men Who Took Over
by WILLIAM CARY
Notre Dame’s 1958 football team got some topnotch performances from men not counted on heavily in preseason estimates. Because of injuries to front line players these reserves got their chance to play regularly. Coach Terry Brennan and his staff were lucky to have them available.
The names of Izo, Mack, Pottios, Shulsen, Odyniec, Adamson, and Scarpit-to are mentioned here. These players came through with fine performances for the Big Green. And they came through when they were needed most.
George Izo started the season as the understudy of Bob Williams. He saw some action in the season opener against Indiana, then injured his ankle and drifted into obscurity until the fourth quarter of the Purdue game. His passing in the final quarter of this game was sensational. He completed nine of 20 passes for 179 yards and two TD’s. This becomes more significant when you consider the fact that he was passing under adverse conditions caused by rain.
Izo continued his fine work in the succeeding games. Against Navy, he completed 18 of 26 passes for 339 yards as the Irish put on one of their biggest offensive displays of the year.
In the Pitt game the Barberton, Ohio, junior passed for two scores and tallied twice himself. His long pass to “Red” Mack in the final eleven seconds almost pulled the Irish up from certain defeat.
Against North Carolina, he was just as spectacular. Although he didn’t pass for any touchdowns, his passes set up the Irish touchdowns. He scored once on a well-executed keeper play. His passing was again accurate as he com
NORM ODYNIEC
pleted eleven of 15 tosses for 135 yards. Two other passes were right on target, but the receivers couldn’t hold onto them.
Izo’s presence in the lineup gave the Fighting Irish a good air arm to complement their ground game. His passing made the ground game more effective as the other teams were forced to spread out their defenses to protect against his passing.
Bill (Red) Mack is a 6-0, 175-pound, sophomore halfback from Allison Park, Pa. Bill scored the first touchdown of the year for the Big Green in the Indiana game on an 11-yard scamper off tackle. This was only the beginning, as throughout the season he sparked the team with his spirited play. His performance in the Anny game won him a starting job.
Against Duke, he had a 64-yard dash to paydirt called back by a penalty. Throughout the game, his fine running sparked the Irish.
He scored twice against both Navy and North Carolina. In the Navy encounter, he scored on a pass from Izo and returned a punt 65 yards for a touchdown. Mack reached pay dirt against the Tar Heels on runs of seven and 15 yards.
Besides being a fine ball carrier, Mack also has proven himself to be an adept pass receiver. He is one of the favorite targets of the quarterbacks. On defense, he is a hard tackler. He operates from the left halfback post on defense, and it is his job to cover the deep men on pass plays and make sure that opposing runners don’t break away for long gains, or worse, touchdowns.
Another contribution of the state of Pennsylvania to the Irish this season is sophomore center Myron (Moe) Pottios of Van Voorhis, Pa. Pottios replaced Bob Scholtz at center when the latter suffered a knee injury in fall practice. He was the only sophomore in the starting lineup against Indiana in the season opener.
Pottios played a steady game all season. He is an effective blocker on offense and on defense he was one of the leaders in tackles on the team. He backed up the left side of the line.
Moe played one of his finest games in the loss to Pittsburgh. In this game, he recovered a Pitt fumble and intercepted a stray Panther aerial. He also kicked off once. In the second half, however, he suffered a shoulder separation which sidelined him.
Dick Shulsen, a senior, hails from Salt Lake City, Utah. When Jim Schaaf was sidelined with an ear ailment the week of the Purdue game, Shulsen was called on to replace him. He responded by doing more than an adequate job as Schaaf’s replacement.
KEN ADAMSON
Shulsen showed his alertness in the Pittsburgh game. The Panthers were marching for their game-winning touchdown. They had the ball on the Irish four-yard line. A Pitt back tried to skirt the light side of the Notre Dame line, but he broke through to spill him for a yard loss, and temporarily stop the Panther advance.
Number 18 on the varsity is Norm Odyniec. The 5-11, 180-pound senior was a valuable member of the 1958 squad. Although he never attained status as a regular, he could always be counted on for a good performance.
The versatile Odyniec played both halfback and fullback. As a halfback, he played an inspiring game against Army. He gained 42 yards in seven carries and much of this yardage came at crucial times. Defensively, he saved a touchdown by batting away an Army aerial on the goal line.
Playing in his final home game against North Carolina, he electrified the crowd with a weaving 56-yard scamper that helped spark the come-from-behind victory of the Irish. He also turned in good performances against Indiana and Southern Methodist.
For his performance in the Carolina game, the Irish gave Odyniec the game ball.
Ken Adamson, a junior guard, replaced Al Ecuyer while the latter was injured against Army. When Ecuyer returned to action Adamson moved to the other guard slot in place of the injured Schaaf. He played the middle guard spot on defense and had a hand in many tackles.
Bob Scarpitto, a 180-pound sophomore, started the Duke game in place of the injured Jim Crotty and sparked the Irish with some fine running. He, along with Mack, accounted for most of the yardage the Irish gained against the Blue Devils.
These are some of the players who distinguished themselves during the season with fine performances after replacing other players. The success of the team is due in a large part to them.
December 5, 1958
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
PARKAS AND WINTER CLOTHES
You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S
512 SO. MICHIGAN
Have a HOW of FUN!
8
travel with tITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
■ ^Europe
60	$645
W Orient JK^^43-65 X ** $998 —— .anQt 1	Many four* inclua*
calltge cr*di».
XPEHD ****”)AI*o low-cost trip* to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
““	Ask Your Travel Agent
26th Year
k 332 So. Michig*" *"• ■•KOiicago 4, HA 7-2SS7
Classified Advertising.
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University Press Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Badin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of three lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Sunday night preceding publication.
SERVICES <
TERM PAPERS, theses, research reports, expert assistance in organizing and compiling. Paragon ( Publications, Box 967, New York, 1, N. Y.
PERSONALS•
WANT to reach the students at a nominal rate?
Place a classified ad in the Scholastic.	.
__________________________s
KODL ■CROSSWORD No. 9
ACROSS
1. Desert plants
6. Pair-up boats
10.	Steverino
11.	Cat chat
12.	Italian city
13.	Wild plum
14.	A Gabor
15.
de France
16. Blue panting 19. It sustains the boom
20. Marriages are made for________
22. The last word 24. The earlier
Henry Morgan 26. Postgrad degree 29. World government
30. Kools will ________you
32. Thee and ■■ 33. Car fare
35------its ugly head
36.	Beaut
37.	Juicy jerk 39. Old
Portuguese coin 40. Fire, sack, oust
41. Run against 43. Naturally
Kools are 46. Chinese laborer 47. A Dahl 48. Puts an edge on 49. Up_____
2.	Breathing
3.	Kools for a 	, fresher taste all day
4.	Half a pack of Kools
5	pickle
(2 words)
6.	Mornings (abbr.)
7.	Dependent
8.	Switch from “Hots” to_______
9.	The Adeline type
17.	Matchmaker Kreuger
18.	39.37 inches
19.	Go together
21.	They call the shots
22.	Kool is____ most refreshing cigarette
23.	Kind of meeting
24.	Type of dog
25.	Cornered (3 words)
27.	Leading
28.	Little reputation
31. Girl's name
34. Flavor
36. Beyond the pale?
38. Horsey hockey
40. Soft-drink flavor
41. Lieutenant’s Alma Mater
42. A bit of
40 down
44. Table scrap
45. The thing (legal)
12
13
16
29
33
32
43
47
46
49
48
10
24
arevoukodl enoughto KRACK THIS?*
6
77
19
27
fiwrtch -from HOIS )
-foSnowFresh )
KODL
with
in smoking. Smoke KOOL
mhdmbntnol
K®1
DOWN
1. Made a study of a joint
w<wiw..v>v
KODL
mild, mild menthol...for a cleaner, fresher taste all through the day!
See answer on page 42
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE-REGULAR.
OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER!
01938. Brawn * WHllamaoa Tateno Cctp.
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feels dean and cool... your throat feels smoothed, refreshed!
Enjoy the most refreshing experience




Football Review
/
Hint for a Remington, ask for a Remington. If it gets really desperate, buy a Remington yourself (it’s worth it!). It’s the smoothest electric shaver around!
REALLY SOMETHING
TO WRITE HOME ABOUT
FOR CHRISTMAS
REMINGTON SHAVER!
REMINGTON ROLLECTRIC® FOR MEN
A real man wants, and needs, a real man’s shaver... a man-sized Rollectric! Six diamond-honed cutters ... largest live shaving area of all! Exclusive Roller Combs roll skin down, comb whiskers up to get your Heavy Beard and Hidden Beard: whisker bases below ordinary shaving level. You get close, fast, comfortable shaves that last hours longer! 110V, AC-DC.
PRODUCTS OF JBin—AijM—.	CieeMnfc ftwW;
December 5, 1958
REMINGTON PRINCESS FOR WOMEN
Gentle, feminine shaver. Petite, yet with four times ; as much live shaving area as any other ladies’ shav-	i
ing implement. Exclusive Guard Combs make it so	j
safe it can’t chafe; you can shave back and forth—	-■]
no need to worry about which side to use for legs or	i
underarms. You can apply a deodorant immediately.	J
Three chic colors: Ivory, Pink, or Blue. AC only.	j
-- - i
DIVISION OF SPERRY RAND CORPORATION. BRIDGEPORT 2. CONN.	,
EDWARD KRAUSE	FATHER EDMUND JOYCE	HERBERT JONES
CHARLIE CALLAHAN
Notre Dame football is a University organized and operated function. As such, the combined abilities of many people are required to make it a reality each fall.
The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., is Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame and Chairman of the Athletic Board.
The passing of the 1958 football season marks the eleventh for Athletic Director Ed Krause. Located in the Athletic Offices with Krause ai® Herb Jones, Business Manager of Athletics; Bob Cahill, Ticket Manager; and Charlie Callahan, Director of Sports Publicity.
Jack McAllister, Equipment Superintendent; Gene Paszkiet, Trainer; and Roger Valdiserri, Asst, to Coach Brennan, are also vital cogs in the Irish football machinery.
ROBERT CAHILL
ROGER VALDISERRI
jack McAllister	gene paszkiet
36
Football Review
Modesty
Marriage outside the Church
Marriage:
Catholic & non-Catholic
Mixed marriages
Marriage cases
Love and dating | Engagement
Keeping company:
[ The rhyth
Marital life
Divorce
Birth control
SPECIAL OFFER
postpaid payment with order please.
WHAT THEY ASK ABOUT
Hove all the answers in one package. Especially those answers to questions that people ask or won’t ask on these
important subjects.
This is a series of twelve booklets you will enjoy and appreciate.
Buy this miniature marriage library for only $1. Originally published as a book at $3.75.
MORE THAN ONE-HALF MILLION COPIES SOLD!
NOW AVAILABLE AS A COMPLETE SET
AVE MARIA PRESS • Notre Dame, Ind.
This is it Men . . .
GENUINE CORDOVAN
At
SMITH'S SHOES
120 S. MICHIGAN
hirhr-Wiiterrowi
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS llS’A-llZy, No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
hiter-Wiiterrowi
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
11514-117% No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
December 5, 1958
37
Mian Squad Has Speed aod Detenuinatiou
by JAY KILROY
On Sept. 15, Freshman Coach Hugh Devore called out his squad of 58 members to begin freshman football practice. Devore was Notre Dame head coach in 1945 and also former Philadelphia Eagle head mentor. He had a squad “that, although lacking over-all size, had sufficient speed and plenty of determination.” Coach Devore stated that, with the expected improvement, this year’s freshman unit should provide definite assistance to the Irish varsity next fall.
Assisting Coach Devore with the freshman squad have been Carl Hebert, backfield coach, and Charles Frederick, line coach. Hebert was a quarterback for the 1957 Irish and is now a graduate student in chemical engineering. Frederick is a senior, majoring in physical education.
In the freshman practice sessions, most emphasis is placed on the basic fundamentals. The freshman squad also occasionally scrimmages with the var’	sity and sometimes runs the plays of the
.	Irish opponent for the following week.
It is from these fall practices and scrimmages that the coaches learn about the squad’s development and ability.
Because of the shifting of players at new positions or with different units, :	Coach Devore has	assigned no definite
first or second team. All of the players ,	have opportunities	to demonstrate their
:	abilities.
:	ENDS
= It is difficult to single out any outstanding freshman end because many i are new at this position. However, De' vore indicated that the position posses:	ses good speed and agility. With con-
! tinued improvement, several of the pres-j ent ends will definitely help the varsity •	next season. Charles Augustine, a rug:	ged 6-3 205-pounder from San Rafael,
- Cal., and John Cutillo, weighing an even 200 pounds, from Amityville, N.Y., were :	both shifted from tackle to end.
I Max Burnell, formerly a quarterback J at St. George in Chicago, has been r	moved to end as was Tom Hecomovich,
I	6-3, 205, from Bovey, Minn. Hecomo-
j vich started the season at center. Bill | Ford, another 200-pounder, from Ben-| ton Harbor, Mich., Les Travers from Alliance, Ohio, and sturdy Don Candido from St. Louis, promise to add strength
. to the flanker position. Bill Snyder of Hinsdale, Ill., is the largest end on the squad, standing 6-4 and weighing in at 212 pounds.
38
TACKLES
.Although the tackle position is “not composed of big men, it appears that the tackles have suitable speed to make up for the weight deficit.” Joe Carollo, Dave Myers, and Roger Wilke have been the outstanding performers and should supply the needed assistance at that position for the varsity next year.
Carollo, a 230-pound smasher from Wyandotte, Mich., is aggressive and has good speed. Myers is the largest tackle, weighing in at 243 pounds. He played his high school ball for Clay in Toledo, Ohio. Wilke is a tough 6-1, 235 pounds. His brother, Henry, is on the varsity squad.
GUARDS
Nick Bueniconti, a solid 210-pounder from Cathedral in Springfield, Mass., heads the list of freshman guards. Bue-niconti’s alert linebacking has been one of his outstanding features.
Paul Crotty, an aggressive 205-pounder from Buffalo, N.Y., Greg Divis, a ’ St. Louis stalwart who carries 220 pounds on his 5-10 frame, Mike Giacin-to, from Bayside, N.Y., and Norbert Roy from Baton Rouge, La., have also shown that they can be aggressive and tough in the middle of the line.
CENTERS
Center has been one of the positions hardest fought for on the freshman squad. The centers have the necessary size and speed and also have proven to be quite capable defensively. Gene Viola, of Scranton, Pa., has been an outstanding performer. Weighing in at 219 pounds, Viola.is a hard hitter who likes it when the going is tough. J. P. Powers, a 215-pound transfer from fullback, has shown outstanding play.
Tom Brown of Norwalk, Ohio, the heaviest man on the squad at 245 pounds, Pat Hughes of Tulsa, Okla., who was a guard for Cascia Hall before attending Notre Dame, and 6-4 220-pounder Bill Clements from Philadelphia are rugged competitors who are making the battle very rugged.
QUARTERBACKS
Coach Devore stated that he was favorably impressed by the ball-handling ability shown by his quarterbacks. Speed
will more than likely be the decisive factor in the competition for the top quarterback position. Tom Bonofiglio, a ’ sturdy 6-0 and 190 pounds, from Kenosha, Wis., and 200-pounder Tom Jorling from Cincinnati are outstanding field generals and have been two of the bet- " ter ball handlers. Bonofiglio and Jorling also do the punting for the freshman squad.
Clay Schulz, 6-1, 190 pounds, from Schofield, Wis., and George Haffner, hailing from Mt. Carmel in Chicago, also have handled the quarterback slot well. < Haffner, although weighing only 177 pounds, is a very elusive runner.
HALFBACKS
As a unit, the halfbacks are impressive. They have the speed and the power to develop into top-flight runners and should be in the thick of the competition for the varsity positions next year. George Sefcik of Cleveland, Ohio, has । been the outstanding runner. Although weighing only 166 pounds, Sefcik is a constant break-away threat who may present a problem for Notre Dame opponents in the future. Mike Lind, a 195-pounder from Calumet in Chicago, is a 5 fast and elusive ball carrier, capable of scoring at any time.
Dick Barber, 5-10 and 174 pounds , from Logan, W. Va., Tom Liggio, 5-11 and 194 pounds, from West New York, N. J., and 185-pounder Gerard Gray from Calvert Hall in Baltimore, are also top-notch runners at the halfback ‘ post for the freshman team.
FULLBACKS
At fullback,* Joe Perkowski has proven to be a fine runner. A 200-pounder, Perkowski has the necessary speed to go ' along with his power running. However, Paul Poeschl, a powerful 195-pounder from Oshkosh, Wis., Dick Nabb, 6-0 and 190, from Rock Island, Ill., and Pete Anderson from Maur Hill in Atchison, Kan., a transfer from halfback, are hard-driving runners and are determined ■ to give Perkowski plenty of competition for the fullback position in the future.
Because the freshmen have not yet experienced game action, it is difficult to single out any individual player. One ■ thing is known for sure. This determined group of freshmen will be offering stiff competition at every position when the ’59 season opens.
.	Football Review
Scholastic Subscription $5 a Year Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
•
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.

Get a head start on your vacation!
FLY UNITED
AIR LINES
Going home for the holidays? Or maybe planning a trip somewhere? You’ll have extra days for extra fun if you travel via United. Chances are you’ll save money, too. United Air Coach Mainliner® fares are low. Your choice of fast, convenient schedules to 80 major cities coast to coast and Hawaii. See your Travel Agent or call your nearest United Air Lines office today.
HW UBUKYari NIK SUP
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
BOOKS...
.. .TheMost Appreciated Gifts
You Can Give
HERE ARE FOUR
NEW TITLES FROM
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME
PRESS
. .. Perfect for Religious and Laymen
PAROCHIAL SCHOOL: A SOCIOLOGICAL STUDY
by Joseph H. Fichter, S.J.
For: Teaching Priests, Sisters and Brothers, public and parochial school administrators, sociologists and parents of children in parochial schools.	SUB
THE MEANING OF
SACRED SCRIPTURE
by Kev. Louis Bouyer. .
For: Liturgists, Biblicists and lay
people.	S4.7S
THE DOGMA OF THE
IMMACULATE CONCEPTION
Edited by Edward 0. O'Connor, C.S.C. :
For: Theologians, Religious, and lay people, particularly interested in Marian doctrine. SIAM
WORSHIP: THE LIFE OF THE MISSIONS
by Johannes Hofinger, SJ.	.. ' \
For: Missionaries and those connected in any way with foreign missions, and for liturgists. SUS
AT THE v
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Noire Dame, Indiana :
December 5, 1958
Georgia Tech, Northwestern, Michigan State, California are New Opponents on 1959 Slate
by TOM BATES
Notre Dame will have four new opponents on its 1959 schedule as recently announced by Athletic Director Ed Krause.
California’s Golden Bears, the Spartans of Michigan State, Georgia Tech’s Engineers, and Northwestern’s Wildcats are the newcomers while Indiana, Southern Methodist, Army, and Duke do not appear on the Irish slate.
The ND eleven will open at home on Sept. 26, facing North Carolina. The Irish will be out to run their win streak to nine over the Tar Heels but once again will have to outperform quarterback Jack Cummings and 225-pound fullback Don Klochak. Rip Hawkins, a fine center, will lead the Tar Heel line forces. Jim Schuler, a halfback, will also be back again.
The first away game follows with ND traveling to Lafayette, Ind., to engage state rival Purdue. Notre Dame will be after its 21st victory in the series, against seven losses and two ties. Purdue lost its quarterback Bob Spoo and an outstanding end in Tom Franck-hauser but will return fullback Bob Jarus, one of the Big Ten’s top scorers, halfbacks Lennie Wilson and Clyde Washington, guards Fred Brandel, John Ciccone, and Ron Maltony, the latter one of the outstanding linemen in the midwest, and end Dick Brooks. Quarterback Ross Fichtner, who has seen considerable action for the Boilermakers,
JACK CUMMINGS HANDS OFF TO JIM SCHULER FOR UNC
will probably man the signal-calling slot.
The following week Notre Dame travels to Berkeley, Calif., to take on Pacific Coast champion California. This will be the first gridiron meeting between the two schools. The Bears ended the 1958 campaign with a 7-3 mark and earned a berth in the Rose Bowl against Iowa. Coach Pete Elliott will lose quarterback Joe Kapp and halfback Jack Hart but has Skip Huber returning at the terminal spot. The Cal eleven was a young squad in 1958 which indicates they should have experience this coming season.
Notre Dame will meet Michigan State for its fourth game of the year and third straight away contest, Oct. 17 at East Lansing, Mich. Since 1950 the Irish have beaten the Spartans only once in seven tries although the series stands 16-8 in favor of Notre Dame. The Spartans finished last in the Big Ten this year and had only a 3-5-1 mark, but the coaches have promised they will be better in 1959. Spartan losses include end Sammy Williams, but 40 lettermen will return for another campaign, including halfback Dean Look and center Don Wright. Back Blanche Martin, who sat out this past season with an injury, should be available for duty also. Indications are, also, that MSU may have come up with an outstanding quarterback in Leroy Loudermilk, a sophomore
BOB JARUS, PURDUE
in 1959, although three signal-callers are among the lettermen.	* ,
The Irish open a mid-season home stand on Oct. 24 by hosting backyard rival, Northwestern, an early season surprise during 1958. The Wildcats have back nine starters from their last game against Illinois this year, and, of the 26 men used against the Illini, only three are being graduated. The < returnees will be led by speedy halfback , Ron Burton, whose 12 touchdowns and ’ four PAT’s for 76 points gave him the Big Ten scoring championship this I campaign. Quarterback Dick Thornton, sixth in the conference scoring race, also is back as are ends El Kimbrough and Doug Asad, tackle Gene Gossage, guards Joe Abbatiello and Pete Arena, and , center Jim Andreotti. At fullback, Mike j , Stock will bolster the Wildcats.	,
Notre Dame and Northwestern have ' not met since 1948 when the Irish scored a 12-7 decision. The last Wildcat win ex- ’ tends back to 1940 and a 20-0 triumph. The series, which dates back to 1889 with a 9-0 Notre Dame victory, stands at 23 wins for the Irish against three * losses and two ties.	,
The Midshipmen of Navy will visit 1 Notre Dame on October 31 for the fifth contest on the Irish card. Although ND will be seeking its 26th win (four losses and one tie), they will be facing once again the passing of quarterback Joe < Tranchini and the running of Joe Bel- ' lino, a halfback, and fullback Joe Mata-lavage. Bellino scooted 92 yards with a kickoff in the ’58 Irish-Middie battle. ( Others back will include center Frank Gansz, end Tom Hyde, tackle Larry Boyer, and halfback Roland Brandquist.
Georgia Tech will engage the Irish in » the Notre Dame Stadium on Nov. 7	!
where in 1953, the last time the two elevens met, Notre Dame snapped the Engineers’ 31-game winning streak with a 27-14 decision, behind the efforts of Ralph Guglielmi and John Lattner.
Coach Bobby Dodd entrained a young team in 1958 which will send back for another season center Maxie Baughan,
40
Football Review
fullback Ben Smith, and halfbacks Frank Nix and Ronnie Lewis. Nix has been clocked for the 60-yard dash at 6.4. *
Nov. 14, will find Notre Dame on the road again, this time at Pittsburgh to try and retaliate for this year’s loss to the Panthers. Coach John Micheloson’s veterans are led by quai-terback Ivan Toncic and junior end Mike Ditka, a possible All-American candidate in 1959. * Halves Joe Scisly and Curt Plowman plus fullback Jim Cunningham will bolster the Panther backfield, and linemen likely to see considerable service include tackles Ernie Westwood, Ken Montanari, and Bill Lindner.
TIME OUT
JIM ANDREOTTI, NORTHWESTERN
i ? The ninth game of the season is , 1. against Iowa’s Hawkeyes, again at Iowa * City, on Nov. 21. The Hawkeyes have 1 beaten Notre Dame the past three sea-sons although the Irish still retain the edge in the series, with eight wins against six losses and three ties.
. Coach ForeSt Evashevski will have ‘ | back from his 1958 Big Ten Champions k halfbacks Willie Fleming and Bob Jeter, who are well remembered by Irish fans k for their performances in the past season’s battle between the two schools. A capable performer in Mitchell Ogiego is the probable Iowa quarterback, and w heading the line forces will be ends Curtis Merz and Don Norton, tackle John Sawin, guard Don Shipanik, and 235-pound center Bill Lapham. Ray t Jauch, a halfback, is another* returning veteran. Iowa, however, lost quarterback Randy Duncan, fullback John Nocera, and center Mac Lewis.
> The Irish close their next season with a home game on Nov. 28, with Southern California providing the opposition. The I Trojans’ last visit here in 1957 netted r the Irish a 40-12 win against a young | squad, many of whom will face Notre Dame in 1959. Outstanding among the Trojans are the McKeever twins and halfback Angelo Coia. Marlin McKeever is an end, and brother Mike a guard.
J	’
December 5, 1958
n
The year 1956 was one of discouragement. Notre Dame was not supposed to have 2-8 seasons, but the material just wasn’t there. Last year was a yeai* of promise. The team played well throughout the season with a few exceptions and played exceptionally well against strong Army and Oklahoma squads.
But 1958 was supposed to be the best year. From a team that compiled a 7-3 record, the Irish suffered only a few losses, and many were forecasting a national championship for Notre Dame. But 1958 was a year of disappointment.
This year’s team won only six of ten games against a schedule that was certainly no harder than last year’s. Eight of the teams were the same; Oklahoma and Michigan State were the two teams faced last year that did not return to the Irish slate this year.
STRONG TEAM BACK, BUT . . .
Notre Dame had approximately 25 lettermen back from this 7-3 team of last year. For all practical purposes, this was the same team that ran up 94 points in its last two games in 1957.
But even with this impressive array of letter-men and names like Ecuyer, Pietrosante, Schaaf, and Stickles present in the lineup the Irish were given a good fight by every team they played. From Indiana right on through to Southern California, every team on the schedule wanted badly to beat Notre Dame, and four were able to do it.
The triumphs of these four teams, all considered underdogs at the beginning of the season, point to the increasing unpredictability of football games among the national powers.
One has to look no further than to the Big Ten for an excellent example of this point. Ohio State, the pre-season favorite, went one three-week stretch without winning a conference game before they upended previously unbeaten Iowa in the final conference game for both teams.
PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE
Football today is as much a psychological battle as physical. Psychological preparation for Saturday’s contest is one of the main factors in the outcome. This principle especially affects Notre Dame teams.
For years every team on Notre Dame’s schedule has been able to put forth the little extra effort that comes from their keen psychological preparation. This year was no exception. Only in these years football teams are more even in ability than they were in former years; there are more top quality teams now.
Against a team of inferior personnel, the advantage of the favored team can be counteracted completely by the psychological and emotional forces present in the game itself. In this respect, not only the preparation of the team and the players before the game, but also the many little things that happen during the game bear portentously on the game’s outcome. An injury to one of the leaders can have more impact on a team during a game than the ten-pound weight advantage they enjoy over their opponents.
THAT LITTLE EXTRA
This year the Irish faced ten teams, each of which had been excellently prepared psychologically and emotionally for the game against Notre Dame. They all played a little better than they did against most of the other teams on their schedules, and this extra desire enabled four teams to beat Notre Dame and six others to battle the Irish for the full 60 minutes.
Since Notre Dame plays ten rough opponents each fall, any more than a minimum number of mental mistakes or even a few of these psychological and emotional “breaks” can bring about an Irish defeat.
Because of the improved caliber of football teams in general and because of the psychological peak to which any team can bring itself on a given Saturday, it looks as though undefeated and untied seasons for major football teams are going to become increasingly rare. If any major team is going to go undefeated in a subsequent year, it will need an exceptional performance each Saturday. For any team to accomplish this is quite a feat.—T.T.
41
TWO LEGS INC.
Specializing in IVY STYLES SLAX — SWEATERS SPORT SHIRTS and JACKETS •
118 So. Michigan Street
•to Snow Fresh KGDL
GET THE JUMP
ON VACATION FUN
...GO GREYHOUND8!
Notre Dame - Duke	<
(Continued from page 14)	|
forced Pietrosante to run, and he was 4 stopped on the ND 15. Duke was off-	3
side on the play, and the Irish got an-	I
other chance. This time Pietrosante’s	;
boot carried out to the Duke 39-yard	4
line.	.
With two minutes left and the ball on : the Irish 29-yard marker, Coach Brennan treated the fans to some more wide- i < open football when he gave the go ahead -sign to Williams on a fourth and two ' situation. The ND quarterback came through with a two-yard sneak for the x' first down. Then three plays later Williams tried a pass to Mack that just slipped off Mack’s finger tips.	,
On fourth down and 17, Pietrosante Mi punted to the Duke 33. Jim Just intercepted a long desperation pass on. his 15 and returned the ball to the 50 as the » game ended.	'
The Irish offense was in its best form of the season as they gained 266 yards rushing and 70 passing.
On defense the Green also played a top game. In the second half the Duke 7 ball club could gain only 42 total yards, 28 rushing and 14 passing, and never $ seriously threatened after their only score in the first quarter.
The bright spots in the Irish offense , were a pair of sophomore halfbacks, x Mack, and Scarpitto. Mack gained 106 yards in 17 carries and had one touchdown run of 71 yards called back. Scar- 5) pitto picked up 77 yards in 12 carries ’ and had two long runs called back.
Williams, at quarterback, called an outstanding game and was responsible for 117 yards, 70 passing and 47 rushing. He was presented with the game ball _ t after the contest by his teammates.	|
Brennan used his leading ground 1 gainer, Pietrosante, as a decoy to open J up the defense with excellent results.
Defensively, Jim Schaaf, senior guard, played a fine game and was the bulwark of line that held the Blue Devils to 28 rushing yards in the second half.	< *
• Lowest fares of all public transportation!
• Frequent departures! Quickest time to many cities!
• Air-conditioned comfort; picture-window sightseeing; fully equipped restroom; on all Scenicruiser Service® schedules!
Compare these low, low fares!
Cincinnati Ohio	$ 7.75*
Detroit, Mich.	6.00
Harrisburg. Pa.	17.65
Houston, Tex.	26.50
Miami, Fla.	32.90
*one-way fare, plus tax
ITS SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
Brainstorm 1 No matter how much baggage you’re taking home— Greyhound can take it all!
GBEmO\nn> TERMINAL. MAIN & MONROE STS. AT 7-6541
MAKE FAY’S JEWELERS YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
See our magnificent selection of Transistor Radios. Choose from such famous names as:
Prices from
$19.95
PHILCO MOTOROLA BULOVA
111 SO. MICHIGAN ST.
42
Football Review
RESTAURANT
In Appreciation for the Patronage of Notre Dame Men Eddie will chop off your bill
1345 E. Ironwood CE 2-5861 For Reservations
10*
upon presentation of your Student I.D.
SPECIAL RATES FOR
Parties . . . Banquets . . . Special Functions . . .
‘••AMFOo fO* MtM
N0\\ !
Old Spice Shampoo conditions your scalp as it deans your hair. Removes dandruff without removing natural oils. Gives you rich, man-sized lather that leaves your hair inore manageable, better-looking ... with a healthy sheen! So much better for your hair than drying soaps...so much easier to use than shampoos in glass bottles. Try it!
A MAN’S SHAMPOO in Shower-Safe Plastic!
SHAMPOO by SHULTON
December 5, 1958
43
Noire Dome Miniatures for Yow Sweetheart
9
CHRISTMAS 1958
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST — NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS — 1958-59
All rings are in durable 10K Gold
Black Onyx ....................................  $17.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back 18.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 18.00
Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back_____ 18.00
Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back_______ 18.00
Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue ...............  ..	19.00
Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel
No. 1, buff top, faceted back ................ 19.00
Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel
No. 2, faceted top and back __________________ 19.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS All-diamond cluster _______________________$150.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 83.00
WEDDING BANDS
Lady’s, plain or beaded. Regular ___________$ 8.00
Lady’s, plain	or beaded,	Contour ----------- 9.00
Man’s, plain	or beaded.	Regular ---------- 11.00
Man’s, plain	or beaded.	Contour ___________ 12.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax —- Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
Ring Size For Measuring Finger
3 4 5 6 7 8 91011
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
December 5, 1958
45
“Anyone who likes people—and selling—would like my job”
When Robert C. Schropp was a senior at the University of Omaha, he had definite ideas about his future.
“I wanted a job dealing with people —in sales or the personnel field,” says Bob. “When the Bell interviewer explained how much emphasis the telephone companies put on sales and customer contacts, I knew immediately that was for me.”
Bob graduated with an A.B. degree in Business in 1954, and went immediately with Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, in Omaha. Today, he is a sales supervisor with seven men reporting to him. His group is responsible for recommending and selling communications facilities like PBX switchboards, “hands free” speakerphones
and “push button” telephone systems ■ for all kinds of businesses.
“This is selling at its best,” says Bob. “Customers respect the telephone company and the advice and service we can offer them. So they welcome our visits. And I’m getting valuable experience in business operations and in supervision that should help me move ahead.
“Anyone who likes people—and selling—would like my job.”
* * *
Why not find out about career opportunities for you in the Bell Telephone Companies? Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And, meanwhile, read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Place- -ment Office.
Bob Schropp holds frequent training sessions (left) to polish sales techniques. At right, he points out some advantages of a key telephone to a customer while on a field coaching visit with one of his salesmen.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
46
Football Review

great artists...
great jazz...
great sound...
on
CONTEMPORARY a great catalogue!
the vital young jazz pianist in his third great CR album. “He plays with driving abandon!”—Metronome Yearbook. Red Mitchell, bass and Chuck Thompson, drums—C3523
the modern tenor "colossus” with the nation’s poll-winners: Shelly Manne on drums; Ray Brown, bass—in, to quote the New Yorker, "a fascinating new tour de force from the Coast”—C3530
THE POLL WINNERS: BARNEY KESSEL WITH SHELLY MANNE AND RAY BROWN CONTEMPORARY 03535
their first recording, "and everything cooked!” Counce on bass; Jack Sheldon, trumpet; Harold Land, tenor sax; Carl Perkins, piano; and Frank Butler, drums in king-size jazz performances—C3526
the nation’s #1 drummer. Shelly Manne, with Andre Previn, piano and Leroy Vin-negar, bass, in a wonderful follow-up hit to their best-selling “My Fair Lady”! “...just about the last word in modem romantic jazz piano playing.” Saturday Review—C3533
Barney Kessel, guitar; Shelly Manne, drums and Ray Brown, bass—1956 and 1957 top stars in the 3 major polls: Down Beat, Metronome, and Playboy! Billboard says: "consistently fine performance tabs this package a must...one of the best small group works in many a moon”— C3535	'
spontaneous combustion! The West Coast’s groat alto star meets the East Coast’s great Rhythm Section (Paul Chambers, bass; Red Garland, piano; Philly Joe Jones, drums) in an uninhibited blowing session—C3S32
each
12" hi-fi long-playing album $4.98 at dealers
and distributor* everywhere, or write
CONTEMPORARY RECORDS 8481 mtirose place, fos angries 48, California
48	Football Review


I
-s
The Huddle
pg
i

Best Wishes to 1958 Notre Dame Football Squad

. . . STOP at the HUDDLE . . . for that little snack between classes
w r
$

Congratulations to ...
The 1958

FIGHTING IRISH

■s.
for a great season
A team to be proud of .

Senior Class of 1959
IM
J :
Am
f W December 5, 1958
f4
I
g
Prom-perfect...
or for any date
It’s easy to see why Arrow White Shirts are the most popular on campus. Authentic in every style detail, they’re the best-fitting shirts in circulation today.
Our exclusive Mitoga®-tailoring makes them that way from collar to cuff to waist. “Sanforized” fabrics keep their fit and the wildest bop won’t pop their anchored buttons. $4.00 up.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
first in fashion
step with style:
Arrow White Shirts
We’ve been busy as a dixieland drummer ever since the new Arrow White Shirts came in.
These are dress-up shirts as you like them. Arrow-styled in oxford or broadcloth, in drip-dry cotton or Dacron* and cotton . .. with the smartest new collar styles and French or regular cuffs. See them soon.
♦Du Pont polyester fiber
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend