

~ • •~ I • • • • • • : l • • • • • 
; • ' , • • • -.. r ,.-• • 


,, ·, 
·r : ~: ,__ --· /·./ 
~ 
, • v• 
I ,,..~. 
.... ,. .
~ 
I~ ....~~-, {:::r:,·.··. 
, . .)",~ 
...~ . ' -. . ~•-;· --~•'.><,., 
·,,;;;.~~ -.· ..,.. 
(r'.·=~-( . 
sections Opinion News Culture 

Cover Story Sports Hutnor 
7 11 . 

2«) 27 
34 



features 

40nDeath 
14 Graduate Student Life 
Have graduate students found a home under the dome? 


28 Irish Eyes On 
Leprechaun Daniel Colt Collins talks about the mascot trr.outs, his interaction with the BC Eagle and keeping the spirit alive 


3(0) Get Paid or Get Played? 
The business of college sports, and the players who play them 


37 College, No Parents 
A senior's thwarted attemRt to move off campus and why life is still good 


4(0) Father Hesburgh 
The Notr~ Dame legend answers Scholastic's ten questions 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 






EDNOTES 
I sat through a journalism panel earlier this week -pretty standard, really. "Journalism is flat broke, it's nearly impossible to get hired and it is more work than you could ever imagine ... It's really exciting though!" Exciting. Really? I suppose that in some sense, one could ,qualify a $200,000 debt and imminent homelessness as exciting. But is excitement what we're all looking for right now? 
Executive editor Mike Tresnowski's cover story on the economic recession and subsequent job scarcity has had our seven-months-away-from-graduation executive staff biting our nails. For those looking to simultaneously pay off student loans and eat, the future is bleak-and that's not just for Arts and Letters majors. Tresnowski reports that the class of 2010 is facing the toughest job market college graduates have seen since the Great Depression. 
So what's a senior to do? Since filling out applications is obsolete, allow me to offer a suggestion: Read the magazine backwards. Start with a reassuring chat with Father Hesburgh and a few chuckles from senior Krishna Surasi's foiled attempt to escape the parental wing. Move on to sports and, after you've read an analysis ofthe football season so far by Matt Formica and Josh Flynt, take a deep breath and turn to the cover story. 
This may sting a little, but it will be good for you. Tresnowski gives a careful and 
honest assessment ofND graduates' prospects for employment and how to adapt. 
Regain composure and take your time through culture and news to end your 
journey with an essay "On Death," by executive editor Molly Kring. 
Kring writes that we feel a need to compromise our dreams for practicality and 
a sturdy American dream-life. And when that life is no longer an option? What 
happens when the business student who has been building her resume since 
freshman year is left empty-handed, when the English major can't find anything 
resembling a lucrative career? 

Well, one of two things -total mental breakdown in the basement of one's parents' home; or the realization of a new, unlooked for freedom. We've been on a conveyer belt to success our whole lives and that belt has jammed. We can either scramble to scale back our already limited, structured dreams, or we can fling ourselves headlong into potential disaster. Guaranteed? No. Financially feasible? Debatable. Exciting? Certainly. 
My dad is going to kill me for writing this, 

Jen Wulf, Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 



Westville State Pcnllcntlar1•, \Ves11,llc, Indiana 




SOAPBOX 


Iwas a morbid child. When I was eight, I prayed before I went to bed each night that something horrible would happen to me. A car accident, the death ofa best friend, cancer -anything that would really shake my :world. My parents subscribed to Reader's Digest at that time, and each issue featured a survivor of a traumatic life event whose encounter with death allowed her to cherish and maximize her life. These people were hailed as heroes, an inspiration, the wise ones who understood life. Naturally, I believed, a traumatic life event was the path to such greatness. It's not that I wanted to die, but to be hurt enough that I would appreciate living. When I finally did break my arm in sixth grade, I expected to become a hero, but all I got were x's and o's sprinkled between misshaped hearts drawn with a Sharpie on my purple cast. Perhaps this line ofthinking isn't crazy. As Americans, we are incredibly fearful ofdeath. In this mathematical, sterilized world where our country can be in a war and we see none of the violence, where the elderly are relegated to nursing homes and the cosmetic industry constantly equates beauty with youth, where people never "die" but only "pass away," our dreams become pathetic because they have not been bolstered by our contemplation of a time when forming them is no longer possible. Out of our evasion of death arises a flood of manufactured, limited dreams that attempt to create a false sense of control over our lives. The formula for success is taught to us in a practical way -graduate from high school, get into a good college, study hard, make some connections and the money and comfortable life shall be yours. This is the 
4 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 
An Essay by Molly Kring 
way, we are told, to secure happiness. But to truly live with your own mortality is to feel· your dreams expand into foolish possibility and vibrant vulnerability, to break out of this mold and create a meaningful, untrodden path teeming with vitality and uncertainty. We have pushed death out of our homes and replaced it with a numb reality we call life. The consequence? Dreams with limits. 
InItaly, where I studied abroad last spring, death is considered a part of life. People die, but their memory is always with the living. When walking though a town, the cemetery is near the center, not hidden away like all aged things in American society tend to be. The Italian cemetery is like a park where one goes to have a picnic with one's family. In Italy, death is part ofone's education. Animal carcasses hung from every butcher shop I passed on my walk to school, while we in America buy our meat pre-cut and packaged, never having to associate what we eat with something dead. Even in "The Godfather," food and death go hand-in-hand. Men are killed over their bowls of spaghetti and the tomato sauce can barely be differentiated from the blood. Out of this intermixing of death and life, and the consequent awareness ofone's own mortality, comes the potentiality ofliving ln vitn belln. 
We live in a world of pathetic dreams, dreams that lack life because we have not thought of our death. As the years go on and the wheel of time continues to turn, we no longer think of it as "compromising our dreams," but becoming more realistic and mature -it no longer phases us to think that we only can do so much: "IfI truly love this man, I'm going to have to give up my dreams so we can be togetl1er," "Sometimes life doesn't turn out the way you expect it to," "I need to make money so I can have stability." We slowly conform our dreams to fit into our current mindset. The dreams that were once vibrant in vulnerability and foolish possibility have been dulled to hues that reflect our confidence in ourselves to. create any change. It is here that the seed of regret is planted. 
Itseems to me that regret creeps in through the attic. It creeps into the unexplored spaces ofthe house c;:if dreams we build for ourselves. It finds a place in the. dark basement, when w'e make the safe choice and remain on the familiar first floor, because the basement is scary and outside is dark. 
We are, after all, defined by time. We live and then we die. In that space between,· we live to escape the thought of death. But perhaps it is this very thought that frees us. In the face ofdeath, our idea oflife changes. No longer a marathon, life becomes a relay race in which the baton will be passed at the end of our lap and all we can do in the meantime is run as fast as possible, feeling the wind in our hair and the ache in our bones. Perhaps all we can ask for is to feel our very being, to· ~ow life and know it well. 
Arid so)t is that without a contemplation ofour o~n deaths, we are stuck living out the patterns our calculated society has laid for us. Ifour lives follow such rigid outlines, we believe, our death will come at the predicted end, when all has been checked off the list. But life doesn't fit into a checkbox. And nor should our dreams. 
. 
The views of this rmtho1; m"e not necessarily the views ofScholastic Mngnzine. · 


OPINION 




rea 
1ng e 
1 ence 



At Notre Dame I teach courses on genocide, prisons, terrorism, gender and violence -and similar 
topics not very delightful but certainly very important. Many of my students are deeply impacted by learning about the true level of violence in our world, which is sadly much higher than one would imagine. 
Few have ever even heard about the people I studyin my primary research, the Sikhs of India. About 20 million in number, this religious minority is centered in the state of Punjab, in India's northwest. How could bright, well-read students not know about a religion with 20 million adherents? That's the first question one may ask. But let's gq further. This year is the 25th anniversary of events of mass violence that shook the Sikh community to its core and sparked a new and dangerous era for "the world's largest democracy." 
In June of 1984 the Indian army launched a massive assault on the Golden Temple Complex in Amritsar, Sikhism's holiest site. (It would be something like the Italian army attacking the Vatican.) A media blackout prevented the world from witnessing the destruction of many of the buildings, the slaughter of thousands of pilgrims visiting the 
temple on the holiday chosen for the attack, the trucks of dead bodies exiting the Complex for mass cremation. There was a reason, of course: A band of about 200 militants pushing for Sikh rights had taken refuge at the Golden Temple Complex, and 
t h e a rm y action (involving some 70,000 troops, tanks, helicopters and CS gas) was intended to rout them out. Today, everyone recognizes that this level of response was absurd, when a SWAT­type action could have succeeded in a far less provocative manner. At the same 
time that the Golden Temple Complex 
was attacked, 37 other major temples 
in the state also came under fire by the 
army. 
It shocked the world, nevertheless, 
when two Sikhs who served as Prime 
Minister Indira Gandhi's bodyguards 
shot and killed her in October of that 
same year. Following her death, what 
w a s called "Hindu-
Sikh rioting" 
broke out m 
Delhi and other 
north Indian 
cities. Later, 
investigations showed 
that what happened 
amounted to anti-Sikh 
pogroms, facilitated by 
poHce, tolerated by the 
ruling Congress Party and prepared 
in advance by Hindu vigilante groups. 
Sikh businesses and homes were burned, 
men were "necklaced" by having tires 
flung over their heads then set afire, 
and women were raped in front of their 
families. 
Summing up the first and the second 
episodes, it is likely that 10-15,000 Sikhs were massacred. But the government's tight control over the media meant that most Indians, and most people in the rest of the world as well, heard the story of Sikh terrorism and Sikh assassins but not the corresponding stories of a · military attack on dozens of Sikh holy 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 

OPINION 'j ~ 
____________________________________________________________r 
f' 
places, the brutal slaughter of thousands of innocent Sikhs at the Golden Temple Complex in June and the subsequent assassination of the Prime ivlinister 111 October. 
Thereafter, the story unfolds of a people increasingly alienated, an insurgency increasingly violent, a counter-insurgency shockingly abusive of human rights, and eventually, Punjab pacified. The total number of people killed over this quarter-century may be around 100,000; no one is sure. vVhat is sure is that the silence that blankets the entire debacle is so out of sync with India's reputation for democracy and humanism. That's why my students today, born too late to remember what little leaked out about the toll of suffering in Punjab, know nothing at all about the Sikhs and are shocked to find out. 
The indignity of a history censored, ignored and forgotten is what we fight against daily as we learn the sad facts of genocides, prisons and terrorists. Through education in these areas, however upsetting sometimes, Notre Dame students break the dehumanizing silence that cannot be allowed to w111 the day. 0 



Unexamined Life 
Claire Reising 
Notre Dame seems to be a never­ending source of identity crises. . This one, however, is not about a controversial speaker or recruitment of Catholic faculty; it's about the character of students themselves. In a recent Obse1-ve1· article, the Student Senate addressed intellectual discussion outside the classroom, with some senators arguing that the student body restricts academic discussion to classes and assignments. However, with study abroad programs in more than 20 different countries and a wealth ofguidance and funding for research projects, Notre Dame provides ample academic pursuits for undergraduates. As several stories in this issue highlight, students use these opportunities well, conducting international research and even participating in a one­month novel writing challenge. Why, then, is there this perception that Notre Dame students are smart and diligent, but not intellectual? vVhy does talk about football or last night's party fill dorm halls, while most "academic" conversation consists of complaining (or bragging) about how much work one has? After two years here, I get the impression that most students work hard and are intelligent, but, for many, classes seem like one more burden on a to-do list rather than a welcome, academic challenge. One reason for this inconsistency may be the type of students that Notre Dame attracts. The admissions Web site reports that the 2009 incoming freshmen boast an ACT average of 32 to 34 and rank in the top one to five percent oftheir high school classes. Despite an intelligent student body, with a campus community that's 80 percent Catholic, 70 percent varsity high school athletes and 75 percent white, it can be difficult to find students with unorthodox views, cultural differences or even unconventional interests that spark academic debate. I appreciate the strong, Catholic community at Notre Dame and the spirituality on campus. But coming from a group of high school friends in which I was a minority as a white Christian, I think it's too easy at Notre Dame to find a dozen other Catholic j~cks on your floor and never expose yourself to those who are different 
from you. Whenever I go home for breaks, I 
brace myself for inevitable arguments about 
social justice or abortion, but these debates 
help me further understand the issues and 
why I hold the position that I do. I have 
met several unique individuals at Notre 
Dame, but they seem to be overwhelmed 
by a homogenous majority that can impede 
the intellectual experimentation or spiritual 
searching that usually happens in college. 
Get ready for some obvious generalizations. 
Most Notre Dame students are goal­
oriented. And type-A. And busy. Have 
you ever tried changing a meeting time 
for a group of students? We whip out our 
bookstore-issued planners and systematically 
reject every time proposed. While we want 
to ace our classes, join activities and not end 
up in our parents' basements with $200,000 
in debt, sometimes a disproportionate focus 
on goals and productivity stops us from 
enjoying and reflecting on what we learn. 
It's hard to live an examined life when we're 
running from class to interhall football 
practice to hall council and are unable to -start our homework uptil 9 p.m. 
Activities allow us to develop our interests 
outside ofclass, and I am not saying they are 
unnecessary (as I write this column for an 
activity that consumes a significant amount 
ofmy time). However, when we try to juggle 
four or five activities, when does becoming 
involved cross the line of doing too much? 
Sometimes, Notre Dame seems like high 
school, where we were too concerned about 
, building our resumes and obtaining our 
next goals to allow ourselves the luxury 
of a normal schedule. As a freshman, I 
envisioned college as a place where you 
_could let an assignment wait an hour during 
a spontaneous 2 a.m. debate on the problem 
ofevil, but that's impossible to do ifyour day 
is overscheduled. Even on the weekend, we 
do not leave time to slow down, cramming 
our evenings with parties and our days with 
football games or meetings. Ourwork-hard, 
play-hard culture leaves students with little 
time or energy to make academic debate a 
part of our social lives. 0 
The views exp1·essed in these columns are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 
6 ISCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 


the stories we live 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 
6 



Dlwruv@ltvo rn~u 
~~[b~ 

The student body's growing hatred ofthe "1812 Overture" 
Once a patriotic anthem, now 
three minutes of booing 


Transpo's new drunk bus 
Finally, a dorm party at 35 miles per hour 




HOWTO 

Beat the Cold 
Alyssa Morones 
T:e much-dreaded South Bend winter is looming, my friends. Gone re the days of happiness and sunshine (or, in the Midwest's case, 
semi-cloudy days with 80 percent humidity and a chance of showers). As the seemingly eternal cold front approaches, the time has come, once again, for the troops to prepare for battle. While the chances of survival are around 98 percent (we won't talk about what happened to that missing two percent), we cannot expect the battle aheadctO be an easy one. You will need to strategize: 
1Visit the dessert table. It's a simple fact: fat insulates. There is a direct correlation between the tightness of your jeans and how warm you are. Ifyou doubt the power of a little extra heftiness, consider this: Whales can survive in 40 degree water thanks to a little thing called blubber. 
2Build relationships based on dorm proximity. That boy from Carroll may seem pretty cute at the moment, but not when you factor in a couple hundred yards of barren winter tundra between the two of you. Winter migration solely for the sake ofmaintaining a relationship is not ideal for self­preservation. Convenience should be the first consideration when forming friendships and relationships at Notre Dame. 
3Perfect your hunched-over, brisk walk. By keeping all your appendages as close to your body's cqre as possible, you will conserve heat. Additionally, a hunched over stance i~roves your aerodynamics, helping you to cut through the wind_more easily. You could learn a thing or two from the Hunchback of Notre Dame. 
4Schedule your classes accordingly. Do you really have a passion for film or theater? Is said passion great enough to trek a mile to DPAC to pursue? Doubtful. It can be assured that the lake-effect winds that plague Notre Dame's campus have the ability to snuff any creative flame burning within your soul. Schedule your classes in buildings that are as close to you as possible. 
5.Hibernate. If none of the above options appeal to y~u, take this opportunity to take half the semester off by hibernating. Like abstinence, hibernation is the only sure-fire means ofprevention. 



Serving it Up 
The CSC extends its fall break opportunities for students 
Claire Kenney 

Revolutionary and groundbreaking are certainly two words that come to mind concerning the Center for Social Concerns' Fall 2009 activities. 
Each year, the CSC organizes Fall Break Seminars to foster educational awareness of social problems through proactive work and service. This year brought growth to the ce!1ter's mission. Fall 2009 saw the greatest student involvement and interest in the Appalachia Seminar yet. Connie Mick, Director of the Appalachia Program, says this seminar is familiar among the student body. 
"I hear students tell students that this has become a Notre Dame tradition, one of those experiences you have to have before you graduate," she says. 
This fall the CSC also offered a new seminar in Chicago entitled "Cultural Diversity: Latino Community Organizing for Violence Prevention and Intervention." Cynthia Toms-Smedley, Director ofEducational Immersions, worked closely with this seminar which educates its participants on violence through hands-on experience. 
"Students visit organizations working to prevent violence in the community and rehabilitate youth affected by violence, and other organizations to learn about the cycles of poverty as well as influence that lead to gang violence," Toms-Smedley says. 
Toms-Smedley says there are additional components to the program. 
"Students also learned about the CSC outreach to this community through the St. Ann's parish, as well as visited Cristo Rey. school, a non­conventional school where students work and volunteer as part of their high school education," she says. 
Senior Katie Weber's college career has included active involvement with the CSC. For her, this involvement is something of great influence. "It is really an experience I will carry with me through the rest ofmy life," 
~~ 0 

U©uQ) f~\f~ 

reasons to see "New Moon" 

Because they never violate DuLac 


All of South Bend's giddy 15-year­old girls in one place 


Makes you feel better about your permacloud-induced paleness 



Suddenly ND relationships seem healthy by comparison 
~ Robert Pattinson's tousled locks 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 




NEWS 


For those of you who thought getting into an Ivy League school was hard, try applying for an Ivy League abroad program for which you don't fit the necessary criteria. One Notre Dame student did just that and made the cut, while others have used on-campus aid sources to make a name for themselves in the international community. Senior Eva Binda, a student with Chinese heritage but little knowledge of the culture, wanted to broaden her world view. With grant money in hand, she was able to travel abroad three summers in a row. In the summer of 2008, Binda joined the Crimson Summer Exchange, a program exclusively for Harvard, Yale, and Cambridge students, to teach early college students in China. Bind a joins the ranks ofthose at Notre Dame who have undertaken the challenge of working abroad. Agustin Fuentes, director of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP) at Notre Dame, highlights the goal of the program, which is to "accept students with a drive to create and disseminate knowledge". UROP alone sends between 30 and 40 students abroad to more than 10 different countries each year, with grants of up to $1,750. "VVe've been doing this for over a decade, and each year we find that the strongest applications have faculty on board with connections both here in the U.S. and internationally for student research," Fuentes says. Fuentes recently took a trip to Gibraltar with a group of students, including senior Collin McCabe, whose study focused on parasites in the Macaca silvanus monkey. McCabe's personal success with establishing connections beforehand has allowed him the opportunity to turn classroom learning into a life-long study. "I knew I had to have experience. Working with the Gibraltar Ornithological and Natural History Society was an invaluable resource. They had the baseline data for my research and I know I could go back and continue working there someday," he says. While UROP is solely available to Arts and Letters students, there are opportunities available for students in other colleges. Both the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE) and Learning Beyond the Classroom sponsor students interested in 
10 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 

expanding their research at home and abroad. CUSE, a new program with a new location next month on the second floor of Geddes Hall, grants students up to $5,000 for their research, while Learning Beyond the Classroom provides up to $1,500. Students may have to cover some expenses, but they can apply for more than one grant. Both encourage involvement wit.h faculty, as they often serve as the best resources. 
Senior science-business major Jeff Lakusta also emphasizes the importance of seeking professors' help. "Uearned as a freshman that professors are so helpful. Go to the office hours. Don't be intimidated by the big classroom feel. They want to help you research," Lakusta says. Lakusta's proactive qualities culminated in the creation of the Eyes on Africa Foundation, an organization that has raised HIV testing in sub-Saharan Africa by 700 percent. By applying for grants and taking the first trip across the Atlantic to do research, Lakusta has made a name for himself in both the business and volunteer worlds. 
Senior Eleanor Huntington took a different path. "I wanted to study the refugee and displacement issues between Hutu refugees in Rwanda and Uganda," she says. "I had all my expenses covered and was able to get published online. While I was there, I met up with a woman from the Netherlands who had conducted a follow-up on my topic after seeing my res~arch. I know this recognition will help me in the long run." 
Research and recognition aren't the only things to look forward to. Binda's experience transformed her world outlook. "We know that there is a cultural divide; China emphasizes obedience above all else. After I left, my students sent me video messages. I'll never forget this one: 'I always thought teacher says, student listens. You changed that for me."' 




the things we do 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 · 




Men11s Hockey vs. '.. •Northern Michigan 
Where: Joyce Cent~rice Rink 
,When: Saturday 11/14, 5 P.M. . Sunday 11/15, 4 P.M. 

. . . ' beauty iµ:pho,togi-aphy. ­
. ~r~~ ()'Sh~ughnessy Galleries ·• 
' -· . -. 
ell: 11/~~12/2(), rn. A.M. ~ 5 P:M• . 
•Wh~t: Exhibkhighlights.death'arid•·•• 

CULTURE 



Veronica Stafford

Two a.m. caffeine breaks, hundreds of pages of reading, and weekends spent writing and rewriting papers. For some students, four years is enough. For graduate students, it's only the beginning. "Notre Dame had the small, tight-knit community feeling that I was looking for," says Emily Rector, a law student and assistant rector in Howard Hall. "I knew I would have opportunities to teach here that I wouldn't have at a larger research institution," Jill Dzurisin, a biochemistry graduate student, says. After arriving at Notre Dame, "20 percent of graduate students choose to live on campus," says Mimi Beck, Rector of Fischer O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences (FOG). In FOG, students live with one to three other roommates from various departments. As with the undergraduate halls, the residences are single sex, though residents may live next to an apartment with members of the opposite sex. Students can either suggest roommates whom they know, or the Office of Residence Life and Housing will fill the openings. · "I connected with two other girls in the MSM program and asked them," 
14 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 
Mary Catherine Levri, a master ofsacred music student and resident of O'Hara­Grace, says. 
Other students like Rector live in the undergraduate halls, often as members of hall staffs. Dzurisin instead chose to live in an off-campus apartment. 
Within FOG, the rules of DuLac exist just like in the residence halls. From 10 
p.m.. until 10 a.m. the residents must respect quiet hours. Residents must fill out forms for overnight guests. For those over the age of 21 only, alcohol is permitted. Overall, however, graduate students are treated as independent adults. 
"For the most part the rules are common sense," says Stephen Molvarec, a graduate student who worked within FOG as an Assistant Rector. 
"Because they are here for very serious reasons, [the rules] aren't a problem," Beck says. Violations of residence hall protocol are sent to ORLH just like within the undergraduate residences. 
FOG does not,have commissioners, a hall council or specific intramural sports teams, but it still sponsors opportunities for residents to meet and socialize with other graduate students. They hold a free 
breakfast every Wednesday morning and -special events ·like a Diwali Celebration or an ice cream social for international 
students. 
"Our mission is the same: providing 
opportunities spiritually, physically, for 
emotional health, growth, development," 
says Beck. 
Additionally, individual departments 
often organize their own events. "I have 
several friends who play intramurals. The 
chemistry softball team is really good," 
Dzurisin says. 
"The main locus of community is the 
department," Beck says. 
. The Graduate Student Union (GSU), 
lik~ the Student Union Board, also 
-.
organizes events for the entire graduate 
student body. "The GSU tries to advocate 
for grad· student causes, things that we 
want," Ian Sander, a biochemistry student 
who works with the GSU, says. 
The GSU creates events for families 
during the summer months, and recently 
sponsored a Halloween party. "The GSU 
provides events that are designed for the 
entire-graduate population," Molvarec 
says. There are also clubs through the 
Student Activities Office ranging from 
the Chinese Friendship Association to 


_t.--1______________
C_U_L:_JU_R_E 
the Thomas Aquinas Society. 
As part of the social life, students also attend football games and can purchase tickets for their family members within the graduate student section. "I reall}f, really love college football. It's exciting to go to tailgates," Dzurisin says. 
The football presence at Notre Dame is felt within the graduate student body as much as within ~he undergraduate student body. "It's hard to avoid sm;netimes given that in some of the apartments that I'd had at FOG if my windows were open I could hear the stadium announcers," Molvarec says. 
Because only about half of the graduate student body identifies itself as Catholic, the religious life differs from that of the undergraduate community. A Catholic presence is not felt as strongly, although many graduate students choose to get involved with the Basilica and attend FOG Mass. Unlike the undergraduate residences, graduate religious life is very self-organized. 
"Some theology students have dinner at their houses. There is the rosary at the grotto," Levri says. 
In the classroom, the differences between graduate •· students and undergraduate students become more apparent. Graduate students need to be much more self-motivated. 
"I have classes three days a week, in between those, though, the amount of work to prepare for classes is more substational than when I was taking five or six classes as an undergrad," says first year english MA student Katie Swiss. Swiss graduated from Notre Dame last year and is back for two years of post­graduate work. 
Reflecting on her choice to return to Notre Dame as a 'double darner', Swiss says "It just keeps getting better, like a fine wirie." Swiss also cites more serious, academic motivations: "The strength of the program that I was interested in, [and] I just needed more specialization within my major." 
The workload only continues to grow as students prepare for comprehensive exams and dissertations. "There's nothing in undergrad that compares," Beck says. 
Dzurisin, as part of the College of Science, spent her first year taking classes and assisting professors with undergraduate students·. "In the second year, I · created an original research proposal not related to my. research in the lab," she says. As she continued to study, she began to learn about the process of creating her own chemistry courses for when she eventually becomes a professor. 
"Your professors treat you as a peer," Regina Gesicki, a first year english MA student, says. 
Levri, as a part of the College of Arts and Letters, takes three classes but also assists with the Liturgical Choir and Women's Liturgical Choir. 
"In grad school, you are very sure that you are preparing to be a professional," Rector says. 
With the amount ofwork that graduate students face, the pressure can escalate as compared to their undergraduate experience. 
"The pressure is more but different. It's less about grades than about the relationship with your advisor [and] finding mentors, people who believe in your research and guide you in your thesis," Beck says. 
Yet, graduate students find ways to deal with the stress. "The pressure comes from yourself. The measures are not against everyone around you. You do work, [you] publish papers, you graduate," Sander says. 
On the other hand, Rector says she feels like a part of the undergraduate community through serving as an assistant rector. She recognizes the same traits within graduate and undergraduate students. "You might not even know whether someone is a graduate student," she says. 
"There . isn't anything inherently different between the undergrads and grads," Dzurisin says. 
For Swiss, graduate school is not only a chance to further one's education, but also to tie up some loose ends. 
"I'mjustdoing a victoy lap to experience all the things I didn't experience as an undergrad," she says. 0 






Campus Chai:t:er 
DEPARTMENT OF THE MARCHING BAND 
I had never trekked through the Joyce Center parking lot in search of much more than a tailgate on game day or my always-parked-in­the-farthest-away-spot car. But as I neared the #16 signpost behind Legends, I knew I wasn't in Kansas anymore. My first tip was seeing Dorothy and the Tin Man. Holding instruments. And then an elderly couple approached me. "Ooh, is this THE marching band?" the lady asked. "Can you take our picture?" 
I quickly took my place in the corner of the parking lot next to the other marching band practice groupies (we should get badges!), including my picture-happy new best friends and a guy riding around in circles on his bike whistling what sounded like the fight song. The director called the band to attention over his microphone and complimented them on their Halloween costumes, which explained why theJ oily Green Giant had apparently traded in selH.ng vegetables for playing the tuba. 
Clarinet-touting Yogi Bear, a Bumblebee-clad ~rumpet player and Where's Waldo, who despite being lost managed to carry a tune on his saxophone, launched themselves, along with the rest of the band, into some warm up numbers and a couple of run-throughs of the Washington State fight song. 
"Now the Navy songs," director Dr. Kenneth Dye proclaimed energetically over his microphone, bouncing around the front of the semi-circle the band had formed. "This is My Country and This Land is Your Land. Bum di bum bum ha." 
The three drum majors stood poised on their ladders__:, sans white uniforms and tall, furry hats -gloved hands outstretched as if they were frozen at the start of "YMCA." The pumpkin stopped chatting with the scuba diver. Frankenstein and the other trumpets stopped dancing. Whistle, whistle, whistle. And it began. 
I wanted to start singing along about redwood forests and Gulf Stream waters but the director cued the drum majors to cut it short to tweak seemingly indistinguishable mistakes. "We'll have to keep working on that one," he sighed. 
They moved on to their "recording positions" and began to fine­tune a number of other pieces. A bass (maybe the ladybug?) played during a rest. The trumpet entrance needed to be clearer and more confident. The faltos -a marching french horn for you non­marching-band-groupies -were at fault, too. Dye threatened to get 
i' out his "falto scissors" to take care oflingering notes and admonished them, "Don't test your vanity on a bunch of high notes just because you think you can!" 
"Last summer, at band camp..." jokes aside, this band practice stuffwas hard work. Even though my hands were turning purple and the parking lot lights had clicked on, Dye kept directing over the microphone, the drum majors didn't lose their enthusiasm and the band uncomplainingly lined up in formation along makeshift yard 

. line markers to practice their pre-game fanfare. 
16 ISCHOLASTIC I12 NOVEMBER 2009 
But this practice doesn't even compare to the marathon that is a home football Saturday. While many students are supplementing their eggs with other refreshments, the band starts with a 9:30 
a.m. march around campus, according to Assistant Drum Major John Queally. They then meet for a private rehearsal in Loftus. A 40-minute meeting helps them get energized for the game, which is aided by the distribution of an intra-band newspaper. The most recent issue features the Hot List of the 25 most attractive band members and band couples. "Band-cest," Queally explains. "We've got tons of marriages lined up from band alumni." Each section then participates in rituals that range from lunch in the dining hall to making cheerleader style pyramids in front of the dome. Next, the band meets back up for a concert on the steps of Bond Hall. And that's before the game even starts. 
Leading the band with an authoritative directing style, arms briskly slicing through the air in _exact, punctuated routes, Drum Major Aaron Hernandez is the_ sergeant who has never mixed up his right and left. Besides directing the band, he's also keenly aware of what's going on in ~he game, and watches for frustration on the opponent's sidelines. 
"The more we see, the more we know it's time to go in for the kill," Hernandez says of his strategy. "Obviously we don't put on pads, we don't knock heads, but I think it really helps just to be that nuisance and to give them something else to worry about." @ 
-Meagan Drapalik 




CULTURE 


A IZu\(,e to 50.,000 ~or<l)~ 
Jason G'Se/1 

The slow art of novel writing may have seemed like an ancient remnant of a previous era, until now. National Novel Writing Month, also known as NaNoWriMo or just NaNo, has sparked a new wave ofwriters pumping out works faster than ever.Technology and creative writing have melded into a unique hold-on-to-the-seat­of-your-pants approach to a classic art form. The premise of NaNo is to write a 50,000-word novel in just 30 days. In order to attain 50,000 words, writers must average 1,667 words per day. While the program began in November of 1999 with just 21 participants, NaNo has blossomed to include over 119,000 writers in 2008, with 18% of the WriMos (writers) actually completing the challenge. Because the writers are limited to 30 days, NaNoWriMo encourages writers to focus on quantity over quality. Senior English ~nd philosophy major Johanna Kirsch says, "The whole point of NaNo is just to hit 50,000 words. It doesn't really matter how you get there, as long as there are 50,000 words of a novel you've never started before." While some may criticize NaNo for encouraging writers to focus solely on the word count, it serves as a challenge and a benchmark for WriMos to achieve. For many new writers, NaNoWriMo provides the perfect opportunity to do something that most people would never have time for. For more experienced writers, however, disregarding quality for quantity can pose a significant challenge. The hardest part is 

Official Rules of . 
Nanowri.zno 
1. 50,000 words 
2. 30 daY,s 
3. quantity over quality 
without any planning at all. "You take your crazy idea that you never thought would work and just run it for as long as it will take you," John Minser, senior English and Spanish major, says. Described as the "snowball effect," writers are encouraged to continue writing regardless of quality, so that their stories develop as they go. "Once you get caught up in your writing, you reach that raw act of creation where you're letting loose and just writing," says engineering graduate studentJoshua Enszer. 
Although novel writing is normally considered a solitary activity, NaNoWriMo creates a communityofwriters for novelists to get help from, find encouragement, and occasionally look to for a distraction. In addition to online forums on the NaNoWriMo website, each region has municipal liaisons that · organize events ranging from write-ins at IHOP to weekly socials at Barnes & Noble. For some, the most rewarding part ofNaNo is the-community aspect. "We've formed lasting friendships and now three years later I know people all over the country yvho do this because· we started together and they've moved on," Enszer says. 
Despite the positive influence of the NaNo community, writing a novel in 30 days tends to throw a wrench in many writers' social lives. "Everyone has to know that in November, the walls come down and I have to do this, but it's a little frustrating when you have a couple of 
friends who just don't get it," Enszer says. 
Regardless of his or her reason for participating in 
NaNoWriMo, each writer can come away with the satisfaction 
of doing something he or she is passionate about-whether 
it be the pride of finishing of a novel or the friendships 
that come froin sharing long nights of typing. "There are 
so many things you get out of NaNo [rather] than just 
writing 50,000 words," Enszer says. 0 
/ 
18 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 




PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
.. 
SCHOLASTicl . 
. . . ..· "' ' \ 
. . "' "'" .. ·,
..•··

t > news and,)orjt:$
hiteot<2mp/us 

\ /_ ·: ·•· /.·

\ 
/ in-depth coverage of campus 1ss es 
\ 


off-the-:wall humor 
Published Since·fS67 sCHOLASTIC 
Serving the Notre Dame Community 
------------------~------------------~­
I National Pacemaker Award Winner · I 

10 ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 
SEND THIS FORM AND

First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556

PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. OR 
NAME:----------------­ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:l!MARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI

ADDRESS:--------------­
STUDENTSHOP/ 






Graduates Future Plans 

eFull TimeJob 
Grad School 
Service 
Military 


SeekingJobs 
Q Other 
1%
*Preliminary Data 
• D'ata courtesy of the Notre Dame Career Centc.•r 
;-graduates have not yet found-a 
job, -there are two classes worth 
of qualified college students vying 
for the same jobs. Six months after graduation, rn percent of the Class of 2009 is still searching. 
Furthermore, because we are one year into the recession, this year's seniors will not have the resumes of their fellow alums. "Your '09 grads did not get hit as bad as we expected because they did internships and they took the job offers from those 
internships," Svete says. 
Even ifemployers stop cutting jobs, Svete predicts that they are not iil a good position to start growing again. "Next year could be a gap year for employers," Svete says. Companies do not have the resources they normally would to invest in new talent. "What has made this recession tough in the job market is that the baby-boomers ,have not retired when they were supposed to. Their 401 ks got _hii: 40 percent. Think ofsomeone who is 62 and planning to retire. Remember, this is a group of72 million white-collar professionals," Svete says. 
The tough job market impacts nearly every other post-graduate option as well. As students look for ways to productively spend their time before they can begin their career, applications for graduate school and service organizations have soared. Michael Hebbeler, director of the Center for Social Concerns senior transitions program, reports that the Jesuit Volunteer Corps have received twice as many applications this year compared to the previous year. 
"There's a little bit of a different vibe this year because advisors and the Career Center and other people on campus are more aware ofthe economic situation and so non-profit and 





Recession 
service opportunities are being pursued. Itis more competitive," Hebbeler says. 
Top graduate schools report huge increases in applications from the Class of2009. MIT saw a 15 per'cent rise in total applications sent to their graduate schools. Duke reported a 33 percent increase. The Wall Street Journal reports that total law school applications were up two percent. 
The last resort might be to sit and wait. Svete says some people just decide to travel or volunteer until the job market comes back. 
The stark reality ofa university education, however, is that many students must quickly find ways to repay student loans. For the Class of2009, the average student graduated with $20,000 in need-based student loan debt. The first repayments on these loans are due six months to nine months after graduation. Notre Dame students have a history of quickly repaying these loans. Joseph Russo, the Director of Notre Dame Student Financial Strategies, reports that Notre Dame boasts the lowest default rate on student loans among national universities. He attributes this to a certain character that is built during a student's four years on campus. "To be the kind of student that is here, because of the values we stand for, is to be responsible for his or her obligation," Russo says. 
Given the pressures of loans, the tumult in the job market, and the new competition in post-graduate programs, what is a recent graduate to do? 
The short answer: everything possible. 
"We recommend more options, more bridges to cross," Svete says. "If you are thinking 'Hey I want to apply to law school,' I think that's great. Apply. Get your stuff ready. But look at fellowships, look at service." 
Dr. Gina Shropshire, an academic advisor in the Mendoza College ofBusiness, reaffirms Svete's advice. "I'm advising students to be a little more creative in their job search. Look at some medium-sized to small companies that might not even be at the Career Center," Shropshire says. 
Seniors who have already found job offers this fall stress the need to have many options. "I just tried to cast a large net," senior finance major John Gallagher says. Over fall break Gallagher received a full-time offer to work at an investment bank in Chicago. He went through over 15 interviews before finally landing the position. 
Senior marketing major Clare Brady says she was surprised by her luck in the market. Brady went to the Fall Career Fair where 

COVER STORY 
she received seven on-campus interviews. She recently received an offer to work for Abercrombie and Fitch. One key for Brady has been regular contact with the Career Center. "I started going to the Career Center my sophomore year. Getting to know my career counselors has been helpful,'' Brady says. 
Still others have put in all the necessary work without the expected results. Senior economics major Sean Rega has been looking for a job in financial services but has not found a position yet. "I filled out 40 some applications. I've had a handful ofinterviews but so far nothing really conclusive. That doesn't mean I've lost optimism," Rega says. Rega says he has been to every career fair on campus since sophomore year. He has also taken advantage ofthe Career Center's mock interview and resume revision services. 
ViTith qualified young candidates struggling to find offers before the spring, the Career Center is preparing for the possibility that many students will still be seeking employrnent even after receiving their diplomas. 
Svete says that the Career Center keeps in good contact with young alumni. "We just sent an e-mail out. VVe're asking the question 'Hey, do you still need help?"' 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I23 


Svete says. The Career Center is currently working with 80 to 90 recent graduates still looking for jobs. 
One unique resource that Notre Dame students in particular can turn to is the university's vast alumni network. Svete has reached out to 10,000 senior executives who attended Notre Dame to see ifthey have any opportunities available. 
Linda Weaver, a 1987 graduate from Notre Dame Law School, confirms rumors about the strength ofNotre Dame's alumni network. Weaver, the Networking Chair for 
24 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 
the Notre Dame Club of Ch1cago, says she is regularly in contact with young alumni regarding career advice. ' 
In the age of online social networking, much of this contact between young alumni and seasoned professionals occurs through the Web site Linkedln.com. The site is like Facebook for the working world. Young professionals can post their resume and initiate chats with former classmates or older alumni on the site. Weaver reports that her organization will occasionally host events like happy hours where alumni have the opporumity to make new contacts. These events are publicized through Linkedln. com. 
Weaver stresses that networking requires building real relationships rather than simply exchanging business cards. "At our functions, I stress that the purpose of attending a ND Networking function is not to find the perfect job or the right opportunity, because if that is your objective, you will almost always go home disappointed. The objective should be to make a few new friends each time you come," Weaver says in an e-mail. Networking can begin on your first day freshman year by meeting friends and getting to know your friends' parents. "The easier you make it on people to help you, the more likely they will," Weaver says. 


Weaver advises current students to join their local alumni club now. Clubs host service projects throughout the year where relationships can develop. g 
Despite the good will of the alumni network, sometimes the stark realities of the current job market can be too much to overcome. Tracey Janesheski graduated last spring with a degree in American Studies and planned on finding a job in administration for a non­profit organization or university. J anesheski's resume fits her goals. She worked for four years on campus in administration for the Alumni Association and interned with the Fulbright Commission while studying abroad in London. She has also done more than her fair share of networking, traveling to Seattle, San Diego and Phoenix to meet alumni. During her time on campus, she worked directly for Chuck Lennon, the Director of the Alumni Association. Yet despite such a wealth of contacts, Janesheski sits six months after graduation without a full time job offer. "I think everyone is hoping for something perfect to come along but at a certain point it's a decision between the perfect job and taking a job for a job's sake," Janesheski says. 
Some have responded around the country by seeking retribution for the tough times. A woman made headlines this past summer when she sued Monroe College because she did not receive a job with her degree. The college maintained that it does not guarantee employment, but the incident was telling ofthe way many Americans view college education. It's an investment that should pay off. 
Advisors on campus encourage a different attitude for Notre DAme students. "One of the biggest things that I tell my students in-choosing a major is to ~hoose something that they are interested in. Don't choose a major simply because that's what they think will make them a lot of money. Because if they don't like it, they will 1: be miserable and 2: they may not do as well in it because they are not interested in the material," First Year of Studies advisor Sean Wernert says. 
Some students come into their first year of college with specific career goals. Wernert says students who tend towards engineering, pre-professional, business and architecture tend to know what they want after graduation. But more Notre Dame students end up in the College of Arts and Letters than any other college, and career concerns rarely guide their choice of major. "Our goal isn't for students to have their entire career mapped out at the end of the first year. Our goal is for them to have at least chosen a college and be pointed in the right direction," Wernert says. 
Shropshire says that her work with business students has confirmed that Notre Dame students tend to choose a major because they truly enjoy it. In fact, one of the effects of the recession has been to weed out those from the business school only looking to earn a high salary. "The students that stayed in finance specifically, who still wanted to do Wall Street and banking, they were really passionate about that as opposed to a student who is saying, 'You know, let me major in finance so I can get a job,"' Shropshire says. 
Hebbeler says that in his work with students in the Center for Social Concerns he-has seen some positive aspects to the soul searching that comes with career uncertainty. "It can be a really good thing to think unconventionally. To step back and say 'You know, maybe there are other options out there that I wouldn't otherwise think about if the economy was better. But there's some really appealing things and maybe some work that needs to be done that maybe I'm 




COVER STORY 

'OB.. 
-~Ill' HA 
.E:-~!~f.. 
;IT'}J,fff,.&,~



·~~"~'. 
qualified to do'," Hebbeler says. 
Notre Dame students' willingness to serve has led them to approach a difficult market differently than graduates from other universities. Whereas some students may feel forced into service by a bad job market, 10 percent ofNotre Dame graduates consistently go into service after graduation even in the best employment climate. This number rose by two percent for the Class of 2009 and Svete predicts it might move to 14 percent for the Class of 2010. "There's definitely on this campus a culture ofservice, of justice, and taking the mission of the university seriously," Hebbeler says. 
Hebbeler says that Notre Dame graduates' reputation as willing servants will help them in the current environment. "The service organizations are really high on our students. They are very pleased with the volunteers they've had in the past. They were quite impressed with the students that came to our service fair," Hebbeler says. 
While students adapt to the current market, many wonder when and how the job market will come back. Japan's recession in the 1990s led to the development of what is called the "lost generation." A June 2007 Business Week article entitled "Japan's Lost Generation" reports that young adults had 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 
to settle for odd-jobs or part time work because of the recession and have never fully · settled into true careers. Nlany members of this generation have developed work-related mental illnesses. Given the talk of gap years and waiting it out, parallels between our current generation and the Japanese can be striking. 
Economics Professor Martin vVolfson, who specializes in financial markets, says that Japan's lost decade can be attributed in part to the existence of "zombie banks," banks with a net worth less than zero. These banks are hesitant to loan, and as a result the economy does not grow. Wolfson says there is still work to be done with U.S. banks. "Banks sti11 have a lot of bad loans on their books," Wolfson says. He adds that to prevent a lost decade, the · government needs to take stronger action. "I think we can be more proactive about it than we have been. The situation is serious. Many people are losing their jobs. People are still losing their homes, and banks are reluctant to lend. That doesn't provide an optimistic scenario. I think this means a stronger role for government to create jobs and prevent foreclosures," Wolfson says. 
Critics of the deficit spending strategy to spur the economy say that putting the nation further into debt will only create more problems a's the young generation grows older. Wolfso~ says history shows that the economy can come back stronger than ever. "There's concern about increasing deficits, and there is a point at which we don't want them to get out of control. But I think those concerns have been overblown. We don't have any choice right now but to increase government spending significantly," Wolfson says. "We had very high debt to GDP ratios during World War II and after. That led to the strongest growth we've had in our history." 
Svete shares in a certain -optimism about the current generation's long term prospects. "This is a temporary reset button," he says. Once baby-boomers retire, Svete says upward m9bilitywithin companies will be easier than ft"iias ever been.. "You are going to be one of the youngest leaders in the history of your career because the cupboard is empty. There were huge decreases in college. enrollment in the '90s because of Generation X. Big salaries will exit the workplace. We think that employers right now that decide not to hire new talent will pay the price in two years -across the board." 


the games we play 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 27 
SPORTS 






IRISH EYES ON: THE LEPRECHAUN 
Elizabeth Flood 

Senior Daniel Colt Collins, this year's leprechaun and face of the legendary Irish spirit, may be one ofthis university's most recognizable young men -both to students on campus and to Notre Dame fans across the nation. Collins, who hails from Buffalo, NY and currently lives in Alumni Hall, is a fan of everything athletic; a former football and lacrosse player, he professes that hockey is his favorite sport. The Bills and Sabres hold a special place in his heart, as do, of course, the Fighting Irish. ~ether he's playing the part of leprechaun or a normal student, Collins' eyes sparkle with a love for Notre Dame. 
AsI understandit, theprocessofbec0111ingthe leprechaun isa rigorous one. What first got you thinking about being the leprechaun, and where didyou go from there? 
The first thing was growing up a huge sports fan. ~en I was looking at colleges, I wanted to come to a place with good academics, good athletics and an active student fan base. ~en I visited Notre Dame, that's what sold me -the whole atmosphere. As a freshman, the spirit at the football and basketball games blew me away. I wanted to get involved, so I tried out for. leprechaun in the spring of my freshman year. I was cut, but I became a student-manager. Eventually I made it to the blue squad leprechaun .:__ so stick with it! At tryouts, usually over 20 people come at first. They are narrowed down to around five finalists. In the final tryouts, contestants get three minutes with the microphone in the JACC to lead a mock pep rally. A local media figure interviews us and asks questions about Notre Dame in front of the crowd. Then they give us a game situation that we have to react to ­for me, the situation was that it was a basketball game and a ref made a bad call. They want to see what you would do. It ends with a push up contest, and then everyone does the Irish jig. 
Do you ever feel like a celebri'~? What has been the craziest or funniest thing that has happened to you as the leJirechaun? 
I always think it's funny when I get double takes walking around campus, or when I hear people whisper to their friends, "Is that the leprechaun?" The funniest thing was at an airport at home in Buffalo when a security guard told me he needed to talk to me. He pulled me aside and asked, "Are you the leprechaun?" He was a longtime Notre Dame fan. I'm just glad I wasn't in trouble. 
What is the "behind the scenes" life oftheleprechaun like? 
The funniest part is that I actually deliver the laundry to the cheerleading team every day. There's lots of work to do for the pep rallies, trying to get everyone involved and to make the rallies more action-packed, quicker, higher energy and more focused on speakers. Especially with venues like the JACC closed, that's been a lot ofwork this year. I also have mandatory lifting at seven in the morning with the cheerleading team twice a week. 
What sport has the best game day, and what is the mostmagical pttrt ofitforyou? 
It's definitely football. Games inside Notre Dame Stadium are indescribable. The spirit and tradition are so incredible. The best part is leading the team out of the tunnel with the flag -just the eruption ofnoise from the crowd. The first game I was really nervous, especially about carrying that heavy flag, but you get out there and you're carried 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 
by the energy. It feels like I'm running on air -it's amazing. There's just sometlling about Notre Dame Stadium. My first away game was at the Big House, and it was loud, but there's something Notre Dame Stadium has that nowhere else does. 
What are interactions with other masco-ts like? 
I try to take the high road in my mascot interactions. I was expecting Sparty from Michigan State to be an instigator, because there's kind of a rivalry between Sparty and the leprechaun, but he wasn't. This year's main instigator was Purdue Pete. He kept trying to get in my face. Purdue saw that as a big rivalry game and I kept telling him that this was just another game for us. I don't think he liked that too much. Another funny thing is when we go into the tunnel at halftime to get something to drink or eat and the other mascots take off their masks. That can be pretty awkward, especially depending on the score. The mascot from Nevada was just so nice and happy to be at Notre Dame. He asked for a picture with me. The BC Eagle was a girl. She kind of shied away from me. I think the rivalry might have been too much for her. 
What are yourfuture plans, and how tW you think you'll look back on this unique experience? 
I just finished all my applications to law school. I'm hoping to go straight into that. Eventually I want a career related to sports. Looking back on this year, I will take with me those lessons I learned about living in the moment. I know that even the smallest actions can have a huge impact on people. The inspirational power ofNotre Dame has let me have influence on people -fans young and old will come up to me on game day and their eyes just light up. It is incredible that I have the opportunity to do that. 0 



SPORTS 

Survey Says. 
¦ II 
Obviously for 

Kyle 

! Has tasty Necessary on world peace then Seems pretty 
McCARTHY Don't have it Mint ice cream
! salad dressing all party mixes after that I wish I cool

Football 
had more wishes 

Kyle Taylor Swift 
! Apple crisp 

: Is an absolute : A .bl An addicting would have : Needs to figure
LA\iVSON 

: bl . : tern e song : with vanilla 
: essmg : waste of time knocked out j it out
Hockey . . ! frozen yogurt 
. .
. . KanyeWest
. . 
. .
. . 


Time Travel 
Josh Flynt 

Nove1nber 10) 1928 
Decades before the 100-foot HD video screen of the new Yankee Stadium, Notre Dame had a long-standing tradition of battling Army in the Bronx. One of the most famous games in "The House that Ruth Built" came in 1928 when the 4-2 Irish took on an undefeated Cadets team. With his team desperately needing a victory, legendary Notre Dame head coach Knute Rockne rallied the Irish with one of the most famous pep talks in sports history. Rockne huddled the team up in the locker room after the pre-game warm-ups and began telling the story of former ND standout George Gipp, widely considered the greatest player of his time. Eight years earlier, while on his deathbed, Gipp gave Rockne his final wish. "I've got to go, Rock. It's all right. I'm not afraid. Sometime, Rock, when the team is up against it, when things go wrong and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper. I don't know where I'll be then, Rock. But I'll know about it, and I'll be happy." As the Irish prepared for the game, Rockne said, "The day before he died, George Gipp asked me to wait until the situation seemed hopeless -then ask a Notre Dame team to go out and beat Army for him. This is the day, and you are the team." The Irish took Rockne's words to heart. "There was no one in the room that wasn't crying. There was a moment of silence, and then all of a sudden those players ran out of the dressing room and almost tore the hinges off the door. They were all ready to kill someone," recalled line coach Ed Healey. The Irish scored two late touchdowns and held off a last-chance rally by the Cadets for an emotional 12-6 victory. In a game that will forever live on in Irish lore, they had knocked off the unbeaten Cadets and "won one for the Gipper." 0 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 29 



SPORTS 

The big business of college sports and the players who play them 
Marques Camp 
Y:ou find yourself at the Notre Dame v. USC football contest on October 17, and you realize you are in the middle ofan incredible collision of hype, excitement and rivalry. Pundits have been dissecting and analyzing this matchup for weeks. Visitors have flocked to Notre Dame Stadium, some without tickets, in the faintest hopes that they will be witnesses to history, as many were to the unforgettable 2005 volume. The game is the 209th consecutive sellout at Notre Dame Stadium. Some seats are being scalped for up to 10 times their face value. Notre Dame Stadium, on this cool, electric Saturday afternoon in October, is a veritable money factory. Irish fans ­ranging from those too young to walk to freshman students seeing their first big rivalry game to the oldest and proudest of alumni -are all clad in myriad shades of Notre Dame blue and gold, trading barbs with the red and gold-clad invaders from Southern California. The Irish, outfitted in equipment funded by Adidas, warm up opposite the Trojans, outfitted by Nike. NBC, the network with the exclusive television deal with the university, has recently renewed its contract to pay Notre Dame up to $9 million per year for the right to broadcast their games nationally to millions, which network executives hope will increase even more on this Saturday, 
30 ISCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 
given the magnitude of this matchup. 
Yet the main characters in this theatre of sport, the student-athletes that wage the · battles for all to pay and see, those who line the pockets of Notre Dame merchandisers and NBC and video game companies and the NCAA, do not see any of these royal profits generated from their participation. They are, as the NCAA says, "amateurs"­those who play for the love ofthe game and nothing more. Some believe, however, that the institutions standing to profit from the big-time business of college athletics should share at least a portion of these profits with the characters that drive it. 
The Value of an Education 
In 2008, data released by the federal Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act revealed that Notre Dame's ;thletic department brought in $83.4 million in revenue, while earning an overall profit of $23.3 million. The university's football squad, long the centerpiece of the Notre Dame legacy, alone brought in $59.8 million in revenue. In addition to ticket sales at athletic events, the university receives millions of dollars from merchandising and licensing with sports apparel companies like Adidas, as well as $1.3 million annually from the 
football program's arrangement with the 
Bowl Charhpionship Series (BCS) and its 
exclusive television contract with NBC, 
among other sources. At Notre Dame, as 
at virtually every other major university 
in the country, the two primary revenue­
generating varsity sports are generally 
football and men's basketball. 
Given the amount of revenue that the 
Notre Dame and many other well-known 
athletic programs generate, many student­
athletes and other critics wonder where the 
!itudent-athletes' fair share of the profits 
is. NCAA bylaws prohibit the payment and 
commercial use of student-athletes, else 
they compromise their amateur status and, 
consequently, their collegiate eligibility. 
When the topic of potentially paying ·. s_tudent-athletes comes up, many argue ~hat they are already compensated -with a scholarship and a free education. 
Some s_tudent-athletes agree with this 
sentiment, thankful that their athletic 
talents have provided them the opportunity 
to take advantage of a free education. 
"You're not a professional, you're doing it 
for an education. There are a lot ofathletes 
who don't receive any athletic aid. Making 
it a pay-for-play incentive would be nice, 
but it's almost like getting a scholarship is 
getting paid to play," says one member of 
the track and field team. 




SPORTS 
Other student-athletes, however, question the notion that receiving a scholarship is enough in return for the money they generate. One member of the football team says, "The slaves were provided a house to stay. They wete given meals, but in the grand scheme of things they had nothing at the end of the day. That's a harsh comparison, but it's essentially modern-day slavery." 
Notre Dame finance professor Richard Sheehan, who has researched and written on the economics of sports, agrees that for some student-athletes in big-time programs, especially those that historically have low graduation rates, the value of a scholarship is paltry. 
In his book, "Keeping Score: The Economics of Big-Time Sports," Sheehan calculated the value of a scholarship on a per-hour salary scale. If a student-athlete does not graduate, Sheehan contends, then the per-hour value of his scholarship plummets. "For schools like Arkansas, Kansas State or Memphis, where most athletes don't graduate, the per-hour salary averages less than the minimum wage," he says. 
At schools like Notre Dame, Duke or Boston College, which historically have high-rates of graduation among student­athletes, the value of athletic scholarships is higher, averaging out to nearly $3 0 per hour. "Considering that these athletes are high school grads working a part-time job, [this] would appear to be a reasonable salary," Sheehan says. 
"What about the kid who goes to Georgia? Not to throw stones here, but what about the kid who goes to some SEC school?" one football player asks. "Everybody can't go to Notre Dame. Everybody can't go to Stanford. Everybody can't go to USC. There may be kids at these other powerhouses who don't have [much] to support themselves." 
Given the millions in revenue that the Notre Dame athletic department generates, Sheehan acknowledges that Notre Dame and other big-time college athletic programs may indeed have the resources to pay a stipend to its student-athletes. He contends, however, that such schools are the exceptions rather than the rule. "Even among FBS [formerly Division I] football programs, probably less than halfwill make money this year. Even schools perennially at the bottom of the big conferences are not profitable," he says. "[Schools like] Central Michigan, Southern Mississippi and Ball State would find their athletic finances simply crushed." 
Earning a Little Extra 
Most student-athletes, especially those at academically rigorous institutions like Notre Dame, will say that time management is one of the most important skills to develop while playing a varsity sport. With 10-15 hours of optional team activities on top of the 20 hours of weekly practice time allowed by the NCAA, student­athletes have little time to waste. "If you want to be good, if you want to do extra things on your own, then you have optional hours that aren't counted," one football player says. "They say it's 'optional' just to have it on there. It's supposed to be 20 but it usually ends upwards of that." 
"Practices might be optional, but you want to be the best athlete possible. Your actual 'getting to play' is also optional. There's no such thing as an optional practice," says another member of the track and field team. 
With the incredible time commitment an athlete must make while playing a varsity sport, getting a job and earning extra pocket money is out of the question, even during the summer. "Everyone says our reward is the scholarship, but that does not help keep money in our pockets to be able to do things normal college students are able to do," says one basketball player. 
One solution, given by a football player, may be paying varsity student-athletes a wage comparable to other student on­campus jobs. "It's a job just like everything else. I think it should be somewhere around the typical 
going rate of a job in the city, or a particular percentage of the revenue a sport brings in." 
This solution, however, raises 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 
SPORTS 
another complication in the payment of student-athletes. Which ones should be compensated? 
"If you want to make the argument 'let athletes be paid what the market dictates' then there would be a few athletes who would command large sums," Sheehan 
. says. "A Clausen or a Tate would certainly be able to command much more than 'just' a scholarship. [However] it wouid have minimal impact on most athletes and send most football programs even deeper into the red."· 
"I'm on the fence as to whether players like Jimmy or Golden should get paid more," one football player says. "But they should be compensated in some way because they're selling the tickets. They're making a lot of other people even richer. If they get hurt, they don't have anything to show for it. They got the degree, but they could have made $60 million." 
A question a 1 s o arises as to whether t h o s e student-athletes participating in non­revenue sports should be paid as well. "If you want to pay football and men's basketball players and not other athletes, you will likely run into problems with Title IX," Sheehan says. 
For the Love ofthe Game 
Much of the discontent from some student-athletes stems from the use of licensed NCAA schools and logos, along with player likenesses, by video game companies such as EA Sports and 2K Sports for simulation in their college sports franchises such as NCAA Football and NCAA Basketball. NCAA bylaws prohibit the use of player names and likenesses for commercial profit. 
Though these. companies avoid paying these players for their likenesses and thus comprom1smg their collegiate eligibility by not using their real names, the general consensus among many is that these likenesses, _which include positions, uniform numbers, height, weight and 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 
other characteristics, veer a bit too close 
to their real-life counterparts. 
In May, Sam Keller, a former quarterback at Nebraska and Arizona State, filed a class­action lawsuit against EA Sports and the NCAA for using player likenesses without compensation. The lawsuit contends that EA Sports "intentionally circumvents the prohibitions on -utilizing student-athletes' . names" and that the Collegiate Licensing Co. ofAtlanta, the licenser for the NCAA, allows EA Sports to replicate likenesses, school logos and stadiums, with "almost 
photographic realism." 
"I do believe that this area is one where 
the NCAA is totally wrong and athletes 
are being totally exploited," Sheehan says. 
"Companies like EA Sports should not be able to profit from an athlete's likeness without compens~tion. I believe that an athlete owns his likeness, and I believe that ultimately someone will successfully sue EA Sports over the issue." 
Ironically, for many players, the privilege of appearing in _a video game is reward enough for them. "I do not mind EA Sports using a person that plays like me," says one football player. "I think it is cool to see people playing with someone who looks like me." 
Another football player says, "I don't 
know what EA Sports' margins are. Iftheir 
margins are pretty slim, then they have to 
pay every player. They wouldn't have any 
profit for themselves. Theywould probably 
be inclined not to make the game. It's like 
a lose-lose situation." 
The problem, he says, _is not with video game companies but with the universities that unfairly profit from their own student­athletes. 
"EA Sports is a different entity. They aren't making us go to practice. They're just making a game," he says. 
The Last Amateurs 
Those that argue against paying student­athletes, most notably the NCAA, point to the spirit and integrity of amateurism that collegiate athletics strives to uphold. The big business of college athletics, however, has caused some to question the notion of what exactly an amateur is. 
"Someone who plays for the love of the game is an amateur," Sheehan says. "If you're playing for an endorsement, even if you've accepted no money before the competition, in my view you're a pro. On that basis, virtually no collegiate scholarship athlete is really an amateur since all receive compensation. Is it a problem that few collegiate athletes are amateurs? I would argue no. The notion of 'amateur' died 
many years ago." 
One football player agrees that big-time college athletics have eroded the spirit of t_rue amateurism, and when asked if he could reconcile his desire to see a share of the profits with playing for the love of the game, he says, "I could reconcile that if and only if the team which I was playing for was not raking in millions of dollars. A~-o, if the sport in which I love did not 
.take up the vast majority of my summer and everyday life much as a job would. As soon as outside sources involve sponsors, ticket_ sales, expectations both monetary and performance based, the word 'amateur' no longer exists." 
.. 
SPORTS 
Football Analysis 



Fumbling on the Goal line 
Matt Formica and [osh Flynt 


The 2009 Fighting Irish football campaign has been full of heart­stopping finishes, broken Tate tackles, outlandish Holtz predictions, and even a few Sergio Brown backflips. And although the season has been entertaining at times, it has left Notre Dame fans disappointed. So, what have we learned from this unpredictable season? To quote former NFL head coach Bill Parcells, "You are what your record says you are," and at this point the Irish are a 6-3 football team -no better, no worse. A heartbreaking loss to Navy dashed Notre Dame's BCS aspirations, but a berth in a respectable bowl is still possible. Junior quarterback Jimmy Clausen has emerged as one ofthe nation's top passers and a Reisman trophy contender. Both Clausen and head coach Charlie Weis identified improving the TD-INT ratio as a major goal for '09. Although Clausen showed flashes of precision and improved maturity during '08, he heaved too many unnecessary passes into tight coverage, resulting in 17 interceptions. Clausen's offseason preparation has paid off, resulting in 20 touchdowns and only three interceptions this season. College football pundits are beginning to notice these statistics. Clausen is ranked third on ESPN's Reisman Watch and NFL Draft expert Mel Kiper has mentioned Clausen as a top QB prospect in the 2010 draft. Junior wide receiver Golden Tate, who ranks third nationally in receiving yards and second in receiving touchdowns, has established himself as one ofcollege football's most electrifying playmakers. Tate hauled in game-winning touchdown receptions against Michigan State and Boston College, and racked up a career-high 244 receiving yards against Washington. And then there was the Golden Tate highlight reel, known to some as the Washington State game. Several other wideouts, including junior Duval Kamara and senior Robby Parris, stepped up to keep the offense firing in the absence of sophomore Michael Floyd. 
Close games have defined the '09 season. The Irish could easily be undefeated, but they could also be a two-win team. Seven of Notre Dame's nine games have been decided by seven or fewer points, marked by a stretch of six in a row. Although the Irish own a modest 4-3 record in these nail-biters, they have displayed better poise under pressure than in '08. 
The Irish have given fans several thrilling finishes. Senior safety Kyle McCarthy's victory-sealinginterceptionagainstMichigan State; . Clausen's fourth down touchdown strike to sophomore tight end Kyle Rudolph to derail Purdue; several game-saving, gritty goal line stands against vVashington; and five forced turnovers against Boston College ­all memorable ways the Irish have come out on top this year. 

The offensive line deserves credit for establishing a running game this season and giving Clausen time to find open receivers. Junior Armando Allen averages 4.9 yards per carry and junior Robert Hughes averages 4.7 yards per carry, a significant improvement from '08. The "Wildcat" formation has made the offense more versatile, allowing Tate to emerge as a running threat and giving Coach Weis some new options. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame's pass defense has struggled mightily. Michigan State picked apart the Irish secondary 
for 354 passing yards. USC's true freshman quarterback, Nlatt Barkley, racked up 380 yards through the air. Porous pass defense allowed BC to convert a desperation fourth-and-17 late in the game, nearly resulting in an Irish loss. If the Irish are to win their final three games, the pass defense will have to limit these kinds of big plays. A bright spot on defense, however, has been McCarthy, who is tied for sixth nationally in interceptions with five, and always seems to be in position to make a clutch play. 
Navy's triple-option also exposed flaws in Notre Dame's run defense, which may not have improved as much as some thought. 
Freshman kicker Nick Tausch, who recently broke the Notre Dame record for most consecutive field goals made (14), had been reliable until missing two key field goals against Navy. 
Although the '09 season has been far from perfect, the Irish still have a lot to play for. vVith a matchup against No. 8 Pittsburgh looming Saturday, Notre Dame has a chance to prove it can compete with one of the nation's top teams. The Irish certainly won't play in the BCS National Champiol:1ship Game as Lou Holtz predicted, but a strong showing in the season's final three games will boost Irish morale and secure an appearance in a respectable bowl game. 
The opinions expressed in this colunm do not necessarily reflect the views ofScholastic 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 33 

34 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 

HUMOR 


Top o' the mornin' to ya, my luscious little Lady-lovers! I've been deep in thought for the last week or two, and I want to pose a very important question to you all: What happened to the good old days of Halloween? 
You remember, right? Like the good cradle Catholic you are, proudly dusting off the Virgin Mary muumuu you saved from last year's school nativity play ... Watching hyper herds of ambiguously dressed middle schoolers sprinting from one "Please take only one" bucket to another... Giggling at the neighbor's dog growling viciously from inside its signature Ballpark Frank wiener costume... 
Well guess what, kids -those days are over. You're in _the big leagues now, playing a game that only our fine generation ofyoung and impressionable pushovers can handle. The rules are simple: Men snag an old sports jersey and call themselves some kind of athlete, women wear as little as possible without warranting a trip to prison, and any larger-than-life mascot or similarly goofy get-up is fair game for those willing to spend the $50 at Halloween Depot. 
Ofcourse, exceptions exist. There are still a few ambitious individuals (i.e. the College of Engineering students) who spend countless hours meticulously constructing clever costumes. And it's likely that you'll stumble across at least one vapid vampire sporting a half gallon of convincing stage blood. 
But at the end of the night a fully operative Transformers suit of armor is simply impractical dancing attire and ketchup-bleeding neck wounds aren't going to get you any action. For better or for worse, Halloween sovereignty now lies with the scandalous, the sexy, and the tasteless. 
What's that you say? You thought dinosaurs couldn't be sexy? Think again! And if you're going to be a pumpkin you better be damn sure that your jack-o­lantern face is carved very strategically on your chest. 
This year's Halloween was the impetus for so many side-splitting spectacles that ol' Gipp couldn't choose just one from the pool of submissions. In the spirit of spooky stories I present to you the top "I wish I hadn't... " moments of Notre Dame Halloween 2009: 
Scenario number one: This year's Halloween was epic -the parties didn't get busted, your costume was a hit, and you drank so much you couldn't recall where you put your panties. No matter! Why, you ask? Here's what happened (I'll tell it for you because I doubt you remember): You woke up in the house of several male acquaintances who last night had generously offered you a cushion on which to lay your weary head. Kind souls that they are, and recognizing your state of persisting intoxication the following morning, they benevolently provide you with the opportunity to impress them with your athletic prowess by performing a perfectly respectable physical challenge: naked sit-ups and push-ups. Not one to be bested by a dinky dare, you comply, emerge victorious, and are thereupon too inebriated to re-clothe yourself. Bravo! 
Scenario number two: You and your best friend are in a bind -once again, no one has been able to come up with a legitimate costume. A bottle of liquor is procured in order to speed the brainstorming process along, at which point inspiration comes quickly. With the help of Senor Cuervo, you and your friend decide on a clever costume: she'll be the tequila, you'll be the lime! Adorable, right? Well maybe, until you take it to the next level: the two of you conclude that you would like to provide "shots" for your friends (and perfect strangers). This means that for one to take a "shot" of your tequila and lime, they must first make out with your friend tequila, then make out with you (the lime). Maybe you'll even carry around a salt shaker for good measure. Classy. (And we wonder why so many people have swine flu ... ) 
Scenario number three: Typical Domer dating saga -boy likes girl, girl likes boy, boy and girl date, girl dumps boy, boy's friends get defensive and castigate girl. The encl ... until, in the spirit of camaraderie, boy's teammates decide to dress up as now ex-girlfriend for Halloween -with actual clothes belonging to ex-girlfriend supplied by ex-girlfriend's best friend (ouch?). Ex­girlfriend finds out and storms angrily into ex-boyfriend's party, only to come face to face with two very accurate replicas ofherself (well, the anatomy was a bit off, but the wardrobe was certainly spot-on). Maybe she should have waited until after Halloween to pull the plug on that one... 
Scenario number four: You've been wandering around the Halloween Store for so long that you've made six phone calls, begun and finished three separate BBM conversations, and consumed an entire Chipotle burrito. It's time to make a decision, so in exasperation you snatch up the nearest ensemble: Surprise! It's the "sexy nurse." Although it almost meets your desired level of trashiness, something's still missing... fishnet stockings? Large hoop earrings? Six fewer inches on the skirt (impossible)? No, no, no... something else ... You've got it! Knee pads. Slap those puppies on your patellas -we'll just call you the "head nurse." 
So ol' Gipp has reached a conclusion: If Earth was ever to be invaded by evil aliens I sure as hell hope it happens on Halloween, because those ET's would surely hightail it straight back to the nearest black hole at the sight of three Clifford the Big Reel Dogs grinding up on the "head nurse" and Santa Claus making out with a giant bottle oftequila. Oh, Halloween, how I love thee. 
"\,Voe is me! So many disastrous denials of integrity and self-worth, so little time to relive them! That's all for this time, kiddos, but remember to keep stirrin' up the sauciness, and keep your hands where I can see them! 
I love you, 
The Gipper 
T?PTH0g;PP 

o o o o o at gipper@nd.edu 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 j SCHOLASTIC j 35 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
corecouncil.nd.edu 





HUMOR 


Krishna Surasi 

t the end oflast semester I was planning to move offcampus, 
like many seniors do at Notre Dame. Also like many students 
at Notre Dame, I do not pay for my housing, so I first needed to get permission from my parents regarding the move. -Hey Mom, can I move off campus next year? -Will it be more expensive than living on campus? -No. -Sure, sounds like fun. One down. Before I recount my next call, however, I must explain 
something about my father: He is Indian. This means that even after living in this country for more than two decades, he still does not grasp every aspect of American culture perfectly. This is particularly apparent when it comes to his understanding ofcollege life. The only thing he knows is that I go away to somewhere in the Midwest for eight months out of the year and study chemistry ... or no, biology and, uh... something else. 
-Hey Dad, can I move off campus next year? 
-What does that mean? 

-I want to move into an apartment near campus. 
-Wait! Are you still going to school? 

-Relax Dad, I am still going to school next year. It's just a thing students do as seniors. -But ifyou live off campus, what do you do for food? -Buy it. -How do you go to classes? -Go to them. -Who is putting you up to this? -I honestly have no idea how to answer that question. -Do they have some kind of chaperones there? -What the hell are you talking about, Dad? There are no 
chaperones anywhere at Notre Dame or any other college in America for that matter. More importantly, I am 20 years old, for 
A


Christ's sake! 
(Long pause) 
-No, I don't think it's a good idea. Your friends will distract you. 
-Contest. Matt and Jack are both way smarter than I am. If anything, living with them will make me a better student because we will study together all the time. 
(Pause to see if he is buying it... he is.) And ifI get smarter living with them I can get into med school and be a doctor just like you because you are my hero and I love you? -(Disappointed sigh) Uh, alright. If that's what you want, I guess so ... 
-(Abruptly hangs up) 
Success! Thanks to my immunity to parental guilt trips, I was on my way to off-campus living ... until the phone rang -Krishna, I don't want you to move off campus. -Why not? -Now is the time to focus on your studies. Work hard now and 
you have the rest of your life to party. 
I thought about what my father had just said and could not believe how ludicrous it sounded. What a terrible mindset for a college student to have! I was so infuriated by my father's ignorance that I completely forgot that the point ofthe conversation was to convince him that my intention in moving off campus was not to be wild. This is roughly what I replied. 
-Dad, what you just said was absolutely ridiculous. College is the best time to party and it would be a complete waste for a college student to not take advantage of that while he can. Do you think I will be able to blackout and urinate on things that aren't toilets when I am a grown-ass adult in the real world? Have you ever seen a 40-year-old man with any self-respect slap the bag? Do you think I can eat 'shrooms for the first time when I have a wife and kids and 
go on to live a normal life? Have you ever watched "The 
Wizard of Oz" while "Dark Side ofthe Moon is playing?" 
That s**t changed my life, man! 
-Krishna, I understood very little ofwhat you just said, 
but you are making me nervous. 
-My point is that these are all things that should be done 
in college because students can get away with being "crazy 
college kids" that are just having a good time. Plus there 
are no parents at college. NO PARENTS! Therefore, I 
think you should let me live off campus. 
I don't remember exactly how the conversation went after that, but it involved me explaining to my dad how mushrooms can get you high and reassuring him that I have never actually done it. Needless to say, my father did not agree with my argument and I am living in the Manor this year. I'm not too worried about it though, because on campus or not, it's still college, and either way there are definitely no parents. 0 
37 ISCHOLASTIC I12 NOVEMBER 2009 


lu News Feed View Live Feed C~.M) 
1EJ Good 

IWhat's on your mind?
1EJ Best 

Ii=] Notre Dame  3 of your friends attended the Navy Pep Rally  
[m Photos.  You have updated your favorite quotes, "Every game, you will have a decided  
fl Links  schematic advantage."  
You attended the event Navy vs. Notre Dame on November 7  
~ Video  
Jon Tenuta Whoops!  LOL :)  
More  2 hours ago  

You . have joined the group, Gator Bowl . 20 I 0: Catholics v. Convicts Part II. Lou Holtz likes this. 
You have left the group, "2009: Notre Dame's Return to Glory" 
Tyrone Willingham has written on your wall: Hit the links next week? It's on me! 
Jack Swarbrick lias poked Urban Meyer 
Charlie Weis is living on a prayer. Jon Bon Jovi likes this. 
You have used the Press Conference application to throw Ian Williams under the bus. Rich Rodriguez became a fan of Navy Football 
You posted a link: Bruce Springsteen -Glory Days 
You have been invited to the Notre Dame Career Center's Winter Job and Internship fair 
Jack Swarbrick has poked Bob Stoops 
Father Jenkins is now friends with Brian Kelly, Chris Petersen, and Bob Stoops. Lou Holtz likes this 
Jack Swarbrick has poked Jon Gruden 
Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate left the group, One More Year: Clausen and Tate Must Stay. 
Mark May posted on the Notre Dame SUCKS Wall: told u lou!!!! 
Bill Belichick tagged you in the album The Good Old· Days 
Bill Belichiclc wrote on your wall: Do you need help? I have a pretty good video crew here... Jon Tenuta likes this 
Jon Bon Jovi tagged Charlie Weis and Bill Belichick in a video 
Jack Swarbriclc has poked Brian Kelly 

Jack Swarbrick has poked Pope Benedict XIV 
38 ISCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 



he fffl~~ ~~~@ 

By Kathleen Toohi/1 and Krishna Surasi 

Tired of the typical off-campus party scene? Forget about the Football House or the Rugby House. Here's an inside look at what a house party might be like if these Notre Dame clubs had off-campus houses: 
?,
~,,

CYCLING CLUB: You've never done a Tour de Franzia until you've done it at Cycling House. Come with a helmet and spandex and get ready to partake in the most grueling test ofendurance­
~"' 
(!:/10
drinking you witnessed. 

FLIPSIDE: Flipside House parties are unusual in that they rarely take place inside the house. After all, why would you stay inside and drink alcohol on a weekend when you can play hide-and-go-seek or capture the flag? Be sure to pre-game Flipside House by properly warming up and stretching. 
GLAss CLUB: Ifyou need a place to change while you're at a Glass Club House party, you're out of luck. Throwing stones isn't recommended either. 
·coLLEGE REPUBLICANS: Have trouble knowing where to put the emphasis on certain words? ~ At the College Republicans House, you're free to pronounce "nuclear" any way you'd like! Be 2~ careful though, these parties often get raided by members ofthe South Bend Police Department who feel that the house should be run as a democracy. , 1 

COLLEGE DEMOCRATS: The members of this club are famous for their elaborate plans for great parties, but whether they get around to actually making these parties happen is another story. Ifthe club ever does have a party and you find yourself in attendance, make sure you recycle each and every beer can or you will immediately be escorted off the premises. 
GLUTEN FREE ND: You won't find beer at this house. In fact, you won't find any wheat-based products at Gluten Free ND House. You can, however, enjoy wine or a distilled spirit with some enzymatically-challenged friends and show everyone how people with celiac disease party. 
GYMNASTICS CLUB: "It looks like he'll start with a salto, moving quickly into a roundoff 
followed by two back hand~prings, a double backflip and ... oh yes, the keg-stand! He nailed it! 1, 2, 3 ... " CALIFORNIA CLUB: The place to be in winter, when the residents of the house stop complaining about the weather long enough to throw tropical themed bashes, complete with inflatable palm trees and heat lamps. Driving a car there isn't recommended, considering no one who lives at the house has the faintest idea how to shovel snow from a driveway. Beware of fist fights that frequently break out between the SoCal and NorCal residents in the house over the use of the word "hella." OBSERVER FAN CmB*: Ifyou're looking for a small, low-key get-together, this is the party for you. Actually, the house is looking for boarders since three ofthe residents recently moved out. Check the classifieds for more information. 

*Not actttally an SAO approved club. 

AND FINALLY, we have a list ofclubs that would never get enough members at ND but would probably throw pretty interesting parties: North Dining Hall is Better than South, Taylor Swift's Brother Shouldn't Get In Here, Enemies of the Harry Potter Series, Students Also Accepted to an Ivy, and Three Cheers for Parietals. 0 
12 NOVEMBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I39 
EXIT INTERVIEW 

FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH 

Molly Kring 

Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., now 92, served as the President ofNotre Dame for 3 5 consecutive years, from 1952-87, the longest tenure in the university's history. Hesburgh holds the Guinness Book ofWorld Records title for ''Most Honorary Degrees," with 150. Chairman of the United States Civil Rights Commission from 1969­72 and a major figure in United States politics and the Catholic Church, Hesburgh also appeared on the bigscreen; in 1993, he played a priest in Rudy. This past spring, Hesburgh supported President Barack Obama's invitation to speak at Notre Dame, and he continues to advocate for interfaith dialogue. Scholastic took the elevator to his office on the 13th floor ofthe Hesburgh Library to ask' some questions ofthis Notre Dame legend. 
What -attribute do you 111,ost ad111,ire in another person? 
Intelligence and moral commitment. 
Ifyou could "live in someone else's shoes" for a day, whose would you choose? 
Obama. He has the problem of leading a country through very difficult times and preserving the American tradition ofidealism and enterprise. 
What is the 111,ost useful piece of advice you have received? 
Depending on the Holy Spirit for the inspiration and vision we need to create the best Catholic university of all time. I think that goal is always a vision in the making and Notre Dame has achieved it in large measure and grows toward it each day. 
What do you think is the ·most pressing issue ofour generation? 
We h~ve to create an idealistic democracy in times of growing confusion and enormous challenge. 
What isyour idea ofa peifect day? 
First ofall, I wake up [laughs]. And I'm inspired by the · challenge each day brings and the thoughts of what 
might be done to meet those challenges, particularly in the context of a Catholic university. 
You can invite any three figures, living or dead, to a dinner party. Who would they be? 
The I>resident and the best Catholic intellectuals I could find. 
What is your ~iggest worry? To somehow keep order. in the midst ofinternational confusion, both intellectually and spirituallf-
Ifyou could have any one superpower, what would it be? 
I ~ould be a wise man and a good ~~iest. 
What is yourfavorite quotation? "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men (and I would add all women) are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit ofhappiness." -The Declaration ofIndependence 
You are stranded on an island and uncover a backpack with a single book in it. Which book do you hope to find when you reach in? 
The Bible. 
40 I SCHOLASTIC I 12 NOVEMBER 2009 


.•• •• 




Ice cream, Shakes, and Halts Now open in the Huddle Hart 











