Spring Comes to the Campus of Our Lady as Graduates and Underclassmen leave to serve for God, Country and Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Vol. 78
APRIL 23. 1943
No. 10
For the first time in many years, a class of seniors is graduating and leaving Notre Dame without a-Dome. No annual has been published as a record of their life at Notre Dame, especially of their senior year. Several obvious difficulties resulting from the war forced the discontinuance of the Dome for the., duration.
Without attempting the impossible task of issuing a miniature yearbook, Scholastic has done its best to reproduce in sixty-four pages the past semester’s activities. With the best wishes of the staff, it is
dedicated to the one hundred and seventy graduating seniors and to the countless other students who are leaving Notre Dame next week to enter the armed forces of our country.
TOP ROW—LEFT TO RIGHT
SECOND ROW
Rafael T. Alducin, Ph.B. in Cm.
Mexico, D.F.
Ramon A. Araujo, B.S. in F.Cm. Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.
J. Clifford Atwood, C.S.C., A.B. North Quincy, Mass.
Charles I. Blomer, B.S. in A.E. Evansville, Ind.
John B. Brehmer, B.S. in E.E. South Bend, Ind.
Bro. Philip Neri Breslin. C.S.C., A.B. St. Louis. Mo.
Brother Elstan Brown, C.S.C., A.B. Anaconda, Mont.
Robert F. Browning, A.B. Battle Creek, Mich.
Charles J. Butler, B.S.
Chicago, III.
Frank J. Conforti, B.S. in Acct. New York, N. Y.
Francis J. Delaney, B.S. in P.E. San Francisco, Calif.
Fred G. Dewes, B.S.C. Evansville, Ind.
Bro. Mansuetus Donoghue, C.S.C., A.B. Springfield, Mass.
Robert L. Dove, B.S. in P.E. Youngstown, Ohio
Raymond B. Duggan, B.S. in Acct. Sicux City, Iowa
Joseph C. Duquette, Jr., B.S. in E.E. North Tonawanda, N. Y.
Eugene A. Fehlig, B.S.C.
St. Louis, Mo.
Raymond R. Flynn, A.B.
Youngstown, Ohio
Rudolph M. Gans, B.S.C. Staten Island, N. Y.
Joseph V. Goeken, B.S.C.
Alton, HI.
Fred D. Goosen, B.S.C.
Richmond Hill, L.I., N.Y.
Cornelius H. Green, A.B. Rochester, N. Y.
Donald B. Guy, B.S. in Ae.E. Newton, Kansas
Donald F. Haller. B.S.C. Evansville, Ind.
4
TOP ROW—LEFT TO RIGHT	SECOND ROW
Brother Pacificus Halpin, C.S.C., A.B. Long Island, N. Y.
Howard Hanks, Jr., B.S. in C.E. Easton, Pa.
Brother Malchus Hans, C.S.C., A.B, Fordyce. Nebr.
Brother Norman Head, C.S.C., A.B. New Hope, Ky.
Donald T. Heltzel, A.B. Warren, Ohio
Arthur F. Hiegel, B.S. in Ae.E. Conway. Ark.
Edward W. Hoch. B.S.C. Fort Wayne, Ind.
Robert M. Hoffman, C.S.C., A.B. Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind.
William J. Hormberg, A.B. East St. Louis. Ill.
Oliver H. Hunter III. B.S. in F-Cm. Erie. Pa.
Cornelius A. Johnson, B.S. in Met. Empire, Midi.
William C. Johnson, B.S.C. Valley Stream, N. Y.
Norman L. Kiehm, C.S.C., A.B. Elyria, Ohio
Francis A. King, A.B. Richmond Hill, N. Y.
Donald H. Kotz, B.S.
Kenosha, Wis,
William P. Liljestrom, B.S. Ellsworth, Kans.
Robert P. Lonergan, A.B. Wilmette, Ill.
John E. MacClemens, A.B. Charlote, N. C.
James J. Maher, B.S.C. Newburgh. N. Y.
Anthony J. Maloney, Ph.B. in Cm. New York, N. Y.
Harry J. McKnight, B.S.C. Richmond, Va.
Samuel F. Meyer, B.S. in P.E. Blanchardville, Wis.
Julian D. Michel. B.S.C.
Charleston, S. C.
William R. Nicholson. B.S. South Bend, Ind.
5
TOP ROW—LEFT TO RIGHT	SECOND ROW
Charles J. O’Leary, B.S. in P.E. Cincinnati, Ohio
Thomas F. O’Malley, B.S. in F.C. Schenectady, N. Y.
Richard J. O’Neill, B.S.E.E. South Bend, Ind.
Jchn J. O’Toole, C.S.C., A.B. Notre Dame, Ind.
Robert J. Reale, B.S. Brooklyn, N. Y.
Bro. Eldred Reisenweber, C.S.C., A.B. Erie, Pa.
Bro. Leopold Rozmarin, C.S.C., A.B. Leigh, Neb.
Wilfred R. Savard, C.S.C., A.B. Notre Dame, Ind.
Chester J. Schneider, C.S.C., A.B. Evansville, Ind.
Daniel C. Stewart, B.S. in Ae.E. Chicago, HI.
Robert F. Tack, C.S.C.. A.B. Tonawanda, N. Y.
John G. Tobin, A.B. Long Beach, Calif.
THIRD ROW
FOURTH ROW
James E. Tobin, C.S.C., A.B. Notre Dame, Ind.
Ralph J. Vinciguerra, B.S. in P.E. Akron, Ohio
Joseph G. Walsh. B.S. Tucson, Ariz.
John F. Treacy, B.S. in P.E. Freeport, L. I., N. Y.
Brother Albeus Walsh, C.S.C., A.B. Newark, N. Y.
Joseph Wetzel, B.S. in A.E. Port Huron, Mich.
Richard D. Tupta, A.B. Cleveland, Ohio
John N. Walsh, B.S. Brooklyn, N. Y.
Ambrose J. Wheeler, C.S.C.. A.B. Brooklyn, N. Y.
John P. Wietoff, B.S. in Ae.E. Muont Vernon, N. Y.
Brother Marius Wittner, C.S.C., B.Sc. Detroit, Mich.
Anthony F. Zagame, A.B. . Brooklyn, N. Y.
Walter J. Ziemba,.B.S. in P.E. Hammond, Ind.
•SWWjMl W' J h:
6
----------------------------------------
The following Seniors will also receive degrees next week. "The Scholastic" regrets that these men were not photographed.
Atkins, Thomas Lee, West Branch, Mich., A.B.
Baddour, Maurice Frederick, Laurinburg, N. C., B.S. in E.E.
Baker, John Francis, Uxbridge, Mass., B.S. in Com.
Callahan, Edward Daniel, Lynn, Mass., B.S. in Com.
Chemey, Andrew Wiliam, Ashtabula, Ohio, LL.B.
Clough, William Ezra, Saugerties, N. Y., A.B.
Conley, Edward Thomas, Bradford, Pa., B.S. in Com.
Corgan, Paul Joseph, Alma, Mich., B.S. in P.E.
Cornwell, Richard Calvin, South Bend, Ind., B.E. in E.E.
Costello, William Clarence, Gloucester, N. J., Ph.B. in Com.
Curtis, William Doran, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind., A.B.
Dillon, William Shafer, Harbor City, Calif., B.S. in P.E.
Donegan, Earl Cary, Stamford, Conn., Ph.B. in Com.
Dore, Edward James, Dearborn, Mich., B.S. in Com.
Duffy, Raymond Thomas, East Liverpool, Ohio, A.B.
Duggan, John Kane, Pittsburgh, Pa., A.B.
Earley, William Joseph, Parkersburg, W. Va., A.B.
Edwards, John Rex, Pittsburgh, Pa., B.S. in Com.
Engleton. C.S.C.. Thomas Joseph. Notre Dame, Ind., A.B.
Evans, Frederick Owen, South Bend, Ind., B.S. in Com.
Fearon, John Joseph, Dansville, N. Y., B.S. in Com.
Finn, James Henry, Brookings, S. Dak., B.S. in Com.
Firth, Robert John, Brooklyn, N. Y., A.B.
Fisher, Paul Albert, Indianapolis, Ind., Ph.B. in For. Com.
Fisher, William John, Huron. Ohio. B.S. in For. Com.
Florence, Harry Augustin, New York, N. Y., B.S. in P.E.
Hall, Richard Arch, Gary, Ind., Ph.B. in Com.
Hauser, Robert Frederick, Port Clinton, Ohio B.S. in Min.E.
Helland, Hans Olaf, Wisconsin Dells, Wis., A.B.
Henney, Thomas Edward, Portage, Wis., B.S.
Herzog, William Linthicum, Balto, Md., B.S. in M.E.
Hiersoux, Roger Joseph, Charleston, W. Va., B.S.
Kaiser, Francis William, Chatsworth, Ill., B.S. in Com.
Kasper, Francis Walter, Fairmont, Minn... B.S. in M.E.
Kisgen, Richard William, Carroll, Iowa, A.B.
Kunkel, Francis Leo, Kew Gardens, N. Y., A.B.
Lockary, C.S.C., Thomas Edmund, Notre Dame, Ind., A,B.
Mahon, William Richard, Bayonne, N. J., B.S. in P.E.
Mancini, Peter Vincent, Connersville, Ind., B.S. in Min.E.
Martine, Jay Barklow, Ph.B. in Com.
Maurer, Frederic George, Lima, Ohio, B.S.
McCullion, Bartley Richard, Youngstown, Ohio, Ph.B. in Com.
McGowan, William Adam, Jersey Shore, Pa., B.S. in Aero.E.
McHugh, C.S.C., Mark Thomas, Notre Dame, Ind., A.B.
Middendorf, William Bernard, Covingion, Ky., Ph.B. in Com.
Mileti, Otto Joseph, Louisville, Ky., B.S. in Chern. Engr.
Miller, Seeccv Duff, A.B.
Milliman, John Richard, Detroit, Mich., B.S. in Com. '	.
Molter, Samuel Edward, Goodland, Ind., A3.	' ,
Morrison. John Henry, Indianapolis, Ind., B.S. in Com. . . Muellman. Robert George, Chicago, RL, B.S. in Com.	-
Murphy, Charles Hayes, University City, Mo., A3.	’
Murray, James Carroll, Yonkers, N. Y., A3.	‘
Murray, John Anthony, Burlington, Vt., A3.	•
Menno, Robert Peter, Buffalo, N. Y., B.S.	■'
O'Doherty, C.S.C., Kevin Brendan, Notre Dame,’ Ind., A3.	'
O'Malley, John Daniel, Terre Haute, Ind., A3.	- .	'
Pacheco, Leopoldo Arturo, Roswell, N. Mex., A3.	-	’	.
Perry, Thomas Walter, Cleveland. Ohio, B.S. in C3.	.	■ . , '
Pesavento, Renzo Joseph, Chicago, Ill., B.S. in M3.	*	'	'
Pfeiffer, Paul Edward, Wayland, N. Y.» B.S. in Com. ' .	; -
Powers, Edward Joseph, Lake Geneva, Wis., B.S. in M3.	. ' ’ •
Randolph. William Eugene, Jackson, Tenn., A.B. Rau, John Alden, LaCrosse, Wis., B.S. in M3.	_
Reilly, Henry Edward. Westboro, Mass., B.S. in M3.	. < . .
Rensberger, Robert LaMar, Nappanee. Ind., B.S. in P3.
. Rice, Willis Hale. Pittsburgh, Pa., A3.	. - .	.
Ronan, John Patrick. DeKalb, Ill., B.S. in Com.	'
Russell, John Cornelius, Lewiston, Maine, A.B.	-	.;
Ryan, Robert Joseph, Peekskill, N. Y., B.S. in P.E.	•. ;
Rymkus, Louis, Chicago, RL, B.S. in P3.	'	-
Sandom, Zane Joseph, Chicago, RL, B.S. in Com.	’
Schaaf, Edward Joseph, Jasper, Ind., B.S. in Com.	-	■
Scherer, John Otto, Peoria, III., B.S. in Com.	;
Schiltz, Richard Austin, Billings, Mcr,t.. B.S. in Com.	’-
Schmitt, Howard John, LaPorte, Ind., B.S. in Met. -	• . .
Schroeck, Bernard Anthony, Erie,. Pa., B.S. in For. Com.	=	:
Sherer, Joseph John, West Hartford, Conn., B. Arch.	.
Sherer, William Joseph, West Hartford, Conn., B.Arcn. _	' ,	■
Shortsleeve, Francis Joseph, Elmira, N. Y., B.S. in Met. ' :	• ... ,
Shriwise, Wayne Augustus. Jetmore, Kans., B.S. in Chem3. .■	.
Steigmeyer, C.S.C., Robert Clement, Notre Dame, Ind.. A.B.	~ <
Stuart. Franklin Horace. Wellesley HiRs. Mass., A3.	'•
Sweeney, Jeremiah Joseph, Philadelphia. Pa.. B.S. in Com. ■	-
Sweeney, William Michael. Ashley. Pa.. B.S. , ,	' - ;
Thompson. George Edward. Geneseo, N. Y. A.B.	'	' j--	'
Troup, John Elmsley, Kansas City, Mo., A.B.	•	■	‘ ‘	-
Wahl, John Joseph, Rockford, RL, A.B.	'	'	'
Walsh, William Francis, Mineola, N. Y... B.S. in Chem3.	~	'
Warner, John Andrew, New Haven, Conn., A.B., - :	\	_
Webb, Robert Bailey, Santa Ana, Calif.; A3.	.	, /x
Wright, Harry Charles, Hempstead, L. L, N. Y., B.S. in P3.	,>' x --	.
~ Cain, Thomas, Nashville, Tenn., LL.B. _	. ■	.
The Semester at Notre Dame
January saw class of '43 take over Alumni hall.
Students heard Campus Station—WND.
Class Elections Politics as usual!!!
Red Lonergan offers student aid to farmers.
Race began to reclaim Ball-Band Jobs.
Chicago boys crowd South Shore for GL. basketball game.
Prospective officers take V-12;
A-12 exams.
Frank King cuts dance bands in tiny bits.
Knights of St. Mary's threaten Woelfle.
Washington announces science students to be deferred.
Then there were the class dances.
And then there were the mid-terms.
Loud guffaw at musical comedy— Let's Get Going.
And you can bet your last shirt— the laundry situation remained the same.
8
Notre Dame Students In War Work
War struck at the American nation and at university life on Dec. 7, 1941. Since then, Notre Dame students have been near the top in lending assistance to the war effort, and the phrase, “for God, Country, and Notre Dame,” no longer resounds across the campus as a mere slogan.
Notre Dame alumni and students taken from school, coming from all corners of the globe, now serve with the United Nations across the entire expanse of the world. We who still remain in school can recall campus friends who already have a gold star marked to their name.
We have recognized war in the blacking out of the golden dome. Oui- campus and classrooms have been given to the Navy. More than half the student body has enlisted in some branch of the services. United we have been in prayers for other sons of Notre Dame now fighting on the fronts. There was the. war charities carnival. And we have conducted a continuous campaign for the sale of war bonds and stamps. Notre Dame is doing its part.
But that isn’t the way of Notre Dame and the Fighting Irish to merely do what is expected. Like the lightning flashes of the famous grid teams, Notre Dame always comes up with just a little more than the occasion demands.
For the past two semesters many cam
'Tm sorry, but no Ball Band signatures are accepted after 9 o'clock."
pus students have been employed in war and defense plants in the South Bend— Mishawaka industrial area. One hundred and twenty-five Notre Dame men have flocked into defense jobs this semester. That means students leaving the campus after the day’s classes, taking long bus rides to the plants, putting in hours that sometimes drag on until late at night, and then return to the residence halls, oft times at one or two o’clock in the morning, to rise at seven o’clock for morning check. In between there has been time to study, write letters home, and occasional relaxation.
Plants have been anxious to employ Notre Dame men, and many secured positions at Ball-Band at Mishawaka, Studebaker corporation, Bendix Aviation corporation, and the Edwards Iron Works. Almost half the students in war employment were placed through efforts of the Scholastic promotion department, which called for volunteers, in cooperation with the United States employment service in South Bend.
Students have been employed on the production line and in the office, and at least two were engaged in specialized and skilled work. Pay has been good and the students have further cooperated by purchasing war stamps and bonds. Recently two Alumni hall seniors purchased §100 war bonds.
The University has aided in providing students to help the war employment effort. Permits have been given for students to absent themselves from the University at hours later than usual, and the dining halls have given special consideration to the workers. Arrangements have been made so that each employee obtains a daily lunch—sandwiches, fruit, and cake—in place of the evening meal, and cafeteria privileges have been extended for breakfast.	'
Many students have been using the weekly pay check to defray University expenses. Others have been saving it for the rainy days—mostly it is invested in war bonds. In addition to the campus residents employed, many of the war workers reside off campus.
Students also volunteered their services to aid in other efforts. Notre Dame has gone to war—totally to war!
Sorin Evil-Eye Chapter
Bows Out of "V" Garden
Notre Dame students this semester manifested their realization of war shortages in many ways. The majority commuted to South Bend factories daily to help alleviate the shortage in manpower that vital industries have experienced.
One contingent on the campus, however, has received special note for its job: the victory garden, as sponsored by the Sorin Evil-eye Club. With remarkable vigor this group began the business of spring gardening, arranging for a plot of land to be cleared, plowed, and processed. Local papers “blew” the project as a great patriotic endeavor. It looked like a “sure thing.”
Today a plot of turned-up ground just east of the Biology building lies bare and lonely. The Evil-eye chapter, with the initial delight of local limelight over, has taken a low bow right out of the picture! The dirty work of planting, tending and weeding was not for them.	.
Of course the Evil-eye men were questioned concerning this reversal of policy, and the answer was that seed at this time is unavailable. That’s their story. Seed manufacturers are producing more this year than ever before in the history of the country, and downtown seed stores are overrun with everything from horse-radish to acorns.
Seeds unavailable? Sounds more like : someone is “taking a dive.”
’ ’ ’ - - ",
That Great Woelfle Finally Weakens;
TOP OF THE SEMESTER
“Cut like a cameo against the clear morning Memory' holds Notre Dame to our view. Glory of sunrise and loyalty's azure Are her fair colors—the Gold and Blue.”
WE OF '43
It’s all over for the class of ’43. This
jack woelfle
last semester wasn’t an ordinary three and a half months either. A lot of crazy things happened. The humorous events are the ones we’re going to recall years from now, so let’s see what we can dig out of the
last thirteen weeks.
THE DRIBBLERS
One of the first interests of the returning students was basketball. Those Tuesday and Saturday night games were swell. Some of the lads were daring-enough to bring their daring girl friends into the fieldhouse. Every time a good looking girl came in there was so much chirping from the gallery you’d think the swallows had come back from Capistrano. One girl walked into the fieldhouse on a Saturday evening, when N.D. was playing the State Pen, and looking across the court at the screaming mass of nearly humanity she said: “Wasn’t that nice of the warden to let them come?” The referees this year were good but one fellow had a little trouble with his eyes. He would have been O.K. but his seeing eye dog kept getting in the way. The other ref was rather emphatic in announcing the fouls. On numerous' occasions the management* of the Palace called up and requested that he be a little more quiet so that the patrons of the . theatre could hear the picture. Ice cream on a stick also hit a new high. The company explained that it wasn’t so much the ice. cream that boosted the prices but the cost of lumber is terrific.
AHOY*
Two weeks after we; returned, the first group of sailors; graduated- from midshipmen’s school. The, valedictorian; of the class mounted the make-shift poop
10
deck and said to the breathless audience: “Why are you so breathless? Go ahead and breathe. There’s enough air in here for everyone.” It’s acts of generosity such as this that have endeared the Navy to the students’ hearts. Everyone commented on the generosity and immediately a pamphlet was written titled, “From The Atlantic To The Pacific,” or, “How The U.S.S. Wyoming Got Into St. Mary’s Lake.” The valedictorian then went on to thank the girls of South Bend for being such an inspiration. He said that the fact that 100% of the graduating class had applied for active service, could be laid to the fact that the girls were so charming. “Bowl-Mor” Bessie then mounted the platform and on behalf of South Bend’s debutantes made the following heart-tearing statement: “Guys, and I know I can call you ‘Guys’; we goils wants youse taknow that we’ll be thinkin’ of youse out there on them battleships and up there in them submarines, and down there on them fortresses. But wherever youse guys is, remember the slogan of the old fightin’ Bowl-Mor. We have met the enemy and they ain’t Rs, they’re 4Fs.” Tch tch! A nice way to talk about old N.D.
SOCIAL LIFE TOO
Then a little later came a message more surprising than that of Dec. 7, 1941: “There will be a Senior and Junior dance.” It was called the Prom-Ball. Clever name, wasn’t it? It could have been called the Ball-Prom, or maybe even the Se-Ju dance, or the Ju-Se hop, but old N. D., steeped in a hundred years of tradition added another year to the steep. We stuck to formality. So with white ties and tails (no, the tails, were not white), flying in the breeze, it was off to the dance. Those attending were allowed to drive cars. There weren’t enough No. 7 coupons to go around so the boys explained to their dates. that “the best girls of all couldn’t steer so they’d haul.” Some of the girls didn’t. like the idea of pulling the car but with typical Notre Dame finesse, the boys said that “someone has to steer.” Ted Fio Rito provided the skyline rhythms. Every time his areoplaney trombones warmed up an American Airlines porter stepped in and announced that flight 4 was leaving on cloud 6. The way some of the lads flew around the dance floor you’d . think they believed him.
A few weeks later the sophomores suddenly decided to have a Cotillion. The band was signed, the flowers were ordered, and the tickets were sold when lo! it was learned that St. Mary’s could not go. Then the Sweetbriar institution suddenly got an inspiration and signs were soon posted, saying: “St. Mary’s can go!” Everyone was so happy you’d have thought the girls were going home or something. Gracie Barrie provided the music and the Palais provided the dance floor. Too bad they haven’t got something to go with the floor. Anyway, there was a hot time in the old town and where there’s heat there’s fire; and where there’s fire there’s smoke. On the program was a notation: “This smoke is being provided through the courtesy of Walgreen’s directly below.” The smell wasn’t really very bad, but one girl used to the finer things of life no doubt, commenting on the odor of burning coke and shaving cream, said: “I think it was so clever of you boys to hold your dance in a warehouse.” When last seen a week ago, she was still walking around the dance floor looking for the bargain counter.
THEN WE GOT TOUGH
A sure sign of Spring is the arrival of the Bengal Bouts. “This year the bouts were exceptionally good,” said the leading dentists of South Bend. One young lady seeing a boxer drop his mouthpiece, and thinking it was his false teeth, told the referee in no uncertain terms she thought it was “terrible letting an old man like that in the ring.” The favorite punch during the fights was known as the “filling loosener.” After getting hit with such a punch, one lad spit so much silver he looked like a two-bit slot machine.
WE WOUND UP
The semester came to a smash crash finish with a solid week of entertainment. First the musical comedy drove the ghost out of Washington Hall, and then along came the carnival. That carnival was a doozer. The St. Mary’s girls decided to come after they learned that the South Bend debutantes were sending a contingent. It was nip and tuck all the way. When the carnival ended; St: Mary’s was leading on knockdowns. The approved
Relents After Three Semesters
knockdown was: “Miss Brmpst, may I present Mr. Lmftre.” It took a lot of explaining to explain that the midway was not the Dixie Highway. One of the chefs came running wildly over to the fieldhouse with a gleam in his eye and an axe in his hand when he heard that there was a barker over there shouting himself hoarse. Ugh! The sailors were at the carnival, too. They were climbing around the girders all night making believe that they were in the crow’s nest. (No, we’re not speaking of St. Mary’s tower.) As we walked out of the fieldhouse Saturday night, we couldn’t help thinking that this had been the last Notre Dame activity for a lot of boys.
REMINISCE
There are a few things here on the campus novel to Notre Dame only. Let’s see if we can dig out a couple.
IF YOU'RE FIT—
It’s probably because you’ve been taking advantage of the excellent gym facilities. Mr. Tommy Mills does a swell job keeping the Rockne Memorial and the equipment in shape. One of the novelties over there though is turning in a $100 watch so you can bounce a $7.50—$6.50 for wear, basketball. Handball was perhaps the favorite indoor sport. We all remember the story about the freshman who wandered into the dark corridor looking for the handball courts. He opened the cage door and stepped inside. The paratroops had nothing on this lad as he dropped 14 feet to the court floor. His only comment was: “The handball broke my fall.”
THERE WERE MORNING
CHECKS
Ah, the bells! Will we ever forget them? When you awoke in the morning it sounded as if you were getting ready for a crash dive. If you slept in an upper, you were. There’s nothing like a leap through the air in the early morning especially if you land on that cake of soap you dropped after 12 the night before. Some of those double deckers were really quite high. Some of the lads had to move because they weren’t able to sleep comfortably wearing oxygen masks.
AND MIDNIGHTS
Many times you had nothing to do for nothing so you took midnight and spent 20 cents to do it in town. Despite what most outsiders think, South Bend is not a college town. Some don’t even think it’s a town. No evening was complete without a stop at the palatial Bowl-Mor or sophisticated Kewpee’s. The only difference between the two establishments is that in one you don’t recognize what you’re getting, and in the other you don’t get what you can recognize. Then it was back to the campus and the watchmen. For some reason or other, the watchman was always very interested in penmanship.	.
SELF SERVICE
We saw the arrival of cafeteria service at Notre Dame. Cafeteria service is usually synonymous with “help yourself” but N.D. is unusual. We used the selective service method in the dining hall—one of everything. The girls behind the counter sang a cute little song as they merrily poured the gravy: “One for the money, two for the shows. Three to get ready, and here’s some for your nose.” Cute kids. But no matter where we go, be it Africa or Siberia, we’ll never
"The Wolf" pounds out “The Week"
forget those delicious and nutritious mystery balls. The balls that made Notre Dame famous.
❖
MISCELLANEOUS
The library reported that a new’ book has taken the lead over our old favorite, Drums Along the Mohawk. It is written by an unknown South Bend author. It is named Bums Along the St. Joe. . . . De-• spite all the rumors to the contrary, the E.R.C. stayed with us right to the end.
It is reported that the first contingent of the Enlisted Reserve Corps has arrived in Africa and the soldiers report that they’re the best cooks the Army has had in a long time. . . . The problem of a lot of the boys who won’t be returning for the summer semester is, “what to do with our books?” If you haven’t anything better to do with them, give them to the library. This can be your first endowment to the University.
CLASSIFIED
After the attempted bombing of, Hitler in the Munich Brauhaus became known, the following notices appeared , in the windows of several butcher shops in Prague the next morning:
“There will unfortunately be no lara or pork today as the swine wasn’t killed yesterday.”
OUR THANKS
For this, the last paragraph of many columns, we’d like to abandon the colloquial “we” for a few lines. It’s: been fun writing this column and taking good natured pokes at the campus doings. A big blow to St. Mary’s. The girls took the ribbing like the ladies they are. I guess it’s a fact that “the best girls of all come from old LeManse Hall.” Then there’s Mr. Connolly of the dining hall. He’s been swell about the phoney remarks. I think he’s doing a fine job considering all the handicaps. Our dining hall compares with any and outshines the rest. The laundry, too, has done a good job with an overloaded work schedule and limited equipment. At least we always had plenty of variety in our , shirts. The Cavaliers, campus dance band, deserve a blow as do the band and glee club for services well done. Many thanks to all the students who had patience enough to read The Week, and my congratulations to those who didn’t. Thanks, ■ fellows, for the laughs.
BOTTOM OF SEMESTER
Good bye. (Ed. note: Sob! Soh I). V
11
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
HO! CAMP CUSTER!
.It was a little more than four months ago that we succumbed to the E. R. C.
JOHN A. LYNCH
rumors and signed off as the Parader. The Dec. 11 issue of last year carried our epilogue, and we went home to await call. But another m o n t h and we were back again, amidst new rumors. We’ve been
able to weather
them this far, but now the rumors are taking active shape. Camp Custer, Mich., will be our first stop, some time after May 15.
JUNE, 1942....
We’ve been at this columning since June, 1942, and we’ve watched the college scene change considerably since then. The war has entered the college life of the nation, and has left it staggering under a new military emphasis. The E. R. C., the Army Air Corps, the Navy V programs, the Marines and the regular-draft have been college news every day. But behind these there are the little tilings that hit the public print very seldom. A few of them we have gathered from our exchanges of past weeks:
The normal enrollment of 1,200 in the Harvard Law School has been reduced to 104 men.
University of Minnesota co-eds are serving as hostesses at the Union sewing-service, voluntarily darning socks for servicemen.
A recent survey showed at least 17 schools offer training for civilians expecting to do post-war relief and rehabilitation work abroad.
Brooklyn College is conducting a four-week summer session in which city-bred students nail harvest crops by day and attend classes at night.
The manpower shortage at Ball State Teachers College brought on a spectacle when the members of the faculty and the administration appeared on the campus one day dressed in work clothes, and raked the lawns.
The Pitt News of the University of Pittsburgh has been taken over by co-eds for the duration.
12
Notre Dame promises two men back for fall football.
HEADS UP
We’ve always read college newspaper headlines with extra enthusiasm. Where else could you find such examples as these?
“Here Comes The Sad Seasoji When Our Nice Snowballs Will Melt.” And the enlightening:
“Spring Returns to Campus Again as It Has Done in the Past.”
. The girls of New Rochelle College are responsible for both of them. Who else but a woman could strangle words like that?
Then there are some heads that leave us wondering. The following one was in the University Daily Kansan.
“Three Students Hold Full Time SOW Jobs.”
And from the same paper a head that was meant to catch the eye:
“Say ‘No’ Occasionally — Advice to Coeds.”
JOKE CYCLE
Since last June we’ve been stumbling-through various humor columns and the humor magazines that come our way on the exchange. By referring to The Juggler, extinct Notre Dame humor magazine, we have established the joke cycle as being 11 years long. It’s much easier for the joke syndicates to revive them this way than to trouble themselves with new ones. A typical example:
A bargain is a good buy. A good-bye is a farewell. A farewell is to part. To part is to leave. My girl left me behind without a good-bye. She was no bargain anyway.
HITS AND MISSES
Soniewhere out of the exchange pages we have plucked examples of space-fillers like these:
Santa Claus is the only one who can run around all night with a bag and not get talked about.
The guy that predicted that Hitler
would die on a Jewish holiday can’t miss.
If it isn’t it will be.
One swallow doesn’t make a summer, but it does break a Lenten resolution.
Woman’s best asset is man’s imagination.
A sensible girl is not so sensible as
she looks, because a sensible girl has more sense than to look sensible.
A college student is one who enters his alma mater as a Freshman dressed in green and emerges as a Senior in black. The intermediate process of decay is known as a college education.
FREE VERSE
Some bits of verse can’t be overlooked, so there is:
In the parlor there were three. . . .
She, the table-lamp, and he;
Two is company, there is no doubt.
So the little lamp went out!
SPRING FEVER DEPT.
We have just one quotation that we believe worthy of note. It’s from The Daily Northwestern.
Lynch puts the "Parade"'together
“Because it’s Spring, many young men on campus will fall in love. Many girls hope they will. Before they depart for active service they may even want to hang their fraternity pins.
“ ‘But please boys,’ pleads Bill Nims, counselor* to men, ‘refrain from giving the sweet young things any copies of orders received for military service. You will need all six copies when you report for duty’.”
FAREWELL
And that ends column No. 29 from ; this typewriter and this columnist. We hope our successor is able to hold up under, the barrage of exchanges, and we wish the summer staff the best of luck. Our address will be with the E.R.C. and we’ll be reading you there.
Former "Scholastic" Editor
Elected to High Office
A recent news dispatch from the market and finance section of the Chicago Tribune drives home the fact that another Notre Dame man is going places in the business world.
Neil C. Hurley, a Notre Dame graduate of the class of 1932, was advanced
Former Editor Hurley
the position of executive vice president of the Independent Pneumatic Tool company, a vital industry in the present national war effort. Previous to his promotion Hurley served four years as a vice president and a director.
The new executive vice president, who has risen to one of the Midwest’s outstanding positions in the world of commerce, comes from River Forest, Ill., and was a graduate in the College of Arts and Letters. Besides serving as editor of the Scholastic, he was president of the Wranglers, honorary forensic society, sports editor of the Dome, a member of the Chicago Club, a sophomore Cotillion committeeman, was active in interhall debating, and a member of the Blue Circle. He is a nephew of the late Edward N. Hurley, distinguished winner of the Laetare medal, who donated the University a liberal sum for the erection of the Commerce building which bears his name.
Another Notre Dame graduate, John A. McGuire, ’39, more familiar to recent college life, was elected secretary of the company. McGuire will be remembered by many of the present post-graduate students. Coming from Chicago, he was an arts and letters major. .
The Independent Pneumatic Tool Co., has plants in Aurora, Ill., and New York, and executive offices in New York and Chicago.
Jim Cunningham
A master mimic. . . with a magna cum laucle. . . Paul William O’Connell, of Newark. . . New York, not New Jersey . . . He’s been trying to tell people since the peaceful 1940 day when he arrived at N. D. . . to take up the studies of elements and compounds.
Paul was valedictorian of his class at old Newark high. . . where his chief interest was journalism. . . until he hit senior chemistry and found it to his liking. . . and in spite of traditional tough courses in College of Science the O’Connell average stays “over 90.”
As freshman he was impressed by the definite character traits among members of the science faculty. . . did imitations to liven up hall bull sessions. . . First public appearance was at Walsh hall co-op smoker last summer.
From Walsh went to Washington hall for the K. of C. summer vaudeville show
Mimic O'Connell in Action
. . . carried off first prize of §25. . . Since then has been regular at both student and faculty functions. . . Although Paul’s act is a big laugh getter... it’s done with due respect for his profs and is treated as a piece of art rather than a burlesque.
Last summer 5'9", ever-the-wise-cracking O’Connell, picked up the nickname “Houdini”. . . while waiting table. . . Seems , he used to bring his customers what they wanted before they asked for it. . . “Those were the good old days,” says Paul. “white tablecloths.”
On the third floor of Alumni. .. . rooms with lawyer “Demo” DeMots. . . who shares a subscription to The New Yorker ' with him. , . Paul hasn’t eaten a Sunday breakfast since August. . . Likes S. B.’s Town Club.
As a sophomore took first and last walk West-Northwest. . . “The place just did not attract my interest.”.. His deferment was up today at noon. . . Hopes for another that will allow him to do some graduate work after fall commencement . . . Then war .research for plant or gov-eminent.	.
Outside reader. . . History and biography. . . Close follower of current , events. . . Looks forward with a smile.- -
Round Table Plays Host To Faculty Members
The Economic Round Table held its. final banquet at Blake Gardens, Wednesday, the fourteenth. The meeting was the final one for most of the members who expect to leave school and home for the duration. The club had as its guest for the’ evening Fr. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., of the department of philosophy and the club’s moderator, Professor William H. Downey, head of the department of economics. No formal paper was given, although Charles Pickhardt reported on the International Relations Conference at MacMurray College in Jacksonville, to which the club sent five delegates. J. C. R. Clark, the club’s secretary, read a brief summary of the meetings and the papers for this semester and the depart- ’ ing members gave their farewells.
At the previous meeting. Charles Pickhardt gave his paper on “War Debts” at the Morningside Hotel. Brother Edmund Hunt, C.S.C., was the faculty guest for that evening. After the regular meeting, the members elected a vice-president and vice-secretary to follow in office this summer, in the event that either, of the present officers won’t return. J. C. R. Clark of Hamilton, Ohio was elected vice-president to succeed Joseph Rud of Chicago, • and Charles Urruela of Miami Beach, . Fla., was elected vice-secretary.
Metal Society Hears
Telephone Technician
Dr. F. F. Lucas, technician with the New. York . Bell Telephone laboratories, discussed “Scientific and Industrial Applications of Metallography” before the Notre. Dame chapter of the American ' Society of Metals, April 14, in the Engineering auditorium.
The address was accompanied with . the showing of a color film on rubber latex and colloidal phenomena which is the result of five years’ research- ; . ..
'	■	- '	-	13
r.	__p__g CD nn mi nn - i mi w -an-_m m.__ im - ttn mr mi~ mt -_.-r_-___T^r
I CONDON-SATIONS [
I	Dave Condon	1
SPRING—NOTRE DAME—1943
This spring a young man’s fancy is turning toward the armed services. It is a season when columnists sit down and pen out the hearts and flowers, recounting the good days at Notre Dame and shedding tears for the yesteryears that have vanished from the calendar. Suddenly, after years of mass checks, signing-in from midnights, healthy griping about the food, the laundry, South Bend, and St. Mary’s, the senior wakes one morning—gripes once more about the inelasticity of the bed springs—and finds that the days of melancholy have set in. This year, most of us are feeling like seniors. Many are leaving Notre Dame never to return. Many who eventually do return will com<? back only after a long separation spent under trying circumstances. That’s why we are all feeling like seniors—the breath of the draft board, has blown hot and cold until this — the last time. Now, and particularly, in these last moments, we seem to sense a deeper significance of Notre Dame—the campus —and the dome.
LOOKING IN THE CRYSTAL
In black and white we are going to say that we have been pretty proud of Notre Dame—and be we in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, or just one of the 15 000 inhabitants of Las Vegas, N. Mex., we’ll stake our last pair of boots that Notre Dame is as good as they come. Consequently, we are rather concerned over Notre Dame in future years. Let’s remember to carry on with the annual war charities carnival, as suggested before, for student aid. Each year the carnival proceeds could be put into a fund from which Notre Dame men might directly benefit. Further, we would like to see a day when these commercial bandits who purchase used text books for ridiculously low prices, would be driven from the campus and students would have a co-op book exchange where they could sell texts for more, buy for less, and turn the middleman profits into some worthy channel.
ADDENDA—
There are big things—like additional residence halls and classrooms—tiny things of significance—like the continuance of student musical shows, and
14
•perhaps a return of the student humor magazine, or a published collection of Scrip’s best short stories. If all this happens it will come about because we have awakened to Notre Dame and sought to sell Notre Dame to ourselves and the world.
THAT SKELETON IN THE CLOSET
There still is that problem of the endowment. Despite some returns made by alumni and friends who contributed to the centenary fund, Notre Dame’s endowment fund still remains inexcusably small. Here, again, we would like to put forth that plea that the Centenary classes not leave Notre Dame without considering the idea of leaving and promoting a plan for an endowment fund. That the students of the 100th year should leave the University without some memorial seems lamentable. We could shake down the thunder and leave a mark even Smiling Jack couldn’t touch if we started the ball rolling. All this seems like a mighty big hunk of Saturday night steak for us to chew— it looks like a big job that would take a lot of work . . . but then, those Iowa Seahawks looked invincible and see how they folded up on the Cartier sod.
“30"
Now it comes out. The second person of the “we” in this column is that trustworthy Underwood typewriter, Siveet-briar Kate, who has seen us through many a deadline. In concluding what will probably be our last bit of Notre Dame writing for some time to come, we want to give the usual “it’s been fun,” and say that this year’s Scholastic staff couldn’t have been a finer bunch to work with. More than occasionally Sweetbriar Kate and I had grievances with other members of the staff, but now everything has smoothened out. Thanks, fellahs.
THE AWFUL TRUTH
Despite it all, we couldn’t get away without saying that when we get back here we hope St. Mary’s has given up being a farm club for the Chicago Bears, that the dining hall hasn’t made the best of a bad situation and turned into a glue factory, and that Parcher has had his frequency changed. Until .
. Hitler has been messed up like the punch at St. Mary’s, then,, it’s thirty. ...
Mass, Convocation, Mark
Graduation Next Sunday
Approximately 173 seniors will be graduated by the University at the Commencement Convocation a week from Sunday. Because of the summer semester which permitted most of the class of ’43 to be graduated in December with traditional commencement activities, the graduation next Sunday of those men who did not attend this summer will be marked by only the Graduation Mass and Convocation.
On Tuesday of this week each graduating senior was able to secure from the Alumni office, through the University, and without charge, ten invitations for the Commencement. According to an announcement by James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, no tickets for admission to the Mass or the Convocation will be necessary.
Last Saturday seniors met in the Law Building to make plans for the activities of Commencement week-end. An effort will be made to secure caps and gowns for the ceremonies.
Julian Atwater was in charge of the meeting.
At last winter’s commencement the baccalaureate sermon was. given by Bishop John O’Hara, C.S.C., and the Commencement address by William Jeffers, president of the Union Pacific railroad, and rubber administrator.
Also announced this week was the postponement of the opening date for the summer semester. Because the new navy class will not begin training until July 1, the entire University will wait until that date for resumption of classes. Registration for classes will take place on June 28 and 29 and classes will begin on July 1.
One additional announcement concerned the opening of a “social science” major, with the student being allowed to pick his courses from the departments of economics, sociology, and politics instead of being required to take the major hours in one department. The thesis for the course must be written in the department of sociology.
Build New Well and Pump
A new well and pump, expected to produce a minimum of 700,000 gallons of water per day are being erected on the golf course by the maintenance department. In peak seasons, some one and a half million gallons per day are used on campus. The new well is being sunk because the level of the lakes has been dangerously lowered.
The Story of Murphy and the Photographers
It just wasn’t Chuck Murphy’s fault that hi', picture is not included in this issue’s senior portrait section. For unlike many of his classmates, the “Murph” appeared at the appointed time in the basement of Walsh Hall to have his portrait taken. He paid his money,'filled out an identification card and posed while the photographer snapped the shutter. It was
Charles H. Murphy, '43
hours later that the red-faced cameraman discovered he had forgotten to put film in the camera. “Murph” was given another appointment but could not make it. Then the photographers came to the rescue by supplying' the Scholastic with this picture, taken of Chuck last year by the company for the junior section of the Dome.
Murphy will receive an A.B. degree next week. A varsity trackman, he hails from University City, Mo.
Lawyers Hold Banquet
Climaxing a semester highlighted by numerous activities, the Law School held their annual Banquet a week ago last Tuesday night, April 13, in the Bronzewood Room of the La Salle Hotel. Attended by a very extensive group of law students and professors, the Banquet was directed by James McVay, senior law student from Bradford, Pa., who served as Master of Ceremonies. The evening began with a formal meeting of the Law Club, over which Warren Deahl, president of the club, presided. Proceeding with the meeting rapidly, it was closed in order to continue with the entertainment.
Ncunf. at Notfie.
OUT OF THE SEA BAG
“Kosan” (surrender) probably will be the first bit of jibber-jabber that American fighting men will hear from the Japs, according to Leo Curley, Y2c, who has written an explanatory article on the Japanese language published in last week’s Sampson News, at the USNTS, Sampson, N. Y.
There is only one answer to “kosan,” Curley says, recommending “damare,” which means shut up!
The New York sailor goes on to explain that there are only five vowel sounds in Japanese. Briefly they are the “a” as in father; “i” as in gasoline; “u” as in menu; “e” as in end; and “o” as in orb.
Other common Japanese words and terms are listed along with approximate English pronunciation, as follows:
Good morning — o hayo gozaimasu (oh-hah-yoh-goh-zah-ee-mah-soo)
Good day, how do you do? — konnichi wa (koh-nee-chee-wah)
Good evening — komban wa (kohm-bahn wah)
What is your name? — namae wa nani ka (nah-mah-eh wah nah-nee kah)
My name is Smith — boku no namae wa Smith desu (boh-koo no nah-mah-eh wa Smith deh-soo)
Thank you — arigato (ah-ree-gah-tow)
You are welcome — yoku kita ne (yoh-koo kee-tah neh)
Yes, or yes sir — hai (hah-ee)
No — lie (ee-ee) ,
How are you? — ikaga desuka (ee-kah-ga deh-soo-kah)
Goodbye — sayonari (sah-yoh-nah-ree)
All right, or OK — orai (o-rah-ee)
* * *
These evenings, marching to chow seem more and more like opening night at the opera with the crowds watching the celebrities go in. But as far as Company 9 is concerned, it just doesn’t rate. The every interesting, (and usually very beautiful) audience goes wild when Read’s Rangers march in. . . . But their cheers and heckling are all for DK. The Ninth’s beautiful marching is
dwarfed by its star, D. K. Smith, (exNotre Dame, ’43).
' * *
Take a stroll under the arch leading into Howard Hall some evening at exactly 1915! If it doesn’t remind you of a girl’s dormitory back at college at twelve o’clock, we’d say you just haven’t ‘ been around. But this time, it’s the girls who are kissing the boys goodnight.
* * *
What does Dartmouth have that normal colleges do not have? Not only do they have the largest single representation of any single college at U.S.N.R.-M.S., but they seem to be the most possessive clan that ever — need we say more! The time: the last bus home from South Bend. The occasion: one comely maiden and a bus full of midshipmen— Midshipmen Mosbacher likewise on the scene. With competition from approximately 40 brothers in blue, he came through in true Dartmouth style with the maiden’s phone number and.it is rumored, a good-night kiss.
* * -
Exams often result in torture and turmoil—as a matter of fact that seems to be their sole purpose—but quizzes of the variety we endured last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday certainly bring out the most unexpected traits in. peo-pie. Midshipman Morrisson, D. W., has been one of the most exemplary of loyal husbands on the entire third deck of the good ship Morrissey Hail. His liberty hours heretofore have always been spent in writing copious epistles to the better half, or prepping for the coming week’s work. But comes liberty, Saturday, April 11, and something goes haywire! We proclaim only what we see, and most of that we often find it healthier to forget, but we did see Mister Morrisson nursing the granddaddy of all hangovers Sunday morning.
Even the glories of a midshipman uniform were jostled out of the limelight Sunday at the Servicemen’s center by a chary-looking Yeoman 2/c, John Young by name, who had the lucky privilege of serving on the U.S.S. Wasp. Johnnie was on the ship when she dove under and he spent a chilly six hours in the South Pacific (remember the Coral Seas?) -and his modesty concerning the affair is very.’credible. Good luck, John!	-	. ,
15
GLEE CLUB CARRIED ON WITH 50 VOICES
Fifty students comprised the Notre Dame Glee Club this semester, 25 of whom were previous members. Under the capable direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedt-ke, head of the department of music, these voices were molded into a well-rounded organization.
In former years the Glee Club devoted a full semester to the preparation of a program before giving a concert. With only one semester to work, however, this year’s club was faced with the difficulty of preparing and singing at the same time. The success with which it solved this problem was evident from the mature concert presented on the campus, April 2.
The campus concert followed two weeks after the club’s first appearance
in Angela Hall at St. Mary’s. Both programs were very successful, due largely, perhaps, to the new feature, “The Spirit of Notre Dame” which the Glee Club presented this year.
“The Spirit of Notre Dame,” a choral symphony, portrayed the history of Notre Dame’s 100 years in music. It was notable in that the use of voice in this form is new. The narration for the symphony was written by Kelly Cook, a senior in the air corps. All the music was composed and arranged by Mr. Pedtke, and Dave Curtin, baritone, narrated for the programs.
Officers of the Glee Club this semester were: Dan Downey, president; Herb Clark, business manager, and George Bariscillo, publicity. Mr. Robert H. McAuliffe was faculty business manager.
Concerts Changed
The two music week concerts originally slated for the Notre Dame Gym will be presented in the Navy Drill Hall, Mr. Frank Lloyd announced this week. The Naw generously offered the use of their hall when shortage of man power and lack of materials made the erection of a stage in the Notre Dame Field House impossible.
The first concert will be held Monday night, April 26, and will be presented by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. Guest Artist is Nathan Milstein, famous violinist. On Friday, April 30, Richard Crooks, well-known tenor, will present a concert-recital.
The South Bend Civic Music Association, the South Bend Symphony and Notre Dame cooperate annually in presenting Music Week.
The Glee Club Singing "The Spirit of Notre Dame" Over Station WSBT.
Violin Soloist
One reason why the concerts presented by the Glee Club and the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra the past two years have been so successful has been the violin playing of Rocco Germano.
For ten years Rocco Germano, of Mishawaka, Ind., has made music a vital part of his life. Diligent practice and natural art have made him at 22 one of the most promising musicians Notre Dame has seen in many years.
Rocco, a music major, expects to graduate next year. Since his first days upon the campus he has been called upon regularly to play at all kinds of social events. As a feature soloist of the Glee Club this year, it was all he could do to withdraw from the stage, so many were the encores demanded of him.
Rocco, for several years, has been a soloist and concertmeister of the South Bend Junior Symphony Orchestra.
Band Continues Work
Despite Depleted Ranks
Loss of 40 men to the armed forces did not hinder the Notre Dame Band in presenting the students with tops in musical entertainment. Under the skillful direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, the band presented one well balanced concert as well as their usual number of informal appearances at the basketball games, the Bengal Bouts, and the War Charities Carnival.
Starting the season with a complete band, they immediately went to work providing a varied and stirring program at each of the home basketball games. School songs of the ’visiting team was . a new feature introduced this year.
16
No sooner had the bellowing shouts of the basketball fans died from the confines of the fieldhouse than the band was ready for a program of Irish medleys to be presented at the Bengal Bouts. Here, again, the band. presented a program that left little to be desired.
On April 7 a crowd of 600 attended the band’s seasonal concert. Selections by Bach, Grieg, Dvorak, and Wagner interspersed with lively numbers of a lighter nature provided the evening’s enjoyment.
As a finale for the season, the band enlivened the opening night of the War Charities. Carnival with ah old fashioned parade about the campus that helped considerably in making the carnival the success that it was.
Violinist Rocco Germano
Dramatists Present Tailor-made Man
The university theatre hit an entertainment high during the past semester when it departed from Shakespeare and the Gilbert and Sullivan tandem to present a very down to earth four act comedy by Harry James Smith, “A Tailor-Made Man.” The play, written during the World War I period, was revived by Matthew A. Coyle, C. S. C., and was both timely and significant. Capacity audiences viewed two public performances on the evenings of Monday and Tuesday, March 20-21. Despite demands for a hold-over, the show closed after a two night stand.
Starring popular Dave Curtin, journalism major from Rochester, N. Y., as John Paul Bart, a tailor apprentice in the establishment of Mr. Huber, the presentation kept enthusiastic audiences in constant uproars.
Bart, believing destiny had marked him for great things, “borrows” a dress suit from the shop of his employer and attends a social function at the home of the wealthy and aristocratic Stanlaws. At the Stanlaw social, Bart, possessing his “right degree of self-confidence,” worms himself into the confidence of ship-builder George Nathan, the 1917 Henry Kaiser. Nathan is impressed by Bart and the next nine months takes the former tailor apprentice to the top of the success ladder. What happens when he is at the peak of his success and at the exposition of the false pre
tenses he used to obtain his position, afford a fitting climax and hilarious conclusion of the play.
The feminine lead of Tanya Huber was played by Barbara Dolezel, of South Bend. Mr. Huber, the tailor, was expertly portrayed by Joe Flynn, a sophomore from Youngstown, Ohio.
Noel Digby, from New Orleans, La., and a campus sophomore, kept the audience in constant chuckles with the role of Peter McConkie, the tailor’s first assistant.
The role of Dr. Sonntag, the villain who finally lost Tanya Huber to John Bart, was played by Frank King, a senior from Richmond Hill, N. J. Two members of the department of speech at St. Mary’s College lent additional professional spice to the show as Miss Grace Sullivan and Miss Florence Greco took the parts of Mrs. Stanlaw and the society widow, Mrs. Kitty Dupuy, respectively.
George Nathan, the shipbuilder, was ably portrayed by Bill Boss, Scholastic sport editor from Franklin, Ohio. Dan Downey, West Palm Beach, Fla., and Scholastic editor, took the role of Mr. Jellicot,- the aged Stanlaw friend who had his special dress suit borrowed by John Bart. Mi-. Jellicot’s valet, Pomeroy, later borrowed by Bart, was played by George Bariscillo, of Bradley Beach, N. J.
Mrs. Kitty Dupuy listens to John P- Bart
Mr. Rowlands looks on as tailor-made man directs Secretary Shayne
The complete cast:
John Paul Bart------------ Mr. Huber----------------- Tanya Huber--------------- Peter McConkie------------ Dr. Sonntag--------------- Mr. Rowlands------------ Mr. Jellicot------------ Pomeroy----------------- Mr. Stanlaw------------- Mrs. Stanlaw ----------- Corinne —---------------
Wheating............. Mrs. Fitzmorris...... Mr. Fitzmorris.............._ “Bobbie” Westlake ______;- Mr. Carroll_____________ Mr. Crane_______________ Mr. Fleming_____________;.
Mrs. Kittie Dupuy ----- Bessie —-----------------
Mr. Nathan-------- Mr. Grayson'-------------;- Miss Shayne---------- Mr. Whitcombe-------- Mr. Russell-------------------- Mr. Flynn------------——.
Mr. Cain : 
Guests at the Stanlaws' Reception
____Dave Curtin ____Joseph A. Flynn ____ Barbara Dolezel ____Noel F. Digby ______Frank King ______Joseph Gallagher ______Daniel Downey ______George Bariscillo
James W. Killoran . ___ Grace Sullivan ___Kay Landing ___: John B. McKeon ’ ___:— Fronie French ___Emmet O’Neill . Willoughby Marshall ___Bernard J. Slater ___Warren Dana ___ Edward Cashman ___Florence Greco ___Dorothy M. Abel ___;__William Boss . __________;_R. G. Clark ........._Agnes Haney :______Emmet O’Neill.
_____ Warren Dana __________C. A. Slyngstad. -----:—_ Walter Riley .
17
Classes Stage Winter Elections
Balloting to end all balloting and promising to end all promising were the features of the 1943 class elections held in February. All presidential candidates without fail promised their backers the greatest dance of all. Funny part was that every elected president came through with a dance for his people.
The seniors, traditionally first, ran off their elections on Monday, Feb. 16. Three hundred and fifteen ballots were cast but no winner gained the majority of these. Dan Casey, the vice-president, came closest when he polled 107 votes.
John Kuhn, a dark horse in the future book odds, came through the contest by a wide margin to gain the presidency. Bill Scheuch won out in the race for the secretarial office. Bill O’Connor nosed through into the treasurer’s chair by the shortest margin of the seniors.
Jack Herlihy, a first semester junior, won the class presidency by slightly less than 100 votes over his closest rival. John Creevey, the place-kick artist, stepped into the vice-president’s chair as a result of his vigorous campaigning. Frank Crowley won out in the secretarial race. Gerry Cowhig, another football star, was boosted into the money spot by a very narrow margin of four votes.
Senior officers: Treasurer Bill O'Connor, Vice-President Dan Casey, President John Kuhn, and Secretary Bill Scheuch.
Sophomore officers: President Tyke Hartman, Secretary Corwin Clatt, Vice-President Jack Leahy, and Treasurer Ziggy Czarobski.
18
The sophomores with the least candidates of all classes put on the hottest show. The presidency was won by but three votes. Tyke Hartman was the winner of the battle. Jack Leahy stepped into the second spot, the vice-presidency. Corwin Clatt, the unstoppable, became the new secretary. Ziggy Czarobski, the dean of campus politicians, won the treasurer’s office in a stiffer fight than was expected by those in the know.
The freshmen put on the most colorful campaign and the most colorful promises. When the returns were in they also had the tallest president, 6 foot 7 inch Mike Smith, winner over nine candidates. Dave Champion became the vice-president by virtue of a nine-vote majority over the closest of the nine rivals. Harold Zimmerman stepped up to the secretary spot. Tom Hogan completed the officers by taking the treasurer’s position.
Color in the elections came from everything that the candidates could lay their hands on. The seniors had access to the powerful radio station WND in shouting out their promises and threats. The sophomores copied this senior invention with their WNDS whose location remained a
I
Council Continues With 15 Members
military secret until the ballots were counted.
The freshmen resorted to the old-fashioned methods to put across their candidates. Handbills fluttered in the air at all corners of the University for weeks after the freshman election. Their most original scheme was the theft of a horse from the dining hall and parading it about the campus displaying the party ticket. They also were the only class that dared to make a ticket of four members of the same room.
The balloting itself was the classic o^ the elections. Every member of the Army Air Corps who had left three weeks before the elections voted at least once, as did Alexis Coquillard, Joe Petritz, and numerous others connected with Notre Dame or the surrounding graveyards.
Student Council Under
Anhut Does Notable Work
The student council, though handicapped by a shortened semester, started the year with renewed vigor under its
1943 Student Council. President John Anhut, first row third from left.
Freshmen Officers: Treasurer Tom Hogan, Vice-President Dave Champion, and President Mike Smith. Secretary Harold Zimmerman is now in the service.
capable president, John Anhut, Detroit, Mich. The council’s new head determined to put into the hands of the organization many of the latent powers under its control.
The first function of the body this semester was the election of representatives from each hall. Dan Casey and Joe Lanigan were chosen from Alumni hall, Bernie Finucane from Walsh, Bob Fanning and Jim Crowley from Cavanaugh, and Tyke Hartman from Dillon.
Councilmen remaining in the body from last semester included Don Colgrove, Dick Doermer, Vail Pischke, and Jack Conway.
Other new members by virtue of the positions they hold on the campus are: “Tex” Crowley, former vice-president of the sophomore class; John Kuhn, senior class president; Jack Herlihy, junior class president; Mike Smith, frosh president; Jack Terry, Student Commission chairman; Ted Toole, Commerce Forum; and Jim Constantine, science school representative.
It was due largely to the intercession of the council that the annual class dances were held this year. With the representative body behind the class officers, the dances were as successful as ever.
19
I
CAMPUS CAPERS
-	r
ifrn »—-w—■a—»■—■«—m—w—m—~i—m—1—q—w—wa—m -«»—m—im-^—■■ n >i|t
Week Ending January 29
Twenty-six hundred and four- F’s, 16-year-olds, ERC, and Navy V boys, come back to campus after lengthy vacation . . . large number of students drop by wayside . . - some fell on good ground . . . some drafted . . . army air corps reserves also back for limited stay. . . talk of class elections looms on horizon . . . rumors of Krupa, Dorsey, Miller foi' senior ball.. . bookies quoting 10-1 on Spike Jones or Kornkobblers . . . students race to re-claim jobs and dates at Studebaker, Bendix, Ball Band ... on the home front Scholastic begins volume 78. . . .
-	Week Ending February 5
Knights of St.Mary’s threaten Woelfle . . . WND, campus radio station, broadcasts daily . . . Scholastic poll reveals students need enlightening concerning student council whereabouts . . . council obliges and cleans spark plugs . . Law club talks of dance . . . students returning from Ball-Band swing shift seek new land mark as golden dome blacked out.
Week Ending February 19
Seniors elect Kulm, juniors take Herlihy . . . Scholastic uncovers Review of Politics plot to scoop election returns . . . Dramatists prepare to play Tailor-Made Man . . . casaba boys prepare for Great Lakes . . . Lawyers subpoena dates for Ball . . . Army air corps reserves take . powder suddenly ... class dance question is now big problem—even frosh hollering for class dance and return of laundry . . . Notre Dame symphony eyes Leahy suspiciously as vacancies appear in symphony line-up . . .. students visiting “teach yourself” book display ask for South Bend telephone directory. . .
Week Ending February 26 -
Seniors veto Dorsey, juniors decide . against^ Dorsey, by flip of a coin it is Ted Fio Rito . ; . dance to be at Palais . . . sophs elect Hartman, frosh parade horse and elect sky-scraping Mike Smith. . . . Czarobski, Soph treasurer, promises to fulfill election promises, of vodka in Dillon drinking fountains . . . band re-., joices over soundproof rehearsal room— students just rejoice '. . . chicken house , at Community Infirmary lapped up by . flames . . . squared circle addicts, prepare . for Bengals. ...	.	•'	. /
20	: --	•• <7.
Week Ending March 12
N.F.C.C.S. Convention highlighted with Glee Club presentation of Spirit of Notre Dame . . . sophomores announce centenary cotillion for St. Pat’s Eve, linger and tarry with Gracie Barrie . . . grand triumphal return to South Bend . . . students in uproar as St. Mary’s can come—they can’t—they can—they can’t . . . they came! Student council elects John Anhut. . . Junior commandos make last ditch stand . . . Red Lonergan goes in training to fight Bengals exhibi-. tion . . . “Tailor-Made Man” rehearsals in home stretch . . . Scholastic poll shows sophs favor semi-formal Cotillion ... La Salle silverware turns up in Notre Dame dining hall—Connolly explains: “All a mistake—I sent them to the Oliver.”
Week Ending March 19
Three days of Bengals and thudding bodies . . . finals carded for Friday night . . . golden glovers from Chicago on exhibition . . . band plays “Skater’s Waltz” during exhibition . . . judo boys from Navy perform for boys . . . exhibition between Woelfle and The Tree cancelled . . . Tree couldn’t make the weight . . . more about “Tailor-Made Man” coming next week . . ; debate squad wins at Detroit . . . K.C. continues to sell war stamps on campus . . . big fire at Wal-green’s drives Notre Dame extension school headquarters. out in open . . . South Bend firemen battle costly blaze . . . operators seek other quarters.
Week Ending March 26
“Tailor-Made Man” scores sniash hit .. . . Curtin plays John Paul Bart; Barbara Dolezel plays Tanya; Frank. King plays Dr; Sonntag . ... Dr. Sonntag lost! . . . Bengal Winners announced for press . . . Star-Spangled Midway planned for War Charities carnival . . . publicists announce premiere of student musical . comedy set for April 12 . . . Sorin hall Evil Eye club pick up shovels and. hoes . . . Victory Garden started by .biology; building . . .' on other agricultural front, University gives out pink slips as annual green, banana harvest began . / two Notre Dame students write opinions for Chicago Sun . . . Alumni office gathering N.D. war correspondence.. /. stu-^dents prepare for A-12; V.-12 exams. . . ..
Week Ending April 2
Sorin hall victory garden becomes reality . . . Scholastic snaps picture of prefect of discipline digging up more dirt at garden site . . . glee club presentation of colorful “Spirit of Notre Dame” rocks Washington Hall and is pronounced success . . . students recount familiar faces that will be missing at second annual War Charities carnival . . . editors prepare Scrip for early distribution . . . Evil Eye club rides rampant in Sorin and sells war bonds and stamps . . . two Alumnites purchase $100 war bonds and stamps . . . Notre Dame marks anniversary of death of immortal Knute Rockne . . . specialists graduated from Notre Dame navy school. . . .
Week Ending April 9
“Let’s Get Going,” student musical comedy, to come off starting Monday, April 12 . . . show given four bells by all •critics . . . funniest thing since Frank King lost the pawn ticket for his teeth . . . Knights of Columbus trek to Mish- , awaka to give first degree initiation ...	-
Notre Dame announces that five halls j will house 1851 additional navy men ... that’s the closest the Navy has come to us since the undefeated season of 1941 Laundry reports they do more duds with super-suds . . . clothes return as limp as ■ a cadaver on roller skates . . . Laetare medalist announced — Thomas F. Wood-	!,
lock, editor, receives award . . . the Car-	1
nival is coming for four nights . . . watch	|
next week. . . . .	I.
* ' !
' Week Ending Easter
-	i
ERC here we come!!! Exams start '
Tuesday . . . graduation Sunday!! Seniors prepare to don caps, gowns, and fighting equipment . . . private lives . bared as “Let’s Get Going” keeps them going . .. . War Charities Carnival was outstanding success . . . everybody came, saw, and were conquered ... it goes to a - good cause /. . Navy.shows appreciation and turns out en masse . . . South Bend . damsels aid ; ; . Scrip comes out, perhaps last for duration . . . students. prepare . for long road home . . . hasty good-byes . -that may be the last . ... prospects for a grand Easter vacation—all three days of .. it.... And so .. . graduation and a large - number of the Fighting. Irish line-up for . three off-tackle plays and a touchdown .against Adolph’s College of Paper-
hanging. ,	,	।	,
The Great Drama of Student Life
Curtain raises in Washington hall. Two stage hands rush out and remove signs of “Birth of a Nation—starting March 27”. These have evidently been overlooked in the rush. The stage is decorated with large clusters of green bananas, fully illuminated by the pink spotlight playing from the balcony.
Alarm clock goes off: ’’Ding—dong— ding.”
John Q. Senior, turning over in bed. “That darned Morning Bugle program again.” (He stretches) “Ho hum, ashes to ashes, dust to dust, if breakfast doesn’t get you up, morning check must.” (Takes Rockne Memorial towel and goes to wash.)	.
John Q. Junior, room-mate, rises in bed: “Roses are red, violets are blue, bananas are green, but they give them to you. Holy smoke, the Junior-Senior brawl is tonight and I haven’t a date yet.”
Senior: (returning from lake where he has washed) “That’s all right, Susie Cutie is coming up from Kalamazoo College of Soil Management, and she’s going to bring* one of the sorority girls with her.”
Junior: “That is’nt going to work. Last time we imported some girls from a nearly school Leahy signed them all up for spring practice.” -
Senior: “That’s bad!”
Junior: “You mean about my date?” Senior: “No, I wasn’t talking to you. I was reading Strictly Instrumental. That’s bad.” '
Junior: “Yeh, that King has laid so many eggs that the White Leghorns are picketing him.”
(John Q. Senior and John J. Junior go ovei* to the refreshment stand and prepare to take breakfast in their Aluminum hall quarters. Each heaps his plate with mystery balls, a glass of water, and J. Junior takes two milks. Like a flash of greased lightning out darts Mr. Lovely, who has been hiding behind a picture of the four Horsemen, and takes one milk back.)
Junior: (to Lovely) “Oh, well, you can’t blame a person for trying.” (Exit Lovely) (Ed. note: Lovely didn’t have much of a part, did he?)
. Senior: (tossing T shirt, with emblazoned ‘Notre - Dame’ and pair of athletic socks on overstuffed chair) “Remind me to send that stuff to be cleaned. The sophomore Cotillion is semi-formal, you know.”
Junior: “Let’s not. worry, about - the Cotillion. Let’s talk about the Junior
Senior Ball. Did you forget that it’s tonight?”	.
Senior: “Did I forget that it’s, tonight? Why, we’re going so far in the hole we cant even turn around without being face to face with Harry Nicodemus.”
Junior: “Well, I knew you fellows shouldn’t have gone over your head and hired Mrs. Riley for the music. I don’t see what she’s got that the Morning Bugle doesn’t have?”
Senior: “She don’t have Parcher. That’s three points and a first down in her favor.”
- (There is a knock on the door. Butler comes from bed room, where he has been laying out clothes, walks through library, and opens the door. It is a telegram for John Q. Senior.)
Senior: (reading telegram hurriedly) “It’s from pater. _ He’s coming up this week-end.” -
Junior: (Jumping and dancing for Joy—Joy applauds and walks off stage, nodding his head sadly.) “Your father —is he coming down for the senior commencement? He’ll be way too early.”
Senior: “No, he graduated from here in 1907. He figures his laundry should be ready about now. But he’ll still be way too early.”
(Junior relaxes wearily in overstaffed chair. Hoping to get in a. few .moments study before class, he picks up text of Ball-Band—One Hundred Cheers- Sent-or, also studying, wearily follows Smiling Jack through. Tokyo, Berlin, Rome, and Brooklyn. It is deep silence. Suddenly, there is a terrible explosion, knocking the students from their, chairs . and disarranging the room. It is. fol- . lowed by a terrific hissing and gushing of forced air. More explosions rock the . building.)	.
Senior: (throwing Terry down disgustedly) “Those darn fellows at the atom smasher. Starting their quarterly examinations at this hour in the morning.” (He looks in his roomies locker, selects coat, and stalks out.) =
Junior: “And I still haven’t a date for the prom. Guess I’ll have to go over and try Sweetbriar.” (He' stalks in to library, preparing for sojourn to St. Mary’s. All is again quiet. Then, as curtain slowly descends, a huge General Grant tank lumbers from the library, guns bristling, and heavily armored. John Q. Junior crawls down inside and points the tank northwest. It roars off stage.) Applause. Orchestra in pit burst’s into jazzy version of “God Save Frank King.”
First Student Musical in 25 Years
It was opening night—Let’s Get Going!
Students, informally in sweaters, shirts with sleeves rolled up, and slicked up operators escorting best dates, rose from their seats in age-battered Washington hall and watched the lone ribbon of a spotlight play through the blackness. The beam arched across the auditorium and the circle of white played on the stars and stripes. A capacity crowd of nine hundred blended in the Star Spangled Banner.
And thus the curtain rose on Let’s Get Going, a student-written, student-produced musical comedy presented to four nights of raving audiences on April 12, 13, 15 and 16.
Along with the comedy presentation Tailor-Made Man, the musical was a theatre feature of Notre Dame’s centenary year. Music and lyrics for Let’s Get Going were written by Edward Cashman. The script flowed from the pens of Scholastic humorists John Lynch and Jack Woelfle, based on a scenario by Gerry Hogue. - Lynch occupied the director’s chair and John Van Benton did the producing. Cashman, Rocco Germano, H. Lee Hope and Wade Parks did the orchestration.
“Let’s Get Going,” started moving in the office of the prefect of discipline portrayed by George Bariscillo. The
Brother Clover. C.S.C.. drawing on his vast experience, shows 'em how it should he done. Students Jim Newman. Floyd Vincent. Tom Schreiber. Dan Tomcik and (half out of the picture) Bob Beck carry out his "orders."
p.d., expressing ideas on a student play, confidentially admitted that “The Plot Sickens.” Betty Lee Landing filled the role of the p.d. secretary. The parts of playwrights Joe Tschaikowsky and Joe Blow were played by Bill Boss and Jim Crowley.
Undaunted by the prefect’s admonition to present the play only as censored and somewhat encouraged by his offer of a drink, the writer’s echoed out with “Lets Get Going” and an entire college chorus filled in. From then on until the home stretch, things were really “going.”
Songs highlighting the presentation were the feature number, “Let’s Get Going,”; “Betty Co-ed Has Gone Out of Her Head;” “The Gals From Kala-zamoo”; “Who Is the Girl To Be?”; “Forsaken”, a nifty number rendered by Agnes Haney; “The Wacky Faculty”; “A Little Rhumba Numba,” a Latin ditty highlighted by the dance team of Kay Landing and Joe Byrne; “Hey, Mister!”, a song with bond appeal; “Stop! Stop!”; Unromantic You”; Where’s Our Lovely Lana”; “Oh Glamorous One”, and “I Dont Think I’ll Fall in Love Today.”
George Bariscillo, bouncing across the stage as the prefect of discipline, rode to new dramatic honors in his role. Noel Digby and Bob Gschwen, typically typified Joe College as two N. D. habitants, Dutch and Slim.
Top honors for acting must be given Joe Flynn who took the role of Algernon, endlessly in trouble and brother of that super - glamorous Hollywoodite, Lana Grable. Kay Landing, as the voluptuous glamour girl, portrayed the part with praiseworthy excellence. Frank King, Scholastic music columnist, was seen as Sammy, Grable’s ambitious publicity agent.
Herb Clark, seen as Slim, had the male lead as he portrayed the typical Notre Dame man—a football star. Around the troubles of Slim, about to be drafted into the army, revolved the plot. Anxious moments were spent by other characters as they endeavored to keep Slim from the draft. Slim had his own worries when three dates for the Junior prom put in a very decided appearance. Having the anemic Algernon take Slim’s draft physical only delayed the crisis.
The morning of the big game arrived and with it came two army officers intent on taking Slim into the armed forces. They were frustrated by campus students all through the morning, being in turn sidetracked and left in a locker in a campus residence hall.
The climax of the musical came when the army officers arrived in the Notre Dame dressing room at half-time. Interrupting Frank Leahy’s “Now lads” and “win this one from Czarobski”, the army officers started to make off with the star Notre Dame back.
There was a flurry of music. Who strode in to save the day for Notre Dame but the prefect of discipline. Everyone in the packed auditorium breathed easier when the prefect of discipline explained to the army officers that Slim couldn’t de drafted—the p.d had campused him.
Slim went out in the second half and tore the Northwestern Wildcats into little shreds.
Conclusion of the play came the night of the prom when Algy, who substituted for Slim at the draft physical, showed up in an extra roomy uniform. The dates flocked to the uniform, forsaking the fish-and-tailed escorts. This time the army saved the day by enlisting the entire cast,, en masse, into the fighting forces.
, To the strains of “Betty Co-Ed Has Gone Out of Her Head,” the curtain rolled down on Notre Dame’s first musical comedy in many a moon.
22
Notre Dame's War Charities Carnival
With the entire nation keyed to the war effort, it was not unnatural that the war theme should color so much of the University life during the past semester.
On all sides of us we were reminded of the conflict. Notre Dame men, true to the Fighting Irish tradition, remembered those who had gone before them by sponsoring and aiding in the second annual Knights of Columbus-sponsored war charities. Proceeds were given directly to worthy war aid, both local and national.
There was carnival color and gayety along the star-spangled midway on those April nights of the 15th, 16th, 17th, and 18th, but behind the scenes there was much work and effort put forth by the
A good shot will win that Panda
promoters, and the entire campus rallied to contribute direct aid to our fighting men.
Held under the patronage of Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, the function was in direct charge of Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., Scholastic advisor, and Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline. Father Carey directly supervised the entire promotion, while Father Burke was in charge of the “war motif” decorating.
The four-night fiesta of frolic and fun was highlighted by the Notre Dame Cavaliers, University dance band, who nightly, with the exception of Friday, presided on the bandstand. Friday night was given over as “Navy” night, and
Barkers Chant on the "Star-Spangled Midway"
the jive-bombing orchestra from the N.D. midshipmen school moved in for a single stand.
Saturday afternoon was kiddie’s day and the tots had their inning before the barkers and along the midway.
The show folded up Saturday night after seeing large crowds at each evening’s gates. Highlight of Saturday’s closing was the award of $200 in war bonds via the raffle method. Tickets on the raffle were sold by Knights of Columbus councils throughout the state of Indiana. Besides the war bonds, several nightly door prizes were awarded, and many lucky numbers claimed ND monogram blankets.
Last year’s initial venture in the carnival field was well received, and a large amount of money was turned over to the war charities. Profiting from one year’s experience, the 1943 show avoided many pitfalls and was able to present a well-knit, compact carnival in the world’s largest indoor midway.
Civic organizations in South Bend cooperated with campus clubs to take care of the booths. The greatest single attraction at the shows was the number of village damsels working in the booths. Among the clubs assisting were the Engineers, St. Louis Club, Commerce Forum, California Club, Naval ROTC, New Mexico Club, Student Council, Economic Round Table, Monogram Club, Cleveland Club, Detroit Club, St. Vincent De Paul, Scholastic, Glee Club, National Federation of Catholic College Students. (Notre Dame), .Kentucky Club, Chicago Club, New York Club, and the Press Club.	. ’
Because of Lent, the carnival dance originally planned, was abandoned. -
Even Dujarie.hall went all out for the carnival as the Brothers, painted the signs over the various booths.
Executive committeemen for the carnival were Frank W. Lloyd, J. Arthur Haley, Herbert E. Jones, Frank W. Leahy, James E. Armstrong, William R. Dooley, Eugene F. Connolly, Earl J-Redden, Hal Miller. Student committeemen were Robert Lonergan, Thomas Rolfe, John Anhut, Dave Condon, Reggie Flynn, Pat Filley, Paul Rooney, Dan Downey, and Chase Black.
23
Two Dances Highlight Semester
Upholding only one tradition, that of promising the biggest name band in the country for the happy feet of the dancing couples, the armed-services-shattered classes of March, 1943, presented their dances in all their perfumed glory. With Glenn Miller in the Army as a captain, the lot of being the promised but never delivered band fell to Gene Krupa whose star was shining brightly in the Middle West at dance time.
As soon as the various class elections were over the elected presidents started on the plans for their class dance. Each prexy grabbed a knife and went to work for his class. However, the only shindig to feel the cold steel of the cutting edge was the already arranged Knights of Columbus Casey Ball which good naturedly stepped aside for the onrushing class dances.
To insure a better turnout and no disappointments the seniors and juniors united to present a Senior Ball-Junior Prom. Senior president, John Kuhn, appointed Dick A’Hearn as the senior half of the general chairmanship; Jack Herlihy designated Dick Murphy as the junior representative. The different committees were likewise shared: patron committee, Paul O’Connell and Roy Grum-bine; publicity, John Anhut and Bob Tanning; programs, Jack Hughes and Dick Ungashick; the tea dance commit-
Juniors and Seniors and guests pause during Prom-Ball
BILL BROWN
Committeemen of the combined Prom-Ball and their guests
tee, Vince Duncan and Jim Casey; decorations, Bill and Jack Sherer.
The dance was held March 5th at the Palais Royale with Ted Fio Rito dishing out from the bandstand. The ballroom was decorated in an Artists and Models theme. Call permissions were granted for the weekend but not many of the 246 attending couples were able to make use of this grant.
The tea dance the next day was held at the Indiana Club with Bobby Lewis and his orchestra supplying the mood.
The same night as the Senior-Junior
affair the Law Club held their annual Law Ball. This event, too, found itself sorely hit by the war. It had to change its site from the Erskine Country Club to the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle. To compete with the class affair of the same night the Law Club had to break its closed shop tradition and allow each member to bring as guests one nonunion couple.
Tim Green as general chairman for the dance handled all the big decisions. The different details toward a . successful dance were carried out by Hal Hunter, bids; Jack Tallett, publicity; John Hackett, arrangements; Nick Villarosa, fav
ors; James Price, decorations.
Miss Alma Weber, guest of Tim Green, presided as queen of the Ball; Mrs. Warren A. Deahl, wife of Law Club president Warren Deahl, was guest of honor. The competition between this and the SeniorJunior dance did not help either affair at the gate.
The sophomores after much bickering established March 16 as the date for their dance. They had originally planned a dance on March 6 but this idea was dropped when accommodations were found lacking in South Bend for that night. The next date set was St. Patrick’s day, the day of celebration in the middle of Lent. However, to get a presentable band the general chairman moved the date ahead one day.
Traditions were thrown out the window’ in preparations for the cotillion. The presentation of a dance in the middle of Lent was the first circumnavigation of tradition. This was excused be-
24
Prom-Ball, Cotillion Draw Crowds
The Bronzewood room, the Notre Dame Lawyers, and guests
cause of the feast day of all good Irish
men and the fact that it was- the last chance for the sophomores to come across. The second obstacle to tradition came when a Tuesday was selected as the date. The final blows were struck when the dance was announced as a semi-formal affair and that the freshmen were to be admitted. The freshmen officers had promised their class a dance and this was the best that Prexy Mike Smith could do for them.
From the outset of the preparations Bob Franz was the general chairman of the Dillon class dance. He and sophomore president Tyke Hartman threw their best efforts into the dance and were backed to the limit by Father Burke, the prefect of discipline.
The committees selected consisted of: music, James O’Keefe and Bill Brown; programs, Bob Sturm and Bernard McKenna; patrons, Bernard Jozwiak and Ray Peets; bids, Paul Hannagan and Bob Gorski; publicity, Dave Condon and Joe O’Toole; decorations, Chase Black and Luigi Scibelli; arrangements, Jack Leahy and Sigismunt Czarobski.
The Palais Royale as usual was the arena for the gliding twosome; Gracie Barrie, heading the Dick Stabile outfit, supplied the music for the occasion. The orchestra was adjudged by a campus critic as one of the best bands ever to appear for a school dance. The decorations in the ballroom were the same Artists and Models theme that the seniors had used but 11 days before.
Queen of the Cotillion was Miss Janos
Murray, guest of general chairman Bob
Franz. Miss Rita Richards, president Tyke Hartman’s guest, attended the Cotillion as guest of honor.
Before the success of the dance was realized the sophomores in charge went through many trying days and hours. Even though to many there is only horror in the phrase, the sophs learned the true value of “St. Mary’s Can Go!” It wasn’t until the day of the dance that permission was granted to the Notre Dame coeds to attend the cotillion. Up to the time that the permission was granted
Upper-classmen crowd Palais floor for Prom ball grand march
the bid sales in Dillon and surrounding territory was negligible. After the announcement they soared and reached expectations. A fire in the local hot spot, Walgreen’s, the night before the dance, also hampered sales.
On the whole, considering the shortness of time that faced the chairmen, the dances were very successful and there are some who think it would be fun to try again sometime.
DANCE DATA
No sooner had the New Year turned and classes under way once again than students agitated for a big dance. That came off finally, in the form of a super “Prom-Ball,” a combination of the annual junior Prom and senior Ball. This was said to be the last for the duration.
Consensus of opinion has it, however, that when and if students are back again next semester there will be another big dance, this time to be called the “Hop-Cot-Prom-Ball,” a beautiful conglomeration of the freshman Hop, the sophomore Cotillion, junior Prom and senior Ball. This time it will be four for the price of one! And if it comes off then you can bet that it’ll take both the Notre Dame and Navy Field House to stage the affair. When bigger and better dances are staged, the students in war-time will stage them!
University Loses Forty Teachers
Since the beginning of the national emergency, of which the present war is the nucleus, forty officers of instruction at the University have departed to serve their country either in military service or in a civilian status. Of these, six are members of the Congregation of Holy Cross who are serving in the Chaplain corps. Members of the faculty who are in war work or active service follow.
William W. Arbuckle, instructor in music since September of 1940, is now in the Army air corps. Pvt. Arbuckle
Mr. William W. Arbuckle
is a graduate of Indiana University (’32) and was a member of the United States Navy band in 1935 and 1937.
Former asistant University physician, 1st. Lt. Joseph R. Caton is now a member of the Medical Corps.
Former assistant football coach William Cerney is now in the Navy. Lt. Cerney was graduated from Notre Dame in 1925 and joined the faculty in the capacity of instructor in physical education, in addition to his duties as assistant coach, in 1941.
Lieutenant William Cerney
On war research is George B. Collins, who was associate professor of physics from 1933 until 1941, when he took up his present duties. Mr. Collins was graduated from the University of Maryland in 1928.
Also on war research is former associate professor of physics, Edward A. Coomes, a member of the faculty since 1933. He was a graduate of Notre Dame, class of 1931.
Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, C. S. C., assistant professor of religion from 1934 to 1935 and from 1936 to 1938, and again after 1941, is now a member of the Chaplain Service. Father Corcoran was a member of the Notre Dame class of 1931.
Ensign John F. Druze was formerly of the Notre Dame department of physical education.
Lt. Col. B. G. DuBois, former professor of French, from 1924 to 1941, was graduated from the University of Ottawa in 1910. He was captain in the U. S. Army in the last war, in charge of physical education.
Mr. George B. Collins
Lt. (j.g.) John J. Fitzgerald, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1937 as assistant professor of philosophy, is now in the Navy. Lt. Fitzgerald was graduated from Boston College in 1933 and received his Ph.D. at the University of Louvain, Belgium, in 1937.
Mr. P. A. Guarino, former instructor in electrical engineering’ is now engaged in war research. He came to Notre Dame in 1940, . having been graduated from M. I. T. in 1935.
Ensign Francis P. Hanley, who was;a member of the department of art after 1937, is now serving in the Navy. Former assistant professor Hanley received his B.A.E. at the Rhode Island School of Design in 1935.	.	’	.
Maj. Dugald C. Jackson, former Dean
of the College of Engineering, is now in the Army. Maj. Jackson was graduated from Harvard in 1917 and joined the faculty in 1939.
Dr. John L. Kelley, formerly of the department of mathematics, in the capacity of assistant professor, is engaged in wax* research. He is a graduate of U.C.L.A., and received his Ph.D. at the University of Virginia in 1940. Dr. Kelley came to Notre Dame in 1940.
Ensign William P. Mahoney, U. S. Navy, was instructor in the department of physical education after 1940. He graduated from here in the class of 1935.
Mr. Edward A. Coomes
Lt. (j.g.) McArdle, formerly of the department of physical education is serving in the Navy.	■
Rev. Edmund J. Murray, Notre Dame '34, former instructor in the department of religion, is now in the Chaplain Corps. He joined the faculty in 1939.
Mr. J. P. Nash, now in war research, was instructor in the department of biology, joining the faculty in 1940. He was graduated from the University of California in 1936.
Pvt. Daniel C. O’Grady, now of the Army Air Corps, was graduated from the University of Ottawa, in 1924, received his doctorate from the same institution in. 1927, and came to Notre
26
Six Priests Accept Chaplains' Post
Dame as professor of philosophy in 1926.
Engaged in war research is Doctor Alexander A. Petrauskas, instructor in physics since 1941. Dr. Petrauskas came to Notre Dame after having received his degree from M. I. T. in 1936.
Lt. Col. B. G. DuBois
Formerly of the department of speech, Mr. George M. Reichle is now a corporal in the Army. Mr. Reichle was an instructor in speech after he came to Notre Dame in 1941. He is a graduate of Columbia College, Iowa, class of 1927.
Lt. Col. Robert Riordan, former Registrar at the University is in the Army.
Mr. Charles V. Robinson, Ph.D., who joined the department of mathematics as instructor in 1941, is now in war research. He was graduated from the University of Missouri in 1937 and received his Ph.D. there in 1940.
Lt. Stephen H. Ronay, U. S. Army Air Corps, was affiliated with Notre
Rev. Edmund J. Murray. C.S.C.
Dame in the position of professor of English since 1928. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1927.
Associate professor of English since
1935, Thomas J. Stritch, is now an ensign in the Navy Air Corps. Ensign Stritch had been at Notre Dame since he was graduated in 1934, receiving his M.A. here in 1935.
Ensign William Sullivan, Navy, was associated with the Athletic Association.
Rev. George J. Welsh, C. S. C., is now serving in the Chaplain Service. Father Welsh was a member of the history department.
Also in the Chaplain Service is Rev. Robert W. Woodward, formerly of the department of philosophy.
Athletic ticket manager Robert M. Cahill recently took up his duties as Lt. (j.g.) in the Navy.
Also in the Navy, former Supervisor of Student Employment Edward J. Murray holds the rank of Lt. (j.g.) -
Lt. Devere T. Plunkett
Lt. Devere T. Plunkett, Notre Dame ’30, left his post as associate professor of history, which he had held since 1930, to accept a commission in the Navy.
Joseph S. Petritz, longtime sports publicity director- is now on duty as a • Lt. (j.g.) in the Navy.
Until recently professor of art, having been at Notre Dame since 1928, Stanley S. Sessler, is now a Lt. in the Army Air Corps. He was graduated from the Massachusetts School of Art in 1927.
Rev. Norman Johnson, Army Chaplain Service, was formerly assistant professor of English, and editor of the Chaplain’s Digest. He is a Notre Dame graduate, class of 1928.
First semester Dean of Arts and Letters College, Rev. Francis J. Boland now holds the rank of Lt. in the U. S. Navy Chaplain Service. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1918, and taught here from 1924 to 1931 and since 1934.
He also held the position of professor of politics.
Lt. Alden E. Davis, was, until his enlistment in the Navy, associate professor of business administration. He
Rev. Norman Johnson. C.S.C.
was graduated from BuckneH Uhiyer-sity in 1919 and served on the faculty, here since 1932.	"
Lt. (j.g.) Dominic Napolitano, formerly associate professor of physical education, is now serving' in the Navy. He is a Notre Dame graduate who has been here since 1933 ■with the department of physical education.
F. N. M. Brown, associate professor of aeronautical engineering, has received a special State Department commission to the minister of education of the Chinese government, Chungking-, /effective sometime after the close of the present semester.
Loren Hess, Notre Dame, ’33, a member of the department of sociology since 1939, is now in the Army at the Aberdeen proving grounds.
In the legal division of the Department of Labor is Mr. William J. Coyne,
Mx. Loren Hess
until February professor of economics and debate coach. He had taught at Notre Dame since his graduation herein 1927.	.	.
Notre Dame Host to Convention

Notre Dame, in cooperation with St. Mary’s college, was host to the second regional- congress of the Fort Wayne region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, on Saturday and Sunday, March 13, 14.
Sessions for the convention, attended by 175 delegates, were held Saturday on the St. Mary’s campus and Sunday at the university. John Terry, vicepresident of the Fort Wayne Region of the federation, was chairman of the congress.
At the opening session Terry introduced Rev. Matthew Schumaker, C. S. C., who gave the address of welcome to the visitors from Nazareth and Aquinas colleges of Sienna Heights and Adrian, Midi., respectively; Mary Manse of Toledo, Ohio; Rosary of Chicago; St. Mary’s and Notre Dame.
Father William T. Craddick, C. S. C., Notre Dame prefect of religion and regional moderator of the federation, was honorary chairman at the first meeting.
Betty Navarre, regional president from Nazareth college, and Helen As-plan, national treasurer, gave reports of the National Convention. Al Sommer, Golf, Illinois, and a Walsh hall junior, discussed “The Fundamental Agreement of the Atlantic Charter and the Papal Peace Plan.” Following a
lively discussion on Sommer’s talk, the session was brought to a close with Marita Oppenheim outlining the activities planned for the convention.
■The second session of the convention saw Rev. Paul Tanner of Washington, D. C., NFCCS national chaplain, acting as chairman in the place of the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D. D., bishop of Fort Wayne. Bishop Noll was unable to attend due to the press of previously scheduled engagements. Three St. Mary’s students presented views on the topic, “Peace Through Oneness in Christ.”
At the convention’s third session Brock Lynch and Evo Fatigati, both of Notre Dame, were discussion leaders. Speakers were Helen Asplan, Ann Tra-dii, and Frances Mary Jessup, all of Nazareth.
Saturday evening’s entertainment feature was the world premiers of The Spirit of Notre Dame, presented by the Notre Dame glee club at Angela hall, St. Marys. Other- highlights of the glee club concert were solos by Edward Hoban,’ River Forest. Hl.; Rocco Germano, and John Witt. Hoban is a tenor, Germano a violinist, and John Witt is the glee club accompanist.
Sunday morning convention delegates attended Mass in Alumni hall. Following breakfast the group toured the cam
pus. Final sessions were held in the Notre Dame Law auditorium.
Daniel Downey led the fourth general session, with Rev. Louis Putz, C. S. C., honorary chairman. Speakers included James Cunningham, campus correspondent for the South Bend Tribune, and Brock Lynch.
Following the fifth and last session, presided over by Byron Zielback and honorary chairman Rev. Arthur Bukowski, both of Aquinas, John Terry read a list of resolutions drawn up at the congress. The resolutions were passed unanimously.
Outstanding social event of the convention was the banquet held Sunday in the ballroom of the Oliver hotel. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., vice-president of the university, headed the group of speakers. -
Congress officers .elected for the ensuing year were: Dorothy Middendorf, St. Mary’s, president; John Terry, Notre Dame, . vice-president; Frances Mary Jessup, Nazareth, second vice-president; Jean Milhaupt, Aquinas, recording secretary; Mary Ellen Muckenhirn, St. Mary’s, corresponding secretary; and Charles Metzger, Notre Dame, treasurer.
CONVENTION SIDELINES
Delegates at St. Mary's listen to Chaplain Paul Tanner
The convention committee just recently sent out circulars to every student who attended the sessions seeking the majority reaction to accomplishments during the two-day period, March 13 and 14. Just, constructive criticism was solicited in an effort to profit by any apparent mistakes, so that future conventions can be that much better. One criticism leveled by many was that the sessions were not “harnessed” by the discussion leaders, but let run wild by irrelevant argument.	-
Somewhat along the lines of a convention will be the Study Week, a congregation of Catholic students for the purpose of bettering campus life, to be held on the Notre Dame campus, April 29 to May 1. Many colleges in the midwest will send delegates for this convocation; over 100 students are expected to arrive for this study of student problems. The program is under the direction of the local Catholic Action students.
28
Students Feel Changes This Semester
By Rationing this Semester,
The food you eat, the clothes you wear, and the hall you live in, have all been effected this semester by the war. Or have you noticed?
According to Mr. E. R. Connolly, of the dining halls, students have taken a forty per- cent cut in the amount of food served, and after his famous statement, “it’s going to get worse before it get’s better,” students come to the conclusion that the worst meals of all are served in the dining hall.
"it's going to get worse before it get's better."
Despite rumors contrariwise, there has been little change in the quality of meat obtainable here. However, the caf isn’t always able to get what it wants; there is a natural decrease in the variety, but there is plenty.
The figures run something like this: we are now able to get from 60 to 70 per cent as much butter as we received
Once upon a time the dining hall stockroom looked like this.
previously; milk has been cut about 40 per cent; ice cream runs into ice as the month wears on and milk allotments run out. Meanwhile the Sunday night hash seems to drive more students down town than any picture at Washington hall ever did.
In the clothes line Notre Dame men have almost the same , thing said about them as the Vassar girls. The Vassar girls, they tell us, are the sloppiest dressers on campus, the sharpest dressers off. N. D. men are the sloppiest dressers. The students arrive here with lavish wardrobes, but the laundry takes shortcuts with too much apparel. Students have been known to arrive for the semester with fourteen shirts and twenty handkerchiefs, and leave at the end of the term with eight shirts and eighty handkerchiefs.
Before the war the process was simple: you handed your clothes in every week and got them. back a week later with most of the spots out. “But when the war came,”’ says Mr. Hoare, laundry manager, “we had to cut comers and do away with the trimmings.”
The big delay in doing student laundry results from washing over 4,400 bundles of laundry each week. This is a strain of about 40 per cent on the facilities, which must do navy and student laundry alike. Another of the campus institutions has gone to war and you’ll have blue stains in your best white shirt to show for it.
The war caused no housing shortage on campus this semester. Most of the previous doubles were un-doubled, and there was still plenty of room. Carroll hall was closed for the duration, and maybe longer; Brownson was cut down to those who refused to move out, now amounting to about twenty students.
About the middle of the semester Sorin sub felt the axe fall. Students were invited, then urged, finally moved into the vacant upper quarters of the hall. The sub had "more hot and cold water pipes running through it than Woelfle has bananas to throw at St. Mary’s, but the ex-subbers claim they still miss knocking their head on a hot pipe once in awhile.
Ancient Badin has gone to war
Several weeks ago the navy announced they were taking over five more residence halls, thus leaving the University with but five. Under navy rule the halls will be ships, the floors decks, and the stairways gangways. No more curtains or drapes, rugs or easy chairs for the duration will furnish these rooms.
Food, clothing and shelter have had to change this semester, but a change for the duration is better than a change forever.
Tokyo radio says a new college “to meet Japanese requirements for leaders to work on the Asiatic mainland and in the southern regions under wartime conditions” will be opened shortly in buildings of the University of Shanghai.
7
29
Centenary Year Sees School Faculty and Graduates Publish Notable Works
With the impetus of war and restricted centennial celebration, literature, in an unprecedented volume, has flowed from the pens of Notre Dame authors.
In direct celebration, Notre Dame—100 Years by Rev. A. J. Hope, C.S.C., was published, tracing the history of Notre Dame from the early struggles of Father Sorin to the present conflict.
Father Hope, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty for the past 15 years as a professor in philosophy, began his writing at the request of the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, in September, 1941. While an undergraduate at Notre Dame in 1917 and 1918 Father Hope worked in the archives of the University and thoroughly enjoyed rummaging through hundreds of thousands of documents which told of Notre Dame’s growth. When asked about his research Father Hope said, “Of course when I was an undergraduate, I had no thought that some day my work would find its way into a centenary book. After my days as a student here, I studied abroad and then returned to Notre Dame as a philosophy professor. However I continued my interest in Notre Dame’s history still without the thought of putting my work into print.” Father Hope then told of the sources from which the material for his book was abstracted. First he said, there was Professor Lyons’ book which recounted the first 25 years of Notre Dame history. Then there was Professor Howard’s book, Golden Jubilee, which was published in commemoration of the golden anniversary of the University. Other important sources were the Scholastic founded in 1865; letters of Father Sorin and of the other priests, Brothers and some of the students were also used.
Also published in commemoration was the Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of the University and outstanding Catholic poet. The poems were collected by Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor of Scholastic, and were published through the University Press.
Francis Wallace, ’23, prominent writer and novelist, has just published Explosion, his latest book. Among five or six other well known works, Mr. Wallace is the author of the famous Kid Galahad.
Harry Flannery, also ’23, has recently published Assignment to Berlin which
30
has been widely acclaimed. Mr. Flannery, while a student at Notre Dame edited the Notre Dame Daily along with the Scholastic and the Juggler.
The Road to Vichy, by Yves Simon, is now followed by his The March to Liberation. Mr. Simon, a native of France, writes of the tragic fall of his country. He is now a professor of philosophy at the University.
Prof. Richard Sullivan
Professor Richard Sullivan, noted short story writer, has published his first novel, Slimmer After Summer, which has already won wide recognition.
Nova ScotiaLand of Cooperatives, by the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., noted authority in the literary field, has also heralded Notre Dame’s century mark.
The department of philosophy was honored by three articles which appeared in the Thomist, by Dr. Yves Simon, Dr. Francis McMahon, and Dr. Waldemar Gurian.
Writings of the faculty have been published in The Revieiv of Politics, and The Ave Maria, and other periodicals.printed on the campus. Many of the alumni have found success in the literary field, among them, Janies Kearns,'-sports columnist of the Chicago Sun; Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune; Thomas Coman, ’25, special writer for David Lawrence in Washington, D. C.; Phil North, -’39, with the public relations staff of. General Douglas MacArthur. Harry Sylves-ter is prominent in the magazine field
with his fiction. Of more recent students, -■
Dr. Yves Simon gaged in collecting material for this purpose, noting only items of scientific, critical, doctrinal or literary quality, including books, articles and book reviews of present and past members of the faculty.
Although most of the items appearing-on the List have been written by present members of the faculty, many names connected with the early days of Notre Dame will be found. Among these are Fathers Corby, Zahm, Scheier, Nieuwland, Wenninger, and Professors Lyons, Egan, Maurus, Phillips, and Haas. The names of the last six presidents also are included on the List: Fathers Cavanaugh, Burns, Walsh, Charles O’Donnell, O’Hara, and J. Hugh O’Donnell.
—Joe R. LoCascio
Bill Fay and Harry Williams, both former Scholastic editors, report for their camps in the Chicago Tribune and the Baltimore Sun respectively.
A Selected List of Publications of the Faculty of the University of Notre Dame, edited by Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., has also been compiled in honor of the centennial. Father Moore has long been en-
Fifty-four Alumni now With General Electric
In a recent press release, it was announced that 54 employees of General Electric are Notre Dame Alumni. This is an increase of six over last year’s 48.
The announcement was made by R. C. Muir, General Electric vice president and chairman of the company’s education commitee. He added that a total of 9,222 college graduates, five percent of all men and women employees of General Electric and its branches, were employed in the vast electrical corporation.
“Engineering degrees predominate, numbering 6,000,” Mr. Muir points out, “But there are 500 with degrees in physics, chemistry or science; 800 with liberal arts degrees; more than 1,000 with degrees in business administration; a substantial, number from the U. S. Military and Naval academies; and law, medicine, agriculture, forestry, education, journalism, music,. and theology are all represented.” - •
Congregation of Holy Cross Expands
During Year; Chilean School Founded
The Congregation of Holy Cross has expanded during the semester to include two continents: both the Americas. In late Febraury three members of the congregation-left for Santiago, Chile, where they took over the Colegio San Jorge. The Rev. Alfred Send, C.S.C., professor of economics at Notre Dame; the Rev. J. M. Doherty, C.S.C., of the University of Portland, Ore.; and the Rev. W. C. . Havey, C.S.C., superior of the group and former vice-president of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas — representing the order’s three American universities—made the trip. They will later be joined by Brothers now studying Spanish at Notre Dame.
In December the Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation, and the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, made an educational mission to South America to plan the project. They reported hearty receptions throughout the Latin countries, and prospects for possible further development later on.
The Colegio San Jorge has an enrollment of some 440 boys. It includes a 12-year program of study, the system almost universal in South America. The property has been described as very beautiful and in a highly desirable location. The students come from the best families in Santiago.
All three members of the first band graduated from the University of Notre Dame. Father Havey, learned and experienced in education, received a Ph.D. and an S.T.D. from Gregorian University in Rome. Returning to this country he taught in the Foreign Mission Seminary in Washington, D. C., and in Holy Cross College there. In 1932 he began his labors with the mission band, and in 1937 went to St. Edward’s University where he was head of the department of philosophy and dean of the College of Commerce, as well as vice-president. Father Send, ordained in 1936, received his M.A. from the Catholic University in 1937. Since then he has been teaching at St. Edward’s and Notre Dame. He has also worked in the Mexican missions in and near Austin, Texas. Father Doherty came from New Brunswick, Canada, and was ordained in 1941, from which time he has been stationed at Portland.
The Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the United States province of the Congregation, in announcing the move commented that more than a year of careful study of the situation and con
ferences in this country with South American churchmen and educators preceded the action. He said that the people of Santiago were very well pleased at the prospect of the Colegio being taken over by an order from the United States, and anticipated development in Santiago and possibly later expansion of the work.
, Notre Dame is rich in Latin American background. The tradition dates back to the South American travels of the late Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., who accompanied President Theodore Roosevelt through that continent. A large number of Latin American students have attended the University. Few moves could cement relations between the continents better than this educational exchange.
—F. J. Pequigney
Music Groups Appear In Washington Hall
Washington Hall, though not the finest university theater in the country, is steeped in tradition, the richness of which would be difficult to match and practically impossible to surpass — a tradition that more than makes up for any architectural deficiencies. Upon the stage of this hall have appeared many of the most talented artists.
In the last year the volume of this fine entertainment was necessarily reduced, due to world conditions, but the quality which Washington Hall has always known remained.
On March 15, Notre Dame students enjoyed the Fisk Jubilee Singers, acclaimed by musicians as the finest vocal ensemble of the Negro race. In the Fisk Singers, Washington Hall met a worthy rival to its claim of unsurpassed tradition, for their history is as colorful as the songs they sing.
The present group of Jubilee Singers, under the direction of Mrs. James A. Myers, have sung with the Boston, Chicago, and Los Angeles Symphony Orchestras, and have recently made recordings for the British Broadcasting Corporation. They are heard weekly, over the coast-to-coast NBC network, and are acknowledged to be the greatest interpreters of Negro spirituals in the world today.	-•
On April 5, another outside group was offered to the student .body. This time the performer was not- one whose success had been made glorious by victorious struggles against hardships, for
the ability of Daniel Saidenberg made hardships practically non-existent.
Saidenberg was bom in Canada of Russian parentage. He gave concerts in .New York City as a child prodigy .of the cello, and at 14 he was sent to the Paris Conservatory for three years. At 17 he was the youngest member of Stokowski’s Philadelphia Orchestra.
Now the Saidenberg String ; Symphony has become known as “the best little orchestra in the country.” Featured with the Saidenberg . Orchestra was 20-year-old Virginia Haskins, gifted soprano, whose operatic voice is known in Europe as well as America.
Thus the tradition of Washington Hall was far from being ignored on campus.
—John Misz.
Cadet William Schaller to
Win Navy Wings Soon
Naval Aviation Cadet William James Schaller has been transferred to the Naval Air Training Center at Corpus Christi, Texas, after successful completion of the primary flight training course at the Naval Air Station at Glenview, Illinois. .
Schaller is a graduate of the Marquette University High School of Milwaukee and attended Notre Dame Unir versity at South Bend, Ind., where he was a member of the Commerce Forum.
Universal N. D. Changed
War-time conditions and the. late Lenten season have combined to force changes in the traditional Universal Notre Dame night programs. Usually featured by a nation-wide radio hook-up on the Monday after Easter Monday, the celebration this year will take the form of communion breakfasts of 94 Notre Dame clubs on Sunday morning, May 2. Alumni will have a chance to hear Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. on the Easter program of the. Columbia Broadcasting Company “Church of the Air.”
Editorship Changes Hands
Editorship of the Chaplain’s Digest, compiled and published on the . campus changed hands this semester when Rev. Norman Johnson, C.S.C., former editor and English teacher accepted a chap-Iain’s commission. New head of the magazine is Rev. Charles Sheedy, C;S.C., . popular assistant prefect of religion. The mimeographed booklet, consisting of excerpts from letters of chaplains,-is compiled monthly and mailed to chaplains , throughout the United States and with . troops abroad. It is published by the Student Commission and the campus council of the Knights of Columbus.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus	Founded 1867
Daniel Downey, Editor
Ted Weber, Jr. ....................  Managing	Editor Phil Keen.....................  Assistant	Sports Editor
Bill Boss..............................Sports	Editor Robert Lonergan..............................Promotion
Dave Condon............................Campus	Editor	Al Schaefer...........................  Photographer
Robert Kopf.....................Administration Editor	John Morris.............................Senior Photos ■
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 127 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame. Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
.A. NOTHER volume of Scholastic is finished, another chapter in the lives of Notre Dame men is completed, another page in Notre Dame’s history has been recorded. True, 77 other such volumes have come and gone. But this time things are a little different. This last issue of volume 78 goes not only to the graduating seniors as their final issue, but similarly to hundreds of other students—freshmen, sophomores and juniors— who feel that they, as students, are leaving Notre Dame forever. And so today’s issue, ending another volume, is a farewell magazine for more Notre Dame students than any final issue has ever been.
¥	4*
S INCE 1867 the mast-head of Scholastic has proudly carried the profound words Disce Quasi Semper Victurus; Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus—Learn as though you will live forever; live as though you will die tomorrow. There could hardly be a more appropriate motto for a publication so closely connected with students. Today more than, ever it is especially significant and timely in view of the uncertain future.
On that memorable December 8th when our country declared war there was a drop in student intellectual initiative. In place of the peace-time studying and planning for the future there arose a noticeable, pessimistic, well-whafs-the-use attitude, in which students felt inclined to leave their books for posterity and have a good time before tomorrow and military service.
No one could rationally defend such a defeatist state of mind. And no attempt was made to defend it on this campus. Rather through the guidance of far-sighted 32
authority Notre Dame students escaped this intellectual pitfall to some degree. We like to think that our motto helped somewhat in pointing the way for our student readers. Its contemplation brings one to a perception of the philosophy it contains, perfect for the students station in life. We hope those who in the future walk this campus will avail themselves of its richness, follow it closely that they may five a full fife. . . . Learn as though you will live forever; live as though you will die tomorrow.
. I.BOOKING back four academic years— two and a half calendar years—and remembering what Notre Dame was like then prompted someone to remark lately that Notre Dame has changed. That seems to be a likely conclusion when we recall the days of tablecloths and napkins, of grace in unison, of cries of “milk down!”, and 1500 vibrant youths singing the Victory March before a big game; spring days when the Morrissey lawn was strewn with boisterous residents; when Badin Bog resounded with hoarse yells. Yes, these things have passed for awhile. In this sense Notre Dame has changed, changed externally. But all that will return after the war.
The real Notre Dame never changes: as someone said “Notre Dame is of the eternal.” It is not the stadium, nor the impressive structure of the engineering building, not bricks and mortar nor the spacious, well-kept green lawns—what is Notre Dame cannnot be seen. It can only be sensed internally. It is something all of Our Lady’s graduates feel and appreciate. It is something we who are leaving Notre Dame next week can take with us and cherish forever.
STAFF SKETCHES
EDITOR
“Butch cut” and checked sports coat . . . editor-in-chief Dan Downey . . . spends vacations in the waters off West Palm Beach, Fla. . . . lives on Mango Promenade there . . . philosophy major
Editor-in-chief Downey
taking accounting as an elective . . . sportsman as well as editor and singer . . . played on frosh baseball team . . . president of glee club this semester . . . followed brother Jim as philosophy major . . . resides in lofty third floor Sorin single . . . walls papered with entertainment posters and baseball pictures . . . member of the ERC ... spends afternoons delivering S.B. Tribs in Dillon . . . hits books enough to boast a respectable 90 average . . . and spends Thursday evenings at Wrangler meetings . . . used to run the notorious “quiz show” for the radio club . . . and appears in Washington Hall plays.
MANAGING EDITOR
Economics major and managing editor . . . Ted Weber, Jr. . . . who calls Ypsilanti, Mich., home and will explain where the town got that name . . . another
Managing Editor Weber
Walsh resident . . . 220 is the number . . . had 93 average until this semester ... and has been a Wrangler since freshman year . . . member of inter-hall de
bate team for Breen-Phillips in freshman year .. . has worked on Scholastic since second week here . . . first as reporter, then as photo, campus and now managing editor. ...
SPORTS EDITOR
Radioman as well as reporter . . . Bill Boss, the head man of the sports pages .. . . English major . . . and believes in using what he learns in his copy . . . one of the chiefs of the “Sportscast” radio show which periodically gets on WSBT . . . another Sorin resident . . . with his home in Franklin, Ohio . .. football manager this spring . . . spent last fall spotting for Chicago station ... so good the station sent him to cover an Ohio State game at Columbus .. . would just as soon get a sportscasting job when the war’s over . . . but V-7 has the upper hand right now . . . campus dramatist . . . most recent role was Mr. Nathan of “Tailor-Made Man” fame.
Editor Boss and Promoter Lonergan
PROMOTION
Promoter extraordinary — “Red” Lonergan of Carnival and Bengal renown . . . second semester senior . . . Red is in . everything . . . including football practice one day when he shouldn’t have been there . . . used to write Sports Quiz . . . no one ever answered one of Red’s questions . . . Writes “Pressbox Splinters” and promotes this year . . . from his Sorin single directs more things than any other two persons . . . always moving . . . stayed with the Bengals until the day of the finals . . . then went into infirmary . . . North Shore Chicagoan . . . well, more properly, Wilmette . . . another AB man. . . .
SPORTS ASSISTANT
The shadow . . . tennis-playing Phil Keen . . . commerce man . . . drum-beating member of the Notre Dame band . . . spent freshman year handing in assignments for two departments of Scholastic . . . can still write a straight news story . . . but prefers to have a by-line
over sports copy .. . calls triple on Cavanaugh’s first floor home - . . otherwise it’s Honesdale, Pa.,. . . follows Scholastic tradition by claiming allegiance to ERC . . . spends Fridays delivering Scholastics to Cavanaugh . . . 327 of them.
CAMPUS EDITOR
Scoop . . . blond Dave Condon ... always planning something with an “angle” . . . exposes everything on campus . . . mighty proud of New Mexico, especially Las Vegas ... lives in crowded Dillon double ... a natural promoter__ took over in Bengals when “Boss” Lon' ergan went into infirmary . . . his features on the infirmary and dining halls and his column of remarks on, other N.D. institutions will long be remembered . . . just plain “draft-bait.”	'
ADMINISTRATION EDITOR
Curly hair and glasses . . . “big” Bob Kopf who covers the doings of the administration and faculty . . . and digs up quite a few other stories besides ... transfer student from Catholic IT. in Washington .. . where he was managing editor of the paper in his freshman year . . . spent two semesters here as reporter and moved up to editor’s job this winter . . . inter-hall debater on the winning St. Ed’s team . . . besides working on the paper and majoring in English he manages to put in about 12 hours a week in the library and has a job on the “Bulletin” staff . . . lives in Walsh single . . . first floor front. .. Bob Beck’s paintings cover the walls ... and books, mostly on English, cover the tables . . . and he’s in the ERC....	.
FACULTY ADVISOR
Staff advisor.... Father Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.... second floor prefect in Walsh. — has reputation of being one of fastest “night check” prefects on campus. .. something of the promoter in him
Rev. C. M. Carey. C.S.C.
... at any rate he’s been behind the recent, Bengals.. and more recently the Carnival... tireless worker... always starting something else— teaches English. .. and is editor of a Centenary book
33
The Collected Poems of Charles O’Donnell. .. the late Father O’Donnell was his uncle... also advises the campus Knights of Colunibus.__gaining reputation as a hiker._________until this semester had to worry about Dome as well as Scholastic.
EX-ADMINISTRATION EDITOR
Ex-editor of the administration section . . . J. L. Denniston . . . known variously as Jack, John, and a flock of nick-names . . . will tell you he’s majoring in English . . . only occupant of one of Walsh’s big doubles . . . woiks as guest-master in Main Building and in the publications office . . . biggest practical joker in the building ... as those who try and work. with him will testify . . . spent Christmas
"SCRIP" ENTERS 15th YEAR OF PUBLICATION;
LATEST ISSUE UPHOLDS LITERARY QUALITY
The latest Scrip is out. The literary quarterly made its appearance on the campus last Saturday. Although its quarterly status has been somewhat altered by the war (it is now being published only once a semester) there is no deviation from the lofty standards set up by its contributors.
The editor of the present issue is Edward F. Meagher, from Seattle, "Wash., and assistant editor of the December Dome. He lives in Alumni hall.
Assisting Meagher as associate editors are Joseph Lanigan, Kelly Cook, Robert Cullen, J. H. Johnston, and James Newman.
John and William Sherer, Notre Dame twin architects, continue as art editors and are assisted by Ellsworth Cordesman, freshman architecture student who illustrated some of the articles.
There is an impressive list of contributors. Kelly Cook, an Army Air Corps man, wrote two poems, an essay, and a sketch. His sketch, “O’Brien the Toughest,” is centered about the forgotten men of the tobacco industry of his native Kentucky. The essay is entitled “Franciscans in Florida.” Two poems, “End Summer” and “To a Girl in Summertime,” speak for themselves.
Cook has been a consistent Scrip contributor and has written many works of note, including “The Irish Come Home From the Sea.” He will be remembered by Notre Dame men for his brilliant epic of 100 years—“The Spirit of Notre Dame,” and for his editing of the December Dome.
Editor Meagher contributes the splendidly written “The Wine of Sorrow.” He has appeared in the magazine many
on campus working . . . but will head for Lombard next week to await ERC call . . . Lombard’s in Illinois, if you didn’t know. ...
PHOTOGRAPHER
The picture man ... Al Schaeffer . . . junior living in a senior hall . . . with his buddy and fellow-photog Ed Drink-ard . . . together the two of them “cover” the campus ... an engineer ... at least that’s what all the figures and books on the desk point to . . . another Pennsylvania boy . . . Stroudsburg in the Keystone state . . . roomie Ed is English major and comes from Virginia . . . with a drawl to prove it.
times previously and was chosen editor last December to succeed John J. Gilligan.
J. H. Johnston, who has built up a distinctive following with his poetry, sketches and stories, is back in this issue with some creditable contributions.
A selected group of sketches by freshmen, in keeping with Scrip policy, are included in the issue.
Associate editor Joe Lanigan wrote “The Wild Shores,” a moving story of youth. Lanigan is a senior from Newton Center, Mass.
William Steele, senior from Chicago, HL, contributed “The Vine And Its Branches.”
Roy Grumbine is back in Scrip after an absence of two issues. Grumbine, from Cincinnati, contributed two sketches. Also returning this time is Farre Pequigney, who, with “The Statue,” continues his “Big Family” stories about life in Galveston, Texas. 2
Another contributor with a following is Scholastic campus editor Dave Condon. His sketch is about a whistle stop on a railroad line in his native New Mexico.
R. J. Ames, who previously appeared in Scrip and has since left Notre Dame, has penned two poems. Ames, president of the freshman class in 1941-42, was a Bengal Bout winner in 1942. He plans to return to the University for the summer semester.
■Two former Notre Dame students, John J. Gilligan, past editor of Scrip, and Joseph Hillebrand, editor of the May, 1942,- Dome, left behind two remarkable essays. Gilligan wrote “The
Just Man Rages,” a study of the famed French writer, Leon Bloy. Hillebrand, who last year received the annual Mee; han Medal award, essays on the late Virginia Wolf, English novelist, whose last work was “The Death of the Moth.”
In the book review section Joe Lanigan reviews a Notre Dame centenary publication, Notre Dame—Land of Cooperatives, by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., and published by Sheed and Ward.
Under the heading “The Song of God” J. H. Johnston reviews The Collected Poems of Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., which were compiled and edited by Scholastic advisor Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C. Johnston’s review praises the volume highly.
William Saroyan’s novel, “The Human Comedy,” is reviewed by James Newman, who lifts the axe and leaves Saroyan, his novel, and his literary technique, standing quite barren. Newman praises Saroyan and says that The Human Comedy is “entertaining. It really has nothing to say, yet its way of saying is fine.” Newman says it is not a failure, but hopes that the Ameri-. can reading public will realize that the world created by Saroyan is far from being the real one.
Notre Dame "Lawyer" Published Quarterly
A little-heard-of Notre Dame publication, possibly because of its cloistered nature, is The Notre Dante Lawyer. It is an old timer around the law school, having been the members’ bible for the past 18 years.
Its scope of influence is not limited to the campus by any means. It is one of the leading legal publications in the country. There is a subscriber’ to it in every part of the nation and in many foreign domains.
The Lawyer is published quarterly. Its present staff consists of Bernard F. Grainey of Montana, the editor; James McVay from Pennsylvania, business manager; Timothy Green and John Hackett, associate editors; and Law Club president, Warren Deahl, as note editor.
In the past articles have been written for it by leading legal authorities. The most recent of these contributors are Dr. Roscoe Pound, Dean Emeritus of Harvard Law School; Judge Robert N. Wilken, U.S. District Judge; Judge Walter B. Jones, Judge of the Supreme Court of Alabama; James M. Ogden, President of the Indiana Law School; William D. Rollison, Notre Dame Law School; and Herman " Anton-Chroust, Harvard Law School. • •
34
Five Outstanding Authorities Lecture On Campus Platforms During Semester
Dean Emeritus of the Harvard Law School, Roscoe Pound, honored the lawyers of the Notre Dame Law School by his series of four separate talks, the last one being concluded the night of Jan. 29.
Dean Pound, who is considered one of the highest ranking authorities in the legal profession today, began his career in the latter half of the nineteenth century. He passed the bar examination in 1891 and has steadily increased his knowledge of law through relentless study and observation of new trends in his chosen field.
Dean Emeritus Roscoe Pound
South Bend lawyers as well as members of the Notre Dame Law School and other guests attended the Pound lectures given in the Law auditorium. All responded whole heartedly with applause at the extension of an invitation by Dean Clarence Manion that Mr. Pound make his lectures an annual occasion.
Father Bernard Hubbard, S.J., glacier priest, author, lecturer, and explorer lectured to the student body on “Alaska in the War” last Feb. 3. Eye-witness account of the Dutch Harbor attack by Japanese bombing was vividly drawn by Father Hubbard. He told what the victims went through and gave other information about the treachery of the Japanese in Alaska.
“What are the chances of the Japanese invading America—via the back door.” To this question he answered that the back door was merely ajar, and that the possibilities of further Jap penetration were remote.
Sixteen years of exploration of the Northwest Territory mark Father Hubbard’s career. He is at present acting as civilian advisor to the Western Defense Command. A new motion picture “Alaska in the War” concluded his lecture.
NBC’s new religion department head, Dr. Max Jordan, spoke to the student body on “The Challenge of this War— Our Stake in the Peace” last Feb. 25. Dr. Jordan, the son of an Italian chemist, is a devout Catholic. He received his Ph.D. in philosohy at Jena, then turned to journalism and religion.
He scored many news scoops during a ten year term as NBC’s European boss.
At present Dr. Jordan handles We Believe (NBC), half hour Sunday program; Chaplain Jim (Blue network), also half hour on Sunday; Light of the World (NBC), 15 minute Monday through Friday Biblical serial.
March 5—Dr. Rudolph Allers, professor of psychology at the Catholic University of America, spoke on “Philosophy in a Warring World.”
Allers stated that this war is a war of ideas bom out of a number of false philosophies. He believes that the ideas of Kant and Hegel are still reflected in much of our conduct.
In concluding his talk and tying it
Dr. Rudolph Allers
down to the present war he asked, “How shall we know the things we are fighting for are good if we have no standard of good?” Science, with its facts and figures cannot tell us why, only philosophy can solve the problem. Outside of our philosophy, he made clear, there is no yard stick to measure things. Philosophy is
the only true way to measure or figure the value of truth and goodness..
Father Philip Moore, C.S.C., introduced the speaker.	'
The lecture season came to a conclusion with a timely talk by Dr. Hemame Tavares, professor at the University of" Sao Paulo in Brazil.
Speaking on March 29 in the engineering auditorium, Dr. Tavares claimed that Latin-America will back the post-war freedom claims of India and China and hopes that the United States .will do the same. He pointed out that many. South Americans fear the U.S. will drop the good neighbor policy after Germany and Japan are defeated.
“If Latin America can make any contribution to the post-war world,” said the Brazilian professor, “it will be in the form of a spiritual impetus that will give moral fiber to the economic and political • strength of the United States.
Wm. O. Shanahan Latest
Prof, to Leave Campus
William 0. Shanahan, professor of history since September, 1941, left . for Naval Aviation training under the V-5 program as instructor at Chapel Hill, N. C., on April 17.	-
Mr. Shanahan came here from Co- '
Prof. William O. Shanahan
lumbia University, where he taught for four years. He has .already been commissioned as an ensign in the Navy and will train at Chapel Hill for 30 days.
Mr. Shanahan received his A.B. degree from the University of California, majoring in history. He began teachingcourses at the University, in the spring of 1942, called “The History of Armies and Warfare.” This course has been enthusiastically received by all student? who have taken it.	.
After Mr. Shanahan graduates from his 30-day course he does not know where he will be sent. But he expects to be sent to some school to teach naval history and warfare.
Mr. Shanahan hopes to return to the University after the war is over. ■
35
Brother Raphael Succumbs;
Ex-Prof, de Landero Dies
This semester brought to a close the careers of two Notre Dame faculty members. one at the end of a successful life, and the other just rising to the top.
Professor Pedro de Landero, former instructor in Spanish and Portuguese, succumbed after a long illness in his Mexico City home, at the age of 55, on January 7. 1943.
Professor de Landero
NOTRE DAME FAMILIES SAY SPECIAL PRAYERS THIS WEEK
Under the direction of the Prefects of Religion, Notre Dame families throughout the country are being asked to participate in special Holy Week services.
Letters sent by Rev. William T. Crad-dick, C.S.C., head prefect, to alumni and families of students last week urged all to join with the campus in a three-fold devotion program with a threefold aim. Devotion urged includes daily mass and communion during Holy Week, daily family rosary, and attendance at Holy Week services. The threefold aim is the restoration of Christ’s peace in the world, the welfare of Notre Dame men —including the dead, those in service, and present students, most of whom are soon to be in service—and the unity and security of Notre Dame families after the war.
Students on campus are having an opportunity to recite the daily rosary in Sacred Heart church. This program is the most universal appeal ever to be
made to the great Notre Dame family. It is expected that about 100,000 people will be affected by the appeal.
Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C.
Air. de Landero was graduated from Notre Dame in 1911 and returned in 1933 to teach the languages of South America. He organized the first Faculty Club and Notre Dame Ladies’ Club and was influential in starting the Spanish Club. Studies did not take all his energy, however, for he was the first fencing coach and guided his squads to two undefeated seasons while compiling an amazing record for fencing. He was also tennis coach.
Professor de Landero was forced by ill health to resign in 1939 and return to Mexico City, Mexico.
On February 11, Brother Raphael, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, died at St. Joseph’s Hospital. For the past four years he had been connected with the Department of Biology and since September 1942 had been a member of the faculty in that department.
Brother Raphael held the distinction of receiving four degrees from the University: B.S., M.S., M.A., and Ph.D. He had just completed his thesis for the doctorate, which was awarded him in December.
Brother was born in Chicago in 1907 and in 1923 entered the Congregation. As a student he showed a decided aptitude for mathematics and science. For a number of years before returning to the University to study for a doctorate he had taught in various high schools conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross.
36
Notre Dame’s first student death in several semesters occurred March 29 when Edwin Matthews, Zahm Hall freshman, died in St. Joseph’s Hospital after a short illness. Matthews, whose home was in South Orange N. J., was stricken on March 24 and despite offers of blood by students and the prayers of the entire campus died five days later. He was a member of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. The above picture shows the N.R.O.T.C. attending a Memorial Mass for him in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., said the Mass.
Ed was a student in the department of architecture.
✓ Noi'ie. ^bame £p&>iiA,
*** "	--- ---- 1	:	... - -------- - ....."'"i--- —a^
The sports editors respectfully dedicate their resume of the semester to George E. Keogan. head basketball coach of Notre Dame for twenty years, who died unexpectedly last February 17.
37
Centennial Sports Greatest In History
The Centennial sports story of Notre Dame. . . the saga of the unfolding, tumultous athletic reign of a backward little Indiana school that was just a fastened shadow in a blurred Mid-Western wilderness until 1913—when the spurred talents of Gus Dorais and Knute Rockne exploded on the crusted turf of West Point . . . Notre Dame 35; Army 13 . . . What and where was Notre Dame?. . . The murmur burrowed deeper, louder and stronger. . . Gliding, swinging years. . . then. . . Fighting Irish. . . bursting into the athletic strips of America’s newspapers until today the name, Notre Dame, paces synonymously with uncontested supremacy in the stadia of the land. . . Blue and Gold athletic teams have pounded through lean years but faded decades have been nourished and fattened with representative, sometimes invincible, Irish athletic unions.
Cramming through the years are heralds of great names — Gipp — Barry — Layden — Nowak — Wilson — Moir — Rice — Leahy — struggling, climbing, winning-over-all for their Alma Mater.
But as the Centennial year, streaked with war bruises, burns to a glowing end, Notre Dame bows to one of the greatest periods in the University’s athletic history.
FOOTBALL
Patriots of the Golden Dome, ruffled by early war hysteria, blanketed themselves along the sidelines last fall and eagerly watched Frank Leahy’s second year group flounder early in the season. Un
A gallant football team makes history on the. cold, wet gridiron of Soldiers' Field.
familiar with the recently adopted T-formation, the Irish shunned reports of the weakening Notre Dame system and pounced in full greatness against Iowa’s Seahawks to flatten Col. Bernie Bierman’s expertly-coached eleven, 28-0. Cleat marks scratched the coated turf as the Irish clan abbreviated all cries of sorrow and decisioned Illinois, Navy, and Army on successive week-ends. The Wolverines of Michigan whirled around in the second half and flushed victory from a ballcraving Irish eleven. Northwestern and Southern California were torn fortifications and Notre Dame concluded the most formidable gridiron schedule in Gold and Blue history tying Great Lakes, 13-13, between the snowbanks of Soldiers Field.
Folded pages and ragged clippings tell the inside story of a successful football season. Coach Leahy stricken was taken to Mayo’s. At the bedside he listened to the raspy tones of a radio announcer tell the story of Irish victories under the capable guidance of Texan Ed McKeever. Stringing lists of accomplishments ramble with those victories. Little Pete Ashbaugh flitted across the chalk against Illinois. Clatt, Livingstone and Cowhig ran rampant on following week-ends. Angelo Bertelli flipped continual touchdown passes. All-American Bob Dove scooped opposing flankmen aside and ripped into enemy secondaries.
BASKETBALL
George Keogan sat behind the oak desk in his office on the afternoon of Feb. 17. He was a contented basketball mentor. Actively Coach Keogan related the suc
cessful story of the triumphant eastern trip his team had just completed. Notre Dame had overwhelmed N. Y. U. in Madison Square Garden, 74-34, and the nation realized the “Thin Men” from South Bend were bending towards national greatness. A long range Kentucky outfit had been the only team to rally and subdue the Irish. Coach Keogan smilingly looked ahead to the finest season in his 20-year tutoring career. Donning his sweatpants and black jersey Keogan trudged onto the hardwood for the final time that afternoon. Spectators watched as he noticed flaws and taking the ball he feinted into the muddle of players showing them just how the play on which they had faltered should be correctly executed. But that same evening he slumped into a chair at his home to read the daily paper. Silently, his head drooped and George Keogan died.
So, in the greatest sports year at Notre Dame a sad note was added. The last of the Great Triumvirate—the last member of the Three Musketeers passed away. Rock and Nick had left them before and Coach Keogan joined them.
Ed Krause, former football and basketball great, guided the Irish through the remaining games and when the season was finally brushed aside the eagers had carded 18 victories and lost but two contests. Records set many years ago were paralleled and a great number were broken by the 1943 quintet. The ensemble of Faught, Butler, Niemiera, Curran, and Rensberger had racked up the best hardwood record in Irish annals.
TRACK
Track material that had budded under the workmanship of the late John Nicholson bloomed into full greatness under the polishing hands of Coach Alvin (Doc) Handy.
Oliver H. Hunter, III, the shadow of Gregory Rice, churned around the middle distance area faster than any Irish thinclad has ever raced the field. Relay crown after relay crown toppled into the waiting arms of the Blue and Gold. DilIon, Delaney, Wiethoff and others astounded track commentators. Records crumbled. The two-mile relay team spurned all comers and established a national mark.
Undefeated reads the track tally card for 1943 with but individual appearances in the Penn and Drake Relays remaining (Continued on page 61)
38
Bengal Bouts Draw Record Crowds
BILL CAREY
For three gruelling nights Notre Dame men swapped blow for blow in the 12th Annual Bengal Bouts. A charity event for the Holy Cross missionaries in India, the fights were well received by capacity crowds that attended.
Sponsored by the Scholastic under the general chairmanship of Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., the Bouts owe their success to a multitude of willing workers. The department of physical education of the University, headed by Mr. John A.
Danny Scherrer leaves ring
Scannell, handled the mechanics of the show. Robert “Red” Lonergan filled the all important role of promotion manager. The Scholastic staff took care of the publicity, and the Student Council the ticket sales.
As in the past, an outstanding list of officials was secured. Lieut. Arthur B. Donovan, U.S.N. had graciously accepted the role of Honorary Referee, but last minute priority difficulty in obtaining plane accommodations made his appearance impossible.
Under the watchful eyes of footballer Bob Dove and ex-Bengal champion Chuck Waters, both phy ed majors, some 60-odd candidates labored through a rigorous month long training period. Calisthenics, roadwork, apparatus exercise, shadow boxing and bag punching all preceded the sparring that featured the final two weeks. Most of the boys had never before stepped between the ropes, but through the skilled advice of their instructors developed into ring-wise veterans.
. Finally, it came—the eve of St. Pat’s day—the night of the opening battles.
Only one champion carried a title into the ring. Another 1942 winner had left with the Air Corps Reserves a scant three weeks before. Besides the mythical campus championship, material reward awaited the victors in the form of golden glove sweaters. Fired by this ambition the lads slugged and danced and feinted and counter-punched their way to victory —or to defeat.
Friday was the big night of the finals. Three thousand people flocked into the Fieldhouse, drawn by an attractive card. The Notre Dame band lent music to festivities. Around the ringside sat men ranking high in the Navy and public life. It was indeed a “great day for the Irish.”
Five freshmen slugged their way to titles in a manner unprecedented in Bengal history. The men of ’46 placed a contender in every class, save one.
Two seniors, Farrell Quinlan and Joe Farrell, raced through their respective classes with comparative ease. Quinlan, the pride of Alumni Hall and Lake Bom-eseen, Vt., was the lone champion of 1942 to defend his laurels. Farrell quickly quenched the title aspirations of freshman Lou Twardzik, when he kayoed the threat to his welterweight crown in 1:12 of the first round. The blonde haired bomber skillfully stalked his foe, dropping the Zahmite with a whip-like right cross.
Summer champion, Sorin’s own Joe Farrell, hammered out an impressive two round T.K.O. over courageous Don Hummer from Walsh. The bout, throughout, was a torrid one. Joe, after a fast first round, floored Hummer for a five count as the bell rang. Farrell came out hungry for the kill, but Don hung on stubbornly. Once, twice, three times he went down before the flying fists of Farrell. At 1:53 of the second heat, Referee George Nate stepped in to stop the one-sided affair.
The first contest of the evening saw Harry Osborne of Dillon outlast Tim Crowe from Breen-Phillips in the 120 lb. division. Osborne’s height and reach gave him an advantage the stockier Crowe could not overcome.
A St. Edward’s lad from Brooklyn, Frank Debitetto, fought off a last round rally by Tom King to cop the pahn in the 127’s. Debitetto’s speed and lightning left piled up too great a point advantage for the Brownsonite.
Bob Lee, an off-campus student from Cicero, Ill., won his 145 pound crown on Wednesday night. His. scheduled oppon
ent in the finals, trackster Bill Leonard, was forced to withdraw. However, Jack Murphy, another of the fine St. Ed’s A.C. crew, was a willing and able substitute. Their no-decision “exhibition” was one of the finest fights of the evening.
The Frank Lombardo-Virgil “Dugie” Turner middleweight battle-royal was a showdown of two directly conflicting styles—the slugger and the boxer. For three rounds Turner charged and threw evil roundhousers, while Lombardo took a great number of these on his pawing-mittens and countered with telling blows of his own. The decision could have gone either way. Turner’s right arm was raised in victory because of his aggressiveness.	-
St. Edward’s courageous Bill Martin and rugged Mike Cutt of Zahm made the customers wince as they traded punch, for punch in the light heavyweight class. Martin’s superb condition paid dividends, and he rallied in the last canto to pound out a clear decision.-
A 20 pound weight advantage and a dynamite laden right pillow won for Ted Budynkiewicz. His foe Danny Scherrer fought a courageous battle, but couldn’t combat the rushing tactics of the Chicopee, Mass., footballer.
An interesting intermission program was presented by two Golden . Glovers from Chicago, and a pair of “judo” instructors from the Midshipmen’s school on campus.
As an aftermath of the show, the Sportsmanship Trophy was awarded to Frank Lombardo, the Dillonite who- lost a hair line decision in the 165 pound class. A top heavy entry list won the hall championship, scored by the A.A.U. rules, for the Freshmen from Zahm.
How to cripple your enemy—in one lesson
39
These Were Sports Headlines of Semester
The Notre Dame student body arrived back at school after their Christmas vacation to find Notre Dame Sports going strong. One of George Keogan’s best teams had conquered Purdue, 46-43 after defeating the much proclaimed Wisconsin quintet.... in a thrilling overtime, 61-59.... “Whew! You had too darn much speed for us tonight, George,” said Dutch Lomberg.... as Captain Butler lead the team to a 49-36 victory over Northwestern.... but later only to be upset by the Kentucky Wildcats, 60-55. The Irish, under Curran’s scoring aid.... recorded their seventh win in eight games.... they defeated a fighting Butler five, 45-34, with Bob Rensberger sinking the ball for 11 markers.
The Keoganmen whipped the basketball “emphasis” team, De Paul, with an exciting 50-47 hardwood battle.... in which there were 40 fouls to bear witness to the spirit.... Bob Rensberger led the battle. Brennan and Curran then paced the Irish to a 50-45 victory with a visiting Marquette five.... Faught scored 11 points.
Notre Dame lost Joe Petritz who was Rockne’s sports publicity director.... he was commissioned a lieutenant (jg). The school greatly missed his presence. Notre Dame’s colorful aggregation of eagers took over the Madison Square Garden with a victory—74-43, over New York University. On Feb. 6, Doc Handy’s boys defeated N.Y.U., Dartmouth, and Harvard, in the Garden’s Milrose Games. — Ollie Hunter ran the two mile in 9:11...
not good enough to defeat Greg Rice.... Meanwhile in the Fieldhouse, . Notre Dame’s track team smothered Navy Pier of Chicago.... while Notre Dame shared
honors with the University of Michigan in the 23rd annual Michigan State College Relay Carnival. The Irish whipped Canisius.... for its twelfth victory... as
When Lieut. Petritz was at Notre Dame
Curran lead the five to a 55-37 win. The aggressive Keoganmen topped a mediocre Michigan State quintet, 45-43, in the Fieldhouse. The Interhall Basketball stepped into the spotlight as the race became closer.... Cavanaugh and Alumni II leading the heavies.... Cavanaugh and the NROTC leading in the lights.
Notre Dame mourned in silent sorrow upon learning of the death of George M. Keogan, head coach of basketball for 21 years.... his death came as a complete surprise.
The game between Great Lakes and the Irish started after a dramatic tribute to the late George Keogan. Notre Dame fought hard for their late coach.... but lost the game in the final seconds, 60-56. In New York’s Garden.... Ollie Hunter nearly defeated Greg Rice in the two mile. The Interhall Basketball games were well into their hardwood fight.... with the same teams still in front. A New League was added to the sports interest for the benefit of students who were unable to enter other leagues.
The N.D. netmen trounced the Butler boys, 64-32.... with Bob Faught and Brennan scoring 12 points each... Paced by the rangy Faught the Irish then won ..over .a.-stubbom-Michigan State quintet,
45-42, at East Lansing. The NROTC Rifle team won one of three matches.... a 909-863 victory over University of New Mexico, a loss to U.C.L.A. and to Georgia Tech. Interhall Basketball became closer .... Breen-Phillips took over Cavanaugh’s first place hole.... the rest of the leading teams still maintained their original places.
The Irish track squad won the Tech Relay Title and set a new meet record for the Two Mile Relay.... the Irish took five firsts and scored in 11 out of 12 events. Capt. Butler paced the Irish to a victory over a strong fighting University of Detroit— .it was the last game of the season for one of Notre Dame’s finest teams— the final score was 52-43. Interhall Basketball fast drew to a close with no great change in standing.
Irish long distance runners won the Chicago Relays.'. . then moved on to capture the Purdue Relay Title... thus closing an undefeated season for the Handymen. The students yelled loud and hard at the Bengal Bouts... five two-fisted Freshmen won Bengal Championships... both Quinlan and Farrell registered knock-outs... a colorful intermission was given on the third night by two Navy . men on the art of judo. The University of Notre Dame paid tribute to the memory of the late Knute Rockne.
Walsh Hall campus fencing team captured the fencing title. Baseball and football practice was in full swing out of doors. The Interhall Basketball League title was won by two Cavanaugh squads, Alumni, and NROTC captured second
place in the two leagues. The Phy Ed men seized the New League title. Plans were laid for the coming golf and tennis play. .
40
Track Team Records Brilliant Season
BILL BROWN
From the moment Coach Al Handy opened the fieldhouse and admitted Captain Jim Delaney and his gang for the indoor track season until the door was closed and all of them put out to the green pasture for the outdoor season there was little but breaking records and adding up glory for the Notre Dame thinlies.
There doesn’t seem to be much opposition to the choice of Ollie Huntei- as the outstanding star of the group. A better part of his year was spent in overshadowing the collegiate marks of Notre Darner Greg Rice.
Captain Jim Delaney had his share of moments out in the center of the arena. He, too, established some new all-time collegiate records in his barnstorming about the middle west.
Individual events were handled with equal ease by the Irish trackmen and more records fell. High or low, no hurdle was found too difficult by Bill Dillon once the gun was sounded. Sticking with him like a shadow in all the races was another Bill—Bill Nicholson. When the race called for a quick start and a fast finish in a short dash Jack Murphy or again Bill Dillon would supply the answer and a couple of points for the Irish. As the distances spread out, 440’s, 880’s, a mile, Bob Purcell, Frank Conforti, Don Currie, Bill Leonard, Gene Fehlig, Tony Maloney, and of course Ollie Hunter were always at hand.
When the events were being run off in the infield a couple of muscle men, Jim White and John Yonaker, would be out there throwing the shot around.
Undefeated record breakers — the 1943 track team
Jack Wiethoff and Jack Zilly were striving to reach a cloud by pole vaulting. Creighty Miller, Rolly Hogue, and Paul Corgan would be trying to outjump one another and the opposition in the broad jump. When it came to just plain jumping Ed Keelan, Bill Nicholson, and Chuck Murphy would be floating over the bar.
The Irishmen’s first indoor test came in a meet on Feb. 5 at the fieldhouse against a squad from Navy Pier, Chicago. The Irish ran off with the laurel wreath from this meet, winning from the Sailors, 94-10.
Tony Maloney and Don Currie handled the mile run with all efficiency, finishing one-two. Bill Dillon and Tom Clifford had the situation well in hand when they turned in another one-two victory for the Irish. The 440 yard dash was taken by Bob Purcell with Frank Conforti and Charles Schwinn finishing in that order. The two Bills, Dillon and Nicholson, added another first and second in the 60 yard high hurdles. Jim Delaney and his understudies, Jim White and John Yonaker, managed to outpitch all the competition. Ensign Wiethoff won out in the pole vault and Jack Zilly gained a second place tie with Sailor Canfield. With Ollie absent, Walt Brehmer handled the two mile run to everyone’s satisfaction by taking another first for the Irish. Dillon and Nick repeated again in the highs and Currie came back to win the 880. The mile relay of Conforti, Brehmer, Clifford, and Purcell took their event as did Ed Keelan and Bill Nicholson in the high jump.
The next night in New York at the
Millrose games Hunter put on one of the top shows of the season in his challenge of Rice, the master two miler. Greg won the race by some 60 yards but Ollie’s performance set the crowd to thinking of the future.
On Feb. 20 at the NYAC Games in the Garden Greg and Ollie put on act two of their classic. This time Greg fin- . ished the course in 8:58.8 to win. Ollie followed him all the way around and turned in a 9:01.1 finish to establish a new record for Notre Dame, indoor two milers to shoot at; it was formerly Rice’s record.
Indiana came down to the NJ), fieldhouse for a meet bn Feb. 27 with a fine squad and came out on the short end "of a 76-28 score. The Irish won every race except the 880 run which Indiana swept.
Ed Keelan and Chuck Murphy took the first spot in the high jump. John Yonaker established a new meet record by throwing the shot 49 feet 7% inches and de- . feating Big Ten champ, Lou Saban. Tony Maloney and Frank Conforti took care of the mile, taking first and* second places. Jack Murphy and Creighty Miller battled it out in the 60 yard dash with Murph coming out in front. Bill Dillon skipped over the high hurdles in grand style to win and mark up a new meet record at :07.7. The 440 tape was broken by Gene Fehlig while Ollie Hunter- running all by himself after lapping the field put a new mark in the books for the meet and fieldhouse two mile course, 9:15. Jack Wiethoff slid over the bar at 13 feet % inch for a new meet record. Dillon repeated in the low hurdles to tie the indoor mark of :07 he wrote in in the Navy Pier meet. Creighty Miller jumped 22 feet 1 inch to take the broad jump test. The final event saw the mile relay team Of Austin Jones, Don Lundergan, Dick Tupta, and Gene Fehlig get off on their season victory chain.
The 23rd Annual Michigan State College Track and Field Meet on Feb.. 13 saw the Irish in competition against the Big Ten champs, Michigan. It was a nonscoring event; the Irish took six firsts while Michigan ran off with seven;
Jim Delaney by throwing the shot for 50 fest 4% inches set a new fieldhouse mark. Bill Dillon ran away with the . honors in the 75 yard high hurdles. Gene Fehlig broke the tape in the 600 yard run. Jack Wiethoff outvaulted the rest (Continued on page 62)
41
Irish Have Strong Baseball Nine
DICK GRANT
The baseball outlook for the season seemed very dark as Coach “Jake” Kline greeted approximately 100 hopeful aspirants and found that he had only two returning lettermen, Hal Smullen, leading pitcher of the previous squad and Jim Carlin the consistent guarder of the hot corner. “Jake” encouraged all those present -at the first meeting which took place on March 3, in the University Field house, by telling them that each position
No. 1 Hurler Hal Smullen
was open to the fellow that could prove himself. He also stated that because of the streamlined war time semesters only ten games could be scheduled and that would mean a quick cut in order to get the team in condition for the Chicago opener on April 10.
In two weeks the team was reduced to exactly 32 men, including freshmen, being allowed to participate for the first time in varsity competition in quite a number of years. Daily workouts and Saturday batting practice formed the routine for the indoor practice.
The unusual Indiana spring proved very helpful to Coach Kline, as an entirely new diamond, had to be constructed. The former site was covered by the Navy Drill hall and the Universty workmen were kept busy by the cutting of the sod, leveling of the infield and outer gardens, rolling, and the changing of the dug-outs, which had to be completed in exactly two and a half weeks before the home opener. It was timed to perfection as the last . rolling took place the day before “Jake” was to present his 1943 edition to the fans.
With the diamond only half finished,
the team took to the outdoors for a much needed polishing. Teams were formed and intra-squad games were played with the scores favoring, first the varsity and then the Yannigans. The varsity was composed of Tom Sheehan, catcher, John Hickey at first, Ed Ghigliotti at the keystone sack, Bob Kline, a freshman, along with Sheehan, at short and Jim Carlin at third. The outer gardens were then being roamed by Elmer Milliman, Angelo Bertelli and Steve Pavella, while the pitching staff was composed of Hal Smullen, Ted Manyak, John Creevey and Bob Juday. This being, according to Coach Kline, one of the best balanced teams that he has coached in many a year. It contained hitting power, fielding ability and pep, one of the prime requisites of a good ball team. The Yannigans were built of mostly newcomers, as Bob Vales-tine and Artie Metzger were seen behind the bat, Beagley, Shaffer and. Oberfeld battling for first, Tom Carlin, Jim’s younger brother, was at second, Frank Vignola at short and Dick Grant watched the third base slot. Dick Kisgen, one of the few seniors on the team, and Jim Thomas plus John Creevey (when he was not taking his turn on the mound) formed the Yannigans outfield. Dave Thornton, Tom Carpenter, Nibs Trimborn, Dick Stenger, Gene Bolt, Gene Dean and Selakovich comprised the mound corps and replaced either first team or second team pitchers as did John Hogue, Bob Payette and Jack Houghteling behind the bat.
The opening game found the Klinemen facing the University of Chicago Maroons, who had won two previous starts, while the local nine had been participating in its intra-squad games. This tilt proved to be one which has always characterized a Maroon- Irish contest—a free scoring game but this time all the scoring being done by the home team as they scored 21 runs to Chicago’s lone gift. Notre Dame scored in every inning in collecting their astonishing total and garnered 22 hits, committing only one error. Steve Pavella, speedy right fielder from LaCrosse, Wis., led the team at the plate with four for five, followed by CoCaptain Jim Carlin who secured three hits in four trips to the plate. The leading man for the Chicago nine was Chet Lukey who hit safely twice and scored the visitors’ only run. . John Creevey started on the mound for the Kline clan followed by Ted Man yak and Co-Captain Hal Smullen and their combined efforts
allowed the Maroons only four well scattered singles.
After the Chicago affair, Pop Frankel brought his Knights of Pythias aggregation out to Cartier field for a practice game which proved to be a much better game than the previous exhibition. Pop fielded a strong team and the best the Irish could do was to send Manager Frankel back to South Bend with a 5 to 3 defeat on his hands, which pleased him very much considering the score of the game before and the fact that his boys were playing their first game of the season.
The next game saw the Crimson of Indiana invade the local field with such brilliant performers as Don Spence, Dale Boehm pitchers, Captain Guy Wellman, catcher and fielders Dick Wase, John Cogan, Bob White and others. (The score was not available at the time of this writing). This will be followed by games with the University of Michigan, co-title holders of the Big Ten last year, Western Michigan, Michigan State, in home and home series, Navy Pier and the star studded Great Lakes contingent.
The Wolverines will be a formidable foe, although possessing a virtually new ball club, Coach Ray Fisher has a veteran pitching staff composed of Irv Bohn, Mickey Fushman, Bill Cain and Dick Savage. Boim and Fishman holding the best earned run average and won and lost records in the conference last season. Bob Wiese, plunging fullback who proved to be a pain to the Notre Dame line backers last fall, will appear in left field and Don Lund, another of the ground gainers for the Michigan footballers, who didn’t get into the Notre Dame game because of Wiese’s exceptional play, will start in center field. This will be the only revenge that Angelo Bertelli and John Creevey will be able to mete out to Mr. Wiese and Company for last fall’s stinging defeat, because of military calls that will place them on Uncle Sam’s team after the present semester.
Next on the N. D. schedule will be the invading of the Michigan State territory at East Lansing. Coach John Kobs is singing the blues for just one capable pitcher but as in previous years and many times to the regret of his opponents Kobs has presented a team which could hold its own in any Class B, minor competition. He has stated, “Give us just one good pitcher and we could be all right.” Coach Kobs has a returning infield of
42
Register Early Season Victories
lettermen headed by Captain Roy Chol-pan. Howard Ladue, a two time varsity man and power hitter will be on first, Cholpan at second, Andreoli at short and Art Maischoss at third. The outfield is composed of hard hitting talent, namely, Proulx, Ciolek and Pellerin while the - catching duties will go to Bill Ravely, a reserve from last season’s squad. The pitching will be handled by Getz, Vavra, Bernitt and Walton. Last year the Notre Dame team split with the Staters, losing at East Lansing, and winning the commencement day game here.
Will Hal Smullen be able to repeat his trick of last year and defeat the Tars from Great Lakes? Only time will tell but Coach Kline has every confidence in the world in the diminutive fireballer and it is presumed the West Haven youth Avail again be the mentor’s choice to subdue the bats of Coach “Mickey” Cochran’s sailors. Lieut. Cochran believes the present team will not equal that of last year’s due to the fact of personnel changes, and the squad will be considerably less experienced. He said, “The men sent away will be sorely missed but Great Lakes baseball is strictly incidental to the war program and we know they are of more value at sea or advance training bases.”	•
Ernie Andres of the 1942 aggregation is aboard a sub chaser, he was last season’s third baseman, center fielder Frank Baumholtz has seen plenty of action as a captain of a gun crew aboard a merchant
The Diamond has been moved, but the Klinemen are still slugging.
ship and has made several crossings. Other stars that have been transferred are: Benny McCoy, Chester Hajduk, Don Padgett, Frank Pytlak, Jim Basso and Don Godfredsen. Johnnie Rigney, former White Sox hurler is now awaiting his orders.
Some of the new candidates now working under Lieut. Cochran are: Pitchers Vern Olsen and Johnny Schmiitz, Chicago Cubs; Tom Ferrick, Cleveland Indians; Bob Harris, Athletics; Catchers George Dickey, White Sox, and Marv Felderman, Cubs and three of last year’s veterans, Johnny Lucadello, second base, Earl Bolyard, center field and Joe Grace, left field. The last three mentioned are assisting in the recruit training program and will be permitted to play as long as it does not interfere with their duties. Othei' new comers are the twenty year old Ed Pellagrini a shortstop by trade and product of the Boston Red Sox and Johnny Lipon from Detroit and guarder of the keystone sack. Although Coach Cochrane feels that this is a weak team he has scheduled ten teams from the major circuits including the New York Yankees.
The complete Notre Dame schedule is as follows: Chicago, here, April 10, outcome, Maroons 1, N. D. 21; Knights of Pythias (South Bend) April 11, Knights 3, Irish 5; Michigan here April 13, (cancelled, snow); Indiana here April 16 and 17, (score was not available at the time of this writing); April 21, at Michigan
and April 22 at Western Michigan; April 24, at Kalamazoo meeting Michigan State, April 27, Michigan State here; April 29, at Navy Pier; April 30, at Great Lakes, and May 1, Western Michigan here to complete a ten game schedule.
Coach Kline conducts infield practice
Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline has been very pleased with his charges to date for they have shown exceptional ability at the plate and afield. The leading hitters who have come to the front in the first few games are, Tommy Sheehan, a power hitter and one of the best boys ever to don the catching equipment for the Irish. Last season he posted a .460 average playing with the West Haven Sailors and faced some of the toughest pitching on the east coast. Steve Pavella the diminutive, but speedy outfielder from LaCrosse, Wis., has proved himself by beating out infield rollers as well as clouting the ball for extra bases. Jim Carlin. Co-Captain of the ’43 squad, has been lining the ball numerously over the right side of the infield for clean bingles. John Creevey, Angelo Bertelli and Elmer Milliman are considered the long ball hitters on the squad and have proven this by driving the outer gardeners deep into their territory for triples and home runs. Dick Kisgen the “Carroll Iowa Flash” is a very consistent hitter and before the season is over will appear in the starting lineup. His power at the plate is not to be overlooked by any one because in the practice games he continuously seems to
(Continued on’ page 62)	.
43
Winning Cage Squad Breaks Record
BILL WADDINGTON
No team could have been a better tribute to its coach, the late George E. Keogan, than was the cage squad of the ’42-43 season. Besides the 18 victories out of a possible 20, the lads rolled themselves into a new all-time Notre Dame scoring record with 1,071 point total, surpassing the 1940-’41 season’s 1,062.
Great Lakes and Kentucky were the only conquerors of this year’s “magnificent” five. Displaying plenty of speed and tricky ball - handling— to the extreme where the crowds used to call it “ball, ball, who’s got the ball,” the Fighting Irish lived gallantly up to their surname by forging their way to many a triumph with a keen aggressiveness and a spirit to win.
Grabbing off their first six in a row, all but the Wisconsin tussle with ease, the team lost its undaunted mark in the southland, where Kentucky made them like it to a 60-55 tally. A month later, in a crowded Chicago Stadium, Great Lakes, a 34 game .winner this season, put another crimp in N.D. This was the first game that was played after the untimely death of Dr. Keogan and the spirit prevailing that evening can be but poorly expressed in words as a will to win for their coach. "
From right to left, front row: Faught, Curran. Rensberger, Capt. Butler, Bonicelli, Vinciguerra, Niemiera; second row: Coach Krause, Trainer Young, Foley, Pearl, Sturm, Wukovits, Pavella, Bryan, Manager Kelly; third row: Coach Keogan, Butledge, Klier, Brennan, Craddock, and Meagher.	■
Krause Takes Over
Ed Krause, former N.D. grid and court great, took over as head coach from his former assistant duties. Krause continued with Keogan’s mode but tried to accentuate the speed still more. Wabash, Great Lakes in the second of the series, and Detroit will proudly give voice to the fancy-footing of the Irish.
The Blue and Gold won their last six as they similarly annexed their first half dozen wins. A 53.55 average point total was chalked up for the score of contests. It was a schedule only equalled by four other Keogan aggregations. Coach Keogan’s record stands at 327 victories, 96 deefats, and one, funny but true, tie. His average, well above par, is .733 and courageously in the twenty year span, Keogan had yet to coach a losing team.
Faught in Scoring Lead
Bob Faught of Cleveland copped the individual scoring record with 196. Bob Rensberger, leading by a point in the scoring column going into the last game, only managed to scrape up a meagre pair of tallies while Faught notched himself 14. Frannie Curran’s 11 in the finale shoved him into the contender’s position with 186 and 18 by Captain Charlie Butler in the same con-
The eagers did a lot of stretching
test gave him the numbei- four spot with 180, five behind Rensberger.
Three seniors bowed out when Detroit took the floor in the final game. Captain Charley Butler, Bob Rensberger, and Ralph Vinceguerra all are degree bound in May.
. Off They Go'
Starting the schedule with an explosive burst, November 28, the Ball State reds took a 56-42 trouncing, and thus began the 20th year of Coach Keogan at Notre Dame. Charley Butler’s 13 and Bpby Faught’s 11 were tops for the Irish. Western Michigan was doused in a 53-35 drubbing the following week with Frannie Curran getting 13 this time. The gang went to Chicago for their third encounter and third consecutive win. . Northwestern made it interesting for the first 20 minutes but the 53-44 final margin was a little too much for the boys from Chicago’s far North Side.
Bud Foster’s Wisconsin Badgers put on the most thrilling exhibition of basketball that the N.D. fieldhouse has seen in many a year. The 27-27 initial half was cautious but extremely fast. At the gun the Irish were leading 6159.
A 46-43 win over Purdue ended the pre-holiday part of the schedule. It was a see-saw affair with the Boilermakers never being further away than
44
Netmen Capture 18 of 20 Games
five points, but Piggy Lambert’s boys just weren’t good enough.
After a month’s layoff, Northwestern fell for the second time 49-36. Bobby Faught’s defensive maneuvers clutched Otto Graham, who settled for two goals.
First Sad Note
Riding the crest of the wave with six straight triumphs, the lads travelled to Louisville where they were to meet first time defeat 60-55.
Faught broke into the scoring column for 16 but all rallies were staved off by the Kentucky Wildcats.
Notre Dame beat Butler in the first of a two game season series, 45-34 in Indianapolis. “Rens” again snatched individual honors with 11 while Frank Curran put in the trying and marginal point that we retained throughout the match.
Pooling an amazing total of forty fouls, the N.D.—DePaul game was a fast and furious contest that saw the local quintet adding number eight to their accumulated list of wins. George Keogan got the best of his pupil, Ray Meyer, in a 50-47, heated court contest.
Number ten came by virtue of the 45-34 outsmarting of Michigan State’s Spartans. The early evidence of holding a well-established lead warranted the free substitution throughout.
much grieved team had hardly laid their coach to rest on Saturday morning when they had to face probably their toughest foe of the season that night, Great Lakes. Spirited, wanting to win for Coach Keogan’s sake, they tried, pressed and tried- again but the Tars downed them in an overtime chukker, 60-56.
Eddie Riska and George Sobek aided the Navy’s cause in helping to wreck the strategy of their former alma mater.
Victory thirteen came from the lopsided, doubled score of Butler, 64-32, in the local emporium. .
Victory Stretch
Michigan State and Wabash fell in line by. the respective scores of 45-42 and 69-34. Faught again shot his way into the point column.
It was tough eking out a win over Marquette’s Hilltoppers in a 49-47 skirmish. After building up a proud lead, the Milwaukee boys reinstated their claim to superior rights by making a staunch comeback, but one that didn’t stand.	.
Notre Dame now ranks as the first team to beat Great Lakes on the latter’s •home court, at least that’s the story emanating out of the mid-west sea capitol from the 44-42 overtime triumph that the Irish were able to secure from the already victory-infested sailors. Never, was there a good safe lead possessed by either of the clubs.
Rensberger Will Come Up With the Ball or a Fall
And so Notre Dame lived happily ever after as they defeated their final rival, Detroit, 52-43. A closely contested battle raged, in minor fierceness at least, but Ed Krause’s boys proved too much for the Titans.
Other boys who often stormed the scoring table in, the closing minutes of many battles included Leo Klier, John Craddock, Jim Meagher, Chas. O’Leary, Bernie Rutledge, Omer Sturm, Tom Foley, and Steve Pavela.
Chalk the season up as another hundred percenter. Coach Keogan probably thinks of it that way.
Season High
N. Y. U.’s once-defeated Violets were about to be twice - tumbled when they encountered the’ Irish in “the garden”, February 13. . A 74-43 trouncing was duly administered unto the practical, but non-functioning New Yorkers.
On the swing back from the “big town”, a stop in Buffalo helped to polish off Canisius, 55-37. Besides being number , 12 for the victors, it literally put perfection in the point-getting, fastbreak. Little did anyone know that this would be the last game of a Notre Dame cage squad under the mentorship of George Keogan.
Coach Keogan Dies
Untimely, and unfortunately, the boys lost their coach when he died in his home February 17 of a heart attack. Assistant Ed Krause took over. The
Two Northwestern men Circle Faught as he Attempts to Pass
45
Grid Practice Shows Effects of War
Spring football reached its final week with prospects for next fall’s team the darkest since spring drills were originated more than 20 years ago. The war has taken its toll of players and as a result a jeopardized situation confronts Coach Frank Leahy and his staff of assistants.
The large spring squads that characterized Notre Dame for many years was cut to a minimum with many entering the service. Only five lettermen, Paul Limont, Ziggy Czarobski, Jim White, John Yonakor, and Captain Pat Filley, were on hand with the balance of the team being made up of freshmen and a scattered array of sophomores.
However as spring drills progressed it became evident that what the Irish lacked in size and weight, their speed and aggressiveness would more than make up for it. If these current practice sessions are any evidence of what to expect next fall, Notre Dame vail be represented by a fast and shifty eleven, relying on tricky reverses and great deception mixed with plenty of passes.
When the “T” formation was introduced last year, it was expected that future Notre Dame teams would become more successful with its execution because of the great amount of practice needed to properly operate it. Conditions have since changed, however, making it necessary for the freshmen, who were entirely unaccustomed to the system, to quickly adapt themselves to the man in motion system. This was accomplished by Leahy and his aides, Ed McKeever, Ed Krause, and Hughie DeVore through noon meetings in which plays were dia
1943 VARSITY? ? ?
Backfield. 1. to r.: Bob Kelly, r.h.; Ed Krupa, f.b.; John Lujak. q.b.: Dugie Turner, l.h. linemen, 1. to r.: Jack Zilly, r.e.; Ziggy Czarobski. r.t.; Bud Meter, r.g.; Art Statute, c.; Captain-elect Filley, l.g.; Jim White, l.t.; Paul Limont, l.e.
46
grammed and studied. The interest shown in these meetings is evidence of the high spirit that has prevailed since practice first began.
Few of the players who attended practice will be here next fall. Just who will represent Notre Dame on the gridiron is an uncertainty; some material will be available when the Navy enforces its program this summer, but the time for practice sessions will be limited greatly. Another bit of material is expected to be added by such freshmen who have not reached military age and several 4-F players also in school. Other schools are being handicapped, too, some worse than Notre Dame, but all indications point toward an intercollegiate season next autumn. The Irish schedule lists eight games with college elevens representing the top notch elevens in the country and two service teams who will be flushed with material.
One of the outstanding highlights of the workouts was the brilliant play of Paul Limont, understudy to Captain George Murphy last year at left end. A great pass receiver, the defensive play of Limont has been most noticeable while his downfield blocking has been little short of remarkable. A sophomore from New Orleans, Limont is enlisted in the V-l Navy program and may be available this September. Jack Zilly, R.O.T.C. junior, has also shown very well at right end by his pass catching and vicious blocking.
John Lujack, the Pennsylvania freshman who has been playing in Angelo Bertelli’s quarterback post, has made a good appearance and gained much com
ment through his running and passing. In the infrequent scrimmages that have been held, Lujack appeared to have all the poise and confidence necessary for a college quarterback despite his youth and inexperience. Frank Szymanski, reserve center last season, has shown flashes of form that made him number one center in practice. Szymanski is a dependable line backer and should develop into an excellent blocker. Jim White has exhibited his fine brand of play that made him one of the team’s best linemen last fall. Ziggy Czarobski also has shown his old-time form.
Besides Lujack in the backfield, Bob Kelly, Chicago freshman, has displayed his broken-field running talents at right halfback and should prove a very valuable asset to the Irish if around this fall. Al Cannava, 165-pound left halfback, appears to be an excellent prospect although his blocking leaves a bit to be desired. However he should develop under the guidance of Backfield Coach McKeever. Ray Dooney, stocky fullback, has been running very well as have Bob Palladino, Dick Arado, Virgil Turner, and Zane Skinner. George Ter-lep, who has been understudying Lujack at quarterback, has been handling the ball well also.
Besides Limont and Zilly, Gerry Ford and Jim Flanagan have operated commendably at the end positions. Both are freshmen and members of the V-l program. End Coach DeVore has been working hard with the latter two and they should develop into dependable ends. John Yonakor became the first casualty last week when he injured an ankle, however he was in uniform for the final week of practice..
John Adams, giant six foot seven inch lineman, has recently come into his own and has played good ball under the tutelage of Line Coach Krause. After trying to enlist in all branches of the services, Adams was rejected and placed in 4-F by his Arkansas draft board and is reasonably sure of returning next fall. Joe Signaigo and Gasper Urban have displayed great power on the line. Filley and Bud Meter have scrimmaged well, despite the fact that the former was temporarily sidelined by a knee injury for several days. Jim Tharp and John Frampton, V-l enlistees, have improved a great deal since last fall as have Jim and Frank Sullivan, both centers. .
(Continued on page 01)
Wax, Graduation Hinders Fencing Team
TOM REAGAN
Purely on the won-and-lost basis, the fencing season of 1942-43 at Notre Dame was a disappointment, inasmuch as this was the first losing season since 1934, when the Irish first appeared in the college fencing ranks. To give an idea of the successes of the Notre Dame swordsmen in the intervening years, it may be remarked that the 10-year record reveals •57 wins, 25 losses, and two ties, for a winning percentage of .695. There were two undefeated Irish fencing teams, in 1935 and 1936, under the tutelage of “the old master,” the late and beloved Prof. Pedro A. de Landero.
Fencers parry thrusts in Fieldhouse
The scores of this season’s matches follow:
Notre Dame 13 : Ohio Shite 1-1 Notre Dame 19 : Purdue S Notre Dame 10 ; Chicago 17 Notre Dame 13 : Michigan State 14 Notre Dame S : Wisconsin 19 Notre Dame 12 : Purdue 5	'
There are several causes, in the opinion of Coach Walter M. Langford, for the apparently poor record of this year’s team. Foremost among the causes was the inexperience of the 1942-43 fencers. Five lettermen were graduated last May, while the other three monogram winners received their diplomas in December, under the accelerated wartime program. On top of this, all other experienced men were lost to this year’s squad through call to the armed services or other reason. The result was that, during the last half of the season, there was not a single man on the team who had ever participated in an intercollegiate meet before this year. As Coach Langford puts it: “I think the boys who finished the season deserve a world of credit for the fine showing they made and for the steady and sometimes brilliant improvement
which they displayed. In view of the fact that we practically never get a fencer who has had any training previous to his arrival at Notre Dame, it is perfectly true to say that these boys of ours did a remarkably good job in opposing themselves to fencers with many times as much experience and training.”
Another important factor in making the 1942-43 team appear much worse than it really was is found in the cancellation of three meets which Notre Dame definitely figured to win. Two of these were to be with Marquette, the third with Cincinnati. Langford says: “It was unfortunate that some of the weaker teams were forced to cancel their matches, while the stronger ones always showed up to pin our ears back.”
The members of the team are themselves quick to point out that, even with the above handicaps, the season would have been regarded as quite successful if just one more bout had been captured by by the Irish in their meets with Ohio State and Michigan State. Incidentally, this was the third season in succession in which Notre Dame and Michigan State have engaged in 14-13 meets, the Irish having copped the first two.
Among the most prominent and promising performers on the 1942-43 squad were Elmer Silha, Ventura Gonzalez, Bob Witucki, and “Bitsy” Repilado in foil; Dave Roney and Gene Slevin in sabre; John Watters in epee. These were, of course, in addition to the three veterans who graduated in December after the first few meets—Capt. Jim Madigan, Angel Gonzalez, and Herb Melton.
The first match of the season was a tough one for the Irish to lose, as it was a narrow 14-13 victory for the men of
Feminine fans show interest as fencer on left scores.
Ohio State. The scarlet and grey took a commanding lead in the foil bouts and seemed headed for .a convincing victory. There was just one thing that they forgot in their thirst for victory and that was they were meeting Notre Dame. Soon the lead was narrowing, as the Irish were gaining wins. This rally was too late, though, for the match came to an end before Notre Dame could gain back the one point that meant victory for the Buckeyes.
Without letting this early season defeat bother them, the “Langford Lads” came back to hand Purdue a 19-8 trouncing. From start to finish it was all Notre Dame except for spotted wins by the Boilermakers. Each Notre Dame man showed the true form of an-experienced fencer and the final score showed the superiority of the Irish.
After such a convincing win over Purdue, the Langford machine faltered and lost to Chicago, 17-10. This was the worst defeat suffered by a Notre Dame fencing squad since the reins were taken over by Coach Langford. The boys from the “windy city” did to Notre Dame what the Irish had just done to Purdue in a previous match. The Irish were game and were in the midst of the battle until the final bout ended the match.
With the handicap of the loss of three star performers, the fencers travelled next to East Lansing where they were nosed out by a strong group of Michigan State swordsmen, 14-13. Not one man on the Irish squad was on the Notre Dame roster when the two teams met the previous year. Led by sophomore Elmer Silha in foil and John Watters in epee the Irish put on an amazing show and made the Spartans go all the way for their one point victory.
(Continued on page 63)
47.
INTRODUCING
BILL WADDINGTON
Point last year and clearing 13' 3" was his biggest college extravaganza . . . This season, he garnered a second in the Central Collegiate, a first in the Michigan Relays, second in the Illinois Tech meet, third at Purdue, and fourth at the Cleveland K.C. contest. . . .
Richard Daniel Tupta . . . called “Tup” for short . . . being a proud son of Cleveland, this buckeye began his spouting May 30, 1921 . . . quite a build on the lad today. . . . Although football was the major muscular desire in the grades, at Cathedral Latin he favorably accepted a trio of track monograms . . . but still got three more for football . . . an end to be precise about the gridiron situation . . . holds city record for the quarter with 49:4 . . . finished second with 49 flat in the state meet . . . most of the time was spent in relay competition, however . . . from 880 to two miles . . . his gang cornered a bunch of records that still hold, but the list is long enough to complete an edition of the Scholastic, cover to back . . . except for Chesterfield’s ad ... a 3:22.8 is the present city mile relay record partially substantiated by Dick . . . another two mile team copped an 8:14.7 for the Salem Relay record . . . although he was generally employed in a quartet, he can claim an individual 1:57.5 for the half . . . a desire for prep school basketball had to be abandoned as it conflicted with seasons. . . .
Nicholson, being highly capable of bringing worthy athletes to N.D., also brought this wavy, sandy-haired lad to the campus. ... In the initial year he finished second to Greg Rice in a half mile encounter . . . his biggest thrill besides the one of running in the Millrose games for the first time last year. . . . As a soph, he was a member of the team that captured Drake Relays . . . also the state winning relay team that year. . . . New N.D. outdoor record established in Drake Relays of ’41 . . . 3:15.9 . . . also hold all-time indoor record . . . been part of the gang to grab off Chicago Relays for three successive seasons . J . went to the Millrose games twice . . . on the second placers last year, but on the winners club this time . . . been on the winning Central Collegiate squad for three years, also this year’s Illinois Tech annexer . . . recalls having helped establish records in the Fieldhouse, Michigan State, and Central Collegiate. •
Strictly a baton man. . . . When asked how he liked it . . . “I take many lickin’s, I’ll tell you that,” he responded. . . . Funny, but both college thrills came at time of defeat, to Rice and in the Millrose games . . . that fastest mile
relay compensates somewhat this year.
Being a participant in Uncle Sam’s nationwide E.R.C. movement, he expects to be with same after graduation in May ... an Education major who hopes to teach Biology after the Avar . . . goes for semi-classical refrains . . . also an outdoor sportsman . . . fishing and hunting . . . otherwise he’s just Mr. John Q.
Dick Tupta
Public in off season . . . plenty of rest. . . . Steak, sauerkraut, and dumpling appeal to the taster . . . being engaged to a fair Cleveland lass, hopes to be married by fall . . . but right now he’s waiting for a crack at the Drake Relays . . . also hopes to get a chance at the distance medley heat . . . then the spiked shoes will be just memoirs. . . .
.	Jack Wiethoff
Standing 6' 2", and weighing a good 175, we have vaulter, Jack Peter Wiethoff of Mount Vernon, N.Y. ... it isn’t his birthday we celebrate, on July 4 but darn close, he came one day too late in ’21. . . . Attended West Catholic high in Philadelphia . . . came to N.D. in ’38 in a Catholic Scholastic meet and took second with 11' 6" . . . besides being the greatest high school thrill, his coming out here is what cinched his matriculation on the suburban South Bend campus. . . .
Won the A.A.U. vault in his freshman year . . . says there’s nothing spectacular as a soph but as a third year man he placed in the Central Collegiate and Butler Relays. . . . Going to West
Rightly titled, it’s “Ensign” Jack Wiethoff, since he applied for a commission and got it last April . . . this comes about from the aeronautical major in which he now thoroughly engages all his fruitful efforts . . . thinks he’ll be sent either to Pratt-Whitney factory in Connecticut or to a San Diego air base . . . spent three months on active duty at Cal Tech at Pasadena last summer . . . doesn’t know whether he’ll stay in the service or not after the Avar. . . . “It’s a toss-up,” he says. . . .
Likes good books and classical lightopera for the leisure moments ... if an engineer ever has one . . . them Saturday night pieces of beef (steaks) are right nice too. ... Was secretary of last year’s .Engineer’s Club . . . belongs to both the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences and a member of the Aeronautics Club. . . .
Often harbored thoughts of going into business Avith a recent graduate, Ensign William Ungashick ... of course it concerns airplanes. . . . Also Avants to make a 14 feet reality come true . . . Drake Relays Avill be the last chance. About the team, “I liked all the track boys and never met a better bunch of guys,” besides that’s almost a thrill in itself he says ... so noAv, that’s all . . . Avhoops! listening to those records in his rector’s (Father Muckenthaler) room is his pleasure time. . . . Jack’s the prefect on the third floor, holding forth in 309 CaAmnaugh. . . .
.	Gene Fehlig
Being the fourth of a family to finish their schooling at Notre Dame, we have Eugene Arthur Fehlig... from the seventh largest U. S. city... St. Louis... born Oct. 27, 1920;.. and a stature of 6' surrounded beloAV by 170 pounds of flesh.
, Track and golf man from Avay back in the grades... in prep school he connected with monograms in basketball, track (4), golf (4), and minors in ice-skating and pingpong.___Became the runner-up in the St. Louis junior champion croAvn... came back with three state high school championships... also four times city high champ... 66 Avas his lowest 18 hole entry during the four years prior to coming to N. D. . . In track, strictly a dash man, the century and 220. . . got a 22:4 for the latter as a junior. . . also anchored the 880, prep league champs.
HaAnng been preceded by three broth-
48

7g OLgAA 1943:
\ \
Congratulations on the successful completion of your college work.
Good Luck to you on all your future undertakings.
Well be glad to see you on your future visits to the Campus.
THE STAFF Oliver Hotel Coffee Shop

INTRODUCING
ers on the Golden Dome campus, two of which were golfers, Lou, ’37, and Vince ’34, Gene decided to follow in their footsteps. .. he now similates the position of his brothers who were golf captains... it was also his big moment to be named captain of this year’s squad— his cinder-path ability has been ever potential in helping to put the boys across the successful season over which they are now reminiscing. . . after this schedule’s over, he’ll have a sextet of monograms, three for golf and a representative figure for track. . . a member of the undefeated ’42 team on the links. . . in fact, the only returning member this year. . . now holds course record with 65.. . has participated in several widely publicized meets, the National Amateur, Western Amateur, Western Open, and National Intercollegiate Golf Tournament. . . been a 15 year man at the golf game.
Thought he was finished with track when he came here. . . got that smell of “wintergreen” again and put on the spikes. . . now a member of the mile relay team. . . also on the squad that broke the Drake Delays record back in ’41 with 3:15:9. . . That was his only outdoor meet in college. . . turned to the fairways just when the outdoor season got under way. . . helped to put over the fastest mile relay for the year in America thus far, 3:22:5, got that at Chicago Relays . . . won the 600 yard dash at the Michigan Relays, 1:14:3. . . plus being the number one quarter miler. . . been ever so thrilled to anchor the relays this season. . . golf affiliations knock out possibility of participation in Drake Relays this year.'
Besides the sport highlights, we find that he’s majoring in business administration and -will -graduate with “cum laude” this May. . . expects to be sent back here in June for V-7 training. . . has had the honor of being elected to Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. . . comes from brains plus. . . decided that he wants to make use of his golf in business life. . . a rather wise decision.
Is in the radio club, sportscaster. . . has been covering the sports angle all season on the campus program that comes over WSBT. . . claimant to ping pong and musical pastimes. . . Harry James solves the auditory problem and “All food and plenty of it” put an end io queries about stomach delicacies. . . He’s been rooming with Ollie Hunter for a year and a half. . . “he’s one great fellow”. . . probably the spirit that has kept both of them on top in track this season. .
50
Meet the Coaches....
Coach Elvin R. Handy has been on the Notre Dame campus since 1931, fulfilling the role of an assistant, coach and phy ed instructor.
In 1926 he graduated from the University of Iowa with a Doctor’s degree in Physical Education. His college athletic career included three years as football fullback and a similar number of seasons at track, doing the javelin throw, shot, hammer, and discus. His hammer throw got him second in the Nationals.
Coach Elvin "Doc" Handy
After graduation he went to Pueblo, Colo., at a high school where he became head mentor in football, basketball, and track. Passing three years in Colorado, he returned to Iowa, but this time to the Iowa Experimental school where he became director of health and phy ed instructor. At the same time he . coached the field events at the University of Iowa.
In ’31 he started at N. D., to open a 13-year stay. He was an assistant to John Nicholson for four years/ giving what assistance he could in the field events and picking up and developing a knowledge of the oval heats. After the death of Nicholson, he became an assistant under Bill Mahoney but took over the team in the outdoor season last year when Mahoney entered the service.
To date, he has brought the track team through an undefeated season and has hopes of winning the. Drake Relays
and possibly the Penn Relays, although the squad must be split to compete simultaneously in both meets.
Six times they have evidenced superiority this season in dual meets with Navy Pier and Indiana, the Michigan Relays, Central Collegiate meet, Illinois Tech Relays, and the Purdue Relays.
“That which makes coaching a pleasure is the spirit of competition.” Known to all his intimates as “Doc,” a look at his last year’s abbreviated record shows N.D. thinclads scoring- the second highest total in history in winning the Indiana State title. They also scored well in the Central Collegiate and the N.C.-A.A. meets.
Many of the boys on this year’s squad have openly expressed their success as being due to “Doc’s” consistent watchfulness and eagerness.
WALTER LANGFORD
Walter Langford graduated from Notre Dame in 1930 with an arts and letters degree, English major. He began teaching at his alma mater the following year but went on to do graduate work at the National University in Mexico and now holds a master’s degree from that institution in languages.
He formerly was an assistant coach in tennis and fencing to Mr. de Landero, former professor at the University and now deceased. Fencing was started here in ’34 by Mr. de Landero and the teams produced were plenty capable of meeting any competition that the Mid-West had to offer. Mr. Langford obtained his fencing knowledge from contact with the sport as an assistant. In 1939, Mr. Langford became head of tennis and fencing. His four fencing teams to date have compiled a total of 19 wins and 13 losses. During this season, he ran into the trouble of inexperienced swordsmen and had to settle for a two and four season. Two of the matches were lost by one point and a little more edge in years on the Blue and Gold side could just have easily brought the margin to the positive side of the ledger. Mr. Langford contends that fencers have little experience, if any, before coming here and their development must be complete. Often, time does not permit too much practice before meets and the boys will go out to employ what they have learned in the time afforded them at the sport.
In tennis, the record book is quite the reverse. After eight successive losing
Handy, Langford, Kline, Krause
seasons at the Golden Dome campus, the now 21 year old netters squad, spurted on the road to a good three seasons under Langford’s supervision. Last year they copped a nice set of nine for the first undefeated season since ’27. In the entire
Coach Langford
three year span, they have chalked up 20 wins as against four losses for an .833%. The ’40 team just broke the losing spell with four and three and the next year’s club amassed a total of seven triumphs and one meager loss.
CLARENCE J. "JAKE" KLINE
Probably the friendliest head mentor on the Notre Dame campus is Clarence J. “Jake” Kline, coach of baseball and freshman football. He gets results aplenty with this system, however, as 91 wins and 61 losses spell out a good record for his nine year tenure.
“I never have to worry about dragging boys out to play,” because they enjoy coming out. The only things that worry me are having to cut the squad, and the weather. I enjoy these boys, they’re a great bunch of kids. What we really do is have a lot of fun. We go out to win but we don’t put ourselves under pressure. As long as we play, we feel as though we’ve accomplished something,” and thus Coach Kline feels about the diamond sport.
“Jake,” in his own stead, came to the Golden Dome University in T5, winning monograms in baseball for three years and captaining the 1917 crew. He led a large assault in a 14-6 thumping over Michigan in ’17 with three home runs, while playing at the hot corner. .
He had several attractive offers to go into major league ball but enlisted in the Army and spent .’18 and ’19 overseas. Coming back to Notre Dame after the war, 'he received his degree in civil engineering in 1921.. He played minor league ball from 1922 to 1930, managing several teams in the Utah State league
and the Southern Minnesota league. In ’23 and ’24, he played organized ball in California. He also managed the Bennington, Vt., club for two summers.
In 1931, Coach Kline returned to the scene of his former college playing environment and became assistant coach of freshman football. The following year, he took over as head coach in both freshman football and baseball. Then, in ’34, he became master of the pilot’s seat on the varsity nine, replacing the late George Keogan.
The most successful season encountered in nine years was the ’36 campaign with 16 wins and three losses. The aver-, age is well above .500 ball, in fact, Kline’s squads have registered a mark of .648, with only two seasons below par.
“Jake” always is in a cheerful mood, if it isn’t with the ball club and fellows on it, it’s with his four children. Besides being a farmer in the summer, he spends many a moment of satisfaction with his youngsters. He’s now a full professor of mathematics and between teaching, his football and baseball chores, he’s a hard man to catch with time on his hands.
EDWARD WALTER KRAUSE
Taking over the cage squad Feb. 18, after the death of George Keogan, Edward Walter Krause thus became the second coach to direct the floor activities of the Fighting Irish in a 20-year span of basketball history.
At Notre Dame, he distinguished himself in football and basketball, and also made one monogram in the javelin throw. The one-and-only injury of his athletic career was incurred in the spring of his senior year, ’34, an elbow mishap.
For three years he was regular on the grid squad, but originally started cut with the shock troops. In his first game as a starter, he blocked two punts and recovered one. From then on his aggressiveness and alert maneuvering made him open for all-American honors in ’33 and ’34. He lost no time in forging to the front. in basketball. It took four games before he could break into the starting lineup, but once done, he came abreast and soon overtook the others in scoring. He repeated, ‘with equal success in his junior and senior years and thus became an all-American cage center for three years. Being marked with the monicker “Moose,” we
find the adaptation of a moose call being added by Krause for reality. Whenever he was being closely guarded, and about to be fouled, he would let go with the call and simultaneously the officials gave him one or two charity tosses. In one contest his clever ability put out two opposing centers on fouls and the third had three personals.
Graduated in aits and letters, having majored in journalism, he proceeded to St. Mary’s College of Winona, Minn., as athletic director and coach of all sports. He was only 21 at the time.
Coach Ed "Moose" Krause
After five successful years there, he went to Holy Cross as line coach under Joe Sheeketski, a N.D. teammate.
He regards the second N.D.-Great Lakes battle a great game insofar as the sailors were beaten on their home court for the first time.
Joe Boland, President St. Joe Alumni Club
Joseph M. Boland, ’27, sports announcer for WSBT and former football coach under Elmer Layden, was named president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley at a recent meeting of the board of directors. He succeeds Mr. Clarence W. Harding.
Walter Langford, tennis and fencing coach and professor of Spanish, was elected vice-president; Richard Kaczmarek, secretary; and George Koch, treasurer. E. M. Morris was appointed honorary president, and the Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion, chaplain.
NAVAL UNIFi
Individually Ham to Individual Measure..

J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient service that literally reaches from shore to shore . . . an advantage of great value to men on the move. For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville

so gb ®*e

. . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, courteous, efficient personnel to serve you.
Esa a.n

NAVAL OFFICER’S BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER’S WHITE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER’S KHAKI WORKING UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S UNIFORM
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval officers the standard of quality, design and tailoring that will give complete satisfaction. All Simpson uniforms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability and are sturdily constructed for more days of wear.
SIM
NJl'JL
X
1st e
ei
it > ti

NAVAL OFFICER'S RAINCOAT (with all-around belt)
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S WINTER 4 WORKING /IOVERCOAT
NAVAL OFFICER’S $ OVERCOAT (Two-pieea half belt in back)
IN SOUTH BEND - 2
or our Campus location in the “Zero Dec
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., V BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAI WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, H;
i h i ‘
52
-ORMS
of Character
J
hit and Tailored
y J. B. Simpson, Inc
■ANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED
14 J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
OUR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram bel bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse, ■ery Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date id number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, entification can always be made.
quick and positive
BODKIN BUTTONS with the can’t be lost and which are so
a feature of Simpson garments. This pennits easy removal when garments are to be cleaned and pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
attached slide that easy to remove are
JCRET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND: any officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty .ndy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) ; easily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIPPER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL TROUSERS: We have set aside a large supply of metal grippers and Talon zipper fasteners to use on military uniforms. (At present, it seems we will be restricted in our use of these items for civilian purposes.)
bCKET OPENING IN FACING OF COAT FOR QUICK <3MOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in sst a minute’s time through the little pocket opening in se facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is 3 case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the eing open.
IOICE OF POCKETS; You may have regular side pockets or quarter » or half top pockets in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed thin regulations, are followed on all personal details.
PSON, Inc.
TAIL ORS
MAIL COUPON TODAY-
NORTH MAIN STREET
fOR FREE ILUISTMTEP | mul uniform unut । with price list and actual samples of . I	uniform materials.	I
. J. B. SIMPSON, INC., Sts N. Main St. Sooth Bend. Ind. .
I Gentlemen:	|
I Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of I Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of ma- I terials.	I
the Dining Hall — opposite your Naval Store
GAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK, , CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT. N, CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
Name
Address
City
State
53
Irish Tennis Team Records Three Wins In Two Days of Early Season Matches
“This year’s tennis team will rank with the best in the Mid-West,” prophesied Coach Walter Langford early in the season. Last week, the netters lived up to pre-season forecasts in setting down their first three opponents as they flashed a sizable portion of mid-season form.
Earlier in the week, it was announced by Coach Langford that Walsh-ite Bob Faught of Cleveland Heights, Ohio was named captain of the current aggregation of net men. Little need be said of Bob’s athletic prowess. Irish followers have seen him as the towering center of the basketball team, who has led the team in scoring for the last two seasons. Last spring, he demonstrated his versatility by winning his nine singles and six of his seven doubles matches.
A strong Wisconsin team was the first to fall before the onslaught of the Irish racketmen by the score of 6-3. Led by Jimmy Evert, former national junior champion, and Captain Bob Faught, the Langford lads stepped off to a quick 3-1 lead as Evert, Faught and Caparo marked up wins. Evert defeated Schneider 6-4, 6-1; Faught stopped Stephens 6-2, 7-5; Troup lost to Marlow 3-6, 6-1, 6-3; Caparo stopped Davis 6-2, 6-4; Joys was defeated by Barrand 6-4, 6-2; and Doermer out-pointed Better 7-5, 4-6, 6-2.
In the doubles competition, Evert and Faught teamed together for an elongated 12-10, 6-3 victory over Schneider and Stephens. Marlow and Davis marked up Wisconsin’s final point, defeating Caparo and Haig 6-3, 4-6, 6-3. Quinn and Hartman rang the curtain down on the opening meet with a 6-3, 6-3 decision over Barrand and Better.
The following two matches with Indiana and De Pauw. originally scheduled for Bloomington, Ind., were moved to the DePauw courts at Greencastle due to a heavy rain at Bloomington. Here, the Irish recorded their second and third straight wins. DePauw fell before them, 6-3 and Indiana was drubbed 8-1. Participating in their first double-header in a number of years, the Irish again showed remarkable poise and drive as they built up early, substantial leads that held up against anything Indiana or De Pauw could offer.	.
With the opening matches out of the way, the netters are casting an anxious glance at the results of the Michigan State squad, whom they meet on April 30. The State team is one of the few in the Mid-West that have not suffered a great deal .as a result of graduations or losses to the armed forces. They will meet the
Irish with a balanced team composed of veterans of last year’s campaign. In Michigan State, Captain Faught and his boys will meet a squad that will be seeking revenge for last year’s close 5-4 loss. Western Michigan completes the tennis program planned for the graduation week-end.
Despite the loss of Artie Hoffman, through ineligibility, whose experience and steadiness was counted on in the number four spot, the 1943 edition of the Fighting Irish tennis team looks like a worthy successor to last year’s undefeated Mid-West champions.
Freshman Golf Winners
Stan Koslowski and Joe LaFortune, both of Zahm, captured the Freshman. Golf tournament last week, marking up a pair of 157 cards to tie for low medal score. Another Zahmite, Jim Besenfelder, whipped around the 36 holes in 158. He
L. DOUGLAS 4 SHOE CO.. BROCKTON. MASS. 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Open Monday Evenings until 8:30
also racked up the hottest 18 hole score with a 70, one under par. Three expensive trophies await the three winners.
Baseball Team Splits
The Notre Dame baseball team split two home games with Indiana last weekend winning the initial tilt, 9-4, and dropping the second game, 3-2. Hal SmuIIen recorded the first win as he struck out 15 men and received plenty of help from Tom Sheehan, who collected five hits in five trips to the plate. A home run by Gene White climaxed a rally that netted the visitors a 3-2 edge in the second game.
Coach Keogan Honored
The late George Keogan, basketball coach of Notre Dame, was honored by the National Association of Basketball Coaches as the man who has done most for the sport. Director Ned Irish, of Madison Square Garden, was last year’s recipient of the annual award.
The late coach, during his 20 year tenure at Notre Dame, introduced the shifting man-to-man defense which has contributed greatly in making basketball the wide open game that it is today.
54
Reporter Traces Development of Golf at Notre Dame; Team Sets Winning Mark
Taking over in ’33, Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., has tutored the Notre Dame sons of the fairways to 72 victories, 16 losses, and three ties, compiling a 791.2 percentage.
Although golf actually started competitively in 1930, there was a very limited interest, about 100 students and one-tenth as many faculty members. In a ten-year span, through tournaments, and by bringing special events to the University to enliven the spirit, Father Holderith has succeeded in bringing the daily playing average well over 200 in the months of April and May. By conducting a campus-wide registration in 1940, he was able to find out that there were more than 700 making use of the links.
In the entire set of 13 years of golf, Notre Dame teams have amassed 91 victories out of a possible 111, for a 810.8 mark.
Appointed by Rev. John O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University at the time and now Bishop O’Hara, Father Holderith was able to induce the
students of the Golden Dome campus to a wider participation by introducing a competitive goal. The annual interhall championship, the University open championship, the club tournament, the freshman crown, and a number of faculty tournaments have definitely proved worth while in building up larger student representation as well as a better caliber of play.
Every year, in September, the University open championship attracts a large number. Being a 72-hole medal play arrangement, the William J. Burke Memorial Trophy is awarded. Mrs. William J. Burke donated the original trophy which was a beautiful cup, with the stipulation that anyone winning the tourney three times would retain permanent possession of the award. The competition began in 1930, and by ’34, permanent possession was attained by Winfield S. Day, winning the play four consecutive times running, surpassing the required three.
Through the efforts of Father Holderith, he again persuaded Mrs. Burke to donate another trophy in honor of her
ROSE & KATZ
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
EXTENDS
ITS SINCERE BEST WISHES
TO NOTRE DAME GRADUATES
ELLSWORTH’S
X
SHOP' AT ELLSWORTH'S.
INDIANA'S OLDEST
DEPARTMENT STORE.
•
I 10 YEARS YOUNG.
FLORSHEIM AND FREEMAN SHOES
Kuppenheimer
Botany
Clipper Craft
Suits and Coats
Arrow Shirts,
Ties, Handkerchiefs
STETSON AND LEE HATS
MAIN AT COLFAX
55
you WILL WANT HER TO WEAR YOUR
for
you WILL WANT HER TO HAVE THE
BEST
★
Select Your Flowers
at
Hue. Qkvti&i
West of the Oliver Hotel
FLOWERS WIRED ANYWHERE
husband, but this time it was to be a plaque permanently kept in' the golf, shop.
The special events started in ’35. Olin Dutra and Jimmy Thompson put on an exhibition in May with two varsity men. In May of the following year, Jimmy Thompson, Lawson Little, Horton Smith, and varsity man Bud Donovan, a soph
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C.
omore at the time, put on one of the smoothest exhibitions witnessed under the shadow of the Golden Dome. Smith set the course record at the time with a 67, being five under par.
Are the BETTER Pictures
★
"Let’s get acquainted!" Midshipmen, visit our studios.
Let us convince you (Beautiful (Photographs Are not expensive ...
It's a pleasure to have good photographs made by skilled
Gamera
No appointments necessary.
119 North Main Street South Bend, Ind.
In October of ’36, Al Watrous and Joe DeVaney took to the Notre Dame greens. At commencement time in ’40, there was a father and son team-up of Walter Hagen, Sr., and Walter Hagen, Jr., who captained the team in that year. They maneuvered against John Watson and Joe Kaifus of South Bend with a tie resulting. Hagen, Sr., shot a 72 for his first time on the local course.
Golf had always been regarded in the category of minor sports. After piling up such a brilliant string of victories, and with the sanction of the athletic board, the linkmen first donned major monograms at the completion of last season. The interest that has been shown in golf, however, justifies its rise.
Notre Dame has been host to the Indiana State Tourney four times and last year, to start the centennial celebration, plans succeeded in bringing the National Intercollegiate Golf Tournament to South Bend, being played at the Chain O’Lakes Country Club with Notre Dame as host to the college golfing youth of the nation. There were 113 making a. nationwide representation of 33 colleges and universities. It was the 45th annual meet and was indeed a grand start to a booming athletic year at Our Lady’s campus. “You always can get a turn at a state meet, but to have the Intercollegiate even once in" a lifetime is lucky.”
The tourney attracted many of the nation’s celebrities and a crowd of spectators. The Chain O’Lakes course formerly had been the site of the Western
Open and the Western Amateur in other years. This honor was really another great addition to Notre Dame’s athletic spectacles. Father Holderith’s promotional efforts were way above par in bringing the All-American contest here.
Father Holderith, besides keeping a close tab on the golfing activities, is rector of Breen-Phillips Hall, having held this position since its opening in ’39 and teaches American History. He was rector of both freshman and sophomore halls towards the turn of the late ’20’s. He was head man in Howard in ’31 and then went to do some graduate work at Catholic University in Washington, D. C. On his return he was rector of Morrissey until the opening of Breen-Phillips. Other than possessing a proud record of Notre Dame’s golf exploitations which he compiled himself, he enjoys keeping in touch with many . of his boys. Sam Neild, lieutenant, Joe Stulb, marine captain, Jack Harrigan, ensign, Tommy Sheehan, first lieutenant, and Bill Veeneman, about-to-be specialist, are a few of the frequent correspondents in the service.
Varsity Golf Squad
Facing Four Matches
With the qualifying round completed last week end, the 12 remaining candidates will compete in match play during the next ten days to determine just who will make up the 1943 edition of the University of Notre Dame golf team.
Despite the fact that Captain Gene Fehlig is the lone monogram man returning from last year’s undefeated aggregation, head coach Father George L. Holderith expects to field a fairly , representative team. The biggest foe of - the Irish will unodubtedly be inexperience, for half the qualifiers are freshmen and the rest—Fehlig excepted, of course—are. all of an unknown caliber.
The qualifiers are as follows: Fehlig, Jim Gallagher, Mel Wilke, Jim Keefer, ■Frank - Crawley, Bill Snyder, Tom Herbert, Jim Besenfelder, Dick Seidel, Homer Crollard, Joe La Fortune, Stan Koslowski. Of these the last six named are freshmen, but several of the .first-year men showed up very well in the qualifying rounds of the Freshman Tournament. Besenfelder, especially, looks like a good prospect after the 70 ' he turned in for 18 holes.
The war has not spared the golf team in its all-out attack on Notre Dame athletics. In addition to the draft’s taking several of last year’s,squad, and the difficulty there is in procuring suitable equipment, transportation difficulties .'have-made it exceedingly difficult for
Father Holderith to complete the schedule. At present only four teams have been engaged and two matches are pending.	.
The schedule as it stands now:
Michigan  April 24
Northwestern ------------------------- April 26
Michigan State _________________________ May. 1
Detroit  May 2
Conclude Successful
Interhall Season
“This year’s inter-hall basketball leagues were the most successful that have been operated in the history of the school,” concluded John Scannell, director interhall activities, as the basketball leagues formally drew to a close.
Five leagues comprising Heavyr weight I with eight clubs, Heavyweight II with seven teams, Lightweight I with six members, Lightweight II boasting six members and the new independent league with 12 squads were in operation throughout the semester with over 250 men taking part.
Keen competition with the fast and aggressive type of play characterized the season with the champions being decided after close and competitive games. Few forfeitures were registered during the entire season, proof enough of the interest that was displayed. More play-offs between the champions of the various loops were held than ever before while the number of informal games between teams was also the highest on record.
The independent ■ league, in its first season of existence, functioned so well that it -will probably become a regular part of the program. The games were played on the upper floor in the field house with the playoffs in the Rockne Building.
As successful as the basketball program, however, was the inter-hall fencing tournament which was concluded last month. Organized and operated by Coach Langford of the varsity fencing team, the tourney was marked by cooperation and willingness of all participants. Walsh Hall emerged with the. hall title by defeating their, junior cohorts 7 to 6 in the finals.
The handball and squash tournaments met with great success with a large number of boys taking part. The great adaptability of the players participating was the outstanding indication of the tournament.
Inter-hall activities play a very prominent part in the athletics of today. There is a need more than ever to have a well balanced curriculum to develop stamina, increase coordination and produce well conditioned men. Inter-hall athletics tend to develop all of these and their place should never be overlooked.
Adams Wrecks Fence;
Czarobski Pays Fee
The boys from Arkansas are long, grainy and tough. A fellow known, for some odd reason, as the “Tree,” alias John Adams, proved that recently during spring football rehearsals on Cartier Field.
John, who brushes the clouds when he combs his curly cinema hair and sleeps in an imported Daschound bed, is a very durable tackle, and a respected member
of the legions of Leahy. He has stormed through double offerings of mashed potatoes and triple-weight steaks many times during his furlough here at Notre Dame. Big John is a little boy, leaning 6 feet 7 inches from Indiana soil and weighing—well — Scrap Iron always complained those scales were broken.
Aside from his position as varsity tackle John has made a name for himself here at Notre Dame. When Coach Leahy offered a prize to the football warrior who kept the neatest notebook during spring drills last year. “The Tree” was the victor. The award, a pair of shoes which had to be specially designed and imported from Bunyan’s herd, was well received by John and there is no verification to the story that John’s friends in the hill country wrote back, after he reported his success, and asked, “What are shoes?”
la Uta many Acote
We express our deep thanks and appreciation for the respect and confidence in placing in our hands your future Ensign Uniforms and accessories.
jolut Pafrk&t - WiKtoMuxi '	PARKER - WINTERROWD
N. MAIN ST.
But to the crowded line of deeds that are banked behind Big John, a new item was listed last week. Inspired at practice by the consistent rash criticism of the eminent Chicago Aiderman, Zig Czarobski, John made a bet, which isn’t a consistent trait of Adam’s inner nature. He rammed his size 8% cranium and broad shoulders through the hard green boards of Cartier Feld fence. Naturally, there was a remuneration on Mr. Czar-obski’s part and at last report the fence was doing well—three boards replaced.
Our Congratulations
to the
Notre Dame Graduates
★
Class rings are still available at the N. D. Bookstore.
Also
NOTRE DAME and NAVY „ STATIONERY
EASTER CARDS
Notre Dame Bookstore
Badin Hall
57
To CHICAGO--and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND. R. R.
“Gosh, they're all so swell, Harold, I just can't decide which one to buyT9
There’s more, than meets the eye in. Arrow Ties— for they’re long-wearing as well as handsome! And their special lining helps resist wrinkles and makes perfect knots. (Incidentally, Arrow ties go especially well with fine-fitting Arrow shirts!) SI, S1.50.
Ulen in uniform: See yoiir Arrow dealer for Arrow shirts and ties to go with your uniform.
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS * BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS *
3 Architects Clinch
National 'A' Awards
The Beaux-Arts Institute of Design, New York, presented awards to three Notre Dame architect students. The most coveted award went to Joseph J. Sherer, winner of the second medal; William J. Sherer received honorable mention. These brothers are from West Hartford, Conn. The other mention was won by John O’Connell of Bridgeport, Conn.
In addition to the second medal, Joseph Sherer won a half mention on a recent nine-hour sketch problem.
Class “A” is the most advanced type of work in the design school. The problem that was given was that of designing a plastics factory. Only five weeks are allowed the contestants to work out the problematical solutions.
All major architecture schools in the United States participated in the contests sponsored by the Beaux-Arts Institute, nationally recognized for some •50 years. The solutions are judged by the most reputable and distinguished architects in the country.
Ingenuity, imagination, originality and ability are the prime requisites necessary for winning any award given by the Beaux-Arts Institute.
The dean of the Notre_ Dame Architecture School is Mr. Francis W. Ker-vick. Professor Francesco Montana is a member of the department and also a graduate of the Beaux-Arts Institute of Paris.
Free Days, Celebrations
Dropped From Calendar
January 21, 1943, saw 2,500 students trek back on campus to find more snow, more sailors, and a newly revised class schedule, trimmed down to meet the needs of the war effort.
First official and traditional date to be lopped off the calendar was the Washington Day program. For the first time in 60 years seniors did not parade down the front steps of the Administra-, tion Building in cap ’and gown. A 15-week semester allowed no time for frills.
The traditional flag, presented to the University by the seniors and used during the subsequent year, was presented at the December 20 commencement by the Class of 1943, who were only juniors on last Washington’s birthday. Missing .. were orations and traditional class ode. : The Office of Defense Transportation and the University postponed until after* tire war the various meetings and activities which were to form part of the Centenary program.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, said, “We have
58

enjoyed already a spiritual observance of the historic occasion. The centenary schoolyear was opened in September, 1942, with the students participating in solemn Mass of the Holy Ghost.”
As the semester wore on Air Corps reserves, and others not so reserved, trickled away, leaving snow, sailors, classes and puzzled students behind. On April 28 closes the shortest semester on record. “We will postpone the academic and cultural events until friends originally envisioned can come to the campus of Notre Dame for the various functions that will comprise a major contribution to the life of America,” said Father O’Donnell.
versity, said the newly formed foundation would become part of Notre Dame’s plan, being carried out through the cooperation of friends and benefactors, to strengthen the College of Arts and Letters. Father O’Donnell said in part, “Much of higher education, especially during the past generation, has been heading in the direction of specialization and secularism, and unfortunately the present world crisis has accelerated its speed. But thoughtful Americans like Mr. O’Shaughnessy share with Notre Dame the realization that unless the technological subjects are complemented by the liberal arts and sciences we will
develop mechanics, not leaders. And only with proper leadership can we make— and keep—peace.”
Mr. O’Shaughnessy is a graduate of St. Thomas College and has long been interested in education and religion. His splendid work in Catholic circles has made him a Knight of Holy Sepulchre and also a Papal Chamberlain of Cape and Sword. He has been active in the oil business for many years, and is currently serving on the Petroleum Industry War Council.
The other gift was made just several weeks ago by Mr. Thomas A. O’Shaughnessy, of Chicago, Ill., retiring glass pro
University Receives Two Valuable Art Gifts
The University of Notre Dame has been made the recipient of two gifts, offered by generous friends of the school, this past semester.
The first of these, the O’Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation, was announced in January, when Mi'. I. A. O’Shaughnessy of St. Paul, Minn., donated $100,000 shortly before Christmas.
In announcing the gift Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the Uni-
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP.. . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS ft.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
a general
“In his letter home, even
in Africa recalled happy moments with ice-cold Coca-Cola. There’s something about Coca-Cola. Ever notice how you associate it with happy moments? There’s that delicious taste you don't find this side of Coca-Cola, itself. It's a chummy drink that people like right-out-of-the-bottle. Yes siree, the only thing like Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola, itself.”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
T«EAfRlCA
'OH, FOR AN ICE-COLD COCA-COLA
^OW I WISH
" go down towie CORNER FOR A &«£ WITH THE GANS

59
ducer. The donation consists of 10,000 mirrors of varied sizes, 10 to 15 tons of colored glass in sheet form, and all the equipment necessary to transform these sheets of glass into masterful mosaic works and beautiful windows.
Mr. T. A. O’Shaughnessy is well known as a lecturer on art and Celtic culture; he was apointed spokesman by the president of the United States for the delegation of 200 American artists that were sent to the Paris Exposition of the ’20’s. In addition, he was in charge of the Irish Village which attracted so much attention at the 1933 World’s Fair in Chicago. America’s rising interest in art, and Celtic art in particular, is due largely to Mr. O’Shaughnessy’s abilities as lecturer and artist.
University of North Carolina has established a college of war training, on a par with the other schools of the university, to train students above 16 years of age for front-line and civilian duty.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A large selection of gifts for:
EASTER GRADUATION MOTHER'S DAY
Use our lay~away plan.
Dont Forge t!
Take a gift home with you when you leave . . .
Dr. Sarton Will Lecture
on History of Science
Dr. George Sarton, research associate of the Carnegie Institutions of Washington and leading scholar of the history of science, will speak on “The History of Science,” on April 27 at 4:15 p.m. in the auditorium of the Biology Building, University of Notre Dame. This lecture is sponsored jointly by the departments of biology, history, and philosophy.
Though a native of Belgium and a graduate in mathematics of the University of Ghent, Dr. Sarton spent most of his life in the United States, principally at the Widener Library of Harvard University. In numerous lectures and writings he advocated persistently the need for and the great benefit of the study of the history of science from a humanistic point of view. While still in Belgium he founded in 1912 Isis, an international quarterly devoted to the history of science and civilization, which is still under his editorship and appears now regularly in the United States as the official organ of the History of Science Society. To date Isis represents the largest repository of information bearing on the history and philosophy of science. Since 1936 Osiris, likewise edited and founded by Dr. Sarton, carries the larger contributions.
Dr. Sarton’s writings disclose his profound learning both in the sciences and the arts, e.g., Asiatic art, Arabic culture, mathematics, the new humanism, etc. Best known is his classical Introduction to the History of Science, whose 2,142 published pages bring the story up to the end of the 13th century.
Many honorary degrees and memberships in domestic and foreign academies and societies came to Dr. Sarton in ap
preciation of his work. Harvard University, recognizing his aim “to establish the history of science as an independent discipline, comparable to the other scientific disciplines,” now offers graduate training in this field.
The lecture by Dr. Sarton commemorates the 100th anniversary of the birth of the late Dr. Edward- Lee Greene, first American historian of botany, whose library and herbarium are deposited at the University of Notre Dame. Dr. Greene is buried in the Community Cemetery on the campus, together with a small group of other distinguished lay figures in the earlier life of Notre Dame.
N.R.O.T.C Makes Plans
For Two Weeks Cruise
A two week’s cruise on Lake Michigan, beginning Thursday, April 29, and ending Wednesday, May 12, has been scheduled for the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. • The cruise will be made aboard the U.S.S.. Wilmette. .
Approximately 85 members of the Advanced Course and 40 students of the Basic Course will attend. A second cruise for the two weeks, immediately before the return to school for the summer semester has been tentatively arranged for those members of the Basic Course who do not go on the first cruise. Last year 80 members of the Basic Course made one week cruises aboard the Wilmette and the U.S.S. Dover.
The ‘cruise is very important for the students of the Advanced Course as it will be their last opportunity for practical . training before receiving commissions next spring. The Advanced members will assume the duties of the junior officer of the deck with special emphasis placed on navigation. It will also be their first actual experience at firing a 4" gun. The students of the Basic Course will take over the duties of an enlisted man which includes such tasks as washing the deck, shining metal, and standing watches as lookouts and messengers.
For Mother and Sister: Purses	,
Gloves
Lady Buxton Billfolds
For Dad and Brother:
Key Cases Cigarette Cases ’ Brief Cases
Gifts wrapped for mailing also.

HansA Ri ntzsch ^u<jf4fa4fe Shop Michigan at Colfax
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
60
CENTENNIAL SPORTS (Continued from page 38)
this season. These are slight strains of Notre Dame’s greatest track team.
BASEBALL
A frigid spring and a shortened academic term are threatening to leash one of the finest baseball teams Jake Kline has molded. The diamond sport had its greatest turnout ever this year and the abundant experienced material livens hopes for an outstanding and winning team. Bounding over Chicago, 21-1, in the opener the varsity nine shows promise of peeling a number of victories before meeting Great Lakes in the final encounter early in May.
Golf and Tennis aspirants are numerous and although no matches have been played, at this writing, prospects are extremely good for successful seasons.
Thus, the last leaf will be turned on Notre Dame’s Centennial year, a year crowded with athletic achievement which will rank alongside the greatest sports squads in Irish history.
GRID PRACTICE (Continued from page 46)
A team of veterans, composed mostly of E.R.C. members who will go into service this May, has scrimmaged against the spring squad creating a competitive spirit. Such stars as Gerry Cowhig, Creighton Miller, Bob McBride, Bucky O’Connor, Herb Coleman, Luke Higgins, and others, were members of the all-veteran eleven which has enlivened spring practice for the past week.
Material is scarce, it is true. Few if any of the players who attended practice will realize their objective, that is play for the Irish, at least right -now, but the competition and the desire to play has been astounding.
Lieut. Aaron Stationed Here
Lieutenant Roy Aaron, U.S.N.R., has been assigned to the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. unit to replace Lieutenant Conrad J. Zimmer, U.S.N.R., who will soon leave for sea duty. Lt. Aaron reports from the battleship U.S.S. Arkansas which was one of the ships comprising the original force that invaded North Africa last November. While aboard the Arkansas, Mr. Aaron was assistant navigator and aid to the executive . officer, in charge of personnel.
Lt. Aaron was born in Millen, Ga., and graduated from the Georgia Tech Naval R.O.T.C. unit in 1931. He wears a service ribbon attesting to his ten years of active duty prior to the United States’ entry into the war, the North American campaign ribbon, and one for his part in the North African invasion.
How to build o 20-mile bridge ... in 20 MINUTES
Nature in a destructive mood can put miles of telephone line out of service.
To bridge such gaps, while repairs are being made, Bell System men have devised special portable radio equipment.
An emergency radio unit is rushed to each- end of the break and connected to the undamaged part of the line. In a few minutes, a temporary radio bridge has been set up and telephone traffic is re-established.
Being prepared for emergencies is part of the daily job of Bell System people—part of the tremendous task of maintaining the lines of communication on the home front.
61
TRACK TEAM
(Continued from page 41)
of the polers. Ollie Hunter and Bill Leonard put in a one-two finish in the mile run. Notre Dame managed to take the distance medley relay from the relay happy Michigan squad. That completed the six Irish firsts.
Captain Delaney journeyed to the Garden alone to put in his bid for the National AAU crown on Feb. 27. Jim took the second spot in the finish with a 51 foot toss.
breaking. His best one of 53 feet 4% inches which established the mark for all good Irishmen to shoot for. The medley relay team took a first for Notre Dame as did Bill Dillon in the low hurdles. A new American indoor mark for a four mile relay team was set by the Irish team of Tony Maloney, Bill Leonard, Frank Conforti, and Ollie Hunter. They lapped both of the two competing teams and Ollie broke the tape to end the race in 17:31.1. It was a tragic night, too; the undefeated one mile team felt a couple of bad breaks and finished in
fourth place behind teams they had previously defeated.
The next meet the track men are looking forward to is the Drake Belays on April 23 and 24.
IRISH BASEBALL
(Continued from page 43) hit them where they can’t be reached. Other' sluggers are: Bob Kline, Tom Carlin, Frank Vignola, Bob Valestine, Jim lin, Frank Vignola, Bob Valestin, Jim Thomas and Grant.
(Continued on next page)
On March 7 the Central Collegiate Conference held their annual get together at Michigan State’s Jennison fieldhouse. The Irish took first in the meet with 64% points ahead of State who piled up 45 points. The Irish took six firsts out of 11 events and scored in the other five.
Sprinter Jack Murphy raced off with the CCC 75 yard dash title. The hurdle race found a duel between Fieweger of Lawrence and Dillon of Notre Dame. Dillon won the lows and Fieweger the highs. Ollie Hunter set a new meet and fieldhouse record when he broke the tape in 9:12.8 for the two mile. Don Currie was the 880 man of the hour. The mile relay team added on another victory. Another record fell before Jim Delaney’s thudding shot; this time a meet and fieldhouse record of 50 feet 5% inches.
The whole squad traveled up to the University of Chicago fieldhouse for the Illinois Tech Relays on March 13. The Irish took five firsts and scored in 11 of the 12 events to come home with the title.
The two mile relay broke the meet and fieldhouse record by setting it up at 7:46.7 in winning the lead-off event. Jim Delaney won out over Indiana’s Lou Saban in the shot put event. Ollie Hunter annexed the mile title. The 880 saw Don Currie repeat past performances. The finale saw the mile relay team repeat in the win column.
In the Chicago Stadium the following Saturday the two mile team and the one mile team plus Ollie represented the school. The two mile team went down to defeat in face of the record smashing two mile club from Michigan. The one mile team added its fourth victory of the year. The event of the night was the repeat duel between Greg Rice and Ollie Hunter with Greg deciding the race in the last hundred yards with that famous kick.
March 27 saw the team down at Purdue for the Purdue Relays. It was a hard battle but the Irish came home with another team crown and a couple of records.
Jim Delaney made the best throws of his life at the meet and they were record
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers.
62
uoiimM m«i« SOUTH ItUU, IHUMM
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
lYlaim CMvtd
SOUTH BEND/ INDIANA
Bruggner's News Corner for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
The pitchers are well balanced as Smullen possesses everything, Creevey with a fire ball and sharp curve, Manyak has a knee high pitch that nobobdy seems to be able to connect with and Bob Juday, the Goshen boy, is a curve-bailer from the old school. He throws the curve consistently and the best the hitters can do is to drive it into the dirt. Dave Thornton is a control pitcher. Nibs Trimbom throws from the port side and is one of the only two left handers on the squad, the other being Carpenter.
Although the season has not fully gained its momentum we feel secure in stating that the Notre Dame baseball team of 1943 will present Coach Kline with a record that will be able to be placed along side of the envious football and basketball achievements. We feel that the latter two sports have reached the upper strata and that the baseball squad led by such capable men as Hal Smullen and Jim Carlin will place their team among the great Notre Dame nines of other years.
To all those athletes that will be entering the armed services of America, be it Army, Navy or Marines, the Sports Department of the Scholastic wishes to extend to them the best of luck in the bigger game to be played and asks blessing for all the students here and abroad.
the organization and coaching of Coach Langford. This was the first Interhall fencing tournament ever held in the history of Notre Dame and was truly a success.
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
Divry's t! Handy
SPANISH-ENGLISH
। and
ENGLISH-।	SPANISH
Dictionary
By J. DOUGLAS, Ph.D. and A. LOMO, Ph.D.
The most complete, reliable and up-to-date pocket Dictionary, listing all Spanish and English words in current use — over 60.000 •— including many of the latest technical. Scientific and military terms. Also contains Elements of Grammar, full list of Irregular Verbs. Cities with their populations. Colored Maps. etc. Indispensable to students, translators. business men. etc. 536 pages. 3% x 6^. flexible leatherette binding.
Postpaid, S1.75
With Indexes, $2.00 and $2.25
On sale at leading bookstores.
D. C. DIVRY, Inc., Publishers
240 W. 23rd St., NEW YORK
FENCING
(Continued from page 47)
Following this meet the Irish fell before the onslaught of a strong University of Wisconsin team 19-8. Led by Al Fidler, the Badgers had cinched the match before it got into the sabre bout. “Bitsy’-’ Repilado kept Notre Dame spirit high when he shouted his victory in an epee bout, with the immortal initials, “T. A.”
Due to transportation difficulties the Irish fencing team brought their season to an abrupt halt with a decisive 12-5 win over Purdue. The Irish went into an early lead by taking the first five foil bouts, then sabre men Dave Roney and Gene Slevin put the match on ice and the Irish coasted to easy victory by the wins of Charles Raley in the epee bouts.
In the light of the growing war conditions and a shortened season, Coach Langford staged an interhall fencing tournament following the regular fencing season. The tournament was run off with four teams entered: Walsh, Cavanaugh, Alumni, and the All-Stars. The tournament was won by Walsh Hall when they took a close decision from Cavanaugh 7-6. The whole tournament was highlighted by fast action and narrow margins of victory which came about through the long practice of the participants and
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A.’ ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, DJ).S.
PETER J. ROSE, DJ).S.
623-629 Sherland Blds.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building -	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery'of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661 - 702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend. Lad.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, MJ).	M. J- Thornton..MJ).’ .
S3
RECOGNIZED EVERYWHERE
THE CIGARETTE THAT GIVES SMOKERS
WHAT THEY WANT
Copyright 19»5. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
DON’T HIDE YOUR DOLLARS ★ ENLIST THEM WITH UNCLE SAM ★ BUY U. S. WAR BONDS FOR VICTORY
U. S. RANGERS... Hand-picked and especially
trained, they're a swift-moving, hard-hitting
outfit. Here’s one in his "business-suit, camou
flaged and invisible at thirty feet.
Chesterfields MILDER
BETTER TASTE
Here’s real smoking ammunition tucked in the pockets of our fighting men, ready for instant sendee. Where a cigarette counts most, Chesterfield serves smokers well with its Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.
For Mildness.. for Better Taste and Cooler Smoking.. make your next pack...
