

Dooley Room -LaFortune Student Center 1r 631-8128 _ 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 pm -9:00pm Saturday, 8:00 am-9:0Opm Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00 pm 
_-. . -. . . :. . . .. . -. .. ~-. ~ , . 
' J ' 
--· "' . --...-, ' 
.  •  ~  - ...  .  .  •!  .  '  '  /  .  '  .  .  ,  .  ..  
•  , I  I•  •  •  •  >  ,  •  
. .  '  (  ·. .  : ,  . .  .  . .  .  . .  .  ~  

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 8 FOUNDED 1867 GcroBER 20, 1994 
Limited Access? 
.

3Notre Dame's disabled students have to couple daily academic challenges with the daily chal­lenges oflivingwith a physical handicap. Howdo they cope with the difficulties and how does the university accommodate their needs? 




Up the River, Down the Street 
8Notre Dame students help rehabilitate the prod-· ucts of the criminal justice system by living with former criminal offenders at Dismas House in downtown South Bend. 

The Way Things Used to Be 
15The student center was the science hall, Lewis was a convent and Breen-Phillips was the football office. These and other secrets in the cover story. 


FEATURES 
· AmeriCorps •Melissa Sheldon ..........................................................~ ....................................................................... 6 Thriving in the Shadows •John Schoenig .............................................................................................................. 12 Raw Talent •Brian Hiro ................................................. ; .......................................................... :··········· .. ·· ................ 13 Making Waves• Alyssa Peterson ............................................................................................................................ 14. -Missin·g in Action •Christopher Meier ..................................................................................................................... 22 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Executive Editor ............................................ 2 CJtmpus Watch ............................................................ 11 Splintersfrom the Press Box ...: .................................. 19 Sports Commentary ....................................................20 Out of Bounds .............................................................21 
Coming Distractions ...................................................24 On Other Campuses .................................................... 25 Comics ......................................................................... 26 Week in Distortion ...................................................... 27 Final Word ................................................................... 28 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a OCTOBER 20, 1994 
1 
-. -. ' -~ -------=---.-. . -~ -~----. ' ' . 
<. -' • • 
. . , ..·. . ,_ . . \ -. ­
, -. . 

"It's like a bunch oflittle family rooms." My uncle and I were sitting in the comerof the Huddle watching Acoustic Cafe. After nearly two decades away from campus, he. was back recruiting seniors for M&T bank. When he leftin 1975 ,LaFortune's basement hadjust been turned into amockIrish pub featuring softdrinks and akitchen area. Where· there had once been open lounges, he now saw cozy nooks and social areas. 
From science building to social space, Lafortune has not been the only building to change its purpose. Scholastic Magazine sent Theresa Hennessey into the archives . looking for the most interesting stories about the structures on ourcampus. The product of her work is this week's cover story, beginning on page 15. 
Also in this Issue 

Off campus or on campus? Scott Schittl and David McMahon chose a third option: Dismas House, a home for ex-criminal offenders. Schittl and McMahon spend their evenings with the ex-offenders sharing meals and chores with them in addition to their normal academic routine. Their story starts on page 8. 
In addition to our regular departments, this issue features Michelle Mudry exploring how th~ administration is helping disabled students meet the challenges ofuniversity life in NeV:.s.and Chris Meier reviewing three more recent movies in Entertainment. 

A Scholastic Respite 

Fall break begins this Friday for Notre Dame. Scholastic Magazine will be appear again two Thursdays from now, on November 10. 
Christopher Blanford Executive Editor 

Cover photo by Shelley Sullivan: The window depicting Saint Louis, King of France, in Saint Edward's Hall chapel. 
2 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 20, 1994 
. . . -_-------_-. . 
I · ·. · ·-·· . --· -. . -, . -. __ i 
'-' ._.J 





Lirrrited Access? 
Disabled students at Notre Dame push for a universally accessible camp,us 
by Michelle Mudry 
Asmall number of Notre Dame stu­dents will never experience the thrill of seeing the kelly green hu­
man blanket of noisy, cheering students cramme,d into the northwest comer of the stadium for the first time. Others cannot hear the jokes of Sergeant Tim McCathy, and some can only imagine seeing the spar­kling golden helmets of the players, raised at the end of each contest. For the disabled students who attend Notre Dame, learning to reactto.,the crowd's energy and cues is only one of many adjustments students mustmakewhentheyenrollatNotreDame. 
Helping disabled students adjust to life at the university is one of the responsibilities of Father Tim Scully, C.S.C., new vice­president and associate provost of Notre DamewhotookofficeinJuly. Itis the hope of students like Alex Montoya, a triple amputee, that Father Scully will implement many of the changes necessary to accom­modate physically handicapped students. 
· "I very much look forward to working with Father Scully," said Montoya. "His enthu­siasm, his eagerness to setup meetings with us, and just his overall compassion for 
-disabled students really, really encourages me,andl'mlookingforwardtoprogressing in a lot of areas with him." 
And there are a lot of areas that need improvement. According to a story in the -summer 1994 issue ofNotre Dame Maga­zine, there are 28 buildings on campus that are either partialJy or completely inacces­sible to handicapped students, and onlythree golf carts are available for the trans­portation of disabled students around cam­pus. While Notre Dame has spent more than $350,000 improving campus facilities for handicapped students and plans to reno-
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 

vate the architecture and adminis-· tration buildingsby 1999, none of the newer buildings on campus meet all of the specifications of the 1990 Americans with Dis­abilities Act, more commonly known as the ADA. The new business building will be the first new structure to comply with all physical access requirements, ac­cording to Nancy Fallon, who studied the Notre Dame campus' accessibility for the Notre Dame Magazine story. 
As associate provost of the uni­
·versity, Father Scully is in a posi­tion to make decisions necessary to accommodate physically dis­abledstudentswithouttheredtape, 
. delay and paperwork that would inevitably arise if a lower admin­istrator were to oversee the needs of disabled students. Scully, who described his job as the "overall coordination of the well being of disabled people on campus," proudly reported that a new office for disabled people has just been approved. 
Wile there is no formal ~socia­tion for disabled students, and theirnumbersarefew,students 
with disabilities often help each other out. Lori Miller, the second blind student to attend Notre Dame, said disabled students are trying to keep the lines of communica­tion open, instructing each otherand therest ofthe student body with regard to the chal­lenges they confront. 
One disabled student's problem and the problem solving process thatresolvesitcan · translate into real changes for future stu­dents. WhenMillerfirstvisitedNotreDame, 
OCTOBER 20, 1994 

she was told that she could not have a guide dog. Now she has helped to change this situation and others for the benefit ofother disabled students. Miller, who is com­pletelyblind,fullyenjoysbeingastudentat Notre Dame, taking advantage of all the school has to offer. "I don't look at blind­ness as a handicap, it's more ofan inconve­nience," said 1'.liller, who participates in more activities than most other students do, including roller blading, Tae Kwon Doe and acting in plays. "I just can't restrain myself to academics and studying .... You have to live on the edge," she said. Her two guide dogs, Solo and CeCe, give her a measure of independence, although she 
3 
--• • -I •-• ' ; • • / • • • • • ! • ; , • .~, • , ' ~ -• '. • -• ~. , • 
occasionally needs a helping hand-like is details. "I can't say enough that it's all the time one of her dogs left her standing in details." He gets very close to things, and front of the library after taking off to chase sometimes misses people waving at him. a squirrel up a tree. Thingsthattomostpeoplearenotabigdeal 
Miller'speerscreditherforraisingaware-are scary for him. "Bicycles are scary .... I ness about disabled ____________ hear a bicycle and it's students on campus. like the song out of "I think that Lori "I think that Lori Jaws." Miller really sat Tim Cordes, the third down and pioneered Miller really sat blind student to attend it and made things Notre Dame, names better for us. I think down and pioneered Miller as one of the rea­she did a good job," sons he chose to come to said John Cullinane, [changes for the university. Cordes who suffers from uses his dog, Electra, to aniridia, a hereditary disabf ed students] guide him around ob­defect that left him stacles on campus. He missing his iris, the and made things does not limit himself colored part of the from activities, but eye that controls the better for us." sometimes finds parties amouet:of light that loud and confusing.
-1ohn Cullinane
enters the eye. The faculty here has Cullinane, who has been very helpful, ac­much of his sight, but cannot discern details cording to Cordes, who reported that he has beyond five feet, said that a major problem been matched up with a reader for each of with his disability is time. "It takes me his classes. "When I came here I guess I much longer," he said of taking his exams expected ... to be more closed off. The or completing his assignments. Because of community aspect here is really great," said this, he gets unlimited time for taking ex­Cordes of his new home. He plays rhythm ams. Another problem, especially socially, keyboards and composes a little. Two things Cordes wishes he could see on cam­pus are two Notre Dame traditions -the Golden Dome and the Freshman Register, also known as the dogbook. 
Blindness is not the only disability challenging Notre Dame students. Senior Dawn Parkot has cerebral palsy, but she doesn't let that stop her from enjoying herself. Speaking through a board on which she points to the letters that spell out what she's saying, and with the help of her roommate Beth Sbaschnig, she said, "I knew what I wanted to do. I knew what I was getting into. I was the first multi-disabled student here." She takes a full course load, goes out dancing to Senior Bar, to movies and to the Linebacker. ''They are really trying to be more accommodating for disabled stu­dents," Parkot said. Non-disabled students receive benefits from having people such as Parkot and Miller around them. Parkot's roommate Sbaschnig said; "Living with her has been interesting. I've been party to a lot of the struggles she's had to go through. It's interestingandfun,pluswegetagreatroom out of the deal!" Parkot and Sbaschnig live in a quad in Pasquerilla East that has been 

~..tifl!.l 

ev. SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! 
¦ 


4 


. ~ 
• ' • • • • ~ ~ ' • ..., ' I ' • 
' . -' 

low can be almost impossible. In spite of a golf cart named Scrappy, which 
these difficulties, Hepburn fully enjoys at­his friends drive him around in, and this has tending football games where she uses the beenamajorconvenienceforhim. Montoya noise shecan hear and the body language of is hoping for more improvements to be the crowd as cues to understand what's implemented under Father Scully. 0 going on. 

Fall Festival '94 
Saturday, November. 5· 
Fall Festival is a one-day service project to show Notre Dame's support for the South Bend Community 
Students and residents will work together to beautify the Northeast Neighborhood by planting flowers and cleaning local homes. A block party celebration will follow for all volunteers and residents. 

SIGNUPS 

• 
Nov~ & 2 in the dining halls ' 

• 
Register through the CSC or the LaFortune Information desk 


Questions??? Call Karen Dubay at 271-8992 

Ever "Wonder hovV the Gipper got his start? 
Ifyou are interested in worki.ng for Scholastic Magazine as an assistant editor, writer, . photographer, or graphic artist, stop by our office in 303 Lafortune. 
We are now accepting applications for: Assistant News Editor Assistant Campus Life Editor Assistant Departments Editor Assistant Copy Editor 
It's not too late to get involved with the oldest college publication in the country. 





Where Financial Aid and Community Service Meet 
by Melissa Sheldon 

Two of his campaign promises were health care reform and allowing gays in the military. President Clinton, ev­
eryone knows, has run into trouble on those fronts. But last September, he signed into law the National Community Service Act of1993, creating acorpora­tion to fund. federal service programs as well as administeranewserviceprogramcalledAmeriCorps. 
The creation ofAmeriCorps was asmall triumph for 
Clinton; he showed that not all campaign rhetoric is 
used simply to get elected. 
The AmeriCorps program represents a national initiative to assist states, non-profit organizations, Native Americans and institutions ofhigher learning in forming arid sustaining service programs. These serviceprogramsare designed to address the nation's 
------------------human,educational,pub­
"With this new 

legislation there will be a corps ofpeople doing service across the country in their own. communities." -Sean McGraw, cofounder ofthe Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) 
licsafetyandenvironmen­

tal needs. 

The federal govern­ment has established many service programs since the depression, but 
. there is aunique aspect to AmeriCorpsin thehistory of service legislation ­the opportunity to receive educational awards for service. Those who par­ticipateinservice through AmeriCorpsora commu­
nity-based service orga­nization receive money thatcari beusedtopayoff studentloansoroffsetfur­ther educational costs. 
Although the amount given for educational grants is lessthantheoriginalproposalrequested, AmeriCorps grants will defer some educational costs. This con­nectionbetweenserviceandeducationplacesaunique focus on the younger Americans. 
At Notre Dame, AmeriCorps grants have already proved useful to forty volunteers in the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). ACE received a grant of $289,000 from the Corporation for National Service. Upon completion of their two years of service, in addition to receiving payments for living, health care or child care needs during their term of service, all forty participants will receive a $4725 grantto either pay for future tuition costs or to pay back previous student loans. 
"Theeducation grantsletus know that otherpeople and our country support our efforts here; it really makes us feel like we're making a difference," said Lizabeth Lennon. Lennon is a graduate of Notre Dame and currently teaches in Jacksonville, Florida, through the ACE program. 
Although the educational grant supplied by AmeriCorps did not necessarily influence her deci­sion to serve, Lennon appreciates the aid and support and plans to put her educational award dollars to­wards repayment of her student loans. 
Community and campus-based groups like ACE were an impetus for national legislation to support local service organizations. Father Malloy testified in Washington, D.C., before the Human Labor and Resource Department in June of 1993, on behalf of the need for a national service initiative. 
It is the aim of the legislation, despite federal administration, to continue service at a community. level in keeping with the original grass roots support of the bill. "Originally, there were many scattered small service programs. With this new legislation there will be a corps of people doing service across the country in their own communities," said Sean 

Clinton's National Service Program and the new AmeriCorps 
organization support local action with federal funding, and some ofit comes to Notre Dame 
McGraw, an organizer with Father Scully of ACE. Cullinan,Father Malloy's 
The goal of AmeriCorps, as reflected in; their assistant. AmeriCorps grantsslogan, "Getting Things Done," is to enlist a .large Although Cullinan re­quantity of volunteers. While small community­alizes thateverynewpiece have already been put based programs found a limited number of strong oflegislationhasitsgrow­supporters, the aim of AmeriCorps is to involv~ a ing pains; he hopes that . to use at Notre Dame. large portion of the American population in service. the political aspects ofthe 
After the completion of

This pilot year of AmeriCorps called for 20,000 legislation will not lead to volunteers, while the legislation set goals of up to any sacrificein the quality 
their two years of

100,000 participants in the coming years. . of service. Despitefrustrations, the 
service, each ofthe 40 


!though "Getting Things Done" sounds. like Center for Social Con­an admirable mission, many organizers on cerns may implement ACE participants will the state and local levels have been scram-AmeriCorpsintotheirpro­
bling to meet recruitment goals in a very short span gramsasearlyasnextyear. receive a $4725 grant of time. •The Center for Social Concerns met with AmeriCorps, too, has set such frustrations last spring in. the rush to organize . future goals to organizing to use for future tuition AmeriCorps projects. Although the center decided a nationwide pool of vol­not to apply for an AmeriCorps grant so as not to unteersinordertoencour-or pay back debts. compete with ACE's application, Maureen Skurski· age participation. ---------------­ofthe Center for Social Concerns found that the time AmeriCorps members will place their names in a frame given for the writing ofthe grants and organiz-national pool ofvolunteers and can then be contacted ing proposals was simply too short. ·by service organizations throughout the country. 
"Applying for a grant was frustrating because the Through suchprograms, AmeriCorps hopes to fulfill deadlines for submitting applications directly fol-. its mission to «address the nation's education, hu­·1owed release of the information; there was barely man; public safety and environmental needs" in enough time to organize a proposal," Skurski said. order to "foster civic responsibility, strengthen the 
The dizzying pace of implementation of cords thatbind us together as a people, and provide-. AmeriCorps programs, as well as the desire for a educational opportunity to those who.make a sub­
. large quantity of participants, may be due to a politi-stantialcommitrnenttoservice." cal pressure for results in order to justify the federal funding of service organizations at a time when Congress issuppos~ to be capping domestic spend­ing. -"The National Service legislation is premised on good ideas, and the federal government has tried to constructan organization that met these ideas; hope­fully, they will remember that the idea of service is the main point of the legislation," said Matthew 
l






From the Big House 
:I 
C: 
5l 
! 
E 
~ 
tD 


Two Notre Dame undergrads residing in Dismas House strive to make a difference in the lives oflocal ex-offenders 

To Our House 
by Amy Newman 

At 6:00 on a Tuesday night, the ma­jority of the student body ambles over to the dining hall to have a nice, relaxing meal before a long night of studying. Meanwhile, a little blue Volkswagen makes its way off campus and darts through the streets of South Bend. It finally reaches a neighborhood at the edge ofthe South Bend business district, coming to a stop in front of a large house with a spacious front porch. It is a regular house, a little better-kept than the others on the block. It is evidently the most recently painted, and the carefully trimmed lawn and yellow and orange marigolds lining the sidewalkshowthatimprovementsaremade here on a regular basis. A Notre Dame student with cropped brown hair, wearing a navy peacoat, jeans and tennis shoes, gets out of the car. With twenty minutes to spare, he is early for dinner tonight. He strolls toward the house and wonders who has dish duty that night 
As he walks through the wood-paneled foyer, he calls out greetings to his housemates lounging in the TV room. He makes his way to the kitchen to see who has dish duty that night. "Oh, no," he groans as hereads "ScottSchittl" on the list posted by the sink. "It's me." 
This is one of several chores that Schittl 
mustperform whilelivingatDismas House, 
a house where ex-offenders who are trying 
to re-establish themselves in society reside 
with college students. Students like Schittl 
aretheretoprovideapositiveinfluenceand 
a supportive environment for ex-prisoners 
who have no family or who.fear that they 
would break the law again if they return to their former environment. 
"What's for dinner?" Schittl asks Dick and Billy, the two residents who volun­teered to cook ~or the evening. 
Dick, the oldest resident in the house, can barely get out a response as he coughs and reaches for a cigarette. Several tattoos wind around his forearms. "Fruit salad," he wh~_zes, "and potatoes ... and green beans ... and ... ham." He finally forces out a response. 
. "Everyone smokes here, except about three people," Schittl says as he dashes upstairs to catch a glimpse of the sunset from the balcony. A dirtyashtray sits on the ground. "Everyone smokes out here and comes out here to relax and to think about life," he explains. From this backyard vantage point, a panorama of South Bend can be seen-the Studebaker Museum, the Salvation Army, a homeless shelter, an 

"I can't relate to being in prison for the last 20 years, but, at base, I can relate to the fact that they'rejust human beings." -Junwr Scott Schittl, Dismas House 
abandoned building and a vibrant, glowing sunset. 

"When I come home at night, one of the greatest things is to come out here and listen to the din of traffic and the train go by," Schittl says as he admires the sunset. ''The campus is so secluded that you don't hear • thoseaspectsofreallifewhenyou'rethere." 
"Real life" is the kind of life Schittl has always wanted to have. He learned early on that one can see reality from several differ­ent points ofview. He has learned about the real world in a truly global sense because he has lived in many different places. His father's job in telecommunications has re­quired his family to live everywhere, from San Francisco to Atlanta to Tokyo. He spent last year in the Notre Dame program in Angers, France. 
He has not minded the moving around 
· because he has learned to adjust to and appreciate each new lifestyle. "For me, Dismas is good because it's a different kind of learning experience," he said. "It may sound selfish, but I want to take advantage of different living options while I can." He did not want to return to the dozm after living in France and thought that Dismas House wou~new challenges to over­
come. ., 
One of these challenges is being sepa­rated from the campus. Schittl doesn't mind living four miles from the campus, although commutingpresents problems that most don't encounter while living in the 

donn. He misses the convenience ofliving on campus and said that it is sometimes difficult to balance his schedule, since he always has to be back for dinner at 6:30. 
He also has to make more of an effort to see his friends on campus, but he sees them during the day and on weekends. He makes a special point to stop by and see his friends while he is on campus. "It's easy to get out of touch, since so many things are going on at school," he said. 
However, Schittl believes the benefits of_ his situation strongly outweigh the draw-· backs. He appreciates the exposure to a differentkindoflifestyle,orashesaid, "real life." In addition to learning aboutadiffer­entaspectoftheworldfrom his housemates, he has learned about turning a negative situation into a positive one. "I really enjoy the positive personal in~raction with other people,"hesaid. ''For them [the ex-offend­ers]. it's a necessity to be here. For me, it's 
rt is now 6:30; dirµlertime. Everyone gathers around the large table in the dining room as dinner is served. Schittl quickly grabs the bowl of fruit salad and piles it on his plate. "You have tojockey for your food here," he whispers. A wide variety of conversations arebuzz­ing around the table. One ex-offender raves about the ham. ''This is the most beautiful ham ever!" he exclaims. He also expresses excitement about a new job opportunity in 
a factory, and everyone congratulates him. 
However, the hot new topic is Dave, 
another ex-offender, and how he was fired 
from work that day because he had to ap­
pear in. court. No one understands the 
injustice of the situation, and Dave tries to 
explain it, but doesn't want to talk about it 
for long. 

Schittl and his roommate, Dave 'McMahon, the only other Notre Dame stu­dent living in the house, keep quiet during these conversations. They listen and ob­serve as they load their plates with green beans and potatoes. Since they have only . lived in the house for a month and a half, listening to these stories is still a new expe­
rience for them. 

"I can'trelate tobeinginprison thelast20 
years," Scott Schittl said, "but at base, I can 
relate to the fact that they're just human 
beings. The only difference between them 
and Notre Dame students is that the Notre 
Damestudentshaveaninherentedge. Here, they need a little more of_a boost." 
. Finally, everyone is served. Chris Mar­tin, director of the Dismas House, asks Schittl to say grace as everyone stands. Schittl' s obviously forced smile shows that he does not enjoy being in the spotlight,and he tries to getoutofit quickly. "Lord,please blessthisfoodbeforeus,"heprays. "Amen." Everyone chuckles at his brevity. 
. Martin initiates a conversation. "Why don't we go around and say what we're. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II OCTOBER 20, 1994 

Junior Scott Schlttl relaxes with afellow resident of Dlsma·s House.' The house is located on St. Joseph Street, south of campus. 
thankful for today?" see his situation. as the average type of ''lam thankful for this beautiful, beauti­service work· wherf one constantly works ful ham!" pipes the man with the job offer. and actively heips people. ''This is one very "Dick, what are you thankful for?" Mar­unique typeofservicework,"hesaid. 'Usu­tin asks. ally when doing service work, people are 
He replies, "I am thankful that I had the the providers, and I see the merits of that, beautiful opportunity," he starts coughing, but I'm not really on the providing or the "to help the mentally retarded children to­receiving end. I'm just living here." ·. day. No, I don't like that word. They're mentally challenged," he finally chokes Dinneris finished. Martin agrees tci · out. do the dishes for Schittl, who ex-
Schittl gets to hear stories like these and presses his gratitude. It is evident.· many more aspects of"real life'' at dinner thatherespectsMartinagreatdeal. "Chris every night during the week. He recalled .. Martin is definitely the paragon of good­one story that had a great effect on him. ness," Schittl says. "Recently, I was taking one ofthese guys to · Martin graduated from Notre Dame last get his car from the shop. It was so hard to yearandlivedatDismasasastudent. Schittl watch him dole out his very last dollar to praised his administrative abilities and re­pay for his car repairs. You never see that marked that the amount of volun~rs help­atNotre Dame. Nooneistrulystrappedfor ing at Dismas has increased since Martin· cash." became director. "He demonstrates that 
Besides doing favors for others and giv-someone directly out of college can makes ing them support, Schittl is expected to do a difference in the world," Schittl said.. several other duties. Attendance at dinner Martinhasanequalamountofrespectfor and at the weekly meetings is required. He Schittl. "Humoris vitalfora house likethis, said that the meetings are the spiritual cen-aµd Scott and Dave [McMahon] are the ter of the house, and that it is a time when pillars for that," Martin said. everyonecomestogetherandgivessugges-One can tell this is true after watching tionsand vents theirfrustrations. Everyone theiranticsforfiveminutes. When they are is also given a chore such as cleaning a together, they laugh often and bring that bathroom or mopping the floor, and every-humorous spirit to the rest of the house. one ta1ces turns doing the dishes. "Shall we play some Leonard Nimoy?'' 
Otherwise, no special tasks are required McMahon asks mischieviously, and Schittl ofthosewholiveatDismas;Schittldoesnot nods and returns a knowing smile. Simul­
taneously, they start lip-syncing as Dr. Spock's deep baritone bellows across the room. 
Whetheritis Dr. Spock's singing, Schittl dancing around the room wearing a fedora, or McMahon's comparison to living at Dismas to riding "the giant magic carousel of life," it is obvious that these two know each other well and have a good time to­gether. 
"Dave keeps me sane," Schittl said. "I'd be out of here ifhe wasn't here." 
McMahon also appreciates Schittl' s friendship and the experiences they have shared. "Scott and I have the same value systems," McMahon said. "We are both aware of situations that most people don't recognize. We act upon this awareness and we help each other through the frustration 
"I didn't come here to change anyone's life, I came to have a positive interaction with otherpeople, and ifI have an influence on someone's life, that's ·incidental.'' -Scott Schittl 
with things that we can't control." 

Not only have Schittl's experiences at Dismas had an impact on his life, they have also had an influence on other people, namely,the Dismascommunity. However, his constantencounters with "real life" have given him a realistic attitude toward his life atDismas and toward lifein general. Hehas learned the importance of just sitting back and.observing, and that sometimes beingin the right place at the right time can help someone more than one could imagine. "I didn't come here to change anyone's life," Schittl said. "I came to have a positive interaction with other people, and if I have an influence on someone's life, that's inci­dental." 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 20, 1994 
INDIANA ,


lt-lNtlf•'®•ihliMI 
303 LaFortune 631-7569 Gipper.1@nd.edu 
Sli.ooting 'Waves ofPam 


Allegations, Innuendo and Holtz Bashing
T:is is SergeantTim McCarthy ofthe Indiana State Police. This message goes out to players and fans of the opposing team. You are welcome to storm the field after you win the game, but please be courteous -other teams will want to storm the field later in the season." 
SPOILED LITILE MAN 
A Knott Hall resident wanted to give her dear old dad a present. She bought a foot­ball and'took it over to the ACC to have Coach Holtz autograph it ( which he usually does without batting an eye). When the girl asked Holtz's secretary to have the coach sign it when he got a chance, Ms. Secretary said, "In light of recent events, Lou Holtz will be concentrating on being a football coach and he won't be signing anything for a while." 


SPOILED OLD MEN 
Is the Alumni Association so unbeliev­ably tacky that they have to put "Courtesy oftheNotre Dame Alumni Association" on every flag the cheerleaders have? Comeon, like these people need the exposure. Bor­rowing from the Alumni Association's book of etiquette, the Gipp gave his mother a large framed painting for her birthday and across the bottom, in big gold letters, he wrote, "I spent my own money on this gift, Mom, so don't forget it." 
ANIMAL HOUSE PART II 
On Friday of last week, there was a party on the 6th floor of Grace. This· is not unusual, butsome ofthe guests were. In the middle of the party, three random guys, ·whom no one recognized, walked into the room. They introduced themselves as stu­dents from Virginia Tech. No, they were not part of a visiting sports team; no, they were notpotential transfer students; and no, they didn't have any friends atNotre Dame. They were fraternity pledges and their final frat pledge test was to travel to Notre Dame, 

get into a football game, get a picture with 
the Leprechaun, get a cheerleader's signa­
ture, and get a picture in front of Touch­
down Jesus. Since this project would take 
several days to complete, the pledges were 
told by their fraternity masters that they 
could stay in the house of their sister soror­
ity at Notre Dame. 

VTPledge to passer-by: "Um, could you 
tell us where the Alpha house is?" 
Passer-by: "Are you sick?" 
VT Pledge: "No, we're just lost and we 
need to get to the Alpha house. So could 
you tell us where all the sororities are?" 
Passer-by: "You must be pledges. The 
closest thing we ever had to a sorority was 
Knott's Las Vegas Night, and beleive me, 
that was no sorority." 
VT Pledge: "Oh man, you mean we've been tricked? Well, where's the nearest guys' dorm?" 
Passer-by: "This is Grace. Some people 
think it's a guys dorm." 

GIPPLETIES 
CD The Gipper is glad to see that they are 
re-gilding the Holy Grafitti on the sides of 
the Hesburgh Library. But gold leaf ornot, 
the Gipp still can't figure out what the hell 
any ofit means (but he snickers every time 
he passes ''The Rod of Jesse.") 
® The Gipper was snooping around the LaFortune Ballroom the other day and dis­covered that there is a very nice barJidden ·away up there-directly over the Office of 
Drug and Alcohol Education. 
@ Since they are.digging up the Burke Golf Course come spring anyway, why not blow it up while the band plays the 1812. Overture-just like Caddyshack. 
©TheGipper hears from his sourcein the press box that as Executive Vice-President (theguywhohiresandfirescoaches)Father William Beauchamp watched the BYU game he violently slammed his fist into the table top several times.. The Gipp also. knows thatFatherBeauchampdrives a blue Buick. Coach Holtz might want to remem­ber to watch for blue Buicks whenever he finds himself in the middle of cross-walks. 

WAIT FOR VOICE MAIL 

An influentialstudentleaderwhoiswork­ing on a major project these days is pres­ently having to run the Student Affairs obstacle course. The other day he was calling the Student Affairs to make an ap­pointment with Residence Life Chieftain Bill Kirk. After about five rings (the secre­tary was out of her office), the following conversation situation transpired: 
Ring, Ring, Ring... ·[Male voice answers phone]: Jeff! 

[Influential StudentLeader]: No, butis this 
Mr.Kirk? 
[Male Voice]: Ahhhh, hold on. <click> 

That's it, that's all until after break. So until we meetagain, theGipperwillgo back to laughing about the fact that until. 1946, Florida State University was the sister­school ofthe University of Florida. That's right, sister-school -FSU was the Saint Mary's of the sunshine state. Well, some things never change. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 20, 1994 
,  ,  •  '  ,I  l  I.  •  r  '' ' \  
·~  •  •  •  • ~  >  •  I  '  •  •  ' I  
'  •  ;  •  •  •  •  .­ ,.  •  r­ \  '  
•  •  • '  ••  •  ...  \  ~ - '  •  '  '  1.  > •  •  •  ~  f  O  .._  ' '  ;  
,, . . .  .  .  '  .  ' .  .  '  .  '  ,.  .  ~  .  . ,  .  ,  '  -:,.  


by John Schoenig 

As one scans through the list of play­ers in the 1994 Notre Dame foot­ball media guide, one recognizes names like Zellars, Becton, Taylor and McBride. There is one name, however, that is recognizable not because the player was the team's leading tackler last year, or be­cause he led the team in rushing. People know about him because his story is un­usual. His name is Gus Ornstein, and although most people may refer to him as the "Jewish kid at Notre Dame," there is a lot more to this athlete than his reli­gious denomination. When Gus Ornstein walks onto the field every Saturday, he is not trying to be a pioneer, and he is nottryingtowinaHeisman trophy. He is simply try­ing to help Notre Dame in any way possible, and if that means sitting on the sideline and gaining in­sight, thatisokay with him. After a spring filled w~th. media hype, talk of Ornstein has quieteddown, but he is in no way out of the picture. As he grows both physically and men­tally, he is taking great steps towards being Notre Dame's quarterback ofto­morrow. When Ornstein consid­ers why he chose to attend Notre Dame, he refers to the comfortable atmosphere, the quality of education and the possibility of playing two sports (he also plays baseball). He was well aware that he would have to wait behind Ron Powlus, but he knew that it was an opportunity he could not pass up. "I knew that this was the place for me immediately following my visit," said Ornstein. "Andit made no difference to me that I would probably have to sit a year, I saw it as a chance to become familiar with the offense." 
When questions about his religious faith arise, Ornstein shrugs them off. The fact that he is a Jewish student at a Catholic university· makes no difference to him. "I'm not trying to beJ ackieRobinson, I just wanted to go where I knew I would be most comfortable." He has found the student body to be friendly. One of the more important factors in Ornstein' s decision to attend Notre Dame was the support he received from Coach Holtz to play base­ball. Ornstein, who lettered in both football and baseball in high school, wished to attend a school where he could play both sports on a competitive level. • 
When he ponders his 
decision to come to Notre 
Dame, Ornstein knows he 
made the. right move. He 
enjoys the tradition, spirit 
and enthusiasm ofthe uni­
versity, and he says that 
there is no other place that 
he would rather be. Dur­
ing the past year, Ornstein 
was flooded with letters 
from some of the finest 
football programs in the 
country. Along with Notre 
Dame, Ornstein was of­
fered scholarships to 
Texas, Miami, West Vir­
ginia, Syracuse and Vir­
ginia Indeed,Ornsteinhad 
become a hot commodity, 
and he received plenty of 
attention in the media. 
Since his arrival at Notre 
Dame, attention on 
Ornstein·. has decreased 
immensely. Themainrea-

12 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E 11 0 CT OB E.R 2 0, 1994 
,  ,  •  - •  ,,  --·  '  ,­ •  I  •  
•  '  .  - •  '  •?  .  •  '  .  '  '  •  •  •  - ~  
.  \  .  .  .  
.  .  ,  ,  - 
'  .  .  
I  ,  A  ,  •  •  ,,..  
,•  "•  '  I  ,•  •  ,:  '  •  •  .,_  ,'  ,  

son for this sudden anonymity is his age and inexperience. "Right now all I can do is watch and learn the offense. That's just fine with me," he said. 
During fall camp, Ornstein performed 
surprisingly well, considering his high 
school background. He attended a small 
high school in the Bronx, New York, where 
he never had the chance to experience the 
level of competition that some of his fellow 
teammates had. In fact, Notre Dame Quar­
terback Coach Tom Clements felt that 
Ornstein' s decision-making capabilities and 
his ability to read defenses was a surprise, 
considering thejump in the level of compe­
tition that Ornstein had·· made from high 
school. "The entire staff was impressed 
with his abilities, and Gus' real opportunity 
will come in the spring after he has had a full 
year of exposure to. the offense," said 
Clements. Although Ornstein is now out of 
the spopight, he knows that he can take this 
opportunity to improve the skills he will 
soon need on game day. 

Holtz himself has only good things to say about Ornstein. "I .think he's coming on quickly as a quarterback,"said Holtz. "As a matter of fact, he is competing for the back-up position with Tom Krug. His ability depends on how much he continues · to develop, but he is naturally talented." 
One of Ornstein' s more impressive char­acteristics is his self-confidence. Through­out the year, he has remained one of the more poised and enthusiastic members of the team. "I have nothing to be disap­pointed about. I know I can play at this level, it will just take some time," he as­serted. "For now I just try to enjoy every­thing I can." Ornstein does not want to play ifhefeelsheisnotready. He knows that as he gets older he will gain the insight and abilities to lead Notre Dame, but the only 
-way to achieve these goals is through hard work and dedication. 
Indeed, Gus Ornstein is not "the golden boy" of today's Notre Dame football team, yet. But if he continues to perform as well as he has in the background, then Notre Dame can expect nothing but success when he steps out of the shadow. Perhaps it would be a good idea for everyone to hold on to thatfootb.illprograrn, and to highlight Gus Ornstein's name. When one looks back a few years from now, one will have seen that Gus Ornstein was recognized not only for what he was off the field, but also for what he could do on it. 0 


13
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 20, 1994 



With a victory over nationally-ranked BYU and renewed energy, Notre Dame women swimmers think this will be a year to remember 
by Alyssa Peterson 

We want this year to be one to remember, and we know it will be," said senior Cara Garvey, 
captain of the women's swim team. "We are all very excited, especially the senior class." This September, while most stll­dents were busy getting reacquainted with friends and classes, the Notre Dame 
I: women'sswim team had theirown reunion, with the addition ofa few new faces. After only two weeks ofself-training and tryouts, the team of 28 swimmers and three divers began official practice. It was the same routine that had taken place every year, but 



Although the men's swimming team has only one scholarship to offer compared to the women's ten, both programs have risen to excellence since Coach Tim Welsh took over In 
1985. 

this time something was different. The ladies took to the pool with a new attirude and afresh spirit They had avision thatday to make a change, and now, a month later, they are making that dream a reality. 
Afterlosing only five members to gradu­ation and adding seven strong freshmen to the roster, the team has the benefits of both experience and youth. In the recent years, the-women's program has been very sue~ cessful with winning seasons and numer­ous·conference championships, but it was still in a league just below that of nationally ranked teams. But at the season's start the team meeting was filled with a new energy just waiting 10· surface. The girls discussed their goals for the season: to win all their dual meets, to dominate theNationalCatho­lic Championships, to bring a final Mid­western Collegiate Conference title home and to send ateam to theNCMChampion­ships. For several years now, Notte Dame has beenrepresented at the national compe­tition, butonly by a single athleteeach year. This March, the ·swimmers and coaches plan to add to that number by qualifying a group ofathletes to participate in both indi­vidual and relay events. 
Shortly after their verbal agreement of dedication was made, the physical oath took shape. While most students are still sleeping, the swimmers are in the water at 
6:00 a.m. each day, only to retllrn hours later for a strenuous afternoon workout But they are encouraged by the knowledge that all the.hard work and sore muscles will pay offin the end. ''The times atpracticeare faster than ever, and the team is in great shape early in the season," praised Head Coach Tim Welsh. ''These are the things thatmake us excited to seewhatwill happen in competition." It wasn't long before the "wading" was over and the expectations . were put to the test 
Last Friday, the Irish swimmers began their season with a meet against Brigham Young,thedefendingWestern AthleticCon­






'Waves 

ference champions and a nationally-ranked program. With tainted memories of a close loss in Utah a year ago, the Irish wished to retllrn the favor. Notre Dame took to a quick start by captllring the opening event, the 200 medley relay. The women contin­ued theirwinning ways throughout the meet with strong performances from the entire team. 
Whatwas mostimpressivewerethestrong performances of the young freshmen. In addition to relay's triple crown, newcomers Shelley Hotchkiss, Linda Gallo and Courtney South showed signs of a great furure for the team. But, even with the fast swims, Notre Dame clung to only a one point lead entering the final two events, due to the Cougars' domination of .the diving boards. The Irish would have to fight hard to hold their position, and fight they did. Gutsy performances in the 400 individual medley ended in a 1-2-4 finish for Notre Dame. These final successes sealed a 139­160 Notre Dame victory (the lowest score wins) over the visiting team. ''This is the firsttime_ our women's program has ever wonadualmeetagainstoneofswimming's powerhouses," said Welsh, elated by the turnout ''The girls showed that this is definitely a year to follow the motto of 'Out with the old, in with the new.' It is a great accomplishment and one they should be very proud of." Captain Jenni Dahl be­lieves the win was a result of the team's new attitude: "What we saw out there today was a different ieam, a spirited team, a winning team." Fellow captain Lorrei Horenkamp agreed that "it is a great way to start off the new season and gives us confidence for upcoming meets." The Irish women swim­mers hope to prove that Friday's result was not just a "W" for the record books, but a foreshadowing of what is to come. . 
14 


• • \ ( • .' I • • ' \ -.' , ; ~-• • -, 


TheWay _ 
s Used to Be 


The names may be the same, but .the places you live, study and hang out in have gone through some changes 

·by Theresa Hennessey 
Dr. Albert Francis Zahm was tired ofbeing called a lunatic. Standing high above the campus on the roof of Science Hall, he was determined that man would one day fly from ·· Chicago toNew York. He needed to confirm his research however, and it seemed to him that this would be the perfect spot for such a task. Experimenting in secret and plunging to the ground on numerous occasions, Dr. Zahm conducted nightime launches of a man-carrying glider from this rooftop. Word began to spread however, and AF. Zahm felt it might be better to take his "strange" practices indoors. One evening, Zahm suspended one of his flapping winged machines by a fifty-foot cable from the ceiling of his lab. The craft spun out of control, and shoeprints were left high upon the walls as Zahm's assistant tried 
Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., peers out of the stained glass at the head of the west staircase In 
Saint Edward's Hall. Built in 1882 to serve as Notre Dame's grade school, Saint Edward's became a residence hall in 1929. 

The next morning, Brother Benedict, the janitor, arrived to sweep the room and he noticed th~ footprints. Completely taken. aback, he determined that these remnants could only be made by a supernatural source rather than a scientific one. Brother Benedict b1essed himselfand quickly ran for holy water. After sprinkling the entire building, he felt that he had successfully expurgated the devil. 
Walkingaroundcampustoday,inthefallof1994,itisdifficult · topictureNotreDame 10,20or lOOyearsago. Changes are constantly occurring, and in the process some interesting trivia and history has become lost in the shuffle. It is hard to believe that the building in which Dr. AF. Zahm, (thebrotherofFatherJohnZahm, C.S.C., and a pioneer in the aeronautics field) experimented is now LaFortune student center. However, this is onlyone of many tidbits discovered deep in the archives of the university. St Edward's Hall, constructed in 1882, did not always house male undergraduates of Notre Dame. Named after Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., the building was originally the home of the "min­ims," a preparatory school operated for young boys by the Holy Cross Order. It was not converted to a dormitory until 1929,afew years after football coach Knute Rockne was baptized and given the sacra­ments of the Catholic Church in the second floor chapel in 1925. Presently listed as a landmark in the National Register of Historic Places, St Ed's suf­fered extensive damage, losing the entire roof, in a fireonJune25, 1980. Ironically, the fire was caused by workers installing a sprinkler system. 
SCHOLASTIC  MAGAZINE  II  OCTOBER  20,  1994  15  
- 
'  '  '  - ,  . .  .  ,  \ -~  . .  ,  .  '.  ..  '  ~ ,  . .  .  
.  


Tn May of 1962, Notre Dame completed the first of .Ltseastcampus buildings (ModQuad). A$350,000 circular, buff-brick building with a silver geodesic dome had been donated by Alfred Charles Stepan, Jr., class of 1931. Stepan Center was hailed across the nation as an innovative architectural structure because of the clear internal space it offered without any supporting columns. It was also praised for its low maintenance cost, since the 600 aluminum sec­tions on the dome did not recquire painting and were guaranteed not to rust 
ThenewStudentActivitesCenter,as itwas dubbed, was intended to house "convocations, campus con­ventions, concerts, dances and similar events." Feb­ruary of 1967 brought the Batmobile and Robert F. Kennedy to Stepan, and Duke Ellington performed there in 1972. Paul Stookey of the Peter, Paul and 


Mary legend came in April of 1980, along with a . "Giant Barn Sale" and a homebuilders travelling show. As for the rumor that Stepan Center was a temporary structure built for the wedding of Mr. 
Stepan' s daughter -it is just a rumor. 
Sinceits openingin 1967, the Alumni-Senior Club had been housed in the two-story "McNamara House," built in 1916 by a Chicago insurance execu­tive to house his family while he was teaching at NotreDame. The university acquired the building in 1928. It became a home for postulants in the Holy Cross Order of priests andbrothers before it was used as a clubhouse for faculty members. In Septemberof 1982, the house was tom down when its new struc­ture, built behind the football stadium, was dedi­cated. 
"\"l ]benZahmHallwascompletedin 1937,itwas V V raved about in local newspapers. "Beautiful New Zahm Hall Gives Comfort and Class for Fresh­men," read a headline in the September 16 issue of the South Bend Tribune. The dorm was named for Father John Zahm who served as a professor of physics, university vice-president, and who was con­sidered a brilliant scholar by Louis Pasteur. In 1888, 
Above: The first floor and basement of the LaFortune Student Center at Its dedication In 1953. The center was then hailed as "The living room of the university." Far left: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students socialize In the early years of LaFortune. 
16 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 20, 1994 
Above: Lewis Hall was used as a convent for nuns seeking doctoral degrees In its first ten years, until-Its conversion .Into a dorm in 1975. Far right: Washington Hall, shown just after its dedication In 1881. Father Sorin named the theater. Washing­ton· Hall to affirm the patriotism of the university's French founders.


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 20, 1994 
with only a few hundred students enrolled at Notre Dame, Father Zahm claimed that Notre Dame had ''thepromiseofaHeidelberg,OxfordorCambridge." Zahm accompanied Theodore Roosevelt in his trav­els through the African jungles. ;He passed away in 1921, and is buried here on campus. 
In its early stages of construction, the $300,000 dormitory was feared to appear too modern. The university assured all that, "It will be in modified collegiate Gothic style so to harmonize with the older buildings on campus." Zahm Hall replaced Fresh­man Hall, and a one-story wooden building which was temporary housing for all freshmen. 
T ewisHall wasnotalwaysoneofthe 13women's Ldorms on campus. Its original use was as a conventto accomodateapproximately 143nuns study­ing for advanced degrees at Notre Dame. Lewis Hall was a million dollar gift of Mrs. Frank J. Lewis who hoped to expand Catholicism in the United States. "This donation will benefit the nation's entire Catho­lic Educational system," Father Hesburgh declared at its dedication in August, 1965. "Itwill accelerate the graduate training of the devoted women who constitute the heart of Catholic education." 
With the enrollment of women increasing QY 1975,· the convent was converted to a residence hall. The sisters were forced to pack their bags and move to Badin, and they were furious about it. They peti­tioned the Frank J. Lewis Foundation to reconsider the permission it granted the university to make the conversion. "We were never warned. Father Hesburgh said Lewis would always be for the sis­ters," said the nuns_ in an open letter to the Notre Dame camp_us. University Provost Father James Burtchaell could not understand what all thefuss was about "Men have been kicked out of their dorms for years. The sisters should just get used to it." 
Until 1952, LaFortune was the home of the Col­lege of Science. As a result of a student architectural competition, Science Hall was con­verted into the "Living Room of the University." A $135,000 gift allowed for this change, and an annual student body Mardi Gras fundraiser (where a 1954 Cadillac was raffled off) helped complete renova­tions in late 1953. From the beginning, the Student Center promoted . social life. The November 16, 1956 issue ofSavan­nahNewsannouncedanew socialactivity sponsored at LaFortune was reported. "Another outstanding university is offering instruction in bridge. The · University of Notre Dame received a $5,000 grant from an alumnus to promote bridge playing as an undergraduate activity. The donor, James F. Gerity, Jr., made the bequest because he felt that 'proficiency in bridge can help the young business or professional man up the ladder of success. It will make them well-rounded socially as well as academically."' 


.n 1935, at the back of Washington Hall, under the rear staircase, 
I

there was a Western Union store. That same year, HeadFootball Coach Elmer Leyden complained to University President Father John O'Hara, C.S.C., that he was underpaid. Unwilling to increase the coach's salary, Father O'Hara told Leyden that he could take over the Western Union station in Washington Hall and open a snack shop there. Leyden named his snack bar The Huddle, and according to those who were in school when Coach Leyden opened The Huddle, it made more money for him than a salary increase would have. The Huddle moved from Washington Hall to a stand outside the Fieldhouse and finally into LaFortune in 1952. 
Ataccistof$5 million, Lafortune experienced its most extensive renovations in 1987. Before these major changes, however, the student center did undergo other restorations. LaFortune's base­ment was originally known as the Rathskeller, but in 1973 it was transformed into an Irish Pub which f~tured soft drinks and a kitchen area where prepared food could be warmed. 
In 1975,LaFortuneunderwentamajorchangeindecor. "Modu­larseating is placed around pillars, near live 
plants, around tables and along the doors," 
reportedanissueoftheSouthBendTribune. 
"The ceilings and pillars are in varied shades of brown, beige and grey. The carpeting is brown. Curved Herman Millar modular seating in contrasting tones of vermillion 
The east and west wings of the Main Building used to-be dormitories called Carroll Hall and Brownson Hall respectively. On the ground floor there were the dining halls {the one pictured at the right, occupied the room where undergraduate admis• slons Is now situated. The second floor was a study hall, the third and fourth floors were the sleeping halls, and the fifth floor was classroom space. 
Saint Edward's Hall as It appeared 
around the time of Its dedication In 
1882. The statues and niches on the ·roof were destroyed by the fire which 
burned the entire fourth floor off In 
1980. The statue of Saint Edward at 
the far right of the picture Is now 
where the fountain appears. 

and purple is placed strategically along the walls around pillars and near live plants. The seating is also covered in durable vi­nyl." 
AllofNotreDame's2,700studentscon­sign their linen to Mr. Amison's care each week, and a weekly wash reaches the staggering total of 8,000 shirts, 2,700 suits 
of underwear (silk undies are not worn by the students), 14,400 handkerchiefs and 10,800 pairs of ironed socks," read a 1936 feature piece on St Michael's Laundry in the Chicago Tribune. "Fifteen girls alone do nothing but iron shirts day in and day out Four girls do nothing but iron underwear and four more do all the darning." 
Because of the importance ofthe student-family life stressed by the university at the time, it was necessary that a student's laundry andmendingbecaredforatStMichael'saspartofhisboard,room and tuition. As a result, F J. Amison, the head launderer, spent over nine years of his life catering to the needs of college men and training his staff on "how to iron collars according to current fashion dictates." 
That is only a brief look behind the modem scenes. There are countless pieces of history which can paint a picture of what Notre Dame used to be like once upon a time. It is possible that you will go to bed tonight in a what was at one time a grade school or high school classroom; and it is possible that tomorrow you will eat lunch where the first advances in the science of aeronautics were achieved. Who knows: some daytwenty or fifty years from now your children might even be going to bed in DeBartolo. 0 

18 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 20, 1994 
I
I ---. . . . --. . .---, --,-. . . . 
-• 4 ,J ., 
. , . .. ' .,,. _,,. ' 

I \ 
\ 
WOMEN'S SOCCER Thesecond­ranked Irish women remain untouchable after defeating five ofthe country's top 20 teams over the last three weeks, including one~goal victories over No. 13 Washing­ton and No. 11 Portland this past week. Notre Dame's 2-1 victory at Portland was especially impressive considering it was the Pilots' second loss in 36 all-time matches at Merlo Field. Out of the four Irish games left, three are against MCC opponents. The Irish have defeated 18 straight MCC teams, dating back to 1991. Notre Danie will play host to unranked Ohio State tomorrow at 5:00p.m. and will face Detroit-Mercy Sunday at home at 1:00p.m. 

"' } 
~ 
j 
g Junior forward Rosella Guerrero has helped lead the Irish to a 13-0-1 record. 
VOLLEYBALL The 11th-ranked Irish won three matches last week, defeat­ing Michigan 3-0 at home and both No. 19 Texas and Texas A & Mon the road. The 3-1 win at Texas ;as the 100th win at Notre Dame for Coach Brown, while the 3-1 win over the Aggies extended Notre Dame's current winning streak to seven matches. Defense and depth are the two reasons the Irish are 18-1. 

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports October 11 to October 18 edited byT. Ryan Kennedy 
Notre Dame has held 14 of 19 opponents to a hitting average below .200. The Irish depth was apparent in the Texas and Texas A&M matches, with sophomore Jen Rouse, senior Nicole Coates and sophomore Kristina Ervin contributing with no drop-off in effectiveness. Notre Dame begins its quest for a fourth-con­secutive MCC regular season title tomor­row night when it plays host to Xavier (15-6). However, for the Irish to move up significantly in the polls, they will have to defeat 7th-ranked Florida on October 26. 
MEN'S SOCCER Despite outscoring opponents 34-15 and outshooting opponents 108-37, the Notre Dame men hold a record of 7-7-1, far below season expectations. However, a bright spot was evident last weekend as the Irish escaped unscathed at home with a 3-1 win against a strong, but injured Bowling Green team. The Irish also played 10th-ranked SMU to a 0-0 tie in front of the largest crowd ever to watch a Notre Dame men's soccer game {3,502). The Irish are 7-2-1 at Alumni Field, but are yet to .win away from home (0-4). Notre Dame will play its fourth ranked team ofthe season when the Irish entertain Wisconsin-Madison tomorrow, and will finish up the season at ranked UCLA and at once-ranked Cal State Fullerton. Notre Dame, defending MCC tournament champions, will host the 1994 MCC Men's Soccer Championship from: No­
Irishareinvolvedinthisbecausenextyear they will be vying for the Big East crown. 
Predictions 


Kennedy's Kall: With a hungry team and top recruits, Holtz posts an undefeated record of 12-0 itI 1995, capped off with his second national championship. Offered a two-year 
. contract extension in 1996, he departs gracefully at the end of the 1998 season. Schaller's Schot: After a bowl-less 1994 season, Holtz rededicates himself to the Irish. He is given a one year contract extension, guaranteeing that he will be coach through the 1997 season. After winning the 1996 national championship, and performing well in 1997, Holtz bows out of the college scene and returns to coach the New York Jets in 1998. Wisconsin Head Coach Barry Alvarez takes the reins of Notre Dame football in 1998. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 20, 1994 
19 



E•J.iM•i1&1l§1MI 




The Curse of 
Gerry Faust 
Why is Holtz slipping from his championship form to embarrassing losses? 
byJake Schaller 
Fire Lou Holtz. Well, no. Not yet But now I've got your attention. Iam oneofthe biggestLou Holtz supporters in the nation, and I have been for years. No matter what ~e did or 
what he said, I was in his comer. I believed he was the best coach in the nation after wins like the 1992 Sugar Bowl victory over Florida or last year's defeat of Florida State. 
· But now after two losses to less than the best competition, I have a.few bones to pick with him: poor play calling, poor recruiting, no intensity. I used to look past such problems becauseofmyreverenceforHoltz. Seriously, how many times have you defended Lou Holtz to skeptics be­cause of how much of a "god" he is? I know 



Leahy -11 losses 

I have done it mil­lions of times. Rockne-12 losses"· But his magic seems to be gone. His play calling is no longer inspired, it's questionable. Dive up Devine-16 losses the middle, sweep, pass out of bounds, punt. A chimpanzee could call these plays. After Michigan, I thought that maybe our team dido '.t have the talent to compete-butwhen BCandBYU trounce you, something else is wrong. It's not.the offense (Mirer, Bettis and Brooks can attest to that). It's the defense which has failed. Holtz hasn't run a legitimate defense since 1989. . Remember the USC game of 1988? The defensive play-calling was brilliant The Irish blitzed and harassed Rodney Pete allgame, sacking him five times and picking off two ofhis passes. But ever since then, our bend but not break philosophy has bent backwards. And why don't we talk a little more about the kicking game. Against BYU, the Irish "kicker by committee" missed three attempts, nine points, game, set, match. One scholarship, coach, 
put the ball through the uprights. 

The final, and largest problem I have with Holtz lately has been 
his intensity and motivation, orlackthereof. Boston College serves 
as a perfect example. A corpse could have fired the Irish up for that 
game. I understand that he did not want to incite BC by admitting 
he wantedrevenge, butcome on. If!were head coach, I would have 
had a tape ofDavid Gordon•s kick running all week. Wejustrolled 
over and died. There was no intensity on the field or on the 
sidelines. Where was the hat-throwing, screaming maniac-coach 
who used to tear into players for sloppy mistakes? Lately, when­
ever a Notre Dame player has made a bad play, there has been no 
fire from Holtz, only a smile and a pat on the head. Could it be that 
Holtz and his players have really started to believe his weekly 
thrashings of their talent? 

Maybe Notre D~e football is simply in a decline. Holtz came 
in 1986 as a savior, turning a hopeless program around injust three 
years. But he seems to have lost his edge. He looks less like Leahy 
and Parseghian and more like (dare I say) Gerry Faust. 

Thikaboutit:Fausthadaboutfiveplays total, themostimportant 
ofwhich was "run it up the middle;" Faust's recruiting was terrible 
(Holtz couldn't do anything with the team for twoyears until his 
recruits came in); and Faust had the same 

amount ofinspirational intensity as a funeral director (and that's an insult to funeral direc­
tors). 


Now I've heard of the curse of the 
Parseghian-17 loss. 
mummy and the 
Sports Illustrated Holtz -22 losses 
curse. Butmaybe,just · maybe, Gerry Faust left a curse on the head 

coach's job after he left in disgrace after 
Faust-2B losses 
1985. The Faust. curse would go something 

like this: all of my successors will have only five years ofgreatness 
(Fausthimselfonly lasted five years), and then they will suddenly 
be unable to win the championship, oranything elsefor that matter. 
In 1990, Holtz's fifth season, he was playing for the national 
and a little recruiting are all that you need to get someone who can championship -but he's blown it every year since. SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 20, 1994 

21 


Ii' 
I! Missing in Action
! 
i ! Three "C" efforts suggest fans ofaction films are bound to be disappointed 
by this season's sub~starzdardfare
I 
Charlie Sheen continues his string of appearances in bad action films such as The Chase, pictured here, with an only partially intentional humorous performance in Terminal Velocity. 
'I 

by Chris Myers 
is the season when young film distributors' thoughts turn 
to the Academy Awards. And for action fans, this means being forced to sit through awful art house Oscar-winners like The Piano and Schindler' s List. Granted, these are fine films, but I'm sure you action packers would rather see Harvey Keitel blowing away jewel thieves than taking piano lessons from Holly Hunter. Well, you'll get to see Harvey (in usual tough guy status) in Quentin Tarantino's highly anticipated Pulp Fiction, but until then, here are the latest releases of action films you'II have to settle for. 
First off, The River Wild (Universal, PG-13), whose teaser poster advertises in bold caps, "The River is Wild!" Indeed,Imustadmit, the movie's climactic finale is one of the most awesome, breathtaking experiences I've seen this year. It's a relentless, intense river ride through violent rapids and , waterfalls, with some daz­zling camera work that pulls the viewer right on to the edge of their seat It's too bad that it only takes up the last 20 minutes of footage. To get to this exciting se­quence, you have to sit through the first 100 minutes of the film, and your reward is that final scene ... if you stay awake. 
The film's star, Meryl Streep, is certainly pumped up and ready to battle therapids. In the movie, she takes her spn (Jurassic Park's Joseph Mazella) and her reluctant husband (the blase David Strathairn) away on a white water rafting vacation of fun and relaxation. However, things turn sour when they have to team up ­with two stranded crooks (Kevin.Bacon and John C. Reilly) who are making their escape after robbing a cattle auction (hey, it's something different). The plot is pretty flimsy -Streep has to guide the bad guys down the river to safety or it's curtains for her that's usually covered up by some non-stop, eye-popping action sequences. But although The River Wild promises to be Speed on a raft, it winds up drowning itself in sub-standard suspense and pointless dialogue. The whole first half feels like a commercial for Montana tourism. The mountains, the river, the forests, the sunsets ... at every swell of Jerry Goldsmith's score I waited for a·1-800 number to 'flash on the screen. 
The main problem is whenever director Curtis Hanson (The HandThatRocksThe Cradle) teases us with a little river action, he quickly reels us back onto shore where we have to watch Meryl babble on about ancient Indian traditions, or try to save her failing marriage, or try to get her son and his father back together. As you are rolling your eyes, you start to think, "It's called The River Wild for God's sake! Stay in the water dammit!" Butit'snotuntil thatfinal:scenewhen we're finally quenched with the action we've been thirsting for, and it's much too late. Bacon gives a nice perfor­mance as the slick villain Wade, and seeing Streep calmly barking out orders while being tossed about on the raft brought a smile tomyface. ButRiversoaks itself up in so many corny subplots and seems quite intent on trolling along at a· quiet pace for most of the 
movie, that it comes off pretty darn tame. I'll admit The River Wild isn't an especially badmovie. It'sjustthatit'snotespecially good either. 
Such is the case with The Specialist (Warner Bros., R). Obvi­ously the studio was hoping for marquee power casting both Sharon Stone and Sylvester Stallone in the leads. It's just too bad -~tthesetwocan'tmakethingsspark,andwhiletheactorsareeasy to blame, the material they're given doesn't help their cause much either. 
The script is written well below average intelligence, and the whole plot is rather slight-Woman (Stone) wants revenge on 
and herfamily. Action movies never really have much ofa plot, but Mafia, hires ex-bomb specialist (Stallone) to help herknock off bad SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE m OCTOBER 20, 1994 
--_---.-:----....-. -. -•• -• _-,------.. • ; -I 
' ' ' 
• • -~ ... • ,J _., , 
guys, one of the bad guys is specialist's old partner (the marvelous­in-anything James Woods). Anytwoactorscouldhaveeasilyfilled Sharon and Sly's shoes and made The Specialist just as good (or bad) as it is now, but where some actors could have worked the material into something a little better, the two leads reveal their weaknesses. Stallone looks buff as ever, like a well sculpted Greek god, but there's little he's able to do with those muscles. Heck, when you go to see a Stallone movie, you want to see him machine gunning terrorists or uppercutting opponents. Who wants to see a pumped-up Sly sitting at a desk building bombs!? When the film gives hirri the opportunity though, Stallone grabs it. Whether he's fighting his way through a dark kitchen orbeating up thugs on a bus, he does it with such ease, so naturally, it's like it's become his second nature by now. Yet whenever he has to deliver some dialogue, it's like he's reading the script for the first time. 
However, it's his co-star Stone that comes off really bad. After sitting through last year's painful Sliver, Stone has done nothing in The Specialist to show she's more than a glamorized soft-porn star. Every time she tries to get serious, sad, angry or confused it seems so melodramatic you actually start to laugh at how hard she's trying. It's really quite pathetic. Then it should come as no surprise that Stone is at her most comfortable during -you guessed it­the (mandatory?) sex scene. The way she drops her voice ala Jessica Rabbit and slips out of those panties, it's her second nature. (Where was she when they were casting for Milk Money?) 
Ultimately, The Specialist's saving grace is Woods, and luckily 
Although (the film) promises to be Speed on a raft, it winds up drowning itselfin sub-standard suspense and pointless dialogue. The whole first half feels like a commercialfor Montana tourism. The mountains, the river, the forests, the sunsets ... at every swell ofJerry Goldsmith's score I waited for a 1­800 number to flash on the screen. -on The River Wild 
the producers know it. Through the whole movie he graces the screen, dashing as ever, in an ever-present suit and tie, smiling with a cocky grin and adding the much-needed dose offun. Maybe the whole reason behind the smile is because Woods knows he's better than the yrap vehicle he's in, and realizes that the success of the film depends on him. His villainous turn as Ned (Ned?) rivals that of Tommy Lee Jones in Under Siege. In fact, after test audiences reported that they liked Woods' character the best, Sly ordered cuts and reshoots so that Woods wouldn't "upstage his character" in the 
film. Thankfully for moviegoers everywhere, they didn't cut too much. 
Finally, there's the movie where you get to see Charlie Sheen falling out of an airplane! All right, all right, they do give him a parachute, but I couldn't believe that Terminal Velocity (Holly­wood, R) was not the worst movie of the year. During the early go­ings, I was worried: Sheen as a cocky, rebel sky-diver,, teaming up to solve a case of international espionage? The plot is so contrived it could have been written by an eighth­grader (Sorry, but the Rus­sian KGB as bad guys went out when the Berlin Wall fell) and it takes forever to realize just what exactly is going on. It doesn't help much that Sheen delivers insipid one-liners throughout the whole movie. Halfway through, I realized that this film is really bad, but then it dawned on me-it's supposed to be! Every single aspect-the unbelievable stunts, the goofball dialogue, rough­cut special effects and recycled story line-is just awful. So for the last hour, Ijust stopped caring about all of that and had a great time watching Sheen trying to unlock Nastassja Kinski from the trunk of a Dodge as it's plummeting to the ground from 10,000 feet. Plus, it's a hoot to see him accept a metal ofvalor before the Russian president and army by responding, "Thank you. Very cool." Alotfunnierthan,say,HotShots/ PartTrois. I came out ofthe theatyr smiling, realizing that it's nice to see amovie so bad that it doesn't take itself seriously. Of course, that doesn't make it good, it just makes it a little more bearable, and yes, a little more fun. 
All three films: C 
. 
The River Wild and The Specialist are both currently playing at University Park East Cinemas, located behindService Merchan­dise, across the roadfrom the University Park Mall. Terminal Velocity is currently playing at University Park West, located directly inside ofthe mall. And for those with a thirst for a really good action picture, Quentin Tarantino' s Pulp Fiction is also playing at University Park. Call 277-7336for showtimes. 


SCHOLASTIC  MAGAZINE  ¦  OCTOBER  20,  1994  23  
:  .,.  - ;  . . '  .  '  . '  .  .  .' \ ;­ .  ,. . .  .'  - .·  .\ '  :~  
I  •  •  •  •  •  

• '  ' .: . :  • .  ' • ' • • - '  • . . . . '  •  . .  • -• ~ .  ' . \ .  ,  \  ; ' .  ~  • . .  .  ~  • .  •  '  ' \  .  • 'f • ! .  ' . "  , -.  ,.  • • • . ,  •  j  • ., . .  ., ,, r . .  • •  •  t  ...  ,,  ,,'. (\; !, •• ~  
!  I I '  




Coming Distractions 
I 
From October20 to November10
i 



Field, Rink, Court & Pool 
Soccer: All games at Alumni Field. Notre Dame men vs. Wisconsin, Fri., Oct. 21, .7:30 p.m. No.tre Dame women vs. Ohio Stat$, Fri., Oct. 21, 5:00 p.m. Notre Dame women vs. Detroit, Sun., Oct. 23, 1:OO p.m. Men's Midwestern Collegiate Conference Tournament, 
1 Jl:lurs.-Sun., Nov. 3-6 . 
Hockey: All games played in the north dof11e of the JACC. • Notre Dame vs. Waterloo, Fri., Oct. 21, '7:0Q p.m. NotrJ Dame vs. Lake Superior St., Fri., Oct. 28, 7:00 p.m'. Notre Dame vs. Illinois-Chicago, Fri., Nov. 4, 7:00 p.m. 
Volleyball: All games played in the south dome of the JACC. Notre Dame vs. Xavier, .Fri., Oct. 21, 7:30 p:m. Notre Dame vs; Butler, Sat., Oct. 22, 7:30:p.rr\. . . . 
Swimming:: Notre Dame vs. BYU, Fri., OcL 21, 5:00 p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

Cultural Connection . 
Fall Concert: Notre Dame Glee C)ub, Thurs., Oct. 20, .8:00 
p.m., Washington Hall. · Acoustic Cafe: Every Thurs., 9:00 p.m., I luddle. Storytelling: "Beauties and Beasts," Sat., Oct. 22, 10:30 
a.m., Snite. -. · .· Big Band Dance: Sat., Oct. 22, 7:cio g_.m., Stepan. Art Exhibit: "David to Degas: 19th Century European Master 
Drawings," beginning Sat., Oct. 22, Snite. · Fair: 5th Annual Benefits and Lifestyles Fair, Tues.-Wed., Nov. 1-2, 10:00 a.m., JACC. . · 

On the Silver Screen 
Montgomery Theater: On the first floor of Lafortune "Dances with Wolves," Thurs., Oct 20., 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., $1. · "Octopussy," Thurs., Nov. 3, 8:00, & 10:30 p.m., $1. Cushing Auditorium: . . , "Speed,", Fri.-Sat., Nov. 4-5, 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., $2. 
Cinema at the Snite: 

"Citizen Kane," Mon., Oct. 31, 7:00 p.m., $2. Surrealist Films, Mon., Oct. 31, 9:30 p.m., $2. "The Boys of St. Vincent," Fri.-Sat., Nov. 4-5,· 6:00 & 9:30 
p.m., $2. · · · "Barton Fink," Mon., Nov. 7, 7:00 p.m., $2. "Sisters of the Gian," Mon., Nov. 7, 9:15 p.m., .$2. "Cinema Paradiso," Tues., Nov. B, 7:00 p.m., $2. University Park West: 277-7336.: "Fresh," R, 2:15, 4:40, 7:15, 9:45. "Only You,".PG, 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45. "The Mask," PG-13, 2:30, 5:00. ''Terminal Velocity," PG-13, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:20. University Park East: 277-7336. "Jason's Lyric," R, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. "The Specialist," R, 1 :45, 4:20, 7:20, 9:50. "The Mask," PG-13, 2:20, 4:45. "The River Wild," R, 2:20, 4:40, 7:1 o, 9:40. "Time Cop," R, 2:30, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45. Town & Country: 259-9090. "Clear and Present Danger," PG-13, 7:15, 10:00. "Forrest Gump," PG-13, 6:45, 9:45. ''The Scout," PG-13; 4:45. . how," PG-13, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00. 


Saint Mary~ Collegg 

Folk Dancing: Fri., Oct. 21, 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse. Film: "Candy Man," Thurs.-Fri., Oct. 20-21, 
7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Caroll Auditorium, SMC. Dance: Letvlans Hall, Sat., Nov. 5. SesquicentennialResonable Expectations 
Lecture: Wed., Nov. 9, 7:30 p.m., O'Laughlin.. · 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 20, 1994 
,  .  ,,  - .  .  .  .  ,..  .  
T  •  ..  ~  •  !!  .  .  .  I  
.  \  .  .  ,  - .  ,  
.  .  .  .  '  .  
- .  .  .  .  '  - 
0  ~ \  r  I  O •  •  ~•  •  •  •  •  ,,­ 




News ofthe Bizarre from Our Nation's Universities 
Okay, two days until we get to go home, go to Florida, stay here and do nothing but completely veg out or do whatever else you have planned for the amazing creation that the administration calls Fall Break. Here are a few more anecdotes to put you further along the road to rest and relaxation! Have a great break everyone! 
e e e e e e 8 0 8 0 e 8 0 
Once again, Notre Dame is in the news. This time, the Chronicle ofHigher Education wrote: "Defensive linemen may have trouble getting to Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus, but Internet users do not!" Apparently, Powlus has been getting scores of e-mail from fans and foes around the world (sometimes as many as 77 a week), especially from Michigan and Michigan State. Some people are even asking for his autograph! An ND spokesman said that people most likely' got the address from the gop~er phonebook. The possibilities of this one are endless ... 
"Welcome to the gopher system. Please enter the names of the · addresses that you wish to find: Boston College Football Team." Oh, what fun we could have! 
• • • • • • • 0 • • • • • • • • 
Andlet'slookcloselyatthisexerptfromtheChronicleo/Higher 
Education: 

From the "alcoholism" section of a leaflet from the campus ministry at the University of Notre Dame: "The chaplain is available on a confidential basis to those seeking information orassistance with addition problems or issues." 
As in what's l plus 2 plus 3 ...? Will they help us balance our checkbooks, too? 
8 8 e 8 8 e 8 8 0 e e O 8 0 

Attention: Major Medical _Breakthrough for College Students! 
A recent Daily Illini headline read: "Study Links Alcohol and Good Health ... Party On!" Finally, some good news! Thelllini reported that a British study found that up to three drinks a day can actually lower a person's chances of heart disease. Moderate drinkers were found to be 40% less likely to have heart problems than non-drinkers. Okay, quick mathematical calculations: 3 drinks a day times 7 days a week equals 21 drinks a week divided, by 3 or 4 (Wednesday or Thursday through Saturday) and that comes to about 7 drinks per night and we can still call ourselves health-conscious! Gotta love it! 

:uonly we could all go bac_k to high school again ... Did you and your friends used to ever pretend to be really cool and "cruise" around looking for something to do? Well, ifthe Florida municipal government has its way, the streets won't be such an "attractive" option. In order to reduce the numberof teenagers driving around or hanging out at night, Florida wants to install low-pressure sodium lamps 
on all street com~dhow will this keep the kids at home? According to the DailyIllini, the lights render complexions "sickly" and make acne look grotesque. Apparently, state officials think that the kids won't want to hang out with each other because they look too heinoust Excuse me, but this can't be good for the self-esteem of 14 and 15 year-olds. 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E a O C T O B E R 2 0 , 1 9 9 4­
25 





Grist for the Mill Rick Grey 


. nus lJEH., GR~T fO~ WE MILL ~ECEIV!:.D A LE.TTE~ FID'-1 A CDf-.X'..EE'.lvEb MEMEE"E. or: TT-IE. fJ'.>T)(E DAME CO,.V,,.010 ll'i'. WE'b LltE. TO 5HA'R.E [T WITH voo: 
Hey owe~, are yov1 3oinj ov+ wifi. 11s .fo I),5.s +o~:;l..f? 
\ 
Yuh, r·,111 •5 l,,.)ork.iVlj 0~ frty :i::.D-v-ii.+ 
VlOc.J • • • l 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing to complain about 
your so•called "comic strip," Grist 
for the Mill. While It has never been funny, the recent depiction of a decapitation was tasteless and offensive. I do not feel that a portion of my tuition should help fund this kind of perverse, violent trash. This is still a Catholic university, is it not? Why not run a strip about something a bit more positive, like some of the good­natured, madcap antics that go on at retreats or service projects. 
Pat Junior, AL 
\ 
0 
Oo 
WEU., 'PA-T, bJE AWA'/5ArP11.ECl{J"E JDTELL/6£/JT fEE.bcAQ. 50 POll Ur}J ll-1A6JJJE. HO0 U:ORTHLES5 
UE. TH006H1 YOUR 
LETTE~ 1,JJ,.S/ ) 
,here-yo!.\ jO, -thG1,-.ks 
A]lr~ !l 
} 

MAl?K ! MAZ'/,OLA ! 
Oh 1to~ I -for~crl-rA'/ 
·us., we ~o¼te>. 30 
b~c.k. t 
bon~ 
worry,
( 

~ir:u.l <1 p~n­herc"5 
26 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 20, 1994 
- ~  "  ..,  - - ,.  - -­ .  ----­ '  .  .  ~  
·­ .  '  '  
• '  I  ~  
.  - . '  - .  ~  - - '  - - -.  
.  - .  .  -'  

~----------·~--' 








Life 
•
m 
the 

Manor 
I write this terse letter in response to the slanderous comments made PY the Gipper in the September 29 issue of Scholastic Magazine. He had the audacity.to describe the 335-student Morrissey Manor as "the Biggest Dump on Campus." Five other Manorites and I take great offense to that cheap shot The Gipp' s trash talking has led to afirestorm ofvicious rumors. Most of them concern the. incident of a rat who decided to expire in Morrissey's showers. No, John Steinbeck did not base OfMice AndMen on the Morrissey showers. Morrissey' s Fight Song is not ''Three Blind Mice," and our mascot is not Mickey Mouse. 
by Neil Zender 

We live in Morrissey Manor. Sure, it takes prayer, and the strength ofGod, but we do live in Morrissey Manor. It's not called a "Hall," it's a "Manor." Normally at this juncture in a college essay, to satisfy some wackyprofessor, the writerwill useWebster's definition of the word "manor" to make clear just what the argument is about. I'd do that right now, but I couldn't look up the word"manor" because the silverfish and moths in my desk drawer took the liberty of snacking on my dictionary. However, I believe "manor" denotes "nice place." It's like a mansion. Aplace owned 
· by the likes and dislikes ofMichaelJackson, PeeWeeHerman and Madonna. As those cultural icons prove, a manor has an aura of class about it. If any of the condemned buildings at Notre Dame epitomize class, it's Morrissey. Look,! think I speak for all thesurvivorsoftheManorwhen I say I'm offended by "the Biggest Dump on Campus" label. Sure, we may have plaster falling from the ceilings. Our hallways may be 
slightly too small for Gary Coleman. We may be required to wear hardhats at all times. Our building may be so old that we use an outhouse. Our televisions may only get the Smurf chimnel. Our rooms may be too small for experimental rat testing. So whatifour stairs are crumbling, and the only elevatoris a half-mile walk to the Hesburgh Library? So what if our front dooris detachable? Maybe wedo have a rat cemetery in our showerpipes. Whatever you think abouttheManor,youmustadmit, wetreatourfurryanimalskindly. So we've been featured on Lifestyles of the Rich & Famous Cockroaches. So our heaters sound like a cross-eyed carpenter nailing a spike into a brick wall. Who cares if we fail legal safe occupation and habitation codes in 4 7 states, the District of Columbia and Guam? We're Morrissey. We're the Manor and we're proud of it! 
I feel genuine empathy for Morrissey Rector, Father Joe Ross. When he took his oath of poverty, did he really expect this? When he's preaching, he doesn't worry about whether or not he's turning a light on in people's heads. He worries about whether or not the light will fall on his head. 
Like many other dorms, Morrissey has a fan in just about every room. What people don't realize is that we don't buy fans to blow the heat away, we buy fans to blow the odor away. 
One of the most exciting parts of Morrissey life is the mail. That's right, we do get mail. Ofcourse, it only comes once a week. The United States Postal Service refuses to deliver mail to con­demned buildings, so Manorites are forced to wait until Friday afternoon when the Pony Express rides in. 
Butthe greatest partoflife in the Manoris Morrissey' s soul. You develop bonds and friendships that just aren't possible anywhere else. That's what makes Morrissey sospecial,and that'swhywe;d rather live no place else. As the famous philosopher on the Burger King commercials says, "Ilove this place." That's why I'm paying the University of Notre Dame $4,400 per year to live here. To be perfectly honest, I feel kind of a guilty for ripping the university off like that. Talk about a bargain. Just $4,400 per year! So what if we make Sarajevo looklike the Bahamas, and our living conditions makeArmyBo"otCamplooklikeClubMed. SowhatifMorrissey's ghost has started haunting Keenan because he can't handle the Manor's frightening living environment. We have tradition and pride that gives our do~ the greatest soul of any dorm at Notre Dame. 
You can have modem bathroom facilities and running water. You can have safe stairwells. You can have your cable TV. You can live in a rodent-free dorm. You can go through the hassle of a building with no falling objects. You can live in a dorm that wasn't herewhenFatherSorincame. Butyou'renotMorrissey. Youdon't have our spirit, you don't have our soul, you don't have our dis~ctive odor, and you don't have the pride of being a Morrissey Survivor. There's no reason I'd want to live anywhere else on campus, except maybe for personal safety. 
We're offended when the Gipp calls us "the Biggest Dump on Campus." Don't undermine what makes Morrissey the bestplace to live. We're the Biggest Dump in America, and proud of it! . 
This is a humorous colwnn. The views expressed do not necessarily represent those ofScholastic Magazine. 

SCHOLASTIC  MAGAZINE  ¦  OCTOBER  20,  1994  27  
- .  , ,  I . ..·,  • - '  :  -. .  • ,  • .:-:­ - .  ' '  '  - , ,_·  '  ,  .'  ..  I  ,  •  ,• •( ~. ' .. ' .  - • - ,  ' ..- .  


• • • • •-• • • ......._ • : ' --~ •-• • • > ,: •• / • • , : • • • • • • • • " • : , : I 
_i 
Mark J. Mitchell, Jr., graduatedfrom Notre Dame in 1939. He met his wife at the 1938 Minnesota game, Notre Dame's 300th victory. two ofhisfive sons went to Notre Dame and one ofhisfive daughters went to SaintMary's. He hasn't missed a Fighting Irish game in 60years. 


In the Long Run 
Recent football failures as seen through the eyes ofone who has seen it all (or at least most ofit) 

Asafreshman in 1935, mygrandfatherwatched the Fighting Irish pull out an 18-15 victory over Ohio State in the closing minutes of what was called theGameoftheCentury. One week later, he sat in Notre Dame Stadium and watched Northwestern defeat the Irish 14-7. Sound familiar? The best game he ever saw was the 1947 victory over Anny, when Terry Brennan ran back a kickoff in the fourth quarter to seal the win. And the worstgame he ­ever watched in 60 years ofNotre Damefootball was the 1985 loss to Louisiana State when "all Faust did was run Allen Pinkett up the middle all day." My grandfather, Mark Mitchell, Jr., was a friend of Elmer Layden and Terry Brennen, and Frank Leahy punched him in the mouth once when Leahy was his camp counsellor. Six decades of being a Notre Damefootball fan has given him a perspective which is notably lacking on campus in these recent days of football failures. "You can't say we're having a bad year unless you watched Layden coach. And Faust! Faust was the worst, without question. Elmer was ineffective, but Faust couldn't do anything right" Is he bothered by the recentfosses which have plagued the Irish? Not really. "Every coach has his bad years. Even Leahy couldn't wiri allhis games. And it is certain!y not as bad as it has been." And that is certain! y an under­statement. Anyone who thinks Notre Dame has hit college football's rock bottom should look back to the five years of Gerry Faust, when the Fighting Irish never broke into the top 20 once. Or worse, Joe Kuharich, head coach from 1959 to 1962, posted an embarrass­ingrecord of 17-23,disgracingNotreDameStadium · with a 10-10 record at home: "IfI recall correctly, it is our pattern to come back from terrible seasons by winning the championship in the next year. That's happened several times in my life." In fact it has happened seven times. In 1928 Knute Rockne went 5-4-1, and claimed the national, crown in 1929. Leahy posted a record of7-2-1 in 1942and 1945; but he returned in 1943 and 1946 to win the championship. AraParseghian's 1965 team also went 7-2-1, but the team and the coach redeemed themselves in 1966with thenational title. Parseghian 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 

went8-3 in 1972butwon the championship in 1973. And even the divine Dan Devine closed 1976 at 9-3, but returned in 1977 to be crowned national cham­pion. 
"Holtz has been an extraordinary redeemer for the team. He restored honor where there was none." And Lou Holtz also has shared in Notre Dame's tradition of jumping from defeat to victory, closing thel987 seasonat8-4, but capturing the national title in 1988. 
In fact, this season looks so bad because Notre Dame has been so good for seven straight years. Since 1987, the Fighting Irish have been in the top 20 every year. Only Bobby Bowden can claim the same record. And if this year looks dark only because the others have been so bright, that in itself is something of which to be proud. 
"When I was a student it was a rule among all ofus that.even though the game went sour, you did not blame the players. Ifthey play their hearts out, it is not fair to blame them for a loss." And that rule holds true this year. This is the quarterback's first year­he is permitted to make mistakes. The team lost 10 players to the NFL last year, and has a smaller, less experienced offensive line. The players are on the field, trying their hardest for every game, but if the other team is bigger and has more experience, a loss is not a failure, it is an acknowledgement that, though the team tried its hardest, the other players were better. ''The team has been plagued by severe inju0 ries. There is weak back.up for most positions, and you can't expect a first year defensive coordinator to perfonn when his defensive crew is on the field most ofthe game. Maybe the coach has lost a little of what he used to have, but I expect that this is just a year when several bad factors meet at once." That is a pretty balanced perspective. 
And the most important perspective to takeis one which is mentioned least: Notre Dame is not a football school -it is a top univiersity which has always had a good football program. That is a monumental difference. "We always had a saying after the losses, 'We'll still have classes come Mon­day.' And I'm sure that's the same for you now."O 
28 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 20, 1994 ~ ~ ·~ -~---' -. ~------------. ' .. ~
' 

.-• • • ~ ~ • V... , 
. . ' 
·----------• -~ • ' _,. , ' 

Phone bills too high? Your son or daughter can't find the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what~s going on at Notre Dame, subscribe to 




SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame .students. 
·Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekends, and enjoy some college humor. You can be part of all this for the introductory price of $20 a year­just a dollar an issue. Subscribe now and share in of the 128-year tradition of Sclwlastic Magazine. 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:------­Address: _______ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years = $ _ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 



ND~oof"\ 
~\6'-J "' -ro,,._~ IN fo'1"'("~ i)uh~(, +\~1.c.. 
eR.OIJG't\-r ·.,.0 '((N 9't:SU8 
BRUNO'S g1lf uJ,m£.ii~uiam ~~a.iii·lilllliii ,iiilllli·~...il Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 -1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 261 OPrairie Ave. 273.a3890 "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.  

---------~ . . . .  '--.~ .. . .,  --.  ~  .  - .  ,  ',.  '" . ...  .  \  ,  .  -~ '  . ',  '  '  
- •  •  ~  ...  •  •  '  -·  .)  ,  \0  




