DO YOU INHALE ?
Then you're better off
smoking PHILIP MORRIS
... because PHILIP MORRIS is definitely less irritating, definitely milder than any other leading brand!
PROVE IT YOURSELF
Take the PHILIP MORRIS NOSE TEST ... start enjoying PHILIP MORRIS today!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
^PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
Which dance do you want to learn quickly?
Copr. 1948 — Arthur Murray Inc.
Double your money back if you can't Fox Trot after one hour at Arthur Murray's!
Enroll today— dance tonight!
Even if you’ve never danced before you can go dancing tonight after one hour at Arthur Murray’s! The whole secret’s in Arthur Murray’s amazing, new discovery—"The First Step To Popularity.” Here is the key to all dance steps. It makes any modern dance a snap to learn. And, best of all, you can learn this shortcut to popularity... this basic step, in just one lesson. That’s why
Arthur Murray makes this challenging offer. If you do not Fox Trot after one lesson he will give you double your money back. So put yourself in the hands of an Arthur Murray expert. Phone South Bend or come in to the studio now.
To prove how easy it is to become a really good dancer Arthur Murray offers you his new dance book—"Murray-Go-Round.” It’s a 44-page magazine of dance news, pictures and instructions. Send 25(f for your copy today.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St.	Ph. 2-3339
FREE PARTY DANCES EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT
NEED A CHEST. BOOKCASE. OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED —SAVE MORE THAN HALF
This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture
WILLIAMS PAINT COMPANY (One block north of Gilbert’s)
Phone 6-7346	755 S. Michigan	FREE Delivery
LETTERS
EDITOR’S NOTE: Only those letters will be printed in SCHOLASTIC which bear a signature on the original. For certain reasons, the editors may withhold a name upon request. But every letter submitted must bear the writer’s signature and Hall or off-campus address.
What! No Corsages?
Editor: Considering the fact that a lot of students prefer to ask their “special” girls, who are usually out of town, to the formal class dances— which entails considerable expense, how about prohibiting corsages at formal dances as is widely done elsewhere?
The giving of corsages is nothing more than an outmoded custom which allows the South Bend florists to make their haul from the students.
If the girl is lucky, she may be able to make the corsage last a week by keeping it in the ice box. Most don’t bother. Three to ten dollars for a decoration for her shoulder, hair, or' wherever she may put it.
This useless custom has been abolished at many other colleges. The girls won’t mind. It’s only a nuisance to them (though not as much as to us). Some sentimentalists may object, but how about it, Notre Dame men? If you’re still loaded now. just wait.
Name Withheld.
A ChaHerga:
Bill Riley’s criticism of the majority of Catholic periodicals was certainly a propos and his suggestions to a degree pertinent. However, his supercilious intimation that Time and the Neu' Yorker are the very substance of things to be hoped for in the field of journalism can be effectively challenged by one magazine, Commomveal, which not only has an “intellectual core” much harder than his two exalted examples, but is unwilbng to comnromise it for circulation’s sake or to pander an American audience.
Dave Burrell 432 Morrissey
See Mr. Riley’s column, “The Back Page” in next week’s issue for more on the subject.—Ed.
Editor: I feel fairly confident that you haven’t the slightest idea of who I am,. but it was not more than 170 years ago when I was working in those traditional and atmospheric quarters helping to sweat out the weekly copies of the Scholastic.
I want to congratulate you on your lead-off issue. It had the touch. You’ve got off to a whale of a start. Keep it up through the year. It makes us grayhaired, rheumatic alumni proud to see
Sept. 28, 1951
3
a school mag with color, verve, and brilliance.
Don’t forget that you have twentyodd thousands of former grads that are watching you kids, and hoping you appreciate Notre Dame as we do now, after these many years, and hoping that school spirit is as good now as it was in years gone by.
I think I express the feeling of all the old grads when I hope that this year’s Scholastic keeps up the pace. God bless you. Sincerely in Notre Dame,
Robert H. Sweeney, c.s.c. President University of Portland, Portland, Oregon.
Editor: I suppose that you get tired of reading letters from irate students concerning the dining hall, but mine may be novel in that my complaint is not about the food.
My biggest complaint concerns the girls who cavort around the chow hall during the evening meal. I could ge': along nicely without having my beans ladled out to me by some starry-eyed youngster who at the most might be pushing 15. And I would like to be able to show my ticket without having one of those bobby-soxers wink at me and remark, “My, what a cute wallet you have, big boy.”
In short, I wish that someone would tip those girls off to the fact that most of us have girls back home our own age to whom we are very devoted.
John Murray
Dillon Hall
an Arrow "Gordon Oxford”
just went by!
VICTORY DANCE
The first Victory Dance of the year will be held tomorrow night in the Drill Hall from 8:30 to 11:30. Residence permissions are extended to 12:30 for these dances. All home game Victory Dances this year will be held in the Drill Hall.
ARROWSHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
The MEN's Corner
for
Arrow Shirts
Its ADLER’S for
...ARROW
Rose s Katz ■ X MEN AND I \.VOUNC MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
4
The Scholastic
Speaking of fashions, gregarious Jim Garvin, Council prexy, is out to hit a new style note in these parts. Jim has had his white bucks dyed an exquisite tattle-tale gray. No slouch, this Garvin fellow. But personally, we have reason to suspect that he is a field representative for Florsheim.
’ Top of the Week
The Hoosiers visit with the Irish in the stadium tomorrow . . .
Here We Go Again
It’s another football weekend at ND 11 and the campus will once again resound to the patter and shuffle of visitors’ footsteps as thousands of downstate Hoosiers hustle South Bendward to watch their redshirts vie with the Irish in the season’s opener.
Rummage Sale — ND Style
Before and after the stadium bout, souvenir hunters will, as is their ac-• cepted custom, beat a crowded path to the Bookstore which will probably approximate the Chicago wheat pit on ‘ a heavy day.
. Genial Brother Conan, dean of the miniature Macy’s, informs us that he has laid in extra supplies of monogram blankets, T-shirts and ashtrays for the' occasion, and is featuring this season, for the more fanatical of the subway alumni, several new and unique • articles.
One is a novel ND cigarette lighter which is embossed on one side with a three-color photograph of the varsity squad, and on the other side with an T autographed photo (also in three colors) of the entire coaching staff gazing fondly up at the golden dome. It retails for $18.95 and is guaranteed to , give third degree burns.
Another clever little gimmick is a set of musical automobile horns which play the Victory March and When Irish Backs Go Marching By in stirring band tempo. Just the thing for > heavy traffic and they come complete with 32 Notre Dame decals for the car windows.
Fieldhouse Frenzy
We can look for bigger and better pep rallies during the ’51 season. The , Blue Circle men handling the Friday eve affairs have whipped up some fresh ideas and plan on holding rallies in different locations for each home game. ’ Tonight’s pre-game rendezvous will be in the Fieldhouse, and an inside source discloses that Coach Leahy’s “se-* cret weapon,” a triple-threat youngster from Newark, N. J., will be among the varsity introduced to the throng.
By Jack Hynes
Manhattan Here We Come?
Disclosure by the NCAA sahibs that the Michigan S!:ate-ND game on November- 10 will be televised only to the East coast audience has led us to a little sly speculation. Why not switch the student trip site from Baltimore to New York, have a huge TV screen set up in Madison Square Garden and all view the game from there? It’s possible, madam, it’s possible.
TV AFTERTHOUGHT
Television fills a need Affording me a view Of all the movies that I missed It. nineteen Thirty-Tivo.
Marshall-Field Take Note
It is rather refreshing to note the Freshmen having taken so readily to the traditional and time-honored habits of everyday campus attire.
“Casual” (some say “sloppy”) has been the keynote in ND fashions for generations, now, and the newer residents on the East end of the lot are going along all the way with their upperclass brethren in this matter of sartorial individuality.
But suede chukkas, Jimmy Demaret plaid caps and Kool-Kat monogrammed sport shirts notwithstanding, the prevailing uniform of the day remains the same as it has been for three years, now, lumpy sweatshirt, faded blue dungarees and “boondockers.”
Bottom of the Week
. . . Victory dances go up to two dollars per duo.
' JUGGLER CONTRIBUTORS
All students interested in contributing short stories, essays, reviews, poetry, etc., are invited to stop by the Juggler office (located in the basement of Farley Hall), with or without manuscripts, between the hours of 4 and 5 p.m., during the week beginning next Monday, October 1.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
Sf
YOUTH CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 East LaSalle
SOUTH BEND'S FINEST SPAGHETTI HOUSE
We cater to Parties
A FAVORITE WITH NOTRE DAME MEN
Steaks - Chops Seafoods
415 North Michigan
- Phone 3-0903
Sept. 28, 1951
5
Calendar
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
75! •
SEPTEMBER 28
FIELDHOUSE—The new season’s first pep rally starts at 7:15 tonight with the Band making their usual tour around campus starting from the Farley-B-P area, marching west to Howard and then back to the Fieldhouse. Captain Jim Mutscheller will introduce the team, 60% brand new, and will also reveal Coach Frank Leahy’s secret weapon for the coming season, hitherto known only as “AB.” Let’s show the Irish of ’51 what kind of support we’re going to give them in the Stadium tomorrow.
PALACE (through Oct. 4)—Baseball and non-baseball lovers will go for Angels in the Outfield (Legion of Decency Rating A-l), a first rate comedy about a baseball team that shoots from seventh place to the pennant through heavenly aid. (Sounds like the dream of a Chicago Cub fan, doesn’t it?) Paul Douglas is the manager who sees his team become “Cinderellas” and Janet Leigh is the femme standout. The co-feature is another sport pix, The Basketball Fix, a Hollywood quickie production made in order to capitalize on the current scandals. The script follows the newspaper clippings religiously, but a novel twist takes it out of the mediocre class. John Ireland and Vanessa Brown share top billing.
GRANADA (through Oct. 4)—John Garfield and Shelley Winters team up in He Ran All the Way (B), the story of a neurotic gangster, a hunted murderer who moves in on a middle class family and holds them hostage at the point of a gun. It’s a tension packed drama from start to finish. Co-pix (B) features Howard De Silva and David Wayne.
SEPTEMBER 29
STADIUM—Our friends from the Southern Indiana region will come up to Test Town, U. S. A., and we hope it’s ND who’ll do the testing. The examination will start at 2 p.m. with over 56,000 interested parties looking in with blue pencils poised. Results will be known 60 football minutes later. Oui- guess? The greens will pass.
WASHINGTON HALL—Ricardo Montalbalm and Jane Powell star in the musical Two Weeks With Love.
DRILL HALL—The year’s first Victory Dance gets underway at 8:30 with dancing ’til 11:30 under the open door policy. Gene Hull and his Lettermen will preside. Admission, $2 per.
OCTOBER 3
COLFAX (through Oct. 9)—The story of America’s athlete of the half century, is told with a surprisingly high standard of accuracy in Jim Thorpe, All-American (A-2), with Burt Lancaster in the title role. Lancaster gives one of the finest performances of his career as he portrays Thorpe’s rise to athletic fame, his fall and disillusionment, and his eventual re-birth. Phyliss Thaxter is the . leading lady.
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES
DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING
arvi
126 ^v no:michigan st .
M>K MBN WQMM AN» OIIUNUII
Fish, Steaks. Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.20
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT
“Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main	Open Sunday
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
J&holasttc
Vol. 93
September 28, 1951 No. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame
Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO...........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO......Assistant Sports
WILLIAM H. FRASER..........Photography
LEON GARDNER..................Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER..............Advertising
C. T. HULL.................Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Four Bits — Ouch!
That additional four bits the Council tacked on the admission price of Saturday night Victory dances is going to hurt. For the “regulars,” anyway. There are a goodly number of lads around here who will be going to most of these dances all year. For them, that 50 cents is going to add up to quite a bit of money.
But, like everything else, this little problem has more than one side to it. The Student Council treasury is the student treasury at Notre Dame. Out of this comes all the dough needed to finance dances and underwrite student activities. The Council, with the Charity Chest, makes charitable donations for the students, avoiding door-to-door solicitation. In short, the Council foots the bill for student activities. The profit from any successful undertaking, of course, goes back into the treasury.
Now we’re back to the Saturday night dances. Most of the boys thought that it was a great idea when the Council made them all-year affairs. There were times though when this cost the Council money. Later on in the year, when the dance crowds thin a little, the Council will be satisfied to break even or show a slight profit.
And there’s where the hike in the admission price comes in. Jim Garvin, president of the Student Council, points out that sizable crowds turn out for the dances during football season. Naturally, the Council would like to cash in. All the big dances are gambles. A few unsuccessful ones, and the treasury would be in bad shape. A good profit on the victory dances would help considerably.
But there’s still the argument for those who will be footing the bill. Because it’s a regular affair, it’s the obvious money-raiser. If the dances run into too much money, however, the crowds, especially later in the year, will stop coming. A lot of the boys will take a dim view of the idea of paring two bucks for every dance.
At the conclusion of the football season, the Council plans to reconsider the price of admission for the Saturday night dances. We hope they can show a nice profit for these Fall dances. And we hope they can get decent contracts for the rest of the year. Because we’d like to see the price returned to $1.50 for those later dances.
I COVER: The gentlemen on this week’s cover will be — "with their teammates — U the center of attraction in the Notre Dame stadium tomorrow. Quarterback John Mazur and end Jim Mutscheller are holding the sign while halfbacks Bill Barrett and John Lattner go over. Mutscheller, 1951 captain of the Fighting Irish, will lead a team that is an , unknown quantity onto the field tomorrow. The sports-minded eyes of the nation will be on them, wondering how much a recovery the team will make ' from last year’s record of 4-4-1. Indiana, one of Notre Dame’s 1950 conquerors, represents the first hurdle on \ the comeback trail. Whether- or not the Irish can whip the Hoosiers’ experienced outfit is a question. But the L lads from downstate will know they've V been in a football game, we’re confident of that.—Photo by Bruce Harlan.
Council Meetings Are Open!
And speaking of the Student Council, there’s something else we ought to mention. Council meetings are open to the student public. Any student can go and see for himself what’s going on. It would be a good thing if a lot of the boys did j'ust that.
For the last few years, at least, it’s been a popular custom at Notre Dame to dismiss the Student Council and its members with an off-handed wave of the hand. This doesn’t accomplish much. Nor does scoffing at what the Council does do.
Regardless of what you think of the Council, it does exercise a great deal of control over student activities, especially funds, here at Notre Dame. Any gripes about what the Council does don’t hold much water if nobody takes an interest in the weekly Council meetings.
Scholastic will publish weekly an agenda for the next Council meeting. Check it and show up at the meeting if your really interested. It’s your Council. Learn who its members are and what they’re doing.
Sept. 28, 1951
7
Here is something » you don't know about your own reading ability
What sort of movements do your eyes make when you read? How can more efficient eyemovement cut your reading time in half—improve comprehension?
While your eyes are moving along the lines, you see nothing. It’s only when your eyes stop or fixate that you are actually seeing the words. So, the more words you can see at a glance—the fewer and shorter the fixations — automatically, the faster your reading rate.
Try this with a friend. Poke a tiny hole in the center of the page and peek through it at your friend’s eyes as he reads. Try to count the number of times his eyes stop. Watch the rhythm, too. Then have him do the same for you. If you’re average readers, your eyes may be stopping about once for each word. Experts at the Foundation for Better Reading can record your eye-movements on movie film. They will show you how easily and quickly you can widen your “word span” — how this helps cut reading time by more than half.
And, by being able to see more words — more meaningful ideas—at once, comprehension will improve as reading time decreases. Even technical material can be absorbed faster this way.
There’s a man right here who has helped to develop the modem techniques by which reading skills are first measured and then improved. His name is Father John A. O’Brien.* He says that
* Anther of Fast, Silent Reading
8
the Foundation for Better Reading is admirably equipped to assist you in doubling or even tripling your present reading capacity. Hundreds of college students, business men, and professional people have proved this.
Doesn’t most of what you learn come from your reading? Therefore, even if you’re a fast reader now, won’t the ability to cover your reading in half the time help you to read and learn more—earn better grades—have more time for other activities?
Why, in just a few weeks at college, the dollar value of the reading time you can save may exceed the tuition fee for the complete training. Most important, you’ll be able to get more out of your education with a new, lifetime skill.
Why wait? The men who are starting now will be finished well before mid - semester. Come in, or call today!
Director
LISTEN TO CLASSICAL MUSIC 10:30 EVERY NIGHT Station WHOT	Starts Sunday, September 30
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle	(open 'til 9)	Phone 3-0077
The Scholastic
Notre Dame	o II cast lie
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 3
SEPTEMBER 28, 1951
Roaring Rally Lifts Lid of 1951 Season
ROTC Commandant Sees Bright Future For Engineering Program's 165 Trainees
By DON CARBONE and NEIL SCARLETT
One hundred sixty students have enrolled in the new Engineering ROTC unit established at Notre Dame this year. With the addition of the Army group, all four armed services are now conducting training programs here.
All students in the program are first-year men, with the exception of 18 Sophomores and six Juniors who have transferred from other training units.
Basic (first and second year) students will have two hours of class each week in military science and tactics, as well as one hour of drill. Three semester hours of classwork and one of drill are required of advanced students.
Students formerly in other army or air force ROTC units are being accepted into the program with full credit for their previous service.
Upon completion of the course, the men will be commissioned second lieutenants in the active reserve of the Army Corps of Engineers. Honor students will be offered immediate commissions in the regular army. After the two years of basic training, reservists become eligible for Officer’s Candidate School.
The new program is expected to be of considerable help to aspiring engineers. Lt. Col. George M. Cookson, professor of military science and tactics and commandant of the army unit, is confident that the ROTC and the College of Engineering will cooperate to produce able technicians.
“Training and experience in demolition, bridge construction, and other allied fields in the ROTC,” Colonel Cookson stated, “will be very valuable to them whether they follow a career in the army or in some civilian aspect of engineering.”
The new unit’s commanding officer is a veteran of 11 years with the Corps
of Engineers. Stationed in California before World War II, Colonel Cookson saw war duty in the Aleutians, Hawaii, the Marshall Islands, and Leyte in the Philippines. His citations include the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star, and the Purple Heart.
After the war he served in the States as a member of the Engineering Board and then returned to Hawaii for three years. In 1949 he was transferred to the Chicago District Engineering Office, where he remained until last June, when he was appointed to form the new ROTC unit at Notre Dame.
Assisting the Colonel with the new program are Capt. William Bohn, Capt. Delven Hostetler, and Master Sgt. Homer Clendenen, assistant professors of military science and tactics. Sgt. 1/c James Mattingly will handle
(Continued on Page 21)
Colonel Cookson
Cheerleaders Unveil New Secret Weapon
Football is in the air tonight as followers of the pigskin sport swarm onto the campus to see tomorrow’s 1951 Notre Dame football premiere.
At 7:30 tonight once again the rafters of the old gym-will waver as the voices of a host of Irish football fans, students, guests, and visitors, give the team a pre-game boost in the way of a pep rally. The band will tour the campus at 7:15 and lead its followers to the gym.
At the rally Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Coach Frank Leahy will make short speeches. Captain Jim Mutscheller will present the 1951 Irish squad and perhaps “AP.” Prior to the. introductions, the cheerleaders will present two new cheers and two band swing yells requiring the co-ordination of band and students. -
Jack McGlinn and Hugh Braun, Blue Circle committeemen in charge of the pep rally, have reliable information that ND’s new secret weapon will be introduced tonight. This mystic new weapon, known simply as “AP,” atomic power, will almost insure a Hoosier humbling tomorrow afternoon.
The scene tonight will * be greatly different from the last pre-Indiana game pep rally held in the fieldhouse. That was on Sept. 23, 1949, and the Irish introduced that year by Co-cap-tains Leon Hart and Jim Martin, were working on a string of 28 games without a defeat. Ten weeks later the string had been run to 38, and Notre Dame had the national championship and a team acclaimed as one of the best college elevens of all time. This year student spirit is expected to surpass even that banner year as Leahy’s men try to begin another winning streak against a tough Indiana team.
Hoosier visitors tomorrow will find a Blue Circle information booth at the University entrance where brochures will be distributed and campus tours conducted.
Sept. 28, 1951
9
Duroselle, Dean at Saarbrucken, Compares French and American Universities; Lauds ND
By FRANK JACKMAN
“Students have a bit more freedom in the European university.” So stated Professor Jean-Baptiste Duroselle, Dean of Arts and Letters at the University of Saarbrucken and newcomer' to the Notre Dame scene.
“Of course,” he adds, “the student body is organized far differently than those of the average American university. In Europe, the teachers organize and teach classes and a student may come and go as he pleases. Each teacher is, in effect, his own little school. All one needs to enter a class is a card stating he is a student in the university. Of course, as in every school, the world over, he has final examinations to take and he must pass them.”
Professor Duroselle, here under the auspices of the Rockerfeller Foundation-sponsored Notre Dame Committee on International Relations in an exchange lecturer-teacher agreement with Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science, is a sponsor and guiding light of the newly established (1948) University of Saarbrucken.
Prominent in French Catholic intellectual circles, he heads an international faculty made up of predominantly French, German, and Saarlender instructors, but including British, Belgian, Swiss, and Dutch teachers. “It is an international experiment,” he states, “and an interesting attempt to realize the democratic spirit in education in Europe and to improve the always open-for-improvement Franco-German relations.”
Teaches Two Classes Here
Professor Duroselle is teaching two classes: “The Beginnings of Social Catholicism in France” (T.T.S. at 11) and “France in Contemporary World Affairs.” (MF at 7 p. m.) This last class was scheduled then at the special request of the many students who wished to fit into their schedules and nearly the entire enrollment is audit (no credit) students. The French expert will also give several public lectures on subjects to be decided in the near future.	.
Professor Duroselle is eminently fitted to speak on Political Science as his extensive and intensive interests and education show. He obtained his undergraduate degree at the Sorbonne in Paris in 1939. After time out for World War II, in which he had an estimable record, he continued his education at
the Ecole Normale Superiere, a school for superior students. He studied there under the French expert Pierre Renou-vin, serving as his assistant for four years, and obtained the equivalent of what, in America, would be a master’s degree.
In 1949, he received his Doctor of Philosophy in History from the University of Paris, writing for his doctorate thesis, a 780-page dissertation entitled The Beginnings of Social Catholicism in France.
Communism Wanes in France
He is also the author of a short history of the’Catholic Church which has
Professor Duroselle “An Interesting Attempt”
attained (for history books) the bestseller heights of 9,000 copies. Professor Duroselle is considered by most French scholars to be an outstanding expert on Political Science, Continental and Diplomatic History.
In response to a question on the staate of the present French republic, Professor Duroselle replied, “The communist influence is on the wane. It is decreasing both by the votes of the people and the lessening of the faith of the Party militants. Fellow travelers and so-called intellectual pinks are also falling away rapidly. There are no communists in the Army.
“On the other side of the road, a De Gaullist victory, too, is improbable. The majority of the French people prefer to be governed by moderate Centre parties (the so-called “Third Force”).
Socialists, allied to the Communist Party in the middle thirties, are now strongly and feelingly opposed to them and theii' traditional enemy, De Gaulle, and are an integral part of the Central Coalition. On the whole, the French political scene looks more stable than it has for quite some time.”
Praises Notre Dame
When questioned concerning his opinion of Notre Dame. Professor Duroselle flashed his friendly Gallic smile and answered, “It is huge, is it not? You may say that I am much impressed both by the beauty of your campus and the scholarship which I see all about me and, most important, the fact that a Catholic seat of learning can be so large!
“Although Notre Dame • is known at Saarbrucken by your much-praised magazine, the Review of Politics, I had never quite imagined it like this. All I can say is ‘Keep up the good work.’ ”
Enrollment Hits 5,000 Second Straight Year
A record number of 5,154 students have enrolled for the 1951-52 school year at the University of Notre Dame, it was announced Sept. 22 by the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs at Notre Dame.
Father Norton said that of the total Notre Dame enrollment; 4,809 are in the five undergraduate colleges of the University. Anothei' 345 have enrolled for advanced study in the Notre Dame Graduate School.
The 1951 Notre Dame enrollment represents an increase of 102 students over the enrollment in September, 1950, when 5,052 students were enrolled. One of the principal reasons for- the increase is the unusually large freshman class which entered with the beginning of classes two weeks ago. New freshmen at Notre Dame this year total 1,230.
For the first time during the postwar years, Notre Dame admitted qualified transfer students at the beginning of the school year in September. University officials feel that this, coupled with the fact that freshman applications were accepted throughout the summer right up until registration,, was partly responsible for the large number of new students.
Included in the record enrollment are 1,500 students who are enrolled in the military training programs on the campus. These include the Naval ROTC, the Army Engineers ROTC, the Air Force ROTC, and the Marine Platoon Leaders Class.
10
The Scholastic
NFCCS Se+s Sights At Regional Meeting
The Fort Wayne Regional Council of the NFCCS, presided over by John O’Connell of Notre Dame, planned its work for the coming year at its initial meeting last Sunday afternoon. The meeting, attended by representatives of each of the region’s seven schools, was held at St. Francis College in Fort Wayne.
Representing Notre Dame were two voting delegates, Al DeCrane and Paul Zalecki, and three observers, Don Carbone, Tom Godfrey, and Ron Mealey. Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., accompanied the group.
Al DeCrane, senior delegate, announced a proposed regional Catholic Action Study meeting for late November or December. The meeeting, which will be held under the auspices of Notre Dame’s National CAS Commission, will be open to Catholic Action student leaders throughout the Midwest.
DeCrane also stressed the importance of the individual campuses to NFCCS. He expressed hope that the programs planned for the year would be brought to the campus level and effectively applied there.
Serving at special posts are two Notre Dame men, Don Carbone and Paul Zalecki. Carbone will act for the year as regional OSP chairman, and Zalecki will make a study of the regional constitution to see if it is in accord with the newly-adopted national constitution.
The regional commission chairman also announced their programs for ’51-’52. The programs include such widely diversified items as promotion of Benediction and Missa Re-citata on the various campuses, direction from the CCD Committee for three new catechism instruction groups which are now forming in the region, and a Negro scholarship to one of the schools in the region.
The eight commissions represented in the region are: Apostolic, Interracial Justice, Press, International Relations, Student Government, Science, Family Life, and Inter-American Affairs. The Confraternity of Christian Doctrine Committee may become the ninth commission later this year.
The Council also adopted a new system of dues for the region. As the only.school with more than 2,000 students, Notre Dame will now pay $200 per year. However,-if any money remains in the Treasury at the end of the year, the school will receive an allowance on its next year’s dues.
The next regional Council meeting is slated for December’ at St. Mary’s.
Police Announce New Plan to Solve Problem Of Football-Weekend Traffic in South Bend
How would you like the responsibility of directing seme 13,000 cars on a football weekend? No? Imagine, then, the many headaches that the coming pigskin season holds in store for Capt. George Barcza, head of the South Bend police department Traffic division.
Capt. Barcza and his 109-man squad are directly responsible for the supervision of the traffic program, and the handling of an estimated 10,000 cars en route to the Stadium—plus the Saturday morning traffic flow of 3,000 cars piloted by South Bend residents.
Four Hectic Weekends
The four autumn weekends on which automobile traffic will engulf South Bend are just around the comer, but arrangements are all set to handle the situation as expeditiously as possible.
Details of the program to take care of traffic at the four home games in a safe and speedy manner were worked out last week at a meeting in the Oliver Hotel. Attending this conference were Rev. James J. Leahy, c.s.c., assistant to the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs; Herbert E.
Band Practice
Jack Tatty, Drum Major The big show is tomorrow
Jones, Notre Dame business manager of athletics; Sheriff Stephen C. Hipsak; Mishawaka Chief of Police, Dean B. Bolerjack, and Capt. Barcza.
One-Way Streets
A- temporary one-way street schedule which has been set up is as follows:
• Eddy Street, from Jefferson to Angela, one way north before the game and one way south after the game.
Notre Dame Avenue, from Angela to Napoleon, one way south after the game only.
Angela, one way west-bound after the game, and one way south after the game.
Re-routing traffic that is southbound on Michigan Street approaching the business section will be sent to Main St. and Madison.
All off-campus students will have to park their cars on the green field.
It is all too obvious that South Bend is ready for our football fans, but as Capt. Barcza said, “We also hope that the students will do their best to aid us. How? Simple. After the game is over, just stay out of town.”
Sept. 28, 1951
n
University Theater Inaugurates Season With October Production of Goethe's Faust
By ROGER ZOELLNER
The University Theater will inaugurate its 1951-52 season with five performances of “Faust,” an adaptation by Stephen S. Phillips of the famous story by Goethe. The five performances, each divided into 12 scenes, will consist of a matinee presentation on October 21 and nightly performances from October 21 through October 24.
“Faust” is the story of a man who sells his soul to Mephistopheles (the Devil, if your tongue gets twisted on that word) in return for possession of the maiden Margaret. The development of this transaction, along with Faust's realization of his mistake, and his final salvation, provide a story that guarantees all viewers of the play an interesting and entertaining evening.
Interpretive Settings
“Faust” will be produced by Prof. William Eisen and directed by Prof. Leonard Sommer.
An interesting variation will be observed on the stage. The settings, designed and executed by Prof. John Tumpane, will be interpretive, rather than the realistic settings generally used.
Tryouts for major roles were given last Spring and the minor roles were filled two weeks ago during another series of tryouts.
Tunney Plays Faust
The main characters of the cast will be: Faust, Joseph Tunney; Mephistopheles, Steve Hauser; Vallentine, John Dockray; Margaret, Ann Duncan.
Also appearing on stage will be: Ray Kennedy, Joseph Daley, Jerry Godwin, Robert Fleming, George BanBe-sien, Joe Hueber, Don Reid, David Rogers, Bill Crimmins, Joe Weis, John Blessington, Tom Cassidy, James Harrington, Tom Matthews, Henry Cushing, Charles Blair, Hildegarde Vargyas, and Leitha Wermuth. Bill Hand will "be the stage manager for the production.
This will be the first major production for members of the University Theater and will give all the students attending an excellent idea of what caliber of performance they may expect .during the next several months when ageing Washington Hall echoes with the dialogue of famous literary works.
Prof. Sommer announced that times
12	’
and dates of tryouts for all future productions will be posted for all those interested. Announcement of the next play to be presented will be forthcoming sometime in late October.
Joe Tunney
'Technical Review' in Third Year With Minck as Editor
John Minck, editor of the Technical Review, announced this week that the first issue of the engineer’s magazine will be off the press Nov. 15. Entering its third year, the publication is written and edited by undergraduate students of the College of Engineering, and appears quarterly.
Treating engineering and related topics, the Technical Revieiv is directed primarily toward engineering students, and all engineers are automatic subscribers. This year the magazine will be made available to alumni and other graduate engineers.
The Dean’s Prize, a fifty dollar award, will again be presented to the author of the article judged best of the year by a committee of professors and students. “Any undergraduate engineer is invited to submit articles to us,” said Minck, “and Freshmen will be particularly welcome.”
Assisting Minck this year are Ken Stead, managing editor; Tom Loos-brock, art and layout editor; George Ludwig, business manager, and Bob Mooney, administration.
Placement News
The Office of Placement located on the first floor in the right wing of the main building requests that graduate and undergraduate students finishing in ’52 register at the placement office. Registration requires a picture — any reasonably good one (an ID picture for example), not necessarily a portrait.
Mr. Dewey has just come back from the meeting of the Midwest College Placement Association in Minneapolis. Fifty College Placement directors and representatives of 150 business firms attended. One of the major items they discussed was the “ways and means of trying to eliminate the shortage of technical workers.”
The number of technical workers needed (meaning by technical workers, physicists, chemists and engineers) has increased because of defense projects while the number of students studying in these fields has gone down.
As far as Notre Dame is concerned: More companies are coming to Notre Dame earlier in the year looking especially for those in technical fields, finishing at the semester.
Although not as heavy as that for engineers, there is a brisk demand for accountants and a somewhat lesser one for salesmen.
Gurian and Nef Contributors To New 'Review of Politics'
The first quarterly issue of The Revieiv of Politics, put out by the Notre Dame department of Political Science, will appear about October 7 with a noteworthy article by Professor Nef on the History of the University of Chicago. In his article, the Professor will treat of the ideas of Robert M. Hutchins, the former Chancellor of the university and also of the intellectual history of the United States.
In addition to Professor Nef’s article, the issue will deal with “Burke and National Rights” and “Democracy Limited: Irving Babbitt’s Classicism.” Professor Smelser, of Notre Dame, and Father Danielson, S.J., are among the contributors.
Now in its thirteenth year of publication, The Review of Politics is headed by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Editor, and by Thomas T. McAvoy and Professor Frank O’Malley, Managing Editors. ,
The Review of Politics is widely known here and abroad, and many of its articles have been reproduced by the State Department and The National War College in Washington. It will be available in the University bookstore at a special student price.
The Scholastic
SMaitic poll. . .
Students See Successful Season for Irish, Call Spartans and Hoosiers Toughest Foes
According to a poll conducted by the Scholastic this week, the student body once again has gone out on a long, shaky limb and predicted a most prosperous season for the Fighting Irish.
Twenty-two of the 53 students polled declared—with varying degrees of confidence—that Notre Dame would be undefeated on the gridiron this year. All saw a winning season for the team except for one wag (a Freshman) who declared, “Detroit may stop us. Otherwise we might win a game or two.”
Nearly half of those queried refused to commit themselves as to the exact record the team would have, but most of them were highly optimistic.
Dan Collins of Howard Hall went all the way: “Let’s face facts—10-0 and National Champs.”
His Howard neighbor, “Tex” Mc-Monagle, was a little less certain. “I hope I’m wrong,” he stated, “but Michigan State has too many returning veterans. I say 9-1.”
Six others thought ND would win only nine, while six more said eight. “With the road schedule that Notre Dame has been confronted with, in addition to the three straight weekends we encounter Navy, Michigan State, and North Carolina, a record of eight and two would suit me fine,” reasoned Cavanaugh’s Dave Nolan.
He was echoed by his neighbor, John Norton: “If we lose more than a couple I can’t go home!”
One gentleman went so far as to predict three Irish setbacks. Bill Offutt of Lyons foresaw losses to Purdue, Michigan State, and Southern Cal.
Consensus was that Michigan State would be the team to beat; 12 saw a possible downfall in that game for the Irish.
Off-Campus man John Malloy was optimistic. “They will be one of the top teams in the nation. Very strong backfield, good line, and better reserves than last year. Michigan State will be their toughest test. If they get by this one they’ll go undefeated.”
.. Two feared a loss to North Carolina. Said Larry Carosino of Walsh: “ ... I believe they will hit their peak at Michigan State but will be upset by a strong North Carolina team at the latter’s home stadium.”
SMU caused some concern to two others. Grad student John Filan and Justin Moran of Cavanaugh both cited
to ward off the Mustangs. Still another pair of prognosticators were worried about Navy.
Second only to Michigan State as the team to beat was tomorrow’s foe, Indiana. Four seers saw trouble there. When John Fahle of Zahm said, “I just hope they can avenge last year’s defeat by Indiana,” he expressed the feelings of Badinites Bob Schaefer and Don Marselek, Howard’s Norm Saunders, and many, many others.
At any rate, the Hoosiers will have a rough time of it, according to Jus Moran. Says Jus, “Indiana will meet an ND team that’s really up.”
If the spirit and energy displayed by the student body during the latter half of this week is any indication of the team’s views on the matter, then truer words were never spoken. The students are up, and at tonight’s rally they’ll try to infect the team with some of that victory-fever.
Riflemen Aim for NROTC Team; First Match in October
The NROTC Rifle team, which performed so capably last year, may be headed to another great season. Under the command of Major A. M. Zimmer, USMC, they have eight men returning from last year. The three key men around whom this year’s squad will be built are Richard Six, Cam Hayden,
“An excellent squad."
and Richard Molokie, all of whom appeared in last year’s National Championships.
Tech. Sgt. J. J. Sova, USMC, also expressed great hope in the 30 Freshmen who are currently trying out for the team. “From these,” said Sgt. Sova, “and the returning upperclassmen, there should be an excellent fifteen or sixteen-man squad.”
The outfit has a long 52-match schedule lined up, which begins with the October 20 match with Brown U. and will end about the beginning of next May.
Sgt. Sova also mentioned that the University Rifle team will not have its first match until the end of the first semester. And, although last year’s squad had eight NROTC men on it, he expects quite a scramble for positions on this year’s varsity squad between the members of the three ROTC units and the unattached students in the school.
Two British Chemists Give P. C. Reilly Lectures Here
Two eminent British chemists were at the University of Notre Dame this week to deliver lectures as part of the Peter C. Reilly Lectures in Chemistry at Notre Dame.
Professor E. R. H. Jones, a member of the faculty at the University of Manchester, England, spoke in the Notre Dame Department of Chemistry Monday and Tuesday on his research in acetylene chemistry. Professor Jones opened his series of three Notre Dame lectures last Friday.
Professor C. W. Schoppe, a member of the research staff at the University of Swansea, England, addressed Notre Dame chemistry students and faculty today, yesterday and Wednesday. Professor Schoppe’s subject consisted of his research in Steroid Chemistry, the branch of chemistry which includes cortisones, hormones and vitamins
The Reilly Lectures in Chemistry at Notre Dame were established by a gift from Peter C. Reilly, President of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company, Indianapolis, Ind. Mr. Reilly is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, at Notre Dame.
Colorado Club Organizes
The Colorado Club at Notre Dame will hold its inaugural meeting Monday evening at 7:30 in room 103 Law-Building. All Colorado men are invited to attend and help plan the activities for the club’0- first year.
Sept. 28, 1951
13
Cheerleaders Plan for Bigger, Better Year, Feature PA System, Swing Yells, Acrobatics
Headed by Jack McGlinn, a senior from Reading, Pa., the Irish Cheerleading squad this year will include three Seniors, three Juniors, and a Sophomore. McGlinn, Jack Wenning, Mike Perino, Dan Marsalek, and Neil Vas-concellos are regulars from last year, and two newly chosen members are Dick O’Leary and Ed Hannon.
O’Leary and Hannon will probably lead the St. Mary’s section at the home games.
Possibly Flash Cards
The repertoire will include new cheers and special swing yells with the band. A public-address system will soon be available to enable the songs and cheers to be started simultaneously with the band and cheerleaders. A movement is underway to procure flash cards enabling Notre Dame to put on huge, flashing displays so popular at many large schools. An effort will be made to obtain closer cooperation of the rooters by distributing copies of the songs and yells before the contests.
More acrobatics are in order this year and spectators will see many pyramids, towers, jumps, flips and a variety of other stunts. All the cheerleaders are members of the university tumbling team and are advised by Gym Coach Ray Runkle.
Contrary to popular belief, the yellleaders do not go to every out-of-town game. In fact, the university sends only a limited number on the student trip, the number depending on the
number of students making the journey. If a cheerleader goes to an out-of-town game he must not only pay his own w-ay but he is not allowed cancelled cuts in the classes he misses.
Also Head Pep Rallies
Jack McGlinn and his men are also responsible for the pep rallies. As a Blue Circle member, Jack was a nat-
McGIinn and Friends
ural choice for pep rally chairman. New ideas and outstanding sports personalities will 'be featured in these rallies.
After an easy winter in their kennels in the rotunda of the stadium, Shannonview Mike and his mate, Patricia, are being groomed for the first football game tomorrow. This is Mike’s third season at Notre Dame and Patricia’s second. The pair of airedales were obtained from the Shannonview Kennels in Chicago. As last reported, there are still no pups but some are expected in the next few- months.
Fellowships Now Available For Study in Mexico in 1952
Nineteen fellow-ships for study in Mexico during the academic year beginning February, 1952, are now- open to U. S. graduate and undergraduate students. Applications for these grants should be made immediately to the Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th Street, New- York.
The grants, which cover tuition plus a monthly living allowance, are offered by the Mexican Government through the Mexican-United States Commission on Cultural Cooperation.
The fields in which awards are available are as follow-s: Undergraduate—physical anthropology, archeology, ethnology, Mexican History, architecture, philosophy and letters; graduate —physical anthropology, archaeology, ethnology, Mexican history, museogra-phy, painting, biological sciences, pediatrics, tropical medicine and cardiology.
Applications, on forms to be secured from the U. S. Student Program of the Institute of International Education, must be filed, with all supporting documents, not later than October 15, 1951.
Cheer Leaders
More Acrobatics Are In Order
SE
14
The Scholastic
NaHiniWork Included In Dante Collections
Three more volumes have recently been added to the Notre Dame library’s already-famous Dante collection. The volumes, all part of a single set, were procured from Florence, Italy, at a cost of §600.
Each of the books is roughly 3x2J/2 feet in size. Printed in Italian, they are illustrated by reproductions of paintings by Amos Nattini. The library acquired the leather-bound set upon the urging of Professor Rufus Rauch of the Department of English.
Acquisition librarian, Mr. L. A. Kenney also has announced the procurement of several incunabula. Incunabula, says Mr. Kenney, are books which were printed before the year 1500 A.D.	'
Another recent arrival at the library is a reproduction of the world-famous Book of Kells. The original manuscript, now preserved at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland, is a beautifully illustrated book containing the four Gospels according to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
The reproduction, which was on display all summer at the library, cost §450.	.
Changes in personnel also marked the summer for the library. Elizabeth D. Petro has joined the staff as Serials Librarian. Mary E. Catharine Schutz is now Assistant Reference Librarian and Mrs. Mildred Elizabeth Dugas has taken over as Assistant Cataloger. Josephine Jane Meagher has been given a new position as Engineering Librarian.
The library’s fall program has a book sale scheduled. At that time students may purchase, for a nominal price, books of which the library has duplicate copies.
Lois Dozier, Gifts and Exchange Librarian, will be in charge of the sale.
Met Club Plans Activities;
Officers Elected for Year
The Metropolitan club held its first meeting of the year recently in the Law Auditorium. The new officers who took over the club for the coming year are Don Fager, president; Bill Delaney, vice-president; Bruce Harrison, secretary; and Kevin Begley, treasurer.
Plans for the year were discussed, particularly the Christmas dance with its queen contest. Other events taken up were smokers, Communion breakfasts, bowling and basketball teams, and a handball tournament.
Sept. 28, 1951
Student Accounts Office Laboring to Solve Room Shortage for 176 'Displaced Persons'
With a record enrollment of 5,154 students taxing University facilities to the utmost, the Office of Student Accounts was faced with the extremely difficult problem of having to furnish living accommodations for several hundred unplaced students during the last several weeks. For the first week it was necessary to temporarily place many men, mostly Freshmen, in the student Infirmary until rooms could be located.
By the end of last week the infirmary had been cleared and all men had been placed either on or off campus. Those placed on campus were generally given rooms in halls designated for their class with only a few placed apart from their own class.
The completion of intra-hall and inter-hall changes this week is expected to make known all possible room vacancies in the residence halls. These Tooms will then be distributed according to a first come, first served, basis from a list taken' on Sept. 13 of men who wished to move on campus. On this list are the names of 222 men. of which number 56 had been faciliated by last weekend.
Mr. Emerit Moore, Director of Student Accounts, stated that the situation this year was much more difficult than last year due to the increase in enrollment and the fact that the acute room shortage on campus did not become evident until late in the summer.
The beginning of the problem might well be traced back to pre-registration last May when 370 men were placed on a tentative list for campus accommodations. At that time it was felt certain that these men would be taken care of through the cancellation of many room reservations due to the normal number of drops and also the draft; but for some unknown reason even fewer cancellations than in normal years were received.
An attempt to open up rooms, through notification that anyone who desired could seek off campus accommodations, netted only 90 further cancellations. Despite the late date, in the middle of August it was necessary, as a last resort, to notify 170 of those previously placed on the tentative list and about 200 transfers and returnees that they would have to seek off campus accommodations.
Every effort has been made through advertising during the summer to obtain off campus listings of rooms, but as registration approached, applications for rooms began to pile up. For the first time in the school’s history, an
attempt was made to directly assign men to off campus rooms but only 51 accommodations could be handled in this way. The remainder were forced to find rooms through the listings supplied by the Office of the Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. James J. Leahy, Prefect of Discipline, whose office cooperated with Mr. Moore and the Office of Student Accounts, stated that he felt it was unfortunate that the situation arose but that it was practically impossible to foresee the difficulties beforehand.
Debaters Geared Up For Rough Schedule
“Resolved—that we should- form a permanent policy of wage and price control.”
Armed with file cards, covered with pertinent information and a mind well-trained in the aspects of logical argumentation. Notre Dame’s Debat? Team will soon begin a senes of 225-250 debates against other major teams of the nation in an endeavor to settle the issue.
The resolution is the national debate topic for this year and each day at 4:15 the debaters receive instruction from Prof Leonard Sommer on the fundamentals of debate. During this time they also formulate their cases for the year. Each debater is required to be equally proficient on both the affirmative and negative sides of the question.
The tournaments will include trips to Boston, Miami, Mobile, Missoula (University of Montana), Texas, and New York. There will also be several trips to locations in Indiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin.
Approximately 20 schools will visit the campus to oppose our team. The highlight of this phase of the debating season will be a visit from Oxford University. It will be the first time the Oxford team has come to the Notre Dame.	-
Returning from last year’s varsity team to add strength and experience to this year’s roster are AI DeCrane, President of the varsity team, Bill Dempsey, Tom Field, Bill Fagan, Bill Hand, and Don Dowden.
Prof. Sommer announced that any student interested in the debate team may still come out and he extends a sneeinl invitation to the freshmen class. Any who wish to try out may do so by contacting Prof. Sommer any time in his office, 328 Main Building.
15
Fattier Cavanaugh Will Be Remembered For Post-War Expansion at Notre Dame
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who currently is seiwing the last year of his final term of office as President of the University of Notre Dame, will he remembered for the tremendous post-war expansion of Notre Dame engineered during his six-year tenure.
Father Cavanaugh, who was elected President and religious superior of Notre Dame in 1946, according to Canon Law must retire from office in 1952. By Canon Law, the superior of a religious community may not serve more than two consecutive three-year terms.
As a result of the rapid physical expansion of the University under Father Cavanaugh, the University of Notre Dame Foundation has launched a “Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund,” with a goal of $3,000,000 by July of 1952. The fundj designed as a tribute to Father Cavanaugh, will be used, through the improvement and expansion of campus utilities systems, to carry forward and complete the building projects inaugurated during Father Cavanaugh’s administration.
Took Over in Critical Time
After serving for six years as Vice-President of Notre Dame throughout the crucial World War II era, Father Cavanaugh stepped into one of the most critical periods in Notre Dame’s century-long history when he succeeded the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., as the University’s fifteenth president, in the immediate post-war period.
Notre Dame’s student body had been off to war for the past four years and the 1,700-acre campus a mile north of South Bend, Ind., had been converted into a naval training base. While the Notre Dame civilian student body had dwindled to a new modern-day low, the Navy had been utilizing campus classroom, residential, dining hall and drill facilities to train more than 25,000 naval students. Nearly 12,000 officers •were commissioned in the ROTC, V-7, V-12, and Marine training programs at Notre Dame.
When Father Cavanaugh assumed the presidency, therefore, one of his first and most urgent tasks was that of converting Notre Dame back to a peace-time University.
He and his administration had to make a very critical decision — one •which might affect the entire future of Notre Dame — almost before he was ' officially settled in his new office.
Father Cavanaugh and his advisors
16
were forced to decide whether Notre Dame should attempt to maintain a status quo in its pre-war enrollment of 3,200 students—which, with available campus facilities, previously had been considered a desirable size for the boarding school atmosphere and training—or whether the University could safely expand to absorb the tremendous demand for post-war college education.
Fr. Cavanaugh with I. A. O'Shaughnessy. In ten years, $25,000,000
With more than 10,000 young men, many of them former Notre Dame students whose education had been interrupted by the war, and many more applying under the GI Bill of Rights— clamoring for entrance to Notre Dame, Father Cavanaugh made his decision:
Notre Dame would utilize its facilities to the utmost, in order to educate as many of these young men as would be humanly possible.
Conversion Difficult Task
As a result of this very important decision, the task of converting Notre Dame back to a peacetime university became even more difficult. Residence hall rooms on the Notre Dame campus that before the war had housed one student were converted to double rooms. Doubles became triples, etc. All available classrooms were used, including a temporary building constructed during the war by the Navy. Former war barracks were moved to the campus to house the families of some of the married veterans who had come back to complete their education.
Countless South Bend families opened their homes to provide rooms and apartments for students who could not be accommodated on the campus.
A total of more than 4,500 students were enrolled at Notre Dame in September, 1947, as Father Cavanaugh began his second month as president. As the return of the GIs continued, this enrollment continually increased until it reached more than 5,100, an increase of better than 62 percent during his term of office.
Drastic Need for Funds
It was evident to Father Cavanaugh at the very outset of his administration that if the Notre Dame student body were to be increased, means must be found, through an expansion and development program, for the physica1 expansion of the University and for increasing the meager $3,000,000 endowment of this privately-endowed university.
With this in mind it was in 1947, the second year of Father Cavanaugh’s administration, that the University of Notre Dame Foundation was organized to coordinate gifts to the University. Under Father Cavanaugh’s leadership, the Notre Dame Foundation launched a ten-year, $25,000,000 program.
During the past three years alumni and non-alumni friends of Notre Dame have given $7,000,000 to the University. These gifts—including the Science Building, the E. M. Morris Inn, the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, and the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Residence Hall —have intensified the need for expansion of the campus utilities systems.
Notre Dame officials hope to achieve the $3,000,000 goal during the “Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund,” and thus keep pace with their long-range $25,000,000 program, through contributions of alumni and non-alumni friends of the University to the Notre Dame Foundation, organized on an international scale with “governors” in each of the 48 states, the District of Columbia and eleven foreign countries. City Chairmen of the Foundation also are active in 227 leading cities throughout the United States.
CAMPUS MOVIES
Sat, Sept 29—“Two Weeks With Love,” News and Cartoon—6:40, 8:40.
Sat, Oct 6 — “Mrs. O’Malley and Mr. Malone,” News and Cartoon—2:00, 6:40, 8:20.
Sat, Oct 13 — “The Mudlark,” News and Cartoon—6:40, 8:50.
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Representatives To Speak at Hanover College
Several Notre Dame professors will be among those attending the annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Social Science on October 5 and 6 at Hanover College, Hanover, Indiana.
Faculty members of Indiana colleges and universities will discuss “Mobilization of Resources in a World of Tension.”
Westley C. Bender, Head of the Marketing Department at Notre Dame and president of the I. A. S. S., will preside over the Business Administration panel.
Paul C. Bartholomew of the University department of Political Science will lead the panel on government.
E. K. Francis, assistant professor of Sociology at Notre Dame, will speak on “The Concepts of Nation, People, and National Minority” in the Sociology panel discussion.
Professor Mathew A. Fitzsimmons of Notre Dame retires this year as one of the directors of the academy.
George S. Wallace of the Business Administration department will be a member of the panel in the summary session Saturday.
Moot Court Begins Activities In Frosh, Junior Divisions
The Moot Court of Notre Dame will commence with its first arguments the last week of October. The Moot Court is a student activity of the Law School and consists of two divisions, Junior and Freshman. The Deans Awards Competition, open only to members of the Junior Division, begins the first week of November. It consists of a series of arguments in which the losers are eliminated.
In the finals of last year’s competition, held on June 9 in conjunction with the Notre Dame Law Association semi-annual meeting, E. Milton Farley and Joseph Spalding were the successful winners. The argument was concerned with the question: “May the Supreme Court of a state deny admission of an applicant to the bar who has successfully passed all requirements but the requirement of showing that he is not a member of the Communist Party?”
The Question was decided in the affirmative. The winners were determined on the basis of their presentation of the argument, and their ability to answer questions.
Mr. Farley and Mr. Spalding will represent the Law School in the 7th Judicial Circuit finals in Chicago in mid-November. If successful they will participate in the National Finals to be held in New York.
Warren Succeeds Foster
As Audio-Visual Dept. Head
The new director of the Audio-Visual Department is Mr. E. A. Warren, who replaces Orville Foster, the department head last year. Mr. Warren has been connected with commercial photography and sound for 15 years.
There will be no photo course conducted by the department this year. The main project scheduled is the production of publicity films for the University and the manufacture of slide films, using the Catholic viewpoint, to be used as teaching aids in elementary and secondary schools.
Where the Audio-Visual Department has been an experiment up to now,. Mr. Warren wishes to develop it into a sound and useful department of the University.
E. A. Warren
Francis Addresses Society Of Sociologists in Chicago
Dr. E. K. Francis, Associate Professor of Sociology, attended the meetings of the American Sociological Society at Chicago, September 5 to 7, where he presented a paper “Some Typical Variables in the Formation of So-Called Minority Groups” to the section on Racial and Cultural Relations.
Dr. Francis had been assisted in the formalization of his theoretical propositions by Dr. Arnold Ross, head of the Notre Dame Department of Mathematics.
On Sept 4, Professor Francis also read a paper on “Adjustment Patterns of Ethnic Groups to the Larger Society” at the convention of the Rural Sociological Society in Madison, Wise.
Hall Elections Open Tuesday; Finals Oct. 9
The hall council elections, under the supervision of the Student Council, have been tentatively set for the first two weeks in October, with the primaries being planned for Tuesday, Oct. 2. A different itianner of election has been established this year in hopes of placing a really live-wire, working council in each hall.’
On Oct. 2, each floor of a hall will elect one member to its hall council. Then, on Oct. 9, the entire hall will choose a council president from the council members elected the week before. The hall council, as then constituted, will proceed to appoint men to fill the remaining vacancies on the council. Thus each group will be partly elected and partly appointed.
Plans have been made for a council of hall presidents to meet bi-monthly in order to co-ordinate the religious, social, and athletic functions within the halls.
The enth-e hall council system will be operating under a new constitution, and all possible efforts will be made to integrate this system more closely with the Student Council. The main problem confronting each hall council this year is to function as an efficient student organization, rather than as a mere dormant structure.
Red Cross Offers Students Free First-Aid Course Here
Beginning next Thursday. Notre Dame students may enroll in a standard first aid course, which will be given on campus by the St. Joseph County Chapter of the American Red Cross. The course also includes supplementary training in atomic radiation treatment.
According to Mr. Frank Galbraith, RN, chapter first aid chairman, there will be no fee for the course, which is open to all ND students. There will be a charge of 70 cents, however, for the standard Red Cross textbook and supplement.
The first meeting is scheduled for Oct. 4 at 6:30 p.m. in room 1, Rockne Memorial. Students may register for the course at that time. The course will last four and one-half weeks, with classes every Tuesday and Thursday evening.
Upon completion of the course, each student will receive a Red Cross certificate, indicative of his training in both standard and radiation first aid.
Each enrollee is asked to supply a right-triangular bandage 42 inches on a side.
Sept. 28, 1951
17
'-■?i ABOVE: Head Letterman Gene Hull discusses arrangement plans with Jerry Costello. BELOW: Progressive music is born under a very progressive-type leopard skin.

The Lady Is a Tramp’
Photos by AL MUTH
It is questionable whether popular bandleader Ray Anthony has ever met Jerry Costello, class of ’52. In fact, it is still open to debate whether he has even heard of Mr. Costello. Nevertheless, Mr. Costello has heard of Mr. Anthony — heard of him and taken him to heart. For it was this same Ray Anthony who remarked that “the arranger is the unsung hero of any orchestra.” And Mr. Costello, to complete the picture, is the principal, the ( only arranger for Gene Hull and his Lettermen, the official dance band of the University of Notre Dame.
Actually, however, as this genius in our midst will be the first to admit, arrangers aren’t a completely unnoticed and unpraised	lot.	Tomorrow	•;
night’s Victory Dance, first of the new Fall season, would	prove	otherwise.
For sometime during	the evening’s fes-	•
tivities leader Hull	will	grasp the	!
microphone and say “ . . . now ... a new treatment of an old favorite, The Lady Is a Tramp, by our alto saxman 4 and arranger, Jerry Costello. Take a bow, Jer.” And Mr. Costello will have his reward — the applause of the crowd, the hearing of something he has created — things for a young arranger to cherish highly.	4
The musical aggregation for which arranger Costello has scored The Lady Is a Tramp and nine previous ventures into the field of arranging was formed three years ago when Bridgeport, Connecticut, yielded Eugene Robert Hull to the waiting arms of the Notre Dame Department of Music. Commuting be-twee-n South Bend and the Santy Runyon School of Music in Chicago, young	J.
Hull found time to organize a dance	z
band which, with a slight turnover each H year, is still going strong.	w
This year's crew of 16 includes a sax | section composed of maestro Hull, ar-ranger Costello, Jim Hawes, Jack Ross, 4 and Jack Bradshaw. In the brass sec-tion Herb Dir, Hank Keating, and Gene Henry man the trombones, while John Skudris, Rollie Kohlbeck, Jim Chanoix, and Don Getz handle the trumpet work. Rounding out the band is Lou Martinello at the piano, Ed Vlaun on bass, Larry Seihorst at the drums, and Joe Desautels on the vocals.
With Gene these 15 men make up the official dance band of the University of Notre Dame. Unofficially, they make the’ largest group of godfathers you’ll see in quite a while for young David Michael, recent boon to the family of Gene and Connie Hull. But they can’t decide what he’s going to play.

Student Body Votes Cotillion Concession
At its second meeting of the year, the Student Council decided Monday evening to limit the sale of flowers for the Soph Cotillion to a single campus representative. A similar monopoly will be set up for the photo concession at the dance. By this action, the Council hopes to avoid unnecessary annoyance of the student body, such as would more than likely take place with several concessionnaires each trying to convince the students that his particular service and product were superior' to all others.
The Council voted to employ a scribe to sit in on future meetings to take the minutes of each meeting and later type them up- in standard form. Then he will be expected to see that copies of the minutes are mimeographed and distributed to administrative heads, various student leaders, and member's of the Council.
The job will take about five hours a week, for which the Council is offering a weekly salary of $5. Any student interested in the job should stop in the Student Council office, 122 Main Building, and see Tom Reedy, Council secretary.
It was announced that a Red Cross mobile X-ray unit will be located in the basement of the University Dining Hall Oct. 15-19 to give tuberculosis tests for only a few cents per person. The Council hopes to devise a plan whereby 100 per cent of all students, faculty, and administrative officials will participate in the program.
A spot check last week on the chow lines showed that, on the whole, students were not required to wait in line more than 10-12 minutes. Since, on the food questionnaire sent out last year, most students thought that 15 minutes was not too long to wait to be served, the Council concluded that the problem was of no great seriousness.
Stories of the student trip and hall council elections, which were also discussed at the meeting, appear elsewhere in the Scholastic.—Bob Gorman
Student Chemist Organization Plans Smoker for Tuesday
The yearly activities of the Notre Dame Student Affiliate Chapter of the American Chemical Society got under way last week, when the newly elected officers, members, and freshman chemistry majors gathered for the year’s
20
first meeting. Chairman Bob Knoebel welcomed the new members and outlined some of the programs that will be undertaken by the Affiliate during the coming months.
Immediate plans call for a smoker on October 2. The chemistry faculty will be invited, as will the freshman chemistry majors; movies will be shown and refreshments served. All students eligible to join the Affiliate will receive notive of the time and place of the affair by postcard.
Further activities were put under the care of special committees. Ed Merica was named to preside over the athletic committee, in charge of organizing basketball, softball, and bowling teams for participation in the campus leagues this year. William Teoli, vice-chairman of the organization, is head of the program committee, and Dave Newsom, club secretary, has been appointed chairman of a committee to organize group tours through chemical plants in this area.
The American Chemical Society is a professional organization of over 62,000 chemists and chemical engineers in the United States and Canada. For undergraduate students of chemistry the society offers Student Affiliation, which grants the student all the privileges of full membership, except voting, at a low cost. There are more than 7400 student affiliates in the United States, most of whom are gathered together in officially chartered chapters at colleges and universities throughout the nation.
CLUB REGISTRATION
Any and all clubs on campus must register their organizations with the Student Council by no later than Oct. 30. Failure to do so will automatically exclude that club from participation in, and legal sanction for, any campus activity or function.
The president of each club is urged to stop at the Student Council office, register his organization with the Council secretary, and pick up a charter form to be filled out and returned to that office.
COUNCIL OFFICE HOURS
The Student Council office, 122 Main Building, will be open from 4:30 to 5:20 Monday afternoon, and from 6:30 to 8:30 Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings. Anyone on campus who must contact the Council at a time other than during office hours should see the Council secretary, Tom Reedy, 349 Dillon Hall.
Council Makes Plans For Baltimore Trip
This year’s student trip has been definitely scheduled for Wednesday, Oct. 31, to Monday, Nov. 5. The dates of the trip to the Navy game and other matters concerning the Baltimore weekend were reported by Joe Gallagher, head of a special Student Council trip committee, at the Council’s Monday night meeting.
Approximate cost of the trip will be §52. This will include a ticket tn the game, hotel reservation for Thursday. Friday, and Saturday nights, and train transportation to Baltimore and back to Notre Dame.
There will be excused cuts on Friday, Nov. 2, for all students making the official trip. Friday classes will be held for all other students, and no cuts on the part of these students will be excused. Classes will be dismissed, however, on Thursday and Saturday of the student trip weekend for all students, whether or not they are making the trip.
Student trippers will leave Notre Dame after an early supper Wednesday evening and will return early Monday morning in time for eight o’clock classes.
The Student Council has turned over handling of the details of the trip to the Blue Circle, and that organization will be in charge of future developments.
Engineering-AB Program Approved by St. Thomas, ND
Officials of the University of Notre Dame and the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn., have jointly announced the adoption of a co-operative liberal arts-engineering program beginning with the present semester.
The 5 year program, approved by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, St. Thomas president, offers a broad cultural background of liberal education as well as a specific technical training in any of seven different fields of engineering.
The new course of studies will include three years at St. Thomas with the final two being spent in the engineering school at Notre Dame. Upon the successful completion of the course the student will receive the degrees both of Bachelor of Arts from St. Thomas and that of Bachelor of Science in Engineering from Notre Dame.
Students in the program may direct their studies in any of the following fields: civil, mechanical, industrial, electrical, chemical or aeronautical engineering, and metallurgy.
The Scholastic
s&naasasi
WND Starts Tape Service To Commercial Broadcasters
For the first time in its history, WND will attempt this Fall to service other radio stations with tape recorded interviews of campus sports personalities and coaches. Stations to benefit from this service are WBEN, Buffalo; WIP, Philadelphia; and WKAR, East Lansing (Michigan State College station) .
Under the present set-up the interviews will be taped in the WND studios and will be sent out to sportscasters at stations around the country. 1 Initially, this feature is to be concerned chiefly with football activities, but station manager Bill Ryan stated that he has hopes the service may be expanded to include other sports. .
Within the next few weeks a new radio program called “Meet the Prof.” < is scheduled to begin. Particulars concerning the character of the interviews have not yet been completed.
ROTC Commandant
(Continued from Page 9) supplies and Sgt. John Moran administration and personnel.
Of the 200-plus colleges and universities throughout the country which have Army ROTC units, fewer than 30 have Engineering groups. New units were also established at Detroit and Marquette Universities this year.
Compared to the other ROTC units at Notre Dame, the new group is about half as large as the Naval training program and one-fifth the size of the Air Force ROTC.
Since most of the army trainees are Freshmen, the unit will in time probably become one of the largest of its kind.
“Come in, Mary, and meet my Room Mate.”
BOOKMEN APPLICANTS
In order to fill vacancies caused by graduation, The Bookmen — a club for the discussion of modern literature and the allied arts—is open to new members from the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes. Letters of application are welcomed from students enrolled in every college. These letters should contain the present academic standing of the student and the reasons for application. Send to: Charles Fahy, 310 Alumni Hall. An interview will be arranged.
Geology Dept. Head to Lead Public Relations Committee
Dr. Archie J. Mac Alpin, Head of the Department of Geology at Notre Dame, has been designated by the a committee designed to acquaint the American Geological Institute to head American public with the present-day role of the geologist in the national economy.
Dr. MacAlpin, who organized the Notre Dame Department of Geology, has been appointed by the Institute to serve as Chairman of the Mass Media Sub-Committee of the Institute’s Public Relations Committee. He will be charged with the responsibility of bringing the geologist and the American public closer together through the media of radio, television and periodicals.
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1946, Dr. MacAlpin previously had served as a field investigator for the United States Geological Survey and as an engineering geologist for the Bureau of Reclamation.
Ticket Sales for Detroit Trip Total 80; Open to Juniors
Ticket sales for the senior trip to Detroit have reached a grand total of 80, leaving 220 tickets yet unsold, according to Tom Reedy, Student Council Secretary.
The trip will include bus fare, two nights’ stay at the Imperial Hotel in downtown Detroit, Friday night supper, bus service for the entire week-end, Saturday night dance, and a ticket to the Detroit-Notre Dame game. Price of the entire trip is twenty-four dollars.
Due to the number of unsold tickets, sales have been opened to m ambers of the Junior class.
Tickets may be purchased by com-tacting Floyd Blair, 170 Dillon Hall.
Camera Survives This Year As All l-D Photos Turn Out
The Student I-D cards, necessary for admittance to University athletic contests and for purposes of identification, were received this week from the printing house in- Chicago. Rev. James J. Leahy, c.s.c., prefect of discipline, said that distribution of the cards would start soon, although the actual procedure to be followed is still uncertain. He also said that unlike last year all the pictures were printable. It may be remembered that pictures were taken but camera trouble ruined them.
Bob Cahill in the ticket office stated . that students may use the plastic container and yellow I-D stub for admission to the Indiana game, Sept. 29, although possession of the yellow stub is unnecessary. It is expected that the I-D cards will be given out in time for the second home game against Southern Methodist, October 13.
BX Sales Reach New High; To Redeem Receipts Soon
Latest information from the Notre Dame Book Exchange is that book receipts from last semester will be redeemed in mid-October. The exact date will be announced soon.
Despite a shortage of saleable books this year, approximately §7,000 worth has crossed the counter in the basement store in the Main Building. Salesmen explained that the book shortage developed because of many switches in text books this year, rendering secondhand books valueless. But BX sales have been higher this year than in any recent year, proving a great demand was present for the books which could still be used.
A permanent schedule, effective immediately, has been set up for the BX with hours as follows: Monday, 3 to 5 p.m., and Thursday, 1 to 3 p.m.
“A Little Talcum and I won't have to shave.”
Sept. 28, 1951
21
JJe twisted in his chair and peered out the thick polaroid glass, rain, rain and Springfield, a cold rain that spattered off the sidewalks like sleet, and ran in slow, stiff rivulets under the theater marquee and bar signs, big, white drops of rain that seemed to slice the dark in long, thin strips. Dalton squinted through the runny blue glass, the Springfield station, Springfield and Tain.
The train slowed, stiffening, a smooth, silent, wet stop and shots of scattered lightbulbs on the platform roof brightened off the streaked windows and silhouetted clusters of people, bunched in dry islands, nudged close and holding their bags. They were poised, the curious hard faces, immobile, eyes flicking from window to window, anxious faces, hypnotized by the heavy slowing thing, poised and holding their bags.
And then, suddenly, the jerked movement, concerted, fending off wet leather, spurts of ragged movement, jostling for position, rustling cellophane and the swish of rubber and deflating umbrellas, they bent forward from the rain and clambered and then squeezed toward the open slots in the car.
“Coach tickets forward,” the porter leaned down at them; “Coach tickets forward, you folks belong up forward.” He cocked his cap against the rain. “SpringFIELD”
DALTON
The groups meshed, webbed in a forward funnel, recoiling from the slot, ricocheting off each other, the sensation of bodies, the twisted squeak of leather, and the dull snap of wet gravel, and they turned away, scurring down the pavement, and more were first again, and at each slot they paused, and at each slot the man in the cap pointed, and they worried at the impatience of the big, steel tube, and they moved rapidly down the pavement in the rain and dark, and Dalton couldn’t see them shunted to the coaches.
It’s the system, Dalton, thought, a good solid system. He inhaled and blew smoke hard against the window, and he watched it bounce off in a broken ring, like the people bounce off the system. “Render unto the rich, the prerogatives of the rich,” he swung his swivel chair around and stared at the crystal design on the bar, “And unto them,” he extended his hand in mock invitation, “And unto them, the Coaches.” And Dalton smiled to himself, and then laughed out loud and turned to the pudgy man across the aisle, and then to the bartender and laughed at them, and there was no one else in the car, and the bartender smiled, and Dalton stopped laughing, and touched his face and stared at his reflection in the window.
The system was good; he spoke to himself, the system was good, and he dug his finger into his drink and twisted the ice. It was a better system, fine, clean lines, distinctive lines, rigid, better than they had at school, and he let the bourbon flow around the ice and down his throat.
Don’t look at the herd more than is necessary; that was part of the system, and he rattled the ice and held his glass aloft, cupped in his hand. The bartender took it and replaced it with a colder glass. That was the system, that was an especially dramatic part of the system. Don’t look at the bourgeoisie more than is necessary. But it was a terrible necessity at school; they were all around; they literally oppressed him. The whole thing was so . . . so democratic.
He pushed his head against the glass and stared at the white rock on the siding; the train was moving out of Springfield, gaining speed and the rain was harder, and it seemed better that
By JAY CONLON
way. Two things, speed and rain, and they both could be intense, and both shoveled clean paths through the mind.
Two years at college, two years and a half, that was good enough, long enough; they paroled him in time, granted a reprieve; reprieve, yes, it was a reprieve, a blow torch to his chains, a quick decisive movement by the hand, a sudden incisive jar, up and down and sideways with the pen, and he moved swiftly away through the rain, faded from jutting walls, away from the heavy, constant weight of his room, from the tedium of a marked wooden chair; and they had forbidden him these thorns, told him he no longer could suffer. Irony, they are your pawns!
He inhaled deep of smoke, and held it until it prickled his throat. He faked them—the phalanx of faces behind the large, hard, shiny mahogany table. He had faked them. They were a study in attitudes, the eyes, the posture, the nodding heads, understanding, knowing all, wishing to know no more, and all, all ostensibly stripping the hard camouflage and asking, “Is he worth the saving?”
Dalton had answered all the questions curtly, with a nod if possible; he had nothing to add, no explanation, nothing; he had returned stare for stare, scrutiny for scrutiny, turned to each as each spoke, listened with a slight tilt of his head, as if with earphones, puzzled, puzzled to an interpreter’s monotone of a foreign language. He had looked away at the blank wall, as if torn from the constant, heavy drone by a voice in the distance, a clear, fine voice that told him something about these men, and then Dalton smiled and looked back at them, attempting quickly to find which was speaking then.
He had let his eyes grow languid once, and during the reading of the indictment, he tightened his jaw, letting the skin form a thin pocket of muscle below the cheek bone, as if he vowed to closet in his soul the true story of Dalton Wheeler, Jr. When the opinions were being gathered, he sat stolidly, staring at nothing, his face impassive, the cold disdain of the true gallows man, and tonight, tonight those men laid in their- beds and thought, “Did I do wrong?” It was beautiful; he had faked them.
Dalton fingered the frost on the glass,
The Scholastic
22
made a little, clear circle, then looked concernedly at his thumb, and wiped it on the chair.
“I don’t think you will persevere long-in this university.” They had said that in his freshman year, in the very first month of school, published their inadequacy. It was the clash of two philosophies, and they could not cope with his. He made a joke of every rule they had, and they wanted to destroy his ingenuity, bury it under a structure, suck the life from a unique personality, but they failed, failed, for they had to cut out the infestation, not cure it. They had no choice but to kick him out; no choice, it was a tactical feat, a tactical victory, a timed, tactical victory.
He watched the thin outlines of trees, and then the sputter of water on the glass. They wanted entities up there; parts of the mass, empty canisters to fill to the brim, another good guy, no rich, no poor, no intellectuals, no unique personalities; that’s why they didn’t appreciate Dalton Wheeler. They’re a bunch of insensitive boors; clods. Better still, big, brawny, middle-western clods.
Dalton dropped his head in his hands and stared at the carpeting, catching up and tracing a small seam from beneath his chair across the aisle, where a brown shoe sat heavily on it, smothering the seam and stifling his thought. He watched the shoe sway with the motion of the train, lifting slightly, but holding to the seam. Dalton jerked his head from his hands and looked at the little man across the aisle, squat little man, squat little shoe salesman from Peoria. The man was looking at him, staring at him from above the brown leather of his magazine. He probably envied Dalton’s nonchalance and sophistication, the casual way he handled himself in expensive clothes, his boredom, his fine sensitive thoughts, repressed thoughts, transcending thoughts, his reserve. . . . “What a muddled insignificant, middleclass piece the little man is.” And Dalton sulked away toward the window, and watched the square blocks of light bounce along the roadbed.
“My name’s Tom Fiedler, what’s yours.” It was the first day, the freshman first day. Dalton looked into the clear face, his roommate, the frank eyes, earnest, interested, and unbiased, the heavy eyebrows which edged his forehead and raised in swift sweeps when he laughed, which was often. He remembered the way Tom squinted when he studied, and rubbed the back of his neck when he was embarrassed. That first day he wanted to take a tour of the campus.	. .
He remembered the Saturday night movies, and Tom Fiedler intent upon the
picture, jerking his head from his cupped hands to laugh and tensing when the picture was dramatic. He remembered the other faces, the one, mass identical look and the methodical change in unison as the picture ground its way through, and suddenly, quickly at a pin-point moment, Dalton would become oppressed, chained, stifled and he would leap from his chair and Tom would turn and look steadily after him and then back at the picture. Swiftly Dalton was under the trees, walking in long strides, and he would imagine himself, away, high, beyond, someplace, in the plane that roared overhead, and smoking when the sign was lit, “No Smoking.”
The train slowed; the wheels clung to the rails and scraped; a rush of air and noise as the porter pushed through the door; noise and movement outside, but security within the club car.
“LitchFIeld, LitchFIeld,” the porter stared at him, but Dalton didn’t look up, and neither did the man, and the bartender still shined the glasses, and there was quiet, only the steady throb below.
He rose quickly from his seat shaking loose his pants leg from the sock, and using his long, thin fingers as a pincer to grasp a thread, scooped up his drink • and walked toward the dome car. He was tired of the sameness, the same two faces, the same chair, the same win
dow, and the same air; it was too much like school, sameness.
The air was chilly and dank in the dome car; the upholstery was cold and the thin linen cloth chilled his neck. The dark and the cold and the emptiness and the rain spattering in ziz-zagged streaks above his head were real things and they gathered around him as signs of his solitude and supports to his thoughts.
“I am the Raskolnikov, the Faust, and they have dealt with me with the machinery of Everyman.” Dalton spoke the words to the empty car. The men, the men behind the table know my character. “Your past record indicates that. . . .” What are these marks, these asterisks, these x’s that have been added, multiplied, then discounted and divided into a figure that says dismissal. These remarks by proctors and prefects, by professors and peers that have juggled themselves on paper into an outline, an outline of me. They know me; they know me! And he lifted his glass, catching the sparkle of a light that outlined the slice of orange, and he caught it out and sucked on it.
The wheeze of a door below, the constant throb, and Dalton watched the straggly lights of Litchfield, like baby lightning bugs, suddenly doused one by one behind him; and there was only the heavy clucking below, over each tie, caught and thrust behind and lost in the
(Continued on Page. 31)
Sept. 28, 1951
23
Team Opens 1951 Schedule At St. Paul on December I
By JOHN COX
The Notre Dame Basketball team, under their new coach, Johnny Jordan, will open a 26 game schedule against St. Thomas at St. Paul on the first of December. Among the Big Ten teams scheduled this year are Wisconsin, Northwestern, Indiana, and Purdue. Nine of the games will be played at home with Northwestern, Loyola, Pennsylvania, Michigan State, DePaul, and Pittsburgh among the top teams putting in appearances at the Field House.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 1951-52 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Dec. 1 St. Thomas at St. Paul, Minn. Dec. 4 Wabash at Notre Dame.
Dec. 8 Wisconsin at Madison, Wis. Dec. 11 Northwestern at Notre Dame. Dec. 17 Loyola at Notre Dame.
Dec. 22 Pennsylvania at Notre Dame. Dec. 28 Indiana at Indianapolis, Ind. Dec. 29 Purdue at Indianapolis, Ind. Jan. 2 Michigan State at Notre Dame. Jan. 5 Louisville at Louisville, Ky.
Jan. 8 Butler at Notre Dame.
Jan. 12 Marquette at Milwaukee, Wis.
Jan. 15 Michigan State at Lansing, Mich.
Jan. 26 Canisius at Buffalo, N. Y.
Jan. 28 Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Feb. 2 Kentucky at Chicago Stadium. Feb. 4 Northwestern at Evanston, Ill. Feb. 7 Marquette at Notre Dame.
Feb. 9 St. Louis at St. Louis, Mo. Feb. 11 Butler at Indianapolis, Ind. Feb. 14 De Paul at Notre Dame.
Feb. 18 Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Feb. 23 Navy at Annapolis, Md.
Feb. 25 New York University at New York.
Feb. 26 Pennsylvania at Philadelphia, Pa.
Mar. 1 De Paul at Chicago Stadium.
The Hawaiian lads also voted for the heads of their two regular committees with Joe Borges, ’52, gaining the chairmanship of the club’s athletics and Roger Fernandes, ’54, being picked to handle the publicity of the Kamaainas.
This year, the number of men on campus from Hawaii has increased from the 16 of last semester to a grand total of 20. Newcomers are Henry Nye, a graduate student who transferred from the University of Dayton, and Frosh Don Gallagher, Alex McAngus, Walt Cabral, and Bill Tunnel. One of the Hawaii boys of last year was called into the Army
CLOTHIERS	TAILORS
Special SALE OF BETTER SUITS and COATS
Choice of the house — 80% are new fall garments.
$75.00 Suits and Coats now $57.50
$85.00 Suits and Coats now $67.50
25% discount on all made to measure suits and coats from $75 to $140. Also a 25% discount on oui’ entire trouser stock.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115!/2-117!4 N. Main St.	.
RENTALS	UNIFORMS

during the summer.
After the meeting for the election of the new club officers, a tape-recorded interview was made by Al Woods and Johnny Burlage of WND for a Saturday afternoon show over WSBT. Walt Tagawa talked on the background and origin of the Hawaiian club, and the new president, Ronald Wong, spoke on the Kamaainas plans for the future.
Walt Cabral, one of the Freshmen working out with the Notre Dame varsity, was asked about his first impressions of football here at Notre Dame. Al Woods closed the interview with a chat with Alex McAngus on how he liked his first visit to the Mainland.


*
New Hawaiian Club Officers Chosen; Membership Grows
Notre Dame’s Hawaiian club, the Kamaainas o Hawaii, held their first meeting of the 1951-52 school year last Friday night in Room 1 of the Law Building. Leading item on the agenda was the election of officers for the Fall semester.
Ronald Wong, ’53, was elected president and the former president, Walter Tagawa, ’52, was chosen to serve as the club’s vice-president. Steven Araki, ’54, was picked as the Kamaainas’ treasurer while Valentine Chun, ’54, was re-elected to the post of secretary.
24
Whenever you have work to do And want to make an "A” or two Don’t groan, don’t gripe, Don’t quake, don’t toil Call right up and Rent-a-Royal.
R.
0
309 E. JEFFERSON BLVD.
TELEPHONE 2-3336
TYPEWRITER CO., INC
LATE MODEL OFFICE TYPEWRITERS ON EASY TERMS
ONE MONTH $4 THREE MONTHS $9 Free Delivery, Pickup and Service
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Notre Dame Host to Indiana Tomorrow
Irish Reserves Deal Varsity 14-13 Defeat
By BILL LONDO
Coach Joe McArdle’s blue-shirted reserves dealt their first string teammates a 14-13 defeat last Saturday in the final dress rehearsal for tomorrow’s grid opener* against Indiana. A third quarter safety proved to be the difference in the hard fought but ragged scrimmage.
Freshman quarterback Ralph Gugli-elmi outgeneraled the varsity’s John Mazur and Tom Carey, while a stubborn reserve defense kept Bill Barrett, John Petitbon, and company bottled up most of the afternoon.
Bill Barrett
The varsity scored early in the first quarter on a 70-yard march, Barrett going the last yard. A pass from Mazur to fullback Neil Worden set up the touchdown. Menil Mavraides made good on the extra point try.
1 Another Mazur to Worden aerial •put the first-stringers in scoring posi-!tion late in the opening period. However, the blue line stiffened on its own 30, and a fourth down field goal attempt by Mavraides was low.
In the second quarter the reserves gave the first indication that this was (Continued on Page 28)
Leahy's Lads Favored in Season Opener;
D'Achille, Robertson to Lead Hoosier Attack
By JACK ECONOMOU
Spurred on by the hope of a second successive victory over Notre Dame, a record not achieved since 1905 and 1906, the best opening day squad Indiana has fielded since 1945 will invade the Notre Dame stadium tomorrow afternoon. A capacity crowd of 56,000 spectators will witness the 24th renewal of this 53-year-old Hoosier rivalry.
The Cream and Crimson will be led by a native South Bend boy, Bobby Robertson, who was a major factor in last year’s 20-7 Hoosier upset of Notre Dame. The slick and shifty halfback has a fine opportunity of setting a r.ew Hoosier scoring record and he’d personally like to score all the necessary 20 points against the Irish. Besides being the top ball-carrier Robertson does the squad’s punting, having placed third among Big Ten punters last year.
The Mastermind, D’Achille
Masterminding the team from his T-formation quarterback position will Le pint sized Lou D’Achille. The Hoosier aerial offense depends entirely upon the
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP (Offense)
INDIANA	NOTRE DAME
C. Anderson ______LE...... Mavraides
Russo ............LT...... Poehler
Kincaid ..........LG__________ Burns
Becket ...........C ......... Hunter
Thomas ...........RG..	Varrichione
Talarico _________RT.-------- Toneff
Luft .............RE....	Mutscheller
D’Achille ________.QB......... Mazur
Robertson .........LH------ Petitbon
Dozier ...........RH.................. Barrett
Gedman ___________FB......... Worden
Kickoff time: 2:00.
accurate left arm of this 20-year-old junior from Beaver Falls, Pa. Last year, D’Achille put on a wide open • razzle-dazzle type of offense, reminiscent of Southwestern football, which had the Irish line completely befuddled. Added experience and a better line will help D’Achille to evade the renowned second-year jinx.
Cliff Anderson
The rest of the backfield lacks the razzle but has the steady, dependable type of ball players. Gene Gedman, also from the mountains of Western Pennsylvania, is almost a certainty at fullback. He is second to Robertson as a runner but he can block better than any other Hoosier back. At the right halfback post, the Hoosiers are long on quantity. Bill Dozier, another Pennsylvanian, John Davis, Pete Fisher, and Jerry Ellis are still battling for the No. 1 position. One of this quartet
Sept. 28, 1951
25
will also sub for Robertson at left half.
The line, although stronger than its predecessor is still weak in the middle. Cliff Anderson is a second-year starter at left end. D’Achille and he clicked 20 times in 1950 and barring injury the combination should be good for a high percentage of Hoosier touchdowns. Don Luft, another letterman, returns to his right end position. Luft, a good pass catcher, is extremely useful when opposing defensive backs are decoyed to cover Anderson.
Thomas Bolsters Middle
The weak middle is bolstered chiefly by Dan Thomas, a letterman at right guard. Thomas was a 50-minute man against the Irish at Bloomington in 1950. The co-guard will be picked from Larry Martin, Ronnie Ferrari, and Benny Fioritto. Fioritto is a letterman, but injuries and inexperience have constantly plagued him. Much depends on Pete Russo and Hd Roth at tackles. Their inexperience however may prove costly, not only on the defensive but also in setting up protection for D’Achille’s passes. Charles Razmic is slated for the number one center post.
Coach Clyde Smith, his squad swelled to 80 men by virtue of freshman eligibility, had planned to use a two-platoon system, but the hope of victory over the Irish will call for five varsity men to do double duty. The Hoosiers face a rugged schedule, meeting Michigan, Ohio State, Illinois, Wisconsin and Michigan State on successive weekends. A victory over the Irish would not only be an end in itself, but ■would also give the Hoosiers the encouragement needed to carry them through the Herculean schedule.
Bobby Robertson
The Irish, on a slightly higher level, are as uncertain an element as the Cream and Crimson. Two weeks ago the Varsity trounced the reserves 47 to 0. But last Saturday the second-stringers bounced back to eke out a 14-13 triumph. This inconsistency plus
the difficulty in selecting the starting eleven men is still plaguing Coach Frank Leahy on the eve of the opening game.
Sure Starters
The sure starters are Bob Toneff, all-American candidate at right tackle, Jim Mutscheller, Captain of the Irish and also a candidate for All-American honors at right end, and Paul Burns, a three-year standout at left guard. Toneff is ready to reassume the brilliance he displayed as a sophomore in 1949. The leg which hampered his efficiency last year is fully mended and Bob is in the best condition of bis grid career.
Mutscheller, who in 1950 bettered the all-time Notre Dame pass catching record, has been the same unspectacular but grim and efficient end throughout the Spring and Fall practice. His leaping catches are a beauty to witness and his ability to diagnose and upset plays are remindful of the great Irish ends of the past decades. Frank Varrichione will be at the guard post, as savage as ever. The size, speed, and ruggedness he displayed in the
Old Timers game give him the potential of greatness and can give the middle of the line the bolstering it needs.
The other end is Chester Ostrowski, who after a tour of duty as a guard, is back to his old wing position. Tony Zambrowski will be the probable starter at left tackle.
Backfield Starters
The starting backfield will revolve around three Seniors and one Sopho-i.nore. Billy Barrett will attempt to repeat the performance of his sophomore year when he tied Emil Sitko for the squad’s high scorer. John Petitbon will be called upon to do double duty as a speedy ball carrier at left halfback and as a defensive halfback. The quarterback slot, pivot post of Notre Dame’s offense, will be handled by John Mazur, an effective performer in his infrequent appearances during 1950. Sophomore Neal Worden, a standout in spring drills, has inherited the fullback slot.
The rest of the Irish squad is composed chiefly of Freshmen and Sophomores. Whenever possible Coach Leahy will use his wealth of material in a two-platoon system. A victory over Indiana will avenge last year’s setback and a decisive score will give the yearlings the incentive and confidence necessary for an undefeated season.

Matey Wins Golf Crown
Joe Moresco runner-up on the campus golf tourney conducted last week congratulates the winner, Tom Matey.

26
The Scholastic
Splin hrs from ih^PressboX
Irish Foes Win Four;
Mustangs Only Loser
A
Win or Lose
It takes a better man — whether he be an athlete, a coach, or an alumnus — to walk proudly from a sports arena in defeat knowing that the best has been expended than it does to stand in the winner’s circle amid the shouting and applause. It’s easy to accept triumph; hard to feel the pangs of losing. This, of course, is only human nature. It is great to win in any endeavor, but having done your best it is no disgrace to lose. After all, what is the primary purpose of sports — to build a man physically or to win in any way possible?
Last week the national spotlight was focused on collegiate football. There were charges of evils; there were suggestions as to how to cure them. The first and probably the most sensational was put forth by Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune. He charged that subsidization and proselytism were ruining collegiate football. His basic suggestion to remedy this situation was to rotate coaches, cut out Spring practice and subsidization of players. However, this doesn’t go deep enough. Spring practice, rational subsidization or long tenure by a coach in themselves are not the producers of these evils that are becoming part of collegiate football. They find their roots in the same places that fostered last winter’s basketball scandals and that is a warped idea of just what sport is.
Athletic Departments Not Responsible
Avery Brundage, president of the United States Olympic association since 1928 and international Olympic committee vice president, charged last week that the fault lay “squarely on the doorsteps of the top level college administration authorities and not on the athletic departments.” He asked that college sports departments be put on a par with the academic departments because they have been neglected. The only attention they received was when their receipts rolled in.
“So college presidents and faculties paid no heed to the mad merry-go-round that football created — rich inducements to players, heavier demands on coaches ...”
By Jack Varley
Brundage went on, but actually what he had to say was that collegiate sports are becoming professionalized. The ideal, the ancient Greek ideal, that puts equal emphasis on developing the body along with mind should again be fostered by American colleges and univer-tities. Sports should be fun rather than a commercial enterprise. The loss of a game shouldn’t have the same effect on players, coaches, students and alumni as a big drop in the stock market has upon the businessman.
Possible Solution
How can this be done, how can these evils be annihilated and thus save collegiate sport? The answer is simple — foster the idea that sports are primarily to build the body. Take the commercialism out of sports. The NCAA is an organization built around college athletics. Give them the power to make sure collegiate sports are strictly conducted on an amateur plane. Give them the power to deal with violators.
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame stadium will be the scene of the inaugural of the 1951 Notre Dame football season. Tomorrow at 2:00 Leahy’s boys meet the Hoosiers of Indiana. How will the game turn out? Well, if you are superstitious you might give the Hoosiers the nod. It’s like this — only once in the twentieth century has Notre Dame lost an opening game. That was back in 1934 when Texas grabbed a 7-6 victory. The previous season, 1933, was the worst in the history of Irish gridiron battles. Last year’s was the second worst season turned in by a Notre Dame eleven. Now the superstitious member of the audience might say that it follows that fate will be Indiana’s 12th man tomorrow and help the Hoosiers upset the Fighting Irish. But — we’re not superstitious and ignoring last Saturday’s poor showing by the varsity we 'will remember the previous Saturday when the varsity pushed the reserves all over the field and predict a 27-13 victory for Frank Leahy and ■company.
Five of Notre Dame’s ten 1951 opponents began gridiron operations last Saturday, and four of them came out on the long end of the score. Detroit and Michigan State squeaked through to narrow triumphs, North Carolina and Southern California registered convincing wins, and Southern Methodist was upset by Georgia Tech.
One thing the Irish can count on when they face Michigan State at East Lansing on November 10 — the Spartans’ quota of luck for the season will be completely gone. Michigan State needed every bit ..of good fortune they could get to sneak past Oregon State 6-0, as the winning Spartan TD came on a fumble in their own backfield with a little over three minutes remaining in the first half.
It was fourth down and one to go for a touchdown. Dick Panin, Spartan .fullback, was slated to go through rhe line on a direct pass from center, but he couldn’t find the handle on the ball.
Quarterback Al Dorow picked the ball out of the air, underhanded it to halfback Don McAuliffe, who was wide to the right as a decoy, and with no one near him, McAuliffe breezed across for the score and the narrow Spartan victory.
Detroit Wins Close One
Detroit’s margin was even less Than their upstate cousins’, but the Titans didn’t go about their squeaker victory in quite the same spectacular fashion as the Spartans.
Paced by right halfback Ron Hor-wath, the Detroit team, which will host ND in a night game at Briggs Stadium October 5, rolled to a 28-0 margin over Toledo, but then had to fight hard to stave off a Toledo rally which was good for four touchdowns.
Detroit ended the Toledo hopes with a six-pointer in the fourth period, and camp through with a narrow 34-32 win.
North Carolina and Southern Cal did it the easy way. The Tarheels had little trouble thumping North Carolina State 21-0, though they kept the fans interested by waiting until the fourth period to score their final two touchdowns. USC’s Trojans whipped Washington State 31-21, outlasting a two-touchdown Cougar rally in the third period.
Soggy weather conditions and an alert Georgia Tech pass defense smothered the famous Mustang air attack, as the Engineers from Tech outpointed the Southwestern stars, 21-7. SMU’s lone touchdown came in the second period on a Benners to White aerial.
Sept. 28, 1951 •
27
Football Inaugurates Interhall's Fall Card
In keeping with their desire to give each and every man the opportunity to participate in his favorite sport the University’s Department of Physical Education will offer a full program of interhall athletics for the Fall months. The interhall tackle football league is already under way and the Autumn baseball loop and the various swimming meets at the Rockne Memorial are in the process of being organized. There are also plans to have leagues formed for touch football, soccer, and volleyball.
Interhall football will again hold the limelight for the next few months. The 1951 league got under way September 17 with the different hall teams holding their first practices.
Mr. Dominic Napolitano once more will be guiding the overall destinies of the interhall gridders and promises a banner season.
“Nine Halls plus the boys from Off-Campus will have teams this year,” he told the Scholastic.
“Last year we had only nine clubs entered in the circuit. But during the. first few days of practice last week on the fields south of the ND tennis courts there were more than 300 boys practicing with their respective teams.”
Morrissey Last Year’s Winner
Morrissey Hall won the title in the Western Division last Fall and went on to whip the Eastern Division winners, St. Edward’s, 32-0, for the campus crown. It was one of the few lopsided contests last season for during the regular league play most of the games were decided by the margin of a few points. -
A very conservative guess would put the number of student spectators at the interhall games for each week at around 500 shouting fans. The first games will probably be scheduled for the first week of October.
Like last year the first 22 players on the championship team will receive gold footballs while the first 22 on the runner-up club will get silver footballs. Napolitano will have four teams of four physical education majors each officiating at the grid contests.
The coaches for the ten teams are Jim Riha, Farley; Dick Tighe, Zahm; Bill Ryan, Breen-Phillips; John Woep-pel, St. Edward’s; Don Owens, Dillon; Gene Perry, Howard; Nick Arnato, Morrissey; Aaron Dyson, Cavanaugh; Tom Powers, Off Campus; and Dan Finn, Lyons.—Roger Fernandes.
28
Baseball Prospects Begin Autumn Drills;
Coach Kline Looks for Infield Replacements
COACH KLINE INSTRUCTS JACK CUNNINGHAM A Pitcher, a catcher, a $50,000 first baseman
Though football hysteria has reached its peak with the opening of the 1951 season only a day away, a group of 40 Notre Dame students has a different sport on its mind. For the baseball squad under the watchful eye of Coach Jake Kline has begun its fall drills.
Although last year’s team was la-dened with Sophomores and Juniors, graduation hit the team hard in some positions. Lost through graduation were such stars as: Dick Giedlin, stellar first sacker who recently signed with Detroit for a $50,000 bonus, pitchercaptain Bob Nemes and outfielder Jim Gillis who are now with the Phillies. Also gone is catcher Tom Boland who compiled the highest batting average for the ’51 season.
Reserves Beat Varsity (Continued from Page 25) not to be a repeat of the previous week’s slaughter. Halfback Joe Heap climaxed a concerted drive by circling the varsity’s right end for 25 yards and a touchdown. The extra point attempt was blocked and the varsity still led by one point.
The next time the reserves had the ball Guglielmi tossed 55 yards to Sophomore end Don Penza, but the varsity held and took over on downs. Carey passed to Petitbon for 30, but a moment later Bill Gaudreau intercepted another pass by the Chicago Freshman and the half ended with the score 7-6.
The varsity made it 13-6 when line-
Coach Kline looks on Jerry Ledwidge and Stan Konopka to be his top hurlers. Other returning lettermen include infielders Harry Durkin, Len LeRose, Dave Costigan, Bob Manning, and Jim Manning; and outfielders Jack Cunningham, Joe Pfaff, and Joe Ridge.
Two big gaps to fill are catcher and first base. Bob King and Dick Gaberik are fighting for' the catcher's berth, while the candidates for first include Dick Rosenthal, John O’Laughlin, and Fred Delaney.
Although the burden of the pitching chores lie mainly on the shoulders of Ledwidge and Konopka, Freshmen in the personage of Jerry Donnelley, Pete Castner, and Tony Bujnowski will greatly strengthen the staff.
backei* Dick Syzmanski scampered 25 yards with an intercepted pass at the start of the second half. The attempt at the point hit the bar and was no good.
After an exchange of punts McArdle’s reserves got two of those points back when they smothered Mazur in the end zone. John Lattner’s fine kick and a 15-yard holding penalty put the varsity into the hole.
Then with 12 minutes remaining Guglielmi tossed a short pass to Sophomore Tom McHugh who raced all the way to the varsity ten. Bob Joseph went over on fourth down to put the reserves out in front, 14-13.
The second-stringers were on their way to an insurance touchdown when
' The Scholastic
Dave Flood snatched one of Guglielmi’s passes to end the threat. The running of Heap and McHugh featured this drive.
The number one offensive line had Jim Mutscheller and Joe Katchik at end, Bob Toneff and Mavraides at tackle, guards Paul Burns and Chet Ostrowski or Frank Varrichoine, and center Art Hunter. The backfield was composed of Mazur, Barrett, Petitbon, and Worden.
Defensively the Irish started Frank Mangialardi and Bob O’Neil at end, Bob Beady and Joe Bush at tackle, Jack Alessandrini and Syzmanski at guard, Jack Lee at center, and backs Dan Shannon, Gene Carrabine, Flood, and Lattner.
Bill Fischer, Army Veteran, Golf Captain for *52 Season
As successor to Tom Veech as captain of the golf team, the members have chosen Bill Fischer, a 24-year-old Senior from Joliet, Hl. Fischer built up quite a reputation in Joliet sporting
Bill Fischer
circles not only for his golfing ability, but also for his football achievements at Joliet Catholic High School.
Upon graduation from high school Fischer was forced to follow the course so many others were taking and entered the service; 14 months of his time were taken up with the U. S. Army, 10 of which were spent overseas.
Upon his return from the service Fischer enrolled at Notre Dame and
immediately started to distinguish himself on the links.
Among his laurels is included a third place in the Chicago District Open and a similar’ finish in the Walker County Invitational. A hole in one on the Burke Memorial Course here at Notre Dame rates above all as his number one thrill.
Top-Seeded Tennis Stars Advance in Campus Meet
As the elimination rounds of the campus tennis tourney proceeded into its first full week, the eight top-seeded net performers all advanced into their respective rounds without too much trouble from the opposition.
Out of approximately 110 entries handed in to tennis mentor Walter Langford, these first eight seem to be living up to their pre-tourney notices. As of last Sunday, not one upset was posted.
Top-seeded Jim Farrell, the defending champ, had a comparatively easy time getting by the first two rounds by defeating Joe Sassano 6-1, 6-1, and Joe Cosgrove 6-0, 6-1. Farrell’s chief competitor, second seeded Wally Clarke, seems to have his sights set on the championship this yeai* as he advanced into the third round by easily drubbing Bob Rich in straight sets 6-1, 6-0.
Third-seeded Don Crowley, and seventh-seeded Jerry Finney each moved into the second round without swinging a racquet as they won by default, while fourth-seeded Dick Simmons defeated Tom Murray 6-1, 6-2. Freshman Bill Reale retained his fifth place status by ousting John Dougherty in three sets 6-4, 5-7, 6-1.
Sixth-seeded Bill McMurray and eighth-seeded Ray Tierney also gained the second round, with McMurray winning from Tom Obrect 6-1, 6-1, and Tierney whipping Lew Mollica 9-7, 6-2.
Five Former Gridders Help Frank Leahy Prepare Team
Five members of Notre Dame grid teams of former years are continuing their studies under the Golden Dome this semester and at the same time are assisting the coaching staff in preparing the 1951 edition of the Fighting Irish. The ex-gridders are Bob Lally, Bill Flynn, Dick Cotter, Frank Johnston and Gene Smith.
Lally, who graduated with the class of ’50, earned three monograms as a guard and linebacker on the great teams of ’47, ’48 and ’49. He has the unique distinction of having never played in a losing football game, high
school or college. He, is in the College of Law.
Flynn -was the last of the four-year monogram winners here at Notre Dame, having accomplished this feat in ’45, ’48, ’49 and ’50 — a two-year hitch in the Marines interrupted his college career. He served as an end for his first three years, but became a first string tackle last fall when Coach Frank Leahy moved him to that position to fill a weakness there. He will graduate in January.
A vicious linebacker on defense, Cotter blossomed into one of the team’s most aggressive ball-carriers during the latter part of the 1950 campaign. A three monogram w-inner, he also lettered in the ’48 and ’49 seasons. He is now a student in the College of Law.
Although eligible for one more season, “Blackie” Johnston will be unable to participate in football this fall due to a head injury. A senior, Johnston earned his ND monogram last Fall as a guard.
Smith, substitute halfback in his •football days at Notre Dame, was a member of last spring’s graduating, class and is now enrolled in the College of Law.—Tom Foote, ’53
Sport Briefs
Following a precedent which was solidly established last season, the Notre Dame football team will fly to most of theii’ away football games this fall. Among those games when Notre Dame will become the “Flying Irish” are the Pittsburgh game, in Pittsburgh, the Navy game in Baltimore, Md., the North Carolina game, at Chapel Hill, N. C., and the Southern California game in Los Angeles.
Joe Bush, sophomore tackle at Notre Dame, tells of an interesting experience which occurred during his first day of practice. Going across to make a tackle, he saw a form hurtling towards him in blocking position- When he woke up, he found that he had been trapped by a halfback, his older brother, senior Jack Bush.
When Notre Dame plays the University of Iowa in Notre Dame Stadium, November 24, it' will be a sort of renewal of old times for three Notre Dame players. Brothers Jack and Joe Bush and quarterback Bob Martin, all hail from the Hawkeye state.
Sept. 28, 1951
29
BOOKS
MR. SMITH, by Louis Bromfield; Harper and Brothers, New York, 1951. $3.00.
In Mr. Smith Louis Bromfield has written an unusually confusing novel on a difficult and familiar theme—the disorders and attitudes of the American society. He publishes the book with the hope (given through the mouth of the hero) that it “might help (someone else) with the same disease as mine . . . rotting from the core outward. . . .”
The problem is stated early in the book; it is the extreme disillusionment and frustration of a man who very suddenly realizes that he may be summed up as having a nice income, a nice car, a nice wife, some nice children, and very little else. He finds himself living on a plane of mediocrity and conformity; he further finds it necessary to escape.
It is not a simple thing he must escape. His marriage is what the neighbors call a beautiful one; he and his wife Enid constitute the ideal American couple. In other words, they are very unhappily married. While he admits to this fact, his wife does not:
“Enid was perfectly a part of the pattern and acted her role as if superbly cast for it, and like the possessive American wives of so many prosperous and apparently happy American husbands, she wanted not to lose her husband. . . .” Further, he finds himself caught up in his own time, something not easy to run away from. Enid to him symbolizes the vacant uselessness of the age he lives in.
“Enid is the perfect product of (our age). She leads an existence which is almost wholly material and even mechanical, without depth or perception, without questioning anything save those who rebel against her kind of living . . .”
The means of escape he has seen others take, “half-tipsy necking with some middle-aged woman in the back seat of a parked car at the -country club” is not escape at all, but still only conformism. He cannot even achieve some sort of grandeur in a tragic failure to escape, since you “can’t make authentic tragedy out of trivial, superficial characters.”
Having resolved his problem, Mr. Bromfield then proceeds to test various means and ways of solving it. These include some wierdly confused essays on the topics of (1) education, which does not show the way out; (2) love, which might ... he is not sure;
30
(3) religion: he believes that the Catholic Church might have helped him if he had “come close enough to it to understand or appreciate it or to feel any special or irresistible attraction.” Religion is a tenuous and webby thing for him; at least it seems not to offer any rescue now; (4) a fairly sordid love affair with a drug addict which he believes for a time has rescued him, but which he finally discovers has not; (5) and finally and successfully, in the writing of his journal and in the knowledge that his wife has finally lost him, she being the symbol of a pattern of culture consisting of refrigerators, washing machines, automobiles, and neo-Georgian houses. This last is his solution.
Mr. “Smith’s” solution is not, I think, a very valid one, Mr. Bromfield being somewhat inclined to substitute cynicism for rational, constructive thinking. The novel is a confused complaint on the ways in which things are done in America and, unfortunately, his way of doing them is little better. Mr. Bromfield, in short, is trying to ride to heaven in a 1952 Cadillac.
He complains against a materialism without “depth or perception,” yet fails to establish, treats rather casually, and by implication almost disavows a “spiritualism” to oppose it. Search
THE BY-WORD NOW is "LETS MEET AND EAT* at
Milt’s Patio
420 Lincoln Way West	Phone 3-0373
For your next Bull-Session CALL MILT’S FOR DELIVERY SERVICE $3.00 Minimum Order ________________________________________________
The Scholastic
ing for a spiritual peace, although he does not seem to realize it, he allows his hero to escape into a vacant plane, a negative order opposed to materialism and then, his purpose accomplished, the hero dies happy.
So Mr. Bromfield is at cross-purposes with himself. A flame cannot exist in a vacuum; it will eventually destroy itself. Neither can a man be happy, as is Mr. “Smith” on a negative plane, a spiritual vacuum; he cannot live in it. Destruction is inevitable.
His book might be useful as a medium for congealing and concretizing the wrongs and rights of our society, but otherwise is it trivial, tedious, and sententious.
As Friar Lawrence puts it rather neatly: “Confusion’s cure lies not in these confusions!”—John Engels
INFORMATION
The Blue Circle will operate an information booth from 10 o’clock until game time tomorrow for the benefit of visitors to the campus. Maps and literature as well as guided tours through the University will be offered.

Dalton
(Continued from Page 23)
dark. Like the days at school, the monotonous movement, fast and slow, but past, past and irreclaimable, and who wanted to reclaim them; gone, but pushed behind. If I could reach down and hold that railroad tie, stop movement, and snatch back each day of the two years, I would not. I would not!
'l
*
The sodden shifting, swaying of a curve and Dalton saw the machine-like nodding of the Diesel headlight, and the cars straightened, and the seats before him, clamped down, silent, rigid humps, passive and straight, like the seats in a classroom, only different. And then, the dull monotone with the clucking of the ties. “Ainsley, Allton, Ayres,” the man in the- middle, any man, any dull man. And Dalton watched the back of each seat and saw their heads bob, the halfraised hands, the clear, hard voices, the movement, the movement, always the clamber and movement, the excess of energy that never wore off, and the man, the man who stood between the chairs and whose words careened off the chairs like rain spattering and draining off the glass, he never saw Dalton Wheeler, Jr.
He was just another name, another body in a chair. None of them had recognized him, gauged his superiority, grasped the affinity of artistic temperaments, the keeness of sensitivity, the hard intellectual core, knew the depth of his personality. Dalton Wheeler was the thin boy next to Westoff, seat thirty-five; Wheeler, grade FA; that’s why he had revolted, scoffed at their system; they never saw him.
He pursed his lips and looked down at his hands, long and white even in the dark, and he put one in the other- and squeezed and held them up against the stippled background of the overhead window, and the thin smudges clouded the patterns of water.
And the steady pounding below, each railroad tie, shunted the car toward the bridge and the river and Union Station and home. He was a passive body, a magnificent, solitary being in glass, hurtled home. It was dramatic, Dalton thought, and he lit a cigarette.
The train was raising itself for the suspended slowness across the bridge, and below were little towns, dirty, clapboard buildings by light, and black mounds with yellow windows at night, sitting on the fringe of the river, gummed by the slime of the Mississippi and Dalton tried to peer into their windows.
The rain was stopping; the hard, clean drops were small prickles, making a mist
Sept. 28, 1951
on the glass; the land outside was straight and even and clear and the darkness no longer bounced with the rain. It was a light, weak wetness that soaked it and soddened and burdened and oppressed and dragged one down, and dulled the spirit, and tugged downward at the body like quicksand. And it would make the hard cement concourse smooth and silent and desolate like the river below, but it would be soft under his feet, soft, and the cement would suck, and he would flounder before the two people who waited for him.	,
Dalton shoved his hand overhead and wiped the steamy wetness from the glass. “Rain hard, rain hard,” and he swung his arms in tempo, clearing the panes of glass. “You hear me, I want yon to rain.”
Victory Dances Ahead
YOU’LL HAVE MORE FUN! YOU’LL BE MORE FUN! !f you’re a Good Dancer
Special
SPEED COURSE
$5.95
COSETTE BENBOW in charge of all NOTRE DAME enrollments
Enroll in one of Adaire's special student arrangements now. Be prepared for the next dance. These outstanding values can only be offered for a short time, so act now. Call 2-0166 for an introductory lesson. Act today and forget Washington Hall tomorrow.
Lowest ADAIRE Expert
Rates	DANCE STUDIO	Teachers
216 S. Lafayette Blvd.	Call 241166
Stritch Named to CPA Post
Mr. Thomas Stritch, head of the Department of Journalism at Notre Dame, has accepted an invitation from the board of directors of the Catholic Press Association to serve as chairman of the Magazine Awards Committee.
The committee decides how the annual magazine awards shall be conducted and selects the judges.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Mam St.	J. M. S. Bld?.
Special GROUP LESSONS $1.00
Limit 5 Pupils
31
CDEEECE PARADE
“Shall we boil this guy?” said one cannibal to the other as he trussed up the clergyman. “No, he’s a friar,” said the other.
■
First gladiator: “Give me a steak and make it thick and rare.”
Second gladiator: “Give me a steak and make it thicker and rarer.”
Third gladiator: “Chase the bull through here and I’ll bite him on the run.”
Hickory, Dickory Dock,
The mouse ran up the clock,
The clock struck one,
Which so surprised the mouse that he entered a state of shock, and ended his days a raving rodent in a mental mousepital.
■
A man caught in a snowdrift looked up and saw a St. Bernard coming towards him with a large keg under his chin. “Oh, look!” exclaimed the man. “Here comes man’s best friend... and look at that big dog, too.”
■
Hubby went out with the boys one evening and before he realized it the morning of the next day had dawned. He hesitated to call home and tell his wife. Finally, he hit upon an idea. He phoned, and when his wife answered, he shouted, “Don’t pay the ransom, Honey, I escaped.”
■
Judge: “Are you sure the defendant was drunk?”
Policeman: “Well, his wife said he brought a manhole cover home and tried to play it on the Victrola.”
■
Give an athlete an inch and he’ll take a foot. But let him take it . . . Who wants athlete’s foot.
■
A male nurse in a mental hospital spotted a patient with his ear pressed to the wall, listening intently. The patient held up a warning finger, then beckoned the nurse to come over quietly.
“You listen here,” he whispered.
The nurse put his ear to the wall and listened a few moments. Then he turned to the patient and said, “I can’t hear anything.”
“No,” said the patient knowingly, •“And it’s been like that all day.”
■
The car was crowded and the conductor was irritable.
“Where is the fare for the boy?” he
32
snapped, as the father handed him one fare.
“The boy is only three years old.”
“Three years! Why, look at him.
He’s seven if he’s a day.”
The father leaned over and gazed earnestly at the boy’s face. Then he turned to the conductor.
“Can I help it if he worries?” he asked.
M
Many a student walks into a quiz with the knowledge in the palm of his hand.
M
“Was your friend shocked over the death of his mother-in-law?”
“Shocked? He was electrocuted.”
■
A citizen was walking up Fifth Avenue when he was button-holed by a character who said: “Shay, can you tell me where to find Alcoholisch Anonymush?”
“Why? Do you want to join?”
“No, wanna resign.” ■
Daughtei- (admiring a set of mink skins from father): “I can hardly realize that these beautiful furs come
MEN OF NOTRE DAME, Here’s More Required Reading
Richard, Sullivan’s new book “NOTRE DAME” is must-reading for every student under the Golden Dome. For within its pages Sullivan has captured the spirit and the many little things which endear the campus to us all. Each one of you will want to have a copy of your own. How about sending a copy of this great book about your University to the folks back home? Mom and Dad will surely be pleased to receive such a fine gift.
You can get your copy right now — today — merely by phoning Bruggner’s Book Store and having them send it out to you in the next mail. That’s right, just phone in your order and Bruggner’s will charge it to your account. Don’t let this great chance slip by — call now.

from such a small, sneaking beast.” 4;
Father: “I don’t ask for thanks, my dear, but I must insist on respect.”
LitiZe Jack Horner	'
Sat in a corner
With crib notes on his lappa He opened his book And took a quick look, So noiv he’s Phi Beta Kappa.
The neighbors were complaining of the racket Mrs. Jones’ husband was making. “All the time he goes around cackling like a chicken,” they griped.
“I know,” Mrs. Jones said. “We get tired of it too. Sometimes we think he’s not in his right mind.’,’
“But can’t you do something for him? Can’t you cure him?”
“Oh, yes, I suppose we could. But we do need the eggs.” ■
How did you puncture that tire? Ran over a milk bottle.
What’s the matter, didn’t you see it?
Naw, the kid had it under his coat.
■
Judge: “You admit that you drove \ over this man with a loaded truck.
Well, what have you to say in defense?”
Offender: “I didn’t know it was loaded.”	'
Hold Daily Devotions DuringComing Month
■' Beginning next Monday, October de-:<	votions will be held daily	in Sacred
1	Heart Church in honor of	Our Lady
of the Rosary. Benediction	will be at
5 p.m., Monday through Friday. This v service will climax the daily adoration periods of University students. There will also be a holy hour from 6:30 to •	7 o’clock Sunday evenings with benedic-
tion at 7 p.m.
The month of October will be divided I into foui- weekly periods, one for each I of the classes of the University. The 1 Liturgy Club will canvass each hall for j adorers the week preceding the time i assigned for each particular class.
Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., prefect i of religion, emphasized the need for | prayer in these troubled times. He said, “Now, more than ever, when the I world is in such turmoil and in danger ; of complete destruction, we need to re-’ member the promises of Our Lady of Fatima. October is the Month of the 1 Rosary. Let us pray the rosary during October. Prayer is the only thing that .*1 can save the world.” | During the coming month the stu-dent chaplain’s office will sell daily I missals at greatly reduced prices. The > purpose of the sale is to encourage students to use the missal at Mass. ?	' Members of the Liturgy Club, the
k Third Order of St. Francis, and the ll YCS will distribute the missals.
r The Third Order of St. Francis will also instruct anyone who is interested j in learning how to serve Mass. Those ■ desiring to enter a server’s class should
see Brother Boniface, the sacristan, in the main church.
According to statistics just received, J the number of Holy Communions re-f ceived on the campus last year was 1	354,000 or a daily average of 1532
= among campus students. From the religion questionnaire we find that 86 percent were frequent communicants (a person who receives Communion at i ’ least once a week).
Three Games Telecast;
Red Faces Show at Baltimore
at Los Angeles, Dec. 1, will be broadcast only in certain regions. The former will be seen in the East and the latter on Midwestern and Eastern networks.
There is a rumor circulating that
the Navy contest at Baltimore will be televised in color. If this is true only a small group will be able to receive this game on their sets due to the rarity of color outfits and the concentration of these being in the East.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Oct.. 1—Feast of St. Remigus, Bishop, Confessor, (White), Colls. 2, 3 at choice.
Tuesday, Oct. 2—Feast of the Guardian Angels, (White).
Wednesday, Oct. 3—Feast of St. Therese of the Child Jesus, (White).
Thursday, Oct. 4—Feast of St. Francis of Assisi, Confessor, (White).
Friday, Oct. 5—Feast of Saints Placid and Companions, Martyrs, (Red) Colls. 2, 3 at choice. First Friday.
Saturday, Oct. 6—Feast of St. Bruno, Confessor, (White).
LOOK WHAT WIDENER'S HAS!
Yes, the U-Wing Shoe — the shoe that has campuses buzzing from coast to coast — has come to South Bend. And you can see them now at Widener's. You can't afford to pass up this great value for only SI 1.95.
BE SMART IN
Notre Dame's television audience will see three games this year, that is if they reside in the right sections of the nation.
Everyone has the opportunity of seeing the Southern Methodist game at Notre Dame on Oct. 13, because it is on a national network. The other two, Michigan State at East Lansing, Nov. 10, and the Southern California game
Randcraft shoes
Handsome, hardy leathers...long-wearing, extra thick soles, lasts that really fit your feet... at prices painless to your pocketbook. See our complete selection.
While ymCre there, ask to see the famous Alligator Plain. Toe.
Widener's Shoe Store
123 W. WASHINGTON	PHONE 3-5884
Sept. 28, 1951
33
Ihe IJack Puye
---------------------By Bill Riley
In the October issue of the Atlantic Monthly, which hit the newsstands Wednesday, there is an article entitled “Too Much Football,” which, it seems to me, should be of interest to everyone connected with the sport, whether he be player, coach, educator, student, alumnus, or just plain fan.
The article is written by Allen Jackson, a Michigan graduate of 1951, a first string guard, a three-year letterman, and a member of last year’s Rose Bowl champs.
Jackson is not writing a fiery, hellraising type of article. Rather, he writes dispassionately, drawing few conclusions, simply stating the facts of football life, as they occur at Michigan. His one assumption — that if such is the way of running things at Michigan, it is probable that it is just about the same in other big-time football schools — does not seem entirely unwarranted.
In order to discuss this article—although it would be much better for any readers of this column to put the magazine down and walk over to the caf to get the Atlantic—in order to discuss this article, it is necessary to quote representatively from the text.
“After having- played four years at guard for the University of Michigan, which possesses the largest college football stadium in the world, I can see that the supposed benefits of big-time football are either grossly exaggerated or completely imaginary, and it seems to me that most of the enormous amount of time I spent on the gridiron was wasted.”
“. . . he (the player) can no longer decide for himself whether he should study or play football on a particular day.”
“I was engaged in actual practice on the field for about 20 hours a week during the spring semester, and durin<r the fall semester my working week was boosted to about 28 hours. This does not include such things as . . . movies . . . study time wasted because of fatigue . . . trips ... in the training room.”
“. . . my reason tells me that football is only a single, minor, and unacademic part of a college education, and that it should not be more important than other single parts of college . . . the study of history, for instance.”
34
Do Studies-Conic First?
“The coaches are aware that in theory study comes first, but they are also aware that, in a big-time league, if studies actually come first, second-rate teams are likely to be the result.”
“... it (talk of Michigan football tradition) ignores the fact that Michigan has always won more games than it has lost, and it means to keep on doing so.”
“I do quarrel with the tendency in modern football to emphasize winning as an end in itself.”
“Big-time football has promoted a syllogism something like this: football players are something less than students; therefore, universities which sponsor big football teams, though famous, are something less than universities.”
“So, after four years ... of being known as a football player rather than a human being, ... of playing in a 97,000-seat stadium in which my nonpaying student friends were forced to sit in the end zone, of having my natural desire for physical exercise corrupted and commercialized ... I have decided that big-time football is a poor bargain for the boys who play the game.”.
Hardly False
What can you say about an article of this kind? That it’s false? Hardly. In the first place the editors of the Atlantic are not the ones to stick their necks out in the way of a libel charge. Neither is Jackson. Unless he is refuted, we will have to assume that he is telling the truth.
So what? There’s very little in Jackson’s article that will be news to anybody. So there’s recruiting, so there’s subsidizing, so it springs from undue emphasis on winning, which springs in turn from the maxim that a losing football team doesn’t draw the
DOME MEETING
DOME Editor Ray Earls announces that a meeting of all those interested in working on the DOME will be held in Room 101 Law Building Monday, October 1, at 7:30 p.m. Freshmen especially are urged to attend.
crowds that one which is consistently victorious does? So what?
At whom is Jackson aiming his article? At the public? They won’t do anything, because the only effective action they have open to them to curb the evils is to stay away from the games, and to keep their television sets turned off. Jackson, who, from his article, is not naive anyway, certainly doesn’t think that that will happen! Nobody really does.
The alumni, then? Why, don’t be foolish! It pays off for alumni to have their school sponsor a winning football team. In the first place, two ducats to a sell-out will do wonders. Besides, everybody likes to identify himself with a winner. It builds the ego.
Somebody in the back, say the students? Again, may I ask, who is kidding whom? Can you picture the students at any university getting together and saying, “we won’t go to the games until they make football an amateur sport?” And, even if they did, eventually the college would probably sell their seats for just $5 apiece.
We’re running out of possibilities ... the coaches . . • you answer it . . . other football players? Let me quote you Jackson on that subject. “Many of the players continue to deify the coaches long after they should have outgrown this, and to them everything said on the field is gospel. Those who do not care for much of what goes on are in the game too deep to get out ...”
Which leaves? I am afraid that I must say the men who are administering the various colleges. I do not think—mind you, I don’t know- for sure, because I don’t know them personally— but I do not think that .anything in Jackson’s article is going to come as a surprise to authorities at Michigan.
They must know what is going on. If not, someone, whoever is in charge of athletics, is failing in his job. So, let us assume that they do know. They’ve known for quite a while. Allen Jackson’s telling them again will probably not have too great an effect.
Let us review the happenings of the past week. Arch Ward comes out with a proposal. Numerous college presidents have come out saying that it should be studied. That some action should be taken. Paul Neville, the jocular sports ed. of the South Bend Tribune, wrote a witty column that lampooned Ward, who, we must suppose, is sincere. No action has been taken. Maybe it’s too early. All right, let’s be patient. It’s in the collective lap of those who in the last analysis are the only ones who can do anything about it. What will happen?
The Scholastic
He’s a
§
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM OQ
Campus A-man

"A” stands for ”Activities”—and he’s in a lot of them. Plays first-string basketball. Writes for the school paper. Represents his class on the student council.
And on top of that, he’s a good student.
Telephone people are like that, too. Besides giving good, friendly, courteous telephone service, they take part in numerous extracurricular activities.
That’s why you’ll find telephone men and women working on charity drives, joining service clubs, leading Scout troops.
The same spirit of friendliness and helpfulness which lies behind the fine telephone service this conn try receives, makes telephone people A-people in their communities.
Sept. 28, 195 L
35
A
SERIALS DIVISION UNIVERSITY LIBRARY NOTRE DANE IND
? IJ
°°*Ccn
Always Bu/CHESTERHEl d
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Mras Tobacco Ga
PLUS
IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
No Unpleasant After-taste
-added to the world’s most famous ABCs-Always Milder Better Tasting

Chesterfield's Big Plus sold me" says CLv
"CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all brands tested in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste."
From the report of a well-
:~T~
r,
■