Seholastie 
Volume 115, No. 4 November 2, 1973 Notre Dame, Indiana 


· Winning the big one 

Editor 
· :HEADLINERS

Kerry McNamara Art Director , 
Jim. Purvis , 6 . Av~ti "They're·. building 'dream cars . down on South Production Manager ·Lafayette Street, and it's not a bad business at all.",
Janet Cullen . Assistant Editors . 
10 The Social Stalemate -A Poll "The· res~lts of the poll
Greg Conti, Jim Gresser, Pat Roach, Joe Runde, Jack Wenke · speak for themselves ... Something in our recent public
Sports Editor 
policy has gone awry." . . . 
Tom Gora 

Business Manager: 
Joe Meyer · 12 ·· Mixology "So you;re tired of beer and still want to have 

Advertising 
a party, but the only drink you know how to mix is ·a
Alice Christopher 
7 & 7."· . . . . .. 

Circulation 
Frank Zaletel Faculty Advisor ·· ·17 Poco ''The original hard luck American band." Frank O'Malley 
Staff 19. Paul .Simon ."His progression accompanies him to the 
Paul Bolduc, Paul Colgan, Kevin· Dockrell, · · Betsy Dwyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Casey Pocius, concert stage.' Mary Siegel, Sally Stanton, Steve Shea, Gil Zachary, Pat Sheehan, Jean· McQuillan, 22 Crosby and Nash "Two poets of experience." Maureen O'Brien;·Eileen O'Grady, Mark·· Nishan, John Whalen, Tom Bursic, Jack Brown, Katy Sullivan, Sean McLinden, Kathy FEATURES Kelly, Tara Carey/Jorge Lopez, Jack Rangel, Tom McAndrews, Bob Griffen, Fred Graver,· 14 Computers and:Literature-'Keypunching Poetry:
Pat Fanning, Pat Dillon, Kevin McCormick, . Bill Murray, Frank Coughlin, T. J. Clinton, 
-26 The Rugby Team -."What is a Scrum?'
Mark Luppino, John· Moore, George Sibley, Craig Spengel Art & Photography . . . . Mike Budd, Ed Earle, Nan Smith, Tom· .. REGULARS Waldoch, John Phelan, Pat Hanafin, Joe : Kuspan, Bill Foglia, Bob McMahon 


4 Letters 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the 21 Coming Distractions SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, 24 Week in Distortion· its administration, faculty or the student body. 

· · :.25 ·The Crooked Rook
Second~class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational 26 The du Lac Sporting News· Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, . . ' ' ' . New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly .. 30 . The. Last W~rd during the school year except during vacation u" ·. and examination periods,. the 'SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6. The subscription rate is $S.00 · a year and back numbers are available from the ScHoLAsnc. Please address all manu-. . 
Illustrations: Photo on 3 by Joe Raymond / Photos on 6, 7, 8
scripts to' the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 
465S6. All unsolicited material becomes the · ·by Kerry McNamara /-Photo on 15.by M.ike Bu.dd / _Photo property of the SCHOLASTIC.' ·· ori 20 courtesy of Notre Dame Concerts'/ Photo on 23' cour:. copyright © 1973 Scholastic / 'all rights 
tesy of Atlantic Records / Photo on 27 by Tom Gora / Photo
reserved / none of the contents may be re­produced without permission on 28 courtesy of The DOME. 

Letters 

DRUG RAIDS 
To the Editor: 

The recent series of drug raids· evidence a new atti­tude on the part of the administration. A few weeks ago it was stated that the University had no choice in this matter inasmuch as contraband was involved and the .University could not, even if it wanted to, allow the use of marijuana. on campus. Regardless of .these pronouncements it is patently clear that' what is in­volved is not a legal issue. If it were, the University would be equally obliged (in logic) to the eradication of drinking by minors, and where it had reason to be­lieve minors would be drinking would be equally com­mitted to punitive and/or remedial action: Obviously such is not the case. Moreover, the findings of the Uni­versity. are not 'valid in a court of law, unless the searches are urider the supervision of an officer of the law, nor does the University even refer the cases to the courts. In fact; the right ·of· secrecy is claimed: as a means whereby the persons involved are not subject to the law.. Thus; a rnoral_:_not a legal-judgment has been made, which by its commission implies the omitted judgment that drinking, even by minors, is, .within a proper context, i.e., a context defined by the admin­istration,. defensible. Consequently, the ·University ­regardless of the law -is tied to a justification of the moral condemnation of drug use,.speaking in particular
of marijuana. · · · · · · •. · The AMA has' declared that tlie ·use of alcohol is a more serious problem than the use of-marijuana. The National Council of Churches has passed a resolution calling for the legalization of marijuana. Research sta­tistics indicate that at least 67% of college students · 

NICKIE'S RECONSIDERED 

use or have used marijuana. The rate· may be higher here -there is no reason to believe it any lower. Let us say roughly 4,000 students at Notre Dame are in­volved with the drug's use, not counting faculty or ad­ministrators. It is true that right morality cannot be legislated by mere majority; however, the :University must'show that it is in all cases a moral problem,-that is, that drug use itself-not deeper _maladies which · 
: provoke drug abuse -is a moral question, and that it is of a nature which demands µniversal condemnation. This, I think, they cannot do. Parenthetically, the Uni­versity might realize that the harm of criminal and social sanctions far outweighs the harm of marijuana use itself, and work for the non-criminalization of pos~ session. This stance, unpopular in some circles, would require true moral fortitude. · 
It is clear in any case that the University cannot halt, probably not even lessen significantly, the use of marijuana. The real task, perhaps more difficult, is to provide an atmosphere in which getting high is not an absolute goal but at best a relative one. If they and we are serious about otir Christianity, then they and we must stimulate a re-valuation of the divine rite, which not just in this instance has been devalued to the hu~ manistic rite of lighting a joint. To cloak the issue as it has been is to validly subject the administration to the 
·charge of "Hypocrite lecteur," to overshadow the fact 
. that all of us are faced with difficult questions; a.'nd°to belie the truth that you are not my superior, you are "mon semblable;__:_mon fr~re!" 
-Respectfully, James T. Braun 

Dear Editor, to Nickie's for the hamburger spe­able drinker" knows it's very difficult 
I read the Scholastic's evaluation cial. For $i:50 you get apint of cold to water down tap beer. A person of the area taverns frequented. by· beer, a bowl oLsoup and a half would have to be a hydraulicexpert Notre Dame students. I agreed with pound (not a quarter pounder) ham­to run _water and beer through the many of the statements in the. arti­burger. The ·hamburger and soup saine line. ,Can you dig that? . . . cle, but I must take exception with taste good, and in my opinion it's a Enough said there. I heard ·that the evaluation of Nickie's. Let me good deal. the Notre Dame administration ·. is begin by saying that my favorite bar So now you know how I feel about cracking . down on hall . parties: ~ is Corby's. However, they_serve sand­Nickie's food.. Let's talk about the guess that's their prerogative. In­wiches which don't apl)eal to me. So .watered down beer your staff mem­stead of trying tofight it, why don't when I'm ,!lungry, I often drop over bers feel they serve. Anyl'knowledge-the students of drinking age start 
. THE SCHOLASTIC 

going out to some of the taverns 
around here? I realize that Corby's 
is jammed almost every night. But, 
as the article pointed out, there are 
a few other (Louie's, the Library, 
Rocco's, Simeri's, Cliff's, Giuseppe's, 
yes, and even Nickies) places for the 
ND people. 

·' So the social atmosphere is cold. 
There are about 8,000 Notre Dame 
students and maybe 1,200 St. Mary's 
students. Hey man, that's a lot of . 
people. Of these students there -are 
quite a few good-looking women 
around who aren't going out at all. 
For those-of us who enjoy.knocking 
down the brew,-there -are a few 
places to go besides the dorms. So 
let's get off the old butt and go out 
a bit. Maybe if· we started boogying 
a little harder, we could warm up the 
social scene to a respectable level. -­
Well, I'm getting carried away. Why not bury the hatchet with Nick? None of the taverns around 
1-here should be half-full on any Sat­urday night. Give all_ the bars· a break. If you gave Nickie's half a chance, you might want to drop in sometime. I do. Sincerely, Duff Holahan ­

THE.PRIEST 
Dear Editor, 

I should be the last to suggest that· bad books deserve good reviews; nor is it my feeling that one's university should serve as claque for his work. But. Mr. Melody's easy -dismissal of Ralph Mcinerny's most recent novel is upsetting (Scholastic, October 12, 1973, pp. 36-37). In its pretense of _. operating in terms of reality, Mr. Melody's review assumes· criteria which are not sensible for fiction. There is nothing in this _world t~at says Mr. Mcinerny must write about tion, and is a professor in Notre Mr. Melody's realities. A fair-minded Dame's Department of Philosophy critic will keep this in mind and rec­(an item, I would think, of no small ognize that it is not for him to make interest to Scholastic readers) is not something up but to make something to be heeded-however be the real out of what is already made. A critic case with Mr. Mcinerny's new novel. then who spends one-half of a 1000-D. W. Moran word essay in conjuring up pleasant memories and fond realities at an­Editor's Note: Due to an error in other : man's -expense but finds no production,Mr. Melody's review went place to· say that this m_an is a seri­to press without certain essential ous writer who has authored several corrections he had requested. Our books in philosophy, as well as fie-sincere apologies to all. 
and listens for the sounds of love. Men like the Paulists rekindle our spirits and their love for Him includes and 

Whyshould · embraces all of us. Every Paulist is a mission-
anyone 
-ary. Whether he is in the pulpit bea or the parish house, on campus · or in ghettos ... whether he 
priest? communicates with the_ spoken word or the printed word, the Paulist is talking about what 
Why study for the priesthood? 
·concerns him most: the love of 

Why be part of a dying insti_tu-· Christ for all people.
lion? Why commit yourself to celibacy? Indeed, why get If you are looking for closer to misery in a world that answers, talk to us. Together 
is already miserable enough? we may find them. For more 
There aren't any easy information about the Paulist answers to these questions-priesthood, send for THE even for a Paulis!. But he knows PAULIST PAPERS-an exciting that today's world desperately -new kit of articles, posters needs p~ople who are commit-and recordings about . ted to ideals and beliefs. In our America's firSt religious
community.

search for peace of mind and· country; happiness, love and· brotherh·ood, we are really Wrilelo: 
Falher Donald C. Campbell, 

_seeking meaning-a reason 
Room 102 · 

for being. The Paulist doesn't feel the Paulist world is dying; he rejoices in . 

Fathers

the signs of hope around him 
415 West591hSt.,NewVork,N.V.10019 





AVANTI 
the studebaker that made it 
They're selling phantoms. down on S. Lafayette Blvd., and it's not a bad business at all. In among the long-deserted buildings that were once the home of the Studebaker automakers, the tiny Avanti Motor Cor­poration continues to hand-assemble resurrections of a 1963 dream car, and sell them for nine grand apiece. 
The dream _car is the Avanti, once Studebaker's trump card for survival as a U.S._ automaker, and now what Esquire_ magazine has called. "one of the_ world's most desirable automobiles." They story of the Avanti -its.birth, death, and resurrection-is one of the most unique a.nd fascinating in American industry, and one not likely to be repeated. 
The story began back in 1961, when a suntanned young California executive named _Sherwood Egbert flew into South Bend to become the ·new president of Studebaker Corporation, and rescue its floundering automotive division. 'Fifth among. American car com­panies at the time,-Studebaker was in sore need of· a boost for its corporate image, and the energetic Egbert decided that if the company would produce a popular, sporty car, the stigm_a of dullness. that was stifling Studebaker sales might be broken: That popular, sporty car that was to save the company was the Avanti, and Egbert went headlong into the project. 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

To design the car's styling, Egbert turned to Ray­mond Loewy, an internationally famous industrial de­signer who had styled earlier Studebaker models. Loe­wy assembled a team of three other designers, for pri­vacy rented a house in Palm Springs, and turned out a design in two weeks. Although some of the first draw­ings were clumsy, the final design was so dramatic that even now it seems more advanced than many Detroit . models.. The car's shape combined the graceful lines of an aerodynamically curved "pinched waist" with the long hood-short deck · styling that was to appear later · on Ford's sporty Mustang: The styling even today stands outin· a crowd. 
From there the plari went to. Studebaker's vice-presi­dent in charge of engineering, Eugene Hardig. Hardig, who remains with the Avanti Motor: Corporation today. as director of engineering, was faced with a set of prob­lems_ radjcally· different .from those· of the rest of the more sedate Studebaker line: The Avanti was not. fo be simply apretty, .~~_dernistic-looking car, with .a flashy 
. body and plush interior. Like the exotic foreign sports cars that had first led Egbert to the conception of the Avanti, it was to be a car that would perform. 
· Hardig went ·to work "over-engineering" the. car from the ground up. Starting with . a huge X-member frame for. rigidity, .he added front and rear stabilizer bars, heavy-duty springs, and rear radius rods, all for handling; front disc brakes, which were a novelty in 1961; and a handful of other engineering niceties. For safety, the car included a roll bar and.door latches that, ·· · once closed, became structural members of the Avanti body. The body was molded in fiberglass to help shrug 
: . 01:'f dents· and.lighten the car's weight. . . . . . . 
The public loved the car. In spite of the $4500 base price, which was an even bigger chunk of money in 1962 than it is today, orders poured in as fast as Stude­baker could fill them. It looked as though Egbert had hit on a winning combination. Hopes were that the swelling popularity of the Avanti would spread to the other Studebaker lines. Studebaker. would be back. on .its way to financial health and South Bend's work force 
of six thousand would be secure. All would be well. 
' -. -~ 


": . . options _often throw the price tag i!'to five figures." 
The Avanti power plant· became aproblem. Short on money. to develop a larger engine,· the· Studebaker en­gineers turned to their . economy model 289-cubic-inch V-8, and hunted around for ways to increase perform­ance. Egbert bought out a supercharger company and made its president, Andy Grariatelli . of ·STP farrie, · his director. of performance. Granatelli did a good job. · A production superchar:ged Avanti once hit over 170 miles an hour on the Bonneville salt flats, arid everi the un­supercharged car could hit sixty from a standing start 
in just over eight seconds'. · ·. · · 
But there were problems. The A vanti had been tak­en from pipe dream to production in little over a year, and snags that might have showed. up in testing dur:­ing a regular two-to three-year. development. program now began to show up on the ·road. Faulty brackets let the rellr. windows. pop out of their fltt!ngs · at high speeds.· Some parts would not flt well. The fiberglass body would not take a good paint job. The story is told of the shudders in the corporation when British author Ian Fleming ordered one of the original Avantis painted black. Black was the color that showed worst the 
waves in the fiberglass. . · . . . . . • . The problems · continued, and more came. Produc­tion delays caused . by· outside suppliers added to. the growing rumors about'the Avanti's quality, and more and more orders for the cars were cancelled. Engineers worked.feverishly to correct the problems as production went on.·. · · · · 

. ---• ,,·:·:•,..,.,,,,_,,...,.,_,_,.,. 
;.: -,: -. -:". :· ~ 

. -Then in December 1963 came the announcement that Studebaker was closing its auto operations in South Bend and moving to a much smaller plant in Canada. The automotive division was· $80 million in· the red. There were sixty-five thousand Studebakers sold in 1963; they needed a hundred twenty thousand to break even. Studebaker was gone,, and the Avanti, it seemed, was dead. Twenty million doll~rs had gone into developing the car, and in the twenty-month-production . period only five· thousand had been· sold. . . 
. ' . ,, 

At this point in the story there enters an unlikely hero: a cigar-smoking South Bend auto dealer by the nanie of Nathan D: Altman. Altman's heroic credentials were not exactly impeccable,'e-speci~lly as far as· auto-· mobiles were concerned. Although successful -in his· dealership, he had backed-~ series of ill-fated lines: a pioneer Edsel dealer, and one of the largest Packard dealers in the-country, Altman had been selling Stude­bakers for years. At one point in the mid-fifties, he had turned down the chance for a Volkswagen dealer­ship, claiming the beetles.were too_ ugly to.sell· well -in the, United States. · · · 
But in the graceful Avanti, Altman saw a car worth saving. And that is:'what' he set out to do, making the r~mnds to major auto manufacturers to persuade them to pick up Studebaker's dying baby. The response was discouraging. American Motors, which later in the six­
. -ties would succeed with-the Javelin in an Avanti-Iike . corporate rejuvenatign, were pushing -economy models at the time, and wanted no part of the deal. An official of the Checker M~tors Corpora_tion, the:company that makes taxicabs wanted to. know liow Altman could ex­pect them to be interested in such an ugly car; It was then that Altman decided to go into ·business for .himself.•. He got-the help of his business partner, Leo Newman, and fainily and friends, and with a $75,.;. -000 _loan from the St. Joseph Barik, formed the Avanti Motor Corporation. .The Ohio Company that had pro­duced the fiberglass· bodies for Studebaker· agreed · to supply them for Altman's A vanti. From Studebaker he acquired ·· two buildings on Lafayette Blvd. in South Bend, all the blueprints, parts, and tools needed to make the car, and ·shrewdly the parts and equipment for _Studebaker's truck line as well. It was the sale of those ·truck parts that kept Avanti ·Motors_ alive ·during the· first years. · · · 
. ­
· · THE· SCHOLASTIC 

Altman also talked a reluctant Gene Hardig into tak­ing on the post of chief engineer for the new Avanti II, as it was to be called, 'just as he had been for Stude­baker. Hardig faced a set of engineering problems com­pletely different from the original car: adapting the de­sign to a different sort of engine and transmission (now that the Studebaker power plant was no longer avail­able); and more importantly, to a method of produc­tion radically different from before. The A vanti II would be built the way Altman thought it should always have been built: with care,by hand from the ground up. 
* * 

The first Avanti II rolled from the factory in 1965, 
and since then the design-of the ·car ·and the formula for its construction haven't changed. Only about two hundred are produced in a year, each one the result of six weeks of that handcrafted care that makes the Avanti II unique among American automobiles. That · winning combination has caught not only the attention of the Avanti II buyers, but of.the national news media 
as well. · · · · · 
In the last few years, Avanti Motor Corp. has been· featured in Esquire, The National Observer, Motor Trend, and engineering trade journals: CBS News has prepared "a, yet unbroadcast piece on the factory, and the August: issue of Gallery devoted several pages to the Avanti ·II, calling if "the ·American Rolls-Royce." The_concep_t that makes Avanti Motor.Corporation work is one radically old-fashioned enough to warrant atten­
tion. ' . . . 
From the moment one enters the factory, the dif­ference can be felt. The atmosphere is warm and re­laxed. There are no motorized assembly lines. Instead, a pair of parallel lines about a hundred feet long in the factory accommodate a week's body and chassis assem­bly (five cars or so). The cars, in various stages of con­struction, are moved on wheeled dollies by hand to the next assembly station-but only when the preceding step is finished. The work is unhurried. If two hours are required to hang a door properly, the worker takes two hours. 
Patience and care are shown at every step of the car's assembly. The ten-coat paint job requires a week to apply. Before the upholstery is installed in the car's interior, the car is tested for passenger compartment leaks in a water spray booth. Finally every finished car is road-tested for 150 to 200 miles on the roads around South Bend. The idea is that every car be "as perfect as man can make it," in the management's words, be­fore it leaves the factory. 
Most of the cars are sold directly through the fac­tory, and custom-ordered before they are built. Al­though thereis only one choice of power plant (a 400­cubic-inch Chevy V-8 is standard on all 1973 Avanti II's) buyers can choose from more than four hundred different interior designs, in leathers, vinyls, and fab­rics, and shag and plush carpetings. Any color of auto­motive paint currently in production can be chosen_ for the outside of. the car. -In addition, there's a long list of Detroit-type options, including air-conditioning, stereo tape systems, a power sunroof, and Borrani wire wheels. The car's base price is $8600, but options often throw the price tag into five figures. 
. . . ,. . 

NOVEMBER 2, 1973 
Down on Lafayette Boulevard, Nathan Altman is proving that the resurrection of a ten-year-old dream car can be good business. And in among the dreary buildings of the old Studebaker complex, the Avanti is proving that the story of the phoenix might not be all myth. In any case, it's a story that we're not likely to see again soon, and perhaps never. 
-pat roach 
•. 9 
The 

Social Stalemate: A Student Poll 
In an attempt to establish some substantive grounds on which to discuss and evaluate the recent actions of the Office of Student Affairs, and desiring to work to­ward some creative alternatives to the. present social stalemate on campus, the Sch-Olastic conducted during the past week a random-sample poll of the student body on certain key questions facing all of us. The results are printed herein for interpretation and consideration 
·by all. Though we acknowledge that. some questions are unavoidably vague and general, that the percentage of polls returned is by no means encouraging, and that all such polls ·are less than definitive, we nonetheless feel that the results deserve careful consideration by all. To a certain extent at least, they represent the general campus attitudes toward· problems and ques­tions under current consideration by all of us. 
The sample was restricted to on-campus under­graduate students. ·Our deep thanks to .Dr.. Frank Fahey of the Sociology Department for his advice on· conducting the survey, and to Mr. Richard SuUiyan, University Registrar, for providing us with the neces­sary student lists. 
Questionnaires circulated: 480 Questionnaires returned: 160 Percentage of response: 33 1/3% 

1. 
Do you consume alcohol? Never 9% 

Less than once per week42% More than once per week 49% 


2. 
Are you of legal drinking age in Indiana? Yes 17% No 83% 

3. 
Are you of legal drinking age in your home state?•· Yes 67% No 33% 

4. 
Do you place a different value jupgment on· the use 

of alcohol vs. the use of marijuana? Yes 65% No 35% 


5. 
Have you ever smoked marijuana? Yes 47% No 53% 

6. 
Do you smoke marijuana.now? · Yes 28% No 72% 

7. 
Do you place a different value judgment on the use of marijauna (hashish) vs. the use of "harder" drugs (acid, amphetamines, barbiturates)? 

Yes 90% No 10% · 


8. 
Do you feel that the use of alcohol is a detriment 

to the Notre Dame community? · _Yes 10% No 90% 


9. 
Do you feel that the use of marijuana is a detri­


ment to the Notre Dame community? Yes 34% No 66% 

10. 
Should there be official University guidelines con­cerning the use of 

Yes No a.. marijuana? 64% ·36% b. alcohol? . 42% 58% 


11. 
Have you read the University guidelines concern~ 

ing the use of alcohol and drugs ? · , . Yes 79% No 21"% 


12. 
Do you agree with present University guidelines governing the use of · · 

Yes· No a. marijuana? 43% 57% b. alcohol? 28% 72% 


13. 
. Should the University expel 


Yes· No a. marijuana users? 14% 86% b. marijuana sellers? 43% 57% 
c. 
·"hard drug users? 54% 46% 

d. 
"hard" drug sellers 90% 10% 



14. Have the new University guidelines and the recent actions of the Student Affairs Office affected your social life? · ­Not at all 67% 
Favorably 2% Unfavorably 31 % 
THE . SCHOLASTIC 

Though the results of the poll speak for 
themselves, and though it is both dangerous and 
invalid to read too much into the results of any such 
random sampling, there are a few points which deserve 
to be mentioned specifically if we are to continue a 
discussion of the social stalemate Notre Dame seems 
to find itself in. 
Nearly 60% of those polled .disagree with the present University guidelines covering marijuana use, and over 70% disagree with the alcohol guidelines. One can only hope that such results will inspire some careful thought on the part of those involved in the formulation of the guidelines. Though it can (and perhaps wmf be argued that the student body will always largely disagree with restrictions on its behavior, oneyfould hope t_hat the students' content­ment arid well-being still operate as a criterion in the development of University policy .. If_ 70% of those polled disagree with the present alcohol guidelines, it is safe to assume that more than half of those polled (and most likely more than half of the student body in general) will find (and are finding) ways to circum­vent the restrictions contained in those guidelines. If success be any measure of a policy, then the new guidelines seem to be severely problematic. · 
These assumptions are reinforced by the answer to the final question. Of those polled, 67% felt that the new guidelines-had no effect on their social life. One would hope, for their sake, that their social life was, therefore, satisfactory from the start. Another 31% felt that their social life was adversely affected by the new guidelines. While it is conceivable that the actions involved in the "social life" of this 31% were clearly. objectionable to the community as a whole (which is , itself hard to gauge); it is also safe.to assume that _ this 31 % is presently strongly disenchanted with the actions and decisions of those who lead us. Once again, success need not be a criterion; but, if it is, something in our recent public policy has gone awry. 
We have all spoken of "creative alternatives." Hopefully such talk will turn into action, and the age­old cliches about Notre Dame's social life (or lack thereof) . will die. But this must be a collective effort. Insofar as we represent the University community the Scholastic encourages a public examination of our social problems and past, present and future solutions to them. We offer our pages as a forum for such an examination, and encourage all to write in with ideas, comments, compiaints arid suggestions. Only in this way can productive and serious discourse lead to a better campus life for all involved. 
NOVEMBER 2, 1973 

11Something in our recent :_public policy has gone awry. II 

for the drinking majority 
Classical_ Mixology Th~ Epic of Harvey Wallbange'r 
. . . . 

So, you're tired of beer and still want to have a party, but the only· drink you know how to mix is a _ 7 & 7. Well that's all right, but not everyone likes ­whiskey. So-what do you do if your date wants a Daiquiri or a Sloe Screw (I mean the drink!). No, no ... you don't tell her to mix it herself; you drag out your trusty Sclwlastic (open to this page), and then tell her to mix it herself. Well, she'd probably be better off anyhow; after all this article is overflowing with tasty libations-all of which, save one, have my per­sonal approval. 
Alright, where do we start? How· about a little (very little) explanation of the measurements and ter­minology. A jigger is equal to 1½ ounces, a shot equals one ounce, and a dash_ is-well it's a _dash: 1/32 oz. When a recipe calls for a drink to be shaken or stirred with ice, make sure it's cracked ice; so it will melt faster. Then, if you want _to look good, strain the mixture into another glass, which is either empty or full of cracked ice depending.on the drink. If you don't care how you look,· just mix the drink with ice cubes and leave it that way. Enough ·explanation, let's get into some serious drinking. 
Almost everybody knows how to make the usual party favorites, but just in case someone doesn't here's 
a little rundown. 
7&7 Anywhere from_ 1 jigger to½ glass Whiskey. Fill the rest with 7-Up. (normal drink: 1 jigger) 
Screw Driver 1 jigger Vodka 6-8 oz. orange juice Stir with ice. 
Whiskey Sour 1-2-jiggersWhiskey Juice½ lemon ½ tsp. sugar shake well w/ice add cherry & orange slice (This drink also comes in packets)· 

Rum & Coke 
· Anywhere from 1 jigger _ to ½ glass Rum. Fill . the rest with Coke._ (normally 1 jigger Rum) 
Gin & Tonic 
· 1-1½ jiggers Dry Gin Squeezed chunk of lime ­Fill w/ tonic water Put ice in glass first. 
Sloe Gin Fizz 2 shots Sloe Gin Juice½ lemon Shake well w / ice Fill w/ soda water (or 2 shots Sloe Gin fill w/ 7-Up or Squirt) 
Collins Juice ½ lemon 1-1½ tsp. sugar· 1-2 jiggers ,Gin, Rum, 
_Vodka; or Whiskey Shake w/ice · Add soda water (comes in packets) 
Boilermaker , _ 1 shot Whiskey (straight) 1 Beer chaser (these are great fun) 
Shots of Tequila · Salt, a shot, a wedge of 
lemon or lime. Take the salt first, then drink .the shot, thensuck on the citrus, all in rapid succession; ' (comes w/ 'an size head­aches) _ · ' 

Next we run into some popular drinks that are only at parties if the host happens to like them. ~' 
Sloe Screw 
'-Same as Screw Driver Add 1 shot Sloe Gin · (looks terrible, · ·, -· tastes like purich):,_,-,._ 
Bacardi 2 shots Bacardi Ruin · juice· ½ lemon cir lime · 2 dashes Grenadine Shake well w/ ice (strain) 
Vodka Gimlet 3 Vodka 1 Rose's Lime Juice · Serve on ice 
Harvey Wallbanger · Same as Screw Driver: Add½ shot Galliano · 
-(more or less Galliano to · suite own taste) : 
Daiquiri 2 shots light Rum ­Juice ½ lime· or lemon 1 tsp. powdered sugar Shake well w/ ice .(strain) ( comes in packets) 
Rusty Nail• 3 Scotch: ­1 or less Drambuie: Serve on ice : 
-(CS seal of approval)· 
Singapore Sling 2 shots Dry Gin _ _-_ 1 shot_ Cherry Brandy•_ 
1 tsp. sugar _ Juice ½ lemon , 1 dash . bitters • ( optional) 

Shake well.wl:ice... _._ ,.•,. Add soda if necessary -·,;1 if , _. _, _ 

Basically that's a good list, but it's a little boring, 
· ' THE SCHOLASTIC 

so I'll introduce you to some of my favorites. First and 
foremost is "The Rabbit." Rabbit (or Snowshoe) 1 shot Brandy Top with Peppermint Schnapps Drink straight down (no chaser) (a great way to prepare for a 
party or rally) 

Then there is the .:Upside-down Rabbit, which has the same ingredients, but reversed in order and amount. ·. My next suggestion is something I ran across by acci­dent. ·At a party, my best friend's girl (he wasn't there) asked me to fix her and myself something different; so I did: 
Mini-wapadoo 1-2 shots Vodka FHl glass w / Spafiada (you may have to wait till after the boycott for this one, if you want it) 
Next we have a little blockbuster package that I call the Littie Brown• Jug. I came across-this recipe · (or it came across me) at a card party. This one's a guaranteed knockout. 
Little Brown Jug 1 Seagram 7 1 Tequila· (maybe less) lSeven~up Shake it up, let it go flat. Hold on to your head and drink it as it is.•· 
· If you are looking: for a more sophisticated drink, perhaps one of the following will do. Usually these drinks are'found at' bars, weddings,· or fancy parties. 
DryMartirif(Gin·orVodka) · Gibson (Gin or Vodka). 4-5 Dry Gin or Vodka ·. :4 Dry Gin or Vodka (or 
(more if wanted) · more) · 1 Dry Vermouth_ ' '. 1Dry Vermouth (or less) Stir gently w/ice (cracked)· Stir gently w/ice (cracked) 
Pour into separate glass · Add olive_,·, 
. Manhattan (sweet) 2 shots Whiskey (Bourbon) ½ shot Sweet Vermouth ' 
½ shot Dry Vermouth· 1 dash bitters · Stir well, add:cherry 
-;;•i·_·•-· 
:: ,., ,. 
· ': •' Pour into separate glass,. Add.pickled.•pearl onion 

Manhattan (dry) 4 Whiskey · 1 Dry Vermouth 
1 dash bitters ·Stir well w/ice Add cherry ·· 
Old· Fashioned 
·:· ½ tsp. sugar ;'_,,,;.. ·Light dash Angostura 
--:·--·Bitters-•:: Add ice & twist oflemon . Fill with any Whiskey · (comes in packets) 
These are all excellent drinks, but they tend to be a little expensive. 
If mixed drinks aren't your thing, maybe a little punch could liven up a party. Almost everyone is fa­miliar with Wapatula (or Wapatuli, or Wapadoo); but few people dare to use the original recipe. A common version is: 
1 Gin 1 Vodka As much fruit and fruif juices as needed 

I find this pleasing, but a little mild. So, if you're a daring soul, the next tiine you have a party tell people to bring a bottle of something (anything alco­holic). You supply a big bowl (or clean trash can) and enough fruit wine, like Spafiada, and mixes, like Squirt and 4 Mix, to sweeten it. One warning on this: some people tend to bring cheap, weak liquor, so a little Ever Clear (grain alcohol) wouldn't hurt ... much. You will need 2 or 3 tasters, because one alone usually doesn't make it. 
And this brings me to my favorite recipe for punch. This stirring liquid is very aptly named "The Tidal Wave." It may seem a little expensive to make, but its results are· devastating: It's· a good way to get ·a party started, keep it going, or end it fast, whatever the case 
may be.  ·  ·  
The Tidal Wave  
1: Southern Comfort  
1 Vodka  
·. ,,  · 1 Grapefruit juice (maybe more)  
Enough Grenadine to change the color  ·  

If you're serving· this as a· punch, add. fruit and maybe.even a fruit-ice-ring. This can also be made in individual servings, but it's a pain. Warning: -do -not drink· this through a straw; my aunt and uncle tried that once and we didn't see them for two days after. 
., If your favorite drink hasn't been listed and you don't know how to make ·it, you can do one· of two things;· Either pick:up,a·:bartender's guide:or ask•a bartender _:_ they're glad to help..I didn't list drinks like Scotch·on the Rocks or Whiskey and,water; because they're easy to make and people interested in that type· drink.usually know how to make it already. 
· I am by no means ari expert~ but everything I have' listed· I have tried personally, ·and. they all taste pretty good, as do most drinks.· Experimentation is fun, but be careful what you try. On'ce a "friend" of mine said that·! should try a drink he heard of called a Silver· Bullet;; so I did. There really is a drink by that n·ame, but this wasn't it. ·What he gave me was a Gin Martini with a shot of Scotch mixed in. Ugh, you say!· Well I had a few choice words about it myself. All in all' though, rdidn't mind too much, because the hour was, late and·the party was breaking up. So drink up,and'" have one on me. Salute! 
-craig spengel 

Computers and Liter'atut'e: ,Keypunching Poetry 
· Dr. Edward Kline is the Director of Graduate Studies in English at the University of Notre Dame. Dr.· Kline is an associate professor of English and teaches in the fields of Medieval literature, linguistics, and computer stylistics analysis. He is also: literary consultant to Kook Huber and Marlyn Ritchie who wrote the poetry and prose sections of LINGUA­SLEUTH, respectively. 
Kook Huber is the chief programmer for the So­cial Science Training Laboratory at the University of Notre Dame. 
They .were interviewed by Mary C. Murphy, a graduate student. in the Department .of English. 
l\lurphy: A good question to begin an interview on Computers and Literature is, why use the computer in the English Department? · 
Kline: For the same reason that the scientists,use the computer: to save time. For example, in a course on stylistics, it used to take students four or five classes to analyze the total form of a sonnet. Now, once the sonnet is key punched and fed into the computer, its form can be analyzed in only two minutes. Aside from speed, the analysis is errorless. '. •l\lurphy: Kook, could you explain what key punch~ ing means? 
Huber: Key punching is very easy. The key-punch machine is very similar to a typewriter. All one needs to know is how to. type in order to punch his program and data on cards. . 
l\lurphy: Ed, you talked.above about form analysis. In what specific.ways does the computer analyze form? 
. Kline: ·When I speak: about. form analysis, I mean that the computer. can• give a phonological .(sound level),· morphological · (word distribution) .. and syn~ tactical (phrase a~d clause structure) description of a poem. Besides . these • descriptions, the computer , can also point out line . end rhymes, imagistfo patterns and concordances.· 
l\lurphy: Obviously, the computer can do many things. I have often heard people express distrust of the computer and fear the machine will take oyer. If the machines are so useful, why_ do people have. thes.e fears? . .. 
Kline: Your question brings up the limitations of computers. Computers are machines .wllich are incapa­ble of thinking. Human beings can think, and the power behind the computer is the programmer. 
Huber: One of the greatest limitations of the com­puter is that although the computer can give form analysis, it can never give the meaning of a work. Nor can we write critical opinions. or impressions into a program.· We do not know how to program semantics, even in our own minds. Therefore, .denotation is fore­most and connotation i!'.l subjugated to denotation. · 
l\lurphy: Since the computer can take only a logical, objective approach to literature, is there ,any danger that computerized · analysis will kill emotional re­sponse, the true nature of literature? 
Kline: No. Even though the compu,t~~ isHmited to objective description, format analysis is.·q, great aid to subjective analysis. Form is deliberate. \r pften J:i.ear the question: "How do we kn~w. tl\e poet m~nt to use the patterns and techniques critics find in his works?" My answer. to this question is that art is a deliberate rearrangement of language to produce a certain effect; it is the .union of form and matter. If the artist did not order his work, art would be reduced to accident. 
Huber: Artists and musicians do not write,rnusic,or paint by accident;. they_ plan form long· before they execute it. 
Kline: It is very curious that literature is the only art in which form is.generally ignored. True apprecia­tion of .art is impossible without knowledge of form. Here is where the computer is so helpful to literature. It can:givE!! us a complete description of form in a mat­ter qf minutes. or even seconds. Such complete knowl-
THE . SCHOLASTIC 


edge . of a work's form helps us to gain ·significant insights into its meaning. 
l\lurphy: How long does it generally take a program to run and what kinds of studies have been done at . Notre Dame? 
Huber:. No project-done here has ever taken more than two minutes of computer-processing time. The average run is only one minute. 
Kline: At Notre Dame thus far, we have done vari­ous studies on the stylistics of sonnets and odes, morphological studies of English literature, studies in Middle English dialects, prose analysis, and graphs and maps of phoneme distribution. 
l\lurphy: What is a map of phoneme distribution? 
l{line: Such a map takes each sound and classifies it· according to its type and where it is .produced in the vocal tract. 
·• l\lurphy: Is there any computer .language especially adapted to deal specifically with literature? 
Huber: Yes. PL/1 was developed to accommodate input in terms of natural language. Fortran uses sym­bols, equations, numbers, and formulas to deal with science but also with natural language. 
l\lrirphy: How is PL/1 accommodated to natural language? 
Huber: PL/1 handles. alphabetical characters used in natural language in a more natural way than Fortran whose data and analysis are mostly numerical. 
l\lurphy: What do you mean when you say "a more natural way"? Can PL/1 handle great numbers of characters? · 
Huber: Yes. With PL/1, you can put an-entire book 
II 
or· an entire poem into the computer. in its natural !i,,format as data, and there is no necessity of coding the data into numbers. 
Kline:. Commands· in PL/1 are. natural English 
rather than the esoteric symbols of scientific computer 
languages; · · 
Huber: Fortran can do what PL/1 does but with 
great difficulty because it uses an artificial language 
in which symbolism and syntax are totally different 
from the natural language of everyday speech. 
Kline: Now that we have a computer language that can accommodate natural language, use of the . com­· PUter in verbal-based disciplines such as literature, linguistics, philosophy and theology is becoming wide-
15 

spread. Murphy: Have any programs been specifically com­posed to handle poetry and prose? 
Kline: Yes. There is a program called LINGUA­SLEUTH which is the most complete program to date. l\lurphy: What does LINGUASLEUTH do, and how 
.is it complete? 

· Kline:. LINGUASLEUTH is complete because it·. performs all of' the following functions: it reads .the linguistic and/or literary data contained on key­punched data-input cards, automatically keeps a count of the number of (1) stanzas or paragraphs, (2) lines, 
(3) words, (4) characters, (5) characters per word. LINGUASLEUTH's capacities are too numerous to go into here, but .there is a brochure which gives a total explanation of the program's functions. 
Murphy: Can you give a specific example of wliat LINGUASLEUTH can do? 
Huber: The program can make a concordance of a literary text of any length from 2 lines to 10,000 pages. A concordance, the most elementary kind of computer application, gives an alphabetical list of all the words in the text, their frequencies of occurrence, and the locations of occurrence. 
l\lurp:hy: In what ways have concordances been putI: ! to practical use? 
!i 
Kline: There have been many uses, Mary. For exam­ple, concordances have been used to settle problems of disputed. authorship as in the case of The Federalist Papers. They have also been instrumental ·in· deter­mining the influence of one _author upon another as in the example of the influence of Milton on Shelley. Con­cordances. can. further enumerate all: the nouns in a man's writing and tell us whether, the nouns are ab­stract or concrete. Knowing whethE?r a man's vocabu­lary is abstract or concrete can tell us a lot about the way a -man thinks.. Furthermore,· computer studies have progressed from the . basic_ routine concordance to sophisticated studies. For example, an . article has recently been written based on a study entitled:. "Pro­gramming a Plausible. Plot." · The title indicates the project's complexity .. 
l\lurphy: Are there many articles being written about· _computer· studies? 
Kline: .Yes. In 1972 alone, approximately 300 arti~ cles have been published in journals about-computers and literature. 
Murphy: In light of the usefulness of the computer in literature, can you explain the widespread belief that computers are alien to.the humanities? 
Kline: I think the belief comes from the relative newness of the .computer to the humanities. The first course ever given in computers and humanities was offered in 1965. Therefore, the use of . computers -in literature is not even ten years old. 
Huber: Because of traditional suspicion, there are not_ enough professors and students with computer training. We have graduate ·students at Notre Dame, for example, who are doing their dissertations on the computer. They are held up in their research because they did not learn anything about the computer until the fourth or fifth year of graduate school. They should have gotten computer training on· the undergraduate level; there, a fear of computers would be eliminated. Also, the student would be presented with a broad scope of study possibilities which would direct him to a significant program of study. As it is now, students waste valuable time learning basics. · 
Kline: If people consider the computer alien to the hu~anities, then they must consider the printing press, the typewriter, and the overhead projector alien also. 
Murphy: Does Notre Dame offer any courses in 
computers and literature? 
Kline: Yes. Every year I teach a course called 
"Computer Applications in Linguistics and Literary 
Stylistics." ·It is a 500-level course and is,. therefore, 
open to--both undergraduate and graduate: students. 
Also, many institutions such as St. Louis University 
are ._.beginning to require computer programming 
courses on the freshman level. 
. . ' 
. . Murphy: -How do you view the future of computers 
and literature studies? 
Kline: I think their future is bright. Scholars are 
becoming. more and more interested in the computer. 
There are already two journals specifically devoted to 
computerized· studies.. One is Com'[YUters and the Hu­
manities, and. the second is Com'[YUter Studies in the 
Humanities and Verbal Behavior. . Furthermore, any 
literary journal will accept computer articles. Because 
the computer is a relatively new concept in literary 
research, present articles require copious explanation 
and footnotes about how the computer was , used. 
foresee a time when essays will require _only, one foot­
note to indicate that the study was computer assisted. 
. THE SCHOLASTIC
16 
that anything could be so obviously demanding of _the musicians, yet played with such relaxation:and ob­vious good humor. 

·POCO· The Original Hard ·:Luck Band 
Poco is not the best rock band in 

the world. They are also not the best 
country .band in the world; But they 
are five competent, dedicated, profes­
sional musicians. who have produced 
some, memorable' music since their 
inception after .the demise of the 
now near-mythical Buffalo -Spring­
field. But more than anything else, 
they are the . original hard · luck ·American band. . . . _ . 
It was in the summer of 1969 that 
Poco made.their debut: performance 
at the Troubador in Los Angeles. 
Both , their performance and recep­
tion were stunning. Springfield vet~ 
erans . Richie. Furay .. (guitar, lead 
vocals) and Jim Messina (lead gui­
tar) had formed the most refreshing 
new group in quite some time. Furay 
and Messina were in the studio for 
Epic Records during the production 
of Buffalo Springfield's Last Time 
Around when they found themselves 
in need of a pedal steel guitarist. 
Enter Rusty Young, who· brought 
with him dnimmer/vocalist George 
Grantham. They rounded •out the 
group with session . bassist · Randy 
Meisner. Those who saw them at the 
Troubador still speak with awe about 
their performance. 

Poco's first album,' Pickin' Up the 
Pieces (July, 1969), proved also to be 
awe-inspiring; Messina's• production, 
a crisp, clean, uncluttered sound, and 
the quality of .the songwriting and 
performing combined to form a very 
neatly done record. The group dipped 
into many styles -pure country, 
bluegrass, rockabilly,_ straight rock 
and pure schlock----,-all with remark­
abie success. · 

Exit Meisner (to join. Rick Nel­
son's Stone Canyon Band and later, 
Eagles), enter Timothy B. Schmit on 
bass and vocals. 
NOVEMBER 2, 1973 

The second album, Hurry Up (also known as Poco-June, 1970), showed Poco in a more down-to-earth _ap­proach. Songs_ like "Hurry Up" and "Keep on Believing' " first showcased Poco's special brand of rock and roll, a driving, _. urgent, . really happy sound. They maintained their coun­try contact in "Honky Tonk Down­stairs" •and "You'd Better Think Twice'' and got into a very extended Latin-type song called "El Touto De Nadie, Regressa". which displayed Rusty Young's astonishing ability to use the steel .guitar for purposes other than those for .which it .was invented. 
Poco had developed a small .but loyal following with these . first two albums. All of their music up to that time cam~ to a .head on Deliverin' (March, 1971), recorded live in Bos­ton. and New, York, this third album revealed a beautiful combination, of rock and country,• to start a trend that has come to be kriown as coun­try boogie .. Deliverin' is one of the · most irresistible albums you're likely to run across;: The music -in· these grooves reveals an unusual attention to detail, a · really careful, pains­taking approa.ch to _music. The songs (Furay's "I Guess You Made It,'' "C'Mon,",and "A Man Like Me'' and Schmit's "Hear That Music") ·and the way they are performed will make you sit up and take notice. You are not likely to hear anything so thoroughly energetic yet precisely controlled. Side two of Deliverin' ended with a medley of three coun­try tunes from Pickin' Up the Pieces that was so tight that I still shake my head and stare at the speakers every time I hear it. It amazed me (as did all of their music until then) 
After Deliverin' Jim Messina, once happy enough to take a back seat to Furay and Young, found himselfm:it so · happy, and split for a· producer's career that turned into a superstar's career when he teamed up with Keri Loggins. He was replaced by ex-Illin­ois Speed Press guitarist Paul:Cot­ton. 
Cotton's first effort with Poco was From The· Inside (October, 1972): Poco missed Messina's · production. They _used Steve Cropper ·and ·re,;­corded in Memphis, a long way from home. This, coupled with the strange­ness of working with a new guitar:. ist, combined to produce some· am­biguous music: It was more pure country (Richie's "Hoedown,,, "What Am I Gonna Do," and "You Are the One") than any album since Pickin' Up the Pieces. There was· also straight rock :(Cotton's· "Railroad Days," Furay's "Do You Feel· It Too?") and some in-between_'mate­rial·· (Schmit's title song, ·cotton's "Bad Weather"· and Richie's "Just for Me and You," the best of the whole disc). · So while each ·of •. the songs stood up by itself, the album as a whole never· quite hung together. 
You will notice the conspicuous ·absence of any hit singles s~,·far. Poca decided that it almost always takes a· hit single. to sedu~e the kind of mass audience it takes to support 
a. band. With this in niind they chose a new. pro~_uction • team (Epic pro­ducer Jim Mason and Jack Richard­son, producer of· the Guess Who), and set about recording the sure­fire hit single and hit album, both· called A Good Feelin' To Know. · · 
Their fifth album -· (November, 1972) marked a really· definite change in style, ·though it retained much of the basic Poco approach. The elements of their· music· which remained (and were enhanced) in­cluded a strong, well-defined rhythm foundation (Schmit on bass, Grant­ham on drums), and a sense of the proper use of lead instruments/Paw Cotton's presence brought with it a great deal more electricity,:_' and Rusty Young's steel work was re­fined · to the point where he could produce all those incredible, well~ thought-out riffs . without sounding loud and boorish as he sometimes did 

on Hurry Up. This new instrumental approach carried with it two sig­nificant changes. First, it established a phenomenal frame of reference for Poco's vocals. Richie Furay is one of the very best lead singers in rock and his voice sounds very strong and self-assured. In Schmit and Cotton, Poco has two .capable, better-than­.average lead vocalists. Cotton's nasal whine is nicely suited to his writing, as is Schmit's delicate vocal style in his more recent material. With Grantham supplying those ever-so­high backups and joining with Schmit and Furay in triple falsetto harmonies, Poco's vocal style is very .. nearly the best around, sometimes paralleled but never equaled. The second thing about .the new instru­mental approach involves a . real change in the group's writing style. With A Good Feelin' To Know they abandoned that runaway tempo for a more deliberate pace. As a result they set up bound_aries iri which they could do a great deal more musically than before. There was much more overdubbing and the sound that. re­sults (with no small amount of the credit. due _to producers Mason and Richardson) is incredibly dense, a really exciting, attention-grabbing sound. This,. in turn, leaves_ more room for the vocals, which really soar. In particular, Richie's "And Settlin' Down'' and Cotton's "Keeper of the Fire" and "Early Times" are noteworthy in this respect. In a softer vein, Tim's calypso-ish ."I Can See Everything" highlights those falsetto harmonies in a lush acoustic setting. The logical culmination of A Good Feelin' To Know is in Richie's title song, combining all of Poco's best element: simple melody, short lead guitar line, good country steel guitar and a magnificent vocal. Furay shines best when he really sings a line. Something like "You're bringin' a tear of joy to my eyes" would sound ludicrous coming frorn someone else's mouth, but Richie has always come by those kinds of things honestly, and he pulls it off nicely. The album itself (both the individual 
songs and the way they hold to­gether as · a unit) is brilliant, but A Good ·Feelin' To ·Know (despite the fact that, as a single, it was a horrendous flop) is a true classic. If Richie had written nothirig else, this one song would be enough,; that's how good it is. 
After reading all of this, you can see that I am an unabashed Poco 
. fan. So with· all of the historical stuff out of the way, and the re­viewers prejudices right up front (where they should be), let's take a look at Poco's latest album, the just­released Crazy Eyes. Paul Cotton's "Blue Water" opens the album on a strong note. If Poco has a formula, this song sticks to it and brings home some very fine stuff. Cotton's vocal is strong and clean. He moves along nicely, yielding to Rusty's short steel lick, then moving out with falsetto harmony. The vaguely ecological lyrics are dull, but there's more than enough in the music itself to carry the tune. This breaks immediately into Young's "Fool's Gold,'' a bluegrass number in the tradition of "Grand Junction" from Pickin' Up the Pieces. Manassas' Chris Hillman contributes . two· nicely controlled mandolin spots, then plays counter to Bill Graham's flying fiddle. Everybody else just stands clear and lets Rusty play, and he comes up with some high-powered· solos on dobro, slide and steel gui.: tars, and banjo. Tim Schmit follows with "Here We Go Again." Much like his earlier "I Can See Everything," this new song is largely acoustic (with good percussion by Manassas' Joe Lala), but it also incorporates a high ma­jestic sound produced by voices and Rusty on slide guitar. It works. 
·. The two . nonoriginal · songs · on Crazy_ Eyes,· Gram Parson's "Brass Buttons" and J. J. Cale's "Magnolia," turn an otherwise credible perfor­mance into pure sap. 
The title song itself also . has strings, but the arrangement by Bob McMillan and Bob Eprin is much more imaginative, alternately taking the lead, then framing the group's instrumental and vocal tracks. On the one hand, they play a sweet, un­fettered line around Richie and Tim in a falsetto· duet, then come in with a mysterious, subdued crash on the downstroke. The best use of the strings comes in the two · extended solo breaks. They_ do a nice job of setting off Rusty's simple steel guitar solo, then come crashing down around Cotton's furious, screaming guitar. For all of its magnitude, how­ever, "Crazy Eyes" leaves little evi­dence of havingreally been some­where in its nine minutes, and be­cause of that, the performance is not awesome, merely better than aver­age. 
Richie's "Let's_ Dance Tonight" ends the album on a simple rock and roll note. His vocal is sheer beauty; he's at the top of his range, but he resists shouting and settles for hold­ing every note before sliding off again. 
Crazy Eyes doesn't open up any­thing really new for Poco, other than the strings, which they will most likely abandon. What it is, then, is a side trip, much like From The In­side. It lacks the unified feeling of A Good Feelin' To Know, but it does have several good moments. 
So now, you're wondering, what's all this talk about hard luck? Simple. For over four years now,· Poco has been on the verge of being The Next Big Thing.. In those four years, they've come a long way, ye~· their audience is still the same and Poco is; for the most part, still a second­billed act. They have yet to have a major hit, single or album; This frus­tration is compounded by the fact that many of the people with whoni Richie ·Furay ·has been associated (Stephen Stills, Neil Young, Jim Mes­sina, the list goes on and on) are off to stardom. So for all the hard work and practice (and this band practices more than ·any other band ori this planet) they've gone essentially no­where. And that's too bad, because Poco's music has a really nice flavor to it, and music as good as theirs shouldn't have to get lost iri the shuffle. . · 
Last January, Poco found a new manager in whizkid David Geffen. So far his guidance has not been able to put them over the top. ·But Tm beginning to get the.• feeling that Poco has accepted that fact and is · willing to settle back • and· do · what they do .best: making good, homegrown · American· music. Look closely enough, and· you'll. find the statement of all this. placed very 
-neatly at the end of .side one· of Crazy Eyes· in Paul Cotton's· "A Right· Along": 
"All you singers and all your· lovely songs,•'<• , Try so very hard to make them all 
belong. Some get taken, others forsaken, But we keep moving · Moving a'rightalorig.". 
· -kevin dockrell 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



The 33rd flavor? 
Paul Simon 
Musical Ice Cream 
In . America, we expect that all Public Showbiz partnerships should remain intact. There exists an im­plicit recognition (or at least the prayerful hope) that neither man nor· beast, corporate profit projec­tions nor artistic temperament should drive asunder. any pair in the public eye. Consider, for example, the shock to the nation-to the world no less -fif Ozzie perversely leaves Harriet, if; Simon suggests that Schuster kiss off, -if Fred Flintstone-heaveri for­bid-ever forsakes Wilma. and takes up instead with a Stone:-Age Harlot in a sin-infested, virtue-swamp Rock­land bordello. It is a bitter pill in­deed when the likes of Burton-. Taylor, Nixon-Agnew split because, however covertly manifested, :we al­ways hope, with soap-operatic opti­mism, that Jill will never, ever leave her Jack (or even a Dave, as the case might be). 
Sometimes, however, blessing comes in the disguise of what might seem tci be the most terrible bane. In this regard, one inevitably thinks of the split of Simon and Garfunkel. Ini­tially, the news was accepted with dread. Years of reading "Rolling Stone" magazine gives a fan nothing if not a sense of pathos after hear­
·ing, for example, that the boss bopper in a rock band . quits and 
casts off his neighborhood buddies so that he can "go it alone." It is pathetic indeed when, a year later, one reads that the boss bopper is playing for beans in a washed-out dive in New York~no doubt waiting for his second unheralded solo album to catch fire. Such fears were present after the breakup of Simon and . Garfunkel. Indeed, these initial fore­bodings offered dreadful intimations that Paul Simon would fade into Misty Bob Lind Land or, if lucky, he might wallow as a second act be-" hind the likes of Alice Cooper. Art . Garfunkel, it was feared, might never find anyone to write good songs for him,.thereby reducing him to star, like former football .· great Jim Brown, in second-rate_ movies. that few actually take seriously. But, happily enough, such intimations were obviously misguided. Art Gar­funkel, for example, stars in good . movies and, if recent AM airplay is 
.any indication, sings excellent songs. Paul Simon advances with each new album to justify his presence as one of America's most important, most influential and most creative music artists of the seventies. 
By ·any honest perspective, one must grant that, for once, the per­sonal expectations which precipi~ tated the breakup are being realized. 
Paul Simon develops, with each new album, a style of his own that is the stuff of genius. In Simon's work, one finds the beautiful coal­escence of_· form .and content, music and lyrics. Paul Simon, his first solo release, takes the listener who enters into the music through a curiolls. inferno. Simon is haunting and cryp­tic in "Mother and Child Reuriion" -I've yet to find someone who knows what that · song means. At every bend in. the music, Simon of­fers a bewildering wrench in the lyrics, .thereby evoking. shadowy images of yoids which reach the listener niore as intuition than as concretization. The . 'album.· is em­battled. Great themes· gather arid few are lost in the lurch of delivery: One. suspects that. the combination of lyrical blac~ness and unique inten­sityof performance correlates to an identity crisis whkh might well have existed as he launched his new ca­reer. I recall reading in "Rolling ~tone" .that Simon said the breakup of Simon and Garfunkel was a iunc­tion ·of them both having different things to do. Simon felt liberated bec_ause he was free to do things that would have been incongruous for the S&G style. In short; Simon is de­veloping as an artist. · · · · 
This development is apparent. in "There Goes Rhymin' Simon," his second and most recent work. The tone of this album is much brighter. I believe Simon senses his own ar­rival. "Kodachrome," a beat-to-death AM radio hit, is a favorite cut. Nonetheless, without further analy­sis, the album manifests the con­tinually profound artistic growth that has been extant throughout all his albums. Simon, in short, has never regressed. Simon says, "Rock 'n' roll is filled with talented people but they put out too many records. You don't ever hear development. With most artists you can't tell the third album from the fifth or the first. You never feel that there is somebody who is growing and so you're never engaged. That's why they're so boring." 

Simon's progression accompanies him to the concert stage. After a three-year break from live perfor­mances,· he toured last spring· with the· "Jesse Dixon Singers," a gospel ensemble, and "Urubamba," a Peru­vian group, who backed him up in ap­propriate songs. By combining solos and different backup groups, Simon transcended the banal glitter . which accompanies the hyper-thyroid, blar.:. ing bombast concerts which seem­ingly attempt to coi:npensate for.ane­mic talent rather thari celebrate· any profound artistry. . 
Simon has. long been orie of, my favorite performers. Every song he 'writes is a treat. Nonetheless, Eng'." lish majors revel in discoverin·g their favorite iine or lines in a song or novel or poem or play because, . job markets being as they are, there is not much else to worry about. For what it's· worth,. "Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio? our nation turns its lonely eyes to you" and "When I .think back on all the crap I learned in :high school; it's a 'wonder I can think at all" are my two favorite Hnes ana" should, undoubtedly, be en­shrined· ;wherever bes't lines are en­
shrined. 

Paul Simon. comes . to Not're. Dame 
on Saturday, November 3, at 8:30 
p.m.'Like the artist himself, 'the con~ 
cert should be a treat. ¥usical ice 
cream. 

-jack wenke 

: .THE , SCHOLASTIC 

Coming_Distraetions 
NOVEMBER 2 ... CAC presents Mash, 8:00 & 10:00 p.m.,. Engineering Auditorium. 
... Focus, in concert atIndiana Uni­versity (Bloomington), . Assem­..bly Hall, West Side, 8:00 p.m. 
Tickets $5, $4, $3, $2. ...Movie Classics, Schuyler Colfax · Auditorium, South Bend Public Library. . .-. Lloyd Orrell Gospel Concert, Mor­ris Civic. 
NOVEMBER 3 
· ... CAC's Festival of Musicals pre­
.. ; Paul Simon; ACC. · .·;~:America .First,·; a' film. presented : . by St. Mary's Dept. of Sociology, ·. · Anthropology,· and· Social Work, ,: · 8:00 p.ni., ··earroll· Hall (Made.;.:_ le~a). · ..'. Slovak Chainber Orchestra, Union . Auditorium, Gosh~n College. 
NOVEi\mER ·4·.; 
.. ; CAC Festival .of Musicals opens . ~ith Footlight Parit.de (Berkeiy), ....Engineering Audit~~um, _$1.00. 
. . .."'Who Killed JFK?" a lecture by . .. ,Bob Katz, fo be.given twice: 3:00 . . . . · p.m. at Washington Hall, 7 :30 
.. p.m. at ·o•Laughlin (SMC). . . 

. . .. . . . . . . L'Avare (Moliere), , O'Laughlin, 
·:SMC.. 
..'.-Studebaker Drivers' Club's ·An~ tique Car Display; at the Stude­baker Car Museum. . 
NOVEMBER 5·. 
_.;.·;The Shakespeare Film Series con­·. tinues with King Lear (Scofield/ ;: · Ctisack),--7:0.0 & 10:00 p.m., in Washington'Hall, free. 
NOVEMBER 2, 1973 
... Applause (Mamoulian), continues . the CAC's Festival of Musicals, Engineering Audi~orium, $!.00. 
NOVEMBER 6 
... Elkhart Concert Club presents John West, at Memorial High School (Elkhart). 
... CAC Festival · of Musicals con­tinues with Funny Face (Doneri), Engineering Auditorium, $1.00. 
NOVEMBER 7 
·. sents Singin' in tlie Rain (Donen/ · ' Kelly)/ Engineering Auditorium, $1.00.. 
'. .·. "Alexander Solzhenitsyn," a lec­ture by ,Vera Dunham (Wayne State University), 8:00 p.m., in 
. ·the Little Theater {SMC). 
·NOVEMBER 8_ ... A. Star Is Born {Cukor), CAC Festival of Musicals, Engineering Auditorium;. $1.00. ... CAC presents the National Thea­.. ter of the · Deaf, 8 :00 p.m. in O'Laughlin {SMC), $3.00. · 
NOVEI\IBER 9 • . ;· .. The .Lion .in .Winter opens at Bristol Opera House, Elkhart . (Elkhart ·civic Theater).; ; . An Evening -of Opera, at Bethel College .. ·:· . ; .. Edgar Winter Group live at the Valparaiso University gym; Tick­
. · ets $5 in advance, $6 at the door.· . K of C presents The Reivers. · . Summer of '42, Engineering Audi­
torium,' 7 :00, 9:00 & 11:00 p.m.,
$1.00. ,• . 
· 
NOVEl\ffiER ·10 , .. 
... The Reivers (~ of C), _. second . -night. . .'; David _Crosby/Gr~h-~~ :Nash, ACC. 
... Elkhart Civic Theater presents The Lion in Winter, second night, Bristol Opera House (Elkhart): • 
.. ~ Fleetwood )\lac .{with_ Weather 
.. Report), at Indiana University (Bloomington), Assembly Hall (West Side), 8:30 p.m.: Tickets 
. $5, $4; $3, 2. . . . .. An Evening of Opera, Beth~l Col~ lege, second night. ... Policeman's Ball, ACC .. . ~. l'\~i~h -Miller's 9rchestra, Morris . ; .. _CIVIC~ . . .. National Thea~r ._of ~he Deaf, Goshen College, Union Audito­rium.: .....,_ .: 
. . NOVEMBER7 ll · . .. George McGovern, Stepan Center, ~-_8:00 p.m. 
NOVEI\IBER_-12 .·,;. ... Dr. Richard :Rubenstein, 8 :00 · p.m., Library Auditorium. 
.NOVEl\IBER 14 
•.. Start the Revolution Without l'\le, 
Engineering Auditorium. . .•. :. "l\lost Rich In Youth-The Phe­
. . 
nomeno11 of _Human Growth,,, by Dr. Frank K. Thorp (University .· of Chicago), '7:30 p.m. in Carroll 
. Hall (Madeleva).· . . . •. . : • ; .. Dean Sidney Davidson {Graduate · . School of Business, University of 
: . Chicago),· 3:30 .. p.m., Library Auditorium. ·· : ' ··. ' ... James Hejduk, ·organist,. Sacred Heart' Church, 8 :15 p.m. Free. 


NOVElUBER 15 

... Godspell opens, at the Morris Civic (Broadway Theater League of South Bend) . 
. . . South Bend Chamber lUusic So­ciety, concert, South Bend Public. Library Auditorium. 
NOVElUBER 16 ... Godspell, second night at the Morris Civic . 
. . . The Lion in Winter, Elkhart Civic Theater, Bristol Opera House. 
Drawn from Nature/Draivn from Life, featuring works by Homer, Church, and Huntington, opens at South Bend Art Center,· No­
·vember 4 (through Nov. 25). 

Paintings by l\Irs. Katherine Barn­hart go on show at the YWCA Art Gallery beginning November 4 (through Nov. 30). 
South Bend Art Center's show of 
American Crafts and Folk Art 
· opens November 11 (through Nov. 29). 
Portraits by lUartin Stevens continue on show at South Bend Art Cen­ter through Nov. 4. 

The Art of the Silhouette Cutter 
(Examples and History) con­tinues at Radecki Galleries through Nov: 30. 
The following continue at O'Shaugh­nessy Gallery through Dec. 31: 
Italian Renaissance Work from the Permanent Collection: 
XIX Century Works from the Per­manent Collection. 

"New Portfolio" of Josef Albers. 

Portraits ·from the Perinanent Col­lection:··A Critical· Examination· of the Forgotten Art of Por­traiture, featuring works from 
· the Italian Renaissance through the 1950's. 
For current information· ·and schedule changes, , call 283-s'834 (Student Union Information Line), Monday-Friday, 1:00~5:00 p.m.. 
.. .~rick gering 

David Crosby/Graham Nash 
Silver-Throated Harmonies.·.· 

"We have a lot of trouble with that because we write a· lot of our songs right out of what goes on, you know, to us;· about people that we love, things that happen to us,_ 'cause that's what you have to write about if you want to get down to stuff that means anything to you. So sometimes· it's really hard to sing 'em, too. But it's· also groovy to do it, anyway." · · 
With this candid phHosophy of art as expressed on Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young's famous .. live album, "Four Way Street," !)avid ~rosby adequately reflects 
·. the sensitivity and delicacy which he and Graham Nash have come to represent in contemporary inusic. The sixties undoubtedly produced some of history's most explosive and significant achievements in popular· music, one of which was the evolution.of "Crosby, Stills; Nash 
·& Young." Combining enticing originality in their har­monies with a skillful and fresh blend of rock ·· folk and country, CSN&Y contributed greatly to a ~niqu~ awarenes_s in the American music scene, represented by Judy Collins, Joni Mitchell, John Sebastian, "The Byrds," "Buffalo Springfield," and more recently, "Man­assas," to name a few. David Crosby and Graham Nash; playing together at Notre Dame's ACC on November 10 bring with them a splendid and rare style as well as two of the best voices on record today., Beginning with "The Byrds" in the mid-sixties with Roger . McGuf~n, Gram,. Parsons, .. Chris : Hiilman, · and others, David Crosby emerged as a s~rikingly original rhythm guitarist and s~nger. Moving away _fz:9m_ "The 
•THE _SCHOLASTIC 

Byrds" ("Turn, Turn, Turn," "Mr. Tambourine Man"), he began work harmonizing on many of "Jefferson Air­plane's" songs, .writing "Triad" for them, and drifting into organization with Stephen Stills, Graham Nash, and later Neil Young to form "Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young." Their first album reveals Crosby's talents forthright as musician, singer, and songwriter. His songs "Guinnevere," "Wooden Ships," and "Long Time Gone" help lay the group's groundwork for. their in­novative harmonization and rock-folk blend. Also, their characteristic sensitivity and social consciousness ·comes forth. A later song, "Almost Cut My Hair," further establish him as an exponent of the rock culture while implementing a special lead guitar technique~ As "CSN&Y" dissolved, Crosby drifted from helping with harmonies on Stills' and Young's other records to finally cutting his own solo album entitled, "If I Could Only Re­member My Name." From there he rejoined "The Byrds" for one album released last year and then cut an 
· album with Graham Nash, with whom he is now on tour. He is known best for his fine versatility as mu­sician, singer,· and songwriter, which will be more evi­dent to everyone on November 10. . 
Graham Nash's major career started_ with "The Hollies," originally from England, who were known for their characteristic harmony just as "The Byrds" with Crosby: One might say he was the strength of "CSN­&Y's" harmonization work. While not emerging par­ticularly as a musician,. his songs "Bus Stop," ·j'carrie Ann," and others recorded with "The Hollies',' developed 
,,.... 

'. . i;i:l \:~.,,..~ ·~ • 
him as a significant voice. Joining CSN&Y, his record­ings of "Teach Your Children," "Our House," and "Lady of the Island" certainly carried the special sensitivity that Crosby spoke of on "Four Way Street," and on which that group's talent depended. After The Hollies and CSN&Y, Nash contributed, like Crosby, to other artists' recordings in vocal backing until he made his own album, ·"Songs For Beginners," invoking social 
. consciousness in the singles, "Chicago," and "Military · Madness." From there, he joined Crosby to cut their album. As a songwriter and singer, he is in a class by 
. . himself; no one has been able to imitate him. The real value of Crosby and Nash, however, is not 
-actually contained in their silver-throated harmonies, their superb and original styles of songwriting, or their unique blending of rock-folk-country instrumentation. Their value. lies, as in any great artist, in the special interpretation of their own feelings. The other quali­ties, while being significant to music as an art form, only serve as tools for the ultimate purpose; that is, the application of simple human experiences topowerful heights. To Crosby and Nash, the most powerful hap­penings · are simple experiences ·and human feelings. " 'Cause that':i what you have to write about if you want to get down to stuff that means anything to you." On November 10, Notre Dame will be receiving a sweet, simple, and powerfully sensitive exhibition of two of music's finest vocalists and. most sensitive poets of to­day's experience. · · · 
~vid dreyer 

1i 
11 11·.I'
ii
I·,..,
' 

-23

Week in Distortion 

. . 
For the past two weekends, throughout the land (as questions from an upcoming version, a copy of which well as in a goodly number of foreign countries), col­was purloined by our staff ~t great risk. " . lege students engage'd in that great sport of competitive aptitude and achievement tests. The results from these 1. Six chimpanzees sitting at six typewriters .. tests can be sent to various institutions of higher learn­(A) would destroy· the typewriters in less than a 
day. . . •. . . . .
ing which will, invariably; ignore them. Students are particularly· fortunate in having. the liberty of . choosing (B) invented: the phrase i'clear: and imminent the date on which they wish to take these exains. They danger." can select either the weekend of a home football game (C) serve as night controllers for the OBSERVER 
· on Thursday nights.· . . . . .
or the weekend of final examinations for the first semester. (D) were once observed to type "xuY68aNdl ggg 
It is well recognized that any attempt to "_cram" for kiq riverrun, past Eve and Adam's, from swerve of the tests in a short period is futile. One would have to short to bend of bay,· brings us by a commodious learn the distinctions between, and the nuances of, such vicus of recirculation ...." obfuscatory test words as obloquy, obsequious, obse­quies, obviate, ocarina, obtrude, obtund, ochre, ontologi­. 2. Notre Dame is a cal, ontogeny, etc. Many students have been observed (A) dty. to have something just short of a total breakdown at­(B) town. . tempting to distinguish between all the words beginning (C) Christian Community. 
(D) zoo. . .· ,
with 0. It should be noted in passing that these words constitute a disproportionate number of the words used (E) University. in word analogies, synonyms, and other parts of the verbal tests. 3.. THURSDAY NIGHT: FRIDAY MORNING: 
Many students wonder whether or not to guess 
· (A) 7: 4 answers to questions about which they are not certain. 
(B) hope : despairIt should be borne in mind that a certain percentage of 
(C) library : engineering auditorium .the wrong answers raised to an indeterminate power · (D) Library : engineering auditorium 
of the negative logarithm of the student's mental age less five times the standard deviation of the number of · . (E) simple linear relationship : utter confusion incorrect answers in a randomly sized and determined section is subtracted from the. number · of correct an­4. The difference between God and ..............:. is that swers. Although the effects of this correction have not the_ former is everywhere whereas the latter is yet been determined, it is hoped that it will discourage everywhere except Notre.Dame. students from haphazard guessing.··. · · (A) Fr. Hesburgh (B) Fr. Sorin's statue (C) sun­
As an aid to those who might be taking the test in . shine· (D) cannot be determined on the basis of the future, we are publishing some of the more difficult ·information given. 
THE. SCHOLASTIC 
0 

5. We want to .............. you whether you want ............. . or not. 
(A) 
help ... it 

(B) 
disgust ... food 

(C) 
discipline ... football 

(D) 
dominate ... parties 

(E) 
bust ... to smoke 



6. HABITAT: ANIMAL:: AIRPLANE: 
(A) engine (B) aileron (C) Fr. Hesburgh 
7. A book retails normally for $5.98. The wholesale price is $4.50. The Notre Dame Bookstore is a non­profit organization. The price of the book will be 
(A) $6 (B) $6.50 (C) $7 (D) none of these 
_DIRECTIONS: Read -the following passage. Then 
-answer the following questions on the basis of what you have read. In some cases more than one answer will be correct. In all cases select the one answer which is most correct. 
· -It has been observed that there is a correlation be­tween performance on certain types of objective tests and the educational performance of candidates who take these tests. The use of these test scores increases the probability that a candidate's abilities will be fairly evaluated. When properly used, test scores can save time and money by eliminating undesirable applicants before they "flunk" out. The distribution of raw scores is observed to deviate slightly from the Normal or Gaussian distribution, which gives a bell-shaped prob­ability curve. Indeed, a bit of skewness is not entirely undesirable insofar as candidates with low scores (who are therefore imbeciles anyway) are most apt to be "suckered" into spending another $12 to try to improve their scores. 
8. On the basis of the above passage it can be con­cluded that 
(A) 
this test is very good. (B) this test is very good. 

(C) 
all schools should require objective entrance tests. 

(D) 
these tests are written by positivists and make no sense to someone educated in Aristotelian phi­losophy who, by that reason, deserves to fail any­way. 


(Inspiration by J. J. Pottmyer, Scholastic '62.) 
·--t. j. clinton 

The Crooked Rook 
ALAIN WHITE 

American Chess Bulletin ·November-December, 1941 . 
i~ ' .· 

White mates in two moves 

SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE 
ANSWER TO LAST PROBLEM 1 P-Q3 threat 2 PXKP mate 
The du Lac Sporting News 
. Have you ever pushe~ yourself to the limits of your imagination? A• rather nebulous concept, at best,· one · that nobody can really understand. Perhaps more familiar to us, in the­ory at least, is a parallel concept: have you ever pushed yourself to . the limits of your physical capa­bilities? We see it done often enough, on television, in the papers, some­times in person, but most of us rarely have an opportunity to ex­perience it ourselves. "Rarely have. · an opportunity" means that we push· ourselves that far perhaps once or twice playing football on the quad, but not much more. At the root of . this . reticence is fear, fear of the pain that we know inevitably comes with physical exertion, and fear that we just might not be able to do all we thought we could. At times, it is: also an inconvenience not worth en-· during. 
Anyone who pushes himself to his limits regularly knows how satisfy­ing it can be. Other than simply feel­ing fit and in good shape, there is also the added victory of mind over body. The confidence from this sub0 jection spills out past the realm· of sports into all activities. It leads to . . one of those paradoxes of human 
nature: despite feeling 'completely drained and exhausted, one feels great. A friend of mine who has taken to regular exercise admitted to me that he walks into the dining hall a little taller this semester, knowing his .beer belly no longer precedes him. 
As in every causality; ulterior mo­tives often play an important role in prompting one to do something he normally dislikes. Handball or bas­ketball can be very enjoyable in its own right,: but when one continues· to play despite twisted ankles, _frayed tempers and turning stomachs, we have to_ look past pure enjoyment for a motive. As I see it, there are basically three. 
Since~ the institution of this uni.:. versity, Notre Dame has been gripped by what I call the Sexual Frustra­tion in Athletics Syndrome. The mi.: fulfilled male darners, and probably the newly enrolled and equally un­fulfilled female domers, vent their frustration and despair over the so­cial situation through sports. If you don't believe me, just check the Rock some Friday afternoon or evening. Since this point is self-evident, .I will say no more, other than as a· temporary measure, it really works . 
. We witness others pushing them­selves to incredible extremes almost every day and certainly every week­end in the national and collegiate sports. For the most part, these sports are team efforts, yet each man must produce as much, or. as little, as the next for the team as a whole to appear co_nsistent. These. are real athletes, men who, at one point in their lives, decided that it would be mind over body, the body becoming the tool, the precise reflex of an equally adept mind. · These Individuals are. sustained in their perseverance to a large degree by other ulterior motives. No .man would subject himself to the rigors of pre-and postseason practice, year after year, if it were not for the $100,000 plus or the possibility of a national title. Team spirit, the satis­faction of victory, and dedication to the sport play an important role also, but take away the tangible goal and seine "athletes''· change dras­tically, iike Abe Gibron. You must remember, I am speaking purely of the individual's physical condition and mental determination. Abe lost that just as soon as he traded his pads for a clipboard and stopwatch. 
That leaves us with the athlete who never performs before more than a handful, who never receives outside recognition for his efforts, 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


and who accepts strenuous discom­fort de rigeur. One such . campus sport is cross-country, and one such 
individual is Jim Hurt, a sophomore from Westchester, · Illinois. Cross­country .running· can be one of the · most·gruelling experiences, not only because it is physically demanding, but . more, because it is a sport of individuals and individual effort. In most sports, the techniques of action or the details of play are enough to occupy one's consciousness, but in cross-country, there is nothing to supplant the realization of pain and fatigue. · · 
"A guy could be fast, but in_ cross­country, it's all method ·and atti­tude;" Jim explained further,. "the difference between a good runner and an average runner is attitude; you have the tendency to slow down after the fourth mile, to gather strength, but you're ac_tually hurting yourself. You could push the entire 
way, as fast as you want. 
"If the guy is 20 yards ahead of you, you know you can catch him; . but within yourself, if he gets 21 or 22 yards ahead, you know you'll 
.never catch him." Harriers are sup­
. posed to ·run together, bunched up, the faster runners encouraging • the slower runners. Obviously, one .for­gets abciut himself when he is sur­rounded by his teammates. But in the end, when the finish line seems at last within reach, it is all individ­ual effort and desire. . 
Outside of the. realm of organized sports, there is the individual stu­dent who pushes himself equally hard. He runs around the lake at 6 a.m., plays handball until his hand •·· resembles a pillow, or lifts weights · 
· to keep in shape. He· works until he· begins to feel that unsettled sensa­tion creeping into his stomach, a throbbing pulse beating over his head, and then he works some more. He runs until his lungs feel ready to burst, and indeed, his face shows it. Of · course, every time he runs, lifts weights, or plays handball until he 
. collapses, he extends his endurance just a little bit more. Like an addict, he must run that much further, play that·much harder the next time to reach that same feeling which is at the same time exhaustion and suc­cess. ' . Thus, it is easy .to fall behind, to exercise just so much, and then quit. 
.But for some, it is not the number of repetitions completed or the num­ber of laps run that. counts, but rather, the feeling that one is at the edge of his endurance, peering over the side, to where he'll be tomorrow. 
-tom gora 
27

What's 
.'· a·-·· ­
Scrum? 
When I asked rugby team captain Tom Masegna what the main ob­jectives of his squad were, he re­plied: "To have fun, and to do well." The Notre Dame ruggers seem to have reached both objectives in grand. fashion this . year. On the field, the Irish sport a 9-0-1 overall . record, and in their four regular season contests, they have outscored their opponents by the overwhelming margin of 127-7. The parties off the field have been equally successful, and it is not hard to believe that these. social gatherings play a large 
part in the athletes' interest in the 
club. 

The Notre Dame rugby club is 
rather unique in organization. In­
stead of a coach or manager, the• 
ruggers have a seven-man council; 
the council runs the practices and·· 
decides each week by vote who will 
play. The council is made up entirely·_ 
of seniors, and· it is through the council that the lineups for aH three teams (the A, B, and C teams) are · picked. The council is quite fair in _its choice of who will play; Captain Masegna stated that it was not un­common for a member of the coun­cil to vote himself on the B squad 
if he felt he didn't deserve to play . 
with the first team. ·· 
The president and leading scorer of the rugby squad is Ed O'Connell, and the team secretary is Bob Olsen. The main voice at the practices, though, is captain Tom Masegna. Masegna attributes the team's suc­cess to)'the experience of this year's squad, plus the combination of con­ditioning, spirit, and team play that have been· the main forces in our winning record." Since rugby is not very popular here in the states, most people know very little about the origin of the game and the rules which govern its play. , 
An Englishman,·William Webb El­lis, is credited ·as the first to play' the game called "rugby," though he stumbled upon the game in a rather freakish · way. While participating in a game -of soccer at the famous Rugby grammar school in England, he was called for a ball-carrying in­fraction of the rules. From this call, he developed the sport which. is called . "organized mayhem." The physically demanding game spread rapidly throughout the United King­dom, and was first introduced to the United States around .1875. Rugby, as the forerunner of the game played here on campus, has enjoyed its longest popularity in the San Fran­cisco Bay area. ·The United States Rugby team surprised the world by capturing gold medals in the Olym­pics of 1920 and· 1924. 


' · THE SCHOLASTIC 

The action in rugby is much more continuous than American football, in that play goes uninterrupted ex­
. cept for scores, penalties, and out­of-bounds plays. Continual passing arid handling of the oval-shaped ball are the most essential features as there is no blocking permitted. The runner is basically on his own with the ball; ·not only is he devoid of blocking teammates, but he also has no special padding, or equipment. Forward passing is prohibited and once a man is tackled, he must im­mediately release the ball. It can then be picked up or. kicked by a player of either team. 
. Officiating at rugby matches is handled by a referee and two "touch" judges. _The referee is the sole judge when applying .the laws of. the . contest and he alone is the timekeeper. Only when granted· per­mission by the referee may a player go onto the playing field, 
Scoring in rugby . falls. into four categories. A "try," the equivalent of a touchdown in American foot­ball, .. is worth four points; the · con­version after a try gains two points; a "free" or penalty kick nets three points as does drop-kicking the ball for a score. 
The game can become hazardous, primarily due to the lack of bodily protection and the. aggressive; hard-. hitting nature of the sport. Hardly. any major injuries occur during the season, though about half of the squad sustains some sort of minor in­jury, most commonly, broken limbs, concussions, or knee .. troubles. But even after injury, many of the Notre Dame ruggers are anxious to return to the field. Senior Bob Koehler is the best example of determination to continue playing. After losing his contacts repeatedly, running up a bill into the hundreds of dollars, he went · 
the team is Ed O'Connell with 15 . · field goals, 20 conversions, and 2 tries. Junior Tom Hastings, the fast­est of the quick Irish backs, has notched six tries. Wing forwards Joe Hafner, with four tries, and Henry Clark, have both played solidly at .this important position, as has John Kovac, with four tries. Fly half­

home and-had a special pair of con-·•, backs Dave Simpson and Tom Ma­
.. tacts made so that he could continue ,to play. · 
But why go out for a club sport like rugby when it lacks the glamor of a varsity sport besides being so 
· risky? Masegna believes that "rugby is the closest thing to a fraternity here .at Notre Dame; and the. close segna each have. two tries to their 
credits. 
A ,"scrummage',': or "scrum" is a 
crucial mass out"'.of-bounds play, and reacting well for the Jrish at scrum have been Jerry Razer; Dan Lee,·and . Eddie .· Fishburne, an adept · ball­, handler..Jeff "Muffin Man" · Warni­

camaraderie makes all the difficulties . monte has been a ,steady influence worthwhile." Also, there is a lot less.· on the last~line defense and senior pressure on each man when there is·. Fred "Preferential Treatment" Man­no coach peering over his shoulder. ley is a consistent,.solid back. Though Masegna and the council run . . The Irish's lone tie on this season's the practices quite hard, each man · .. record was against a team from ultimately is responsible to himself Canada, during a pre-semester tour. as far as conditioning is· concerned;· . This coming spring, the rugby squad 
Seniors make up half of.this year's 
•Winning team; likewise, allbut two of the first team are seniors.· Ma~ segna estimated that there are also twenty-five freshmen playing ·. with one of the three rugby squa<ls. No one who has the determination to stick it out is. cut. The team policy is simple: if you come to practice, : you can play on one of the three levels; if you skip practice, you don't play no matter how talented· you are. 
The kicker and leading scorer for 
. will head across the Atlantic to Ire­land to,make a playing tour of the southern part,of that country. 
So far this year,the ruggers have 
. done_ very well against top competi­Uon, yet they have lacked strong student _and university support. A team of this excellent caliber de­serves better treatment. But. they are nonetheless doing well and hav­ing a good time. As Eddie O'Connell says, "As long as you keep winning, everybody stays happy." : -frank coughlin 

The Last Word 
Images of Autumn sunsets, cheering crowds and a sad lack of feeling, and forgiveness on the part of drunken blasts coalesce to form a muddled pattern of these; who, being the most prominent members of our thoughts on a crisp Friday night; Perhaps overwhelmed Christian community,· are also• expected to be its·most by the day's activities, perhaps still unsure of my own understanding members.' I would not hesitate to ac­answers to questions posed· the other evening, I sit knowledge the staggering difficulty of the problems fac­and wonder about the Scholastic, and about Notre Dame ing those who lead and guide us. However-stirred by in general. Our fourth issue· of the school year begins the rich peacefulness of an ·early Autumn evening, to fall into place-another awkward attempt on my moved by the lifeless faces that dart by on the quad, part to reach out to 7000 people and say something that momentarily illuminated by the glow of a lamp-I am will touch their lives, something that will make them forced to wonder whether the source of our problems think, something that will bring us all closer together. lies in pure logistics and social legislation, or rather in But · a typewriter lends a deaf ear to even the most an insensitivity to our own· needs; and a general in~ poignant discourse, and these four walls have no re­ability (or _perhaps an unwillingness) to speak of our sponse for a confused smile. problems in interpersonal rather than jurisdictional 
It has become a rather drab commonplace to accuse terms. one's fellows of being desensitized. In a society where There are many unhappy people at Notre Dame. It depersonalization is a key to expediency (one of the would be foolish to attribute such discontent solely to an cardinal virtues), it seems at least contrary, if not at . imposed social order. To a large extent, the social situa­times downright anarchic to suggest that lack of sen­tion at Notre Dame is whatever we truly desire it to be; sitivity is at the core of our most pressing interpersonal therefore, the blame for lonely Saturdays and muffled and group crises. One might notice, though, that, amidst · frustrations lies ultimately with ourselves. But in the all the compelling language of the new University midst of waging battle over the proper jurisdictional guidelines, there is little talk of the Christ-like sensi­limits of those who govern us, in the midst of develop­tivity, care and forgiveness upon which this University ing schemes to circumvent the actions and decisions of claims to be built. I compliment the entire Student Af­those who claim (and most likely believe) that they fairs Committee for its creativity, expediency and · are working tci make our life at Notre Dame better, we thoroughness in dealing with the problematic behavior seem to have forgotten what is, in effect, of primary and needs of the 5000-plus students in its charge. At importance. In search of our own self-satisfaction, we the same time, however, I bemoan what appears to be seem to have forgotten how to care for one another. 
kerry mcnamara 
:. THE SCHOLASTIC 


GIUSEPPE'S RESTAURANT 713 E. LA SALLE AVE. SOUTH BEND 
featuring 

ITALIAN AND AMERICAN FOODS 
also 
PRIVATE PARTY ROOM for 
25 TO 250 PEOPLE PHONE: 233-0951 


Let us help you: 
PLAN AHEAD To Become a CPA 
THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 
CHICAGO 312-346-7871 
Our Successful Students Represent 
r---------------------~ 

Notre Dame, Ind. 

-:1 Address ·----------------------------------------------­-------------------·---------------------------­~ -----------~ ---------J 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Soliciting Culinary Curiosities 
Got a Favorite_ Recipe? 
. . .: 
··•-The Scholastic announces its 
First A·nnual· Recipe: Contest 
All ·gourmets. and /or _gourmands are hereby invited to search their souls for singularly scrumptious suppers, ·etc. 
_ Selecte~ contributions ·:v,m be· published _ . in an upcoming issu·e an~ -a· grand prize will be­. a_~~rded ·to the· contributor for -the best recipe. 
Put ·your-best creation on-. a card and mail it to· us~ If you are in need of f1irther prodding watch for further details in the next issue 
. 'of .the Scholastic. 
,J. 









