Enjoy both sides of smoking pleasure!
fed that hu/dM	that -flowc
a. @wd&d
•i
Graduate to Cavaliers! Light up and feel that Cavalier mildness—so light, smooth and easy! Try a pack of Cavaliers today. See if
you don't agree with thousands of smokers who compared king-size Cavaliers with the cigarettes they'd been smoking. Yes . . .
You can’t help but notice — on campus and off — smart smokers are shifting to king-size Cavaliers. Try them and find out what a pleasure smoking can be when the smoke feels so mild and tastes so good!
Cavaliers give you the world’s aristocratic tobaccos blended in an extra length. There is no better natural filter! There is no finer source of delightful flavor! Today’s the day. Get Cavaliers... get extra mildness where it counts — in the feel of the smoke!
CAVAUERS ARE KING-SIZE yet priced no higher than leading regular-size cigarettes!
4
See why, among
thousands of smokers interviewed ..
8 OUT OF 10 SAID
CAVAUERS ARE MILDER!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
I
Scholastic
Vol. 96 MARCH 25, 1955 No. 18
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867

(Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
The ARROW points to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor
0	FRED C. ECKART
I JOHN ADAMS .................   News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE .......    Copy
I CHARLES McKENDRICK .................
’	.........2...... Assistant Copy
JOSEPH CONNOLLY ......................Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager PETER STURTEVANT ........ Photo Editor
I •jIM FITZGERALD ....................
L ____________ Photography Coordinator
\ JIM GULDE ......... Head Photographer
f JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association,_ Associated ■ Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
! THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during^ vacation and examina-1 4b tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
■ NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold j.	Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce,
I	David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James
■ >• McDonald, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, James 4 Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, | Jim Steintrager, Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh.
7 SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, i ’ John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray s Lescher. Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Jim Merz, I' Vince Naimoli, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.
c BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer.
I———= "	OUR COVER—With the first warm(?)
-j	rays of Spring comes the first warm
b	thoughts of the Easter vacation — and
j	then the shades of ole Ft. Lauderdale,
i	the perennial Mecca for winter-bleached
J	collegians. Cast off man, why every-
body is headed for Florida! Bob Swanson swabbed this week’s cover.
1 DARK SUIT + 1 NEW ARROW SOFTONE SHIRT
= 1 WELL-DRESSED COLLEGE MAN
With dark suitings the big campus preference, Arrow introduces its new Softone shirts with harmonizing ties—soft muted colors to blend naturally, easily, with darker fabrics. They give you the look of a man who wears his clothes well.
See your campus Arrow dealer for these fine colored shirts. You’ll find a wide range of checks, stripes and solids. Best of all, Arrow Softones are priced right. You can own one (or several), and still have money left to eat on. They’re but $5.00 the shirt.
ABBOW
SHIRTS & TIES
CASUAL WEAR UNDERWEAR HANDKERCHIEFS
YOUR Headquarters FOR AFTER-SIX Formal Wear
X RENT A ROYAL TYPEWRITER FROM ROYAL
mums LIBRARY art BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and ' Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
letters
What Ho, Men!
Editor:
Re your story “Most St. Mary’s Girls Want to Be Friends . . (Scholastic, March 4) : We find but a single controversial point.
The statement that Notre Dame men think the odds are insurmountable at St. Mary’s College is disturbing to us. Haven’t they heard the traditional line, “What though the odds be great or small. . .”?
We are in complete agreement with all the other conclusions. Certainly the movies are no place to get acquainted. Why go to the movies when it has been shown that small, cordial groups, using the Student Center facilities, have produced lasting friendships.
Perhaps we can succeed in putting “Christian education” back into our relationships, since it is truly the sole common bond between St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students.
Jerry Forrette
John Rippey
832 W. Colfax Ave., South Bend
Gratias From Juniors
Editor:
I think many of the juniors owe a loud congratulations and thanks to the University and to all the fellows who worked to make the Junior Parents-Son Weekend the huge success that it was. I’m sure most parents were as well pleased with the weekend as were mine.
A special note of thanks might be offered to our surprisingly efficient student waiters, who demonstrated an amazing facility in handling trays and avoiding collisions at the banquet.
Kenneth Donadio
15 Sorin
Calling the Bluff of SMC
Editor:
In referring to the article in the (March 4) Scholastic about St. Mary’s girls in relation to Notre Dame men, I would like to say that it’s hard to believe that 300 girls sit home on Saturday night, I’d like to know about it. My association with St. Mary’s girls has always left me with the opinion that they are rather uncooperative.
George S. Durkin 129 Dillon
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chickeo
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
Joe Nabicht’s
llestaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202
South Bend, Indiana
D*R.W TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS ------
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED --------
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel
Phone CE 4-5777
Diamonds Jewelty Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
4
The Scholastic 9
the week
by John O'Brien
banks of the St. Joe. But to get back down to facts, the dance at Ft. Lauder
£
dale (under the stars) is the real deal . . . dancing from 9 to 1, and swimming in the pool by the dance pavillion (or elsewhere) from 11 to 1 . . . the next day??? oh no, it couldn’t be. . . .
| The quiet men
f were the seniors last weekend ... or I at least they should have been. It was | a real jim dandy retreat . . . with all the f trimmings. The retreat master was from Statesville Prison . . . real appropriate, huh? A real fine retreat was had by all . . . except those who took i weekends. The WEEK would pause to | wonder why a closed retreat should be | given only to seniors. It might be a j good idea to give those, of us who are j a little sluggish in such matters an J earlier start . . . say sophomore year.
| } The Feast
'A Well, the Junior Parent-Son Week-jT end has come and gone . . . junior has y 3 had his opportunity to show off • the > campi to the folks, and they, in turn, ' t now know why junior has to take vitamin pills after every meal.
i ;
| Spring!
The day of the vernal equinox has come and gone, and lo and behold, spring ’ is in the air! Millions of little flakes that we used to call snow last season . . . accelerated to a punishing speed by 0 what lovers of four seasons call March winds. Old two-season O’Brien (spring and summer) warns ... on with the hip boots till Easter, men.
Granada lives again!
Theater, that is . . . with hustling, bustling crowds jamming theii- way in to see that movie of movies, The Country Girl. The WEEK’S favorite topic (on alternate Weeks) Grace Kelly, was so convincing in her portrayal that even her staunchest admirers were pulling for
Top of the WEEK:
The sweet scent of perfume was evident in several halls . . .
Go South*
If you are one of the few avid readers of this journal who look at the cover before you read the WEEK, you will know the mind of the magazine this week. Yeah! ’Leven more daze and we’ll be out . .: . then it’s Southward Ho! This is only a figure of speech for many, and I suppose, that those who dwell in Manitoba get. just as.excited about vacations . . . but all the same, it’ll be the rolling southern surf for many of our victims of blizzarditis. .1 wonder sometimes if South Bend residents look forward to the Easter Vacation . . . ah, a suntan on the
old Bing. Of course, his performance played no little part in swaying the audience. Here’s hoping that the movie moguls who choose the big awards are not too sentimentally swayed by old “comeback Garland” next week . . . Newsweek magazine, giving an “impartial judgment” without pressure from agents, producers, etc., selected Grace and M. Brando for the top awards . . . Did you notice that the theater seats didn’t seem uncomfortable while The Cozmtry Girl was playing? Will want to see it at least three more times . . . will it be classed with Birth of A Nation as an all-timer? Tune in in two WEEKS.
“This is a double?”
Yep, it’s that time of year again . . . a knock at the door, and then “Just want to look around . . . gosh! This is a double? What kind of an average did this go for?” The only thing to do is to post a list of your room’s advantages and drawbacks on the door . . . with the average it “went for.” You ought to see the jaws drop when you say “(99.7%)” Noticed the other day on the approved list of roommates posted in the Huddle the name of one . . . Grace Kelly . . . with the notation added “single only.” Several seniors’ names are also on the list, so don’t be down-hearted, men . . . there may be room for you too.
Posted
I wondei- where the maintenance crews with the snowplows are on these un-seasonal days of blizzard we’re having? They’re probably inside painting some of the thousands of metal pipes for the new, intricate system of fences that are springing up all over the campus. Thought for a while that it was a miniature telephone system for the campus, but it seems that all the posts and cables are designed to keep those few
who are still ambulatory on the straight and narrow. It is the WEEK’S opinion that the pipes used in the project would reach to downtown South Burlap . . . could be used as a “little inch” pipeline supply to the campus from say . . . Joers’? But it’s fences we’ve got . . . We night crawlers could really use one of these gem fences on the craggy path to St. Mary’s . . . many a good man has gone careening into the lake on a solitary, moonless jaunt. Have nearly lost an eye myself in the low hanging branches over the path. Let’s get on the stick, er post, men.
Pirouette
Want to see all youse guys in old Wash Hall tonight, scuffing up all the culture that’ll be there in the guise of a touring ballet company . . . with the debut of the dance at Notre Dame, an important cultural milestone has been reached . . . watch the Scholastic for complete coverage of the gala event. Here’s hoping that the stage at Washington Hall can take the impact of the graceful leaps of the dashing performers.
Lawdy Me!
Look at what the Old Senior Ball committee gone and done chose, for the theme of the Senior Ball . . . ’cordin to Scarlett O’Shea (publicity chainhan and a you-know-what Yankee) Sho’ nuff . . . the OLD SOUTH! I done gotta go ovuh and get in line fo my invite righta’ ’way. Wahoo!	.
Will Power
Seems that all of the barbers in the Badin Tonsorial Parlor have bet one of their number by name of Harry (next to the last chair) that he can’t give up cigarettes until the end of the school year. He’s already spent more than the amount of the bet on no-smoke pills, but with him it’s a matter of pi-inciple . . . good luck ... he ought to try smoking a good strong pipe or cigar before breakfast . . . surely breaks the cigarette habit, you can take it from me.
Flub of the WEEK
Young gentleman, with date at showing of The Long Gray Line at local cine palace: He . . . “Somewhat similar to the West Point Story, wasn’t it, dear?”
She: . . . “Yes, they used, the same set.” (Terrific SMC observation!)
To the Trib:
The South Bend Trib (green sheet, that is)... the fire house Dalmatian who was killed and was written up on the first page of your paper was not the last of the fire house mascots . . . The ND fire dog “Bell” is very much alive and very much a firehouse dog.
Bottom of the WEEK:
. . . Parent Son Weekend.
March 25, 1955
5
^FARLWS^OSDKK
V by AL CAPP
caMst
T'ANKS FER YOUR AUTVGRAFT FOSDICK.#-
(-WHILE HE'S TRYINTSPELL H!S NAME, I'LL SLICE OFF HIS GUN&-J
hm-hq-THAT DOESN'T
LOOK RIGHT-
1
F®5PKK ijT A~irCftUMB=

HM.r- (-'IT'S A BIT COOL. TODAY. ?? CHARM/NGf BUT SHE DOESN'T SEEM TO BE LOOKING ME IN THE EYEff”)
1 DON'T LOOK MY BESTf I'LL APPLY A DASH OF WILDROOT
FRIDAY, MARCH 25
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—The Concert and Lecture Series brings to the campus for the first time, the International Repertory Ballet Company for a single performance. Four of its most popular numbers will be staged. Les Sylphides, the Spanish Pas de Deux from Don Qui&rte, L’Amour Au Musee, and The Nutcracker Suite. Terrific entertainment for $1 and $1.50 at the door.
GRANADA (for one more week)—Grace and Bing (and Bill too, for that matter) were everything they were supposed to be, and then some. Country Girl (A-2) is great without exception. You’ll never forgive yourself for missing it, so don’t.
COLFAX (for one week)—The management was luck it didn’t bring this one to town over St. Pat’s day! It’s Captain Lightfoot (A-2) starring Rocky Hudson, Barbara Rush and Jeff Morrow, and it’s Irish all the way! Erin’s sons throw off the English yoke, Lightfoot (Hudson) toys with Thunderbolt (who is a captain too) and steals his daughter at the same time, and the Society of Free Young Irishmen triumphs amid cheers from the local halfstrains. Leave your green hats home, the picture isn’t that good.
AVON (for one week)—Did you ever wonder what it was like to take a hairpin curve or desperate grade from the seat of a racer? You get a chance to experience thrills and spills of the “elite” Continentals as Kirk Douglas takes you, with The Racers (B), on a tour of such speed events as The Mille Miglia (1,000-mile race around the Italian peninsula), Le Mans, in France (a 24-hour endurance contest) and other famed races in southern France, Switzerland, Belgium, and southern Germany. Douglas plays the typical brute and loses a wife (Bella Darvi) for it. But he finally repents. A superthriller.
KEEPS HAIR NEAT AND NATURAL# RELIEVES DRYNESS!! REMOVES___, LOOSE, UGLY DANDRUFF# |BUT
GET WILDROOT CREAM*] Mv' OIL. CHARLIE.''
000
NAME IS UULIE.
ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY! ABSOLUTELY NONALCOHOLIC. WITH NATURAL INGREDIENTS. BUY AMERICA'S VORnH.7
SATURDAY, MARCH 26
WASHINGTON HALL (regular times)—Another case of who to trust and who to shoot. Clark Gable and Lana Turner, not to mention one Vic Mature, do a good job of both in Betrayed (A-2).
SUNDAY, MARCH 27
STATE (ends March 30)—Here’s two of a kind. Jupiter’s Darling (A-2) and White Feather (A-l) become available for your ocular perusal. Esther Williams makes a big splash in the first while the indoor enthusiast gets Indians and arrows, and feathers right in his lap from Robert Wagner, John Lund and Debra Paget in the latter. At any rate, we recommend the first.
RIVER PARK (ends March 29)—Our east-side reporter likes Reap the Wild Winds (A-2) and Africa Adventure (A-l) for these days. Match Ray Milland and John Wayne in the first one. The second is a documentary with the lowdown on the Congo. Do you really want my opinion on these?
TUESDAY, MARCH 29
WASHINGTON HALL (7:30 p.m.)—The next-to-last lecture gets going in the Marriage Institute. Dr. John J. Kane will discuss the “Joneses” in “Social Pressures and Family Life.” The regular coffee-question period follows.
THURSDAY, MARCH 31
WASHINGTON HALL (7:30 p.m.)—The 1955 Marriage Institute comes to a close with Mr. and Mrs. Peter Fitzpatrick speaking on “Success in Marriage and How to Be Happy With Children.” And of course, the regular coffee-question period will follow.
STATE (ends April 2)—Two truly great movies reappear on the local screen—The Caine Mutiny (A-l) and Rear Window (A-2). The performances given in both are nothing short of spectacular. The stars Humphrey Bogart, Jose Ferrer, Van Johnson in the Mutiny and Ray Milland and Grace Kelly in Window make this the biggest encore experienced around these parts in a long time. You can save us a place in line at the ticket office.
4
The Scholastic
Editor'$ Page
Worth a Listen AND a Nickel!
Student Foundation Week opens Monday and will continue through Saturday. It is the first time that students will participate in a drive to benefit the Foundation. Heretofore, it has depended upon donations from alumni, friends of the University and corporation grants.
The slogan of the Week is “It’s Worth a Listen; It’s Worth a Nickel.” And it is—more than a nickel. Anyone can see that the returns won’t be great even under the unusual response of one nickel from each student enrolled; that would add up to only slightly more than $250. So the money isn’t the primary aim of the drive.
The drive committee, headed by Sophomore Jack Moynahan, is striving to gain 100 percent participation because it feels that only by complete participation can the basic aim be achieved. That is, to make known what the Foundation is, what it does and what its needs are. Both the committee and the Foundation believe that if students have this knowledge now, they will be more willing and anxious to help the University to the best of their means in the years after graduation. So, before any student contributes, he should find out what he’s contributing to. Any amount from a penny to a nickel is being asked. But the drive workers will accept any additional amount offered.
A Dollar Here and There
The renovation of the Student Center basement is being done on a “costplus” basis. Because of this, student help can reduce the cost of labor. Anyone who wants to help by clearing rubble and performing unskilled jobs voluntarily should contact either the Student Managers or Jim Hesburgh, chairman of the Student Senate’s physical facilities committee. It’s going to cost a large amount anyway but whatever is saved will be available for further improvements—for you. Lend a hand if you can.
The Foundation was formed in 1947 to provide an agency for obtaining and channeling funds needed for the maintenance and necessary expansion of the University’s facilities. The first drive it made was called the “Greater Notre Dame Campaign” and took place in 1950. During this drive the people of South Bend were asked for the first time to contribute to the University. They did—over one-half million dollars. With this money and that given by alumni and friends, the Nieuwland Science Hall was constructed. Since 1947 $14,700,000 has been received from all sources.
Last year 50.1 per cent of the 20,000 lay alumni contributed $481,000. The unrestricted (funds given without specification for use) portion of this, unrestricted gifts from friends and corporations, and all gifts restricted for faculty improvement totaled $456,000. This money and what is collected this year is being used for the sole purpose of strengthening the teaching staff. Besides supporting the Distinguished Professors plan to hire 45 outstanding educators on a permanent basis, the funds are also being used to increase the salaries of the present faculty.
Among the current needs of the University are two additional residence halls and another dining hall. Only 3,600 students live on campus; 1,600 live off campus (some of these are married). Pangbom Hall will provide accommodation for only 200 more undergraduates. This will tax the present Dining Hall even more. To bring all single undergraduate students on campus as the University desires, both residence halls and another dining hall are necessary.
As well as living facilities, a new library, fieldhouse, auditorium and maintenance center are needed.
Donors may contribute as a result of contact made by Foundation personnel or by alumni made cognizant of the University’s needs because of information distributed by the Foundation.
What is collected next week won’t accomplish much materially but it .will be an expression of student desire to make the University better. Nonalumni and corporations would probably recognize this desire and perhaps be moved to extend aid to achieve this goal.
It’s worth a listen; it’s worth a nickel.
March 25, 1955
I
An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame
Indiana’s Newest and Finest
Open to the Public
All Outside Rooms
92 BATHS
92 ROOMS

•	TERRACE DINING ROOM — Air Conditioned
•PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS —Air Conditioned
•	BEAUTIFUL PATIO
•	RADIO IN EVERY ROOM
•	GOLF PRIVILEGES
•	CIRCULATING ICE WATER
•	LARGE PARKING AREA
DELICIOUS FOOD
DELIGHTFUL DRINKS
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST
OWNED AND OPERATED BY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
ARMAND E. LYSAK
Manager
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 18	Notre Dame, Indiana	March 25, 1955
'FOUNDATION LAUNCHES DRIVE HERE MONDAY
'Participation' Is Goal In Student Campaign
“If it’s worth a listen, it’s worth a ^nickel!” When you hear a knock on your portal and hear a voice beaming in with these words you’ll know the first annual Foundation Week is underway on campus.
For the first time in University History, Monday night, the Notre Dame Foundation will join representatives of the Hall Council System in initiating the Foundation Orientation Program for students at the University.
Under the leadership of Sophomore Jack Moynahan, Senate-appointed chair-w man of the Foundation’s Student Committee, the Hall Council members, en masse, will start contacting students on their respective floors in all the halls at 7:30 p.m.
At that time, the floor representatives will be accepting token contributions of the student, be they pennies, nickels or any amounts the students wish to give. All contributions will then be turned a over to the University fund through the Foundation Office.
“Stabbed Certificate”
In return for his contribution, the student will receive a miniature dagger and an official Foundation Orientation Certificate designating that the “Student has been stabbed by the Foundation Committee” for his contribution.
Those students who are not contacted on Monday night will be canvassed on one of the following nights. Off-campus " students who cannot be reached in the door-to-door campaign may place their contributions with a Committee representative in the Student Center during the afternoons. There they can also receive their dagger and certificate.
The objective of the week-long Foundation Orientation Program is to acquaint students with the role played by The Foundation in helping the University maintain its own economic development on a par with the economic
• March 25, 1955
John O’Brien
ECKART, POWERS, MOYNAHAN, AND HUETHER
Chart Course for First Student Foundation Work
development outside the school. In recent years, the costs of operating the University have skyrocketed while the income from tuition and athletic contests has risen relatively little. The deficits which have been incurred have been absorbed through the financial aid of Alumni, friends, and corporations, channeled through the Foundation.
Together with the descriptive brochure distributed during the week, the Hall Councilmen will attempt to answer any questions on the operations and functions of the Foundation and the need for student and Alumni participation in this program which started in 1947. Since 1953, the Foundation has been under the direction of Bev. John J. Cavanaugh, past President of the University.	'
In commenting on previous financial aid from outside corporations and friends of the University, Mr. James E. Armstrong, assistant director of the Foundation stated, “The only way we can interest outside benefactions in our financial development program is by the endorsement of our Alumni. Fifty and
one-tenth per cent of our Alumni participated in the Foundation’s program last year as compared with only a 20% national participation by Alumni in all university programs. These Alumni, abetted by the current graduating class and those to come, will help us in interesting large corporations and industries in our program.”
In organizing the door-to-door campaign, Committee Chairman Jack Moynahan stated, “Most of all we want student participation, regardless of whether the contribution is under or over a nickel, or even just a penny.”
The Foundation co-ordinator for the weekend is Allan Powers, who is Foundation representative for the Northwest District of the nation, and a ’51 graduate. Assisting Moynahan on the student committee are: Dick Huether, promotional advisor and Fred Eckart, publicity agent. Class representatives handling canvassing arrangements with their respective Hall Councilmen are: Senior Harry Edelstein, Junior Tom Engler, and Freshman Charley Clesi. Moynahan will represent the Sophomore Class.
9
George Meany, A.F.L. President, Named Recipient of Annual Laetare Medal Award
George Meany, president of the American Federation of Labor, last Sunday was named recipient of Notre Dame’s Laetare Medal for 1955. The University has made the award annually since 1883 to an outstanding American Catholic layman. Meany, who is slated to head the labor organization resulting from the impending merger of the AFL and CIO, is the first labor leader to receive the award.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, in announcing the selection of the veteran union official, said:
“For more than 20 years in which he has exercised local, state and national leadership, George Meany has exemplified the ability and integrity of a labor statesman. He has opposed those who would debauch the dignity of the working man. With equal vigor he has combatted those who would subvert America’s free enterprise system. His substantial contributions to the welfare of workers, to the orderly development of trade unionism, and to the fostering of concord among employers and unions, while at the same time remaining steadfast in the tenets of his Faith, have prompted the University of Notre Dame to confer upon him the highest honor within its power to bestow on a Catholic layman.”
The Laetare Medal winner is named each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent and an occasion of joy in the liturgy of the Church. Formal presentation of the medal is arranged for a time and place convenient for the recipient. Diplomat Jefferson Caffery received the award last year. Other recent Laetare Medalists have included Thomas E. Murray of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, actress Irene Dunne, Gen. J. Lawton Collins, and I. A. ‘O’Shaughnessy, industrialist and philanthropist.
George Meany was named president of the American Federation of Labor by its executive council on Nov. 25, 1952. He succeeded the late William Green undei’ whom he had served as secretarytreasurer of the AFL since 1939. He was unanimously re-elected head of the eight million member AFL at its national conventions in 1953 and 1954.
One of Meany’s first official acts as AFL president was to re-activate a nine man committee which had been organized earlier to discuss re-unification with the CIO. These negotiations came to a climax at Miami Beach, Fla., on Feb. 9 of this year when the AFL and CIO, comprising some 145 unions and 15,000,000 members, signed a merger agree
ment. At that time, CIO president Walter Reuther said that he would “gladly” nominate Meany to head the united labor organization. National conventions of the AFL and CIO are expected to approve the merger later this year.
Meany has been militant in his opposition to Communism and its attempts to infiltrate the labor movement in this country and abroad. He dramatically denounced the World Federation of Trade Unions as Communist-dominated in an address at the British Trades Union Congress Convention at Blackpool, England, in 1945. He charged that Russia was using the WFTU to under-
GEORGE MEANY Medal for Labor
mine the democratic labor movements of the West. The AFL and CIO later joined with labor leaders of western Europe in organizing the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions.
A foe of Communism and Communist fronts both inside and outside organized labor, Meany has proved to be equally intolerant of racketeering and other unsavory activities in American unions. He was instrumental in the expulsion of the International Longshoremen’s Association from the AFL. He established a committee which investigated and revoked the charters of several other unions which had been affiliated by the Federation.
Meany has served on several government boards and advisory groups. He was one of four labor leaders appointed by President Roosevelt to the National Defense Mediation Board in 1941. He also served on the National War Labor Board from 1942 to 1945. Currently he is a member of the Labor Advisory Com
mittee to Secretary of Labor James P. I
Mitchell.	[
Before becoming secretary-treasurer ofW i the AFL in 1939, Meany served for more ; than five years as president of the New i York State Federation of Labor. During I his presidency, the AFL’s membership j in New York increased despite the de- ’ pression of the mid ’30’s and more labor
(Continued on page 31)	1
Famed Laetare Medal
First Presented in 1883
“The Laetare Medal has been worn only by men and women whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity.”
This excerpt from the Laetare Medal citation presented to Gen. William S. Rosecrans in 1896 is the exacting criterion employed by the University in’ awarding its Laetare Medal each year to an outstanding American Catholic lay-
man.	■
Since it was established in 1883, the Medal has been presented to 58 men and I 15 women—soldiers, statesmen, artists, ; industrialists, diplomats, philanthropists, educators, and scientists.
The idea of the Laetare Medal was conceived in 1883 by Prof. James Edwards. His proposal met with the approval of Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C.,^ founder and first president of Notre Dame, and Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., then president of the University. i Through the years the recipients of the ' Laetare Medal have been selected by an j award committee of ten faculty members ; |j headed by the president of the Univer- , sity.
Generally regarded as the most significant annual award conferred upon . Catholic laymen in the United States,^" the Laetare Medal winner is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent and an occasion of joy j in the Catholic Church. The actual pre- '«■ i sentation of the medal is arranged for s a time and place convenient to the recipi- I ent.	| ■
Some of the most renowned persons I who have received the Medal since its £ inception are: Henry F. Brownson, philosopher and author; Agnes Repplier, author; Edward Douglas White, jurist and chief justice of the United States 1 Supreme Court; Charles D. Maginnis, V architect and designer of a number of buildings on the Notre Dame campus; J Albert F. Zahm, scientist; Anne O’Hare	1 j
McCormick, journalist; Irene Dunne, actress; General Joseph L. Collins, soldier; Thomas E. Murray, member, U. S.
Atomic Energy Committee; I. A. O’Shaughnessy, philanthropist; and Jefferson Caffery, diplomat.
10
The Scholastic ®
DR. JOHN J. KANE Views Social Problems
Marital Series to End With Double Session
Notre Dame’s seventh annual Marriage Institute will come to a close next week when Dr. John Kane, head of the Notre Dame Sociology Department and Mr. and Mrs. Peter Fitzpatrick address Athe Institute in two sessions in Washing-^ton Hall on Tuesday and Thursday evenings at the usual 7:30.
I Dr. Kane, appearing at the Tuesday session, will speak on “Social Pressures ' and Family Life.” His talk will center | around the different types of social pressure that beai- on the modern marriage.
Doctor Kane, considered a specialist on family and ethnic group relations, has headed the Department of Sociology £since June, 1953. Previous to this appointment he seiwed as assistant dean of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters. He is the author of Marriage and the Family: A Catholic Approach. Doctoi- Kane did his undergraduate work at St. Joseph’s College in Philadelphia before receiving his master’s degree at Temple University in 1946.
Active in community affairs, Doctor Kane formerly served as executive director of the National Conference of ^Christians and Jews in the South Bend area. He is a member of the American Catholic Sociology Society and the Education Commission of NCCJ. Doctor Kane is married and the father of three children.
Mr. and Mrs. Fitzpatrick, speaking at the wind-up session on Thursday evening, will bring into their lecture the role of the child in the Christian marriage. The Fitzpatricks live in St. Leo’s parish on Chicago’s south side.
I ^March 25, 1955
USNSA Announces Opening of Competition For Harvard Seminar, Congress Positions
The International Commission of the United States National Student Association recently announced the opening of competition for the Third International Student Relations Seminar to be held in Cambridge, Mass., and Minneapolis, Minn., from July 11 to Aug. 31, 1955.
The program, initiated in the summer of 1953, is designed to provide students with specialized knowledge in the field of international relations as it affects student life. It aims to train a cadre of individuals capable of representing the Association overseas, and of conducting USNSA’s international program on the member campuses.
All students at USNSA member schools are eligible to compete. Those selected will receive scholarships covering all expenses, including room, board, tuition, and transportation.
The first part of the program, at the International Office of USNSA in Cambridge, Mass., consists of five weeks of seminars and lectures by leaders in the academic and student worlds, with special attention to policy and programming problems currently facing the U. S. National Student Association in its relations with other student organizations in other countries, and with international student movements. Speakers at past Seminars have included prominent professors from Yale, Princeton, and Harvard Universities, and leaders from the world of labor, youth, and the daily and periodical press.
Students will use the facilities of the Harvard University Summer School for all living accommodations and do research in the Harvard Libraries and in the files of the USNSA International Commission.
The last two weeks of the program will be spent at the Eighth National Student Congress of USNSA, to be held August 21-31 at the University of Minnesota. Participants will meet over 50 representatives of foreign student organizations and 800 American delegates at the Congress.
Applications may be secured from Joe Daley, student body president, or Gordon Di Renzo, NS A coordinator.
Applicants should be able to demonstrate interest in international relations and in student activities, as well as personal qualifications which will make them good representatives of American
They have been active in the Christian Family Movement since 1947, and presently Mr. Fitzpatrick serves as the organization’s president. He is an attorney in Chicago. The couple are the parents of nine children.
students at international student meetings. Previous experience in USNSA is not necessary but knowledge of one particular geographical area oi* of one or more foreign language will weigh in the applicant’s favor.
Deadline for applications and supporting materials is May 1, 1955. The selection committee, headed by Kenneth Holland, president of the Institute of international Education, will announce its decisions on May 20.
Barristers Progress In Moot Court Trials
The University’s College of Law held its second round Moot Court arguments in the Law Building on Thursday, March 10, at 8 p.m., according to information recently released. All issues in these sessions involved constitutional law.
Four courts were in session at this, the latest in a series of such arguments. In Court Number One, appellees Edward Broderick and William Fagan defeated appellants Peter Lousberg and Joseph Joyce. The issue revolved around the constitutionality of a state excise tax.
Appellees David Eardley and Jack Ros-shirt were victors in their dispute with appellants Patrick Foley and Ray Knoll, which took place in Court Number Two. The issue questioned the constitutionality of a federal statute requiring a person refusing to conform to the universal military training act to perform civilian, non-federal labor against his will.
In Court Number Three, appellants Carl Eck and Patrick O’Malley were victorious over appellees John Roberts and Matthew Moran. The issue in this dispute was the constitutionality of a state statute providing for censorship of motion pictures.
Appellees Ned Griffin and Ronald Mealey triumphed in an argument with appellants Jack Palmer and Richard Scheibelhut. The issue discussed the constitutionality of a denaturalization statute.
Judges for the Moot Court contests were: Mr. James Miller, Mr. Chester A. Allen, Mr. Ford, Mr. Clair Trinkley, Mr. John E. Doran, Mr. Roger Peters, Mr. Al Schmid,. Mr. Gerard F. Feeney, Mr. J. H. Broderick, Mr. Arch Miller, Mr. Joseph A. Roper, and Dr. W. Wagner.
The next group of trials will be held on April 22 at 8 pjn. in the Law Building.
The College of Law also announced the recent appointment of Ronald Mealey to the post of Freshman Chancellor.
11
St. Pat's Day Goes, but Irish Spirit Remains As Monogram Club Needles New Members
St. Patrick’s Day came and went, but all the merry-making did not go along with the passing of that day. For on Friday and Saturday of last week, Notre Dame’s “Fighting Irish” had their chance to let off a little steam.
The occasion for the festivities was the annual initiation of the Monogram Club. The directors of the activities aptly dubbed the period, “Hell Days.” John Fannon, Dick Gaberik, Al Schoe-nig, and Jim Pitcavage, chairman of the proceedings, designed a program to test even the most enthusiastic pledge.
Fannon and his cohorts routed the prospective members out of the sack early Friday morn to see that everyone was equipped in proper attire for the day. They were required from the time they left their halls at 7 a.m. Friday to carry a laundry bag containing a piece of footgear proper to the individual’s sport, such as a sneaker or cleat, a tooth brush and tooth paste, a towel, and shoe shining equipment.
In addition they donned blue and gold beanies. On their back they displayed a signboard listing three of their major, athletic achievements. A sign was worn in front with a block ND drawn on it.
The schedule drawn up by the taskmasters opened with a jaunt to the lake Friday at 7:15 a.m. There, under the watchful eye of Al Schoenig, the party was instructed to shave with lake water. ' • •• '	'
Other chores dreamed up for the discomfort of the future members were the
DICK O’KEEFFE, DON SCHAEFER, AND GENE MARTELL ‘Things weren’t half as tough in the stadium!'
carrying of the Club members’ trays in the Dining Hall. They were burdened with the job of hauling the books of their masters to class and of writing a 125-word essay describing their athletic prowess. This was carried on their person at all times. Singing of the Victory March was demanded of them anywhere on campus except in the Dining Hall and class. The group assembled for a community sing Friday evening from 6:30 to 7 p.m.
Those were the highlights of the two day initiation visible to the student body. Those who did not fully appreciate the fun-making were duly rewarded at a closed session of initiation held Sunday evening.
In holding these annual rituals the Monogram Club is carrying out a tradition of one of the oldest organizations on campus. The rites are intended so as to have the men who have captured the athletic limelight at ND, also gain humility in their position, and bring out the quality of good sportsmanship in their actions off the playing field.
Don Schaefer summed up the feelings of the initiates when he said, “It was a lot of fun; fun foi* the ones being initiated, and for the initiators. It gives everyone a common bond in that everybody goes through the same ordeal.”
-Edward W. Krause, Director of Athletics, emphasized the fact that practices such as these were directed towards removing the cockiness in the athletes.
A banquet was held this week for the new members at Eddie’s Steak House.
Officers who headed the Club’s program are: Dick O’Keeffe, president; Bob Filipiak, secretary; Tom Carey, treas-^ urer; Paul Reynolds, sergeant-at-arms.
Debaters to Sponsor Invitational Tourney
Twenty-two schools throughout the nation will compete in the National Invitational Debate Tournament sponsored by Notre Dame on April 1 and 2. Among the schools participating will be Kansas State, Utah, Dartmouth, Georgetown, Marquette, and Kentucky.
The tournament is open to varsity debaters and each college has entered one team. A team will consist of two undergraduate students who will debate both the affirmative and the negative sides of the question. The topic for debate is: “Resolved: That the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to £ the Communist government of China.” "
Each team is guaranteed six rounds of debate. These rounds will be held in the Student Center. Then the top four teams on the basis of victories will be chosen for the semi-finals to be held in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. The Engineering Auditorium will be the site of the finals. The public is invited to all of the debates.
The Father William A. Bolger trophy will be awarded to the first place winner. Two years ago Dartmouth took this trophy while last year the United States Military Academy won first place honors. Each of the four finalists will be awarded Notre Dame plaques while the first and second-place teams will receive Tau Kappa Alpha plaques. The outstanding debater for the first six rounds will be awarded a Notre Dame plaque. The top ten speakers of the tournament will be given certificates of excellence. 9
Prof. Leonard Sommer, Director of Forensics at ND, will' be tournament director. Chairman of the tournament will be Charles Doherty. Competing for ND will be Richard Ninneman, a freshman, and Allan Riley, a sophomore.
Doherty points out that, although the ND entry consists of a freshman and a sophomore, the team’s chances are very good. On March 17, 18 and 19 a Notre Dame team competed in a tournament sponsored by Georgetown. Many of the teams that will compete here were in the , Georgetown contest. The ND team consisted of Jack Martzell, a freshman, and I Pat Curran, a sophomore, on the affirma- ; tive side, and Jerry Brady and Richard ! Ninneman, both freshmen, on the nega- । tive side. Yet, against the varsity squads of the other schools, the young Irish	.
managed to take third place behind Har-	i i
vard and George Washington.
The Scholastic
12
Betwixt and Between
By PETER STURTEVANT
“As long as there is poverty in India, communism will remain a threat,” John Pimenta told the Scholastic this week in a special interview. Pimenta, a native of Poona, India, is a graduate student in Civil Engineering on a teaching fellowship. He is vice-president of the India Association of Notre Dame.
Pimenta believes that the struggle between democracy and communism in Asia will be decided primarily on economic questions. All of Asia, eager to raise its standards of living, is looking at India and Red China to see which country is best able to lead Asia to prosperity. Thus the economic conditions of India, representing democracy, and of Red China, representing totalitarianism, will be the determining factors in the struggle for Asian minds.
How is this struggle progressing? Pimenta believes that India is making important progress in improving its economy. The result of Nehru’s Five Year Plan has been the establishment of agricultural self-sufficiency in India. Money that was formerly used to import food is now being used to import capital goods to build up industry.
The plan to educate the farmer in modern agricultural methods at first met with widespread resistance from those favoring the old, traditional ways. How
AN INDIAN FAMILY
ever this resistance has gradually diminished, and new modern techniques are being rapidly introduced.
Land reform has proved to be an effective weapon against the spread of communism. The program is being carried out gradually, with remuneration to the land owners.
The agricultural self-sufficiency which has been accomplished as a result of these measures has enabled the country to begin the process of industrialization. Two large steel mills are now being built, a chemical industry is being developed, and the machine tool industry is growing. Experiments in the use of atomic power for peaceful purposes are being conducted. Dam building, irrigation systems, and land reclamation projects are being carried out.
Health and education problems also play an important part in Nehru’s plan to improve India. Efforts are being made to raise the level of medical care for a nation which has a major health problem because of its dense population and tropical climate.
The vital need to educate the people of India if it is to remain a democracy has been recognized by the government. Primary education has been required for all since India gained her independence from Great Britain in 1947. “In India at the present time the mass of the people are not well enough educated to form their own policies," Pimenta reported.
“Therefore there is a great reliance on the country’s leaders. The direction of national policies is determined much more by the leaders than by public opinion. Universal education has been hampered by a scarcity of funds and qualified teachers, but much progress is being made.”
Because of the demand for a rapidly increasing standard of living, India’s leaders have tended to favor a socialist economy. They believe that only a nationally directed planned economy will work fast enough to satisfy the demand for an immediate improvement in living conditions. Therefore industries such as the railroads and the airlines have been nationalized, and the trend toward nationalization of industries is expected to continue.
The progress that Nehru’s government has made in the economic field is reflected in a decline in communist strength in India in recent months, according to Pimenta. The communists were defeated in a recent state election
JOHN PIMENTA
by Nehru’s Congress Party, 82 seats to 6, in what had been previously considered a communist stronghold.
Nehru’s policy of non-involvement, his opposition to some of the United State’s policies, and his apparent friendliness toward Russia and Red China have caused many Americans to wonder if India will cast its lot with the communist powers. Pimenta believes that American fears spring from a misunderstanding of Nehru’s position, and are generally unfounded. “There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that in a showdown India would side with the United States,” he said. “American papers tend to over-stress the differences between the two countries to the neglect of our common aims.”
“Nehru’s foreign policy is a reflection of his domestic policy,” Pimenta explained. “He feels that he must avoid foreign entanglements if he is to build up India’s economy.” Nehru believes that the main danger from communism is from within, not from without. Therefore he believes that economic development must take precedent over arms and foreign alliances.
“Our position is comparable to the United States’ position after it gained its independence,” Pimenta said. “We need time to develop into a stable, progressive nation.”
Pimenta defended Nehru’s position in favor of recognizing Red China and admitting it to the United Nations on the ground that the United States must deal with the de facto government and should therefore recognize it. “The question is not whether the government is good or bad, but whether it exists,” he maintained.	,
“Although our countries may differ on means, they both have the same end— the promotion and preservation of world peace,” Pimenta concluded.
• March 25, 1955
13
Cook’s Tour of Europe
By DICK REAMER
With increased interest in plans for travel to Europe during the summer months, the Scholastic approached Dick Reamer, campus NFCCS travel officer, who, in the following article, relates his travels abroad last summer. He is revisiting Europe this summer and plans to hit the less traveled roads to Greece, Egypt, and North Africa. Dick has travel information concerning these trips which he will share with any ND student interested in travel information. He may be contacted in Room 220 Walsh.
Boulevard des Champs Elysees, Piccadilly Circus, The Forum, The Acropolis, Gizeh, Mt. Pilatus, Puerta Del Sol, St. Stephen’s Green—all those places will be echoing the footsteps of American college groups this summer. Maybe you will be among them. Travel posters shout: “See Paris and Live,” and some imply, “See Europe and Go Broke.” This ain’t necessarily so—the National Federation of Catholic College Students offers summertime tours that will allow you to enjoy Paris without going berserk, and, most importantly, spend many days in Europe for few dollars. NFCCS
JESSE JAMES OF THE GONDOLAS IN VENICE
tours range in length from 35 to 75 days and tour from seven to eleven countries. And they do it all at a price that gives you more for your money than any other group.
Don’t get the idea that the tours take up all your time in museums, churches, and tombs—plenty of free time is allowed at each place for the chance to meet people of the particular area—since there are about three girls per boy on each tour, you may find all sorts of extracurricular activities to keep you busy, most of them having to do with tourism. Catholic guides are necessary in some places to explain some of the things the naive student may run into. Also, it’s more feasible to let the tour guide negotiate with all the local guides, waiters, ticket agents, merchants, and cops whom you will ran into.
Here are a few random reflections from NFCCS tour D that had a group from 20 Catholic Colleges and 26 states spreading Americanism in large globs throughout ten countries last summer from June to September.
Going Over: Holland-American Line S.S. Waterman—A-l class student ship
John O’Brien
DICK REAMER
with 740 American college students and^ a crew that probably wished they were back on submarine duty. Eight to a cabin with USC, Brown, Tennessee, Seton Hall, Loyola of Los Angeles, besides ND, represented. We never saw our eighth cabin mate from the time he left his bags on the bunk until he returned for them and some Alka-Seltzer the day we docked.
We were on the fifth deck and the porthole was under water (this indicated a slight list). The ship held in-^| formal lectures on many things the tour- ’ ist should know: bargaining, bribing, smuggling, plus lectures on Europe.
HOLLAND: Met at the dock by a brass band, speech from Prince Barn-hardt and a customs official who asked me if I had more than 800 cigarettes, explosives, and how was that great Notre Dame BASEBALL team! After telling him that I didn’t smoke, was a Republican, not an anarchist, and that although the Irish were the terror of the diamond, football was becoming popular.
ROTTERDAM: Never did find a photogenic windmill, a bit too modem, thanks to Nazi bombers, but Amsterdam, the Hague and the rest of Nederland just like the kitchen decal pictures you see at the dime store.
BELGIUM: The gilded buildings of Antwerp’s amazing market square are one of the most striking sights in Europe, but harder ’n’ heck to get oif (just a souvenir, officer). Bruxelles goes wild on lace selling—best thing to do is to buy some from the first guy that tries to sell you some and stuff it in your ears so at least you can’t hear the next 99— the material is beautiful though.
GERMANY: The hotel we stayed at in Koln was one-fourth its original size
(Continued on page 34)
i I g
14
The Scholastic
Revised 'Dome1 Layout • To Feature Informality
। A bigger, better, and, in many ways, a different Dome is rapidly progressing towards completion in preparation for the late May distribution date, Bud LaLonde, editor of the yearbook reported recently.
“All but 40 pages have been completed or are in the final stages of work and these unfinished sections are re-£ served for spring sports and social events. This year we hope to improve on last year’s rating as a second class yearbook. In fact we are aiming for an All-American ranking which is one of the reasons for the many changes being made,” LaLonde stated.
The basic difference between the ’55 yearbook and the one last year will be the change from the more formal pictures to those that better portray the 0 life of the student. This change will be most evident in the hall, senior class, and social life sections.
In all three parts variety will be achieved by including on each individual page an informal scene along with the usual pictures. The hall section, an innovation of this year’s annual, will stress actual account of student hall life. It will include pictures of the student at work, at play, and at prayer. The senior division will emphasize tradition and humor along with the usual individual photographs.
The sports section will undergo the most radical changes, especially in football, where a new type of layout never before used in any yearbook will be tried. A two-page spread will consist of one large picture with small individual overlapping pictures showing other action shots of the game. The account of the contest will be given in the corner a of the page.
Also new to this year’s Dome will be the introduction and the two-page preface to each of the different seasons. More color' will be used’ and in the academic section a more factual approach will be stressed. An index including the exact location of each picture will make it easier for the student to find what he wants.
ATTENTION SENIORS
It was incorrectly announced in the last issue of the Scholastic that seniors would receive cancelled cuts for the Senior Retreat last weekend.
Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., assistant to vice-president in change of academic affairs, has announced that class cuts for the retreat will not be cancelled. The class cuts will be excused, but not cancelled.
I* March 25, 1955
" 4
THE INTERNATIONAL REPERTORY BALLET COMPANY ... in a scene from ‘L’Amour au Musee”
Repertory Ballet Company Performs Tonight; Program Will Include 'The Nutcracker Suite'
The International Repertory Ballet Company will appear in Washington Hall tonight at 8:15. This is another in a series of outstanding performances offered by the 1954-55 Concert and Lecture Series.
Lois Rubin, prima ballerina, and Alfa Liepa will star. The group is the official ballet foi- the Pittsburgh Opera Company. Since its inception in 1953, the company has performed throughout the East and has also made several appearances on television. The group’s repertoire consists of over 20 ballets, and tonight they will do four of their most popular numbers: Les Sylphides, the Spanish Pas de Deiix from Don Quixote, L’Amour Au Musee, and The Nutcracker Suite.
Les Sylphides, the opening ballet, is based on music by Chopin. It deals with a young poet, Colin, portrayed by Mr. Liepa. While wandering through the woods Colin comes upon a group of sylphs who entice him into dancing.
After a 15-minute intermission the dancers will return with the Spanish Pas de Deux from Don Quixote. This is an exciting classical ballet which Miss Rubin and Mr. Liepa will pei-form.
L’Amour au Musee, a modern comic ballet, which is based on the music of the contemporary French composer Paulene, will be the third ballet of the evening. It tells the story of a day in a museum —from the scrub woman in the early hours of the morning to the closing pas de trois. Concluding tonight’s performance will be Tchaikowsky’s Nutcracker Suite, an authentic Arabian dance.
Francis Mayville, one of the company’s founders, is the director. The choreographer is Frederic Franklin, the leading dancer and ballet master for the Ballet Russe de Carlo.
Tickets for tonight’s performance went on sale at 3 this afternoon at the Washington Hall box office and will be sold until curtain time. All seats are reserved with general admission being $1 for balcony and $1.50 for orchestra seats. ND students can purchase tickets for $.50 and $1, while faculty and staff will be charged $.75 and $1.25 under advance sale privileges. However, this privilege will end at 5 this afternoon and all sales after that time will be made at regular rates of $1 and $1.50.
Local ROTC Groups to Meet For Military Smoker April 4
The Military Council, representing the mutual interests of the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units of the University, will present the first in a yearly series of combined military smokers on Monday evening, April 4, from 7 to 11:30 in the Navy Drill Hall.
This event, announced by Council President Jim Hesburgh, will feature such activities as inter-unit basketball and drill team competition, followed by. the presentation of awards, refreshments, and a full-length feature movie.
Ticket sales for the smoker will be held in the respective ROTC buildings beginning Monday, March 28.
15
Observe -$udge -- cS^ct
By JOE CONNOLLY
“What this school needs . . ” To the casual passer-by, this conversation rising from a group of five huddled figures may have sounded like just another college bull session. But it wasn’t.
The time was March, 1940, on the campus of Notre Dame—exactly 15 years ago. One of those figures, acting as moderator for the rest, was Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C. The other four were energetic student leaders. Their meeting gave birth to the Young Christian Student (YCS) movement in America.
'Today, nearly a dozen small, interrelated groups, with a total membership of over 100 workers, compose the Notre Dame YCS unit. Under the watchful eye of Father Putz, their projects probably are now benefitting everybody enrolled in the university.
The unit’s newest service began this fall when its freshmen members organized a program to introduce the candidates for freshman class offices during the week before elections. All potential voters had the opportunity to meet and question candidates on their qualifications and campaign promises.
Perhaps the most popular service provided by the YCS is the Book Exchange in the basement of the Main Building. There, at the start of each semester, students form long lines to await their chance to buy used text-books at bargain rates. Yet the “B-X,” as it is commonly called, is an unusual example because YCS members are continuing to operate it after its initial success.
Usually, control of any thriving project is soon delegated to other capable
Jim Guide
YCS members representing Arts and Letters group meet with Father Putz
hands; then the YCS members are free to begin searching for new campus improvements. “We, through the small group,” explains Father Putz, “try to figure out what students need; then, when our ideas prove successful, we turn them over to a student organization. So we are more of a brain trust, I suppose.”
That is what happened with the YCS-originated “choose-your-major program.” The unit decided that too little information was available to sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters about to pick their major sequence of study; so a series of lectures and questioning periods was arranged with the various department heads. Initial response was so encouraging that the program was turned into a yearly event; at this point, the YCS turned its control over to the AB advisory council.
Naturally, Notre Dame’s YCS members are most immediately concerned with problems here on campus. However, the local unit is also in charge of the National Catholic Action Commission of the NFCCS. With this honor comes the duty to promote and coordinate activities in Catholic colleges and universities throughout the country. A recent example of this occurred last December when the unit was host to a Catholic Action workshop for representatives from eleven other midwestern schools.
To strengthen the spiritual life of students here, the YCS sponsors a monthly day of recollection led by some prominent guest speaker. But the key to the success of its religious program are the small groups.
Fr. Putz—YCS Pres. Jerry Pottebaum.
The groups are arranged to permit members to observe the needs of those students most closely associated with them in school life. Thus, freshmen and sophomores can join groups on the hall level—there is one in each of the seven underclass halls. 'The juniors and seniors are organized into groups representing the colleges of Arts and Letters, Commerce, Engineering, Pre-Med and Science. Holy Cross Fathers Joseph E. Haley, Charles W. Harris, Raymond F. Cour, James C. Buckley, Charles Weiher and James Shilts serve as moderators of the various groups.
No report on the YCS at Notre Dame would be complete without some reference to the activities of these groups, particularly the hall groups—the very heart of the unit. Take, for instance, Lyons Hall where Father Putz is himself group chaplain.
There the members have established a hall reading-room and supply it with current issues of America, Commonweal, and other thought-provoking magazines. They also promote a weekly Missa Reci-tata so that hall residents may learn to participate more actively in the Holy Sacrifice. And before Christmas vacation, they held a vigil in the Lyons chapel.
This group, and others like it, have , been meeting weekly since the beginning of the fall semester. They have discussed many problems ranging in scope from the need for advisory councils in the various colleges to the need for baby-sitters at Vetville. Most . important is the fact that they are not merely talking; they’re constantly working to convert promising ideas into : fruitful practices..	I
Since the YCS does support ideas with I action, it is obviously much more than a
(Continued on page 33)	<
The Scholastic
Parents Taste Daily Routine
r OR approximately eight months each year, the average Notre Dame student is separated from his parents ... at their expense. And being average, he is also _ somewhat forgetful; as the year proB gresses, the frequency of his writing home decreases. So many parents have only the faintest knowledge of the everyday life of their sons here on campus.
Seeing is believing. Realizing this, the Junior Class sponsored their annual Parents-Son Weekend which opened last Friday. Parents of all Juniors were invited to visit the campus, eat in the Dining Hall and attend classes with their , boys, and meet rectors and professors. B Response to the call far exceeded all expectations. A record crowd—members of over 300 families—poured into town to share briefly in the activities of their budding ‘scholars.’
The program opened on a small scale Friday night when a trio composed of faculty members from the Department of Music presented a concert in Washington Hall.
A majority of the visitors arrived on Saturday morning and registered at the | Morris Inn. Many parents immediately set out to attend their sons’ classes. Those who preferred, and those whose lucky sons have no Saturday classes were guided by members of the Blue Circle on a tour of the campus. It proved especially interesting to a surprisingly large number of parents who had never before seen the grounds. And even those quite familiar with Notre Dame found . “something new” to whet their curiosity.
Father Hesburgh welcomes parents to banquet.
4
Meeting the Rector—Father Broesti
Touring the campus . .
Registering at the Inn . .
roast beef to hear the
finishing a highly-praised plate, everyone settled back
At lunch time, the ordinary daily rou-, by waiters rather than standing in line tine was adhered to. Parents and sons for the usual cafeteria-style meals. After
Dan O'Brien
ate together in lines A and B of the Dining Hall; the menu featured either leg of chicken or hamburger steak.
Those who survived spent the afternoon at open houses in all the colleges, where they talked to the deans and heads of departments. Later they checked into the Student Center to watch the “Football Hightlights of 1954,” a filmed resume of the Fighting Irish games last season.
A dinner was held Saturday evening in the Dining Hall with special arrangements in effect. The guests were served

official welcoming address by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Father Hesburgh emphasized the importance of strong family bonds as the basis for spiritual and mental growth of students during college and later life.
He was introduced by Dan Devine, Junior Class president, who served as toastmaster for the dinner. To Devine and his energetic committeemen should go credit for the success of this third annual Parent-Son Weekend, the largest and most memorable evei- held.
Power Plant: source of heat, light and water.
Brother Borromeo keeps eye on pressure gauges.
He Works With Fire
Text by JOHN A. CANNA—Photos by JOHN O’BRIEN
Brother borromeo has the most ironic combination of jobs on the Notre Dame campus: he starts fires and keeps them going; and at the same time he has to put out any fires that start.
He starts fires as superintendent of the power plant, and puts them out as chief of the Notre Dame fire department. And no matter which job he does, he seems to do it well. His main responsibility, that of starting fires and keeping them going, provides over 120 campus buildings with heat, light, water, and power—the energy necessary to
“Heart and Arteries of Life”
. . Interior of Power Plant.
keep life and warmth within the institution. Brother Borromeo likes to think of his power plant as the heart of the human body. The three huge boilers and electric generators send heat and energy to every corner of the campus. These lines, like the arteries of the human body, must function without interruption.
Supervising this large arterial system keeps Brother Borromeo busy. The tunnel system alone, that carries steam and hot water, if placed end to end would extend approximately three miles. A million gallons of water are pumped
daily in winter; twice this amount during prolonged dry periods in summer. Of this supply over 150,000 gallons are heated and softened daily. Fuel during the heating period of the year runs between 60 and 100 tons of coal a day, enough to heat the average home for over ten years.
These demands show the responsibility ® that Brother Borromeo has in supervising utility operations. As Superintendent of Utilities, with William J. Ganser, his chief engineer, and a crew of 17 men, he has met this demand through the years with no major breakdowns. Nevertheless, he has had his share of headaches.
A few years ago, when John L. Lewis and his miners went on strike, Brother Borromeo found it hard to keep a sufficient coal supply. His foresight and know-how, however, provided for such emergencies. He saw to it that there was always steam in the pipes even ’ though it meant hauling coal from dis- > tant reserves.	.	|
One of the most trying periods oc-cured recently when the power plant and all major- utilities underwent a complete revamping. The plant, provided with all new equipment, expanded to almost twice its former size. Interruption of services was kept at a minimum though it meant long overtime hours for Brother । Borromeo and his crew. During this t time the campus switched from lake water to well water. Previously, the : plant had pumped well water for drink- . ing, but water for all other purposes had come from the lake.
But starting and putting out fires isn’t the only job that Brother Borromeo does.
©

MwdUiii

An interesting sideline of his work in the power plant is his position as the i ^»only railroad executive on the campus.
He operates a diesel engine, called the Notre Dame and Western No. 5332, plus ; a locomotive type crane to store coal.
With this miniature railroad line and switching facilities, he handles the hundreds of carloads of coal and freight l that enter the university.
Now to the job of putting out fires, he does that as chief of the Notre Dame fire department. In his twelve years on w the job he has answered over 300 calls.
The new fire department, acquired partly through Brother Borromeo’s efforts, operates from a modern two-story building across from the power plant. Housed within the station is all the latest equipment found in any city fire department, a seven-hundred-and-fifty-gallon per minute pumper and ladder truck, and a one-thousand-gallon per minute fire engine.
% The story of how the department came into being began in 1939 when a state fire marshal visited the Notre Dame campus. Someone was needed to escort him, and since Brother Borromeo managed the water pumping station, he was asked to do the job. After the tour the marshal suggested that someone take charge of the existing equipment. Brother Borromeo asked the administration if he should accept the job. The president agreed, but had no idea of organiz-£ ing a fire department at the time.
The equipment at that time was old and rusty, and the hoses full of holes. Brother Borromeo asked at least 550 feet of two and a half inch hose and a fifty foot ladder. These he obtained and placed in the old hose house behind the Main Building.
He saw the need for some sort of con-
. . And the traditional Dalmatian mascot
The latest fire-fighting equipment . .
he asked the administration International truck chassis he and the other Brothers an up-to-date fire engine.
veyance, so to buy an
0 upon which constructed
The Chief, ready for any emergency.
In the fall of 1940 the newly organized department performed its first duty, but strangely enough it didn’t respond to a fire. The first run made by the truck assisted a locomotive in distress. A football special derailed at the north end of the Notre Dame campus, and Brother Borromeo and his crew hastened to supply water to the engine that lost most of its own through tilting.
The fire department, housed in a modern tapestry-brick building completed in 1945, is not a volunteer organization. The only difference between it and any city organization is that it is completely manned and managed by Brothers who don’t get paid.
In his dual job of starting and putting
out fires Brothei- Borromeo meets with many responsibilities. There are always inspection tours to make, equipment to examine, and safety measures to plot out. Things like caring for the 850 acres plus St. Mary’s, examining the 12 fire boxes, 63 hydrants, and 120 buildings place a big job in his hands and keep Brother Borromeo on the run.
But in spite of all the duties fire-prevention places upon him, he always insists that fire-fighting is only his sideline. “My main duty,” he will say, “is Superintendent of Utilities;” yet even here, in spite of all the contributions he has made to the university, he will always remark, “I’m just another man that works here.”
Spacious public beach where undergraduates converge.
PIGEON'S-EYE VIEW OF FORT LAUDERDALE
FINALLY, spring is here. The gay season officially arrived last Monday ... a blizzard arrived last Tuesday. And, as the old saying goes, “In spring a. young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of” . . . mid-semester exams (only at Notre Dame!)
Dream Awhile . . .
However, by now all the hypotenuses have been squared, the Latin verbs conjugated, and the fingernails of nervous bookworms bitten short. While pessimists moan about the coming deluge of inevitable pink-slips, the optimists on campus are leaning back, relaxing, and dreaming of a fast-approaching Easter vacation.
The question of the week seems to be: ■where are you going for the holidays?
20
Of course, a large majority of ND men are heading for home as soon as that last bell rings on Tuesday, April 5. But daily an increasingly large number are outlining their plans to visit Fort Lauderdale, Florida—the vacation Venice of America. When the Scholastic’s roving ear (oui- budget won’t permit use of a whole roving reporter) heard about this mass migration to the land of sunshine, a homing pigeon was quickly dispatched. The thoroughly tanned bird has returned with the following notes:
Fort Lauderdale, fast becoming the sightseeing center of southern Florida, is a mecca for wintei- tourists. Although its permanent population is estimated to be 65,000, yet in winter this figure often swells to over 100,000. Under commission-city manager form of government, the city is dedicated to the welfare
of its permanent residents and to the i well-being and enjoyment of those thousands of visitors.	| j
The city is located midway between | | Palm Beach and Miami in the only truly ; tropical section of the United States;	I
that fact naturally accounts for some of the popularity it enjoys. Perhaps	|
equally decisive is the city’s policy of	;;
hospitality toward its guests. There	j;
are nearly four miles of clean, well- J. ? j protected ocean beach along its shore-	H
line; and, unlike most famous resorts,	u
with their private sections, the entire beach is free to the public.
Get in the Swim!
Around the calendar, sun and surf j bathing holds top priority among tour- • ist attractions. Other water sports cen- ‘j ter around the Bahia-Mar yacht basin j and the municipal pool. Bahia-Mar, the V nation’s largest yachting and recreation center, has complete berthing facilities	I
for 450 boats, and is the scene of many	|
water-skiing exhibitions. The Olympic-size municipal pool of filtered salt water is frequently used for water pageants ; and competitive diving-swimming meets.
Add to this, topflight night clubs । 1 featuring Broadway-caliber entertainment, fancy shopping centers, five golf
The Scholastic
san

I courses, and nearby horse and dog races. I There, briefly, are a few of the many I ^reasons why so many collegians head J for Fort Lauderdale when spring vaca-I tion rolls around.
In recent years the influx of college students from all over the country has grown from a mere trickle to a flood. Undergraduates began swarming to this resort city in springtime nine years ago. Since then, they have been returning annually in ever-increasing numbers. Today Fort Lauderdale is generally con-^ceded to be the number one spot in the United States for vacationing collegians. Last spring, conservative estimates placed the number of visiting “delegates” at 15,000; it is expected to rise to 20,000 at its height this season.
Big Ten Tops In Something
Need we mention what school leads the pack in the annual race to the „ “Fort”? . . . Ohio State, naturally! It h is not uncommon for the Buckeyes to be represented by 1,500 to 2,000 undergrads. The Big Ten—led by Ohio State, Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue and Illinois—and other mid-western universities usually send the largest groups.
How to get there is a problem that many of our would-be Marco Polos must be pondering over right now. Any way I	seems to be the popular answer; the
|	guys and dolls arrive by plane, train,
' automobile, bus, thumb, roller skates and ; pogo stick. Their mode of transporta-‘ tion obviously depends on how much of that crisp green stuff they have budgeted for their fling. For example, a California group flew in by chartered plane last spring and several members of the party rented cars for their ten-day stay. Others less fortunate “hitch” their way down (if any Michiana gendarmes read this, we’re only kidding!) and hoof it while they are there.
As is custom, headquarters for one and all will be the Las Olas-Atlantic boulevard intersection’ at the beach. By day and night, the spacious golden strand will be alive with students representing institutions from most of the 48 states.
Festival of Venice
Notre Dame men planning to visit a Fort Lauderdale have a special treat in store for them. Our Easter vacation ] period (April 6-17) fits perfectly with the “Fort’s” Festival of Venice (April 9-17). The civic carnival had its inception as a small three-day attraction last April. But this year it has blossomed into a nine-day frolic, the second step in a long range plan to develop an event of national scope. To insure this goal, the city has signed as festival chairman Myles Johns, formerly asso
£ March 25, 1955
ciated with the famed St. Paul winter carnival.
Parades, beauty contests, fashion shows, water pageants, boat races, golf and tennis tournaments, street dances and a coronation ball will highlight the pretentious carnival program. The festival will open with a gigantic street parade the Saturday before Easter and close with a colorfully illuminated boat parade through the marine-like resort city the night of April 17. Such a boat parade is possible because Fort Lauderdale has 140 miles of inland waterways winding through it—thus its nickname “Venice of America.”
Some idea of the vast size of this whole affair may be had by looking at the number of events scheduled for opening day alone. The day begins with the already-mentioned street parade. Ranking next in importance on the entertainment fare will be the second annual “Miss Sorority, USA” competition. “Miss Sorority” will be chosen from among thousands of co-eds gathered in Fort Lauderdale for spring vacation. Invitations have gone forward to 700 sororities on college campuses across the nation to enter chapter beauty queens in the contest. Go South, Young men, go South!
A Memorable Vacation
Sorority girls will also serve as models for the matinee fashion show to be staged by Saks Fifth Avenue store at the municipal casino. A water pageant will be held in conjunction with the fashion preview. Other swimming and diving exhibitions will be held simultaneously with the “Miss Sorority” judg-
One of fleet of tourist sightseeing boots.
All students visiting the Fort Lauderdale area take note! You are . cordially invited to attend the Florida Club’s annual informal Easter DanceChairman Ted Laughlin has announced these details for the gala holiday celebration:	•
PLACE—“By the Surf and Under the Stars” at the pool and cabana terrace of the Hollywood Beach Hotel in Hollywood, Florida (just five miles south of Fort Lauderdale on U. S. 1).
TIME—Easter Monday Night (April 11) with dancing from 9-1 and swimming from 11-1.
PRICE—At door, $5.00. On campus, $4.00. Tickets are available from hall representatives or at 309 St-Edward’s.
WEATHER—In case of rain (of course it won’t) dance will be held indoors.
ing at the casino at night. A street dance wall follow at Bahia-Mar center. Also to be launched on opening day will be a fishing toui-nament and a contest for the best photographs of Festival events.
And that is just the beginning of a memorable vacation . . . but it’s the end of our allotted space. So, as the sun sails out of the harbor, and our ship sinks slowly in the South, we leave the picturesque little City of Fort Lauderdale.
21

The Showcase
Searching for ‘Blue-Claws’
By ART EGGERS
At low tide, along the southern end of Brooklyn from Coney Island east to Idlewild Airport, is a long crescent of green. At high tide it lies beneath the water of Jamaica Bay. This crescent is the green of decaying swamps and cutting marsh grass. From a distance these swamps look like fertile meadows, firm and productive. Once into them you find they are treacherous, the muck pulling at shoes and the grass cutting legs. In places a man could sink out of sight. These long meadows are divided and sub-divided and criss-crossed by little salty streams running out of salty pools; the dregs of high tides. When the tide changes and begins to come in, the streams reverse their flow and run back to the pools. The tide rises more, the pools broaden and the overflow reaches out; soon the water completely covers the meadows.
During the dead low, small sandy beaches come out of the bay, where for the time, it is safe to pull a boat in. But you always have to watch the tide. Weekend fishermen let their boats drift and stay out on the sand until there is no place to stand. Then most of them swim out into the bay rather than be pushed back into the weeds by the rising water.
When we were eleven, we would go up these little ■winding creeks looking for blue-claw crabs. The trick of it was to get a small boat into the creek while the tide was still going out, but the creek had enough water in it to float a boat. Then the boat would be grounded for a few hours and you left it out until the tide began to rise again. But you always had the boat available, using it as a haven to come back to. That way you could leave the boat and walk around in the weeds and mud as much as you wanted.
It was the day after summer vacation began in 1943, and the night before we had decided to get up early. The four of us started out at dawn carrying our scoop nets. Besides the crabs there was the possibility that we might find some equipment from the ships that were being sunk off the coast. In those days merchant ships were still being tor
pedoed, more than people knew, or seemed to care.
Puck’s brother was in the merchant marine. According to him a high percentage of shipping disappeared off the coast. “My brother says forty per cent of the ships never- reach their destination,” Puck said.
Donny looked at him with that sort of half-grin and said, “How does your brother know? Probably doesn’t know even what destination means. You don’t.”
“Puck’s brother is okay,” Cole said. “He’s doing more for the war than you are.”
The whole neighborhood knew that Puck’s brother had tried to enlist in the Navy and been turned down. In those days that was almost impossible. They said it was physical but most figured it was mental. He just wasn’t smart enough. The whole family was the same way.
“What was the name of his ship?” Cole asked.
“It’s painted out now. It used to be the Southern Star,” Puck said. “My brother was one of the first ones on the ship when the Navy took it over.”
“A banana boat,” Donny said.
“They carry munitions,” Puck said, to himself more than to us. To him that converted tramp was holy. It was all his brother could do, but it was enough for Puck.
Walking to the dock we talked about the stuff floating in. “A kid I know on Rockaway Point found twelve gallons of dehydrated lemonade in water-tight containers,” Cole said.
“Anything that washed in around the • point is caught in the currents running along the shore and stays on the south side of the bay,” Donny said, sulking. He was still holding to his argument of last night that we should cross the bay.
Puck turned around lazily, “Smitty found a big balsa raft out in the middle of the bay. He said it would have come over here if he hadn’t picked it up.”
“Sure, you jerk, it was light and stayed on top. The wind took it, not the tide,” said Donny with exasperation.
Puck could have broken both Donny’s
A long Crescent of Green
j
legs with a sneeze but he didn’t mind. Everyone knew he was a little dumb and nobody was afraid of him. He almost got in trouble with the police once because some boobs wanted to see if he could bend a bus sign in half. He could ~ and the police didn’t like it.
By noon we were into Jamaica Bay waiting for low tide. We ate, started the kicker, and made for a little sandspit we knew. After a swim we lifted the kicker out of the water and started to scull up a creek. Puck had the oar; he could probably push over any mud without the rest of us getting out. Donny and Cole were standing in the bow looking for crabs with the scoop nets. It was my job to stay in the middle keeping the balance and watch for logs in the water ahead.
Puck, to shorten a long Polish name, was the biggest and the strongest of us, if not the brightest. He went with you no matter where you were going. I guess it didn’t make any difference to him. He’d play ball when somebody was a man short, but he wasn’t good at it. He was too muscle-bound, no rhythm in his movements. I think his biggest kick in life was breaking the boards off the city park benches by giving them one fast jerk. The pieces would break off into clean sections where the bolts held the boards to the concrete uprights.
One day three guys were trying to walk a log around on its end to the water for a raft they were making. While the three of them were holding up one end, Puck picked up the other end. When the weight shifted even they couldn’t hold

I,
The Scholastic
it and dropped it. Puck was holding his end like he didn’t know what was going A on. Finally they rolled it down.
Cole was the complete opposite. He couldn’t or wouldn’t do much of anything. I guess it was because he’d always been sick as long as I could remember.
Donny was a nice guy but most of the time he wanted things his way. Like the argument over where we should look for the crabs. He wanted to go over to the south side of the bay; we stayed on £ the north side. He wasn’t happy about it, in fact he was still complaining. He looked around and said, “There aren’t any here. We should have gone over to the south side.”
“It would have taken too long,” I I said. “Besides there’s too much open water to cross to get there.”
“But the tides are strongest over there. Remember that submarine hatch those guys found? That thing was heavy A and the tide carried it there.”
“What would we do with a submarine hatch?” Cole asked seriously.
Donny looked at him, “Oh, nuts,” he said as though the whole thing was useless. And Puck was still pulling on the oar. It didn’t make any difference.
By this time we were about as far up the creek as we could go. “Puck, put the boat on that little piece of sand up there,” Donny said. “We might as well start here.”
We pulled the boat out of the water and put an eight-prong anchor in a log. It couldn’t go far with the log stuck in the weeds. The log probably wouldn’t float anyway.
Cole stayed near the boat. Puck went off to the right, I went to the left and Donny went further up the creek. I stayed out about an hour and got eight blue-claws. The only other things I saw a were pieces of drift wood. Puck came back to the boat about fifteen minutes after I did. He had 17 crabs in a sack and a piece of shattered balsa wood under his arm. Cole looked at it and tore a piece of gray canvas off. “It looks like a piece of the kind of raft Smitty got.”
“That’s what I thought,” Puck said. “Think it could have come from the same ship?”
“Probably not,” I said. “No one £ knows how many ships are being sunk except the Navy. It’s more than they like, I bet.”
“Someone would have gotten in trouble for that,” I said. “Everything is supposed to be painted out gray on those ships.”
“It doesn’t matter now,” Cole said and threw the canvas into the weeds. “I wonder* what ship it was. It had to be a merchant marine; they’re the only
thing they go after so close to the coast.” “I’m going to walk down towards the
bay a little,” I said.
“I went down a ways while you were gone,” Cole said. “I didn’t see anything. Besides the tide is coming in.”
“You can pick me up if I don’t get back in time.” I walked down about fifteen minutes and saw one or two crabs but I wasn’t fast enough. Crossing to the other side I started back up. The water was up to my knees in most places by now and I wanted to get into the boat. Just as I came to a low spot and was wondering what to do, the others came pushing down in the boat.
“Let’s get out of here. The tide is getting stronger and we don’t want to use the motor yet,” Cole said.
“No, first I want to see what that thing was,” said Donny. He’d gotten the most crabs, twenty.
“What thing?” I said.
“Back up the creek there’s a little hill,” he said. “You can see all the way to the parkway and almost to the water from it. I was standing there smoking and I noticed something gray sticking out of the weeds. It must be floating because it moved back and forth. It might be a raft.”
“I don’t care. How about you guys?” Cole looked around from the front.
“Oh, okay.”
Puck lifted his shoulders and let them fall.
“There’s a tall bunch of weeds to the left of it. I think this creek goes right past them. Look! There!”
We left Cole in the boat and started off to the right. Donny saw it first. It was one of those slatted rafts with water-tight barrels inside. It looked something like a cage. Donny ran over to it and tried to lift it off a tree one end rested on. “Puck, see if you can lift it,” he said. The three of us
A slatted raft . . . something like a cage
finally moved it so that we could walk around it.
“We’ll have to carry it down to the creek,” I said. I got on one side, Donny on the second and Puck opposite him. That way we could push the free side through the weeds and see where we were going.
Puck stooped over a little, looking along the side for a grip. Then he stopped and looked at one spot, staring. Donny and I straightened up to wait for him to get hold. He kept looking at the raft without moving.
Donny got mad and said, “Lift, boob.” Puck didn’t lift. He stared. Nothing much ever bothered Puck, let alone hold his attention. I walked around to see what he was staring at. On the side of the raft in dirty white letters was “Southern Star.”
Puck hadn’t moved and I guess I had been staring at the raft too. Donny asked if we were both crazy and I told him to shut up.
“Don’t tell me to shut up,” Donny yelled.
Puck with his head still bent over said from down deep, “Shut up.” The muscles on the side of his face knotted and loosened over and .over. It was the first time I had ever heard him tell anyone to do anything.
Donny flushed. He opened his mouth and closed it. Then he looked at me.
“I’ll tell you later,” I said. “Just keep quiet.”
“What about the raft?”, he said quietly, not looking at Puck.
“Leave it,” I said.
Donny walked away a little, then looked back at Puck. Then he looked at me, and went on towards the boat.
“Don’t stay long, Puck,” I said. “We have to get home.” “I won’t.”
“Watch the water,” I said. I wondered whether I should leave him. Then I started after Donny.
| A March 25, 1955
1
GEORGE W. BEADLE . . . inside Botany
Dr. Beadle to Discuss 'Gene' at Botany Talks
Dr. George W. Beadle, chairman of the Biology Division, California Institute of Technology, will deliver one of the Julius A. Nieuwland Lectures in botany next Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., and next Friday at 4 p.m., according to information released recently. All lectures will be delivered in the Biology Auditorium.
The general title of the series is “The Gene.” The individual lectures are “The Gene—Carrier of Inheritance,” “The Gene—Controller of Function,” and “The Gene—Agent of Evolution.”
Held Numerous High Posts
Dr. Beadle, after obtaining his doctorate from Cornell University in 1931, was successively—National Research Fellow and later instructor at California Institute of Technology, assistant professor at Harvard University, professor of biology at Stanford, and is currently at California Institute of Technology.
He has contributed materially to the genetics and cytology of maize, and to the physiological genetics of the fruitfly. His studies on the biochemical genetics of Naurospora have been termed outstanding.
He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, past president of Genetics Society of America, Society of Naturalists, American Botanical Society, American Philosophical Society, American Society of Zoologists, Academy of Arts and Sciences, and past president of the Western Society of Naturalists.
24
With the closing of Lent and the coming of Easter the nationwide geographical clubs of Notre Dame will soon renew their social activities for the holidays. This year’s Easter parade of events will stretch from north to south and east to west to herald the approach of spring.
New York City will find its Notre Dame contingent storming the town from three different directions when the Metropolitan Club arrives home via the Pacemaker, the Fifth Avenue, and the Lake Shore trains. The train trip will start the ball rolling for the Met Club Easter Sunday night; amid the pomp and festivity of the Grand Ballroom of the Park-Sheraton Hotel 250 couples will dance to the music of Francis Walther. Ticket prices of $4.60 for mem-
SENIOR BALL TICKET SALES
Ticket sales for the 1955 Senior Ball and weekend events will be held in the Law Auditorium on Monday from 7-9 p.m., Tuesday from 6:30-7:30 p.m., and Wednesday from 7-9 p.m.
The price of the Golden Anniversary Ball ticket will be $9. The dinner dance ducat will cost $6.50 and that of the Communion Breakfast, $2.50.
bers and $5.50 at the door will include door prizes, favors, and the election of a king and queen.
The Met Club has also arranged with its Alumni Club for a meeting at the Carrol Club on April 7 and 14 to informally discuss summer job placements for club members.
Across New York State on the edge of Konesus Lake springs the novel idea of a gala picnic. The Rochester Club, promoting this idea, will entertain 35 couples and provide the food and games, including a softball tussle.
Dances, Dances, Dances
The Buffalo Club bows into social life on April 13. At the Launch Club on Grand Island, Johnny Orland’s band will set the feet a-dancing and welcome Mr. Richard Thoen, president of the Alumni Club of Buffalo, and Mrs. James Austin, president of the Alumni Wives Club as guests of honor. Highlight of the evening will be the election of king and queen by the distinguished guests.
The Akron Club on April 16 will fill
i
■
the University Club of Akron to hear Bob Cole’s orchestra. Admission will
be $2.50.
On April 15 the Cincinnati Club will entertain 60 couples at the First-StopInn starting at 8:30 p.m. No admission will be charged. The club also plans to | provide a bus trip back to Notre Dame. 3 Tom Castellini will furnish any information to anyone interested.	’j
Still More of 'em	j
Three bus-loads of Notre Dame trav- J' elers will head for the Motor City to | start their holidays. The Detroit Club, I besides sponsoring the bus trip, is hold- i I ing its annual Easter Dance at the 5 Sheraton-Cadillac Hotel on April 15. Ap- 1 proximately 200 couples will dance to | Clark Williams’ melodies from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.	°1
The Grand Ballroom of the Hotel 11 Sheraton will be crowded with 350 hap- | py couples swaying to Dan Belloc’s or- S chestra on April 15 with the Chicago g Club as host. The club is also sponsor- | ing a Mass at St. Petter’s Church at 10 I a.m. and a Communion breakfast at the 1 LaSalle Hotel.	'll
Out in the Wheat State the Kansas | Club will entertain 75 couples at the -i Trig Ballroom in Wichita.
A combination of the St. Louis campus club and the Alumni Club will fill the j' Missouri Room of the Statler Hotel in g St. Louis with 100 couples on April 11. g The club is also chartering an airplane g to transport members to St. Louis. Any- 1 one interested should contact Dave Max. g
In Milwaukee the Elmgrove Legion ® Clubhouse 'will provide the Milwaukee « Club members a night of entertainment j for only $1.	® ;
Comes the End
The Bluegrass State will welcome back the Kentucky Club on April 15 just outside Louisville at the Hunters’ Club. Providing rides home for members is John Birk in Room 118 Zahm.
In Pittsburgh on April 12 a semi-formal dance will be conducted at the La-sek’s Club with free admission to all members of the Pittsburgh Club.
The Manoa Catholic War Veterans Home will play host to the Philadelphia Club on April 11 from 9 p.m. till 1 a.m. Bids at $3.50 will provide a night filled with music.	•
“By the Surf and Under the Stars” is the title given to the Florida Club’s Easter Dance on April 11 at the Hollywood Beach Hotel in Hollywood, Fla. Tickets for this affair are $4 on campus and $5 at the door. It’s informal.


■Sj
The Scholastic

• Scholastic Sports
BRENNAN GREETS '55 GRIDDERS TUESDAY
• Gymnasts Face Finale Tomorrow Afternoon As Newcomers Meet Ball State, South Bend
By BOB PARNELL
The Notre Dame gymnasts will ring down the curtain tomorrow afternoon in the Drill Hall at 2 p.m. in a triangular meet "with Ball State and the South Bend Turners, a talented local outfit.
Coach Ray Runkle affirmed that, “This triangular meet should be more evenly matched than any of our previous encounters. The Irish stand theii- best chance for a double victory so far this season. It will also give the younger gymnasts a chance to show their stuff in actual competition.”
This season has seen the Irish drop six meets while winning but one. “But,” quipped Mr. Runkle, “it is the policy of • the club to engage the best possible competition in the Midwest and the record shows it!”
Since lack of depth has been the main flaw in the Irish ranks this season, Coach Runkle is anxiously looking forward to Saturday’s meet as a possible solution to this problem. He believes that, “If the present group of newcomers continue to develop, next season should be far better from a win-lose aspect.”
Irish Split Last Weekend
The following gymnasts will be making their debut for the Gold and Blue in this Ball State Tournament: trampoline—Mike Cleary and Charlie Ollinger; side horse—Bernie D’Almedia, Bill Bru-not and Mike Cleary; horizontal bar— Manuel Ochoa, Roy Williams and Paul £ Leitzinger; parallel bars—Hugh McGuire, Jim Brunot and John Krause; flying rings—Charlie Ollinger, Mike Cleary and Dick Prather; tumbling— Jim Brunot, Bill Malek and Bruce Brown.
Last week’s triangular meet between Western Illinois, Kansas State and Notre Dame, was won by the Illini. They beat the Irish 55% -40% and repulsed Kansas, 62-36, to sweep the laurels. Notre Dame gained a split for the after
noon’s activity and secured second place by dumping Kansas, 58-37. Reggie Grimm and Evie Hatch led the Irish scorers in total tallies with marks of 27 and 25, respectively.
Western Illinois scored their most decisive victory in the side horse event, besting both Kansas and Notre Dame by decisions of 13-3. They managed to sweep honors in five of the six events, falling short only in the tumbling department. Notre Dame won this event by topping Western Illinois, 11-5, and then edging Kansas, 9-7.
Corky Cairns was the Western Illinois pacemaker, scoring 42 points, or more than one-third of the Western Illinois total. Cairns led all competitors in the high bar, parallel bars, and flying rings departments. He tallied six times against both Notre Dame and Kansas State in each of these events.
Epstein Defeats Kurtz In Handball Championship
Frank Epstein, junior from Chicago, won the annual campus open singles handball tournament last Tuesday, beating Fisher’s John Kurtz 21-6, 21-7.
Epstein went through the suddendeath tourney, having no more than eight points scored against him in a single game. He beat each opponent in two games.
Joe Peixotto, Carl Skiff, and Don Leone fell before the short left-hander in the preliminary matches. Epstein dumped Chuck Burns of Alumni in the semi-finals of that bracket.
On his way to the finals, Kurtz stopped Tom Mark, Dick Clamens, and Mike Costello. He met George Bernat in the semi-finals of his division.
Epstein a guard candidate on this year’s football squad, entered Notre Dame in 1949 and won a grid monogram in 1950 before joining the Marines for three years. He lives in Sorin Hall.
Backfield Prospects May Prove Surprise
Terry Brennan will tackle the sophomore jinx and another tough Notre Dame schedule as he begins the 1955 campaign Tuesday afternoon in Cartier Field. The initial session of the spring drills will be devoted to newsmen and photographers, but the next 19 days of this vital training will be a strict review of fundamentals and last year’s plays.
Brennan must replace eight graduating seniors, but he has 17 lettermen returning. Only Captain Ray Lemek returns in the line, and it is doubtful if he will participate in these spring drills with his weak knee.
According to Coach Early, the whole backfield picture looks extremely bright. He says, “We should have a very strong backfield due to the fact that we have the best overall depth since 1948.”
In comparing this year’s big four, which he named as Paul Hornung, quarterback; Jim Morse and Paul Reynolds, halfbacks; and Don Schaefer at fullback, with last year’s backfield, Coach Early stated, “It should be better because there is a lot more competition for the positions. And this will cause the betters to get better.”
In analyzing the probable backfield
TERRY BRENNAN
A Sophomore Jinx?
D March 25, 1955
25
;	BILL EARLY
j	“Betters To Get Better”
4
|
= iron men, Paul Hernung is given the | nod to fill the shoes of graduating All-[ American quarterback, Ralph Guglielmi. i Hornung, although he lacks experience J in calling plays, should be a real threat £ during the coming campaign with his 5 speed, passing, and kicking. He will do । most of the punting, kicking off, and । extra point booting.
( Paul Reynolds will fill in at the right ।	halfback position and should have a
|	great year providing he can escape
|	another knee injury. Reynolds is very
|	shifty, a good blocker, and as Coach
।	Early estimates, “could be one of the
best defensive backs in the country.”
I Jim Morse, beginning his second year | as a regular, will hold down the left | halfback slot. Morse is a good breakaway runner, and can pass well. And £ so with a full year’s experience under | his belt, he should help spike the Irish j attack.
I Don Schaefer, the hard-driving Irish I fullback “does everything well,” declares | Coach Early. He is a good power-run-I ner, an outstanding blocker, and one of I the best defensive stalwarts on the I squad. Schaefer can also pass well, | boot extra points, and is a good leader. I Because of these assets, Coach Early predicts that “Schaefer could be AllAmerican this year.”
Other promising hopefuls battling for starting berths will be lettermen Dick Fitzgerald, Nick Raich, Sherrill Sipes, and Dean Studer.
Additional reserve strength coming from the freshmen ranks will be Aubrey Lewis, Dick Wilkins, Chuck Lima, Dick Lynch, Frank Scott, and Carl Herbert.
In summary, Coach Early states, “We should have one of the better backfields this year, but everything depends on how the line shapes up.”
ND Fencers Finish Season With 12-3 Record; ) Battle Nation's Best Men in NCAA Tournament*
By JIM MERZ	|
“Another top-ten team in the NCAA? Well, we have a good chance of crashing that circle again this year,” fencing coach Walter Langford feels, “but a lot hinges on condition.” The story unfolds today and tomorrow, as over 30 major colleges in the country journey to the Michigan State campus for the annual NCAA fencing tournament.
Irish hopes rest this year on a trio of duellers, Co-Captains Jim Waters and Tom Dorwin, and Junior Don Tadrowski. Although not quite as strong as last year’s entry, all three men boast impressive records and polished style.
Possibly the major factor of Irish
t 5 t
aS
*
Tadrowski, Dorwin, and Waters
success is Jim Waters. Waters holds a 32-9 record in the foil division, but has been bothered by his left shoulder and arm. If this should show in the gruelling competition, Notre Dame can expect trouble.
Tom Dorwin will handle the sabre action with a 27-16 record, while Don Tadrowski has won 33 and lost 7 for the epee squad.
The NCAA tourney is run in round robin style. During the day and a half of the meet, each man must face every opponent in his class, a season-full of action. Even the best could collapse under the grind, so the spotlight may focus on Waters’ arm.
In past years the Irish have finished among the top ten squads five out of six times in the tournament. Their highest slot was sixth; last year they finished in a tie for eighth. Since fencing is emphasized more in the East, Coach Langford considers any of the first ten
positions an excellent record for a mid- | western school. Yeai- after year the | “big boys” to watch are Columbia, Navy, j N.Y.U., Yale, Cornell, Princeton, and I Pennsylvania.
Since the war, Notre Dame sports the B best won and lost record in the Midwest. a During the present campaign the Irish ® | have bowed only three times, all by a ?? slim, one-touch margin. Three of the four leading western teams have top- j pled beneath Irish steel.
Last Saturday afternoon at the Fieldhouse, Notre Dame wrapped up their ’54-’55 season with a pair of easy wins | for a 12 won, 3 lost record. In the triangular meet the Irish slashed through Cincinnati for a 19-8 decision, while Chicago. was routed by an 18-9 onslaught. £ I Sabreman Tom Dorwin collected high- I man honors, winning all six of his bouts. Also undefeated for the day, Waters and Tadrowski nailed down four points apiece. John Brogan scored another four-for-four effort in epee.
The Irish clinched both ends of the meet with color. Needing only one point to whip Cincinnati, and a single tally to beat Chicago, Dorwin and Waters went to work against the opponents. The co-captains turned in the vital point at A the same time. Coach Langford drew from his bag of tricks when he pitted his manager, Fred Maroon, against Cincinnati in the last sabre match of the year. True to varsity style, Maroon took the contest, 5-4.
Anderson to Speak Sunday At Rockne Memorial Tribute
Heartley (Hunk) Anderson, successor Q to Knute Rockne as Notre Dame football coach in 1931, will be the featured speaker Sunday when the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley gathers for the annual communion breakfast commemorating Rockne’s death. The breakfast is scheduled for 9 a.m. in the faculty room of the dining hall, following an j 8:30 a.m. Mass in Dillon hall chapel.	I
Rockne was killed in a plane crash	|
in Kansas, March 31, 1931.	|
Don Fisher is chairman of the event £ | and Frank Miles heads the floral com- ! mittee. The alumni group will place ’ wreaths on the graves of ex-Irish coaches Rockne, George Keogan, basketball coach, and John Nicholson, track coach, in Highland Cemetery.
Anderson, now retired from coaching, holds a public relations position in a steel company. He will, however, be head assistant for the College All-Star I game in August.
26
The Scholastic Q
Stephens to Join All-Stars • For Annual Trotter Junket
The Harlem Globe Trotters open their nation wide tour Sunday night in New York City with the College All-Stars. The two teams will play 25 games in 21 days, including doubleheaders in New York and Chicago and a stop in Elkhart.
Included in the list of College stars is Notre Dame’s All-American, Jack Stephens, whose 1,314 points during his college career established a new all-time “ Notre Dame scoring mark. Some of the other stars who most likely will play are: Tom Gola of LaSalle, Dick Hem-eric of Wake Forest, Don Schlundt of Indiana, Ed Conlin of Fordham, and Dick Garmaker of Minnesota, and many other well known college seniors.
Most of the players will play only when the two teams come into their section, but four or five players ■will stay with the Stars all through the tour. • Stephens is one of these players who will be with the club for the entire series.
Stephens follows Dick Rosenthal, 1953 -54 Irish center on the1 annual tour. Last year “Rosie” won the trophy as most valuable player in the tournament.
Sailing Club Holds Elections; Announce Spring Schedule
The Sailing Club released their 1955 £ schedule last week, and also announced the new slate of officers.
Raymond Nelson will be commodore of the sailors, assisted by Robert Sargent, vice-commodore; Gilles Gallant, secretary; Ron Meissner, treasurer; and Peter Raffetto, fleet captain.
In the spring, the club will participate in four meets. On March 27 they sail in the Indiana Championships at Purdue; April 2 and 3, the Quadrangular at £ Notre Dame; April 16 and 17, the Navy Invitational at Annapolis; April 30-May 1, the National Eliminations, Area B, at the University of Michigan, and on May 7 will wind up the season at home with the Notre Dame Snipe Regatta. Next fall’s schedule has not yet been announced.
The club has been taking advantage of early spring weather and warming up on St. Joseph’s lake for over two weeks. They plan to move the four 0 dinghies to the better facilities of Diamond Lake in lower Michigan over this weekend.
Last fall the club compiled four victories against no losses in Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association competition.	'
All students interested in joining the club regardless of experience, are invited to attend the meetings held on Wednesdays at 7 p.m. in 209 Engineering Building.
• March 25, 1955
1955 GOLF SCHEDULE
April 15—Louisville ..................................... At Louisville
April 23—Bradley and Western Illinois ..................At	Notre Dame
April 30—Glenview Naval Air Station ....................At	Notre Dame
May 7—Northwestern ...................................... At Evanston
May 14—Purdue	and	Indiana ..........................  At	Notre	Dame
May 16—Michigan	State ................................. At	Notre	Dame
May 19—Detroit	....................................   At	Notre	Dame
May 21—Iowa .........................................   At	Notre	Dame
June 19-25—National Collegiate Tournament at Knoxville, Tenn.
Irish Face Top Competition In Cleveland, Chicago Relays
Tonight’s Cleveland Relays and tomorrow’s Chicago Relays will be highlighted by the Notre Dame track team meeting some of the top teams and runners of the nation.
BILL SQUIRES A Crack At the Big Boys
Coach Alex Wilson announced a two mile relay team will run in both meets against those of Syracuse, unofficial Eastern champs, Michigan, who beat ND at Milwaukee, and Indiana. The Irish two mile group consists of Dick O’Keefe, Al Schoenig, Al Porter, and Bill Squires.
Squires will run the anchor leg after his blistering 1:53 half at Milwaukee two weeks ago. .Schoenig will run the second leg in an attempt to regain his top form. Coach Wilson thinks that this new arrangement will produce a brace of wins over the weekend.
Aubrey Lewis, freshman flash, will participate unattached in the 100-yard dash at Cleveland.
Squires, ace Irish miler who posted a 4:10:7 time earlier in the year, will make his major indoor debut in the Chicago Relays, facing such standouts
as Wes Santee, Fred Dwyer, and John Moule. He will run. with barely an hour's rest after his jaunt in the two-mile relay.
Golfers Open Practice For Nine-Match Card
The University’s Burke Memorial golf course will open this weekend, weather permitting, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.-C., golf coach, announced this week.
The ’55 edition of the varsity golf team, headed by Co-Captains Bob Fili-piak and John Foley, began practice this past week. Previously, the team had been out on their own, working out the “hitches” in their swings, after the long winter lay-off.
Father Holderith, now in his 23rd year as coach, expressed hope that the team would do better than last year’s squad that had a mediocre record of 5-5. The task before them is a big one, for over the course of the spring, they will face some of the best golfing teams in the Midwest. Northwestern, Purdue, Indiana, and Bradley will be the toughest teams on the schedule, says Father Holderith.
Along with Filipiak and Foley, a good share of the load will fall on Leo Matt, a returnee from last year. Pressing the top three for recognition will be Charlie Gordon, Joe Mulflur and Sam Merra. Also providing help over the rugged nine match schedule will be Wayne Vercel-lotti, Bill McGuire, Frank Manning, and Owen Sodetz.
The freshman squad looks quite good and could lend valuable aid next year, Father Holderith added. Heading the freshmen group is Tom Garside who won the open tournament last fall. Following close behind are Joe Grace and Charlie Thum who have had a great deal of tournament experience. Jim Mrus, Stan Lorens, Pete Loda, and Lloyd Syron are also prospects.
To help both squads correct their faults, Father Holderith has asked Jim Watson, South Bend Country Club pro, to work with the team in preparation for their first match April 15 at Louisville.
I
spli^s fmfbe ptessbox
Outfield Inexperience | Hampers Kline's Nine
Lack of experienced outfield talent may prove to be a big headache for Coach Jake Kline as he attempts to
field a winning Irish ball club this sea-
28
by Paul Fullmer
Tradition is hard to crack, but it isn’t invincible.
Decades ago, Notre Dame had representative swimming teams that held their dual meets in the old auditorium, now occupied by the weight lifting
team. When campus swimming activities switched over to the Rock, the
WHY NOT?
swimming team idea was dropped. Now is the time for resurrection.
Contrary to tradition, there is no written document forbidding intercollegiate athletics in the Rock. 'The promotion material during the financial drive implied that the building would be used for the
average student, and not for the varsity football player.
There was no mention made, however, that a swimming team could not be organized and compete in the Rock. Since swimming is a sport that requires an expensive initial outlay, it is highly improbable that Notre Dame will have more than one pool in the near future. There are many rumors floating around that Notre Dame’s new super fieldhouse will be built across from
the Morris Inn, and in the near future, as the ideas are already on a drawing board. Indiana rumors, however, are almost as unpredictable as its weather, so it does not pay to put stock in such news.
The Rock’s pool seats 400 and is of regulation standards. In fact, ND held informal meets with Chicago and Indiana before the war. The problem of a coach and training arises when the question of a swimming team is proposed, and these are certainly legitimate queries. A coach might come from the present phy. ed. staff or be hired for the primary purpose of teaching swimming, and secondarily foi" teaching. Swimming is a sport that requires fine conditioning, and this is where the crux of the matter really lies. We do not mean to advocate exclusive use of the pool for the team. They would have to work during the “off” hours. Cleaning operations could be adjusted if the team was sanctioned.
Hidden Talent Would Provide Solid Nucleus
The question of high-caliber team personnel and subsidization is also a thorny problem. The personnel is here right now to assemble a good team, and with the drawing power of a swimming team, this number would double without subsidization. Here is a partial list of high school swimming titles that we have floating around: the All-American diving champion of 1951, who was also the top diver in Louisville and Kentucky in his senior year; the All-American back stroker of 1953; the runner-up in the 100-yard breast stroke in Kentucky in 1951; the 100-yard back stroke champion of Chicago in 1951; the 100-yard Chicago Catholic League back stroke champ of 1954; the Chicago Catholic League 100-yard free style champ of 1953, and the All-American free style champ of 1952.
It takes about 25 men to mold a strong team, and there is enough talent here right now to swim in the strata the track team competes in. This is not fantasy. You can compare the times of these men with those of winning independent teams, such as Loyola of Chicago, and we would come out on top. If Notre Dame is willing to compete on a less than first-rate track basis, there is no logical reason why it couldn’t participate in swimming with what we already have.
With the possibility of new swimming facilities looming in the not-too-distant future, it is even more imperative to organize a swimming team and be ready to operate on a bigger scale when circumstances dictate.
“He who hesitates is lost.”
son. Although he has had little opportunity to work his outfielders on the field thus far, Coach Kline fears that the graduation of such capable performers as Mark Tremblay and Andy Cor-rao has decidedly weakened the team. ®
Remarking that the squad would especially miss Tremblay’s big bat and hustle, Kline noted that, “I may have to switch infielders and even pitchers to the outfield in order to get some hitting power into the lineup.”
Returning from last year are Bill Teschke and Jim Twohy, who will form the nucleus of the Irish outfield. Joe Yaeger, a junior who was out last season, has shown fine form in practice and® will probably take over the third outfield spot.
Pushing these three for the garden positions are four sophomore candidates who have excellent chances of breaking into the lineup.
Bob Nowakowski has shown a strong arm and a talent for banging out hard, short hits.
Jim Keller has demonstrated that he is one of the fastest men on the team and can hit a long ball.
Two infield candidates who have ex- ~ hibited ability in the outfield are Steve (\ Johnson and Jack O’Drobinak. Johnson
has a fine throwing arm and O’Drobinak, who doubles at first base, is one of the ' squad’s hardest hitters.
Coach Kline intends to work more । extensively with his outfield when the I weather permits practice on the dia- I mond.	I
. The team suffered a setback last Friday when it was learned that regular | first baseman Mike Lesso would be out A indefinitely after severely spraining his i ankle.	i
.___________	I
Zahm Splashes to Meet Win i
Zahm Hall captured the Interhall | Swimming Meet Wednesday night in £ the Rock pool. The meet, sponsored by g Mr. Gil Burdick, swimming instructor, g and the Phy. Ed. Club, was not decided S until the final 200-yard relay. Zahm garnered 25 points followed by Morris- B sey with 17 and Dillon with 16.
Pete Kerwin of Lyons took individual | honors winning both the 50 and 100-	1
yard free style events.	j
In the diving, Ed Healy of Morrissey I took first but his brother Dan Healy of | Alumni was right behind him and took I a close second.	1
Bill Scanlon of Zahm was the winner » in the 50-yard backstroke.	s'
The Scholastic

I
I Bowlers Rip St. Joseph's; 5 •Riley's 647 Paces Keglers
Led by a brilliant 1,009 series by Jack Battel, the Notre Dame bowling team defeated St. Joseph’s College of Rensselaer, Ind., in five straight games last Saturday. The Irish showed their best form this season in completely sweeping all eleven points.
Battel’s 1,009 series came on games of 207, 202, 213, 175, and 212. His “series was the second all-time high for any Notre Dame kegler. Battel was also the first to crack the coveted 1,000 series this season.
Other members of the Irish team also shared in the victory, with John Aquilla having the high game of the day with 214, and the second high series with 907. Other 200 games were rolled by Bob Filipiak with 212, and Jim Haering with 204.
Through the first seven matches, Filipiak continues to lead the keglers with a 180 average, followed by Aquilla’s 176.
Tomorrow the Irish will travel down to Valparaiso, Ind., for the seventh annual Midwest Inter-Collegiate Bowling Conference tournament. A banquet will follow the tournament in which all the individual and team trophies will be given out. The Irish will be hoping to better their second-place showing of last year.
Some new records also were set in the Kampus Keglers league last week. Bill Riley of Detroit rolled.a 647 series, including a 226 game which broke the former league three-game series record. Riley’s fine series helped the Detroit Club stay in a tie with the Air Cadet team for the leadership in the Blue League, as both leaders1 swept their three-game series. The Architects ♦ climbed up to third place by sweeping their series, while the Irish Club was dropping three points to the California Club.
In the Gold League, the standings remained the same with the Toledo Club in first place, followed by the A.I.E.E., Met Club, and Cleveland Club. The high game in the Gold League was the Electrical Engineers’ John Gorben’s 209.
•Seven Get Basketball Letters
Captain Jack Stephens, Lloyd Aubrey, John Smyth, Bill Weiman, John Fannon, Lee Ayotte, and Paul Hornung received major basketball letters last night at the annual cage banquet at the LaSalle Hotel. Senior Steve Rebora received a special service monogram.
Loyola Coach George Ireland was the principal speaker. The Villagers’ Club • sponsored the annual event.
* March 25, 1955
Samson Uses Fieldhouse for Indoor Practice As Lettermen Work to Improve Weak Points
As Easter vacation approaches, the Notre Dame tennis team is knuckling down in indoor Fieldhouse practices to iron out the few remaining kinks before their opening trip to the South. This will be the first year that the Southern trip will be regarded as part of the regular season. Previously it has been considered as just a practice jaunt.
The Irish, having lost only two members from last year’s squad, are stronger in almost every position, and should do a lot of improving on last year’s seven and five record, Coach Charlie Samson hopes. The top two men will have had at least one year of experience, and beyond that a fine crop of sophomores is expected to lend much-needed balance that was lacking last year. The boys that will carry the bulk of the load are the five returning lettermen: Maury Reidy, Wally Clarke, Bill Reale, Frank Lynch, and John Stuhldreher. All are seniors except Stuhldreher, who is a junior.
Maury Reidy, this year’s captain from Denver, Colo, has already won three monograms. He’s a fast aggressive player with quick speed and good reflexes. A “getter,” he often returns shots that seem almost impossible to reach. He has a good variety of shots and a hard, accurate serve.
Although not as consistent as he might be, his ground strokes are very sharp and hard. Probably his best game is played up around the net, which makes him a valuable doubles man on the forehand side.
WALLY CLARKE, MAURY REIDY, BILL REALE, AND FRANK LYNCH.
Netters in Midst of Heavy Workouts.
The backhand side of last year’s undefeated doubles team was played by Wally Clarke. Clarke, also number one in the singles last year, is very consistent on his ground strokes and has a great service return. He has probably the best volley on the team, despite the fact that he is not extraordinarily fast. His backhand is his strongest shot and, although none of his shots are weak, his overhead often seems a little shaky. One of Clarke’s greatest assets is his cool head, fine sense of competition, and all around good tennis temperament. He has won two monograms.
Bill Reale, a three monogram man from Mansfield, Ohio, played number three last year in singles and was on the number two team in doubles. He is the smallest man on the team, standing only five feet seven inches, but makes up for this with speed. Doubles is probably his best game, using a good overhead shot at. the net. His backhand, however, needs improving.
John Stuhldreher is the only junior letterman on the squad. An engineering student he is not sure whether or not he will be able to make the Southern trip because of his class schedule. A good comeback player, he fought from behind twice last year to win decisive matches. Stuhldreher has a shaky service and pushes his backhand a little, but has a good forehand and is very steady.
Another man with engineering class trouble is Frank Lynch. He has missed the winter workouts because of his studies.
29
Purdue Tips AFROTC, 78-71, Despite Hornung's 34 Points
Despite Paul Hornung’s 34 points, Notre Dame’s five dropped a 78-71 decision to Purdue in the Indiana AFRO-
Rasmussen
MEN’S SHOP
Main and Washington Sts.
Has Yonr
AFTER SIX Formal Wear
more men weaF
32.50
Special Notre Dame Tour to the
University of Hawaii Summer Session
71 Weeks for only ’469 jJJ
Join the Howard Tour
Until this year only college girls were accepted in the Howard Tours, and for this summer’s tours 241 deposits have been already received from coeds throughout the United States. For the first time this coed program is being broadened to include a college men’s group. Ten tour openings are assigned Notre Dame students, and acceptance will be based on a first come first served basis.
The tour price includes airplane roundtrip between the West Coast and Hawaii via either Pan American World Airways or United Air Lines, single room accommodations at Waikiki Beach, all sightseeing on Oahu, excursions in Honolulu, and special visits to Pearl Harbor, a pineapple cannery, a sugar mill, the Royal Palace,
TC basketball finals held at Butler University last Friday night.
The “Flying Irish’s” loss came in the first game and ended hopes of bringing back the tournament trophy, given to the team that wins the crown three times. The cadets had won the tourney in 1952 and in 1954.
Bob Witucki followed Hornung by dropping in 16 points.
Members of Coach Bill Early’s crew besides Hornung and Witucki included Jim Morse, Tom Caplet, Bob Andrew, Bob Braun, Pete Cannon, and Tom McNeill.
The cadets were hurt by the loss of Jack Stephens, high scoring Irish regular, who played with Midwest All-Stars against the Fort Wayne Pistons on the same night.
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE
60S S. WALNUT
native villages, and many other places of major interest. It further includes a cata-marn cruise, several outrigger canoe rides, a glass bottom boat cruise, a visit to the aquarium, several college dances, plus a formal dinner dance at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel. For farewell there will be a special “luau,” or native feast. Tips, transfers, etc. are also included in price of tour.
The Internationally famous biennial Trans-Pacific Yacht Race from the Mainland to the Islands take place in 1955, thus making Waikiki a great vacation land of gaiety, excitement, and fun. It is a summer members will never forget.
CONSULT:
N.S.A. Office, Student Center or John Mack, 254 Farley
Unbeaten Frosh Trackmen J Develop Promising Talent ®
The currently undefeated Irish freshman track squad, coached by Harry Snyder and Leo McAvoy, have set several records in their four meets with Michigan State, Ohio State, Missouri, and Indiana frosh teams. All meets results were computed by mail.	|
Ed Monnelly holds the Freshman mile | record with 4:20:9. In the special AAM I freshman mile at the Central Collegiate^ I Conference meet, he was second to ND’s Dick DiCamillo who ran in 4:22.
Frank Hemphill and Dale Vandenberg hold the freshman quarter and half mile records with times of 0:50:1 and 1:57:4, respectively.
Joe Foreman ran the 60-yard dash in 06:2 up in Canada to beat Edgar Brabham, Big Ten champ, and establish a new Canadian record. Another Irish freshman, Aubrey Lewis, was runner-up ' to Milt Campbell in the national decath- i Ion last year.	'
Senate Changes Policy On Blue Circle Budget
The Student Senate approved a new policy for handling Blue Circle finances | Monday after debating the policy for I more than two hours. The new policy i strengthens Senate control over Blue | Circle finances, but still allows the Circle I freedom in the use of the funds under \ specified circumstances.
According to the new policy the Blue Circle will present a budget for its traditional activities for the approval of the i Senate at the beginning of each semes- | ter. Following approval of the budget | by the Senate, an appropriation of funds | to be used in these traditional activities f would be made. The Circle would de- £ termine how these funds were to be ” e used and would not be bound to adhere \ strictly to the budget regarding ex- ' penditures on individual projects.
However, the Circle would be bound ; to spend the money only on the projects	(
specified in its original budget. This	|
represents a change in the old policy S under which a lump sum was appropri- t ated to the Circle to be used without restriction.	1
Another change in policy requires that any surplus which may occur from Circle projects be returned to the Senate treasury with the exception of a S50	|
emergency fund. Under the old policy 1 the surplus was retained in the Circle treasury.	-
The new policy was approved 20-4 5 ! over vigorous opposition from some sen- < ators led by Dick Burke who felt that I the proposed policy did not go far 11 enough in strengthening the control of " J the Senate over Circle expenditures.	' i
The Scholastic '
.Ci 1
This gi'oup maintained that each item in ^the Circle budget should require the approval of the Senate, and that no lump-sum appropriations be made.
The new plan was proposed by John O’Meara, chairman of the Blue Circle, and was supported by a majority of the special committee set up to study Senate-Circle financial policy under the chairmanship of Don Yeckel.
Also at the Monday meeting Tom Armstrong, a PFA senior from Spartanburg, S. C., was appointed chief justice of the Student Activities Court. Armstrong served as co-chairman of the Mardi Gras carnival and holds an office in the Knights of Columbus. His appointment fills the vacancy created by the removal of John Houck on constitutional grounds March 7.
George Meany (Continued from Page 10) ^legislation was placed on the State’s statute books than in all its previous history.
Born in New York City in 1894, Meany was educated in the city’s schools. The son of Michael Joseph Meany, a plumber, and Anne Cullen Meany, he went to work as a plumber’s helper in 1910 and became a journeyman plumber in 1915 at the age of twenty-one. He became active in the affairs of the local union and came to be recognized as a leader. In 1922 he was elected business ’agent of the plumber’s union and was re-elected each year to that post until he became president of the New York State Federation of Labor in 1934.
In 1919, Meany married the former Eugenia A. McMahon. They have three daughters — Mrs. Regina C. Mayer, Eileen and Genevieve—and two grandchildren. The Meany family resides at Bethesda, Maryland. His offices are at The national headquarters of the American Federation of Labor in Washington, D. C.
Outfit WNDU Radio Studio With New Sound Equipment
Another studio will be added to the present facilities of WNDU in the near future, according to the radio station’s Department of Public Relations. The new Studio B will be equipped with two new turntables, and a modem custom-built panel supplied by the Gates Radio Co.
Studio B will be designed primarily for disk jockeys, since it will permit them to air their own shows without the assistance of an engineer. Patching facilities will be included in the new studio to add to the versatility of the equipment.
WNDU’s Chief Engineer- Charles T. Casale, a junior in the College of Engineering, is directing the improvements.
WNDU will add a new tape recorder and a separate program amplifier in the more distant future. The amplifier will permit the station to operate out of Studio B in case of equipment failure in the control room.
Foreign Films Will Continue With Spanish Show Monday
The Department of Modern Languages will present the second in its Foreign Film Series, Mexican Bits Ride, next Monday in the Engineering Auditorium. The film is in Spanish with English subtitles. Admission for the presentations at 4:30 and 7:45 will be $.25.
The first in the series of films was presented March 14 when the French film, The Big Day was featured. In succeeding weeks films in French, German, Spanish and Russian will be presented.
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition.
“Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
DR. N. RZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to tJi-Hour Service
309 South Michigan Si.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
WHO ARE THE “TOP-FLITE” GOLFERS ON YOUR CAMPUS?
If you’ve watched them on the course, you’ve probably thought: “Boy, if I could just get my game down like that!”
Constant practice is the answer, of course, but getting the best from your equipment is just as important, too.
That’s where Spalding TOP-FLITE® clubs have the edge. They have more to offer in precision balance that gives an absolutely uniform swing-feel with every club in the matched set.
That’s the secret of Spalding SYNCHRO-DYNED® clubs. And, it will pay off for you from the first round. You’ll make the same shots with new uniformity. The perfect balance of these clubs lets you swing through the ball with confidence. Without “choking-up” or “compensating.” You get the ball away cleaner, longer, and with more shot control.
These are the clubs that have lowered handicaps by as much as Vs: Spalding SYNCHRO-DYNED TOP-FLITE clubs. Your Golf pro has them now. And, now’s the time for you to start playing better golf.
Spalding
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
March 25, 1955
31
N. D. STUDENTS ONLY Tuesday and Thursday . T-Bone Steak
for only
ALSO TUESDAY
Spaghetti Dinners $1 Pork Chops $1.11
These are complete dinners with second cup of coffee
Flamingo Restaurant
610 N. Mich. Open Sundays
NS A Travel Representative j To Speak Next Wednesday *
Miss Patricia Maguire, .a representative from the USNSA Travel Office in New York City, will address students interested in summer travel on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Rooms 2-A and 2-B of the Student Center.
Miss Maguire will show a color and sound movie on the subject, “NSA Goes Abroad.” After the showing of the film,. Miss Maguire will answer questions of^ the students concerning various aspects and detailed information pertaining to summer tours.
Gordon J. DiRenzo, campus coordinator of NS A, announces that the local NS A Travel Bureau has information on travel and study abroad that is being offered at reduced rates by various student travel agencies. The bureau has information concerning nearly 60 summer, tours. Material is also available on^ study at Oxford, Cambridge, and Canadian universities.
DiRenzo also announced that facts concerning partial and full scholarships for foreign summer study are available at the Travel Bureau office in the Student Center.
brings you the true taste of Tareyton’s famous quality tobacco
PRODUCT OF
USMC Orientation Program To Give OCC Opportunities *
Capt. Richard D. Temple, USMC, will visit the University on March 28,	'
29, and 30 to inform interested Notre Dame men about the Officer Candidate Course and other related courses of the United States Marine Corps, according to information recently released.
Various training programs are available to students of all classes. In addition to the Officer Candidate Course, the^'; Platoon Leaders Class is one of the pro- I grams in which college students are 1 especially interested.
The PLC quota for juniors has been raised and an unlimited number can be j accepted into the program, leading to a j commission after 12 weeks of summer | camp at Quantico, Va.	i.
Hogue Elected to Top Spot | In Cleveland Club Balloting
Jack Hogue, a sophomore from Lake- ( side, O., was recently elected president of the Cleveland Club for the term Feb- । ruary, 1955, to February, 1956.	j
Other officers elected by the club were:	।
Bill McGuire, vice-president; Bill Jolly, secretary; Phil Heil, treasurer.	1
The club is now planning an Easter | dance to be held at Springvale on Monday, April 11.
• The Scholastic^

yes
$ (Continued from page 16) study group. It is, in fact, an international lay apostolate of Catholic students working together to promote correct ideals of education, mutual service, and a feeling of community life in colleges throughout the world.
“Putting a soul into student life,” is ’ Father Putz’s description of its purpose.
“College life,” he insists, “should not be merely a mechanical process of working ^toward a degree. It should also be an interesting and lasting experience.”
The YCS strives to fulfill its aims by the Inquiry method—small groups observing, judging and acting together. This Inquiry method is the foundation for all YCS activity. First, the members, or “militants” as they are officially titled, observe the existing situation on campus. Next, they judge these ~ situations in the light of Christian prin-♦ciples, and thus determine their actions.
Today, about 50 schools in the United States, including a few state universities, have YCS units. But nowhere are there units more effective than here and at St. Mary’s College. This is only fitting, for Notre Dame is the “root” from which all else has sprung.
It is doubtful whether those early student pioneers in the YCS movement ever visualized what progress would be made in these past 15 years. But Father Putz ^■knew that his newly-founded apostolate could succeed at Notre Dame; he had already seen the power of organized Catholic Action. This knowledge stems from his years of study in Communist-dominated towns of France during the mid-thirties.
Father Putz, a native of Bavaria, came here in 1923 to join the Congregation of Holy Cross. After graduating from Notre Dame in 1932, he was sent • to the Catholic Institute of Paris for further theological studies before his ordination.
He became actively interested in the Young Christian Workers’ fight to check Communist advances among the French labor class. When he returned here at the outbreak of World War II, he brought with him that invaluable experience in Catholic Action.
Ever since, that experience combined ^with his zeal and forethought has pro-^vided the YCS with an insight into . . .
“What this school needs.”
BORED?
Saturday, March 26—The ‘Spotlighters’ will play sophisticated moods. Cool, smooth jazz for listening and relaxing. No mixer, no party, no charge. Student Center, 8:30 p. m. on . . .
^March 25, 1955
33
AB College Announces New Science Courses
Beginning next fall, A.B. students will he able to major in the physical and biological sciences, according to Mr. Devere T. Plunkett, assistant dean of “the College of Arts and Letters. The practice of having pre-med and math major courses in the College will be continued.
Since the required subjects in these fields begin in the sophomore year, the ■only men presently at the University who are eligible to enter the new program are the freshmen, who must declare a science major this spring. Students completing a course in this new program will receive an A.B. degree with a major in science.
Why offer science courses in A.B. when there is already a College of Science at the University? According to Mr. Plunkett, “These major programs -are offered to students who prefer to follow the liberal arts content of the A.B. program along with the specialized science courses.”
Some of the liberal arts curricula that will accompany the science courses in AB are an intensive foreign language course, a four-hour course in freshman English, a social science course in the sophomore year, a junior year seminar, and a senior year departmental seminar.
Present heads of the science departments will also head those departments in the College of Arts and Letters and the facilities in the Nieuwland Science Hall will be used.
Prof. Caponigri Joins International Congress
Prof. A. Robert Caponigri, of the Depaitment of Philosophy, has been named to the Organizing Committee of the International Congress in honor of the first centenary of Antonio Rosmini-Serbati, to be held at Stressa, Italy, during the coming summer.
Caponigri will serve as coordinator for the Congress in North American countries. He will contribute one of the major addresses of the Congress, to “be entitled, “Rosmini and the Creation of modern Italy.” Contributions to the Congress will be published in a volume •during the winter of 1955-56.
The Congress is being sponsored by the government of the Italian Republic, the Institute of Philosophy of the University of Genoa and the cooperating philosophical associations of Italy, France, England, and other European countries.
Rosmini-Serbati, a Christian philosopher of the nineteenth century, was born in 1797 and died in 1855. He has
34
been associated with the revival of Christian philosophy and the awakening of Christian social thought in the first half of the last century. His thought and influence are at present undergoing an extensive revival among continental Christian thinkers.
Rosmini-Serbati was founder of the Institute of Charity, one of the earliest organized movements of social amelioration designed to counteract the influences of the Industrial Revolution on the proletarian classes in Europe.
Cook's Tour
(Continued from Page 14) and the only building standing in eight blocks. It was here at a place called Zur Treppen that I got my first introduction to Biergarten Melodien. I don’t know what we were singing, but it must have been cultural since we were mostly students. More singing in Dortmond— this time helped by Rhine wine. We were in Heidleberg when Germany won the world soccer championship — another couple of days of celebration that continued through the Schwartzwald.
SWITZERLAND: Boy, this is cinemascope come to life—nearly wore the camera out. Luzern has a summer population of 67,000 Americans who don’t seem to mind the foreign influence of the 31,000 Swiss that live there the year round. Zurich is a big city with more of that fabled Swiss scenery, hospitality, friendliness, and bargains in watches, wood carvings, and pastry.
ITALY: Milan’s shopping and entertainment square comes to life after dark. Venetian Gondola drivers are direct ancestors of Jesse Janies. After that one lousy romantic ride down the grand canal, we stuck to the city’s bus-boat system. Florence: my memories of the center of Renaissance are somewhat clouded by much more distinct memories of the dysentery I had there. Pisa: Hurry, the Leaning Tower is expected to topple in 2225—leans like mad. Rome: The high point of the trip. Crashed the Pope’s second audience of the summer by slipping 100 lire (15 cents) to one of the altar boys serving the Mass at St. Peter’s just before the audience. After one of the slowest Masses in Christendom (the priest had the same idea) we were at the foot of the papal altai- when His Holiness entered and made his whole speech in French. After all, the rest of the group was from France. The Eternal City would require an eternity to really see, but every tour adds a little more to the foreigner’s knowledge and love of the center of Catholicism.
SPAIN: Our favorite country for many reasons—low prices, beautiful scenery, and friendly people were the main ones. See quite a bit about France.
Think that a good bullfight is second only to a good ND gridiron battle in 1 excitement and spectacle—must admbj| 1 that an “upset” is much harder on the matador than the Irish. Can’t seem to arouse much SPCA ire on the method of a bull’s death. Madrid is one of the cities that everyone wants to visit time and again. Portugal: Lisbon is a lot like Madrid, but not quite. Saw the Marx Brothers in Night at the Opera— • i seemed to lack something in Portuguese though. Fatima: this will undoubtedly be a very beautiful location, but the^ church, now under construction, looks like a pious parking lot now.
FRANCE: Spent a few days along the Riviera; one of the sights I remember is the huge church of Notre Dame de la Garde at Marseilles with “Vive la Soviet” painted on its side in red paint; J other sights round there, too. . . . Lourdes I is as much a must as another well known French city. Most memorable^ shrine on the tour. Grotto looks like a# good copy of ours at ND. Paris is all j that has been said and sung about it— except that it is as expensive as the day is long. A haircut cost me $2 compared to 3 cents in Milan and 15 cents in Madrid. I think I know the streets better than my home town because it’s a fabulously interesting place to wander ( about. Yes, we went to those places too, the Louvre, Opera, Versailles, etc. (That I etc. is pretty interesting, too).	I
ENGLAND: Less of a language bar-® : tier here than others, but I’d like to meet the guy that dreamed up their monetary system. The London subway system is really great: nobody knows where ' it’s headed and after a certain period of time one merely comes above ground and starts walking, thus seeing much of I unexplored London. .Stratford is a tour- ! ist trap, but if you like Shakespeare....
IRELAND: The best food, the friend-® liest people, lowest prices, easiest customs, most honest shopkeepers, highest morals, and calmest mode of life in Europe. I really like the Emerald Isle. . They were a little worried in Dublin	I
last summer if Brennan was old enough	,
to be ND’s new coach. Incidentally, the | Irish regard American football as rather dull and a little sissy. In their brand of rugby, they only substitute when a player needs the last rites—broken arm or ribs add to the challenge of the game.®'
COMING HOME: The slowest ship on the Atlantic—the Queen Mary left Southampton four days after us and beat us to New York by four days. But all 680 of us had loads of fun between the time we were stopped by a British sub and hit by hurricane “Carol.” Spent the first afternoon back in the States at the Polo Grounds—never could find the bull though.	.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESs^..

A Compus-to-Career Case History
“This is what I did yesterday”
“1 like a job that keeps me jumping,” says Bill Jermain, C.E. from Marquette, ’52. “And my first management assignment with Wisconsin Telephone Company does just that. I’m Service Foreman at Sheboygan,with nine installers. and that means variety7 of responsibility. But judge for yourself. Here’s a quick run-down of what I did yesterday7, on a typical day—
8:10—“Checked day’s work schedule. One of my7 new men was putting in a buried service wire, and I went over the job specs with him to be sure he had things straight.
8:30—“Answered mail while my7 clerk checked time sheets from previous day.
9:30—“Out to supervise installation of the first aluminum Outdoor Telephone Booth in my7 exchange. Reviewed the assembly7 instructions with the installers, then arranged for special tools and bolts to be delivered to the job.
11:30—“Drove across town. Made a complete ‘quality inspection’ on a telephone we installed last week. Everything checked O.K.
12:00—“Lunch.
1:00—“Picked up film for next day’s safety meeting. Watched the film, made notes for discussion.
2:00—“Met with moving company manager to estimate cost of telephone cable lifting for a house moving job. Drove the route he had planned and worked out schedule for construction crews.
3:30—“Returned to aluminum booth installation. Went over wiring specs with the electrician.
4:00—“Stopped at Central Office to pick up next day’s orders. Met installers at garage as they7 checked in and assigned next day’s work.”
Bill lias been in his present job about a year, and is looking forward to new responsibilities as his experience increases ... as are the many young college men who have chosen telephone careers. If you’d be interested in a similar opportunity with a Bell telephone company ... or with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric or Sandia Corporation ... see your Placement Officer for full details.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM