HIGH LIGHTS
Freshmen Join the Navy
Bishop O'Hara, Fr. O'Donnell Open School-Year
New Faces and New Jobs
Campus Talent Trys Out for Allen Show
Leahy Explains Secret Practice
Arizona "Wildcats" in Irish Debut
VOLUME 75 NUMBER I SEPTEMBER 26. 1941
Fr. O'Donnell Welcomes Rear-Admiral Downes to the Campus.
"Don't Forget Your Parker!
TELEVISION
SUPER-CHARGED^
. —More Boom for Ink because NO rubber sac, hence a Pen that won't run dry in lectures, tests, exams!
Vaeumatie, $8.75 and $12.75 Sets, Duofold, $3.95 and $5
< GUARANTEED 6y LIFE CONTRACT
Toting books around won’t get a student anywhere if his pen runs dry in the classroom. So look before you leap to some problem pen. It will only frustrate your L Q. on Test-day.
In college after college, coast to coast, the Parker Vaeumatie is voted No. 1 by students because of these modem features:
1.	Super-charged—with ink to carry over.
2.	One-Hand Sacless Filler —easiest to operate.
3.	Television Barrel—shows when to refill.
4.	Lubricated Writing — Non-brittle, 14 K Gold Point tipped with oil-smooth Osmi-ridium that won't wear scratchy in a lifetime.
5. Exclusive Style—streamlined. Pearl and Jet RINGS.
Go and try it today at any nearby pen counter. But use discretion by looking for Parker’s Blue Diamond on the smart ARROW clip. That’s our Life Guarantee Contract.
Junior or Sub-deb, $5; Debutante or Major, $8.75. Maxima, $10; Duofold, $2.95 and $3.95. Pen and Pencil Sets, $3.95, $5.00, $8.75 and up.
The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
COPR. 194$. THE PARKER PEN CO.
$WL-[kaid.
SACLESS FILLER
Easiest of all to oper-ate—and feast modem
Parker’s Blue Diamond on the pen is our Life Contract unconditionally guaranteeing to service the pen for the life of the owner except for loss and intentional damage, subject only to a 35c charge for postage. insurance, and handling, provided complete pen is returned for service.
FREE: Introductory bottle of Parker Quint—the quick-dry ink. Write Parker Quiak, Department 1-41, Janesville, Wisconsin
2
COLLEGE PARADE
By BOB LeMENSE
to buy a subscription to send home. It saves writing such long letters and besides each subscription counts 600 votes for your favorite in the contest. A good “increase the circulation” scheme it seems to me.
❖
Only Nine Months
We had our eyes propped open with toothpicks as the cab driver pushed us out at the circle. Time: 4:00 a.m. C.S.T. The “fast mail” from Chicago folded under us at LaPorte and we were a little on the tired side after pushing it in to South Bend. But our problem was to find a place to bunk for the remaining hours before daylight. One cold-blooded N. D. man was ticking them off on Alumni’s dew laden front lawn. Not for us though —the best was none too good!
Time: 6:00 a.m. Scene: Morrissey Hall lobby. Characters: Yeah, us, having a hard time getting untangled from those modernistic lounge chairs.
Yes, the “old grind” has started all over the country and “The Parade” takes up the march for another year. Many are missing here at Notre Dame as at most schools throughout the country (with the exception of the institutions whose enrollment is limited along the same lines as the place across the way). Some fellows are serving National Defense via the draft route; others were lured away by mercenary motives—high paying defense industry jobs. We offer our consolation to these boys and hope they may find solace in the fact that they are serving our country in time of need.
❖
Late Man
The class was already five or six minutes underway. In fact the prof had just seated the students alphabetically. Just as he was reading the name of the last man, the door burst open. In strode a short but very well built fellow.
The prof looked at him questioningly. But the fellow was not taken aback.
“I’m Earley,” we heard him say as he smiled and handed the prof his class ’ card.
The class roared; the prof glared. Then the prof glanced at the class card; he smiled and cracked sarcastically, “Oh you’re early are you, well, sit over there.”
And Frank Leahy’s aspiring halfback from West Virginia sat down.
♦
Looking Around
“The Parade,” of course, depends on other college publications for most of its
material. But the Irish schoolyear starts fairly early and not much material was available for our perusal as we hit the deadline. However, here are a few bits gleaned from here and there.
❖
The Daily Texan
Registrar Mathews of the University of Texas states that jobs and the draft will cause a 5 to 10 per cent enrollment drop.... And along the sport’s line—U. of T. students are advised to get their tickets for the A. & M. game now. Something like Notre Dame vs. Army, maybe.
❖
Daily Kansan
Dr. Storer of the University of Kansas astronomy staff has introduced his invention for aiding stratosphere planes to find their way at night. The basic principle of the device is to line up two stars.__The Kansan is holding a contest based on subscription sales in which the winners will be rewarded with a free trip to Sun Valley, Miami Beach, the Rose Bowl, or the Sugar Bowl. The paper ran an add advising-the students
"What! You wanta be a Student Manager?"
The Indiana Daily Student
Indiana University claims a history making event in college drama with the presentation of the world premier of William Saroyan’s play, “Jim Dandy.” .... Three nickels hoarded in the base of a lamp by a former miserly resident caused a short circuit and a fire in the room of two I. U. frosh. Moral—money isn’t everything.
Not Here, Miss Marx
This particular article caught the eye of a fellow who was aiding us in going through the meager stack of exchanges. Seems that the irony of the thing caught his fancy.
She Wants Her Coat
“To the editor and the owner of the Wrong Blue Ford: There are too many blue convertible Ford coupes on this campus. Thursday I borrowed a sorority sister’s brown wool coat. I returned it that night to her car parked opposite Jules at 10 p.m.
.But it wasn’t her car and she wants her coat. If found please phone AShberry 2211—reward!”—Sue Marx, ’42.
—The Daily Californian.
3
THE WEEK
- ------------— By JIM O’LAUGHLIN
I
NEXT WEEK By John A. Lynch
Top of the Week:
Students permitted to see tomorrow’s game.
A Freshman’s Letter Home:
Dear Mom & Dad:
Well, our first game is tomorrow. I went over to see Coach Leahy for a tryout, but he must have been awfully busy since .they wouldn’t let me see him. Now I guess I’ll have to waste a year on the freshmen squad. Won’t he be sorry, though!
I really feel out of place in this freshman class.’Why just the other day, a senior came into my room. The conversation ran something like this:
Senior: “Well, I only have a few minutes to spare. I’ve noticed you around the campus and I like your looks, so I have a deal for you.”
Me: “Yeah, what’s that?”
Senior: “Well, most of these freshmen don’t know it, but after the first two weeks, we have to clean our own rooms. The maids are just here now to help . us till we get straightened out. So here’s the deal. I have the broom concession on the campus and I’ll sell you one cheap— four bits. Next week I’m going to soak these other poor guys a buck apiece.”
Me: “Gee, thanks a lot, Doc, I certainly appreciate this.” And I grabbed that broom and plunked the half-check in his hand before he changed his mind.
See, that’s what I mean, I’m really going to get ahead in this world. Well, I think I’ll study a little history now. I have a funny prof for that subject. The other day he asked me who was Henry the Eighth’s third wife. I admit he had me stumped, so I told him I didn’t even know the first two. I don’t know why, but I have a faint suspicion he didn’t like that.
Your son,
Horatio
❖
Labor Shortage?
E. F. Connolly, the dignified iron-grey haired gent who holds the dining hall-caf concession, is passing out “cokes” in the newly-decorated “Huddle.”
❖
Freshman in a Taxi:
“You know my roommate’s mother is coming to visit him tomorrow. Let’s see now, I’ll have to give him back his desklamp and fountain pen. I’ll let him wear
his new belt and that flashy tie he bought. I suppose I had better put a pillow on his bed, too, to kind of balance the room. I guess I can give up his silk lounging robe for one day, even though it is pretty comfortable. And wasn’t it funny how that new pair of shoes he bought fit me better than they fit him? Maybe his mother might think it’s strange for his girl’s picture to be on my desk, so—what’s that? How do we get along? Oh swell, I treat my roommate like a brother. Anything I have he can use.”
Attention: Washington, D.C.
A sophomore who was eating in the East Hall called to the waiter:
“Hey Bud, we don’t have any water.” The waiter indignantly replied: “So what? You don’t get any.” With a look of disgust, the sophomore mumbled: “That’s the last straw—this defense program is going too far!”
Boners of the Week:
Bill Hoyne, absent-mindedly sitting in a statistics class in the Commerce Building, while his labor problems class was being conducted in the Main Building... the freshman who insisted that Fr. Cunninghams education class was Fr. O’Brien’s religion class.... Bob Hargrave, Bernie Crimmins, and Dippy Evans, three-fourths of our brain-trust back-field, trying to register in the Main Building for Commerce classes!
Registration Days:
Tony Donadio, the canary of the campus, received three class cards instead of the required six. And all three were for 2:15 classes on the same day.... Rumor has it that the Order needs men. This was explained by class cards issued for a “Practical English” class in Moreau Seminary. Some of the recipients were Don Connors, Nick Pepelnjak, and “Black Joe” Sullivan. That class wasn’t so bad, so the boys say, but .trying to make it from the Seminary td the Law Building in ten minutes was out.... Walt Cordes, senior engineer, was issued a card for a class which consists of him-self, another fellow and the prof. Not even a fourth for bridge!
❖
Bottom of the Week:
45 minute visits to Cartier Field.
Saturday, Sept. 27:
Arizona vs. Notre Dame, Notre Dame Stadium, 1:30 p.m.
Movie, Washington Hall, 7 and 9 p.m.
Victory Dance, Indiana Club, South Bend, 8:00 p.m.
Sunday, Sept. 28:
Open house at St. Mary’s College, one mile west, proceed at own risk, 2:00 p.m.
United States Navy Band, School Field, South Bend, 1:30 and 7:00 p.m.
Passion Play, John Adams High School Auditorium, last two days, N. D. stars showing unusual technique in mob scenes, 1:00 and 7:00 p.m.
Second Mission week begins, Father Dolan from St. Patrick’s of South Bend, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, Sept. 29:
Reveille.
Mission Mass, 6:30 a.m., Mission sermon, 7:00 p.m. (continued through the week).
Tuesday, Sept. 30:
Interhall football meeting for Off-Campus men, fieldhouse balcony, 4 p.m.
Wednesday, Oct. I:
Another month.
“Texaco Star Theatre,” Fred Allen and Notre Dame guest star, WSBT, 8:00 p.m.
Friday, Oct. 3:
Spaghetti at Rosie’s.
Scholastic meeting after the mission.
* * * *
The city fathers of South Bend have voted to save daylight for another month and the above times are listed as Notre Dame reads the clock, C.S.T. Life is so confusing with midnight coming at 11:15 that we haven’t yet got to a satisfactory schedule for work and otherwise. Nevertheless, classes still begin at 8:00 morning time and end at 4:05 evening time.
The Leahy lads will win tomorrow we predict, after careful study of the football pools in which Notre Dame didn’t rate a mention. The freshmen will be surprised how well they can see from their seats on the two yard line.
The Rock’s first open house comes this Sunday, after hundreds were turned away last week, the trek will probably not be as large as it shouldn’t be anyway.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
September 26, 1941
Number I
NEW NAVAL R. O. T. C. UNIT ESTABLISHED
165 Future Ensigns Admitted to Navy Courses
In these times of National Defense, Notre Dame has assumed the task of preparing a select group of students for commissions in the United States Navy. In accordance witl, a recent act of Congress, authorizing eight new units of the Naval R. 0. T. C., Notre Dame has been selected as one of the colleges offering a four year course in Naval Science and Tactics leading to an ensign’s commission in the United States Naval Reserve.
At the opening of the school year a total of four hundred and fifty applications, almost entirely from the Freshman class, had been received for enrollment in the course. Of this number, one hundred and ninety five who satisfied the rigid requirements of the Navy’s physical examination and this week the names of one hundred sixty-five students who had passed both the physical examination and the I. Q. test were posted on the campus bulletin boards.
For those fortunate enough to be selected, classes and drills started on Monday. Sept. 22. On Tuesdays and Thursdays a one-hour drill will be held, and on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday mornings one-hour classes in naval subjects will be taught. These classes will be under the direction of Capt. H. P. Burnett and Lt. Comm. M. T. Farrar, assisted by Lts. Black and Howell. Students in the course will receive three semester hours of credit which will be applied in lieu of some other three-hour course.
Specifically, the purpose of the Naval R.O.T.C. is to provide specialized and systematic instruction in essential naval subjects. The course will be divided into two parts of two years each. The Basic Course, which comprises the first two years of the student’s work includes such courses as Naval Gunnery, Seamanship, Naval History and elementary Navigation. During the second two years, or the advanced course, Marine Steam En
gineering, Navigation, Astronomy, Strategy and Tactics, and the specific duties of the junior line officer will be taught. On the successful completion of the Basic Course, the student must agree to enroll for the Advanced Course and to make one Advanced course cruise. He must also serve for five years after graduation in the Naval Reserve although not necessarily on active duty. Because the Navy draws its staff officers from college graduates, pre-theological, predental and pre-medical students are precluded from this course which trains for a deck officer’s commission.
There are a large number of special opportunities for students in the corps. Each year, three members of the unit may be designated by the president of the University as being eligible for examination, in competition with similarly picked students from other universities, for admission to the U. S. Naval Academy. In addition, Naval R.O.T.C. students are given priority for selection for
Charles J. Montrie applies for admission to Naval R.O.T.C.
training as Naval Aviation cadets. Students in the unit are not subject to the
Selective Service Act, and therefore will be permitted to finish their education, which might otherwise be interrupted by service in the Army.
An essential part of the student’s training in the Corps will be summer cruises, lasting about four weeks. These will be held on one or more of the Navy’s modern battleships or cruisers, and will be in the nature of practice and practical experience for the young officers-to-be. During the basic course, these cruises are optional, although the students are strongly urged to avail themselves of the opportunity to prepare themselves for the more difficult Advanced Course. Transportation, uniforms, special equipment and subsistence while on board ship are furnished by the Government. This summer cruise is required of students in the advanced course, during which time the usual uniforms and equipment are issued at Government expense, and in addition students receive subsistence and pay at the rate of the seventh pay grade, or about twenty-one dollars a month. This cruise is normally made on a destroyer where the students are given
5
instruction and responsibility designed to equip them for their commissions.
The Naval R.O.T.C. at Notre Dame will be a new entrant in the University’s usual extra-curricular activities. Teams of the Naval students will compete in the interhall sports with the various interhall teams. In all probability the Naval unit will arrange for one or more dances for its members and in other ways will participate in campus activities. Students enrolled in the course will be given training in the use of small arms and a modern rifle range is being constructed beneath the stands of the University’s stadium. The rifle team of the corps will compete with other Naval R.O.T.C. teams in special matches.
The course will be technical to the extent that graduates will have sufficient knowledge of Naval subjects, combined with a background of Naval experience to fit them for their work as ensigns in the Naval Reserve. It offers a student the opportunity of acquiring a Naval education while preparing himself for a civilian profession, and in doing so furthers the cause of national defense — now so vital to our country.
—Robert E. Brooks
Mass of Holy Ghost Marks Opening Term
Celebration of the traditional Mass of the Holy Ghost in Sacred Heart Church Sunday morning formally marked the opening of the 99th school year. An inspiring sermon by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University and the presence of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., military delegate and former president of Notre Dame who pontifiicated at the Mass key-noted the ceremonies.
The formal ceremonies, following the pattern of many years, began with a procession from the Administration Building to Sacred Heart Church. Members of the faculty in cap and gown and officers of the Mass participated.
In the celebration of the .Mass Bishop O’Hara was assisted by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., arch-priest;; Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., honorary deacon; Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., honorary subdeacon; Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., deacon of the mass; Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., subdeacon of the mass; and Rev. William Conner, C.S.C., master of ceremonies.
(Full text of sermon on page 13)
The Tower club at Ohio State University is a co-operative dormitory built un-er the seats of the stadium.
6
TID - BITS
Three Notre Dame graduates were among the 680 midshipmen who, this month finished an intensive three month summer naval course at Abbot Hall, Northwestern University and received Commissions in the U. S. Naval Reserve. Twins John and Tom Fernedig, Dayton, Ohio, ’40, Scholastic staff members, and Ed Hanslee, Jr., Fort Wayne, Ind., ’41, now await the call to active service, at sea.
* * *
Last July 24, Paul Lillis, blond N.D. football captain, headed a cast of University Summer Theatre Thespians as they portrayed the Greek drama “Agamemnon” on the steps of the University library for a summer school audience of 1000, nuns, priests, and students.
* * *
The staff of Naval Officers and sailors who comprise the corps of instructors for the University of Notre Dame’s Naval R.O.T.C. unit have a composite service record of 278 years of active naval service. This time the Petty Officers top the Commander as one 33 and two 32’s lead Capt. Burnett’s 31 years of naval service.
*	* *
Reports have it that many of the 165 students accepted into the Naval Reserve unit on campus posed for their first tailor-made suits last Monday when the Navy tailors took their measurements. They receive two; one blue and one white.
*	* *
At the request of many retreatants attending the 24th annual Catholic laymen’s retreat on the campus this summer, Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C., conducting the retreat, devoted his sermons to explanations of Catholic duties in this time of national defense. Concluding their three-day “spiritual defense program,” the 1200 Catholic laymen, many of whom were eligible for draft or had close relatives in the armed services, dedicated their Mass intentions to former retreatants now serving under arms.
* * *
The home of Notre Dame’s new naval unit was inspected last Thursday by Rear Admiral John Downes, Commandant of the Ninth Naval District. He was received by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., university president, and Capt. H. P. Burnett, commander of the unit!
* * *
Rev. John A. O’Brien, member of the Department of Religion of the University, is continuing this year the series of anti-war speeches which last year brought him such renown. Last night he spoke under the auspices of the Amer-ica First Committee in Chicago’s Marsh
Field Auditorium. Last week he was in Cincinnati and during the summer his talks took him to many sections of the country, even deep into the backwoods of New'Jersey as far as Trenton.
* * *
Yesterday morning the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., University President, delivered a sermon in Brooklyn, N. Y., at the Red Mass of the Brooklyn Catholic Lawyers’ Guild. Tomorrow he will accompany Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., to Chicago on the occasion of the Golden Anniversary of the University of Chicago.
* * *
Professor McMahon, of the Philosophy department, spoke over radio station WHIP in Chicago, Sunday, Sept. 21, on the subject of the American Foreign Policy. Said Professor McMahon:
“The alternatives for America are not war or peace. The real alternatives are these: either to assist by all possible and effective means those nations now struggling against the forces of destruction oi" else allow them to collapse and face the enemy alone.”
* * *
It would be a very interesting graphic presentation of the world influence of Notre Dame if somehow one could secure a globe of the world marked at every point of its surface that Notre Dame alumni now inhabit. Proof of the punch of such an exhibit was brought back to school this year by Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., and Rev. Norbert Hoff, member of the Notre Dame faculty, on their return to the United States from a summer South American trip sponsored by Pax Romana. Traveling only as far south as Peru, they met and dined with 13 Notre Dame alumni in Lima, Peruvian capital. A mathematics professor they met in the City University of the ancient Inca city of Cuzco, Peru, proved to be Alberto Corozao, Notre Dame, ’14.
Returning North they stopped at Car-thagena, Colombia, modern Atlantic port and historic rendevouz of the romantic pirates of the Spanish Main, as guests of the parents of Ramon Araujo, present student in Dillon Hall. When a rather prominent notice of their arrival appeared in the daily papers, Notre Dame men of the town got together and again was celebrated a Notre Dame dinner in South America. Leading this group of twelve was the very Mayor of Cartagena, Antonio Lequerica, and his two brothers. In the Scholastic soon will appear several articles concerning the trip that was made by the Pax Romana group, six of whose members were of Notre Dame, and concerning the numerous Notre Dame alumni that the group unearthed through its travels.
ADMINISTRATION
Many Changes Made
In Administration
Faculty and administrative changes at the University for the new school year include the names of 12 priest members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the names of seven laymen who are being added to the faculty.
Most significant of the adjustments being made in view of present world conditions, are the appointment of Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., as co-ordinator of all defense activities, and the establishment on the campus of a Naval Reserve Officers’ Training unit. The naval instruction is under the direction of Captain Henry P. Burnett and three officer associates.
In addition to integrating the naval training with the regular University curriculum, Father Trahey will also supervise activity of the Civilian Pilots’ Training Corps and the adult night training courses for defense workers. Other administrative changes include the appointment of Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., as prefect of discipline and the naming of Rev. J. J. Lane, C.S.C., as assistant director of studies, a newly created post.
Two new members of the University English faculty, Rev. Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C., and the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., will do graduate work away from Notre Dame. During the past
Dr. Clarence E. Manion
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C.
year Father Laskowski was also faculty advisor of the Scholastic, and Father Beichner was assistant prefect of religion. Their posts have been assumed by Rev. Charles C. Carey, C.S.C., also faculty advisor to the Dome and by Rev. John J. Haley, C.S.C.
Dr. Clarence E. Manion, former Indiana director of National Emergency Council and member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1924 was named dean of the University’s College of Law. Dr. Manion succeeds the retiring Dean Thomas F. Konop, who becomes dean emeritus and will continue as a professor of law.
Members of the Congregation of Holy Cross who join or return to the faculty this year include: in the department of English, Rev. Norman J. Johnson and Rev. Alfred C. Send; in the department of religion, Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, Rev. Walter L. McInerney, Rev. Roman La-dewski and Rev. R. G. Simonitsch; in the department of economics, Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, and in history, Rev. Joseph L. Powers.
New members of the law faculty are: in the College of Arts and Letters: Dr. Paul Vignaux as a visiting professor of medieval philosophy—Dr. Vignaux being formerly director of studies in doctrine and dogma of the Middle Ages at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes, University of Paris; Mr. George Reichle, department of speech; Mr. William Shanahan, department of history.
In the College of Engineering: Mr. Arthur S. Coffinberry, department of metallurgy, and Louis J. Deemer, aeronautical engineering; in the College of Science: Dr. Alexis Petrauskas, department of physics, and Dr. E. L. Powers, department of biology.
—James V. Cunningham
St. Joseph Area Men Learn Defense Trade
An elaborate defense training program for industrial workers will soon get under way at the University under the direction of the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., who has been designated as “institutional representative” for federally sponsored engineering, science and management defense training, leaving the office of Prefect of Discipline which he filled for several years.
More than 60 college grade courses will be offered under the University auspices to permit industrial workers in this area to better their qualifications along lines which are particularly needed during the present emergency.
Three complete programs of 12 weeks each will be offered during the current school year, beginning early in October, in January, and in April. This work is being sponsored by the United States Office of Education, and trainees will be accepted from the entire St. Joseph Val-
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.
7
ley area including: South Bend, Mishawaka, Elkhart, Goshen, LaPorte and Michigan City in Indiana, and Niles, Buchanan, and Dowagiac, Michigan, and contiguous territory.
In addition to engineering and machine operation courses which were offered last year, the enlarged program will include special work in aeronautics and electronics (radio and telephone communications and the principles of television); physics, mathematics, and chemistry. Another phase of the new program will include instruction in personnel management, production supervision, and cost accounting.
.No tuition will be charged, and all industrial workers in this area are eligible to enroll provided they can meet the requirements, which are a high school education or its equivalent in some phase of industrial work and a recommendation by an employer.
Applicants for admission to the courses may secure full information by writing or calling Father Trahey at Notre Dame, on or after Sept. 18th.
Fine Arts Department
Begins Art Exhibitions
The Department of Fine Aits has opened the year with the so-called “bang.” Through the cooperation of Dr. Maurice H. Goldblatt, director of the University Library’s Wightman Art Galleries, the department is now sponsoring a six-week exhibition of drawings of the old masters. This is a collection loaned by Mr. Hamms R. Teichert of Chicago, consisting of some 200 drawings dating back to the 15th century. This collection is of particular interest to art students for it enables them to analyze the methods by which the master transfers his ideas to the finished canvas. It is also a fine study for murals and smaller paintings. A few of the drawings are .pastels, the others being in pencil, ink, conte-crayon or wash.
Of peculiar interest to the ordinary lay-man is the fact that numerous drawings are squared off. Mr. Sessler of the Art Department explains that such drawings are enlargements. The original is marked off into small squares and then copied, square by square, in order to enable a more exact reproduction by the artist.
Some of the most popular artists represented in this collection are Michelangelo, Baccio Baudinelli, Nicolas Pou-sinn, Charles Le Brun, Jacopo Tintoretto, Benvenuto Cellini and Guercino n.
This is but the first of many exhibits to be sponsored this year by the Art Department.
In sponsoring such exhibits during
the coming year the Art Department aims to present contemporary paintings and photography, and that class of art winch has popular appeal. A water color exhibit of William Zorach, will be held in the near future.—C. S. Coco
Father Stack's Death Blow to Faculty and Students
Funeral services were held July 4 for Rev. James J. Stack, C.S.C., veteran member of the University of Notre Dame faculty who died at Rochester, Minn., July 1.
Father Stack had been a member of the Notre Dame history department since 1919, with the exception of two
FATHER STACK
in Austin Texas.
years spent as assistant pastor addition he was
known and revered by generations of students as a prefect and dormitory rector.
Born in Springfield, Ill., Nov. 22, 1892, Father Stack was ordained as a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1918. He received a Litt.B degree from Notre Dame in 1913 and a Master of Arts degree in 1926. He also did graduate work at the University of Chicago and at Harvard University.
—James V. Cunningham
Manion Insists Law
Is Related to God
According to Clarence E. Manion, newly appointed Dean of Law, America’s Declaration of Independence will henceforth be the basis of law student instruction here at Notre Dame.
In announcing his program, Dean Manion said that an appalling ignorance concerning the basic principles of American democracy has been revealed. He said our law must be projected in its true God-related perspective: “Strictly speaking, there can be no such thing as a purely secular study of law in the United States. Religion is the major component of our legal blood stream. Thus, legal ethics, which we have frequently regarded as a mere branch of the law, is really the warp and woof of our entire legal fabric.”
Dr. Manion, while speaking at Columbia University, New York City, asserted there can be “no such thing as secularized freedom or godless equality among mankind.” He said that the “separation of any church, as such, from the management of the state is good, safe Amer
ican doctrine;” but on the other hand “the separation of the state from the concept of God and the basic principles of religion, is directly subversive of American constitutional freedom.”
Dean Manion went on to say that “lately a popular school of secular Jurisprudence has grown up in America. These men believe that the theory of experimental relativity applies to all things, law and political science included. These men ridicule the resounding affirmations of the Declaration of Independence.
“These are some of the reasons why an exhaustive study of the American Declaration of Independence will henceforth be a ‘must’ in the University of Notre Dame Law School.”
—Bill Rogers
Aeronautics Professors
Build and Fly Glider
Last July 2 at the South Bend airport Prof. R. S. Eickenberry, of the department of Aeronautics piloted through a successful flight the glider which he and Prof. Frank N. Brown, head of the department, had jointly constructed. Together they took apart their apparatus, put it into a trailer, and headed for Elmira, N. Y., where the National Soaring Meet was soon to begin.
They reassembled the plane there and Mr. Eickenberry again took to the air. Despite unfavorable weather he climbed to a height of 2,000 feet while experimenting with the ship in “Slope Soaring.” Six hours later he landed. With such gratifying success both men returned to Notre Dame, well satisfied that the machine would be a splendid addition to the department’s equipment.
Fr. O'Donnell Will
Present Scroll to Hutchins
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president and Rev. James A. Connerton, C.S.C., registrar, will represent the University of Notre Dame at the Academic Festival being held in connection with the fiftieth anniversary of the University of Chicago this week-end.
On behalf of Notre Dame, Father O’Donnell will present to officials of the University of Chicago, a hand-illuminated scroll reading as follows:
“With neighborly appreciation of the accomplishments of the University of Chicago during the first half century of its existence, the University of Notre Dame offers sincere felicitations upon this anniversary. It prays that God may bless the future efforts that the University of Chicago will make in the furtherance of Amsrican educational ideals.”
Notre Dame’s representatives plan attendance at the University of Chicago functions on Sunday, Sept. 28, including a reception by President and Mrs. Robert M. Hutchins.
8
Modernization Program
Too Much for "Old Kitchen"
The razing during the summer of a landmark on the University of Notre Dame campus which has been familiar to generations of students and alumni as the “old kitchen” ended another step in a campus beautifying and modernization program which has been in progress for several years.
The two story brick structure was located immediately behind the Gold Dome of the Administration building and there, for half a century, the Sisters of the Holy Cross prepared all food served to the Fighting Irish student body and played important, though unsuspecting, roles in the development of old traditions which still enliven each alumni gathering.
In those early days of the University’s history, food was prepared in the kitchen and then trundled to the junior and senior refectories on the ground floor of the Administration building in wagons drawn by student workers. In rooms adjacent to the dining hall the food was taken from the wagons and re-distributed by the undergraduate waiters.
Two names in particular1 are always recalled by students in connection with this phase of school life, Sister Mary Assumption, C.S.C., and Sister Mary Lourdes, C.S.C., each of whom spent 40 years catering to the appetites of the students and who died within a few days of each other in the winter of 1936 in the Sister’s convent adjacent to the old kitchen.
One reason for the perpetuation of their memories was the fact that they took particular delight in flaunting the university regulations which forbade the feeding of students at any but the prescribed meal time hour. Virtually every student who graduated prior to 1926 and certainly all the priests and brothers of the congregation who were active during the same period have many recollections of “handouts” served on a turn-table outside the kitchen but concealed from the view of prefects and university authorities. The latter were always inclined to wink at the sisters’ rule infractions but for the sake of general discipline often found it necessary to impose some minor penalty on students who were apprehended violating the university vitamin rules.
Ericks used in the construction of the kitchen, as well as the bricks used in the Administration building, Washington hall and the old infirmary, were all made by lay brothers of the community from marl obtained from St. Joseph and St. Mary’s lakes on the campus. The bricks
being removed from the building today are said by architects and builders to be among the best they have ever seen and even after the lapse of half a century are still usable.
Since 1926, when a large modem dining hall was constructed the kitchen had been used for warehouse and maintenance purposes.
Catholic Action Meets,
* Orientates Freshmen
Incoming freshmen were accorded an unusually warm welcome this September becaust of the efforts of upperclassmen, members of the Catholic Action students. The student group, which met for the first time only a year ago, arranged information centers, hall parties, sports events, and other activities intended to quickly acquaint the new college man with his strange university environment.
The students in the Catholic Action band plan an active program for the school year as pai-t of their plan to train Catholic leaders. One feature which was found to be unusually successful last year and is to be continued was facultystudent smokers at which the underclassmen rubbed elbows with their professors.
Catholic Action, as explained by the manual, “Training for Lay Leaders,” written by last year’s Catholic Action President, Eugene Geissler, is meant to be specialized as to vocation or occupation, and not as to activity. For example, in a university:
“The student as a student, converts the student, changes the environment of the student, re-Christianizes the student body. The student as a graduated lawyer, will convert the lawyer, will change the environment of the lawyer, will reChristianize the law profession. There is no demanding of the professors to organize with the janitors for the sake of Catholic Action, or the farmer to organize with the salesman who tries to sell him something. Any man is most effective only among his own where he feels most at home.’’
The three elements of Catholic Action are, according to the manual, action, study, and organization. Action, because if the movement is not active it is not anything; study, because Catholic Action is action toward a definite end and. so must be intelligent action; organization, because Catholic Action is group action, not individual action, and so must be organized.
The type of technique which has made rapid advances at Notre Dame is the cell method, wherein a group of eight to
twelve persons of the same occupation and state in life come together for Catholic Action.	-
“This simple technique remains the organization method,” the manual proceeds, “no matter how large Catholic Action grows. In no case is growth through the making of a speech or the preaching of a sermon. When one group grows beyond practical size, say twelve persons, it subdivides with a new leader forming the nucleus of a new cell.”
A monthly bulletin published by the Notre Dame Catholic Action group offering instruction in Catholic Action has already been requested by 18 men’s schools, eight women’s colleges, ten coeducational schools, and 14 seminaries. Included in this list are three Big-Ten universities and several other secular schools having Catholic societies desirous of promoting their religion.
The program at Notre Dame encourages students to live a Catholic life and to know their religion, in addition to offering practical instruction in Catholic leadership. From the amount of interest already shown by other schools it is believed that the movement in American colleges and universities will rapidly take root.
Freshmen Officially
Welcomed at Convocation
The ink was hardly dry on their first assignments when last Friday night in Washington Hall the Freshman Convocation was held.	■
Gene Schumacher, president of the Student Council, introduced Father Hugh O’Donnell, first, President of the university, who greeted the first year men officially. He spoke to them of Notre Dame’s ninety-nine years of customs and tradition; called their attention to the fact that all activities here are under the patronage of Our Lady; expressed the hope that nothing would interfere with their four years here.
Father Burke, new Prefect of Discipline, acquainted them with the disciplinary aspects of their training, by explaining that the rules laid down here are the result of long experience. “Voluntary conformity with rules is what we understand as character and this is the genuine quality of Notre Dame men,” he finished-
Mr. McAuliffe, the last speaker and N. D.’s off-campus prefect of discipline said, “Notre Dame behaviour in the past has left nothing to be desired, and I hope that freshmen will maintain the high standards set by previous classes.”
—Charles J. Patterson
9
Students Begin Year With Annual Missions
Booming down from the pulpit of the Sacred Heart Church, the forceful voice of Rev. Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C., opened the first Mission of the new semester. Opening with a sermon and Benediction last Sunday night, the Freshmen-Sopho-more Mission will end tomorrow morning at the 6:30 Mass. The final talk will be based on the theme, “The Mercy of God” and will he followed by the Papal Blessing.
Each day for the past week, underclassmen have attended 6:30 Mass, followed by a short sermon. Again in the evenings long rows of men were seen headed toward church to hear the evening lecture followed by Benediction and confession.
Father Hart was well pleased with the attendance, saying, “The men of Notre Dame have again come to the front. ‘Ducking parties,’ ‘Rush Week,’ and various other practices followed by other universities in initiating freshmen, have been dispelled. In their place we have the Mission, thus setting them on the right road and introducing them to our way of saying, ‘Welcome to Notre Dame.’ ”
The theme followed all through the Mission was, “Love of God.” Following along this line of thought Father Hart spoke on, “Man’s Revolt Against God,” “Is Death the Great Leveler?” “Man’s Final Reckoning,” “Chastity, the StrongMan’s Virtue” and concluding his evening lecture with, “The Mercy of God.” The sentence Father Hart stressed most was, “You are the important one in God’s eye. Come back to Christ.”
Graduating from Notre Dame in ’24, Father Hart was ordained a priest in 1928. Becoming a member of the Holy Cross Mission Band he immediately started doing mission work. Having his headquarters on campus, Father Hart has hfen connected with the Laymen’s Retreat for the past eight rears. This past year he had the pleasure of being an important factor in the making of the largest Retreat in the -world; numbering 1400 men.
Starting this Sunday evening at 7:30, the Junior-Senior Mission will start with a sermon and Benediction. This mission will be conducted along the same lines as the former; 6:30 Mass will be followed by a sermon. In the evening sermon and Benediction will be held at 7:00. Heading this Mission will be Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C., former superior of the Mission Band, and present pastor of St. Patrick’s Church in South Bend, who has had many successful years of mission work.—Elmer D. Silha
Tonight After Supper, First Pep Rally
The first big blow-off of the current football season is scheduled for the field house tonight when more than 3,000 Notre Dame men and friends converge there for the initial football rally, preliminary to the Arizona game Saturday.
The rally is scheduled to get under way immediately after supper, the students being led from the dining halls to the field house by the band.
The rally should be a good’one. The opener has snuck around a comer and slapped many a student in the face, due to the early start this season, but once slapped the boys are steamed up for the prospect of witnessing the unveiling of a “new era of football at Notre Dame.”
From all sections of the campus, from the Freshman halls across the Main Quad to the Gold Coast they’re waiting to see Frank Leahy’s first outfit go to work.
The rally -will be the same in many ways as those of previous years. Joe Cassasanta will try to get the band together on a few tunes and somebody whose predictions are never wrong will anticipate a Notre Dame victory.
But there will be a few changes. Elmer Layden’s shadow, the voice from the backrow (Haaa-eeey Ellhneeer!) will be missing. And so will Elmer. There will be no more of his stories, no more, “I remember the time....” Big Moose Piepul is gone too, so the boys -will have to search for a new chant.
Star attraction on tonight’s card will be Frank Leahy, taking over where Layden left off. Add a few women in the galleries, the old grads who will tell you the spirit ain’t what it used to be and a sprinkling of visiting sports scribes and you have the rally.	’
Candlelight Procession Highlight of Summer
Colorful pageantry which included a solemn procession along candlelit paths on the campus highlighted a unique observance of the feast day of Our Lady of Mount Carmel here last summer. The ceremonies were planned by representatives of 27 religious communities for women represented in the University summer school enrollment, and over 800 nuns, priests, and religious took part.
The evening service began at dusk with prayers in Sacred Heart Church and subsequently the nuns in attendance, preceded by the Moreau Seminary choir and the priests and brothers of different religious communities and the student body, made their way slowly along a candle-lit path around the main quadrangle, terminating at the Grotto.
They Help Leahy and N.D.
Playing important parts in the development of the 1941 Notre Dame football team are the three assistants of Head Coach Frank Leahy: Edward Clark Timoney McKeever handles the backs; Joseph Andrew McArdle supervises centers and guards; John Francis Druze directs play of ends and tackles.
McKeever was once a Notre Dame man, attending the University as a freshman and again in the fall of 1931. He won frosh numerals in both football and basketball. He left to enter Rice Institute, but arrived too late for .enrollment, and then went to Texas Tech. He played in 1932-33-34 under Pete Cawthorn, one of the better known coaches of the south.
Coaches Backfield
The new Irish backfield mentor coached the backfield at Texas Tech in 1935-36-37-38. Attending a summer coaching school as an instructor in backfield play at Lubbock, Texas, in 1938, McKeever first met Leahy, then line coach at Fordham, who was lecturing on line play. When Leahy was named head coach at Boston College in 1939, he hired McKeever, who was with him again in 1940.
McKeever measures 5 feet, 10% inches and weighs in at about 178 pounds. He has wavy brown hair and gray-green eyes. He holds the distinction of having coached teams that participated in four straight bowl games, Texas Tech in the Sun Bowl in 1938; and Cotton bowl in 1939; Boston College in the Cotton Bowl in 1940, and the Sugar Bowl in 1941. He has the ball from Sugar Bowl game in which B.C. defeated Tennessee, 19 to 13.
Both the mother and father of McArdle were born in Ireland, so association with the Irish at Notre Dame provides no burden for “Captain Bligh,” as he is known. •
Red-Faced Husky
The red-faced, brown-eyed husky entered Fordham in 1931, winning freshman numerals in football. He won letters in each of his three years, although he weighed but 170 pounds, and stands only five feet, 10 inches when fully stretched out. He played under Major Frank Cavanaugh in 1932 and under Jimmy Crowley and Leahy as a junior and senior.
Following graduation in 1935, McArdle worked for the New York WorldTelegram as advertising solicitor and promotion man, playing with the Stapleton professional team in .the American Association nights and Sundays for one year. He sold insurance in 1937 and 1938, going to Boston College as coach
(Continued on page 31)
10
Prof. Reyniers Speaks
On Air Borne Infection
James A. Reyniers, associate professor of biology, is representing the University of Notre Dame at meetings of the sub-committee on intramural aerobiology of the National Research Council being held this week at the University of Chicago.
This meeting is concerned with air borne infection and means of its control and is part'of the program of the University of Chicago’s 50th anniversary celebration.
Professor Reyniers is to give a paper on Wednesday, Sept. 24, on the “Control of Cross Infection in Hospitals by the Use of Mechanical Barriers and Air Conditioning.”
Prof. Kearney Speaks at
Indianapolis Conference
James Kearney, assistant professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, will present to the National Conference of commissioners of uniform state laws, who will meet in Indianapolis Thursday, a statute devised to make uniform the construction of statutes. The conference since its organization about 40 years ago has drafted and presented many statutes to state legislatures but Mr. Kearney is one of the few non-members who have been asked to draw statutes.
Mr. Kearney has seven year’s experience in the field and recently edited a 30 volume edition of the Illinois annotates statutes. He was also statutory advisor and draftsman for the Illinois banking code at the request of the Illinois bar association.
The conference he will appear before is an honorary body representing prominent bar association members from every state appointed by state governors.
Dr. Just Discusses
Heredity vs. Character
The influence of heredity over character and intelligence was stressed by Dr. Theodor K. Just, of the College of Science, in a talk given Tuesday noon at a meeting of the Kiwanis club in Mishawaka.
For illustration Dr. Just cited the case of identical twins. If one should be placed in the most favorable environment, Dr. Just said, the result might be a noticeable difference outwardly but intelligence of the two would be shown to be very similar.
Science, Dr. Just said, is still far from having determined the basic principles which cause the continuity of the species or “what, makes man stay a man.”
It is sometimes believed, the speaker commented, that breeding by persons, plants or animals with some outstanding characteristics will produce a blending of these characteristics in the offspring. Instead, Dr. Just remarked, the result will be a reproduction of one or the other of these strong characteristics.
Dr. Just’s talk was a technical discussion of the study of genetics and the principal conclusions reached.
Knights Install Reidy
“Brother Knights, I present your Grand Knight.” With these words Past Grand Knight Robert Sullivan last Tues-day turned his gavel over to Edward Reidy, who, although elected at the close of last year, did not take over his office until this week.
Many prominent state and district officers of the Knights of Columbus among them State Dep-edward reidy uty Robert Kinsel and the grand knights of neighboring councils were present at the meeting to see the induction of this year’s officers and the opening of activities for the Notre Dame Council.
The officers who will try to make Notre Dame Council's 32nd year its most eventful one are Grand Knight Reidy, Deputy Grand Knight James Fayette, Chancellor John Moriarty, Financial Secretary Eli Abraham, Warden Michael Hines, Recorder John Murray, Inside Guard James Danaher, and Outside Guard Daniel McNamara.
Thomas Teamey was appointed lecturer and the chairmen of the five important committees were announced as follows: Catholic Activity, Harry Murray; Council Program, Steven Graliker; Membership, Robert Raaf; Insurance, Paul Kashmer; and Publicity, Edward Roney. These men will cooperate with the officers to make this year’s program an even more enjoyable and successful one than those of past years.
1941-42 SCHOLASTIC STAFF MEETING OPEN TO ALL
Anyone interested in doing any work for this year’s Scholastic is cordially invited to attend a meeting of the Scholastic staff for 1941-42 in the new Scholastic offices on the second floor of the old Ave Maria building (directly behind the main building) at 8:00 this evening, Friday, Sept. 26.
MUSIC
By J. R. C
One of Horace Hedit’s records recently out almost sounds decent at times but it is still just another Heidt record: “I Don’t Want to Set the World on Fire.” By far the best of that number is Tommy Tucker’s although his singer is a bit too reminiscent of Bonnie Baker at times.
The past several years, the classics have taken an awful beating through composer’s attempts to make them a little more palatable to the general run of record collectors. Although such a policy will do the great masterpieces no earthly good, there has been one decent attempt. That is Freddy Martin’s “Concerto for Piano,” adapted from a Tschaikowsky Concerto. It is the best 35 cents worth to hit the market in a long time. Other attempts that have ended in horrible catastrophes are: Shep Fields’ “March Slav”; Shep’s “Habanera”; a “Moonlight Sonata” by a man whose name had best be omitted and several other pieces equally lacking in taste. But one more: Thornhill’s “Traumerei” had better be forgotten, even in its classical form. Mr. Thornhill has had a great deal of publicity from Columbia since he started his new band but he would have been much better off if he stuck to Glenn Miller or Tommy Dorsey.
For those who love boogy-woogie, Teddy Powell has a new record: “In Pine-top’s Footsteps.” Boogy woogie is something that will never change so long as the dance band retains a piano. But Teddy Powell is gradually beating out Will Bradley for the honors.
From the Glen Island Casino comes another one of those bands and this one too is bound to make good. Charlie Spivak is the leader and his band is well known out east, but here in the Middle West is relatively unknown. “Intermezzo” from the picture of the same name, is his finest record and in fact is the finest recording on popular records of that number. “If It’s True,” a record-that will perhaps not be as popular as Alvino Bey’s version, is nevertheless a good recording and perhaps the best. Spivak’s trumpet, the sweetest trumpet this side of Gabriel, has also to its credit “Don’t Take Your Love From Me”—the reverse side of “If It’s True,” “To Your Heart’s Content” and “Let’s Go Home.”
One other popular record: Gene Km-pa’s “Let Me Off Uptown”: precisely nothing, as usual. Gene has a better band than his recordings would indicate but Okeh just won’t give him the o.k. to do a number more to his style.
11
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus	Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers William Scanlan .. John Dinges..... William Baader .....
.Managing Editor ____Promotion ____Sports Editor ____Art Editor
Jack Sprague..........................Campus	Editor
Mark McGrath..................Administration Editor
Don Heltzel..........................Feature	Editor
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P-M,
A PROSPECTUS FOR THE FUTURE
This is the first number of the seventy-fifth edition of the Scholastic, a magazine published by and for the students of the University of Notre Dame. Unfortunately in the past we have noticed a tendency on the part of the students to adopt an apathetic attitude towards this magazine. The Scholastic has had to depend on the loyal — all to often — few students who daily sacrificed much of their time to expend a great deal of hard, conscientious effort in its behalf. All this — only to be faced with the prospect of seeing their next-door neighbor nimbly vaulting daily over his immaculately untouched copy of the magazine, until it was finally removed by the janitor. Disheartening, is putting it mildly!
Now we have always been convinced that this lethargic condition is found only in a very small but vociferous minority of the student body. Certainly “apathetic” is scarcely the word to describe the typical Notre Dame man. Most of the students do read the magazine — witness the flurry aroused by a misspelled name — but that is as far as they go. We are confident that if they were acquainted with the true facts in regard to the Scholastic’s policy, they would be not only willing but eager to help.
Because the help of the whole student body is vitally necessary to any student publication and because we feel that many who wish to do so have been kept away by this misinformation, we are publicly asking now for the active support of every Notre Dame man on this campus. The Scholastic is not our magazine in any sense of the word. It is your magazine. It represents Notre Dame and Notre Dame men wherever it penetrates. For that reason alone it should present the best we have to offer.
Since criticism without knowledge is impossible we ask you, first of all, to read the magazine. You will doubtless find many mistakes — we are far from being infallible. But don’t simply pounce on them with glee as another damning bit of evidence in the case against us. Consider for a moment how you can help us avoid these errors and rectify these short-comings.
Then bring any observation or suggestion you may have to the attention of one of the editors. If the criticism is valid or the suggestion is practicable we shall do our best to conform. If not, we promise to give you a full explanation of its impos-12
sibility. At any rate you can rest assured that you will be heard.
This, then, is the basic help which should be offered by every student at Notre Dame. But there is, of course, an even more direct way in which you can show your interest. How many times have you seen or heard something and been struck with the realization that, “That could go in the Scholastic.”? The idea would usually go no farther. So why not see a staffmember and relay the information to him, or — better still — write up the story yourself and submit it to us? You would help us tremendously by increasing the scope of our news sources. At the same time you would have the satisfaction of seeing the full fruition of your idea. And certainly the selectivity which we could exercise due to the presence of some surplus material each week would be reflected in a better magazine.
Thus our chief aim this year will be to arouse student interest in the Scholastic. It is for this reason that we changed the makeup somewhat in order to increase readability and coherence. We introduced departmentalization to insure more complete coverage and adequate treatment of important news topics. The cover was designed specifically to aid the reader by enabling him to place at a glance the more interesting stories of the week. We intend, moreover, to give more prominence to inter-hall activities than was done in the past, for we feel that such activities represent an integral part of campus life.
Finally, we hope to establish a closer relationship between the editorial staff and the student body. There can obviously be no incompatibility if the Scholastic is to represent student opinion at Notre Dame. The one should both reflect and restrain the other.
Naturally, we will be unable to please all. There will inevitably arise some conflicts which it will be impossible to resolve. But we do feel quite firmly that in many instances the Scholastic might well join the majority and shed its unenviable reputation of being individualistic to the point of being alone.
So, we repeat, help us to make the Scholastic worthy of representing Notre Dame. We, for our part, fully realize and accept the ultimate responsibility in this undertaking, and we shall try always to maintain that standard to the best of our ability. With your support and co-operation we feel sure that this can and will be done.—John A. Reilly
The Artistry of Man
Sermon by the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, formal religious opening of schoolyear, Sacred Heart Church, Sept. 21, 1941
“Let its make man to our oivn image and likeness”—Gen. 1:26
Gaze at the beautiful snow-capped Rockies pointing skyward, and you see a picture that defies the brush of the artist! Interspersed throughout the ranges are natural parks of equal beauty, and cupped among smaller peaks lie placid lakes that brook description.
Behold the ocean with its billows of white foam tossing back and forth unceasingly! Your eye catches the variegated color as the sun reflects its rays on the boundless deep, and you are awed by the expanse that reaches to the horizon.
Look at the forest of giant trees, some of them centuries old, reacting in loveliness to the changing seasons of the year! As you are carried away by their beauty and strength, you recall the poet’s expression that “only God can make a tree.”
Wherever you go, you are impressed by God’s glory in nature. Yet these scenes of natural beauty pale into insignificance when compared with the divinely shaped symmetry and beauty of the body and soul of man.
“And God saw that His creation was good. And then He said, ‘Let us make man to our own image and likeness’ . . . And the Lord God formed man of the slime of the earth, and breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living body.” Thus was made the being that was to rule creation.
Beautiful to behold is the body of man, with his grace of figure and majesty of form! From head to foot his bone structure is protected by a covering of muscles, sinews, tendons, and nerves, harmoniously patterned so that they may be enriched by a constant supply of blood from the heart. Even a casual study of the physiology of man, by man, should make him realize the truth of his divine creation. But it is the soul, the spiritual substance made “to the image of God,” that vitalizes the body and gives man the personality that made Shakespeare say:
■"What a piece of work is man!
How noble in reason! How infinite in faculty! In form and moving how express and admirable!
In action how like an angel!
In apprehension how like a god! The beauty of the world!
The paragon of virtue!”
Yes, the soul gives man intellect and will; it sets him above brute creation, and makes him long to be the child of God he is destined to be. Let the pure scientist explore his bodily origin; let the philosopher descant upon his journey’s end; let the savant speculate about his future life. We know with the eyes of faith, on the authority of God revealing, that man was created “to know God, to love Him, to serve Him in this world so that he may be happy with Him in the next.” Man’s immortality makes his artistry supreme.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
It is a principle of Catholic theology that just as man is for God, so all things created are for man. Man is the center of this vast circumference, the material world, just as God is the goal, eternal and immovable, of all life. The world is man’s abode. It is his to use during his preparation for the glory of his eternal home. For him the beauty of the skies; for him the heights of the mountains and the depths of the seas; for him the loveliness of the flower and the utility of the animal kingdom.
Man must explore his domain. Whether the telescope or the microscope assist his study of the infinitely great or the infinitely small; whether he peer into the secrets of nature; whether he analyze the complexity of the human body or the still more delicate workings of the human mind, it is always as a conqueror that man enters the field of battle. His consciousness of self and his enjoyment of nature around him have bred all culture — all poetry, all drama, and the arts. He yearns to tell his-vision to his fellow man.
II
All would have been well with man, and the pursuit of his happiness would have gone on serenely, had he not, in the pride of discovery or the lust of life, ignored the Eternal Maker of all this beauty and strength. He began from the very infancy of philosophical speculation to spin theories of the seen that shut him off from the unseen. A just, irate God expelled man from Paradise; a vain, resentful man tried to expel God from the earth.
From the Renaissance to the beginning of this century, various philosophical schools of thought, aided and abetted by a purely secular education, cast God out of the life of man. Under the changing labels of materialism, rationalism, agnosticism, modernism, and naturalism, the harmony of the world was destroyed by human thought, which directed its attacks against the noblest of God’s crea- -tures. Man was gradually dehumanized until he became a mere automaton, a robot, glorified animal, sufficient to himself because his sufficiency was from nature, and not from nature’s God. He stood stripped of his faculties, robbed of his mind, and bereft of his soul. He was the “Almighty Man,” divorced from God, Who had fashioned him after His own image and likeness.
The result was inevitable. A machine age developed a machine man. The false god of science ruled supreme. All worldly things, man included, were forced to adapt themselves to the vagaries of certain supermen. Hence it is easy to understand, but sad to contemplate, the analy-. sis of man by the exponents of two na
13
tions now locked in the horrors of war during this, the twentieth century.
One ideology says that a “human person is a material substance that has organized itself”—a patent contradiction in terms. To expand this definition, Buchar-in in the Communist A.B.C., estimates that the elements of the human body have a commercial value of one ruble, 95 kopecks (about 70 cents). That is' what “Almighty Man” is worth.
The other — the racist ideology — says that a “human person is different from material substance, but not essentially different from an animal.” I quote the exact words of this biological materialism: “Between a man of a higher race and a man of a lower race there exists a more essential difference than between a man of a lower race and a highly developed animal.”
These definitions indicate what has happened to the true concept of man. According to these theories, the human person is an illusion. He has no faculties, no dignity, no rights, because he has no immortal soul. He is of the earth, earthy. He is a biological element, a specific quantity of flesh and blood, a tool for procreation in the manner that animals are bred. What a contrast to the true artistry of man, “made to the image and likeness of God,” and using the fruits of the earth only in relation to his last end!
With such ideologies rampant in the world, the sword of battle has replaced the sword of the spirit. The Moloch of war arrays might against right; evil against good; man against man. Man’s artistry is ridiculed as he becomes only a means to operate the engines of iniquity. Planes battle in the air; tanks clash on the ground; battleships arid submarines send salvos and torpedoes on the sea, as men ruthlessly destroy to attain an earthly objective. These constitute the sword of battle. No thought is given to the innocent, as hunger, starvation, and pestilence follow in its wake. And all this has happened because the peoples of the world have forgotten their God, and brought down upon themselves His wrath:
“For my people,” as God said of old through the prophet Jeremiah, “have committed two evils; they have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water.” 2:11-13.
Little wonder that the white-robed figure in the Vatican, Pius XII, gloriously reigning, should say with heavy and prayerful heart: “Nothing is gained by war that can not be achieved by peace; in war all is lost.”
14
III
As we ponder the situation abroad, let us not forget, however, that our own beloved country is not immune from indictment. We, too, have had a part in destroying the artistry of man.
Historically, ours is a Christian heritage given us by the Founding Fathers. Have we been true to our heritage? In the brief span of little more than one hundred and fifty years, the United States has become the richest nation on earth, making use of nature’s gifts through the ingenuity of man’s talents. But in this growth are gross irregularities that can not be reconciled with our heritage. We seem to have forgotten what our ancestors understood so well — the artistry of man.
A national examination of conscience shows that approximately sixty millions of our citizens profess no formal religion. From the cradle to the grave, a vast majority of that number try to get along without God. Yet we wonder why our young people have no objective standards of morality; why the largest class of criminals comes from the age group between fifteen and twenty-five; why divorce and race suicide are not only condoned, but actually encouraged. Might not-the prophet Isaias say of us, as he said of the Israelites of old:
“Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters; they have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel into anger, they are gone backward.”—Isaias, 1:4.
In my opinion, we are fallen to this low estate because of a secularized education, foreign to our tradition, which has sapped our spiritual strength by dehumanizing man through the medium of the false philosophy of naturalism. Thank God, however, some schools have not bowed to the teaching of “Almighty Man,” and are carrying on with a true appreciation of the artistry of man in relation to God, his last end.
The United States must be concerned with the danger from within as she prepares ■ to defend her ramparts against thrusts from without. And, in accordance with her cherished tradition of patriotism, Notre Dame is cooperating with the government in this very important undertaking. But let us also pray for our Chief Executive, the members of Congress, and all those charged with the well-being of our country that they may have Divine Guidance in this emergency.
IV
The world scene, my dear young men, is drab and gloomy. An earthly view shows a dark horizon, but a spiritual perspective beholds the light of Divine
Truth. It is to this perspective that I direct your attention as you begin your higher education in the peace and quiet of this sanctuary of learning.
You have been sent here by loving parents at a great sacrifice. The sorrow at leaving home has been lightened by the promise of future achievement. You have been entrusted to our care in order that you may grow in spirit during these important years of your life. We accept the trust — a trust accorded us by succeeding generations for nearly one hundred years. A devoted faculty of religious and laymen fully appreciate their responsibility. With God’s help, they will not be found wanting.
Tomorrow, the long tomorrow, finds you on a campus sheltered by the mantle of Our Lady, Notre Dame. Here, hei-Son, the Man-God, is the center, the very heart of the educational program. Here you will find underlying the curriculum a philosophy that emphasizes the development of the zvJiole man, of all his faculties, in keeping with an educational tradition that goes back to the Apostolic College on the Galilean shores. Here you will find the tools for solid work that will bear fruit as you increase in grace and wisdom before God and man.
There is no short cut to success. Work, hard work, is the only guarantee, and work means sacrifice. You can not reach your goal, whatever it may be, without pci severance, sweat, and toil. All of you may not become brilliant in your respective callings, but surely it is not too much to ask that you will at least strive to become proficient. God gave you certain talents which should fructify with the years. But if you waste these talents, if you idle away your time, if you fail to grasp the opportunity that may knock but once, then you are in danger of the Judgment. For, as the Master has said, “Give an account of your stewardship, because you can be steward no longer.” (Luke, 16:2) The artistry of man calls for this, and^the philosophy of Catholic education demands it.
Accordingly, buckle on the armor of Faith as you begin your quest to become true citizens and true soldiers of Christ. Let Faith permeate your lives while you are in training, so that you may be fit for any assignment the future holds. Nourish it by prayer and the sacraments in this University-City — so aptly called the “City of the Blessed Sacrament” — in order that Christ may become in very truth the King and center of your minds and hearts.
Do this, and a radiant hope will permeate your lives, in contrast to the despair that has enveloped the world! Do
(Continued on page 31)
CAMPUS NEWS
CAMPUS REACTION TO NAVY FAVORABLE Note Dame
Navy Blue and Gold has attracted the attention of all Notre Dame this fall almost two months early. "A staff of twelve officers and sailors, with a total of 278 years of service in the United States Navy, is established in the Rockne Memorial Building, where “Rock,” himself a native of a land which has always gained its living by the sea, must surely be smiling down on them.
Also in uniform—at least part of the
On Down the Line — Navy Style
time—are 150 freshmen, who represent the first class of Notre Dame students to be enrolled in the basic course of the new unit of the Naval R.O.T.C. Notre Dame is one of twenty-seven American universities to inaugurate a department of Naval Science and tactics, similar to those at Harvard, Princeton, Yale, and several other Eastern schools.
The uniforms occasioned a good deal of student comment last week when the freshman blossomed out in the garb of Uncle Sam’s fleet. An English major who saw a freshman in uniform cut across the grass in the main quadrangle decided that he would have to add a couple of years of graduate work to his program in order to secure one for himself.
Some students suggested that Brother Boathouse be appointed Commodore of rowboat operations on the lakes with a view toward defense of Lyons Hall, and it was proposed to requisition whatever remains of the old racing shells of Father Sorin’s day to serve as destroy
ers. Petitions are ready to be circulated advocating a canal and locks between the lakes to avoid the need of a two-lake navy. Included in the digging operations would be a passage cut over to the river and St. Mary’s with special excursions on Sunday afternoons.
Practical experience in swabbing the deck could be obtained by having crews of Naval Reserve students mop up the floor of the caf every hour, with the drudgery relieved by the knowledge that
those in the advanced course will not be subject to the draft.
At any rate, the sailors’ presence at Notre Dame adds a feature unseen here since the days of required military service almost twenty-five years ago. The Navy is welcome and appreciated up to —but not including—Nov 8, when the Irish will try to demonstrate that their strength lies on the land and not on the sea.—Dick Kilmer
EXTRA!
Allen Winner Named
Jim McDonough, sophomore from Chicago, Ill., was named this week the winner of Fred Allen’s first collegiate talent quest. Ballots cast last Monday by the student body provided the basis for the final choice. Booty for the winner includes an appearance on Fred Allen’s program, an all-expense trip to New York, and $200. Congratulations are in order for all three contestants for their fine performances.
On National Broadcast
Notre Dame’s outstanding individual entertainer will represent the school in the first of a series of coast-to-coast broadcasts which will feature the cream of the talent from many of the major universities in the country. The broadcasts are under the auspices of Fred Allen, popular radio entertainer.
From the group who competed in the auditions Sept. 18, three hopefuls were selected. These three, Tony Dodadio, *42; Jack Mulloy, ’43, and Jim McDonough, ’44, aired their wares over WSBT Sept. 19. Ballots were distributed in all the halls and the final winner picked last Monday by popular choice.
Tony Donadio from Baltimore, Md., has been a favorite in all of his four years at Notre Dame wherever good singing is appreciated. Glee Club activities, musical comedies, light opera, and radio work are a few of his many conquests.
Jack Molloy of New Rochelle, N. Y., being a fine pianist in his own right, is the leader of a popular campus dance band. He and his band provided the instrumental background for “The Song of the Free,” a story in song which met with instant success wherever it was given.
Jim McDonough, who is from Chicago, Ill., though but a recent arrival into Notre Dame’s group of entertainers, has already gained recognition through his radio work last year. His monologue of “The Song of the Free,” was dramatic and convincing.
Fred Allen is sponsoring the search among the talented students of universities throughout the United States with the belief that the stars of tomorrow can be found on the paths and in the classrooms of the universities today. The winning student from each university will be sent to New York with all expenses paid plus a $200 cash award where, on Allen’s radio program, the rest of the nation ■will be able to hear the talent that made him a favorite among his schoolmates.
Allen’s representative and the director of the search for talent was John Rider who graduated from Notre Dame in 1930. While in - school he was on the staff of the popular Juggler.
—Jack Sprague
15
Commencement Impression by I94O-'4I Scholastic Editor
(Reprinted from The Atlantic Monthly, Aug. 1941)
Not even the hot Indiana sun could dispel the dread feeling on Sunday, the first of June, that war was in the air. It filled the minds of 7,500 parents, friends, and alumni who came to see 621 seniors graduate at the 97th annual Commence-
ment of the ty of Dame.
exercises Universi-Notre Probably
the feeling and the scent of war gripped the grad-u a ting Seniors more powerfully than the others, for they had been told all spring that the spirit of the present time
WILLIAM C. MCGOWAN the same spMt which had pervaded the campus in 1916, just 25 years before.
There had been a war in Europe then, and it had presented an ominous threat to America. Just as today, people had been violently for and against American participation; and, just as today, German submarines had sunk American ships on the Atlantic and made the prospect of war almost hopelessly inevitable for this country. All these things were in the minds of Notre Dame Seniors that afternoon, and they listened attentively, as if seeking an answer to their individual dilemmas.
It was in the face of such a spirit that this year’s principal speaker, the Honorable Joseph P. Kennedy, former United States Ambassador to Great Britain, told his audience that “the duty of every American is plain” in the light of the unlimited emergency declared by President Roosevelt. That duty comprises “unlimited loyalty (and) a cessation of personal antagonism which the defense and protection of this nation require.” But, Mr. Kennedy asserted, besides that duty we also have rights which are inviolable, no matter what the emergency. In the very act of pledging allegiance, he said, Americans state clearly that constitutional rights of free speech, free assembly, and freedom of religious assembly shall be maintained in all respects.
Mr. Kennedy’s speech seemed to deal exclusively with a side issue and not with the great central point of the struggle in which we are involved. What he had to say, while it was certainly not invalid, did seem to miss the significance of the present intense activity of the nation. Our national defense effort, which includes aid to Britain as one of its most salient features, has as its principal aim the defeat of the Axis powers. There is
no escaping that fact, because if the Axis is not defeated decisively first of all, the efforts of those who are now principally concerned with the preservation of the Bill of Rights in the United States will come to nothing. If Hitler wins, those who are hotly concerning themselves about freedom of speech will find they have been trying to hatch a china egg. At least that’s how it appears to this Senior.—William C. McGotvan
Glee Club Sad
Last Monday a group of 30 members of last year’s Glee Club assembled in their room in Washington Hall to begin practice for a bigger and better season.
With saddened faces they glanced at the empty chairs of graduated members who were stalwarts of the organization for the last four years and wondered where another soloist like Ex-President Donald Tiedeman would be found.
But after a few words by Director Daniel Pedtke and President James Purcell these strained looks disappeared and they in earnest once again began the difficult task of preparing for another concert season.
Many new faces will appear in the organization this year for it normally numbers close to 60 men and the majority of these will have to come from the freshmen and sophomore classes. The Glee Club presents a fine opportunity for students to obtain a musical education as well as to see more of the United States on its concert tours than the Navy traditionally sees of the world.
Tryouts for freshmen and upperclassmen will continue for the next week and those with either first or second tenor voices are especially invited to avail themselves of the opportunity that this organization has to offer.
The first concert of the year is scheduled for the early part of October while the first campus activity will consist of a smoker for both old and new members to take place sometime next week.
Northern Lights Light
Some of nature’s own arctic fireworks heralded the opening of the new scholastic year on the campus last week. The evening sky illuminated by the northern lights was the occasion of interest and comment among the St. Joseph Valley astronomers and certain campus observers, especially those in the physics and electrical engineering departments.
According to Professor John A. Northcott of the electrical engineering department: “There is apparently a relation between sunspots and the aurora borealis (northern lights), but thus far no one has found the real connection. The appearance of the lights in this area is
due to an ionized condition of the atmosphere.”
The consternation felt by war-worn persons in other parts of the country — who seriously believed that either the nation was invaded or the world was coming to an end — was not shared by Notre Dame students, perhaps because a resemblance to Little America is no novelty to this campus.—Tom Clemens
Student Commission
Collects "Scholastics"
“Save your Scholastics!” is the cry of the Notre Dame Student commission for Decent Literature.
In the program announced this week by the Student Commission a new point was added. This program is the mailing of Scholastics to Notre Dame men in the service of our country. The list of names and addresses of the service men has been gathered by the Alumni office— which reports a wonderful response. The Scholastics, once read, will be collected from the halls weekly by the campus Knights of Columbus. After the magazines have been gathered the Student Commission will handle the mailing.
Students all over the campus are asked to save their Scholastics for this program. Anyone who desires to help the Student Commission in gathering and mailing the copies should turn in his name to the Prefect of Religion in Dillon Hall. He will then be notified of his assignment.
Fr. Carey Becomes "Scholastic" Advisor
After two years of genial, expansively enthusiastic companionship with the Notre Dame students who year by year struggle to make the Scholastic something that Fighting Irishmen everywhere will enjoy reading, Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., “recent faculty advisor to the Scholastic,” has left Notre Dame and will soon begin work on a doctorate at either Columbia or Cornell university.
He received his bachelor of arts here in 1931; his master of arts in 1932. Since then he had been teaching English, foreign language and prefecting in Badin Hall.
To fill Father Laskowski’s rather capacious shoes is the task of his classmate, Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., A.B., ’31, M.A., ’37, Notre Dame. Father Carey, if not before, is now a very busy man. Resigned from the assistant editorship of The Ave Maria, his posts now include faculty advisor to the Scholastic and Dome and prefect on the second floor of Walsh. The Scholastic staff both welcomes him and congratulates itself upon his appointment.
16
Tom Owen Begins 15th
Year in Dining Halls
Amid the pushing and scrambling of confused hordes of freshmen, Tommy Owen, the modest little white - haired gentlemen with the whistle, began his 15th year as general co-ordinator* of the dining-halls last week.
Tommy, who works while others eat, has been a headwaiter in some of the swankiest restaurants in Chicago and a steward on railroad dining-cars when a cow on the track was a good excuse for a train’s tardiness. He has been in and around dining-halls all his life, and of all the places he has directed he likes Notre Dame best because, “I like the kids. They keep me young.”
On the job, Tommy is constantly whistling. Just what the composition is, no one knows. If you ask him he will tell you it’s one of his own and strolls on. Nothing interrupts it but the crash of a tray or an occasional stop at one of the head-tables for a bit of conversation.
Tommy is a fine little fellow and he has the biggest heart on the campus although he’d give up whistling rather than admit it. The next time he walks by youi* table, speak to him. The response may be gruff or there may be none at all, but he’ll appreciate it anyway.—Jack Sprague
Junior and Senior Dome
Portraits Taken Soon
Portraits of the members of the Junior and Senior classes will be taken in the basement studios of Walsh hall starting October 1st. The portraits must be completed by November 1st because of a shortage of metal necessary to the engraving.
Members of the Dome staff will call at the individual rooms of the Junior and Senior halls to assign appointments. The portraits of students missing their appointments will be necessarily omitted from the Dome.
Band Dusts Instruments For the coming Year
“We’ve got to produce.”
This campus wide slogan was adopted by the university band on September 18th as its members began their year of musical achievement. Numerous new faces of incoming freshmen filled the vacancies left by last year’s graduates. Work began immediately, there being
"DOME" MEETING
There will be a meeting Monday, Sept. 29, at 7:45 p.m. in the Dome offices behind the Main Building for all men interested in working on the 1942 Dome. All who have worked on the Dome in past years are especialy urged to attend. Juniors, sophomores, and freshmen are eligible for staff membership.
Joseph R. Hillebrand, Editor 254 Dillon Hall
little time before the first appearance tomorrow afternoon at the Arizona game. New members gradually became acquainted with the Notre Dame “Victory March” and other popular football songs as the “regulators” got back into shape.
Tryouts for the band are not yet closed. Professor Cassasanta wishes all members of the student body who are able to play an instrument to see him as soon as possible. It is not necessary for a student to have his own instrument. Mr. Cassasanta would like to interview more men in order to better his present instrumentation. Practice is held daily from 12:30 to 2 in the upper floor of the gymnasium.
Several trips are in store for this year’s band. An Easter tour has already been mapped out which will take the band as far east as Boston. Concert music will be introduced to the members as soon as possible to allow more time for preparing a suitable repertoire.
—C. S. Coco
Three Men — but only Two Horses
Lillis Rides to Victory
Behind Balky Steeds
A throng of 1,000 priests, nuns, and summer students crowded around the steps of the University library near the beginning of August to witness the students summer theater production of “Agamemnon” the Greek tragedy by Aeschylus. The title role was portrayed by Paul Lillis, captain of the 1941 football team, while the roles of Cassandra and Cly-temnstra were taken by Jean Campbell and Meredith MacDonald respectively.
Resplendent in plumed Grecian helmet, cape, sword, buskins and curled beard, the tall grid star from New Rochelle took the role easily in stride. Both his performance and those of the rest of the cast were enthusiastically greeted by the audience which turned out to be larger than was expected.
Cyril E. Robinson’s translation of the grim tragedy was used. The plot of the drama concerns itself with the disaster that visited the ill-fated house of Atreus when Agamemnon returns from the Trojan war with the seer Cassandra as a companion. He thus incites the hatred of his wife, Clytemnstra for this insult as well as for his sacrifice of his daughter, Iphegineia in order to carry on the war without opposition from the gods. His wife plots with a friend to kill the king in revenge.
The whole production went off without a hitch (with the exception of the balky horses that drew the chariot) due to the fine cooperation of the cast under the direction of Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C.
—Richard Powers.
17
INTRODUCING
—By RAY DONOVAN
See that well-built blonde gent walking across the campus? Well, that’s the captain of this year’s edition of the Fightin’ Irish football machine, and he’s
Captain Paul Lillis
all pepped up over the chances of the Notre Dame forces on the eve of the season opener with Arizona tomorrow. Come on, let’s catch up to him; I want you to meet him.
Captain Paul Lillis, one of the most likeable fellows on campus, received the first three years of his prep training at Bennett High School in Buffalo, N. Y., and. it was here that he came into his own on the gridiron. The youth’s sophomore and junior years at Bennett High were well taken up with brilliant performances on the prep eleven.
bestowed upon him. Although he attend-Mt. Vernon High only during his senior year, his classmates readily took to his quiet, friendly ways and elected him to the presidency of his senior class. By Paul’s own admission this, along with the captaincy of the 1941 Notre Dame football team, is one of the greatest honors ever bestowed upon him.
Little did Paul Lillis realize upon his graduation from high school that 1939 would find him again the president of his class. But in his freshman year at Notre Dame the athlete continued to make friends—on the field as a member of Coach Kline’s frosh football unit, in Freshman Hall, where his room was always a center of activity. This popularity continued throughout the year, and when election time rolled around these untold friends rallied around Paul and elevated him into the presidency of the freshman class.
Although practice for Coach Leahy’s varsity occupies a great deal of his time, Lillis is majoring in what is termed one of the “toughest” courses on the campus —mechanical engineering. Like former quarterback Steve Sitko and last year’s tackle Cliff Brosey, Captain Lillis is faced with the difficult situation of wisely dividing his football activities with those necessarily required by the engi
neering school. Paul is as yet undecided as to just what all this hard work will lead to, but hopes that he will be able to put to work his engineering knowledge in the field of engineering salesmanship.
“I am certainly blessed with the build conducive to successful salesmanship,” chuckles Paul, “and in that field I’ll be able to put my knowledge to one of the best uses possible.” We can certainly back up his claim to this requirement of salesmanship and serve ample warning to any opposing ball carrier who tries to tote the pigskin through Lillis’s side of the line. Latest measurements reveal his massive frame to carry 215 pounds and show him to tower 6:2% above the ground. Paul escaped both registrations for the draft, since he is only 20 years old.
While attending summer school at the University this year, our football captain made his debut into another* field—the theater. Paul portrayed a gladiator in a Greek play produced by the University theater, and relates it as a different and very pleasant experience.
Another member of the Lillis family showed prowess on the gridiron besides Paul. His brother performed for New York University during the past two years, before he left school this year to accept a defense job.
Although it will not be a new experience for him, when Captain Paul Lillis trots onto the field for the opening game with Arizona tomorrow, the fans and students of Notre Dame can rest assured that the leadership of the Fightin’ Irish is in the best possible hands.
Football could not claim Paul the year around, however, and it was during the winter, spring and late fall months that he managed to find time to win monograms in four other sports. His brilliant performances in the swimming pool, on the track, on the hardwood and on the baseball diamond cooperated to make this well-developed, all-around athlete what is commonly referred to as “the coach’s dream.”
The experience of serving as captain of a grid squad is not a new one to Notre Dame’s star tackle. His high school teammates at Bennet paid tribute to his stellar performance and leadership ability by electing the big blonde to the co-captainship of the squad. This was in Paul’s junior year, the last he was to play for the Buffalo school. For the following year the Lillis family moved to Mt. Vernon, N. Y., and Paul was forced to transfer his allegiance to Mt. Vernon High.
It was while attending this palace of learning, however, that big Paul was accorded one of the highest honors ever 18
. . . Pep-Rally Scene: 3,000 Men Not Waiting for a Street-Car . . .
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Leahy Unveils His First Notre Dame
Team Against Arizona Tomorrow
It's Trick Wildcats Versus Unknown Irish
Tomorrow afternoon before 30,000 fans in Notre Dame stadium the 1941 edition of the Fighting Irish, completely renovated under a new coach and coaching system, and resplendent in ensembles of gold helmets, trousers, and socks, will take the field against a determined and stiff Arizona Wildcat team. This game figures to be among the toughest opening games Notre Dame has yet had to face. Chet Grant, backfield coach under Layden, who scouted two Arizona games in 1940, maintains that the game is comparable to the 1939 opener with Purdue in which the Irish had to go all the way to win, 3-0. Coach Leahy himself had this to say about the game: “Arizona will be one of our most difficult assignments. Last fall they had a super-special freshman team. Coach Miles Casteel is a keen student of the game. These combine to make a strong team. Arizona will play the game of its life and I look for a very close battle.”
Some of the boys to watch when Ari
zona starts to roll are: Emil Banjavciic at right half who does several things well; Adolph Matulis, an excellent blocker and one of the best defensive backs on the squad has been shifted from fullback to quarter; Muri McCain at center has a reputation for spending an offensive amount of time in opponents’ backfields on defense; Bob Ruman is one of the best halfbacks in the Southwest and led the Wildcats in yards gained although he played in only four games besides being a triple threat man; Henry Stanton is a dream end, rarely missing a pass and is plenty good defensively. The Wildcat squad is remarkable for the high percentage of men on its roster coming from the nearby Calumet region, many of them having played with or against some of the boys now on the Irish varsity.
Coach Casteel of Arizona, who worked with Leahy in 1932 when both were assistants to Jimmy Crowley at Michigan State, uses the proverbial “T” formation to some extent; although his system is a typically Southwestern brand of ball which is characterized by plenty of passes.
Students and fans alike will see in action against Arizona the spread plays, line shifts, and T formations which Leahy has initiated at Notre Dame. This year’s Irish team can also be expected to display fine pass patterns and a very strong offense since the emphasis has been placed on that phase of the game.
However, many of the Irish may be forced into the role of 60-minute “Iron Men” in view of the fact that most of the positions are not too strong among the second and third teams. To guard against such a situation Leahy has acquainted Matt Bolger with both end positions and he has used Rymkus and Sullivan at both tackle positions in case an injury renders any one of these positions weak.
Change in positions was a decided characteristic of practice sessions this fall. Bernie Crimmins, a fullback last year, was moved to the right guard position. Owen (Dippy) Evans, who worked as a left half last year, will operate from the fullback position; while Angelo Bertelli, sophomore left half, was shifted to the first team. In this manner Leahy believes he can bolster right guard and fullback. Bertelli’s passing ability should show to good advantage at left half; while Evans will do most of the kicking and a lot of passing. Steve Juz-wik will be one of the boys to watch as the Irish get under way against the Wildcats.
The probable starting lineup for the Irish is as follows:
L. E., Dove; L. T., Brutz; L. G., Maddock; Center, Ziemba; R. G., Crimmins; R. T., Lillis (C); R. E., Murphy; Q. B., Hargrave; L. H., Bertelli; R. H., Juz-wik; F. B., Evans.
1941 Football Schedule
Sept. 27—ARIZONA at NOTRE DAME Oct. 4—INDIANA at NOTRE DAME Oct. 11—Georgia Tech at Atlanta Oct. 18—Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh Oct. 25—ILLINOIS at NOTRE DAME Nov. I—Army at New York Nov. 8—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 15—Northwestern at Evanston Nov. 22—SO. CALIFORNIA at N. D. 19
1941 N. D. VARSITY FOOTBALL ROSTER
Name	Pos.	Home Town	Preparatory School ,	4pe Wt.	Ht. Ex.
Ashbaugh, Russell Gilman	L.H.	Youngstown, Ohio	South H. S.	20 176	5:9	0
Barry, Norman John	L.E.	Chicago, Ill.	Fenwick, Oak Park	19 174	5:8% 1
4Bereolos, Hercules	R.G.	Hammond, Ind.	Hammond H. S.	22 193	5:11 2
Bertelli, Angelo Bortolo	L.H.	W. Springfield, Mass.	Cathedral H. S.	20 175	6:% 0
Bolger, Matthew Joseph	R.E.	Newark, N. J.	St. Benedict’s Prep.	21 190	6:1% 0
Brock, Thomas James	C.	Columbus, Nebr.	Kramer H. S.	21 190	6:% 1
sBrosey, Henry Clifford	R.T.	Ozone Park, N. Y.	Brooklyn Tech H.S.	22 230	6:1% 2
**Brutz, James Charles	L.T.	Niles, Ohio	Warren, Ohio H. S.	22 209	6:0	2
Creevy, Richard Cassell	R.H.	Chicago, Ill.	Mt. Carmel H. S.	20 182	6:1	1
Creevy, Thomas Edwin	Q.B.	Chicago, DI.	Mt. Carmel H. S.	19 185	5:11 0
"Crimmins, Bernard Anthony	R.G.	Louisville, Ky.	St. Xavier H. S.	22 185	5:11 2
Cunningham, Paul- Stanley	C.	Albany, N. Y.	Williamsport, Pa.	21 180	6:1	0
'Dove, Robert Leo	L.E.	Youngstown, Ohio	South H. S.	20 188	6:1% 1
Earley, William Joseph	Q.B.	Parkersburg, W. Va.	Parkersburg H. S.	20 171	5:10 1
*Ebli, Raymond Henry	L.T.	Ironwood, Mich.	St. Ambrose H. S.	21 200	6:2	2
Ellefsen, Charles Robert	R.E.	Ironwood, Mich.	Wright H. S.	20 183	6:1	0
'Evans, Fred Owen, Jr.	F.B.	South Bend, Ind.	Riley H. S.	21 174	5:11 1
Filley, Patrick Joseph	L.G.	South Bend, Ind.	Central H. S.	19 178	5:8	0
Girolami, Anthony Gregory	Q.B.	Chicago, Ill.	Crane Tech H. S.	20 193	6:% 1
**Hargrave, Robert Webb	Q.B.	Evansville, Ind.	Reitz Memorial H.S.	21 172	5:11 2
Hines, Michael Leo	R.T.	Kewanna, Ind.	Kewanna H. S.	21 215	6:3	2
Hogan, Donald John	L.H.	Chicago, DI.	St. Ignatius H. S.	20 189	6:2	1
*Juzwik, Steve Robert	R.H.	Chicago, DI.	DePaul Academy	23 185	5:8% 2
’Kovatch, John George	R.E.	South Bend, Ind.	Washington H. S.	21 181	6:2% 2
Kudlacz, Stanley Adam	C.	Chicago, DI.	DePaul Academy	19 187	5:9	0
’Laiber, Joseph James	R.G.	South Bend, Ind.	Washington H. S.	21 175	5:10 2
Lanahan, John Francis	C.	Jacksonville, Fla.	Imm. Conception	20 188	6:1% 1
"Lillis, Paul Bernard (Capt.)	R.T.	Mt. Vernon,' N. Y.	Bennett, Bflo., N.Y.	20 210	6:2	2
*Maddock, Robert Charles	L.G.	Santa Ana, Calif.	Santa Ana H. S.	21 202	6:0	2
McBride, Robert James	L.G.	Lancaster, Ohio	Logan H. S.	18 205	6:0	0
McGinnis, John James	R.E.	Chicago, DI.	St. George, Evnstn.	19 185	6:2	0
McLaughlin, David Tennant	R.G.	South Orange, N. J.	Columbia H. S.	18 190	5:11 0
McNeill, Edward Charles	F.B.	Midland, Pa.	Lincoln, H. S.	22 193	6:1% 2
Miller, Creighton Eugene	F.B.	Wilmington, Del.	Alexis I. Dupont	18 192	6:1	0
Miller, Thomas Seeay	R.H.	Wilmington, Del.	Alexis I. DuPont	20 183	6:1	1
Murphy, George Edward	R.E.	South Bend, Ind.	Central H. S.	20 176	6:0	1
iNeff, Robert Hudkins	R.T.	Buckhannon, W. Va.	Buckhannon-Upshur	21 230	6:1% 1
O’Brien, Richard Charles	R.E.	Peoria, DI.	Spalding Institute	20 178	6:2	1
4O'ReilIy, Martin Gordon	C.	Chicago, DI.	Mt. Carmel H. S.	20 185	6:2	2
Patten, Paul Edward	Q.B.	Canton, N. Y.	Canton H. S.	20 178	5:8	2
Peasenelli, John Joseph	R.H.	Rochester, Pa.	Rochester, H. S.	21 176	5:10% 1
Perko, Thomas William	L.E.	Chisholm, Minn.	Chisholm H. S.	20 185	6:1% 1
Postpupack, Joseph Victor	F.B.	McAdoo, Pa.	McAdoo H. S.	21 190	6:0	2
Prokop, Joseph Michael	F.B.	Cleveland, Ohio	Cath. Latin H. S.	21 196	6:1	2
Riordan, Wilbur Eugene	R.G.	Sioux City, Iowa	East H. S.	22 180	5:10%l
Rymkus, Louis	L.T.	Chicago, DI.	Tilden H. S.	21 225	6:4	1
Smyth, William Krantz	L.E.	Cincinnati, Ohio	Roger Bacon H. S.	19 208	6:3	0
Sullivan, Edward Joseph	L.G.	Belle Harbor, N. Y;	St. John’s, Brooklyn	21 198	5:9% 2
Sullivan, Lawrence Patrick	L.T.	Brockton, Mass.	Tilton, N.H., Prep.	21 210	6:2	1
Tessaro, Ed Alexander	R.H.	Greensburg, Pa.	F.-Marshall Acad.	21 190	5:11% 0
Walsh, Robert Michael	R.G.	Springfield, Hl.	Cathedral H. S.	22 193	5:11 1
Warner, John Andrew, Jr.	L.H.	New Haven, Conn.	Cheshire Academy	20 181	6:0	1
Webb, Robert Bailey	R.G.	Santa Ana, Calif.	Santa Ana H.S.	20 190	5:10 1
Wright, Harry Charles	Q.B.	Hempstead, L.I., N.Y.	Chaminade, ^Mineola	21 188	6:0	1
4Ziemba, Walter John	C.	Hammond, Ind.	Hammond H. S.	22 228	6:2% 1
* — Indicates number of monograms won.
20
rCOCP’iN JT>UNTERJ
FROM THE ERETT BCX
by BILL SCANLAN
MEMORABLE DAY FOR F. W. LEAHY
Tomorrow is an eventful occasion for Francis William Leahy, class of ’31. . . . It’s his debut as head football mentoi- here, an event the nation is watching. . . . He has changed many of the players to new positions, he has introduced variations of the T-formation, and he has installed a stream-lined version of Rockne-style daring. . . . The student body hails Mr. Leahy and assistants John Druze, Ed McKeever and Joe McArdle. . . . May success be theirs. . . . Coach Leahy, by the way, celebrated his 33rd birthday, August 21. . . . And today is the first anniversary of his youngest daughter, Florence.
WYOMING OR MEXICO CITY
Walt Langford, tennis and fencing coach, spent the summer learning Portuguese at the University of Wyoming, Laramie. ... He recalls that temperatures there rival those of Mexico City as the most ideal he has ever experienced. . . . Daytime recordings seldom went much over 70, and 40 was a common night standard. . . . Baseball Coach Jake Kline managed a baseball team in Vermont and found time to shuttle across the continent to Salt Lake City, Utah. . . . His - chief complaint is that folks out West drive too fast. . . . Jake was scooting along about 90, and suddenly another motorist dashed by, hitting at least 110.
BROTHERS ON THE MARCH
Four sets of brothers are due for sports activity at Notre Dame this year. . . . Dick and Tom Creevy and Tom and Creighton Miller are varsity backfield rivals. . . . Orator Jim Brutz has a brother, Marty, attempting to spell “BRUTZ” on the freshman squad. . . . He’s succeeding, and will keep Jim hustling for renown as the family’s best tackle. . . . George Sobek, basketbailer of the “Soap-Chips Roll” reputation, will be able to advise brother Joe, a freshman.
NO. 23 SPARKLES AGAIN
Bill Cerney, frosh football coach and chief scout, wore No. 23 during his -playing days as “Fifth Horseman” in 1924, displaying his skill at fullback behind Elmer Layden. . . . Cerney anticipates considerable success for No. 23 this fall, especially since Frederick Owen (Dippy) Evans, Jr., wears it. . . . Evans, shifted from left halfback to fullback, is guarding his punting laurels these days with Creighton Miller and Jack Warner working overtime to close the gap.
CRIMMINS MOVES AGAIN
Two of Notre Dame’s huskiest tackles, Ray Ebli and Mike (Wrong Way) Hines, never played high school football. . . . Ebli pitched softball at his hometown, Ironwood, Mich., during the summer. . . . Ray’s brother enrolled at Villanova while Joe Prokop’s brother is a freshman at Georgia Tech. . .. Injuries are keeping Bernie Crimmins hopping. ... As a soph and junior, leg injuries kept him inactive much too often. . . . Now a shoulder hampers his 1941 performance. . . . The good folks from Louisville are hoping he’ll be in tip-top shape by game time tomorrow afternoon. ... As a soph he played behind Lou Zontini at right halfback; last year he subbed for Milt (Moose) Piepul at fullback; now No. 44 is leading the pack at the right guard berth—if Old Man Injury doesn’t call offside.
OUR ALL-AMERICAN BOY
Capt. Paul Lillis is rapidly becoming Notre Dame’s “All-American Boy”. ... He was born in Fort Worth, Texas; he played high school football at Buffalo and Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; and his family recently moved to Chicago. . . . Jim Rice, lanternhaired Bengal Bouts finalist, recently set some sort of an alley record when he exhibited his bowling prowess before some St. Mary’s belles at a South Bend emporium to the extent of 92 pins. . . . ’Tis rumored he defeated his partner from across the way, by nine pins.
JUST A GUESS
Notre Dame 20, Arizona 6.
Crimmins to Captain 1942 Baseball Squad
With the opening of the football season competing with World Series speculation for sports fans’ attention, Notre Dame offers a bit of baseball “news” in a resume of its 1941 diamond efforts.
Bernie “Beano” Crimmins, sandyhaired Kentuckian and all-around athlete won the captaincy for next season’s team. The 22 year old backstop has his eye on a professional baseball career after he graduates from the College of Commerce in June. Bernie succeeds Andy Chlebeck who led his team in nearly all branches of praiseworthy statistics this
Bernard “Beano” Crimmins He plays football—too.
past season. Chlebeck, who also seeks a career on the diamond, was one of the few juniors honored with a Notre Dame team captaincy. After knocking out a .479 record with the Klinemen, Andy batted over .300 with the Bennington, Vt. semi-pro team this summer in the same league in which Coach Kline was a manager.
After a very spotty season, featured by mediocre pitching most of the way, the Irish rose to their peak at the end of the season. Against California a team that had lost only two games on a crosscountry trip, Notre Dame swept a two game series. If this did nothing else, it certainly helped remove some of the bitter taste which the disappointing season had left in the mouths of the Irish.
The 1941 lettermen are Tom Callahan, Joe Campagna, Andy Chlebeck, Bernie Crimmins, Bob Fischer, Mike Kelly, John Metzger, Subby Nowicki, George Sobek, Chuck Crimmins, Charlie Farrell, Don Hengel, Ray Pinelli, and manager Marty Shea. The last five men were graduating seniors.
After the season ended, Ray Pinelli, to many fans the best Notre Dame infielder in many seasons, stepped right into fast company with the Newark Bears of the International League. That Yan-
21
kee farm shipped him to their Binghamp-ton farm of the Eastern League, a class B organization after some time. How he developed there is well shown by his .300 batting average for the season and the blond young Californian is expected back with Newark next spring.
Next Year?
Nothing much is known about next season, even the schedule is incomplete, but Coach Kline will have to come up with some pitchers if any improvement is expected. Two likely prospects are Smullen and Hanyzewski. Other prospects are just “fair.”
"Alumni” Activity
Rex Ellis, former Notre Dame twirler, is coaching at Rider College, Trenton, N. J.	’
Probably Notre Dame’s greatest pitcher in years, Norv Hunthausen, is now doing his bit for Uncle Sam in a camp near his native St. Louis.
Leahy Explains Reasons
For Secret Grid Drills
Many students are probably wondering just why they are allowed to witness football practice sessions only a scant 45 minutes each day and why at the end of that time some manager politely informs them to leave. They think of it as an encroachment upon their liberty. Yet Head Coach Frank Leahy had three definite reasons in mind when he ordered closed practices. Here they are in brief:
First of all, the players get nervous when being watched by fellow students at close range. Among their fellow players they are calmer and less inclined to be nervous than when being watched at close range by classmates. Secondly, the coaches are reluctant to criticize players in front of students. Thirdly, such a mob of students cannot but hide rival spotters, scouts, or possibly a football fanatic who might take down a few plays and present them to rival coaches merely for the pleasure attained in doing so. •
Furthermore Mr. Leahy had this to ■ say: “I appreciate the interest the students are showing in the team by wanting to watch daily practices. However, I think they could derive greater benefit from ■ some active sport in which they themselves could actually participate, such as tennis, swimming, golf, or handball.”—John Powers
Notice!
All Off-Campus men desiring to participate in interhall ball should meet Mr. Handy in balcony in the west end of fieldhouse at 4:00 Tuesday.
.	—Jack Dinges -
Interhall Football
To Get Under Way
Notre Dame football for students to whom varsity competition is but a dream is getting under way as plans are realized for t}ie third year of modern interhall football at Notre Dame.
Three leagues will again be the basis for competition. League I consists of all the freshmen halls; League II is composed of Badin, Morrissey, Lyons, St. Ed’s, and Howard, while Dillon, Walsh, Sorin, Alumni and Off-Campus will battle for the League III title. The campus championship game between the two surviving league winners will again be played in varsity silks in the Stadium. Appropriate individual awards will go to members of the winning team and another hall trophy will be presented by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., St. Ed’s won this award last year. League games will follow last year’s arrangement whereby three games were played Sunday mornings and three in the afternoon. Competent medical attention will be provided for each game.
Medical Slips Required _
After the first call for players, early drills will be confined to conditioning work in old clothes until candidates receive their equipment which will not be issued without a written medical o.k. from the University physician. Approximately 25 men will be selected to comprise the squad representing each hall.
Dr. E. R. Handy of the department of physical education and his slim young assistant, Joe Saitta, are again in charge of the program which they administered so successfully last year. They have selected as coaches fellows with several years of training in coaching work or varsity experience to train the interhallers. Officials expect to have the first games played in about two week^.
Coach Leahy has given his approval of the program in the following words: “We feel, as do many people, that interhall football may once again serve as the starting place for boys who have ambitions of playing on the varsity squad. Every Sunday some member of our varsity will officiate in each game. These players will have instructions to keep their eyes open for promising varsity material. Needless to say, we will respect any recommendations that the players give us in regard to star members of inter-hall teams.”
Faculty Tennis Meet
Starts This Week-end
Athletically inclined faculty members are invited to compete in the faculty tennis tournament which starts this weekend. All cleric and lay faculty members
wishing to compete may enter by contacting Edmund Smith of the Commerce faculty either personally or by phone.
Entrants to date include Walter Langford, defending champion; Louis Hasley, runner-up last year; Father Edward Keller, C.S.C. and Messrs. Devere, Donald Plunkett, Smithberger, Calkins, Din-colo, Bender, E. Smith, Eells, and Chris Fagan.
No trophy will be awarded—but there is also no entry fee.
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS
By Red Lonergan
1.	When and where was football first introduced into America?
2.	What former president of the United States was a football coach at a well-known eastern university?
3.	Who invented the basic principle of the Notre Dame shift?
4.	What was the greatest attendance at any football game, and who were the participants?
5.	What famous fullback, recently retired from professional football, was an All-American tackle?
6.	Can you name one of the two players who have made Walter Camp’s AllAmerican four years in succession?
(Anszvers will be found “in advertising" this issue.)
22
N.C.A.A. Golf Tournament
Slated for Notre Dame
Notre Dame’s golfers will play host to a legion of collegiate golfers at the 1942 N. C. A. A. championships next June as the University Centennial program gets into full swing. Announcement of the choice was made by “Chick” Evans, chairman of the N.C.A.A. at the completion of the National Collegiate Golf Championships at Ohio State last June.
Mr. Evans will visit Fr. Holderith, Irish golf coach, next month and together they will plan the matches which will be held at the South Bend Country Club next June.
Last Spring the Notre Dame golf team finished with a record of six wins and two losses. In a rather depressed tone, Fr. Holderith said that the Notre Dame men • had lost the State Championship for the first time in 10 years. Then rather cheerfully he remarked that his team finished eighth in the Nationals at Ohio
State, where 52 colleges and universities were represented. John Conry, a senior, played better than any Notre Dame entry- He pushed the defending champion to 22 holes before leaving.
William Wilson, a senior living in Alumni Hall, will captain the 1941-42 team.
At present Father Holderith is sponsoring the annual University Open Golf Championship. It is 72 holes of medal play. At this writing the first two rounds have been played and there are 36 more holes to be played. The pairings for the final 36 holes, accompanied by scores, are as follows:
Conry--------------143	Hedges____________155
Fehlig ------------146	Crowley 158
Fisher ------------147	Moore_____________158
Harrigan ----------14S	Klees_____________154
Sullivan ----------147	Smith_____________157
Whiting -----------149	Gans______________158
Moorehead ---------152	Allen_____________159
Malloy ------------151	Canale 160
Wolff -------------152	Sanfilippo________158
Nash --------------151	Ogden_____________168
Wilke -------------155	Sansome___________177
Schleck __________152
-The MEN’S Comer”
THE NEW STORE WELCOMES
THE MEN OF NOTRE DAME
Here you’ll find the type of service you rightfully expect backed by old familiar names:
• Buy yourself The University Gah—a brand new LEE Water-Bloc* that costs only $5. You’re in one of the smoothest hats you ever wore (with matching gabardine band and brim binding) . . . you’re in style with your hat and in clover with the gals!
Varsity-Town Wall Street Kuppenheimer Clothes Clipper-Craft
A Ipalux-Barpaca Manhattan Shirts
Mansco-Cooper Under Garments
Stetson Hats
Essley Shirts Wembley and
Botany Ties Florsheim and Freeman Shoes
Exclusive Headquarters FRANK H. LEE HATS
LEE
HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
* Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Visit South Bend’s fastest growing Men’s Store
Found only at ... .
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 ^.YOUNG MEN
Rvsc s Katz ■ W FOB MEN MO I ^rOUNGMEM
MAIN AT COLFAX
MAIN AT COLFAX
3. Harry L. Williams of Yale and later head foothall coach at Minnesota.
23
Ray Roy to Captain 1941-42 Track Squad,
After weathering a fairly successful ’40-’41 season, track coach Bill Mahoney is looking forward to an even better season for ’41-’42. Last season the squad won five of its seven dual meets — losses sustained at the hands of Michigan and Indiana were both avenged later. The Irish thinlies beat out Indiana in winning the Indiana state meet at Bloomington, and Michigan was set back when the Irish won the unofficial team title at the Drake Relays. This was certainly a noteworthy feat as some of the best track stars from all ovei' the country were gathered together for the relays.
Another feat accomplished by the Irish was the winning of the Central Intercollegiate Conference Indoor meet for the second consecutive year. Although plagued by injuries the team managed to take second place in the C.I.C. Outdoor meet.
Two of the four track stars entered in the National Intercollegiate Meet at Palo Alto, Calif., in June, placed in their respective positions. High-jump star Keith O’Rourke cleared the bar at 6 ft. 8 ins. to garner third place behind Oregon’s world record holder, Les Steers, and Wilson of Southern California. Jim Delaney, spectacular shot-putter, was the other Irish entry to place.
Last season’s team was composed to a great extent of sophomores, all of whom are back. Only four men were lost by graduation. However, the sprint department was weakened by the loss of Frank Sheets, Bill Buenger, and Bob Saggau. Captain Joe Olbrys, half miler, was the fourth of the graduating quartet. There are fairly ample replacements from last year’s frosh squad, although the most outstanding prospect of the frosh, half miler Eddie Dunham, has been lost to Uncle Sam’s armed forces.
This year’s squad will be captained by Ray Roy, senior from Oak Park, Hl., who has won two monograms thus far at Notre Dame. In his high school years, Roy, a quarter miler, competed in track only during his senior year. However, since coming to Notre Dame, Roy has managed to burn up the cinderpaths. His greatest feat on the cinders was accomplished at the Drake Relays last year
NOTRE DAME MEN have come to recognize our upstairs shop, for service and unusual things to wear — our flannels, shetlands, tweeds, camel's hair and fleece coats — all distinctively styled their way.
The BROOKS coat — popular item in any college man's wardrobe. Covert slacks — complete suits and topcoats — all made-to-your-measure — or custom-tailored in style and fabric of your choice.
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKER-WINTERROWD * 115% - 117% North Main Street (Upstairs)
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives: CAPTAIN F'AUL LILLIS LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McCARTY
321 Alumni Hall	233 Walsh Hall	115 Sorin Hall

when, as anchor man, he came from behind 25 yards to beat out Michigan, Ohio State, and Louisiana State to give Notre Dame first place in the one mile relay event. He is two year quarter mile champ in the C.I.C. Indoor meet and is considered the second ranking 440 star in the midwest.
Besides Captain Roy the seniors on the squad are George Schiewe, Joe Prokop, Jim O’Donohue, Herky Bereolos, and Ed Sullivan.
The returning junior lettermen are: Ollie Hunter, Tony Maloney, Frank Con-forti, Jay Gibson, Bill Nicholson, Gene Fehlig, Will Riordan, Dick Tupta, and Bill Dillon in the running events; and Keithe O’Rourke, Jim Delaney, Bob Vicars, Ezra Smith, and Jack Weitoff in the field events.
Cross country training got under way this week. Although it is not a regular sport here at Notre Dame Coach Mahoney should have a fairly strong squad built around Ollie Hunter, Frank Con-forti, and Tony Maloney. Hunter placed second in the National Intercollegiate meet at East Lansing last fall. The present schedule calls for a dual meet with Michigan Normal on Oct. 25, the state meet at Purdue and the National at East Lansing in November. Coach Mahoney hopes to arrange another dual meet to take place before the Nationals.
Barring the coach’s nemesis, the usual two athletic bugaboos — injury and academic difficulties, plus a new one, the . draft — Notre Dame should be stronger than last year. Al Handy will assist Head Coach Mahoney by handling the
24
weight men and keeping an eye on the freshmen. The schedule for next year is not yet completed and probably will not be announced before December.
—Bill Reynolds
Ticket Office Reports Heavy Advance Sales
Notre Dame’s supply of tickets for the Northwestern game at Evanston, Ill., on Nov. 15 is expected to be sold out by Oct. 1, Robert M. Cahill, assistant business manager and director of ticket sales announced this week.
“Don’t delay in ordering tickets for the Northwestern game,” Mr. Cahill suggested so that students, parents of students, or friends would be able to purchase tickets.
Ticket sales are now ahead of the 1940 pace, according to Mr. Cahill and Herbert E. Jones, new business manager of athletics. Reserved seats for the Army game in New York on Nov. 1 have been exhausted; only a limited number of box seats are available.
Sales for the Indiana and Illinois games are well ahead of schedule, and seats now available are situated between the goal-line and the five-yard line. Box seats for the Navy game in Baltimore are sold out.
THE
Huddle
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow _____________ $1.50
Yello-Bole Regular_______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ..... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ....—	3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ..... 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran ..... 5.00
Hollycourt .............  3.50
Sasieni .................    5.00
Comoy ..................     5.00
5. Bronko Nagurski of Minnesota was an All-American tackle in college, and later was one of the most famous fullbacks in professional ball. One of his records is still unbeaten.
A sellout for the final home game, here Nov. 22, appears probable. The sale at present is ahead of a similar game here in 1939. Anyone desiring tickets for any of the games should visit the ticket office in Breen-Phillips hall as soon as possible.
1, 103 Attend Summer School
The University’s 24th summer session closed on August 5 last with commencement exercises at which the Rev. Hugh



&X4
How to Win Friends in one easy lesson
Treat yourself and others to wholesome, delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. Helps keep breath sweet, teeth bright. The Flavor Lasts.
BO
V-165
O’Donnell, C.S.C., conferred 37 baccalaureate and 61 graduate degrees. The commencement address was delivered by the Rev. William C. Havey, C.S.C., Ph.D., S.T.D., vice-president of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas.
The summer attendance of 1103 comprised 823 priests, brothers and sisters, and 280 lay students. The graduate enrollment this year saw an increase of 50 percent over that of the previous summer.






25
Berths Still Open On Frosh Grid Squad
Bill Cemey, who in his former capacity as coach of the “B” squad, sent many gridiron greats Elmer Layden’s way, will continue to do the same for Coach Frank Leahy, in his new role as head freshman coach.
In his undergraduate days at Notre Dame, Cerney was called the “Fifth Horseman” by Rockne because of his
CHICAGO DATE? Take the South Shore Get there on time, without worry, fuss, or traffic jitters. No parking problems, either — South Shore trains breeze right into the Loop. Step off your train and onto Michigan Ave. Five other convenient stations in Chicago.
Remember — there's a South Shore train leaving for Chicago every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. Similar frequency of service FROM Chicago, too, with a late train leaving at 12:20 A.M.
TO CHICAGO
$ | 75
B ONE WAY
FROM SOUTH BEND
For information call ticket office 301 N. Michigan St., Tel. 3-3111
brilliant work with the shock troops as Elmer Layden’s understudy. He was a great ball-carrier, punter, and defensive back.
In the years from 1925 to 1934, he coached first at Loyola of Chicago and
Bill Cerney
then at the University of North Carolina. He returned to his alma mater in the Fall of 1934 as coach of the “B” squad and freshman baseball coach.
“In general this year’s freshman team is comparable to past outfits,” commented Cerney. “If diligent work is any criterion they should develop into a very formidable squad.”
A list of the frosh candidates reveals Marty Brutz, brother of varsity tackle, Jim, among their number.
“He’s even bigger than Lou Rymkus,” has been the exclamation in some quarters at sight of the titan of the squad, John “The Tree” Adams, a six foot six inch, 230 pound tackle from Subiaco, Ark.
Coach Cerney stressed the point that any freshmen is welcome to try out for the squad; those wishing to do so should see Mr. Cemey in his downstairs office in Breen-Phillips Hall as soon as possible.
The freshman roster follows:
Linemen: Dwyer, Zilly, Yonker, Furey, Czarobski, Adams, Brutz, Tobin, Callahan, Yangen, Syzmanoki, Coleman, Bowan, Kamenisky, Meter, Hecht, Man-uzak, Higgins, Manzo, Markley, Cusick, Lemont, Huber, Palaetk.
Cowhig, O’Connor, Hahn, Bulger, Key, Livingstone, Taiboon, Everett, downing, Holland, Neithammer, Krupa, Stetzar, Clatt, Mello, David, Piccone.
Since its founding in 1802, United States Military academy has admitted 23,032 cadets, including foreigners, and has graduated 12,661.
“I DROPPED it!" “WHAT?"
“My WATCH"
PETERS. Watch Maker 102^/2 N. Michigan Street Over Clark’s Restaurant
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
1. In 1S00, at Harvard. The faculty banned it because they thought it foolish “to run after a bag of wind.”
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
PHONOGRAPH RECORDS by all big name bands and artists: 10c, 15c, 20c each (Large selection)
AU kinds of Needles
POP'S RECORD SHOP 232V2 S. Michigan St. (2nd Floor) Open evenings until nine
WELCOME Class of *45 and all Notre Dame men
Call on us when you need fine leather goods — for gifts or for yourself.
While you are waiting for the N. D. bus at the corner of Michigan and Colfax — we invite you to come in our shop and look around.
HansZ*Rintzsch
Patronize Our Advertisers
26
M'X ADLER
ON THE CORNER	Michigan at Washington
It’s Adler’s for Arrows!
You II find a huge selection of authentically styled, long-wearing Arrows at Arrow Headquarters. The snappy patterns for fall are here. See them tomorrow.
G. Marshall Newell of Harvard, 1890-93, and Frank Hinky of Yale, 1891-94.
AWOWSHUm
Everybody goes for Arrow shirts — for Arrows go well with everyone.
New fall Arrow shirts come in snappy patterns and every model desired—button-down, low-slope, wide-spread points; stripes, solids, or whites. Mitoga tailored to fit, and Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). $2 and $2.50.
Pick up some new harmonizing Arrow ties, too! $1 and $1.50.
Georgia Students Must Study Hard—Or Else
Georgia selective service headquarters has recommended that college students be deferred from military training as long as they “maintain a standard of academic work which is satisfactory to the college and to the local board.”
Major Charles J. Brockman, state occupational deferment director, said the new deferment recommendation will include all college students not yet placed in classification 1-A.
Local boards already had been authorized to defer students taking “essential courses” such as medicine, dentistry, chemistry, engineering, biology, geology, physics and mining, but the state headquarters wants the grades looked into first.
Of the 90,000 officers in the United States army, fewer than 7,000 are West Pointers.
Authorities of nine New England colleges, including Harvard, have asked students not to bring automobiles to college this fall as a gasoline conservation measure.
University of Michigan will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the opening of its college of literature, science and the arts Oct. 15.
"MOCS"
Will lead the list on every campus — and most of them at Notre Dame will come from KINNEY'S.
Leather or Crepe Soles.
4. 112,912 witnessed the Notre Dame-Southern California game at Soldiers Field in Chicago in 1929.
KINNEY'S
134 S. MICHIGAN
27
Varsity Football Men
Visit Incoming Frosh
Coach Frank Leahy’s football men inaugurated a new tradition at Notre Dame last week when they made the rounds of all the freshman recreation halls to meet and greet incoming first-year men.
The occasion was the initial freshman mixer held in each of those halls for the purpose of getting new students acquainted with one another. Several members of the varsity squad, led by Captain Paul Lillis, who organized the tour and acted as master of ceremonies, spoke to the assembled students and welcomed them to the University.
Football men who appeared at these parties in Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Zahm, and Brownson halls included: Captain Paul Lillis, Bob Dove, Steve Juzwik, Bernie Crimmins, Bob Hargrave, Owen “Dippy” Evans, Jack Warner, John Lanahan, Wally Ziemba, Jim Brutz, and Harry Wright.
In their informal talks they stressed the fact that equality is characteristic of this University, that there is no discrimination here, that it is wise to take advantage of the spiritual aids available to the Notre Dame student, and that it is important to become acquainted with one another and to observe the University’s traditions. To this newest Notre Dame class the players offered their services and advice on the numerous problems which arise in the course of the student’s college years.
The whole program was enlivened by
FMO HOPKINS
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel. -
STUDENTS!
Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet your purse.
a goodly amount of personal banter and repartee among the speakers themselves which diversion was thoroughly enjoyed by the audiences. Football men contacted later, expressed their appreciation for the enthusiastic receptions they received wherever they went.
—Martin M. McLaughlin
First Victory Dance
To Be Held Tomorrow Eve
Tomorrow Notre Dame men will tear up the turf in the stadium; tomorrow night at 8:00, C.S.T., they will tear up their partners’ toes on the dance floor when the first Victory Dance of the
FOR SALE/
n®1 w	The slide rule you would ordinarily buy this
term has been drafted for National Defense. H S Sorry, it can’t be helped. Although we have H increased our production tremendously the Defense Program still absorbs more rules than S || we can make right now. But we are still increasing production. Within four months, || w your slide rule will be ready for you...
M but we’H lend you one
I»	Meanwhile, we have found a way out. To meet
Il this temporary emergency we have made a
III quantity of mass production slide rules that B will tide you over until your standard rules » ® are ready. These rules are not for sale. We || will lend you one upon the deposit of One B Dollar... and give you a full trade-in allow-|| H ance when your standard rule is ready. No
with our compliments as long as the emergency lasts! Your campus bookstore has K&E "loaned-on-deposit” slide rules in stock for immediate delivery.
KEUFFEL & ESSER CO
FOUNDED 1867
year is held at the Indiana Club.
Tomorrow night’s affair is sponsored by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the proceeds will be given to the local chapter of the St. Vincent De PauL
Music will be furnished by Bob Richardson and his Modernaires. The band is fresh from a number of successful summer engagements and promises a fine program.
Tickets for the dance may be secured from football captain Paul Lillis, who is chairman of the hop, or any member of the A.S.M.E. They will also be on sale at the door.
28
SHAVINGS FROM THE SPLINTERS' BOX
WHO’S GOT A RACQUET?
Jim Evert surprised tennis enthusiasts when he marched into Notre Dame and Breen-Phillips hall without a racquet. ... He had to borrow one before playing Olen Parks, talented Irish star who went undefeated all spring. . . . Who’s Evert? . . . . He’s merely National junior indoor titlist, runnerup in national outdoor doubles, and semi-finalist in outdoor doubles. . . . Jim expects to polish up his game against such talented competition as Parks, Capt. Dan Canale, Bob Faught, and Bill Reed, the latter Wisconsin’s high school champion.
OLD HOME WEEK
It will be old-home week for Bob Hargrave and much publicized Bill Hillenbrand, Indiana sophomore, here on Oct. 4. . . . They practiced together after work on one of Evansville’s playgrounds last month. . . . And Bob White, who shared Brownson hall washrooms with Jim Brutz, Herky Bereolos, Steve Juzwik and company three years ago, is one of the main springs of the Hoosier offensive.
WEDDING BELLS FOR BENNY
Andy Chlebeck, fleet-footed baseball captain of 1941 who made a one-man race of battling laurels for the Irish, has been making use of his speed as a fullback and end on the football squad. . . . Bennie Sheridan, who made jersey No. 12 famous a few seasons back, is the new head football coach at Fort Riley, Kan., where he’s a member of the U. S. Army. . . . Benny soon expects to hear wedding bells with Miss Dorothy Spalding, secretary to the dean of engineering. . . . Johnny Druze and Joe McArdle, assistant grid coaches, and Bill Sullivan, secretary to Mr. Leahy, are odds on choices to take the step within a year.
PLEASURE IS
DaGRABOW
Disney's Booh of <00 $onqs
(while supply lasts) with 15* purchase of
Size 7%"x9%'
Then’s only one correct way to “freak to” a pipe., that’s by smoking it. Only Dr. Grabow ppesanpn-smokedwitiiftoe tobacco (Edgeworth) on Linliman’s mechanical smoking machine.
MADE BY M. LINKMAN & CO.. CHICAGO MAKERS OF ftollvcourt PIPES
NO MUKNGN NORTE NO WTTH TASTE
DR. GRABOW'S PATENTED CLEANER
so
min of
STYLES
PARKER —
\\n Lyrics nM included:
IM “Baby Mine’* /Mi “Casey Junior’’ M “Look Out for K Mr.Stork” » “I've Seen Every" thing.*’“Pink Elephants On Parade’*
J Quink
CLEANS A PEN AS
IT WRITES
STOPS fiLTWO-TMIRDS
OF PEN TROUBLES
QUICKER
DRIES ON PAPER
© Walt Disney Productions
RICH,FULL-BODIED, BRILLIANT COLORS
the exciting, new quick-drying ink that cleans your pen as it writes!
Yes, without waiting a day, you can now get this brand-new Book of Songs, including big hits from Disney’s latest Feature Picture, “DUMBO” —songs you’ll soon be hearing everywhere, and also 94 other Favorites—and allFREE.if you hurry.
Go to the nearest store selling Parker Quink and buy a bottle for only 15 The retailer gives you your Walt Disney Song Book right then and there!
This almost incredible offer is made to introduce Qaink to hosts of new users. For Quink contains a harmless agent that dissolves deposits left by pen-clogging inks. Quink makes a pen a self-cleaner—a Parker or ANY OTHER pen.
So whether you use a Parker or not, using Quink is the finest protection you can give it. And your Quink will keep till you need it, but the retailer’s supply of Song Books won’t last long.
_____________________ So hurry.
The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
independent Laboratory test of next four selling brands.
WE CARRY Not only DR. GRABOW and
HOLLYCOURT
Pipes but also KAYWOODIE YELLO BOLE
DUNHILL SASIENI and many others
2. Woodrow Wilson was head coach at Princeton in 1890.
BRUGGNER’S
CIGAR STORE
HON. MAIN ST. (Opposite Oliver Hotel) .
29
ARTURO TOSCANINI
Symphony No. 5 (Beethoven) with the NBC Symphony
Orchestra. 8 sides, in. album............$4.50
LEOPOLD STOKOWSKI
complete stock of Victor Records. You’ll find Victor Records are best, best in orchestras—best in conductors—best because of the unrivalled Victor recording technique. Why be contented with less? Get the best at no extra cost!
and The Philadelphia Orchestra
Nutcracker Suite (Tschaikowsky). 6 sides, in album $3.50 SERGE KOUSSEVITZKY and The Boston Symphony
Symphonies Nos. 29 and 34 (Mozart). 9 sides, in album	.......................$5.00
EUGENE GOOSSENS
Symphony No. 2 (Tschaikowsky) with Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. 8 sides, in album . . . $4.50 Peer Gynt Suite No. 1 (Grieg) with London Philharmonic Orchestra. 4 sides, in album . . . . . $2.50
HANS KINDLER ■ " and The National Symphony
Symphony No. 3 (Brahms). 8 sides, in album $4.50 Symphony No. 3 (Polish) (Tschaikowsky). 10 sides,
in album............................  $5.50
PIERRE MONTEUX
La Valse (Ravel) with the San Francisco Symphony
Orchestra. 4 sides, in album..........$2.50
SIR THOMAS BEECHAM
En Saga, The Bard, Valse Triste, etc. (Sibelius) with The London Philharmonic Orchestra. 14 sides, in album.....................................$7.50
FABIEN SEVITZKY
Russian and Ludmilla—Overture (Glinka)—Dubin-ushka (Rimsky-Korsakow) with The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra. 2 sides..................$1.00
BRUNO WALTER and The
Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra
Eine kleine Nachtmusik (Mozart). 4 sides, in album $2.50
Leonore’ Overture No. 3 (Beethoven). 4 sides, in album.....................................$2.50
To hear Victor Records^at their best,play them on the new RCA. Victrola
--------------------------—-----
SPECIAL Gift OFFER!
The makers of Victor Records are celebrating the greatest year in their history with this sensational gi/t oj/er on these two great Victor Red Seal Records No. 18220 and No. 13830.
GET YOURS NOW!
Buy either one for	Get the other one
*1.00 FREE
TWO FOR THE PRICE OF ONE!
Arthur
FIEDLER
Bath Brand New 12 Victor Red Seal Records! This offer Is •ora limited tine only!
and the great Boston •’Pops’* Orchestra play ing Faust Ballet Music, by Gounod. No. 13830.
Eugene ORMANDY and the great Philadelphia Orchestra playing The Emperor Waltz, by Johann Strauss. No. 18220.	-
Other Magnificent Victor Records by these Distinguished Artists
Eugene Ormandy and The Philadelphia Orchestra
Sibelius75th Anniversary Album. 6 sides . $3.50 Meistersinger—Dance of the Apprentices — Entrance of Meistersingers (Wagner). 2 sides . 75$
Arthu. Fiedler and The Boston “Pops”
1812 Overture—Capric-cioltalien (Tschaikowsky) 8 sides, in album . $4.50 Gioconda—Dance of the Hours (Ponchielli) .2 sides $1.00
latest Columbia
POPULAR RECORDS
BODHIS
/ft	muh/6/h .
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
30
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
Attention: Cassasanta, Private McKim is Here
Joe Cassasanta might well enlist the aid of Ed McKim to whip the band into marching trim for the home football games. It seems Ed is particularly capable when it comes to that sort of thing. Ed is a private, first class, in the U. S. Marine Corps Reserve. He received an award for his platoon, 2nd platoon, Company “B,” which was the best drilled platoon of the Western Platoon Leaders Class for 1941. The award was made by Major General William P. Upshur, commanding general of the U. S. Marine Corps Base, San Diego, Calif.
Druze played left end and he starred as a blocker and defensive man, since Fordham does not employ many passes, comparatively. He stands six feet tall, and is slightly over the 193 pounds he weighed as a senior with the Rams.
Druze was graduated with a bachelor of science degree, having majored in economics. He played for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1938 under Potsy Clark. The following spring Leahy hired him as coach of ends and tackles at Boston College, the post he will also fill at Notre Dame. Druze has straight black thinning hair, and gray-blue eyes.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Finest Service
Most Complete Stock
ALL MAKES
VICTOR
COLUMBIA DECCA OKEH
Music Appreciation” Sets
F" F" with this r I xELEL Coupon Leather-Plush Record Brush with purchase (Minimum $2)
IT’S A PLEASURE to shop Records at
ELBEL BROS.
234 N. Michigan St. Cor. LaSalle
Patronize Our Advertisers
FATHER O'DONNEL'S SERMON (Continued from page 14)
this, and a Christ-like charity will reign in your hearts! Do this, and you will practice the two great Commandments:
• love of God and love of neighbor; you will lessen the hurricane of hate that is sweeping over the world!
My dear young men, let yours be the light of Faith, whence spring Hope and Charity. In this spirit, I exhort you to accept the challenge of a future which is hidden from your eyes. Regardless of trial and hardship, regardless of the suffering and pain that beset the path of every man, keep before you the image of Christ on the eternal Shore, waiting to . receive the faithful servant. He is your hope, He is your strength, He is your very life.
THEY HELP LEAHY (Continued from page 10) of centers and guards when Leahy became head coach in 1939.
Druze is Russia’s contribution to the football squad. Both his mother and father are of Russian descent. He attended Madison junior high school in Irvington, N. J., and then Irvington high school, where he played offensive fullback and defensive end as a freshman, and end for three more years. He played four years of basketball at forward, and four years of baseball at first base, winning 12 letters.
He entered Fordham in 1934, where Ed Hunsinger, end with the famous Notre Dame Four Horsemen of 1924, was freshman coach. He played under Leahy and End Coach Hughie Devore, 1933 Notre Dame co-captain, the next three years. He was a regular all three years and captain of the 1937 team which won seven games and tied one. Druze played 60 minutes in almost every game Fordham played. As one of the famous “Seven Blocks of Granite” he played 180 minutes in three years against Pitt.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg.	South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. building	Telephone 4-360
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M.D.	M.D.
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND? IND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower bldg.	Phone 3-2574
31
Smokers everywhere like their COOLER MILDER BETTER TASTE
Chesterfield’s mounting popularity is due to the Right Combination of the world’s leading tobaccos... the best known cigarette tobaccos from Tobaccoland, U. S. A., blended with the best that come from abroad.
EVERYWHERE YOU GO
Copyright 1911. Ltcctrr & Mms Toucco Co.