

·,.,._.... . .... ....,. 
......., •..,•, .'·a., 
-~:.~•­
Q 

V
V 
We're now hiring: Campus Life Editor .··· Assistant Campus Life Editor Assistant News Editor·· 
: Assistant Design Editor 

: Assistant Advertising Manager 
Scholastic is looking for a fresh crop of talented and ambitious recruits .. Interested? Contact Scholastic at 631-7569 or stop by our office to pick up an application. We're conveniently located in the basement of South Dining Hall. The application deadline is December 8. 
V E M B E R 
:i'.AII Tangl:ct-lJ1i . 
07 
,.\ --• by Dave Harman _­
'•::..,~.:::--:. ·~-;.=.-:..•-~-.--,:;.-~-;:;:. -~ ·... _,~·-:.. __::;:·-.:..';:".:-···::~.·..c:.-:·.,, -:.·.~-­
_ A look afthe Office of Information ­Technologies'fatal error(s), and how ­the university plans ~o-repair them; 
.4-:::::~---... -· ... 
._-fWf;!ighing theRi$_ks -_-_
-1,------. ---_-----: -­
-17
. \, . -• : · · bjtJessica Daues , .. a_.:•·:•=-.• -.-=~·-,-::···-_ -·: -.:: -_·•.,ccc~.·c_ ·•-----·•·•--l 
COVER: Creatine may build muscle I -more quickly, ,but -is it safe? _Com~ _­paring the risks'andbenefits of US"' 1 ing-the sl.ippiement -_ -.. 1
·f 
i 
_,::,"'. . --__ ,_ .. . . -----.:---~---.... ---... . ··--·1 
(( Dream.Theate~, _ . _ __ -J 28 \,, ·· · ': .__:byKara Zuaro _, 
•.,--~~ ...,,. :.--. -..··_ --~--. ..-cc···-<=-···· .. -··>.= --p-_-----" -~ 
Give up on those run~oMhe-mill DeBartolo flicks and take a trip to thisVintage movietheaterfor some-l thing an~le more c:titsy. l 
--I 
I 
I
,· ,,,~·--~---.-..--,,,-.~-----1!1!11111~--------•,-­
r( Cotp~rate Con~~cti<>hs I 
ii :by_fAatt:Ziegler --::: : _• :; 1 

~ ---. --I 
!i Her~ Comes th~ RA 12 
( byKevin Allen 
J 

] Teeing Off:,-• ' 
14 

( -byHowa_(d O'Rpciike: 
·-r 
li

ii Medieval Time·s• -­
25 

-_ 1-_--_ ,--•-: --__ -___ _. ______ :-:_ -­
~' _by J~sse Kent --__ -<:-' . 
COUITTSSVOFVIC<e,•nHB\TRE r'•Sec >a: • C , -• • . C ; 
thedepartments 
I 


I

From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 26 ( ­ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 30 Splinters 23 Calendar 31 Campus Watch 22 Final Word 32 

Vol. 142, No. 7 • 30 NOVEMBER 2000 
scholasti~17J]D.L,;.~~ta_ff_..:......:.....~-'----'---"'-'--~"""' 
Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore Jr. 

Managing Editor Associate Editor Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie Caspersen, editor 
Agatha Noble, assistant 
Campus Life Tina E. Zurcher, editor 
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, assistant 

Kimberly A. Blackwell, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 

Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
Design Matthew B. Barr, editor 
Jessica Chamberlain 
Mary Huigens, Katie Wales, 
Katie Browning 
Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Nolan D. Orfield, assistant 
Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor 
Michael delaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 
Jennifer L. Wahoske 
Distribution Angela Polsinelli, manager 
Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager 
Online Brian Scofield, manager 

Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright ©2000. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Adam Aroian is the official office party pooper.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request In certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 

I'm skinny -a bit squishy now if the truth be told -and I don't work out very much. Ofcourse, like most.people at Notre Dame, I've tried to stay fit. I play RecSports hock~y every year, occasionally make it out for a section football game and can run a few miles without straining myself. Two years ago, the prospect of spring break got me motivated enough to start working out on a semi-regular basis, and even as recently as this summer I spenttwo hours a day, three days a week on a strength-and­conditioning program. Unfortunately, just like most people, other commitments manage to creep in and invade my exercise time. When the talking heads and fitness gurus preach about the importance of staying in shape, it seems so simple: three times a week, an hour or so for each workout -it should be easy to set aside three hours out of every week to do something healthy. But of course it isn't. Almost everyone wants the perfect body, but not everyone has the time or the drive or the ambition to get it. Instead, many ofus look for shortcuts. So we get Buns of Steel, Five-Minute Abs and celebrities from Chuck Norris to Suzanne Sommers hocking Thighmasters and butt-shapers and total workouts in 10 minutes. Some ofthese solutions might work.Most are ineffective, but all that's lost is a little bit of cash (and maybe some pride if your friends catch a glimpse of that Thighmaster collecting dust in the corner). Other shortcuts, however, aren't just ineffective, they're dangerous. By now, the damaging side effects of performance-enhancing drugs like steroids are well-documented. But there are new performance boosters making their way to the market. Recently, the~ use of creatine has sparked controversy in professional and college sports alike. The debate is particu­larly relevant at a fitness-prone campus like Notre Dame. Scholastic's Jessica Daues takes a look at the debate in this week's cover story, which starts on page 16. 


Righting Wrongs 
WVFI's Brian Snyder provided Scholastic with an audio recording ofthe Guster interview featured in the November 6 issue. Unfortunately, the article failed to note Brian's contribution. I wanted to take this chance to thank Brian and WVFI for helping us out and apologize for the mistake. 

See You Next Year 
This will be the last issue of Scholastic for the semester. It's been a fantastic semester with a great staff. I wish everyone a safe and happy 
holiday season, aod I look fonv,ud to a grea1 spring7k-­
/ Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 

2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 

TRY THE TASTE THE WHOLE COUNTRY LOVES. 
America's all about big, so America loves the delicious WHOPPER~ How could you not love a big, beefy burger, with gigantic amounts of delicious, flame-broiled taste? So if you're feeling patriotic-and really hungry-come and get one. 


The Huddle Lafortune Student Center 
HAVE IT YOUR WAY~ 


Story by Katie Caspersen 

ND volunteers sell gifts for needy children this winter Art by Carol Wolf 

'.­

; a ­
[ 
The holiday season is a time for giving, and the Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's need your help. 

The Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, a group of female spouses and female faculty members of the two schools, are sponsoring a holiday card­and-gift sale in the Hes burgh Library con­course this holiday season. 
In addition to a wide assortment ofholi­day greeting cards, the sale features sta­tionery, blank note cards, coffee mugs, puzzles, calendars, children's books and more. "Our organization, the Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, has spon­sored the sale since 1967 ," volunteer co­ordinator Brigid Dutile says. "Everyone is a volunteer." 
The group donates all proceeds from the sale to the United Nations Children's Fund, which helps needy children around the world. 
Last year, the sale raised more than 


--,-Te,,:,~Q_ue.stlons~.-~-,-~ 

with_ NciJi.EJ Dame i. .. tqdibali( . · 
.1egepd\::: · 

$4,200, and the volunteers hope to sur­
pass that figure in this year's event. "We 
think it's so important, especially during 
the holiday season, to extend our giving 
spirit to those around the world who do 
not share in our bounty," Dutile says. 
"The world's neediest children benefit 
greatly from your purchases. Just $20 
supplies enough high-dose vitamin-A 
capsules to protect 500 toddlers from 
blindness." 

She stresses that giving does 
not only help the recipients. 
"We, too, benefit by demon­strating to everyone -but es­pecially to our international stu­dents, faculty and staff -that we care about people far beyond our campuses," Dutile says. "In our increasingly interdependent world climate, hands stretched around the globe are more important than ever." 
>> 

Former Notre Dame quarterback Paul 
Hornung knows both the highs and lows of football. In 1956, he led the Irish to their worst season ever (2-8) and became the first player ever to win the Reisman Trophy while playing for a losing team. Hornung plqyed several other 
positions in his career with both the Irish and the 
Green Bay Packers, including left haljback, 
fullback and safety. Hornung now serves as a 
college-football commentator. This week, he 
tells Scholastic his opinions on girls, the XFL 
and this year's Irish team. 
What is it like to come back to campus? 
Well, its been great to me all the time. I have been coming back every week for the past 30 years. 
The sale runs from November 27 through December 1, and again from De­cember 4 through December 8. The hours will be from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. D 
-
. 

How do you like seeing girls around? 
Oh, its great. I've always been very proud that they admitted the ladies, even though they've moved the curb up since then. I don't know ifI could have graduated here now, as tough as it is. But the ladies reaHy have.been a wonderful addition. 
Iknowyou played many positions other than quarterback'. What was your favor­ite? 
Well, I have to say halfback. I enjoyed playing quarterback while I was here at Notre Dame, but then we had to play both ways,offenseand defense. Quarterback was my best position until I got to the pros, and then Lombardi switched me to halfback. 

·, • , J • , ,.,,, • ,, _l -. •' • ' • • 
American Matador 
label: Motorcoat release date: 7 November 2000 Story by Kara Zuaro 

>> 
And it worked out well. 

......... ..W~~ Pl.c!ying more than one position difficult?· ·· · · · ·· ' · · ·· ', · · ,, , , . 
Ohyeah,itwas.Butyougetfamiliarwith it, you get used to it. You have to do what the coach says. 
How does this year's team look? 

I think this year's team has done a re­markable job of turning the ball around. Everyone talked about how this was going to be a dismal season, but it turned out to be an excallent one. Bob Davie's done a really good job. 
Who's your pick to win the Super Bowl this year? 

Ooh, that's tough. I think Tennessee has 
an excellent shot. St. Louis is in a little funk ,right now with their defense . . . I think 
Tennessee will win it. 
Your Former Green Bay coach, Vince Lombardi, once said, -"Winning isn't ev­erything, it's the only thing." Do you agree? 
Oh yes -winning is great. 
What was it like to be inducted into both the college and pro-football halls of fame? 
I thought it was a great honor. You know, there haven't been too many football play-· 
J 


judgmentcalls 
(.\··.· · · : Electio11 l 
~.....
i/------'~•···~\;~D~~b~ac_le~··.:j 
Pregnant chads, hanging chads, overseas ballots, litigation and a media circus. Ah, the American way. 

•.•..:x:so111~;e~~~··••·•1 
The only thing more complicated than the BCS rankings is this year's election, but the Irish will be playing somewhere warm on New Year's Day. 
November··• 
.>:snow}: 

It's not even winter yet, and we've already gotten a foot of the white stuff. At .least it gave us an excuse to throw things at Zahm. 
>..~-•···•··• >C.-.hri~t~as •·.1 
,:: ,.·:-· .....:,-. ••-' ., __ -__ -. ­
CD' 
The birth of Christ. Who can argue with that? 


The snow is falling fast and sharp, like rice at a shotgun wedding. The En­glish-toffee cappuccino machine at the Huddle is empty, and Pavement, your fa­vorite band since high school,just broke up. And where does that leave you? Sitting in 
the South Bend air­port wondering ifthe 40-minute delay you 're facing will affect your Cincin­nati connection. Drowning out the flight announce­


ments with your headphones, playing a special air-travel se­lection, "Hit The Plane Down" and "El­evate Me Later," from Pavement's 1994 release, Crooked Rain Crooked Rain, again and again and again. 
How about something new from The Buddyrevelles to soothe your wintertime woes? American Matador, the sophomore release from this Eau Claire, Wis. three­piece, might just do the trick. 
It would be unfair to call The 

Buddyrevelles a Pavement-resurrection band. The Buddies are more like that little chocolate labrador puppy that wandered into your back yard last summer, just two weeks after your sweet old golden retriever took a one-way ticket to canine heaven ­the band is a serendipitous replacement for that which you've been starting to miss. The connections between the two bands are ob­lique and bittersweet. American Matador sputters and glides with Pavement-esque slipshod harmonies, especially on "Instru­mental Lessons," but Buddyrevelle Aaron Grant's euphonious vocals and earnest lyr­ics ring more ofElliot Smith's than those of Stephen Malkmus from Pavement. And The Buddyrevelles' lingering melodies are remi­niscent of Pele, their Milwaulkee neigh­bors, who released The Nudes on Polyvinyl in September. 
So, make the most of the snow delay, settle for hot cocoa or some Kana blend, and replace your air-travel selection with The Buddyrevelles' "Let's Ride Horses." . 
For more info on this band, check out www.nd.edul~scholast/. 
ers here at Notre Dame to go to the college hall offame and the pro hall offame and the national high-school hall of fame. So I am very proud. 
What do you think of the XFL? 

I don't know. I think its going to be just like wrestling -it will be wild, uninhibited and fun to watch. I just don't know how they will play in Soldier Field in February. That's a problem. 
Do you think anyone will ever win a Heisman on a losing team again? 
No, they really can't. Unless they play here. 
-Jessica Daues 




36Years Ago 
Sheer Torture 
Oh, the humanity ... 

The following letter to the editor of 
The Notre Dame Scholastic appeared in 
the February 14, 1964 issue, when the university was still single-sex: 
All semester long I have searched for 
girls on campus with no results. On 
weekends when I had nothing to do, I 
could walkfor an hour without seeing a 
girl. 
Why, then, do females en masse have 
to converge on Notre Dame the week­
end before finals. Sunday afternoon at 
the library looked like a Junior Prom 
and one of the best mixers of the year 

. was going on by the basement vending 
machines. 
Is this some form of Chinese torture 
for aspiring undergraduates cramming 
for finals? 
And now they're in all of our classes, too, with only 11 days left until exams begin! Better start studying now, boys. 
-Cristin Fenzel 



Approximate percentage of players who are ... 


43 As far as Head Golf Professional Ken Fry knows, Warren Golf Course is the only one in the country that doesn't have par. Here are some other interesting facts about Warren we've got teed up: 
Sources: Brian Godfrey, general manager, and Ken Fry, head golf professional. 


DAVIDHARMAN 
The problems are familiar: e-mail service interruptions, Internet access outages, slow response times. Many ofNotre Dame's computer users have had at least one frustrating experience with the technology available at the university. Often, . users blame the Office of Information Technologies for the prob­lems they encounter. Since technology plays such a critical role in our daily lives, the OIT has recently received sharp criticism for what many see as its failure to provide adequate technology support services. Talking to students in Hesburgh Library's computer cluster, one can quickly learn how many students feel about the kind ofjob OIT is doing. "It seems like--OIT is always having a problem with something. I can't sign on to a computer lab without having to install every application I want to use every time I want to use it. It is really aggravatfog ," says junior Chris Cooper. Cooper is not the only student experiencing such difficulties. "It is my perception that students have had more trouble this year," says Brian Burchett, manager of interactive services. "It is not that the software is badly installed or that the computers are lower quality, but that the students who were here prior to this year have a roaming profile and it contains settings for last year's software and last year's configuration. When you log on, your roaming profile is imported into the computer and ifthe settings are incorrect, it can break things or harm performance." 
Burchett says that OIT tried to distribute information explaining solutions and utilities available to fix this problem. "I don't know how widely spread this was;" says Burchett. "An e-mail was sent out to students and faculty giving instructions to follow and all of the cluster consultants were required to attend training to help people fix or delete their old profiles." But the problem persists, compounding the negative sentiment regarding OIT's ability-to provide quality service. 
Students are not the_only ones experiencing problems with the OIT. Professor Chris Vanden Bossche, chair ofthe English depart­ment, is also frustrated.."Tlie problems that I have encountered aren't with indivi~ual,s_ or with the quality of the work that they do 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 


.. ,"•..:.•~"~~~ 
....•. ,ii•"~/ 



!~~t~,~~ 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
-the problems have been mainly with the service and communication breakdowns that occur." 
A few weeks ago, Vanden Bossche had a Macintosh I-Book delivered to his office, and he called OIT to come to install network software -in this case ND Access -on the computer. After two hours, Dreamweaver software and the basic templates they had given us to upgrade our Web page. The templates are pro­fessionally designed and ev­erything so that seemed like a good solution." 

The problems arose when an English department em­ployee began putting the 
NDAccess was still not installed and the OIT staff member was forced to call OIT for assistance. "They told him what to do and within five minutes the computer was in­stalled," says Vanden Bossche. "I have spo­. ken with someone in service who after 15 years of working with Macs was suddenly being told to work on Windows. OIT has this policy where everyone should be expe­rienced with everything, which is good, but not when it leads to bad service. I wasted two hours when I anticipated the job to take less than a half hour, as it did with the other installations that I have had in the past. I 
don't blame the guy, he was just sent to do the job, but he didn't know the machine he was working on so it took that long." 
This is not the only negative experience Vanden Bossche has had with the OIT. Last year, he received templates from OIT to upgrade the English department's Web page. According to Vanden Bossche," OIT rec­
ommended that we buy the 
pages together. "There were some things he just couldn't get to work," says Vanden Bossche, "so he contacted OIT and from November until June he got no solution. [Finally,] they recommended that we upgrade to the next Dream weaver, but we had already bought the first Dream weaver on their recommendation." Eventually, the employee working on the Web page found the solutions to his problems without the help of the OIT. 
"Part of the problem was that they just were not telling him, 'We couldn't do this' or, 'There was a problem with the template that we sent out.' There was just no commu­nication about it. And getting back to us ­I mean, you don't expect an instant answer but you expect one faster than six months," says Vanden Bossche. 
The problems seem to stem in part from a controversial reorganization ofthe OIT. "For OIT to be prepared to keep up in the emerg­ing e-world, changes needed to be made in the way we were structur.ed. We weren't poised to make the move, but now we are. This restructuring was not done arbitrarily -careful thought and consideration was involved in the drastic alteration of the ex­isting organization," says Assistant Provost of the Office of Information Technologies Dr. Larry Rapagnani. "There is a direct relationship between the [restructuring and the quality of service]. The restructuring made it possible to enhance and improve our performance, and more importantly to continue to improve." 
Not everyone agrees with this assess­ment. Vanden Bossche feels that the re­structuring has led to a decline in the quality of service. "There seems to have developed a major pattern in the service that OIT has been doing, which is a real change from two or three years ago when you might not get a solution from them, but at least you didn't get the same kind ofrunaround. These kinds of problems just didn't seem to happen before the restructuring. The reorganization seems to have in fact created many more problems than it has solved. It might have been good in theory but it isn't in applica­tion. I think there has been enough time since they did it that we can say this is no longer the breaking-in period." 

Questions concerning the effectiveness and efficiency of the current structure are being raised by OIT staff members as well. According to one staff member, "I don't believe the quality of service is what it was before the restructuring. This new structure has and continues to get in the way of production." He explains that things that used to take one or two people now seem to take five or six. In a field where high labor turnover results in a shortage ofworkers, an inefficient system could make for ter­
meant undo anxiety: "Our grades are all on the Internet -I couldn't check those. My professor posted review questions for the test that Monday -I couldn't check those. Because we couldn't check the questions, the test had to be postponed, but we didn't know it was going to be postponed until Monday so everyone was just panicking. It seemed like just one more instance of OIT messing up. I think it reflected poorly on Notre Dame." 
But are these negative impressions of OITwarranted?NotaccordingtoRapagnani. "The outage on October 13th was really caused by out Internet provider, in this case perfect world." 
Ameritech is not the only external force that influences how efficiently and effec­tively the OIT operates. The OIT operates with limited resources,just like any depart­ment at the university. Rapagnani explains that the university ultimately decides what path the OIT must follow in providing ser­vices to the campus. The large amounts of resources needed to sustain the department are drawn from such sources as tuition, and since University President Father Edward Malloy is trying to reduce tuition increases, some sacrifices will have to be made. "Ev­ery one loves the fast connection and. they 
think it is free, but it takes a lot of re­

rible service. 
sources," adds Burchett. 
Despite the problems, the OIT staff The university ,however,remains com­member believes workers at the OIT are mitted to providing high-quality tech­making a sincere effort to provide good nology services. "Our goal is to provide service to the university's technology a technology infrastructure that's second users. "Everyday we attempt to create to none. The only way this will happen is better ways of getting things done with­with significant university investment in out being confined to the current struc­technology," says Kantor. "In the near ture." According to the staffer, there are future the university is going to have to serious ongoing discussions with the lay out a tremendous expense for OIT." managers about the need for a change in While the expense will be compa­the OIT' s structure and organization. "We rable to the construction ofa new build­think that through some evolutionary ing, Kantor recognizes the need for it. changes to the current structure we can "The current plan for OIT was built make things better." pre-Internet," he says. "There is no 
The conflict and current debates have doubt that there is a need for new in­not gone unnoticed by university admin­vestment." istrators. Vice President and Associate Despite the university's plans, the job 
. Provost JeffKantor says the university is market can inhibit the OIT's ability to currently searching for a chief informa­provide effective support. According to tion officer as a step toward improving Rich Nugent, assistant vice president of the OIT's service. "This.would be a new Human Resources, the hardest place to position with a broad responsibility for fill employment vacancies at the Univer­all of technology here at Notre Dame," 
sity of Notre Dame is in the OIT. "As 

says Kantor. Since Rapagnani is cur­rently responsible for technology at the university, the creation of:the new posi­tion implies major changes for the OIT. When asked what the creation of this new position would mean for Rapagnani, Kantor declined to comment. 
Other events have added to the OIT's own difficulties; On Friday, October 13, an Internet outage left students without Web access for nearly 30 hours. For Mike Eades, a Morrissey Manor soph?more, the outage 
<<< LEFT IN TtlE DARK The Office of Information Technologies was stumped by a computer blackout in the DeBartolo cluster that 
lasted for several hours. · 
TECHNOLOGY BACKBONE 
Servers like the one pictured here constitute the infrastructure of Notre Dame's computer network. Recently, problems connecting to university servers have sparked negative feelings toward the Office of Information Technologies. 
it was Ameritech in Chicago." 
The OIT depends on Ameritech for Internet access, so when Ameritech fails to operate smoothly and efficiently, it disrupts operations at the university. Kantor believes it is important to recognize this dependency. "The outage problems are problems with Ameritech,. not OIT ," says Kantor. "People need to realize that technology is not a with most ofthe United States in terms of the Office Information Technologies, de­mand outstrips supply. We have issues bringing people here to campus because, while we hope we pay competitively, the reality is that we cannot compete with the Intel's and Cisco's ofthe world. Itis a.field where we are very often playing catch µp." 
With this type of dynamic in place, it is clear that the OIT has difficult obstacles to 
. overcome. But nearly all seem to agree that change is needed. "The bottom line is that the OIT needs to be meeting the expecta­tions of students and faculty," says Kantor. "Rig}Jt now, this isn't always happening and all I can say is that some changes need 
· to be made." D 
SCHOLASTICl'IIEWS 9 

CORPORATE CONNECTIONS 
How major companies are helping undergraduates learn the ropes 
MATTZIEGLER 

Imagine spending your fall break in a mining camp outside Kalgoorlie, Aus­tralia, helping a major corporation re­fine its blasting techniques. Not quite as appealing as Cancun? A growing number of engineering students are choosing to take advantage of a relatively new corporate collaboration that Notre Dame has set up in Western Australia because it provides them with the opportunity to hone critical job skills. Generally, a company, such as West­ern Mining Corporation, will set aside some type ofresearch project that they do not have the time or manpower to address and will submit it to the university. If the project is approved, the College of Engineering will assign a certain number of students to the task. The engineers-in-training research their projects until mid-semester, at which time they spend two weeks in the field working alongside the company without any uni­versity supervision. The projects are suited to a student's academic interests, and, after they have been completed, the students spend the remainder of their semester abroad pre­paring a report to be evaluated jointly by the ,,I company and their professors. So far, the 
A WORD FROM YOUR SPONSOR 
This e­commerce class would not exist without Arthur Andersen's support. 

program has met with success. 
In 1998, the inaugural year for the pro­gram, two students discovered nickel de­posits for the Western Mining Corpora­tion while testing a new ore-detection method. A company called Wesfarmers also benefited from this arrangement when a team of Notre Dame students developed a system to maximize efficiency in haul­ing materials across the great western Aus­tralian expanse. Successes like these have led to very positive relationships between the companies and the university. The only pay the students receive is the expe­rience they glean from the program. In fact, according to Clive Neal, an engi­neering professor instrumental in the Aus­tralia program, "Some companies thought it was the students' public service," and took advantage of the free labor to com­plete tasks that would have been a waste of their own workers' time. But, he says, these were only the type of"teething prob­lems" inherent in any new venture, and the guilty companies were not sent any more students.Mostofthefirms involved, however, see the advantage of taking on students who are willing to engage in fundamental research and take an innova­tive approach to problem-solving. The pro­gram, titled "Field Experience," is available to chemical, civil, environmental and me­chanical engineers and, according to Neal, is unique to Notre Dame. 
In addition to Field Experience in Austra­lia, corporate influence is being felt right here in South Bend. Virtually any field that trains students to work in a business or engineering environment has its corporate sponsors and advisors. Paul Berrettini is a 1996 Notre Dame graduate and adjunct pro­fessor in the computer applications depart­ment who runs a company called Shamrock Net Design. Without the sponsorship of Arthur Andersen,he says, the CAPP depart­ment would not have the resources to fund his class, a study of e-commerce. In the classroom as well, Berrettini relies on com­panies for help. 
"It is impossible to stay current in such a fast-paced field with a textbook or relying on the experiences of one professor," Berrettini says. "I invite representatives from many local companies involved in technol­ogy and Web marketing to speak to my students." 
Because CAPP is a relatively small and financially modest department, almost all 


10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

of its courses have some type of corporate sponsorship. Many ofits professors are hired as adjuncts and run their own businesses in fields related to the class subject matter. 
In the Mendoza College of Business, accounting Professor Carolyn Callahan de­veloped a course with AT&T that attempts to take students through a series of case studies resembling situations that a chief financial officer would face, such as merg­ers and acquisitions. These collaborations are becoming more and more common at Notre Dame. Aeronautical and mechanical engineering students are required to com­plete senior design projects, which require them to conceptualize and design a product to their professor's specifications. When the students have completed their final projects, they present their results to a board of corporate representatives, usually engi­neers or engineering managers. The repre­sentatives then question the students and offer suggestions, making a final evaluation with the professors after the presentation._, 
"This process is beneficial to students in two ways," says Stephen Batill, associate dean of the College of Engineering. "First, the professor has been with the students throughout the project. He or she knows the progress the students have made and is intimate with the design and fabrication processes. A corporate evaluator gives a fresh perspective and invites real corporate standards into his or her assessment. Stu­dents' presentations are also video-recorded, and the tapes are sent back with the visiting evaluators. This allows students who have done particularly good work to be seen beyond the campus, as particularly good projects would presumably be shared around the companies." 
Batill is quick to point out that compa­nies who send representatives are not paid by the university. Indeed,none ofthese corpo­rate collaborations are financially supported by Notre Dame. This implies that corpora­tions have a lot to gain from the bright young minds on campus. Batill cites three main causes behind companies' continued enthusi­asm toward assisting the university. 
"First, all corporations like to make their presence known on campus, especially to the students who will be graduating shortly and looking for jobs," Batill says. "Sec­ondly, many influential employees have ties to the Dome. For example, Pat Finneran, the vice president and general manager for Navy and Marine programs at Boeing, is a graduate. And finally, quite simply, some companies have charitable sides." 
Most professors involved with corporate sponsorship agree. 
"Corporate involvement is a way for com­panies to assure that their future employees are trained correctly and pertinently," Berrettini says. "After all, no one wants a crop of textbook businessmen and women without the corporate intuition that the stu­dents develop through first-hand contact with the business 
world." In the case of the Australian firms, the benefits to corporations are clear: students are energetic, skillful and willing to work for free. 
Augie Freda, di­rector of corporate relations and devel­opment at the uni­versity, calls the phenomenon "en­lightened self-inter­est," because by be­
coming involved in academic affairs, companies position them­selves as to have access to the student body, and to be considered "preferred employ­ers." Furthermore, Notre Dame is a source of raw knowledge. 
"Companies are often unwilling to invest their assets in foundational research, prefer­ring instead to devote their finances to prod­uct and technological development," Freda explains. "In a sense, Notre Dame provides them with free research." Notre Dame's study ofnanoelectrics,forinstance, is draw­ing a lot of attention from technology com­panies that are seeking alternatives to sili­con-based microprocessors. 
While companies gain a great deal, the benefits to undergraduates may outweigh those the company receives. Freda is thrilled with the level of corporate-university collabora­tion. "We benefit by increased opportunities for our students, in terms ofinternships, long­term employment opportunities, and applied experience in the curriculum." 
Neal agrees. "Any student who grumbles about not being paid for his or her time in Australia is missing the point of the oppor­tunity," he says. "The skills that the students gain in technical writing and research meth­ods are unparalleled." 
Batill shares the same sentiments about the senior design project. "It is not a lecture, quiz, homework course. It is a project simu­lation. One can be taught out of a book all ­
FIELD TRIP Professor Paul Berrettini often invites corporate guest speakers to class. (Below) Engineering students Dan Duggan and Tom Steinbach have the opportunity to work in corporate-sponsored projects. 



his life, but until the student is put face-to­face with corporate standards and ways of doing things and allowed to practice his profession in areal-world setting,his knowl­edge cannot bear fruit," he says. 
In such tumultuous fields as technology and e-business, only the real-world experi~ ence provided by the companies themselves can keep pace with the rapidly changing environment. Of course, the funding goes a long way as well, and makes classes like Berrettini's available to students. Compa­nies also provide many resources for stu­dents, such as computer clusters and labora­tories. But the education that is provided is the No. 1 outcome in these projects. "I think we benefit a lot more than the companies," Batlll says. "I hope students take advantage of corporate willingness to benefit their education." -0 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 

j 



Here Comes 
THE 

Resident assistants balance dorm responsibilities with social and academic pressures 

KEVINALLEN 

Senior year: one last chance to stay loose and relaxed before entering the world ofcorporate America, law school or any 
number of other pressure-filled adult situations. Many 
Notre Dame seniors join their classmates in a mass exodus, shifting 
their ranks off campus in the hopes ofenjoying some new freedom 
during their last year of college. This vision ofliberation, however, does not appeal to all seniors. Some actually take on extra responsibility during their final year ­
for example, being in charge· of 40 rowdy dormitory residents. 
Chris O'Malley and Liza Villaruz are two Notre Dame seniors who decided to stick around the quads for their senior year as resident assistants. 
But RAs do more than just unlock doors and field complaints about sinks spewing brown water. They can also help with classes, give advice on fighting homesickness and dealing with life in general. 
A unique aspect of the RA program at Notre Dame is that only 
seniors can be RAs. At most colleges, any student can be an RA after his or her freshman year. 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

The senior requirement ensures that all RAs are familiar with life under the Dome, having previously undergone many of the expe­riences their section residents are facing. As a result, they are often able to give solid advice to residents. If more help is ever needed, the Office ofResidence Life orthe university's health center are on­campus resources that RAs can tap for more assistance. 
O'Malley, a management information systems major from Chicopee, Mass., keeps watch over 42 Dawgs in Alumni Hall. He says that the men who served as his RAs during his first three years at the university led him to apply for the position. 
"My RAs were very positive influences for me in the past and they helped out with everyone," he says. "Hopefully, I can do that for others." · 
O'Malley does not regret calling Alumni Hall his home for one more year. "I love everything about this campus, and I would still live here even if I wasn't an RA," he says. "When I see people I know who live off campus, I feel like they're missing out." 
On the other side of campus, Villaruz is in charge of38 Pyros ih Pasquerilla East. The biology and pre-med majorfrom Bowie,Md. says that moving offcampus for hersenior year was never an option. 
Like O'Malley, Villaruz says she was influenced to become an RA because ofher past RAs' poise and willingness to help others. 
"Freshman year, my social life revolved around the girls in my section, and we always seemed to end up hanging out in my RA's room," she says. 
Villaruz admits that the job has turned out to be harder than she had anticipated. "It's hard having to enforce the rules and having some people view you more as an authority figure than as a peer," she says. 
Villaruz also says she is surprised at how much the little details pile up when it comes to her responsibilities. Being on duty, opening rooms for those who forget a key, filing room-inspection forms, planning section events and attending staff meetings all add up quickly. Since her class schedule is not as busy as in years past, she has been able to balance her responsibilities. 
One ofthose responsibilities is being on duty in the dorm during the week. While their friends might be 
going out for a night on the town, RAs sacrifice the ability to hit the bars to watch over the dorm instead. During these nights, the RAs agree to stay in the building so that someone is always avail­able to answer questions and take care of situations that arise. 
O'Malley is on duty two times per week, and he posts the times when he will be on duty so that people will feel free to stop by his room for any reason. He does admit that it is hard to stay in the dorm while his friends go out on 

Wednesdays and Thurs­days. 
But most RAs agree that the toughest part of the job is enforcing the rules set forth by the dorm and du Lac. O'Malley says that be­ing in charge ofthe rules has not damaged any friendships. However, even though every RA knows what he or she is getting into before start­ing the job, it is still not always easy to do. 
"The most uncomfortable thing is seeing a friend in the hallway with a.beer in his hand, but if you let one person go, you'll have to let everyone go," O'Malley says. "Most people realize that you're just doing your job, and that without the rules, it would be mass chaos." 
O'Malley has observed that rules are easier to enforce when dealing with freshmen rather than upperclassmen, since the upper­classmen usually know the RA very well. 
He jokes that it is a strange feeling to be thrust into the role of an authority figure. In just one year, he has become the person for whom he used to keep an eye out. "Sometimes I can hear the echoes of 'RA's coming!' when I'm turning a comer," he says. 
Time management is another challenge in the life of an RA. It's not easy to balance schoolwork, a social Hfe, extracurricular activi­ties and dorm responsibilities while still finding some time to sleep. Since all RAs are seniors, they have the added stress offiguring out what to do after graduation. For example, Villaruz has medical­

school applications. Despite the extraresponsibilities, there are definite advantages to 
being an RA. All ofthe RAs receive free room and board in the most spacious single rooms available in the dorm, a free parking space and free laundry service from St. Michael's Laundry. 
However, the benefits extend beyond these tangible perks. Both O'Malley and Villaruz agree thattheir jobs are extremely fulfilling. "IfI can help someone with a problem at any level, then I feel like I've done my job," O'Malley says. 
Being an RA is also a great opportunity to get to know the dorm's rector and assistant rectors personally. That's one of Villaruz's favorite parts ofthe job. "They're notjust someone who lives on.the first floor," she says. 
They also get to know fellow RAs very well. Even if they didn't previously know each other, RAs seem to bond quickly, perhaps because the dorm functions best when the RA team gets along well. 
The process ofbecoming a resident assistant is long, difficult and competitive. Atthe beginning ofjunioryear, prospective RAs send applications to the Office ofResidenceLifefor an initial screening, 
during which the staff 


! · weeds out anyone deemed unfitto beanRA. Past rules violations are usually the reason for a candidate's elimination at this stage. The appli­cation includes an essay and recommendations, followed by a series of interviews. Typically, two interviews are con­ducted with groups of current RAs, and the third is with the dorm's rector and assistant rectors. Some dorms,suchasKeenanHall,also have peer selection committees thatinvolve dorm residents from all four years in the selection process. Interviewers ask the applicants how they would handle specific scenarios they might encoun­ter as an RA, as well as their personal sleep and study patterns. 
The rector meets with assistant rectors,resident assistants and a rep­resentative from the peer selection 
.committee to select the RA teamfor 


Importantly, even though an RA does have some authority, he or she is still a student and is onthe same level as any other resident ofa dorm. They go through many ofthe same things as other students and can still be friends with the people in their sections. 
Resident assistants take on extra responsibility and sometimes have to put up with the uncomfortable position of enforcing rules on friends, but both O'Malley and Villaruz agree that the opportu­nities they gain to meet new people make it all worth it. 
"An RA has an excuse to get to know people, especially fresh­men, and to reach out and meet so many great people," Villaruz says, and, ultimately, it seems that this chance to help peers motivates those who decide to become resident assistants. 0 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 13 



What was once the site of an old rectory and a parking lot for home football games has been 
radically transformed for the Notre Dame 


community. The location now boasts 6,744 yards of championship golf. These 
yards are growing into another part of 
Notre Dame's heritage -a part where 
alumni, faculty and students can enjoy 
each other's company against the back­
drop of an excellent golf couse. 

Golf has soared in popularity during the last 30 years. With the advent of dominant, ' charismatic players like Tiger Woods and !I Sergio Garcia, golf has expanded from a
I I 
sport for elderly men in plaid pants to a game for anyone, from any walk of life. 
Echoing this increased interest in golf, Notre Dame's alumni asked the university to build a championship-style golf course. The nine-hole Jack Burke Memorial Golf Course lacked the space and level of difficulty to satisfy this demand. Upon hearing the suggestion, William K. Warren and several others stepped forward as 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

benefactors in the construction of a golf facility and clubhouse of the highest standard. Planners decided the northeast end of the Notre Dame campus would provide the right setting for the new course. 
Father Edward Malloy, the president of Notre Dame, explains, "Warren Golf Course was constructed when the time was right, the money was available and a high-quality course that satisfied the ecological review boards could be built." 
Ben Crenshaw, a professional golfer as well as a historian and traditionalist, was contacted, and his architectural firm of Crenshaw and Coore was hired to design the course. Before taking on the Notre Dame project, Crenshaw and Coore had plenty of experience with golf course counstruction, having designed the Plantation Course at the Kapalua Resort in Maui, Hawaii and the Sand Hills Golf Club in Mullen,Neb. The company has also renovated courses, including the Southern Hills Country Club in Tulsa, Okla. and the Prairie Dunes Golf Club in Kansas. 
Brian Godfrey, director of golf at Warren Golf Course, comments that Crenshaw and Coore built a traditional, early 1900s golf course with a historic feel. The course's overgrown rough, deep, clustered bunkers and rolling greens contribute to this look. Also, two lakes are located on the course, as well as a stream, Juday Creek. 
Joseph Mitros, a senior, especially enjoyed the layout of the course. "I really liked the contrast in style between the back nine and the front nine. The course will only get better over time." 
The construction of the golf course did, however, necessitate the controversial rerouting of Juday Creek. For advice on this task, the ecological consulting firm 
J.F. New and Associates was hired. Half a mile of the creek was redirected back into the wooded area adjacent to the golf cours·e. The designers received full permits for the realignment, which opened a new creek channel in the last holes of the course. According to J.F. New, since the stream has been moved out of the sun's direct rays, it provides an improved habitat for water animals. 


The course was originally expected to be finished by the summer of 1999, but extremely dry weather delayed the planned· opening. The golf teams began practicing on the course in late October, and the grand opening was moved to the spring of this year. The course was dedicated on May 2, 2000 with an inaugural round played by the foursome of Crenshaw, Father Willia~ Beauchamp, Warren and Warren's son Stephen. Since then, approximately 21,000 golfers have played the challenging course. Many more·have enjoyed the driving range and the putting green. Chemistry professor Bradley Smith believes that the proximity of the driving range to campus provides a great facility for professors and others who often do nothave five hours to play 18 holes. · 
The walkable layout of the golf course also provides excellent benefits for the health and fitness of golfers, and the course seems to be well-liked by those who visit it. Blackie Gravel, a starter at the golf course, was hard pressed to recall anyone who had complaints after playing the golf course. 

Warren Golf Course saw further action when it hosted the 2000 Men's Big East Golf Tournament in the spring. Notre Dame finished third, with four players placing in the top 20. 
Head Coach George Thomas could not be more pleased with the course. "The course itself is a remarkable practice facility and an overall asset to the program," he says. 
The course also has attracted the interest of high-school golfers considering attending Notre Dame in the fall. Thomas explains: "It has been an excellent recruiting tool. We, as a program, have received more inquiries since the addition of the course." 
Many team members have also enjoyed the improvements that Warren Golf 
Course has brought to Notre Dame's golf 
program. Patrick Schaffter, a senior on the golf team, has witnessed the changes in his fours years at Notre Dame. "Having 
the coach's office, practice facility, and a 
championship golf course all within two minutes of each other really makes our 
practice time more efficient," he says, 
"and the course's undulating greens and bunkers have really helped improve my 
short game." The course is only now beginning to 
come into its own. Godfrey says that many p~rts of it, including the trees and 
the root stru~ture of the grass, still need 
years to fully develop. One day, though, he hopes the course will rise to the top of 
the rankings for collegiate golf courses. 
The course not only has this potential, it also has the ability to provide an excellent atmosphere for alumni and students to reminisc~ and form lasting friendships. It could be the birth of another tradition at Notre Dame. . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 






• • ;; • .-. • ( ; .-• .. •• , • • 

My senior year, my max on bench press was 165 pounds . ... I started using creatine that summer. I loaded up like it said and took it once a day after that. Before long, I gained about 45 to 50 pounds . ... My max was 280 pounds. I was lifting six days out ofthe week. That all sounds great, which I thought it was, until I found it hard to stay hydrated and began to have mood swings . ... I experienced kidney pain and I started to have pain in the middle of my chest. When I started have kidney pain, I decided to quit. All I needed was kidney failure! That's one organ you sort of need." Consumer reviews such as this have given the nutritional supplement creatine its repu­tation of being both a miracle worker and health hazard. Despite this conflicting repu­tation, the use of creatine supplements has risen since the early 1990s and has shown no signs of slowing down. Creatine has been the most popular nutritional supple­ment in the last 50 years, grossing $200 mil­lion in 1998, says William J. Kraemer, direc­tor of the Human Performance Laboratory at Ball State University in his update on creatine supplementation. While it has been proven that creatine supplements do increase the total creatine found in users' bodies, many ques­tions still surround creatine' s effectiveness,its side effects and its safety. Despite the uncertainties, creatine has enjoyed popularity among very young ath­letes. A study led by Jeffrey Gershel, chief of pediatrics at the Jacobi Medical Center in New York City found that 2.9 percent of the sixth-grade student-athletes surveyed used creatine. That number slowly and steadily rises until 11th grade, when the number jumps to 12 percent. At Notre Dame, 20 .4 percent of students surveyed by Scholastic said that they were either currently using creatine or had used it at some point in their lives. The number of Notre Dame students us­ing creatine has not escaped the eyes of university administrators. "We've noticed more and more people using creatine in our facilities," says Sally Derengoski, director of both RecServices and RecSports. Con­cerns about this increased usage has spurred Derengoski to ask Notre Dame's general legal counsel if a policy regarding creatine supplement use at university facilities is needed. "One of our concerns is if we want people taking supplemental pills in the fa­cilities. What is the next step? Injections?" Derengoski says. 
So what is creatine, exactly? It may be easier to describe what it is not. "Crea tine is not a vitamin or a mineral," says Kramer. "Creatine is not even an essential dietary nutrient. Creatine is a ... naturally occur­ring, organic, nitrogen-containing com­pound made in the body from amino acids but also obtained in the diet." 
"What's exciting about creatine is that [it] is the first of all reported sub­stances out there that has really been proven to work." 
-Dr. James Moriarity 
Creatine was first discovered naturally in meats in the early 1800s. In 1926, two researchers who consumed large amounts of creatine noted that the extra creatine did not show up in their urine, indicating that creatine loading was possible and opening the door to modem creatine loading. Today, creatine can be bought at almost any health-food store. 
Health stores sell supplemental creatine in many forms, including pills, effervescent tablets and even gum. One ofits most popu­lar forms is creatine monohydrate, a powder taken in water or juice. None offer any advantage over the others, and neither form allows creatine to be absorbed easier, says Dr.James Moriarity, director ofsports medi­cine for Notre Dame. "The only way to absorb more creatine is ifyou put glucose or sugar in it," he says. "Creatine is better in something like grape juice. It's absorbed a little bit faster. If you exercise it is also absorbed a bit faster." 
Though creatine is just one ofmany health and body-building supplements available, its proven effectiveness is what makes cre­atine so popular. "What's exciting about creatine is that creatine is the first of all reported substances out there that has really been proven to work," Moriarity says. "None of the other ones out there that GNC sells have really ever been documented to work . 
that well." 
Creatine is thought to increase a person's natural energy to lift, sprint or throw. "Creat­ine is a chemical compound that, when com­bined with phosphate, creates creatine phos­phate," Moriarity explains. "When it binds with the phosphate, it forms a high-energy bond. In the muscle, there is a certain amount ofcreatine phosphate present. When creatine phosphate is broken down by an enzyme,it releases a high-energy molecule, ATP, that gives energy for muscle contractions." 
Creatine does not universally benefit all muscles in all activities. "You need muscles to open your eyes. You need muscles to walk. Creatine isn't involved in those activities," Moriarity says. "It is only involved in high­exertional energy muscle contractions. That is how creatine is used -for short bursts of energy. Therefore, it is those activities that use short bursts of energy that benefit." 
Creatine supplements put extra creatine into the muscle -although the increase is very smalL"That extra little bit of creatine phosphate in there allows you to do maxi­mal muscle effort just for a brief second more than what you would have if you did not take it," Moriarity says. "It allows you to do 5 to 6 percent more work. So, ifyou train with creatine in your system, you do 5 to 6 percent more work per session in terms of latent activity." 
But creatine is not magic muscle powder. To see benefits, a person must work -hard. "Creatine will make your muscles bigger only if you lift harder," Moriarity says. But ifthe person does work harder, creatine will help. "IfPersonA, who doesn't use creatine, and Person B, who does, each lift for an hour each day, the person who uses creatine does about 5 to 6 percent more lifting than the person who doesn't use creatine. He gets a very slightly -but significantly -better workout." 
The person who gets the better workout will get better results -more muscle mass. But since-the difference in the results are so small, the difference can only be seen in the long run. "In the short run, creatine doesn't do anything," Moriarity says. 
Debate exists, however, as to whether the advantage is due to the intake of extra cre­atine or if those using creatine supplements are spurred to work harder. Senior Matt Giefer, an experienced lifter, gained 15 to 



1 ~. , ' • ·-------­
----~ -~ ---------·---·~ 



' 
i 
i. 
I: ! 
Creatine infood/}:{~ Food Type 
Shrimp 
Cod 
Herring 
Salmon· 
Tuna 
Beef 
Pork 
Milk 
Cranberries 

20 pounds while taking creatine for four mo.nths. While Giefer did see tremendous benefits, "I worked out more when I was taking creatine than ever," he says, raising the possibility that his improvement was due to extra effort rather than creatine. 
"You may see improvements in people that take creatine," says Mike Bean, assis­tant athletic trainer for Notre Dame, "but you never know whether you see improve­ments because they are taking the creatine or because they are working harder." 
Creatine's effectiveness is especially questionable in beginning lifters. "Forthose kids that have never lifted before that are using creatine . . . they are seeing a tremendous benefit, not because of the creatine but be­cause ofthe lifting," Moriarity says. Without the creatine, they would likely see the same or close to the same results. 
The regimen a person follows when tak­ing creatine supplements can also affect results. To stay hydrated, one must drink more fluids than normal. "You ha:ve to drink a lot ofwater when you are taking creatine," says junior Derek Dyer, a creatine user since high school. "I drink four glasses of water at lunch and dinner. And that is just at meals, not counting in between." 
A person must also follow a strict cycle of loading and non-loading. "I have a cycle where I am offfor six weeks and then on for six weeks," Dyer says. "I immediately pick up five or six pounds ofwater weight, and it stays on while I am on. Then, when I am off, my weight goes down. I feel kind oftired at first, but then my body readjusts and I feel normal again." 
This cycle is crucial to the speed with which creatine becomes effective. Since creatine is found naturally in many foods, including fish, meat and milk, a typical diet includes about one gram ofcreatine perday, says Kraemer .Ingesting creatine in such small amounts as is beneficial, but not as much so as loading. "You don't have to load it, but ifyou don't,ittakes longer to work," Moriarity says. "Ifsomeone takes 20 grams ofcreatineforfive days, or takes five grams of creatine for 30 days, it will have the same effect." 
Creatine does not necessarily benefit all who use it, however. "Some · people, no matter how much creatine they take, will never raise their levels. Other people will raise them quite a bit," Moriarity says. Whether or not one is a responder to creat­ine loading depends on the amount ofcreat­ine already found in a person's muscles. 
"Individuals with lower starting levels increase to a greater extent than individuals with higher starting levels," Kraemer says.· "Thus, people that have relatively high ere­atine stores tend not to respond to creatine supplementation as well as those with lower beginning concentrations." 
Regardless ofwhetherpeople benefit from creatine, many questions surround its side effects, short-and long-term; "Anecdotal, single-case reports and preliminary evidence suggest that creatine maybelinked to cramp­ing, diarrhea, nausea, dizziness, dehydra­tion,incontinence, muscle strain, high blood pressure and abnormal kidney and liver function," reports the Healthy Competition Foundation, a non-profit organization founded by the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. The Food and Drug Adminis­tration report for the week of November 1, 2000 even reported a death supposedly due to creatine monohydrate. 
But so far, science has not definitively linked creatine to any negative short-term side effects, Moriarity says. "For awhile, it was thought that it might have caused ex­cessive cramping ... but most cramps that athletes get a:re effort-induced ... it has nothing to do with creatin:e," he explains. 
Although scientists have not linked side effects to creatine loading, some speculate that it does influence behavior. 
"Sometimes I get mood swings when I start on the cycle again," Dyer says. "I get really annoyed really fast at people." 
Sophomore Christopher Loh has been lifting since his sophomore year in high school, and although he has never used creatine, he has lifted with those who have. "Every person rve been around who takes creatine has the worst body odor ever," Loh says. "Its a big issue with me. B. 0. just turns the girls off,)cnow what I mean?" 
Still,doctors worry about the possible short­t~rm effects oftheirnproperuse ofcreatine. "It seems pretty clear· that loading appears to be safe," says the Jacobi Medical Center's Dr. Gershel, "but unfortunately the type ofperson that uses x amountofcreatine is liable to think 2x will be twice as beneficial." 
An overdose of creatine can have dra­matic side effects. A letter to the editor ofThe New England Journal ofMedicine attributed a case ofacute interstitial nephritis -a kidney disease -to an overdose of creatine. The patient took 20 grams of creatine per day for four straight weeks, the letter says. 
Though much scientific research has been devoted_t6 ~tudying the short-term effects .ofcreatine~ the long-term effects have yet to be studied seriously, and knowledge about them is limited, Kraemer says. The uncer­tainty about creatine's long-term safety has led many, including Iowa state Rep. Mike Cormack, to call for a ban of creatine sales to minors. "No atheletic contest is worth the health ofa participating youth," Cormack said in the Fort Dodge Messenger. 

"The long-term effects of creatine use have not been fully examined, and to ignore the potential concerns surrounding the supplement could place athletes on the path to serious health problems," the Healthy Competition Foundation notes. In addition, on May 15, the foundation announced that young athletes should refrain from taking creatine until more information regarding the long-term effects is known. 
Still more questions surround what is actually contained in bottles ofcreatine. No regulations currently exist that restrict what companies can and cannot put in their creat­ine. "You don't know what you are getting into when you buy over-the-counter supple­ments from someone," Moriarity says. "There could be illegal drugs in there, there could be no creatine in there, any number of things in there. That's true of all supple­ments. There is no regulation because the government and the lobbyists have seen fit to get supplements classified as a food and not a drug. So they can put anything they want in it. ... I would never take a supple­ment over-the-counter." 
This doubt drives many potential users away from creatine, including Giefer. "Ifit was regulated, then you would know what was in it," he says. "The fact that it is not a regulated substance dissuades me from tak­ing it again. There are no guarantees what's in there is not harmful." 
Few regulations exist concerning creatine's use as well. "Creatine is not banned by the NCAA," says Frank D. Urya_sz, president ofthe National Center for Drug-Free Sports and spokesperson for the NCAA. In order for a compound to be listed as a banned drug for NCAA athletes, it must meet two tests. First, there must be evidence that it is performance-enhancing, and sec­ond, there must be evidence that it is harm­ful to the health or safety of athletes, or evidence that athletes use it in ways or amounts that are harmful to their health or safety. Creatine has not yet met either test. "We are not yet prepared to say that creatine use is 'safe,'" Uryasz says .. "However, we do not believe we have the research base to say it is not safe." Before the NCAA can make a final ruling, "more research must be conducted, including research that comes as close as possible to replicating the actual pattern of the creatine user," he says. 
The NCAA is certain about one rule, however. "Division I schools, including Notre Dame, may not distribute creatine to its student-athletes," Uryasz says. "The pro­vision ofcertain supplements such as creat­ine is considered an extra benefit and is not permissible under NCAA legislation." 
"We don't personally condone the use of creatine as an athletic department," says Notre Dame Athletic Trainer Mike Bean, "and we don't provide it for our athletes." 
And most Notre Dame athletes do not use creatine, says Moriarity. "Most athletes are already maxed out on their lifting anyway ,and 
Creatine use among Notre Dame students 
they don't see that much benefit from it," Moriarity says. "Quite frankly, our athletes here are very aware of what they put in their bodies, and they don't like to use anything that is questionable. They are very much purists." 
Still, some athletes -including Dyer, a shot-putter -do use creatine. In the midst ofcompetition against the top athletes in the nation, the extra 5 to 6 percent difference creatine may give could mean the differ­ence between winning and losing. "I started using creatine in high school," Dyer says. "Some of my friends were taking it too, and I asked them about it, and they were like, 'Yeah, it's doing wonders.' I experimented a little bit, and !could immediately tell the difference. So I just kept going on it." 
Not only are Notre Dame's varsity athletes seeing the positive effects of creatine, but many ofNotre Dame's other students are also 




~ 
MUSCLE 2­
CONTRACTION 


PHOSPHATE 
SOURCE: DR. JAMES MORIARJ_TY; GRAPHIC: ¥1KE DHAROSA 
Creatine's role in muscle contractions 
1. 
Creatine phosphate reacts with a relatively low energy molecule ADP to form the high energy molecule, ATP. 

2. 
ATP loses the phosphate group it received from creatine, which provides energy for muscle con­traction. This process regener­ates the original ADP. 

3. 
ADP can react with another creatine phosphate molecule and restart the cycle. 




SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 19 

• ',. • < , , I -,, ~ -• -~..=.::.........--.=,.__....._~
I 
~----~ --~-~­



reaping its benefits, aiming to get stronger and look bigger. "It gives you the edge," says junior Victor Valencia. "Before I used creat­ine I couldn't lift much weight. Now I can lift more. Why wouldn't you takeit?Ifyou could take something that would give you better grades, wouldn't you take it?" 
Other students, such as Loh, don't see 

'! 

that point. "I bench probably more than any guy I know on creatine," Loh says. "You take creatine and go through all that and still don't see any big effects. I'd rather work and know that I am stronger than anybody else on it. I would rather know that I am strong, and it is not just all a show." 
Body odor and mood swings aside, should the average Notre Dame student be taking creatine to build up? "Iwould not recommend it," Moriarity says. "I wouldn't recommend creatine to anybody that wasn't seriously into weightlifting and bodybuilding. Ifyou are an experienced weightlifter, and you want to gain more weight and get a little bit ofan edge -and I mean experienced weightlifter ­creatine will probably help. For the average Joe, I would say there is no benefit above and beyond just going to the gym." 

Bean agrees. "I would not recommend that the average Notre Dame student use creatine," he says. "You don't even know if it is going to work. You might just see the same improvements by just working out. But even if it does work, is it worth the possible long-term effects?" 
Maybe not for the average Joe, but for an athlete like Dyer, yes."As long as you don't abuse it, I think it's safe," Dyer says. "And I'll only have five or six years oftaking it ­it won't be for my entire life. I'm not really worried about whether it's safe or not." If creatine were proven harmful, "I'd just go through with it anyway," he says. "I think the damage would have already been done. I might as well take advantage of the ben­efits while I still can." 
As short-term use studies continue and long-term use studies begin, it will be years before scientists truly understand the ef­fects of creatine, both the good and the bad. In the meantime, students will just have to weigh the possible benefits and costs of creatine loading and decide for themselves whether or not the extra strength and body mass is worth the gamble. . 

, ©LEAN COM.PETITION: ATHLETES SAY NOTO DRUGS . -! 
. , . • , I 

GERARDMESKILL 

On Thursday, October 12, hundreds of students swarmed to _ Finnigan's, a local bar, to celebrate the upcoming fall break. The festivities were disrupted by the South Bend Police Depart­ment, who arrested more than 160 underage patrons, at least 80 of 
whom were Notre Dame students. 

News of the raid soon hit local newspapers. Although the 
majority of those arrested were not student-athletes, The Ob­
server and the South Bend Tribune both printed only the names 
ofthe athletes. "Why weren't all the names printed?" university 
President Father Edward Malloy asks. "Since [the students] 
weren't charged with a felony, why were only some names 
printed?" 

The answer to the rhetorical question is simple: athletes make 
the headlines. Fortunately for the university, Notre Dame ath­
letes have never been involved in a major substance-abuse 
scandal. One of the reasons for the university's untarnished 
reputation concerning NCAA-restricted substances is Notre 
Dame's history of stringent drug awareness and prevention. 
The university began to institute mandatory, random drug­
testing ofathletes more than 20 years ago, before NCAA began 
to require the tests. 

Malloy says, "What we did was try to get ahead ofthe pack, and 
so all we have evidence of is occasional individual instances of 
abuse that [the university has] followed through on according to 
[the drug-testing] policy." 

Since that time, Notre Dame's drug policy has expanded to 
increase student-athlete awareness of the regulations to avoid 
future problems, says Assistant Athletic Director Bernard Muir. 
"We have alcohol-and drug-related educational programs for 
doing our orientation session each year. Other than that, we try to 
educate them on our drug-testing program during the orientation 
session so they're all aware ofthe drug policies that are in place." 
These programs are conducted both on a university and team 
level in a seminar format. Recently, these awareness programs have 
also spread to the classroom. Until last year, Concepts ofWellness 
was a physical-education class required of both students and 
athletes that focused on teaching better living and exercise habits. 
Beginning in the Fall 2000 semester, the university introduced a 
separate student-athlete "Concepts of Wellness" class to discuss 
the pressures on an athlete to use performance-enhancing drugs and 
what consequences may follow. "We want to make sure that we all 
have our blinders on; we want to make sure that we educate to the 
student athletes to the best ofour ability and guide those kids on the 
right course," Muir says. "Hopefully we never have a positive test. 
You just never know." 
The general consensus among the hierarchy ofNotre Dame's 
athletic department is that these programs are highly efficient. 
"We have enough opportunities to test throughout the academic 
year that ifwe did have student-athletes using drugs that we feel 
we would be able to detect that use," says Athletic Director 
Kevin White. 

While all of these programs undoubtedly limit substance abuse, 
they do not necessarily eliminate the problem. Nevertheless, White 
is confident that there is no need for alarm concerning drug abuse -at Notre Dame. 
"We live in an imperfect society, and you never say never, but I 
think our student-athletes here are passionate about their sport, and 
I'd like to think that there's a real strong moral compass at this 
institution and I would suspect that that compass is alive and well 
within our program," he says. "At the same time, I'm not painfully 
naive -I know that young people at times as well as others find 
their way out of the fairway and into the rough. I would like to 
believe that our student-athletes at the University of Notre Dame 
are fairly responsible in that regard.'' . 
20 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 




the latest campus news and sports 
in-depth coverage of campus issues 
reviews of campus entertainment. 
off-the-wall humor 







,~SCHQLaSTIC~ne_step~bea.d_sioue_1.8BZ----,--.--j
? .. -~ . 

r-··_ · ----_· ·--• --· · ,:,: _. ·: ··. ··--•> i ·... --· _.-·_ · 7·, 
-,-PL~AsE;~~CE_M_EoN.vouR~~ru~usT. sENDTH1s.FbRM:AND · ·· · ·-• I 
. $35.00 PAYMENT TO: . 
. I ---------------,------SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ·. •I 
-, __ .303 LAFORTUNE ST_UDENT CENT.ER ·, 
·. _I ____......;..________ NOTRE DAME:, IN 46556 I I -------------------· I 
· 1 l. 




the Gipper's crack on the Common SenseTIP THE GIPP. GlPPER.l@ND.EDU editors, and wants "something other than oral 
sex." So, the Gipp dedicates this next tip to the 
irate e-mailer. 
One partygoer at Turtle Creek stepped into the alley to relieve himself and was surprised to find two people engaged in some outdoor fun. A crowd soon gathered and cheered the couple, who continued their activities unabated. In fact, an alert tipster grabbed his camera and snapped photos of the couple in action. (Unfortunately, the Gipp's editors wouldn't let him print these pies, citing obscenity laws.) Well, at least they weren't in a bathroom stall. 
That's itfortheGippthis year.Buthe'll be back in 2001. Until then, keep those tips coming and don't get too sunburned in Tempe. D 
Unless Lee Corso and his band of Notre Dame-hating cronies sabo­tage the process, the Irish should find themselves in amajorbowl game on New Year's Day. But just how will ND use the influx of cash? Take the Gipp's quiz and see if you can think like an administrator. 
Notre Dame has just received mil­lions of dollars for appearing in a bowl game, and it's your job to de­cide how to spend it. You should use it: 
(a) 
to pad the university's obscenely large endowment. 

(b) 
as hush money to avoid any more embarrassing NCAA vio­lations. 

(c) 
to establi$h the DeBartolo De­fense Fund_. 

(
d) for financial aid in an effort to defray the expense of a Notre Dame education and freeze tu­ition hikes. 


(e) a, band c. 
(f) unsure, but definitely not d. 
Scoring: Ifyou answered anything but d, you're well on your way to earning a post at Notre Dame. If you answered d, you're clearly too ideal­istic to be working in higher educa­
.tion; especially at thi~ university. 



(_}J[Tl'-2((s 
L1i,tk \ 
~\\
__'-. . 





/11/a,ci
The Gipp's back from his holiday hia­tus. There's nothing like going home to stuff your face silly with turkey, 
drink beer and watch football all day. The Gipp could've done without the snow, but he'llbeable to escape South Bend for warmer climates when Bowl season rolls around since Davie somehow managed to coach us to a 9-2 season. Coach ofthe Year?The Gipp demands a recount. 
They Say You Want aRevolution ... 
Never mind the recount, the Gipp' s sick of this election mess. Let's go straight to the coup d'etat,like some guys in Keough Hall did.Actually,itwas more ofa secession than a coup. Apparently, some guys from section 3A of Keough were sitting in the section lounge when they hit on the idea ofindepen­dence. They decided section 3Acould thrive without the rest of Keough Hall. So they formed "The Founding Fathers Society," drew up a declaration ofindependence and a new hall was born. Lattner Hall -named after Reisman-Trophy winner Johnny Lattner whose picture hangs in the section lounge ­is guided byitsFourPillars: "Trust, Strength, Integrity...and Booze." The new rector proudly declares, "I plan on taking it seriously ...like stopping .in all ofmy freshmen rooms to sit down and talk with them about their lives and to let them know that if they ever need me, I'll be in my room playing video games or something." 
Although Lattner Hall was the creation of some guys who were bored at 3 a.m., its existence has raised the ire of Keough 

~---~ \.gry person to be exact. Seems the Hall's rector. Ac-~ L irate e-mailer took exception .to 
cording to the tipster, Keough's rector ex­pressed concerns that Lattner Hall was de­stroying the sense of community in the rest of Keough. Says our tipster, "I think it's hilarious that a simple joke could get turned into something that a bunch of guys believe in and support ... and that the Keough Hall administration is seriously bothered by it." The Gipp wishes the residents ofLattner Hall good luck. Any organization that has booze as one of its pillars has the Gipp' s support. 
PucRerUp 
The Gipp's not sure what's going to hap­pen to Lattner Hall, but ifthings get ugly, the administration can always call in those trained-to-kill students in ROTC. A couple of weeks ago, two vicious Air Force cadets were keeping vigil at Stonehenge in honor of Veterans' Day. As a drunk boy stumbled home, he couldn't resist the temptation to mess around with the two girls, who were supposed to maintain straight faces for their entire watch. Coming within inches of one girl's face, he did his best imitation of a three-year-old and said, "You look so lonely and cold. Here you go" and proceeded to plant a "big sloppy wet one on her cheek" as she began giggling. He went on to kiss the other girl, who somehow managed to keep a straight face throughout. After deliver­
ing the two kisses, the boy stumbled off into the night. While getting slobbered on by a drunk probably wasn't high on the girls' wish lists, at least they didn't run into any angry Pax Christi members. 
The Gipp Goes Hardcore . 
The Gipp's been dealing with some.· angry people lately. Well, one an­
22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 



Junior Marcie Born.hack, a six-foot left outside hitter, is double majoring in marketing and psychology. Originally from Waukesha, Wis., she achieved All-American status while at Catholic Memorial High School. As a freshman at Notre Dame, Born.hack was named Big East Tournament Most Valuable Player, leading the Irish to victory in the tournament. 

I started playing volleyball when I was: in fifth grade, because all my friends started playing. 
Ifl could play any other position than left outside ·hitter it would be: right hitter, because that is what I played all throughout high school, and it involves more blocking. 
My most memorable volleyball experience at Notre Dame is: being named Big East Tournament MVP as a freshman here. 
My goals for next year are: teamwise, to win the Big East Conference and Tournament and make it to at least the Sweet Sixteen round of the NCAA Tournament. My individual goals are to provide as good of leadership as was provided this year and in the past. 
My favorite class at Notre Dame was: 
Anthropology 109 with Professor James McKenna. 

My hardest class at Notre Dame was: 
Business law is the hardest class I have taken here. 
If I could play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: basketball. I used to play it, butlhad to give it up forvolleyball, and the team here is awesome. 
My most memorable volleyball match at Notre Dame was: the time we defeated UConn in the Big East Tournament. 
After graduating from Notre Dame, my plans are: undecided. I am not sure yet ifl want to get a job or go to Europe and play volleyball. 
Other than volleyball, I most enjoy: going to the movies, my favorite being 
Pretty Woman. 
I came to Notre Dame because: Why wouldn't you go to Notre Dame? I loved the coach, the campus, the academics and especially the team. My teammates are sisters to me. 
-Mike Miranda 

Jerry's Jabber 
QB Matt Lovecchio won his seventh straight start, running for two touchdowns and threw for 142 yards in No. 11 Notre Dame's (9-2) victory over USC Saturday. The win virtually guaranteed the Irish an appearance in the Fiesta Bowl. The berth would be the first appearance the Irish make in a major bowl in the last five years .•.. Co-Big East Player of the Week Troy Murphy led No.11 Notre Dame men's basketball (3­
0) to a 69-51 victory over No.16 Cincinnati. David Graves scored 17 and Ryan Humphrey addeq 1 0 to complement Murphy's 
30. The Irish face Vanderbilt Saturday at 7 
p.m. 
in Nashville .... In women's basketball (5-0), All-American Ruth Riley spent the majority of Monday's game against Fordham on the bench. Meaghan Leahy filled the void, scoring a career­high 16 points and adding 14 rebounds. Kelley Siemon added 14 points in the 89-44 victory .... Meotis Erikson scored in the fifth minute of overtime to lift Notre Dame women's soccer (23-0-1) to a 2-1 victory over Santa Clara in the NCAA Quarterfinals. Notre Dame faces North Carolina tomorrow in San Jose .... Notre Dame hockey (3-7-3) has not won in its last four games. RW Ryan Dolder had a goal and an assist in Notre Dame's 3-3 tie against Northern Michigan on Sunday .... Notre Dame volleyball (25-6) opens the NCAA tournament against Cincinnati tomorrow at 5 

p.m. 
in Columbus. Christi Girton leads the Irish with 22 kills in a 3-2 loss to No.3 USC to close the season last Friday. .o 


SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

l I 
l 
l 
-. ' . -~ ·_ -. -. ... . -.,. --. -. 


·_ 1_997--. . -· ·_·. .:· ... · 
' , ~ '· . ­
by Lee De Leon 


FROZEN MOMENTS 

The 13th-ranked Irish women's basketball team shocks the nation as they advance to the Final Four, only to lose a hard-fought game to the defending national champions. 

NOTRE DAME: 66 UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE: 80 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team made its first NCAA Tournament Final Four appearance in 1997. The Irish, though ranked 13th in the national polls, were only awarded a No. 6 seed in their bracket for the tourney, an insult to one of the nation's best teams. By the end of the tournament, however, the Irish had proved the naysayers wrong, becoming only the third sixth­
-
.  .  
.  \  
.  ,  ,,  _..., .  



seeded team in women's tournament history to advance to the Final Four. 
The 1997 season started out well as the Irish beat two top-10 teams in the Preseason National Invitation Tournament. Despite losing several key players to injury, the Irish continued to dominate throughout the season. Seniors Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither, the top two scorers in Notre Dame history, led the team to a second-place finish in the Big East Conference. 
Despite its regular season success, most were not too optimistic about Notre Dame's chances heading into the NCAA Tournament. By the time the Irish entered the tournament they were left with only eight scholarship players. Their depth chart was so depleted that they had been forced to dress and play their team manager during one of the Big East Tournament games. But despite the circumstances, the Irish remained confident, expecting to advance to the Sweet Sixteen. 
Notre Dame began the NCAA Tourna­ment against Memphis, easily winning 93-62. The second round game appeared far more imposing. No one believed Notre Dame could beat the No. 3-seeded Texas Longhorns on their home court in Austin, Texas. However, Notre Dame shocked everyone by edging the home team in a tight 88-83 victory. Morgan and Gaither stepped up to score 29 points each that game. 
Next on the schedule for the Irish was powerhouse Alabama, the No. 2 seed in their bracket. Surprisingly enough, the Irish disposed of the Crimson Tide 87-71. In the East Regional Championship in Columbia, S.C., Notre Dame faced No. 5 seed George Washington. The Irish pulled away with a 62-52 victory and claimed a spot in the Final Four. Gaither earned the Most Valuable Player honor for the East Re­gional, and the Irish were on their way to Cincinnati for the most important game of 
-

.  .  
,  ..  
- 

their lives. 
Before the Final Four began, Irish coach Muffet McGraw explained, "All we've heard all along is we only have seven or eight players. We don't have enough horsepower, we don't have enough depth, we don't have enough size, we don't have enough quickness. This team likes to hear what they can't do, then they turn around and do it." Notre Dame had exceeded everyone's expecta­tions, including its own, but the team was not ready to give up quite yet. The Irish did, however, face a huge obstacle in their path to the title: the defending national champion Tennessee Volunteers and Player of the Year candidate Chamique Holdsclaw. Tennessee had already won four national championships in the previous years and had made nine Final Four appearances. 
In the first half, both offenses struggled as Notre Dame made 35 percent of its shots and Tennessee made 32 percent. With 14 minutes left in the first half, the score was a pitiful 4-4. However, the game picked up, and the half ended in a tight 29-28 Volun­teer lead. The contest eventually became a showdown between two of the best players in the nation: Gaither and Holdsclaw. 
. Gaither ended up with a team-high 28 
points, and Holdsclaw poured in 31. The 
score remained close until the IO-minute 
mark, but then Holdsclaw's teammate Abby 
Conklin made three 3-pointers down the 
stretch, and the Volunteers began to pull 
away. The game ended in a disappointing 
80-66 Notre Dame loss. 
The 1997 Irish team holds the position as the best women's basketball team ever at Notre Dame. After the heartbreaking defeat in the semifinals, team members still held their heads high, and for a good reason. Coach McGraw summed it up. "This is the most outstanding run in the history of Notre Dame basketball." . 
-
-.... . 

Polls do not always tell the  Last year, Notre Dame lost  After an emotional 2-1 OT  
truth. The Irish are on an  to North Carolina in the  win against Santa Clara,  
impressive 24-game  NCAA finals.  Looking to  the Irish will come into the  
unbeaten streak. Tomorrow  avenge this defeat, the Irish  game with plenty of  
the streak ends, as North  use the momentum from  . momentum. Look for the  
Carolina surmounts the last  their overtime win against  Irish to play like the No. 1  
major obstacle in its path to  Santa Clara in the semifi­ te9m they are and beat  
another national champion­ nals to narrowly defeat the  UNG 3-1.  
ship, defeating the Irish 2-1.  Tar Heels, 1-0.  
-Gerard Meskill  -Jessica Daues  -Jim Pastore  
Sports Editor  Assistant Sports Editor  Editor in Chief  



A Club for the Ages 
T~e Medieval Club is Notre Dame~ own realm ofLords and La,dies 
JESSEKENT 
In the midst of today's chaos, let us hear­ken back to a much simpler time. No, · not 1983 -the Middle Ages. "Why, that's impossible without an exor­bitant-amount ofNatty Light!" you cry. Ah, but that's where you are wrong. Wel­
come to the little-known world ofthe Medi­eval Club, Notre Dame's home to myth, magic and medieval history. 
Founded by Professor D'Arey Boulton, the Medieval Club encapsulates his interests and passions in medieval study. The club has 20 to 30 members organized under officers with such Ye Olde titles as "High Steward" and "Chamberlain." The club's current advi­sor, or "Lord Great Patron," is Professor 
Calvin Bower, who describes the Medieval 
Club as a mix of student's interests and the scholastic study of the period. ''There-is·a tension within the group between what the students want to study: primarily, the cos­tumes, the heraldry, the warfare ofthe time," he says. "They are interested in the Arthurian legends. Then there is what I know as a historian of the age. I can teach them much, bu_t many of these things I've never studied myself. I find it fascinating to share our passions and learn alongside with the mem­bers." The Medieval Club is not officially tied to the Medieval Institute, but interaction between the two groups has been fostered and now provides an environment for schol­arly and passionate exchanges. The Medi­eval Club's president, High Steward Todd W arapius, says: "Interest in medieval things have been with me.for a while. I found the 
club an avenue to pursue these.interests and 
pick up a medieval studies minor." The Medieval Club sponsors four lectures 
· during the year that provide an informal social setting for members, Medieval gradu­ate students and faculty to meet and discuss relevant historical issues. It also gives his­torical context to the members' wishes to 
actually experience the Middle Ages. Cham­
berlain Christopher Sinnott recalled a dinner hosted by Professor Leon Roos at which members ofthe club prepared an entire meal in the tradition of medieval times, complete with period cooking utensils and ingredients. "We used a lot of weird spices and a lot of pastes," Sinnott says. "They were really into pastes for some reason." 
___ -· ------' ~­
The group does not limit its membership in the Medieval Studies Program, always to those interested in the Middle Ages. Those had an interest in the chivalry and myth of with passions for the early-Renaissance also the medieval era. The club suits her interests have a place in the club, "You are definitely because members and Medieval faculty are not excluded," Bower says. Many members always pointing out new pursuits in the ofthe group are preoccupied with the works field. of everyone's favorite Italian travel writer, And don't worry -acceptance into the Dante. club does not require the rationing of baths 
In addition to learning about the Middle to once every three months. Bower says, Ages, the club also participates in events "They were pretty clean people, they bathed relating to the period, such as the 28th quite frequently. Granted, they used only Annual Madrigal Christmas Dinner spon­cold water. Warm water is a luxury only sored by Saint Mary's. This year's din­recently experienced." 0 ner, which will be held on December 1 through 3 at the Regina North Lounge at Saint Mary's, will fea­ture food from the early Renaissance and an a 
'."capella performance of 
late-Renaissance Madrigal 
love songs. 
The club also sponsors an annual Latin Mass in con­junction with Campus Min­istry and the Medieval Insti­tute. ThisisnottheoldMass, but rather, today's Mass said in Latin. "Itbrings to life the · connection between the me­dieval world and today," Bowers says of the celebra­tion. "It is today's Mass told through the official language of the Church both then and now." 
The Medieval Club also hosts two trips to medieval destinations, one in the fall and one in the spring. In the past they have port-holed 
s: 

back in time thanks to medi­. 
~ 

eval fairs in the area. This . ;;c :c • • ' •...... ~~:. i G5
spring, an excursion to the Newberry Library in Chi­~~'-'---'-~~--~·-' ··--'"------·.• .-----.--!i 
cago will let the members TIMEPIECE This medieval tapestry hangs in Hesburgh get up close and personal Library's Medieval Collection, a source for medieval 
literature and information to satisfy the historian's 
with real medieval manu­scripts. The night will cul­minate with swordplay and jousting at the For more information, contact the Medieval Times theme restaurant. The of­club atits Web site: www.nd.edul~me­ficers of the Medieval Club stress that you dievall. For details and seating reser­needn't have a medieval studies major or . vationsfor the 28th Annual Madrigal minor to join the group. Chancellor Angela 9hristmas dinner, call 284-4626. Campos, one ofthe many officers who is not 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 

' --~-------------~~~--­
.MIX IT UP 



ALow-Budget Chrisbnas 
Give your folks the gift of music compiled by Kara Zuaro 
Y:ur heart is as stuffed full of love as Aunt Peggy's pie is with apples, but your bank account is as empty as a beer can in the hand of Uncle Angus. Fret not, faithful readers. OOB hired five of the best disc jockeys on campus to spin you some tips on assembling the most love-filled gift a small budget can buy -the mix tape, or, in this modern moment, the mix disc. 
Blues for your crabby grandpa J_~---""' 
contributed by Tom Ogorza/ek i;pr~' ';-,1 ) Cranky 01' Grandpa is always one of jjJ,, ~n 
< .. J,
I:

the toughest family members to buy for. · • 
What do you get for the old coot who has (( ~ ·,.,,,-11 i (,
1 

everything from buckets ofdriving-range ~ I 
._ ·· 
, '• •• • 
0 

golfballs to WWII-era heisted beer steins? · . He deserves the priceless and timeless gift of music. Old people tend to get the blues, too, so what Gramps really wants is something from the Delta, something down home, sung by men who have lived long and have lived hard, who have known the sorrows ofexistence, as well as the joys of gettin' it on. 
Start the tape on a light note with Lead Belly's "Hitler Song," a taste of history for Grandpa. He'll be back in the glory days, fighting the Hun once again. Eddie Taylor's "I Feel So Bad" is next, reminding the old fella that winter is on its way. John Lee Hooker is splendidly mournful in "Tupelo," a kind of things-were-so-hard-when-I-was-young tribute to· age. "Hangman Blues" from the Bill Lyerly Band rounds out the depressing selections, subtly bringing to mind the veiled specter of death. · 
But that old codger is still very much alive, of course, and livin' large, no doubt. So remind him of the perils of the fast life with B.B. King's "Better Not Look Down." Now that he's down to Earth, he'd love to have Eric Clapton's "Walkin' Blues." And lastly, because Grandpa's just a little bit funky and certainly has nothing but the red, red krovvy flowing in his veins, Poppa John Creach expresses Gramps's own sentiments in "Everybody Wants my Good Thing." Just be careful to stay away from Blind Lemon Jefferson: not even_ the most sprightly old folks like hearing the "Death Bell Blues." 

Country for your drunk uncle 
contributed by Danny Goodwin 
_ ~ 
Next, you have your uncle, who has been ' . • ,, ' known to spend a little too much time around '..../ ·;;o the ol' eggnog. Fred Eagle smith's "Drinking 
N~K."~~ Too Much" might be a good song to start off with. "Lately, I see you've been buying · ,-·
~-·. your cocktails two at a time / When it's last .· ,,..-­call and your glass is empty, you've been · · finishing mine / Even your friends say that you're out of touch/ Darlin', are you drinking too much?" 
To liven up the party, I suggest you throw in a little funky bluegrass, with the Galoots performing "Dooley" and Uncle Tupelo's "Moonshiner." Now that you've conjured up the thought of moonshine, I suggest you serve up a little taste of Steve Earle's "Copperhead Road." (Caution: "You may never come back from Copperhead Road.") 
To keep things rolling, I strongly recommend that you make a dash to the cabinet for a little of 6 String Drag's "Bottle of Blues." Now that he's in the mood, there's no doubt that he'll be looking for the perfect love song. In response, I suggest "In Spite of Ourselves" by John Prine and Iris DeMent. This is the beer-craver's love anthem explaining, "He ain't real sharp, but he gets things done/ He drinks his beer likeit's oxygen/ He's my baby, I'm his honey/ I'm never gonna let him go." As the night winds down, so too must the party. To finish off this Christmas extravaganza, I suggest Johnny Cash's "Kneeling Drunkard's Plea." 
P.S .: Please record responsibly. ~ 
~­Hip-Hop for your "Shortee" (and --~ . :· d-· it won't stop until the break of. ?(#JJ·g;:
dawn) -~ , •. 1 
( ' 

contributed by Jesse Dang Jt:.r,C: -1.:: ; 
"Bonita Applebum" by A Tribe / : Called Quest is possibly the greatest hip (i<', hop ode to "the one." I remember a point in high school when this song would always pop into my head whenever I ran into my crush. "Bonita" represents every dining-hall crush you have ever had, so put this on a mix to let that special someone know how they . 






26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
caught your eye at the waffle iron. And, whether her skin is brown, yellow, orange or blue, she will surely appreciate "Brown Skin Lady," a dedication from Black Star to all the women ofthe world. With Mos Def and Talib Kweli crooning over a Hi-Tek beat, she simply cannot resist. 
The tri~ls and tribulations of a relationship can even affect hip­hop stars. In "You Got Me," from the Roots, Black Thought and Eve explain how love is stronger than the "drama" of relationships. On the same note gs "Bonita Applebum," in "The Light," he counts the way,she loves that special lady in his life. An irresistible hook will have her singing all day. "She Said" by Pharcyde is a song about romance in the lives of the former Los Angeles hip-hop quartet, now turned duo. Charming and refined -like you at an SYR. Most Def's "Ms. Fat Booty" is a wonderful ditty about love found and lost. Tell her not to mind the title.1t's my personal fave. 
The innocence of "Bonita Applebum" is lost in "Electric Relaxation" as Tribe comes at you in a more direct manner about love and lust. Q-Tip' shookstill confuses people to this day? Maybe you can figure it out. The title ofGangstarr' s "Ex Girl to Next Girl" is pretty self-explanatory. Put this in the mix as a hidden track,just in case you guys break up. Bling Bling. 
Under-appreciated music for the one ~ 
• you appreciate most ~ ~~ 
contributed by Dan Maguire ~-'E>-'·,.,
Now what to get for someone you i . ·, . share all your secrets with? There's ~(}!){} still something important you haven't , .~ shared with this person you dearly appreciate -your good but unappreciated music! These are the songs that only a handful know but love more than anything that snot-nosed whiner Carson Daly could introduce. These songs are your little secret, and you only want to share these with someone who will appreciate them. Start off with Stereolab's "Blips, Drips, and Strips" to get them bouncing,then move on to True Love Always' "Sunshine" to get the good mood going in full swing. Dido's "Thank You" says, "Hey! I don't hate you!" 
Before they get too lovey-dovey with you, get a little melancholy. The Smiths' "A Rush and a Push" injects aggressive lounge-m~sic tones, getting your appreciated one revved up with such phrases as "There's too much caffeine in your blood stream." Braid's "Movie Clock Star" and Pixies' "Letter to Memphis" turn it up a few'more notches, all the while inducing memories of Pixie Stix-enhanced debauchery. With all of this adrenaline pumping, show him or her some ofyour favorite brit­pop melody before things get out of hand -perhaps Travis' "Writing To Reach You." 
OK, hysterics can be fun, but it's time to slow it down a little. 
Shoestrings' soothing and naive tone in "Oceans In the Seashells" is like going to a warm beach as a kid (far away from Indiana). Let the tape close with Belle and Sebastian's "Rollercoaster Ride"; this song will really show your appreciation, as he or she will soon want to pop it in whenever naptime rolls around. 
Feel-good music for your favorite lady (or ladies' man) 
contributed by Shannon Grady 
Sinead O'Connor starts off the female feel-good vibe with "Daddy I'm Fine," off her latest release, Faith and Courage. Regardless ofyour personal feelings toward Sinead, or her popular perception as a man-_ hating, church-bashing, not-too-fun lady, I've rarely had music make me feel so good and so secure in my ability to make things turn out OK. This song combines reggae beats with some Celtic rock, detailing O'Connor's move to London in the early days of her career. Punky at times and funny as hell. Next up, Gladys Knight and the Pipps' "If I Was YoJ!r Woman." No one can beat Gladys for sweet soul. I've listened to this song during many a crush. After that, "Whipsmart" comes from Liz Phair' s sophomore release of the same name. I look at it as a mother's mission statement. She's talking to her son, telling him that she'll help him grow up strong whether he likes it or not. Poppy and fun and a good lesson for anyone thinking about having kids. Rounding off this set is Janis Joplin's "Trust Me," off Pearl, Joplin's final album before her premature death. I have no idea why it gets down inside me, but it does. It's Janis' plea for her lover to just hold on and wait for her to be ready to commit. This is Janis at her best -bluesy, mellow and honest. 
Before I get into this next track, let me begin by saying that I am not an Ani DiFranco fan. Little Plastic Castle is the one major, glorious exception. And the reason is the song, "As Is." I'm a lyrics girl, so the words cut me deep. "Cause when I look around/ I think this, this is good enough/ And I try to laugh at whatever life brings/ Cause when I look down, I just miss all the good stuff/ When I look up, I just trip over things." 
Now it's time for Lita Ford's "Kiss Me Deadly." Lita's the queen of '80s rock. Nobody does it better. Then, The Pretenders. "Precious." Chrissie Hynde. The epitome of cool. And again, she's a rock star. 
And finally, Bruce Springsteen. I never make any tape without my Bruce on it,just as a matter of principle. In "Red­Headed Woman," offhis Plugged album, he extols the virtues of crimson-haired lasses. He has such good taste. 0 








SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 

I•
1, 


I 
! 
I 
L .J 
KARAZUARO
Jon and Jennifer Vickers had a dream. They wanted to open a small movie theater and art gallery in the small 
farm town of Three Oaks, Mich., where they could showcase Jennifer's paintings and screen the non-commercial films that are so difficult to find outside of big cities. She would sell her work and live the artist's life. Maybe Jon would find some time to make a short film of his own. They didn't know anything about running a movie the­ater or what kind of equipment they would need to do so, but nevertheless, in 1993, they bought the old movie theater in town that had belonged to the local Lee family for generations and had been shut down a few years earlier. 


"Iguess anyone who would.do this would have to be kind ofnaive/' says Jon Vickers, recalling his hopes when he and his wife first bought the theater. Living "the artist's life" is not as easy as they thought it would be. "No regrets, though," he adds quickly. 
The building they bought has a story of its own. Built in 1890, it was originally a livery. In 1911,it became a movie theater. "The neat thing," Jon says, "is that it was run by one family from 1911 to the '70s, generation to generation." He hopes th,at his three young children will help out with the theater when they're old enough, and that his family will enjoy a similar reign of the theater. 

The Vickers dedicated two years to restor­ing and redesigning the theater. "We had a concept from the beginning and did all the design ourselves," he says. With Jennifer's artistic talent and Jon's background in metal­working -he runs a machine shop with his brothers during the week -the couple was able to make their dream a reality. Vickers 
IT HAS THE CHARM OF AN OLD-TIME CINEMA, BUT ALSO BOASTS THE MOD­ERN CONVENIENCES FOUND IN MANY A MILLENNIAL, METROPOLI­TAN ART HOUSE -THE JUICE AND ESPRESSO BAR. 
Theatre is a fairyland for the cinephile and art-lover alike, with its plush, vintage theater seats and paintings on display on the first level and the balconies above. It has the charm ofan old-time cinema, but also boasts the modem conveniences found in many a millennial, metropolitan art house -the juice and espresso bar. "Now there's a view area and bistro tables behind the movie seats so that people can eat as they watch the film," Jon says. 
"It's very intimate," he continues. "The 
types offilms we're showing aren't a huge 
draw. It's just the right size for the types of 
things we're doing." The theater seats about 
100 people, but it doesn't usually sell out. 
Jon admits that he wouldn't mind seeing the 
theater sell out more often, but running the 
.theater, he says, is really a labor of love. 
"We're doing pretty well supporting the 
theater," he explains, "but my wife and I 
don't take any income out of the theater." 
· All the money they make goes back into the 
improvement ofthe theater, and the patrons 
seem to appreciate that. 
Jon estimates that 10 percent ofthe audi­
ence attend the film screenings on a regular 
basis. "We developed a very loyal audience. 
People will show rip and say, 'So what's 
playing tonight?' They must enjoy the at..: 
mosphere,'' he says. Only a small fraction of 
the crowd comes from Three Oaks, though. 
Mo'stofthe.regui~stravel from South Bend, 
Michigan City or Benton Harbor, and they 
even get a few Chicagoans in the summer. 
It's arguable that the travelers make their 
way to Three Oaks not only for the atmo­
sphere, but also for the careful selection of 
films by the Vickers. The films they choose 
vary from week to week in terms of genre 
and style, and Jon makes one guarantee: "I 
can't say we have anything that's commer­
cial." This is the place to go, though, if 
you're looking for independent, foreign or · classic films. ­Besides weekend screenings, Vickers 




Theatre has also hosted the Sound ofSilents film festival for the past three summers. At the festival, musicians perform scores they have created for silent films while the mov­\ ; ies play. In the time of silent films, live { ~:
i ;(~ 

musicians often accompanied the movies, and the festival seeks to revive this lost cinematic form. Musicians are not re­
·•. l \\ 
' '

stricted, however, to creating only tradi­··.·······q
l
tional, silent-movie scores. The festival 
'(:'_,


'1•··~·1,.
has featured many types of music, from an electronic experimental band to an alter­,.-: native pop band with a Middle-Eastern -i"'•' sound to a 20-piece symphony orchestra. Since the festival occurs in the summer, screenings take place both inside and out­

~~;~ 
side the theater as films are projected onto the side of the building. 
The theater also hosts a number of non­cinematic events. The Vickers recently presented the Second City players, an improvisational comedy group. They took HOLY COW Besides the movies, juice and espresso, one can also find art at Vickers Theatre; 
the stage wearing gray face makeup and  such as this multi-colored cow.  
asked the audience for ideas to help them ~  
make an improv-silent movie as if it were  tive rock band Ether on December 21 at  few screenings left before the end  of  the  
1919.  7:00 p.m., and will host an open-mike po­ semester for those looking  for a taste  of  
This Saturday ,December 2, Vickers The­ etry night on December 23 at 4:00 p.m.  vintage art-house theater.  0  
atre will host a musical festival and food  The theater closes each year during Janu­ 
drive, just in time for the holidays. They  ary and February to give the Vickers  a  For more information on V ickers Theatre  
also welcome musical  acts  and amateur  chance to take  a vacation and catch the  and  to  take  a  virtual  tour,  go  to  
poets. The theater will feature the alterna- Sundance film festival, but there are still a  www.vickerstheatre.com  

>> 
UPCOMING EVENTS AT VICKERS THEATRE 
>> All films screened on Friday and Saturday at 6:30 Next Weekend: 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m., Sunday at 3:30 and 6:30 p.m., and Friday, December 8 to Monday, December 11 Monday at 7:00p.m. Tickets are $7 for adults and $5 for Dancer in the Dark students. Take a break from study days because you won't want to 
miss the musical/drama Dancer in the Dark. At Cannes This Weekend: 2000, Bjork took home Best Actress for her role as Selma, Friday, December 1 to Monday, December 4 the Eastern European immigrant with rapidly diminishing T(me Regained eyesight and a love for the American musical. Director Lars Marcello Mazzarella and John Malkovich, as the eccen­Von Trier was awarded the Golden Palm. 160 minutes. tric gay artistocrat Charlus, star in this adaptation of Marcel Proust's Remembrance of Things Past. Directed After Finals: by Raoul Ruiz. 165 minutes. In French with English Friday, December 15 to Monday, December 18 subtitles. Pola X 
If you're passing through Three Oaks on your way home Saturday, December 2 at 1 :00 p.m. for the holidays, or if you live locally, check out director Music Fest and Food Drive Leos Carax's adaptation of Herman Melville's Pierre. Bring a non-perishable food item and listen to live folk Guillaume Depardieu, son of Green Cards Gerard and bluegrass music all afternoon, wrapping up with a Depardieu, takes the lead. 134 minutes. In French with Christmas jam session. Free. English subtitles. 

SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 



A Frosh for All Seasons 
Procrastinating on the trail to the Burger King crown of success 


GREGRUEHLMANN 
When I arrived for orientation, I was overcome by a deep sense ofanxiety -not to mention in­digestion -because I ate a lot of JujuBees on the trip here. All I'd ever heard from Notre Dame students during my visit last year was "homework this," "responsibility that" -and "gwaack!" At least,that's what some really drunk guy said as he vomited on my host student's carpet. In the days that followed, I no­ticed that starting college was a lot like starting first grade because there's so much uncertainty and excitement.The main difference, though, is that here the teachers aren't as understanding when you fingerpaint in class orwetyourpants. Sadly, I learned both of these les­sons the hard way. A big question mark for me was the dating scene. I pictured all the other guys here being 6-foot-4 super-athletes, and I wasn't sure how I would compete with them for a girlfriend. You see, I was al ways more ofthe intel­lectual type in high school. Andby "intellectual type," what I really mean is "gigantic dork." I'm also pretty shy around girls. I have to make absolutely sure that I won't get rejected before I ask a girl out. She has to give me subtle signs that I should make a move, like wearing a shirt that says "Ask Me Out, You Moron" on the front. In really big letters. lmade sure to getinvolved early by running for Dillon Hall fresh­man rep. Basically, all I did was spend about 10 hours making of­fensive campaign posters.In them, I was endorsed bythe likes ofMr. T, Ivan Drago (from Rocky IV), 0 .J. Simpson and Jesus Christ. However, the hall staffdidn't like the signs very much, as they managed to insult all of the other candidates, sev­eral members of the student body I have never metand basicallyeveryethnic group on the planet. Anyway, I lost the election -probably for the best, because I didn't have any C'ideas" 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 

about what to do ifl won. I had spent all my time coming up with clever slogans like "I pity the foo' who don't vote Ruehlmann." 
Despite my election defeat, I soon dis­covered there are things I love about college -especially the idea of having a campus Burger King. But there's one major prob­lem: you know those cardboard crowns they give you at a lot of the Burger Kings? The one in LaFortune doesn't have them. And that makes me very, very angry. The best thing about Burger King is being able to put 

on that crown and proudly stride out of the restaurant. Everyone who sees you wearing it knows that you 're the man, or at least that you were just at Burger King. 
Another great thing about college is all the extra free time. My roommates and I have spent a good portion ofit downloading Wesley Willis songs from the Internet. For those ofyou who don't know about Wesley Willis,he's a musical genius. Actually ,he's a paranoid and schizophrenic 300-pound homeless man from Chicago to whom some­one gave a record contract. Basically, Wesley shouts profanity over a pre-programmed Yamaha keyboard beat that never changes. He has approximately eight billion songs available on Napster, including such classic rock anthems as "IWhupped Batman's Ass," "Birdman Kicked My Ass," "Alanis Morissette" and "Cut the Mullet" ("Your mullet is the reason people hate you ... / Get out the clippers,jerk! / Cut the mullet/ Cut 
the mullet"). 
When I first got here, I thought I'd be able to get a good night's sleep with all the extra time. In reality, I can only expect to collapse in my philoso­phy book sometime before sunrise. One day I fell asleep in biology, al­lowing my head to fall backwards until it slammed into the cabinet be­hind me. I woke up to find my class­mates and my professor laughing at me. Let's see them laugh when I fi­nally get my Burger King crown. I will own this place. 
Of course, homework is the big­gest contributor to my fatigue. For me, papers are the· worst, but, then again, I've never been here for finals week. Fortunately, I have devised a solutionfor dealing with that 10-page paper due in the morning: 
Step 1: Come up with original, engaging thesis; develop it into co­herent, cogent argument. 
Step 2: Erase everything you've written. It's terrible. 
Step 3: Find hammer and hit your­self over head with it until you pass out. 
Unfortunately, I haven't been the most motivated student since I re­turned from fall break. I'm now try­ing to make up for weeks of extreme pro­crastination. Even as I write this column, I'm putting off several critical homework assignments, none of which are as appeal­ing as talking about myself in a major stu­dent publication. But don't worry about me --lhave ~plan.I'mgonna go to the library right now for an all-day homework binge. Nothing's gonna stop me now! Nothing ... zzzzzzzzzzzzz. . 

Funny, isn't it, how SUB is showing A Christmas Story and The Art of War simultaneously next weekend. Not that you're planning on assassinating a UN ambassador and framing little cousin Timmy for the crime -you could shoot your eye out, after all. Christmas warfare is oh­so much more subtle: Mom suggests you should really lay off that second helping of mashed potatoes and asks if you're "really wearing that" to the neighbors' annual holiday shindig; Grandpa showers you with expensive gifts so you'll like him better (since, naturally, in winning you over, Gramps scores points against your father in myriad 20-year_-old argu­ments). Of course, we must remember the true spirit of the holidays and love our family members despite their imperfections. Get in the mood for holiday happiness and cheer and attend the Glee Club's Christmas Concert or the Chorale's presentation ofHandel's Messiah. Merry Christmas to all, and to all a good fight! 
-Cristin Fenzel 
lectures 
• Thu 30 "The Bronze Screen: 100 Years of Latino Image in Hollywood Cinema." Nancy DeLos Santo will lecture on her new documentary at 6:00 PM. A screen­ing of the documentary will follow at 7:00 PM. ETS Theatre, McKenna Hall. 

cinema 
• 
Thu 30 Small Time Crooks, 10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. What Lies Beneath, 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 01 and Sat 02 Small Time Crooks, 8:00 PM, 155 DeBartolo. What Lies Beneath, 8:00PM,101 DeBartolo. 

• 
Mon 04 Jaws, 7:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Tue 05 Children ofHeaven, 9:00 PM,Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. 

•Thu07
A Christmas Story, 10:30PM, 155 DeBartolo. The Art ofWar, 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 


• Fri 08 and Sat 09 A-Christmas Story, 8:00 PM and 
10:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. The Art ofWar, 8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 

the arts 
• Thu 30 through Sat 02 The Comedy of Errors, presented by the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company, 
7:30 PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
• Sun 03 Notre Dame Jazz Band: Dimensions in Jazz, 
3:00 PM, Band Building. 
• 
Wed 06 through Fri 08 Notre Dame Chorale pre­sents Handel's Messiah, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Sat 09 Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert, 


6:00 PM and 8:30 PM, Stepan Center. 

student life 
• Sat 02 Asian Allure, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Fri 01 Soccer: NCAA Women's College Cup Semifinals: ND • Wed 06 Women's Basketball: ND vs. Villanova, 7:00 PM, vs. North Carolina, 5:00 PM PT or 7:30 PM PT, San Jose, Calif. Joyce. 

• 
Sun 03 Soccer: NCAA Women's College Cup Final, 12:30 PM • Sat 09 Women's Basketball: ND vs. Purdue, Joyce. PT, San Jose, Calif. 

• Fri 08 and Sat09 Hockey: ND vs. Miami, 7:05 PM, Joyce. 

• 
Tue 05 Men's Basketball: ND vs. Indiana, 9:00 PM, Joyce. 


• Sat 09 Men's Basketball: ND vs. Miami of Ohio, 12:00 PM, Joyce. 
by Noel B. O'Sullivan 



G-0-L-F 
When I was in high school, I played every sport. After graduation, I was drafted into the Army and served in Korea. I came out of the service as a sergeant but with little idea about what I wanted to do with the rest of my life. In fact, I felt a lot like the main character in a well-known nursery rhyme: the little old lady who lived in a shoe, who had so many children she didn't know what to do. My mother and father (God have mercy on their souls) gave me the good advice to go to college and do something I loved. So in 1956, I enrolled in the physical-education school at Notre Dame. During the late 1950s, the school, which was run within the College of Arts and Letters, was considered one of the best of its kind in the United States. We took classes in biology, anatomy and kinesiology. Some students became physical therapists and doctors, but the vast majority became P .E. teachers. I graduated in 1960 with a BS in physical education and was con­tracted to teach P .E. at Notre Dame in the fall of that year. I received my master's in physical education in 1961 and created my own ending to the nursery rhyme that I still tell to many of my classes: There was on old lady who lived in a shoe Who had so many children she didn't know what to do. 
So she made them
Of course, anyone who some bread and she sent 
them to bed/And then
has taken one of my golf 
went to Kmart to buy them each a pair of Pro­
classes knows that I 
Keds (athletic shoes,for 
never refer to my favorite those of you who don't 
know)/So they could go
sport as just "golf." out the next day to play 
--------~--------G-O-L-F! 
0 'Sullivan is an 
assistant professor of physical education. He has taught P.E. at Notre Dame for 41 years and plays G-O-L-F almost every day. 

Out of all the activi­ties I've taught at Notre Dame, golf is my love. I became head coach of the men's golf team in 1974 and remained head coach until 1988. During this period, the team had 24 straight dual-match wins, and I was privileged to work with many outstanding student-athletes. 
But teaching freshman golf classes has always been my favorite. I actually get to play in front of 33 students, on average, in each class. This past rotation, that added up to about 226 students. I help them learn the basics like putting, chipping, pitching and full swing with the driver, but I also teach mental focus and concentration on the game. See, lots ofsports are checkers. Golf is chess. It requires mental strength. The great thing about it is that you don't have to be a varsity athlete or have huge biceps to fall in love with the challenge of the game. Students can forget their cares, their tests and their papers and just devote their entire intellectual focus to the mechanics ofswinging or the details of the course. Yet golf also has a wonderful social aspect to it, since you can have discussions as you travel from hole to hole. I'm convinced that more deals are struck between CEOs and other professionals on the golf course than in any meeting room. 
Golf Fundamentals is also a fabulous venture into nature. Out on the practice field by Cedar Grove Cemetery from 8:30 in the morning until 3:00 in the afternoon, the students encounter bushy-tailed squir­rels, moles, blackbirds and the "King of the Fair­ways," the golden hawk. The aerodynamics of the golden hawk are truly something to see. He can fly as low as the lowest branch on the pine trees and then swoop abruptly back up into the air. 
On certain days, my classes remind me of Caddyshack. I can honestly say that in my career as a golf instructor, I have never had a student hit by a golf ball or club. But some do manage to hit the squirrels and groundhogs; In fact, during the Septem­ber rotation this year, there was a flock of Canada geese on the adjacent fairway during class, digging for grubs. Nothing succeeded in moving them from their feast -except a few golf balls slicing in their direction. I bet when they finally did fly away, they went right back to Canada. 
Of course, anyone who has taken one of my golf classes knows that I never refer to my favorite sport as just "golf." I started teaching G-O-L-F 25 years ago at a summer camp for six-to 10-year-old boys. I got the group of weary campers at the end of the day, after they had already had many hours ofphysical activity. Many of the young ones could not pronounce the word "golf' and would say "gulf' instead. So, to correct this (and to keep them awake), I began spelling out G-O-L-F. It quickly became a tradition: soon after I began this practice, every counselor was taking his group to play G-O­L-F with Coach O'Sullivan. 
After a few weeks oflearning fundamentals, rules and etiquette and playing a few holes, the students in my classes are ready for.Warren and a lifelong activity that will bring them happiness and joy. I tell all of them to have fun with it. If any of you have problems with your games, don't hesitate to call me at the Pro Shop in the Rock. I'd be more than happy to give you a review lesson -but don't forget to bring your wallet. Happy G-O-L-Fing ! 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 



In line for fun??? 
let SUB help get you ahead.
,,• •.-::a'\• 

--~·~·/:.i 
November 30 & Decernb 

er 1,_2
(,-­

What Lies Beneath DeBartolo IOI Thursday, 10.30pm Friday and Saturday, 8pm and 10.30pm cost $2 
November 30 & Decernb 

er 1, 2 
Small Time Crooks DeBartolo IOI Thursday, 10.30pm Friday and Saturday, 8pm and 10.30pm cost $2 
Decernb 

er.J 
Michigan City Outlet Mall Bus Trip Library Circle depart Sunday, 9.45am return Sunday, 5pm cost $2, tickets available at LaFun Info. Desk 








