

FRESHMAN ISSUE 2010 
tt~{{; . \;;f 





news 04 
6 News Stories of the Year 
Scholastic Staff 

Get up-to-date on campus happenings with a review of the top news story of the2009-2010 school year. 

1 0 Faces to Remember 
Christopher Meskill & David Poell 
Take a sneak-peek at the campus celebrities that you should know. 
14 culture 


1 5 Perfect Strangers 
Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Scholastic slims down the spectrum of roommate relations into three basic categories -"kindred spirits," "I'm OK, you're OK," and "it wasn't meant to be." 

1 6 Home, Sweet Home 
Peter Hadley & Jessica Farmwald 
An overview of your future home -the residence halls and their traditions. 

24 Clubbing at Notre Dame 
Michael O'Connor 
A sampling of the opportunities -from service to athletics -available to help you do more than just homework. 

38 Is there anything to do around here? 
Nick Kolman-Mandie 
From live music to films and plays to art, literature and beyond, Notre Dame is alive and thriving with fun. 


sports 34 
34 Sports Stories of the Year 
Scholastic Staff 

Read up on the most newsworthy stories in Irish athletics during tlie 2009-2010 school year. , 
SUMMER 20IO ISCHOLASTIC I I 


HOME SWEET DOME 

Welcome, class of 2014, to the place where you will be spending the next four years ofyour life. You are one of the most talented classes in the school's history and the rest of us now resent you for making us look bad by comparison. 
Chances are, whether you've known the fight song since before you could talk or ifNotre Dame was a nice alternative to your first choice, you're a bit nervous to move into your dorm in August. You might feel lonely, overwhelmed, homesick. You might not understand why the appropriate response to encountering a group ofthe opposite sex is to sing at them. You might miss showering without flip-flops. 
All ofthese concerns are normal and are likely to disappear once you're eating at Reckers post-parietals or lying out on the quad with a group ofnew friends. It could be your roommate. Or maybe not (see page 15). It could be the person sitting next to you in calculus or a few people you met during your shift in the dining hall or even that wonderful group ofpeople bringing you the campus news magazine (Yes, a shameless plug. Join the Scholasic staff! We're fun. For more information contact us at scholast@nd.edu). By the time Christmas break rolls around, you'll be amazed by how close you've become in such a short period of time. 
It's OK to feel unsure about your place at Notre Dame or how you fit. But -and it's cliche for a reason -college is what you make it. Do what you can to make your time epic. New beginnings are scary, but they also give you permission to 
try new activities (see pages 24-26 for a few suggestions) and branch out socially, intellectually and personally. 
You are in for an incredible time over the next few years. We hope you're excited; we are so glad to have you. 
See you soon, 

Erica Pepitone Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2010 




Why Notre Dame? 
A primer on Our Lady's University 
Scholastic Staff 
Notre Dame is· a unique place. It is in the middle of nowhere and seemingly archaic with its single-sex dorms, parietals and unyielding Catholic identity. ¥et, the vast majority of alumni speak so positively about their alma mater, not to mention the donations they pour in. Many employers gush at the prospect ofhiring Notre Dame students. So what is it about Notre Dame that makes it so special? Notre Dame is technically a university, but it's more than that. It is a place that strives to fulfill its goal to educate, not just the mind, but also the body and spirit. Although this aim may seem a bit lofty, if you let the university shape you, you will find yourself growing in more ways than just intellectually. Your four years under the Dome will give you the ultimate college experience. There is no other place that offers the combination of top-notch academics, high-profile athletics, stellar Campus Mi11-istry programs (and not just for Catholics), a gorgeous campus and a tight-knit community that feels like family. You'll find that Notre Dame is a demanding place. Therewill be plenty of parties and SYRs to attend, as well as more interhall sports opportunities than you can imagine; there will, however, be presentations to prepare for, 10-page papers to turn in and some bickering with professors over your final grade. During the fall, you'll find that postponing your school work until the weekend will become a pointless exercise. Notre Dame football weekends will consume your life. There are so many things to do, but seemingly so little time to do it all. Life at Notre Dame-may be overwhelming at times, but think ofit as an opportunity to sharpen your time management skills. Think of it as a place that tests your ability to have the boldness to say "no" in the right situations. If attending Notre Dame isn't exactly your dream come true, think of what a Notre Dame education can provide you. As an undergraduate, you might not be able to see the bigger picture ofwhere your education will take you, but trust us -a Notre Dame degree will prepare you for the real world. We live in a society that is· driven by success, one that tempts many students to choose majors they think will lead to a big paycheck. But it is essential that you study what you care about. It is true that picking the right major can be difficult, e.specially given all of the available options. Still, college is a place where you will learn how to think, write and read critically, as well as where you will receive a holistic sense of the vast span of opportunities that are available to you. Choose a major that will fulfill you intellectually, and the rest will take care ofitself. Look at former Head Football Coach Charlie Weis (ND '78): How many football coaches do you know that majored in speech and drama? Take advantage ofNotre Dame. You'll be surprised how much it has to offer. Get to know your professors. Most don't bite and can be valuable resources. Study hard, but don't let it deter you from getting out of the library to experience campus events and meet lifelong friends. Enjoy the traditions, and don't take anything for granted, because it all will go by faster than you think. 0 







Fight Song & Alma Mater 
The essential songs for life under the Dome 
Scholastic Staff 

Some incoming freshmen have the luxury of having had the Fight ·song and the Alma Mater ingrained in their minds since birth. But for many freshmen, the first time they hear these songs will be at the first pep rally or the opening school-wide Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an introduction to the lyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2014, you'll know as well as your own name. 
"Notre Dame Victory March" (The Fight Song) 

Honored by college football as "the greatest of all university fight songs," the "Notre Dame Victory March" was written in 1908 by two Notre Dame graduates, brothers Michael Shea, a priest, and John Shea, a monogram winner in baseball. It was first performed on campus in the Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday in 1909. (Hint: You really only need to know the chorus.) 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: 
Sing her glory and sound herfame, 
Raise her Gold and Blue Chorus: 

And cheer with voices true: Chee1; cheerfor old Notre Da11ze, 
Rah, rah!for Notre Dame Wake up the echoes cheering he1· name, 
We will fight in ev'ry game, Send a volley chee1· on high, 
Strong ofheart and true to her name Shake down the thimder from the sky. 
We will ne'erforget her What though the odds be great or small 
And will cheer her ever Old Notre Dame will win ove1· all, 
Loyal to Notre Dame. While her loyal sons go nzm·ching 
Onward to victory. 
"Notre Dame, Our Mother" (The Alma Mater) 

The Notre Dame Alma Mater is performed at the end ofevery football game at Notre Dame Stadium, win or lose. It was composed in 1930 by Joseph J. Casasanta, a 1923 ND graduate, in honor of the dedication of Notre Dame Stadium, the "House that Rockne Built." The lyrics were written by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., a 1906 graduate and ND's president from 1928­1934. 
Notre Dame, our Mothe1; Tende1; strong and true, Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold and Blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our heartsforeve1; Praise thee, Notre Dame; And our heartsforeve1; Love thee, Notre Dame! 





TOP FIVE 
NEWS 

The !Tews of 2009-2010 


-
.
1
. 
. ' 
Jason G'Se/1 

omics have a history of controversy 
in this country and around the world. 
Whether it be for religious cartoons depicting Muhammad or post-September 11 political cartoons, cartoonists have been known for provocation. Notre Dame experienced its own case of toon-induced uproar last January when The Observei·, the independent student newspaper for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, published a comic depicting three panels in which a character asks, "What is the easiest way to turn a fruit into a vegetable?" After the second character responds, "No idea," the first replies, "A baseball bat." 
6 ISCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2010 
C

The comic, part of "The Mobile Party," a regular series ofstudent-produced comics printed in The Observei; immediately gained national attention for encouraging gay bashing and violence against gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning (GLBTQ) persons. While the controversy inspired numerous impassioned Viewpoint letters to the editor, it brought to light the need for more open and respectful dialogue concerning homosexuality and the Catholic Church's teachings. 
The issue of homosexuality and the place of GLBTQ students at Notre Dame has a long and controversial history. 
ANALYSIS 
"The Mobile Party" comic set off a wave of debate about the university's policies concerning homosexuality and the perceived lack of a welcoming atmosphere on campus. Some deplored the absence of "sexual orientation" in the university's non-discrimination clause and the absence of an officially recognized gay-straight alliance or gay outreach student group, both of which currently exist but are not officially recognized. 
In 1997, the university adopted "The Spirit of Inclusion," a document that states Notre Dame's commitment to "value gay and lesbian members of this community as 
NEWS 
we value all members of this community. We condemn harassment of any kind" and "we consciously create an environmeyit of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish." Unlike a non-discrimination clause, however, the document is not legally binding. 
In response to the Observer comic, University President Rev. John I. Jenkins, 
C.S.C. made an official statement condemning the offensive nature of the comic. "The University denounces the implication that violence or expressions of hate toward any person or group of people is acceptable or a matter that should be taken lightly," Jenkins said. 
After the Editor-in-Chiefof The Observer and the authors of "The Mobile Party" comic issued formal apologies, students, faculty and administrators sought to offer more opportunities in which serious conversations concerning homosexuality and Catholic teaching could take place. 
On January 28, Student Government hosted a forum entitled, "Where to Go from Here?: Moving Beyond Fruits and Vegetables." The forum featured a panel of students, faculty and staff who discussed ways in which Notre Dame could create a more inclusive community, especially for 
its GLBTQ members.  
Student  activists  organized  a  protest  
to  include  "sexual  orientation"  in  the  
university's  non-discrimination  clause.  

The protesters, who included students, faculty, staff and members of the South Bend community, marched from the gates of campus to Main Building, but were not allowed inside. The students also organized another in a series of "Gay? Fine By Me" t-shirt days. 
In addition, The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students, a division of the Office of Student Affairs, collaborated with a coalition of 

Geddes Hall Bo·undaries Extend Beyond lID 
Erica Pepitone
Notre Dame is known for its 
commitm~nt to the Catholic identity 
and service. The newly opened 
Geddes Hall, which houses the Institute · for Church Life and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), combines both of these values and is an environmentally responsible 
"green building." 
Between 2008 and 2010, Notre Dame 
completed many new buildings, including 
Ryan Hall, Duncan Hall and an addition to 
the the Notre Dame Law School. (For more 
on the ne~ athletic venues, see page 35.) 
Geddes Hall, which was constructed in front 
of the Hesburgh Library on Mod Quad, was 
part of the campus expansion plan, which 
will continue in the coming years. 
The Institute for Church Life bases its 
mission on the mandates of the Second 
Vatican Council and includes the Satellite 
Theological Education Program, which 
provides theological education for adults, the 
Center for Catechetical Initiatives, which 
prepares young people to serve as catechetical 
leaders or for careers in ministry, and ND 
Vision, which runs summer conferences for 
high school students. It also incorporates a 
Church Music Initiative to provide training 
and education for liturgical musicians. The 
Institute for Church Life seeks to link the 
Church and the university by means of 
organizations, research and other programs 
for faith communities. 
The CSC ties Catholic Social Teaching with community-based learning. Its one­credit seminars in the Appalachia region are popular spring and fall break alternatives, and the Summer Service Learning Program presents an opportunity to reflect on social issues and participate in direct service. The International Summer Service Learning Program exposes students to global concerns, especially in non-industrialized nations, by sending them to countries like India and Cambodia for service work. For those looking to engage in service over winter break, the one-credit Urban Plunge seminar immerses students in poverty-stricken areas in most major U.S. cities for 48-hours. The CSC is also an excellent resource for students who want to take part in service work around campus and in the South Bend area. 
In addition to the various organizations it houses, Geddes Hall offers a chapel dedicated to Our Lady of Mercy, a library and a coipmunity-gathering space for students and faculty. Geddes Hall seeks to unite faith, action and campus life. 0 

student groups and campus organizations to arrange events for StaND Against Hate Week including an ally pledge signing, a screening of "The Laramie Project" and a panel featuring gay, lesbian and ally alumni, students, faculty, and staff. 
The Core Council and other groups on campus continue to implement new events and programming to create a welcoming environment for all students at Notre Dame. "The overwhelming response following the cartoon created a new wave of support for the GLBTQ community at Notre Dame, serving as a sign of the progression of the student body," Eddie Velazquez ('10), former co-chair of the Core Council says. "No student wants to be associated with bigotry or hate, and that attitude has caught on to create a more welcoming environment for everyone at Notre Dame." 0 

Notre Dame is consistently ranked among parents' dream schools for their children, but this year, the university received a new honor: BusinessWeek ranked Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business as the top business school in the country, ranked No. 1 in "Best Undergraduate Business Programs by Specialty," beating both the University of Virginia and the Wharton School ofBusiness at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Notre Dame was first place for accounting and ethics and second in macroeconomics. According to BusinessWeek, students currently graduating from Mendoza are more concerned with ethics than past graduates, perhaps attributable to the economic downturn of recent years and Notre Dame's religious afiliation. 0 
SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 


II.' 
. 
. 
. 
I . 
. 
· .. :·-. :"\ 
--;-: :'-." ..·.·.·\ 
>:· /=.~~~j/;Jt 

_---.•--·,;",C ~@~',rl)li!~---·•'.·~-,"~--"~--_fJl_:Ur: --~I,·.-, u.gue,:_'/.;_< ;~ _/Ji'r~ffl!-:__ am-_p,m / 

::}tru;~r.ruJ@ll~V.®Ii~": : -----· --_----'. •:i\i:.\:::::_/;.,::-,,;::i,..•-··t>··;_3.) .c 
Fr•;''j~J:r::·,_ J /\ f:~·.-?>>,. \\• _.'.: ----·---·. --_-.'.).:'_,·•:::;~~~1.1,9~~1:1:,~~~J •US at_ sub@nd.ed&J 
NEWS 
learn Your ~rmsh V cabulary
.. 
Michael O'Connor 
AnTost:al: The Celtic festival of spring; a weeklong celebration hosted by the Student Union Board with fun events for students. 

Bookst:ore Basket:ball: ·The largest 5-on-5 outdoor basketball tournament in the world, held on campus every spring. 

D6, D2/D2000: Student parking lots, located near South Quad and North Quad, respectively. 

Dogbook: The photo directory of Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen; a traditional aid for finding dates to dances. 

The Huddle: A convenience store located in LaFortune Student Center. 

JACC ("Jack"): Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center; home of basketball and hockey games and pep rallies. 


Pariet:als: Dorm visiting hours that permit members of the opposite sex to be present only during certain times of the day. 

Reckers: A 24-hour restaurant located behind South Dining Hall. 

The Rock: Knute Rockne Memorial, art exercise facility on South Quad. 

The Shirt:: Worn by most students and fans at football games; proceeds from sales are used to fund many student activities on campus. 

St:onehenge: War memorial fountain at the south end of North Quad; a popular location for many unofficial freshman orientation activities. 


SYR: Officially called a "theme dance," "Screw Your Roommate" got its name from the legendary tradition of setting up one's roommate with a date from the Dogbook. 

Eddy St:reet: Commons: Newly opened shopping area close to campus that includes stores, restaurants, outlet Hammes Bookstore and apartments. Though the apartments are mostly for professionals, a few lucky students rent there and, most importantly, it houses the closest Chipotle and Five Guys. 


Make sure to look good and hard. The following faces belong to those people that you, as a Notre 
Dame student, should know. 


JENKINS: InApril 2004, the.Rev.John 
I. Jenkins, C.S.C., was elected the 17th president of Notre Dame by the board of trustees. He is the university's third president since 1952. 
Jenkins, 57, is a 1976 graduate of Notre Dame. He received a master's degree from the university in 1978, and he also holds two degrees in philosophy from Oxford University. 
Jenkins was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1983. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1990 as a professor in the Department of Philosophy. From 1997 to 2000, Jenkins served as the religious superior for the Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame. In 2000, he was named vice president and associate provost of the university. During the 2003-2004 school year, Jenkins was on sabbatical, serving as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago. 
Jenkins made himself the subject of 
10 ISCHOLASTIC ISUMMER 2010 

much controversy last year for inviting pro-choice President Barack Obama to speak at the 2009 commencement and awarding him an honorary law degree. He also came under scrutiny four years ago when he initiated a campus-wide discussion on the relationship between academic freedom and Catholic character at Notre Dame. The discussion centered around whether or not to allow the continued presence of "The Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival on campus.Jenkins ultimately decided not to prohibit these two events but to require discussion panels as a way to encourage dialogue about the issues. 
KELLY: Brian Kelly was hired this year as the new head coach of the Fighting Irish. He has coached collegiate football for 19 years and is recognized as a coach that reforms failing football programs ­an attractive trait which the university hopes will turn around its recent football history. 
He began his head coaching career at Grand Valley State University, and after 13 seasons, he left with a record of ll8­35-2. At Central Michigan University, 
Kelly turned the team's record around: In 
the four seasons prior to Kelly's arrival,· 
CMU had not won more than 12 games. Kelly led the team to an overall winning record of 19-16 after three successful seasons. He then moved to the University · of Cincinnati. While at Cincinnati, Kelly led the team to a competitive position in 
the Big East conference which brought . them to the 2010 Sugar Bowl. 
With a set ofnew recruits and a mindful 
new strategy, Irish fans are eagerly looking 
forward to watching Kelly's leadership 
this fall. 
DOYLE: The Rev. Thomas Doyle, C.S.C., former rector of Keough Hall, is beginning his first year as vice president of student affairs, a position in which he oversees several programs, including Campus Ministry, Student Activities, multicultural and international student affairs, Notre Dame Security Police, the Gender Relations Center and the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife). Doyle is taking over for the Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., who held the position 
NEWS 
for the past 11 years. 
Prior to his appointment as vice president, Doyle served as the executive vice president at the University of Portland, another university affiliated with the Congregation of Holy Cross. Before earning his master of business administration degree from Harvard Business School, Doyle completed his bachelor's degree in philosophy in 1989 at Notre Dame, where he walked onto the football team, and served as student body president during the 1988-1989 school year. 
his final term as the 16th president of Notre Dame in 2004, a position that he had held since 1986. He also has served as a professor of theology since 1974. Malloy was remarkably accessible for a university president, and he continues to conduct a freshman seminar each semester and resides in an undergraduate residence hall. Several years ago, before a knee injury, Malloy even played an occasional game of basketball with students. He received undergraduate and graduate degrees in English from Notre Dame, a second master's in theology while studying for the priesthood, and a doctorate in Christian of atomic energy, campus unrest, Third World development and immigration reform. Among the recognitions that he has received are the Congressional Gold Medal and the Medal of Freedom. 

"Father Ted" finds time to connect with students, often guest-lecturing in the classroom and presiding over Mass in residence halls. His presence on campus is ubiquitous; the library, the center for international studies and the public service program all bear his name. 
BREY: Brey joined the Irish as the men's head basketball coach in July 2000 

MCGRAW: Entering her 24th season as the women's basketball coach, Muffet McGraw is only the third person to head the women's basketball program at Notre Dame. Over the past two decades, McGraw has led the Irish to an NCAA Championship in 2001, two Final Four appearances in 1997 and 2001 and six Sweet Sixteen trips, all in the last 11 seasons. 
McGraw draws from her own experience_s on the court. She was a four­year starter at Saint Joseph's University in Philadelphia, Pa. The 5-foot-6-inch point guard then coached at a Catholic high school for two years before joining the California Dreams, of the since-folded Women's Professional Basketball League, for one season. 
McGraw has built the Irish women's program into one of the most competitive in the country, and she is not going anywhere else anytime soon. In May 2007, she signed a contract extension that leaves her at the helm of the Irish women through the 2012-13 season. 
MALLOY: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., (ND '63, '67, '69) served ethics from Vanderbilt University. He has received countless awards, including 22 · honorary degrees. 
Malloy has served as co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (a component of the National Institutes of Health) and chair of the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. 
HESBURGH: The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., (ND '39) served as Notre Dame's 15th president from 1952 to 1987, the longest tenure of any active American universitypresident. As president emeritus to the university (the position that he currently holds), Hesburgh has played a pivotal role in developing several of Notre Dame's academic institutes. 
Perhaps Hesburgh's most distinguished contributions are those he has made to national and international public service. He has held 16 U.S. presidential appointments involving many major social issues, including civil rights, peaceful uses after leaving the University of Delaware. He made his excitement about coaching at Notre Dame clear in his first press conference: "I've only been to South Bend twice before today, road games when I was at Duke University," he said. "[I] left on the bus [ ... ] and drove off this campus many times, [thinking,] 'I wonder if I could ever be good enough to [coach] at a place like this.' All I can say is, wow, we're here.'' 

And Brey has left his mark. In 2001, he led the Irish to their first NGAA tournament appearance since 1990. He since has led the team to four more tournament appearances, including a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2003. Earlier that season, Brey's Irish defeated three top-10 opponents, a first in Notre Dame history. Brey was named Big East Coach of the Year in 2007 and 2008. 
Brey's career winning percentage in 15 years as an NCAA head coach is .652. Before coaching at Delaware and Notre Dame, Brey served as an assistant at Duke under Mike Krzyzewski and as head coach at prep powerhouse DeMatha High School in Maryland. 0 
SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 


Regina Gesicki 

It's time to begin that daunting task of packing. ""\Nhere do I start?" you ask. Never fear. Whether you're a list-maker or a bag-stuffer, Scholastic has the low-down on dorm room necessities. When you arrive on campus, don't be discouraged by the looks of your room. While they come with the standard desk, bed and closet, empty dorm quarters tend to resemble prison cells. Be sure to bring plenty of posters, pictures and even Christmas lights to spruce up the walls. Some students buy rope lights or shamrock-shaped lights for school spirit. l\1ost rooms have only a single overhead light fixture and fluorescent lights over the sink, so floor lamps do wonders. You also will want a desk lamp and maybe one small light to clip onto your bed for late-night reading before you doze off to sleep. Speaking of sleeping, the beds do not come with linens, so make sure you bring some bedding -sheets, blankets, pillows, comforters for the cold winters, etc. ­whatever will make you feel comfortable. Body pillows are great for lying on the 
12 ISCHOLASTIC ISUMMER 2010 
floor and studying. 

Many dorm rooms are now equipped with modular furniture, which means you can bunk your bed on top ofyour desk and wardrobe. 
To make for a homier crib, you might want to bring a couch or futon. If space, money or transportation is a problem, canvas butterfly chairs or bean bag chairs are the way to go. You also may want carpet or rugs to cover the hard floor, which can get very cold to walk on in the winter. A carpet sale takes place on campus at the Stepan Center during Freshman Orientation weekend, and usually you can find the right fit for your room at the campus sale. Room dimensions vary, and some can be found on the Office of Residence Life and Housing Web site. (Visit http://orlh.nd.edu.) 
Pack a shower caddy to tote your soap and shampoo to and from the community bathrooms. A robe or large towel and shower shoes (i.e., flip-flops) are also a necessity. 
As far as laundry goes, you can do it yourself or use St. Michael's Laundry Service. St. Michael's is an on-campus laundry service that will pick up your dirty clothes, wash them and return them for a fee. Ifyou decide to do your own laundry, most dorms have coin-operated washers and dryers ($1.50 and $1.00 to wash and 
'dry one load, respectively). Make sure to bring rolls of quarters, a laundry basket or bag to haul your duds to the laundry room, detergent, stain remover and a drying rack for clothing you'd rather not shrink. Also, if you do not want to lug those quarters around, you should think about purchasing Domer Dollars, which are credited to your student card. As an added incent_ive, each load of laundry is 25 cents cheaper using the "dollars." 
One ofthe most important decisions will be whether or not to bring a computer and, if so, whether to use a desktop or a laptop. If you choose to leave your computer at home, you can use one in acomputer cluster on campus. Some students, however, prefer to write papers and e-mails from the comfort of their rooms, which makes a desktop computer an ideal choice. Most students find it easier to bring a laptop computer to school. This allows students more freedom when working on papers or using the Internet, as they can relocare to their hearts' desire. 
There are many ways to connect to the Internet in LaFortune Student Center and Hesburgh Library if you bring a laptop. These campus buildings and all the dorms recently have been outfitted with wireless Internet connections. For non-wireless computers, there are standard ethernet jacks available around campus. Additionally, if you don't want to lug a printer to campus, both color and black and white printers are available in the computer clusters. Every student is given $l00 in his or her print quota at the start of the school year; black-and-white printing costs 10 cents per page. Color pages deduct 75 cents. 
As far as entertainment goes, bring whatever tickles your fancy. Manystudents bring televisions for those much-needed study breaks. The dorms are equipped with cable, but if you and your roommate are movie addicts, you may want -to bring a DVD player. A CD player or iPod will provide some musical variety. Get in touch with your roommate to divvy up the more expensive items you'll share. 
Aside from West and Mod Quad dorms, most are without air conditioning. A fan may come in handy for those hot nights at the beginning and· end of the school year. 
One thing to remember is that microwaves are not allowed in the dorm rooms. Most floors in the dorms have a microwave in the common room for making popcorn or Easy Mac late at night. It might be a good idea to bring a hot pot that will boil water so you can make Ramen noodles, the quintessential college foo~. 
Rooms no with land line phones. For an extra fee, however, you can get one for your room. A cellular phone has many advantages, often including free long distance service and increased mobility. Cell phones are one of the easiest ways to keep in touch with family, old friends from home and new friends around campus. 
As far as wardrobe goes, there are a few must-haves. Don't forget warm clothing for the infamously cold South Bend winter. You'll need a warm coat, gloves or mittens, and a hat if you don't want to freeze. Bring a raincoat, umbrella or poncho fo_r rainy walks to class and football games. Remember to bring outfits and shirts in your dorm's color to show your spirit at pep rallies. Since most of the closets are small, you may want to buy some plastic shelving containers, which are cheap and practical. 
A swimsuit is a must for the mandatory swim test that all freshmen take at the beginning of the year. Each dorm will have a couple of dances -both formal and semi-formal -each semester. Pack a fun dress or two or a jacket or suit and tie for such occasions. 
Don't forget a camera to capture all the fun memories you are about to experience at football games, pep rallies and dorm events. 
If your suitcases are stuffed, or if you forget something, do not worry. Although South Bend may not be a · buzzing metropolis, it does have plenty of retail stores. The University Park Mall is complete with a Macy's, Banana Republic, Gap, Sephora, Express and many other stores. And if you absolutely must have your favorite teddy bear or your bottle cap collection, Mom and Dad are just a phone call and a care package away. 0 

CULTURE 
SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 
Freshmen : Join the staff of the 2011 Dome yearbook 
We are looking for designers, photographers, editors and writers. Experience helpful but not required! 
Email Dome@nd.edu 
Be part of a friendly staff working on a project that will last a lifetime 

CULTURE 
tj;::'--~11\~
Perfect ~ 
' 
~ 
-

Strangers ~ 
Nick Kolman-Mandie 

Welcome to your new dorm room. Behind your door you will find a bed, a desk and a roommate. Have a good year! It may be true that some univers1t1es house gigantic supercomputers that match each incoming freshman with a roommate of compatible sleeping and study habits, as well as similiar musical and neatness preferences. Alas, at Notre Dame there is no such system. Roommate pairings are randomly selected, and you will not receive any sort of personality questionnaire that will be fed into a supercomputer to match you to your dream roommate. But fear not. The indiscriminate process of the Office of Residence Life and Housing is not without its merits. For many of you, college will be your first experience living in the same room with another human being. Even for those who currently share rooms with siblings, your dorm situation will be much different. It is no longer feasible, for example, to resolve every disagreement with a punch in the arm or relentless teasing. While the ~esident assistant (RA) is there to help you with your problems, you'll find that banging on the wall and constant finger­pointing will get you nowhere. Rarely, however, will a situation arise which needs more than a little heart-to-heart talk. Rooming with a complete stranger is a unique opportunity. Despite Notre Dame's unsystematic approach, you'll find that you are more adaptable to dealing with a shared room than you may think. What's more, the amount of influence you currently have on the matter is, well, none. Fretting about your future roomie is a waste of your precious summer time, so don't lose sleep over it. The spectrum of roommate relations can be divided into three simple categories. Note: Rememberthatyourroommate-to-beis 
probably reading this same thing right now. You both have the opportunity to make your living situation as comfortable as possible. 
Kindred Spirits 
You may move in on your first day, meet 
your roommate and pledge your eternal 
friendship to him or her within an hour. Or 
the engagement may take; a couple weeks. 
In either case, count yourself among the 
lucky few if you find a best friend in your 
roommate. You'll both love Kanye West 
and hate country. You'll own the same color 
of shower sandals, and you'll have more 
fun playing in the box your Gateway was 
shipped in than actually using the computer. 
Within a month, you'll know each other 

inside and out. · 
While rare, this situation is certainly possible. Always having your best friend around you adds to your comfort level, and you'll likely meet people together and share a good number of friends. Beware, though: Don't box yourself in during Freshman Orientation weekend. Use it as a chance to · meet as many fellow students as possible. Remember to be your own person and, for goodness' sake, don't pass up a chance to play volleyball with your brother-sister dorm because you and your roommate are 
busy battling it out on the Xbox. 
I'm OK, You're OK 
This may be the most common situation for roommates. There is absolutely nothing wrong with not asking your first-year roommate to be best man or maid of honor at your wedding. In this instance, your roommate is nice, considerate, relatively neat and gives you your space. vVhatever his or her personality may be, it's not difficult to live with this person. In this scenario, you'll both make friends of your own but 

. 
j f 
: J 
z
'f 
&3
~J; ~ 
...J 
,: w 
0 
w 
z 
w 
::;: 
::e fu 
z 
0 
~ 
>-"' 
(f) 
::::, 
...J 
:! 
have pizza and watch a movie together every once in a while. At the very least, you'll have a comrade to join you as you head to the dining hall those first few nights or to throw a Frisbee on the quad with after class. 
You'll get to meet all of your roommate's friends, and you can introduce him or her to yours. Failing to achieve communal nirvana in your own room will send you down the hall, to another floor or to another dorm for your best friends. The more effort you make, the more people you'll meet, and the more likely you are to make those lifelong friends. 
It Wasn't Meant to Be 
Sadly, some roommates just don't get along. You may verbally argue on several room-related points, or your roommate could be so inconsiderate that you actually look forward to parietals. Whatever the case may be, don't hesitate to ask your RA for advice. The worst rooming situations can warrant room changes, but this scenario is rare. 
On the bright side, you will have an especially strong impetus for making friends outside the room and a good reason to get involved in extracurricular activities. Don't let the person you share a room with taint your overall college experience. 
Chances are, despite your assigned roommate, your first year at Notre Dame will be among the greatest ofyour life. Take heart in the fact that your future roommate has the same reservations you might have about living ,vith someone you've never met. To ensure a good year, be yourself, be considerate and, perhaps most important of all, keep your mess confined to your side of the room. 0 
SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 15 


Peter Hadley & Jessica Farmwald 

Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions ofits residence halls. Read on for a briefintroduction to some ofthese time-honored events -from the charitable to the bizarre. 
west 

! 
i Welsh Family: Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and is traditionally a sports powerhouse on campus. The easternmost 
residence hall on West Quad organizes one of the more unique events on campus:
i 
I' 
the Welsh Family Feud, a game-show style competition that pits dorms against each other, part of a spirit week full of events centered around dorm pride. West Quad boasts the newest dorms on campus, the only residence halls on campus other than Mod Quad to have air-conditioning. 
Keough: The Kangaroos put on the annual Keough Chariot Race. Each dorm 
16 ISCHOLASTIC ISUMMER 2010 

builds its own chariot to win fame, Ben-Hur style. For their White Wedding Dance -with themes such as "Pirates" and "Mafia" -the men of Keough nominate one 'Roo from each section to compete for the title of Captain Keough. Keough, partnered with 
Welsh Fam, is known for dominating Late Night Olympics, a night of competitions for charity among the halls. 
McGlinn: The Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for hosting Casino Night, an evening of gambling and games. Students can buy raffle tickets and place bets with fake money or display their moves on the dance floor. All proceeds benefit Our Lady of Hungary Catholic Parish and School. 
O'Neill: Built as the first male residence hall on West Quad in 1996, O'Neill has been home to some of the most active and rowdy men on campus ever since. Known as "The Angry Mob," the men of O'Neill show their dorm pride at signature events, including the Miss ND Pageant. O'Neill co-sponsors an event with Lyons called "Recess;" a number of playground games and Ring-Pops and candy necklaces bring students back to their middle-school years. 
Duncan: The Highlanders, who were the new kids on the block for 2008, welcomed in their inaugural year with the Highlander games, which had participants battle in "Scottish" events including a shackle race and javelin throw. 
Ryan: Following the 2008 opening of men's dorm Duncan Hall, women's dorm Ryan Hall opened in fall 2009. Underwritten by the Ryan family, the 74,600-square-foot hall houses 246 students, known as "The Wildcats," of which approximately 87 are first-year students. It features a varitey of room types and is designed in the university's traditional collegiate Gothic style. 


CULTURE 

Sorin College: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., former university president, lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Vietnam War. Sorin hosts an off-color talent show during one home football weekend each year. Rubbing the right foot on the statue of Father Sorin at the main entrance brings 
north 


Cavanaugh: The women of Cavanaugh have an annu~l weekend in the spring during which dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall of Fame or moms come in for a brunch. Which parent comes alternates each year. Every winter, they also put on a spirit week leading up to thei~ Snow Ball, a formal dance held in LaFortune Student Center. This past spring, the Chaos hosted their second annual Dance-a-thon as a fundraiser for Hannah and Friends, a foundation that works with autistic children. The foundation was started by former Head Football Coach Charlie Weis. 
Zahm: The most infamous dorm on campus, Zahm transforms its incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahmbies. 
good luck. Past residents of Sorin College include Knute Rockne, George Gipp and Moose Krause. 
Walsh: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited with instituting the university's first intercollegiate football team. The Wild Women 
host the Walsh Wild Week in the fall, a series of competitive and not-so-competitive events. It culminates in the Mr. ND Pageant. Walsh also hosts Football 101, a popular question and answer session with players from the football team. 
Lewis: Lewis is the largest women's dorm on campus, and its residents, the Chicks, participate in the SK Chicken Run to kick off their spirit week. Each resident anonymously 
Before the first pep rally each year, the men ofZahm perform the Torquemada (a ceremony mysteriously kept under wraps). In true fraternity spirit, most members of the dorm insist on calling their home "Zahm House" instead of Zahm Hall. 
Keenan: Keenan is connected to Stanford Hall by the Chapel of the Holy Cross. The Keenan Knights distinguish themselves with their signature event, the wildly successful Keenan Revue. The revue is• a three-night show that the Knights put on every February. A sellout crowd attends this collection of original student comedy. Keenan is also host to a huge mud volleyball tournament in the spring. 
Stanford.: The men of Stanford · live directly across the quad from North Dining Hall. The Griffins once were known as the Studs; but changed their mascot in tribute to former rector, the Rev. Robert Griffin, 
C.S.C. They also put on an Iron Grill contest invites a date to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which ends the week of activities. The names of the Chicks' chosen dates are announced in an ad in the Observer, the university newspaper. The building served as housing for nuns until 1975 and is famous for its patio and accompanying covered walkway. 

St. Ed.ward's: St. Ed's is the oldest campus building now used as a dorm, although it didn't become a residence hall until 1929. It is the only residence hall listed in the National Register of Historic Places. The Gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall, or the Stedsmen, began 
. a tradition of wearing kilts to football pep rallies. St. Ed's holds an annual event called Founders Week which includes a 2-on-2 basketball tournament and a charity shootout. All proceeds from Founders Week go to a charitable cause. St. Ed's has an end-of-the­year dance on a yacht in Chicago. 
where contestants from each dorm compete to grill the best steak. Every spring they host the Benefit Bash, a late-night event, with proceeds supporting an orphanage in Chile. 
Farley: Farley Hall, located next to North Dining Hall, has been a women's dorm since Notre Dame went co-ed in 1972. Pop Farley week is perhaps the best-known event of the Finest. This celebration, which culminates with a dance, features a different fun activity for the Finest and their dates each day of the week. The Farley Fiasco, an indoor Iditarod race, is a new event. 
Breen-Phillips: The Babes of BP raise 
money each year for diabetic patients with . their Meal Auction. Students and faculty members bid to eat with campus celebrities who have volunteered for the event, such as former university president Father Hesburgh and former Notre Dame running back and Washington: Redskin Reggie Brooks. In the late winter or early spring, Breen­Phillips provides relief from the cold with its 
Beach Week. 
SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 17 


~1 
CULTURE

] 
mod 

j ~l 
I Siegfried: The Ramblers of Siegfried 5 
compete annually against Knottin the Flanner Cup, a week's worth of events including tug­o-war matches, arm wrestling and relay races. The week culminates with a dance co­sponsored by the two men's dorms. Siegfried also sponsors the annual Day of Man fund­raiser. On a winter day, the Ramblers wear only T-shirts, shorts and flip-flops, soliciting 
south 



Alumni: Conveniently located at the intersection of God Quad and South Quad and known to its residents as "The Center of the Universe," Alumni is home to the Dawgs. Each spring, the Dawgs host Wake Week, an event steeped in tradition and shrouded in mystery. Alumni's biggest rival is its neighbor, Dillon. The rivalry is re-ignited with Rivals "\i\Teek, during which Alumni and Dillon compete in different sports competitions. 
Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, housing over 350 students, Dillon was voted Hall of the Century. Its signature event is the Dillon Pep Rally, which is held before the first home football game. The Pep Rally satirizes life at ND and includes keynote speakers and ND cheerleaders. The Big Red also hold the Stache Bash in the spring. The Dillonites all grow mustaches to raise money for charity in anticipation ofa dance. 
Fisher: You'll know Fisher by the gigantic green 'F' on the building. Every spring, Fisher 
18 ISCHOLASTIC ISUMMER 2010 
donations throughout campus to benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Knott: At pep rallies, the Juggerknotts can be easily spotted in their orange and blue attire. Each spring, they hold Tour de Knott, a bike ride to raise funds to help in 
the battle against cancer. 
Pasquerilla West: Nicknamed PW or P-Dub, this dorm is home to the Purple Weasels. In 1981, Pasquerilla West was the first dorm built specifically for women at the University of Notre Dame. In the spring, Queen Week, an intradorm event, fosters inter-section competitions and ends in a 
hosts the Fisher Regatta, a campus-wide boat race on St. Mary's Lake. In the fall the Green Wave holds a 50­hour roof-sit, during which students from around campus take turns sitting on Fisher's roof for charity. Plus, Joe Montana lived there. 
Pangborn: Pangborn sits on the far west end of South Quad and is home to the "phoxiest" ladies on campus. A highlight event is Project Pink, which featured a fashion show with plenty of pink clothing, and collection ofhair to donate for wigs for women with cancer who have lost their hair as a result of chemotherapy. 
Lyons: Easily recognized by its famous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, this women's dorm sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run every fall in honor of a freshman resident killed by a drunk driver in 1993. Money raised from the event goes to a student scholarship fund. Lyons also hosts a beach-themed dance each fall. 
Morrissey Manor: The building isn't just its residents' home, it's also their mascot, the Manor. Morrissey is the second largest men's dorm on campus. A new Morrissey event is a medallion hunt that is the culmination of a week-long trivia contest. 

dance. One girl from the winning section is crowned Queen. 
Pasquerilla East: PE gotinto the Christmas spirit with its signature event, Silent Night, Silent Auction. Beyond a silent auction, the event also consists of cookie decorating and live entertainment. The proceeds go to Building fo~ Tomorrow, a non-profit charity that builds schools for underprivileged children in Uganda. PE is unique because its first through fourth floors are numbered five through eight, in order to differentiate it from Pasquerilla West. 
Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the first snowfall of the school year (arguably the only time that the arrival of snow is welcomed). Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete against each other in an annual Parade of Rooms. Every fall they host the Howard Hoedown, a country western-themed dance to kick off the school year. 
Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second-oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women of Badin host a campus­wide karaoke and dance competition, the Badin Breakdown. Their scores from the first round qualify them for a chance to spin the karaoke "Wheel of Death" to compete for gift certificates at local restaurants. Badin was named 2009-10 Hall of Year. 
Carroll: Overlooking St. Mary's Lake from the west edge of campus, Carroll Hall offers a beautiful view. The Vermin enjoy a close-knit environment as Carroll has the fewest residents of any dorm. "A Carroll Christmas" features a tree-lighting ceremony and performances by university choirs. The hall's "GO IRISH" banner is made with 80 bed sheets and 10,000 staples. If you've been assigned to Carroll, a bike is a must, unless you want to be late to class every day; this dorm is located farthest from the rest of campus. 
0 






CULTURE 
This here is the Gipper, the anonymous spy/writer who keeps this campus up-to-beat on its most absurd, disgusting, immoral and hilarious events. In every issue of Scholastic, Gipp gets to describe the best "tips" received since the last publication. This is where you come in. As readers, you will provide the bullets that allow Gipp to make his fortnightly character assassinations. The Gipper needs you to be his eyes and ears. So screw loyalty to your roommate, friends and lovers. If it's funny, juicy or obscene, Gipp needs to know about it. You report, Gipp derides. · 

You've probably heard a few times that Notre Dame is all about Jesus. Actually, many students say that Notre Dame is all about football, beer and strained gender relations, but Gipp supposes that, to some extent, it still is about ol' JC. After all, his mosaic is the officially recognized signaler of touchdowns, and that's kind of important. Plus, you can't spit in the air on this campus without hitting a chapel. But for the sake of brevity, Gipp will try to give you a run-through of the heathen, secular aspects of our campus life. 

Now, on to dorm life. While ND doesn't have Greek life, it does have a pretty solid system of on-campus housing. Compared to our peers, we have an amazingly high percentage of students living on campus, and almost everyone stays in the dorm they were assigned to freshman year. There is one gigantic catch to our dorms, though. Boys and girls, the Gipper hath seen illogical repression, and thy name is Parietals. Your dictionary (a.k.a. duLac, the official campus rule book) can give you an exact definition, but just know this: If you came to college hoping to get closer to a special someone after 12 a.m. on weekdays or 2 
a.m. on weekends, you might be in for a rude awakening. Some people will tell you that parietals are a good thing, because they signal the end of the night and let everyone get to rest. Right ... because college students aren't old enough to decide when the night is over for themselves. 

That should be all for now, young ones. The Gipper hopes you are as excited to startyourtime here as he isto ruthlessly embarrass you on these pages. Please don't be nervous as you enter this bawdy new world of GippLand, because Gipp promises that you'll adjust quickly. By mid-September you'll be hoppin' across South Quad on your way to LaFun to get some ODs, complaining about ResLife and debating whether to ask your crush from the Rock or that cutie from FYC out on a date to NDH or SDH. Sound fun? 
Enjoy the rest of your summer, and do try to lose 15 pounds in August -just so things are back to even by fall break. And if you remember one thing when you step onto this campus, it's this: Tip Gipp! See ya soon. 
1;PTH08fPP 

o a o o 0 o at gipper@nd.edu SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 

CULTURE 



AT NOTRE DAME 
Whether you want to continue your involvement in student government or meet other Domers who share your love of horseback riding, Notre Dame has a club for everyone. Take a look at a few of your choices ... 
Michael O'Connor 


Scholastic choice: 
SIBC 

One of the largest student organizations at Notre Dame, the Student International Business Council (SIBC) is the only one of its kind in the nation. Open to all majors, the SIBC is dedicated to providing students with real-world professional experience and international development. Every summer, the SIBC sends dozens ofstudents around the world on international summer internships and ·teaching positions. 
ANTHROPOLOGY CLUB 

As a club within a major, it aims to establish connections between students and faculty within the department. They put together guest lectures, excusions and films. 
MATH CLUB This club brings together students and faculty with an interest in mathematics by hosting guest lecturers and other events. 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL CLUBS 
These include pre-law, dental, veterinary, medicine, and minority pre-med and pre­professional; they bring guest speakers and admissions representatives from post­graduate schools to campus and provide resources to learn about the fields of study. 
SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS 

This club fosters a sense of community among women in engineering through social activities, career aid, service and academic support. 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP SOCIETY 
A group of individuals who plan to start or have already started their own businesses, the "E-Club" travels to national conferences, sponsors campus speakers, provides internships and job opportunities for club members, and prepares members to write business plans and compete in competitions. 
INVESTMENT CLUB 
·rt provides students of all majors with the opportunity to manage an investment portfolio of over $300,000 of real money. Weekly presentations, discussions and semester trips to the Chicago Board of Trade make this club vital for establishing connections. 

Scholastic choice: 
ITALIAN AND GERMAN CLUBS 

These two are just a few ofthe many cultural/ language clubs on campus. The Italian Club's activities include opportunities to practice speaking Italian, cooking classes, trips to Chicago's Italian neighborhood and Italian operas in Chicago. The German Club's two yearly highlights are Ok"domer"fest and a trip to Chicago's famed Christkindlmarkt. 
WABRUDA 

This is a relatively new club for African­American males on campus. Part support group and part leadership organization, Wabruda's events range from professional 
24 I SCHOLASTIC j SUMMER 2010 
development workshops to a "Brain Bowl" for local grade school students to barbeques on campus. 
LAALIANZA 
One of the largest cultural clubs on campus, it was formed about five years ago when several other groups merged. It educates and entertains students through programs that include Hispanic Heritage Month Celebrations and the Latino Formal. 
ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION 
This dub celebrates Asian-American heritage through fellowship, service and events that showcase the unique values of various Asian cultures. 

HAWAII CLUB 
Works to share the culture ofHawaii through various social and educational activities, including a luau each spring. This club is open to all students. 
TEXAS CLUB 
An outlet for ND Texans to celebrate and learn about Texas pride and culture. The club sponsors various social activities and campus-related events, as well as helping to bring country artist and Texan Pat Green to campus for a concert in spring 2006. 

CULTURE 
ATHLETIC 

L_........__,.--..·---·-·-------·----······ •·•--.-~-~-----~~---~ 
Scholastic choice: 
..
BENGAL BOUTS 
The 7 6-year-old Bengal Bouts boxing tournament offers an opportunity for men with varying levels of experience to compete to raise money for Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. If you are into boxing and happen to be female, check out the Women's Boxing Club, which hosts Baraka Bouts, the sister event to the Bengal Bouts. 
WOMEN'S RUNNING CLUB 
This running club offers women of all levels the chance to get in shape and learn more about running.They compete in road races in the area and sponsor two big events: the Holy Half Marathon and the Relay for Life, on-campus races that raise money for charity. 
CLIMBING CLUB 
Sponsors rock-climbing trips to places like the Red River Gorge in Kentucky and provides all the necessary gear and training for participants of all levels of experience. 

Scholastic choice: UNIVERSITY BANDS 
They include the marching band, several concert bands, jazz bands, and brass and percussion ensembles. Tryouts for the bands are open to all students, undergraduate and graduate, who are enrolled at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross. 
SWING CLUB 
Members meet weekly for two hours of East Coast swing lessons and dance time. The class is geared toward beginning dancers, but there are student instructors who work privately to challenge and teach intermediate and advanced dancers. 
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS, COLLEGE 
LIBERTARIANS AND COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
These groups hope to raise political awareness and participation among university students. Members also campaign for local candidates. 
EQUESTRIAN TEAM 
The club takes weekly lessons at stables located about 15 minutes from campus. Riders of all levels are welcome to join and do not need to own a horse. Throughout the year, the team participates in competitions sponsored by the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association. 
SAILING CLUB 
Their practices are held on St. Joe Lake on campus and at another nearby lake in · Michigan. Members race throughout the Midwest and the nation. 
POMSQUAD 
This group of 14 women from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is dedicated to enhancing the spirit of Notre Dame through the performance of dance routines. The Porn Squad performs at pep rallies, basketball halftimes and campus­wide and dorm functions, such as the Notre Dame Activities Night and the Dillon Hall Pep Rally. 
THE DOME YEARBOOK 
Always looking for writers and photographers to help with spreads, the Dome is an all-color publication. The time commitment is very flexible, and although experience helps, it is not necessary. 
FARLEY PLAYERS, ST. EDWARD'S PLAYERS AND PEMCo 
Afew student performing arts groups put on theater and musical productions each year. 
ND-8 Sparked by Notre Dame's Millenium Development Goals, this group works to petition goverments to end e.xtreme poverty. 
GLEE CLUB Notre Dame's all-male choir has a strong fraternal atmosphere and focuses on vocal technique and style. The group performs on campus and travels in the U.S. and abroad. 

WATER POLO 
The women's club team is consistently one of the top performers in the country. The team competes in tournaments during the spring semester around the Midwest and West Coast. 
FIGURE SKATING CLUB 
Founded in 1999 and recognized as the athletic club of the year for 2001-2002, the team skates against varsity and club teams, and it has competed for two national championships, achieving eighth place in 2000 and seventh in 2002. 
FIELD HOCKEY TEAM 
The team was formed four years ago to offer both men and women of all skill levels a chance to participate. The team practices four days a week in the spring and fall and competes against other teams in the area. 

BAGPIPE BAND 
No prior experience is necessary, as new members are provided free bagpipes for four years and given lessons. The band performs on football weekend mornings in full dress (i.e. kilts), as well as at other university and dorm events, particularly around St. Patrick's Day. 
GreeND 
One of the most environmentally active groups on campus, GreeND provides support for student environmental groups, as well as helping these groups put on events such as Earth Week and Energy week. 
SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 

CULTURE 
J· SERVICE 


Scholastic choice: csc 

The Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns offers a number of very popular service trips over fall and spring breaks, providing opportunities to better understand social justice issues across the country, from Florida to D.C. 
C.A.S.H. (COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS) 
This group works with local community centers and offers a number of opportunities for students to serve as translators and English-language instructors to the Hispanic community. 
FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM (FAST) 

This group serves as the first level of the emergency medical system for events and athletics on campus. Team members hold Red 


Scholastic choice: 
THE BASILICA GROUPS 

The Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart has a number of ministries open to new members. Their choirs include the Folk Choir, the Liturgical . Choir, the Women's Liturgical Choir and the Handbell Choir. The Basilica is always looking for new readers, Eucharistic ministers 
and altar servers. 
IRON SHARPENS IRON 

This interdenominational, student-led Bible study group seeks to foster solid Christian relationships and to challenge and encourage students to grow in their faith through fellowship, praise and worship, Biblical teaching, and prayer. 


wide events like movies and concerts. Each class has a council that also plans events. Many of the candidates each year for student council president are former SUB officers. Joining SUB is a great way to get involved in student government during freshman year. 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL 

Judicial Council enforces election rules for student government and provides peer advocates for students facing disciplinary hearings in the Office of Residence Life and 

Scholastic. choice: STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Student government includes class councils that plan events for each class, the Hall Presidents' Council, a Student Senate with members elected from each dorm and the Executive Staff. Student Government is the best way for student voices to be heard and for student-planned events and ideas to become realities. 
SUB 

Cross certifications in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 

Notre Dame's chapter of the national group works each year to build a home in the South Bend area and sponsors the annual "Shack City" fundraiser. 
AFRICA FAITH AND JUSTICE 

The university's chapter of the national organization seeks to 
BAPTIST COLLEGIATE MINISTRY 

An organization open to all Christian traditions, it focuses on fellowship, faith­sharing and Christian living. It holds weekly Bible study meetings, church visits, retreats, shared meals and other activities. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 

A Catholic men's organization focused on service to the community and loyalty to the Church, the Notre Dame chapter is dedicated to the principles of the nationwide order through many activities, including its Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for charity. 
Studies is open to students interested in teaching techniques for non-violent conflict resolution to grade school students. 
CIRCLE K 
This service group offers around 20 projects covering a wide range of interests, from playing with animals at the Humane Society to working at the Juvenile Justice Center. This is the club to join if you can't decide what kind of service you want to do. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY RETREATS 
Notre Dame offers many retreats, including the Freshman Retreat, which is geared toward the issues and experiences of early college life. There are opportunities to lead.retreats as upperclassmen, as well as to attend the popular Notre Dame Encounter with Christ. 
FLIPSIDE 
This is a student-run organization whose purpose is to program weekend events that do not involve ·alcohol, such as bowling, ice­skating and trips to Chicago. The events are open to all students and aim to provide alternatives to drinking on campus. 0 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAV, LESBIAN, BISEXUAL 

&QUESTIONING STUDENTS The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bi--sexual & Questioning Students 

We Core Council members are administrators, and gay, lesbian, and ally students who are a resource in identifying the ongoing needs of our gay, lesbian, bi-sexual & questioning students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on these concerns, we strive to eliminate homophobia, and to make Notre Dame a welcoming and accepting place that prizes the uniqueness of all its students. 
Meet student members of the CORE COUNCIL and find out about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, & questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 
('••·--··--··-·-·-··. ·.-·--·-·----­
\L. f A RECEPTION . 
FM·•,Interested First-Year Students 
l ·, . 
Hosted by The Core Council 
\IV~1dnesday, August 26th 
L.~,.1:30.:3:30 -p~rh. / 
I • • j 
316 Cdl~man-Morse ,.P'uilding (3ild.tfloor Lou,n"ge)
le '. . . ,; . 
l. .I 

Visit our web site Lal coreco.. un.ciLnd~edu. 
1.JJ 

The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bi-Sexual & Questioning Students also sponsors: Coffee & Conversation at the Co-Mo * Conversations in the _Gold Room *Solidarity Sunday CommUnity* NETWORK Ally Training Sessions 1r StaND Against Hate Week* Day of Silence 
, -~ ----------­
--------~­
SCHOLASTIC SNAPSHOT 



Today, it's all about connections. How many Facebook friends do you ha~e? _. .How many peopl~ are fol.lowing your daily tweets? How many contacts do ­_you have o.n your phone? -· 
· At Notre Dame Federal . Credit ~nion, we . keep you connected. With our· ··· website, our Facebook page,. and Online, Mobile, and Tex't Message Banking, _. you're connecte·d to your money-24/7. . . 
. .., . . . . . 
. Plus, with 01.:1_r new the edge Checking~ you'H1 get an accountthat's· prac,ical, . · affordable, and portable. It's -F.ree Checking. that's online, on-the-go,~and on · , the cutting edg~. · _ ·-,-· :· : ~ · _,. -·. · -~ · -,,. :· 
# .... • ·1 
. _, . 
.,. . 
. • ' . • • . -df . . . 
Open your account today at www.·ndfcu.or'glstudentforml 
• I:'. 
• . ,-.•
. . .. ..-. -. .. .,_ -.'. . . . ""'. . . . . . . . 
, ' . . 
··, ,··•--·-_-_•_ ·No·t_R·_e--o·A_·_l\·A·E· -.. ,.
. . .• .· .. .:/<.,; : .:... ...•..· .\' : .. ..: 
.. .. ,.: . :. .. ' . ~ . ...
·::::::\·. :<::.J'.\::.~:~,~-=--t~Jt•· ;:
.· .-. .... ; ....··,-. _•.·' '.. .!'l!...JI· ·.. . •·... .• .. : o,· ._·. ....:·.'' .::: :tzj:,:_~~CfrA~ . .•· 
~) ,:· .:'. 
. , 
, ~ 

\.-f.,E·D'.E R~L~-CJRE)b I.T :. UfJ:10·N ·: .. •. :_; 
. ·. -· ; . . . . -· ..., . .: . . .. ;..: . . -. . _. -·: . ._-.:. .-. . ,. . . -·' 
..~.: _8_00/522-=6"Ql•l •~~ www.odfcu:org. -·. :: : · 
. :~·-··.:·:~~:_=_, ;.:~· :·: ·: :_:·-'·\ .:__(.-. ·./·:·~r···;.-.·~:. ,:.:·:·~··.. :. '. -_ 
'_.-... ;··_•.. ~·~-:,_:'·. ,-~'l -~-,,,. -. ..·rt-> .. ·... ·.·: 
·•. • • • ; , . , • ; I • • • • • ·.-• , ·: .... -.. • : ~ • ••• ... ..'-''IF .. t .: 
,. . . .: .'., .::: •';'· : :) \~-:. :' >:; 
' 
. " • · LENDEg,jR ..____....,,,,.__ .. 
• _-, . . ·. -.Independent of the University' . . 

CULTURE 

Michael O'Connor & Regina Gesicki 
Sometime during the semester, the dining hall's spicy sea nuggets will send you running-or crawling-off campus to the nearest eating establishment. Or perhaps late-night Reckers just isn't making your sweetie feel special enough. Better yet, maybe the parents are in town and want .to fulfill their biological duty to feed you. Whatever the reason, getting off campus every now and then will keep your tastebuds in better shape. We propose visiting some of the following venues to satiate your deepest culinary hankerings. 
NICK'S PATIO 
Location: 1710 North Ironwood Drive 
Prices: Meals range from $5 to $10 
Basically your localized Denny's, Nick's Patio serves an array of American food 24­hours a day, seven days a week. The late night personnel who enjoy talking with you while they take your order are especially fun. We recommend you order the croissiant and check out the sweet Web site. 
MIKADO 
Location: 402 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Dinners range from $6 to $16 
Either sit at a conventional table or up at the teppanyaki counter where the chef will prepare your food right in front ofyou. This Japanese restaurant is popular with students and South Bend residents alike. Its relaxed atmosphere is fine for family dining or a date. If you like darker meat, we highly recommend the sukiyaki steak. If you like sushi, come here to get it fresh. The menu includes items like octopus and barbequed eel for more adverturous eaters. Relatively inexpensive, Mikado is fun for a quick break from campus dining fare. 
THE VINE Location: 103 W. Colfax (Corner of Michigan and Colfax) Prices: Main courses range from $8 to $15 
Looking for a restaurant that is perfect for a date, dinner with the family or a casual evening with friends? The Vine in downtown South Bend has a great atmosphere and even better food. For your main course, try one of several delicious pasta dishes, with or without meat. The dessert menu changes every day, and the wine list is extensive. Best of all, nothing at The Vine is very expensive. 
LA ESPERANZA 
Location: 1636 North Ironwood Prices: Traditional Mexican food from $8 to $12 
An authentic Mexican Restaurant, La Esperanza serves up fresh and delicious Mexican originals and favorites, from tacos and gorditas to sizzling fajitas. With southwestern decor and music, it has a real Mexican feel. Try it out if you are looking for a more traditional "south of the border" experience than dining hall quesadillas. 

ROCCO'S RESTAURANT 
Location: 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. Prices: Pizza starts at $7 
Rocco's has been a Notre Dame staple for many years. All the decorations herald Notre Dame traditions and victories past and present. It is close to campus, so students can be found enjoying the excellent and inexpensive pizza on almost any night. Though most people do go for the pizza, the pre-meal antipasto is not to be missed. 
ELIA'S MEDITERRANEAN CUISINE 
Location: 111 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Appetizers range from $1.50 to $4 Entrees range from $6 to $1 O 
Most newcomers and current students are surprised at the diversity that South Bend can offer -diversity of food, that is. One Lebanese family operating an ethnic -restaurant doesn't ·exactly mark a boom in the city's cultural demographic, but it does make for interesting eating. Appetizers include hummus, baba ghannouge and grape-leaf rolls. Main courses are healthy and most frequently contain rice, chicken and beans. Desserts, like everything else, are homemade and perfectly complement the coffee. Also, Elia's is cheap, making it a great eat for those on a tight budget. 
LULA'S CAFE 
Location: 1631 Edison Road Prices: Coffee from $2 to $5, food from $3 to $7 
Lula's Cafe is located just off campus, making it a popular study spot and hangout for students. The coffee is always fresh, and the specials change daily. Try one of Lula's seasonal offerings or go for one of the cafe's new twists on old favorites, such as the Brie grilled cheese. Take some time to check out the eclectic decor as you enjoy your meal. 0 
SUMMER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I31 


SPORTS 

Sports Stories of the Year 
Brian Kelly replaces Charlie \Weis as head :t"ootball coach 
. Claire Reising 

Head football coach Brian Kelly will begin his first season at Notre Dame this fall, replacing-Chai-lie Weis. Kelly was hired for a five-year contract in December 2009, after Notre Dame fired Weis. 
The new coach inherited a football team that has not won a national championship in over 20 years. Kelly, however, has experience in revamping unsuccessful football programs. When he became head coach at Central Michigan in 2004, the team had 12 wins combined over the previous four seasons. By 2006, however, Kelly finished his last season at Central Michigan with a 9-4 record. 
After his short career at Central Michigan, Kelly served as head coach at the University of Cincinnati from 2007 to 2009. Cincinnati played in BCS games in 2008 and 2009 and finished the 2009 season with a 12-0 record. After the 2008 season, Kelly was named Big East coach of the year. 
Weis, a Notre Dame graduate· ('78), returned to his alma mater as head coach in 2005 and ended his first season with a 9-2 record and a close loss against long-time rival University of Southern California (USC). During his first season, Notre Dame extended his six-year contract to 10 years. 
Weis, however, did not maintain Notre Dame's winning record after key players, including quarterback Brady Quinn ('07) and wide receiver JeffSamardzija ('07), graduated. Notre Dame slid to 3-9 in 2007, the most football losses in Notre Dame's history. The 2007 season included Notr~ Dame's first loss against Navy since 1963 and a 0-38 loss against USC. 
Although the Irish improved in the 2008 and 2009 seasons, with 7-6 and 6-6 records,. respectively, the 2009 season included a major upset with a second loss to Navy. Weis was fired after the last game of his fifth season, termina~ing his IO-year contract five years early. 
The team has spent the past semester training in "Camp Kelly," which, according to CBS Sports, includes several conditioning drills such as a tug-of-war match and a tire toss. Kelly has also kept a close watch on players' diets and social activities. 
After Jimmy Clausen left Notre Dame for the NFL draft, landing a spot with the Carolina Panthers, Dayne Crist will step up as quarterback in the 2010 season. Notre Dame also lost wide receiver Golden Tate, who left for the S~attle Seahawks. Kelly will test his coaching abilities with the Irish when the 2010 season opens with a game against Purdue on September 4. 0 

Clausen and Tate to Tackle the NFL
Josh Flynt 

When the Fighting Irish finished with a 3-9 record in 2007, many attributed the team's struggles to inexperience and difficulty replacing quarterback Brady Quinn. With highly touted freshman Jimmy Clausen taking over the offense, many optimists believed it would only be a matter of time until the Irish returned to prominence. 
During a 2 7-21 loss to Purdue in September 2007, a young wide receiver, perhaps born to go to Notre Dame, gave Irish fans a glimpse of the future. Golden Tate hauled in three catches for 104 yards, and by the time he returned to campus, students were ordering t-shirts that read, "Golden is Thy Tate," a play on a phrase from the Alma Mater. 
While Clausen and Tate showed signs of 
34 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2010 

promise and improvement throughout their freshman and sophomore seasons, 2009 was their emergence as superstars. At one point in the season, both were mentioned in the Reisman Trophy discussion. 
Toward the end of the season, however, the Irish faded. Though Clausen and Tate continued to put up impressive numbers, a 6-6 finish left fans with many unanswered questions. Had the Irish improved since 2008, a year in which they finished with the same regular season record? Would 2010 be a rebuilding year? · 
What no one had expected in 2007 had become reality in 2009. Two Irish stars were considering their options: return to Notre Dame for their senior seasons or enter the .NFL Draft? 
On November 30, 2009, it was announced 
that Charlie Weis would not be retained. 
Amid the speculation about who would 
replace Weis, one thing soon became certain: 
Clausen and Tate were NFL bound. The duo 
announced their plans on December 7, seated 
next to thiir former coach. On April 23, 
2010, Clausen and Tate were selected in the 
2nd round of the NFL Draft by the Carolina 
Panthers and Seattle Seahawks, respectively. 
Clausen and .Tate provided Irish fans 
with plenty ·of excitement on Saturday 
afternoons, anci as members of the Notre 
Dame family, we can all cheer for them on 
Sundays, as much as it may pain some to root 
for a team coached by Pete Carroll. 0 

SPORTS 

\Vomen's Basketball 
Clara Ritger 
.. 

Headlines featured a new team in the sports section last winter, as the Fighting Irish held the No. 3 position for the majority of the 2009-2010 women's basketball season. The team started its season by slamming Indianapolis in a stunning 97-53 victory. It continued to hold off its opponents with sizeable margins ofvictory, following the first game with a 102-57 win over Arkansas Bluff, a 80-45 win over Iona and a 78-55 win over South Carolina. 
The Fighting Irish stood tall in the face of tough matches, pulling close victories over Michigan and Syracuse with scores of 68-67 and 74-73, respectively. Although the ladies suffered defeats against top rivals, they were recognized for their stamina that kept the games close. They closed their season with an overall record of 29-6, with 12 conference and 17 non-conference wins. 
Two of the team's most effective leaders, Lindsay Schrader and Skylar Diggins, carried the team to victory with high scoring games and flawless rebounds. Although Schrader is graduating this year, Diggins, a promising player, is only entering her second season with the 'team. Head Coach Muffet McGraw, who noted Diggins' versatility, said in a Notre Dame press release, "She's our best on the ball defender. She had a sensational year." 
Expectations for next season are high, but McGraw's leadership has brought out the best in the players, and their talent has left its mark on their opponents. Following the game against the University of Oklahoma, Coach Sherri Coale of the Sooners said in a Notre Dame press release, "Notre Dame is a fantastic team. I don't get speechless very often, but I can't think of anything better to say other than I'm just really, really proud of this bunch of kids." 0 
!Iew Stadiums Highlight Strong Athletic Programs 
Jason G'Sel/ 

As a campus newbie, the latest set ofnew buildings and venues on campus may not be apparent, but don't be fooled; recent years have seen new levels of campus construction, resulting in state-of-the-art facilities and stadiums to highlight Notre Dame's successful sports teams. 
Two of the most anticipated athletic venues include the new 2,000­seat Alumni Soccer Stadium and the 2,000 seat Arlotta Lacrosse Stadium. Both men's and women's teams play in the stadiums that opened in the fall of 2009. The stadiums replace the aging metal stands ofthe former Alumni Soccer Field with restrooms, concessions and a more attractive seating area. 
Arlotta Lacrosse Stadium uses new synthetic turf while Alumni Soccer Stadium features natural grass imported from Colorado. Three football practice fields have also been renovated with new natural grass and synthetic turf. A new tennis stadium has been proposed across from the current Eck Tennis Pavilion, behind the football practice fields. 
Inaddition to the new stadiums, the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (theJACC, see page 9 to learn your Irish vocabulary) received a $25 million renovation in the form of the Purcell Pavilion. The renovation features a new main entrance, chair back seating, a hospitality area and a new varsity shop. 
The arena is home to the Notre Dame basketball and volleyball teams and serves as the university's main convocation center. The Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center was completed in November of 2009 and hosted the first season ofNotre Dame basketball in the new facilities in the winter. 
A new hockey arena is also in the works. While the team currently plays in the JACC, the new arena will be situated south of the JACC and north of Edison Road. The Charles :W. Smith Ice Rink is already under construction and is planned to be open for the 2011-12 season. The ice rink will be able to hold 5,000 with chair back seating for many. 0 
SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
Listening In ... 
Li.-~z ~~~~:~~ t~~~~:ti~~at? 
Law Student I: What is it? Law Student 2: It's campus news for literate people. 
f\ ~ouldn't even eat that stuff drunk." L~~ -Huddle worker, in reference to quarter dogs 
t[ y~, I hooked up with h~s friend yesterday." -·-· -not-so-secretive female student 
~:(~'::0):$f.ent I: What's your fa~rorite class this semester? · -·-Student 2: Probably parasitology. Student I: Wow! That's so cool that you get to study all about Paris! 
hJ.f'1'{?t1~w do y~~ude~~ ~~~~c~~:t;;eacher-Course Evaluation 
134 Years Ago 
An Ideal Freshman 

On September 6, 1876, Scholastic "ventured on giving a little counsel [ ... ] to those who begin their college life this year." ·. The freshmen will be ''placed in the midst ofcomrades hailingfronz all parts ofthe country 
., 
[. ..} They have good and bad qualities, both ofwhich may exercise some i11fiuence on his conduct in life." Each student should only "endeavor to cultivate the friendship of such as may be distinguished for their· virtue and intelligence." Like the good and bad companions, there are good and bad inclinations: "If he would become an estimable and accomplished man, faithful to the duties oflife, he mustfollow faithfully the promptings ofhis good inclinations and banish at once those ofthe bad." 
The administration strongly adheres to this severe philosophy. Now is the time to begin the banishing, so as to arrive on campus prepared to become "an estimable and accomplished man." 
-Doug Schlarman 
36 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2010 


---~-----------------­
-

NOTRE DAME'S MOST POPULAR 
SOCIAL NETWORK 

There are over 250 undergraduate dubs and organizations at ND that draw more than 500,000 participants every academic year to events, performances, competitions, rehearsals, practices, meetings and more. Learn more about getting involved with a student group that interests you at Activities Night. 
TUESDAY•AUGUST 31ST•7PM-9PM JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 
BTIIDENT ACTIYmEB 
SAD 
SAD.ND.EDU 
CULTURE 
Is there 
anything 
todo around here? 
Ryan Greene & Nick Kolman-Mandie 

Welcome to South Bend, the city that sleeps. A lot. If you're looking for a lively, exciting town to paint red, don't hold your breath. But while the surrounding area is hardly a wealth of entertaining possibilities, campus life can more than make up for any such shortcomings. Here's a handy guide of what to do on those otherwise dull weekends. 
SCREEN AND STAGE 

• Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) 
Opened in the fall of 2004, the DPAC is one of Notre Dame's newest buildings in an ambitious campus-wide construction plan. The center features five different theatres, includ­ing the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre and an innovative 100-seat pipe-organ theater. The theaters have been designed so that concerts may be held simultaneously without noise interference from one theater to another. Covering 150,000 square feet and at a cost of $64 million, DPAC is the home of Notre Dame's Department ofFilm, Television, and Theatre. The new theaters absorb some of the student performances traditionally held in Washington Hall in addition to serving as a venue for outside acts. The Browning Cinema is also the only THX-certified movie theater in Indiana. 
•NDCinema 

You can catch the best of Hollywood, independent and international films at DPAC every Thursday through Saturday night. 
38 ISCHOLASTIC ISUMMER 2010 


Recent films have included "Rear Wmdow," "Paranoid Park" and "The Red Balloon." Formerly known as Cinema at the Snite, this project is sponsored by the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. 
• SUB Movies 

The Student Union Board shows movies every Thursday through Saturday night for an entrance fee of$3. While it also shows older, second-run films, it tends to focus on larger Hollywood hits, like "The Dark Knight," "The Reader" and "Gran Torino." 
• Student Film Festival 

In January, the films made by Notre Dame's film-production students are showcased for a week in the state-of-the-art Browning Cinema at the DPAC, courtesy of NDCinema. Consider this your chance to check out the films before they hit the indie film-festival circuit. This must-see event promises controversy, artistic expression and even a few laughs. 
• Theater 

From classical tragedy to lowbrow comedy to foot-tapping musicals, Notre Dame has it all. Washington Hall hosts many performances during the year, and student plays have also been performed in DPAC. Performances featuring the professional English troupe "Actors from the London Stage" 'in their unique renditions of Shakespeare's plays are a special feature at Notre Dame. Every year the Pasquerilia East Music Company presents a popular musical to sell-out crowds. Recent hits have included "West Side Story" and "Kiss Me, Kate." A variety of other shows are hosted through additional groups such as ND Opera, The­Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company and St. Edward's Hall Players. 
LIVE MUSIC & MEDIA 
• AcoustiCafe 
Every Thursday night at LaF ortune Student Center, the Student Union Board hosts an open-mic night for student solo musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a 
. hankering for some John Mayer and Norah Jones covers or you want to check out the original music produced by campus talent, this event is free for everyone. If you're interested 
· in performing yourself, SUB has open sign­ups each week. 
• Concerts and Shows 
Not a lot of bands pass through South Bend, but you can count on Notre Dame to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent performers have included Tilly and the Wail, Good Charlotte, Gym Class Heroes and stand-up comedy by Christian Finnegan. Great bands should continue to invade campus with the year's kickoff event, Student Activities' Bl Block Party. Also keep your eye out for concerts at Legends -an ail-ages university-run club and restaurant 

ON THE BIG SCREEN Posters in the DPAC advertise films SHADOWS AND LIGHT Dancers strut their stuff at the annual Asian Allure show in that will be shown in the state-of-the-art Browning Cinema. Washington Hall. The show is put on by the Asian American Association at Notre Dame. 
south of the stadium -and at the Joyce Center. Past years' offerings have included John Mellencamp, Flogging Molly and Jason Mraz. 
• Collegiate Jazz Festival 
This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot of attention from jazz enthusiasts nationwide, including Brandon Marsalis, who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. 
.•NDTV 
The newest addition to student-run media, Notre Dame Television broadcasts around the clock. NDTV's news program highlights campus news, sports, entertainment events and more. Tune in to campus cable for the goods. 
ARTS & LITERATURE 
• Notre Dame Literary Festival 
For one week each February, the Student Union Board hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their own work. Formerly known as the sophomore literary festival and going into its 41st year, it has featured such legendary writers as Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, Dave Eggers, John Irving and Tom Clancy. 
• The Visiting Writers Series 
The Creative Writing Program, a graduate program at Notre Dame, also hosts a number ofwriters throughout tl1e year. These readings don't tend to get a great deal of press, so look around the hallways of O'Shaughnessy for posters, or check out the English department's calendar of events at www.english.nd.edu/ events. 
• Snite Museum 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Sunday, and admission is free. It tends to be· one of Notre Dame's less-traveled treasures, although many students and professors attend the opening of tl1e spring exhibit where the MFA and BFA students showcase their work. 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
. • Student Union Board (SUB) 
While South Bend isn't exactly an entertainment hub like New York or Chicago, SUB does a good job ofbringing outside shows and speakers to campus as well as sponsoring various on-campus activities. Divided into several branches, SUB not only provides weekly movies and occasional concerts, but also multicultural and intellectual activities, in addition to student services like prize raffles, organized trips, and final exam stress relievers. 
• FlipSide Though looked down on by some as an "anti-drinking" organization, FlipSide does a good job of providing consistent student activities, usually on the mellower side. Expect a few video game and board game tournaments and prize nights, as well as organized trips to local mini-golf and bowling establishments. While not the premier source of entertainment on campus, FlipSide can be counted on for planned events nearly every weekend. 

D.l.Y.
. " 
·If all entertainment optio.ns . fail, 
you're going to ha~e do it yourself. 
.Though this ·list ·may seem extensive, it's almost guaranteed that you're going to hit a few gray and dismal Saturday 
evenings here in South Bend. But Notre Dame isn't so much about the things you 
doas it is about thepeople you meet. v\lhenyour calencfar is empty and the snow is piled up outside, tl1ere's nothing . like a11impromptµ ·dorm-room luau or something as simple as hot chocolate 
· with your new friends. Freshman year can be the bestoftimes and the-worst of times, but a little creativity can go along way. It can save a lot ofmoney, too. . 
Ofcourse ifall else fails, and you find 
yourself spending your Ftjdaynights i staring at the waU,you can always apply i for a job at Scholastic. · · . i 
L.,.--..:................. -...,.·,.... ·.:.,.-,._,_._.. ·--· ~--'-'---J 
SUMMER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 39 
PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 


~the latest cam~ews~,sporl 
. 

·; '\)
.·. ' /, ·.• /.>
:in.id~pth · coverage of campus issues 

Serving the Not:u~:~:d~!:~~~~ SCH O LASTIC 
-,1----N-a-ti-o-na_l_P_a_ce....;m_a_k_e_r_A_w_a_rd_W_i_n-ne_r___.,.I_ ---'­
IO ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 
SEND THIS FORM AND
First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOL~STIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENTCENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. OR 
NAME:---------------­ORDER ONLINE AT HTTPS:IIMARKE.TPLACE..ND.E.DUI
ADDRESS:--------------­
STUDE.NTSHOPI 


Domer 
Mail in application (To arrive prior to August 1) 
ndlD Number (your nine,digit number that begins with "90") 
Last Name 

First Name Middle Initial 
Local Address 




Enclosed is the following amount: $_____ (minimum $20) 
Deposit is by: __Cash __Check (Make checks payable to University of Notre Dame.) 
. l 
Signature 

·----------~------~·------l 
Please mail to: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box 1129 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (574) 631-7814 


Domer Dollars make campus life easier. 
You don't need to carry cash. Simply use your University ID card to buy just about anything on campus. 
Domer Dollars are safe, convenient, electronic funds purchased by credit card, cash, or check and programmed directly onto your University ID card. 
To learn more about Domer Dollars and make an online deposit without mailing this form, please visit 
https://food.nd.edu/meal-planscard-services/ 
Mail in the application (at left) prior to August 1st, or use our website after August 1st to make an east and safe credit card deposit through our safe server. (Mastercard, Visa, Discover Card, or Diners Club accepted.) To view your sales history, to inquire about your balance, and to make future deposits, please visit our web site listed above. 
Afew Domer Dollar locations: 
Hammes Bookstore . http://tour.nd.edu/locations/notre-dame-bookstore/ 
all ND Food Service locations https://food.nd.edu/places-to-eaV 
Vending and Laundry 
Sorin's '' at The Morris Inn 
The OIT Solutions Center . Hiley Digital. Imaging StLJdio 
University Hairstylists 


