
This book is not to taken from the Librarv
The Notre Dame
SCHOLASTIC
$3100 the Year

KEEP KISSABLE
Charming women are first won by OLD GOLDS’ appealing taste. But their enthusiasm doubles when they find that OLD GOLDS do not taint the breath or mar the whiteness of pearly teeth.
That’s because OLD GOLD is a pure-tobacco cigarette. Made from the
finest nature-flavored tobacco. So good, it needs no added flavoring.
It's "foreign flavoring", not good tobacco . . . that leaves unwanted aftermaths on the breath and teeth. Play safe. Smoke pure-tobacco O. Gs. They leave nothing behind but pleasant recollections.
NO ARTIFICIAL FLAVORS TO TAINT THE BREATH
C P. Lorillard Co., Inc.
OR STAIN THE TEETH
Octobe?' 9, 1931
One-
George L. Miller
103 North Main Street South Bend, Indiana
△
Every item in the store Half-Price.
- △
$35.00 Adler-Rochester Topcoats
$17.50
△
$48.00 Adler-Rochester
Siiits
$24.00
△ .
$60.00 Langrock
Suits $30.00 ’ △
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear.
Autobiography of
Knute K. Rockne
The fascinating narrative of his life from Rockne’s own vigorous pen . . . additional chapters by Mrs. Rockne and the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. . . . profusely illustrated . . . much exclusive material . . . handsomely printed and bound ... an intimate, personal remembrance of the great coach. Facsimile signature and autographs. As the edition is strictly limited
To Avoid Disappointment Order Your Copy Nou-
THE BOOK SHOP, Exclusive Distributors.
130 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Indiana.
Please send me.............copies	of the Autobiography of
Knute K. Rockne (Limited Edtiion) at §5.00 the copy. Remittance enclosed ( ) ; send C. O. D. ( ).
Name ....................................................
Address .................................................
City ....................................................
“All Sizes, All Colors and AU Styles”
High Quality Corduroys $2.85
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan Street
Hello Men!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
Tjhe Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
9
Two
The Scholastic
Three Thousand Voices Split The Air
This was the pep meet they say was heard way down in Bloomington, when Notre Dame men gathered last Thursday night.
October 9, 1931
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 33, 1913.
NEIL 0. HURLEY
Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. ASWAN..........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors
WILLIAM W. CORR JAMES CARMODY MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN.’.....................News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL__________Assistant Netos Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN LARRY DUNDA
Department Editors PAUL J. HALLINAN............The Week
JOHN PICK...............College Parade
LOUIS E. BRENNAN........Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY.............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON..........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN.............Music and Drama
Sports Staff EDMUND MORIARTY.........Sports Editor
JAMES KEARNS IRVING B. HALPER JAMES McFEELEY, Jr. JOSEPH KURTH GEORGE BELTING T. EDWARD CAREY CLEVE CAREY
Desk Editors
WILLIAM BLIND	LLOYD TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN...........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR-.....Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY.—Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
OCTOBER 9, 1931.
Number 3.
SUMMARY
NEWS	PAGE
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., to give radio address on November 8th__________________________ 5
“Spirit of Notre Dame” falls short of its mark in premier showing at Palace________________________ 6
Northwestern students keyed for game with Notre Dame on Saturday.________________________________ 7
Presidents’ Council devises scheme to tax all campus clubs two dollars________________________________ 8
FEATURES
Alumni haliers will do well to save their razor blades_12
Campus Tailor predicts remarkable change of style within the next two years in school togs_________13
Joe Kennedy despairs of Yale, searches for democracy here and becomes cheer leader_______________14
Some sidelights on the motion picture at the Palace, by John Ryan_____________________________________15
EDITORIALS
School Spirit or Studies; Literary Prominence____19
SPORTS
Notre Dame clashes with Northwestern tomorrow on Soldier Field 5
Fighting Irish trounce Indiana last week by a 25-0 score, Sheeketski racing 70 yards for touch down_20
Scholastic tennis tourney receives acclaim by Joe Borda, varsity net leader________________________22
Interhall activities start out well and prophecy a good year____________________'___________________23
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Oct. 9—Scholastic staff meetings, editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building.
SATURDAY, Oct. 10—Football, Northwestern vs. Notre Dame at 2:00 p. m., Soldier Field, Chicago. Student trip.—Movies, “Venetian Nights,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, Oct. 11—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church.
MONDAY, Oct. 12—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Walsh hall.—Presidents’ Council meeting, 8:00 p. m., south basement of the Library.
TUESDAY, Oct. 13—Founder’s Day. No classes. .Mass, 8:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church.—Final round, Scholastic tennis tournament.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 14—Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Howard hall “rec”.—Blue Circle meeting, 6:30 p. m., north basement of the Library.
THURSDAY, Oct. 15—Wranglers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building.—Scribblers’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Howard hall “rec.”
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
Architecture of today
LUMNI Hall’s opening Thursday was a milestone in Notre Dame culture. Without overlooking Father Clancy’s suite, the stone sun-dial, or the room of the Brothers Lopker, one of the most significant features in the building is the addition of slots for old razor blades.
In old Freshmann hall, it is the custom to file these highly useless appendages behind the wainscoting. On being graduated from that architectural relic, the boys are often at a loss for a suitable receptacle, especially in Lyons or Morrissey. The ideal solution would be the official adoption of the electric safety razor, recently exhibited at the Leipsig fair.
Even this would require at least a battery or socket connection. Our meanderings around the new halls did not disclose any electrical equipment of this kind, but these architect chaps are subtle.
At the top
LL the offices in Kappa Tau Alpha, a Missouri U. fraternity, are held by James D. White. In fact, he is his only brother, the rest having been graduated during the past summer school. What wild tales of fraternity life he will be able to tell the folks at home!
An analogous situation exists here. Francis J. O’Connor is a senior in the department of Mining Engineering. More precisely, he is the senior in the department of Mining Engineering. The quartet of ore-investigators who began their studies in Brownson hall three years ago has dwindled down to just Francis.
It is rather awesome to consider that, of the 500 graduates of next June, only one will be able to pick up a rock, and instead of heaving it, analyze it. Only one will be crystallographer; only one a petrologist. Only one.
ORDEAL BY QUIZ
OFF-HAND, what’s the life-span of a horse? Partly because she couldn’t answer this, an Oregon girl was designated a “moron.” If 36 men in 28 days of 8 hours each, can build a wall 680 feet long, 12 feet high and 3.5 inches thick, how long will be a wall that 2.5 feet thick, 10 feet high, that 24 men can build in 15 days of 10 hours each? One hundred, and sixteen prospective teachers missed that. Inert, lenient, baffle, and immerse were unknown words to one Pennsylvania college senior.
As ac heck-up on knowledge, the examination is universal in locale, ages-old in history. Only slightly modified today is the quiz of yester-year. The word itself was introduced when Richard Daly wrote it all over town to win a bet that he could coin a new term. Couldn’t he be nominated for a fate worse than oblivion?
The surprise quiz, accompanied by that devilish gleam in the eye of the professor, is one of the most stimulating things in college life. Aside from its sportsmanlike angle, it is an excellent method of wreaking professorial revenge on a class which become mentally dormant from repeated doses of cultural tablets.
FIRST-NIGHTERS
' UN-LOVING savages of Panama have been diverted from the fun of carving explorers by a substitute: the fun of seeing American movies and news-reels. On the other hand, Otto Knudsen, an Eskimo, saw his first movie recently, and went violently mad. Ushers had to strap him to his chair to prevent a matinee debacle.
Pleased or provoked, several hundred Notre Dame men journeyed campus-wards Wednesday evening after seeing the first real Notre Dame movie at the Palace. No freshmen were reported to have been strapped down for fear of violence, but enthusiasm did run high.
Just how accurately Hollywood, armed with Notre Dame heroes of past and present, interpreted the “Spirit of Notre Dame” was the essence of campus conversation yesterday and today. The title covered much ground.
T THE BOTTOM
NY shower-room baritone can warble the deepeitones of “Sweet Adeline.” Many a bass can gurgle contentedly of his satisfaction at being “Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep.” Director Casasanta of the University Glee club knows how few can tackle the extreme low notes of the gamut without wavering in quality.
Last week Larry Chouinard hit Low C. No pep-meeting was called; no headlines carried the news to far-flung outposts of culture. The guttural tone had little noticeable effect outside of shaking slightly the pillars of old Carroll Rec’ under the music rooms. But to Director Joe, the low C was an epochal event. It was the first time in University history, at least in that part covered by Mr. Casasanta’s musical regime, that Low C had been conquered.
A training-table for men like Mr. Chouinard is virtually a necessity. Some sour chocolate eclair or coarse bacon rind might ruin his low-pitched larynx and incidentally old Notre Dame’s chances for a successful concert tour.	z
Little varsities
AST Sunday ushered in the interhall football season of Notre Dame of which little is spoken and less is read. Some three hundred men endeavored zealously to do or die for dear old Morrissey, or what have you. For those who have only been able to talk about the days when they made the all-Rolling Prairie team, it gave an excellent opportunity to demonstrate their football ability.' Others who have literally never seen a football before, played as though they hadn’t, but god or bad, they all tried and deserve credit for the effort.
CAMPUS PEP
CORBY, the other evening, made one reminiscent
of the days when the Fathers Burke held the executive reins, and permissions were necessary to even go to town in the afternoon. Although restless rectors may have blinked the lights in adjoining halls, it brought to mind the “good ol’ days.”
October 9, 1931	Five
NOTRE DAME FACES N U.
YE OLD BATTLIN’ SPIRIT SEIZES CORBY WARRIORS
Both Teams Keyed to Fighting Pitch;
Betting Odds Favor Northwestern
Football Heroes Wildly Feted At Extravagant Display.
All the spirit and enthusiasm which has been smouldering behind the drab old Corby-by-the-Lake burst into a flame of red flares, red faces, sore throats and fiery oratory last Friday night at the Memorial Game Pep meeting. Immediately following the final sermon of the mission, old Corby was seen in a halo of red light occasioned by three or four flares pilfered from the S.A.C.
The inevitable curious crowd collected to watch the fireworks. But the toastmaster immediately dispelled their curiosity by telling them of the seriousness of the occasion. Corby honor was at stake. Corby warriors, far-famed for their fighting prowess, were to meet a severe test on Sunday morning. They needed support and this pep meeting was designed to arouse the old Corby spirit. Amid a chorus of huzzas and frantic waving of kerchiefs, Cheerleader Joe Kennedy took the floor, or rather, the front porch, and led a mighty drum yell for deah old Corby.
The first speaker on the program was Bud Dyniewicz, head coach and director of athletics of Corby University. Bud dwelt at length on the team’s chances for another national championship. Since the coaches outnumbered the players, he was sure that a defeat would not be the fault of the coaching staff. Following this outburst of oratory Fran Olerich added words of wisdom to the team, the rector, and the spectators. The captain of the team was not called upon and eleven men, strong and true, rushed to the fore.
The concluding speaker, the one and only John Perone, ascended the platform. He promised three touchdowns on the morrow.
As the shadows lengthened over the campus and restless rectors blinked the lights of adjoining rooms, the monster Memorial Pep meeting drew gradually to a close and the men departed silently to their rooms.
N. D. President To Speak Over Radio On November 8th
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has been selected as the speaker on
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Who will speak over Radio
the Catholic section of the “Church of the Air” broadcast, November 8, over the facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting company from the Chicago studios. His subject will be “Religion in College Life.” The time of the broadcast will be 1:30 to 2 p. m.
The opening and closing musical numbers will be given by the University choir of 35 selected voices under the direction of the Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C. This is the same choir which was featured in the radio broadcast of the funeral last spring of the late Knute K. Rockne.
Notre Dame Seeks Twenty-first Consecutive Victory; Wildcats Out For First Win in 30 Yrs.
By T. Edward Carey
Notre Dame’s big Blue and Gold express makes its next stop at Soldier field, Chicago, tomorrow afternoon in an effort to take aboard the fuming Wildcats of Northwestern university and to break its own all-time record for consecutive victories. George Gipp and his mates won twenty successive games from 1919 to 1921; to-, morrow the Fighting Irish will be gunning for their twenty-first victory.
Although they have not lost a game to Northwestern for thirty years, and although they have possibly the greatest array of reserve strength in the school’s long football history the national champions will enter the game on the short end of the betting odds.
Led by the giant Pug Rentner, Northwestern will present a team as big and as powerful as the one which lost its only claim to a national championship when they lost to Notre Dame last November. Warming up fast as is their wont, the Purple gave an impressive demonstration of power and speed by scoring three touchdowns in the first ten minutes of play to defeat Nebraska, 19-7, last Saturday. Six fumbles and a sieve-like pass defense, however, forebode trouble for them tomorrow if these defects have not been -ironed out during the past week.
The Purple will have at ends Eylar and Fencl, two new men who have shown great defensive strength. In Captain Marvil and Riley, Northwestern’s giant tackles, rest the fortunes of the Purple line. Both men are great linesmen and have had previous experience against the Fighting Irish. With Dilley and Evans at guards and Weldin at center, the middle of the line will be completely
(Continued on Page 25)
i
The Scholastic
Six
STUDENT ENTHUSIASM BLAZING HIGH
ON PURPLE CAMPUS FOR N. D. CLASH
Gigantic Pep Parade To Soldier Field Will Have Seven-Hundred Automobiles
By Paul Keating
Associate Sports Editor, Daily Northicestcrn.
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Evanston, Ill., Oct. 8—Northwestern university’s campus is buzzing with suppressed excitement today as several thousand student rooters prepare for the biggest football battle of the year against “Hunk” Anderson’s Notre Dame Ramblers.
The sports staff of the Daily Northwestern. has evolved and put into motion a plan which will result in the greatest demonstration of' Purple loyalty ever accorded a Northwestern team.	.
Seven hundred student automobiles will line up at Patten gymnasium Saturday noon to take part in a giant pep parade to Soldier field. More than 3,000 cheering undergraduates will ride in this great cavalcade, which will be headed by Greeter Gaw of Chicago in his white limousine and a motorcycle escort from Evanston and Chicago.
The parade will travel through Evanston; down the outer drive and Michigan boulevard. All traffic will be cleared from its path, and the entire Purple student section will enter the stadium in a body.
On Friday morning a pep session at University hall will prepare the campus for the Saturday exodus and bring football enthusiasm to fever pitch.
Make no mistake. Northwestern students are not too confident of winning this game. They do feel, however, that in spite of the staggering
K. C. Plan Entertainment For Columbus Day
Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame and noted historian, will address Notre Dame council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, at a meeting of the council Monday in their Walsh hall chambers. Honoring Columbus day, Father Walsh will speak on the discovery of America, according to John Wittliff,
blow of Russell’s loss, the Wildcat squad has as good a chance to win from the Irish as it ever has had, and perhaps as good a chance as it will ever see.
The attitude of almost every student is that the team must be backed by a real display of confidence and loyalty before and after the game, van or lose.
Plans are set for a flag-raising ceremony at Soldier field, after which the Purple-clad band will spell out Rockne’s name across the field, while taps are sounded.
Every Northwestern student regrets the fact that “Rock” will not be there to direct his team, and every one on this campus hopes for a clean, honorable victory over a rival whom we respect.
Whenever student groups discuss the game, in fraternity and sorority houses and in gathering places on and around the campus, they recall the breath-taking Notre Dame-Northwestern struggles of previous years, when Irish and Wildcats fought as no other rivals have ever fought. They talk especially about last year’s climatic clash—the greatest game that has been played in Dyche stadium.
The Wildcat backers believe they can win Saturday, and they are pinning high hopes on this belief, but they do not for a moment doubt the possibility of another victory for Notre Dame and they feel that even such a loss early in a terrific schedule would not be disastrous if the honest, clean rivalry between Notre Dame and Northwestern may be continued.
lecturer. Jerome Roach of the Notre Dame Glee Club has also been listed on the program for that evening.
The joint meeting of Notre Dame and Laporte councils which was to have been held Thursday, October 8, . has been indefinitely postponed according to a statement by Grand Knight Makes Collins, of the Notre Dame council.
POPE PIUS XI RECEIVES FR. JAMES DONAHUE; LAUDS WORK HERE
The Reverend James W. Donahue, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, with headquarters at Notre Dame, has spent the last several weeks touring Europe and studying European educational systems. On Tuesday Father Donahue was received by His Holiness Pope Pius XI. at an audience in the Vatican iCty. His Holiness spoke highly of the Congregation of Holy Cross and of its University of Notre Dame, and expressed his extreme pleasure over the excellent Holy Communion record of the Notre Dame students.
Father Donahue is a Notre Dame man, having been graduated from the University with the class of 1907. From 1912 to 1920 he was a member of the Mission Band. Later he became Master of novices and head of Moreau seminary. He was elected Superior General in 1926. Father Donahue has been in Europe since June. He has spent the last few months in France, before going to Italy. He is making an interesting study of European administrative and educational, systems in the religious orders.
AUTOMATIC TELEGRAPH MACHINE IS INSTALLED
The Western Union telegraph company have installed automatic printing telegraph machines on the cam- ' pus, according to word from the manager of the organization in South Bend. This will speed up delivery and dispatch of messages sent by students and will eliminate the necessity of telephoning the wire to South Bend to relay it to the destina- ’ tion.
In a trial telegram, sent to Joseph Petritz, director of sports publicity at the University, the manager of the concern explained the function of the new machines. Extracts of the mes- j sage follow:	*
“We have just finished installing automatic printing telegraph machines in our office on your campus. These are the very latest developments and in inaugurating this service we are sending you one of the first telegrams handled over it. We invite the students to inspect it as we feel they will, no doubt, be interested in having facilities which make the best service possible.”
October 9, 1931
Seven
PROMINENT CHICAGOANS TO GIVE SERVICES IN ROCKNE DRIVE
“SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME” HAS ITS
WORLD PREMIERE WEDNESDAY NIGHT
Appointments of Arthur J. Hughes as district chairman in Chicago and Edward J. Kelley as Chicago chairmen of the committee on special gifts in the Rockne Memorial Field House campaign to be conducted this fall were announced this week by A. R. Erskine, general chairman of the committee directing the national efforts to raise a million dollar building and endowment fund.
Mr. Hughes, an investment banker, is a Notre Dame alumnus of the class of 1915 and has been prominent in alumni activities. He will be in charge of fund raising efforts in district number one in the division of Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa and Minnesota of which James Brennan of Chicago, also an alumnus, is chairman.
Mr. Kelley is president of the South Park commission and chief engineer of the sanitary district. As president of the commission, Mr. Kelley is in direct charge of the development of the lake front south to the state line.
As chairman of special gifts, Mr. Kelley, it is announced, will be in charge of all fund raising activities among prospective contributors of means in the Chicago area. George F. Getz, Chicago coal operator, is chairman of the national committee on special gifts.
Other Chicago members of the committee on special gifts, it is announced, are Byron V. Kanaley, John F. Cushing, Edward J. Doyle, John D. Hertz, Edward N. Hurley and Judge Kickham Scanlon.
Plans are under way to open the drive for funds on the evening of November 5, when dinner meetings of all volunteer campaign workers will be held simultaneously in the principal cities and towns of the country.
Oshe To Address Law Club
Edward J. England, president of the Notre Dame Law club, is making arrangements to secure Judge M. M. Oshe of Chicago, to lecture at the next meeting of the organization.
Judge Oshe is an outstanding judiciary in the city, and is the chief officer of the Trust officers there. He is noted for his talks on conveyancing and abstracting.
Reverend John Cavanaugh Gives Stirring Talk; Manion Is Master of Ceremonies
By John E. Ryan
“The Spirit of Notre Dame,” starring Lew Ayres as the adolescent hero, left spectators at the Wednesday showing without noticeable enthusiasm. Popular opinion at the “World’s Premiere” was apathetic, with the audience feeling that after all it was just another football picture.
The “World’s Premiere,” however, was not without its good points. Had RKO wished to express on the screen the spirit of this school, or of any other school where fair play is the rule, they might well have taken in sound the short address of the Reverend John Cavanaugh. C.S.C. In his talk Father Cavanaugh expressed succinctly—as far as it can be expressed—the spirit of Notre Dame, than any man whom we have heard speak of it during the past three years. We hope that Universal News Reel has given perpetuity to that talk; it deserves to be broadcast wherever Notre Dame men meet.
Father Cavanaugh was introduced as “the man whom it best befits to speak of the spirit of Notre Dame,” by Master of Ceremonies, Professor Clarence Manion of the College of Law. No less eloquent in his own way was Prof. Manion, whose gifts in the way of oratory are celebrated far beyond the limits of this campus. Together, Father Cavanaugh and Prof. Manion supplied what was needed to make the program one representative of the University.
Introduced in the best style of the Master of Ceremonies, too, was the coalition of the Glee club and Band, with Director Joseph Casasanta in
St. Mary’s Students to Attend Football Dance
Girls from St. Mary’s will be allowed to attend the dance on the evening of the Drake game, Oct. 17, according to announcement by Herbert P. Giorgio, president of the Student Activities Council. This permission will be granted to students at
uniform. The school songs made up the program, together with the introduction of “Notre Dame, Our Alma Mater,” written by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., who, unfortunately, was unable to attend.
But to get back to the picture, which followed the new school song, the substance of the story is remarkably like that of dozens of other football pictures. Large crowds will undoubtedly flock to witness this exposition of Notre Dame life, and to many it will appear plausible. The “Four Horsemen” lend an atmosphere but even their presence and that of the other Notre Dame athletes, fail to make the show a cinema to be the masterpiece or classic.
There are the usual crowds, there is the usual last minute touch-down, there is the usual human interest— and in fact, everything that goes to make the usual college football picture.
It is regrettable that the authors, did not inject more of the Notre Dame atmosphere other than a few snapshots of the gridiron. But then maybe we’re wrong. Maybe we expected too much from this production. It certainly did not live up to the bally-hoo and press agent publicity it received.
As it stands, the picture will probably be a box office success, principally because it aims at the depiction of life at Notre Dame. But to show on the screen the true spirit of Notre Dame is an ambitious proposal, one that cannot properly be done, for, as Father Cavanaugh pointed out in his address, the spirit of Notre Dame is a spiritual thing, and is not to be found in material things.
St. Mary’s upon receipt of a written invitation from a Notre Dame student.
Plans for this football dance were completed by the S. A. C. at their meeting Sunday. It will be held in the Knights of Columbus ballroom.
Eight
The Scholastic
CHAIRMEN ANNOUNCE
COTILLION COMMITTEES
Orchestra Booking and Ticket Sale Begin Next Week.
Committees for the Sophomore Cotillion, which will be held at the Palais Royale, November 6, were announced this week by the chairmen of the respective committees. Several of the committees have already launched plans for the event, and a popular orchestra will be booked by the first of next week. The ticket sale will be inaugurated simultaneously.
The committees are:
General Chairman—Lawrence Licalzi.
MUSIC—Thomas Dwyer, chairman; F. Shapiro. T. Daly, F. Radke, C. Bolger, C. Fisher, T. Carvel, W. Shields.
PROGRAM—John Tingley, chairman; E. Nortmen, J. Askew, D. Dixon, J. Griffin, W. McCormick, N. Backes, J. Donnelly.
PUBLICITY—Bryan O. Degnan, chairman ; J. Conley, R. Finnegan, J. Spalding, M. Garland, G. Healey, H. Fitzgerald, G. O’Brien.
DECORATIONS—James Dunnigan, chairman ; J. Condon, J. Hoban, H. Burchill, H. Ulmer, J. Ennis, J. Younger, W. Bannen.
RECEPTION—Jack Hayes, chairman ; J. Gorman, R. Corcoran, W. Motsett,-R. Leonard, A. Sandusky, J. McNerney, R. Hanley.
INVITATIONS—Edward Fisher, chairman ; F, Duester, H. Desnoyer, H. Kotte, E. Mulva-hill, J. Venerables, J. Griffin, W. Miller.
TICKETS—J. Albert Smith, chairman; R. Michael Fox, H. McGowan, R. Kelly, G. Blish, E. Sherman, J. Shine, O. Brick, J. Quirk, W. Higgins, G. Belting, E. Hallower, J. Forest, D. Brennan, R. Van Lahr.
FLOOR—Arthur Doerfler, chairman; H. Carroll, W. Collins, E. Farley, F. Mahar. K. Montie, R. Stone, L. O’Neill.
ARRANGEMENTS — August Petrillo, Edward Butler, co-chairmen; M. Forastiere, S. Rieltyka, F. O’Brien, M. Rigante, J. Henry, J. Hendricks.
Much attention is being given to the name of this year’s cotillion. Just what to call it is at present occupying the time of many members of the class. Although several distinctly individual suggestions have been received the final judgment is yet to be rendered. Efforts are made to have the mode of decoration .conform with the selection of a name. The decision will be announced in the Scholastic next week.
Arrangements have been made by J. Albert Smith, chairman of the ticket committee, to have a representative on every floor in all the Sophomore halls for the sake of convenience.
“CARRY ON FOR ROCKNE” FEATURED BY BAND AND GLEE CLUB
“Cany On For Rockne,” the song written last spring by Austin Boyle and Walter Philipp, and arranged for the Monogram Club’s “Gold and Blue Revue” by Joseph J. Casasanta, musical director, will be featured this year by the University band and Glee club, according to Director Casasanta. The glee club has begun rehearsing the number, and the band will shortly begin learning a special arrangement of the piece.
“Carry On” was written as a cam-
Austin Boyle
pus song last year by Philipp and Boyle, who submitted it along with other material to the Monogram club’s show, where it became an instantaneous success. Albert Kelley, who was on the campus at the time directing a series of football shorts for Universal Pictures, hapened to be present at one of the performances, and noted the reception the song was accorded by the student body. He also liked it, and requested the composers, both members of the class of ’31, to release the song to Universal for use in the sport shorts he was filming.
They did so, and this summer Handman and Goodman, Inc., music publishers in New York, acquired the right to publish the piece. Although the sheet music will not be out until -next wek, the Glee club has received an arrangement of “Carry On For Rockne,” and will shortly include the composition in its programs. Casasanta has also received assurance from the publishers that a special arrangement for the Notre Dame band is being completed.
COUNCIL TO TAX CLUBS
Two Dollar Rechartering Fee Will Soon Be Collected.
The Presidents’ Council of the University held a meeting last Monday evening in the north room of the library which was attended by over forty heads of various campus clubs and organizations. President Charles Hitzelberger presided at the session. Chief among the several matters of business brought before the group was that of the means which will be taken to finance the activities of the Council for the coming year.
The institution of an inter-club basketball and baseball league along with the incidental expenses incurred in operating the Council will require certain expenditures in the future according to President Hitzelberger. A motion was therefore passed by the assembly stating that all campus clubs will be re-chartered within the next three weeks for a fee of two dollars per club. Only those organizations which obtain their charter from the Council will be recognized by the University.
The question of obtaining President club keys for the various members was deferred for the time being.
Villagers Hold Meeting
The Villagers’ club of Notre Dame held its first meeting of the year last Monday night in the Joan tea room. Preceding the business session dinner was served to fifty members and guests. James Ash was in charge of the affair, and the speakers of the evening included the Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C., and the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C. New members were admitted at the meeting, and plans for a fall dance were formulated.
J. P. McAvoy In Russia
J. P. McAvoy, nationally known humorist and former student of the University, sailed this week for Russia. He will spend several months in that country and his readers may expect brilliant descriptions of his impressions of that part of Europe in the familiar “McEvoy style.”
Do you know that Charlie Butterworth, screen, comedian, is a graduate of Notre Dame?
October 9, 1931
Nine
LECTURES START NOV. 2ND
Fr. Molony Arranges Program For Forthcoming Season.
The Reverend William Molony, C.S.C., director of stage activities, announces an elaborate program of lectures and entertainments, to be held during the coming season. Many prominent speakers have been engaged, but the dates have not been definitely decided upon as yet.
Dr. Francis Bruno Averardi, Ph.D., Litt.D., LL.D., professor at the University of Turin, has been engaged to address the students on November 2. Dr. Averardi has been in the diplomatic service and is well known in the halls in which the Naval Conference and the Genoa Conference took place. He later became Assistant Professor of German Literature at the University of Florence.
He has translated the Elizabethan dramatists into Italian and the works of Adolfo Venturi into German. Dr. Averardi lectures not only in English but in Italian and German as well. His subjects at Notre Dame will be: “The Spirit of Florence and Vienna in the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Centuries.” The lecture will be illustrated.
Later in November, Dr. John J. A. Sherry, Bureau des Constations Medicales, Lourdes, will lecture on “The Cure of Lourdes.” His interest in this shrine dates back to 1905, when he investigated the famous cure of Pierre de Rudder. In 1928 he took up permanent residence at Lourdes, and, shortly afterward, became assistant to the President of the Medical Bureau.
Father Molony will announce the final schedule for these presentations in the near future.
But How About the Postman
To the Editor of the Scholastic :
Sir: I would like very much to get in contact with one of the students at your University who is interested in playing chess through the mail.
I am enclosing a self-addressed, stamped envelope and will appreciate it if you will take care of the matter for me. Thank you.
Do you know that over four hundred pounds of butter are used in the dining halls daily?
WENNINGER ANNOUNCES MEETING OF SENIORS IN SCIENCE SCHOOL
Reverend Francis Wenninger C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, announces an important meeting of all seniors in that course for next Wednesday, October 14 in room 208 of Science hall.
Father Wenninger requests that all seniors who expect to receive their Bachelor of Science degree in June, be present at this meeting. The pur-
Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C.
Who tvill address Seniors
pose of the get-together is to discuss the senior theses and Aptitude Tests which are given by national officials at Washington, D. C.
The Aptitude examinations are composed and graded at Washington each year. The meeting is scheduled to take place at 12:45 oclock.
“THE FOUR WINNERS” ON SALE BY McKEON
“The Four Winners,” written by the late Knute K. Rockne several years before his death, is now being sold on the campus under the direction of Joseph McKeon. This book, written in the typical style of Notre Dame’s beloved “Rock,” attained nation-wide popularity during the past few years.
There are a limited number of the book now remaining, and those who wish to secure one should not delay long. They may be purchased at McKeon’s room on the first floor of Sorin hall.
HARPER DENIES REPORT OF N. D.-OHIO CONTEST
Such Arrangements Depend on President, He States.
Reports published in Cleveland papers Sunday morning quoting Jesse C. Harper, Notre Dame athletic director, as saying he is in favor of a charity game between Notre Dame and Ohio State on December 5, are without foundation, according to a report issued by Mr. Harper this week.
“I know nothing about the charity game,” said Mr. Harper in answer to a query. “Any such arrangements wilLbeqnade by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, President of the University.”
Mr. Harper said he had received a telephone call from a Cleveland paper while he was at Bloomington for the Indiana game, asking about the possibilities for such a contest. He did not commit himself, however, at the time.
When asked if South Bend would share in the charity receipts from such a game he said, “That rests with an agreement that might be made between the two schools and the promotors, if the contest is held.”
This is the second time within a week that rumors concerning a meeting between Notre Dame and Ohio State have been circulated. Early last week a report was given out to the effect that the two schools had agreed to meet on the gridiron in 1933 and 1934. This report was denied by Harper.
During the past two seasons the Notre Dame varsity has been sought for several post season charity contests. School authorities, however, have refused the request on the basis that the players go through a strenuous schedule, and that the time they would require for practice and playing would take them away from their studies for too long a period.
Last year several alumni squads under the guidance of the late Knute Rockne played in charity affairs. One contest was played in Chicago, another in New York, and a third in Los Angeles.
The game proposed for Cleveland is a part of a state wide charity movement sponsored by the governor of Ohio.
Ten
The Scholastic
PHOTOGRAPH WORK TO BEGIN NEXT WEEK
Hallinan Supervises Pictures Being Taken By White.
Five hundred seniors and as many juniors will be photographed during the next three weeks, according to plans being made now by the photographic section of the Dome staff. The White studio of New York, which took the pictures for last year’s Dome has again received the contract.
Joseph Stoeffel, who has been associated with university photography for the past 12 years, will be in charge of this year’s pictures. By special arrangement with the White Studio, Leslie Raddatz has planned that Mr. Stoeffel will give Notre Dame his complete attention during the several weeks necessary for taking the two upper classes.
The seniors will have six poses, several to be in cap and gown. The juniors will have two sittings. Appointment cards have been mailed to every member of the graduating class this past week, asking that he check the hours in which he can visit the photographer, sign the card at the ■bottom and return it. A schedule will be made up, and a remindercard will be mailed to each man on the day before his appointment. Juniors will be notified later.
The work will start Tuesday morning in Walsh basement, the Knights of Columbus club room. Paul J. Hallinan will be in charge. It is requested that all students who appear for photographs dress in coat, neck-, tie and white shirt .
The speed with which last year’s Dome pictures were taken suggests that the work will run along even more efficiently this year, according to Editor Raddatz. He emphasized that cooperation from every upper-classman is essential to obtaining good, accurate pictures in time for the Dome's prompt publication.
Spanish Club To Meet
The first meeting of the Spanish club will be held on Wednesday evening at 7:30 in the old Law building. The faculty supervisor of the club this year will be Senor Pedro de Landero. It is important to note that only those who have had at least two years of Spanish will be permitted to join the dub this year.
Campus Opinions
Question : “Do you think that freshmen should have a class dance?"
Francis A. Norton, Sorin hall, senior: “Yes, I believe they should. Practically speaking, a Notre Dame man is allowed only three class dances during his college career and they are, as a rule, memorable occasions, so I see no reason why freshmen should not be allowed an official frolic at least once a year.”
Thomas J. Murray, Alumni hall, junior: “A class dance would relieve somewhat the monotony for the first year men and would afford them a little relaxation in the uneventful nine months spent away from the social activities at home.”
Herbert J. Wehrlen, Sorin hall, senior: “From the success which attends many freshman class dances in other universities, it is reasonable that such a dance is worthy of a trial here. The freshmen carry on other activities as a class and I fail to see why a class dance should be denied them.”
Phillip J. Slattery, Morrissey hall, sophomore: “I see no reason why the freshmen should not have a class dance. In my estimation the advantages greatly outweigh the disadvantages. Since a freshman class dance is common in various other universities, Notre Dame should likewise have an annual freshman dance. Such events during the year help one to enjoy more his college life.”
- Samuel Hyde, Alumni hall, junior: “Sure! Give ’em a break! It doesn’t take the average freshman more than a couple of weeks to get acquainted with the local girls. Why not give him a chance to show off his ‘one and only’ at' a regular freshman formal?”
“Scrip” Ready Next Month
The first issue of Scrip will come out some time in November. It is to be hoped that some new contributors will appear this year, the material seeming to come from the same few names in the past. AH contributions should be sent to 201 Sorin hall.
REVIEW PLANS ISSUED
Pat Flanagan, Frank Hering Join List of Contributors.
Pat Flanagan, nationally - known sports announcer with Station WB-BM, Chicago, will be among the contributors to the 1931 Rockne Memorial Edition of the Official Football Review.
This announcement was made this week by Joseph S. Petritz, editor-in-chief of the publication.
Flanagan, always a Notre Dame booster, was a close friend of the late Knute Rockne, and worked with him on many Columbia Broadcasting System programs which originated in the Chicago studio of the chain.
In offering his services to the Review, Flanagan said: “Thank you very much for this opportunity to express myself on Knute Rockne. I shall be glad to do this article.”
Word was also received this week that Frank E. Hering, former Notre Dame football captain and former president of the alumni association, will be a contributor. He is now chairman of the Rockne Memorial field house publicity committee.
Petritz stated that the Review this year will include in its pages the most distinguished group of writers and other prominent men in the history of the publication.
Any campus writer wishing to contribute to the Review may see Petritz at the Athletic Association offices in the Main building any afternoon or evening next week.
Previous announcements of Review writers include Warren Brown, Arch Ward, Grantland Rice, Bert McGrane, Paul G. Hoffman, and Christy Walsh.
Little Egypt Organizes
The initial meeting of the newly-founded Little Egypt club was held last Tuesday evening in Walsh hall. Officers for the present year were elected in the persons of Leonard Dunne of West Frankfort, Illinois, president; J. B. Walder of Cairo, Illinois, vice-president; Russell J. O’Shea of Cairo, Secretary; and John Laud of West Frankfort, treasurer. The organization now has a membership of seventeen. The next meeting will be held Thursday night, October 15.
October 9, 1931
Eleven
JUGGLER OUT NEXT WEEK
Football Is Featured In First Number By Gorman.
“The greatest aid to football since the introduction of the forward pass” is what experts say enthusiastically of the Juggler's latest venture. The entire middle section of the Autumn number will be devoted to making the grid game familiar to the masses.
Included, according to Editor Robert E. Gorman, are special stories written for the Juggler by Coach Umph, well known mentor and author. “Be the Perfect Spectator,” “Some Big Time Dope” and “Over-Emphasis? Bunk!” are some of the theses which will startle the Juggler’s reading public. Diagrams of a few “simple” plays, a set of pictures that will keep the spectator in touch with the referee, and a special picture of Mr. Umph help to round out the Juggler's most significant contribution to “foot-balliana” since their “Something-nice-between-halves” gag in 1926.
In a serious vein, and reminiscent of the best in football, will be Joseph Lopker’s portrait of Knute Rockne. Not only is this picture acclaimed the best that this artist has done to date, but it is generally believed that it is the most characteristic sketch of the coach that has appeared since his death.
Football and freshmen will be the two-edged theme of this first number. Prize-winners in the written material and art work are respectively: Leslie Raddatz and Dick Prezebel.
JONES, *29, SUCCESSFUL LAWYER IN MIDWEST
Thomas J. Jones, a graduate of the College of Law at the University of Notre Dame, Class of 1929, is practicing law at Boise, Idaho, with success. Dean Konop of the Law school announces that he received a letter from Jones recently, telling of his experience.
While studying at Notre Dame, Jones took an active part in student activities, and was a member of the Law club.
Chemists to Meet Oct. 14
The first meeting of the Chemist’s club will be held on Wednesday evening, October 14, at 7:30, in Chemistry hall. This meeting was to have been held October 8, but was postponed until next week.
NOTICE!
Applications for membership in the Spectators are now being received. Blanks may be obtained from Edmund A. Stephan, 236 Alumni hall. The Spectators is an organization limited to a membership of fifteen; a vacancy of two exists in the club. The group has for its purpose the intelligent discussion and criticism of recent developments in the fields of politics, religion, philosophy, economics, art, and science. Necessary qualifications for membership in the club are stated on the application blanks.
PRESS CLUB BANQUET PLANNED FOR DAY OF SOUTH. CAL. GAME
The Press club inaugurated its customary bi-monthly Tuesday evening meetings on October 6 in the Journalism room of the library with Art Himbert presiding.
Plans for the first banquet of the year were discussed and November 21 was set as a tentative date. It will be held at some downtown hotel, and the officers hope to have a few prominent sports-writers, in South Bend for the Southern California game, as their guests on this occasion.
President Himbert concluded the meeting by appointing a program committee. Larry Dunda was named chairman with Jim Ash and Al Artz assisting him.
Professor John Cooney, Dean of the school of Journalism, was present, and materially aided the meeting with his timely suggestions and comments. All members are urged to regularly attend the next few meetings because of the important business in connection with the coming banquet.
Forum To Meet Wednesday
Dean James McCarthy is to be the speaker at the first meeting of the Commerce Forum to be held Wednesday, October 14, in Carroll “rec” at 8:09 o’clock. This meeting is open to all commerce men in order to acquaint them with the purpose of, and qualifications for, membership in the club. Freshmen, although not as yet eligible for membership, are also invited to attend.
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE PLANS ANNOUNCED
Guests Will Be Supplied For Freshmen; To Aid Students.
Tentative arrangements have been made by the Notre Dame Scholarship club for a dance to be held on October 16th, from eight o’clock till twelve, at the Palais Royale ballroom. Myron Walz and his orchestra will furnish the music.
The freshmen will be provided with girls for the evening by a special committee who have selected over two hundred and fifty young ladies as guests. Freshmen who have made arrangements to attend the dance will be permitted twelve o’clock leave by their rectors.
Of course the upperclassmen, who have undoubtedly attended this dance before, will escort their own partners for the evening.
The Notre Dame Scholarship club is composed of thirty-five socially prominent women of South Bend and Mishawaka who are working for the sole purpose of giving financial assistance to ambitious Notre Dame students. The entire income of the dance will be used for scholastic aid. Added to this fund is the money received from raffling of a season box at the Notre Dame games. In actual value the season box is worth one hundred and sixty-eight dollars, so that it would be well worth one’s money to invest a dime for a chance. Up to the present time the society has helped more than sixty students, forty-five of whom have graduated after four years of financial support. At the present time there are six freshmen alone who owe their attendance at Notre Dame to the work of these women. For reasons of this encouragement the club is opening the social season of their tenth successive year of existence.
Mrs. J. M. Cooney, the general chairman, will undertake the responsibility of seeing that all hall rectors are provided with tickets. It is advisable to obtain them from these sources before the dance, although entrance fees may be paid at the door.
Special convenience to the Notre Dame students in the way of chartered street cars will be offered as conveyances to and from this dance.
The Scholastic
Twelve
Drop Razor Blades in Slot;
It Will End The Depression
ALUMNI HALL IS OCCUPIED
Dillon To Be Completed In Two Weeks.
“Now my happiness is complete and how and how.” Thus spoke an enthusiastic Alumni halier as he ex-perimently dropped three old razor blades into the blade chute of Room 211.
Old razor blade disposal plants are among the newest advantages of a college education. There are in Alumni and Dillon halls 504 razor blade chutes. Directly above every washstand in the center of handy white enameled ‘knick-knack’ shelves is a 2" by 2" flange on which is engraved in flashy blue and gold letters,
DROP OLD RAZOR BLADES $ HERE
The arrow points to the slot leading to the charnel house of superannuated stubble cutters.
But why the instruction plate? The reason may be in the slogan, “It pays to advertise,” but more likely because Dillon is strictly freshman, while the juniors and Alumni are notoriously absent-minded.
Great fear was held by authorities that the razor blade slots would be mistaken for safety deposit boxes or miniature saving banks. Realizing the inconvenience and distraction that would be evoked by students trying to retrieve car fare to South Bend with pick-axes, contractors insisted on posting signs above every chute.
It is conservatively estimated that daily 107 used razor blades will trickle into the darkness of Razor Blade Limbo to lie in state for 1,000,-000 years ’till future geologists discover that they were artefacts of the queer men at Notre Dame in the garbage of 2,000 A. DI Assuming that the average life of blades from Probak to Kresge’s be three shaves, and that, of the 500 men in both halls, 221 will shave every day, 198 every other day and 72 every three days,
Rockne Tribute Will Be On Air Tonight
A tribute to the late Knute K. Rockne is to be paid in two radio programs tonight on the eve of the Northwestern game.
Both will be broadcast over the WJZ network of the NBC from Chicago, the first at 9:30 p. m. to be the appearance of the Notre Dame Glee club and Coach Richard Hanley of Northwestern in the Josef Koest-
allowing for nine freshmen who will not be of shaving age—we get 107 dull blades per day.
Multiply this number by 242 shaving days on the school calendar and approximately 26,000 blades will disappear yearly. Blades that if strung end to end would reach much farther than if strung side by side. A layout, allowing 1,300 blades at 3 for 10
cents and the rest at 6 for 50 cents (Hook’s), originally worth $149.30.
Think — $150 spent yearly with nothing to show. No by-products will be made of these old blades. Truly, it is a waste of natural resources to find no other use for such a heap of dull iron. Ethically, wasting of natural resources is considered robbery of unborn generations. But, economically speaking, this waste of a commodity with less ultimate satisfaction than the blades are capable of yielding will deplete past surplus and make place for new products.
Since so many colleges imitate . Notre Dame it is safe to predict that very shortly old razor blade slots will be standard equipment in all cultural institutions. Waste in consumption of steel blades will soon be so great that demands for metal will be universally increased. U. S. Steel will be back on its feet. Countless millions will be put back to work, some making new blades and others making sepulchers for old ones. Prosperity will be here again. Depression will be forgotten. And economists will say, “I told you so.”
ner Orchestra program. At 10 o’clock during the Paul Whiteman period will be heard the Ferdie Grofe orchestra playing the tone poem “The Life of Knute Rockne,” written by Grofe. Warren E. Brown, Chicago sports writer and intimate friend of Notre Dame’s immortal coach, will speak on the program.
The majority of juniors who formerly lived in South Bend moved into Alumni Hall yesterday afternoon. Many more are transferring today. By tomorrow the hall will be fully occupied.
According to Ralph Sollitt, contractor in charge, the slight delay in the time set for the transfer will ultimately benefit the occupants. Last minute details and the final additions to the building would probably have contravened if students had moved earlier in the week. Finishing touches have been added steadily throughout the week, and now all is complete except .the hall chapel.
As announced by the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, the students of Alumni, together with those of Brownson and Carroll will have their week-day chapel in the Sacred Heart Church. The opening of the chapel in Alumni hall will be announced later.
Freshmen assigned to Dillon hall will be lodged within two weeks. Work on the courtyard surrounding the two halls is progressing rapidly. The construction of the glazed stone gate between the two edifices inserts a unity of effect hitherto unnotice-able. The fortress-like entrance to the University afforded by the tower of the Law building and the southern tower of Alumni hall is likewise an imposing supplement.
The Commerce building will be completed by the end of this month. Work is now centered on the insertion of the globe which will be set in the lobby of the structure. Once the globe is placed only two weeks will be needed to complete the entrance and details of the lobby.
Only the Engineering building will remain unfinished by the end of this month. Work on that will be completed in December, and the old Engineering building will then be demolished.
Fountain Pen Lost
Lost: a Wahl fountain pen engraved “Edgewater Beach Hotel.” Finder please return to Brother Justin, C.S.C., Brownson hall.
October 9, 1931
Thirteen
N. D. LAWYER OUT SOON
Massa, Moran, Bitter and Pratt Receive Appointments.
Tailor Says N, D. Styles Will Rival Garb of 1900
Students in the College of Law are busy with arrangements for the initial appearance of the Notre Dame Laivyer for the school year, 193132. The publication is a quarterly published by members of the Law school and will be issued early in November.
The editorial and managerial staffs of the publication have been announced by Professor William D. Roliinson, faculty advisor. Edward C. Massa is editor-in-chief; Joseph A. Moran, business manager; John A. Bitter, advertising manager; Henry P. Pratt, circulation manager; Professors Clarence Manion, William Roliinson, and Elton Richter, faculty advisors.
Last year the Lawyer was edited by Joseph Guadnola, and Norman Hartzer acted as business manager. Both Guadnola and Hartzer graduated with the class of 1931.
The magazine is strictly a student publication, containing articles written by leading jurists and scholars of law. Students of the law school prepare notes and comments on current topics and recent cases, and publish them in this paper.
The Laivyer is of particular value eto pre-law students as well as to law students. The articles, notes, and case comments relate directly to subjects considered in class work. They are also beneficial to lawyers engaged in the active practice. Recent reviews of all new books published on law are also printed in the magazine.
With November’s issue, the publication will enter into its seventh year. Last year it was completely reorganized from a monthly paper to a quarterly. This was done in an effort to better the publication. With the new Law building, and the additions to the law library, the college has better facilities for the Lawyer than it had in the past.
The board of editors and managers held an important meeting Monday afternoon when Judge W. M. Cain addressed the members in an effort to interest-the. students and induce them to contribute... .
“The students of Notre Dame are slowly but surely returning to the styles of the nineties.”
Believe it or not, this means you. But don’t take our word for it. Read the words of an authority on the subject, none other than our community tailor. He has his office over the candy store, and his eye is right on the college fashions. He is of the
confirmed opinion that, within five years, the good people of South Bend will once more see the University students come into town dressed as gentlemen, and not with adhesive tape holding their trousers together.
“Years ago,” declares Mr. Misch-ker, the fashion prophet, “the young men were far more careful in their dress than they are today. Every self-respecting student wore full, peg-top trousers, and was sure to have his jacket both flared and creased. The derby was a vital part of his campus make-up, and he simply could not attend class in anything but a cut-away. And on top of this, he brought his suit to be pressed every other day.
“Then along came the World War, and along with its other evils khaki suits and hobnail shoes. The college boys substituted corduroys for the khaki suits, kept the hobnail shoe
Initial“Alumnus" Issue Adds New Features
The Notre Dame Alumnus, official organ of the Alumni association, made its initial appearance on the campus Thursday. The Alumnus is - a monthly publication and is edited by James Armstrong, chairman of the organization.
This year’s magazine contains, as an added feature, a study of three famous alumni, Reverend James W. Donahue, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation; Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C. A series of famous alumni will be continued in
idea, and proceeded to make the campus look like an army base. But in the past two years there has been a noticeable change in the wearing apparel at Notre Dame. Therefore, I say it will not be long before a complete renaissance takes place in collegiate clothes.”	•
There you have it—and from an expert. And Mr. Mischker should know when he speaks since he has been associated with the business for over 35 years.
To digress for a moment, let us tell you about this tailoring shop. Situated, as we said, just over the candy store, it was started in 1844 by Brother Augustus, C.S.C. It was then located in the Engineers’ building. However, the demand for engineers became more pressing than the demand for suits. Therefore the shop was moved to its present quarters.
It was enlarged in 1917 to provide a canteen for the training corps. Now, with the advent of the University Tailoring Establishment, Mr. Mischker is able to devote all of his time to his specialty, making cassocks for the clergy. He boasts a nation-wide clientele of over twenty institutions for which he furnishes vestments. Together with his four helpers he manages to turn out about four hundred cassocks a year.
But in between orders he takes time out to predict forthcoming styles for undergraduates. Are we really on the backward trail? If so, do you think Grand-dad’s suit would fit? The answer lies with you. So it’s up to you, fella, it’s up to you.
each issue of the magazine. One month this page will be devoted to the three alumni who have done honor to the field of engineering, the next month to the three who have accomplished great feats in the scientific world, and so on.
The Alumnus also contains within its pages a reproduction of the revised constitution of the Alumni association. This constitution was adopted at the meeting of the association, held last June during commencement week, in order to keep pace with the growth of the organization.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus»»Joseph Kennedy
“ROCKNE DAY” PLANS ALMOST COMPLETED
By Walter Johnson
Who says this democracy stuff is “the bunk.” Just ask. Joe Kennedy why he left New Haven, with Yale but a few blocks down the street, to travel some fifteen hundred miles for an education. We did—and his answer made it clear that we have the unltra-sophistication of that university to thank for another real Notre Dame man.
Anyway, three years ago, we find him, searching for that elusive abstraction, established in Freshman hall (where Allah knows he found it —and howl). Once more possessed of peace of mind, he was then able to look about, experiment, and finally decide on a career. Though the K. C.’s gained a new member and the interhall basketball champs owed much to his ability, the real feature of Joe’s initial year was Freshman’s cheering section during that immortal three-game series with Howard.
Interhall competition selected the official cheer leaders for the next fall, and “Joe’s Boys” from Sophomore, yelling lustily, earned him those two Chicago games with Dan Barton. That baptismal appearance before a crowd of ninety thousand Joe discounts modestly; however we were inclined to question the statement about his utter lack of fear.
Corby, Sorin and the Glee club came next—not to mention the Junior Prom, with a Saint Mary’s senior— but the sound of cheering drowned out all other calls. Now, firmly established on his staff, his present post of Head Cheerleader was assured. A new stadium, four home games, trips to Chicago and Northwestern and the prospect of a monogram have all contributed to the last two memorable years.
The psychology of this cheering business is.. a funny thing. What makes people, ordinarily self-possessed, want to stand up and cheer, even yell and shout, while attending an athletic contest? What satisfaction do they get from it? A letting off of steam? An evidence of approval or sympathy? Who knows. Joe makes no attempt at an explanation.
However he has noticed a few things during the last three years, things which may make the situation
somewhat clearer. There are times when the fans must be encouraged, even forced to cheer, while at others they applaud so spontaneously that organization is almost impossible. Too, freshmen are much more responsive than upperclassmen. This
Joseph Kennedy
Head Cheer Leader
he attributes to an acquired air of sophistication on the part of the latter; too considerate of their position, they are ashamed to admit emotion.
Home games are relatively simple from his point of view, but those Soldier field crowds are a problem in organization, in spite of the fact that a majority of the stands seem to favor Notre Dame. It’s all part of the game though, and a lot of fun.
Head Cheer Leader Kennedy has some announcements: first, having tried unsuccessfully all last summer to perfect a hand spring, he has decided that cheering will be simple and orthodox, relying more on vigor and enthusiasm than on glamor. Second, silent cheering will not be used. (Allah be praised!). Third, eliminations have been held during the last three weeks to select his assistants. Dave Powers, Fran Olerick and Jim Kelley will officiate at home games. Finally, and perhaps most important, the next guy who calls him a “big rah rah boy” does so at his own risk!
National Coaches Association To Aid Memorial Services.
Nation-wide “Rockne Day” will be observed in honor of Knute Rockne on Saturday, November 14, according to plans now being formulated by the National Coaches Association, working in cooperation with the Rockne Memorial Association, it was announced this week.
John T. (Chick) Meehan, president of the Coaches Association, is taking active charge of the participation of the coaches in the observance of “Rockne Day.” The coaches have endorsed suggestions that there be a Rockne Memorial Service between the halves of every football game played on November 14, and that the spectators at all games on that day be given opportunity to contribute to the Rockne Fund. This plan was originated at the Southern California-St. Mary’s game two weeks ago, where it was favorably received.
“When plans were being made for the campaign,” Chairman Erskine of the Executive committee said this week, “various suggestions were made to the effect that colleges might wish to assist in the fund raising campaign by charging a larger sum than usual for admission tickets.. This plan was vetoed on the grounds that such measures might be construed as coercive. It was felt that contributions should be made on a free will basis. It seems to me that it is fitting that ‘Rockne Day’ will be observed at the intensive period during the present football season, when the memory of that great man is more vivid than ever in the minds of all lovers of clean sportsmanship.”
Appointments of Arthur J. Hughes as district chairman in Chicago, and Edward J. Kelly as Chicago chairman of the committee on special gifts, were also announced this week by Mr. Erskine. Hughes, a Notre Dame graduate of the class of 1915, has been very prominent in alumni activities. Kelly is president of the South Park Commission and chief engineer of the Sanitary Committee. He will be in charge of fund raising activities among the prospective contributors of means in the Chicago area.
October 9, 1931
Fifteen
JAMES MEEHAN ELECTED PRESIDENT OF BOOKMEN
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
New Campus Club Completes Organization For Year.
James Meehan was elected president of The Bookmen, campus club for study of contemporary literature, at their regular meeting October 5. Other officers elected were, Kenneth Kreps, secretary, and Martin Madden, treasurer.
Plans for accepting or rejecting applications for membership were devised at this meeting and the constitution was ratified. At a previous meeting this year the organization’s program was outlined and a list of books for immediate purchase was compiled. The next regular meeting will be held October 12. At that time the first consignment of books will be distributed to members.
Founded last May, the purpose of this club according to officers is to develop at Notre Dame a keener interest in the better works of contemporary literature. For its own members it facilitates the reading and discussion of these works by weekly distribution.
Mr. Camille McCole of the department of English, is faculty advisor for The Bookmen.
DEAN KONOP PRESIDES OVER SENIOR SEMINAR
Members of the Senior seminar, a club for seniors studying law, met Tuesday afternoon, October 6, at three o’clock in the Law building. Dean Thomas F. Konop was in charge of the session, and presided.
The members discussed extra curricular subjects for the ensuing year. Judge William M. Cain, a member of the faculty, was the principal speaker at the meeting.
The eleven clubs of the College of Law have held their first meetings during the past week. There are six clubs in all.
The initial meeting of the Pre-Law club was held Tuesday evening. Many new members were present, and plans were discussed for the coming year.
That the campus lawyers work diligently is a matter of common knowledge, but the fact is often overlooked that they have an example set by at least one of their faculty which none of them can dispute. I speak of the popularity of “Pat” Manion as a speaker for all occasions. It often seems that he does more to help “carry on” than a whole battery of cheer leaders. At any rate, Pat carries on with his customary affluence at the World’s Premiere. The spirit of Notre Dame itself will perish before Pat fails to make half a dozen pep meetings in a year, or before he tells a story which is not to the point.
And speaking of regulars at the pep meetings, right up there with his one hundred and eighty-five musicians was genial Joe Casasanta. For the first time in history the Band and Glee club got together for a joint concert. Pat Patterson, who arranged the program for R. K. O., is carrying his head high these days, as he claims to have originated that idea.
We might remark, parenthetically, that the Glee club has been invited to make a return engagement with the Armour Hour on a chain program, which very thing they will do no later than tonight. The program will originate in the studios of WGN.
That brings us to broadcasting, and reminds us that the affair of Wednesday was not only broadcasted over South Bend’s WSBT, but was recorded in sound by Uiversal News Reel. That makes it possible that we’ll be able to hear Jim Ward’s peal of laughter as Lew Ayres (alias Maury Murray) was dumped in the lake.
The picture was conceived, you know, by Knute Rockne, the idea being that in such a way fair play might best be represented to the youth of America. The chief responsibility, however, in the making of the picture fell upon Willar Mack. In this connection he was aided by the Reverend Lawrence Broughall, C.S.C., who spent some time on the West Coast this summer.
Prominent in the audiences were notables of the state: Governor Harry G. Leslie, Lieutenant-Governor Bush, and Secretary of State Frank Mayr, of South Bend. Movie critics down from Chicago included Mae Tinee, Carol Frink, Rob Reel, and June Provines. Officials of R. K. 0. were there in abundance. And, of course, one hundred and fifty girls shrouded in mystery, but were said to have come from St. Mary’s.
Murmurs of dissent issued from the boxes now and again as varsity men confided in one another that the football game was fixed. Jim Carmody went so far as to say that he had detected one lineman in the act of taking out his teammate. At one point in the game, we hear, Marchy Schwartz became so aroused that he thumped Chev on the back and whispered hoarsely, “Let me try old 51 on ’em, Coach!”
Paul O’Toole says that in the heat of the mythical battle one sweet young thing clutched his coat sleeve and demanded to know if he didn’t think “Notre Dame was just gu-rand,” and wasn’t he “just simply cur-razy for the Northwestern game to come?”
And then, looking to the game tomorrow, we hope that the Northwestern band will not disappoint you. The spectacle of the week-end past, when Indiana trotted out her famous marching band to show the boys how it’s done, leaves opponents in a hole, for that Indiana band doesn’t fool. Anyway, “Go you, Northwestern . . .”
Television Broadcast Saturday
For the first time in history, football games will be followed by television with complete synchivnization with the voice of the announcer, when the Northwestem-Notre Dame game will be given in this manner tomorrow by the Columbia broadcasting system. The device is constructed similar to the gridgraph, the board being black with the lines and markers in white. A small football cut from sheet tin and painted white will be moved by invisible wires and magnets to various positions on the field.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE IAEADE
WITH THE FOAM
The days of ’00 were relived in the Stephens Union of the University of California last week when students were invited to accept (by courtesy of Golden West Brewing Company) steins of clear, cold beer and to munch salty pretzels (courtesy of the National Biscuit Company). Students were advised to come early because last year the entire supply was exhausted in ten minutes.
WITHOUT THE FOAM
The University of Detroit has a regular tackle playing by the name of Beer.
STATISTICS
The 1930 University of California squad got more than twenty miles to the gallon, figuratively speaking, when they used 54 miles of adhesive tape for binding and bandaging. Besides the tape 2.2 miles of bandages and 17 pounds of cotton were used.
MORE STATISTICS
Students at Emory College, where the CocaCola factory is located, certainly believe in patronizing local products. Last year they spent $16,260 for the popular drink. Every Emory student drinks eight-tenths of a CocaCola every day.
STILL MORE STATISTICS
Princeton university sent out questionnaires to its alumni body to find out just how they were getting along, and dicovered that the average alumnus owns one and nine-tenths automobiles, six and a half suits of clothes, and has one and five-eighths babies.
There is, of course, the problem of the five-eighths of a baby. The logical solution is to dress him in the half suit of clothes, pack him into the nine-tenths of an automobile, and send him to Harvard.
PRINCETONIANA
One of the requirements at Princeton in 1748 was an oral examination in the classics given by the president of the university.
MORE
Greek and Latin have been abandoned as entrance requirements at Harvard and Princeton this year.
SOFTIES
Bill Ingram, head coach at the University of California, will place a well-dressed football team on the gridiron this fall. A new machine has been installed at the coast institution which is used to shine the shoes of the football squad.
FETCH THE LEXICON
Theacallosia and Zetagethea are merely the names of sister and brother literary societies at the Indiana Central College. The two societies recently sponsored a moonlight stroll.
A LA RUSSIA
As a cultural requirement, Russian students now attend the theater once a week. Evidently most of the students at Notre Dame believe in culture.
AT REST
Dr. Walter Jones, geologist, is of the opinion that women today are no different than they were 10,000 years ago. Of 600 ancient skeletons recently dug up in Alabama all the women had their mouths open; those of the men were shut.
FATE
The Crimson and White of the University of Alabama relates the following ironic situation. A certain student received his grades for work done in the quarter. He rated six A’s and one F. The sole failure was in a course entitled, “How to Study,”, given by the psychology department.	.
October 9, 1931
Seventeen
cAMPur CLuiir
CACTUS AND HOT TAMALES
The LA RAZA club held its first meeting of the year so that new members could meet the old members.
A banquet will take place Monday, October 12, to celebrate the day Columbus discovered America or La Raza day as it is known in Mexico. The president appointed a committee of four to arrange a program for every meeting. Miguel Iriberry was appointed manager of the soccer team.
Mr. Pedro de Landero, honorary president of the club, concluded the meeting with a short talk.
LOCAL BOYS
The Joan Tea Shoppe was the scene of the VILLAGER’S club get together Monday evening. Business transacted included the election of a treasurer, and the discussion of plans for a dance.
The Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C., Off-Campus rector, addressed the members.
STAID
The Boston club held its first meeting of the year last week with a goodly number of freshmen in attendance. The club will meet twice a month. The first meeting will be in the form of a smoker. Conforming with what seems to be a gool old campus custom just at present, the business meeting included the discussion of a Christmas dance.
USUAL STUFF
The NEW JERSEY club held a meeting on Monday evening last with forty freshmen admitted to the club.
A report of the Spring dance was read, and plans were arranged for monthly activities. Attempts will be made to institute some plan of awarding medals to the man in each class having the highest average for the scholastic year. An announcement was made concerning the proposed Army trip during the Thanksgiving holidays.
Masses will be offered in the near future for the repose of the souls of two of the member’s fathers who died during the summer.
EVEN MORE
Next Wednesday is the date for the LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI club banquet. A group of ten new members were placed on the register.
GOOD HEAVENS’—A NEW ONE
An attempt was made last week to organize a CENTRAL NEW YORK club. Men from all the Finger Lake region were in attendance. The result of the experiment will be made known later.
ENGINEER’S AND PADDLES
The ENGINEER’S club met in the Law building last Wednesday night. Members of the club were assigned to committees, and officers were elected to fill the vacancies of vice-president and treasurer. The initiation of new members was set for October 21.
SEN- SEN
The Cincinnati club met last Tuesday night in an attempt to reorganize. A request will be made to obtain a new charter, and a new constitution will be drawn up. If the club proves to be a success, the territorial division will be enlarged thus providing an opportunity for students from the outlying districts of the city to join the organization.
BOWERY AND BRONX
Meeting the fore part of last week for the premier fois, the METROPOLITAN club conducted an important business meeting. A report was made as to the success of the summer social functions, and looking into the future the annual Christmas dance was discussed.
BUSINESS MEN
Officers elected for the coming year by the FOREIGN COMMERCE club at the initial meeting held last week are: president, Harry Moss; vice-president, Howard DeVault; treasurer, Herbert Bott, and secretary, John Kennedy.
The club will meet on the second and last Thursday of each month. Committees for the selection of pins, the providing of entertainment and finally one covering business matters were appointed by the president.
INITIALS
The A. S. M. E. held its first get-together at which it may be said fags were literally bestowed on the worthy brothers of the organization. Business matters were attended to, and committees for the annual initiation appointed.
WHAT’S THIS—ACTIVITY?
The official organ of the smoky city, the PITTSBURGH club, convened this week and tamsacted business concerning the trip to the Tech game, the election of officers, the report of the Spring dance and the discussion of the proposed Christmas dance. We suggest the club hire a private secretary for such occasions—they only come once a year.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
Girls who scream
And act so hotcha In drawing rooms Will say “I gotcha.”
QUICK WINKS
The line of waiters at the Phi Ed building . . . the line at the ticket windows . . . the varsity line . . . the many versions of Sheeketski . . . WAAF announced a number by the Victor Saloon Orchestra; we didn’t know there were any . . . did you ever see—the flies so thick? . . . Butch Pivarnik’s chest expansion? . . . such 1—sy winks as this?
Frank (Rosy) Reilly put down the paper and said the guys at Purdue should get sick, the way they take in dirty old vegetables in germy old Fords instead of money for tuition. And Joe (Scrip) McCabe says he knows now why we always say grace before meals.
The names for this weekly scream were 1—usy, if I do say so. How about something clever? Every time we look at our caption, our eyes bat and we get the jitters. How about a rescue?
BLOCK THAT “BLOC”
Well out beyond the playing field, half way ’twixt earth and sky
They sent the old grad tickets he had ordered in July.
He eyed the tickets sadly, twice six hundred miles to go, He did not have the sight to see a half a mile or so. ’Twere better that he stayed at home and used the radio. And read in the Alumnus how all hearts at U. N. D. Were throbbing with emotion for the boys of umpty three.
He wondered how his neighbor, who had never seen the Dome,
Had tickets which would lead a monk to leave his cloistered home,
And learned he knew a man who knew the ashman’s sister’s son
In the ’steenth ward of Chicago as acquaintance number one.	-
He spoke a word, took a cigar, one-half the trick was done, The cleaner of Northwestern’s gym was his acquaintance two,
And these had made the purple triumph o’er the gold and blue.
Alumnus at a distance, whom they write so much about,-If you wish to know your status you can quickly find it out.
Prepare to make a journey which depletes the savings sock,
Wait for “alumni tickets” but to find alumni stock Is a cypher to the public who buy their seats en bloc. Then seek the speculators, if you wish to see the game, To keep your guests from witnessing the old alumnus’ shame.
—Chas. M. Bryan, ’97.
Oscar Beader sends in a headline from the Heux: “Polish Lacking in Rambler Defense,” and calls the stupid journalist’s attention to the line-up.
“BIRDIE WHISPERS”
All the news that’s not fit to print.
Lake parties have started in damp earnest again . . . The biggest would-be wolf on the campus was a leader last Saturday when some poor frosh was tossed in for bragging about his conquests of the heart ... It seems odd that some fellows still have soft heads after being around here three or four years . . . although even a frosh should have had more sense than to argue after the deplorable incident had occurred . . .
Regardless of all objections to the contrary, Bill Corr is not running this column . . . And that story Armbo ran about the band last week made us jealous ... we wish we could be clever rather than just malicious . . .
so do a lot of othei* fellows ...	•
S. A. C. bull-etins seem to have a lot of effect this year ... It said “all out to meet the team” . . . We counted all of twenty-three fellows down at the train . . . maybe the enrollment has decreased, how should I know? . . .
The Philanthropists received three neophytes into the mysteries the other night . . . Geddes, Duerr, and Dick Oelerich, innocently strolling townwards, met some acquaintances of other years ... A party was promised if they furnished transportation . . . When they reached the scene of the festivities, (Cab 75c) the young things discovered their previous dates had arrived ... Of course, they didn’t forget to thank our heroes, who laughed good naturedly at the cunning joke and went back to town (75c more) . . .
Who says there are no entertainers at St. Mary’s informs? . . . Did you notice the expression on the face of the sax whailer last Monday eve . . . and did you notice a certain Bostonian.
—The Stool Pigeon.
TRIOLET
(Inspired after a ramble through Sorin corridor.)
Heaven blessed thee, garbage can,
Whilst thou nought but garbage hoarded;
Whilst thou bore but trash of man, Heaven blessed thee, rubbish can, Till ’twos found that one o’ thy clan—	•
Ye Ed’s, alas!—my opus boarded.
Heaven blessed thee, garbage can, Whilst thou nought but rubbish hoarded.
—Zoilus Jr.
His stuff must have been bad if we couldn’t use it.
Lemmonier says: “Would you believe it? This is my first scholarship dance!
—Armbo.
October 9, 1931
Nineteen
EDITCK’J PACE
School Spirit and Study
Freshmen, new to Notre Dame and her traditions, are usually wont to display at this time of the year a superabundance of school spirit on the side-lines of the gridiron to the exclusion of their classroom activities. School spirit is a fine thing, but it is difficult to explain to an incredulous parent when you arrive home about six weeks from now.
Notre Dame is a university, not a ball club. Marks are sent home on attendance at classes and no cuts are given for failure to report at the pep meetings.
The first quarter is half over and exams will be here within a few weeks, bringing with it the usual number of failures and disappointments. A goodly number of the freshman class goes on probation at the first quarter and, invariably, is dismissed , at the conclusion of the semester.
Continue your cheering, you new men, but show some activity in the classroom. After all, the report card means more to the individual than the Notre Dame seasonal score card and if the team loses one or eight games it is comparatively unimportant in comparison with the failure of a single study.
This editorial is written, and probably vainly, to remind the freshmen particularly that a good number of Notre Dame students will be ejected within a few weeks, because they had an overdose of school spirit on the side-lines and in the gymnasium, while they neglected to continue that enthusiasm beneath the lamp-light of their room. -
♦ ♦ ♦
Literary Prominence
With the recent issue of The Best Short Stories, edited by Edward J. O’Brien, the prominence of Notre Dame in the field of modem literature is brought to the fore. Mr. O’Brien reprinted a short story entitled “The Threshing Ring,” by the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., in the body of his book. Two stories by Louis Brennan, which appeared in Scrip last year, were mentioned as well as one story by Joseph McCabe.
Very rarely does it occur that any undergraduate publication or even undergraduate
work of any sort receives from Mr. O’Brien when he is at work compiling his anthology. For that reason the choice of three stories from Scrip for mention and the honor accorded two of our undergraduate authors is especially noteworthy. The fact that one of the stories reprinted in the collection was the work of another Notre Dame man brings further glory to the University’s literary group.
Mr. O’Brien was a constant reader of Scrip during the past year and in view of the small campus circulation of the literary quarterly the conclusion is apparent to all who are willing to admit their own lack of interest in intellectual achievement.
Notre Dame supremacy in the field of literature has been demonstrated through the medium of The Best Short Stories of 1931. At the same time campus interest was not even sufficient to support a magazine that prints such outstanding material. Notre Dame is supreme in many fields, and the Arts is one of them, but the world will never know the truth of this until the local student body displays an interest in the work of the campus authors.
❖ ❖ ❖
Another Chapter
Greeter Gaw is to lead the Chicago parade tomorrow from the Northwestern campus to Soldier field. Yet the real greeters, however, will be those several thousand boys and girls who make Northwestern one of the most interesting colleges in the middle west. A telegraphic dispatch yesterday to the Scholastic from the Evanston campus indicates that enthusiasm is running high enough there to please even Notre Dame’s ambitious pep leader, John Perone.
Undergraduates are getting an unprecedented thrill out of the preparations for the year’s game. The fun of meeting Notre Dame must be to them as keen as the fun of meeting Northwestern is to us.
The rivalry is well founded. The story of every game has been a worthy contribution to football lore. May tomorrow add another chapter!
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPORTS ♦
Notre Dame Vanquishes Indiana
Team Shows Old Fight And Spirit To Defeat Hoosiers 25-0 at Bloomington
SWITZER IS MEDALIST IN BURKE TOURNEY PLAY
Schwartz, Sheeketski, Gorman and Cronin Score On Long Runs; Line Shows Strength.
By Edmund Moriarty
Special dispatch from a Staff Correspondent.
Bloomington, Indiana, October 3.— With the eyes of the nation focused upon them at Bloomington, the “Fighting Irish” assumed their place in the sun again with a sweeping 25-0 victory over the “Scrappin’ Hoosiers” from Indiana. Playing before a crowd of 18,000 people, Notre Dame’s 1931 contribution to the world of football completely outclassed their traditional rivals who were anything but the well known early season “set-up.” A blistering Indiana sun beat down upon the field throughout the contest.
The Blue and Gold seemed to be a bit shaky at the start, but as the game went on the attack increased, even though much of the burden was assumed by the second and third teams. The first real “break” of the game came when Charlie Jaskwich fumbled a punt after being hit hard by two tacklers. Indiana recovered here, but did themselves little good, as the Notre Dame forward wall refused to give an inch, and finally Jones was forced to punt. Another fumble gave Indiana her second consecutive “break” of the contest. Schwartz dropped the ball after picking up a few yards at the line, and Baer recovered for the downstaters. Two thrusts at the line and a pass failed to accomplish a thing for the Hoosiers, and when Dauer’s attempted place-kick went wide of its mark, Notre Dame again assumed possession of the ball on her own twenty yard line.
Murphy replaced Jaskwich at this juncture and seemed to instill the much needed life into the attack. Joe
Sheeketski picked up seven at the line, but when two other plays were stopped Schwartz was forced to punt. Dauer made a brilliant forty-yard run-back of this and was finally brought down on Notre Dame’s thirty-nine yard line. Four plays at the line just barely failed to make a first down and the Blue and Gold were given possession of the ball on their own twenty-nine yard strip. On the first play, Sheeketski dove through tackle, broke into the open, and romped seventy-one yards for the first score of the game and the year. Lyons, giant colored end of the Hoosiers, made a desperate but futile attempt to catch the goal-bound Sheeketski, but the latter had enough drive in the last few yards to carry him over the line.
Coach Anderson started the third period with his second team, and this move was rewarded with another touchdown which came about the middle of the quarter. Tom “Kitty” Gorman, Irish understudy to Captain Tommy Yarr, snared a pass intended for an Indiana receiver and converted
(Continued on Page 27)
PROBABLE UNEUPS
NOTRE DAME	POS.	NORTHWESTERN
Kosky	L. E.	Eylar
Culver	L. T.	(C) Marvil
Harriss	L. G.	Dilley
Yarr (C)	C.	Weldin
Hoffmann	R. G.	Evans
Kurth	R. T.	Riley
Mahoney-	R. E.	Fend
Murphy	Q. B.	Potter
Schwartz	L. H. B.	Rentner
Sheeketski	R. H. B.	Meenan
Banas	F.B.	Olsen
O’Malley Low For 18; Finals To Be Run Off Tuesday.
The second annual golf tournament swung into action Sunday with more than forty aspiring mashie wielders attempting to defeat the almost invincible “Old Man Par.”
The tournament which is now an annual affair is held for the purpose of determining the school champion. Thirty-six holes of medal play were played Sunday with the contestants teeing off in threesomes. The low eighteen in the field are to make up the championship flight. Due to a high cross wind during the morning and the early afternoon rounds the players had a great deal of difficulty with their wooden shots. The scores were comparatively high for this reason.
Ed. O’Malley had the low score for the first eighteen, turning in a card of 79, six above par. O'Malley slipped on the last eighteen holes and required 88 strokes for the round.
Joe Switzer, one of the most promising men for this year’s varsity, led the field of qualifiers with a score of 162 for the thirty-six holes. Two strokes behind him was the hard driving sophomore, Vincent Fehlig, with a card of 164. The champion is to be determined by 36 more holes of medal play.
The prizes for the tournament are a set of matched woods or irons, the winner having his choice. The champion is also to have his name and score inscribed on the William J. Burke trophy.
The scores are no criterion of many of the golfers’ ability and due to the weather there was really no
October 9, 1931
Twenty-one
Steve Banas Sweeps Indiana Right End for Seven Yards
■» .................... ' ....................................... ——
Notre Dame’s fullback is shown eluding tivo prospective Indiana tacklers in the first quarter of last Saturday’s game.
Photographed specially for the Notre Dame Scholastic hy Harry C. Elmore
spectacular golf. The prospects, however, for next years team are exceedingly bright.
The following pairing and starting times for the final 36 holes of the annual fall golf tournament to be played Tuesday, Oct. 13, Founder’s day, are given below:
8:30 and 1:00—Joseph Switzer, 162; Vincent Fehlig, 164; John Gos-tisha, 166.
8:35 and 1:05—William Veeneman, 167; Edward O’Malley, 167; Emerit Moore, 167.
8:40 and 1:10—Henry Culver, 169; William Burke, 169; Dan Henery, 170.
8:45 and 1:15—A. J. Pugliese, 170; Clifford Peickert, 172; Don Nelmes, 172.
8:50 and 1:20 — William Slader, 172; Al Consolati, 173; William Cole, 174.
8:55 and 1:25—Ed. Stephan, 174; Thomas O’Melia, 175; Willard Malloy, 176; Robert Kolb, 176.
Do you know that Billy Sullivan batted .275 in his first year in the majors?
Hoosier Band Pleases Crowd With Music
By Granger Weil
Special dispatch from a Staff Correspondent.
Bloomington, Ind., Oct. 3—The Indiana band, probably the best in the collegiate field, lived up to their tradition today, when they paraded the soil of the Memorial stadium between the halves.
For the first time in many a day, Notre Dame escaped without obtaining the first set-back for rule violation. They made up for this some time later, however.
The open-air press box was filled with nationally-known sports writers. Jimmy Corcoran, well-known representative of the Evening American, sent out six thousand words on his impression of the battle. Wilfred Smith and Jack Elder were present from the two Chicago morning sheets.
Notables in the boxes along the side-lines included Harry G. Leslie, governor of the state; Senators James E. Watson and Arthur Robinson;
Lieutenant-Governor Edgar D. Bush; and Secretary of State Frank Mayer.
Two campus writers filed several thousand words on the affair. Neil Hurley, editor of the Scholastic, was on hand to ship a play-by-play account of the battle to the Chicago Daily News. Joseph Petritz, sports publicity director, handled the detail account for the Chicago Tribune.
Ray Brancheau may have been one of the boys when it came to downing Indiana’s team, but he didn’t need any help to duck their coaches in the water pail.
Frank Wallace, former N. D. student and author of “Huddle,” was in the press box throughout the game.
Ben Oosterbaan, former University of Michigan star, took notes for his old alma mater throughout the tilt. Dick Hanley’s brother scouted the Notre Dame side in preparation for the battle next week.
Tiventy-tzvo
The Scholastic
VARSITY ROSTER
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 1931 SQUAD
Yrs. on
	Name	Pos.	Home Town	Prep	Age	wt.	Ht.	Squad
1.	Jaskwich, Charles*	Q. B.	Kenosha, Wis.	Kenosha High	20	174	5:11	1
2.	Millheam, Duke	R. H.	Beloit, Wis.	Beloit High	20	156	5:7	0
s'	Murphy, Emmett*	Q. B.	Duluth, Minn.	De LaSalle, K. C., Mo.	22	153	5:8	1
4.	Foley, Joe	Q. B.	Jacksonville, Fla.	Robt. E. Lee	21	158	5:7	0
5.	Vejar, Laurie	Q. B.	Hollywood, Cal.	Hollywood High	21	168	5:7	0
6.	Rohrs, George	R. E.	New York City	Fordham Prep	20	168	5:10	0
7.	Mahoney, Dick*	R. E.	Cleveland	Cath. Latin	20	175	5:10	1
8.	McGuff, Al	Q. B.	Chicago	St. Mel’s	20	170	5:10	0
9.	Christman, Norb	Q. B.	Green Bay, Wis.	E. Green Bay	21	172	5:9	1
10.	Sheeketski, Joe	R.H.	Shadyside, Ohio	Shadyside High	21	172	5:9	.1
11.	Host, Paul*	L.E.	LaCrosse, Wis.	LaCrosse High	21	175	5:11	1
12.	Brancheau, Ray	R. H.	Monroe, Mich.	Monroe High	21	180	5:10	0
13.	Connelly, John	L.H.	Toledo, Ohio	St. John’s High	21	165	5:10	0
14.	Franklin, Randolph	R. E.	Youngstown, Ohio	South High	21	174	5:11	0
15.	Canale, Frank	L.E.	Memphis, Tenn.	Catholic High	20	190	6:	0
16.	Mahaffey, Tom	L. G.	Indianapolis	Cathedral High	21	170	5:9	0
17.	LaBorne, Frank	L.H.	Brooklyn	Brooklyn Prep	21	163	-5:10	0
18.	Schwartz, Marchmont**	L.H.	Bay St. Louis, Miss.	St. Stanislaus	22	170	5:11	2
19.	Bice, Leonard	L.E.	Hollywood, Cal.	Hollywood High	21	175	6:	0
21.	Burke, Vince	Q. B.	Pittsburgh	Sacred Heart High	19	152	5:9	0
22.	Koken, Mike*	L. H.	Youngstown, Ohio	South High	22	170	5:9	0
23.	Krusiec, E. F.	F. B.	Chicago	De LaSalle	20	180	5:8	0
24.	Boland, Raymond	Q. B.	Chicago	De LaSalle	20	160	5:7	0
25.	Bolger, Charles	L. E.	Chicago	De LaSalle	20	170	6:1	0
26.	Cronin, Carl* Hagen, Lowell	R. H.	Chicago	St. Rita’s	22	157	5:7	1
29.		F. B.	Monroe City, Mo.	Holy Rosary High	19	170	6:	0
30.	Melinkovich, George	F. B.	Tooele, Utah	Tooele High	20	180	5:11	0
32.	Greeney, Norman*	L.G.	Cleveland	John Marshall	22	185	5:11	1
33.	Leahy, Bernie*	R. H.	Chicago	St. Mel’s	22	175	5:10	2
34.	Leonard, James	F. B.	Perricktown, N. J.	St. Joseph’s	20	190	6:	0
35.	Capter, Albert	F.B.	Paterson, N. J.	Central	21	185	6:	0
36.	McNamara, Regis*	R.T.	Pittsburgh, Pa.	Binghamton, N. Y., H. S.	23	190	6:1	1
37.	Halperin, Robt. Harris, James*	R. H.	Oak Park, Ill.	Oak Park High	21	194	6:	0
38.		L.G.	Bellaire, Ohio	Linsley (Bellaire)	22	187	5:9	1
40.	Reuland, Ray	R. E.	Reedsburg, Wis.	Reedsburg High	21	182	6:2	0
41.	Schumacher, Al	L. H.	Shawano, Wis.	Shawano High	21	171	6:	0
42.	Cavanaugh, Vincent	R.G.	Chicago	St. Ignatius	21	175	5:10	0
43.	Beirne, Roger	L. E.	Fairfield, Conn.	Peddie	20	175	6:1	0
44.	Kosky, Edwin*	L. E.	Yonkers, N. Y.	Yonkers High	21	185	6:	1
45.	Witucki, Bernard	C.	South Bend, Ind.	South Bend High	20	175	5:11	0
47.	Alexander, Benjamin	C.	San Marino, Cal.	So. Pasadena High	22	185	6:	0
48.	Lukats, Nick	F. B.	Gary, Ind.	Froebel	20	178	6:	1
49.	Van Rooy, William	R. G.	Cleveland	Cathedral Latin	21	195	5:10	0
50.	Tobin, John	R. H.	Janesville, Wis.	Janesville High	21	180	5:9	0
51.	Gorman, Tom	C.	Chicago	St. Phillip’s	21	187	6:	0
52.	Led, Mike	L.T.	South Bend, Ind.	South Bend High	21	180	6:1	0
53.	Pierce, Bill*	R. G.	Sherman, Texas	Sherman High	22	185	5:8	1
54.	Grundeman, Reuben	F. B.	Merrill, Wis.	Merrill High	20	183	5:11	0
56.	Zoss, Oscar	C.	South Bend, Ind.	South Bend High	20	175	5:11	0
57.	DeVore, Hugh	R. E.	Bloomfield, N. J.	St. Benedict’s	20	180	6:	0
58.	Kreuz, Paul	R. G.	Menominee, Mich.	Menominee High	20	180	5:8	0
59.	Whelan, Vincent	C.	Grantwood, N. J.	St. Benedict’s	21	175	5:8	0
60.	Banas, Steve	F. B.	East Chicago, Ind.	Cath. Cent., Hammond	22	188	5:11	0
61.	Jehle, Frank	L. T.	Detroit	Western High	20	195	6:1	0
62.	Acers, Julian	L. H.	Chicago	Campion	21	175	5:11	0
63.	Halpin, Robert	C.	New Haven, Conn.	New Haven High	20	178	6:	0
64.	Rogers, John*	C.	Alexis, Ill.	Alexis High	21	175	5:8	1
65.	Flynn, Jack	R. T.	Quincy, Ill.	Quincy High	19	196	6:	0
66.	Kurth, Joe*	R. T.	Los Angeles	Madison, Wis., High	21	200	6:1	1
67.	Gildea, Hubert	L. E.	New Haven, Conn.	Milford and Hillhouse	20	188	6:1	0
68.	Pivarnik, Joe	L. G.	Bridgeport, Conn.	Harding High	19	195	5:9	0
69.	Krause, Ed.	L. T.	Chicago	De LaSalle	19	210	6:3	0
70.	Cousino, Bernard	R.T.	Toledo	St. John’s	21	175	6:	0
72.	Wunsch, Harry	L. G.	South Bend, Ind.	South Bend High	20	200	5:11	0
73.	Schrenker, Paul	L. G.	Elwood, Ind.	Elwood High	19	185	5:11	0
74.	Hoffman, Frank Nordy*	R. G.	Seattle	St. Martin’s	21	204	6:2	1
75.	Kozak, George	R.T.	Cleveland, Ohio	Holy Name High	22	198	6:2	0
76.	Yarr, Tom (Capt.)**	C.	Dabob, Wash.	Chimacum Prep	22	197’	5:11	2
77.	Vyzral, Edward	R.T.	Chicago	Lindblom	21	209	6:4	1
78.	Carmody, James	R. T.	Chicago	Mt. Carmel	21	210	6:1	0
79.	Mariani, H. .	L.T.	Pearl River, N. Y.	Pearl River High	20	193	5:11	0
81.	Culver, Alvin**	L.T.	Wilmette, Ill.	St. Thos., St. Paul	23	212	6:2	2
♦ Denotes Varsity Monogram in Football.
I1
/
)
T
October 9, 1931
Ticenty-three
Quarter-Finals Reached In ‘Scholastic’ Net Tournament
HARRIERS PREPARE FOR BUSY SEASON
By Joseph Borda
The fall tennis tournament, sponsored by the Scholastic, has been judged successful from many viewpoints. It served not only as a test for the men who are to comprise the varsity tennis team in the spring, but it also reflected the enthusiasm with which tennis is received at Notre Dame.
The opening rounds, which were characterized by a high caliber of play, brought to light several outstanding players, who may develop into varsity material. The representatives of the freshman class made a most impressive showing. Although they will not be eligible for the varsity this spring, several may land a berth on the varsity in their sophomore year. It is possible that a freshman team may be organized this year because of the interest displayed in this tournament, and matches with other schools arranged.
The record of Notre Dame tennis teams'in the past has, on the whole been representative, despite the limited facilities. With the stimulus of this tournament, which will be an annual affair, the tennis outlook for the future, is exceedingly bright. With such a bevy of students interested in the sport, and willing to support the team, this spirit of enthusiasm is justified.
As the tournament is still in its early stages, it would be rather difficult to predict the ultimate champion, but a few men who have exhibited good tennis, and threaten to win the crown, are Louis Chreist, Dick Reeves, John O’Henlon, and Homer J. Bandy. These men, from their showing in the early rounds, and decisive victories, appear to be the logical contenders.
The Summaries:
FIRST ROUND
Richard Reeves defeated Thomas Connors, 8-6, 6-2 ; Arnold Hackenbrush defeated Donald Brice, 6-3, 1-6, 7-5 ; Edward Powers defeated Robert Gibb, 6-1, 3-6, 6-4; Robert Shank defeated James Daviscourt, 7-5, 6-3; Michael Peterbaugh defeated James G. Mueller, 6-0, 6-4; Louis Chreist defeated Thomas Hils, 6.0, 6-1; John Clancy defeated George Cuomo, 4-6, 6-2, 8-6; Joseph Askew defeated David Ryan, 6-2, 9-7; Frank Shapiro defeated Edward Melchione (default) ; Leo Oneil defeated
Leslie Perks, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3 ; Charles Nunneman defeated J. H. Argus (default) ; William Schrader defeated William Farrell, 6-3, 6-4; Edward Dolan defeated Robert Fulton, 6-2, 6-3 ; Lester Stein defeated John Gill (default) ; Robert Hartman defeated James Carrico, 6-3, 6-0 ; Thomas Dailey defeated John Clark (default) ; Richard Kelly defeated Seton Staley, 1-6, 7-5, 6-1; Raymond Margrett defeated Anthony Anzlovar, 6-3, 6-2.
Arnold Morrison defeated Thomas Duffy (default) ; Jackson Gandour defeated John Matousec, 6-3, 6-1; Frank Fallon defeated Thomas Strick (default) ; Carl Link won by default; Edward Seward defeated Thomas Meade, 6-1, 6-4 ; John O’Henlon defeated John Cummings, 7-5, 6-4 ; Carl Meyer defeated John Hoeninger, 6-2, 6-1; Norbert Hart defeated William Bernbock, 6-0, 6-3; Joseph Hoffman defeated Donald Rutherford (default) ; Homer J. Bandy defeated Art Cline, 8-6, 6-3 ; William Pfeil defeated Edward Bahan, 6-3, 7-5; William Slater defeated J. Ducey (default) : Robert Forbes defeated George Shields (default) ; Charles Bringardner defeated Richard Wauffle, 6-0, 6-0.
SECOND ROUND
Richard Reeves defeated Arnold Hackenbrush, 6-2, 6-1; Robert Shank defeated Edward Powers, 6-0, 6-4 ; Louis Chreist defeated Michael Peterbaugh, 6-2, 6-4; Joseph Askew defeated John Clancy, 6-1, 6-3; Frank Shapiro defeated Leo Oneil (default) ; William Schrader defeated Charles Nunneman, 6-2, 6-4; Robert Hartman defeated Thomas Dailey, 6-2, 6-4; Richard Kelly defeated Raymond Margrett, 6-2, 7-5; Arnold Morrison defeated Jackson Gandour, 6-2, 6-4 ; Carl Link defeated Frank Fallon, 6-2, 6-4; John O’Henlon defeated Edward Seward, 6-2, 6-4; William Pfeil defeated William Slater, 7-5, 6-1; Homer J. Bandy defeated Joseph Hoffman, 7-5, 6-4.
THIRD ROUND
William Schrader defeated Frank Shapiro, 6-2, 6-1; Lester Stein defeated Robert Hartman, 6-1, 6-4; John O’Henlon defeated Carl Link, 6-0, 6-0.
SCHEDULE FOR DOUBLES
FIRST ROUND
Slater and Gill vs. Shields and Brice; Nunneman and Hils vs. Myers and Brennan; Ripley and Bouquin vs. Duff and Wilson.
SECOND ROUND
Reeves and Clark vs. winner of Slater and Gill-Shields and Brice match; Meade and Matousec vs. Dailey and Shapiro; Smith and Belts vs. Hart and Bernbroek; Mueller and Link vs. winner of Nunneman and Hils-Myers and Brennan match; Melchione and Dynecweicz vs. Fallon and Kelly; Fulton and Brandy vs. winner of Ripley and Bouquin-Duffy and Wilson match; Yeiser and Hellwig vs. Cuomo and Reilly; Medland and Eppig vs. Chreist and Peterbaugh.
First Meet One Week Away; Many Veterans Return.
With the opening of the crosscountry season just a week away Coach John P. Nicholson has been driving his harrier charges through hard workouts all this week. Some twenty-five or thirty men are on the squad.
Leading the pack of thinlies in their training grinds are Gene How-ery and Alex Wilson, both veterans of proved ability. Howery captained the Blue and Gold runners last fall and had a brilliant season. Wilson was a mainstay on the squad two years ago, and is back with all his old-time form and speed.
In addition to these two men Coach Nicholson has an excellent group from which to fill out his team of eight runners for the opener in Evanston next w’eek. Bauers has won two monograms in this hill-dale business. Rusnak, Ewing and Rudd all annexed minor letters last fall while Lawler is another tried runner.
Graduating from the ranks of the freshmen of a year ago, Joe Young and Eddie King are turning in sterling performances in the training jaunts and are making strong bids for regular berths. Both men are strong, capable runners, and with some competitive experience should be real additions to the Blue and Gold prospects.
In the opening meet next Saturday Notre Dame will meet three Big Ten opponents in an annual quadrangular affair at Evanston. Besides Northwestern, the hosts, Illinois and the Badgers of Wisconsin are to be in on the show.
With two aces of the caliber of Wilson and Howery and backed by a hard-working, steady squad of harriers, the Running Irish should be among those present when the winners’ noses are counted.
Do you know that the Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C.,.was a potential big league baseball player in his heyday?
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING—
When the latest edition of the Fighting Irish line up against Northwestern tomorrow afternoon a lot of programs are going to be thumbed in search of the Notre Dame personnel. Down near the bottom of the page the thumbers are going to find this information: No. 81—Alvin Culver, left tackle. Probably not much more will be printed in that line but most of the readers, the knowing ones at least, will nod their heads and murmur “good man.”
Al Culver came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1928. He wasn’t entirely unheralded. Four years on a prep team that meets but one defeat usually gives a bit of fame to the member. St. Thomas Military academy in St. Paul was the locale for that victory streak that Culver helped build. He was captain of an undefeated team there in his last year, the season of 1926.
Following his graduation from St. Thomas the husky Wilmette youth put in a year battling the world before coming to Notre Dame and the realm of Rockne. That is where oui’ major share of interest starts. As a freshman, a tackle named Culver
Recommended by the English Department of UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL— The “Supreme Authority.** Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it. A wealth of ready information on words, persons, places, is instantly yours. 106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,256 pages.1,700illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and other features.
See It At Your College Bookstore or Write far Information to the publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this paper.
Alvin Culver
looked “pretty fair.” That’s all we’ve been able to find.
The next year he looked better. As a member of the shock troops he understudied the veteran regulars throughout the season that originated the present victory reign. His star was at least above the horizon.
Last year it blazed on up to a firm place in the gridiron sky. He was a regular and the chain stretched on without a break. Winning at football should soon be habitual for Mr. Culver.
Now, after a summer of work in North Chicago, he is back in great shape to help forge on nine more links. He is slated to be an important factor in the forward wall that looks so good at this time. His work for the past two years justifies that confidence. A lot of people acknowledge that.
There are other sides to the man than this role of being a cog in a great machine. An enthusiastic Pittsburgh journalist thought he found one last fall when Galsworthy’s Silver Spoon showed itself under Al’s am as he came off the train. The same sharp observer credited Tom Kassis with a great love for metaphysics that day. Maybe he was right, and then maybe . . .
Handball is probably Al Culver’s biggest diversion aside from stopping ball carriers in their tracks. A few years ago while playing for the Hamilton club in Chicago he reached the semi-finals in the singles of the Junior A. A. U. meet and the finals in the doubles. He still plays a mighty good game in those little four-walled cells in the gym.
This dependable, smooth-working gridder is starting his last year as a Notre Dame tackle. He will be graduated from the Commerce school in June. Before that, however, many things may happen. Not many of them are sure. One of sportdom’s greatest bits of confidence is in the prophecy that Al Culver will play his usual steady, brilliant game at tackle. That isn’t so strange really. Not when you know Al Culver.
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-cock, S48 Dun Building, Buffalo, N. Y.
October 9, 1931
Twenty-five
NOTRE DAME FACES N. U.
(Continued from Page 5)
new, but not necessarily weak, as Ike Voedish pointed out after scouting the team last Saturday.
Potter will probably be at quarter, with Meenan and Rentner at halves, and either Russell or Olsen at full. Potter is a sophomore, and though lacking in experience will probably receive the pilot position; Meenan is also a sophomore, and his 195 pounds fits well into Northwestern’s driving offensive.
Pug Rentner is the big gun of Dick Hanley’s team. Big, strong, and fast, he is considered by many as the Purple’s greatest all time back; a powerful plunger, good in a broken field, and a sensational passer, Rentner is the man that must be stopped. He looked like an All-American last Saturday, scoring twice on sensational runs, but threw away a third touchdown when he fumbled crossing the goal line. Russell, who ran wild against Notre Dame last year, has failed to impress so far this season and may be benched in favor of Olsen, sophomore punting ace.
Notre Dame will be outweighed in both line and backfield, and possessing no capable plunging backs, will depend largely on a speedy running attack interspersed with passes. The Fighting Irish used three teams and only eight plays in defeating Indiana last week and should have lots in store for the Purple.
Notre Dame will use the same twelve backs who gained 453 yards from scrimmage against Indiana; these effective ball carriers looked very much like the backs who carried Notre Dame to national championships during the past two seasons.
On the basis of his perfoi-mance last week Murphy should start at quarter, but Jaskwich may get the call later on account of his kicking ability. Sheeketski and Schwartz will
be at halves. Banas, a newcomer, who is a smart defensive back,-will be in at full.
A great deal depends on the ability of the Notre Dame wingmen in coping with Marvil and Riley; Kosky and Host will alternate against the Northwestern captain, and Mahoney and Devore will battle the 214 pound Irishman.
The game should be in every way as interesting and as hard fough1; as the famous “battle of the century” last November, and with its forward
A Tip for
CALF SKIN
Not flashy, but trim and sophisticated— not extreme, but distinctive: the Roto, with its slightly square tip, is a shoe that appeals to carefully dressed young men. One
of the many new fall Walk-Overs at $7.00.
passes, its tricky running formations and reserve strength Notre Dame enters it with a fighting chance to emerge on the long end of the score.
Do you know that a certain frosh wanted to get a job caddying on the Burke links . . . ?
Do you know that' Joe Savoldi is reputed to have made over one hundred thousand dollars in the wrestling racket?
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067 Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
WAB
S-H O f S
A - O V f P
■FOR. M -E N
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
The Scholastic
Twenty-six
NEW MAJESTIC
EASY TERMS
With New Spray-Shield Tube Multi Mu Tube Pentode Tube and Tone Control $4450 COMPLETE
See and Hear it at
JIM BAKER’S
Room 243, Baden Hall
Oliver Theatre
Perfect Talkies
Sun.,-Mon.f Oct. 11-12 FOOTBALL With KNUTE ROCKNE “The Hidden Ball”
BLOCK*KUHL
EgsgjgcOPMER MICHIGAN STREET AN D COL FAX AV ENU E MgKS

Bargain Matinees .
1 to 6 p. m.
10c
After 6 p. m., 20c

Pardon Us
------ITS HERE-----------
SATURDAYSUNDAYMONDAY-TUESDAY
THEIR FIRST FEATURE LENGTH COMEDY RIOT!
They ciash prison gates—then walk right out again! But it’s all funny as can be in the first full-length talkie by the grandest of all screen comedy teams!
LAUREL and HARDY
IN
You’ll make no mistake if you’re looking for laughs, in seeing those funny boys!
October 9, 1931
Twenty-sen on
N. D. DEFEATS INDIANA (Continued from Page 20) into a touchdown, after a brilliant sprint of some thirty-five yards.
The regulars were sent into the fray again at the beginning of the fourth quarter and immediately instituted a drive down the field which netted them four straight first downs. They finally lost the ball though on an incomplete pass on the fourth down. Indiana then punted out of danger, but soon had plenty to worry about again. Banas picked up eight, and when intereference was ruled on Schwartz’ pass to Kosky, Notre Dame received the ball on Indiana’s twenty-two. Three line plays and a buck by Sheeketski were good for another first down. Then a lateral, Murphy to Schwartz, was good for twelve more yards and a touchdown. Murphy destroyed all precedents set earlier in the game by kicking goal.
With two and one-half minutes of play remaining, Notre Dame’s third string outfit was rushed into the contest. Led by Laurie Vejar, most diminuitive of Notre Dame’s quarterbacks, anothei* goalward march was begun, and it was left to “Stumpy” Cronin to complete this with a thirty-five yard off-tackle dash for the final score of the game.
MANY NOTABLES PLAN TO ATTEND N.D. GAME
Prominent Men From All Over Will Be Present Tomorrow.
A list of some of the local and national notables who have made reservations for the Notre Dame-Northwestern game in Chicago tomorrow was this week made public by the University athletic business office.
It includes the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, who will entertain the following in his box at the game: Right Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne; Right Reverend Edward F. Hoban, D.D., bishop of Rockford, Ill.; Right Reverend Bernard J. Sheil, D.D., auxiliary bishop of Chicago; Right Reverend Francis F. Kelly, D.D., bishop of Winona, Minn.; Mr. and Mrs. Edward N. Hurley, and Mr. and Mrs. Ednest R. Graham.
Mrs. Bonnie Skiles Rockne, widow’ of the late coach, is to attend, and among the local fans will be Jesse Harper, director of athletics, Vincent
Bendix, Mayor W. R. Hinkle, Warren Cartier, Col. C. A. Carlisle, Howard Edwards, A. R. Erskine, Frank E. Hering, John F. Cushing, G. A. Fara-baugh, Paul G. Hoffman, Joseph D. Oliver, Col. George M. Studebaker, Frank Mayer, jr., Secretary of State, Jacob Hoffman, James E. Armstrong, Congressman Samuel B. Pettengill, George L. O’Brien, and Andrew C. Weisburg. .
A few of the other persons of prominence to be present are Samuel Insull, Byron V. Kanaley, Nicholas Griffin, Senator George Maypole of Illinois, Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Reverend John A. McNamara, Don Hamilton, Francis N. Hayes, Norman Barry, George Ade, and Joe E. Brown.
Michigan Men Form Club
Formation of a new club to be known as the “Southern Michigan Club,” to include all men from southern and central Michigan who are not nowr connected with a city organization, will be held Wednesday, Oct. 14, at 7:45 p. m. in the basement of Walsh hall. F. L. Murray, acting chairman, states that the purpose of the club is to give all students from Michigan a chance to belong to an organization from their state.
STARTS SOON Watch for it! Regular run of “The
Spirit of Notre
Dame"
I.r.c. PALACE
—-	NOW SHOWING
They Called Him An Old Fool!
But overnight he became the most important person in town—eye-witness to the most startling events that ever befell a family! He Tells All! Don*t miss his story!
CHARLES (Chic) SALE WALTER HUSTON
■»
THE STAR.
WITHEff
Also
MICKEY MOUSE Ripley “Believe It or or Not” News Pat Patterson at the Organ
Dickey Moore
Sally Blane




J
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund L. Moriarty
The game at Bloomington last Saturday revealed much. First, it showed that Notre Dame has another strong team, which, with a little polishing, will approach the records established by teams in former years. The real thing that it displayed though, was that every member of the three teams who saw service in the contest, played with a spirit that is so typical of a Notre Dame competitor. Every man served as a cog in the machinery, and team play was the keynote of the afternoon. There was no real individual star. Every man was out there playing for Notre Dame, and each was working in conjunction with the other, to form a highly cooperative unit.	'
Even a man who's being -penalized for holding can summon a long, long cheer for the mellower, smoother flavor
that\£X7RA\somethinq ....
CLICQUOT
the best of
to
parties.
of this fine old ginger ale. It blends with lively spirits . . . adds gaiety - -	• - -
Clicquot club
GINGER ALES
wry ~ ^olaen, - afec	,
QAree ^favorite flavors on any Campus
Considering the fact that the season is very young, the play was exceptionally smooth. There were faults though, and these will have to be ironed out if a victory is to be scored against the Wildcats tomorrow. The passing was especially bad, and out of eight attempts, only one found its mark. The backfield, though at times it displayed brilliance, lacked the polish that makes for a smooth working combination. There was also a tendency to be overanioxus, particularly in the opening minutes of the game, and though this can hardly be classed a major fault, it will have to be terminated if Notre Dame is to win tomorrow.
Charlie Jaskwich was probably the
worst victim of this. Certainly his play was not up to standard, as can be seen by the fact that he fumbled a punt on one occasion, and essayed a very poor kick on another. Either mistake might have resulted disastrously if Notre Dame had been playing a team that took advantage of “breaks” such as these. As it was though, they did little damage and Jaskwich’ mistakes were pardonable, because his generalship and defensive play was not bad at all.
' V
HISTORY IN THE MAKING
Football history will be made in tomorrow’s game, no matter what the outcome may be. Notre Dame tied her all-time record last Saturday with a win over Indiana, and incerased her string of consecutive victories to twenty. A victory tomorrow will break this record which has stood since xkthe days of the immortal Gipp. On the other hand if Notre Dame is defeated, it will mark the first time that a Blue and Gold team has ever been conquered on Soldier’s field. So history will be made, no matter what the results may be.
V
THE QUARTERBACK PROBLEM
Just what the absence of Frank Carideo, All - American quarterback for the last two years, will mean to this year’s team was cited earlier this season. Now that the first game is a matter of history, more can be said in regards to this question.
Charlie Jaskwich was Anderson’s choice to run the first team last Saturday. His play during practice merited this choice. That he still lacks confidence under fire though, was exhibited again last Saturday. His generalship for the most part was good, and he played well on defense. Why he should discount his own ability will always remain a question. Certainly he is gifted with football brains, and has plenty of courage.
Carideo was missed Saturday. His punting, punt receiving and run backs, pass receiving, blocking and tackling were all just what is to be desired. On the “spinner play” Carid-eo’s blocking used to “clean house.” He was missed Saturday, but if the play of Emmet Murphy and Laurie Vejar, the latter only being in the game for a few minutes, continues as was displayed Saturday, Notre Dame will have little to worry about. Murphy instilled the confidence into the team that .seemed to be beyond Jack-
October 9, 1931
Tiventy-nine
wich. He ran the team beautifully, and took care of his own duties in great shape. Vejar was sent in with the third outfit. The play of that eleven in those last two minutes will be the talk of those who witnessed the game, for a long time. Vejar was the lieutenant in their touchdown march, and their long runs and fine playing were all results of his perfect generalship.
V
GUESSING AGAIN
With a record of twenty-five wins and but one loss for last Saturday’s games, we’re back again with re
newed vigor and another list of guesses. The one loss was in Carnegie’s surprise defeat at the hands of W. and J., but with clean cut guesses on the N. U.-Nebraska and Pitt-Iowa games, we considered the day a big success.
This week it’s going to be a lot tougher, because most of the early season “pushovers” have been pushed over, and the boys are beginning to settle down to hard work. Saturday’s game with the Wildcats is bound to be a tough one, and our guess for this classic is Notre Dame 13, Northwestern 0.
THE PREDICTIONS
NOTRE DAME 13, Northwestern 0
Michigan 33. Chicago 0
Anny 6, Michigan State 0
Purdue 14, Illinois 0
Indiana 7, Iowa 0
Stanford 13, Minnesota 6
Ohio State 20, Vanderbilt 7
Wisconsin 24, Alabama Poly 0
Navy 14, Maryland 0
Pennsylvanai 35, Franklin-Marshall 0
Pittsburgh 20, Virginia 0
Drake 25, Creighton 0
Southern California, 24, Washington 0
Yale 14, Georgia 0
Harvard 21, New Hampshire 0
Princeton 7, Brown 0
"Since I lent him my pen
it has never been the samel
Other Parker Pens, $2.75 and $3.50; Pencils to match them all, $2 to $5
Don’t make yourself unpopular by borrowing students’ pens. Unless the pen is a Parker Duofold, your hand is apt to foul the point, or change its action. Don’t expose yourself.
Stop at the nearest pen counter
and pick the Parker Duofold that fits your hand to a “T.” You’ll be prepared then for any emergency— even for lending—gracefully.
For no style of writing can foul, or alter Parker’s miracle Duofold point. Still it writes as easily as you breathe
Often said, but NOT of Parker Duofold
—with amazing Pressureless Touch I And even the Parker Duofolds at $5 have 22% to 69% more ink capacity than some pens of other makes priced 50% higher. Yet none has Parker’s stylish, balanced, streamlined design—“America’s Shapeliest”—or Parker’s Invisible Filler, or Patented Clip that lets the pen set low and unexposed in the pocket.
The only guarantee you’ll need for life is the name on the barrel— “Geo. S. Parker—DUOFOLD.” 6
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL GRID TEAMS PLAY OPENING GAMES
Hard Fought Struggles Mark First Tilts of Hall Elevens.
The 1931 interhall football season opened last Sunday morning with six games on the program for the day. Despite the fact that the season is very much in “the infant” stage and also that many of the
Ben Bernie
AND HIS ORCHESTRA In the New
COLLEGE INN
Americas Most Interesting Restaurant and Centre of Chicago’s Night Life
IN
HOTEL
SHiRM
1700 ROOMS 1700 BATHS flates from $3.
CHICAGO
players were away from the campus for the Indiana game, at Bloomington, the games were both interesting and hard-fought.
In Group I, St. Edward’s, Badin, and Corby were victorious, but none were able to register by more than a two touchdown margin. The Minims lone marker was sufficient to give them a decision over their Sophomore gold-coast rivals, Lyons, and incidentally hurdled them into the lead for the sophomore championship when Morrissey dropped their game to
RANDOLPH* CLARK* LAKE* Ml LA SALLE STS*
Badin by 7-0. Corby, aroused up by their demonstrative Memorial pep meeting, showed much offensive strength in conquering the Sophomore hall freshmen by 14-0.
Group II found Walsh hall’s champions giving advance notice that they will again have to be reckoned with by those who hope to “lift” the halo of championship. Under the capable leadership of Coach Napolitano, Walsh ran up three touchdowns to completely overpower Howard, 19-0. Off-Campus took advantage of all breaks to defeat Brownson 8-0, while Carroll got the jump on their Main building rivals and, incidentally, showed themselves to be a dangerous factor in the second group race in their 12-0 conquest of Freshman hall.
The teams of both Dillon and Alumni halls were awarded byes last week in order to give the boys a better chance to get their teams organized. The fact that the men of these halls have been living in outlying sections of South Bend has put the coaches at a decided disadvantage in early season practice.
Interhall Football
The following are the results and standings of the Interhall football games played on Sunday, October 4, 1931:
Group I.
St. Edward’s 6, Lyons 0.
Badin 7, Morrissey 0.
Corby 14, Sophomore 0.
Dillon—bye.
Group II.
Walsh 19, Howard 0.
Off-Campus 8, Brownson 0
Carroll 12, Freshman 0.
Alumni—bye.
Standings in Group I.
	w.	L.	PCT.
Badin	1	0	1.000
Corby	1	0	1.000
St. Edward’s	1	0	1.000
Lyons	0	1	.000
Morrissey	0	1	.000
Sophomore	0	1	.000
Dillon	0	0	.000
Standings	IN	Group II.	
	W.	L.	PCT.
Walsh	1	0	1.000
Off-Campus	1	0	1.000
Carroll	1	0	1.000
Brownson	0	1	.000
Freshman	0	1	.000
Howard	0	1	.000
Alumni	0	0	.000
October 9, 1931
Thirty-one
RESERVES SCORE 25-2 VICTORY OVER INDIANA
Hoosiers Tally Lone Score On Safety In First Quarter.
The “Fighting Irish” B team trounced Indiana university’s Reserves on Cartier field, 25-2, last Saturday, while the varsity piled up a like amount of pointage at Bloomington.
The Hoosiers scored their tally first when Schumacher made a safety in the first quarter, but Notre Dame tightened and came back strong with a strong offensive and pushed over four touchdowns before the final shot was fired. Shortly after the second period opened, Notre Dame hit the line and passed their way to the Hoosier’s 3-yard stripe, but a fumble which was recovered by Renegar of Indiana and a 40-yard punt by Crawford saved the visitors from a possible tally against them. Towards the end of the first half Talbot, a substitute for Youngblood, intercepted a Notre Dame pass and nearly got loose. Hagen nailed him on the Blue and Gold’s 18-yard line and the “Fighting Irish” were saved by the gun which a few seconds later ended the first half.
After working the ball from midfield to the Indiana 1-yard line, to open the third stanza, the Hoosiers held for three downs, but the terrific onslaught of the Notre Dame back-field wore them down and on the final attempt Cronin crashed through to register the first Notre Dame tally. Acers try for the extra point failed.
On the play following the kick-off, which Mariani returned 10 yards, Louie Vettel, fullback, took one of Acer’s lateral passes and raced 60 yards, along the sidelines, for a touchdown. Christman’s placement for the extra point was over.
Along in the fourth frame when it looked as though Indiana might shove the oval across the goal line, Berney Witucki, center, intercepted a Hoosier pass on his own 45-yard line and ran through the entire visiting team for the third touchdown.
Notre Dame added the finishing touches to the performance shortly before the final shot was fired. Crawford of Indiana kicked to quarterback Donovan who returned the ball to his own 18-yard line. On the next play Hagen found a hole through right
tackle and dashed 71 yards before he was brought down. At this point the Indiana defense tightened and the Hoosiers held for downs. Crawford got off a bad punt, the ball sailing only 18 yards. After a steady march from the visitors’ 29-yard line, Notre Dame made first down on the Indiana 3-yard stripe. On the next play Hagen crashed center for the final marker.
Score by quarters:
Notre Dame B_______0 0 13 12—25
Indiana Reserves 2 0 0 0— 2
The line-up:
VISIBLE INK SUPPLY BIGGER INK CAPACITY »
’ W7/1C
Ihs Nssac fillin’’ device is a remarkable new invention never before employed in the fountain pen industry and obtainable only tn the Conklin Nozac. To fill cr empty the pen you simply turn the knurled end of the barrel—like you wind a watch. Leak-proof, smooth, easy action.
THE CONKLIN PEN COMPANY
TOLEDO. OHIO
Chicago__________ San Francisco
DEALERS, stock and show the pens that sell. Write for catalog.
Yes SIR, you can tell how many words ere left in a Conklin Nozac by merely looking at the visible ink section. And because there is no rubber sac in the barrel, the Nozac provides a new, immensely greater ink capacity—35% more than other pens of the same size. You will run out of ideas long before “the pen that winds like a watch" runs out of ink. Here is the pen of modem times—the sub-machine gun of the orthographical bandit. All-opaque barrel if so desired. Step right into any really up-to-date supply store and look the Nozac over, you'll be wearing one when you leave. Priced in conformity with the times at $6 and $10; pencils to match $3.50 and $5.00. Other snappy Conklins in new shapes and ultra-modish colors $2.75 to $8.
Pencils $1.00 to $4.50.
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANT EE D
NOTRE DAME	POS.	INDIANA
Beirne	L. E.	Howorth
Leding	L.T.	Jackson
Chapman	L.G.	Fliessbach
Witucki	C.	Stuckman
Kavanaugh	R.G.	Voliva
Mariani	R. T.	Renegard
Rohrs	R. E.	Tiernan (C)
McCabe	Q-	Leach
Schumacher	L.H.	Kneipple
Cronin	R. H.	Youngblood
Hagen	F.	Crawford
Referee: McIlwain (Illinois). Umpire: Rohrke (Chicago). Field Judge: Steger (Michigan). Headlinesman: Huston (Parsins).
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
No wonder men smoke PIPES!
EVERY PIPE SMOKER has the satisfaction of knowing he has one masculine right that the women won’t take away from him. They do leave our pipes alone.
And though the girls may not know it, they’re leaving us one of
. - °	«	The favorite smoke of
the finest smokes college a man can have.
There’s something calm and soothing about a pipe and good tobacco. It leads to clear-headed thinking. Perhaps that’s why the leaders—the real men of the world—are pipe smokers.
College men like a pipe — packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth, the favorite pipe tobacco in 42 out of 54 colleges. It’s cut especially for pipes, to give a cooler, drier smoke. You can
buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or for a special sample packet, write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive
and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15 ft pocket package to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
On Down the Line
. . . FRANCIS OUIMET won his first national golf championship two years before JESS WILLARD knocked out JACK JOHNSON in 1915, in Havana . . . OUIMET beat VARDON and RAY three years after JOHNSON had beaten JEFFRIES at Reno . . . OUIMET’S first championship came a year after WILLIE RITCHIE beat AD WOLGAST in San Francisco . . . and it was a year after JOHNNY KILBANE won the featherweight title from ABE ATELL in Los Angeles . . . and five years after BAT BATTALINO, present featherweight champ, was born . . .
V
. . . Tackle material numbering 13 youths and weighing more than a ton on the hoof reported for the Texas Longhorn varsity this fall . . . the lightest of these beeves weighed 185 pounds; the heftiest was 260 . . . The recent reform of eastern colleges of eliminating training tables for athletic teams and dropping all methods of subsidizing athletes were adopted . in the Big Ten conference years ago . . .
V
. . . The record for place kicking a football over the goal is held by J. T. HAXALL of Princeton, who booted the ball 65 yards against Yale in 1882 . . . The forward pass record goes to “BRICK” MILLER of California, who heaved the ball 70 yards to HOWARD STEPHENS against Ohio State in 1920 . . . Then we find that in 1884, before the end zone rule was passed, WYLLYS TERRY of Yale is recorded as having run 115 yards from scrimmage for a touchdown against Wesleyan . . .
V
. . . TERRY FARLEY, custodian of racing colors at the Jamaica track for 30 years, has about a thousand sets of jockey outfits in his keeping . . . Princeton’s backfield this year is composed entirely of sophomores . . . It is considered unethical for a reporter in a press box to express any partisan opinion above an ordinary tone of voice . . . Northwestern has defeated Notre Dame only once since they began playing in 1899 . . .
Optometrists	Opticians
ROGERS
Dr. E. S. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
212 South Michigan Street
LOW RATES Northwestern Game
ROUND TRIP Friday Noon to Monday Midnight
ROUND TRIP Saturday Only

FAST TRAINS EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
nerve system
for energetic
skyscrapers
Long before the huge bulk of a new skyscraper looms up, Bell System men have planned its nerve system—the maze of telephone cables and wires so vital to its business activities.
From the inception of a building design, telephone engineers work hand in hand with the architects. They determine the telephone
needs of thousands of future tenants. Then they plan cable shafts rising from cellar to roof and the grid of under-floor ducts.that will put telephones within easy reach of every occupant.
There’s a real thrill in working out these plans, for without telephones the immense structures of today would hardly be practicable.
BELL SYSTEM
I
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
Are they as good as when the
ruffles came down to the ankles?
Good?. . .You bet they are! Maybe the girls are even better. Anyhow, cigarettes are a whole lot better. No doubt about that.
They used to be made by hand— .
Now it’s machines; no hand but yours ever touches them.
They used to be packed tn expensive, highfalutin’ cardboard boxes—
Now the quality is in the cigarettes.
The U. S. Revenue Tax used to be a penny a package of twenty—
Now it’s six cents a package of twenty.
Tobacco used to be dried by air—
Now Liggett id Myers alone has thirty-five drying machines of the latest type, with a daily capacity of over2,000,000 ■	pounds—and overfour miles of ware-
houses for tobacco storage.
Better—they’re miles better! Everything used in the manufacture of Chesterfield cigarettes is the best that money can buy or that Science knows about.
Chesterfield tobaccos — both Turkish and Domestic—are mild and ripe, the best that money can buy.
And the way Chesterfield tobaccos are blended and cross-blended is like making a new and better-tasting kind of tobacco, with greater smoothness, more mildness and a more pleasing aroma—a fragrance and flavor not to be found in any other cigarette.
Chesterfield gives you the benefit of all the world knows about the production of better cigarettes. Nobody smokes a better cigarette than Chesterfield.
© 1ML LtQGEtr * Mms Tobacco Co