Disce quasi semper victurns; vive quasi eras moritnrus. i	---------------------— -------------------------------------—------------------
Vol. XVI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 9, 1882.
No. 14.
Forget Me Not.
Accept this little blue-eyed flower. Preserve it, since it comes from me;
And may its magic name have power To keep me in your memory!
For I shall always be your friend;
And when the flickering, dying flame Of others’ love has found an end, My love will ever be the same.
Dickens and Thackeray.
Standing together as the two popular novelists of their day, it is interesting for those who know both, to compare the works of Dickens and Thackeray, seeing how each, though worthy of remembrance, yet differed from the other. Mr. Dickens was comparatively uneducated, and his earlier associations had been those which gave him an acquaintance with London and the poorer classes of the great metropolis; Thackeray was a University man, and, though subject to misfortune, never gathered that knowledge of the very poor his rival so often displayed. We find, then, that Thackeray described polite society, while Dickens wrote of the well-to-do, or the very poor. Both, as novelists, excel in different ways, and it would be no easy matter to finally rank one higher than the other.
In the department of humor, Dickens is by far the greater. Thackeray, though often very droll, seldom makes us laugh. Capt. Costigan, for example, is probably his best hit; we smile at poor old Cos., and remember him; but he can never rank beside Micawber. Foker amuses us; but not like Toots. We admit that Costigan and Foker are more probable characters than Micawber and Toots, but they cannot provoke the same hearty-laughter. Thackeray, moreover, wrote amusing descriptions, but had one book contained all the humor of Thackeray it would not have equalled the Pickwick Papers, and the Pickwick Papers do not contain half the fun of Dickens.
From the “ Artful Dodger,” in « Oliver Twist,” to Thomas Sapsea, in “ Edwin Drood,” amusing characters meet us on every page. Again, Dickens had ah inimitable way of giving the most ordinary
j statement a comical turn, as in “Nicholas Nickle-: by ” we read: “Mr. Squeers had but one eye, and the popular prejudice runs in favor of two.” Or, , again, in “ Martin Chuzzlewit,” when Mr. Peck-■ sniff had had too much strong punch, “ they car-■ ried him upstairs and crushed the youngest gen-! tieman at every step. His bed-room was at the i top of the house, and they got him there in course i of time. He asked them freqifently on the way ! foi- something to drink. It seemed an idiosyn-| crasy. The youngest gentleman in the company | suggested a glass of water; Mr. Pecksniff called him opprobrious names for the suggestion.”
In the matter of pathos, both possessed wondrous power. The death of Paul Dombey- is one of the most pathetic things ever written, but fully equalled, if not excelled, by the death of Col. New-come. But Dickens too - often seems to strive to move us; Thackeray, with rare good sense, knew pathos, above all things, to depend upon simplicity. To those who have followed the career of Col. Newcome, how beautiful, how touching is the description of his death, ending thus: “ At the usual evening hour the chapel bell began to toll, i and Thomas Newcome’s hands, outside the bed, feebly beat time. And just as the last bell struck, a peculiar sweet smile shone over his face and he lifted up his head a little and said ‘Adsuml’ and fell back. It was the word we used to say- at school when names were called, and lol he whose heart was that of a little child, had answered to his name and stood in the presence of the Master.”
With regard to the many characters they both drew, it may be said that Thackeray excelled in a certain delicacy of drawing and in fidelity- to life; Dickens, in humor and originality. Let us consider a few from the. works of both our authors.
The first character we take from Mr. T.’s collection is his own well-beloved Pendennis. Pen is a boy spoiled by a fond widowed mother. He falls in love, at the age of eighteen, with an Irish actress, some fifteen years his senior; he goes to Oxford, is “ plucked,” and runs heavily into debt; he goes to London and, undei- the tutelage of the scheming old Major, is about to make a mercenary-marriage; but finally marries his lovely- cousin Laura, and becomes a very- good boy, indeed. Now, while Pen is performing all these pranks, though his conduct is often weak, though he is often quite a fraud, still he is never base. Exasperating as he may be, he still has a manlyr heart;
210
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
and who will not give one like him a hearty “ Godo	— e
speed?” And Laura Pendennis, how beautiful and good she is! As a little girl, full of awe for Arthur; as the young woman, exhorting him on to the battle of life; as the tender friend and nurse of Helen; as the virtuous wife and mother, we love her more and more. Then we have Dobbin; awkward old fellow though he be, how his love, his honor and his faith make him dear to all! And Col. Newcome, what artist ever drew a picture like to him? Finally, let us consider Barnes Newcome; who can describe him? The sneaking boy-seducer; the lying friend; the treacherous foe; the wife-beater. What a complete rascal he is! There is not a false line in the picture; he is no more improved by misfortunes than a hyena by hunger; he calmly pursues his course, and will die the respected banker, Sir Barnes Newcome, Bart, M. P.
When we turn to the characters of Dickens, we are struck by their almost countless number. There are first the amusing characters, whether odd or witty, among whom we remember Sam Weller, .Mr. Jingle, Dick Swiveller, John Willett, the Rev. Chadband, Silas Wegg, “ Sairey ” Gamp, and many others, including our old friends the Pickwickians, and “that honest tradesman,” Mr. Jerry Cruncher, who described his occupation of grave-robbing as an “ agricooltural pursuit.” But, save these, there are few who .have sufficient personality. Who can think of Nicholas Nickleby apart from his adventures? of Oliver Twist? or, indeed, of David Copperfield? Still, there are some characters Dickens has drawn uncommonly well. Passing over Pecksniff and Tom Pinch, who are hardly more than hj^pocrisy and simplicity dressed up like men, we will consider Pip and the blacksmith Joe, Lizzie Hexam, Sydney Carton, and Jonas Chuzzlewit.
Pip is a contemptible fellow, who has at first a mean ambition, and when that is satisfied, mean pride; but his brother-in-law Joe, though he may be ranked among the amusing characters of our author, yet, in many respects, is one of the best he ever drew. The character is;well sustained throughout, representing delicately and well, an honest, loving, sturdy man. His simplicity is amusing, his tenderness. touching, while his sense of propriety and of justice demands 'our admiration and respect. The next character, Lizzie. Hexam, is probably the most admired of all the women of •Dickens. Her humility, her love, her purity shine out, whatever her surroundings; and, certainly, we see her doing and suffering many things. Now she is on the river with .her father; now* striving, to give her brother, the means of lifting himself above the river and its dark surroundings; now an orphan, struggling with terrible temptation;-now fleeing from her danger; now saving poor Wray-burn’s life, and happily married .to’him in the end. Through all her many trials, she.has our sympathy and love.. Then there is Mr. Sydney Carton, the; poor., fellow wrecked by dissipation,.who, for the purejove recently?bdrnin-his;heirt,.and in the-hope of.redeeming a disgraceful past,‘ laid down his.life;
for his friend.’ A man, with a mind naturally bent to virtue and refinement, were he to become a slave to any degrading appetite, could not, in our opinion, be better represented than by the portrait of Sydney. Carton. Finally, there is Jonas Chuzzlewit; naturally-.coarse- and narrow-minded, his education is thus described: “The education of Mr. Jonas had been conducted from his cradle on the strictest principles of the ‘main chance.’ The very first word he learned to spell was ‘ gain,’ and the second (when he got into two syllables), ‘ money.’ ” As we will have occasion to mention this worthy again, we will merely say, in passing, that the character seems inconsistent. A man as shrewd as Jonas is at first represented to be, would neither have attempted to poison his father nor have allowed himself to be entrapped in the “ Anglo Bengalee.”
Let us now compare, a few characters from our two authors and notice the difference between them. Thackeray seemed to go into the nearest respectable house and single out a person to describe his character, who, like most of us, was often without either striking characteristics or adventures. We therefore come to know his men and women as we know those about us. Dickens, however, generally had something peculiar about the characters he drew; and we, distracted by improbable accidents from’ a calm survey of them, rarely feel that they arc flesh and blood. Compare, for example, the character of Arthur Pendennis with that of David Copperfield.. How much better is the former drawn! yet there is no improbability in the adventures of Pen as there are in those of David.
’ Or again, compare Barnes Newcome and Jonas Chuzzlewit. Both are intended as most contemptible men, yet how differently are they situated! Barnes is a rich banker, an M. P., an educated man moving in the best circles; Jonas is rich, but ignorant and mean. Barnes marries for blood, and beats his wife, though with considerable cause; Jonas marries for money, and beats his wife without cause; Barnes never committed a crime that would send him to jail, and. consequently lives and dies highly respected; Jonas tries to poison his father, and thinks he has succeeded; loses his money by an idiotic investment;, commits a second murder to conceal the first, and finally cheats the gallows by taking, poison.	.
Again, let.us consider the different styles of the two authors. Through all: the works of Thackeray his personality is prominent. He is a pleasant, hearty old fellow," telling you the history of some people he has; known; here and there he stops to give you some reflections, on subjects far enougluaway from the-story,- and illustrates his„re-marks bj^liumorous examples; he seldom allows you to lose yourself Jn the story, as, for example, in “ The Newcomes,” instead of ending-the book -with the beautiful description of Col. Newcome’s death, he closes by- reminding us that all the New-comes: are afar-off in fairyland. He rarely forgets .the position he: has chosen, but retains his conver-sationaptone:throughout.-; We .quote a few.lines' from a.chapter in “ The Virginians”: ’	- -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
211 .
“When we drive up to our friends’ houses, nowadays, in our coaches and six; when John carries up our’noble names; when, finally, we enter the drawing-room, with our best hat and best Sunday smile foremost, does it ever happen that we interrupt a family row? .... That, in the interval between the hall-door and the drawing-room, Mr., Mrs. and Misses Jones have grouped themselves in a family tableau; this girl artlessly arranging flowers in a vase, let us say; that one reclining over an illuminated work, of devotion; mamma on the sofa, with the butcher’s j and grocer’s books pushed under the cushions, and some elegant work in her hand. ... O let us be thankful, not only for faces, but for masks; not only for honest welcome, but for hypocrisy which hides unpleasant things from us I ”
The style of Mr. Dickens is much more varied, and enriched with freely exercised descriptive and dramatic powers. As a rule, he writes very melodious prose, and several long passages can be scanned throughout. We quote here some lines from the description of a murder:
“ As the sunlight died away and evening fell upon the wood, he entered it. Moving here and there a bramble of a drooping bough which stretched across his path, he slowly disappeared. At intervals, a narrow opening showed him passing on, or the sharp cracking of some tender branch denoted where he went; then he was seen or heard no more. Never more beheld by mortal eye or heard by mortal ear, one man excepted. That man, parting the leaves and branches on the other side where the path emerged again, came leaping out soon afterwards. What had he'left within the wood that he sprang out of it as though it were a hell? The body of a murdered man. In one thick, solitary place it lay among the last year’s leaves of oak and beach, just as it had fallen headlong down. Sopping and soaking in among the leaves that formed its pillow; oozing down into the boggy ground as if to cover itself from human sight; forcing its way between and through the curling leaves as if these things rejected and foreswore it, and were coiled up in abhorrence, went a dark, dark stain that died the whole summer night from earth to heaven.”
There is, finally, to be commended in both authors the singular purity of their writings and the spirit of charity so often manifested. Thackeray denounced- constantly the artificial and the base in polite society. Dickens not only preached in a general way good-will to men, but pointed out many national abuses for correction.
“ And now,” some one may ask, “ after all these remarks, which of these authors is the greater? ” Who can say? Who, in the first place, can, with authority, define the aim and the scope of the novel ? Who, moreover, could decide between two such wonderful masters? Many there be, we know, who take very determined stands in favor of either author; but the claims of neither Dickens nor Thackeray to superiority can be decided sine pulvere. W ere a person to assert that one? was greater than the other, he would find pretty well-armed adversaries in the field against him. For our part, we would rather close this essay, not with any decision we.mightfindMiard to defend, but rather by again giving a thought to the good both have accomplished. By.the many dull hours they have gladdened, by the many cold hearts they have soft-•ened; by the many evils to be corrected and the many dangers to be avoided they have pointed out, by the charity they taught in this age .pre-eminent for charity, by their love of little children, by the wonderful purity of their works, by all .these things we are attracted to them; and by-these
things we mean the good that they have done-Is it too much to say, that wherever English is spoken their names are as household words; that together thev are not only admired as authors of wondrous talent, but loved as men who have done their share towards making happier and better the lives of manv men?
T. Ewing. Steele. ’S4.
Flying’ Machines.
III.
The great defect in the parachute is its inability to rise except in a fair wind. If now we apply the screw propeller of Mr. Starr, it will move a surface of 3,000 square feet, at the rate of 21 miles an hour; that is, it will overcome a horizontal resistance of 720 pounds, and furnish an upward pressure of 2,700 pounds. Allowing a weight of 1,000 pounds for the whole apparatus, we have 1,700 pounds for passengers, equal to ten or twelve men. But this is not a very handsome apparatus, nor one to be contained in an ordinary building. The principal advantage it possesses is in the amount of wing surface that can.be em-ployed, and its convenience of application. It could not, however, be made to start suddenly, to dodge and to whirl about. In fact, it is plain that we shall never be able to use such machines for catching insects or small birds; but, by means of a different type, we may be able to seize upon the clumsy craine, or even the wild goose. It would be royal sport to surprise that impudent and independant flock on St. Joseph’s Farm! To attain such perfection is an immense and masterly work; it affords numerous and difficult questions to the Physicist, Mechanic and Chemist. There are three.’ important considerations in the theory of flight: 1st, the power of the motor; 2d, the weight of the whole apparatus; 3d, the resistance of the atmosphere. To determine whether a given power can sustain a given weight by means of wings, is quite the same as to determine whether the same power can lift the same weight from the ground, except that the air, when serving for a basis, yields more or Jess. The more it yields, the greater is the power required, of course; hence, the resistance should be a maximum; also the power should be a maximum and the weight a minimum.
The resistance depends upon the form, size, velocity and trajectory of the moving body. It va- . ries almost directly as the extent of’ surface and as the. square of the velocity. But what do we know about the form? We know that a concave surface meets nearly twice as much resistance as a plane of the same extent, and that a convex surface meets only about three-fourths as much. Also, in the movement of inclined planes, the “ ratio of the lift to the thrust greatly increases as the inclination diminishes.” Fof instance, when the pressure is one pound for an angle of 150, it is ij4 pound for an angle 450. If the planes be made
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
somewhat concave, the resistance would be greater, of course. On this plan the bird’s wing and screw propeller are constructed. Both meet a great pressure, but in the screw it is partly turned to a disadvantage. There may be some other shape, even more convenient and effective than these.
But this is speaking only of the relative resistance of different forms. What is their real resistance for different sizes and velocities? Ah! that is a question which science, with all its achievements, is scarcely able to answer. It is greatly to be regretted that men have neglected so easy and important a subject till now. It is certainly impossible to do more than guess at the possibility of flying without knowing what the air will support. But even by guessing we shall not go far astray.
We know, from everyday experience, that the air affords a pretty firm basis, if properly acted upon. Meteors are raised to a white heat by striking a very rare atmosphere. For dynamite it is so immovable that the most solid rocks must fly asunder. We know the power of hurricanes and cyclones; the energetic pull of a kite gives us a still better idea. Then we are acquainted with the action of sailing stones; the curve'of smooth, heavy stones hurled from a sling, and the astonishing curve of the boomerang. We have often seen birds sail an extremely long distance with no other force than a slight plunge on the start, and a very gradual descent afterwards. With a descent of a few yards, a bird acquires a velocity sufficient to ascend nearly to its original height—a splendid proof that the air scarcely yields while an object sails over it.
But the best experiment for obtaining an idea of the readiness and ease with which a body can rise in the air is that of the toy flying machine. A small piece of India rubber has been made to carry an apparatus up to a height of 50 feet, and hover about for several seconds. One good pull of the arm is sufficient to send still higher another *	o
toy, consisting of a piece of sheet-iron, bent to the form of a screw propeller. It would be interesting to determine the power of the rubber spring, and that exerted by the arm in spinning the screw.
The great problem is to determine how much power is required to support a given weight with a given amount of alar surface of the best possible form. After learning this, -we may proceed to apply our power, and easily determine the result. The experiments that have been made for this purpose are few, indeed. “ A vacuum exists in our common libraries 011 this much-neglected but important subject.” From, the experiments made • by the Aeronautical Society of Great Britain we learn that.a plane of one square foot, inclined at an angle of 15 degrees from the horizontal, meets, at a velocity of 25 miles an hour, a resistance "of 0.33 pounds and a lifting pressure of 1.5 pound; also, for a speed of: 20' miles an hour,;the lifting pressure is one pound per. square foot, and if the proportion remain the same, the'resistance is 0.22 pounds. But the/force spent . equals the effort multiplied by the space traversed; and a speed of 20 miles an hour equals about 1,200 feet a miiiute, which, multipliedfbj’’ the resistance 0.22 pounds,
gives 262 foot pounds. One horse-power equals 33,060 foot pounds per minute, which, divided by 262—126 pounds. Hence, one horse-power can support 126 pounds with 126 square feet of plane surface. If the surface were concave, it would support an ordinary man. There is also a great advantage in having the whole extend in one plane instead of being divided into' several.	(
It is not yet determined at what rate the ratio of ;
the resistance per square foot increases with the extent of surface; but we may form an approximate idea from the following considerations:	>
Conceive a plane circle, 2 feet in diameter, mov-	■ing at right angles to the wind. Now, the air,	;
one inch in front, of the centre of the circle, can-	• ■
not move one foot sideways to allow the circle to pass while it moves one inch; hence, the air must	/
move along in front of the circle. So also for
-	V	■	-
the air, two inches in front of the centre, and probably for 4 or 5 inches. A similar thing takes place with the air in front of other parts of the plane. There is thus an accumulation of air before the circle, somewhat in the form of a cone. If the extent of surface be increased, the base of the accumulation is proportionally increased, and it also becomes higher. A similar action takes place before planes, inclined at a large angle. For this reason, it would probably be better for the stroke of the wing to be sudden, short, and intermittent, thus moving a column of air a considerable distance farther than the wing itself. All insects and birds act on this principle. They also teach us	1
that, in sailing, a small angle is best. According to M. de Louvrie, ah angle 6° 30', would be most favorable. With this small inclination the bird'	.
must move very rapidly to receive sufficient lift-	’
ing pressure, and if the resistance were great, the	I
force required would be very great. But the ■ resistance is only one tenth of the lift. • All a bird has to do then, in sustaining a flight of 30 or 35 miles an hour, is to overcome a resistance of one tenth its weight. Great speed has three advantages: 1 st, the angle may be very small; 2d, the object is continually encountering undisturbed air;
3d, a rapid means of transportation. The second advantage is derived from the sudden and short action of the plane, which passes so quickly that the air has scarcely time to be disturbed. This principle is well illustrated by falling pieces of paper, sailing stones, etc. ;
There is another argument to prove that tire power exerted by birds is not so enormous; viz.: the amount and quality of their food. We can calculate, with perfect exactness, how much force there is in the food given to the bird, and we know, with all the certainty of fixed scientific principles, v that the bird cannot develop more' energy than it receives from its food. Hence we have an infallible and determinable limit, beyond which we cannot wander in our calculations. It would- be interesting to make some experiments • of ' this kind—but not with our greedy canaries, by any	;
means.	.	. .	_ .	, /	:	‘
Experiment has also shown that the-power of. a bird’s muscle compared to man’s is- only as 6 to 5.
THE NOTRE JOAME SCHOLASTIC.	213
.	kJ
If man could apply his strength, he might easily sustain the weight of a wild turkey, or other large bird. In fact, a certain person has, by muscular effort alone, succeeded in raising 2654 pounds with a screw propeller. This accords in a manner with calculations made above, and is indeed encouraging.
(to be continued.)
Books and Periodicals.
—Der Sendbote des Gottlichen Herzens Jesu, —Monatsschrift des Gebets Apostolates,—published by the Franciscan Fathers at Cincinnati, Ohio, is a very neatly printed and ably edited magazine. The October number deals chiefly with the 7 th centennary of the great Apostle of Poverty, St. Francis of Assisi. The contributions, both in prose and poetry on this subject, in the Sendbote, are excellent reading. The December number, just received (we have not seen the one for November), contains, besides other poetic pieces, a gem of verse, “Und die Gottesmutter bei der Krippe,” and another, “ Auf das Dreihundert-jahrige Jubilaum der Seraphischen Jungfrau Theresia von Jesu,” by the Rev. P. Lucas, M., O. S. B. The serial article, “ Gott in der Geschichte,” by the Rev. Chas. Brischar, S. J., is an able production, and very instructive. With the graver articles are also found entertaining legends, etc., in prose and verse. The price of the Sendbote is $2 year, with a premium if paid in advance. Now is the time to subscribe for the coming volume of this edifying magazine. -Address Sendbote, 593 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
— The St. Nicholas for December (Christmas number), comes with its usual freight of mirth and good cheer. We must say, however, in due deference to our Minims, that Santa Claus is unusually good-natured. Just imagine Santa Claus sitting before a fire, with a pair of No. 12’s,—one of the Minims said 16’s,—resting on a fender, and quietly receiving missives from the young folks. In our young days, days of hanging up stockings, etc., we never heard of such a thing; and the youths here protest against such an innovation. Perhaps there has been progress in this respect. We hope not. The number is very interesting, and presents such features as, first, the bright, colored frontispiece, by R. B. Birch,—a snow scene, with children, pony, and dogs, and'an unmistakeable Christmas flavor. Then there is a graphic account of a long dogsledge journey on Lake Winnipeg, capitally illus- “ trated by Farny; a Christmas poem ..by Nora Perry; and a clever, short story,'“The Christmas Fairies,” that is a true story, as well. The beginning of “The Story of the Field of the Cloth of Gold,” a charming tale, weaving in, most delightfully, the principal incidents of the famous meeting of the Kings in the Golden Valley. “ Mary and her Garden,” a six-page poem, written by Eva L. Ogden, engrossed, and beautifully illustrated by Alfred-Brennan,.. An amusing ^ Alphabet of Chil
dren,” with a jingle and a picture for each letter. A quaint and highly original fairy tale, by Frank R. Stockton, who also contributes another installment of “ The Story of Viteau.” J. T. Trowbridge’s serial, “ The Tinkham Brothers’ Tidemill,” is also continued, with three chapters of accumulating interest. An article on whale-hunting in Japan, by William Elliot Griffis, and “The Discovery of the Mammoth,” by C. F. Holder, with a startling picture by James C. Beard. The entire number, including the “Departments,” is copiously and handsomely illustrated by the cleverest designers for children.	’
—The Century Magazine for December is a suitable number wherewith to close the year and arouse bright anticipations of the pleasure to be derived from the coming volume. A splendid portrait of Chief Justice Marshall, from a phototype by Gutekunst of Inman’s portrait, is the frontispiece of this number. The opening article, “The Supreme Court of the United States,” by E. V. Smalley, is illustrated (1) with a bust of Chief Justice John Jay, a distinguished lawyer and patriot, and no less distinguished as a narrow-minded bigot; (2) Chief Justice Roger B. Taney, a devout Catholic, homely in person, and, outside of the law, as large-hearted and liberal as Tav was narrow; (3) a half-length portrait of Chief Justice Chase, whom to know was' to esteem and love. There is a splendid picture of the Supreme Court in session, miniature portraits of the present Justices, etc. Besides the three serials mentioned in our notice of the November number, there are several new articles. (1) “ My Adventures in Zuni,” by Frank H. Cushing; (2) “The Corean Origin of Japanese Art;” (3) “The Taxidermal Art,” by Franklin H. North, a verv interesting and instructive article; (4) “Rab’s Friend,” an illustrated sketch of Dr. John Brown, of Scotland. The poetry of the number is by Henry A. Beers, Sidney Lanier, Andrew B. Saxton, and L. F. Tooker. Among other good articles, one on “ The Problem of Spelling Reform,” by T. R. Lounsbury, will attract universal attention. We cannot agree with the sensible and enthusiastic editor of the New York Home Journal that Prof. Lounsbury’s article “is behind time—several years behind.” It is, in one sense; but in another and broader sense it is. both timely and practical. The great mistake of the spelling reformers, both in England and this country, was in introducing a radical reform before the public mind was fully prepared to accept it.. It would have been far better, we think, to have shown up the glaring inconsistencies, incongruities, and entire lack of practicalness in our present systemless system of spelling, and kept it before the public until they had become thoroughly disgusted with it, and ready to accept a reform that is both consistent and practical. Prof. Lounsbury’s article will undoubtedly give material aid to die reformers, and, therefore, should be welcomed by them. The departments of “ Topics of the Time,” “ Literature,” “ Home and Society,” “ The World’s Work,” and “Bric-a brae,” .in this number of the ' Century, are full of information.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Colleg-e Gossip.
—The University of Nebraska subsidizes the students’ publication, the Student.
—Since the Yale College football team adopted Rugby, in 1876, its record shows 82 goals to 1.—Ex.
—Harvard received bequests amounting to $400,000 during the past year.— Cornell Daily Sun.
—Harvard has formed a temperance society on the total abstinence basis, with a large membership.
—Jay Gould has given $5,150 towards the endowment of Rutgers College.—The widow’s mite ?—Harvard. Herald.
—Senator Lamar, of Mississippi, is said to be desirous of an appointment to a chair in the University of. Georgia.— College Cabinet.
—There is one college in the State where the students are arrayed too much like lilies; (with pistils ).—Blackburnian ( JlliItois').
—Five freshmen, of the University of Vermont, are under suspension for ten days for hazing , a sophomore.—Harvard Daily Herald.
—The ladies in attendance at the Harvard Annex are reported to be even more opposed to co-education than the male students.—’ Varsity.
—The Brunonian, the Dartmouth and the Vassar Miscellany, have lately given in their adhesion to the plan for an Intercollegiate Press Association.
—A game of football was recentlv played in Canada between the Faculties of Art and of Medicine, in Queen’s College.—Harvard Daily Herald.
—The English schools have largely introduced the military drill as a means of exercise. It is taught to all the boys in 1,172 schools.— Cornell Sun.
—The Harvard Herald states that Prof. J. P. Cooke has procured a dynamo-electrical machine, and that it is his intention to light Boylston Hall with it.	’
—The first letter sent bv a gushing Freshman * home: “ Pater, caniha veso memorc stamps sentto me? Ego spentthc last cent. Tuns studious hercs Johannes?— Concordiensis.
—About one-third of the applicants for admission to Yale are let out.—Blackburnian.
Top badl We wonder how much is paid for their services?	’	•
—The question of the establishment of professorships of Pedagogy at our universities was discussed at the recent Convention of New England college, presidents, . at Williamtown.—Harvard Herald. ~ '
—.There is talk of forming class foot-ball elevens at Yale, to contend for the class championship, as the class ball nines do now. In this wav it is hoped to' develop much good material for the university team.-:—Harvard Herald.	;
—A Dartmouth correspondent of the Harvard Daily Herald- writes: “Athletics are more pros- -perous than usual. After due consideration, an extra hour daily, has been granted , by the Faculty to the students for the purpose of exercising.” . "
—President Woolsey is reported as having said: “ When I was president of Yale College, I was asked if I would be willing to admit women students there. I replied that I would, if Vassar Col; lege would admit young men. That ended the discussion.”—Boston Advertiser.
—Laval University, having got over the troubles in connection with the establishment of a branch in Montreal, has purchased an eligible site, and will at once begin the erection of buildings—but this they will do slowly—proceeding as their means allow.—Queen's College Journal.
—The circulation of some of the leading college papers is stated to be as follows: Harvard Herald,-----; Yale Courant, 800; Yale Record, 600; Yale Literary, 550; Harvard Crimson, 500; Princetonian, r,ooo; The Dartmouth, 1,050: The j\rgus, 500; The Chronicle, 1,000: Notre Dame Scholastic, 960.
—George H. Corliss, of Providence, R. L, has given 1,200 for the purchase of Professor Ward’s college series of casts of extinct specimens of Natural History for the new museum of Iowa College, at Grinnell, and Prof. Ward has himself so added to the gift that the entire collection has been secured.— College Cabinet.	.
—Mr. H. S. Butcher, who is to succeed Professor Blackie as Professor of Greek, at Edinburgh University, is a Fellow and Lecturer of University College, Oxford, and formerly occupied the same position in VisAlma Mater, Trinity College, Cambridge. In conjunction with Mr. Lang, he has published a prose translation of the Odyssey.—Ex.
—The two-hour session in German optional produces the following:—with the exercise of a little patience :
-	“ Zwanzig lieb-krank Maedchen wir,
Lieb-krank alle ganz ungern. Zwanzig Yahre, werden wir Zwanzig lieb-krank Maedchen sein.” .
.	—Yale Bccard.
—The suspension of five freshmen, in the University of Vermont, for hazing a sophomore, has resulted in a general strike by the freshman class. It appears that a sophomore was seized and beaten bv five voung fellows, wearing masks, but the freshman class vote their approval of the performance and are cutting all recitations. It is hoped that the sophomore will give his assailants a taste of the law when they return.—Harvard Daily Herald.
—Four hundred Harvard professors and students formed a co-operative society nine months ago, and opened a store where books, sporting articles, stationery, fuel, pictures, and clothing were either kept in stock or sold by sample. The price for everything was 5 per cent, above wholesale cost,. and members only could buy, but on no other terms than cash down. They also pay $2 a year. The experiment has thus far been highly satisfactory, and no reason for failure, in the future is apparent. There. is , no capital at risk, the five per cent. >md the. yearly dues cover the expenses, and the: members,: now Increased to 636, get their sup-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2I5
plies at an average of 20 per cent, less than they would have to pay elsewhere. A novel branch of the business is the sale of second-hand books and furniture, by which students get pay for their discarded things, instead of throwing them away.— New York Sun.	'• 'r-
Exchanges.,
—The Chaddock College Monthly has a genius who, it seems, can roll out puns by the yard, fathom or mile, as the demand mav be. Some of the college papers would do well to engage part of his stock in trade to enliven their sheets. We don’t know how the Chaddock fellow manages to keep whale bones at the Illinois institution; if he were at Notre Dame he would have to be careful with his fire-crackers. According him due merit, we would suggest, however, that he seems rather loose about the “ waist.”
— The Northwestern of November the 30th has an excellent article on “ Longfellow’s - Rank and Influence as a Poet.” It is replete with original thought, and this upon a subject that for the past year has been a common theme. The writer places in the first rank of English poets Chaucer, Spenser, Milton, Shakspearc, and Wordsworth,—these, and these only. About Chaucer, Shakspcare and Milton there can be no question; but how about Spenser and Wordsworth, with Dryden and Pope left out altogether?
—Fox- a week or more we have had a copy of The Michigan Argonaut on oux* table. As the Argonaut will undoubtedly be a valuable exchange, we regret our inability to have given it an earlier notice. The number before us is but the fourth issued, but even thus early in its career the Argonaut leaves little room fox* doubt as to the character of the papex* oi* the position it is to occupy. From the start it takes its place in the front rank of college papex's. Current feeling at the University is cleverly brought out and discussed in brief editorials, undex* the general heading of -The Fortnight”; a department entitled “Miscellany” includes editorial matter of a graver nature, essays, etc., aftex* which comes the editorial department proper, dealing chiefly with matters pertaining to the University and education in general. The “ College World” department needs not defining, with the exception only that besides college news it also includes exchange notes and criticisms. Then come “Alumni Notes,” “Literature,” “The Campus,” and departments special to the various branches of the University, Literary, Law, Medical, Pharmic, Dental, etc. From the above it-will be seen that The Michigan Argonaut is an out-and-out college paper of the first class. We re-’ gret that the exchange notes have not a depax;t-meht to themselves, as we believe these come nearer to cax*rying out the programme of the proposed Intercollegiate College Press Associatioxx than such an Associatioxx could, if organized, carry into effect The Argonaut contains 22 pages of reading-matter, and is bound .in a neat cover of:
the aesthetic pattern, specially designed and en- . graved for the paper.
—The Portfolio, from the Wesleyan Ladies’ College, Hamilton, Canada, is a regular visitor, . and a most welcome one. A ladylike refinement pexwades the pages of this handsome paper, and it always brings with it associations of spring and flowers. The poetry in the number before us is not xxp to the Portfolio's usual standard, as far a verse-making is concerned, but the sentiment is good and ennobling. Lorelie’s “Schooldays in France” is a well-written sketch. The fact that it is probably written by one who is not of the household of the Faith'which we love and cherish ixx oux* heart of hearts, makes it the more attractive axxd refreshing to us from its difference to most of the sketches of Catholic institutions written by non-Catholics,—and those, too, who feign good breeding,—who even amid their praises occasionally half disclose, half hide a sneering remark on things ’ they evidently do not understand, and which we hold sacred. “Lorelle” shows ladylike refinement and that delicacy of feeling without which true Christianity cannot exist; and she desexwes credit fox* it. “X’s” letter, describing scenes of travel, is charmingly written, but the printer was evidently out of tobacco when he put it ixx type. It has beexx said that a printer puts in a comma every time he spits, a semicolon when he turns his quid, and makes a full stop ox* a paragraph when he has to renew his supply of the “deadly narcotic.” A few more semicolons and full stops would improve “ X’s ” letter. The exchange editress of The Portfolio is almost too good-natured, but that is a charming fault, if it be a fault, ixx the present instance. Her criticisms are somewhat like Macaulay’s faultless and beautifully-turned periods—one would almost wish for a little harshness ox* impex*fection to break the monotony. If the criticism of the Message were in the middle, it might have sexwed this pux*pose. We reproduce the following paragraph, fox* the benefit of the exchange editox* of the Georgetown College Journal, who‘thinks “a little boy with a little book of quotations and a little work on rhetoric could write axx article like ‘The Picturesque in Art,’” —which shows how little - he knows about such things:
“ The Notre Dame Scholastic is one of the best, if not the best, exchanges we have received this year. It has one advantage over some of the other college papers, being published every two weeks;'but this is not any too often, we are ahvavs pleased to see Notre Dame, it always contains so much.reading, and pays so much attention to art. The first number for October is particularly interesting, as it gives us quite an account of the famous Italian artist, Signor Luigi Gregori, and of some of his principal pictures. T. W. C. mav well ask in his poem, ‘ When will two such other suns arise?’ as Longfellow and Emerson. The second number opens with a short history of ‘ t>ir Humphrey Davy,’ in which an amusing account of his discovery of ‘ Lauo-hing Gas ’ is given and the effect it had on him. The, ess^v on ‘The Picturesque in Art’ contains some vdry beautiful thoughts, which are well arranged.”
The exchange editox* of The Portfolio mistakes the fact in saying that the Scholastic is pub- _. ished every two weeks, It is published weekly.
2l6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. December* 9, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the manv old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all.
Old Students should take it.
.	Terms, Sr.jo per Annum. Postpaid. ’
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Euglossians.
The Euglossians gave their closing winter exercises in the Rotunda of the College, on last Tuesday evening. It is not too much to sav that this proved to be the most pleasing and interesting of all the entertainments thus far given. Though some of the selections were too long, vet so varied and free from monotony was the programme, that no tediousness was felt. The opening piece, Trau-merci: by the Orchestra, was singularly beautiful, and well rendered. An interested auditor remarked to us; “ The orchestra brings us back to music’s palmiest days at Notre Dame—the days of Father Lilly, Profs. Girac and Corby and--------:” the speaker mentioned another, but we would never be forgiven, were we to give his name here. The overture was immediately followed by the Couronnc d^Or—no doubt, in deference to our remarks on a previous occasion, that the Orchestra should play more than once. We hope that we were not understood as meaning that thev should exhaust their repertoire at one inning. -Mr.Elmer Otis declaimed the “ Sleeping Sentinel ” with great -power, of expression and appropriate gesture. “ Tb'e.'Garthageniah General ” was well rendered by Mr.F. Browne, though, at times, he failed to enter into the spirit of the piece—a not uncommon, fault. Master Devine sang his song —“ Sweet Mother, Pray for'Me”—in good style: he possesses a naturallv fine voice, which soon, with the .Training- to, which he is* subject, • will
be well developed. “ Death’s Defiance,” better known as “ The Baron’s Last Banquet,” was ably presented by Mr. Conway: while Mr.-Cleary held his own in the personation of “The Frenchman and the Flea Powder.” H. Metz spoke up for “ Independence Day.” We would suggest to Master Metz that, in justice to his subject, he should have displayed a little more courage: however, he came off with credit to himself. A pleasing variation was then furnished by the Brass Quartette, who played a grand “ march ” in a creditable manner; but the beauty was marred at times by the indistinctness of the melody. Wc hope to see this Quartette hold its regular place in the programme of all our future exhibitions. Mr. J. P. O’Neill presented his “ Characteristic Poem,” alias “Fontenov,” which was rendered in such style as to merit an encore; he was followed by Mr. A. P. Coll, in a masterly declamation. Mr. Magoffin sang the “ Warrior Bold,” in a pleasing j manner, though in some passages he was a little \ false; cultivation will remedy all such defects.
Mr. W. J. McCarthy then told “ The Legend of Blessed zEgidius”; he is a pleasing and correct speaker, and his selection received, as it well deserved, great applause.
The Duo, by Prof. Paul (violin) and W. Schott (piano), was the piece de resistance of the evening. The selection was De Beriot’s Sixicme Air O	.	•	•	__
Varie, a violin solo with piano accompaniment. To say that Prof. Paul played the violin solo is sufficient. The ease and correctness with which the difficult variations were played, the exquisite skill in phrasing, the power and technique displayed in the staccato passages—in a,word, the perfect command shown of the instrument was marvellous. So entranced were the auditors that long and repeated calls were made for an encore, to which the Prof, gracefully responded. No little credit is due to Master Schott, who rendered the piano accompaniment. He exhibits wonderful talent for one so young, and plays with all the aplomb of an old musician.
Mr. T. W. Coakley delivered a “ Temperance Speech” (in verse); another name for which is “Roger and I.” Mr. Coaklev gives evidence of - o	.	*	.	.	.
good-elocutionary training. He spoke with good voice, and used expressive motion and gesture. Wc must say, however, that, in our opinion, it would be advisable for a declaimer to commit his lines to memory, especially when unprovided-with a readingdesk. The Vocal duett, “ Make me no Gaudy Chaplet,” was well rendered by Masters F. Johnson and W. Schott. We hope that these young gentlemen will often favor us with such choice morcem/x. Mr. Chas. A. Tinley was on the programme for an “Oration on Longfellow”; but he came forward, and. in a neat little speech informed the audience that, “ owing to the lateness of the hour,, the oration was deferred; ” instead, he would give a short declamation. His selection was “ The Gladiator,” which was given in a manner befitting the speaker’s reputation as the “Star” of the Euglossians. Rev. President Walsh made the “ Closing . Remarks,”, in which he complimented all who took part iir the exercises. ' •	< . - •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
De Venere in Sole Spectata.
MATER S.-EVA CUPIDINUM.—Horace.
Be careful, saucy Cupid, how you frisk, ' And keep your garments on, and give no lip, or
Your ma’ll perform a transit on your disc, .	By frequent applications of the slipper.
—Ourself.
The eventful 6th of December, 1882, has come and has passed away. If the solar parallax has not been ascertained, the probabilities are that the present generation will never ascertain it.
In the Bureau of Astronomy, business commenced at an early hour. The Board was in session at half-past seven.
Some distinguished members of the Law Class were the first to make their appearance. They wanted to know if a “Stoppage in Transitu’’ could not be effected. The Secretary, however, promptly gave them to understand that all attempts at intimidation, legal or otherwise, would be severely frowned down. The exhibition at which they were preparing to assist was regulated by a “ higher law.”	'
The Committee on Local Time were active in endeavoring to communicate with Washington by telegraph, so as to secure the necessary corroboration to the testimony of their own chronometer. But the electrician was, unfortunately, absent, and the amateurs who volunteered .to supply his place did not seem to “ catch on,” as it were. At length, they concluded that the apparatus must be out of order.
The fateful moment was now approaching. Enthusiasm, in some cases rising to frenzy, was manifested by the crowd surrounding the telescope. Still the heavenly bodies were veiled by slowly dissipating clouds.
At nine (9) a. m. the Committee on Atmospheric Disturbances reported indications of a squall arising in the Sow-Sow-West, and a little more Sow. They hoped that this would clear the sky. On examination, however, the squall proved to be of a domestic rather than of a meteorological character, being the natural result of spanking a refractory child on Lowell Heights. •
It was then pioposed to ring the big,bell, so as to break up the clouds. Some members of the . committee were of opinion that this would break them down rather than up. During the debate, the clouds became sufficiently attenuated to allow furtive glimpses of the sun to be obtained, and the planet was already performing her transit. At a quarter past ten (10:15) everything was serene.
Venus was looking extremely well, considering her age. Not a wrinkle appeared to mar the charming- embon'point of her exquisite contour. How much of this is natmal, of course, we will not pretend to say. She never once seemed to lose her self-possession, in spite of the numberless telescopes levelled at her. Mrs; Langtry has here a formidable rival, where perhaps it was least expected.	.	.
We are happy to say that the old scandals once
associated with the name of Venus are now regarded as mere mythological fables. She has completely regained her social position, and moves i in the highest circles.. The decorum with which
both she and the Sun conducted themselves on this trying occasion cannot be too much admired. There was nothing in the performance which could raise a blush to the cheek of the most fastidious.	*
We must not conclude this article without giving due praise to the various committees for the manner in which the affair was conducted. The Committee on Parallax will report as soon as they hear from the Cape of Good Hope, or some point in South America.
Asteroid.
Personal.
—	H. D. Rodman, ’67, is a leading lawver in the Blue Grass region of Kentucky.
—	C. V. Gallagher, of ’6S, is General Freight Agent of the U. P. R. R., at Omaha.
—	Eugene Benoit (Com’l), of ’67, conducts a flourishing real estate business in St. Louis.
—	W. Delahey, of ’70, is in the service of the Denver & Rio Grande R. R., at Colorado Springs, Col., and is doing well.
—	S. Roland, of ’69, is one of the prominent merchants of Denver, Col. He always has a good word for his Alma Hater.
—	Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C;, in days of yore ye editor of the Scholastic, is now the efficient Vice-President of St. Isidore’s Institute, New Orleans.
—	Nathan Mooney, ’77, is pursuing his theological studies at the Propaganda in Rome. We are glad to learn that he has alreadv distinguished himself by his marked proficiency.
—We learn from The Michigan Argonaut that W. F. Hake, M. D., of ’70, is practising in Grand Rapids, Mich., and has been appointed Assistant Surgeon to the Second Michigan Regiment.
—	Charles and William H. Drapier, both of ’40, visited their old Alma Mater last week, and were cordially greeted by the venerable Father Sorin, their onetime President, and many old friends.
■ —Among the welcome visitors during the past week were, Dr. and Mrs. M. V. B. Stevens, of Akron, Ohio; Lieut. L. M. Brett, Fort Maginnis, । Montana; and Mr. and Mrs. Stamm, of Milwaukee, i	—James E. Hagerty, of ’77, writes from St.
Louis, Mo., where, in his own expressive words, he is “doing a rushing business as Commission Merchant.” He often thinks of his friends at Notre Dame, and sends good advice to a younger brother entered here.
—Rev. P. J. Moran, C. S. C., left’here on last . Monday, to enter upon a new sphere of action in the College of Cbte-des-Neige^ near -Montreal.
2l8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Though we regret his departure, we cannot but congratulate the Faculty of C6te-dcs-Neiges on the presence of Father Moran.
- Local Items.
—Cold!
—Snow 1	....
—Wintry .-—Yes.	.
—Christinas is coining.
—Who stole the turkey?
—Did you see the transit?
—Oh, dem golden slippers!
—Was it in transitu or stacitu ?	.
—Weather-prophets are at a discount.
—An absolutely adequate appreciation.
—Have you seen the novelty shoe-shop?
—The burros are getting fat and frisky.
—Navigation has closed on. the upper lake. ..
—The most handsome young man is a Soph.
—The Medics held a private seance, last week.
—“ He comes down-stairs like a baby elephant."
—Cement walk:—“ Though so near, yet so far.”
—“I have'volunteered! ” “Please, don’t do so anv more.” _ -
—Our phrenologist “ had his hands full,” last Wednesday.	.
—Our weather-prophet says this will be. a most terrible winter.	.
—On dit that some of the boats have been put in the ice-house. .	.
—There was a slight misunderstanding at Vespers, last Sunday.
—The audience in the first gallery should not shower their favors:
—“Thil” will henceforth, make the habits of burros a special study.	,	,	'
—The Classical Grads, are 'fitting up a private parlor-for their own use.	,	'
—“Who stole our boat?” is the wail, of the new Boating Association." .	■
—New and improved-storm-doors have‘.been placed, in front of the church. - ;	.
—By special privilege, the holidays -will begin on the 21st instead of the 23d.	' ■	.
—The Sorins had a grand “spread,” after their exhibition, on Wednesday last. '	. .
—-The Minims were treated to a first-class banquet on Wednesday afternoon. .
.—“Where are the nimrods? ” is heard on. all sides, and echo answers, “AVhere? ” • .	.
—The .-Graduates return thanks to Father Stoffel -for favors received on Thanksgiving Day. -	- '
—The Juniors say: “It wilL be a cold day. when the Seniors get ahead of our reading-room.”; . ,
—A grand ratification-meeting was’ held? on fthe election of the Secretary of the Conference; f , '
—A correspondent inquires: “Who has charge of Vocal Music—the Professor or M---------1?”
I —B. Alfred has fitted up, in grand style, the room in which the electric machines are placed.
—One of our Juniors said he spent his time, last Wednesday, in observing the transit of Denis.
—“ This is our ‘ rec.’ day,” said the little boy, when he was asked to lift one end of the bench.
—All agree in saying that the placing of the Orchestra, on last Tuesday evening, was unusually fine.
—He was unable to count the many stars which . flitted before his eyes, as he struck the Minims’ skating rink.	.
—Prof. Ackermann has surrounded the painting of St. Thomas in the Library with beautiful framings in basso-rilievo. ’
—The Professor of Greek has received some valuable hints on costuming, which he will embody in his new play. "
—The members of the Sorin Association tender a vote of thanks to B. Charles for services rendered at the exhibition.
—The Colorado students are under obligations to Mr. Percival Lewcll, General Pass. Agt. C. B. Q. R. R., for favors received.
—Those “galoots’’who took their “constitutional ” down-stairs during the progress of the entertainment should be impeached.
—The Professor of Astronomy stopped the earth on the 6th, by means of his new instrument. (That’s the.way the item Game to us.)
—A critic thus sums up the report of the Euglossians: “Tinley was artistic: McCarthy, aesthetic: O’Neill, martial; and Coaklev patriotic.”
—The thanks of the Euglossians arc tendered to Bros. Leander, Lawren.ce, Paul and-Emmanuel for favors received at their last entertainment.
—The Minims may well be proud of their German classes. Many of the little linguists are able to compete favorably with their larger brothers in the Junior department.	.
—The Senior Law Class is studying the subject of torts, the. text-book used being Judge Cooley’s. The Junior Class is still upon Blackstone, studying elementary law. '
—The Lemohnier Library Association return f thanks to the “ United Polish National Benevolent Society ” of Chicago, for a beautiful copy of the “ Poets, and Poetry of Poland.”	.
-^Valuable manuscripts, historical and scientific, -left by the late B. Peter, have been lost. Any information concerning them wilkbc: thankfully re--ceived by-the; Director of dhecLibrary. .	- . is -
—The neyv departure, as regards Bulletin making, is not quite a success.The Director of Studies . had to wrestle with the final results, and we can certify that, apparently; he was not in good ,humor.;
. —Our friend John ;says the “New Arts” have made every one?s = ^	that he fears to '
walked step; and as toabow, hc will never tfv tcr make oneuntil Ke can do as well as “ Prof. Wright!”
,	-	. - - -- - y „ - , _ - - - ' ' - - - . - O :
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
"—The. ceremonies of the High Mass on last Sunday received additional impressiveness from the ’ ■■ fact that it was the first Mass of Rev. Pl Ji Moran, C. S. C. Father Moran was assisted by Father Franciscus as deacon, and Father Stoffewas subdeacon; Air. Irman, C. S. C., was master of ceremonies. Father O’Hanlon preached a fine sermon, : appropriate to the occasion. The acolytes were , Masters E. Dillon, A. Browne, E. Gerlach, J. - . Halligan, H. Hibbeler and J. McGordon.	.
—Our friend “Mac,” not heeding our kindly given advice regarding the burros, attempted, a " few days since, to ride one of the “ gentle little animals,” as he was then wont to call them. . He mounted in safety, but scarce w:is. he firmly seated,	.
when a braying donkey frightened the little burro, which dashed off at full speed, suddenly stopping, . . however, and, by an indescribable manoeuvbr pecu- " liar to burros, landed the hopeless rider, head-foremost, into a great snowbank. After a few minutes’ hard tugging the presumptuous “Mac” was drawn from his uncomfortable position, uninjured, . but considerably cooled.
—Gregori’s new mural painting is rapidly ap~ proaching completion. We hope to be able to present a critique in our next issue. As already stated, the fresco represents the “Death of Columbus;” among the figures grouped around.the death-bed is a perfect portrait of the venerable . Dr. Nevron, one of the pioneer priests of the “ great western wilds.” Father Neyron was the mission- ' ary companion of Bishops Brute and Flaget, and the well-known Father Badin, and his is a name familiar to every inhabitant of Indiana and Ohio. Previous to his missionary career, he was an officer in Napoleon Bonaparte’s army, and took part in A. the famous battle of Waterloo; at present he is -Prof, of Medicine, at Notre Dame.	.	:
—The “banner” boys of the Juniors enjbved -	.
a grand excursion to the Farm'on Wednesday - , last; they were accompanied by President Walsh and several members of the Faculty. A very pleasant time was had, and much praise given for ' -the hospitalities extended. The following are the names of the excursionists—who, be it remembered, arc bovs who have, since the beginning of the	.
—	*	- o	o	-	_
year, given perfect satisfaction, as regards conduct and application to study: C. AckhofF, A. Browne, ’ W. Berthelet, W. Bacon, W. Braunsdorf, F. Curtis, .	-
M. Dolan, E. Dillon, G. De Haven, H. Dunn, M. . A-Foote, J. Grothaus, J. Hagerty, H. Hibbeler, H. . ' Hess, J. Halligan, W. Hannivan, F. Lund, T.. . Mug, S. Peery, C. Porter, W.J. Schott, J. Smith, • . A. Schillo, G. Schaeffer, A; Taggart, C. Zeigler, . - A. W. Wright, and Wilkinson.	.
—At a special meeting of St. Thomas Aquinas’ ;	' .A
Academy, held two. weeks ago, a Constitution and By-Laws were adopted. The 2d regular meeting ~. was held on Wednesday evening, November 29th. . - _ . The business of the evening consisted of a debate- A A . = on the subject: “Is Syllogism in its Inductive and A . A Deductive Form most Useful:in all Sciences?”.. A. / A: Affirmative, M. Donahue:, negative, Messrs. An-: 1 .A ' ' derson and Bailey. The question, although a very .A-A A A
—In one of the preceding items we inadvert- j cntly used the word golden, in reference to a pair I of slippers. We must state here the}* are not [ golden,—though mighty near it—thev‘ are rubber.
—A grand Gold Medal will be awarded at the end of the year for proficiency in “ The Philosophy of History.” The generous founder of this { medal is the Rev. A. B. Oechtcring, of Mishawaka, 1 Ind.	.	i
—The painters are busy at work in the Seniors’ j Reception-room. In a few days it will be per- : fectly fitted up, and then we hope that the lessons J of “New Arts” will be carried out, as they should I be, to the letter.	•	!
—B. Liborius has the thanks of. the Library Association for the fine work done in- their hall. The shelves, wainscoting-, cases of walnut and ash, and other articles, are all finished specimens of workmanship.
—Busts of Raphael, Michael Angelo, Schiller, Goethe, Mozart, Beethoven, Hippocrates, Washington, Franklin, Henry Clay and Lincoln, have been placed in the Lemonnicr Library; also fine casts from the antique, of Apollo and Diana.
—The Curator of the Museum is greatly indebted to Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C., fora beautiful collection of minerals and fossils. The collection was made in the Grand-Duchy of Luxemburg, and.brought to this country bv a brother, of the Rev. donor.
. —Two of the “old-timers” paid a visit, last week, to their Professor. They were glad to see him still looking youthful, and were gratified to learn that he was as popular with the present generation as he was with those whom he ruled ’way back in the 40’s.
—Owing to the great pressure of correspondence, our friend [ohn has applied for a franco on the telegraph lines. We fear that the PostmasterGeneral will protest, on account of the decrease in revenue. If John is a Democrat, he may hope for the best in ’84.
—Some time during the last few weeks a copy of Isaac Pitman’s Phonographic Dictionary and Complete Phonographcr was lost, borrowed, or mislaid somewhere around the College premises. The finder will please leave the books at the Students’ office as soon as possible as they are much needed.	.
—Answer to a Gorrkspondent—W. O. M.—Many thanks for advanced sheets of your exhaustive philological, physiological and. historical treatise. We regret our inability to publish it this week. However, we look forward 'with great' eagerness to the'completion of the work... Please put us down for a copy. , .
—A grand promenade concert was given, under the auspices of the Crescent Club, on last Saturday night. The famous Elbel Brothers’Orchestra, of
■ South Bend, provided the music; while Russ, the ■ wellrknown.caterer, directed the refreshment tables.
Messrs. Sturla, Gall, Muhlkc and Witwcr made a most efficient Committee of Arrangements..
220
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Alludin'* to 1 Gordon, Nester, F. Otis,
difficult one, was well discussed, both pro and con. After the debate, the Rev. Director, Father Fitte, entertained the Society with an able discourse on “The syllogism. the best instrument in philosophy, the queen of sciences.”
the challenge proposed by Archimedes, “ Give me a lever and a fulcrum, and T will move the i world,” he said, that “ despite the jealous critics and pettv sophists, Aristotle, by laying down rules ! for syllogism, had realized a diffeicnt problem in i which the syllogism was the lever, and the human J mind, furnished with evident principles, was the । fulcrum. Aristotle employed the syllogism for . philosophy, -but after him the great St. Thomas used the syllogism under the guidance of the Church, and established the imperishable monument called the ‘ Sum of Theology.’ I compare this grand work to the magnificent Cathedrals built up in Europe by the Catholic faith.” Further on he alluded to the Blessed Trinity as the most perfect syllogism, and closed by complimenting the disputants on their well-deserved success. Prof. McSwceny, in a neat little speech, gave some very valuable points relative to the debate. Messrs. Burke and Irman were elected honorarv members. The next meeting will be held shortly before the Christmas holidays; the subject of the next debate is, “Resolved that a True Miracle is an Infallible Test of Divine Revelation.” Affirmative, A. J. Zahm; Negative, Messrs. Arnold and Molloy.
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ashford, Arnold, Anderson, Bradv, Bolton, Comerford, Cavanagh, Coll, T. Carroll, Cleary, G. Clarke, T. Clarke, Cole, Conway, Celia, Clements, Claffey, Jas. Delaney, Jno. Delaney, Eaton, Fogerty, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Fleming, Freeze, Farrell, Fenton, Grever, Golonski, F. Gallagher, J. Gallagher, Guthrie, Godfroy, Gooley, Hausberg, Harris, Jones, Johnston, Kane, Kolars, Koehler,Kuhn, Kimmell, Kavanaugh, Larkin, Molloy, AA7. J. McCarthy, AV. McCarthy, McErlaine, Marlett, Mullen, S. Murdock, McIntyre, Magoffin, Morse, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, McManus, Morris, Nelson, Noble, Neeson, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, Porter, Rodgers, Ruger, W. Ryan, T. Ryan, Sturla, Stover, Stull, Spencer, C. Smith, G. Smith, E. Smith, Terrazas, Whalen, Witwer, Wheatley, Yrisairi, Zahm, Zaehnle.
# JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Bauerman, Brice, Browne, Bacon, Berthelet, Braunsdorf, Curtis, J. S. Courtney, J. M. Courtney, Caveroc, Chirhart, Droste, Danielson, Dolan, Dorenberg, Dillon, De Haven, Dunn, Dwenger, Duffin, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, Ferguson, Fishel, Goldsmith, Gibert, Grothaus. Hagerty, Henderson, W. Henry, J. Henry, Hornaday, Hibbeler, Hess, Halligan, J. Hetz, Hagenbarth, Hannavin, Hagen, Jeannot, Kahman, J. Kelly, Kerndt, M. Kelly, Livingston, Lund, McCawlev, Mug, Murphy, Morton. J. McGrath. Mason, Muller, Metz, McDonald, B. McCartney, Mulkern, P. O’Donnell, D. O’Connor, M. O'Connor, Peery, Pick, Porter, Robb, Rhodus, Ruppe, Reach, Rothschild, Schott, Smith, Schillo, Schaeffer, Seegers, Sanford, Shannon, Talbot, Taggart, Warrenj Worcester, Wright, Walsh, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.’
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bannantine, Burlingame, Bunker, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Chirhart, Chaves, Cummings, Coad, Cain, Colwell, Devereux, Dirksmeyer,
W. Dyer, J. Dyer, AV. Devine, A. Devine, Harris, Hynes, Hopkins, Huestis, Johnson, Keeffe, Kellner, J. A. Kelly, Kraus, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lare. J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McNaughton, Morrison, Masi, McPhee, McGuire, Metz, Moss, Mc-
A. Otis, Pick, Papin, AV. Prindi-
ville, D. Prindiville. Quinlin. Rebori, Roberts, Rea. Roper. Studebaker, Stange, Spencer, Schmitz, Smith, Sommer, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss, Shicker, Stewart, T. Thomas, Unger, Welch, AV. Walsh. E. Walsh, Whitney, Warner, Winsor, Wright, Wallace, L. Young, C. Young.
Class Honors.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
Messrs. Auston, Bush, J. Carroll, Coll, C. Murdock’ S. Murdock, C. Porter, H. Porter, Rhodius, Schott’ Schaeffer. Jas. Delaney, Johnson, Ryan, E. Fenlon, Magoffin, Thompson, J. Armijo, D. Armijo, J. Eisenhauer. W. Fogarty, Hausberg, Marlett, McErlaine, Paquette, Fitz-gerrell. Garrett, Hcllebush, Mason, C. Whitman, Dwenger, Kahman, D. O’Connor, Altillei, Kengel, Mug, Fishel, Saviors, Jas. Heffernan, H. Whitman, A. Pick, Lease, Becerra, Gerlach, P. Yrisairi, Celia, Ackhoff, Zeigler, Ruger, Jno. Heffernan, H. Foote, Berthelet, T. Carroll, Deinhart, Fendrich, T. Flynn, Grothaus, Katz, Kipper, Mullen. Rothschild, Schillo, Sells, Shannon, T. Walsh, Wile, Chelini. Castenado, Gibert, J. Murphy, Kerndt, Hib-beler, AV. J. McCarthy, Jos. Courtney, Jones, Kolars, G. Metz, AA7heatly, Lund, Simms, Sturla, Campbell, Robb, McIntyre, Guthrie, Ashford, Farrell, J. Devine, P. Hagen, Goldsmith, Dillon, AA7. Hetz, J. AVarncr, Holbrook, AVhalen, A. Peery, J. A7. O’Donnell.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Rebori, Rea, McPhee, Colwell, Cain, D. Prindiville, Masi, J. McGrath, Beall, G. Stamm, Huestis, Dirksmeyer, AA'insor, Spencer, Chirhart, Coad, Landenwich. Sommer, Luther, G- Costigan, AA7hitney, Hynes, Bunker, Burlingame, McGuire, J. J McGrath, Papin, Johnson, Mc-Gordon, AA7elch, F. Otis, E. AA7alsh, Cummings, Pick, E. Costigan, Harris, Devereux, AA7. Prindiville. Kraus, B. Lindsey, Morrison, AVarner, Moss, Hopkins, Nester, AA7. Devine, F. Stamm, A. Kelly, Stange, Roberts, Bannantine, Unger.
---.---—♦ —  :-------
List of Excellence.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—Messrs. Jos. Kahman, AV. Schott, E. Gall, J. A7. O’Donnell, Holbrook, McIntyre, Peery. Goldsmith, Livingston, Guthrie; French—Messrs. E. Fenlon, Rhodius, Cavaroc, Schott, Gibert, Castenado; Instrumental Music—Messrs. Schott, Schaeffer, Marlett, Jas. Delaney, J. Armijo, J. Eisenhauer; A7ocal Music—Messrs. E. Fenlon, Johnson, J. Devine, Schott, Burns, Gibert, O’Neill; Telegraphy—Messrs. AVheatly. Ruger, Sturla, Simms, McErlaine, Cole, Sells; Phonography—Messrs. Guthrie, Sturla, Ashford, Farrell, Schaeffer, Kolars; Elocution— Messrs. G. Clarke, Tinley, AA7. J. McCarthy, O’Neill, Solon, Cleary, Coakley. Zahm. Otis, Burns, T. Flynn, Larkin, Eaton, Saviers, Castenado, J. Browne, Morse, A. Browne, Conway, Coll, Johnston, Marlett, Grever, E. Yrisarri, O-Spencer, Kolars, A. Coghlin, Bolton, Austin, R. Devereux, Dunne, Fishel, Hagenbarth, H. Metz, AA7ile, Rhodius, McDonnell, Claffey, J. Henry, AA7. Henry, A. AA7arner, J. Devine.*
* The other names will, appear in our next issue.
For the Dome.
Some Children of Alary.......................$16.65
St. Joseph’s Asylum, AVashington, D. C....... 10.00
Parish School, Alton, Ill..................... 5.00
Joseph Dyer, Cheyenne. AA’yoming Ter.......... 5.00
Donations• from Various Sources............... 6.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	' 221
Saint fflacy's Acabemy.
One Mile I Kes/ of Notre Dame University.
—The members of the Chemistry Class have had some brilliant experiments. They have become much interested in etching o-]ass.
—An exquisite souvenir del Estado de Puebla, in the shape of a delicately-carved apple in Mexican marble, the charming fruit resting on a slab of the same material, has just arrived. Sr. D. Juan Terrazas, of Chihuahua, will please accept profound thanks for the beautiful gift.
—Among the visitors we noticed Mr. W. Strong, of the Inter-Ocean, Chicago; Mr. E. T. Reynolds, South Bend; Captain D. and Mrs. Robinson, Fort Laramic, Wyoming Ter.; Mr. and Mrs. Shepherd, Nebraska; Mr. Drover, Huntington, Ind; Mrs. M. Murphy, Mr. E. G. Quinlin, and Mrs. C. H. Durphy, Chicago.
—The grand event of the week was the Juniors’ dance, on Wednesday afternoon, in then- bright recreation hall. A number of invited guests, and the young ladies of the Senior department, were present, and expressed their admiration of the modest and excellent deportment of the little girls who participated in the dance. The dresses, though simple and inexpensive, were, many of them, really beautiful; and, altogether, the brilliant array of young forms in graceful motion composed as fair a picture as one would wish to gaze upon—especially when they entered the hall in time to the music. Maguerita Otero and Min-nie Fiske led the march, and the pretty costumes of the little girls appeared to good advantage as the bright panorama passed before the visitors.
—On Thursday, at 6 p. m., the Juniors’ hall was once more adorned and lighted, and visitors were assembled to witness the performance of the beautiful F rench play, Le Miracle des Roses, by the pupils of the French classes. This is a play within a play. The scenes are laid in a wood contiguous to a Convent school, where the pupils are assembled on a holiday. The Rev. Mother proposes the “ Miracle ” as the subject of a performance, to en- • liven the hours. The children take their parts and form their costumes as best they can in the woods, and the play proceeds. Miss Feehan, as the Rev. Mother, displayed no little proficiency in the language. Her intonations are pure and her accent correct. Miss Lancaster, as Queen Elizabeth, performed her part with complete self-possession and a clear and just understanding of the character represented. The action of Miss Lena Wallace was appreciative, and her voice and singing very fine. Of the school-girl group in the Convent woods, the Misses V. Barlow, C. Donnelly, M. Sullivan, E. Shickcy, E. Call, M. Walsh, E. Slattery, E. Wallace, Babcock and Malbceuf are'.worthy of mention. They creditably sustained the picturesque, rustic scene of which the lovely little milk-xnaid, Marion Morgan, was the “ bright, particular
star.” The Misses Clarke, Owen and Fenlon, ladies of the Ducal Court, were quite at home in their graceful parts, and they spoke the French well. The group of beggars, Misses Pease, Alice Sawyer and S. Campau, were very interesting, and the song of “Madelon” (Miss Jennie Reilly) was verv sweet, and her rendering of her part simple and engaging. Little Jessie English, as the dumb girl, Graziella, seen constantly at the side of Elizabeth; and A. Spenser, another little attendant, were' • angelic in their personations. At the moment the food of the poor is turned to roses, another miracle is performed at the prayer of Elizabeth: Graziella speaks, for the first time in her life. Her action was perfect. E. Wallace, C. Morrison, S. Campau, A. Malbceuf, M. Chaves and A. Sawyer are but beginners in the study of the language. Their good pronunciation shows they have been attentive pupils. Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier honored the young ladies with their presence, and were much pleased with the rendition of the play.
Sacred Silence.
There is silence in the desert, Where no human foot hath trod. .
But a terror fills the spirit As we walk the barren sod.
There is silence in the city.
When the midnight chime hath ceased.
Ere the promise of the morning " Gilds the portals of the east.
But a ghastly, threat’ning shadow Hovers darkly over all,
And the fear that marks that stillness. Wraps the city like a pall.
There is silence in the church-yard. Where the pleading crosses rise, With their sculptured supplication
Proffered to the tranquil skies.
But the gloom, the doubt, the sadness Of this silence with the dead, Chills the heart, and calls up phantoms Full of mysteries dark and dread.
But there is a sacred silence
Elsewhere, to the world unknown, Hovering like the wings of angels. Where God makes His earthly throne.
Round the Tabernacle holy, Throbbing, like a tranquil heart.
’Mid the blessed light, this silence Seems of our dear Lord a part.
And the golden ostensorium, With its awful mystery crowned, Seems to breathe this sacred silence Like rich odors all around.
Softly, softly burn the tapers;
Mute, white clouds of incense pour, , Lilies motionless breathe fragrance, Silent worshippers adore.
o o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ’
Ah, amid this sacred silence
Heaven her portals wide she opes _
And the soul receives a foretaste
Of the bliss for which she hopes.
M.
N ovel-Reading.
A novel is an exciting narration of imaginary events. The characters sometimes represent the better side of human nature, but more often the base and unprincipled. Again, improbable and unreal representations frequently tend to obscure the dividing line between good and evil, and the reader is left to infer whatever he may please respecting the merit or demerit of actions. Some insist that novelreading is a pleasant and even a necessary recreation and that when one has a leisure hour at his disposal, no injury can be done the mind by employing that hour in novel-reading. This opinion, however, should not be taken on trust, for experience often proves that if one takes a leisure hour, and begins to read a novel, when that hour has passed away, he has, very likely, already become so much interested that he continues, regardless of the fact that he infringes upon the hours which should be devoted to study, or to other equally important duties.
Time passes on, and a listless habit-of indiscriminate reading is acquired, which, to use the mildest terms, is detrimental to the vigorous growth of the intellectual powers. ,
But by far the greatest harm done by novelreading is, that a taste for solid reading is weakened, if not entirely destroyed. The young, especially, delight in fiction, not for the sake of the perfection of style, the beauty of thought, or delicacy of sentiment which may be presented, but rather for the plot and denouement of the narrative; the mind, becoming absorbed, they cannot live without the excitement such reading imparts; thus, when really good, instructive works are placed before them they find themselves incapable of appreciating them, and such authors are thrown aside, and styled dry. Therefore, until the mind has acquired a decided taste for standard literature, and a correct judgment of meritorious authors, novel-reading should be entirely avoided.
'	A. R.
Roll of Honor.
FOK. POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Adderly, Anderson, Adams, Barlow, Beal, Bathrick, Black, Babcock, Clarke, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Call, Clifford, Cox, Chirhart, Comerford, A. Dillon, Dunn, Daily, Dickson, Donnersberger, Drover. Dolan, Fox, Feehan, Fendrich, Fenlon, Gove, Gallagher. M. Heneberry, Heckard, Hunt, Harrigan, H. Hicks, Hagan, L. Hawkins, Johnson, Knott, B. King, J. King, Kirkham, Laffer, C. Lancaster, G. Legnard, E. Mohl, Madole, Munger, McCauley, McCarten, Mooney, McGinn, Mur
I phy, C. McKenna, W. McKenna, Newton, Owens, O’Con; nor, O’Connell, O’Brien. Pick, Quinlan, A. Ryan, V. Reilly, i J. Reilly, Richardson, Ramsey, Rulison, Rettig-, Sullivan. ; Semmes, E. Slattery, Sawyer, Stackerl, T. Slatterv, Shull, ■ Schmauss, Spotwood, Todd, Taylor, Van Patten, Wilev, ’ Walsh, Wallace, 2d Tablcl—Misses Crawford, A. Casta-■ nedo, C. Donnelly, Danforth, Durphy, Donahue, L. Eng: lish, B. English, Eldridge, Foster. Gavin, Hoag, M. Hawi kins, N. Hicks, Hughes, Harris. L. Heneberry, Keenan, McCoy, J. O’Neill, Pease. M. A. Ryan, Unger, Wright, Wood, Williams.	"
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Best, Coogan, Considine, Chaves, M. Ducey, Dignan, Dillon, Donnelly, Grist, Hibben, Halsey, B. Haney, T. Haney, E. Johnston, Luna, Malbceuf, Nevius, Otis, Richmond, Robinson, Spangler, Shephard, Schmidt, J. Spencer, Snowhook, Van Horn. 2d Tablet— Misses Alexander, Duffield, Morgan, Moshier.
,	MINIM DEPARTAIENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Chapin, Campau, Ducev, J. English, Lindsey, McKennon, McGrath, Otis, Paul, A. Schmauss, Sawver, G. Wallace, Westfall.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses A. Dillon. Wiley, Feehan* Clarke, A. Ryan, Fox.	.
ist Senior Class—Misses Johnson. A. Ryan, L. Fendrich, Shickey, Donnelly, Walsh, Todd.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Barlow, Keenan, Call, Semmes, Lancaster, J. Duffield, Dunn, Gove, Mohl, J. Reilly, E. Slattery, Crawford, A. Rulison, O’Connor, Ramsey, M. Heneberry, B. King, Spangler.
3D Sr. Class—Misses Hunt, L. Wallace, Heckard, Pick, Clifford, Anderson, Daily, O’Brien, Madole, Black, Fenlon, Dignan, Dickson, L. English, Cox, Danforth, Taylor, Stackerl, O’Connell, M. H. Ryan, Murphy, Duffield.
i.st Preparatory Class—Misses Chirhart, Coogan, Rettig, McCauley, Foster, Hughes, Comerford, N. Hicks, Harris.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Richmond, Kirkham, Moshier, Ewing, Hibben, Schmauss, Snowhook, Eldridge, Shull, Gallagher, Van Horn. Drover, Dolan, Rodgers, Schmidt, Mooney, Spotwood.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses Coyne, Mary Otis, Best, Chaves, B. Haney, T. Haney, Brown, Robinson.
ist Junior Class—Misses Barry, J. English, Schmauss, 2D Junior Class—Misses Spencer, McKennon, G. Wallace, Westfall.
“	FRENCH.
ist Class—Misses C. Lancaster, M. Feehan, '
2D Div.—Misses J. Reilly. Morgan, A. Castanedo.
2D Class—Misses Fox, Barlow, M. Clarke, A. Leydon, Semmes.	.
3d. Class—Misses Call, Sullivan, C. Donnelly, Beal, Shickcy, Walsh, Taylor, Owens, L. Wallace, A. Ryan, Pease, Malbceuf.
4TI1 Class—Misses Crawford, Dunn, Mohl, E. Slattery, Knott, Fenlon, O’Connor, Ramsey, Wood, Anderson, M. Hawkins, Durphy, Babcock, Hunter, H. Hicks, Pampell, Morrison, Snowhook, Richmond.
2D Div.—Misses Bathrick, Laffer, Donahue, Adderly, Chaves, Barry, Brown.	.
5th Class—"Misses Campau, Sawyer, Robinson, Paul.
'	GERMAN. .	•	,
ist Class—Misses A. Dillon, E. Mohl.
211 Class—Misses Van Patten, Todd, Keenan, M. Chir-. hart, Pick, Unger, Hintz. Fehr, Grist.
3D Class—Misses L. Wallace, Considine, H. Hicks, C. Ducey, Drover, M. Ryan, Coogan, Spangler, McGrath, Eldridge.
4TH Class—Misses Johnson, Bathrick, Heckard, Daily, O’Brien, Black, Munger, C. Sawyer, Danforth, Shull, Richardson, Hughes, J- King, Stackerl, O’Connor, Adams, Williams, Donnersberger, McCarten, Hagan, T. Slattery, Harris.
t
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
The ’Minim Department.
NEW YORK, 1883.
More people have read The Sun during the year just now passing than ever before since it'was first printed. No other newspaper published on this side of the earth has been bought and read in any year by so many men and women.
We are credibly informed that people buy, read, and like The Sun for the following reasons, among others:
Because its news columns present, in attractive form and -with the greatest possible accuracy, whatever has interest for humankind; the events, the deeds, and misdeeds, the wisdom, the philosophy, the notable folly, the solid sense, the improving nonsense—all the news of the busiest world at present revolving in space.
Because people have learned that in its remarks concerning persons and affairs The Sun makes a practice of telling them the exact truth to the best of its ability three hundred and sixty-five days in the year, before election as well as after, about the whales as well as about the small fish, in the face of dissent as plainly and fearlessly as when supported'by general approval. The Sun has absolutely no purposes to serve, save the information of its readers and the furtherance of the common good.	.
Because it is everybody’s newspaper. No man is so humble that The Sun is indifferent to his welfare and his rights. No man is so rich that it can allow injustice to be done him. No man, no association of men, is powerful enough to be exempt from the strict application of its principles of right and wrong.
Because in politics it has fought for a dozen years without intermission and sometimes almost alone among newspapers, the fight that has resulted in the recent overwhelming popular verdict against Robesonism and for honest government. No matter what party is in power, The Sun stands and will continue to stand like a rock for the interests of the people against the ambition of bosses, the encroachments of monopolists and the dishonest schemes of public robbers.
All this is what we are told almost daily by our friends. One man holds that The Sun is the best religious newspaper ever published, because its Christianity is undiluted with cant. Another holds that it is the best Republican newspaper printed, because it has already whipped half of the rascals out of that party, and is proceeding against the other half with undiminished vigor. A third believes it to be the best magazine of general literature in existence, because its readers miss nothing worthy of notice that is current in the world of thought." So every friend of The Sun discovers one of its many sides that appeals with particularforce to his individual liking.
It you already know The Sun, you will observe that in 1S83 it is a little better than ever before. Ifyou do not already know The Sun, you will find it to be a mirror of all human activity, a storehouse of the choicest products of common sense and imagination, a mainstay for the cause of honest government, a sentinel, for genuine Jeffersonian Democracy, a scourge for wickedness of every species, and an uncommonly good investment for the coming year.
, Terms to Mail Subscribers.
The several editions of The Sun are sent by mail postpaid, as follows: ‘	‘	.
DAILY—55 cents a month,$6.50 a year: with Sunday edition, $7.70.
SUNDAY—Eight pages, $ ] „2O a year-
WEEKLY—$ j a year. Eight pages of the best matter of the daily issues'; an Agricultural Department of unequalled merit, market reports, and literary, scientific, and domestic intelligence make The Weekly Sun the newspaper lor the farmer’s household- ' To clubs ot ten with $10, an extra copy free.
Address . I. W. ENGLAND, Publisher, . The Sun, N. Y. City.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primarv branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C., - Notke Dame P. O., Ind.
G. F. NEV I US,
,	DENTIST.
Office—101 Michigan, cor. of Washington St.,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children's Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire to know the condition of their children’s teeth.
FOR TUITION PURPOSES. THE
DENVER
Scientific Museum
CAN FURNISH A FULL LINE OF
Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARA. TIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative for
Zoological Specimens for sale. ■	’
Address	‘
RUDOLPH BORCHERDT,
.DENVER, COL.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE EdME. INI).
The University affords every facility lor acquiring a thorough knowledge of CLASSICS, “	” LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
'	SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
' THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.	'
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.	.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C..
Notre Dame P. Indiana.
L. S & M. S Railway.
MUNN
Q Uj
ife ifc


We C0D^nrl0 actassolicitorsi
continue to
act assolicitor s for

pafentSj caveats, ■ trade-marks, copyrights, etc.,for ■ the United States, and to obtain pat! ■ ents in Canada. England, France, 9 g Germany, and all other countries.
Thirty-six years’practice. No charge, for examination of models or drawings. Advice by mail free.	_
Patents obtained through ns are noticed in the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, which has
the largest circulation, and is the most influential newspaper of its kind published in the world. The advantages of such a notice every patentee understands.
This large and splendidly illustrated newspaper is published WEEKLY at $3.20 a year, andis admitted to be the best paper devoted to science, mechanics, inventions, engineering works, and other departments of industrial progress, published in any country. Single copies by mail, 10 cents. Sold by all newsdealers. *	.
Address, Munn & Co., publishers of Scientific American, 261 Broadway, New York.
Handbook about patents mailed free.
Ou and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, irains will leave South Bead, as follows:
GOING EAST:
232 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.83 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m. _
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p m , Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toh do, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12 38 p.m.. Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 am.
635 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7 25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2 32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
448 a m Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40~a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte,8.44 a.m. Chester1 on, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 5 00 p.m.
426 p.m. Special Chcago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m ; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.	‘
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent; Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland.
• JOHN. NEWELL, Geii’l Manager, Cleveland.
ssrewnrsunr