
IO OK
. . . WHAT HANDSOME, CAREFREE, COOL FASHION YOU CAN ENJOY ... FOR ONLY $39.95
Until you’ve owned your first Haspel Selfcaire wash and wear suit you’ll find it hard to believe that many of the claims we make for them are true: that they stay practically wrinkle-free, even in hot, muggy weather . . . That they fit well and keep their shape. . . that they are handsomely styled and have an “expensive” look. . . that when they need cleaning you can toss them in a washer, or wash them by hand — let them dripdry from a hanger — and in a short time they’re ready to wear again with little or no pressing needed. The most convincing proof of these claims is the number of men who buy them again and again: wear them for business and dress. Why don’t you come in soon for a try-on? ■
May 15, 1959 - - ■-
On the Campus—Notre Dame
(htCMpR^,,
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.’’)
SCHULTZ IS A MANY SPLENDORED THING
Beppo Schultz, boulevardier, raconteur, connoisseur, sportsman, bon vivant, hail fellow well met—in short, typical American college man—smokes today’s new Marlboros.
“Why do you smoke today’s new Marlboros, hey?” a friend recently asked Beppo Schultz.
“I smoke today’s new Marlboros,” replied Beppo, looking up from his 2.9 litre L-head Hotchkiss drive double overhead camshaft British sports car, “because they are new.”
“New?” said the friend. “What do you mean—new?”
“I mean the flavor’s great, the filter’s improved, the cigarette is designed for today’s easier, breezier living,” said Beppo.
“Like this 2.9 litre L-head Hotchkiss drive double overhead camshaft British sports car?” asked the friend.
“Exactly,” said Beppo.
“She’s a beauty,” said the friend, looking admiringly at the car. “How long have you had her?”	.
“It’s a male,” said Beppo.
“Sorry,” said the friend. “How long have you had him?”
“About a year,” said Beppo.
“Have you done a lot of work on him?” asked the friend.
“Oh, have I not!” cried Beppo. “I have replaced the pushrods with a Roots type supercharger. I have replaced the torque with a synchromesh. I have replaced the tachometer with a double side draft carburetor;
“Gracious!” exclaimed the friend.
“I have replaced the hood with a bonnet,” said Beppo.
“Lando’ Goshen !”exclaimed the friend.
“And I have put gloves in the glove
. . *
If you’re sticking with, the good old non-tUter cigarette, you can’t do better than Philip Morris—a mild, rich, tasty smoke^ made by the people who make Marlboros.	'
compartment,” said Beppo.
“My, you have been the busy one,” said the friend. “You must be exhausted.”
“Maybe a trifle,” said Beppo, with a brave little smile.
“Know what I do when I’m tired?” said the friend.
“Light a Marlboro?” ventured Beppo.
“Oh, pshaw, you guessed!” said the friend, pouting.
“But it was easy,” said Beppo, chuckling kindlily. “When the eyelids droop and the musculature sags and the psyche is depleted, what is more natural than to perk up with today’s new Marlboro?”
“A great new smoke with better ‘makin’s’ and a great new filter!” proclaimed the friend, his young eyes glistening.
“Changed to keep pace with today’s changing world!” declared Beppo, whirling liis arms in concentric circles. “A cigarette for a sunnier age, an age of greater leisure and more beckoning horizons!”
Now, tired but happy, Beppo and his friend lit Marlboros and smoked for a time in deep, silent contentment. At length the friend spoke. “He certainly is a beauty,” he said.
“You mean my 2.9 litre L-head Hotchkiss drive double overhead camshaft British sports car?” asked Beppo.
“Yes,” said the friend. “How fast will he go?”
“Well, I don’t rightly know,” said
Beppo. “I can’t find the starter.”
© 195© Max Shulman ♦ ♦ '
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cm Moriturus
Founded 1867
the Scholastic
Vol. 100 May 15,1959 No. 23
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
’ BOB SEDLACK Editor
LOU STETTLER Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH_______________.News	Editor
WALT RUDGE__________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH.--------------.Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON.___________Sports	Editor *
JON SIDDLE_________________Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER_________________Photography
PETER HASBROOK-------Business Manager
CONRAD SUSKI._______________Circulation
ROY RUBELI______________Assistant	News	<
AL GENIESSE..............Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK______________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA_________Assistant Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER________Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER__________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE_______________Assistant Sports «
BOB SCHAEFER  _________Assistant Sports
BOB HORN______________Assistant Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade Garke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin, -John Hoey, Bob Kelley. Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak. Tom Romans, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.	<
Mcadber of Catholic School Resa Amociation and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for aa-tsaaal advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Marfisoa Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly duru* the school year, taucept during vacation and eaaasian-tisa periods, at the Umvenity of Notre Dame. Sdbeeription rate, $5M a year. Address all aaaaa-amjgta to the Edbor, Boa 185. Notre Deana, Taifaai
The Scholastic
The following statement has been formulated by the Administration, during the past few months in response to an obvious need for such a policy. Beginning this year and, we presume, continuing in
the future, all staff members applying for the position^ of editor must agree to this policy. The ideas expressed herein are not necessarily the opinion of the present editor or associate.
Policy Regarding
the SCHOLASTIC
The Scholastic is primarily a news magazine, recording all of the important events which take place on campus throughout the year. Its purpose is to list coming events which are of interest to all at Notre Dame and to chronicle past events which are worthy of mention. Hence, the Scholastic belongs to the entire University; it does not belong exclusively to the students.
Furthermore, because Notre Dame is a Catholic University, the Scholastic should reflect a Catholic atmosphere, and should manifest dignity and respect for Catholic traditions and beliefs in all its pages.
Since the Scholastic is, in a certain sense, an official University organ which is underwritten by the University and which is sent all over the country, it is not to be used as a tool or voice of pressure groups on campus. The editors are appointed by the University and the magazine is completely financed by the University, and therefore, the editors do not have the independence of owners of a publication. Consequently, it should not be considered the prerogative of the editor, or of any of his staff, to use the Scholastic to disseminate his own personal opinions.
The University policies and procedures, Notre Dame traditions and the Notre Dame way of life have been established by intelligent men after due consideration. Students have disagreed and will continue to disagree with some of the policies and traditions. However, the Scholastic by its nature is not intended to be an outlet for student evaluation of the wisdom of the Administration, a channel for gripes, a debate journal in which every student opposition to the University rules or policy is given space. Consequently, the logical extent of the Scholastic’s expression of opinion, of criticism, of suggestion, will be to those activities of students which fall within the scope of student government. Thus, the Scholastic, in its editorials, will confine itself to an evaluation of these student activities. This is the prudent extent of its judgments and suggestions.
MODERATOR OF SCHOLASTIC
I
Just as there is a faculty member of the University in charge of the band, the Glee club, the theater, and so forth, so do we have a faculty member in charge of the Scholastic to direct that publication in every way that reflects the best interest of the University in the eyes of all who read it. Hence, he must exhibit an influence of good taste, of prudence,, and correct journalistic expression over all articles submitted for publication. Obviously, he must delete whatever he regards as unwise, or unworthy of publication. Likewise, he must inform, encourage, and direct the editors and writers in all that pertains to journalistic excellence. His is the task of complete supervision.
The above does not obviate all recourse for those who disagree with the various 4	phases of student life at Notre Dame. We are not attempting to exercise thought-
control here. On the other hand, not every private bpinion is deserving of a public hearing nor of space in the Scholastic. Disagreements, suggestions, and constructive criticisms can be channeled through the student government to the vice-president for student affairs. He will give them an authoritative hearing, or, if the case warrant, take them to the University Council.
RENT a One-Way Trailer to take your things home WARNER’S RENT-A-TRAILER 901 WESTERN AVE. SOUTH BEND
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO I WIN A FIN i
WHOERNESS CANOE TRIPS
We furnish •very-iJwnff for • thrilling M vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wiL-taoNi! Aluminum canoe, complete canping outfit, fine food nil at knr daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (PA Giris make canoe trips, too!) Border lakes Outfitting P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
LIMERICK LAUGHTER
MltWTURBOW
\pPTOMCTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel	Phone CE 4-5777
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
* City of God
St. Augustine
* The Russian Revolution
Leon Trotsky
* Barefoot Boy with Cheek
Max Shulman
* Dubliners
James Joyce
* The Great Gatsby
F. Scott Fitzgerald
* Men at War
Ernest Hemingway et al
* The Origins of Totalitarianism Hannah Arendt
Save Time and Money Shop at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE oN-fke-campus
ENTER NOW! PROCRASTINATION WON’T PAY
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the SCHOLASTIC “Limerick Laughter" Contest. It’s easy. It’s fun! Here’s how the contest works:
The SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the May contest must be received by May 24. Names of the winners will be published in the May 29 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
APRIL WINNERS OF $5.00
Bill Fury, Rev. E. P. Burke, C.S.C., Patrick J. Potter
Plus 10 Runners-up winners of hilarious new “Happy Talk” game
CHESTERFIELD KING Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
L & M is Low in tar with More taste to it. Don’t settle for one without the other.
The Scholasticl
________________
tom swift in the academy,
or winning out by pluck
by CHARLES BOWEN
» I’m always hearing, or at least it seems that I am, although I would be . hard put to quote sources, that American scholarship is accused of having nothing to contribute to the progress (or perhaps it was the decline) of Western Civilization. Well, whichever it is, the charge has been completely confuted and its * proponents put to rout by a piece of news that has had local academic circles buzzing for the past couple of weeks. Word has arrived that one of our own * professors, on leave of absence in Vienna, where he has been pursuing sophro-syne, Weltanschauung, gemutlichkeit, and other academic virtues, has made a ► monumental discovery that has set the learned societies of two continents on their collective ears. (Note to investigators: no ideological reference intended.)
• This discovery consists of a manuscript in ancient Aramaic which contains many startlingly accurate predictions of historical events that could not have taken place until centuries after its composition. The age of the manuscript ’ (tentatively designated Codex BS) has been established at no less than sixteen centuries, and it is conjectured to have been written in an Anchorite monastery
* somewhere in Asia Minor during the 4th century (unless, of course, there weren’t any Anchorite monasteries in Asia Minor at that time.)
At any rate, several recognized authorities have professed their faith in its genuineness, including Dr. Mauritius Schvonk, the noted Aramaic scholar, who * flew directly from Palestine Heaving the Dead Sea Scrolls more or less up in the air) to begin the task of translation. This is, of course, not completed yet, for Aramaic is a very difficult tongue, and the manuscript is quite long, running some fifty pages when the table of contents and the bibliography are counted. ’ But enough has been deciphered to bring to light some very strange and historymaking results.
The discoverer of the manuscript, well-known to students for his course in Antique Philosophical Systems and Creeds Outworn, is Canon Prately S. Phootnote, D.D.T. Many will remember Father Phootnote’s commanding presence as he would lumber across the campus of a morning, puffing on a Corona Corona and playfully tossing his breviary at the heads of such students as were least expecting it. He did not find Codex BS by rooting in any musty Turkish cavern, but came on it between the pages of a
May 15, 1959
first edition of The Ship of Fools on the reserve book shelf of the University of Vienna library. The manuscript was unaccompanied by any clues as to its age or origin, being alone except for a pressed gardenia and a scrap of parchment bearing the words “Marcus Patri-ciam Amat.” The latter is considered to be insignificant, as it dates from a much later epoch, certainly not before the twelfth century.
The manuscript divides into several distinct parts, possibly the work of different authors. The first part seems to be copied from a paperback abridgement of a poem from the Golden Age of Philistine literature. A sample of its rich style follows:
“There arose in those days out of the . country of Sor-enn, Alumnai, and Fish-ur, a mighty son of the hills, who, being thirsty and finding in the land of his Fathers no means of satisfying his thirst, went down unto the land of the city-dwellers, which is called Jerimadeth, that is, Valley of Promise. And finding there a wine-merchant, he spake unto him, saying, ‘Give me to drink of thy wares; whether it be golden Bud, from beside the mighty river, or foaming Hamm-eth, from the land where the waters sparkle, or mellow Schlitz, so that I might know the real joy of good living, I care not, for behold, the weather is hot and my throat is dry. Therefore only give me to drink of thy wares, and verily thy reward shall be great.’
“But the wine-merchant rose up and answered him, saying, ‘Behold, I have that which will satisfy thy thirst, but first thou must give proof of thy maturity, after the custom of the Fathers.’ And lo, he could not give proof, and the wine-merchant demanded that he go out from his house. But he would not go, calling upon the heavens to curse the wine-merchant with plagues and pestilences and rusty pipes, until the winemerchant was roused to anger, and called upon his manservant, who smote the young man sorely, until he went out from that place.”
The second section is prophetic in nature. It predicts, among other things, the birth of James Joyce, the Trendex rating of Maverick, and the firing of Terry Brennan. This latter item is still obscure, owing to the difficulty of a long passage in which the Aramaic word “schlepp” appears 44 times in as many lines. At this time it is not yet decided whether to translate the word as “excel
lence” or whether its alternate meaning, “affluence,” is to be used. A well-known local authority has suggested that this entire section throws the validity of the manuscript in doubt, as it is well known that the word “Brennan” does not exist in the Aramaic vocabulary.
The third section is a pedagogic treatise, setting forth in remarkably accurate detail the conditions-for attaining a full professorship. A quick check with the Office of Academic Effulgence verified the document to the last detail.
The fourth section, which should settle once and for all any disputes about the genuineness of Codex BS, is a mystical work, presenting in what at first seems to be random and meaningless succession a series of strange symbols. At first very little could be made of it, but at last young Geoffrey Lochinvar, special assistant to Dr. Schvonk, provided the missing key and suddenly everything fell into place. The document reveals itself, word for word, symbol for symbol, item for item, as a perfectly detailed schedule, complete in eveiy particular, for the 1959 home and away games of the Chicago Cubs.
Section five is the biggest enigma of all. Teams of scholars have been working night and day on it, but so far only a few fragmentary phrases have been deciphered: “. . .residence hall before 10 p.m. . .” “failure to will result in. . .” “under twenty-one years of age a letter from parents to...” It is felt that it will be better understood as soon as the meaning of the constantly recurring term “More Grave Penalty” is established.
It is hoped that next summer the work of translation and copying will be completed, so that the manuscript may be brought to the University, where it will be housed in a special room in the library (to be created by throwing out the sociology and economics departments) and guarded day and night by its discoverer, who will sleep in the same room and have his goulash and kielbasa delivered there three times a day. If translation continues at the present rate, it will probably be possible to plan a presentation ceremony for Homecoming week end, with numerous luminaries of the academic, ecclesiastical, and financial worlds in attendance. Let’s hope so.
* Next week: Chapter XXVII of “The Bobbsey Twins in Cuba.”
7-
OUR COVER: Considering the great influx of "Bermudas” on the campus this year, our cover artist, Jon Siddle, has satirized this situation.
The gentleman on the right thinks that he has got it all, but as the satire goes, he has only the sun. The gentleman on the left, as indicated by the box in which he appears, thinks that he can find all the answers in the book. But, being extremes, neither of them seem to realize that the other has a quality which he should be sharing.
1GDM •'SHU Hsati Anoug
□BED	SEE
0BHE HEBE □00 BEHGEtUQQD BEE □BE HBCB BODE BBEBHGEO
□EEBHDE BaaBB □EHEEn EDDECE BEBHD BBEDEBE lEEQnEE QGinn Ban
GlSBEEHEnS
Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore
eeeb bbgjd
□□am saaa
tSMSNtf XDM
KQDL KROSSWORD
No. 24
DOWN
1.	The psychologist’s end
2.	Girl found
in Manhattan
3.	Larynx dweller?
4.	This isn’t many
5.	Anagram of tired me
6.	Spheres of action
7.	They save face
8.	A tree
12. He deals in dahlias and scents
15.	Items for key people
16.	Bazaar or Ferry
17.	Make a knight of
18.	Compass point
19.	Quarrelers who spill blood?
21.	Mrs. A. Lincoln, nee________
22.	Too confused, this Indian
23.	Egg’s last name
24.	Short for an ensign
26. The gal and guy you left behind
28. Oscar with barbs
30.	Movie actress Marta_________
31.	They can be aerosol oratomic
32.	Weil, it’s a thought
34.	The most refreshing experience in smoking
35.	Villa d’___,
36.	For cool____, smoke Kools
38.	Airlines
39.	Philosophy’s beginning
KODL.
19
17
18
25
27
37
40
ACROSS
1. Can you stand it?
5.1 Remember
45
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER1 01959, Brown* Will tamronTobneeo Corp.
9.	Concerning a crazy mixed-up rein
10.	Start to erase
11.	What Kools are that the others aren’t
13.	You’re label to be caught
14.	Part of a chain
15.	Anagram of hot sap (non-Kool smoker)
17. These are the things you want
20. Repent
25.	Most common kind of bills
26.	You’ll get a charge out of this
27.	Pork pals
28.	Caninecuddlers
29.	Fell, for actress Audrey?
31. They're suited to equine champs
33.	Roger’s partner
34.	Knowledgeable fellow
37.	Why Keats was in debt?
38.	This goes there and that goes here
40.	Mal de_____
41.	Kind of steady
42.	What to switch to Kools from
43.	Kind of relief
44.	An insect relative?
45.	French islands
1	2	3	4
9			
11			
13			
31
43
SWITCH
FROM
KGDL
39
42
• As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
• Finest leaf tobacco.. .mild refreshing menthol and the -worlds most thoroughly tested filter!
• "With every puff your mouth feels clean, your throat refreshed!
Qmeticcis Mosh Itkfieehing Cgoidfe

k©l
mid menthol
KING-SIZK

T
I

The Scholastic
BLUBAUGH NAMED EDITOR OF '59 SCHOLASTIC
Magazine to Present . New and Varied Style
Ronald Blubaugh, a junior economics major from Portland, Ore., and this year’s news editor, has been named to (the position of editor-in-chief of the Scholastic for the 1959-60 school year. Named as associate editors were Ted Thompson and Charles Tausche.
Blubaugh, who is also president of the Pacific Northwest club of Notre Dame and a member of the Army ROTC, will succeed the present editor, Bob Sedlack, at the end of this year. Joining the staff , as a reporter in the middle of his sopho-more year, he was appointed assistant news editor a few weeks later and was named news editor for this year. Under his direction the news department has attempted to make the news more inter-esting with added-interest stories, the introduction of Jim Byrne’s column and capsule news briefs.
, EX SPORTS EDITOR
Thompson, a Dean’s List philosophy major from Kirkwood, Mo., has served this year as sports editor. He joined the staif in his freshman year as a reporter and was appointed sports editor last * . year. Thompson is also a member of the Army ROTC and has worked in the sports publicity office.
Tausche, a Dean’s List history major / from Austin, Minn., has served this year’s Scholastic in the capacity of special writer and assistant news. In addition to his work on the magazine k he is president of the Herodotians History club and is a member of the Inter
national Relations club.
News editor for the coming year will be sophomore Roy Rubeli, an English major from White Plains, N. Y. Rubeli has served on the magazine as a reporter in his freshman year and as assistant news editor this year. He was also a member of the Lyons Hall council. Assisting Rubeli next year will be Wade Clarke, Des Moines, Iowa, Bob Kelley, Montrose, Calif., Tom Weiss, Evanston, Ill., and Jim McGranery, Washington, D. C., all of whom served as freshman reporters this year.
SCHOLAR AND POLITICO
Named to the position of features editor for the next year was Chas Rieck, an A.B. Dean’s List math major from Chicago. Rieck, a National Merit Scholarship winner, joined the staff in his freshman year as a reporter and served as assistant copy editor this year. In addition he was secretary of the Lyons Hall council. Assistants for the features department next year will include Frank Smith, Cordova, Alaska, Bill Sweeney, Oak Park, Ill., and Bill Veeder, Arlington, Va.
Tom Rose, a Dean’s List A.B. premed from St. Paul, Minn., has been announced as next year’s sports editor. Rose, who served as assistant sports editor this year, is a letterman on the University’s varsity golf team, Assisting Rose next year will be Bill Cary, Milwaukee, a freshman, and sophomore Jay Kilroy from Charlotte, N. C.
Walter Rudge, a junior communication arts major from Youngstown, Ohio, has been reappointed copy editor for next year. Rudge was a reporter his freshman year before becoming assistant
news editor as a sophomore. Rudge has served as social chairman and publicity director of the Youngstown club. Named as assistants to Rudge were sophomore George Casey from Boston, junior Peter Geniesse from Green Bay, Wis., and Tom Marciniak, a sophomore from Whiting, Ind.
Art editor for the coming year will be Jerry Florent, a Dean’s List fine arts major from Michigan City, Ind. Florent, who recently won the Bishop Sheen scholarship given by'the University, has been a member of the Dome staff and has drawn several covers for this year’s Scholastic.
Bob Horn, Green Bay, Wis., will become business manager of next year’s Scholastic. Horn, a junior in the commerce school, has served as assistant business manager this year and was on the business staff the previous year. Larry Leach, an ex-serviceman in the school of engineering will be the new circulation manager.
*A MORE READABLE MAGAZINE’
According to editor-elect Blubaugh, the motto for next year’s Scholastic will be “a more readable magazine’’ which will provide an even greater interest in campus events and related items of general interest to students. A few minor changes will be made to dress up the appearance of the news and sports sections and some new features will he added. A definite attempt will be made to enliven the news and sports articles as well as features. With the appointment of an art editor, Blubaugh guarantees a definite improvement in the quality of covers and inside artwork.
ASSOCIATE CHARLES TAUSCHE
EDITOR RONALD BLUBAUGH
ASSOCIATE TH) THOMPSON
May 15, 1959
O'Daly Named Editor of Next Year s Dome; '60 Yearbook to Contain More Color Pictures
PAT O’DALY
A first class yearbook . . .
Editor-in-chief of next year’s Dome will be Pat O’Daly, a premed student from Brooklyn, N. Y. The Dome is the underclass yearbook at Notre Dame. O’Daly has been with the yearbook since his freshman year and this year he held the features editor position.
Ken Murphy has been picked as managing editor for next year’s book. The post of “managing editor” is a new one, created by O’Daly to supplant the former associate editor. As managing editor, Murphy will not only have the responsibility of an associate editor in assisting O’Daly in all policy decisions, but he will also be responsible for the organization and efficiency of the large staff. A marketing major from Long Island, N. Y., Murphy is a member of the Army ROTC and secretary of the Propellor club.
The two new assistant editors are Dan Lyons and Art Kanerviko. Dan, who has three years of service with the Dome, is a chemical engineering student from Brooklyn, N. Y. He served as editor of the senior section during the past year. Kanerviko hails from Syracuse, N. Y., and is an English major in the College of Arts and Letters. Kanerviko, this year’s sports editor, will take care of public relations in his new position.
WRITERS WANTED
> Anyone who is interested in writing “Back Page’’ or “Escape’’ columns for next year’s SCHOLASTIC is urged to submit manuscripts to the editor now. Bring all submissions to room 309 Pangborn. All manuscripts will be returned with criticism. Please hand them in as soon as possible.
To double the amount of color pages which the previous editions have had and to give a fresh and original slant to the hitherto stereotyped copy, are the major aims of the new editor-in-chief. In so doing he would like to “establish the tradition of first class yearbooks at Notre Dame.” John Thurin first sounded this fresh note this year when he revamped the traditional layout of the yearbook and, as a result, the 1958-59 Dome should earn top awards among Midwest colleges.
The new copy editor, Bob LaMontagne, who just joined the staff this year, will be the mastermind behind the fresh style of next year’s edition. LaMontagne is a commerce junior from Chicago.
Theme and cover of next year’s Dome will be decided by Jerry Florent, fine arts major and junior from Michigan City. Jerry, a Dean’s List student, has also been named art editor of the Scholastic. Ken Witte, junior fine arts major from Passadena, Tex., will be next year’s art editor for the Dome.
Jim Keough, sophomore history major from Syracuse, N. Y., was selected as photographic editor.
The new head of the sports department will be John Flanigan, presently a sophomore and assistant features editor. Academic department chief is Greg Hellrung, sophomore and presently assistant organizations editor. Co-editors of the seniors department will be Ken Loje and Denny Montali. Organizations editor will be John Schuster, a sophomore from Gary, Ind., who is now assistant sports editor. Ron Lareau will head the underclassmen department, and John Guzzo, a sophomore, will be the new features editor.
This year’s Dome, edited by John Thurin, will come out on May 25.
KEN MURPHY
. . . with efficient administration.
ROTC Groups March In President's Review .
Ascension Thursday afternoon, May 7, saw the annual Presidential Review of • the Notre Dame Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units on the parade grounds across from the Morris Inn.
A brief ceremony preceded the re- Y view, at which Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., was given awards from the U. S. ' Navy and the City of South Bend. Rear Admiral William A. Dolan, assistant chief of the Bureau of Ships for Technical Logistics, presented Father Hesburgh with the Navy’s Distinguished ( Public Service Award, the highest civil- | ian citation given by the Navy.	J
Also awarded to Father Hesburgh was ' p the City of South Bend Plaque, presented _ by Mayor Edward F. Voorde. The award " was given in honor of Notre Dame’s sig- । nificant contributions to American military training in the past hundred years.
Companies of the Army ROTC unit captured the first three places in the drill competition. Company E took first ’ place, followed by companies G and H, respectively. Serving as judges for the' competition were Army, Air Force, and Marine officers stationed at various spots on the parade ground. The major cri- i teria in the judging were the military bearing and spirit of the companies; also considered were such things as turning, posture, and detail.
A number of high-ranking military ' officers were present at the affair. In addition to Rear Admiral Dolan there were Gen. Samuel E. Anderson, commanding general of the Air Material Command at Wright-Patterson Air 4 1 Force Base in Dayton, Ohio, and Brig. Gen. Wendell C. Philippi.	,,
Two Professors to Speak On Conservatism and Liberalism
The fifth and last presentation of the 1958-59 Student Forum, “Conservatism and Liberalism,” will take place in the Law Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. on Sun- f day. Prof. Charles Lichenstein of the * department of political science and Mr. John Murphy of the English department will comprise the panel.	„
The terms liberal and conservative are incessantly being thrown at us from all , quarters. Conservatism and liberalism are used in regard to everything from i<t education to politics and yet few people have a crystalized conception of the true meaning of these terms.
What are they, what do they mean? , ; Are they meaningless words or do they represent essentially conflicting philosophies? This will be the topic of the next Student Forum. It is one which < should be of vital interest to the student ; body since its implications from much of j our thinking. The discussions following ; the panel presentation will be open to : those attending. They will have the opportunity to present their views on the . topic and to question the position of the ■ professors.	i

, Classical Setting Planned for Frosh Formal; Carlyle's Orchestra Provides Musical Mood
L
QUEEN REGINA DALLDORF Barton’s Best.
► Dancing to the theme of “Hedonia,” more than 400 freshmen and their* dates will attend the springtime Freshman Formal tonight in the LaFortune Stu’ dent Center. Russ Carlyle and his orchestra, featuring vocalist Dorothy Ferguson, will provide dance music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Miss Regina Dalldorf of White Plains, N. Y. will be crowned queen by Rev. ‘ Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Miss Dalldorf, a senior at Marymount School for girls in Tarrytown, N. Y. will be escorted by Ed * Barton, this year’s dance chairman.
Barton, a freshman from White Plains, N. Y. is an AB-Engineering major. He is a member of the freshman fencing squad and a recent winner of a four-year NROTC scholarship.
The “romantic style of Russ Carlyle”
ATTENTION PHOTOGRAPHERS
With the organization of the new SCHOLASTIC staff, the editors are accepting applications for the position of SCHOLASTIC photographer. Two jobs will be opening up at the > beginning of the new school year. These positions will carry with them a guaranteed salary and if the photographers so desire a contract will be worked out.
In addition, the editors will be accepting a limited amount of “free * lance” work during football season and anyone interested in this work should make his feelings known at this time. All those interested please contact Ron Blubaugh in 309 Pang-born as soon as possible. Bring a sample of your work.
has long been famous in the entertainment field. After six years as featured vocalist under the popular Blue Barron, Russ started a band of his own and found almost immediate success.
Carlyle also has carved his name in the platter business and is now recording with ABC-Paramount. His records “In a Little Spanish Town,” “Sobbin’ Blues,” and “Shepherd Boy” helped establish him as one of the top names in the music business.
The Student Center has been decorated to set the scene of a classical garden. Golden chandeliers, marble columns, and espalied trees turn the time back to that of Hedonia, the Greek goddess of pleasure. The entire decoration scheme was planned by Dick Guthrie and is done in shades of green.
Car and two a.m. permissions have been extended to the freshmen attending the dance. Greg Premo and Walter Doyle, who were in charge, obtained room reservations for the students’ dates in the Morris Inn and at several South Bend hotels.
On Saturday evening a dance has been scheduled for the Student Center from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m. Bruce Cosacchi and his orchestra will provide the music. Tickets can be purchased at the door for $1.
Father Hesburgh will speak at the Communion Breakfast Sunday morning in the New Dining Hall. The breakfast, which was arranged by Bob Kelly, will follow the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Chairmen for the dance and week-end activities are: Barton, general chairman; William Schlageter, business manager; James Gmelin, tickets; Jack McBride, publicity; James Clark, entertainment.
VOCALIST DOROTHY FERGUSON
Carlyle's Chanteuse.
ftusy Night
The “Babbitt administration” swung a busy legislative bat last Monday evening in the first meeting of the “small Senate.” However, the most important work of the evening was not legislative but advisory.
Mike Phenner, national president of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, asked the senators for their opinions on a new plan for financing the organization, which theoretically has a membership of over 200,000 students. In the past, a certain membership fee was charged each college, Notre Dame’s being around $200 a year. Under the new plan, each member of the NFCCS will be charged $.25 per year. Thus, Notre Dame’s contribution could rise as high as $1200.
Phenner is perfectly willing to admit that some students will object when asked for the money on the grounds that the NFCCS “doesn’t do anything for us.”‘ “But,” says Phenner, “give us $.25 from 200,000 students and we can do something.”
It’s almost humorous to find an organization with the membership and responsibilities of the NFCCS which has a budget of less than one-third that of our own student government!
Many comparisons unfavorable to the NFCCS are drawn between it and the National Students Association. Phenner is quick to point out the greater efficiency of the NSA but he is realistic enough to see that the financial problems have to be solved before progress can be made in improving the NFCCS program.
Stay-Senator Bill Scheckler led the legislative way with a motion for the allocation of Senate Scholarship funds; another mandating Ed Butler, the student-affairs commissioner, to investigate the feasibility of replacing the World War II memorial in Sacred Heart Church with a more permanent and suit-I able memorial; and still another motion which set the date for fall elections as October 8.	.
Scheckler also led a lonely battle against raising the bid price for the October 23rd campus-wide dance from $4 to $4.75. Senate treasurer, John Clark, who is also chairman of the dance, argued that the hike was necessary to provide a higher caliber dance. Scheckler felt that the LaFortune Student Center would be too uncomfortable to justify a $4.75 bid price if the proposed 500 bids were sold.
The Senate gave a qualified approval to Senate Secretary John Keegan’s motion to grant a campus dancing school concession to John Fitzgibbon and Nick Hahn.
May 15, 1959
Scanlon to Chair Blue Circle Honor Society; Hirschfeld, Stehle to Round Out Top Positions
Tom Scanlon, a general program student, has been elected chairman of the Blue Circle Honor Society for the coming year. Jim Hirschfeld was chosen as vice-chairman and Bill Stehle as secretary-treasurer.
Tom Scanlon was chairman of the Concert and Lecture Series this year. A resident of Scranton, Penn., Tom was on the debate team in his freshman and sophomore years and was active in the CCD in his second year at N.D.
The new vice-chairman, Jim Hirschfeld, is a pre-med science student from Champaign, Ill. A Dean’s Lister, Jim has >been active in Blue Circle affairs; he was chairman of the committee on Circle history this year and active in the freshman orientation and advisory committees.
Vice-president of this year’s junior class, Bill Stehle makes this year’s officers a complete trio of Dean’s List men. A future accountant, Bill calls Sandusky, Ohio, home. Aside from his Circle activities, you will find Bill on the Board of Directors of the CCD. He also found time to be chairman of the dinner for the Junior Parent-Son Week End.
These are the officers of the Blue Circle Honor Society. The self-proclaimed explanation of the Circle is “an autonomous organization whose purpose is to promote, develop, and manifest the ideals and objectives of the University of Notre Dame.”
The selection of this year’s new members has been completed and their names are included by class. The membership of this organization is limited to 45 men.
hirschfbd; scanion, and stehle A new twist in an old circle.
There were over 125 applicants for the 24 openings available this year.
There are nine freshmen who were accepted into the Circle: Chris Buckley, Joe Della Maria, Joe Echelle, Kim McGee, Jim McGranery, Bill Reagan, Mike Sanderson, Toni Smith, and John Wolf. Six sophomores were among the twenty-four new members: John Flynn, Jim O’Rourke, Joe Pichler, Jim Twohy, Tony Vierling, and Jay Whitney.
Nine juniors also made the grade: Ed Butler, Fred De Rocher, Tom Gannon, Bud Menn, Jim Naughton, Dave O’Brien, Jack O’Brien, Ed Paulsen, and Ron Sowers.
The first objective on Scanlon’s list of musts is excellence. He feels that the Circle should fulfill its present commitments as near perfectly as possible before it enters new spheres of activity. He feels the organization should be wary of taking on new responsibilities lest it fall into the trap of attempting more than it can possibly accomplish. Scanlon will attempt to guide the Circle to achievements that can be measured in quality rather than quantity.
In this coming year, the Blue Circle will concentrate on bettering the student life through cooperation with the Student Senate. At the moment, this is being done in two facets of student life by the undertakings of the Library and Hall residence committees. In particular, this aim of bettering student life will be accomplished through “studies” and the offering of positive criticism in cooperation with the Student Senate.
There will also be internal changes in the way of redefining and streamlining
the purpose and operation of the committees. The Who’s Who committee is one of those in for a revamping. In response to constructive criticism offered by the Scholastic, the type of student to be selected will be modified to place c more emphasis on the academic achievement than has been customary.
Pittsburgh is the most probable destination for next year’s student trip. In * this case, the trip would be on the week end of Nov. 14.
Reorganized Roundtable ' Object of Hew President
A large task of reorganization will be awaiting Charles Sawicki, who has been elected as next year’s president of the Economics Roundtable. The Round- ’ table is a social organization open to all economics majors. It attempts to pro- ' mote an interest in current economic affairs and facilitate mutual interest between economics majors and their pro- t fessors.	"
Sawicki plans to bring in prominent businessmen from Chicago and South Bend, and members of the Notre Dame faculty to speak at club meetings and ‘ smokers. A tentative field trip to Chicago is also being planned.
The new president is hoping for more < active participation on the part of the economics majors than there has been a during the last few years. If this participation is obtained the club will be able , to open these talks by outstanding speakers to the public.
Other officers elected were Jim Harrington, from Brockton, Mass., who is the new vice president. Harrington is also a member of the Y.C.'S. Richard Gelson, from Summit, N. J., is secretary. । Jack Parks, from Rome, N. Y. will be , treasurer.
Dan Cullen, former president of the < Finance club spoke yesterday on the “Challenges such a club offers to its members.”
DOME DISTRIBUTION
Procedure for distribution of the 1959 DOME will be similar to that followed last year. Beginning on * May 18, this Monday, and continuing until May 20, all undergraduates and all law students are to go , to the DOME office, present their ID cards and pick up a special IBM card.
The DOME office is located on the x second floor in the back of the La-Fortune Student Center. It will be open from 1:30 until 5 p.m. on May . 18, 19 and 20 — the three days when the IBM cards are to be picked up-
Actual distribution of the year- rt book will take place a week from this Monday on May 25 at the Publications office in the basement of Stanford Hall. The yearbooks will be obtained in exchange for the IBM cards.
12
The Scholastic
News Briefs
’-------------------------------------—
The American Council on Education has recently published a book concerning “The > College Influence on Student Character,” which includes a section on the effect of Catholic doctrine and tradition on the students of Notre Dame and St Mary’s.
- Research for the book was done by a group headed by Edward D. Eddy, Jr., of the University of New Hampshire.
The book describes the religious and phi-losophy program of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s as well as their many extracurricular religious activities as part of a conscious effort to ingrain the religious principles of • Catholicism in the character of the student.
Also included are interviews of students here and at St Mary’s illustrating the students’ reactions to their religious training * and influence.
The Notre Dame debate team swept * the Marquette University debate tournament in a field of 14 teams. With six wins and no losses, the team of Jay Whitney and Guy Powers went undefeated on both* sides of the question, “RESOLVED: that the further development of nuclear weapons should be prohibited by international agreement.”
Besides taking the first place trophy, Powers and Whitney each received medals for being among the top speakers in the tournament. Last year’s team, of which Powers was a member, placed second at the Marquette tournament, and Powers received a top award.
k Junior English major, Bernie McElroy, from East Orange, New Jersey, has been announced as winner of the annual Mitchell contest. His selection, a full length play > entitled, “Yesterday’s Children,” was given first place by judges Richard T. Sullivan and Francis J. O’Malley of the English department.
McElroy will receive a $50 prize which will be awarded at the commencement exercises this June.
The contest, started 20 years ago, awards v a prize to the best play written by a Notre Dame undergraduate.
The Indiana Society of Professional Engineers recently elected C. Robert Egry, a professor of industrial engineering at Notre Dame, president of the St. Joseph Valley chapter. The associate professor of civil en-gineering at Notre Dame, LeRoy D. Graves was named state director. Other officers are Lester Sherick, John J. Weger, and Mayer Goloubow.
In a chess tournament sponsored by the House Committee of the LaFortune Student Center and the Notre Dame Chess dub, Al Highducheck, a freshman mechanical engineer from Waterbury, Conn, took first place. He was undefeated with a 6-0 score.
A three way tie for second place occurred with everyone having a 4-2 score. The three men were: a sophomore physics major, Paul Viebrock, from Garden City, N. Y.; Dave Hudson, a sophomore history major from Fresno, Cal., and Don Baker, an engineering junior from Palmer, Ohio. May 15, 1959
U.S. KEDS COURT KING
for perfect footwork and comfort Professionally designed by and for top-flight tennis players. Featuring a flexible arch for comfort; an abrasion-resistant sole that stands up to any playing surface; laces to the toe to insure perfect fit, complete support. Fully cushioned, heel to toe. About $8.50.
LOOK FOR THE KEDS LABEL
United States Rabbet
Rockefeller Center. New York 20. N.Y.
At the Movies
AVON
A Plea for Passion: (May 14-16). Vittorio de Sica in an Italian ditty about a man who walked out on his wife to buy cigarettes seven years ago and married again elsewhere. Well-placed satire.
Co-Hit: Of Life and Love. Gargantuan Anna Magnani in a series of comic sketches based on some Pirandello short stories.
Dreaming Lips: May 17-20). Maria Schell balances herself precariously on the hypotenuse of a righteous love triangle in English subtitles.
Love and Jealousy shares the glory, and need one say more than mention the monumental star’s name? Gina Lollobrigida I
COLFAX
The Naked Maja: (May 16-22). Should really be “nude,” since it is considered art “Naked” isn’t nice. Come to think of it, neither is the story dealing with Francisco Goya’s (Anthony Franciosa) tempestuous love affair with the Duchess of Alba (Ava Gardner). Ava plays the loose courtesan with unbelievable authenticity, but seems too unlike Goya’s expression of the Duchess: the splendidly nourished reclining nude.
GRANADA
Imitation of Life: (May 7-20). Designed to be a tear-jerker, the movie accomplishes its purpose to perfection. But the salty tears of the audience and the soft, humid mush of the story don’t quite mix. Credit is due, though, to Susan Kohner, who has kept her head about her when all others cry theirs off.
PALACE
Tempest: (May 10-23). Viveca Lindfors, nostrils flaring, plays an unfortunate Catherine of Russia and Van Heflin, beard afire, emits some unearthly sounds echoing through the smitten cooing of Geoffrey Horne and Silvana Mangano. All this nonsense cost nearly as much as World War II. But statistics aren’t all, and the movie falls short.
STATE
MOVIE OF THE WEEK. Compulsion: (May 7-21). Bradford Dillman, Dean Stockwell, and unique Orson Welles engage in some agile mental acrobatics and come up with three powerfully hypnotic characterizations in this excellent movie. No voices are raised, no fingers are shaken, no violence is shown, and the story proves without doubt that it can stand firmly on its feet by speaking softly and packing quite a mental wallop.
RIVER PARK
Gulliver’s Travels: (May 14-17). Jonathan Swift’s satire mournfully soft-pedaled provides the first half of a double feature created for children, of children, and by children.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. This superlative adaptation of Mark Twain’s existentialist exercise provides powerful adult drama in the fine tradition of Tonka.
De Bettel Student: (May 20). Excuse the spelling, but German is not this reviewer’s forte. Therefore, nothing more about the movie.
—Tony Wong
The Notre Dame Art Gallery which has been utilized by various musical organizations and recitalists this past year, will witness the debut of Artplayers Productions, a new student group, on Thursday, May 21, 1959 at 8 in the evening. Comprised of both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students, Artplayerswill offer a concert of choral music as its first production. The program has been prepared to please the palate of the seasoned as well as the novice concert-goer, including selections from many phases of choral music.
Artplayers Productions was founded in January of this year through the efforts of John S. Oliver, a voice major in the Notre Dame Music department. Oliver, of Janesville, Wis., began with a quartet and soon expanded it to an
Debut of hiionnalih I
■s ,
by F. Lonar
octet. Frank J. Loncar, a commerce stu- -Ab dent from Chicago, became enthused with the possibilities of a larger group and ’ along with Oliver began work on its . realization.	1
Oliver, who directs the group, has done extensive work on the West Coast in the choral and musical comedy fields and has appeared in three of the last four- University Theater Productions. He is also I a member of the Glee Club.	y *
This type of group is not unique in its * existence at Notre Dame, but as such, it ' has been absent from the scene for over a decade. Artplayers Productions was organized on an informal basis, hut its . purpose can be formally stated as enter- y tainment, both for the audience and its own members.	‘
Thursday’s program will include music from Broadway shows and classical * composers, folk songs and various reli- , gious motets. Rodgers and Hammerstein will be represented by selections from their long run hit, South Pacific. Draw- V ing from a current hit on Broadway, the group will do two numbers from Leon- 1 ard Bernstein’s West Side Story, featur-,ing Karen Koehnemann, seen locally in 4 Plain and Fancy and, more recently, The Boy Friend. Another box office hit, both on Broadway and abroad was George । Gershwin’s Porgy and Bess, a Jazz- ' Opera, utilizing musical comedy and the folk melodies of the South. Artplayers will present a group of three numbers , from this warm opera, bringing back to r this campus the smooth mezzo of Eleanor Murphy, remembered for her performances in Oklahoma, Plain and Fancy, and The Boy Friend. “	.
Two sea chanties, A-Roving and Shenandoah, will be included in the eve-
(Continued on page 18)
..
14
The Scholastic
The Tech Review
L	by Roger O’ Neil
Eleven years ago an unusual experiment began at Notre Dame; a new thought was introduced in the way of an engineer’s extracurricular education. The engineer dropped his slide rule, picked up his pencil, and, under the guidance of . Dean Karl Schoenherr, became a journalist. It was then that the official publication of the College of Engineering was bora. - Far from being completed, this experiment continues each year as the Notre Dame Technical Review grows in quality and reputation.
It was in 1948 that the rudiments of a Notre Dame tech-z nical publication materialized. The initiative came from the students. In that year, two mechanical engineers, John Wach-► mann and Ernest Okleshen, undertook the job of publishing a periodical for theii- department. The idea soon grew into a b magazine, however, encompassing all departments of the college. Plans were made, the backing of the University secured, and the first issue of the Technical Review rolled off the presses the following fall.
-J ► In that first issue, William J. Ruoff, the first editor, stated, “It is only fitting and proper that the College of Engineering
■J- of the oldest Catholic engineering school in this country, and one of the oldest in the Midwest, should support a technical ' magazine — and one that is second to none.”
The first step toward this high goal was made in 1951 i when the Technical Review was accepted as a member of the Engineering College Magazines Associated organization. This association of some 52 college-level technical magazines, whose purpose is the promotion of high magazine standards, encompasses schools from the entire nation.
Since its admittance, the Technical Review has been among h,	the leaders of this organization and has succeeded in taking
I	more than its share of the honors awarded each year for su-
> periority in the various phases of magazine make-up by the ' E.C.M.A. organization. For the past five years, Notre Dame has succeeded in winning at least one prize each year for such diverse accomplishments as best editorial, best illustrations, < ► and best single issue.
Last fall at the annual E.C.M.A. convention, three awards • were presented to Notre Dame: first prize in the category of best single cover, second prize in year’s best covers, and fourth * prize in best all-around magazine, the highest award category attainable by the 52 members of the association.
' The Technical Review is entirely a student endeavor — the writing, editing, and financing of the magazine are carried out ’ > solely by the members of the engineering college under the auspices of an engineering faculty group led by the Dean of
1 the Engineering College.
To accomplish the task of publishing the Technical Review the magazine is divided into six closely-knit staffs: business, ■ features, copy, articles, art and layout, and circulation. Rather than render a separate description of each staff’s functions, . it is easier and clearer to describe the actual publication h * process, explaining the work done by each staff.
It is the articles editor who selects the articles that are । to be published. Each article is then passed on to the copy editor and his staff, who rewrite at their discretion all pas' * sages within the article that fail to meet editorial standards.
The article is then forwarded to the associate editors for additional comment, and finally to the editor-in-chief where final corrections are made. Feature articles, those written by actual staff members on topics of local interest, follow a similar path, except that they pass through the features editor.
After retyping, the copy is sent to the Ave Maria Press for publication in the form of long columns of print. Mean
May 15, 1959
while, the art and layout staff, in coordination with the editor and business manager, begins work on the layout of the magazine. When the columns of print, known as “galley proofs,” are received from the printer, they are proofread for mistakes and are pasted up on the pages of a “dummy,” or sample magazine, by the art and layout staff. This dummy is then sent to the printers, completing the final step, save proofreading, in creating the Technical Review.
The business staff is one of the most important in the organization of the Technical Review, having the responsibility of selling adds, both local and national, as well as assisting in the layout of the ads. Under the direction of the business manager, the staff operates through an advertising manager and an office manager. The former’s activities involve the solicitation of local advertising (South Bend area); this function is effected through personal contact with the area industries. National advertising, on the other hand, is procured through a national advertising agency, Littell-Murray-Barnhill, of New York City. It is through this advertising, in conjunction with subscription sales, that the Technical Review derives its basic capital.	-
From its meager beginning, the size of the Technical Review and its circulation have steadily increased, until today approximately 2500 people receive a 60-page issue of the magazine quarterly during the school year. Financially, the Technical Review has been operating in the black for the past three years; it now stands alone and the only self-supporting publication on the campus. This distinction has arrived much earlier than planned for in the long-range projection of growth expected when the magazine was established.
It should be emphasized, however, that above and beyond the financial success enjoyed by this publication, the intangible effects are perhaps even more encouraging. Since the magazine is circulated to many high-schools throughout the country, many prospective Notre Dame students receive information about the engineering college through a medium indicative of the quality of the education Notre Dame has to offer. Such . publicity obviously contributes to the increasing quality of our students today in the Engineering College.	'
Another intangible advantage offered by the publication of such a worthy magazine comes to light in the high esteem in which our magazine is held by other schools. Frequently, other colleges request permission to reprint articles which have appeared in the Technical Review.	’
Also, industry’s critical eye has recognized the quality of Notre Dame’s engineering curriculum through this publication. Letters have been received commending the magazine and in two cases, prospective engineers have been interviewed for jobs solely on the basis of their articles which have appeared in the Technical Review.
Finally, reprints of the articles appearing in the Technical Review have been reproduced in the more scientific journals in the world, for example, “The Journal of the Russian Academy of Science.”
Throughout its growth, many things have remained the same. The original office on the third floor of the Engineering Building still services the engineering students who prepare the magazine for press. Its activities in the Engineering College are still carefully organized so as to reach maximum effectiveness in servicing the college. The magazine is represented on the Joint Engineering Council by two members who . coordinate the magazine’s publicity program with the best interests of the engineering school. By working closely with
(Continued on page 18)
’ 15 ‘ '
Bowen and Osorio
I
))
tua osokIo
IVAN 6S0K*O
rafo o$ok«o 4v
(Ignis Fatuus)
The Stormy Petrel
The Pearly-toothed Mancatcher (Caveata Baccalaurea)
Includes nearly all St. Mary’s population. Many of the others are subspecies of this type. Noted for its mass migrations across the Dixie at the slightest excuse. Frequently seen flocking outside Sacred Heart Church after 5:10 Mass. Nesting instinct uppermost. Once a male is in its clutches, it will hold tenaciously until presented with a small bright object. Seasonal migrations to Florida or Bermuda in pursuit of this ' intention.
CALL: “Gee, you’re fabulous. I wish I could catch a frisbee like that.”
S 3 4
Chiefly identified by the possession of a distinct Mind Of Its Own, which it demonstrates by contradicting whatever is said in its presence. Frequently shows great intrepidity in taking the offensive, although the least resistance will cause it instead to take offense. Some have been known to debate two hours the mere offer of a cigarette. Often majors in Christian Culture, where it acquires a variety of odd facts invaluable in confusing its victims.
CALL: “I’m sick of hearing people say that.”
We recently spent an afternoon or so investigating the birdlife of the area just west of Route 31, and made several fascinating discoveries. Our manuscript was rejected by The American Midland Naturalist, and feeling that science could UI afford to be ignorant of our work, we have cajoled the editors into including it here. We hope you are as enlightened as we were.


N
H
The Pure-hearted Snowbird (Angelica Innocentia)	,
The exact opposite of Stormy Petrel. Noted for the pristine cleanliness and receptivity of its mind, which is usually unblemished by a single idea. Will accept anything it is told with the same unvarying expression of childlike trust, • which has caused some observers to propose that it lives entirely on weddingcake frosting.
CALL:	?”	■

The Great Auk (Ursa Horribilis)
Difficult to classify. Comes in a variety of shapes and colors, none of which are known (thank God) in any other form. Employs a more attractive specimen to lure victim into-the trap,-or blind, date. Seldom seen until it is too late. Identified by friends as “Josie’s roommate — she has a wonderful personality.”
CALL: “Duhhhh. . .”
t
The Scholastic
The Rough-throated Warbler (Hammas Dixianas)
A special type of Thespian noted for its large eyes and voracious appetite for theater lore. Can discourse eloquently on such topics as lighting, stage biz, and blocking, and can sing any song from any musical back through Naughty Marietta. Seldom seen without a blase smile and a copy of Theatre Arts. Indicates its nostalgia for the good old days (when whoever it was played the Palace) by dressing as much as possible like a silent movie actress.
CALL: (Varies. “Vo-do-de-o” is popular this season.)
The Name-dropping Pageboy (Vassaria Emulata)
Identified by expensive plumage and professed fondness for scotch. Origin inevitably Midwestern and results of com-feeding are always apparent. Has an outspoken antipathy for Eastern girls’ schools, several of which failed to accept it, although it will descend with a swoop upon any male that happens to come from east of the Hudson. Among innocent subordinates it is often observ
ed to adopt a Back Bay twang and utter gems of sophistication memorized from Chocolates For Breakfast.
CALL: “Sweetie! How rilly, rilly great to see you!”
The Lesser Giggling Loon (Cacculata Ridiculosa)
A very numerous order, varied in appearance, but all suffering internally. Devoted to the cause of good nature above all other virtues, on the theory that maybe if you have a good time you won’t notice its knock-knees. Frequently has not the foggiest notion of what you’re saying, and it is fascinating to announce the death of your entire family or the imminent doom of the universe just to observe the results.	.
CALL: Just what you’d expect.
The Great Homy Owl (Seniora Desperata)
Absolutely unique in that all are the same age. Recognizable chiefly by its air of quiet desperation and all-out effort to be nice no matter what. Quite often seen endeavoring to atract males that are scorned by other species. Every spring frustrated members of this species are seen applying in great numbers for teachers’ certificates. CALL: “Well, I think it’s nice, Elwood, you wanting to be a bus boy and all. There’s always a need for good bus boys, and besides, it’s something solid.”
May 15, 1959
The Predatory Lettuce-Hawk (Pecunia Excavata).	.
A species seldom seen. around St. Mary’s, since after one football season most of them either transfer or . starve to death. Has an insatiable craving for legal tender, which it. satisfies by catching a fish. Most successful specimens leave their vie- -tims feeling little pain and	.
ripe for fresh exploitation,	<
but occasionally an unskillful 'J one has to walk home. . CALL: “Ooooh! Champagne! /
I just love, etc.”
17,g
MOBILE-ISM
by Mot F. Fanhab c.
Several weeks ago, a number of students took the time to admire the large mobile constructed outside the Architecture Building as part of the Engineering Open House, but few realized the possibilities in the use of mobiles in decorating their rooms or study lounges. Many share the all too common misconception that mobiles are only had at great expense, but this is definitely not the case. With a bit of Notre Dame ingenuity and odds and ends found unwanted about the campus, any student can construct for himself masterpieces he will be proud to display to visitors, artistic creations combining the beauty of form with the magic of motion — for each Notre Dame man, his own mobile.
But rather than have the eager student plunge into the art unguided, it may be well to describe several easily made yet gratifying examples which may aid his progress in the way of creation. For the first mobile (or “primum mobile”), there is a model which is very popular for students who wish they had the use of a car. To make it, take a recent copy of The Saturday Evening Post or Motor Trend and rip out a page showing handsome new cars, paste it on a piece of thick cardboard, and cut out the cars. Then attach the pieces togethei-with laundry string until they balance, and presto, there stands an Auto Mobile.
For students from the South, there is an extremely fine mobile praising one of their states. Take some azalea blossoms, a replica of the Alabama state flag, a picture of a tarpon (the state fish), an embossed card with the slogan “We dare defend our rights,” attach everything by pieces of goldenrod (the state flower), and you have the Mobile, a la Barna.
Still another creation commemorates an institution of our own campus, the Notre Dame Pep Bally. For this mobile, one needs a small mounted clipping from the Life magazine article (one copy may yield several), a green cellophane hat, a roll of toilet paper, and a miniature sign saying, “Chew ’em up, Irish!” The configuration is best suspended by microphone wire. This particular opus has the Latin descriptive title, Mobile Vulgus.
For the student interested in the opera, a fascinating mo-
AT THE GALLERY
Two exhibitions continue through Moy 24 at the University Art Gallery. The major show consists of work by the undergraduate and graduate art students, and includes work in painting, sculpture, drawing, commercial and automotive design. This exhibition is installed in the large West Gallery and in two of the smaller east galleries.
The second exhibition, entitled “Primitive Art in Transition,” is a loan exhibition from the collection of Dr. Daniel Crowley of the Sociology Dept. The works of art in this show include pieces from Pre-Columbian America, Africa, and the West Indies, as well as specific items designed by this “primitive” culture for the present-day tourist trade. This exhibition is instiled in the last of the small east galleries.
bile can be constructed using seemingly unconnected pieces of musical material. Simply collect a handbill from a presenta- ' tion of Rigoletto (yellowed if possible), some mounted musical symbols like treble clefs or hemidemisemiquavers, and finally a few feathers from a large bird moulting, easily movable in the breeze. These suitably arranged form the beautiful “La ►’ Donna E” Mobile.
A concluding example, saved for last because of the way it connects the apparently disjunct disciplines of legume horticulture and Thomistic philosophy, relies on a slight pun, which ‘ is certainly excusable in light of the magnificent artistic effect produced. Merely assemble a number of different varieties of beans — lima, string, pea, wax, et cetera. (Some resourceful students find as many as two dozen kinds available). ' Fashioned together in cosmic equilibrium, they form the almost too clever “Mobile Bean.”
These suggestions, then, conclude this article, designed as it was to introduce the Notre Dame student to the captivating new art of mobile manufacture, with the hope that he may be inspired to accept it as a lifelong hobby and source of creative joy.
The Tech Review (Continued from page 15) the J.E.C. and the Engineering Open House committee, complete use is made of the magazine’s facilities.	,
Through its life, the Technical Review has been fortunate in having many of the top engineers on campus as staff members. During the past years, many staff members have been honored in various ways for their activities as well as their scholastic ability. Working for the publication they have been able to combine business and pleasure, and have added three extra courses to their curriculum — courses in leadership, salesmanship, and the ability to deal honestly and tactfully with people.
The Technical Review has contributed a professional touch . to engineering at Notre Dame, and in so doing has increased the standing of the Engineering College. It has actively participated in many external and internal college affairs, thus fulfilling the dreams of its first editor “to serve the students of the College of Engineering in a way that will make it a thing of pride to all men of Notre Dame.”
The rapid strides in progress shown in the growth of the Notre Dame Technical Review during the past do not contribute to a complacent and lethargic outlook for the future. Rather, such success in past activities only serves to stimulate . further enthusiasm and activity in the magazine. An awareness that much can still be accomplished is apparent. The remainder is left to the engineering students themselves, who by continuing to produce such a publication, can contribute tc making the Technical Review a literary standard of excellence in the engineering field.
Debut of Informality
(Continued from page 14)
ning’s music, the first featuring the male chorus of the group and the second presenting the voice of Mike Rischel, a freshman tenor, to the campus for the first time.
A group of religious motets will be included in the first portion of the program, encompassing three examples of musical style ranging from the late seventeenth to the twentieth centuries. A Bach chorale, a romantic “Ave Maria" and a modern motet in free style have been chosen for this group.
The finale for the entire program will be Tchaikovsky’s Nutcracker Suite. Composed as a ballet and used quite often as a symphonic suite the version to be used by the Artplayers is an eight-part arrangement by Harry Simeone, formerly Fred Waring’s staff arranger. The words of this version were written by Fred Waring and his staff, and his many years of experience as the nation’s top commercial choral director are made apparent in this arrangement.
This Thursday’s concert is the introductory concert for Artplayers Productions. During the 1959-1960 school year the group will be seen locally in concert and in guest appearances. Future programming will be geared to audience response and will be designed with the listener in mind.
18
The Scholastic
Spo^U PicitM
Irish Netters Travel to Northwestern Today; Remain Unbeaten in Winning Four Matches
Today, Notre Dame’s tennis team travels to Evanston, Ill. for a match with Northwestern University. Coach Tom Fallon stated that the Wildcats have about the same squad which last year gave the Irish a tough match before losing, 5-4. This year, Northwestern lost to Michigan State, 7-2. The Irish recently defeated the Spartans, 8-1.
On Tuesday, May 5, the Irish netmen traveled to Ann Arbor, Mich., where they encountered their toughest opponent this season. Notre Dame edged Michigan, 5-4, for its ninth victory of the season without a loss.
In the number one singles match, Jon Erickson defeated nationally-ranked Max Brown of Notre Dame in a close match, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. However, Notre Dame’s number two man, Don Ralph, registered his seventh straight victory of the season with a 6-4, 6-4 conquest of Jerry Dubie.
Bill Heinbecker, number four man, and Ray Bender, number five man, both
SOPHOMORE NET STANDOUTS
Bill Heinbecker watches Don Ralph.
ran their undefeated streaks to eight. Heinbecker defeated Larry Zaitseff, 6-4, 6-4, while Bender handed Frank Fulton a 6-4, 8-6 loss.
Number three man, Ron Schoenberg was beaten by Bob Sassonel, 6-1, 6-1. Chuck Stephens, Notre Dame’s number six man, lost to Wayne Peacock by a 6-2, 7-5 margin. The Irish copped two out of the three doubles matches to win the match, handing the Wolverines their first defeat of the season.
On Wednesday, May 6, the Irish netters handed Michigan State an 8-1 loss at East Lansing, Mich. Sixth man Ron Mescall picked up the Spartans only point, defeating Stephens, 6-1, 6-2.
In one of the more exciting matches of the afternoon, Heinbecker was forced to go three sets to defeat Roger Plagen-hoef by a 6-1, 5-7, 6-1 score.
Brown regained his winning form in defeating Michigan State’s number one man, Bill Hotchkiss, 6-3, 9-7. Brown and Heinbecker remained undefeated in doubles, taking a 6-4, 7-5 battle from Hotchkiss and Doug Smith.
The Irish won their eleventh straight match on May 7, defeating Kalamazoo College on its home court by a 9-0 score. Bender and Heinbecker increased their undefeated streaks to ten, and Ralph also remained unbeaten, winning his ninth match.
The netters returned home on Friday, May 8, to face the Purdue Boilermakers. Winning their twelfth match of the season, Notre Dame shut out Purdue, 9-0. Brown again had to play outstanding tennis in defeating Don Schmidt, 8-6, 6-4. Ralph overpowered the Boilermaker’s number two man, Jim Himmel-wright, 6-0, 6-3. Schoenberg disposed of Phil- Conreaux, 6-0, 6-2.
Purdue’s number four man, Steve Kalabany, was no match for Heinbecker, losing 6-0, 6-0. Bender defeated Bill Tumilson, 6-3, 6-2, while Stephens rounded out the singles victory for the Irish with a win over Bill Shopshire.
Irish Baseball Team at Western Michigan; Beats Glenview for Season Record of 17-3
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame baseball team will meet a powerful Western Michigan squad at Kalamazoo. Coach Kline thinks highly of his opponents and rates them as one of the toughest teams the Irish will face this year.
Last year Western Michigan was district champ and won the Mid-America Conference title. They have lost only one game, that to Kent last Saturday, in two years in the Mid-America Conference. Their record so far this year is 18-3.
Glenview Naval Air Station fell victim to the Irish attack last Saturday, defeated by a score of 4-2. Junior pitcher Chuck Scrivanich won his first victory of the campaign and went all the way for the first time.
Notre Dame got a one-run lead in the fourth, but Glenview bounced back in their half of the inning on a two-run homer. In the Irish fifth, Scrivanich scored the tying run after he singled, and Jack Gentempo doubled him home.
The margin of victory was produced in the ninth. A single, walk, and an-
Softball and Baseball Leagues Begin Playoff Rounds Today
The playoffs for both the interhall
and interclub softball leagues and for the baseball leagues begin today.
In the softball competition, the winners of each league meet with the teams which emerge as club champion and hall champion competing for the school championship in about a week.
In the baseball leagues playoffs also begin today with the winners of each league meeting to decide the school champion.
In the four interhall softball leagues the following are leading: in league one, Breen-Phillips Yellow 2-0, followed by Pangbom 2-1; in league two, Keenan Blue 3-0 and Dillon 2-1; in league three, Farley 2-0 and Howard Red 2-0; in league four, Zahm 2-0 and Stanford Blue 2-1. So far B-P Yellow has displayed better than average strength, but Keenan Blue has also looked good.
The standings of the three club leagues are: in league one, Detroit and the Italian club tied at 3-1; in league two, Cincinnati 3-0 followed by three teams tied for second; in league three, the Hispano-Americano club is leading with 3-0, and Rochester is close behind with 2-1.
In the three baseball leagues the following are leading the field: in league one, Dillon Gold 2-0, Sorin 2-1; in league two, St. Ed’s 1-0 and Zahm 1-0; in league three, Farley is the only team without a defeat, and their record is 1-0.
other single loaded the bases for Gentempo who singled home Nick Palihnich with the winning run. Scrivanich scored an insurance run on Danny Hagan’s sacrifice drive to left.
Going into this game, the red-hot Irish center fielder, Gene “Herman” Duffy, was slugging at an outstanding .404 clip.
Duffy banged out two hits in three attempts on Tuesday, May 5, as Palihnich beat Michigan State 3-1 for his fourth victory without a loss this year. The sophomore yielded only seven scattered singles and no walks. He struck out three opposing batsmen and hit one.
Duffy scored the winning run in the fourth by bunting for a single. He reached second on a wild throw to first and third, on two successive walks. He scored on an infield force play. Leading off in the sixth, Duffy waved his wand at a pitch and sent a tremendous blast into left field for Notre Dame’s third run and his third homer of the season.
The Irish have a 12-2 regular season’s record and a 17-3 over-all mark. They are 7-0 against Big Ten teams.
May 15, 1959
19
Notre Dame Footballers Defeat Old-Timers; Mack, Pottios, and Crotty Outstanding in Win
Last Saturday afternoon in the Stadium, Notre Dame fans got a chance to watch the 1959 Fighting Irish in their first real test under Coach Joe Kuharich. The fans went home happy and generally were pleased as the Irish defeated a group of formidable Old-Timers by a 21-7 score. The game, though, was closer than the score indicates.
17,526 fans saw Bill (Red) Mack score all three Varsity touchdowns, the first one on a pass from George Izo and the last two on expert running. Monty Stickles kicked the conversion after each touchdown.
The Old-Timers were led by the passing of Tom Carey and Bob Williams, the receiving of Paul Hornung, Joe Heap, and on occasion big Leon Hart, and the running of Norm Odyniec, Ron Toth, and Nick Pietrosante. Carey and Williams hit on 18 of 34 attempts for 253 yards and their lone touchdown, a five-yard pitch from Williams to Jim Just in the third quarter.
The Varsity reached paydirt midway in the first quarter on an Izo-to-Stickles aerial good for 34 yards. However, the officials detected the Irish offside; so the score was nullified.
After Pietrosante punted dead on the Varsity 22-yard line on the last play of the first quarter, the Varsity marched 78 yards for the initial score of the
TOM CAREY DIVES FORWARD
Old-Timer passing whiz, Tom Carey (2), dives forward after being stopped by an unidentified Varsity tackler. Bob Koreck (68) of the Varsity moves in to help as Leon Hart (82) of the Old-Timers watches.
afternoon. Big plays in the drive were Dan Griffith’s 24-yard run and an Izo-to-Mack pass that ate up 22 yards. With the ball on the four-yard line, Izo hit Mack behind the line, and Mack racked up the score. With 11:12 remaining in the period, Stickles kicked the goal for a 7-0 Varsity lead.
A few minutes later the Varsity had a scoring opportunity when the Old-Timers gambled on a fourth-and-two situation on their own 22-yard line. But Old-Timer Bob Wetoska recovered a Varsity bobble on the next play.
After Toth fumbled the ball back to the Varsity, the Irish started their second touchdown drive. Izo called for his fullback to carry on six consecutive plays. Griffith picked up ten in two cracks, but he twisted his ankle on the second carry and had to retire for the afternoon. Crotty replaced Griffith and carried to the two. Then Mack took a handoff from Izo and, behind key blocks by Doyle and Pat Heenan, outraced the defenders to score his second touchdown of the game. Stickles kicked goal, and with 3:35 remaining on the clock, the Varsity led, 14-0.
The “new” Old-Timers, comprised of this year’s graduating seniors, started the second half by moving 70 yards to score. Williams alternated Toth and Pietrosante on the ground and tossed
eleven yards to Odyniec and 25 yards to Frank Reynolds. The pass to Reynolds < was the key play of the march. After Toth was stopped short on three successive tries, Williams found Just open in the end zone. Hornung added the extra ' point with 7:37 gone in the period to cut the Varsity lead to 14-7.
The Varsity then proceeded to march to the Old-Timers ten-yard line before 4 Just intercepted on the goal line and returned to the 16.	‘
In the waning moments of the game, the “old” Old-Timers moved down the " field behind the expert passing of Carey.
VARSITY BACK STOPPED	z
Two Old-Timers halt Bill Clark.	I
Forced back to his own one-foot line by I a penalty and the aggressive Varsity de- ' | fense, Carey passed 40 yards to Hom- I ung on a third down play. Then it was I Carey to Jim Munro for 14 to the Var- j sity 46. After an incomplete pass to Hornung on the 40, he hit Hornung for 14 yards to the 32.
Carey passed to Joe Heap for ten to the 22. On the next play, the Old-Timers J were set back to the 32 by a clipping penalty after Carey had run for five yards. Incomplete passes to Heap and Hornung killed the march, and the Varsity took over on the 26. ■
Crotty hit for two and Bob Scarpitto skirted his own left end for 15 more to the 43. Then, in the most exciting play ‘ of the game, Mack took a handoff from Izo and, finding running room around end,, sprinted 57 yards to the goal to score with one second remaining in the game. Stickles again kicked goal to make the final score 21-7.
The Varsity’s running game picked up ( 293 yards behind the running of the ' three fullbacks, Crotty, Griffith, and ; Sophomore Gerry Gray, and behind Mack, j the most outstanding runnel* on the field. |
Crotty led the Varsity’s pass defenders by breaking up four passes while Myron Pottios paced the defending Varsity linemen with nine tackles.
20
The Scholastic
>	Irish Face Tough Foes
In Indiana State Meet
Tomorrow the Notre Dame golfers *	travel to Bloomington, Ind.,, for the
annual State Meet in which Indiana, Purdue, and Notre Dame compete against each othei’ for the Indiana college golf title. Purdue and Indiana are two of the best teams in the Big Ten ' this year. Purdue is the defending champion of the Big Ten. The Irish " linksters have a 12-3 record going into tomorrow’s match.
Last Saturday, the Irish defeated ( Western Illinois and Tri-State in a triangular meet to rack up their eighth and ninth victories of the season. The match against Western Illinois was a close one w with Notre Dame finally winning, 19-17. The Irish trounced Tri-State, 29-7.
The outcome was decided on the final nine holes as Notre Dame overcame a ।	13% -10% Western Illinois lead at the
I end of 27 holes. Frank Hund and Ray i Patak led the Irish comeback with one! under-par 34’s. Patak’s score included a , double bogey five on the twelfth hole.
Patak’s finish, similar to Art Wall’s at the 1959 Masters, included birdies on three of the last four holes. On the eighteenth hole, he knocked in a 15-foot putt to win the match for the Irish.
Hund led the Irish golfers in the medal play totals. He shot 73-73 for a 146 , total. Terry Lally, playing well but having trouble with his putting, shot 75-74 to finish with 149. Jim King of Western Illinois was the day’s medalist with 7471 for 145.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., Notre > Dame’s golf coach, used nine men in the meet. The fourth, fifth, and sixth men , were alternated in the morning and afternoon rounds.
k On Monday, May 11, the Irish golfers added three more victories to their record with wins ovei- Iowa, Minnesota, ahd Wisconsin at the Maple Bluff Country Club in Madison, Wisconsin. Lally paced the Irish golfers with a 36-hole total of 154 on rounds of 75 and 79.
The match against Iowa was the > closest for the Irish as they edged the Hawkeyes, 20%-15%. At the end of 27 holes the match was nearly even, but fine finishes on the difficult back nine by Christie Flanagan and Hund pulled the Irish out in front. Flanagan shot the final nine holes in even-par 35 while Hund had a 36.
’ Minnesota was tied, 9-9, with the Notre Dame squad at lunch time but managed to win only two points in the afternoon as the Irish tallied a 25-11 victory.
Wisconsin, the team which earlier this season had beaten the Irish on a neutral course in Evanston, Ill., this time was ' beaten solidly by the revengeful Notre Dame linksters, 21%-14%.
Patak was second for the Irish in total strokes. Patak fired 79-76—155. Hund was next in line with 80-76—156, followed by Flanagan’s 82-76—158. The other two Irish golfers, Denny Nead and Tom Rose, both carded 164 totals.
TIME OUT
Hard hitting, weak pass defense, and surprising strength in the line were significant features of the Varsity’s performance in last Saturday’s Old-Timers game. Red Mack played his usual electrifying game, managing to score all of the Varsity’s touchdowns in their rather surprising 21-7 victory.
The game was surprising in that the Old-Timers were held to one touchdown. Coach Kuharich and his staff obviously had done a fine job of conditioning the players. The line play in the game, especially the first half, was unusually rugged and yet there were no serious injuries. The rushing defense of the Varsity held runners such as Nick Pietrosante, Paul Hornung, Don Schaefer, Joe Heap, and Norm Odyniec to a total of 88 yards. Special credit must be given to Mike Lodish who played defensive right end for the Varsity. Lodish was voted the most improved end on the team by the coaching staff.
The most glaring weakness of the Varsity was pass defense. Of course it must be remembered that the Old-Timers had receivers with professional experience and that the Varsity secondary was inexperienced. Pass defense is something that must be learned in the thick of battle and is one of the hardest skills in football to master. But even with these factors taken into consideration, it is the weakest aspect of the next year’s team and major improvements will have to be made next fall.
The most encouraging thing about the squad is the keen battle for starting positions which was evident in spring practice. The sophomores have shown that they have no qualms about stepping into the starting positions. Sophomore fullback Mike Lind, although he didn’t participate in the Old-Timers game because of an injury, looked impressive in the scrimmage two weeks ago and should provide the Irish with valuable help at the crucial fullback spot in the new straight “T” offense. Pat Heenan is another sophomore who showed promise in last Saturday’s game of developing into a truly great end.
The real key to next year’s season lies in whether or not the sophomores develop rapidly enough to take over starting spots or at least play for long periods at a time so the regulars can be rested periodically. They showed during spring practice that they are willing to go out and fight for the starting jobs. This is a healthy sign, perhaps even healthier than the 21-7 victory.
During the spring drills Coach Kuharich concentrated on offense more than defense. He was probably looking for two things. First of all, he was looking for ends and backs that are good pass catchers and thus deter the opposing defense from ganging up on Monty Stickles and Red Mack. Secondly, he was looking for power runners to complement George Izo’s passing. If these two problems can be solved by September 26, Coach Kuharich’s first year could be a happy one.
SPRING SPORTS
At the Spring Sports Banquet last Tuesday evening in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn, all the athletes who participate in spring sports on the varsity level were honored. With the tennis, track, golf, and baseball teams still in competition, the over-all won-lost record of the spring sport teams is 57-17-1.
Father Joyce gave a brief welcoming speech in which commenting on the fact that not one of the spring sports teams had a losing season, he remarked that these teams were certainly living up to Notre Dame’s “commitment to excellence.”
The tennis team is currently the most successful of the spring sport teams. They are unbeaten in ten matches. The fencers finished with a 13-2 mark, the baseball team is 12-2, the golf squad is 12-3, the wrestlers finished 5-5 after getting off to a bad start, and the swimming team in its first year of varsity competition compiled a 5-5-1 mark.
The significant fact about these laudable records is that much of the competition is against Big Ten schools. The golf team, for instance, schedules matches against seven of the ten schools in the Big Ten. The so-called minor sports at Notre Dame consistently win major victories against major competition. —T.R.
May 15, 1959
21
KEGLERS’ KORNER
by ED SILLIMAN
As a fitting finale to a very successful season, the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame held their annual banquet last night at the K. of C. Hall. After satiating their appetites with a complete roast beef dinner, the more successful bowlers were rewarded for their yearlong efforts by the presentation of trophies. Trophies were given to bowlers in the Kampus Kegler and Classic leagues and to the winners of the Notre Dame Singles Tourney. (See prize list below.)
The Kampus Keglers wound up their bowling season last week with a team tourney in which the Michillos upset the Northwest Motors team that had three of the top bowlers in the Keglers leagues on its roster.
Interest in bowling has been excep
tionally high this year, and the leagues have all gone right down to the wire. All of the league championships were a toss-up until the final position night when it was up to the real pressure bowlers to come through. As an indication of the improved quality of the Kampus Keglers, the record book on scores was completely rewritten this past season, with Ray Grubbe’s 724, leading the Project Construction team to a 2990 series and the Classic league title, being the most outstanding of the year.
Dave Gundling, a 147 average bowler, shot 936-195—1131 last week to walk off with the Notre Dame Singles title. This came as no surprise to those who caught Dave down in the alleys practicing almost every day during the week before the tourney. Congratulations to Dave and the other bowlers who placed on the tourney trophy list, especially the many low average bowlers who rose to
the occasion and carted off the prizes.'
Particularly noteworthy is the fact that 31 of 71 participants rolled 1000 or better for the five games in the tourney. A special thanks, on behalf of the Kampus Keglers, to Bob Miller who did such a competent job in running the tourney. Bob thanks most sincerely those who participated in the tourney for their cooperation and help in making the tourney a success.
Although deadlocked in a three-way tie at the end of four games, the Notre Dame Intercollegiate team stood up under the pressure to defend their Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference team title, winning by the slim margin of eight pins in the fifth and final game. The tourney, held for the first time at the Notre Dame alleys, matched teams from Notre Dame, Loyola, DePaul, St. Joseph’s, and Valparaiso in team and singles events. Paul Gutke of DePaul won the singles title.
Trophies are listed in the following order: First place team, second place team, high team game, high team series, top three individual games, top three individual series, and top three averages.
Met Club—1016	Chicago dub “A”
KAMPUS KEGLERS—RED
Detroit dub “A”
J. Curran P. Heenan E. Mossner L. Trotta B. Reilly P. Craven
Glee dub—1002
D. Halloran W. Dowdall J. Vaughey D. Cropin H. Moeller
Holy Rollers “A”
J. Cangiano R. Miller E. Sharkey E. Silliman C. Riehm J. Geary R. Ellis
Asme—2755
D. Smale S. Bolander I. Herrmann F. Ponzio S. Harvath
R. O’Shea
H. Frem
R. Kaercher
D.	Sweeney
E.	Murphy
F.	Vida ________274
R. Grubbe_______268
T. Jablonski_____256
R. Grubbe _______
T. Jablonski _____
F. Vida __________
M. Sundstrom M. Derrane L. Romano H. Koenig T. Dwyer
R. Grubbe _______666
M. Lefere _______656
F. Vida_________.654
____________185 ____________184 ____________178
J. Burns _____________________165	*
P. Huller 163
F. Araneta ------------------162
KAMPUS KEGLER CLUB OFFICERS
R.	Grubbe ________________.President
F.	Vida ______________Vice-President
P.	Jandrisevits Treasurer
E.	Silliman _______________Secretary
Special award of thanks to Moderator Jean “Speed” Sheehan
J. Curran________267
C. Zessinger	_	246
R. Miller________245
J. Curran_____ P. Heenan_____
E. Mossner —
J. Curran______.653
J. Cangiano______615 R. Miller________j606
---------182 ---------177 ---------175
KAMPUS KEGLERS—WHITE
Frisbees	Holy Rollers “B”
P. McMahon	J. Gilbert
J. Barrett	J. Donlon
C. Bennett	R. Dusterberg
J. Rafferty	E. Maguire
M. Kubiak	T. Lynch J. Murphy
St. Louis Ch*—992	Band “C”—2753
J. McNamara	A. Astroleges
S. DiFranco	J. Guerre
M. Connolly	E. Kane
F. Fasel	D. Traskos
J. Albers	T. Tafelski
J. Albers 	255	J. Albers	688
J. Murphy 	241	F. Hoey 	628
F. Hoey	235	M. Kubiak 	618
F. Hoey			173
J. Albers 			170
M. Kubiak 			167
KAMPUS KEGLERS—BLUE
KAMPUS KEGLERS—YELLOW
Cleveland Club “B”	Michillos
D. Miller W. Pregenzer J. Koch J. Kaval P. Glovna T. Nekic	M. Seaman C. Walsh J. Thompson J. Diebel F. Mullen C. Suski
Cleveland Club “A” J. McNamee D. Mayer S. Pecora R. Wisne J. Flannery	Five Aces G. Rutkiewicz T. McBreen J. Maney R. Miller J. Rizner D. Prairie
T. Nekic	.257	J. Diebel	672
J. Flannery	254	T. Nekic	646
S. Pecora 	240 J.- Flannery — J. Diebel 	 F. Mullen	F. Mullen	634 	181 	176 	170
KAMPUS KEGLERS—GREEN
Fighting Five
M. Monaco R. Dvorak W. Gaynor M. Sammon J. Burns D. Parsons
Jokers
J. Wolfe
R. Darda J. Ward T. Whitman P. Tummillo B. Zamraelli
Northwest Moton
T. Jablonski F. Kleiderer M. Bartley R. Grabbe J. DeBernardi
Detroit Ch* “B”
H. Murphy R. Paul T. Keating G. Reeber M. Lefere R. Stefani
Strikers D7<
G. Smith W. Koch B. Rose C. Liebold J. Hierty
Shameless Five-2700
W. Russell
W. Joerndt M. Schlitt J- Ry«n B. Agresta
J. McKenna ____ 235
D. Montali _____234
W. Russell______229
J.	Burns________613
P.	Huller ______607
F.	Araneta ____..589
KK League Secretaries
F. Ryder T. Tafelski M. Sundstrom J. Rizner R. Dvorak
KK League Treasurers
J. Lund
J. Roark
M. Sheedy F. Prantil W. Koch
CLASSIC
Project Construction 1
R.	Grubbe
J. Diebel
F. Kleiderer
W. Dowdall
C. LeRose
J. DeBernardi
H. Murphy
S.	Pecora _______269
D. Halloran ____.267
W. Dowdall ______266
Project Construction 1060-2990
R. Grubbe
J. Diebel F. Kleiderer W. Dowdall C. Lerose
R. Grubbe ______724
M. Bentley ____.666
T. Nekic ______.655
T.	Nekic 192
R.	Grubbe ________________190
P.	Heenan ________________180
CLASSIC LEAGUE OFFICERS
Fred Vida___________________President
Mick Redohl __________.Vice-President
Jim Flannery_____Secretary-Treasurer
MOST IMPROVED BOWLERS
J. Curran
J. Rafferty
T. Prantil
J. Kirk
M. Lefere (two leagues)
NOTRE DAME SINGLES TOURNEY
D. Gundling------1131	J.	Lefere_______1107
W. Dowdall ------1124	D.	Materna _____1091
K. Sullivan -----1124	D.	Lyons________1075
J. Flannery -----1121
J. Flannery-------------------1046 (high scratch)
L. Trotta _------------:--------.236 (high game)
The Scholastic
MSU Tests Track Team On Cartier Field Tonight
Tonight Notre Dame plays host to 4 ' Michigan State’s Big Ten track team at Cartier Field. If ailing Irish distance star, Ron Gregory, is feeling well, the Irish have a good chance of taking the t meet, according to Coach Alex Wilson. Field events start at 6:30 p.m.; the running events at 7 p.m.
Two of Michigan State’s top track-• sters compete in the distance events which is where the Irish strength lies.
Bob Lake is one of the better milers in the country. He recorded a time of around 4:12 in the Drake Relays three weeks ago.
Crawford Kennedy in the two-mile is one of the country’s finest distance run-V ners. Two-time NCAA cross-country champion in the four-mile cross-country grind, Kennedy this year has run a 9:04 two-mile indoors.
• This is also the last home appearance for three Irish seniors, Mike Morando, > Marty Clynes, and Steve Dornbach.
Morando, the top javelin thrower, has *• been a consistent winner in this event for the Irish the past two years. He has bettered 220 feet in the javelin throw a number of times in his college career.
* Dornbach, one of Notre Dame’s all-time best hurdlers, has his name at-tached to a number of indoor dual meet and Notre Dame indoor track records.
* Clynes has been a vital part of the distance relay teams that have furnished the high part of the Irish outdoor track performances so far this year. His event is the half-mile.
Last Saturday the Missouri Tigers defeated Coach Wilson’s team, 75 to 56, in a dual meet at Columbia.
Morando and Pete Sheptak took first and second honors in the javelin ? throw. Ken Scarborough and Bill Hickman netted second and third respectively (Continued on page 24)
LOST
A pair of greenish - brown, horn-rimmed glasses, in vicinity of the circle. Please return to: LARY LEACH. 338 BADIN HALL.
Nominal reward offered
EUROPE
Mfa to the ben Certain; Africa to Seeta. Yerte i rri	art batt aneel C*
lage fhw Abe Aerter tries mt'ONR EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
JH Stfeiie (Res S)	Pinifitoi, QA
from our University Shop DISTINCTIVE LIGHTWEIGHT CLOTHING FOR SUMMER
JAVELIN STANDOUT MIKE MORANDO Track star's last home oppearance tonight.
(shown) New Lightweight Dinner Jacket in Dark, Handsome India Madras Plaids, $38.50 Dacron^-and-Cotton Check Odd Jackets, $32.50 Dacron-and-Cotton 1 Wash-and- Wear3 Suits, $40 Unusual India Madras Odd Jackets, $35 Washable Odd Trousers, $9 and $12.50 Colorful Polo and S'port Shirts, $4 to $9 Bermuda Length Shorts, $7.50 to $11.50
•DuPont’s fiber
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE* CHICAGO 2, ILL. NXWYOKK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FEANOSCO

May 15, 1959
Track Team
(Continued from page 23) for the Big Green in the discus toss, while Hickman also registered a third place in the shot put event.
Tom Reichert’s 14-foot vault netted him a second place, behind an exceptional 14-foot, 5-inch vault by Joe Webb of the Tigers. Jerry Fitzpatrick and Dick Monjeau also placed second and third in the broad jump. Monjeau placed third in the high jump.
The Irish suffered severely in the sprints, but Jerry Fitzpatrick managed to grab a third place in the 220. Chris Monahan broke the tape with a :49.9 time in the 440, taking first place. Monahan was followed by Tom Breitenbach, cinching a 1-2 finish for the Irish in that event.
The 880-yard race saw Dan Rorke ■finishing first with his 1:56 time, followed by Clynes in the number three position. Fleet-footed Ron Gregory, although ailing, took his usual first place in the mile, with a 4:19 clocking.
The mile relay team of Monahan, Clynes, Rorke, and Frank Hemphill won their event handily with a time of 3:22.5. Dave Cotton nabbed a second place in the two-mile run for the Irish. Captain Dornbach took a second place in the low hurdles and a third in the high hurdles.
Although the Irish did quite well in the weights and distances, sprint losses made the difference at Columbia last Saturday.
Flanagan and Torza Cop Top Honors in Pro-Am
Last Thursday, May 7, Felice Torza of the Aurora Country Club in Aurora, Ill., and Christie Flanagan of the Notre Dame golf team and Port Arthur, Texas, won top honors in the annual Pro-Amateur tournament sponsored by the Gerity Golf Fund. Both golfers shot even par 71’s for an aggregate total of 142.
Dick Manns, an amateur and a member of the Irish golf team also, fired a one-under par 70 to capture medalist laurels for the day. His partner, professional Chuck Bernardi, carded a 73 to give their team a 143 total, one stroke behind Flanagan and Torza.
Manns won a set of irons for his efforts while Flanagan was awarded a set of woods. The other amateurs all received silver ladles as token awards.
Harry Pazzulo, Professional Golfer of the Year in 1958, conducted a clinic in the morning at which various professionals from an Illinois PGA demonstrated the fundamentals of the golf swing.
Swimmers Form Dolphin Club To Promote Interest in Team
Recently the members of the swimming team drew up a constitution for a cub to promote interest in swimming as a sport and recreation here at the University. The constitution has been approved, and the organization’s official
name is now the University of Notre ! Dame Dolphin Club.	-
The club held its first elections on April 16, and the following are the officers elected: Paul Chestnut, president; Dick Dunn, vice-president; Gene Witch- $ ger, secretary; Dick Katis, treasurer.
One of the main reasons for organizing the club is “to create an active auxiliary to the swimming team in the off-season.” ’
Membership in the Dolphin Club is voluntary, and admission is determined . by the majority vote of active members. Any member of the student body is eligible to join the club.
Irish Sailing Team Wins Third In Detroit Invitational Regatta
In the Fifth Annual Detroit Yacht
Club Invitational Regatta last week end, Notre Dame’s sailing team came in third out of a field of ten.

With Mickey Pavia skippering and Jim Kuras and Dan Schuster crewing, the ( Irish got off to a good start, taking a first and two thirds in the first three races. But then the Irish sailors had ' tiller trouble, and a strong current forced them into a mark. Dan Schuster took ‘ over the helm in the last race with John Miller and Kuras crewing and taking a second place.	.
Storm warnings and strong winds . forced cancellation of races Sunday. In _ the final scores, Michigan took first place, . just a fraction of a point ahead of the University of Detroit. Wisconsin came in t fourth, close behind the Irish.	;


Get the quality car with built-in savings— Rambler ’59. Save more than ever on first cost, on gas. Highest resale, too. Enjoy Personalized Comfort: individual sectional sofa front seats. See your Rambler dealer.
New 100-tach wheetaM RAMLER AMERICAN
SEE YOU UMILEIIEALEI TOMY MB MVE
24
The Scholastic
, kepfuMUitut
’ Dear Sir:
4 Regarding your comments on the recent Monogram Club initiations, we would like to clarify several points. First of all, we want to apologize for r' hindering the paths of those bent upon the pursuit of knowledge. We also regret that this year’s initiation failed to approach your rigid standards of hilar-< ity.
The final session of the initiation, held ' in the Fieldhouse, is open only to members of the Monogram Club. The activi-> ties carried on here affect only club members, and are supervised by coaches at ■ all times. Your cited example, that of blind-folding a prominent football player V and pushing him from the balcony onto a trampoline, is first of all untrue, as well as absurd and “semi-sadistic.”
Although you have doubted a purpose * for the initiation, the members of the club feel otherwise. Indeed, in the past - it has been those who have lettered in minor- sports who have been most insistent on the initiations.
We feel that the editors’ order to cease and desist has been based upon a farfetched rumor, and this order should apply only to such rumors and their sources.
*■	Mike Haverty,
Frank Reynolds, r	Monogram Club
CALENDAR
TONIGHT:
6:30 p.m.—Track meet; Notre Dame vs.
> Michigan State.
8:15 p.m.—St. Mary’s College presents “The Cherry Orchard” in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre.
9-1:00 a.m.—Freshman Formal in the Student Center. Music by Russ Carlyle.
SATURDAY:
’	8:00 p.m.—Student Senate sponsored dance
in the Student Center. Music by Bruce Cossachi. Tickets $1 at the door.
8:15 p.m.—“The Cherry Orchard” presented by St. Mary’s College in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre.
SUNDAY:
8:30 a.m.—Graduate Student Association Communion Breakfast at the Fatima Retreat House. Tickets may be obtained from the officers.
8:15 p.m.—In the Moreau Hall Little y Theatre, “The Cherry Orchard,” presented by St. Mary’s College.
10-5:00 p.m.—Lyons Hall picnic at the Dunes.
WEDNESDAY:
7:00 p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in IC of the Student Center.
May 15, 1959
Rag. 694 value
Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore
HAVE BUSES . . .
WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Tripe Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SHUMAN. Campus Bep. 263 Dillon Ext 631
CHARTER A—
we're tops
for new and used books
You’ve reached the summit when you visit our second floor. See the widest selection of textbooks and books for reading pleasure.
Textbook companies will pay “peak” prices for your used books.
Stop in soon. We’re always happy to. see you.
Save on the finest at the:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
2T
Back Pof6
<
by LARRY MARTIN
love
Larry Martin, author of this week's "“Back Page,” is a junior history major in the College of Arts and Letters. He ■is active in the Blue Circle and the Catholic Action Bureau of the NFCCS of tvhich he is co-chairman.
In his discussion of love, Martin strikes at the heart of a problem which is of vital concern for any man who ■views with alarm the more dangerous trends in modern society. He seeks to find the cause of these trends in man’s ■rejection of love as a basis for life and posits a possible solution.
Men must give serious thought again to the means of procuring for the human race the happiness which has been proposed for it. Even a brief review of current literature reveals an unrest among men; many attribute this unrest to the complex structure of our modern industrial society. Whatever the reason he, this unrest results in serious problems for America as well as throughout the world. Parricide, “thrill of it” murders, divorce and godlessness all too well attest to this; for many cases where can the reason lie?
It seems that this individual type society has ceased to be based on love. The "“get ahead” attitude which prevails throughout society leads to selfishness and self-centeredness because this attitude is not tempered by love. Love remains the key to a solid life. Reflections of the absence of love are seen in the ruthlessness of some business practices, in materialistic philosophy and in the lack of faith among nations, to name hut a few instances. Reading the counsels of the Church Fathers, still imbued with the spirit of charity that was the Master’s, we find that the foundation of ■Christianity is on the basis of love: ■“See how they love one another.” The •democratic principle of the natural ■equality of all men was practiced (seemingly to an almost radical degree) by the early Christians in their love towards their fellow-man.
LOVE HAS BEEN LOST
But between the time of the early Christians and the present day, this idea •of community oneness or the solidarity ■of the human race has lost its vitality. No longer is this love accepted as the basis of society. Politically, ideologies preaching nationalism or isolationism have destroyed the essence of universal love. Nationalism and isolationism have «ither pitted nation against nation or cut off the contact of a single nation from the rest of the world. In an economic sense, the extreme laissez faire or “classical economy” theories have made pos
26
sible the unjust exploitation of minority or defenseless groups. Even religion has been drastically affected as the spirit of community lost its vitality. The Protestant Reformation of the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries introduced the idea of individual commerce with God, thereby ending corporate worship. Religion was relegated to an entirely personal and private affair. Individual ideas of God were accepted as valid worship, communal participation in religious services was forsaken, finally leading to ideas of the sufficiency of faith alone for salvation. It is unfortunate, but this spirit of individuality has crept (although to a lesser degree) even into Catholic worship.
The development of this idea of private worship could only lead to a strict direct relationship between God and the individual. Man’s religious acts then, consisted solely of some sort of contact with God; no longer were his religious acts concerned with the world about him. In this sharp severance, good works and charity ceased playing an essential role in salvation. And without positive, active love of his fellow-man, it was just another step to establish the suspicion, jealousy and hate now present in the world. I cite the destruction of Christian communal love as a major source of the world’s troubles.
COMMUNITY AS MYSTICAL BODY
The idea of the Christian community is established in the Trinity. The Trinity is a community because there are three persons, united yet distinct. Each lives for the other; their life is a network of relationships expressed by love. For us, these relationships are expressed in the community of the Mystical Body. The failure to recognize this is the precise failure of society — men no longer live for one another. Their relationships, instead of being expressed by love, find expression in ideas of personal gain and self-gratification.
We must regard community life as the norm of Christian life. One cannot live as a lone individual; he must share in the lives of others. We can only fulfill the Master’s commandment, “Love one another,” in a community. Conversely, the communal life must express itself in love. Love is the essence of Christianity; we must work and live and walk in love. St. Paul defines this Christian love in very basic terms: “Charity is patient, is kind; charity does not envy, is not pretentious, is not puffed up, is not ambitious, is not self-seeking, is not provoked; thinks no evil, does not rejoice over wickedness, but rejoices with the truth; bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.”
This is the Christian way of life. Only in such a way can there be “peace among men.” Only with love can men attain the good-will so necessary to u, peace. The problem then is how to apply this to our complex society. Simply enough, men must literally live the advice of St. Paul — men must give to ■ others so that they themselves may receive peace and good-will. Love must ex- . tend to every legitimate institution of which we are a part. The institutions of the world must be redeemed, but there can be no redemption without love.
The world has seen many social and religious reformers. Those inspired with love have left a good mark upon men. Those void of love have chained men in * bondage. The lattei* reforms had to be ,, forcibly imposed on society and their " stability was due only to force. Such philosophical systems have bathed themselves in centuries of blood. Currently, 4 the spector of Communism haunts the world. The godless system of Moscow casts an ominous shadow of enslavement over the world. Although Communists profess the ultimate goal of the absolute equality of all men, they foolishly seek j to impose this equality with terror. This I race of crocodiles can only breed hate I as they bid the free world to a summit I which lies only in a muddy hole. They J propagandize the goal of the “truly human” as that which will be realized when the world has arrived at the society without classes.	A
How very true that can be if we only consider this society as a society of love which renders class distinctions meaningless. Weapons and resort to arms can 1 only cut asunder’ the powers of the earth —they can never rebuild. Love shall only be established with the means of love. A seminal world of love can be established < inside the present one by living the idea of love as given by St. Paul.
“CHARITY TO ALL"
The idea of “charity to all and malice towards none” should guide us to a fuller Christian life. To live for oneself is '■ cold and meaningless; only with the Christian idea of love of the brotherhood can we know peace. This is a real meaning of life. Those many people groping about for some meaning to life, those searching unsuccessfully for truth, those at odds with a world unacceptable to themselves could find satisfaction if they would only learn to love. The real Christian must channel these wanderers and open to them the life of love. Only by living for others can we do this — only by expressing our relationships by love can we bring peace to the world.
The Scholastic
ill mis UBUBYui NIK BMP
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Gendel's Surplus Sales All Officer Insignia
You Save Every day at GENDEL’S
512 SO. MICHIGAN
to get a better shovel
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
Quicker .. . closer ... smoother ... no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus tai
SHULTON New York • Toronto
MEN
AMERICA
THE RANCH
HANDS
Live-action shots— Saddle Mountains, Wash.
Driving cattle!
Desert sun ablaze!
Takes big pleasure when and where he can... Chesterfield King!
Pounding leather
rounding up the strays!
Top-tobacco, straight Grade-A, Top-tobacco all the way!
Herding steers across the range ou’U find a man
This sun-drenched top-tobacco’s gonna mean...
That you’re smokin' smoother and you’re smokin’ clean!

Only top-tobacco, full king-size, For big clean taste that satisfies!
MwAo^w-NOTHING SATISFIES LIKE THE BIG CLEAN TASTE OF TOP-TOBACCO
EXTRA LENGTH top-tobacco filter action ... tops in friendly satisfaction!
KING
