.-·-·--· 
~; /,·. 
(D '}, ' 
. : 
. . 
.,,,/? ~ 
-::·::~~' 
,financial aid:'.. .. 
i.:,;.ct,ting fOJ'. an aff6rd.0.ble ed11~~tion 




or1a 
No university has perfected fund-raising as an art form tlie way Notre 
ame has. She successfully convinces alumni, businessmen and .national endowments that this institution, thiscommunity this "special place;' is a worthwhile investment. As students, wetoohave decided that Notre Dame is a worthwhile educational investment. ·. The factor which sways many of us toward this investment decision has. nothing to do. with money, but with what we perceive to be·the special I11ission· of Notre Dame.· . 
Notre Dam~ sees itselfas the place where, "the Catholic Church does its thinking." The University claims that its Catholic nature must not rest on a. narrow, parochial constituency, but upon a broad, diverse community. As Fr. Hesburgh says, "We wel.come students and faculty members of all religions and cultures." This diversity within our community serves to exemplify the University's search for catholicity in the broad, universal sense. The Notre Dame family must reflect the family of man . 
.This vision of Notre Dame has yetto be completely attained. An omi­nous cloud hangs over it. The rising cost of higher education combined with the crumbling Consensus in Washington on the government's responsibility to aid needy students threatens to preclude the compietion of Notre Dam.e's mis,­sion. We· face the possibility bf sliding into the comfortable existence of a haven for upper-middle class suburbanites. All or Notre Dame's dreams for itself scream out against such an outcome; 
While· faced with this crisis, we have two options; we may raise our · · hands in disgust, blaming the economy or Reagan's policies, or w·e may take our future into our own hands. to fulfill our vision. Notre Dame must cho.ose the latter course, lest our committment to; a true Catholic family be. proven · 
hollow. · · · · ·· · 
Constructive action must .be taken by Notre Dame to guarantee its accessibility to students of. all_ income groups·· who hear its special call.. An -.. effective, far-reaching Notre Dame financial aid program is · an idea whose . time has come. Such a policy isnot just abenevoknt gesture, but a necessity 
for the maintenance of the true•.spiritof Nofre Dame; familial and universal.· 
We applaud the polic:i outlined in the PACE report calling for a higher priority for financial aid. we: also cliallenge th;; administration· to n·ot allow this initiative to sink into the abyss of bureaucratic stagnation. If we . turn our Midas touch which raises money for fountains; pools and memoria_ls to the t_ask of financial aid fund-raising then we canhot fail. · · 
. . In short, we ~re engaged in<a struggle for the verysoul of our school. We must decide if Notre Dame is really a family for everyone or-merely a priviledge for the few. We urge Notte Dame to put its money where its heart_ is~ 
-SCHOLASTIC 


SCHOLASTIC 
. Volume 127, Number 1 
September 18, 1985 
Editor-in-Chief Jim Basile 
General Manager Maher Mouasher 
Destgn Editor Pete Wowkowych . 
Managing Editor ·. Matt Bradley 
Marketing Pete Cespedes/ Advertising 
Editorial 
Barb Blanchette/Saint Mary's John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney/Student Life · Mike 0Hoffman/Nat. Affairs Jean O'Bryan/Ncitre Dame 
Design· 
Jennifer Niederst/Art . Kathleen Lau/Layout Alfredo Marr /Layout Emil McCauley /Layout Paul Kramer/Photography Nick Batistich/Photography Ellyn Parcells/Illustrations Phoebe Zolbrad/Art Tim Carl/Cartoonist 
The opinions express.ed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors .of SCHOLASTIC and do not neceBBarily represent the ·opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre D~e, its administration, faculty, or student body. · 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc/: 

Published bi-weekly ,during the school yearexcep(' ;\1i8/~µsic;iN.D::!Women Shake.Down The Thunder 
during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46642. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back iBBues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please addreBB all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame,. IN 46556. All unsolicited material 
· becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. · Copy­right © 1985 SCHOLASTIC, All rights reserved, . None of the contents may be reproduced without,· permission. ' . . ' 


FEATURES 
2/If I Had A Hammer by Daniel Thompson 
Cover Story: Financial Aid 
4/Investing In The Future 
by· Pat Collins 
6/Setting the Pace . by John Delaney 
8/Making Their Own Way 
by Laurie Carrol 
10/Sorting Through The Maze 
by Pete Butler and Mike Hoffman 
11/Student Aid Debts Limit Post-Grad Plans 
13/Killer Snake Highlights South Bend Summer 
by Teres.a Keefe and Barb. Blanchette 
14/The Show Must Go On 
by Mary Louise Padden 
20/The Promise of Glory 
by Pete Pranica 

DEPARTMENTS 
12/Science And Technology: Computer Comer 
by Louis Fuka 
16/Coming Distractions. 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 
18/Out And About: Beaching It by Mary Dolan and Maureen Madison . 
19/Fiction: "Yell ow" 
by.Kris Anders 
26/On Other Campuses 
Compiled by Paul Aiello i;, ;: >.; : ; .. , ..... :,i ·, ··• • . · 
. , :•1,yjia~hei'Nigi-6 ;c:· ' > · ) . ·.
= 

' 29/Film:_The Ais'le ,Seat .· ~y Th~odore Mandell 
. •' ' . . . ' 
30 /Gallery:· Moving In· Photographed by Matt Bradley 
32/The L.ast Word: A ·Different Kind of Summer by Mary Hartney · 
' 
. I 

1 

la 
The traditional sights and sounds of pool room will be replaced by a "mini-mall" autumn at Notre Dame are changing. Strains which will have space for rtine commercial of music from the marching. band oil Green· businesses as well as a 24-hour laundromat, a field and the hissing of sprinklers spraying the wide-screen television room and a new recrea­sod have been joined by the 1ncreasingly fami-tion area with pool tables and video games. · 
liar sounds of jack hammers and construction On the main floor, the renovations equipment. Chain link fences surrounding center primarily around the Huddle. The seat­. · piles of building materials have become a fam-ing area will be expanded so that it can hold iliar sight on campus. The last. five years have up to 336 people, more than triple its present seen the construction of the Pasquerilla worn-capacity. Plans also call· for an increased ens' dorms, Decio faculty office building, variety in the food service. New counters on Stepan Chemical Building, Fitzpatrick_ .Hall the south side of the building will offer Mexi­and the renovation of Washington Hall and can and Chinese food as well as a potato and 
LaFortune Student Center. Clearly .. Notre salad bars. Dame is experiencing a period of rapid growth which shows no signs of letting up. At present, The second floor ballroom will receive the University is investing over 16 million dol-a permanent stage as well as new light and . lars on construction projects that are in pro-sound booths. New· lounges are to be built gress or nearly completed. around the existing dance floor and plans also call... for the addition of a terraced .seatihg area
Over one quarter of that sum, 4.5 mil­lion dollars, is going toward ari extensive reno-and non-alcoholic bar. The ·student govern­vation of the LaFortune Student Center. Con-ment and organizational offices on·the second 
floor will also be renovated. 
struction has already begun on an addition to the east side of the building which will add Finally, the third floor has been desig­almost · 25,000 square feet of space to the· nated as the student media floor and will con­present building. According to the architec-tinue to house the offices of the Observer, tural plans, the new eastern facade will have a Scholastic, the Juggler and the Dome. WVFI, two story porch which will closely resemble . the student-run AM radio station will relocate the western entrance. The Nazz and the old •here as well. Work on LaFortune is scheduled 


for completion in timf' for the 1985-86 school year. 
. . Just beyond the fence that surrounds the east side. of LaFortune, .another fence has gone up .on the Fieldhouse.Mall. The Univer­sity, recently. announced . plans to erect a faun-. tain in the center of the mall in honor of the Notre Dame alumni who have died in service of their country since World War II. The foun­tain was designed by John Burgee, a 1956 · alumnus and architect, and consists of a black granite pool from which will rise four post­and-lintel arches. Each arch will be made of two columns of Indiana limestone 20 feet high and 5 feet square, topped by another IO foot long piece. Within each arch wiHbe a fountain . and in the center of the monument will be a 4 foot sphere of granite. Construction, which began this fall, is expected to be finished in time for this year's . commencement. The monument will cost from $400,000 to $500,000 
· according to the ~hief landscape architect of Cole Associates, which is assisting Eurgee in the construction of the monument. . 
Near the Main Circle, the walls are starting to take shape on the expansion of the Notre Dame Law School. The 5 million dollar 
. project. is scheduled for completion by Sep­tember' of 1986. The primary reason behind the expansion of the east side of the 54 year old building is the improvement and enlargement of the Kresge Law Library. Presently the library contains about 165,000 volumes. After expansion, the new capacity will be 300,000 volumes. These additional volumes will allow for greater faculty research. The renovations also call for new faculty offices and secretary space, two new lecture rooms and a moot court room with audio-visual capabilities. The architectural firm of Ellerbe Architects and Engineers, who have designed many campus buildings such as the ACC and the Memorial Library provided the plans for the addition. 

the ACC. The new olympic-sized pool, 50 meters by 25 yards, will have two removable bulkheads which can be placed in the pool in order to divide it for different uses. The pool is scheduled to open some time after fall break and will serve both the men's and women's swim teams as well as the recreational needs of the rest of the Notre Dame community. The multimillion donation of an anonymous benefactor helped offset the estimated 4.5 mil­lion dollar construction cost. 
Student residences also received reno­

vations. Badin Hall benefited from new metal 
window frames and new windows, while Far­
ley and Breen-Phillips were the-subjects of 
extensive work. This work included newly 
painted walls, new corridor carpet, . windows 
and· lavatories as well as the installation of 
smoke and fire alarms and sprinklers _in the 
storage and food sales areas. 
After the dust settles, the construction crews disappear · and the dedication ceremonies end, count on another series of renovations and new projects . to begin. Though the University has not officially con­firmed the rumor, the word is out that another large endowment drive is being planned for the near future, possibly after ·the 1987 school year. Mr. Jim Murphy, associate vice president of University Relations, would only affirm that something was. in the offing, but was not at liberty to give any details as ·of yet. According to one source, the ~projected plans for the next endowment driv~ · might include the construction of two new women's dorms between the Pasquerilla's and the library, a new classroom building and a new athletic facility in the area of Cartier field. As none of these projects have been officially confirmed, perhaps the best way to guess what the next change in the face of Notre Dame will be is to watch for where the chain .link fences will show up next. • 
Ellerbe architects are also responsible for the design of the nearly completed natato­rium which has been added to the east side of 


___1s_sE_P_T_E_M_B_E_R~l-98_5____________________________________...,;··: 




by John Delaney 
these grants to support the colleges, states obtained the means of financing post­secondary institutions. In 1890, after several land-grant colleges experienced financial strain, Congress amended the Morrill Act by authorizing annual grants to the state for 

The history of federal aid to education has 
~;.,.~.:'-. 

~If\~_,·•#-·'
\G .. 
·. .~:.:.• 
in thee Futu:irce 
By providing varying forms of financial assistance to colleges and universi­ties over the years, the federal government has had a primary influence on the course of 
· higher education in the United States. From the establishment of land-grant colleges in the l 860's through the creation of contem­porary financial assistnace programs, a comprehensive network of federal financing has developed. Throughout this period the federal government has used its access to the educational system to address national prior­ities. In the process, it has provided educa­tional opportunity to financially needy indi­viduals. Through its efforts, higher education has become (although parents of Notre Danie students may disagree) a more feasible option for many young Americans. 
An · examination of several major programs instituted by the federal govern­. ment over the ~ears reveals a pattern of active government. intervention. More recently, however, the extent of the federal role in financing higher education has been under the critical eye of the Reagan Administration. The previous infusions of federal monies stand in stark contrast to the current proposals advocating cuts in funding levels. The degree to which a diminished federal role would adversely affect college.;. bound individuals is debatable; however,_ it 
cant departure from the past federal role in r/: ·--. t e~cation financing. ~-.:. 

;.,....,,.,,,,,,""°',....."""""~""'-~~·~ ' 'I Q_, .._,._
;·._2:ll~~Jj , -<:I
I 
provided grants of federal land to each state 
for the establishment of colleges specializing in agriculture and engineering studies. Enti­tling each state to grants of thirty thousand acres for each US Representative and Sena­tor of that state, these "land-grant" colleges represented the first major aid-to-education legislation. By utilizing the proceeds from 
operation of the colleges. Through the Mor­rill Act the federal government supplied a surplus resource in exchange for future pros­perity in academic fields of study. Indeed, the development of the United States as an agricultural and industrial power is often attributed, at least in part, to the Morrill Act. 
A second major federal supplement to higher education came in the-fourteen-and a half billion dollar Gl Bill of Rights (for­mally known as the Serviceman's Readjust­ment Act of 1944). Due to our massive troop commitment to the Allied effort, Congress recognized that substantial efforts would have to be made to absorb the influx of fif­teen million war veterans back into the econ­omy. While this comprehensive bill was tar­.geted for all Second World War veterans, the most widely used benefits were those con­tained in the education provisions. Fcir any veteran who had served ninety days or · more, the Veterans Administration would pay tuition and fees, up to a maximum of · five hundred dollars per year, for the stu­dent -veterans. In addition, a monthly allowance with a stipend for dependents was 
· included in the student package. 

In enabling millions of young men and women to finance their education, the · government was symbolically expressing gra­
j . titude for these individuals' roles in the war 
GI Bill allowed for amore gradual transition into a peacetime economy by absorbing some 

..,,,.. ............................... 
SCHOLASTIC 


-
reflected the development 
. 
The Morrill Act, enacted in 1862, 

is clear that the proposals represent a: signifi~-~:~i,; .effort. In terms of the national economy, the 


of the nation. Has it now become too expensive a habit to keep? 
of the surplus labor market. Helping to The eventual payoff would be in a long-run preserve individual dignity and maintaining diversification of the national economy and economic stability, the GI Bill was an inno-the increased earning power of college gra­vative and effective piece of legislation. The duates. The programs created under the success of the original GI Bill spawned a ~ Higher Education Act were expanded in a similar bill after the Korean War and a 1965 If.}· series of Education Amendments in the
1~ • 
"Cold War GI Bill" which covered members .I...·'/ 1970's. Most notably, the Education Amend-of,the armed forces 'during both times of war/ ···. -1 men ts of 1972 provided a nineteen billion and peace. ~-·.e .'/ dollar extension to the HEA of 1965. This . · t r th·· d. • · history of federal financial aid demonstrates
The 1mpe us 1or a ir maJor wave • f ·d 
. f that the government's perception .o a1 tot
of fe_deral s~pport Of ~ duca ion came rom education has shifted over the past century Russian achieveme~t~ m space technology. from viewing it as a means to other national. 
The successful orb1tmg of the first earth . . . . . ·. . 
11. s •k • h • ht d th goals to v1ewmg 1t as a national pnonty m 
sate ite, putm ' _m • 1957 . e1~ ene . e and of itself. awareness of our madequac1es m techrucal fields. In 1958 President Eisenhower signed On the more ominous side, however, the National Defense Education Act 
the expansion of the government's role has (NDEA) which was drawn to encourage the led to an overt influence on the essence of study of science, mathematics, engineering, the educational process. These times of and foreign languages at all levels of the edu­financial austerity have heightened fears that cational system. The bulk of · the financial money is being spent on those who are not commitment, however, went to the creation truly needy. This combination of cir­of NDEA loans to college-bound students. cumstances has led the Reagan Adminis-tra­Providing undergraduates with . low-interest tion to reconsider the value of such high loans of up to one · thousand dollars per year level funding. Proposals have been made cal-with generous · repayment schedules, the ling for substantial modifications of the NDEA loans represented the first direct loan Higher Education Act programs and those program to individuals. The predecessor of expanded upon in the Education Amend-the National Direct Student Loan program of . ments. Con-sistant with his theme of decen­today, this program remains a primary tralization and domestic program contrac­
source of funding for needy individuals. tion, the President seeks significant reduc­· In 1965 Congress specificallv tions in federal aid programs. By establishing addressed the plight of needy students in the eligibility caps on family income (of 
Higher Education Act. Revolutionary in its $25,000), setting a maximum individual aid student aid provisions, this act built the reward (of $4000), and requiring a "self-· foundation for our current student assistance help" contribution, the Reagan Administra­
program. The Pell Grant, College Work tion is shifting the burden of fmancing Study, Guaranteed Student Loan, and higher education to the family unit. In federal scholarship programs were unique attempting to reverse the tide of federal attempts at meeting the f mancial needs .of · funding, the President faces opposition from qualified college · applicants. This act Congress and the adversely affected parties. represents a significant. expansion in the Can we afford to · provide such high 
scope of federal education programs. Unlike 

levels of . funding? This will. undoubtedlyprevious legislation, no specific national 
continue to be a ·much debated question in priority was being addressed; rather, there 
the next session of Congress. If history pro-was a recognition of the investment aspect of 
vides us with any insight, though, perhapshigher education. By aiding qualified, albeit the more relevant question would be, can we needy, students in meeting their financial afford not to? • 
costs, the federal government would be 
......~~.

absorbing a substantial shorMerm burden. -~··J~~ 
·· r(ili' i ~"-••~•-•­
-~~-.~-~a'•~:.
~,;;;;;;:j,a!!)H!c:r.:;;~!!.·_l_B_S_E_P_T_E_MB_E_R_l9_8_5.;____________---" _ _:____________J!_~:·!'.::'~--.:.; 
5 
I 

Setting 
PACE 
by Paf Collins 
f .. ~-:,-.~: .~,, 

report attempts to Mr. Joseph Russo, Director o( Financial Aid at Notre Dame, is elated. "This is very, 
A new /J;i;/1 
revitalize financial aid . 
.ft~, 

very encouraging for our office. The Univer­sity is sincerely behind us. The PACE report will be the foundation of the school's next 
As tuition costs throui!hou! Ame:i:: major fundraising drive, to go public in 1987. increase well above the rate of inflation, more Increasing the student loan endowment will be and more students are forced to search for a top concern." additonal financial support. Currently, a 
The University• endowment to suportrecord sixty-six percent of all Notre Dame stu­student scholarships presently hovers arounddents rely on some form of financial aid to thirty . million dollars, a figure which winmake ends meet. Approximately thirty-eight increase to ninety million dollars if Notremillion dollars worth of scholarships,· grants, Dame is successful in-achieving the goal . esta­loans and work programs were employed by blished by PACE. This. amount will helpthe student body at the university last year; Notre Dame to continue its current policy ofthis figure is expected to increase this year. 

using only "real money" (money taken fromYet, as the University increases tuition v,vhile the interest produced by the fund) to supportstriving to maintain its position among the elite students. Other colleges with less conservativeschools ih ·the country, it faces the risk of los­financial policies often attempt: to attracting many talented students who simply cannot · promising students by offering discounts onafford to attend such an expensive· school. 
the price of tuition or room· and board. The · 
The administration is well aware of result of such programs is that cost usually the problems which the future :holds. In the soars for other students. Some schools use Priorities and Commitments. for Excellence thirty percent of tuition costs to pay for scho­(PACE) report, issued two years ago, a com~ larships. Notre Dame, with the exception of mittee recognized that "universities are beset the Athletic Department, avoids · discount by the general economic malaise' of the times, schemes to lure students. The Athletic Depart­and many anticipate considerable retrench­ment brings in more than enough money to ment in the decade ahead." Elsewhere, the cover its scholarship program. The . result is study draws attention. to the negative effects that the money a student pays for tuition is not which recent "cutbacks in financial aid" might · used to help someone else afford college costs. have upon student enrollment. 
Another element of Notre Dame's con­

The PACE committee :recognjzed a servative financial · philosophy is its adament pressing need to substantially increase the opposiion towards no~need scholarships. Many amount of money. Notre Dame currently institutions award. scholarships solely on the spends to assist students and their families. basis of academic achievement to attract top Urging the administration to treat financial aid high school graduates. Students who are able as a top priority for the future, the committee to pay. for college often receive these awards. recommended. "that · the university seek to In a recent essay inChange magazine, Richard increase endowment for undergraduate stu­W'. Hairies, Director of Admissions at Lafay­dent aid threefold by 1990." The Board · of ette College, argues, "No-need scholarships Trustees agreed with the report;· conimentirig, ignore the principle, widely accepted during "the trustees believe that Notre, Dame should the thirty· years since it became feasible to be open to qualified students of all economic determine financial need, that the limited circumstances. A concerted effort must be .• funds available for financial aid should sup­made to enlarge our · resources, for financial . port· college attendance by qualified students aid." 

SCHOLASTIC 


who could not otherwise afford to enroll." 
· Although the Universiy does recognize academic merit among applicants through the "Notre Dame Scholar" program, it steadfastly refuses to award money to scholars unless they demonstrate need. PACE strongly asserts that Notre Dame should continue this policy. 
The PACE committee also emphasized the need to "significantly increase minority enrollment." Notre Dame, traditionally criti­cized for. a low minority enrollment, is urged to' cultivate the presence of. minorities on campus through the use of financial aid scho­larships. The stagnant economy coupled with the rising costs of a college education makes it particularly difficult for minority families to send their children to a school such as Notre Dame. A ware of the problem, Mr. Russo asserts, "Some benefactors have donated money to be strictly used for needy minority students. The amount available will be greatly increased over the next few years." Another aid program which will see a further improve­ment is the hardship program. This special fund makes financial assistance available for students who have suffered an unforeseen tragedy within the family. 


A sense of optimism, fostered by the PACE report, permeates Notre Dame's Finan­cial Aid Office. The general feeling is that the University is truly approaching the day when money will no longer serve as a factor in a student's decision to enroll at Notre Dame or a less expensive school. One can only hope that the Notre Dame ·effort can keep pace with the spiraling costs ofeducation. • 


~ ~ 
.f ~ . ·. ({}) 
#M~)!png Their Own Way ':i,·. 
J;;,..G/t·'··• 
~if
¢I. 
Four Notre ·. Dame . students struggle 
Tm isafourthiyear arcru,cc, on an 
Air Force ROTC scholarship. He began as an· . engineering ·student but .deccided to .change ·.. majors after. a year. "They (ROTC advisors) told me it-was a risk,'' he said. He was leftin suspense for a month while a committee evaluated the switch. Luckiiy, the scholarship 
was reinstated for three .· more yea.rs, ' for without it Tim would have had to leave school. As it is, Tim will have to pay for his fifth year on his own, and then serve four years in the Air Force, but.he feels very lucky. "ROTC isn't for everyone but it was a good way . to go for me personally," he said. "You've got to go into debt when you go to college. You owe people· either time or money." 



by Laurie Carrol 

,vith_ ·higher education ~n the eighties. 
... Mark is a . junior economics major keenly aware ofthe debt he has built up while .ac:"ciuiring aNotte Dame education. Upon gra­duation, he will owe fifteen thousand dollars "before interest", he emphasizes. "At times I w"onder if a.liberal education is worth the debt ·•-·.. I'm :incurring when I think ofmy friends at 
.state. schools." These doubts must . have · festered all last year as he worked eleven hours a week at the dining hall and dug graves for fifty hours a week· during the summer. "l don't see why Notre Dame has an increase of eight hundred dollars a year but my financial aid package never changes. I suppose that five hundred thousand dollar fountain that looks like Stonehenge II is taking a real bite 
out of the endowment." · 
SCHOLASTIC 


"You've got to go into debt when you go to college.'' 

Mark has good reason to worry about Edwin B. Harris, Associate Director of Finan­his loans. An· Arts and Letters degree_does·not cial Aid, · because "financial hardship" is a guarantee a ·thirty thousand dollar a year job convenient excuse given in exit interviews. and he -can· expect no help from his parents. 
. Paul, a senior, is another student notHis father, a public high school t~acher, has captured by William Bennett's stereotype offour children . attending private universities the rich,. spoiled college kid. Although he is no~, and all have loans to repay. Two possible not eligible · for loans or financial aid, he means of repaying his debt appeal most to knows what it is to earn an education. HeMark: marrying· a rich Notre Dame girl or spent his summer in Chicago working sixtyjoining the . Peace Corps so his loans -will be hours a week. ·He started out caddying anddeferred · while he · worries about it in the 

. . 

then found a full-tiine job as a proofreader for Third World. 
a legal publishing firm. In addition, he tended 
Lynn; a former Notre Dame _Scholar, bar two or three nights a week at a country speaks kindiy of Notre Dame's Office of club and did part-time assembly work at a Financial Aid. At the end of the first semester computer company. By chance, his hard work her sophomore year when· a balance of seven paid off, when at the end of summ~r he hit it hundred dollars was outstanding on her big at the race track for $640 and was able to account · '.Financial Aid offered to carry it over take a week off before returning to school. until th; next semester. The offer was appreci­
Tim, Mark, Lynn and Paul are only aated but declined and Lynn left Notre Dame. 
few examples of Notre Dame students ,who ateHer family didn't have .the money for that "working their way through college". Their semester and would probably be another seven stories, even Lynn's, are the success stories.

hundred dollars short the next. There was no The system is working for them because theypoint in compiling more andmoie debt. Notre will earn degrees and have an edge in the jobDame with its travel expenses. and hidden market. On the down side are students attend.:.

costs was simply not atlo:rdable for Lynn, even. 

ing their second; third or tenth-choice schoolwith her seven· thousand dollars in loans and due to cost, and those who cannot afford toscholarships. She is now_ working _full-tinie and become students at all. Insufficient financial ·· taking a full-tinie class load at a pri:vate school· aid from the federal government and privatein Texas. It's a lot of hard work but the hours institutions is changing the nature and attitude are necessary _because her financia! aid pa~k-·. 
of this generation of college students. No age is based on full-tinie enrollment If the longer is college a four year lark. 'For this gen-:­University were to find out she worked forty eration, college is becoming a much more seri.:.
hours a week her aid would be cut and her ous and taxing endeavor. The result may beeducation once again -be jeopardized. It is the death of the American belief that · higher hard -to. estimate how many other students find education: is atta~able for everyone.· • · themselves in Lynn's position according to 


[i
·1 
i,. 
r 
i 
! 
-1 
l 


. I 
i 

If, like many other students, you are Scholarships --These are such sources as concerned about financing your remaining memorial funds, alumni scholarships and years ofcollege, do nci'tdespair. Regardless organizational scholarships. Such scholar­of your family's income, -you may be eligible 
ships are handled by the Financial Aid for some form of financial aid. Many stu­
Office and, at Notre Dame, given out onlydents don't know where to begin when con-. 
on a needs basis. structing an aid package. _This is easy to understand since there are literally * Special and Local Scholar­ships --This category requires some research
thousands of sources of financial aid. The on the part of the student. Some examples of
best approach is to break these sources these types of scholarships are religious
down· into· three categories: loans, scholar­organizations (the Knights of Columbus),
ships and work study. children of veter~ns (Illinois American 
The first step in obtaining a loan is Legion Auxiliary, war orphans (AMVETS),filling out a Financial Aid Form (F AF). The clubs (Boy's Club of America, 4-H Clubs),FAF· is used in determining an individuals sports organizations (North-~Olmsted Soccer need for the two major loan programs. These 

10 Organization). A fairly comprehensive are the National Direct Student Loan~ collection of such scholarships can be found (NDSL) program. and the Guarenteed Stu-le\\\ in the library in such books as "Financial 
dent Loan (GSL) program. The NDSL pro-•~->\~ Aid For Higher Education Catalogue" byvides students w1th loans for up to six 
Creon Keeslar. The book also lists vital thousand dollars. No interest is charged 
information such as require_ments and ·the while one remains a student, but five percen amount of the scholarship. 

interest begins with repayment six months following graduation. The GSL's are slightly A student can also obtain aid 
-through the work-study program. This pro­different. . They are federally insured loans gram is handled through the Financial Aidfrom private institutions in the student's Office and the Stude_nt Employment Office.
home state. A student may obtain up to two It is administered on the basis of rieed, butthousand, five hundred dollars a year as an often there are extra job opportunities onundergraduate with--interest beginning after campus which are then distributed on a firstgraduation at eight percent. Further infor­come, first serve basis.
mation may be obtained from the financial 
aid office. 
A warning should also be issued about agencies which claim to locate scholar".'
Scholarships an_d grants are known 
ships for which a person is eligible. Theseas ~•free money" because they need not be agencies are not worth. the "modest" fee .
paid. back. These may be··brokeri. down into they · charge, for _most of their information·three catagories: · consists ·of programs which counselors are

* .National , Programs well aware. of. The Notre Dame Financial_ Examples are Pell Grants {awarded. on the Aid· Office considers their use "iII advised". basis of need through the F AF), ROTC and It is. only through · careful use of all the the Westinghouse Talent S-earch.,_~-. sources. of financial assistance that a student 
-.-can maximize his aid. • 
...·.* · University i and• .-College . · 
,,~%;,. ~~ • ~ . 

\. 
' ,. 


How to find. the· aid p·ack~ge for you. 
WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS) --College gradu~ ates are having smaller families and postponing major purchas~s . such as cars .anci · ho"mes becuase they are· leaving schooJ with · large financial aid debts, according to preliminary results of new nationwide survey of aid reci­pients. 
The firidings confirm fears of many college aid experts that a continuing reliance on loans over grants for the last decade and skyrocketing tuition rates have forced students to borrow more than they can · reasonably repay after graduating. 
The student debt· issue, moreover, promises to play an increasingly important role in how financial aid is structured, as well as the amount of money any one student can bor­row. 
"We are seeing instances where stu­dents' lifestyles are being affected by the large amounts of money they have to pay back when they graduate college," reports Dennis Martin, assistant director of the National Association . of Student Financial Aid 

"I think there is growing evidence that~ the student _debt burden is .~ffecting the li~es and consumer patterns-of borrowers," Mitchem notes. "And it also appears to be affecting the number of students who don't go on to grad school because they are already so heavily in debt." 
Female, minority, and low income stu­dents are hit the hardest, he says, becuase · they typically borrow more to attend school, and earn lower salaries when they graduate. 
"In fact," Mitchem points out, "it can be shown that most poor and minority stu­dents never earn their bachelor's degrees, so they are stuck with rep·aying aid debts for an education they never finished." · 
Mitchem, along with many other aid experts, blames the federal government's incr~ased reliance on loans over grants for the problem. 
In the early 1970s, nearly two-thirds of all . student. aid money was awarded in direct, non-repayable grants to students. 
Administrators (NASFAA), which sponsored Today, nearly two-thirds of all aid the survey of 3,000 Guaranteed Student Loan money is loaned. (GSL) borrowers from colleges around the 
Besides increasing grant money, thecountry. 

government should , also stop increasing loan 
Among other things, the students with limits," Mitchem adds, "because it would only bigger debts . tend to delay raising families, allow more students to borrow more than they buying homes, . and purchasing cars because · are capable ofrepay1ng." they can't afford the added financial commit­
But the American Council on Educa­ments, the _survey shows .. 

tion disagrees, and recently asked the · House 
The survey, whteh Martin calls the Postsecondary Subcommittee on Education to most extensive study of financial aid debtors raise Guaranteed Student Loan annual limits ever undertaken, also shows that younger, from $2500 to $3000. more recent graduates are having the most dif­
"There's a lot of concern over student · ficulty repaying their loans because they had debt, but there is also a lot of concern .over theto borrow more to meet soaring tuition costs. 

fact that loan limits aren't keeping pace with 
Single women, too, have _more trouble college costs," explains ACE policy analyst repaying their loans ·because they get lower Scott Miller. salaries --only $17,400 a year, compared to 
"A lot of people want the limits dou­$23,000 for men --after graduating, the study bled, "he says. "We're recommending whatshows. 

we think is a reasonable increase in limits, but 
"That's no· surprise to many of us," not one that is big enough to add signigicantly says Arnold Mitchem, executive director of to the debt burden problem." • the National Council of Educational Oppor­tunity Association and director of Educational Opportunity Programs at Marquette Univer­
sity. 
:,.[ 


science· 
ogy 
Computers, many people would agree, . are great sources of fi:ustration. To. 6ther whizzes they are magical devices that can do ~ything. Marty regard them as toys, even· more think of them as mysterious· boxes that .. whirr, click, beep and are best left alone. Through this column I will try to shed some light. on the inner workings of these devices, in an attempt to make the_se little boxes less mys­terious. In addition, a list of references, including books, articles, and classes will be given for the benefit of those who are interested in pursuing the subject to greater depth. 
A number of technological advances have had a profound impact on society, such as the automobile, the printing press and the television.· These advances have been readily incorporated into society. Computers are one such advance.· Although computers have only in the last twenty-five years come into 
· widespread use, they have become so firmly implanted in our world that there is scarcely a person in the country whose life is not affected . by these machines. Due to their nature, computers are used for important jobs such as the superv1s1on of production processes in industry, assisting top business executives with major decisions and. the han­
. dling . of daily transactions amounting to bil­lions of dollars. 
As college graduates entering business, government and industry, Notre Dame stu­

. dents can expect to deal with computers, com­puter engineers, salesmen, programmers . and operators on a daily basis. A good foundation of knowledge · is essential .· if one wishes to • interact with competency and confidence. 
· Without such a foundation, one runs the risk of making ·poor decisions, or even of being deceived or manipulated. This series makes no claim to providing such a foundation. Rather, ··it is meant to give a general idea of computer 
,. 
operation, to provoke curiosity, to remove the . hesitancy that might com.e ~pon the confronta­tipn of a·large body o(unfamiliar Jmowledge,. and to provide a. guide to the bujldfog of such a foundation. · 
The first point to note has already · 
. been touched upon --that this series is not··a comprehensive· course in computer architec­ture. The second point is that it is easy to anthropomorphise computers. A computer is a non-thinking machine, at least for the present. While it can be made to simulate, to some degree, the processes of thought, it is in actu­ality constrained by the laws of physics to pro­. duce a certain course of actions, defined by its physical configuration and the inputs given to it. The complexities of that configuration and of those inputs may cause the machine to seem as though it has taken on a personality, as one's car may seem to take on a personality. In both cases, this is merely an illusion. How­ever, even experts in the computer field find it. useful to use such terms as "decides", or 
. "looks", or "wants" when describing the action of computers. Thi.s_ is acceptable, as long as one realizes that these are terms that describe non-sentiment functions of the com­puter. 
The final note is that simple concepts in computing can often be confusing ·to the layman when these 'concepts are described in computer jargon. A : certain language has grown up around computers. This language, while at first misleading, is easily understood with the help of a good computer dictionary. Such an aid is invaluable-even to the computer expert, and is put out by a number of sources. The library can be quite helpful in this area or you may wish to purchase . a dictionary from 
· . the bookstore or computer shop. 
More on computers in the next issue.• 


\ 



Killer. 
Summer 
by Teresa Keefe and Barb Blanchette · 

Many of us are freaks about British comedy, especially Monty Python. This sum­mer South Bend re.sidents had the chance to meet Monty personally, but this time it was no laughing matter. A thirteen and a half foot python, Monty broke free from his weighted cage in mid-August for a three week vacation about the streets of South Bend and Mishawaka. Police have recently captured and killed the python-at~large, whose absence held the local area atbay for several weeks. 
What concerned local police most was that the python, owned by Mike Herper of South Frances Street, could be dangerous at times~ and was capable of crushing animals, or small• children when hungry. Responding to police Chief Hurley's orders to "destroy on sight," off-duty officer Cpl. Eugene Eyster sighted and drove his car over the snake not once, but several . times in an effort to protect then-frantic citizens. It may not be much, but it's as close to Miami Vice as SBPD will ever get. While it took three more backup officers arid five more bullets to put Monty to rest, the town can at last breathe deeply, and brace itself for an even greater danger, the annual influx of college students. 
While most of us are joining this influx after a three morith leave of absence, many 
. students have chosen to remain in South l3end to work, attend classes, or merely enjoy the residential side of South Bend which students rarely see. "South Bend is a lot bigger, and has a lot more to off er than T thought,',~ reported Marci Woods. Lisa Wezorek added, "the col­lege atmosphere during .the summer was .much more relaxed, giving it more of a feeling· of home." 
Like Monty, the University remained active, hosting an alumni weekend early in June,·. and conventions regularly thereafter,· while Saint Mary's College held its annual sports camp. 
18 SEPTEMBER 1985 
Traffic through the North Quad was disturbed by the inlaying of pipes from LaFcir­tune to the power plant. On a larger scale, the IO-week July. through .. August Recreational Vehicles Jamboree blpcked off traffic all along Juniper, throughout the · campus routes, and filled the parking iots, forming perhaps the longest and earliest tailgater of the 1985-86 season. Work also continued on the ACC Pool, as the Ratt concert, just next door, drew in hordes of local young people. 
Classes for students who remained on 
· campus . were much less hectic, and less . intensely competitive, ·though their 6-10 week structures required a more concentrated effort Said Kevin Kilpatrick, . "I was concerned about academic burn-out,' but the summer classes were less intense, and better prepared me to jump into my senior year." 

Several seniors who stayed at Notre Dame partially to continue · their training as . part of the Notre Dame Rowing Club reported arelatively· quiet summer, yet expressed some · · concern about meeting Monty on their rows down the. St. Joe River. "Just the fact that Monty was loose, and hadn't eaten for three 
·. weeks kept us. looking over our shoulders," ·admitted Mike Songer. 
The busy nature of life at any univer-· sity or college often prevents students from learning about the town which lies just below the strata of campus activity. As you may have guessed by now, summer in South Bend is about as exciting as winter in South Bend. The special frenzy of a python-at-large is, perhaps, · the only thing that can pique student interest in the river city. • 
[SOUTH]
.,
-;; 
.' 




/ 
¦ 
-. . . 
o.Tfff SHOW MUST GOON . 
by Mary Louise Padden 


. 
¦ ¦·
nd _, smcTheater begins · 'this year with major changes such as the additjon of artists and an increase in student writing and directing. Kicking off the season at Notre Dame's Washington Hall will be Arthur Ko'pit's "The End of the ·World", which will be directed by Dr. Fred W. Sybur Notre Dame. The second production of the season is "Hay Fever," a comedy by Noel Howard, directed by Dr. Roberta Rude. Next in the theatrical lineup is the classic comedy "The Tempest," by William Shakespeare, directed by Notre Dame Departmental chairman, Dr. Mark Pilkington. In the 1985-86 · season finale, New York City street gangs stage a musical invasion of Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium through Leonard Bernstein and Arthur_ Laurent's "West Side Story." 
The 1985~86 season will on will be a period of reorganization and, be a time of change and readjustment· for Notre Dame­Saint Mary's Theater. · In the past both departments operated as · a single entity,utilizing the combined facilities of both campuses. In addition to performance facilities, · faculty members were also shared. It was the Not_re Dame administrationwhich decided that_ budgeting should be separated . . The focus this season is on two separate and -independent departments which still engage in cooperative endeavors. The renovation of Washington Hall, ·it is hoped, will provi_de Notre Dame with an adequate performance
racnity. · · · 
¦ Despite changes and confusion 
. ¦ 


• ¦
D ND/SMC Theater marches toward a new season . 
¦ SCHOLASTIC_ • 


D 
. 
Accordi,ng to Dr. · Pilkington the changes will allow Notre Dame to better define its department. He feels it is of utmost importance that Notre Dame develop as a stronger center of theatre. activity than it has been in the past. Dr. Clayton Henderson, _chairman of the Saint. Mary's Theatre department, docs not believe the Saint . Mary's progr,am will be affected in any way. In fact, he considers this year's department to be stronger and far more capable of excel­ling than ever before. 
Both department chairmen clearly . stress · that the changes made will in no way pose any hardship to the students involved. In reality, they· will have far more opportun­ity and flexibility. Since there are now two 

. 
_distinct scene and set design departments, 
¦
there will be both a significant increase in the opportunity to work ·in this aspect of theatre, and greater access to performance facilities for niariy small student productions. One other advantage given to theatr_e students is the continuation of unlimited access to classes at either institution. 

Saint Mary's welcomes Dr. Roberta ¦ Rude who will be the first professor in many years who is trained specifically to train young actors in acting, voice, and movement. She will be directing Noel Coward's "Hay 
¦
Fever," the second production ofthe season. Indi D.tekaraf e 'is another ·new arrival to the Saint Mary's faculty. Diekarafe specializes in . modem dance performance and choreogra­phy, and will be a · vital force behind the Saint Mary's production of West Side Story; 
. She encourages all interested to join dance classes now in preparation for this spring . production. · · 
periods. Auditions, rehearsals, and produc..: tions are being scheduled independently by one department without input -from . the other. Some overlapping in the rehearsal schedules for "The End of the World" and "Hay· . Fever" prevented . students · from 

. becoming . · involved in both productions, since directors will not be casting· out from · under each other. This has caused a notice­able level of frustration among students involved because if one accepts a part in one play, it could mean not having a chance for a better part . in another. Confusion brought about by this demand for an instant decision coupled with uneven rehearsal schedules and an uncertainty -about whether or not directors will · make exceptions, smacks of the real world, but has proven fertile ground 15 for rumor and hearsay. Hopefully, coopera­
. tion will· outshine any future complications and the spotlight will focus on a profitable season of ND /SMC Theater .. • ­

RESEARCH PAPERS . 14,278 to choose from-all subjects 
Order Catalog Today with \lisa/MC or COD 
··

The new plans for this season have,; ·· for the most part, worked well with .one · ·••800-351-0222 
· in Calif. (213) 4n-s22s
exception..The ·area that has seen the inost Or, rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance confusion (poss1_'bly .u_nex,pected) has been 11322 Idaho Ave.11206-SS, Los Angeles CA 90025 
· Custom research also available-all levels 

th_e_s_c_h_ed...;ulin_~_g_o_~__-. _au_d_i._ti_o_ns_a_n_d_r._eh_e_ar_sa_1_..;..._;...·-~..;..._________________· ¦·
18 SEPTEMBER 1985. · · · . · . 

¦-. . . . : 
~~---------------~~~ 
-






:uide to campus events er 2 


by Mary Dolan and Maurerm Madison· 

It may not be ·Malibu or Atlantic City, but it's all we've cgot. 

. The beach. Nothing conjures .:UP thoughts of summer and relaxation better than sun and sand at the .. beach. If you are lucky enough to live on a coast or near a lake you probably spend much of your summer "beach­ing it" .as my beach-addicted roommate says.. A pair of sunglasses, suntan oil, a jam box, a six-pack (diet coke!) and a gripping summer novel (optional) all provide sufficient fun-:-in­the-sun entertainment. Finally · you have mastered the beach technique when, alas, the 
. fateful day arrives when summer beach bums are transformed into conscientious students and leave the beach, the sun, the fun and return to your favorite vacation spot and mine, South Bend, Indiana 
But all is not lost. Early September in Do·merland can be beautiful and it is not long before freshmen hear incredible rumors about · a beach nearby. --The Dunes. -Whether you venture the short roadtrip with Emil or manage to get your own transport.ation, every Notre Dame student should make the trip. Whether prompted by a beautiful Saturday · morning-or a sweltering, crowded classroom, a trip · to the Dunes demands little planning... Grab· your sunglasses, some tunes, . a blanket and in 45 minutes you will .be on the beach of the. great ·Lake Michigan. 
Certainly· it cannot compare to. the beauty of the Atlantic or the power of the Pacific (my roommate .thinks I am kidding) . but there is plenty to appreciate ifyou learn to·.• fine-tune your tastes. The dunes are clean, intimate and plenty of fun. Bring a frisbee, soccer ball or kife. There is ·usually plenty of room to spread out.. Ifthe wind is blowing you will have to work up a sweat to brave the almost always chilly lake water (I never prom­

'.· ised paradise). 
The most. unique feature to the Dunes is the dunes· themselves. They beckon every­one to climb them at least once. Unless you are in great shape, the assault on these solid­sand walls will include stopping to catch your breath and/or to enjoy the scenery every few yards or so. Keep going. The trip down the dunes is worth laboring to the top. 

If the beach is a bit chilly, the top of the dunes yields . warmer temperatures ·. and peace and quiet. The plateau -is a perfect place to steal away for an afternoon nap while . catching some rays. After a long day in the ·· sun one will start feeling hungry just as the sun begins to fade and the temperature falls dramatically. You can opt to get back to N.D. in time to catch the last few morsels of dinner · but you might try a few of the pla~es _in the 
· · area. Give· Redamax in Ne,., Bu1'?alo a ti y. Perfect for after the beach, this casual place specializes in hamburgers, sandwiches· and appetizers: And if it is warm enough, you can eat outside. 
· A day at the dunes is one of the best things Notre Dame can off er in the relaxation ·department. Be wary· of relaxing too much. Alcohol is prohibited and they have police out looking for offenders..The fine can be stiff 

·· and you may have to pay right on. the spot, legal or not, so think about it. At any rate, go to the dunes. They are a fun time. • · · 
·1 
\ \ 

IOU 
Yellow by Kris Anders 
They served_ cream ·of something· tan soup on· the flight --thick, lumpy, 1and hot as hell, so hot she burned her mouth on the first, tentative spoonful. She thought coffee would help, and swallowed three cups in quick succession, counting on the familiarity of the process. It only made it worse, for she couldn't help thinking of the yellow coffee cups in the kitchen she had just left. She smelled the acrid smoke of the cigarette that trembled slightly between her first two fingers, and she felt it beginning to sting her eyes. She took a long, deep drag and crushed it out in the armchair ashtray at her right. The damp air recirculating throughout the cabin smelled of nerves and schedules, and she wished she could open the window to the cold blue outside. 
Sometime during the flight, the oxygen masks plopped like miniature parachutes from the bellies of so many unseen miniature planes and floated perfectly in the line of vision of each passenger in the cabin. Turbulence had caused the drop in. air pressure. The stewardess was quick to reassure; nothing to worry about; a normal complication. Feeling a tightness in the back of her throat, she placed a mask over her face, just like the stewardess, and leaned back in the seat. She closed her eyes and pulled the cool, light oxygen into her lungs, waiting for the lightness to pass. It didn't seem to help. 
When the seatbelt light went off again, she made her way back to the line for the restroom, glancing over her fellow-travelers on the way. Please, someone, she thought, please look friendly. Please don't all look like businessman behind schedule for a failing firm. Dark brown eyes above a blue sweater looked up· from a book as she passed. Nice eyes, and a soft, unthreatening smile. The flash of gold on his left hand caught her eye as he reached to turn a page, and she averted her own eyes, moving up the aisle. It had been like this all day: checking the .qualifications before she even gave anyone a chance. Maybe that was what happened when you gave too freely and were taken, in return, for a fool. Maybe that was the tightness in the back of her throat, the beginning of bitterness in her mouth. She was always looking for clues now, checking to see if the return on her investment would bear investment. Maybe you just learned to calculate. · 
Theirs had been quite a special beginning, she had thought. So much had been shared -they'd even joked about it when the same thought would occur to both of them, or they'd discover similar opinions. "The things we have in common," he'd say with a silly, joking smile, and they'd laugh. But it _had been true, and had grown more true· with time. Affinities for tequila and old jeans and country music had be_en evident from the start. Then they'd begun to discover more -that she really did like to golf, that he really did care. what kind of tree stood in the yard; that she loved the smooth warmth of his skin, that he could gently wipe the tears which he couldn't understand. And it had been good, so good that she'd been frightened. 
That was another thing in common, though neither wanted to admit it: they were both frightened. Good things never last and all that. When so much had been proved in common, they got used to it, expected it, and were confused if it didn't happen. Besides, the whole thing had come at the wrong time, hadn't fit into their perfectly planned ideas of life. And so they'd ended it, because things weren't perfect, and because they'd both been frightened. (Good things never last.) Now things were just like the cheap paperbacks, and 
she was going.home to mother and the old life which, too, was less than perfect. She hadn't ·really realized this morning she was leaving --not until she washed the yellow coffee cups for the last time. 
The woman before her in line came out of the restroom, and she walked in. The door shut behind her with ai1 authoritative click, leaving her in darkness. Mumbling quiet curses, she groped for the lightswitch and caught her elbow sharply on the corner of the sink. Even on these carefully planned planes, she thought wearily as she rubbed her elbow, managing a small, tight smile in the dark­ness. Even here, nothing works perfectly. 
On'her way back to her seat, she felt the brown eyes above the blue sweater on her, and she felt herself ~roiling back this time. He was reading a Stephen King noveJ.•With a start, she realized 'it was the ·same one she had thumbed at breakfast, an age ago this morning. Remembering the soft, worn edges of the pages, she suddenly saw that the blue sweater's dark eyes were like the ones that had reflected her pain as she had boarded the plane this morning. At the thought, her heart dropped like the oxygen mask parachutes had done earlier. Again, the yellow of his coffee cups at breakfast came to mind. It wasn't a pure, even yellow -it had flecks of dark gold, and little bumps that were lighter; nearly white. But· it was a beautiful yellow, warm and a perfect contrast for dark coffee. An interesting yellow. 
Back in her seat, she watched the seatbelt sign yawn to life, heard the pilot announcing the approach, and felt the tightness in her throat loosening. She waited until the cabin was nearly empty before reaching for· her bag. above her head. It bumped against the seats and against the backs of her legs as she walked down the aisle, but this time it didn't bother her. The aisles in. airplanes were too narrow, the restroom switches hard to find, the blue-sweatered .reader wore a gold wedding band, and the yellow of the coffee cups wasn't pure and even. It made her smile a little bit now. 
In the noise of the airport, she found a phone and dialed; her damp hand dropped the phone and she had to try again. On the second try, she watched her fingers miss the numbers and only managed on the third try. She heard two shrill rings in her he~d, and then the warmth of his voice answered. 
"I want to .come back. I want to try again." 

"The things we have in common," he said, and she could hear that funny smile in his voice. 
18.SEPTEMBER 1985 

The promise of glory 
by Pete Pranica 

A blue-chipper joins a golden tradition in which the promise of glory 
is sometimes kept, sometimes lost. 
It's a crying shame that Ned Bolcar wants to play linebacker for the Fighting Irish. He'd make one heckuva leprechaun. Then again, he is a bit too big for those funny little pants anyway. 
No matter. What you must understand about this young man from New Jersey is that he is wired. Just one interview wi_th this guy and you feel like you've been through two-a­
days for about a month. 
"I talk a lot," he says. No kidding. 
Unlike the Steve Carltons of the sports world who refuse to talk to the media and who constantly keep their feelings under their jerseys for fear of God-only-knows-what, Ned Bolcar will. talk. And talk. And talk some more. 
"I'm a little out of rhythmn with these things," he says with a grin. Out of rhythmn? You must be joking. Before the year is out, he'll probably be dancing the Victory Clog with the Irish Guard at midfield. Irish fans should be thankful that Bolcar is playing for the Blue and Gold and not somebody else. If Ned met Allen Pinkett, Notre Dame's incum­bent motormouth at the line of scrimmage, Bolcar wouldn't try to tackle him. They'd just go off to a corner of the stadium and talk. 

About anything. 
Ned Bolcar would rather not be recog­nized as the prep star who had his diary docu­menting his experiences as a recruited athlete printed in USA Today . But he is and will for_­ever (four years at least) bear the burden of being THE recruit at the University of Notre Dame in 1985. One of the country's high school stars whose name was on every coach's wish list, he simply has no choice in· the matter. His is the lot of the talented high school athlete. Since his sophomore year in high school, Bolcar's life has been one filled with letters, phone calls, posters, calendars, visits and more letters and phone calls. It is not easy for a teenager to handle the exorbi­tant attention of being a star athlete, let alone picking a college. Then again; Ned Bolcar is far from a an average young man. 
"It's a game. They play a game with you and you play the game with them,"says Bolcar knowingly. "The first thing they try and do is get you interested in their school so when your'e a senior you'll go and visit there." · Considering that the NCAA allows a· high school senior to visit only five schools while twenty times that number were tugging at Bolcar's sleeve, the competition is fierce. And, like in any competition, there are 
SCHOLASTIC 
winners and losers. · · 
Some recruiters · and schools are· weeded out in the· early going after the initial contact. Sometimes the chemistry· is not there · between recruiter and recruit. Sometimes interest on the part of the recruit isn't there either..When Bolcar informed one Ivy League type that · he just · wasn't interested in the school, the recruiter shot back, "What makes you think you could play here anyway?" To 
'· paraphrase Sinatra, if you can make it. at .Notre Dame, you can make it anywhere. Not incideri.tly, the Irish hold a 9-1-1 record over Ivy League opposition. Notre Dame is not to· be confuse~f with New Haven. South Bend is not to be . confused .. with South · Florida. One­recruiter. from the Sunshine. State enthusiasti­cally told Bqlcar that the beach was twenty minutes away and Disney World equally close. "I asked him; 'Don't you guys ever go to class ?' When the hell would I have time to go to the beach?" he wonders~ · · 
But like the man. said, it's a ~• game" and a. recruiter will use every advantage his campus may present arid if the campus doesn't present an advantage, the recruiter will turn it 
. around. "State U. is big, but not too big". You • the freshman year: awe~ optimism tempered by . know that kind of reasoning. Recruiters gauge the imposing'realities of Notre Dame football• . the youngster's level of credulity by personal 

. 1s· SEPTEMBER 1985 





contact on the phone and then stretch it to the limit. " Some of these guys, it's like they're reading from a sheet of what to say and you know they really don't care about you as a person. They get cocky and tell you they've got the best linebacking corps around or what­ever." As Bolcar readily admits, recruiters who take certain blue chippers for dummies end up as losers in the game. 
In a way, it is understandable that recruiters can't take a full, up close and per­sonal interest in every young man. Recruiting is a case of mass production. Let's say you recruit nationally an·d you've got to fill your scholarships with the best available players. It's not like the NFL draft where each team takes a turn and you might have some control over the situation as it unfolds in front of you on draft day. College football recruiting means open season on high school scholar-athletes. 
22 To fill thirty slots, you might look at over one 
hundred kids. Small wonder that recruiters can sound like automatons on the phone. 
And therin lies the rub. 
Those who aren't just calling to check your name off a master sheet and who believe that you are a quality student and athlete are the best recruiters. Bolcar nods assent. "The most important thing is that they care about you as a person. I became really good friends with Jerry Sandusky at Penn State . Other people around me said: 'Wait 'til recruiting is over. He won't even talk to you if you don't go to Penn State."' The Sandusky home is always open to Ned should he want to visit Penn State. That's how the major colleges with clean records recruit outstanding talent. They care:.-about grades, attitudes, and values. If you don't believe it, ask Ned sometime. He'll be more than willing to talk. · 
Part of the reason that schools like Penn State and Notre Dame can give personal attention is that they just can't go out and call the top one-hundred high school players in the country. In a word, it's academics. George Kelly, the veteran linebacker coach for the Irish, heads up the Chicagoland recruiting effort. By his estimation, Notre Dame's high academic standards mean that only thirty-five out of the top one hundred players this year would have any chance of .succeeding in the Notre Dame classroom . According to Taylor Bell's article in the August 29th Chicago Sun­Times, academics is the first criterion. He quotes Kelly at length about the upcoming cr9p of high school seniors: "Academically, tliis is a decent year. But one third of the thirty players from Chicago we'd love to have are borderline students. We must make a deci­sion by December whether-· we can recruit them or not. And that doesn't even take into consideration some athletes we can't even con­tact, bluechippers we'd love to have who don't even come close to qualifying academically." 
So that's how the clean schools do business. · What about all the stories about recruiting violations running rampant on col­lege campuses? Bolcar doesn't have much to tell since he steered clear of any program that had any hint of improprieties. "You don't want to be around people who are lying and not doirig things by the book, which is why I felt comfortable when I visited Notre Dame." He adds emphatically: "I worked with class programs." When prodded on the subject, Bol­car reveals that there is shady dealing going on, but it's not always the coach or alumni who cut legal corners in search of high school talent. 
"It's not just the boosters, but guys who follow the program and want to get in 
SCHOLASTIC 
with the team; like they'll say 'I got you this recruit, how about some tickets?' There was this one guy who said he'd get my best friend into the same school. He was a quarterback, but no major college quarterback. And he said, 'You like that car? I could possibly get you• one.' Then I told the school and they got mad! He had nothing to do with the school 
· and he could've gotten them in big trouble.'' 
As you might expect, Bolcar is adamant when it comes to sanctions ar,:>Jnst ·cheaters (and there is just no other word that fits) • like Southern Methodist University, which had all thirty scholarships taken away for next season and fifteen for the following year. "Yeah, I think that anyone that cheats sho~ld get burned," he says in a relative calm . . "Why should they do things that no one else can do? Sure, I'd like a Porsche. But they do it and we don't, so let them get burned.'' The tirade picks up steam. "They've (SMU) been on probation like five times, twice in the last 
, four years. They're stupid. You can get good players from Texas and you don't have to · cheat. Let 'em get punished." · 
By the spring of 1985, Ned Bolcar had played the · ''game" with · practically every major college in the country! He visited his. five schools: Notre Dame, Stanford, Boston College, Ohio Sfate, and Penn State. The sign­ing date was on a Wednesday and Bolcar had alerted the media that he would make his 
· decision on Tuesday night before leaving for a road basketball game. 
"I had to get to my basketball game; 
· · the team bus already left, but I had· to decide an·d I was just sitting there with my parents. I· had two schools in mind: Notre Dame and Boston College, and Penn State was swinging there in the back of my mind. It was getting late and I could think of all these great reasons 
18 SEPTEMBER 1985 
to go to BC. Boston's· super, there are nice looking girls there, and I could probably play . sooner there than at Notre Dame;.-1 liked everything about Boston. When I took my visit to Notre Dame, for some reason, it was just not a good visit; I was here in December, it was freezing cold and it was boring on campus. 

My parents thought I was going to Boston College, but they were so burned out by this time. They never said where to go, just 'It's your decision.' But I wanted them to tell me where to go! It was just going in my mind 'Boston, Notre Dame' and finally I just said 'I'm· gonna go to Notre Dame.' And my parents didn't say anything! They were just so burned out, but I know now that they wanted me to to Notre Dame. I felt good, though, because it was my decision." 

. . 
.. 

Decision made, it was time for the Bolcars to drive about thirty minutes to the basketball game, but not before Ned called USA Today and all the. schools involved: To complete the fairy tale, Bolcar intercepted a fast break pass to preserve a one-point victory 
Afterword,in the locker room, BC recruiter Barry Gallup told Ned that he had made the right decision and wished him luck. "Thats what ·makes it so hard 'cause you've got good people here and good people there and..." his voice trails off. "You know what I mean." 
Time will tell ifBolcar will achieve the greatness predicted . for him by . virtue of his high school success or if he will have actually peaked in high school. For a high school foot­ball hero the autumns are filled with happi­ness, Homecoming parades and dances with the Homecoming Queen. Once in a while, the party continues into college and the pros. More often though, the sledding becomes 
noticeably more difficult. Injuries and twists of fate can both conspire to nip a potentially great college career in the bud. 
Consider the case of Hal Von Wyl. A six-two thunderfoot from Ohio, he was one of the most coveted· .schoolboy -kickers in the country. He had been a herd, toeing long dis­tance field goals and pounding nails into the coffin corner. The future looked great for Von Wyl in 1982 because the Irish were looking to replace the legendary Harry Oliver, he of the 
-clutch three pointer. Mike Johnston, a former walk-on who had never kicked a collegiate field goal and had only one extra point in his scoring column, was the projected kicker. Still, more than a few observers acknowledged that, certainly, Johnston was more accurate, but this Von Wyl could kick the air out of the ball. During the preseason, Johnston split the uprights with the regularity of a metronome while Von Wyl staccatoed an occassional placement wide_ of its intended target. As a result, Johnston drew the placement assigne­ment while Von Wyl was called on to drop kickoffs deep into the enemy territory. Von Wyl performed beautifully, depositing 18 of 28 kickoffs into the end zone. The freshmen had shoved. his foot in the door, arid when the senior Johnston graduated in the spring, the job would be his. Or so he thought. Football is not a linear game. 

The record books show that Johnston connected on 19 of 22 attempts in '82 to set a · school record. Since Johnston had not com­peted as a freshman, he decided . to use · another year while pursuing graduate studies. Despite this, Von Wyl was still projected to be the kickoff man. p:ntil John Carney showed up, that is. This relative wisp of a kicker from Florida walked on and· booted the opening kickoff of the 1983 season high and deep and right through the Ross-Ade Stadium goalposts. Somewhere along the line, the cartilage in Von Wyl's leg had come unglued, forcing him to take it easy. And when he did come back in ·­'84 to try and win the kicking job left vacant by Johnston's departure, :back spasms pre­cluded him from kicking effectively and Car­ney now handles both placements and kick­offs. Von Wyl booted one extra point against Colorado last year, but was actually third in the pecking order behind walk-on transfer Pat -Chura. Finally healthy; Von Wyl is#currently battling Dan Sorenson for the vacant punting 
job. . 
Football is not alinear game.Taking a 

.. ·c1ue from. its namesake, the game has a11 · the predictability • of, . well, a prolate spheroio. Starting jobs are not inherited like the throne. They are won or lost on the practice field and no one waits for injuries to heal, because at 
SOHOLASTIC · 
Notre Dame, where football is king, there· are · plenty of young lions ready to take your place in the sun."It. happens; it's· pa:rt of the game," muses Von Wyl. "What's so weird is that I· kicked all_ through high school . and nothing ­
. happened." That's right Hal, but football is not a linear game. High school glory days aren't always replicated in the college game. 
Todd Lezon has also found that to be true. Like Von Wyl, Lezon was heralded as one of the top one-hundred recruits in the country, in 1982. Having accumulated nearly 3,000 aerial yards . in high school in a three year career at Bedford High · School in Temperence, Michigan Lezon was a hot pro­
._ perty · destined to succeed Blair Kiel someday. Someday-never came. 
With Blair Kiel, Ken Karcher, and Jim O'Hara ahead of him on the depth chart, Lezon saw a lot of the bench and junior var­sity ·in '82. Things looked better in '83 as Karcher packed up for Tulane and O'Hara . received his diploma. Again a crazy twist. Ex-Notre Darner Scott Grooms decided that he didn't like Miami of Ohio and so returned, dropping Lezon to third string. And then ca.me Steve . Bueuerlein. You know about him because he put them all on the ben~h by mid­season. · Anyway, Lezon's progress was ham­
•pered by a. nerve problem in his throwing, elbow. He was a valued shot putter for the Irish indoor track team. That, coupled with 
.his penchant for bullet. passes, conspired to put his right. arm out of commission despite surgical repair work. · 
In the fall of '83 with the sudden glut of quarterbacks, Lezon was tried at line­backer, but that experiment was. junked and Lezon found himself off the Liberty Bowl 
.depth chart .Looking for another ·experienced 
. backup for Beuerlein, the Irish coaches were hopeful that a restful '83 .for Lezon's arm · would bring good things in '84. The arm did not respond and he ·was moved. to tight end where the triumvirate of Bavaro,Behmer, and Gray quashed ·any hope of playing. This_ fall, though, Lezon is listeci as a third tight end and · making a bid· foi"a monogram. Like Von Wyl, Lezon has. had no cakewalk down the stadium tunnel. Butthey're in there, plugging away for another season. 
Press clippings do not make winners. Execution does. · Injuries and circumstance preclude execution. I like his attitude," states Bob Nagle, sports'·director of WSBT television 
18 SEPTEMBER 1985 

and radio in South Be_nd. Nagle should be able to recognize a good attitude; he's been follow­
._ ing Notre Dame football all of his ·_life. More Specifically, it's apparent that Bolcar is happy in South Bend. Oh, sure, he'd .rather be start­ing than struggling with George Kelly's line­backer. schemes. But wha:t's. important is that he's just glad to be on a major college campus where somebody cares and where they play a tough brand of football and where the football part is not numero uno. 
Informed of high school All-Americans who never quite lived up to advance billing, Bolcar acknowledges that it happens, but rationalizes the whole college athletic scene like this: "You come in and everybody expects so much of you. I'd rather be the. underdog. I. just said to myself that I'm going to do the best that I can, and if that's not good enough, then it's not. I get my self satisfaction by just going out there and doing my best. If I got to play a little this year and started next year, I'd just be nuts! People would say 'Why are you so excited, you should. have started last year?' See, I don't like .that, I want to be the underdog." 
Despite his wishes, -it isn't likely that he will be lost in the shuffie as an underdog. On the football field or on campus, Ned Bol­car stands ·out in·the crowd ~s one of the most pleasant and unpretentious people you'd ever want. to meet~· Happy-:-go-lucky New Jersey hanging out all over the place. Is. he the Bob Crable of the future? Ned really doesn't care. And one last thing. He's modest. 
"I'm not that good," he swears. "That's the truth:'' 
We'll see~ 


Todd Lezon Ned Bolcar Hal Von Wyl 
-~~ 

¦ 
ON OTHER 
¦ . 
¦ 
Dr.... E. Grey Diamond of the University of Missouri's medical school says that the U.S. and the ·soviet Union ought to ex.change about 250,000 college students -a' year. The presence of the "hostage~" . wbuld deter both sides from starting a nuclear war, he reasons, and fear for their''citizen's welfare would reduce friction between the two countries. To decide who goes, Diamond suggests a national lottery of all college students to be held annually. 
Ninety percent· of Penn State's incoming fresh­men expect to maintain a B average or better, though only. 20 percent had done that well in· high school according to a recent PSU survey. Most of the responding students said that they plan to study 20 hours a wee~ or less, leading PSU officials to assume that students did not see a "connection between study hours ·and grades." 

After 30 years, Harvard plans to drop the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) as a graduate business school . entrance requirement, calling the scores overemphasized. The move follows Johns Hopkins' recent decision tQ. drop the Medical · College Admissions Test and several other schools' plans to eliminate standardized entrance tests. 
The Young Conservative Foundation says that its efforts to stir student protest of American corporate investment in the So:viet Union will reach at least 30 campuses in seven states this 
Now you can hove two of the most recognized and accepted
. credit cards in the world... Vis9 and Mastercard credit cards... "in yournome" EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWNBEFORE! 
VISA and Mastercard the credit cards you deserve and need for-ID-BOOKS -DEPARTMENT_STORES-TUITJON-ENTERTAINMENT¦ -EMERGENCY CASH-TICKETS-RESTA URANJ'S ~HOTELS-MOTELS-GAS-CAR RENTALS-REPAIRS 
-AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! I This is the credit card information kit students have I been reading about in publications from coast to I 
coast and includes SPECIAL STUDENT APPLJCATIONS for Mastercard & Visa as well as other national I

. charge cards. Approval absolutely r;;,uaronteed so .I 
l
(f ',t 11!1; :If= I:t·tl ,H-i:13·11J4·1ZI l·i·tS!») I 

'lCHOLASTIC. 
by Paul Aiello 

CAMPUSES
.· 
¦ 
. 
fall. 
University of Minnesota student Paul Webster is selling_ "live earrings" made by attaching surgical wire to the shells of live hermit crabs. 
New college students stand a 15 percent chance of_ catching measles by the end of this school year according to national health offi­
. cials. According to the experts, the·recent epi-· demic cari ~e partially blamed on a weak vac­cine distributed between 1957 and 1967 and on a growing number of unimmunized young adults. 
, Human beings may be biologically designed to take naps, shows new research that suggests · 

the siesta is not a cultural practice but a universal physical need. More than 50 percent of people in the _p.s. and an even higher per­centage of college stu.dents take. an optional . snooze, generally in .. the_ afternoon, say researchers who have studied ,3.590 people over the last eight ·years. Their naps;· taken about 3 or 4pm, coincide with the time m~~Y equatorial cultures hold their ritual siestas . "Siestas. are to a large degree internally deter­. mined," claims David F. Dinges, co-director of the unit for Experimental Psychiatry at the Institute of the Pennsylvania Hospital in Phi­
ladelphia. "There is nothing bizarre, weird or psychologically wrong with people who take naps ... and as a matter of fact , they· are com­mon in healthy young adults." Did this guy go to Notre Dame, or what? 
·----.-------------------------~~-­
.
; . . . . I 
I CREDITGEITER, BOX 291584, DAVIE, _FL 33329 I ·. I I 
: YES! I want VISA/Mastercard credit : cards. Enclosed find $15 which is-100% 
¦

: refundable ii not approved immediately : 
I NAME--------,-----"-----------• I ADDRESS~---'------------•
I CITY_____STATE___ZIP___I : PHONE~____soc. SEC___~_: I SIGNATURE ____________I 
I Note: MasterCard 1s a regis1er&0 uaoemart. ol Mas1orCaro ln1orna11ona1 Inc. • II v,u II a l"e<;jlSlereo uaoomaric oi VISA u.s A . Inc. and VISA lnlomauonal SeMCes AssociallOO. II T'"'9 above referra' 1g,en' 1s nol att111a.1ed with M_a,terCard 1n1ern111on1I, Inc Of VISA U_.s·~-Inc I . 
18 SEPTEMBER 1986

. -~-----------~-------------------­

Should we change the victory march? 
by Rachel Nigro 
~e Victory March has been a part of Notre Dame for generations. It is heard at every pep rally and every athletic event. The song fa heard nearly everyday for weeks as the band marches around the campus practicing for home football games. The Victory March is snappy, upbeat. Domers everywhere love this song. Even the children of alumni love the song. The Victory March is grand, glorious and evokes exactly the spirit and pride that a fight song should evoke. 
Nonetheless the words should be changed. 
. Relax. Before blood pressures begin to rise, an explanation is in order. This would not be a major overhaul. The change would involve only a few words without affecting the enthusiasm and spirit of the march. Neither would the words alter the rhythm or the melody. In fact, the words fit quite· nicely; in more ways than one. Not only do they work well with the music, but the change would bring the Victory March up to date as well as make it more universal. 
· The last line· of the march should be ing onward to victory" to "While her loyal sons and daughters march on to victory." 
The change is small but has major, ramifications. The Victory March should be for all Notre Dame students -men and women alike. By adding the word "daughters" to the Victory March, Notre Dame would choose to recognize the presence of its women in sports, as well as their good standing as members of the Notre Dame community. The addition of "sons and daughters" most appropriately updates the march. 
Tradition is an important aspect of Notre Dame. Yet the all-male tradition of this university has been replaced by a co-ed tradi­tion for the last thirteen years. The time · has 
. arrived for some traditions to modernize them­selves. Women now play a vital role in the Notre Dame community and the Victory March should finally . be changed to ack­nowledge the female athletes, students, administrators and professionals of this university. The women of Notre Dame deserve the same recognition the Victory March gives to their male counterparts.• 


•!Ill'.·
jllw••••·· 
[ .. ,.. hile working this past summer at a video rental store, I had the opportunity to observe the present movie marketing tech­niques. Customers are lured into purchases by sly marketing ploys, slick photography, and devious advertising campaigns all aimed at opening their pocketbooks while closing their minds. 
"Ever seen Porky's II?" one customer asks. Having suffered through the original debacle "Porky's", I considered that question an insult to iny intelligence. But I bit my · tongue and responded calmly, "No." thus ringing up another easy sale for the video ren­tal business. Oh, the power of the almighty dollar. What I should have said is,"No, I have not seen Porky's II. I do not want to see it and frankly, neither do you." 
Unfortunately for us, Hollywood spe­cializes in big business moviemaking rather than artistic, intelligent filmmaking. Conse­quently, we moviegoers, become content to be the butt of a million-dollar joke known as the average feature film. Few films today attempt to create social commentary through thought­provoking entertainment; something which the film medium has the ability to do with power­ful results. Instead, we dish out five dollars to sit in a chair and be coaxed into a primitive · emotional state. The intellectual interaction between the giant screen and its viewers mir­rors all the abrasiveness of a master yanking his dog forward by the collar. Very rarely do we leave the cinema discussing themes or images in a film, and those times are only to complain because . we did not completely "understand" the film. We would rather repeat a funny line in a movie over and over for a week or two until the novelty of its humor wears off. 
Why have these ·viewing habits been 
accepted by the public? The answer is simple, we have simply been coerced into this· pattern by marketing .schemes devised to create the · greatest revenue--capitalism at work. Exploita~ 
tion has become the greatest of all marketing . 
devices as in the exploitation of stars' names. 
Case in point: the movie "Be.st Defense" was. 
advertised as an Eddie Murphy-Dudley Moore 
comedy· when in fact Murphy. only appeared 
in twenty minutes of it, and his appearence 
lacked any coherent relationship to Moore's 
character. 
No greater exploitation in film 
18 SEPTEMBER 1985 


advertising can be found than the infamous sequels: "Halloween II", "Halloween III", "Jaws II". "Jaws III", the list goes on and on. These films are billed as "sequels" to originals that were directed or "composed" by other people. Believe it or not, as a general rule, it is safe to assume that the director of a film is more or less its creator. Thus, a film should be chosen not by the leading actor or actress, dis­tribution company or other highly advertised attraction to a movie, but by the director. 
Intended to be overlooked by the average public, the director and all those face­less credits placed inconspicuously at the bot­tom of advertisements are responsible for what you see. By ignoring the relevant players in a film, you see, Hollywood can easily manipu­late the audience with deception in advertis­ing. But if the public carefully scrutinized those "insignificant" credits listing director, producer, writer, etc., they would soon realize why "Romancing the Stone" and "Back to the Future" share so many entertaining qualities in common. Both films are directed in similar style by Robert Zemeckis. Want to know why "Halloween" and "Jaws" were so superior to their successors? John Carpenter and Steven Spielberg were the respective directors of the original and not of the following sequels. That is the same Carpenter who directed "Starman" 29 among others, and Spielberg's reputation need not be reiterated. 

The point to be made in these exam­ples, and so many more, is.. that stars do not make films, directors do. The following is a list of a few of today's most prominent directors, many of whose · films will be appearing in theaters this fall: 

Martin Scorcese ("Taxi Driver", "Raging Bull", "King of Comedy") Robert Benton ("Kramer vs Kramer", "Places in the Heart") Martha Coolidge ("Valley Girl", "Real Genius") Milos Foreman ("One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest", "Amadeus") Nor-' inan Jewison ("Rollerball"; "A Soldier's Story") Peter Yates ("The Dresser", "Break­ing Away") Jonathon Demme· ("Stop Making Sense", "Swing Shift", "Melvin & Howard"} Rob Reiner ("This is Spinal Tap", "The Sure Thing") Ron Howard. ("Night Shift", "Coe,;. coon", "Spiash") Lawrence Kasdan ("Body . 
· Heat", "The Big · Chill", "Silverado") Peter Weir ("Year of Living Dangerously") . . Until next time, read the small print.• 

by Theodore Mandell 




-I 
i 

• • l 

wor 
From Atlanta to Alaska, 63 · University of Notre Dame students dedicated their sum~ mers in service to others less fortunate than · themselves. The following are some excerpts from their journals recording their · own private journey toward social awareness: 
"Working in a soup kitchen .is not a glamorous job. It means sorting through rotten fruit ... It is carrying trash bags which someone has urinated on ... It is sorting through some­one else's dirty, old clothing .,; · In the words 
. of one of the sisters, as we were cleaning up . the trash left on the porch by people . waiting . 
'· for dinner, 'This is what Jesus meant when he said that we should serve the poorest of the poor."' 
• Colleen · Brendice worked with four 
. Sisters of Mother Theresa's order the Mis­sionaries of Charity Settlement House in Norris town, Pennsylvania 
"If the President would send a few of his aides out on McKenna's Wag·on he would· . discover that there are more than just lazy bums out on.· the street. The aides would find themselves handing food to weak old men and 

32 . women who are without a family to support them ... Fifty percent of the homeless in Wash­ington, D.C., are ex-patients of St. Elizabeth's · mental hospital .;. Should we demand . that these people go find ·work, or should we sup­.' port them as most societies si;ipport · older 
folk?" . 
• Patrick Mullen served · the city's hungry at Martha's Table, Washington D.C. 
"Having known very little about any native American Indians ... I l~arned more from the Papagos than I suppose I could have 
taught the children ... There is little, if any, · conception of time for the Papago:s. Yesterday is done and gone and tomorrow cannot be planned for. What matters is today and what's · happening now ... Volunteering is synonymous with giving.· More than anything, l think it requires a deeply-rooted desire , to see good 
being done for others..." 
Tuscon, Arizona.~ . "There is a quality among children that cart bring otlt in us older individuals great stores of energy, kindness and patience · which go unrealized in pursuits of self-interest. A child ties one' to a deeper meaning·"" 
' 
• John Frick served as a cainp counselor at St. Theresa's Camp· in Soldatna, Alaska. ·. 
"Looking over the project as a: whole, I can only say . that it ·was one of the best experiences in my life ... I thfok that ·1 ·was suc­cessful in filling part of the emotional need~ ·of these·. kids. Many times all we can do is fill this emotional need. However, we must make a concerted effort to become servants of our fel­low brothers and help to relieve their material poverty. Gandhi said that 'poverty is the greatest form of violence,' so .we must heed the call to end the violence." 
• Chris Edwards, Recreation Director for 183 kids at St. Joseph the Worker Camp, New Orleans, Louisiana. · 
"Isabelle Shade, a woman in her late 80s, was an important part of my summer in that she allowed me to become close. enough to share the pains, frustrations and most· impor­tantly the joys of her life. For much of the 

· · project, I wondered if, somehow, I had not become a callous human being. The · back­grounds of the seniors and children· bothered me intellectually, but did not penetrate deeply enough to make me Jrnrt or to permanently affect me ... Miss Shade challenged me to appreciate life for life, see good whenever Pssible and shoulder my problems _with a quiet . grace. Most importantly, I think my involve­ment at the center has helped rn:e to realize that I am responsible for my own development · as a compassionate and responsible member of the society in which I live." 
·· • Kendra Erven, Counselor and Craft Directorfor St. Stepheii's community house in Columbus, Ohio: • . 
by Mary Hartnfy 





/ 

NON-PROFIT ORG. U.S; POSTAGE 
PA ID 
Notre Dame, Indiana Permit No. 7 
t' 
·. I 

I 











