UC nou DOTI
SCIIOUBTiC
wmu (wus rm inw
. . . ADD SOFT LIGHTS, LONG GOWNS AND MUSIC
IN THIS ISSUE ...
SENIOR BALL TONIGHT DISPUTATION WEDNESDAY CLASS ELECTIONS TUESDAY
NAVY HERE SATURDAY KLIN EMEN MEET LA. TECH SPARTANS WHIP IRISH
THE WEEK INTRODUCING SPLINTERS
MAY 7, 1937
Phone 4-3601 Hour* 10 to 5
Dr. Landis H. Wirt
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919	Indiana
CARBURETOR YELLO-BOLE
New way of burning tobacco —better, cooler, cleaner. Carburetor-Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Caked with honey. At dealers’ now.
UPDRAFT
LATEST DISCOVERY IN PIPES
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Enteied as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Vo). 70	May 7, 1937	No. 24
SENIORS’ DANCE AT GALA BALL TONIGHT
President R. Parker Sullivan He leads the march and. . .
In the colorful setting of the Palais Royale, fourth-year men and their guests from every section of the nation will climax the University’s social calendar tonight when Will Osborne and his orchestra will set the dancing tempo for the Senior Ball.
With the selection of Will Osborne, Daniel J. Sullivan, chairman of the music committee and his assistants, bring to the Palais Royale one of the nation’s most popular dance orchestras. Osborne, featuring scintillating melodies in dancipation with the “sliding trombones” will come direct from Hotel Netherlands-Plaza, Cincinnati, after completing a successful month’s engagement.
Peter J. Johnen, well-known pianist, is the composer of the Senior Ball song, “Sweet Moments,” a light foxtrot which Osborn will feature tonight.
Queen of the Ball, Miss Catherine Phillipson, of South Bend, and a sophomore at St. Mary’s, is being escorted by general chairman J. Paul Sheedy. The Guest of Honor will be Miss Sarah O’Neill, of Lexington, Ky.
Seniors Bring Guests From Ail Sections For 1937 Ball
She will be the guest of Class President R. Parker Sullivan.
The grand march around the flower-embanked ball room will be led by Class President Sullivan and Miss O’Neill.
The patrons and patronesses for the Senior Ball are as follows: Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Pedro A. de Landero, Mr. and Mrs. LeClaire H. Eells, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice L. Pettit, and Mr. and Mrs. James L. Reyniers.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Shilts, Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Brown, Mr. and Mrs. George Rohrback, Mr. William Benitz and Mr. Andrew Boyle.
Tomorrow afternoon from three
• THE WHIRL
TONIGHT
Senior Ball, Palais Royale, 10 p. m. to 2 a. m.
TOMORROW
Tea Dance, Chain o' Lakes Country Club, 3 p. m. to 6 p. m.
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Western State Teachers, Cartier Field
Track Meet, Notre Dame vs. Navy, Cartier Field
SUNDAY
Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 9 a. m.
(All time is Central Standard [N.D.])
Chairman Paul Sheedy
. . . He puts on the shoiv.
o’clock to six o’clock, the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club, the traditional Notre Dame locale, will he the setting for the Tea Dance. Andy Reidel and his orchestra, popular South Bend dinner ensemble, has been selected to play for the Saturday afternoon dance.
The customary regulations concerning permissions and the use of automobiles are in force during the week-end. Students attending the Ball are to be in their place of residence by three o’clock. Special permissions has been granted for Saturday night, with 12:15 a.m. the deadline to be in the place of residence. All time designated for the Ball wreek-end is Central Standard Time.
All Ways Lead to the Palais Tonight!
By train, air liner and automobile, guests for the gala 1937 Senior Ball have been arriving in South Bend since yesterday morning.
Virtually every section of the country, private schools, state colleges and huge universities send delegations to the last event of a colorful Irish social calendar.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
PARTY SLATES RUN TRUE TO FORM IN RECORD PRIMARY VOTE; O'CONNOR. THOMAS. IN STRUGGLE FOR SENIOR PRESIDENCY
LYONS ON AIRLANES TONIGHT IN HALL RADIO SHOW
By Graham Starr
Winning out over a field of five candidates in the primary race last week, two Commerce, men, John O’Connor, of Indianapolis, Ind., with 131 votes, and John Thomas, of Chicago, with 110 tickets to his name, are reaching deep into their hags of political tricks this week, in preparation for the final battle over
next year’s senior class presidency at the polls on Thursday, May 13.
With the exception of one man, the entire O’Connor party came out on top in the primaries. They are: George Fitzpatrick, vice-president; Harold A. Williams, secretary; Thomas Sheils, treasurer. S.A.C.: Eugene Dolan, A.B.; Henry Theis, Comm.; John Tobin, Sc.; and Herbert Weber, Off-campus.
The Thomas cohorts who were nominated are Edward Grogan, vice-president; Harry Fox, secretary. S.A.C.: Robert Fernbock, A.B.; William Gallin, Engineering.
Presidential aspirant George Keen-en ran a close third with 91 votes. The only survival of the four major candidates of the Keenen slate is John Deane, who was nominated for the office of treasurer. Others named for S.A.C. posts were George Kerwin, Engineering; Francis Crowley, Science;Francis Delaney, Commerce; and John Hynes, Off-campus.
The junior preliminaries saw the entire Buck McArdle faction come through without a break. McArdle, of Pittsburgh, Pa., polled 245 bal-. lots as against 161 for his nearest competitor, Dan Sheedy, of.- Snyder, N. Y., who is the other junior presidential nominee.
The McArdle ticket stands in its original form: Bart O’Toole, vice-president; Martin McGinnis, secretary; Paul Morrison, treasurer. S.A.C.: Theodore Frericks and John McAuliffe, two years; John McMahon, one year.
Sheedy’s “Good Will” party has heen reorganized, and includes the victors of the split Cushing party. The bill: Eugene White, vice-president; Oliver Helland, secretary; Al Nigro, treasurer. S.A.C.: Dan Donovan and Donald Duffey, two years; Edward Longhi, one year.
In the sophomore skirmish, the Pat Goff machine slid with ease into the top rank. Goff, of Auburn, N. Y., ran up the largest score in the entire primaries, a 389. Runner-up Joseph Mulqueen, of Council Bluffs, Iowa, came in second wit h298 votes.
The Goff All-Hall group consists (Continued on Page 21)
Bookmen To Close Year At Farewell Dinner
In Downtown Hotel
•
Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., and Professor John Frederick are the faculty members who will be guest speakers at the annual Bookmen
Professors Frederick and Ward Eat with the Bookmen.
banquet, to be held this year in the LaSalle hotel on Thursday, May 13. Announcement of the selections was made last Wednesday night at the last formal meeting of the club for the year.
The banquet will wind up one of the most most active seasons for the club in its history. Retiring President Bob McGrath will yield his office to his successor at this time. The other officers for the year will also be announced.
Kearns, Ex-"Scholastic" Editor, Praised
“As far as I am concerned the best sports story of the year has been written,” declared the veteran sports commentator, Hal Totten, on his daily sports talk over radio station-WMAQ, Chicago, last Saturday evening.
He was referring to a story in the Chicago Daily News last week written by James Kearns, editor of the Scholastic of 1933-34, concerning the scene in the Chicago Cubs’ clubhouse following an injury to Larry French, ace left hander of the Chicago staff.
“The show must go on!” And the interhall radio shows are still going on the air. Five of the halls have
already presented their programs, another will do so tonight, and the
Basil Gillespie
remainder will await the gong next week.
Tonight at 9:00, Lyons will reveal its talent to the listening public. The same hour on Monday will see Carroll and Cavanaugh in competition. Tuesday, Howard and Walsh will perform. Wed
nesday night the preliminaries of the contest will come to an end with the
programs of Sorin and Alumni. The programs of the latter two were postponed from this week on account of the Senior Ball.
The final round of the contest will
be held on May 19 when the campus radio season will come to an end. The program that night will also feature performances by the entire University radio staff.
Brownson Hall, which opened the interhall contest Monday night, set a high standard for the remainder of the halls. With the combination of
Mike Mundjiak, Jerry Hogan, and David Garvin, it presented a variety program. So far the standard they set has been equalled, if not bettered, by St. Edward’s, Morrissey, Badin, Off-Campus, Freshman, and Dillon.
Judges for the programs are: Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., of the faculty; Professor Joseph Casasanta, of the music department; and Mr. Robert Drain, of the staff of WSBT.
The programs are rated according to smoothness of radio execution as well as to the ability of the performers. Announcers are: Norbert Aleksis, Basil Gilliespie and Walter Hagen, Jr.
Elect Richard Bowes As Head of Missourians
Richard Bowes, of Kansas City, was elected president of the Missouri club to succeed retiring President Ed Reardon, also of Kansas City. The double office of vice-president, one for each division of the state, was abolished and single officer, Norval Hunthausen, of St. Louis, was elected. Other officers elected were Don Gilliland, Jefferson City, treasurer; Vincent DeCoursey, Kansas City, secretary; and James Aylward, Kansas City, sergeant-at-arms.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
M'NALLY, HACK SCORE RIOTOUS HITS IN "ABSURDITIES"
PHILOSOPHY MAJORS TO ANALYZE DUALISTIC NATURE OF MAN AT SECOND DISPUTATION;
DR. ADLER IS TO SPEAK
By Frank Reilly
The final curtain has been lowered on the 1937 Monogram Absurdities for another year, thus marking the close, Monday night, of the three night run of this year’s fun-making enterprise by the athletes of Notre Dame. Larry Danbom and Steve Miller were co-producers.
Running riot before three packed houses in Washington Hall, Joe McNally and Eddie Casey figuratively
Funsters Hack, McNally Had ’em in the aisles.
“laid them in the aisles.” They were ably assisted by James Hack, and funsters Ducey and Fred “Blue” Mundee.	.
This year’s skits were particularly popular, especially the cross-section representation of pre-Ball scenes at “Applegrove, School of Isolation” and a local men’s school. “Madame Cavanaugh’s Premier Fashion Show” under the direction of J. “Bof“ Cavanaugh, featured such illustrious models as Joe “IT” Beinor, lovely Al Schwartz, George “7 Ply” Kovalcik, John McKenna, Don Allen and Ray Meyer.
Musically, the Absurdities outdid itself. Under the capable direction of Art Davidson, the Absurdities’ Octette singing their clever arrangements of “The Love Bug Will Bite You,” “Little Old Lady” and “I’ve Got You Under My Skin” received encore after encore. Torrid trumpeting by Mike Mundjiak finally satisfied the audience, but only after repeated encores. Brilliant arrangements for the Absurdities Swings-ters, under the direction of Meister-swinger Zwers, were run through the stompy paces of “Hobo on Park Avenue,” “Riffin’ At The Ritz,” and “Rigamarole.”
Dances starring the “muscle men” were exceptionally well done, with graceful Pat McCarty leading the chorines in the brilliantly attired “Firefly Dance.” “Mexican Hotcha” and “Goody Goody” topped off the dancing efforts of these graceful creatures.	-
By Fred E. Sisk
For the second year in a row, after a lapse of ovei- a decade, staid, old Washington hall will be the scene next Wednesday morning May 12, between 10:00 and 12:00 a.m. of the annual Philosophy Disputation, which will claim the atten-
tion of the University.
7936 Laetare Medalist To Give Series Of
Five Lectures
•
Richard Reid, noted Augusta, Georgia, lawyer, editor, Catholic layman, and 1936 recipient of the Laetare medal, will deliver a series of lectures on “The Catholic Citizen,” May 10 to 14, in Washington hall.
His talks will deal with the application of Catholic principles to problems faced by all citizens, particularly during periods of business depression. He will describe the broad principles governing Catholic Action.
“The Spirit of Apologetics” will be the title of Mr. Reid’s first lecture on May 10. On subsequent evenings he will discuss “The Mechanics of Apologetics,” “The Anti-Catholic Spirit,” “Prejudice and Politics,” and “Apologetics and the Press.”
Edward Condon Elected To Follow Joe Brien
As Met Club Head
•
Edward J. Condon, junior in physical education from Brooklyn, N. Y., was elected president of the Metropolitan club of New York for 1937-38 over Oliver K. McMahon, junior in Arts and Letters from Centre, N. Y., by a vote of 73 to 66 in the elections held Monday night, May 3, in the north basement of the Library. During the past year Condon was treasurer.
The office of vice-president was won by A. William DiBrienza, junior in the College of Science from Brooklyn, N. Y.; Robert W. Cruickshank, freshman in the College of Arts and Letters from New Rochelle, N. Y., won the office of secretary, and George M. O’Neil, sophomore in the College of Commerce from Pelham, N. Y., that of treasurer.
Trustees or district representatives elected according to districts are:
(Continued on Page 13)
As previously indicated, all students who are enrolled in classes in philosophy will be excused from their 10 and 11 o’clock periods on Wednesday in order to attend the disputation.
During the past four weeks the participants in the event have been carefully covering every detail con-
Disputants Crisanti and Lane Move in after Absurdities.
cerned with the general topic to be discussed, “The Nature of Man.” In this preparation, Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., head of the department of philosophy, has been in charge, assisted by Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., professor.in the department of philosophy.
To simplify the subject matter, the general topic has been divided into sub-topics. “The Spirituality of the Soul” will be treated by Ray McGrath, chairman, Joseph Crisanti, John A. O’Leary, and Carl Doozan. The second division, “The Freedom of the Will,” will be in charge of William Prendergast, chairman, James Gagnier, Benjamin Johnston, Maurice Quinn, and James Waldron. Engaged in the third part of the subject matter, “Man’s Destiny,” will be Joseph Loftus, chairman, Edward Neaher, George Cecala, George Lane, and James Blunt.
Defending the formal disputation will be William Prendergast, and the general chairman is John O’Leary.
Immediately preceding the discussion, Ray McGrath will present a paper entitled “Why the Nature and Destiny of Man?” This paper will clarify the general purpose of the topic to be discussed during the disputation and will also indicate the importance of the nature of man as (Continued on Page 8)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
Punctilious. Profound Politicos Pontificate Present Progressive Political Policies
ECONOMICS FLAYED BY GREEK WRITERS BRUCCOLI SAYS
By John A. Callaghan
Now that the primaries have been safely crossed, The Scholastic thought that the psychological moment had come for its perennial questionnaire survey and beard the
Nominee Jack Deane Survived two landslides.
embryo statesmen in their political sanctums.
1.	What is your general platform?
One of the Freshmen interviewed mistook the reporter for a spy. The other welcomed our correspondent ■with outstretched arms. He stammered, “Why, I’ll give -them a good Sophomore Cotillion.”
One of the Sophomores declared “A name band for the Prom.” The other candidate declined, saying that it would lose him votes to say anything.
One of the Juniors answered, “To sponsor more inter-class functions... class smokers. . . encourage suggestions from the class.” His political opponent hedged a little on this and replied, “Not to promise anything but to do the best we can.”
2.	How would you go about reducing the cost of campus dances?
Freshmen had little to say in this respect.
The sophomore was for, “Doing away -with corsages and getting a good band that’s touring this section.”
Two of the Juniors were for cutting • out corsages but “not to cut down on the orchestra if possible.” A third candidate offered, “To operate on a budget and contact the dance orchestra ahead of time.”
3.	What is your policy in regard to the S. A. C.?
Our Freshmen were a bit befuddled on this poser. One admitted he would cooperate.
The sophomore said, “The S.A.C. hasn’t done as much as it could or should.”
The first Junior agreed upon the, “Same as this year. They are progressing more rapidly this year than they have any other year.”
The sceond would, “Try to give good service in carrying out campus activities.”
The third, “I think that they are doing as best they can.”
4.	How will you reward your supporters if you are elected?
The Freshman declared that he would reward his followers by appointments on dance committees. The Sophomore promised, “The best Prom they’ve ever had.” The answers given by the Juniors varied from a very succinct, “Thank you” to “Responsible positions to responsible men.” One was a bit different and guaranteed to, “Try to satisfy them as best we can.”
5.	Have you had any previous experience in politics?
Our Freshman friend said of high school politics, “That wasn’t what you would call politics.”
The sophomore had none. Two of the Junior candidates boasted that they had never meddled in college politics. The third answered, “Yes.”
(Continued on Page 22)
Seven Contestants Vie Tuesday Night For Breen Medal
Seven Notre Dame orators will vie for the coveted William P. Breen Medal for oratory next Tuesday, May 11, at 8:00 p.m., in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
The finalists are: Bernard Flynn, C.S.C., Cleveland, Ohio, Charles Osborn, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone, John Schemmer, Colby, Wis., Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Syracuse, N. Y., Fructuoso Barreda, Laredo, Texas, James Nerney, Attleboro, Mass., and Gerald Hogan, Brooklyn, N. Y.
These students were picked as the best from the total entry of twenty-six in the preliminaries which were run off last Monday and Tuesday, May 3 and 4.
Judges for the 35th annual preliminaries were Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Brotlier Justin, C.S.C., and Mr. Stephen Ronay, of the department of English; Professors Ronald Cox, Frank Kelley, and Thomas Mills, of the speech department; Mr. Earl Langwell, professor of French; and Mr. Louis Buckley, professor of Economics.
Unity when built on Communism would give rise only to quarrels and bickering said Matthew J. Bruccoli when addressing the Patricians Tues- . day evening. In offering a paper discussing the “Aristotelian Phase of Greek Economics,” he further added that in the field of economics, the ancient G r e e ks fell far short of attainment in comparison t o their other fields o f intellectual
Matthew Bruccoli pursuits.
“T h e ancient state was in general a strangely comprehensive instituttion since religion was part of the machinery involved in its running. It governed a great deal of daily life, therefore its ethics and politics were inextricably intermingled. '
“The work of the craftsman was considered as incompatible with a ‘life of virtue.’ Agriculture was the sole form of manual labor that escaped degredation and the censure of the Greek writers. Hence, if the ordinary business life was thus despised we can hardly expect that the Greeks would think its study worthy of investigation,” he continued.
“Aristotle’s basic point is that man by nature is a political animal. Thus philosophizing, Aristotle held that Plato’s doctrine of Communism could not survive as it violated natural human instincts. On the other hand, he believed the immense advantage of private property is that it corresponds to natural instincts. As against reformers of all ages, he contends that the evils are caused by the defects of human nature.”
The speaker concluded by citing the interpretation of barter held by the Greeks. “Discarding the mathematical theory of proportion in which Aristotle’s doctrine is embedded, the central point of his teaching is that when people get, as the result of exchange, exactly what they had at the beginning, neither more nor less, they are said to have what belonged to them and to be neither losers nor gainers.”
Growth rings on baby teeth have been discovered by Dr. Isaac Schour, of the college of dentistry at the University of Illinois. These rings, he states, show a relationship to the child’s age.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
7
KNIGHTS TO WITNESS FIRST SQUIRES INVESTITURE
Emblems of Old World Schools ore Used As Decorative Panels for Morrissey Lobby
Many members of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will journey to Elkhart, Ind., this Sunday to witness the first investiture of the Columbian Squires in the state. The ceremony for this was written by the Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., of the department
Knights Gomber and Fish Feed Their Boys May 16
of education, and Raymond A. Hoyer, director of boys’ guidance on the campus.
Plans for the annual Knights’ picnic were discussed at the regular council meeting Wednesday evening. Too, the date for the election of officers was set for May 19.
The exemplification of major degrees together with initiation banquet will be held Sunday, May 16, in the Columbia Athletic club. William Fish, a junior in the College of Law, is chairman of the committee composed of Fred Mulcahey, Will Bowes, William J. Gomber, and Robert Le-Mire.
Mission Crusade Starts Drive For Stamps
An extensive drive for the collection of cancelled stamps was commenced by the Notre Dame Unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade at the bi-monthly meeting this week. A canvass will be made of all the halls by a committee in charge of the drive.
James J. Bernard, vice-president of the unit, delivered a talk on “Missionary Conditions in India.” Rev. Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., vice-moderator, made a short talk.
Announcement was made by Pat Bannon, president, that charters have been received from both the Mission headquarters in Cincinnati and the local Students’ Activities Council.
The committee in charge of the drive includes: Robert Hutter, chairman; Jack Carney, Dennis Dineen, J. J. Bernard, Maurice Lahey, and Frank Brame.
At the next meeting of the unit on May 14 the election of officers for next year will be held.
Stanlev Sessler
Slowly, slowly the austere brown walls of Morrissey Lobby are changing., Early last Saturday morning workmen invaded the outer sanctum of the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., precinct and put into position 12 additional canvas panels, bearing the insignia of the leading universities of six foreign countries and five states. So quietly and quickly did the workmen perform their task that few of the Mor
rissey boarders noticed the transformation. The gentlemen in the design courses of the department of art, under the direction of Professors Emil Jacques and Stanley Sessler, have done their work well.
One of the oldest European Universities is represented by Richard Metzger’s reproduction of the crimson-grey insignia of the University of Pavia, Italy.
France is represented by Francis Kroeger’s duplication of the insignia of Sorbonne. The use of clear blues and greys distinguished the painting. Kroeger is art editor of The Scholastic.
The unusual insignia of the University of Tokyo, painted by Brother Alcuin, C.S.C., carried the inscription “Dai Gaku” (just another way of saying “The University”) written in ancient Chinese characters. Brother Alcuin placed a second panel in the exhibition with his reproduction of the insignia of Galway .university, Ireland. David Harris also chose an Irish university for his insignia. His replica of the shield of Cork university contains rich red, blues, and browns. Where is the green of Ireland?
The use of subdued colors highlights Tom Powers’ replica of the in-
Airmen Meet Tonight To See Movies
Members of the Aeronautical club will desert Walgreen’s corner tonight and, instead, meet in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, where a special movie will be shown on the manufacturing of Boeing Airplanes.
A student paper will also be read by Edward Grimes. His subject has not been announced. However, all members are certain that it will be one of the highlights of the meeting.
signia of Leyden, Netherlands. Another of the Scandinavian universities, Upsala, is represented by James Kavanaugh’s panel.
Charles Sidner stayed within the United States for his panel, choosing the insignia of the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Francis Kroeger’s second painting is a replica of the insignia of Johns Hopkins university, Baltimore, Md. St. Lawrence university, New York, is represented by a painting by Hugo Melchione, a senior art student.
The insignia of an old rival, the University of Southern California, is reproduced by Don Driscoll, and John Webster has used blues and silvers cleverly in his insignia of Loyola university, New Orleans.
The two long side panels to the east and west of the fireplace are the work of Edwin Kent and Richard Metzger.
Baccalaureate Sermon To Be Delivered By Bishop Alter
The Most Reverend Karl J. Alter, D.D., bishop of Toledo, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the Commencement exercises of the senior class of 1937.
Bishop Alter is one of the most widely known Catholic sociologists in the United States. For fifteen years he was the Director of Catholic Charities for the diocese of Toledo, and after that was a professor of sociology in the Catholic University’s School of Social Sciences. From this post he was called to the episcopacy, and was ordained June 17, 1931.
J937 Annual On Press; To Be Out Soon
Every section of the 1937 Dome, save the augmented four-page Senior Ball section, is on the presses of the John F. Cuneo Co., Chicago, it was announced this week by Thomas J. Radigan, editor of the yearbook.
The 31st picture annual, which promises to contain several new and outstanding features, according to Editor Radigan, will be distributed to the general student body in the next two or three weeks. The date will be carried in next week’s Scholastic.
The engraving for the Dome has been done by the Premier Company, Chicago, while the distinctive cover has been modelled by the nationally famous Molloy Company, also of Chicago.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
SOCIAL JUSTICE IS BULWARK AGAINST COMMUNISM
•
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the University, urged the members of the South Bend Life Underwriters’ association to help underwrite social justice as a deterrent to Communism in an address delivered in the Oliver hotel last week.
He pointed out the necessity for social justice and declared that it would pay dividends to the nation in as far as it would destroy Communism. Father O’Donnell defined social justice to be that program which emphasizes justice for all classes of society in conformity with the rights and duties pertaining to these classes as a result of their dignity as human beings.
Americans must be safeguarded from the insidious influence of communism, Father O’Donnell told the underwriters. He explained that it had happened in Mexico, Russia, and in Spain because the people there did not think it could happen. In conclusion he told the insurance men that social justice will stop Communism.
Chemists Dine
Dr. G. F.. Hennion is to be' master of ceremonies at the annual Chemists’ banquet to be held in the Oliver hotel, Wednesday evening, May 12, it was announced this week.
All chemistry students as well as members of the faculty will attend the annual feast, which will be highlighted by speakers and students en-tertainers.
Philosophy Disputation
(Continued from Page 5)
considered at the present time by various philosophical schools.
Another paper entitled, "The Incarnation and Its Relation to Man,” concerned with the supernatural end of man, will be read by Joseph Loftus.
At the conclusion of the formal disputation by the personnel, the public will be given the opportunity to cite their views in relation to the thesis. George Lane will be in charge of this discussion by the audience.
Following this, Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, well-known authority in the field of philosophy from the University of .Chicago, will make a few remarks on the material which has been presented.	.......
King of the Ball . . . James Paul Sheedy, proud boast of Snyder, New York, and second in a trio of Sheedys to sleep under the Dome.
J. Paul is select: He is a member of that charmed inner circle, the Foreign Commerce men and their inscrutable Propeller Club; is a factotum in the Spanish Club; was recently inducted into the Knights of Columbus, and is the sole living possessor of that glorious title “Mr. Dowagiac.”
Snyder, N. Y. slinks in the shadows of Buffalo, and J. Paul has always been something of a power in
the Buffalo Club. This year he chairmaned the annual Christmas dance to new successes. The club had to burn a rival night-club down to get its chosen orchestra, but that was accomplished with the usual Sheedy flourish.
“Pavu” is a charter member and Brigadier-General in the infamous . B.E.P. (Bald Eagle Patrol), a title which he detests only slightly less than Mr. Dowagiac. The latter, however, is meant only as distinct praise for the never-failing Sheedy good . taste.
He plans (or hopes) to enter foreign trade, the rumble of drums and the click of castanets seem to lure him southward . . . but he might stay in South Bend—who knows?
Man of the Moment is known as one of the most fastidious dressers on the campus, and in his own Sny-. dei’ way is rather a handsome cuss at that.
SURREALIST ART IS SHOWN HERE FOR FIRST TIME
•
“Mars, Orange and Green,” a fantasy, and “The Voice of the Nightingale,” a study in scene melody, are included in the third group of 12 Living American Art paintings placed on display in the University library last week.
These two pictures are the first in surrealism to be included in the exhibits. A woman is the main subject of four of the paintings including “Plum Girl” by Maurice Sterne, “Little Coat and Fur Shop” by Kenneth H. Miller, “Anne” by Henry V. Poor, and “Sleeping” by John Carroll.
“Landscape” is the title of two of the paintings. One by Karl Fortress pictures an abandoned farm house in angry blues and browns with touches of red. In the other C. Coggeshall uses willow greens from the darkest to the lightest to help depict his own creative imagination in a landscape design.
A study in the human form is given by Eugene Speicher in “Nude Back.” “Moon Light” by Joseph de Martini; “Still Life — Apples” by Henry L. McFee, and “The Boat” by Peter Blume are the other paintings in the collection.
Charles Boni, director of Living American Art, is solving the problem of bringing art into many homes of moderate means with these exhih-its. By having prints made of the of the original paintings he is able to have simultaneous exhibitions in 250 or more cities.
Harvard, Princeton, and Ohio State universities as well as the Minneapolis School of Art are included in the 75 colleges and art schools throughout the country where the paintings are being shown. In addition, 16" libraries and art museums from coast to coast carry the exhibits.
The collections numbers 48 pictures which are displayed in four groups of 12.
Minnesotans Plan
At the meeting of the Minnesota club last Tuesday evening, definite plans were made for the election, which is to take place about the third week of May. However, the main issue of the meeting was the possibility of a summer reunion. Previously all of the activities had been during the schoolyear, but this action may start a successful preceedent, it was declared by Tom Bohen, president.
Plans were also discussed for a smoker which will probably take place the latter part of this month.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
9
THE WEEK
Windfall
During the past week all events, athletic, social, and scholastic, shriveled and perished before the announcement of the renewal of Senior Week. Not since the Big Wind has there been such furore. At 10 o’clock Thursday morning, the sheet appeared on the bulletin boards. The first man who saw it had to be revived by anxious classmates so that they, too, might delight in the good fortune. There were hundreds of seniors about their daily work who didn’t know; they had to be told. Students glided rather than walked to class. They yelled across the quadrangle at friends. Grotesque tales circulated as to the cause for the change in schedule. Professors found themselves unheeded, as future vacationers planned trips here and there. Hurried letters sped home, disrupting the peace of innumerable households. With the original excitement abated, we hope solemnly that no further decisions evolve; the calm of some 400 Americans depends.
*
Mining Boom
As a piece of encouragement to the forthcoming graduates, we present the saga of a senior miningengineer. This particular man, a table-mate, already has a position awaiting him which will pay about $175 monthly. During meals he sits complacently, listening to the wails of neighbors who have no jobs in sight. Of course, his thesis was awesome, consisting of about 40 pages of highly technical matter and a dozen colored maps of mines in Canada. And his job requires a trip from Woodhull, Illinois, to Butte, Montana. (Why anyone should balk at leaving Woodhull escapes us, but then we’ve never been in Butte, either.) To get back to the encouragement we promised, concentrate and recall the grim days of 1934, when graduates had to accept salaries, or perhaps we should say coolie wages, of $12 weekly. A stipend of $40 a week looms large beside the depression remuneration. The mining engineer’s success story makes us get up early with a bright determined attitude. College may not have been worth while for the Harvard grads of John R. Tunis’ class, but it looks like the Notre Dame men of 1937 are a bumper crop. Watch us grow.
* * £
Before The Ball
Commentators should acquaint themselves with the places they discuss; they should frequent the sites of social brilliance if they attempt to ballyhoo them. Nevertheless we,-with no hope of attending the Senior Ball, shall take the subject in hand. Per-
By John A. Gillespie
haps most important is the band. Just a week ago tonight we heard Will Osborne playing the last night of a long stand in Cincinnati. He will stop off at Minnesota for a dance there before unpacking in the Palais Royale. When we heard him he was on a corner of “Basin Street Blues,” and for all you dancers tonight we predict satisfaction, even absolute delight. And as we sit in our bare room on campus, thinking of the laughter, rhythm, and abandon, we shall shed a silent tear and wish that we, too, had $8.50 and a girl.
*
Actors Must Live
Unless you knew one of the fountain men in the cafeteria Saturday night, you stood small chance of having your order filled. Those happy Monogram men collaborated in a monumental demand for 100 milk shakes and 100 hamburgers. At first the attendants tended to swoon under the unexpected mass production, but, remembering the thespians thirsting in Washington Hall after a proud premiere, they began to pile boxes and cookies. In the abbatoir below the dining hall, heavily - muscled slaughterers butchered cows until the order was completed. Just another instance of the behind-scene cooperation that makes the campus nightclub so popular.
And All Through the House
For out and out poignancy Walsh Rec is champion. With the reluctant arrival of softball and golf weather the bowling alleys are gathering dust. The edges of the ping-pong paddles have chipped; tears in pool tables are left untreated. Just for effect we dropped the eight ball on the floor and listened to the echoes. We could find no pin-boy for bowling, no opponent for table tennis and no cue for pool. On our way out we noticed the K. of C. manager dozing over a copy of the Elks magazine.
* * #
Space Fillers
To tell the story simply: a student was told in the laundry establishment in Badin that he had a dress shirt on file. He didn’t remember having turned one over for cleaning, but asked to see it. It had been held since Oct. 20, almost seven months...
Being an old racing man from ’way back, we hate to miss the Kentucky Derby, but since we’ve already missed 21 of them, another won’t hurt. And, from all reports, there will be more than two fellows there from school. The pressing question of the day is: Will Stroker dare to pick the winner, never having been nearer a horse than a plow?	.
COMMERCE MEN SHUN COSTS. BOOKS FOR BACKWOODS
•
The green-covered shores of Lake Christiana in Michigan will be the site of the 1937 Commerce Forum picnic, Al Smith, club president, announced this week. By bus and motor car, members of the organization will depart from the campus
Woodsmen Smith and Ronan ■ Hit for North Country.
at 12:45 p.m., Tuesday, May 11, and return between 7:00 and 7:30 in the evening.
Swimming, tug - of - war, baseball games, races—all will .be included in the interesting program planned for the occasion by Walt Nienaber, chairman. General chairman of the picnic, Joe Ronan, will see that everybody receives plenty of refreshments as well as having a good time.
On the following day, May 12, the election of officers for the Commerce Forum of 1937-1938 will be held in the Commerce Library on the second floor of the Hurley Hall of Commerce between 6:45 and 8:15 in the evening.
The Forum will not present any of its members with keys, but will permit them to purchase keys if they have maintained a qualitative average of 85%, besides having completed at least two semesters with the Commerce Forum.
Italian Folk Tunes To
Be Sung Tuesday
Italian songs and a paper on Leonardo Da Vinci will be the contribution of the Italian club, one of the language culture clubs, at the All-Nations meeting to be held Tuesday evening, May 11.
Led by Joseph Mangelli, president, the group will sing two typical Italian folk songs, “Santa Lucia” and “Come Back to Sorrento.” A paper entitled “Da Vinci, the Universal Italian,” will be read by Louis Da Pra.
Next week the group will meet in Carroll Recreation hall to discuss plans for the joint meeting as well as for the annual Italian banquet.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, May 7
First Friday, Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, Scholastic staff, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Movies, Aeronautical club, auditorium of the John F. Cushing hall of Engineering, 8:00 p.m.; Interhall Amateur Radio contest, from campus studios, Lyons hall, 9:00 p.m.; Senior Ball, Palais Royale, 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m., Will Osborne and his orchestra.
Saturday, May 8
Track, Varsity vs. Navy, Cartier Field, 2:00 p.m.; Baseball, Varsity vs. Western State Teachers’ College, Cartier Field; Golf, Varsity vs. Northwestern, Evanston, Ill.; Tennis, Varsity vs. Kentucky, there; Senior Tea Dance, Chain o’ Lakes Country club, 3:00 to 6:00 p.m.; Movies, Washington hall, first show for freshmen only at 6:40 p.m., “All-American Chump”; Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Benediction, 11:30 a.m.
Sunday, May 9
Mother’s Day; Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Meeting, Chesterton Society, Law building, 10:30 a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus Chambers, Walsh hall, 11:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, May 10
Meeting, S.A.C., University library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, sacristy of Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 p.m.; First degree exemplification, Knights of Columbus, Walsh hall, 8:00 p.m.; Interhall Amateur Radio contest, Carroll and Cavanaugh halls, from campus studios, 9:00 p.m.; Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, May 11
General elections for sophomore class offices, lower lobby of dining hall, 8:00 a.ni. to 5:30 p.m.; Interhall Amateur Radio contest, Howard and Walsh halls, from campus studios, 9:00 p.m.; Picnic, Commerce Forum, 12:45 to 7:30 p.m., Lake Christiana; Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Meeting, AllNations program, Law building, 8:00 p.m.
W ednesday, May 12
Philosophy Disputation, Washington hall, 10:00 a.m.; General election for junior class offices, Lower lobby of dining hall, 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Baseball, Varsity vs. Louisiana Tech, Cartier Field.
Interhall Amateur Radio contest, from campus studios in the. John F-. * Cushing hall of Engineering, 9:00
. (Continued on Page 10)
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
English Majors, Please Note!
In the opinion of Henry N. Mac-Cracken, Vassar College president, “College students produce two kinds of literature, neither of them good. Either they try revealing their own hearts which are not very full yet, and which they generally are unable-to interpret, or they decide to imitate some well known author in describing artificial situations which they know even less well than themselves.”
It’s Still the Grand Old Game
Reassuring is the news that in the survey conducted by the Institute of Public Opinion sport fans the country over rallied behind that great American pastime baseball and voted it to be their favorite athletic spectacle. The poll tested solely, the spectator viewpoint. Football, while second on the popularity list, failed to make the showing that was expected.
One of the suprising aspects of the survey was the fact that even the ladies voted for baseball despite the obvious fact that the gridiron game gives them a better chance to display their finery. We suspect that the "Ladies’ Day” policy which is in effect in both major league loops had a lot to do -with baseball’s endorsement by America’s feminine fandom.
The collegiate world, of course, for the most part cast its vote for the pigskin sport.-
Definitions by Collegians
COLUMNIST: A term used in abnormal psychology to indicate the possessor of a frustrated ego.—The Pointer.
DEADLINE: The legal time limit for turning in papers; so-called because a professor once dropped dead when a class turned in their themes on time.—St. Mary’s Collegian.
IDEA: A once dangerous phenomenon which is now almost extinct. Can occasionally be found in the backwoods, but for the most part has been completely exterminated by educational centers.—The Tatler.
FINAL EXAMINATIONS: A 20th Century descendant of the Spanish Inquisition. If you are not orthodox you simply don’t get by.
What It Means to Have a Girl-In the Spring
A Minnesota University math marvel calculates that a fellow who rushes a girl during the Spring quarter is doing the equivalent of carrying ten extra academic hours. . . . Well, if we were writing a thesis in mathematics that would seem like a good one to prove or disprove.
VILLAGERS NOMINATE FOUR SLATES FOR TODAY’S VOTE
•
“Mr. President, I nominate. . .”
“I move the nominations cease!”
Such were the spirited voices that flooded the Columbia Athletic club Monday night when over 125 Villagers opened their nomination meeting in preparation for the annual elections that were held late today in Brownson Rec.
The retiring president, Ted Preko-witz, opened the political activities of the evening, by calling the rally to order and asking for nominations. With a few interruptions of past record epithets, candidates eulogies, and platform promises, the following tickets were finally certified on the secretary’s books:
Jim Lahey, president; Jack Scott, vice-president; Abe Zoss, secretary, Charlies Reddy, treasurer; Ed Sommerer, sergeant at arms. Bud Michels and Dick Dice will handle the campaign.
Ted Prekowitz, president; Bill Prekowitz, vice-president; Bob Rodi-baugh, secretary; Bill Rieke, treasurer; Dick Ganser, sergeant at arms. Peter Nemeth, Jr., and Sanford Friedman were appointed campaign managers.
Paul Kelley, president; Sam Lawler, vice president; Ed Minczeski, secretary; Bob Wilson, treasurer; Bob Nelson, sergeant at arms. Co:cam-paign-directors for this group are Dan DeForest and Jim Gorrell.
John Lechner placed his bid for the presidency on an independent ticket. His campaign among the village lads will be handled by Bill Langley and Bill Gibbons.
Buckshot
College degrees, as they are known today, originated at the University of Bologna during the 12th century. . The Cowl is our informant. . . Yale University has. the addresses of all but 80 of its 31,003 graduates. ... Ohio State University laboratories use 5,000 frogs a year at 15 cents per frog. . . .St. Mary’s University from down San Antonio way has a 285 pound guard on its basketball team. He toils under the nickname of “Puny.” . . . Every time one of its gridiron stalwarts is named on an All-American team, Ohid State plants a tree in his honor. ... Ninety-two per cent of. this year’s Penn State College freshmen voted in favor of college women marrying before they reach the age of 25—which is merely another poll conforming to the results of previous surveys in the same field.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAP SMOKE
Post mortem: The Monogram show died a happy death, at least if we can believe half of what people are saying. If we may venture an opinion not that anybody wants to listen to it, it is suggested that the handsome amount of change dragged in by the presence of capacity crowds each night be put back into an even better show for next year. . . At last the long delayed affair comes off — the Senior Ball—and with it the curtain comes down on the last social event of the current school year, JOE
Heel and toe boys calk a few leaks before sailing.
QUINN (Alumni) wants it known that this will be a dance -that will long be remembered. . . JOHN HURST (Sorin) this institutions number one make up man, is thinking of heading for strikebound Hollywood. . . To JIM MULHERN (Dillon) goes our vote for the best addgetter in the school. . .
As we go to press our ears to the ground for the rumble of any dirt that we can get, it is reported that GEORGE THOMAS (Alumni) has been seen on the links trying out a Brand (t) new overlapping grip. His game has improved immensely since. . . .A new club known as the “Mac” club has been , formed in Dillon, its charter members number 12 and its
platform is a honey. The rest of you Dillonites had better investigate it. . . . JOE “Smoky” CANALE (Alumni) has gone on a hamburger diet, is it the hamburger he likes???. . . . Through devious chattels, we have found out that big MARTY BURNS (Walsh) has acquired a jabbering, that to us sounds like “baby-talk”— boy meets girl. . . Anyone desiring tennis lessons should see JOE MOORE (Howard) the girls at Apple-grove find his' instructions extremely enticing as well as practical . . . Last week, we failed to mention that at the K.C. Ball, BOB LEONARD (Howard) had some difficulty, he escorted one girl but the program called for another, not so fast thar, stranger!. . . In the recent Chicago club elections, JOHN BUCKLEY (Dillon) won by half a sneeze over BABE KELLY also of Dillon. The final tally was 125 to 124 a close race in anybody’s league, which only goes
“Flip You for a Ball Date"
to show that they are both very right guys. . .
The law club handicap, in which all four candidates ran a dead heat, was discounted by the judge and will have to be run over again some time later. . . BILL FITZPATRICK (Alumni) is now known as “The Thriller”. . . And in answer to who killed Cock Robin, we give vou COYNE O’CONNOR (Alumni). *
I’m regusted! I’m disappointed I I’m humiliated and yet not angry, never let it be said that your columnist allowed his passion to get the best of him. Of all the good stories that happened not one thing concerning them will George Murphy (Off-campus) tell—but through devious chattels we found that not one good show did the troupe miss on its way home.
No one answers the phone in Alumni Hall since some rascal tore the house phone off the wall.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.....................  Editor-In-Chief
CYRIL F. ST RO KER.................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie---------------The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle College Parade
Joseph Rotondo------------[n The Juggler Fein
Robert L. Grogan“Scholastic of the Air”
Louis DaPra___________ Harold A. Williams____ Michael Mongoven______ Richard Riley_________ George Haithcock______ Frederick Sisk________ Thomas Marker_________ Gregory Byrnes________ Frank E. Larwood______ James Dempsey_________
News Staff
• Edward Huff
Vincent W. Hartnett’/_____________
Harold A. Williams J
_________News Editor -Assistant News Editor
____Frank Reilly ____Robert McClain Vincent de Coursey ____John Callaghan ____James Hufnagel ____Graham Starr ____F. Barreda ____John Kohn
—Literary Editors
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe_________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride_____________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby_______________________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan________________________William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott_______________________________James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger__________________________________Art Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, '26 Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame. Indiana.
Vol. 70
May 7, 1937
No. 24
UP ANOTHER NOTCH. . .
ALL precincts have finally been heard from, all returns
are in and the 1937 Bengal Bouts, greatest in the history of the show, have been laid to rest with other record breakers.
All records for attendance were smashed, champions were crowned in eight divisions, and the Bengal Missions have been tendered a check for $545.99—largest ever turned in by Bengal Bouts managers.
The story of this year’s success is even better when we look behind some of the figures. The total income from the Bengal Bouts was $926.42—about $350 more than the previous high. But expenses also-mounted, as the Bouts grew larger.
One of the misfortunes of boxing caught up painfully with a contestant who suffered a broken jaw. The break was a serious, but wholly accidental thing, and demanded expert treatment. Expert treatment costs money even when dentists and doctors are charitable in their charges. So here, in one fell swoop, was added an extraordinary expense of nearly $100—an expense never before incurred by Bengal contestants.
Printing costs too mounted as a more elaborate program was prepared. The pictures and engravings used in promotion of the Bouts—all were added expenses, but necessary ones.
Included in the general rise of prices were woolens and knitted goods—hence a higher bill for sweaters. In this connection too it might be added that all of this year’s sweaters, given both to champions and runners-up, are of the finest quality obtainable—fitting for noble champions who worked long and hard for a worthy cause.
Analyzing the statement of accounts then,it is easy to see that only the misfortune of sheer and unpreventable
accident, accounts for the fact that this year’s net profit is only $130.00 higher than it has ever been.
In passing the Bouts into their limbo, it is fitting again to thank sincerely all those whose help was so greatly needed and so generously given in support of this student activity. There is no reason why new high records can’t be set every year.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
1937 Bengal Bouts
Receipts:
General Tickets:
1,812 tickets ..............................  $453.12
Preliminaries ................................ 123.30
Donation, Mr. Frank	Lloyd .................... 50.00
Advertising in	program .....................  190.00
’ Patron tickets	......................     110.00
Total .................................$926.42
Expenditures:
Sweaters for winners and runners-up .........$130.15
Equipment:
Gloves, trunks, Bag mitts, hand-tapes, etc.. 31.10
' Printing: Program ................;........... 75.68
Engravings, photographs, stationery, postage .... 35.00
Medical Service ................1............. 92.00
Electricians: Setting up ring lights, Moving public address system ................. 16.50
Total ..........................    -....380.43
Balance:
Receipts, Gross .................. ;...........$926.42
Expenses ........1........  :....1.........1... 380.43
Net Profit ___________________________:__$545.99
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
13
Izaak Walton II ... »
By William Cullen Fay
Being the fanciful account of a fanciful fisherman in which the fish stay out of the plot in huge droves. The man might be Hack; but then again, who'll be the fish?
Edward Thomas McDermott, of Kane, (consult any large map of Pennsylvania), and Freshman Hall, is by his own admission probably the best all-around fly, worm, or troll fisherman ever to matriculate at Notre Dame. Where he comes from are the swiftest, swirliest trout streams in the United States, and the fish are so big they have to swim on their sides in order to navigate the waters which seldom exceed five or six fathoms in depth.
Be what it may, Mr. McDermott prepared to drop his first line in Lake St. Joseph with the feeling of a Barrymore making a personal appearance in Mishawaka. McDermott had conquered the whales from Kane; he was now to toy with the St. Joe tadpoles.
As he admitted to a humble audience at table 70, East Hall, during last Friday’s noon meal: “I am no ordinary fisherman. I don’t catch just any fish that swims along; I use discernment. When I notice one that pleases my fancy, I deftly offer him a worm . . . and reel in. It is as easy as that.”
“In fact,” he continued, “nothing which, I might catch this afternoon would surprise me—not even a whale.”
Knowing Mr. McDermott quite intimately from long cuisine companionship none of table 70 was in the least surprised that Mr. McDermott would not be surprised.
Three-thirty that afternoon found Mr. McDermott, with three fortunate companions, beating his way down the north bank of St. Joe towards the far end where the S.S. Moreau rides at anchor.
“We must have worms,” remarked Mr. McDermott, glancing meanfully towards his henchmen.
“Aye, aye, Sir,” barked three eager voices, and the accompanying feet scurried into the underbrush to return with squirming grubbers for the McDermott bait-can.
“I believe, we shall try our luck here,” decided the Kane wizard, de
serting the path and balancing his way out on the Moreau dock. Unsheathing his pole, a long, whippy bamboo adorned with patriotic red-white-and-blue “bobbers,” he sat down on the dock’s edge, feet dangling down to the water.
He squashed a little squirmer onto his hook, tossed the line out into the moderately deep, filled his pipe, and relaxed, puffing clouds at the sky.
A few minutes breathed away. Words dropped from the mouth of the sage. “Be not impatient,” he soothed, “it may require a few moments to ‘warm up’ the fish. But be not discouraged. We shall have fish by and by.”
By and by he pulled in his line to find that his hook had been artistically wormed. “Ah,” he exclaimed triumphantly, “the fish are here. See, they have nibbled on the hook!”
We looked and were not impressed. We had the impression that worms were bait, not fish fodder. However, one does not question the strategy of a master; so, we waited.
Mr. McDermott continued to fish, pausing at frequent intervals to replenish his hooks.
“Bread crumbs are good too,” one I of his companions commented unkindly.”
McDermott met the challenge. “The wind,” he explained, “is blowing directly down the lake; consequently, there is a constant tugging and pulling on the line. It is quite difficult to determine just when a fish is nibbling and when the wind is pulling. However, soon we will have fish.”
Tree shadows grew farther and farther into the lake; the wind blew stronger whipping the blue vraters into lacy white ruffles; five-thirty— bonged from the belfry of Sacred Heart Church. Beside McDermott— all about him, in fact—bare planks shrieked his failure.
Regretfully, slowly, the master hauled in his line. “I fear we will have to adjourn for the afternoon,” he mourned. “Too bad, though. I have caught some of my largest fish *
near the supper hour. However, before we leave, I’d like to show you how we fish with flies, in Kane. It is rather difficult to capture the mood when I have a worm on the end of the line, but I will endeavor to show you some of the proper rod technique. Just iinagine that we are on the bank of a mountain stream. There is a rock just over there (he gestured out into the lake) and beneath it I suspect a trout is lurking. I would whip my line from the water, whirl it above my head, and whip it —OUCH!”
The straining line, whipped by the wind, had escaped its intended orbit and snagged its way into Mr. McDermott’s' collar, scraping away a modest amount of epidermis en route. Instantaneous action—the quick reaction of a woodsman—enabled McDermott to snatch the hook away before it seriously threatened the jugular vein. The hook was free, but the worm, for all practical purposes, was gone forever, lost in the folds of Mr. McDermott’s shirt.
Not for a second did McDermott lose his equanimity. “Now, we will have to stop,” he mourned. “Scratches from fish hooks frequently result in blood poisoning. I must cleanse the wound immediately.”
“Yeah,” agreed his friend who previously had suggested breadcrumbs, “and besides there ain’t no more worms.”
Senior Invitations
Senior invitations for the 1937 Commencement, given annually to the members of the class by the University, will be distributed from the Alumni Office starting Monday, May 10. Hours are from 8 aan. to 4 p.m. Each senior receives ten invitations. Seniors must call in person.
Met Club Officers
(Continued from Page 5)
Brooklyn, John R. Firth, freshman in Arts and Letters; Manhattan, Alexander S. Kovzelove, junior in Arts and Letters; Long Island, Joseph A. Callahan, junior in Arts and Letters; and Westchester, William H. Gallin, junior in Engineering..
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
ATHLETICS
IRISH THINLIES MEET NAVY HERE TOMORROW IN SEASON'S SECOND OUTDOOR DUAL MEET NOTRE DAME REIGNS AS FAVORITE
IRISH GOLFERS WIN TRIANGULAR MEET IN MINNESOTA
Double quick time will be the keyword as Boatswain Nicholson pipes all tliinlies on deck for the track meet with the future admirals from the Naval Academy on Cartier field tomorrow afternoon.
In meeting the Irish, this year’s strong, well-balanced Navy team will be making the longest trip ever taken by any Middie trackmen. Numbered among the prospective starters are seven footballers, several who have
Dan Gibbs
Five events in one meet.
seen service against the Irish, Lynch, Fike, Swiderski, Blaha, Emrich, Beard, and Halovok.
The midshipmen are particularly strong in the dash events. John Dalton and Bob Morgan will probably oppose Jordan and Clifford in the 100 and 220 yard dashes. Dalton has turned in times of :09.7 in the century, and :21.7 in the 220. His running mate, Morgan, is a consistent ten second man in the 100, and is only a few steps slower than Dalton in the 220. In the quarter mile run Bob Cutts, a :50 man, will team with William Finn in an attempt to lead Parsons and Sheehan around the local oval.
In the longer distances the Irish and the Middies seem to be evenly matched, and as a result close, exciting races are expected. Francis and Cavanaugh will meet strong opposition in the person of Ed Scofield who has turned in a 1:58 in the 880. Jack Harby, Smith, and Peterson will take the post in the mile run against Rice and Gott. Harby will be the man to (Continued on Page 22)
TENNIS TEAM DEFEATS PURDUE NETTERS ON HOME COURT
•
Resuming their winning stride following a setback at the hands of Chicago University’s championship team Coach Pedro de Landero’s varsity net-men whipped a powerful Purdue University team last Monday on the local courts by the decisive score of 7 to 2. Losing but one contest in the singles and one in the doubles the Blue and Gold racquet wielders dominated the play from start to finish.
Purdue’s defeat was the second win scored by Captain Fallon’s crew over Hoosier rivals in as many weeks since the Irish opened their current net campaign with a win over the well balanced Indiana University team about two weeks ago. All seven of Notre Dame’s points were scored in straight sets thus indicating that Coach de Landero had molded together a team that can give a good account of itself in the lower brackets as well as in the higher individual ranking strata. Such a balance, with the present season but half over, makes it appear certain that the 1937 Irish netters will better the record of last year’s team.
“Wild Bill” Fallon and his doubles partner “Whit” Gregory enjoyed an individual field day at the expense of their “Boilermaker” opponents since both won their singles matches. and teamed up to cop the No. 1 doubles assignment. Jim Waldron playing in the No. 2 spot came through with a win over Traylor of Purdue, while bespectacled Eddie Kilrain showed his teammates that his game is once more on the mend by trimming Brodsky. Simon, Irish sophomore, accounted for the other Notre Dame victory in the singles when he swept through Jackson in 20 minutes by the scores of 6-1, 6-0.
Following the Fallon-Gregory win in the first doubles the Irish sophomore combination of Reppenhagen and Wolf which scored the all important winning point against Indiana
Notre Dame’s six-man golf team last Saturday conquered Minnesota and Wisconsin, 39%-14%, in a triangular meet bn Minnesota’s hilly course. The match was run off with each team facing the other individually. In these alternate pairings, Notre Dame won the doubles from Minnesota and from Wisconsin by the same score, 6%-2%, while Minnesota lost to Wisconsin, 7-2. In the singles tourney, the Irish beat Minnesota, 13%-4%, making the total team score, 20-7. Notre Dame then finished off the Badgers, 13-5, making the total team score, 19%-7%, and the composite match score, 39 %-14%.
In the medal play, two Notre Dame men, Bill Castleman and Gene Milbourne, tied for the lowest score of the day with 72’s. The course par was 71. Playing together, Castleman and Milbourne defeated Minnesota by one stroke and Wisconsin by four strokes in the “best ball” doubles match. They scored a 69 to the 70 made by Gophers Tang and Hiller, , and the 73 turned in by the Wisconsin pair.
Despite the rain and hail which ambushed the players halfway through both the morning and afternoon rounds, the match was well-played, interesting, and well-conducted by the Minnesota hosts. The efficiency and graciousness of Coach W. R. Smith of Minnesota “put over” the match so smoothly and so perfectly on schedule that all three contestants arranged for return arrangements next year at Madison, and in 1939 at Notre Dame.
in the opener, went on the court to continue its winning way. Although forced into extra games to win the first set the two sophomores ran out the second set by a love score. Then, with the match already on ice, Coach de Landero called upon a new doubles team in the persons of Ed Waters and Joe Lewis for the final match of the day. While losing the new tandem extended the Purdue team of Brodsky and Jackson to three close sets.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
15
WILDCAT LINKSTERS TO MEET IRISH IN HOME MEET
NOTRE DAME AND WESTERN STATE TEACHERS MEET ON CARTIER FIELD TOMORROW;
KLINE ANTICIPATES TOUGH GAME
An eminently successful Irish golf team will pack its clubs and betake itself to Evanston tomorrow, where it will meet a strong Northwestern outfit on the Kildeer Country Club course.
The Wildcats have lost but one conference meet this year, and that an upset in which Iowa beat them, 12-9. Headed by such men as seniors Jim Marek and Kostleicke, they are ex-
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C.
His boys swing out against N. U.
pected to offer plenty of competition to Father Holderith’s lads.
In addition, the Purple team has several very good underclassmen. A sophomore, Sid Richardson, is the present Western Junior champion, to which title his teammate, Marek, was runner-up last year.
Undoubtedly the match will be close, for Northwestern is always keyed up for any athletic event with Notre Dame. However, in total number of meets won, the series between Northwestern and the Irish stands heavily in favor of Notre Dame. In fact, the meet lost two years ago by Johnny Banks et al is the only black mark against the Irish record.
- With a little luck on the weather and the course, Captain Lou Fehlig and his mates should be able to continue their excellent record. Desides Captain Fehlig, Donovan, Mailhes, Castleman, Milbourne, and Sheehan will probably comprise the Notre Dame team.
Notre Dame varsity baseball squad will once more assume the’ role of underdogs when they play host to a strong Western State Teachers’ nine at Cartier Field, Saturday, May 8.
For four out of the last five years the Hilltoppers have won the Michigan
FACULTY TOURNEY
IN FIRST ROUND OF LINK PLAY
•
The first round of the faculty golf tournament will close tomorrow, and the survivors will immediately begin the quarterfinal round Sunday morning. This quarterfinal round will continue until Sunday, May 16.
Divided into three flights, 48 golfers teed off in the opening round. The pairings that headed Flight A were Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., vs. Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C., Tom Quirk vs. Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., Elmer Layden vs. Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C.
Flight B Pairings
Leading the Flight B pairings were Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., vs. Stanley R. Price, George Keogan vs. C. F. Chizek, Stanley Sessler vs. Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C.
The matches between W. W. Turner’ vs. Frank Kelly, and E. F. Connolly vs. Devere Plunkett were the top ones in Flight C.
The semifinal matches will be played from May 17 to May 23. The final and deciding matches will take place by May 27.
The leading faculty golfers have been preparing for the tournament for some time on the local course. Competition will be keen among the top flighters. In this group are representatives of every department of the faculty. Rev. Holderith, Tom Quirk, Rev. Henry Bolger, Coach Elmer Layden, Rev. Thomas Brennan,' and Arthur Haley are among the leading club-swingers.
Because of rain in the earlier part of the week, match play was slowed up considerably. However, because of the excellent condition of the course, the matches were resumed immediately, and the schedule will be continued as planned.
State title, and only Jost it last year when Michigan University’s Big Ten champs nosed them out, 3-2, in an eleven-inning battle. During this five-year period, the Brown and Gold have come out on top in 32 out of 40 games against Big Ten opponents. This year’s outfit is no exception. With capable veterans in almost every position, Coach Charles Maher’s present team seems to be a
Ennio Arboit Pitches against State.
sure bet to collect revenge for the four consecutive setbacks they have suffered at the hands of the Irish in the past two seasons. Not only have the locals topped them recently, but the all-time record between the two schools shows a decided Green superiority. Since their diamond relations began in 1914, Notre Dame has won fourteen while dropping only five.
The outlook for tomorrow’s game is far from bright for this year’s Klinemen, though. The Teachers earlier in the season outslugged Michigan State, 11-4, ■while State in turn trounced Notre Dame, 7-1. In addition, Dave Arnold, their star’ mound perfonner, seems to be pitching great ball, not having lost a game this year, while, on the other hand, Arboit, N.D.’s ace, hasn’t as yet hit his stride. The opposition has been solving his deliveries quite regularly, and, unless he suddenly finds himself, it looks very much as though the visitors will make up for the last two seasons.
The probable starting batteries are: Arboit and Kovzelove for Notre Dame, and Arnold and Abel for Western State.	_
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
Arch Gott, The Scholastic’s own, has gone out from the old office behind the Main Building to make a name for himself as one of Nick’s cinder men and it seems, from the late reports, that our Arch has done right well by himself under the tutelage of the popular track coach.
Unheralded as a runner or sports writer, Arch came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1933 determined
IRISH HITS SCARCE; DROP 7-1 DECISION TO SPARTANS
^roe©cr-
| to make good at both and he did, with a speed I that was almost amaz-TWO	1 ing. He also acquired
that elusive something I known as “stuff” and , has gone down in the annals of Scholastic history as the boy who’s “Gott stuff.” Cy Strok-er, our boss, invented the term, and has been boasting about it ever since. He considers it his supreme offering to the gods of immortality although others insist j upon calling it a low product of the lowest form of humor, the pun. Puns notwithstanding Arch seems to have the
“stuff” that makes a good miler and two miler, and for that reason Notre Dame track addicts can be thankful, for Arch has pulled in many a decisive point for the Irish track forces.
He is a product of that well-known high school, Mount Carmel, of Chicago. This school has produced many a fine Notre Dame athlete before and after Arch’s time. Such boys as Jerry Clifford, Joe Nash, Ferd Rydell, John Fogel have come to Notre Dame from there, and Notre Dame has sent Wally From-hart and John Jordan to act as football and basketball coaches for it.
Arch never thought of track while in high school. He was a golfer, and in his senior year his duties as captain of the golf team prevented him from trying the cinder game. However, when he entered Notre Dame, he was persuaded to try out for the cross country and track teams. That year Leo McFarlane was top miler of Nick’s forces, and Arch used to run against him in practice. His most vivid memory of his first race with McFarlane is the fact that Leo lapped him twice before the race was over. But that didn’t stop him. Leo was injured the following year and forced to drop out of track temporarily. Arch, a sophomore now, filled in, and in his first race against Chicago turned in a victory for the Irish. In his own words he “was more scared than tired” after the race. He won his monogram that year and every year, and now has three to his credit, one being won when he was a member of the now-extinct cross-country team.
This year Nick shifted him from the two-mile to the mile run, and along with Greg Rice he has given Notre Dame its best representation in the mile in years. His best time for that distance was 4:24, but he’s shooting at 4:20, or else. Almost every time he runs there’s a record broken, but unfortunately it’s done by the other fellow.
Because Michigan State showed such a decided advantage in banging the ball into the right place at the right time, Notre Dame received its second defeat of the season, a 7-1 trimming administered at East Lansing last Saturday.
The Spartans put across the first run of the game in the second inning, but Johnny Moir, who went hitless for the first time this season, was able with the aid of a few errors to tie the score at one-all in the fifth. Michigan State, however, scored two runs in the last half of that inning, two more in the sixth, and their final two runs of the game in the seventh.
George Hill, the Spartan’s number one twirler, held the Irish to five scattered hits and allowed only two walks. Meanwhile Captain Ennio Ar-boit was pelted for nine safeties before John Goncher, who held the Spartans hitless for the few innings he pitched, relieved him in the seventh.
Joe Nardone, the Irish lead-off man and left fielder, headed the Irish batting attack—what there was of it— with a double and a single. Sam Nuz-nov, a sophomore first sacker who batted eighth in the line-up, led the Spartan barrage with a double and two singles.
Although each team made three errors, Coach Kline’s boys were noticeably less wide-awake on the defensive. The Spartans stole three bases to none for the Irish, and showed their alertness by twice removing Irish scoring threats with smoothly-executed double plays.
Juniors Take Lead in Chemist Softball
His race last Saturday with John Woodruff, the Olympic champ, was really a honey. Everybody thought that the lanky negro would make a one-man race of it, but Arch didn’t. He stuck right at his heels all the way around, and came mighty close to beating the world’s champion half-miler, losing only by a few yards.
He will be remembered down at Annapolis as the boy who nearly upset the U. S. Navy. While down there for the dual meet last year Arch and the boys were watching dress parade. He wished to get it all in and moved to (Continued on Page 23)
Mel Lambrecht’s three hit pitching gave the Juniors a 10-0 shutout over the Sophomores in a Chemist’s Soft-ball league game on Brownson field last Saturday afternoon. Mehring pounded out a homer and a double to lead the winners attack. The Senior-Freshmen game was called off.
Tomorrow afternoon, the Seniors will play the Sophs, and the Juniors will meet the Freshmen.
Standings to date: W L
Juniors ....................2	0
Sophomores................  1	. 1
Seniors ....................0	1
Freshmen .................. 0	1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
17
KLINEMEN WILL PLAY TWO GAME SERIES WITH LOUISIANA
•
Coach Jake Kline and his nine ballhawks will encounter the fast-stepping Louisiana Tech outfit on Wednesday and Thursday, May 12, and 13, at Cartier Field. The Southerners are coming North to play six contests in as many days with three strong mid-western schools, namely: Purdue, Illinois and Notre Dame, and according to advance reports Coach Eddie McLane’s Engineers are determined to prove to the Northerners that collegiate baseball, as played in Dixie, is “tops.”
At the outset of the season Coach McLane was faced with the rather difficult task of finding a suitable first sacker to replace Jack Thigpen, varsity guardian of the initial sack for three years, who was graduated last June. Just as the weary mentor was about to give up along came Bill Horton and now the Tech fans are beginning to forget their former ace. Clyde Stinnett, Bob Burt, and Jack Hanna hold down the other infield posts. The latter, a gridiron star for three seasons, decided to try out for the team this year and has turned in some classy infield performances.
Steve Lewis and Ed Harris are the only returning moundsmen who won monograms last year, while two of their battery mates, Herman Hewett and Carl Gardner, also won letters.
Coach McLane has chosen Charles Caston, Guy Carroll, and “Toad” Williams to patrol the outer gardens from a long list of candidates.
Coach Kline has made many changes in his lineup since the start of the campaign in order to find a winning combination. Capt. Arboit, Goncher, and Rydell will be used in the box. Andy Puplis, shortstop, is the only infielder who has stuck with the first team since the opener with Chicago. Larry Doyle has replaced the injured Jim Carson who will probably be lost for the remainder of the season. Braddock and Gaglione have been fighting it out for second and the latter seems to be developing rapidly. Mohr has definitely replaced Joe O’Neil at the hot comer. Al Koze-love is still doing a fine job behind the plate. Nardone, Moir, and Borowski comprise the outfield and these heavy hitters are due to give the Louisiana hurlers plenty of anxious moments.
The gift of $500,000 to Brown University from Jesse H. Metcalf, a member of the university’s board of trustees, will be used to build and endow a laboratory “with unsurpassed facilities” for research in the fields of electro-chemistry and photochemistry.
THE 1937 VARSITY TURNS BACK OLD-TIMERS, 7-0; BEFORE 10,000 FANS; McCORMICK AND TONELLI EXECUTE SCORING PLAY
CHAMPS CROWNED IN S. A. C. SWIMMING CARNIVAL
Both old and new talent figured prominently in the annual S.A.C. swimming meet as the aquatic stars sprung from the edge of the pool at the South Bend Natatorium the evening of April 28.
The 40 yard events showed professional style, with Norman Anderson coming in first, followed closely by John Monaco and William Hake. This was the free style event, and it was timed at 20.6. The breast stroke contestants were led in by Frank Geddes with Bill Marguet second, while Jack Brennan took the third position, the time being 28.2 for this event. In the popular backstroke race, John Monaco took the honors, with Larry Casey second and Dick Scannell in the third bracket. Timers called this event at 25.5.
The more lengthy contests had victory in the 100-yard free style going to Bill Bums, Sam Lawler, and F. Reilly, who finished first, second, and third respectively. This race was timed at 61.3. Frank Huisking finished first in the 220-yard free style swim, with F. Reilly taking the second position and Bob Windheim the third. The time: 2.49. The awards for these events will be medals: gold for the winners, silver for second place, and bronze for boys who finished third.
High board competition was won by John Greene with Jack McGurl rating second place and Norus Ryan third. Green and McGurl took the same honors in the low board events, and Phil Roeser was third. The 15-yard plunge saw McGurl first, Joe Messick second, and Normy Anderson third.
Three gold medals go to Casey, Geddes, and Anderson for victory in the medley relay, with 1:14.6 for the time. Gold medals also go to Monaco and the Huisking trio, Ed, Frank, and Dick, who combined to win the free style four-man relay, timed at 1.31.
Jack Byrne and Dave Flynn acted as timers, with George Bonfield and Scott Reardon as clerks, and Father Julian Sigmar judged the diving events. Chairman Delaney announced that the awards may be called for in about a week at 421 Walsh.
By John F. Clifford
Starting Line-ups
. Varsity	Old Timers
Skoglund LE----------------------Host	'33
Emanuel ___________LT__________Hiller	'28
Ruetz _____________LG----------Lautav	'37
McCarty ___________CC.-----------Yarr	'32
Kuharich __________RG.------M_etzger.	’31
A. Shellogg _______RT-----------Kurth	*33
Sweeney RE_____________________Conley	*31
Hofer QB_____________________Fromhart	*36
Puplis ____________LH___________Koken	*32
McCormick _________RH__________Hanley	'35
Tonelli ___________FB_________Carideo	*36
“The old order changeth, yielding place to new,” wrote an observant poet many years ago for the whole world to remember. “The old order changeth—perhaps; but yieldeth not without a fight,” said William Shakespeare, namesake of another poet immortal because of his pithy sayings, on Sunday afternoon .for the 10,000 people gathered in the Notre Dame
Larry Danbom Wake up and sing.
Stadium. Sparked by the passing and kicking of “The Bard” famous for his football endeavors, gridiron luminaries of the National Championship era modified these memorable words by holding the livelier colts of the 1937 Varsity to one touchdown and themselves threatening touchdowns in various stages in the game.
This year’s Varsity-Old Timers’ game, dedicated to the memory of the late John J. O’Brien, a teammate of most of the returning stars, was witnessed by the largest crowd to ever assemble in the Stadium for the annual spring game. Football spirit, though premature, was enthusiastic and the Irish Old Timers individually received a great ovation from the stands .as they left the field.
Throughout the first three quarters the Varsity eleven was stopped by the cagey line men of the Old Timers. The All-Americans and All-Westerns
(Continued on Page 20)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
BY CY STROKER
With only two more issues of The Scholastic after this one for the year we feel in a reflective mood. And no subject offers a better outlet for reflection than the Old Timers’ game of last Sunday. The game wasn’t as interesting as we expected. It lacked color, but that is probably because we were not too concerned with which side won. The Varsity, for some reason or other, gave us the impression that, if they turned on the heat, they could make short work of the opposition. But the Pony Express was not as lively as a group of colts as they probably ■will be next year. Everything considered, the team should be -well rounded out by the time the Irish meet Drake in the Notre Dame stadium next October.
Most of the spectators got quite a kick out of the appearance of the Old Timers. The sight of partially bald stars of other years cavorting around the gridiron did seem funny until one observed that they were really trying, and were really playing good ball. We thought Ed Krause and Mike Koken were particularly effective as long as they stayed in. It did our old heart good to see Wally Fromhart in there calling signals once more. Wally, who once did some work for this column, is now teaching and coaching in Chicago. Larry Danbom proved beyond all doubt that his life as a gay chorus girl in the Absurdities has not made him any more welcome to the opposition than he was last fall.	।
▼
Coach John Nicholson walked up and down the field like a general at the front lines, his blue suit flapping in the breeze, his gray hat set jauntily on one side of his head, his keen blue eyes squinting against the sun. A word of encouragement here, a sharp rebuke there. All the time brown colored runners were running up the Pitt score, and it looked as though Nick’s pessimistic predictions would come true. But when all the counting up had finished Notre Dame had tied the score, and the outcome of the meet was still uncertain. To decide the meet one way or the other, Nick called for a mile relay, realizing that with chocolate colored Woodruff in the race for Pitt, Notre Dame stood hardly a chance. Sure enough, Pitt won the race, and with it the track meet that Nick wanted to win more than any other meet on his schedule. It reads like a Street and Smith’s sport story but it gives you a little insight into the character of the man whom the trackmen have for student generations affectionately called “Nickleberry.”
WALSH GENTLEMEN FIGHT DAILY WARS ON DIAMOND
The tennis team seems to be running into the same trouble that has always hounded it in regard to matches won and lost. But one need not look far for the explanation of the situation. In meeting such teams as Chicago and Western State, the Irish players are up against tennis talent that consistently makes national tennis news. Also it is playing against teams which have indoor facilities for practice during the long winter season, while the Irish must wait until spring rolls around sometime late in April before getting in any real practice. Notre Dame has some good talent in this sport and a coach who knows how to use it to its best advantage... So when you read in “The Scholastic” (where else would you get the news?) that the tennis team lost, don’t turn away in disgust, but rather shed a tear for those unfortunates who have to live in Indiana weather all the time. We recommend that you go over to see one of the matches behind the engineering building some time. Captain Fallon is in rare form this year, and puts on a show that makes W. C. Fields look like an amateur.
▼
As reported in this issue, the faculty golf tournament is well started under the direction of Mr. Chizek. As thing look at the present time, the priests have something of an advantage in the tourney. We have our money on Father Holderith, who won the tournament last summer. With Mr. Knittel and Mr. Eells playing in the tournament, one can expect to hear some words not used in the classroom. What tempers!
By Arch Gott
After their sad experience in the baseball game with the Holy Cross Seminarians, the Gentlemen of Walsh Hall have finally decided that the good old game of softball is not so bad as they thought before their journey across the lake. Consequently the G. of W. may be seen each afternoon from 12:30 tearing around like mad on the well-kept lawn between Badin and Walsh. So large have been the crowds of spectators during the past week that there has been talk of erecting bleachers on top of Sorin. Speaking unofficially, this humble reporter voices the opinion that the deal will fall through.
Possibly the best game to date was played last Tuesday when the G. of W. opposed more G. of W. with a few ringers tossed in from Sorin and Alumni. After thirteen innings of wildly exciting softball the G. of W. living on the third and fourth floors came through to whip their brethren of the first and second levels. The tilt featured some extra brilliant twirling by the Pride of West Virginia, Walt Schrader, and the white hope of the Chicago Club, Chick Maloney. Schrader struck out nine men while walking thirteen, with Maloney having an equal number of strikeouts but allowing only eleven walks owing to superior control in the pinches.
The final score of 29-26 indicates the closeness of the struggle, but it fails to reveal the events leading up to the fateful thirteenth. One of the outstanding events was the return to the game of “Jafsie” Condon who had a fight with a tree last week. In the fourth inning with the score locked at 10-all, “Big B” McGrath crawled up to the plate with bases loaded, undismayed by the hooting of his enraged opponents, and socked one of Maloney’s pitches far and wide. “Schoolboy” Hoyt in the center field got tangled up with the laundry truck, and by the time he climbed out of the wreckage the ball had fallen for a triple. Then again in the eighth inning Joe Dorgan at second base closed his eyes and leaped into the air to snare a drive from the bat of Jack Gillespie. There had been men on first and second at the time and both had left their bases on the hit. Joe landed on the second sack to double Ed Huisking and frantically tossed to first where Frank Reilly clamped the ball on Harold Tomaschko for the completion of a triple play.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
19
ON DOWN THE UNE
By Mike Crowe
Idaho University boasts of the brothers ROBERT, RALPH, and ALVAN MILLER. None of the three weighs more than 180 pounds but all three compete in athletics. Robert is northwest intercollegiate 118 pound ■wrestling champion. Ralph won the Golden Gloves title in the 112 pound division at Seattle, and Alvan was a member of Idaho’s winning two-mile relay team at hte recent A.A.U. indoor meet at Spokane, Washington.
¥
FRANK MURRAY who resigned at Marquette to coach the University of Virginia played no football when he was a student at Tufts college.
¥
HERM FISHMAN, Michigan star pitcher who had won 11 straight collegiate games, recently had his string broken by Iowa when the Hawkeyes triumphed 3-2.
★
Metropolitan basketball coaches of . New York City recently named the five outstanding players to play at Madison Square Garden during the basketball season. They selected NOWAK of Notre Dame, LUISETTI of Stanford, TIPPY DYE of Ohio State, CAMPION of DePaul, and BENDER of Long Islaand University.
*
MARION NAGURSKI, brother of the more famous BRONKO, was surprised unpleasantly, recently when one of the co-ed gym classes at Marquette had his name listed on the roll.
*
CHESTER LASKE, high scoring center for Detroit University, has "been elected to the captaincy of next year’s five.
*
CHEYENNE School at Colorado Springs has discarded football for rodeo sports. Bucking horses and wild steers are considered less dangerous by the school officials.
★
According to JOE CRONIN, BOB DAUGHTERS, Holy Cross baseball star, is bright major league prospect.
¥
WHITEY WILSHERE, former Indiana University star southpaw, is working out every day by pitching to the Hoosier batters. The experience is helping the Indiana sluggers in Big Ten competition. Wilshere expects the White Sox to farm him out soon to some minor league baseball ■club.
¥
Glenn Morris, graduate of Colorado State College, decathlon champion of the world, and winner of the 1936 Sullivan Trophy, highest honor awarded an athlete, has been signed to a long term motion picture contract by Principal Productions to play the role of Tarzan!
MILE RELAY WINS TRACK MEET FOR PITTSBURGH ON LOCAL OVAL AS IRISH MEET DEFEAT;
WOODRUFF. OLYMPIAN. STARS
The Notre Dame tracksters lost a tough one to Pitt last Saturday afternoon, 68 to 63. At the end of the regulation events the dual meet was tied, 63-all. This tie necessitated the running of a play-off mile relay, which the Pitt team,
anchored by Woodimff, won.
INTERHALL SCHEDULE BEHIND PROGRAM
LAST WEEK
•
As a result of numerous conflicting elements, notably an excess of precipitation and the Johnny O’Brien Memorial game, the interhall baseball pairings are running behind schedule. To date-only three of the scheduled games have been played, but a better break from the “weather man” and interest generated by the initial games should cause the remaining contests to be run off with little difficulty.
Last Sunday on Brownson field, Coach Joe DiMatteo’s Lyonites beat Dillon by a score of 5-3. Ed O’Connor of Lyons, pitched a heady ball game, and, although he yielded seven hits, struck out nine opponents. His mates bunched two hits and several errors to account for the majority of their runs. Jack Thulis, the losing pitcher, hurled a nice game, but received no support that could compare with that given O’Connor.
Cartier field saw Walsh victorious over Morrissey in a wide-open affair. Schrader was on the mound for the winners, while Demer went the route for the sophomores. The final score was 8-6.
The pairings for the league have been made by Mr. John A. Scannell of the Phy-Ed Department, but the arrangements as to the times and places of the various contests have been left to the coaches of the respective teams. It is thought that this provision will accomplish the purpose of getting more games played, even if a little off schedule. However, all are urged to play their first round games as soon as possible, if they have not done so.
Morris first attracted sports attention when he amassed a total of 20 points in a single track meet, a new individual record at Colorado State. As a football player he was named All-Conference end in 1934 and participated in the annual East-West game in San Francisco.
The hard luck Irish relay team made a battle of it all the way, but Olympic champion Woodruff was just too much for Sheehan, Notre Dame’s anchor man. Francis and Cavanagh handed Sheehan a two yard advantage, but Woodruff soon diminished it with a blistering pace and went on to win the relay and with it the meet.
Besides successfully anchoring the special relay, Woodruff won firsts in the mile and half-mile. Two of his teammates also scored double victories. Thomas winning the 440 and 220 yard dashes, and Ryden winning both hurdle events. The double win-
Bill “Ace” Clifford Comes into his own.
ner for the Irish was Faymonville who copped firsts in the discus and shot put.
High point man of the meet was Dan Gibbs, who, after a hard luck indoor season, is now reaching his heights in outdoor competition. Gibbs picked up 11 points by winning a first in the pole vault and seconds in the javelin throw and low hurdles. Dan entered five events and placed in three.
Clifford and Jordan also won firsts for the Irish, Clifford winning the century in :09.7, and Jordan taking the broad jump with a leap of 23 feet, 5 inches. The Irish lost a one-two finish in the latter event when Boyle went foul on his best jump and finished third instead of first.
Six individual meet records and one field record were broken. Another meet record was tied. The meet records were broken by Clifford of Notre Dame in the 100 yard dash, Faymonville of Notre Dame in the (Continued on Page 22)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
SULLIVAN - FISH WIN BOWLING DOUBLES TOURNEY
•
Bill Fish (Alumni) and Parker Sullivan (Walsh) combined to win the recent doubles bowling tournament, while Tom McCarthy and Dan Hushek, both of St. Edward’s, clinched the runner-up position. The tournament was held undei' the supervision of the managers’ organization, with Jim McHugh having direct charge of the meet.
After a slow start Fish and Sullivan proved their superior skill. The high tally of the match occurred in the third game, when Fish scored 200. He was followed closely by “Prex” Parker, with a 198.
The entire scores are as follows: Fish, 135, Sullivan 132; McCarthy, 157, Hushek, 136; Fish, 149, Sullivan, 198; Hushek, 158, McCarthy, 117; Sullivan, 153, Fish, 200; Hushek, 127, McCarthy, 149; Sullivan, 162, Fish, 192; Hushek, 137, McCarthy, 147.
The handball doubles tourney advanced to the final round Monday afternoon when Darcy and Malarney teamed to defeat Lonergan and Riley in their semi-final match.
Darcy and Malarney will meet the Claire-Fallon duo to determine the University championship as soon as possible.
Dan Gibbs Compares to Elser in Versatility
Notre Dame seems to have another Don Elser on the track team in the person of Dan Gibbs of pole vaulting fame. Last Saturday in the Pitt meet Dan won the pole vault, took second in the low hurdles, placed in the javelin and competed in two other events, the discuss and broad jump. He did all this with a bad knee, one of those trick affairs that go out unexpectedly.
While competing in the javelin Saturday he was called on for his final pole vault and just at that moment out went his knee. Dan calmly sat down,had Chuck O’Reilly work it around a bit, got it back in place and went right out to clear the bar at 12 ft. 6 in. not knowing whether his knee would stay in place or not.
Corsage-buyers at the University of California lack originality, say Berkeley florists. The Don Juans get the “usual thing” — three gardenias or an orchid.
Old Timers Game
(Continued from Page 17)
of the Old Timers’ line played smart football by floating with sudden devastating thrusts. Little Bert Metzger utilized all the tricks of guard play that made him one of the flashiest right guards of football history.
Big Joe Kurth at right tackle was a mainstay in the line also in spite of his being absent from the game for four years. Mike Koken’s pass to Dan Hanley reminded one of the latter’s exhibition of ball snatching in the 1934 Army game. The Old Timers gained 20 yards on this play, but lost nine yards on an end run the following play, and finally lost the ball on downs. Bill Shakespeare with his educated toe and his nimble legs proved that a one year lay off had not affected his kicking and running.
The “Pony Express” outfit of Bunny McCormick, “Tarzan” Tonelli and
Stop with • GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, ’02 at the
Lins Golden Court Motor Hotel
On U. S. 66 Will Rogers Highway Tucumcari, N. Mex.
Filling Station and Cafe . in connection.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 h: South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Andy Puplis was responsible for the winning touchdown. Tonelli smashed left tackle and lateraled to McCormick, who squirmed and slipped for a 30 yard touchdown jaunt. Andy Puplis kicked the extra point. Denny Emannuel at left tackle was responsible for many of the Old Timers’ line thrusts being stopped. Playing against their former coach, Tom Conley, Sweeney and Skoglund showed how commendable end play is accomplished.
Regardless of weather ... the South Shore Line gets you there ON TIME!
There’s one way to be sure about travel weather — rain or shine, warm or cold, the South Shore Line is safe and comfortable. Take out weather insurance — go • by South Shore Line.
CHICAGO, SOUTH BEND AND SOUTH SHORE RAILROAD
SUuih^hore
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
21
Primary Vote
(Continued from Page 4)
of: Charles Kelly, vice-president; Gerald Flynn, secretary; John DeMoss, treasurer; and Thomas Judge, S.A.C. Other sophomores nominated are: Robert Blake, vice-president; James Aylward, secretary; Robert Chamberlain, treasurer; and John Schroder, S.A.C. The sophomore and junior elections will take place on May 11 and 12, respectively. Arthur Hoffman is general chairman of the elections.
Featured by a “battle of handills,” appearance of swingy slogans, matchbooks, Irish blotters, and “party haircuts,” the 1937 campus political campaign is an interesting one. Even a theme song, “Trust in Me,” was adopted by Dan Sheedy, whose goal is the junior presidency.
Hat the Sale but the Customer
One of the greatest clothing merchants this country ever knew had as his motto: “It isn't the sale that counts—it’s the customer."
This is more than a slogan here —it's the cornerstone of our business and we try our level best to live up to it.
It's been the cornerstone of the Hart Schaffner & Marx policy, too, for 50 years. Their unconditional guarantee of satisfaction is one mighty good reason whythisfamousmake has become America’s favorite. That’s why we’re proud to be exclusive headquarters for Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes—and to recommend them to you without any reservations! By the way, have you seen our new Spring collection—superb!
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
Notre Dame, Indiana
Calendar
(Continued from Page 10)
p.m.; Election, • Commerce Forum, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 6:45 p.m.; Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Banquet of Chemists club, Oliver hotel, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, May 13
General elections for senior class offices, lower lobby of dining hall, 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Baseball, Varsity vs. Louisiana Tech, Cartier Field; Banquet, Bookmen, LaSalle hotel, South Bend, 8:00 p.m.; Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.
That collegians, contrary to the idea of Dan O’Brien, King of Hoboes, do make good bums, is what students at State Teachers College, Valley City, North Dakota, are trying to prove. They are urging the Student council to set aside an annual Hobo Day.
“A “job-hunting school” at Ohio State University has been organized to teach seniors how to write letters of application and how to face interviewers. Personnel managers of several large companies will aid the instruction.
The John Marshall
LAW SCHOOL FOUNDED 1899
AN ACCREDITED LAW SCHOOL TEXT and CASE
METHOD •
For Catalog, recommended list of pre-legal subjects, and booklet. ”Studyof Law and Proper Preparation” address: Edward T. Lee, Dean.
COURSES (40 weeks per year) Afternoon—3years 5 days...4:30-6.-30
Evening — 4 years Mon., Wed., Fri., 6:30-9:20
Post-graduate
I year..twice a week Practice courses exclusively.
All courses lead to degrees.
Two years* college work required for entrance:
New classes form in Feb. and Sept.
315 Plymouth Ct, Chicago, Hi.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrist* and Mfg. Optician*
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
“Say it with flowers” on
Mother’s Day, May 9th
Send her flowers by telegraph
SOUTH BEND FLORAL CO.
114 South Michigan Street
JKe make corsages that will glorify any gown at the Senior Ball, May 7th
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 7, 1937
PANETELAS ... the agar endorsed by thousands of young men the country over . . . that comes in one size and one flavor every time ... always fresh . . . . always a PLEASURE!!
If “sitting one your best gid and your best smoke .. . LITTLE FENDRICH
N BRICH
IT’S A PLEASURE TO SIT ONE OUT!! .	g
Pitt Track Meet
(Continued from Page 19)
discus throw, Woodruff of Pitt in the half-mile, Thomas of Pitt in the 220 yard dash, and Szumachowski of Notre Dame in the two mile. Ryden of Pitt established a new meet and field record when he ran the low hurdles in :23.9. Gibbs, with a leap of 12 feet, 6 inches in the pole vault, tied the meet record.

YEAH, MAN...
out” indudes
Navy Meet
(Continued from Page 14) watch as he has been clocked in 4:25.7. In the two mile run the only man to fear will be the Navy captain, Wesley Stuesse, who has turned in a time only three seconds slower than Szumachowski’s record breaking performance of 9:43 last Saturday. Cecil Bolam and Dwyer will also participate in the eight lap event.
In the 120 yard high hurdles George Dalton and Peter Isely will compete for the midshipmen, while George Newton and Dalton will perform in the 220 yard low hurdles. Of this quartet Dalton claims the best time, that of :15.5 in the high hurdles.
The outstanding entry of the visitors in the field events will be big Irwin Fike, a football man. Fike has tossed the javelin 197 feet, which exceeds any throw made in the Pitt meet last week. Fike will team with Frank Lynch in the shot put and in the discus throw. Lynch has tossed the sixteen pound iron ball 45 feet as well as having heaved the discus a distance of 139 feet.
Brady and McCory will be attempting to do better than their accustomed 12 feet in the pole vault, while Rupp and Blaha will vie against Boyle and Jordan in the running broad jump. Neither of the Navy entries have been jumping farther than 22 feet six inches, while Boyle and Jordan are both capable of jumping 23 feet or better.
Added color will be furnished by the seniors and their attractive weekend guests.
FAVORITE SIZE FOR YOUNG MEN
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
Political Policies
______(Continued from Page 6)
6. What benefits do you hope to get from politics?
Freshmen and sophomores were certain to “make friends,” “get the most out of college life.”
Not so were three agressive junior candidates. From one came “the honor of the position is all I want.” No. 2 simply desired “experience, advantages of personal contact, and making friends.” The last of the trio hoped to obtain some “experience.”
"Gone With The Wind" Is Still Most Popular Library Book
• -
The University library reported during the past week that Gone With the Wind, the best seller of 1936, still heads the list of popular books. Miss Margaret Mitchell’s ability to create characters and give them animation and reality, accounts for the success of this romantic Civil War story.
Mrs. Astor’s Horse, by Stanley Walker has the distinction of being the second most popular novel. Mr. Walker presents scenes in the lives of curious people and manifestations which have gone to make up America in the last 15 years. Small episodes taken from the lives of such people as: Daddy Browning, Earl Carroll, Chic Sale, Jack Dempsey — help to create much of the interest shown by students in this book.
Other demanded books are: How To Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie (1936), The Hundred Years by Philip Guedalla (1937) This Labor Union Racket by Edward D. Sullivan (1936), Nine Old Men by Pearson Drew (1936), No Friendly Voice by Robert M. Hutchins (1936), We Are Not Alone by James Hilton (1937) and The Quiet Lodger of Irving Place by William W. Williams (1936).
Introducing
(Continued from Page 16)
better vantage point. The boys started marching around, and Arch was suddenly accosted by about six “Admirals” who wildly told him that he was in the line of march, and if he stayed there things would be in a pretty mess. Those “Admirals” are probably still having nightmares about him, and what would have happened to the Navy if he hadn’t moved.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
THERE'S NO LAW AGAINST PALM BEACH COMFORT
They’d arrest you if you looked as cool as you feel in Palm Beach.
Not that the clever new Palm Beach Whites or the new extra-light, sun-repellent Solar Weave don’t look cool. But the smart Goodall tailoring and the fit and set of a Palm Beach suit would suggest a much heavier and more expensive fabric than Palm Beach really is.
And—if you are a bit sedate—consider this year’s new, rich, darker-tone mixtures which look like costly imported worsteds.
Don’t wait for red hot weather—get yours now. Wear them early, wear them late. They can take it.
$
675
212 So. Michigan St. South Bend
GOODALL COMPANY • CINCINNATI