[I	■	ft?
I '	■
r
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disee quasi semper victurus; vive qriasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 12, 1881.	Number 10.
Scholastic Press Association.
W. B. McGorrisk.	J. P. O’Neill.
G. E. Clarke.	R. E. Fleming.
W. H. Arnold.	•	E. C. Orrick.
T. F. Clarke.	M. F. Healy.
The Shipwreck,
The waves are now calm, for the silvery deep Hath hushed its loud roar where the mariners sleep ; The lonely sea-bird that bedewed its white breast In the storm-lifted billow, hath flown to its nest.
The dark clouds have fled that o’ershadowed the main, And left not a gloom o’er the wide liquid plain.
Yet where is the bark that so proudly defied .
The rush of the wind and the swell of the tide;
When inhaling each breeze and resisting each gale, The seamen’s hearts glowed as they viewed her full sail; And thought of the scenes of their own happy land; Where love had encircled their dear kindred band.
Ah! short was the joy which then beamed in each eye; The voice of the tempest was heard from on high ;
The thunder’s loud peal and the lightning’s bright glare, Made faces look ghastly with fear and despair;
In vain was the struggle with tempest and wave, The ship and her crew found a deep wat'ry grave.
A mourning was heard on the far-off green shore, For those whom the dark tide could speed back no more; Whose whitened bones lay ’mid the ocean enshrined, Where coral stems bent and the sea-weed entwined.
But sorrow’s sad strain could ne’er wake from their sleep The spirits of those who now rest in the deep.
Still, still shall they slumber, they’re rocked by the surge, The sigh of the wind be their funeral dirge I Though tempests may roar, and the white-crested wave In anger may roll o’er their low-pillowed grave, The deep sleep of death naught of terror will wake, Till the archangel’s trumpet its quiet doth break.
All Hallow’s Eve. '
BY T. T. CLARKE.	•
The observance of this day is gradually dying out in this country. It passes almost unnoticed by the majority of the people of our land. But in former times All-Hallow’s Eve was always recognized as one of those fStes where frolic and fun held high carnival, and of old a superstition was wont to invest this mysterious evening with a weird romance known to none other during the year. The occasion of revelry and practical jokes which
are indulged in on this night seem to have little justification, nor do they seem appropriate to the sacred day which it ushers in, occurring as it does at the dying hours of October, the glory and pride of autumn, when flowers have passed away and when the feathered tribe are winging their flight to more southern and genial climes. Perhaps its origin was for a cheerful parting from the verdant fields and sweet warbling of the birds, and the welcoming of the “king of the year,” Winter. All Hallow’s Eve, as its name implies, ushers in a religious festival known as All Saints’ Day, its celebration dating as far back as the 9th century, though previous to this if was recognized as “All Souls’ Day.” The Catholic Church, and I believe also the Episcopalian, still celebrate this day; but in the Catholic Church All Souls’ Day follows All Saints’, and is a day on which prayers are offered up in a special manner for departed souls. The dawning of Hallow’s Eve to the superstitious was always regarded with awe, for they believed that spirits both visible and invisible were permitted on this night to wander about and heap benefits and seek revenge, as they wished such as would be tolerated on no other night of the year. Many a wary one has been deluded by the invocation of spirits on this night, and the interpretation of mysterious signs and dreams has doomed many to melancholy reveries and ill forbodings. The day and its observances have not only occupied the minds of the ignorant and credulous, but many of our distinguished authors and poets have mentioned it. Shakspeare alludes to it in his play of Richard H, when he says:
“ My Queen came adorned hither like sweet May, Sent back like Hallowmas, or shortest of day.”
The old tradition that a child born on this day was gifted with unusual talents and the power of divination, is mentioned in Walter Scott’s “ Monastery.” Burns, “ Scotland’s favorite bard,” has written many sonnets about these superstitious rites, and pointed out many evils they have caused to the credulous Scots.
The fireside observances of this night are about the same all over the civilized world. But it is more extensively observed in the old countries, especially in Ireland, where it is sometimes called “ Nut-Crack Night,” and it has cemented many a lover’s vow or questioned their fidelity, sometimes producing remarkable results. There are many silly practices indulged in on this night in Ireland, of which no one is allowed to doubt the truthfulness of their tests, and they are all practised in good faith. The ducking for apples and other little games, which are in vogue so much in our own country, are all harmless amusements, and there are no evils derived from them. Ceremonies more weird and solemn in their results are fortunately going out of use and are now very seldom practised, or if
136	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
they are, there is no belief placed in them, and they are indulged in only for amusement. There is scarcely a village or town having a college in or near it that has not suffered from the practical jokes played on them on Hallow Eve. In these villages, on the morning following Hallow Eve the inhabitants often find signs reversed and changed, millinery signs are found over shoe-shops, and those of lawyers over butcher-shops, and doctors often awake in the morning and are surprised to find an undertaker’s sign under their own.
The changing and hiding of gates is still in vogue among the boys of our own day. Sometimes persons will find their gates up in high trees, or on the tops of houses. This time of the year is the harvest season for fortune-tellers, whose power of looking into the future is thought to be much stronger at this time than at any other of the year. The morning of the 1st of November finds many a glad heart after the pleasures of Hallow Eve, while some are downhearted, caused by trusting too much in their dreams of the past night or the interpretation of the signs of their future fate. So we see that Hallow Eve is not confined to this country alone, nor did it originate in this age. But it is an ancient practice, and is celebrated over the whole earth. The Catholic celebrates it as the vigil of All Saints, and it is a day of fasting and abstinence.
Derivation and Growth of the English Language.
BY E. A. OTIS.
The English language is spoken throughout all parts of the civilized world. In Paris we find a quarter of the city wholly devoted to the English-speaking people, and one is surprised to find the English language spoken' there with the same fluency and ease as in the most refined cities of England or America.
If by chance we pass through the land of the learned German, our ear is greeted by the sweet sound of our native tongue, and we soon find ourselves as much at home, as regards communicating our ideas, as though we were in reality in an English-speaking country. If we journey through China or Africa, even in these distant lands we find the English language considerably spoken, for instance in Pekin, the capital, or even in smaller and less well-known cities of China, or in some of the cape cities of Africa we still find some who speak our native tongue. In Australia and New Zealand it is the language of the country. Thus we see that our mother-tongue is spoken throughout the civilized world, and also by many uncivilized and barbarous nations.
Of the many languages that have helped to form the English, none have had greater weight than the old Anglo-Saxon ; indeed, we might say without hesitation, that the Anglo-Saxon and Latin, together with those languages, formed from the Latin, go to make up our English language.
At the time of the Saxon invasion of England, the lang-guage spoken there was but an offspring of the ancient Celtic, very different from the Anglo-Saxon, the vulgar tongue shortly afterwards.
The old Saxon language which was introduced into England about the year 449, A. D., was similar to the language spoken at the present time in Holland, i.s., the
Dutch, and derived from the old German. But this dialect —for, according to all accounts, it could scarcely be styled a language—was very primitive, and until the happy arrival of St. Augustine (596, A.D.) was most probably only a spoken tongue, for no traces of a Saxon alphabet can be found previous to that time.
The beautiful story handed down to us as the cause of St. Augustine’s being sent to England is too well known to the literary student and the generality of the people to be mentioned here; suffice it to say that St. Augustine and his worthy assistants, the monks sent with him, created a happy change in England; they introduced schools, instructed the people in Christianity and inspired them with a great desire for knowledge; moreover, they taught them Greek and Latin, a greater benefit, as at that time those were the only language in which a literature existed. Such, in brief, were the advantages derived from the arrival of St. Augustine.
By degrees the Anglo-Saxons overcame their barbarism notwithstanding the many obstacles which opposed them, and we find them, soon after, studying the sciences, and also philosophy, to which they were led after having sufficiently mastered Greek and Latin. They also began to have a written language of their own, for we find the Lord’s Prayer written in Saxon as early as the seventh century. But the greater number of writers of that period wrote in the Latin language, and it was through this medium they attained their chief success; indeed some of the poems written about this time are unequalled to the present day in their sweetness; witness the Dies tree, and the Stabat Mater,— even now they thrill us through and through and appeal to our most tender feelings.
A species of verse then much in vogue is termed the Oc-to-syllabic, the most noteworthy peculiarity in it being the introduction of a middle rhyme which makes a difficulty in the metre. The following specimen is taken from a disciple of St. Boniface:
“ Summo satore sobilis Satus fuisti nobilis, Generosa progenitus Genitrice, expeditus, Satura spectabilis, Statu et forma agilis.”
St. Gildas the Wise is distinguished as the first British historian ; he wrote eight canons of discipline for his monks, and Spistdla de Excidio Britania et Oastigatio Ecclesiastici Ordinis, for which he is chiefly remembered. He is still honored in France as the patron of Vahnes. The list of our first Anglo-Saxon writers is headed by Caedmon, who lived about the year 675. He has been styled the Anglo-Saxon Milton, because he wrote of Paradise Lost. Caedmon is the one of whom it is related that, being unable to take part in the alternate singing of his fellow-countrymen, he hid himself in the stable, and while asleep there was told to sing, and, answering that he could not, was a second time commanded to sing, and to take as a subject the creation. On awaking he essayed to sing, and behold, he had received the divine gift of the Muse. His writings on the creation may be divided into three parts, the second of which is most interesting to us, on account of the relation it bears to Milton’s “ Paradise Lost.”
Some parts of this poem are exquisitely beautiful, and occasionally it even reaches the sublime.
After him, and before the Norman period, we have many other writers, most of whom wrote in Latin.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
137
Some of the most noted are St. Aldelm [656, (?) 704], who wrote in Latin two treatises in praise of virginity; Venerable Bede (673-735), who wrote the “Ars Metrica” in Greek, and the Ecclesiastical History of the Anglo-Saxons in Latin, which is, even to 'this day, a standard authority for the early history of England. Alfred the Great, who translated several valuable works from Latin into Anglo-Saxon, and likewise compiled a code of laws. By some he is credited with the authorship of these laws, but this is a mistaken idea, for it has been ascertained beyond a doubt that these same laws were in use among the Anglo-Saxons at a much earlier date than that of Alfred the Great. Many other writers of this period might be mentioned, but time and space will not permit.
We come now to that time styled the Norman period. The ascendancy of the Normans over the English was decided at the memorable battle of Hastings, between Harold, son of Count Godwin, and William, Duke of Normandy, when the Normans had already become one of the most enlightened and warlike nations of Europe. William now made a complete change in the language of England: he ordered that all pleadings at court should be in French, and that the French grammar should be taught in the schools, as more fitting than the Anglo-Saxon, which was a barbarous tongue. This produced a decided change in the literature of England, for the more politic of the people immediately began the study of French, which, in a short time, obtained a strong foothold in England.
During this time, however, the Anglo-Saxon had not died out; on the contrary, new words were constantly being added to it, especially words descriptive of the chase and the fine arts, of which the Normans were great lovers. This became what is now termed the Semi-Saxon, differing greatly from the Anglo-Saxon, and more closely allied to the present English, but not as yet forming a distinct language.
Changes still kept on, till, in the course of time, it grew into the present English language; the exact time, however, when the Semi-Saxon ceased and the English began, cannot be positively determined; all we can say is, that after many years Saxon became English through the following means: “ 1st, by contracting or otherwise modifying the pronunciation and orthography of words; 2d, by omitting many inflections, especially of the noun, and consequently making more use of auxiliaries; 3d, by the introduction of articles and French derivatives.”
-	I « I----------
College Gossip.
—Thirty-one students are studying divinity at Harvard. This is more morality than has been apportioned that seat of learning for a long time.
—An eleven from the Ann Arbor Michigan University played a game in the rain with the Harvards, on the 30th ulto., and were defeated by a score of 1 to 0.
—The number of students at the Vienna University is now 3,457, exclusive of 594 unattached students, or considerably mors than at the German Universities of Berlin and Leipzig. Thirty-five are Americans.
—The New York Tribune says that the sword of Damocles, in the shape of a possible edict of the Faculty, is hanging over the three lower classes at Hobart College. The young men were recently fined $2 each, for hazing and for cutting up various foolish pranks, in which, of course, the village bell played, literally and metaphorically, a prominent part. These wild lads have decided not to pay the fines, and the faculty is considering the advisability of suspending the culprits.
—A. scholar in one of Binghamton’s public schools who had “ been over the map of Asia,” was reviewed by his teacher, with the following result: Teacher: "What is geography?” Scholar: “Abig book.” Teacher: "What is the earth composed of ?” Scholar: “ Mud.” Teacher: “ No; land and water.” Scholar: " Well, that makes mud, don’t it?” Teacher: “What is the shape of the earth?” Scholar: “Flat.” Teacher: “You know better; if I should dig a hole through the earth, where would I come out ? ” Scholar: “Out of the hole.”
—Kenyon College, whose friends, trustees, and alumni met at Gambier, O., on the first of the month, to decide important questions as to its future welfare, was founded by Philander Chase, D. D., the first bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the diocese of Ohio, in the year 1828. The English donors were Lord Gambier, Lord Kenyon, Lord Harcourt, Lady Rosse, Lord Bexley, and others. The institution has property and endowments of over §500,000. Vice-President Rust will occupy the office of president next year, President Bodine devoting himself to canvassing for the institution.
—The last decade has witnessed the creation and development of half a dozen flourishing colleges in different parts of the country, but their success is far from having been prejudicial to the older institutions. In many cases, indeed, the new universities have acted as feeders of the old. So far as mere numbers go, the higher education has never known a period so prosperous as the present. That is in England, but it is a fact applicable to A merica, in still larger measure. Schools of all kinds are constantly springing up. The facilities for any kind of mental and technical training that civilization demands, were never scattered so bountifully on all sides of us, and they never were so cheap, relatively to the means afforded for taking advantage of them. Culture has at last reached a proud eminence. We trust it has not climbed so fast as to become dizzy or weak.—Boston Post.
Scientific Notes.
—It is reported that Pasteur is to visit Bordeaux to study yellow fever in the Lazaretto, in order to find out whether inoculation will afford protection against the disease.
—According to M. Dieulafait, the boric acid existing in sedimentary deposits, always associated with saline substance, is derived from the spontaneous evaporation at ordinary temperatures of the waters of ancient seas.
—The two rounded masses, one on each side of the stomach of the crab, which have received the absurd name of crab’s eyes, are magazines of carbonate of lime which the crab has collected for forming itself a new shell.
—Prof. O. N. Rood, of Columbia College, contends that the theories of Brucke and Aubust fail to account for the phenomenon observed when white light is mixed with colored light. And Professor Rood himself is as yet unable to advance a plausible explanation of the observed facts.
—Quinic acid, says Les Mondes, is a new nitrogenous compound yielded by quinine in place of chichonic acid. This new substance is only slightly soluble in water, even when the temperature of the latter is raised to 100 degrees. Its salts crystallize readily, and when heated they give off a peculiar, pleasant aromatic odor, like that of eoumarine, which occurs partly in a crystallized form in Tonka beans.
—Nature reports that a telegraphic experiment of a singular description was tried about the middle of August at the Trocadero. It consists merely in the reading of large silvered zinc letters, a square metre in size, fixed on a blackened board, by refracting telescopes. This method has succeeded very well from the Trocadero to the Pantheon—a distance of three miles. The inventor, an officer in the French service, thinks he will succeed in reading messages at a distance of sixty miles under favorable circumstances.
—A memoir has been contributed to the Academy of Sciences, Paris, on the distribution of energy in the normal spectrum, by M. Lengley. He seems to have made use of a new instrument in his investigations. His con-
138
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
elusions are as follows: The energy is feeble in the ultra-
violet, while the rapid increase toward the blue contrasts l—
strongly with the slow decrease toward the red. At the wise we shall be obliged to quit sending it to him in future, very position of the maximum, ordinarily placed in this region, there is in reality only a point of inflection. n” so-called curve of light coincides almost exactly with that
1 I	—That popular Canadian magazine The Harp, formerly
x, + published in Montreal, by Mr. John Gillies, has passed in.	,	...	t ' | to the hands of Mr. C. Donovan, A. B., of Hamilton, Ont.,
of heat, instead of being totally distinct, as hitherto be-1	be published hereafter at the latter place. For
lieved. Hence the luminous effects of solar energy upon ^e last two years The Ham has been taking long strides
the retina are approximately proportional to those of heat upon the thermometer.
—The recent eruption of the great volcano of Mauna Loa, on the island of Hawaii, has been watched with peculiar interest. The magnitude of the eruption may be estimated by the fact that, according to Professor Dana, Mauna Loa contains rock material enough to make 125 Vesuviuses. Vesuvius is 3,600 feet high; Mauna Loa, 14,000. The crater of Vesuvius is perhaps a thousand feet in diameter; the constantly active crater of Mauna Loa is three miles in width. It is estimated by competent judges that the amount of lava thrown out of Mauna Loa, during the recent eruption, which continued from November, 1880, to August, 1881, would cover one hundred square miles to a depth of twenty-five feet, or the whole State of Connecticut with a flood six inches deep.
—Recently, while the mechanical section of the British Association were discussing the means of using the electric light in coal mines, Mr. Swan, the inventor of the “ Swan lamp,” made a remarkable statement. He produced an electric lamp of two candle power, which was quite detached from any wire, and portable, and which could be kept lighted for six hours by a two cell Faure secondary battery. The weight of the battery would not exceed ten pounds, and to charge it afresh it would only be necessary “ to place it for a time in connection with the wires of a dynamo near the pit’s mouth.” The battery and lamp need never leave the pit. Sir J. Hawk-shaw greatly approved this lamp, and well he might. The germ of a portable and handy electric lamp, unconnected with any wire, and fed at intervals, only as an oil lamp is, must lie in that rude specimen shown.
—Vennor’s predictions for the present month are rather encouraging; he says: November 1881, will probably enter cold^and decidedly wet, but this condition, after the first week, will suddenly give place to open and genial weather again nearly everywhere, with a disappearance of frosts even in Northern New York and Canada for a marked period. We may expect some of the finest, or at least, most enjoyable weather of the season during this month at New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington and Canada. Our Indian summer in the western sections during the fore and latter portions of the month are likely to be disagreeable, but I do not anticipate much trouble from snow-falls or blockades until December. Should such occur, however, the dates of the disturbances will very likely be found to be nearly the same as those of November of 1880. Possibly there may be a period of unusual warmth about the middle of the month. This month will be marked by periods of balmy, brilliant, autumn weather as in the year 1877.
Exehanges,
—A large pile of exchanges—from the North and from and from the South, from the East and from the West—lie upon our table (no pun intended), but for want of time we cannot notice them this week. ;
—We have received this week a copy of the second number of The Dispatch, a new weekly, started in Chicago, by W. N. Lawless, of ’74. For a new paper The Dispatch, makes a very creditable appearance.
—Some time ago the editor of Brainard's Musical World wrote to us to the effect that he had missed the hitherto welcome visits of the Scholastic and would be pleased to have them continued. We cheerfully acceded to the request. The reason we did not send the Scholastic was because, for some reason unknown to us, and probably to the editor of the Musical World, his paper had ceased to come to us. As a postal failed of effect, and we have not
his address, if this happen to meet his eye we hope he will
send us his paper again in return for the Scholastic, other-
the last two years The Harp has been taking long strides toward perfection, so the new editor will find it difficult
to, we will not say improve, although, of course that is possible, but to keep the magazine up to the point of excellence at which he found it. The serial, “ Sister Mirene, an Episode of the Syrian Massacre,” by H. B., drapes interesting facts in a pleasing style. “The Heir of Longworth,” a captivating story of a lighter order, although in a manner soulless, is written in such happy mood and with such piquancy of expression as to make of it an excellent morceau for idle-hour reading. The retiring editor of The Harp is to be congratulated on his success with the magazine. We hope his successor will worthily continue the good work, and make it better, if that be possible. The Harp is issued from 74 Maria Street, Hamilton, Ont. Price of subscription, §1 a year.	'
—The Clionean Argus has again become a regular exchange. If its editors can find anything to admire in the apostate monk Mazzini, a man who not only broke the pledge he solemnly and voluntarily made to devote himself to the service of God, but who also openly recommends assassination, then we pity their want of judgment in the choice of a “hero.” As for “Biddy’s trials Among the Yankees,”—credited, we are surprised to learn, to Harper's Bazar,—it is the sickliest specimen of caricature of broken English that we have ever seen, and we have seen much that was faulty. We enjoy the broken English dialect of the Irish when it is well taken off; the German and darkey broken English also, but the writer of this “sketch” is a ninny. “Convaynences” should be“con-vayniences; ” “ petaties ” is good, but who ever heard an Irish girl say “ pale ” for peel, “ sthomick ” for stomach, "radin’” for reading, “ixprished” for expressed, “mem” for Ma’m, “nadent” for needn’t? and then such words as “enoof,” “howly,” “respictable,” “begorry,” “kape,” and the like—faugh! When such writers as this attempt comedy they make fools of themselves.
—The second series of “ Short Papers for the People,” by Rev. Dr. Moore, lately begun in The Central Catholic Advocate, Louisville, Ky., is a very commendable feature. The author of these papers gives the readers of the Advocate the combined result of scholarship, research and study upon subjects as various as the articles, and does it in a very pleasing manner. As an instance of the diversity of these papers, we have this week one on “ Greek,” the language being chiefly dwelt upon; next week we are promised “The Septuagint” for subject. Although these papers are intended mainly, we suppose, for instruction, Dr. Moore happily blends a little humor into the warp and woof of his history—as, for instance, when speaking of the prestige given the Greek language in the Orient after the conquests of Alexander the Great, whose genius, backed by the mental energy of Homer, uEschylus, Euripides, Xenophon, and other Greek authors, threw such a halo around everything Greek, that not only those Orientals who pretended to learning and to fashion knew Greek, “ but even plough-boys undertook to teach it to their donkeys and oxen, as is done at the present day in some of our colleges.” Although the Rev. Dr. hits some of the college boys so severely, we congratulate Mr. Bell upon securing Rev. Dr. Moore as a contributor to the Advocate.
—Browne's Phonographic Monthly contains a fairly lengthy account of the International Association of Shorthand Writers of Canada and the United States, an account of the Pennsylvania State Stenographers’ Association, and one of the Sixth Annual Convention and Banquet of the N. Y. State Stenographers’ Association. A portrait, biographical sketch, and fac-simile of reporting notes of the late W. F. Duffield, of Rochester, N. Y., are given in this number. Although it is to be regretted that there should be reason or cause for the cutting rebuke given by Mr. D. L. Scott-Browne to some of those who read papers at the meeting of the N. X State Stenographers’ Asso-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
139

ciation, the fact that such loose writing has been thus summarily dealt with argues well for the conservative spirit of the Association. Mr. Browne says:
“There was a marked and disgusting attempt at mirth in many of the papers read. The epizootic must have afflicted the members to have caused such a decline from robust and healthy work to puny and sickening trash, such as appeared in the productions of what was to pass as wit and humor. The one idea possessed seemed to be to cause a snicker, instead of to inspire a thought. We don’t believe the members of the American Science Association, the Bar Association, or even the Medical Association would have used as indecent language, before gentlemen and ladies, as was used in the papers of some of the members of this association. From our knowledge of medical associations, in the treatment of the most delicate subjects, we have never heard an expression bordering on the indecent, or that would cause a blush on the face of any gentleman or lady present; and we wish we could say as much for the sixth annual meeting of the New York State Stenographers’ Association. No one objects to humor when pure and entertaining, and certainly the English language is copious enough to clothe the thought of any gentleman in refined terms. We feel particularly sensitive on this point, because many of the solid old members of the association expressed themselves as being personally insulted by having to listen to the ‘vile stuff’ read to them. Again, it is our duty, as publisher of the sentiments of the profession, to condemn those things that are deteriorating and would in time drive all the pure-minded and self-respecting men out of the association.”
And, by the way, some of the editors, or “ clippers,” of college papers have a very strong weakness for similar stuff to that mentioned by the editor of the Phonographic Monthly. If, with the addition of a grain of salt, they take Mr. Browne’s rebuke a half hour before commencing their shear-nonsensical work, it would serve as a good tonic.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Mrs. Oliphant is writing a “Literary History of the Nineteenth Century.”
—The “Cape Cod Folks” are just “goin’ for tew sue them Bosting printers.” The book has been—and the plaintiffs probably will be greatly sold.
—Mrs. Homespun was shocked to hear one of those giddy Brownjohn girls speak of Haydn as the author of the “Creation.” Mrs. Homespun says she doesn’t know anything about the Bible the Brownjohns have, but her Bible doesn’t say anything about Haydn.—Boston Transcript.
—An international literary event of no small interest will be the publication of Paul B. Du Chaillu’s “Land of the Midnight Sun,” during the present month in the United States, England, France, Germany, and Sweden. It will be published here in two volumes profusely illustrated.
—The Spanish papers state that the discovery has been made in the Colonial Office at Madrid of a small picture in oils of Columbus, in a perfect state of preservation. It represents him as about forty years of age, with thick dark hair and a hooked nose. It is conjectured to be a contemporary portrait.
—We are glad to hear, says the Cincinnati Catholic Telegraph, that more than half the edition of Miss Kate Conway’s “ Sunrise Slope” is already disposed of. The most charming traits in the character of this sweet singer are modesty and entire freedom from affectation. Both secular and Catholic papers are unanimous in praising her poems.
—The editor of United Ireland was flung into Kilmain-ham before he had issued the tenth number of that daring publication. When men like William O’Brien, the editor, can procure no more than a nine weeks’ journalistic life, because England dreads the free expression of thought, then the case looks bad for England. O’Brien is in prison, but United Ireland goes on steadier and more brilliant, if possible, than before.
—Mr. George Grove, who shares with Schumann the honor of having discovered and given to the world many important and forgotten manuscripts of Schubert, has published in the London Baily News a letter whieh seems to
establish on satisfactory evidence that there must exist somewhere a tenth symphony by this composer—namely: The work which he dedicated in 1825 to the Mustkrerein of Vienna, and which had always been supposed to be the symphony in C.
—Lady Florence Dixie, the intrepid war-correspondent of the Morning Post, is still to the fore in Africa. Some Boer farmers, the other day, seeing a little child drowning, said, “Let the thing be—it’s only a Kaffir,” Lady Florence, who happened to be on the spot, instantly plunged into the water; and when she emerged, bearing the little Basuto child safe in her arms, she told the Boer farmers, in language that rather astonished them, what she thought of their cowardice and want of humanity.
—Just as we had our brief article on the national press of Ireland written, word came by telegraph that United Ireland had published 100,000 copies of a cartoon representing the Government and the premier practising every form of brutality. That’s the bee that stung. Now that the Irish have discovered the secret of Bull’s invulnerability they will give him pencil dabs sufficient to penetrate his pachydermatous hide. It was Irish genius and Irish wit that first made Punch a success. Leech and Doyle were the cleverest satirists ever engaged on that publication. The well-known frontispiece is by Doyle. —Catholic Herald.
—A splendid tribute to ancient monastic life in Ireland is paid by a Protestant clergyman, the Rev. R. St. John Tyrwhitt, formerly of Christ Church, Oxford, in a-volume entitled Greek and Gothic, which deals with the progress and decay of the three arts of architecture, sculpture and painting. Mr. Fronde will be horrified to hear Mr. Tyir-whitt proclaiming that “ St. Patrick was a real person, and his work real work, ending 465 A D.” From the time of St. Patrick, he continues to the time of St. Col-ubia, “is a period of blackness, of darkness in Southern Europe, during which it seems hardly too much to say that the Christian faith was preserved and renewed by the Irish Church.”
—The Cecilia, a musical journal of no small note, gives, in its October number, a lecture delivered by Rev. N. Donnelly, of Dublin, on Plain Chant. Speaking of the melodies of the Liturgy, he says: “We must ad-admit that they do not sound as they must have sounded of yore; they are, for the most part, neither understood nor appreciated as our fathers in the faith seem to have understood and appreciated them. We have been borne into a heavy, monotonous method of execution that deprives the chant of all rythm, charm, or coloring, and annihilates the very essence of the melody; we spell out our notes, or rattle them off, as a child in an infant school would spell out its lesson, and fail to catch its graceful form, its delicate cadences, and natural modulation. Go into most of the cathedrals or parish churches in different parts of Europe, where plain chant has been persistently maintained, and and the ponderous tones of some four or five phenomenal Bassi, delivering the square black notes as if each one of them demanded a square foot of sound, and, supported by the inevitable serpent, will interfere with your devotion and send you away in bad temper.” The Rev. lecturer continues at length in a mbst interesting manner, and in the course of the lecture tells the following anecdote which was forwarded him by postal card by an anonymous friend: “ A Yankee, given to antiquities, visited a church in Rome a few days ago, during a religious function, where plain chant was being sung. On coming out of the church his companion asked him if he liked the music. ‘Not at all,’ was the curt reply. ‘I am astonished at that,’ said his friend, ‘ because it is very old; it is said that David sang that very music before Saul.’ ‘ Oh, is that so ? ’ concluded the American; ‘then that explains what I never could understand before—namely, how Saul got into such a passion that he hurled a javelin at him.’” We have heard some Plain Chant delivered nearer home that would put the whole army of Saul into a passion. Some persons are constitutionally susceptible of noises. A carpenter’s hammer, in a warm summer’s noon, will fret them into more than midsummer madness. But those unconnected, unset sounds are nothing to the measured malice of wretchedly poor music.
140
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notro Bame, November 12, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called, to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in ci ass and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O per A.nu.vim, T’ostpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
“A thing of beauty is a joy forever ” !
Next to the human form divine, next to life itself, there is nothing which so easily and earnestly attracts the attention and draws the heart of man towards itself as Art. We speak here of the art which, more forcibly than all others, presents to the mind scenes and incidents in the lives of men, and in the history of nations and of the world, which serve both as models and as teachers by which we may be guided, and from which we may draw lessons of the past and a fund of experience and wisdom for the future. We mean the art of painting. The earth, outside the sacrificial altar, offers no nobler, no more lofty shrine before which poor human nature can worship, can bow down in silent homage and adoration than before the grand and ennobling genius of this mistress of all arts. He who would be a true artist must needs be a true man; true to his God, true to his country, true to himself; he must be one in whom the low dross of human nature finds no rest; his thoughts, his mind, his heart, his whole being, must be so impregnated, as it were, with thoughts and aims which soar so far above the ignobile vulgus as to mark him as one whose daily walks and conversation are among men and yet not of men. To such a one, and such a one alone, will true genius deign to impart the magic touch which guides all worthy effort in a worthy cause. It is an almost utter impossibility for an evil-disposed man to become a true artist; for, do what he will, study, and work, and strive as he may, the great burden of his thoughts will find expression in the touchings of his brush and pencil, and that which should be fine, lofty, spiritual and noble, will inevitably be coarse, low and uninviting.
This loftiness of soul, this true, innate manhood, which,
combined with the necessary talent, go to make up the Christian, the artist, and the man, is sought in vain outside religion and the Church. The true Christian man alone will ever make the true artist; thus it has ever been thus it ever will be. Holy Church has, in all ages, fostered, protected and encouraged true art, and the pure and lofty spirit which has ever marked this glorious art as one of God’s greatest gifts to man. To religion and the Church the world to-day owes all that it possesses of whatever is worthy or noble or grand and pure in art; and to the Church the world is indebted for that pure training which gave to it those master minds and models of perfection which have served as beacon lights, on life’s great highway, to light the minds of coming ages in the path of true manhood, true nobility, and true art.
We take a just pride in the fact that in no College or University in the country is the art of painting carried to such a state of perfection as at Notre Dame. The Faculty numbers among its members, at the present time, three artists who have already made for themselves a widespread reputation in their various spheres of work. One of them, Prof. Gregori, has already been introduced to the readers of the Scholastic in times past, and many of them are doubtless acquainted with the great artist.
In a previous number, we referred to a programme of art which the worthy professor contemplated arranging, and also to a series of paintings from the life of Columbus, which he is about to place upon the walls in the entrancehall of the University building.
We are pleased to inform our readers that the list of subjects taken from the life of the great discoverer is now complete, and the work of finishing the various designs is well under way.
The list embraces the following ten pictures: 1st, Columbus standing by a globe. This will be a noble painting, covering the entire wall on one side of the vestibule, at the main entrance. The figure itself will be six and a half feet in height, and will represent Columbus standing, looking thoughtfully out into the distance, his hand resting upon a globe, whose dimensions he is, under Divine Providence, about to double. This painting of his immortal countryman, Prof. Gregori has generously donated to the College.
2d, Queen Isabella presenting her jewels to Columbus: This painting will represent the glorious Catholic Queen presenting her jewels to Columbus, that he may be enabled thereby to prosecute his worthy search in behalf of the interests of mankind. This painting will occupy the other side of the vestibule, opposite the picture of Columbus, and will cover an equal space. Very Bev. Father General, has, with his usual large-heartedness, made this generous offering to the students and Faculty of Notre Dame.
3d, Departure of the three vessels: the Pinta, Nina, and the Santa Maria. Here the great discoverer will be represented as setting out from Palos, in Spain, with his. little fleet, in search of the New World. This will prove a most attractive scene, and the,painting has already been taken and presented by our* worthy and estimable friend Prof. J. F. Edwards.
4th, Rebellion of the Crew. In this drawing will he depicted the despair and anger of the sailors, at the great danger they think themselves in of never discovering land or reaching home, and their desperate resolution to throw overboard their worthy commander.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	141
5th, The discovery of land. The great joy of the different crews on the discovery of floating sea-weed and flying birds, and their unbounded enthusiasm, as the sight of land first meets their eyes, will here be vividly portrayed. This will be the grand tableau of the series.
6th, Landing of Columbus, Planting of the Cross. Here will be represented Columbus and his followers, who have disembarked, to the great wonder and surprise of the Indian inhabitants of the New World. Also the planting of the Cross, and the taking possession of the country in the name of Christ and of the Cross, which Columbus did, and not in the name of the Kings of Spain alone, as some historians have it.
7th, Return home and reception of Columbus. The successful discoverer will here be placed before us as the greatest man of his time, enjoying the respect and confidence of the kings and of the entire kingdom. He will be shown as the hero of the day at the royal Court, receiving the thanks of his sovereigns, and the homage of the courtiers. Here also will be pictured a beautiful description of the presentation of the Indians to the royal court.
Sth, Columbus amid the storm, the cyclone. Here will be depicted one of those terrible sea stcrms, so much spoken of in our own day. In the midst of the consternation which has seized upon the sailors, Columbus, alone retains his presence of mind. Standing erect on the deck of the rocking vessel, he will be depicted as making the Sign of the Cross with his glittering sword. Likewise, the laboring of the three frail barks in a tremendous storm, and showing plainly the great faith and the coolness of the great navigator in time of need.
9th, Columbus and the Indian Queen Anacoana. This will be a brilliant sketch of an Indian Queen surrounded by her maids, receiving Bartholomew, Columbus’s brother and suite. It will be a most beautiful picture of Indian woodland life, sho wing, as it will, the court of a Queen who deserved to rank as a poet, and whose gentle influence prevailed upon her warlike husband to spare the strange visitors.
10 th, Columbus returning in chains. In this picture will be set forth the ingratitude of rulers for whom the great discoverer had done so much. Columbus, having served his kings and country faithfully, and having given them a New World, is rewarded with chains for payment and a prison for a home. The grief and sorrow of his great heart at this most crowning and crushing insult are most touchingly portrayed, .and as he sits in his dungeon loaded with chains, gazing steadily at it for a moment makes it seem to one almost a present reality.
All the above-mentioned subjects vary in size from ten to twenty feet in length, by ten and a half in height, consequently the prices Jof the various paintings will vary with the size. The first three have already been taken by Very Rev. Father General, Prof. Gregori and Prof. Edwards, but the other seven are yet left to the choice of our friends, whose names will be recorded in gold characters on the tableau each one shall have adopted, the highest price being only $500.00 (five hundred dollars), or, as our admirable and enthusiastic painter says, Poco mono di niente, “ a little nothing.” As a proof of this we invite our friends to come and see in the parlor of the Presbytery two photographs from Rome, of two large paintings he made some years ago forthe'Princess Maria di Passi Bassi; one representing the Wedding in Cana, and the other Balthassar
looking up at the mysterious handwriting on the wall, for which our artist received $5,000.00.
Such subjects, from such a master, covering a space of about 200 feet, will make of our entrance hall a gallery, of which Notre Dame and her friends may well be proud; and this in* connection with the famous paintings in the church and the architectural subjects in the refectories and the gems in the Columbian Society room, will place our University in possession of art treasures unequalled by any other institution of the kind on this Continent.
—Very Rev. Father Sorin this week received a letter from the Minims at St. Mary’s, who, it seems, feared to lose favor with him. We believe the fault as regards the omission referred to, lies at the Academy and not with the editors or printers of the Scholastic, but for the satisfaction of all parties, and to prevent the recurrence of a like mistake, we publish the correspondence:
Vert Rev. Father General, C. S. C.:
Our Kind Father,—Would you believe that in the Scholastic of the 5th, the reporters didn’t place a heading to the Minim Department, and so we were left out entirely! Now please dear Father, see to this so that all the world may know that there is a splendid Minim Department at St. Mary’s and that we will, every one, be on the Roll of Honor, every week—and then we will be	Your ever thankful
Minims of St. Mart’s, Mr. Editor:
I confess that I was myself very much surprised, in looking over your last Number, to find the grave omission wondered at in the foregoing lines. The inference would have been that the Minims of St. Mary’s had become of late so different from what I loved to hold them naturally to be, that they all had forfeited their good points. I could not for a moment, admit, this. Having inquired into their recent behavior, I promptly learned, and to my great satisfaction, that “they had never been better.” Such an oversight, will never, I trust, ba reiterated. There is no need to fear the same omission, I hope, of my Minims, of angels here at Notre Dame, It would be a capital of-offense.	A Protector of the Minims.
—The subjoined is an extract from a letter just received by Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., from a prominent Army Officer in the West. It is hardly necessary to pass any comment on it, as it speaks for itself, telling plainly of the earnest care and consideration exercised in the government of students, especially of the younger ones; and giving ample proof of approval from a gentleman of culture and holding high rank in the country’s service. His approval of the discipline at Notre Dame, having been for years a strict disciplinarian himself, speaks more in favor of the management of affairs than any praise to which we might give utterance.
Dear Father General:—Early in November my god-eon will arrive at Notre Dame, to join the Minims. Knowing the special predilection you have for these nascent collegians, I venture to take up your valuable time to recommend my boy’ to your kindness. The little fellow leaves his parents for the first time. His character is tractable and affectionate; severity may fail in obtaining results; kindness, never. I h^ve told his father that corporal punishment is unknown at Notre Dame; that the law of honor and the incentive of piety are^the mediums through which obedience is obtained.
Please, dear Father General, notice the little fellow in his first isolation. Pray for me, dear Father General, and believe me, with the highest respect,
Affectionately your servant,
A J. D.
We publish the above simply with a view of informing all our well-wishers what rank Notre Dame holds in the opinion ot men who are well able to judge in matters educational and disciplinaiy. The Army and Navy are well represented in all the departments of the University;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
each department containing several students, representing some prominent officer of the service. There are nephewa of three Bishops now attending the Minim Department.
----------1 o I----------
—Just as we were going to press we were pained to learn of the death of that estimable and highly-esteemed lady, Mrs. V. L. Graham, of Washington, D. 0. Two of her sons are students at the University, one in the Junior and one in the Minim Department. Our heart goes out in sympathy to them and to the entire family in their great bereavement. We take from The Capital, and the National Republican, Washington, D. C., the following notice of our deceased friend: “ Mrs. Virginia Lee Graham, wife of Com. mander J. D. Graham, U. S. N., died last Sunday night, Nov. 3d. The funeral took place yesterday afternoon, from the residence of her mother, Mrs. George H. Plant, corner of Sixth and I streets northwest, and proceeded to St. Matthew’s Church, where the funeral services were performed by Father Boyle. The attendance was very large, and comprised quite a number of army and navy officers and their families. The funeral arrangements were in charge of Mr. William R. Speare, and the interment was in the Graham family lot in the Congressional Cemetery. Deceased will be remembered as Miss Jennie Lee, of Sixth street northwest, a former pupil and graduate of the Visitation Academy in this city. Her death has saddened many hearts. She is so well remembered as the bright little hostess of the Passaic, the center of so much joyous social life, that it is almost impossible to connect the idea of death with her. She leaves four children, one a fair, browneyed girl, on whose young shoulders falls the heavy responsibility of the family cares.”
Personal.
—Mrs. Devine, of Chicago, was here last week and gave her sons quite a holiday.
—Mr. P. J. Byrne, of ’73, is engaged as teacher in the High School, at Erie, Pa.
—Mr. Z. Eager and family of Wauseon paid a visit this week to Ed. Eager, of the Seniors.
—Messrs. Kuntzman and Myer • Livingston of South Bend visited their sons last Sunday.
—Mr. W. H.Welch, of Des Moines, Iowa, visited his son Will., of the Minim department this week.
—As we are preparing the Scholastic for press we have had the pleasure of a visit from Rev. Father Anthony Kaul, St. Anthony’s Church, Reading, Pa., who is here on a visit to his brother, Brother Leopold, C. S. C., Professor in the Musical Department.
—Harold V. Hayes, of ’74, and wife, paid a visit to Notre Dame, a short time since. Harold was quite a favorite in his time, and was warmly welcomed by a number ot his old friends. Mrs. Hayes (formerly Miss Foote), is a graduate of St. Mary’s Academy, and likewise met with a most cordial reception from her former teachers of Aims. Mater.
—The Erie Evening Herald, of Nov. 2d, contains the following notice:
“ Mr. John Arthur, for many years clerk in the P. & E. office has been promoted another step in the Treasury Department making the third promotion since he went to Washington. The salary of the clerkship he has been promoted to is §1,600 a year. It was won by competitive effort, and in the face Of many other difficulties. Mr. Arthur was married a year since to a niece of Judge Galbraith, a Miss Lane, a most estimable lady.”	.
Mr. Arthur’s friends at Notre Dame, and elsewhere, will ■be rejoiced to hear of his good fortune,
Local Items.
—Walking.
—“ 0 Gawge! ”
—Posy wants “ rec.”
—“ Did you see that cat ? ”
—Overcoats are all the rage.
—There are now 137 Seniors.
—The new uniforms look well.
—The gray is on the road again.
—A new Senior student from Denver.
—When will the play-hall be flushed?
—The Hedgehogs seem to be reviving.
—He is going home if the telegram comes.
—“ Stonewall ” is over brilliant sometimes.
—Are we to have any excursions this year ?
—The skating rink was started last Tuesday.
—The new printing-office will soon be finished.
—The Juniors look blue; their football is gone.
—“ Oh, Gawge! I’ve got an awful lot to tell you.”
—The Juniors have an Orchard all to themselves.
—Cleary likes cigars; so does the 5th Latin Class.
—Didn’t he turnup (turnip) his nose in fine shape ?
—“She will think Pm smart, won’t she, Charley?”
—The Drawing Class is making excellent progress.
—“ Jack ” and “ Fatty ” chew off the same plug now.
—The “ Muggletonians ” are at present fully organized.
—New desks have been ordered for the Senior study-hall.
—“ Is it not a little late for’strawherry festivals, Arthur ? ”
—We understand that Muldoon is on the still-hunt for a Coon—
—They are having fine football games on the Senior Campus.
—The Seniors now make regular excursions into the country.	o
—The Thespian meetings are rather lively and interesting now.
—“ Why does K-----n always like to have a seat next to
the Wall? "
—“ What’s the matter with the Vice-President of the St. C---s?”
—Some folks have a very soft thing—just where their hat fits them.
—The Calisthenic Club had a fine oyster supper, Wednesday night.
—“Now, see here, the dog will get three good square kicks for that.”
—We do not remember having heard the College cheer once this session.
—The Seniors have one among them who always and in all things is Eager.
—“1’11 bet the cigars!” said Will. But he won’t bet them again in a hurry.
—Poor little Maude, he looks so blue since his return from that little Fraud.
Your pa and your ma, so it’s whispered abroad,
Are astonished to learn of your dear little Fraud.
—The Elocution Class will give another Entertainment before the month is out.
There is a flower on the altar in the Senior study-hall with 125 blossoms on it.
—The “Mashers” were highly mistaken; if you don’t believe me, ask G. J. R.
—The Academia held their regular semi-monthly meeting on Wednesday evening.
—The cat on the roof of Phelan Hall,'attracted no little attention Tuesday afternoon’.
—Brutus—“Say, Mark Anthony, lend me your pipe, 01 it’s real mere sham, isn’t it?”	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
143
—“ ‘ Climb up,’ ‘ climb up,’ is becoming monotonous. Can’t you sing a better song, George ? ”
—“ Gentlemen, I want you to understand I am a member of the legal fraternity. I am a judge I ”
—There is something wrong in the south-west corner of the private dormitory. Oh, those feet!
—All the new desks are filled, and the “ Old Reliables ” are called into to play in the Senior hall.
—The latest. Said Jim, from Memphis: “ I never saw a saw saw a saw like that saw sawed that saw.”
—The Anti-Detention Society is steadily advancing. Oliver W. Holmes has been chosen President.
—The Calisthenic Club is having a grand time, and they wait impatiently for Thanksgiving day.
—The tables in the Seniors’ refectory are beginning taxation. Oyster suppers will be the result in time.
—William Warren entered the Junior department last Tuesday. He is the twelfth student from Nashville.
—Jim, from Vicksburg, seems to know all about the “ white horse,” he will give all necessary information.
—That bay horse has quite a magnetic attraction for some of the Seniors. “ Look out, softies, you are spotted.”
—The horizontal bars in the Juniors’ yard have been repaired, and now aspiring Preps, may exercise their muscles.
—It is rumored that seventy Seniors will play the Junior department a game of football, for anything they choose.
—Neal Ewing was awarded the best Bulletin for the month of October; Ed Fishel, second; and Harry Porter third best.
—Nearly one hundred Juniors, in company with Bro. Albert, visited St. Joe’s picturesque banks, last Sunday afternoon.
—The Junior Hedgehog Club still exists, but under a different name, and their place of meeting has been changed.
—Now, as the holidays are approaching, each one should endeavor to have as good a report as possible sent home to his parents.
—To-morrow, Feast of the Patronage of the Blessed Virgin, Afissa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers, of the Blessed Virgin.
—We saw quite a large shepherd dog snap at Scholastic Ed. the other day, but he missed his grip and went off with a sore jaw.
—Some of the Minims put something on their faces to imitate their big brothers, the Seniors, who use goosegrease for their moustache.
—Work on the new addition to the College will be immediately begun, in order to afford accommodations to the increasing number of students. -
—We are'glad to see that “Mike” has taken in the straw hat. Good, “Mike,” but you should persevere in the good work which you have begun.
—Zeke says: “What’s the use of getting out of detention? Thanksgiving is coming.” “ That’s so,” murmured the crowd. “ Pardon then, sure, you bet.”
—The “ Siamese twins ” are practising the Greco-Roman art, preparatory to entering the arena against any other two men, on the upper or under hold.
■ —Frank Johnson writes from his home in Memphis, Tenn., stating that he will be here on the 15th inst, or at the latest, in time to attend the Thanksgiving “ hop.”
—Last Sunday, a game of football was played on the Seniors’ Campus by the “Reds” and “Blues,” captained by Baker and Johnson. “ Blues,” after hard playing, won one goal.
—Mr. Tuerk, of the firm of Tuerk Bros. & Co., Chicago, will spend the week here, superintending the adjustment of the water-motor to the large organ. It will probably be ready by Sunday.
—Bro. Albert has just finished a beautiful oil painting of the Sacred Heart. Xt occupies a prominent position
in the Junior study-hall, just over the statue of Our Lady of Lourdes.	.
—The Orchestra, under the direction of Prof Paul, is practising a new piece entitled “La Chasse du Jeune Henri,” by Mebul. It will soon be given in public, and we expect a pleasing rendition.
—We don’t object to jokes when meant as such, and put in a proper way, but we positively will not publish anything that savors in the least of personality. Such contributions will invariably be destroyed.
—On Thursday morning, an exciting game of football was played between five Juniors and twelve Minims. After twenty minutes of good playing on either side, the game was declared in favor of the Minims.
—All students who have received permission from their parents to procure the new uniform, will please present the same to Rev. Father Maher. The permission and the money will be required in every case, before the uniform will be furnished.
—We are pleased to hear that Very Rev. Father General’s Drama “ The New Arts,” is to appear again on the stage. Besides the amusement to be derived from the exhibition, there is a very useful and practical lesson underlying every word of “ The New Arts.”
—We overheard a prefect, in the hall, last Wednesday, asking another for a desk. He said all his desks were occupied and there was a “ new comer ” on hand for a seat. The reply was: “ I have but four vacant seats, and the President has five applications for Juniors.”
—We know of a certain Junior who puts on a great many Ayers. Loud talk don’t amount to much. We know of a certain Senior troubled with the same complaint, and he was done up Brown in a very short time. Be advised young man: “ A still tongue maketh a wise head.”
—An aspiring genius sends us the following effusion:
“ From off the running rivulet the icy chain is thawed,
And the flutter of the winglet of the doveiet is abroad;
The quacklet of the ducklet, in the brooklet one can hear, And the rootlet of the piglet will presently appear.”
—The second game of football for the championship was won by the Seniors, after an exciting contest. As each club has won a game, no doubt the third and winning game will be very interesting. Both teams are equally well matched, and it is hard to say which club will win the trophy.
—The Senior Cadets will begin the manual of arms next week. Each Cadet will be assigned a certain number for his rifle, and will be held to a strict account for any injury happening to the same. Snapping of locks is injurious and is positively forbidden.except in the practice of loading and firing on drill. *
The Notre Dame Scholastic says that Prof. Gregori will shortly begin a series of paintings on the walls of the main corridor of the University building, depicting some of the most notable scenes in the life of America’s great discoverer. The series will begin with a view of Columbus at the Spanish Court, and continue through until his return in chains.—South Bend, Register.
—Rev. Father Walsh visited the Classes in the Minim department on Tuesday. Among those who received special notice from the Rev. President were Guy Gibson, P. P. Johnson, Rene Papin, Josie Chaves and W. Devine, in the second Reading Class. J. McGrath, A. Roberts, F. Whitney, P. Campau, and L. Graham, in the third Class. W.T. Berthelet, and Ryan Devereux in the first Arithmetic Class; E. P. Nash, F. Nester, W. Walsh, and Otto Dillon in the second Class.
—The regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, the 7th inst. Rev. Fathers Granger and Stoffel, and Col. E. A. Otis, were among the visitors. The ten-minutes’ instruction was given by Rev. Father Walsh. Mr. Wm. McGorrisk read an essay on “ Good Reading ”; E. A. Otis, on “ Confession ”; and J. A. McIntyre on “ The Catholic Doctrine of Purgatory.” Msssrs. Zahm, Solon and Healy were appointed to prepare compositions for the next meeting.
—The 6th regular meeting of the Thespian Society was held Oct. 29th. Messrs. T. Healy, W. Gray and W. Bolton
144	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
presented themselves, and were unanimously elected members. A debate on Literary Societies took place, in which Messrs. E. Orrick, G. Clarke, W. McGorrisk. J. Solon, M. Healy, and M. Burns, participated. The quarrel-scene between Brutus and Cassius was well rendered by M. Healy, and E. Orrick. A moot court was then held, many members taking part therein, especially M. Burns, and F. Clarke.
—The 9th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society took place "Nov. 9 th. At this meeting, Master D. C. Smith was elected second Vice-President; J. Flynn, Treasurer; Master Fred Fishel, Recording Secretary; Master A. Richmond, Corresponding Secretary; 0. Devoto, 2d Censor; E. Fenlon, Property Manager; Masters H. Snee, Deschamp, G. Tourtillotte, A. Campau, and J. Devine, sang some very fine selections. Declamations were delivered by E. Fenelon, A. Richmond, J. Powell, H. Devitt, P. Yrisarri and E. Howard.
—Last week, a large number of Juniors passed Mr. Mc-Erlain’s orchard, while out on promenade. The ground was strewn with delicious apples, but not even one of the boys attempted to enter the orchard or touch the apples. Mr. McErlain, unobserved, was watching the boys, and after they had passed by, he was so pleased that he kindly called to them to come back and take all the fruit they wished. This invitation was gladly accepted, and all returned home bearing with them a goodly store of the delicious fruit, and strongly convinced of the truth of the maxim: “ Honesty is the best policy.”
—The 11th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held Nov. 5th. Master W. Johnson presented himself, and was elected a member. A well-written criticism on the previous meeting was read by W. Keenan. Essays were read by Ed Fishel, N. Ewing. Com positions were read by J. Fendrick, and N. Nelson, W. P. Mahon, J. Guthrie, J. Grever, C. Porter, C. C. Echlin, and G. Castanedo. G. J. Rhodius, 0. Rose, and A. Browne, appeared to advantage in declamations. A lively debate then took place, on “Different Kinds of Governments.” Public readers for this week are as follows: J. Guthrie, Ed Fishel, W. Keenan, J. Grever, W. Johnson, C. Porter, N. Nelson, and G. J. Rhodius.
—Mr. F. W. Tuerk, Jr., senior partner of the firm of Tuerk Bros. & Johnson, Water-motor Manufacturers, 86 and 88 Market Street, Chicago, has been here the past week, superintending the putting in of a motor to blow the Church organ. It is hoped the noise in the organ loft will now be at an end; the motor will give the additional great advantage of practice on the organ without half a day’s delay for two men to “ raise the wind ” for the organist or his pupils. The organ reservoir is a very large one, and hard to fill, having but two feeders, but as the Tuerk motors have great power, claiming about 80 per cent of the force put upon them, we have no doubt that the one now being put in will meet all requirements and have something to spare.
—The second game of the championship series of football between the Senior and Junior teams took place on the Seniors’ Campus, Thursday last. After three-quarters of an hour of playing, said by some to be the best ever seen at Notre Dame, the first inning was won by the Seniors. In the second inning, the Juniors seemed either tired down or in despair, they allowed the Seniors to put the ball in with the greatest ease. The Juniors then threw up the third inning as useless. The Umpires were Bros. Bonaventure and Charles. The teams are both in fine trim. Of the Seniors, Bro. Paul is Director; F. Gallagher, Capt.; F. Dever, 1st Ass’t.; A. Zahm, 2d Ass’t. Of the Juniors, Bro. Lawrence is Director; A. Coghlin, Capt.; Wm. Ayers, 1st Ass’t.; J. Guthrie, 2d Ass’t. After the first game of the series the Juniors did some tall bragging, they should be careful in future, and look before they leap.
—An aspirant for poetic honors favors us with the following example of his magic pen:
“ There is a word of letters three, Which makes the Juniors shout with glee, More than any in the vocabulary, namely, rec. If a Bishop visits Notre Dame, From young and old the cry’s the same:
‘ Give us rec-.'
If a prefect buys a hat, Or perhaps a new cravat, He scarcely shows his head or neck, When some great noodle cries out, ‘ rec.' If Bertie Zekindgetsno notes,
. You will hear exclaimed from fifty throats: ‘ Give us rec'
' If Lincoln Rogers takes a shave,
You will surely hear some cunning knave, Shout: ‘ give us rec.'
In two months more, from one and all, Both Minims short, and Seniors tall, And Juniors too, with outstretched necks, The rending cry: ‘ Old year, bye bye, We’re off for a New Year’s rec.’ ”
If that young man lives till he dies, he’ll make his mark.
—On the visitors’ register of the past week we find the following names: Mrs. Waldorf and Mrs. O. C. Henry, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. Coleman, Angola. Ind.; Miss Adelia Phelps, New Berlin, N. C.; Misses Marie L. Rudel and Lydia McCord, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Lillie Schaefer, Riverdale; Mrs. Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. Ruger and Miss Clara Ruger, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. M. E. Potts, Milford, Mich.; Mrs. D. C. Aunsley, De Kalb, Ind.; Mrs. Anna Milburn, Kansas city, Mo.; Chas. 0. Niles, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. A. Schmitt and wife, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Nora Holan and Miss Maggie Frain, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. Shiels, Lake Forest, Ill.; Mr. A. F. Wheeler, Salem, Oregon.; Miss Gertie Holmes, Peoria, Oregon; Miss Eunice Wheeler and Richard A. Wheeler, South Bend, Ind.; Henry Friedman, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Wm. McNee, Schenectady, N. Y.; Harry C. Eichenlaub, Ackron, Ohio.; Mr. W. H. Welch, Des Moines, Iowa; J. A. Devine, (’81), Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Z. Eager and family, Wauseon, Ohio; Jesse Warren, Nashville, Tenn.; Miss Frank Stible, Sandusky, O.;’ J. Murdock, Michigan city, Ind.; Misses Ella E. and Lou Kirchgessner, Monroe, Mich.; Mrs. John Knight and Cora P. and Emma E. Klingel, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Hattie McLoughlin, Utica, N. Y.; Miss Francesca Gregori, Rome, Italy; Miss Marie Godbert, Paris, France; Misses Amy and Eunice Edgerly, Jackson, Mich.; Mrs. Moses and Samuel Livingston, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. L. Meyer, Battle Creek, Mich.; Mr. F. A. and Mary A. Hutchins, Waldoboro, Me.; C. W. Fisher, Three Rivers, Mich.
Holl of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabet-cal order.]	.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, W. Arnold, F. Barron, W. Bailey, E. J. Bryant, W. J. Browne, F. Baker, J. F. Browne, W. 8. Berry, J. M. Boose, F. M. Bell, T. E. Bourbonia, J. Barry, D. Corry, 8. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, T. F. Clarke, C. Coughanowr, W. Cleary, C. E. Cripe, G. Clarke, F. Dever, A. D. Dorsey, J. Drury, J. P. Delaney, D. Danahy, E. J. Eager, F. Ewing, R. E. Fleming, J. Farrell, T. F. Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, C.L. Fishburn, W. E. Grant, H. A. Grambling, F. W. Gallagher, A. J. Golonski, F. Grever, T. D. Healey, M. F. Healey, A Jones, A T. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindle, A. Kuntsman, M. Livingston, H. Letter-hos, H. M. Lannon, J. 0. Larkin, J. R. Marlett, G. E. McErlain, A. Myer, F. X. Murphy, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, J. Millett, C. J. McDermott, J. A. McIntyre, H. W. Morse, J. F. Martin, W. B.McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, J. Nash, H. Noble, B. M. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neill, W. J. O’Connor, F. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher, E. A. Otis, C. L. Pierson, 8. Pillars, S. 8. Perley, L. Proctor, F. Quinn, P. Rasbhe, W. E. Ruger, A P. Schindler, J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, J. Solon, W. E. Smith, A. C. Schiml, H. Steis, P. Shickey, E. E. Smith, C. A Tinley, E. J. Taggart, W. M. Thompson, G. 8. Tracy, I. Treon, S. B. Terry, C. B. Van Duzen, W. H. Vander-Heyden, F. Wheatley, F. Ward, J. A. Weber, F. 8. Weber, J. A. White, J. E. Walsh, E. D. Yrisarri, J. V. Zettler, A. F. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. A. Browne, W. J. Byrne, W. F. Bacon, W. H. Barron, A W. Brewster, A. J. Campau, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, A M. Coghlin, W. L. Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, M. Dolan, H. F, Devitt, J. E. Drendel, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	145
E. E. Fenlon, Ed Fischel, Fred Fischel, W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick, F. G. Felix, J. Friedman, L. F. Florman, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, L. G. Gibert, W. M. Graham, M. 8. Gooley, E. B. Gerlach, J. W. Guthrie, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, F. J. Hurley, G. J. Haslam, W. F. Hanavin, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, W. H. Johnston, C. C. Kolars, O. Kemph, J. F. Kahman, F. H. Kengel, H. A. Kitz, F. 0. Lund, J. .Livingston, O. L. Ludlow, J. T. MeGordon, W. G. Mnhlke, J. 8. McGrath, T. E. McGrath, F. X. McPhillips, C. M. Murdock, 8. T. Murdock, N. J. Nelson, J. E. Orchard. J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, W. 0. Pinkstaff, J. M. Powell H. P. Porter, 0. F. Porter, T. C. Kyan, 8. Kosenheim, 0. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. 0. Rnppe, W. J. Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, C. D. Saviers, G. H. Schaefer, E. J. Schmitt, D. G. Taylor, G. A. Tourtillotte, A. T. Taggart, D. Thomas, T. D. Williams, J. W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, W. Warren, P. J. Yrisarri, J. E. Zaehnle, 0. Zeigler, G. B. Buchanan, J. P. Jones, J. Grever.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. S. Chaves, O. P. Dillon, C. Metz, E. P. Nash, W. T. Berthelet, M. E. Devitt, J. F. Nester, D. L. McCawley, C. H. MeGordon, F. I. Otis, A. J. Otis, P. P. Johnson, J. L. Rose, W. P. Devine, D. Prindiville, R. V. Papin, W. J. Miller, H. J. Ackerman, C. Campau, T. Norfolk, P. S. Gibson, J. A. Frain, C. 8. Milburn, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, E. 8. Chirhart, J. Young, W. Walsh, M. T. Byrne, B. B. Powell, J. 8. Beall, C. Quinlan, T. E. Curren, E. Adams, Ryan Devereux.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COTtl^IERCXATj COUHSE*
P. Archer, W. Barron, G. Buchanan, W. Coghlin, C. Echlin, J. Fendrick, W. Hess, E. Gall, J. Hefleman, T. Hurley, C. Kolars, N. Nelson, D. Saviers, C. Zeigler, E. Bryant, J. Concan-non, E. Eager, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburne, A. Jackson, J. Kindle, G. McErlain, J. Zettler, J. Boose, J. Conway, M. H. Connor, A. Bchiml, F. Ward, E. Yrisarri.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Berthelet, J. H. Dwenger, D. A. O’Connor, D. A. Piatt, W. Prindiville, W. Welch, E. P. Nash, C. H. MeGordon, L. J. Young, O. P. Dillon, J. A. Frain, J. A. Kelly, A. J. Kelly, P. P. Johnson, F. P. Nester, J. F. Nester, M. E. Devitt, W. J. Miller, J. J. McGrath, W. P. Devine, C. Metz, T. Ellis, J. T. Kelly, B. B. Powell, P. E. Campau, V. A. Rebori, T. Norfolk, D. L. McCawley, J. S. Chaves, G. Gibson, F. 8. Whitney, J. 8. Beall, H. J. Ackerman, J. L. Rose, C. D. Brandon, H. C. Dirksmeyer, J. F. Coad, P. 8. Gibson, A. J. Otis, H. Hynes, C. Campau, L. P. Graham G. King, D. Prindiville, A. P. Roberts, E. 8. Chirhart, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, E. Adams, T. E. Curren, M. T. Byrne, C. Quinlan.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—E. Yrisarri, W. Grout, D. Corry, I. Treon, R. French, H. Hess, J. Courtney, M. Dolan, J. Grever, C. Porter, D. Deschamps; Grammar—E. Yrisarri, J. Kindle, H. Morse, J. Conway, N. Nelson, H. Porter, W. Mahon, 8. Murdock, W. Keenan, C. Porter, A. Browne, C. Kolars, J. Concannon, W. Connor, E. Eager, M. Falvey, W. Ruger, G. McErlain, R. E. Fleming,* T. D. Healey,* F. X. Murphy ;* Geography—F. Wheatly, E. Yrisarri, C. L. Fishburne, N. Nelson, T. Hurly, M. Dolan, W. Barron, C. Zeigler, J. Courtney; United States History—C. L. Fishburne, E. Yrisarri, J. Conway, C. Kolars, G. Tourtillotte, H. Snee, E. Gall, W. Barron. T. Williams, J. Orchard, M. Dolan, T. Hurley; Penmanship—F. Felix, H. Porter, D. Saviers; Arithmetic—A. Bchiml, J. Flynn, D. Corry, W. Barron, C. Zeigler, C. Murdock, C. Porter, J. Heffernan; Book-Keeping!-----.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
fNo competition handed in from above class.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica,” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,’' Monthly Papers, Edited by the Young Ladies of the Senior Department.)
Since the last reading of “ Rosa Mystica,” the aspect of our beloved St. Mary’s has undergone many changes. The grounds, indeed, “blossom as the rose.” During the months of July, August and September, the air was redolent with the rich perfume of tube-roses and numberless varieties of lilies, roses, gladioli, and correspondingly beautiful tropical plants, which have made the scene like an enchanted land.
The new hot-house is expanding its wings, and no rarity of Flora’s domain afar over the seas or in our own favored clime is heard of, but it soon finds a welcome home beneath its generous roof.
The sites of the old St. Cecilia’s Hall, and St. Ann’s House are marked by fountains, adorned with pink-lipped sea-shells, and throughout the entire summer, exquisite designs in foliage plants, nurtured by loving hands and grateful hearts, have done honor m their charming silence to the walls now demolished, but which for so many years have been the witnesses of countless joyous and edifying scenes.
The opening of the scholastic year has been marked by notable visits, among which were those of many post-graduates, some of them bringing younger sisters to place them under the fostering care of their Alma Mater. Mr. Jordon with his bride—formerly Miss Anna Wooden—of Sigourney, Iowa, of the class of ’80, took St. Mary’s in their bridal tour. The earnest good wishe sof loving hearts, who for years had cherished the bride as a child of the house, attend them in their life’s career.
The visit of Mr. Harold Hayes and his youthful consort, formerly Miss Helen Foote of Burlington, Iowa, a graduate of the Centennial Class, was also the occasion of much pleasure to their friends “ of auld lang syne.” •
Miss Black, graduate of ’74, on her return from an extensive European tour, was reunited to her entire family at St. Mary’s, all having collected here, on account of her young sister who is now a pupil of the house.
The accession to the Art Department of Miss De la Barre, a distinguished sculptress, late of Paris, is a subject of congratulation to the clients of St. Luke. Three statues of remarkable interest, fashioned by her hand, are on exhibition in St. Luke’s Studio. One, “ Our Lady of Lourdes,” is a copy; the others, “Our Lady of Peace,” and “St. Francis,” are original. The latter is represented with a death’s head in the left hand, at the moment he is supposed to say, “ Whose skull is this ? That of a prince or a beggar: Ko one can tell.” The statues are full of expression and exhibit a high order of talent. A healthy spirit of emulation is awakened in the Drawing and Painting classes, and the Misses Fox, Rasche, Thompson, Vander-Heyden, Sophie Papin, Lillie and Catherine Lancaster, and Catherine Campbell, in Oil Painting, have given much satisfaction to their teachers. The Misses Owens, Spangler, Ewing and Wilkins, in Water Colors, and the Misses Wiley,
146	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOL’ASTIC.
Van Patten, O'Neill and McGordon, in pencil, have also made remarkable progress.
On the festival of AU Saints, the six o’clock Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father General, and all the Catholic pupils received Holy Communion. The Blessed Sacrament was exposed on the altar, and, throughout the day, amid lights and a profusion of flowers, smiling like the faces of angels, there invisibly present, the adorers passed the happy hours. Solemn High Mass was celebrated at eight o’clock by the Rev. chaplain, Father Shortis; Father Erdre, of the University, acting as deacon, and Father Saulnier, assistant chaplain, as subdeacon. The grand Gregorian Chant, in which the Mass was sung, augmented by its majestic strains the imposing effect of the ceremonies of the day. At the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament in the evening a short but comprehensive sermon was preached by the Rev. Chaplain.
The presence of the venerable Mr. and Mrs. Fenlon, of Leavenworth, Kansas, is another pleasing and notable item of St Mary’s news. They occupy the cottage, and are to make this their home. Madame Gregori and daughter, Italy, Mrs. Col. Otis, U. S. A:, Mrs. Chaves, New Mexico, Mrs. Atkinson, Baltimore, and Madamoiselle God-bert, Paris, will spend the winter at St. Mary’s.
We are greatly delighted to welcome back from her late visit to Ohio our dear and venerable friend Mrs. Phelan > who has been so long and so closely identified with everything pertaining to St. Mary’s.
The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Buffalo paid St. Mary’s a brief visit, Oct. 4th. He seemed much pleased with the improvements made since his last visit, and gave a few words of wholesome advice. An address of welcome was read, and the Rt. Rev. guest was entertained with both vocal and instrumental selections beautifully rendered by the young ladies.
EXTBACT FROM THE ADDBESS TO BT. BEV. BISHOP RYAN.
-	Rt. Rev. Bishop Ryan.
Our Venerated Guest:
We welcome you to these, our peaceful glades, On the fair banks of famed St. Joseph’s stream, And every consecrated nook and dell Finds voice in our poor speech: yet were it ours To utter what is most within our hearts, Your Lordship would discover toiles that catch The echoes, resonant, and full of joy That tremble through the archways of high heaven; . The voice of gratitude, that on the lips Of radiant angels finds its grand refrain, In Sandus, sandus, sandus! Sunday mom
* Our humble chapel altar was a throne Whereon the King of kings, in loving state, Received St. Mary’s children at His feet.
The little Minim and the Graduate Were equal in His sight, except, perchance, The former was more favored from her claim Of stainless innocence.
Your Lordship, pray, Accept our thanks for this your visit prized, As one warm strophe from the deep, grateful hymn Sung by all hearts who love to honor God, For in the Crozier’s power we recognize
__ Authority that eometh down from heaven.
The mighty melody, sublime, that swells . ,
* The previous Sunday was that of Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for the Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration.
From old Niagara’s thunders, is the note, The keynote of the music round your home. Our simple words unto your Lordship’s ear Accustomed to such anthems, must indeed Seem childish prattle, and perchance a smile May wreathe the lips of wisdom at the thought That we would entertain one whose high rank Brings little else than burdens : but ’tis ours, We trust, your Lordship, just to lift the weight One moment, by our gaiety and joy
And our most cordial welcome.”
The usual reading on Sunday evening in the study-hall has embraced many beautiful selections in English, French and German; among them suffice it to name “ The Legend of St. Egidius,” read by Miss Hanberry, and “Daisies,” read by Miss Todd; both from the “ Author of Christian Schools and Scholars.”
The Juniors have issued the first number of a paper entitled “The Lily of the Valley,” to be published whenever the editresses are prepared. The beautiful name was given by Very Rev. Father General, who honored the reading by his presence. At his special request the unpretending journal is noticed in the Scholastic. He expressed himself as delighted with the paper and the manner in which it was read. The editresses so signally favored were the Misses Ada Clarke, Clara Ginz, Catherine Lancaster, Philomena Ewing and Marion Morgan. The following are the contents: “The Future Before Us”; “The Mass of All Saints”; “Little Sister Nellie” (a poem), by Adelaide Eager; “Rhymes Without Reason,” Ada Clarke; “A Little Prize”; “The Story of Echo “The Solemn High Mass ”; “ Increase of the Minim Department”; “Apothecaries’ Weight”; “Flying Bullion, or Gold in the Air,” Dedicated to Mother Superior, by Marion Morgan; “ Sad Thoughts,” Mary Dillon; “The Statue of Lourdes,” Clara Ginz; “Description of Mt. Carmel,” Catherine Ducey; “The Sacred Heart Oratory,” Marion Morgan; “ The House of Loreto,” Maria Thomann; “ The Art Department,” Elize Papin; “Rhymes on Etiquette,” and “The Superlative Degree in the Junior Department.” The various descriptions were of points of interest on the Academy grounds, presenting the impressions of the writers in simple but well-chosen language. The little roughness of the rhyme, we feel sure, will be pardoned in the youthful author of the following:
(From “The Lily of The Valley.”)
“Flying Bullion; ob Gold in the Air.”
“ On Sunday the Juniors found a wonderful natural curi. osity on the vines in their play-grounds. It was an exquisite gold-bug which looked like a button of eighteen carat gold. The discovery gave rise to the following, suggestive of a means to build the new Chapel:
“ Miss Alice Wright, with eyes so bright, Has found the means, we hope, To build the church; for, without search, And without pick, or rope, ' Some gold afloat, her eye did note, And straightway it was caught;
A bug of gold her hand did hold So came this happy thought, That metals pure we might secure By mining in the air:
Best mode, dear mother, of any other, If mining shall he prayer."
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
147
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses A. Cavenor, C. Claffey, E. Galen, S. Han-bury, L. Pool, S. Walsh, M. Clark, A. Dillon, L. Fox, M. Fee* han, M. Beal, C. Bland, M. Chrisehellis, R. Fishburne, L. Fend riek, J. Heneberry, L. Lancaster, 8. McKenna, A. Nash, A. Price, A. Rasehe, Mary Ryan, M. Simms, E. Slattery, E. Shickey, M-Tanner, H. Van Patten, L. Black, J. Barlow, L. Coryell, M Call, M. Casey, M. Fishburne, B. Legnard, N. McGordon, S. McGordon, A. Maury, J. Owens, M. Price, A Rulison, A. Richardson, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, G. Taylor, E. Thompson, I. Wolfe, M. Wolfe, E. Wright, L. English, C. Fenlon, M. Flemming, C. Gitchel, E. Gitchel, M. Metzger, A. Mulligan, M. Reutlinger, M. Ryan, L. Williams, L. Wagner, M.Behler, A. Castanado, B. English, M. Green, A. Gavan, H. Hicks, M. Ives, M. Mulvey, E. Mmer. 2d Tablet—Misses E. Call, J. Butts, Etta Call, M. Campbell, C. Donnelly, A. Glennon, E. Hackett, N. Keenan, E. McCoy, E. Nash, M. Price, C. Pease, M. Richardson, E. Todd, C. Wall, A. Waters, C. Campbell, A. Davenport, M. Garrity, N. Hicks, M. Newton, J. Pampeli.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, H. Ramsey, S. Semmes, J. Spangler, M. Ducey, A. Eager, H. Clark, M. Chirhart, E. Considine. M. Coogan, M. Dillon, M. Morgan, A. Martin, G. O’Neil, C. Patterson, M. Poquette, M. Rogers, A. Watrous, J. Krick, O. Campau, H. Castanado, T. Haney, M, Otero. C. Richmond, E. Rigney, M. Smith, D. Best, E. Burtis, J. McKen-non, J. McGrath, Mary Otis, Martha Otis. 2d Tablet, M. Thomann, A. Wright, A. Welch, P. Ewing, J. McGrath, E. Mattes, A. Sawyer, V. Lewis.
ST. MARY’S CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Young ladies following a special course:
Misses Galen and Gordon.
HONORABLY MENTIONED, AND CLASSED FOR THIS SESSION.
1st Class—Miss Fendrlck.
2d Division—Misses M. Campbell and Wiley.
2d Class—Miss H. Hackett.
2d Div.—Misses Bland, Beal, Donnelly, J. Reilly.
3d Class—Misses Coryell, J. Heneberry, Maude Price.
2d Div.—Misses Keenan, Barlow, Maude Casey, Fenlon, Fox, French, Leydon, Mary Ryan.
4th Class—Misses Chrisehellis, Claffey, A. Dillon, A. McGordon, Shicky, Ave Price, Rosing, and Garrity.
2d Div.—Misses Fishburne, Simms, Flemming, Morgan, Todd, M. Casey, M. Call, A. Rulison, Van Patten, L. English, Gavan.
5th Class—Misses N. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, McKenna, K. Lancaster, M. Ducey, C. Ginz, Waters, Ramsey, Feehan, L. Lancaster, H. McGordon, A. Rasehe, E. Thompson, F. Robertson, Vander-Hayden, A. Nash, Behler, and Wagner.
2d Drv.—Misses Patterson, Margaret Price, M. Dillon, Metzger, E. Call, Greble, Taylor, Chirhart, M. Clark, Legnard, A. Clark, Castanado, Papin, and K. Ducey.
6th Class—Misses Glennon, Williams, Butts, Tanner, Wilkins, Watson, McCoy, Owens, Thomann, H. Hicks, Newton, Coogan, I. Hackett, Spangler, Watrous, B.English.
2d Div.—Misse Mulvey, Hibbens, O’Neill, H. Nash, Pease, Smith, I. Wolfe, Wright, M. Wolfe, Davenport, Krick, Miner.
7th Class—Misses R. Fishburne, M. Richardson, Black, Richmond, E. Gitchel], M. Gitchell, A. Richardson, Hanbury, Otero, Chaves, Martin, Rodgers, Mattes, A. Wright, Green, and Parker.
8th Class—Misses Otis, Sawyer, Schmidt, Eager, Brown, Barry, Bling, and Coyne.
9th Class—Misses Ives and Welch.
10th Class—Misses Best, Martha Otis, Paul, and T. Haney.
HARP.
1st Class—Misses Galen.
4th Class—Miss Garrity.
6th Class—Misses M. Dillon, Keenan, M. Price, Otero, E. Hicks, and French.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Gordon.
■2d Class—Miss E. Hackett.
3d Class—Miss French, Reutlinger, H. Hackett J. Reilly.
4th Class—Misses Vander Hayden, Rasehe, Fenlon, Campbell.
5th Class—Misses C. Wall, Waters, McCoy, M. Casey, Dillon, Coryell, M. Ryan, Van Patten, Beal, M. Ryan, B. English, Mary Casey, M. and K. Ducey, A. Gavan, Robertson, H. and A. Nash, Spangler.
THEORETICAL MUSIC CLASSES.
For the month of October the following names have been selected from the various classes:
Misses Fendrlck, Hackett, Fox, Dillon, Campbell, Reilly, Ryan, Claffey, Leydon, Barlow, Casey, Chrisehellis, M. Price, Heneberry, Beal, Fenlon, French, Coryell, Keenan, Garrity, Ave Price, Shickey, Simms, Morgan, A. McGordon, Van Patten, Rosing, M. Call, Feehan, Flemming, Casey, Clark, L. Lancaster, Fishburne, N. McGordon, McKenna, EL Lancaster, M. Price, Greble, Reutlinger, Rasehe, A. Nash, Vander Hayden, Behler, Robertson, M. Clark, Dillon, H. Nash, Chirhart, Taylor, Legnard, Margaret Price, Ginz, Todd, English, Waters, Ramsey, Metzger, Smith, M. Ducey, Thomson, M. H. Ryan, E. Call, S. Papin, K. Ducey, M. Richardson, Gavan, H. Hicks, A. Richardson, Hanbury, Glennon, Watrous, Mulvey, I. Wolfe, Fishburne, L-Black, Richmond, Schmidt, Coyne, Martin, Sawyer. Eager, L-King, M. Otis, E. Wright, Krick, O’Neil], Pease, M. Wolfe, Tanner, Davenport, Wright, Minor, Chaves, Otero, Haney, Rogers, Coogan, Owens, Wall, B. English, E. Hicks.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
(Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic, and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large Musical Library in French, German, English, and Italian. Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Miss De La Barre, from Paris, a sculptress and artist of acknowledged superiority, has been engaged for three years as an addition to the regular corps of teachers in the School of Painting and Sculpture.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
The Minim Department
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
148
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC."
pR. D. M. CALVERT, Dentist,
Office, 69 Washington St. (over Alf. Klingel’s Shoe Store,)
South Bend, Ind.
(Removed to Boston, Mass.)
SHORT-HAND
TAUGHT BY MAIL IN 12 LESSONS, FOR §1.50.
The growing interest in Phonography has created a demand for a Periodical to teach the Art, in a series of Lessons comprehensive detailed and thorough. The
AMERICAN SHORT-HAND WRITER,
taking the initiative, is the only Magazine in the World that teaches Phonography. A full course given every year, one complete Lesson each month, and the Exercises or all Learners
CORRECTED THROUGH THE MAIL
free of charge. Those who prefer to learn in a briefer time than one year, may join our Correspondence Class and go through an entire course in either 10 or 20 weeks.
Single copy, containing First Lesson, mailed to any address for 15 cents.	,	,,
Anyone wishing to learn this fascinating and valuable science are solicited to write at once for Free Descriptive Circular.
ROWELL & HICKCOX,
409 Washington Street.	BOSTON, MASS.
Please mention the paper in which you saw this advertisement
O’Connor & Co.,
CHEMISTS AND DRTJGcGTSTS
R.oyal Ph.arm.acy, PRINCE ARTHUR’S LANDING, LAKE SUPERIOR, ONTARIO, CANADA, Dealers in Amethysts, Agates, Chlorastrolites, Catseyes, Thompsonites, Native Silver, and Copper Specimens, Quartz, Dog-tooth Spar, Indian Bark Work, etc.
Persons ordering any of the above from a distance will have their orders carefully attended to.
EDWARD BUYSSE DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
P. SHICKEY, PROPRIETOR NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY’S ’Bus Line.
Livery Stables within one block of the Lake Shore Depot.
First-class Carriages and Hacks to Let.
Telephone connections with Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly,
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price,.........gilt,	$1.25; plain, l.OO.
Address
STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—Nov. 16, 1879.
	•MaH	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	+ Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City-“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 12 33p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 s.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 •' 6 80 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo --“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago —	7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p. m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55p.m 4 50 a, m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 138 a.m 3 30 “ 455 “ 730 “
Niles and South Bend Division.					
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame—8 52 “	6 38 “ Ar. NHes— 9 25 “ 715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 D.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	455 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaUy. tSaturday and Sunday excepted. Heney C. Wentwoeth,	h. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, UI.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Minh, G, L. Euiott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.	