

Henry IV, Part One-,-March 26 
A tale of rebellious nobles and comic tavern roistering, this play introduces Shakespeare's inost loveable scoun­drel, Sir·John Falstaff, played by Anthony Quayle. Also starring: Jon Finch and Tim Pigott-Smith. · 
. Henry IV, Part Two-April 9 . Civil war continues. And King Henry and Falstaff dis­play the darker sides of their characters. ·Again Anthony Quayle as Falstaff and Jon Finch in the title role -with. David Gwillim as the_ fun-loving prince, transformed at the end into the perfect renaissance king. 
Henry V-April 23 
Shakespeare's image of the i~eal ruler, Henry V-again portrayed by David Gwillim-wins the battle of Agin­court and the hand of the fair Katherine, princess of France. 
The Tempest.;._May 7 
Magic, machinations and forgiveness characterize this, the most delightful of Shakespeare's plays. Michael Hordern plays Prospero, the magician/ruler. His daugh­ter Miranda is played by Pippa Guard. 
"The Shakespeare Plays" is a co-production of BBdI Time-Life Television. Save ·this page for a handy reference guide. 
Check your local listing for time and PBS Channel. 
(}========================================.-., 
We're Looking For Someone 
with superior intelligience, impeccable taste, a sharp wit, · & the infinite wisdom to be a leader ·among students. 
Yes; we're looking for a new Scholastic Edifor­in-Chief for 1980-81. Call Dave for info., 288~5016. ·•-· 

SCHOLASTIC 
Editor 
Dave Satterfield 
Managing Editor 
Bob Southard 
Art Director 
Jim Hofman 
Production Manager 
Theresa Rebeck 
News Editor 
Lisa Hartenberger 
Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 
Copy Editor 
Chuck Wood 
Culture Editor 
Greg Solman 
Sports Editor 
Tom Westphal . 
St. Mary's Editor 
Kari Meyer. 
Layout Editor 
Clay Malaker 
Photoi;raphy Editor 
Ken McAlpine ,·, 
Business Manager 
Pahl Davis -· 
Advertisement Manager 
Kevin Murphy · 
Distribution Manager 
Jerry Murphy . 
Staff : 
John Maddog Muldoon, Don Schmid, Chris Stewart, Mary Leavitt, · Donna Teevan, Cathy Wisniewski, Pat Worklan, Jim Sommers, Michael Diaz, Ken Scarbrough, Maryellen Bradiey, David N. Randall, Keith Caughlin, Steve Burkart, Rick Keppel, Brendan Brown, Dodee Carney, Michael Meisch, Ed Wimmer, Rich Marcello, Tim Tedrik, Lee Smolen, Tom Krueger, Ann Bridget Clark, Cecelia Susan Labriola, Betsy Spinelli, Tom O'Toole, Phyllis Washington, Kevin Paulson · 
Credits: .· Photos: Theresa· Rebeck, 7, 8, 9; Eileen O'Meara, 13, 15 Illustrations: Jim Hofman, . 11, 12; Paul 
Monardo, 22, 27; J. D. -Dowd, 25 Front and Back Cover: Eileen O'Meara 
Advisory Board · Jim Winters, Mario Pedi, Edward Fischer. 

SCMOL/\STC
Vol. 121, No. 7 March 21, 1980 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
·8 Neglecting the Elderly 12 Notre Dame Gigolo 
14 Mitchell Lifton: Notre Dame's "Hired Hand" 22 A Family of Winners 26 ·In the Long Run 29 A Note from Albert Einstein 
REGULARS 
.4 Letters to the Editor 6 Perspective: One-Issue Voting 7 Books: John Auerbach 
11, Perspective: Title IX 16 Gallery 18 Theatre 19 Fiction 23 Music 24 Film 25 Books 30 Last Word 
Cathy Wisniewski 
Mike Heaney Steve Kotz Gregory Solman Paul Mullaney Mike Decker 
Joe Willke 
G. Marshall Stevens 
Mark Hinchman Mac Fitzpatrick Tom Krueger Tim Tedrick Mark Rust Dave Satterfield 

Erratum 
On page 27 of the February 22, 1980, Sclwlastic, we printed a photograph which we erroneously captioned, "Father Cavanaugh offers advice to Teddy Roosevelt." We were mistaken. The photograph was actually Father John Zahm with Teddy Roosevelt. Scholastic regrets the error and apologizes to the University Archives and the author of the article. · 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are ·those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, ·faculty, or the student body. . 
The magazine is represented for national ~dvertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising,_ Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate. is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 1980 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 
MARCH 21, 1980 

(c, 
;The· Draft . 
Editor: . . .. ; · _ ... • . , . . , ; Bob Southard's Perspective essay;:orr registration for conscription (22: iFebruary) is an appropriately strong 

.. 'rejection of the lunatic mood which: 'the Carter administration has at-: ;tempted to settle upon this country} It ·is hard· to tell whether· President 'carter is more corrupt in his desire 'to.. maintain office . than.· incompetent 'in the means he uses to uphold it: fAll the while the President salivates' ;virtue, his redneck Georgia bullies 'engage in political tactics so un; 'ethical that they make the Nixon 'crew seem, in retrospect, like apple-; cheeked candidates·· for a Norman :Rockwell painting.. At <the sam~ '.time, . an iricredible volte-face . like :the recent repudiation of the U.N.' 'vote on Israeli West Bank ·settle-: :merits-reveals an absence of com.l 'plexity_ in .judgmentso enormous as: :to' make. one turn. away in humil~ 'iation;-·< · .· ·. .--·.•· _· ... ·. l r Whatever. the I explanation fof ;earter's imen/Jooking_ a~orously; down .. Pakistani gun barrels or :threatening war so ·. that :·mid~ !Americans can continue. to ciperat~ 'sno\V' blowers ,and power mowers,l 'the effect of the· President's mili,: ;tancy, if..·unc~~ked, .\ViU .be_de11dly _and depressing fore our society. and, 'our culture:<;Fo:r/ example,< the 'strengthening .:of the."C.I.A. will 1give dangerousnew·freedom to)ha( 'climdestine gr6up·:whkh -even now: has . been -Violating the modest re.: 1strictionsJaid down by . Congress iii. '.1977 agairis('cc>\iert ,·use of clergy~ journalists; and,educ11tors. At Notr~Dame hve have: some sense· already, of;the,uneasiness ..which can affed ~he: University:'\Vhei(a _tru~t~ ide11i tified years ago as a,Jormer. mflltra~ 'tor of civil rights\, ancn antiwar groups~an .. unlawful\}e~terpris~ :Simply :·refusecl'\fo.°J:;ans\V'er\· such'. . bliarges .and:the;·adniinistratioii'igJ, nored ~·them~ So the: charges remain
b ·· '.,:· ... ·.·.·_ ,P, . . . ... . .... \,. A 
4 

neither true nor false. Nor does the University seem to have a policy on secret recruiting for the C.I.A. by faculty members. Does it or does it not exist here? Consider then the murky atmosphere which can de­velop in the academic world were the C.I.A. to be still more un­fettered. 
For Bob Southard the immediate issue is justifiably the registration of the young. But the whole degen­erate anti-Soviet · strategy really implies registration for all of us. Registration for the world threat­ened by two monstrous military forces. Registration for the poor whose lives will become even meaner as money is poured into superfluous arms. Registration for the universities where a miasma of uncertainty and suspicion win pollute trust and candor. Registra0 tion even for Mom and her apple pie because, if war does come, Mom will be more significantly cooked than her dessert. 
Bob Southard advocates a revolu­tion in our attitudes. I concur. This country is so fair, its traditions so eloquent, its culture so vivid and di­verse that another imagination­one not sodden with racist, im­perialist, capitalist, banalities and evasicins-could give us and the world another kind of. power, the power of civiUzation. On behalf of civilization, therefore, and in our quarrel. with oppression, we. should 
... risk the incivility that genteel tem­porizers here and elsewhere caution us against. In the film The Graduate, .an.· old businessman whispered ·to Dustin Hoffman -the talismanic word of the future, "plastics." Now, if we want a future, better advice would be to be imperative: "Make trouble." . . . . Joseph Duffy 
Last Word· 
Editor: 
I enjoyed your column, • The Last Word, in the February 22, 1980, is­sue of Scholastic. 
Twenty-five years ago .when I ­was at Notre Dame, we stereotyped most of the guys on campus. 
I don't think, however, we did it with quite so much color and imagi-· nation as you have done. But I guess stereotyping is part and parcel of the college scene whether one_ went to Notre Dame ante-or post­divuvian. . 
I enjoy Scholastic each time it reaches our house. It .keeps me in­formed of campus activities, which is important because our son, .Mi­chael, is now a freshman at Notre 
Dame. · · As . an aside, · are you by any chance related to Congressman David ·satterfield who is a Member of the · Virginia Congressional dele­
gation?  ·  ·  ·  ·  ·  
All  best  wishes  and  personal  
regards.  
Sincerely,  

Romano L. Mazzoli Member of Congress · · Third District, Kentucky 
Ed;'7"Along with· myself, the en­

tire staff is honored by your letter. 
·Thank you. As. to · your relation question, I have ·no lawwwdge of being related to the Virginia Con­gressman, but for his and name~ sake's honor, I ho-pe that he has kept · his distance from, .FB[agents. 
•ScHoLASTic 

Full Value ... 
Editor: 
Enclosed is a copy of a letter com­menting on the Houck-Williams interview in the November 16, 1979, Scholastic. You and your staff cer­tainly did a fine job on that inter­view. 
Keep up the 'good work! 
Cordially, 
· (Rev.) Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C. 

Dear Father Williams and 
· . Dr. Houck: 

Although I did not go to Notre Dame, I have been a member of your Arts & Letters Advisory Coun­cil for a number of years, and as such receive Scholastic magazine. I have just read your interview in the November 16, 1979, issue ·and the references to your book "Full Value." 
As the Christophers say, it is bet­ter to light one candle than to curse the darkness. This is what I have gleaned from your interview: that you have found much that is Chris­tian and good in business and you are trying to build on it. This is tre­mendous; I'm grateful that this ap­proach is coming from a Catholic 
. base. I enjoyed your article; now I'll have to read your book. In the meantime, I wanted to let you know that there are_ some of us out here working hard at it; and, so far~f we're doing what we think we're do­ing-we're able to prove a few points by being success/ ul. · I wish you every ·success in your efjorts with the students and whom­ever else you are trying to reach. ·Sincerely, Paul M. Henkels 

ro·~_e Fan'fiwaction . . . . ·.. j 
L . -<i tEditor: . 1 i As a lifelong "Subway Alum~ 1rius," I found Greg Solman's articl~ i"Wherefore Art.Thou, Fan?" down~ )right disheartening, to say the least!. 
•If the students of.America's premie_r, ~niversity have -to be reminded o! tthe importance of what being af~ 'of Notre Dame. football · is about,' ;then we, as a nation, areindeed in, 'trouble. •. Governments · may .. come land go, a president may resign hi~ :offiCe and .. yesterday's .· enemies b~ ·come today's friends; but,for. Notr~ 'Danie students not to ."shake· down :the_ thunder,''. UNTHINKAB~E! >>; t I attended my first Notre Dame tgame with· my' father (ariotherstib;­',way , ahuririus) as ari 8-year_.old, bo~ fin 1949. Sirice that time,. rhave 'lis: (teried to nearly every game. on __the, radio·, watched :every Sunday morn~ !ing . replay, and _attended over ~ 'dozen games . in . South Bend,· Cleve-, land,. :and Baltimore. During a ?.i :year tourof duty in the U.S. Navy,' 
Jlistened fo'Notre.Dame,gam~s•ori_ i.Anned Forces Radio in the Atlanuc; 
•Pacific;· 
Arctic, and Indian_ oceans) i.And tliis was 'during .the ~~Dark: rAges,1-of-1958 thru .1,963''! Having 'never ' attended . Notre ._Dame ·· didn't 'seem to.·foa_tter; .•~hat.did was ,th~ "tradition, . pride, . a.nd class. charac~ '.teristic 'of tne University, . its stu~ 1derits, and'. teanis./I'hat's why _Notr~ bam'e has0 a-national· foUowing ·• an4.its SUBWAY'ALUMNI( also, why;'so many schools try Jo ' emulate, (Notre Dame arid'consider:fr'the·,"ul~ /tiinate''' to play,:_(arid,. somet!mes)'. beat the BEST! ·•·.•• '< .• ···_ , . . . . \ • :' ...1l My \Vife and tattended ,l~s; years, 

•USC: 
game and.. were. hoarse·. for.-a \veek afterward; but we were proud 1ofthe wayDan Devirie's·young'and 'irijiiry-riddlecfteani _cante back: t~m~ :after-time.That:\VaS apdme exan1~ :pie :of Notre_ D,ame •football.::Corne,s •May· 3; }980, w~'.11,. drive, up>frQJA 'Cleveland · with'··our•·• 2 ·. chHdren ,to match the Blue~Gold game,,,(See)n~ 'closed· photo./ Why? 'Because\~


" •.. ·-. '. . . ,-'A' N.:.S· I·•· ..... · .. ·1
'are'Notre pame,F~, ~ ... _., ... ,; ,·,;V-I'd lil~e_ .· t~ );~~re ,-,wi~: y~11\an~ · ,your.readers;an eJCCerptfrom,_a}et~ :ter I 'received' frorn .·, l\k . Dougla~ Looney}of ,"spoi-is· .lllustrated }:on1 -:cern,ing No~e ·.·Dam~.:: .S+Jideed,: ~e-j .spifo.. being a· Un_iyers1ty,pl Cofor~do, graduate, I :love.Notre. I>ame like, ,my:own.'•.. ·can·:tlie·c·stiident body',do 'anyJessr\·:t.·c;: ;> .···1· ·,;< ,;:.··_-,__·;•·· l 
ftP.s..>•~~~lo~etl/.is{r_i?.Y_/<!lleclc :io~ ' 
:$7.00,. for.:,.a, ·.. subscnption ,to . the 
~~l~li»~{@:;~~i~;~ 

One-Issue Voting 
Abortion is killing-there's really 
no way around that. People can (and 
do) debate the utilitarian value of 
human life, but it really doesn't alter 
the fact that abortion is killing. Un­
fortunately, some wish to distin­
guish . between human life and 
"meaningful" human life. This phi­
losophy opens a Pandora's box: who 
shall live, who shall die and who are 
we to judge? My concern is, how­
ever, not to debate abortion but to 
explore the political attitudes rising 
in the midst of the abortion fray­
in·. particular, the phenomenon so · often dubbed "one issue voting." 
In October, at the onset of the first "National Conference on Abortion," Father Hesburgh criticized "one is­sue" (i.e., abortion) voting in a con­troversial statement. He claimed "we have witnessed the fact that politi­cal candidates who agree 95 per cent with Catholic principles of. social justice in most .issues. of public pol­icy have been defeated by their op­position on this one issue...." On the surface, the criticism seems rea­sonable, and yet something strikes a dissonant chord. Perhaps this po­litical position can be seen in a dif­ferent· light if we shift the scene from the present back to the mid­sixties at the height of the civil rights struggle. Imagine a candidate who agreed "95 per cent with Catho­lic principles of social justice in most issues of public policy" and yet dis­agreed on this "one issue." Even if this candidate did agree "95 per cent with Catholic principles of social jus­tice," how could a Christian in good conscience vote for a racist? Could Fr. Hesburgh, so actively involved in this struggle, have voted for a racist, even if this candidate agreed "95 per cent with Catholic principles of so­cial justice" and differed on just this 

"one  issue"?  Somehow, Fr.  Hes­ 
burgh's positio n is flawed.  
The  · basic  inadequacy  of  this  

· stance lies in the unspoken assump­tion that all social justice issues are on equal footing. It does not allow for a. hierarchical system of values; a system in which certain values supersede others and create the foundation upon which others will rest. For instance, can one really talk about one's right to a fair wage, one's right to religious liberty, or one's right to free speech if one does not first grant the right to life? Certain rights are, despite opinions to the contrary, more fundamental than others, and the most basic of these rights is a person's right to life. Indeed, the very cornerstone of our society is the right to life. Is it consistent with our beliefs that one person may take the life of another for economic, social or political rea­sons? Obviously not, · except in the example of abortion. . · 
Perhaps the Pro-Life position is more accurately· understood not as "one issue voting" but as "pre­requisite voting." That is to say, to hold public office in this land, a per­son must uphold certain basic hu­man rights. The person who publicly condones the killing of thousands disqualifies himself from holding public office. In a sense, the abortion controversy becomes a civil rights issue when pushed into the political arena. An entire segment of our· population is denied its rights, in­
·by Joe Willke 

eluding the right to life. 
There are many ways beside abor­tion to be antilife, as any Christian must realize. Sometimes we find that neither candidate passes even the most fundamental of Christian hopes whether or not he is anti-abortion. It is a nebulous area, to be sure, but when one votes, one must realize the grave questions raised by "one is­sue." There is not a more funda­mental right than one's right to life. There is perhaps no greater peril to our society than the silent killing aimed at the weakest, most defense~ less member of that society. One in every ·four pregnancies now ends in abortion. Far more lives have been snuffed out· by abortion than the casualties suffered by our country in all of its wars combined. 
Not since the days of slavery has this country given one group. of people the right 0 to take another's life. But that is exactly what has happened concerning abortion. One · cannot blindly cling to the belief that abortion is ''just another issue." It cuts to the very roots of that which . we as Christians hold true. To pass it off as just another . issue. is re­pugnant. Passing the issue off shows not only a fatally narrow vision, but · also a dubiously superficial one. Per­haps one should not votesolely on a candidate's stance on abortion, but few issues have greater ramifications or demand a more urgent reply. . 
Joe Willke is a French/theology ma­jor; This is his first contribution to 
Scholastic. · 
SCHOLASTIC 

tion of the mainstream (he would argue that the image is not as rep­resentative as we Americans might



DOG\! 
think) is the subject of Zionism. "I am very much a Zionist," he
Not Just Another Survivor emphasizes. "But I do not espouse 
by Marshall Stevens 


He has risen above an. ambience of violence and bloodshed, of fear and repression... The· Holocaust. The concentration camp. The Gestapo. 
But his soft-spoken manner, his gentle . reserve and affectionate humor. betray another· underpin­ning ethos-that of 32 ·years in the Jewish kibbutz. 
He fought in two wars on the Is­raeli side, yet admires Anwar Sadat as a man "of great courage and vision." He is a humanist; he is a Zionist. He is admired by literary giants like Saul Bellow and Robert Graves and, many say, justifiably so. 
· He is John Auerbach.· 
"It is the moral ·and ethical issues that are ·important in writing," he said of his .writing style. "My in­fluences· have been Cervantes and Dostoyevsky, Conrad, Faulkner and Bellow: If you go down that check­list . you·· find . · this in common ­they are all moralists. What is more important? We are all human, aren't we?" . 
Auerbach recently made his third public appearance in the United. States at the Sophomore Literary Festival. He was brought to. Notre 
MARCH 21, 1980 Dame under the auspices of visiting Fellow Anthony Kerrigan and An­thropology Professor Kenneth Moore· who are, along with Auer­bach and Saul Bellow, in the process of a collaborative effort to translate the Spanish political philosophy book, The Rebellion of the Masses, written by Jose Ortega y Gasset. An interesting project, ·if only be­cause of the intermixture of Irish Catholics and Jews who are work­ing to complete the task. ·. 
Auerbach, who has rarely spoken before predominantly Christian au-· diences, found his Notre Dame experience rewarding and sur­prising. 
"It was not of my expectations," he remarked. "The name. of Notre. Dame was, to me, representative of the Catholic University . . . . but I found everyone to be quite respon­sive and interested." 
Auerbach, ·author of numerous short stories, is in many ways an anomalous and independent thinker, though he modestly claims to pose only the right questions, not to hold the answers. One area in which he differs from the American percep­
the brand of Zionism that has be­
come popular. Begin's Zionism is 
not my Zionism. I support the Jews' 
rights to individual freedom and ex­
istence. On the other hand, I sup­
port the Arab cause not to be ruled 
either, the right to their existence 
. . . which is not to say that I sup­
port the. PLO." 
The media have tended to make it 
seem as if men were fighting end­
lessly over land and pride. Auerbach 
in general paints a different picture 
of the Arab-Israeli conflict. He in­
sists that many Jews and Arabs are 
making genuine, sincere, concerted 
efforts to communicate and live 
harmoniously. The West Bank and 
the Gaza Strip, for instance, are not 
such a superseding point of con­
troversy in Israel . 
. "(Not giving in) has been a mat­
ter of policy, not pride," he re­
marked with a brooding sense of 
concern. "Even within the party 
there are varying opinions. I think 
that this issue has entailed a waste 
of manpower, money and the good 
name of Israel." 
Auerbach has noticed inconsis­
tencies in the world-wide media cov­
erage on the state of Israel. While 
there has been much ado about the · 
conflicts that have arisen over vari­
ous issues, little else has drawn at­
tention. 
''Where was the coverage of the 
demonstration of the organization 
called Peace Now in Tel Aviv?" he 
asked plaintively. "There were over 
100,000 people there, and they were 
not even politically oriented. It was 
a grass-roots organization." · 
Auerbach has also become some­
what wary of those who too often 
try to. link the policies of the State 
of Israel . with the religion of 
Judaism. . 
. ''Aba Thin has told me that now­
adays, if he put the. Ten Command~ 
ments up for a vote in the United 
Nations, he would--automatically 
have 108 votes working . against 
him." . · . Answers ·are .not the "angst" 
of the Auerbach philosophy .. How­
ever, he did mention that a "change. 
of leadership in Israel" would help 
the state of· affairs. "I cannot, of 
course, foresee the outcome of this, 
though." 
Auerbach· is currently living out­
side of Boston and is in the 'process 
of writing a novel. D.· 
Everyone's Problem: 

Neglecting the Elderly 
by Cathy Wisniewski _ 

Anyone who ·has visited southern Florida is acutely aware of one fact: there are literally thousands of el~ derly people. The· blue-white hair ·of the women and the slow, measured steps of the men scream to you that yes, indeed, the elderly are rapidly growing in number. The wide variety of programs which have become available is -reassuring; ·day care centers, rehabilitation programs and various other services have either lately been initiated or have been revised and updated. But many prob­lems still remain. Quite a few el­derly. people do not know that such programs exist; the bureaucratic left hand believes the righf hand publi­cized the program· and vice versa. What is more, the elderly are even discriminated against .-. in -housing 
. and employment. · 
·· Perhaps one of the least known ·· problems. of the aged · is elderly abuse; recent articles in Newsweek 

and Parade Magazine have attempted to bring this problem to the public eye. It is estimated that between 500,000 and one million elderly peo­ple are physically and psycholog­ically . abused each year.• And from recent evidence, these numbers will not diminish. As with abused wives and children, the number of unre­ported cases can only.be guessed.at. 
The stories of abuse are shocking. Suzanne Steinmetz from the Uni-· versity · of Delaware. has authored several books on family violence and cites numerous . examples in her studies. Some include a 19-year-old woman confessing to torturing her 81-year-old father_ and chaining him to a toilet for seven days, hitting him with a hammer when he was sleeping. Also in Chicago a 69-year­old father was charged with involun­tary manslaughter after his son died during a·. scuffle with him. I'! just couldn't stand for him to beat on 
me," he said. Other forms of physi­
cal abuse include withholding of 
food, medicine, and personal· care. 
The abuse can . also ·be -verbal, 

ranging from yelling at the older 
persons about how worthless they are 
and what a burden they are to-the 
family, to threats of continued abuse 
if the elderly person does not. "be-­
have.'' . Often the elderly person is 
abused or threatened in hopes of 
gleaning a pension . check : or a 
change in the elderly person's will. 
Because many of the elderly are so 
utterly dependent on their children 
for care, these threats often · yield 
results. 
One. explanation ifor this verbal 

abuse may be the .deep frustration -many adults feel as a result of. car­ing for an elderly person. It appears that the adults reach the breaking point when the care of a·senile; bed­
ridden parent becomes too great a. 
burden emotionally._It is · extremely_ 
•SCHOLASTIC 

difficult, experts say, for children to be suddenly the parent; this role reversal can be a devastating ex­perience. -With increased public awareness, it is hoped that hot lines can be established whereby adults who suddenly feel they can no longer cope with the situation can call for help. Also, the establishment of more day-care centers may relieve tension caused by the adult having to remain at home all day; these day­care centers give the attention needed by many elderly people who do not require nursing care, just a watchful eye. 
With these recent revelations about elderly abuse, it is obvious that these people are not all living out their "happy golden years" in peace. With the increased life expectancy that we have come to know in the past decades, the number of elderly people continues to grow. Yet, here in America, their lives cease to be of any social importarice after they are 
65. Their experiences in work and life lie essentially dormant; · they live for bingo games and visits from their children and grandchildren. Suzanne Steinmetz has written: "The aged are at the end of their economically productive life, which is the basis on which our culture values individuals and provides them with deference, status, respect arid rewards." · 
Possibly as a direct result of these cultural values, the elderly have few, if any, rights. As reported in News­week, only eleven states now require physicians and other professions-to report elderly abuse cases to. the au­thorities; another eleven are consid­ering them. Even if the laws do exist, there is often difficulty in enforcing them. Whereas the laws 'now require that anyone who deals with children regularly · report the suspicions of abuse-or risk a'fine, Connecticut is one of the few states ·that· requires the same report if elderly abuse is suspected. At· the• federal · level, there is no law which explicitly pro­tects the elderly, but now there is a domestic-violence bill pending be~ fore the Senate that could provide assistance. : 
It is difficult to number .the abused elderly. While· children and women come in contact daily with friends arid teachers, the . elderly often do not have· this contact if they are sick or house-ridden. If no one iri the family reports the abuse,. the elderly person· must get in contact-with the authorities himself;· this -'is often difficult for them because many par­ents would find it impossible to· sign an arrest warrant ·for . a son .or 

daughter, no matter how badly they had _been abused. · · · · · 
With the elderly population con:.. tinuing to grow; it is obvious some­thing must be done · about these grave and shocking revelations. Be­cause of our ·culture; the· elderly have no place in society,· save that of grandparent. Because the elderly of­fer no productivity in terms -of dol­lars arid cerits, we write them off as useless.: But cannot the same thing be said about· children arid even stu­dents? Students are not part of the real job .market'except during -the 
·. summer, but yet no one ever ignores ·them as useless. . . . 
·The elderly certainly are a far superior reservoir· of talent; one can envy their 45 years of work experi.:. ence. · How many times do people 
-wish for more experience?·Yet, the public shelves this · experience after the age of 65:­Perhaps more important than the elderly's work ·experience is their knowledge· of life; its · problems; joys, and rewards are a part of their past ·as well as their future. They are reminders of the horrible loneli-
MARCH 21; · 1980 ness of war, the pain of a broken relationship, or the hardship and difficulty in making do with less in rough economic times; but they also can tell of the joys of success, and the power of love. They are living proof that life is full, rich and re­warding. 
But society turns away from them. When the · elderly begin to need a little extra care, there seems to be no time. Once, they had time for everyone, but in the busy world, society canfind no time for them. 
These overflowing reserves of wis­dom and knowledge reside often un­necessarily in nursing homes. Or they reside with family members who complain about them and abuse them. Why do • other cultures em­brace the elderly, give them a place of honor in family life, while Amer­ica throws them away like garbage? We have advanced so much in our society so as to place a value on the human life in terms of productivity and usefulness; the elderly seem to be considered all debits and no cred­its. Maybe if America hides them away in nursing homes, even though they don't need to be there, or if it appropriates more money to the Social Security fund, the elderly will stay out of the way and won't dis­turb society as it goes about its vital business. 
It appears that abuse of the el­derly is a venting of frustrations. Possibly the frustration results from some perceived "disruption" of nor~ mal lives, or, even more likely, from not knowing how to cope with sud­denly old parents or relatives. The elderly do not fit into any under­standable mold; they are not unem­ployed, students, engineers or doc­tors. The · question of who should care for the elderly is · emotionally draining, to say the least. _ 
Maybe children can demand this kind of care because it is known that someday they will be adults and take care of · themselves. ·Parents, conversely, are not "allowed" to be dependent; this is not the role by which they.are understood. But the fact remains that understanding must begin soon; the . elderly are growing in number every year. Per­haps the most likely explanatio·n for the lack of respect -for the elderly stems from -one idea: that old peo­ple remind society that aging is in­evitable. This reminder is shunned because in this youth-geared culture, "old" _is a curse. By treating the elderly with deference and respect, society will be able to insure for the future a comfortable and rewarding maturity for each of its members. D 





title nine 
"No person in the United States shall, on the basi.s of ·se:x:, be ex­cluded from participation in, be denied the benefits" of, or be sub­jected to discrimination under any education program, or activity, re­ceiving Federal financial as~tance." · 
This Amendment to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, perhaps better known as Title. IX, has been a con­troversial issue at colleges and uni­versities throughout the country and especially here at the University of Notre Dame. As a female, and more importantly, as a concerned student athlete, I have read the Title IX reg-: ulations. I did not find them to be "ambiguous" and "unreasonable" as has been said so often by Notre Dame administrators. . . 
As a matter of fact, I found Title IX to be quite reasof!able-especial­ly since there are so many "loop­holes." The Policy Interpretation, it­self, provides many avenues for compliance with the regulation. The PoHcy Interpretation states that: "Athletic interest and abilities of male and female students must be equally effectively acco#tmodated/' The importance of the inclusion of the words "interests" and "abilities" in this broad interpretation cannot 
by Beth LaRocca 

be overlooked. The difference in ath­letic interests_. and/or athletic abili­ties of male and female students is an acceptable reason for different per capita average expenditures. · 
The regulations also state that: 4'Institutions will be in compliance if _the compared ·program compo­nents are equivalent, that is, equal · or equal in effect. Under this stan­dard, identical benefits, ·opportuni­ties, or treatment are not required, provided the overall effect ·of any differences is negligible. A finding of compliance may still be justified if the differences are the result of non­discriminatory factors.'' With state­ments like these, why is it that Notre Dame cannot come up with a feasible plan to comply with the regulations? 
I attended both "question and an­swer" sessions in the Grace Hall Pit. The first was held with the Associ­ate Athletic Director, Col. Jack Stephens (but .tlie· personthafshould have conducted the session ,.was Fr. Edmund Joyce, who was "convenient­ly'' busy)._ The second was held with Fr. Hesburgh (in one of his rare appearances on campus). I happened to get a chance to direct a question to Fr. Hesburgh. I asked him, '.'Do you think the University would have 
SCHOLASTIC 

been better prepared or better equipped to handle the new Title IX ruling if you had in some way tried to comply with the first ruling?" I must have caught him off guard because· his answer was definitely not proper for a man of his stature. He replied, ·"Well, we've always thought that it was rather stupid." 
With that statement in mind, am I to infer that Fr. Hesburgh and the University of Notre Dame are above the law? Obviously not, but Fr. Hes­burgh is definitely setting a poor 
MARCH 21, 1980 

example. How can someone· who worked so closely with the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (and .continues to advocate civil rights), ignore it when it knocks at his own. back door? 
.. Perhaps the problem lies in the administration's · conjectures con­cerning the attitudes of the female 
· athletes. Most, if not all, females (including nonathletes) are not in favor. of granting the 29 or so grants~in-aid that would be. neces­sary for. compliance with Title IX. 
Gradual growth in women's athletics is necessary; in fact, it is imperative. 
The women cannot and do not ex­pect to have the same things that belong to the men's varsity teams, for example. ·There are many rea­sons for this. First, the development of women's athletics must not come overnight; it must be gradual. Sec­ond, the men's program and the women's program is different. For men, college athletics is often a stepping -stone for professional sports. Not so for women (with the exception of the unstable women's basketball league). Consequently, the philosophies and emphasis of the two programs are different. 
· What the female athletes really want ( even more than varsity sta­tus) is competent leadership in the form of competent coaches and a competent administration. Sure, ·· it would be nice to have tutors, prac­
. tice greens, laundry.-benefits and all the other "extras" that accompany varsity. status but, after you have been involved in the women's pro­gram (at any level-club or var­sity), you realize that the all impor­tant factors-competent, .qualified, coaching-is missing. 
So why can't the University de­sign a plan for compliance with Title IX that incorporates the stu­dent's ideas? The regulations state: "Any college or university that has compliance problems but is imple­menting a plan that the Department determines will correct · those prob­lems within a reasonable period of time, will be found in compliance." This statement· easily gives you "room to breathe." 
So, what's the holdup, Notre Dame? Let's formulate a plan for implementing Title IX. Inform the students of your plans-especially 
~ those concerning already existing, nonrevenue-producing sports. Come on Notre Dame, get off. your high horse and · do something before it is too late-because you have every­thing to lose if you don't. D 
Beth LaRocca .is a senior from Homewood, Illinois. This is her first · contribution to Scholastic. 
' 11 

The -Notre Dame Gigolo 
by Stephen Kotz and Michael "Hymie" Heaney 

In recent weeks, there has been an increasing amount of empty rhetoric concerning sexism and inter­personal relationships flying on gilded, hollow wings around this campus. I believe· the time has come for the authority to speak. With the ·aid of some Cha-pin · Street contacts, I found the authority. A mutual friend, who wishes to remain anonymous, set up a meeting. I first: met them a week ago, midnight, behind Badin Hall. The gigolo and his ghost writer agreed. Four days later, on a cold, misty quarter-moon night, we met again in the parking lot behind LeMans Hall. I handed them a manila ·envelope stuffed with 100 ten-spots. They handed me the fallowing manuscript. A note of caution before reading on: Thti,s is not a pretty story. But it is a story that must be told. 
Dave Satterfield Editor-in-Chief 
·I am twenty-two, I have a gin hangover, and I do not know the name of the-woman in whose bed I woke this morning. Since I was fourteen-through no fault of my own-women have lusted after me. I did not create their passion, I merely exploited it.... I am the Notre Dame gigolo. · 
'Something about me attracted them. Even at a young age, I noticed that I could have any girl I wanted . ; . ·and I've had many; By merely gazing into their eyes, I could set women passionately afire, melting their .. resistance like ice in the summer sun. I never really thought about my success, it just came naturally. 
In high school, nobody considered my . conquests particularly . remarkable. I grew up in a free environ­ment, with friends who were as sexually well adjusted as myself. But when I came to Notre Dame and found myself surrounded by tortured, pimply-faced .domers, I became a cult · figure. Guys flocked to me from all . around campus-for advice. But what could I tell them? I myself do not understand my irresistible charm.. ··, 
I try to lead a normal life, but between the flocks of women calling me and the hordes of · advice seekers hanging around my apartment, I don't get much sleep. 
12­It can be· irritating sometimes. I can't shave without somebody barging in and asking me what cologne ·r use; I can't step out on the quad without two or three 

. broads offering to light my Tiparillo; last month, I even had to have my phone disconnected. Still, it's all part of the job-and I'm good at it. · 
But hey, being a gigolo has got its advantages. I 
•make good money, and I enjoy my work.. There is nothing I want that I don't have. I haven't.paid for a suit of clothes since I've been _in college. And I dress impeccably: Ralph Lauren suits, . Christian Dior silk shirts, Yves St. Laurent ties, and Gucci accessories. I rent a comfortable pad downtown, and my Corvette does 
150.. . . . But what keeps me in the business are the people I help. Every time I take some sexually repressed, troubled; and alienated coed, and awaken the woman within her, I feel fulfilled. A good gigolo is more than just a stud. He is a psychiatrist, confidant, and lover all rolled into one. A gigolo meets them all. I remember the first trick · I ever turned at Notre Dame. She was a senior and the captain of the cheerleading squad. I was only a fresh­man, although I, of course, ·looked older. Sitting in the fifteenth row, at my first home football game, I caught her eye. She kept looking at me throughout the game, and, by halftime, I knew she was mine. We met after the game. "Do you like football?" she asked .. ' "No, but the huddles are alright," I said; . "Then come to my room at ten ...". . • . If I had known then what I know. today,· I would have charged that doll an extra $20 for what was to follow. Arriving at her room, I. found her dressed in a green jersey and gold helmet. Tossing me similar garb, she giggled, "You can't play football· without a uniform!" -"But I don't have a contract," I replied coolly, "and pros never play without one." · · · Then she slipped me a crisp $20 bill, and picking up a football, she faded back like a quarterback, giggling, "Sack·me! ... Sack me! . . . · 
SCHOLASTIC 


Most of the time, though, a gigolo's life is not that · spectacular. Many of my clients are lonely and just want someone to talk to. 
I remember one customer particularly well. She was very pretty-yeah, too pretty. All of the domers craved her body and never stopped to wonder if she had a mind. I knew better. My instinct told me that it was com­panionship, not sex, she wanted. And like all my other clients, I satisfied her. For $50 an hour, I was her in­tellectual stud. We played chess, went to foreign films, and read poetry. Never once did I lay a hand on her. 
But don't get me wrong. My body is my biggest asset, and I take good care of it. I follow a rigorous, daily exercise schedule to preserve my lean figure. To maintain stamina, l jog five miles a day. To build up strength, for those occasions when I am asked to get rough, I do pushups and perform a· favorite exercise rite of mine-sit-ups while hanging from the ceiling. Finally, to maintain my muscle tone, I perform gym­nastics. 
A gigolo 'must exercise to survive. My body under­goes a lot -of abuse. On Thursday, it might be some SMC chick who is into giving me cigarette burns (that's $50 extra). Friday, it may be some babe who likes it rough, and I might have to throw all 130 pounds of her across the room to loosen her up. Some other night I might have to down fi~e or six gin and tonics before some doll will work up the courage to bring me home. '(Even a stud like myself has trouble performing with that much alcohol in his system.) And remember, I'm also a full-time student. Very few bodies can take a routine like that. 
I realize that my livelihood depends on sex appeal. While many people resent being loved only for their body, I have no qualms about it. As another illustrious domer once said, "I know I'm just a piece of meat, but I'm a good one." And I am fulfilling a necessary role on the Notre Dame campus. I am the one sex object this place has. Take me away and the entire female community will waste away from unrequited lust. 
Could anything ever make me give it up? Probably not. Maybe if I met some very attractive and extremely wealthy woman who wanted a live-in lover, I'd con­sider it. But until then, I'm very happy doing what I'm doing. · 
I have a job which most men only. dream about. I am the Notre Dame_ gigolo. · D 
"Gee~ that guy gets all the girls." 
MARCH 21, 1980 
13 

. I
·MITCHELL LIFTON 
Notre Dame's uHired Hand". 
A couple of years ago, Mitchell Lifton rode from out of the "Wild West" like a hero from one of the western movies he has made. 
There were, however, a few minor variations in the scenario. Lifton wasn't packing a loaded revolver at his side, but, rather, some fresh ideas on education in his head. What he found upon his arrival was not dusty streets and black-toothed out­laws waiting to gun him down at high noon, but a department chair waiting for him, a program in Speech and Drama badly in need of . revamping, and an Administration open to Lifton's plans to bring the state of that department "out of its 19th-century disciplinary cubby­
hole." 
You could say,. to stretch the anal­ogy further, ·that there's a new sheriff in town. 
Lifton, ·the department chairman and professor, is no longer Lifton, the Hollywood producer and screen­writer. Still, vestiges of the old Lif­ton remain. Occasionally, forget­ting he is not among the California filmmaking elite, he'll expound upon a "healthy Verfremsdungeffect," or speak of. verisimilitude, the cinema aficionado's term· for what Henry James would call "felt life." 
But, then, that's only natural. 
The buzzwords of one's profession 
are hard to lose. And Lifton ap­
pears to be in no hurry to disavow 
his Hollywood ·past, where he left 
his artistic signature etched in more 
than a· few early endeavors. 
First, it was screenwriting for 
John . Beck Productions of Holly­
wood in 1956. Lifton wrote "Yerma" 
and "The Man Who Thought. He 
Was Dead,". and did various other 
by Greg Solman· 

· "treatments" of screenplays-a job, Superstar, and was a postproduc­he claims, that is not as glorious as tion executive under Jewison for it sounds. Fiddler on the Roof. 
"One day they'll hand you a script While in London, Lifton formed and say, 'The broad has got to jump his own production company, ac­out of the window,' and · you'll an­quiring the rights to various liter­swer, 'But, she lives in a one-room ary works of Norman Mailer, Her­shack in the desert . . .' and they'll bert Gold, James Agee, Alan Sharp say, 'Well, put in a cactus or some­and Arthur C. Clarke, among others, thing. Anyway, fix it.' " Lifton for possible future use. shakes his head and chuckles. "And Now he's back to teaching, and you'll fix it." happy about the. results. He's happy 
Between 1956 and 1966, Lifton to . be smoking cigars and raising taught English and Humanities at beers with students, rather.than sip­San Francisco State College where ping martinis and "making connec­he was educated, and where he met tions" with · the Hollywood elite. his French-born wife, Jacqueline, . Happy, even to be shoveling snow, who is a painter and printmaker. He as opposed to the mud and ashes also taught at the University_of Cal­that were left on his doorstep two ifornia at Berkeley, taking a year years ago when brushfires swept off in 1960 to become a production through the.outskirts of L.A. Happy, assistant for Studios Apsome in· finally, to have left. Hollywood be­Paris. hind: a city he cites as being "built 
After pouring outofthe ivory tow­upon the · premise of imperma­ers, it was filmmaking and screen­nence."· · writing for .the. next t~n years, as "I got sick to death of looking at Lifton worked with such notable Gucci loafers,".he quips when asked· screen moguls as Gregory Peck, · about his recent change of life­Robert Wise, Mark Robson ·and style. "I really-loved making films Norman Jewison in various capaci­and still do. But, more than anything ties. And did he travel . . • sixteen else, I left Hollywood because I real­foreign countries . over a twenty­ly missed teaching." five-year period, including some rather lengthy stays. 
During that period, Lifton ac­It happened in a hotel in Montreal quired his major film ·credits, co­last summer. Those who aspire to producing Universal Pictures' The · make film, and· even some .who· do, · Hired Hand, a western starring · can only dream of such things. Peter Fonda, Warren Oates and Lifton and his wife · turned on the Verna· Bloom, and United Artists' television before retiring. An Amer­·Billy Two Hats, which starred Greg-ican station was broadcasting the 
. ory Peck, Jack Warden, and Desi · CBS late-night movie . across · the Arnaz, Jr. Lifton worked as London border. Flickering .images of light Casting Director on the Robert Stig-· and celluloid coalesced to form fa-· wood (of RSO fame);Norman miliar patterns recognizable to them Jewison production Jesus Christ both. 
SCHOLASTIC 


Mitchell Lifton 
"It was The Hired Hand," he re­calls. "They had renamed it some.:. thing like 'The Lady and the Bandit.' " Naturally, Lifton stayed up to watch. 
Lifton is a stranger neither to the cutting room nor the classroom. His new , position as· Chairman is one more addition to a growing list that is a curious pastiche of teaching, screenwriting and producing. 
· First on Lifton's list of priorities were the department changes; he felf that because of the dramatic growth of the department in recent years, it must articulate for itself a more precise sense of its identity. 
Lifton attempted the Herculean task by "finding a common theoreti­cal base" for all three components of the department: film, communi­cation and theatre. The major will be required to take more credit hours (from twenty-four to thirty) and the courses themselves will be restructured next fall "in .an at-. tempt to put more academic heft· into the program. 
"We're not advocating a blurring -a loss of identity-between one component and another as has been intimated by some," Lifton says of the new Department of Communica­tion and Theatre. "What has been suggested is an evolving system of thought which enables us to look at a variety of disciplines from a 
MARCH. 21;·1980 unified viewpoint that does not rob us of individual personality or iden­tity." 
And what does he think, now that it is in the final approval process? "It's one of the most advanced, innovative, interdiscipilinary pro­grams in the undergraduate levei in the country," he beams. 
"Working in splendid isolation is often working. in shabby isolation," Lifton warns. "There's a tremen­
·.· dous amount of enrichment to be gained by everybody in breaking down the 19th-century notion of the disciplinary cubbyhole. 
"We're a hundred years too late," 
·adds Lifton with a shrug at his shoulders. "But, better late than never, right?" 
And, as it might have happened in _a western movie, it all started in .a small town in the dead center of Mexico called Aguascalientes ... · 
· provincial,. population of about. 15,000, hotter than hell. Lifton could almost be Mexican, instead of · what he is (Jewish of Russian an-· cestry).. With his full salt-and-pep­· per . beard, wiry hair · and doleful eyes, one can almost envision him peeking out from bene'ath a som­brero on a hot day in Tijuana. · His upbringing in that town may not explain Lifton's predilection for the Western Genre, but it does ex­plain his early interest in film. 
"We had four movie theatres in· 
that town," recalls Lifton. "But 
more importantly, when I was ten, 
we moved to Los Angeles where the 
film world was all around you. Your 
classmates either were or lived 
around movie people, or people con-· 
nected with the industry like mu­
sicians. It was a big .industry in the 
1940's and 50's.'' · 
Lifton went on to involve himself 
in theatre, working within the San· 
Francisco· Actors' Workshop,. the 
Hollywood Stage Society, the Inter..: 
players Theatre and the University 
of California Theatre. 
In many ways, his life has been 
one big project after another. It is 
not surprising, then, that Lifton has 
another one in the offing. 
Lifton, and others outside the 
University system, are currently in 
the planning stages of a possible 
Center for Critical Studies. It would 
ideally be a multi-institutional, na­
tionwide grouping, which would 
have as its function the teaching 
and development of a body of prac­
tical, working critics in the arts to 
try to bridge the existing gap be­
tween theory and practice in the 
arts. 
Lifton makes it no secret that he· 
does not cotton to today's critics. Of Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert, ·Chicago television film critics, Lifton says, for instance, "Those two couldn't critique their way out of 
a paper bag. 
"If sports editors hired as many 
incompetents to write about sports 
as features editors hire recycled 
sportswriters to write about the 
arts," Lifton surmises . "they'd be 
in very serious trouble. 
"At a place where there is an 
emphasis on the inculcation of 
values, it is important that we ex­
plore the nature of the beast, film 
education, so as to really understand 
how to put this tool to use, and also, 
the ways in which we can be manip­
ulated by it," Lifton asserts. 
"We are wrong to think that we 
can successfully emphasize values 
while ignoring the principal cul­
tural fountain pen with which values 
are written upon society as a whole.'' 
So, Mitchell Lifton,. the professor, 
is back in the saddle again and rid­
ing hard, the sun slowly setting in 
the western sky and "Scene one" 
fading to dark. 
But stick around. The plot is just 
beginning to thicken. D . 
15 



: · SCHOLASTic 


MARCH 21, 1980 


·cial." It was written to be a hit, it tress. Ellen Greene doesn't portray was expected to be a hit, and it was the character of Sonia Walsk with a hit. It's no classic like hfs un-the same alacrity that Arnaz did, precedented Pulitzer prize-winning nor does she dance as well, and she "A Chorus Line." But it is a simple speaks with a natural lisp. But love story, accented by well-written during her eight songs throughout songs, a string of hilarious New the performance of "They're Play­York apartment ·jokes, and expen-ing Our Song'' her lisp disappears, sive sets. · as do any other faults she may have 
The songs ·are not like a usual as she belts out her songs with an Broadway musical· score. The cast extremely powerful voice compara­album, on the Casablanca label, ble only to Ethel Merman's. plays like a popular album. Most of Victor Gerber is similarly not the the songs sound like something off comedian that Robert Klein is, and the Top 40 chart. This is not sur-therefore cannot carry off the many prising as in the play one of Ver-jokes that Robert Klein made so non's and Sonia's songs ("I Still hilarious in portraying the cynical Believe in Love") is on the Top 40 Vernon Gersch. But he has a better chart. Many of the songs are mel-voice than his New York counter-low ballads {"Fallin','' "If He Real-part, and along with Ellen Greene, ly Knew Me," "Just For Tonight," the Chicago production of "They're and "When You're In My Arms") Playing Our Song'! is definitely while disco also mak~s its appear-worthwhile. Besides, · the Student ance in "Right." Union and Cultural Arts Commis-
But I don't want to turn away sion trip, tickets are available from disco-haters. "They're. Playing . Our Chicago's Shubert. Theatre; the play Song'' is no .-'Saturday Night Fever" runs until May 10. · moved uptown, . although the best Robert Klein is.· currently: a con­scene occurs in New York's Le Club tender for Johnny Carson's replace­disco; Vernon can't dance, and Sonia ment. Lucie Arnaz, an actress and hates "the · crazy disco things" that ·. herself a songwriter, is currently Vernon does to her lyrics.· . <recording' her debut album, made 
While in Le Club, Vernon and· possible by her portrayal of Sonia Sonia hear their own respective hit Walsk, a songwriter and also a re­by Mark Hinchman · · songs being played. The same song cording artist, as based on the life ·. is cleverly used to represent each of ·cif Carole Bayer Sager, a songwriter their songs; "They're Playing My and also a ·recording artist. Got it. It's no surprise that Marvin Ham-Song" is sung by .. both Vernon Lucie is slated to star opposite Neil lisch's first play after "A Chorus ·. Gersch and Sonia Wa.lsk, but it is Diamond in a remake of "The Jazz Line" and Neil Simon's first musical Son.fa's version, sung by Lucie Arnaz Singer." Arnaz will likely become a after writing "Promises, Promises" in New York, and by Ellen Greene major talent with !'The Jazz Singer" over ten years ago, is a success. Add in Chicago, that is ·the highlight of· and hopefully with. the movie ver­to this the talents of popular lyricist the .show. · · · sion of "They're Playing Our Song." Carole Bayer Sager, who writes for The only· risky part in the plan-Barbra Streisand warits to buy, Aretha Franklin, Leo Sayer, Liza ning of "They're Playing Our. Song" produce, and star in the film version, Minnelli, The Captain and Tennille, was the innovative casting. Robert as she could easily apply her stan­
. Judy Collins, Carly Simon, Dolly Klein is most famous for his Gram-dard New York-Jewish girl act Parton, and Frank· Sinatra, and my Award-winning comedy albums. {"Funny Girl," "On a Clear Day you've got "They're Playing Our Lucie Arnaz. proved that she's not You Can See Forever," "What's Up Song," which starred •Robert Klein the talent her mother _is, fortunate-.Doc?" etc.) to the role of Sonia and Lucie·Arnaz on Broadway, and ly. While inheriting _her ·mother's ·Walsk. · which is currently playing in· Chf--comic talents, .she luckily did not Whoever does the film version, cago with Victor Gerber and Ellen inherit her voice. Any of the few let's hope it's as good as the play, Gr~ene. . . . who saw Lucille Ball ,in either her . which has provided many a mem-Where did Marvin Hamlisch, a · movie musical, "Manie," or her orable evening. Arnaz and Klein graduate of. the Juilliard School of Broadway· musical, "Wildcat" will added to the excitement one particu­Music and an · academy-award-win-attest to • the fact that Lucie Arnaz· lar evening at last year's Tony nirig composer who cohabited with got her vocal· talents_ from her Awards by performing their famous . Carole Bayer Sager, his lover and ·father,. Desi Arnaz. Besides having . scene · from "They're Playing Our lyricist, come up with the story of · an excellent voice that· is eerily Song." Their play won few awards . Vernon· Gersch, a graduate of the --similar to . Helen Reddy's, Lucie against the Tony-sweeper "Sweeney Juilliard School of Music and an. Arnaz is beautiful, and has great Todd.'' This is fitting as although academy-award -winning: composer ~ ·1egs which she puts to advantage iri the critics also enjoyed "They're who cohabited with Sonia Walsk, his her dance performance.·. "They're ·· Playing Our Song," a:long with mil­lover and lyricist? However they· Playing Our Song" is Arnaz's first lions of New Yorkers and Chicago­came up with· this complicated love· .. major success,· proving that hereto-, ans, it was never taken to be any­story, it' is a hit. · . . . fore her many talents went uh-.thing more than it is, an extremely ·. Marvin ·• · Hamlisch · unabashedly •..·. recognized. . . well-done, light-comedy musical. states that his writing for "They're -Her successor in Chicago is equal-Klein was nominated for best actor Playing Our Song" was "commer-·ly, if not· more so, an 1:1nusual· ac-(Continued on p. !9) 
18 SCHOLASTIC 
l 


fCTOn 
Shower• Stall 
"It's .taken," the boy said to the man who threw back the curtain. The boy made a clumsy move to cover himself, even though no one else was in the room. The older man was twenty-five, maybe thirty; he draped his robe over a hook on the wall and stepped into the stall with the boy. 
"It's taken," the boy repeated. 

The other closed the curtain behind him and stood under the spray of cold water. "Christ, it's cold, kid." "I'm sorry, this stall ; ; . it's taken." The man .had a firmly muscled body, and he was 
taller, huskier than the boy. He slapped off the cold tap and turned on the hot. "That's better," ·he said, and cupped his hands to splash himself with the water. 
"What are you doing here?" the boy said. "There are other open stalls." 
"Then go take one." 
"I was here first, I won't go." 
"Then shut up and shower." 
"Please get out of this stall, pal." . 
"Got a cigaret ?" 

The boy forced a stupid smile across his face. "Look, I'm not sure if this is a joke yet, so I'm having trouble laughing. But you're not laughing so I don't think it's a joke. In fact, I don't think it's quite normal either, so let's just-" 
"Can I borrow your washcloth?" 

"Buddy, the soap's drying on my face and there's shampoo suds in my hair, .now wouldja please leave?" "Canl borrow your washcloth first?" "I'm going to report this to the rector." "Who do you think he's going to believe: the guy in 
the shower or the kid walking the halls with soap on his face and shampoo suds in his hair?" 
"Well, I wouldn't be walking the halls like that if some idiot hadn't walked into my stall in the middle of my shower. Just wait till I tell the rector-:-" · 
"He'll wonder why you didn't go to another stall. Like I suggested." _ · ~•Jesus, I don't believe this. I'm not going to another stall, this is my stall-" "It's only your stall while you're using it."· . '.'And I'm still using it, I haven't leftyet and.I'm not about to." "Sure, kid." The man continued to splash hot water onto his body. "There's not enough·room in here for two people," the boy said. · · 
"I don't mind." 

"And it's hot in here, why did you turn on the hot?" 
"You'll get used to it." ..· ;, .. 
"Whatsa matter with you? It's steaming in here; let me turn on the cold." 
MARCH 21, 1980 
by ·Mac Fitzpatrick 

"Don't touch the tap, kid." "Look, buddy, I don't like this, it isn't funny, so wouldja please get the hell out of my stall-" 
The man flexed his right arm and unleashed it like a ball from a cannon; his hand smashed barrel-fisted into the boy's midsection, and the boy only had time to gasp for air before he slumped to the floor. 
The man opened the hot water tap full power and the boy flinched under the spray as if a jolt of elec­tricity had passed through him. · 
"Goddamnit," he said and stood up. "Why did you have to hit me, why did you hit me? There wasn't any reason to-" "Got a cigaret, kid?" ·"Get out of here, I don't want you in my stall-'' 
"Need a match, too." The man took up the wash­cloth and soap, and worked the two together until there was a lather.. Then he washed his chest in wide, circling strokes of his hand. 
"Turn off the hot water; it's too hot in here ... too • 
hot." . . "You'll get used to it." "But it's hot outside. You're supposed to take cold showers when it's hot outside-" "You're supposed to?" "Yes, you're supposed to take cold showers when-" "Don't argue it, kid. Since we're sharing a stall we'll have to compromise." "But we're not sharing a stall; and you're not com­promising. You're using hot water and I want cold, so we should be using cool water." , ."I don't like that kind of compromise. It'd make us both miserable because neither of us would be satisfied. So let's just keep it hot and satisfy one of us, at least." "That's not a compromise, it's not the way to do it-" "Then we'll break a rule; we'll do it my way." . C'Son of a bitch.'_' · "Trust me." "It's not right-" ''Got a cigaret, kid?" ·"No; of course not." "Stop staring at my cock, kid." "I'm not staring at it. Jesus." "You've been eyeing my cock ever since you walked in here.". · "You walked in here; and there's nothing great about your ... phallus." "I know. But can I help it if you think so?" "I don't think so. Now get out of here, I'm going to report this, just wait." . "What ever happened to that watch of yours? That beautiful gold Bulova?" . · The boy's expression was a combination of shock and anger. "What do you know about my watch?" 
"That's what I asked you." -­

"What do you know about my watch?" 
"I know that it'll look great with my white suit.". 
"What did you do with it?" 

"I'll bet you paid a nice amount for that little piece." 
"I paid two hundred bucks for that watch and if you have it you'd better give--" 
"It's a beaut, all right. I thought it might be pretty expensive." "Bastard, what did you do with my watch, I-" "Let's be calm ·about this. There's no reason, as you 
might say, to shout._ There's no reason. How's that? No reason to shout." · 
"Bastard." 
"Got a cigaret ?" · 

"It's hot in here, the steam, it's clouding, too hot ..." "Don't change the subject. I asked if you had a cigaret." 
"I don't have one on me, no. Of course not." 
"No match?" 

"No.... Who bring cigarettes into shower stalls?" 
"I do." 

"You're not supposed to bring cigarettes into shower stalls." "Why not?" "Because they .. : look, pal,· wouldja please leave me 
now, I-" "Don't you want me to tell you about your watch first?" "Yes; my watch. I want to know what you did with my watch." · _ "Then take your EYES off my COCK. You're mak­ing me nervous." · "I'm not looking at it. I'm looking straight into your eyes. See? Right at you." · ·"Have we been introduced? As long as we're looking" at each other we might as well be introduced."· "I've never seen you here before. I've never. seen you· at the showers." . 
"That's because I shower at different times: I imag­ine you shower at pretty much the same time every day, don't you?" · 
"I-usually shower at seven, yes." 
"You a sophomore?" 
"Freshman." 

"You picked a fine school, kid. The best. Can I use your shampoo?" · 
"My watch, you said-" 

"Always the best for you, kid. The best is a -good deal, isn't it, kid?" "Yes. I want_:," "You're pre-med, did you say?" The boy was· quiet and paused before answering. "No, I didn't say. But I am. How did you know?" 
"Someone told me." 
"Oh." 
"But I would have guessed." ­
''How?" 

"By the way you cling to this stall." 
"I don't cling to it, I just-" ·· 
"You just use it regularly." ·­

"So ; .. what?" ---­
"If all the other stalls ·are empty ancf this one is 
occupied, you wait for the person to come out so you 
can have it, the third stall from the end." "Yes ..." · "Sentimental value?" "No, it's just that-" I I "I know." 
"It's so hot in here; please·turn on the cold. I won't feel refreshed unless there's cold." · 
"Yes, you will." 
"No." 

"Trust me." ·"My watch, you said you~d tell me about my watch." The boy slumped into a corrier to.avoid the water. ·"Medicine's an awfully. demanding field, I heard. But 
I bet you study hard, you're a good student." 
"Yes, that's right." . 
"I'll bet you study agood four hours a night." 
"At least.'' Soft-spoken, almost a whisper. 
"At particular times." 
"From seven· on . . . but. my watch, I-'! 
"Got a cigaret ?" · 
"I want to get wet first, I want-" 
"What do you want, tell me." .. 
"I want to get wet, it's so hot in here. Maybe you should leave now." 
"What's your father do?" 
"He's a ... doctor." 
"I see/' 

"A good doctor," the boy murmured. 
"I'll bet he went to schoolhere, too.'.' 
"That's right, how-c-::::-.?" 
:-"I'll bet he's proud· to have a son here." "He's proud, yes." The boy brushed water from his brow and lowered his head. · 
"I'll bet the . day you were born he . began telling people that one day his son would go to school here and study to be a doctor, just like him." · · 
"Can I turn on the cold?" , 
"Don't you want to hear about-your watch first?" 
"Oh, yes. I almost forgot, the watch, tell me--" 
"Did you go to prep school; kid?" · · 
"Prep school ... ?" · 
"Yeah. You went, didn't you?" 
. The boy nodded. 
"Good, that's good." 
· "Yes, it was ... nice." 
"It's always good ... and nice ... to be able to do what you want." "Oh, yes." "If it's what you want. But that gcies without say­
ing. Nobody does something· he doesn't want to do." 
"No," the boy laughed; and then was suddenly sober again. "Nobody." The boy raised his head and thenian backed away from the spray. The boy lifted his hand to the water, hesitated,, then quickly drew it back; He clenched his fingers into a fist, and the man· moved toward the spray again. · · 
"Let's stop now," the boy said. "It's too hot, leave· my stall-" · · 
"There's still some dirt behind your ear." 
"Where?" 

"There: Behind your ear." . 
"Oh." 

"The watch will look great with my white suit, you 
--SCH<?LASTIC 

lmow." "But ... my father paid two hundred dollars for 
that watch, I-" · "Your father?" "Yes, for my birthday, he bought me the watch." "I thought you bought it. Isn't that what you said?" "Such a nice watch, too." "I could have sworn you said you paid two hundred 
dollars for it." "1 wanted ....Timex!" . "Yes," the man said, soothing. "Timex is nice, too." 
The boy fell to his knees and let his arms dangle at his sides. : He spoke softly now; "Don't you think, mister, that Bulova is a nice watch?" 
"It's.a nice watch, kid." , ''Dad says it's better than Timex, so he bought it for me. Will you tell me where it is, will you 'give it back 
to me?" . . . "Ii give it. back to you," the man said; gentle, controlled. ___ ''_ _ _ _ _. _ __ . · "Thank you.II A silence; The boy looked up,·_waiting. "But first you've got to stop staring at my cock." "I'ni not staring at it," the boy cried.· '_'You are; I can see you." · "_IfTa:in it'sbecause there's not much room in here, and we're so close. It's close in here, you're alrriost on top of me. Two people shouldn't be so close." · · "JUST DON'T STARE.AT ME." . "It isn't right, two men in the· same sta:11 like this/so close,· not enough room, leave m~" "What do you want from me, kid?" "Nothing." ·• _, "Justtell me what you want." "I want my watch." . "Have you ever broken a rule before?" 
"Get out." . · · · · · · "Breaka rule. Just one"rule, any rule, take it_:._" 
"Get out." · · · · · · "And break it-" . "You're too close--" ;'Right m: two."·. . "Hot.11·· · · "Break a rule. Recite the alphabet and· leave out the C." ._ 
"Get out of this stall, please, get out.'' "Not until you break a rule for me." "No~ ../' . "Just one little insignificant rule." 
''I got drunk once." · · "Liar." •. 
''!·did, I.got drunk.". . "You're a liar." 

•ir got drunk just two weeks ago, me and the others, we-" 
"I don't believe you, you're lying." . "Got drunk, so drunk-" . ­· "You drink Kool-Ade." 
"I couldn't stand, so drunk." 

"You're lying through your teeth, kid.". 
-"Couldn't stand." · __ · · "When everyone else got drunk, when it was all 
in here--" _ "Are you sure you don't have a cigaret on you?" "Two men in one stall; it isn't right, you're in my 
space-" "And a match?" "Please, I don't like this .•• game, I don't want to 
play anymore." "One more round." "No, please, No more." "Just one more round." "I think I understand it now; it's no fun after you've 
figured it out." · "Trust nie." . -"I just want to wash my hair, that's a:11." 
"Don't you want to know about your_ watch first?" "No." . "I'll tell you anyway." "No, I don't like this game anymore, I'd rather play 
chess, let's play chess." ... ·"You've been playing chess. It's a new game now." "Please, mister." ._ _ "Just tell me what you want, what you really w.ant." · 
-The boy flung himself toward the curtain, but the man grabbed him by the shoulders and hurtled' him back against the wall. · · · · 
"Don't go," the man said; "You haven't broken a rule yet." · · · · "I don't think I should." "I :think you should tell me what ·you want~ just anything, tell Daddy. It's a:11 right, tell Daddy what·you want." "NO! Don't tell Daddy ... about this·... please!;' "Then ·break a rule, kid." · "I want to be drunk again; without the ~thers, I promise, without the others this time." "Daddy might spank if he finds out.'' · . "You dori't have to tell hini!" ·"But I will, if you don't break a rule." 
"God, don't tell, please." "Breaka rule for me, NOW.''· ''I can't think; let's stop." : ... ;, 
"I swear tcfChrist I'll tell your father-about this if you don't break a goddam rule right now.'' "Oh, Jesus,. help: me, I don't want to be a lousy DOCTOR." 
"Oh?" The man feigned alarm and was quiet for a moment. The clouds of-steam :massed and-swirled, . collected in great rolling columns, and ·hung like fog in 
the shower stall. · _ 
The boy· buckled at· the waist and clutched his stomach as if he were about to be sick. Then his legs gave-way and he fell slowly to the floor, crumpled like a rag doll, hot water beating down au over him~ 
"I ... don't ... want it," he said. "I thought you liked science." "No,_not really. No more ..." "But you're supposed ter-" ­"Screw science. Screw doctors: I hate them both.'; "You're supposed to be a doctor.'' , "No ••• why?". "For_the same reason you:take cold showers when 
·. it's hot outside.": 

right to, then you got drunk," the ma,i said. "Oh, ·yes. I .. : · see.'' The boy laughed, uncom­-"So drunk, couldn't stand, it's hot, why is it so hot · (Oont., p. !9) 
MARCH 21, .1980 
---------------------"·.·~>8-<C.--4•--------------------­
!I 
:1 
'I 
11 
Ii
1· 
\I 

I Ii 
11 
:i 
II1, 11
ii 
I 
Notre Dame fencing ... winning streaks, national championships, un­defeated seasons, gold medals, an oc­casional silver, victory after victory. Right? 
Maybe so, but just ask anyone slightly associated with the Notre Dame fencing team, "What is so special about fencing at Notre Dame?" The odds are that none of the above achievements will even be mentioned. 
"Companionship," says senior foil captain Andy Bonk, stopping to paint a mental picture. "Companion­ship is what really makes it. 
"You can talk all you want about winning," Bonk adds.' "Winning makes it more fun, but by no means does it dominate." · 
And it's the same with everyone, whether you ask Bonk or coach Mike Decicco or captain Chris Lyons or equipment man Dean Merten, or manager Duane Blaine or fencing secretary Cindy Bauder. 
"What makes fencing at Notre Dame so special is the people," says Lyons, a senior sabre man from Berwyn, Pa. "At other places, there's very little unity. That's what is so great about Notre Dame. 
"Everyone talks about winning, but that is not all that important. It's like hitting the books. You go to class to learn, and if you get good grades it's just that much better. Well, we fence to grow as indi­viduals, both athletically ·and in­tellectually. And, if we happen to win, well that's just for the better. Winning is not everything." 
With the Notre Dame fencers, the family is everything. And each mem­ber.is just as important as the other. 
Jim Sullivan is a classic example.. A junior from Walpole, N.H., Sulli­van had never picked up a blade un­til arriving at Notre Dame. It wasn't until Sal Muoio, a current Irish sabre man, brought him up to meet. De­Cicco that Sullivan showed the least bit of interest in the sport. • 
After training in the novice pro­gram. for one year, Sullivan finally started to attend varsity practices. He then would begin to receive help­ful hints from such fellow foil fenc­ers as Bonk and Steve Salimando, a 1979 Notre Dame graduate. While Sullivan's record this past season (six wins in merely 10 bouts). indi­cates anything but stardom, Bonk 
22 


A Family of Winners 
makes it clear that he may not have been able to enjoy as much success had it not been for Sully. 
"I look back to 1979, and when I won the NCAA gold medal in foil," says Bonk, "and I remember all the added hours that Jim Sullivan re­
-mained after practice to help me with my game. I felt like the medal was half his, because he gave me the time, and really helped me or­ganize my strategy. I don't know if I could have done it without him." 
Sullivan, on the other hand, makes it sound as if it was his duty. After all, one doesn't neglect his brother. 
"Hey, we're definitely a family," stresses Sullivan. "We're not just a group of teammates. I've been work­ing with Andy now for two years, and his graduation will be the only thing to stop that. 
"You know, it's great being a part of this family. Even though I wasn't a big jock in high school, I feel as important as anyone else ~on this team. Everyone on this team is a friend of the next guy." Sullivan should know, for he drove 
. to Penn State last weekend -not 
by Paul Mul_laney 

to participate in· the NCAA cham­pionships held there, but to be avail­able to Bonk in case he might desire to undergo any last-minute drills. 
Another one who should know is Lyons, who fenced in last week's championship sabre competition. "Eddie DeVivo (recent Irish fencing assistant) was a great asset to me," says Lyons. "Without him I wouldn't be where I am right now. The tech­nical things that he taught me·were innumerable. But more importantly, he helped ·me because he was such a good friend." 
Even Rich Daly, a freshman from Centereach, N.Y., became a part of the family in a little over half a year. "I could have gone to NYU," he claims. "But it's not a fencing team there. It's·.just a bunch of in­dividuals. It's not the same. That's what makes this place, and this team, so special." · . 
So much for winning streaks and national championships. 
Paul Mullaney is next year's Edi­tor-in~Chief of the Observer. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 

SCHOLASTIC 
' 


-·/1J)( 
The Clash: Punk, But Not Junk 
by Tom Krueger 

With their two most recent Amer­ican releases, particularly their lat­est London Cal,ling, The Clash have proven themselves as the most im­portant and talented of the punk rockers. Don't call them "New Wave," for God's sake don't confuse them with Power Pop wimps like The Knack;. these ARE angry young men -and they mean it, man! The Clash · defined the potential of the punk movement with their as­tonishing debut LP. For some rea­son, in the U.S., Epic released their . second album a:··year before the first; When the latter appeared in sum­mer of 1979,jt instantly qualified as one of the year's best. 
Many of you are probably instant­ly turned off by the words "punk rock." Don't be misled -these guys can play and write music, not just make noise. They don't resort to the exhibitionism of groups like the Sex Pistols. ,What they have in common with Johnny Rotten and the boys is a keen sense of political injustice and of dissatisfaction mixed with a feeling of hopelessness; Their world view is not pretty, and they see little way out. The amazing part of their music is how well they convey their feelings without becoming preachy, repetitive or overbearing. 
Songs like "Hammersmith Palais" and "Complete Control" on the first album, and "London Calling," this LP's centerpiece, virtually ooze dis­enchantment. Yet, their commentary is contained in some of the finest, most original pop songs going. They don't let the message weigh the music down. 
Even more encouraging is the fact that Nick Jones and Joe Strummer are just maturing as songwriters and arrangers. There is more stylistic variation than in the first two ef­forts. Very few double albums have no filler or formula songs, but Lon­don Calling is such an album. The lyrics are as good as anyone's (with the possible exception of Becker­Fagan and Springsteen) and certain­ly are more ambitious than any others on the market. The songs range from a few ravers to prove they can rock with anyone; some Spectoresque pop pro,ductions com-
MARCH 21, 1980 plete with organ, horns, harmonies and just the right hint of rawness; blues, reggae, ballads, even a love song. The production is more sparse and a bit less rough than in their earlier work, yet it creates an en­dearing, absorbing tension; . 

· Undoubtedly, this is a solid record. "London Calling,". "Death or Glory," "Wrong 'Em Boyo," "Train in Vain,". "Spanish Bombs," and "Koka Kola" are among the best songs the group has written. Mick Jones is, believe it or not, one of the best guitarists around today. If you don't believe me, just listen. Joe Strummer's vocals ·aren't polished, but they work. -Paul · Simonon's chunky bass work and Topper Headon's drumming are rock steady, surprisingly refined, and almost ef­fortless. 
People who compare Tusk to. the Beatles' White Album aren't nearly as close as those who match that classic -LP .with London Cruling. On top of this, the album cover is the best I've seen in ages. The photo says it all, and Pete Townshend fans are sure to love it, too. D I don't understand it. Why is an 
adorable 17-year-old girl from Ak­
ron, Ohio, a rock star? Well, the 
way Rachel Sweet sings, I'm not 
about to complain. ' . Back for a second LP, titled Pro­
tect the Innocent; Rachel once again 
showcases her amazingly powerful, 
rich voice. Clearly, at 17, she has a 
lot to learn, but this outing is quite 
a bit better than her first, which in 
itself was one of 1979's best debut 
LPs. 
She's even writing her own songs this time around, and they're good. In fact, the album's highlight is one of. her compositions, · "Tonight Ricky.'.' How a.little girl can be so sensual and worldly wise on record is beyond me. 
This isn't to say there aren't prob­
lems. She has just formed her own 
band, and they still aren't as tight 
as they should be. And although. 
they aren't as shaky as the hastily 
assembled ·band used· on the last 
album, some of their arrangements 
ar.e far too pedestrian. · When the 
band kicks as hard as she does, look 
out. D 

Flt\ 

In Search ofMale Sexuality 
by Tim Tedrick 

Male sexuality has become the hot the. slob detective tracking Julian. Hollywood topic these days. After Lauren Hutton also does well as two successful comedies dealing with. · the politician's wife who is both man's passion ("Starting Over"; beautiful and worn, and Nina Van "10") two filmmakers have turned Pallandt is fine as Julian's cool, their attention to the "serious" treat-matter-of-fact, lesbian pimp. Only ment · of the subject-Paul Schra-Richard Gere has real problems. der's . "American Gigolo" and Wil-Given such an impossible assign­liam . Friedkin's "Cruising.'' The ment, he does what he can. ·He is results are mixed, not necessarily handsome · and able, but given the because of the subject matter, but lack of depth that the part is writ-· because there is little attempt to ten with (and, perhaps this was in­comprehend it. The films just stare. tentional), ·Gere seldom gets past 
Julian Kay, the title character of looking like an ad out of. Gentle­"Gigolo," is a-high-priced male _man's Quarterly. prostitute working in ·Los Angeles. · · · The problems in "Cruising" are He is attractive, i_ntelligent, has a . far worse: While jjGigolo" changed· fancy apartment, a Mercedes coupe, · course· in midstream, "Cruising" $20,000 to $30,000 in the bank, and never_ makes up its mind where it's is adored by wealthy matrons near going in the first place. It stumbles and far. His fee is a 40/60 split (in around on three possibly. explosive the pimp's favor) which turns to . narratives without ever .developing 50/50 when he realizes that they one of them.<'Cruising" seems to be need him more than he needs them. doing its best to avoid -admitting He needs no one and loves no one. what it's about; it's ·.a movie that's 
· After such rigorous establishment . still in the closet. of Julian's life-style-no past, no Steve Burns (Al Pacino) is a future, just the present-it is then young cop assigned to go under-:­totally ludicrous ·· when the plot · cover to hunt a killer who is · gro­shows Julian falling in love with a · tesquely murdering members of New lonely, · politician's wife and being York's homosexual s/m community. framed for an s/m murder. Julian The· film records Burns' day-to-day Kay . would never allow either of activities-where ·he lives, _the ac­these things to happen to him. Yet quaintances he· makes, his inquiries Schrader's · screenplay insists . that and visits.to the bars searching for we believe it. As in his other films the killer.: However,~ the cop finds 
("'Blue Collar,'' "Hardcore") Schra-himself changing. He pleads with der is awfully good at creating in-his boss to take him' off the case. articulate, ·unknowing characters-· He can't take the life, ·and because adrift, but·he is less effective ind~ he can't -explain why,_ we suspect it has to do with . more than his safety. 
And this is where the audience is left; no more plot development,· just a travelogue of New York's gay­leather scene. We see the bars, the hangouts, the outfits, the sexual en­counters~erything; the film stops just short of explicit acts. Mr. Fried­kin would have us believe that New York turns into a_, leather-Punch­and Judy show after sundown, Had the plot been as carefully crafted as the background images ( chillingly photographed by ·James Contner) "Cruising" would have been• a bril­liant film; instead, the movie takes on the look of a porno film-fasci­nating for the first fifteen minutes to half-hour, exploitative and repeti­tive afterwards. · 
The performances aren't bad. Mr. Pacino knows what his character is up to even if · Friedkin doesn't, but one gets the impression some of his best scenes were left on the cutting­room floor. Paul Sorvino ·and.Karen Allen perform-well in their·support­ing roles. And Richard Cox is fine, too, as a psychotic music student. 
"Cruising" isn't a murder-mystery (the killer ·is known early on); a documentary, or a character study~ It's just a homosexual horror film, and a not-too-gutsy one at that: It is inerely a , sketchbook of the ·s/m scene with· far· more attention paid to graphic detail-as opposed to plot -than most people will find neces­sary. D 

ScHOLASTIC 
( 

K)JV·---­··Hel·ID.s:.~No Secret· Here 
The Man Wlu:> Kept the Secrets: 
Richard Helms aria the· CIA· · . by Thomas Powers · Alfred A~ Knopf: New :York•· 
$12.95 . . 
Thomas Powers' new book· on. the CIA, The Man Who Kept the Secrets; fails the . crucial· test of :truth :'and relevance; .He catalogues· the·. entire epic of CIA misdeeds-all of which are "safely" of public .record already -apparently for the·sole purpose of being able to adduce at the end, with. breathtaking logic; that . Richard Helms and the CIA were guilty of breaking the law and therefore they are.·..'•··· · · 
. What?. Bad?? That appears to be the tone of voice in this · book, but Powers never.· uses any· such. word.: In. fact, he can balance for his audi.; ence, in the juggling style of jour­nalism, his tone of voice with such unquestionably conclusive statenfents as: "Learning the truth ~ . . belongs to the future. Helms belongs· to the past."· · 
Journalistically, then,· it ·fails be­cause-while· it is ."balanced';-the balance: is artificial and the author fails to get at any fundamental truth about the CIA or the moral nature of its overly pragmatic director~ Richard Helms. We learn such bro.; mides as the following: · 
Once anation attempts to learni.:· 
a thing or t_wo about real or po-. . 
tential enemies, all the mystery .. 
of. intrigue which. make up the ; 
war of. the. intelligence services 
necessarily comes tumbling. in. 
after. · ...... · · 

But this comes to ,us not at the beginning .of. the book,·•by·.way 'of explaining the tales he will tell, but on page sixty-seven. Such an· "fn.; sight"----0r, better yet; a less cliched version~hould make clear the posi~ tion from which ·the· author pro:. ceeds; Is this assumption true? How 
vestigating events and . mitigating · factors which by their very nature are secret and extremely complex. 
What might we have expected in­stead? If he were just cataloguing the CIA's. history .and misdeeds, ( as 
· :well ·as : those of Eisenhower, Ken­nedy, Johnson and Nixon) using Richard Helms, a longtime official, as• 
a: convenient framework, firie; but that certainly wouldn't have made much of a book. Unfortunately,.nei­ther· does kicking the· above-men­tioned in the teeth on the basis of hearsay. One · senses after reading the book that Kennedy was paranoid and his. brother vindictive, Johnson was erratic and amoral, and Nixon, of course, was Nixon. Interestingly, the only character we don't come . away with· an impression of· is Mr. Helms himself who is, after all, the "Man Who Kept ..." blah blah blah. Mr. Powers starts. off oy telling us Richard Helms is an enigma· and­by God! he proves it. 
The one thing which might recom­mend this book to the reader is its fairly extensive listing of CIA ac-
by Mark Rust 

tivities and history, useful for future reference and cocktail party·banter. 
Other than that, this book is an affront to the sensibilities of a sensi­tive, intelligent reader..The intro­duction and conclusion suggest that shocking .revelations will be or have been offered-in a tone of the lofty, restrained, objective variety. But the facts in between neither shock nor lend themselves to indignation. The CIA, clearly, does its job well at times and poorly at others, like' any other institution or operation. What we need here ·is• more commentary on the paradox of a secretive CIAin 
a . democratic society, more· insight into the unique nature of their bu.; reaucratic problems. And ·surely· what we need is more analysis of Richard ·Helms: was his leadership, in the end, good for the CIA as an organization and the country as an employer? Was he moral, immoral or amoral? The book doesn't answer these questions. Ifyou have read the New York Times reports of "un­covered" CIA activities, you needn't bother with this book. . D 

and why? An acknowledged point of. view· is necessary in this book, but a · well-defined view does ·not appear. And please: rio one can be even close to "objective" when it involves in.; 
MARCH 21,: 1980 
The Long Run 
It is one o'clock on Saturday· · Brogan doesn't last much longer morning, too early for anyone to be than O.D. Between short but scary stumbling home from the bars, so naps I contemplate my blatant lack we have the Stepan Center parking ·. of preparation for what I am opti­lot to ourselves. Loading the car, a mistically referring to as a race. I '71 Chevy purchased from a shoe had set up a rigorous two-month salesman at Goldblatt's for $150, training program after hasty re­takes .just a few minutes since there search revealed that most serious are only three of us, and our plans runners jog at least 60 or 70 miles a call for spending half of this 48-week and can finish a marathon in hour :odyssey on the road. O.D. had under three hours. My original goal managed to find a party in the had been to finish under four hours, towers that served as a suitable but after one week of marathon going-away party. He is asleep be-training I went back to jogging two fore we get on the toll road. or three times a week. As my week-. 
Even at this time of night, the ly mileage never exceeded 20 miles, initial excitement precludes sleep I began to think in terms of simply for the sober members of this ex-finishing the race.. pedition at least for the first hour. . Having come .to the realization A rehash of the previous · two that I would not be able to run like months' conversation begins. As a marathoner by November 4; I set usual, · · the conversation centers about learning to talk like one. The around multiplying the infinite com-words in the marathoners' language binations of all existing fractions are unique because they have no. plus eight or nine times twenty-six definitions. Not that it would matter and converting the answers to if· they did, because everybody runs hours. Time is. base sixty rather however they damn well please. The than ten, so I inevitably wind up · language is only·_spoken when it is . with · foot-pounds in .my answers. suspected that a · nonrunner has in­Since Brogan is an erigineer and I filtrated a group of marathoners at am a normal, I resign · to trusting a cocktail party, and then the same his results, switching the . topic to _. words are used in several different how we got into this mess· ·and our contexts ·with . a great many nods hope that the car would blow up be~ from all runners present until the fore we crossed into Ohio. · confused nonrunner leaves and the 
Mike O'Donneil, Mike Brogan and conversation can return to baseball. myself had come straight to school One of my favorite terms is "car­first semester from· the Marine bohydrate packing." That means if Corps' Officer Candidates' School in you're stupid-enough to run 70 miles Quantico, Virginia, and we were still a week, you can ·drink· all the beer riding the crest of an energy wave you want. "Depletion run," is a 20­that bordered on hyperactivity. As mile jog you go on the_ week before seniors we felt it our duty to burn a marathon that makes you so tired, off this excess energy in the most · you can , be sure_,of plenty of sleep eccentric way possible. Driving 1,100 that week. I had spent three years . miles and running a 26-mile, 385:-· at Notre Dame learning to pro-. 
. yard race all within 48 hours seemed nounce Lacoste. Now I had only two to be a stone tailor-made for killing months to learn •to ·sound the "e" the two proverbial birds.· A mutual on . the. end of Nike. It had been an challenge '1ad become· an ·agreement · intensive crash course but as I drove to run the Fourth Annual Maririe along I".'80 · I felt confident that I Corps ·Marathon ·tn · Washington, .. '""~ould7 not be. identified as· a ftrst-
D.C. -timer~until_.the. running started. 
by Mike Decker 

Four gas stations, one MacDon­olds, two· Pizza Huts and a fitful night's sleep later, we wake up in what must be the coldest motel room in the free world. I step out of the subzero room wishing I had brought an extra sweatshirt, only to find that it's about 50° outside. O.D. is on the Notre Dame cross~country team and seems to know whatto wear.without looking ·outside. Brogan and• I begin to sort· through the ·piles of running gear brought to accommodate any type of weather. Brogan opts for a white T-shirt and a Flanner basket­ball jersey. Decision made, he then busies. himself by dividing a can of foot powder between his Nike LDV's. Dressing with the knowledge that I'll be walking a good portion of the race, I dress warm; .a Mickey Mouse T-shirt, a mesh running shirt and a windbreaker. . 
Following the race brochure's ad­monition to "come ready ·to run," we arrive,,without sweat . and -im­mediately ·set . about the task of catching pneumonia.· We have an houl'. to· kill, and Brogan and I de-·' cide to sit in the sun on the.steps of the. Iwo Jima. Memorial which is about 100 meters from the starting line. O.D. is wired, but I can't sit still, so we ·leave: hiin to· wander among the tents set up in the circus-like start/finish area.·. · 
Everyone -seems to be · going through their own little prerace rituals, and we decide thaf this will really be an educational experience. _The guy to Brogan's right· is barf!­foot and _has .put a big h~dful ·of Vaseline on each foot, working-it in · between his toes and along the·bot­tom of his· foot .. The guy to my-left is decked out from head· to ·to·e in Nike running gear that is so new, he's still putting the change. in his 
. wallet. I breathe · a sigh of relief, realizing that we ·aren't :the only·. first-timers in this crowd•..: ·. • 
· , The P.A. system. gives· the first warning. We move. to a 200-meter. 
: SCHOLASTIC 
( 

stretch of the four-lane highway that will serve as the starting area for 10,-000 runners~ The Comman­dant of the Marine Corps makes a good-luck speech that is unintelligi­ble to those of us . 8 or 9,000 people back .in the pack. A cannon goes off to signal the start of the race and nobody moves, so I start speak: ing marathonese to the guy on ·my right. After a one. minute and 45­second discussion of the "accordion effect" we have reached the starting line, and there is room to run: . 
Knowing that the best I can ex­

pect. to do is a 9-minute pace for the 
26 miles I try to start out slow, but 
the pack .is moving along at a little 
below 8-minute miles and I be­
come absorbed in the energy field 
and run with it. At about the four­
mile mark I run into a friend from · Quantico who claims he can hold an 8-minute pace the . whole way. Against my be!ter judgment I stay alongside,·and,we begin talking over old times. . ·· · · -.• 
· Around the seventh mile we catch up to Brogan who· is obviously.·in· a lot of pain: ·An old knee injury is acting up but we cross the ten-mile mark together in 80 minutes and· 30 seconds before Brogan· has to · slow down. Taking into account the time wasted at the start, we're below an 8-miriute pace so near ·the 13-mile mark I say good-bye· to my friend and begin' looking for a place to "hit the wall" with dignity and fewest possible spectators. · 
I decide to stop· at the water sta:' 

tion near the 15-mile mark where I can pretend I'm· only walking so I won't spill the water all over, my-, . self. As I near the water station· I begin· to believe the old adage about old soldiers never dying, but as it' turns_out they don't fade away, they just congregate around • the 15~mile' mark· of the Marine Corps Mara-. thon; It looks like every Marine officer. above the rank of Lt. Colonel has shown: up to watch ine "hit the wall." One of the colonels holds ciut a paper· cup and waits for me "to stop, but·r don't give him the.satis­faction. With full cup of water in hand I round the bend in the road 
and die. · 
I walk along the road for about 100 yards taking small sips of water arid trying not to look .tired _when I pass pretty girls. Plodding through an ankle-deep ocean of paper cups, I estimate that there are at least 2,000 people ahead of me and I'm being. · passed by about 100 people every five minutes. I start running· again, but I have burned myself out and 
· now it's all I can do to hold a 9-9½­
minute pace while all the more dis­
ciplined runners that· have held 8½­
9-minute paces pass me by. · 
Approaching the 20-mile mark I realize that even though I've had to walk twice, I haven't stopped my forward momentum yet. This gives my self-confidence a boost; but at this point I need more rest than self­confidence, and I start looking for a place to step off th~ course. I choose a big· tree by the side of the road and, for the benefit of the multitudes rushing past me, lean against it pre­tending to do stretching exercises. After I catch my breath I settle into a pace that I hope will impress the Marine who is giving the 20-mile times. · 
i!".··--... 
f::.;-,r
(:-:;:< 
;.·' 
: '.:{ -•• ··.;-::_:. > • 
. . -.· . . .. 

:·~--~ ts~;,,~,..~~~ tr,,1;·=-~-~lft • . -_·.·:. ··. 
' J 
, . l. 
(:
11~, 1"\ 
~-.)..'­
MARCH 21, 1980 
I am shocked to find out tnat my 20-mile time is just under three hours and some quick calculations, which come out in minutes for once, tell me that all I have to do is to hold a ten-minute pace for the last six miles and I'll come in under four hours. Not good enough to endorse a line of running gear, but good enough .to get my name in Bchol.as­tic, so I stretch it out as ·best I can. I reach the 22-mile mark approxi­mately 20 minutes later, and I cele­brate by walking and drinking an­other glass ·of water. The cups are almost knee-deep, so there must be about 3,000 people ahead of me now. 
By now I've hit the wall so many 
times thatI'm beginning to wonder 
if maybe I didn't wander onto a 
·_ 

steeplechase by mistake. I don't walk, very long because~there are a lot of spectators on: this part of the course and up ahead two little girls are standing on the hood of a car hold­ing out their hands for passing run­ners to slap. I. more or less begin to run and hold·· out my hand to the kids as I go by, not wanting their parents, who are sitting in lawn chairs eating a picnic lunch and drinking two of the most beautiful beers .I've ever seen, to think that 
the same guy who is protecting their daughters from the dreaded com-. munist hordes· would stop on a silly little 26-mile run. 
Up ahead is the Potomac and on the other side the 24-mile mark. Mo­tivated by the knowledge that I· have only about two miles to go, I stride onto the George Mason Bridge and am nearly blown off my feet by the breeze coming off the water. Runners' numbers are blowing out into the traffic, and I compensate for the energy lost holding on to mine by walking again. Once across. the bridge I run about a half mile to the last water station and walk along drinking and getting . psyched for a big finish. 
My big finish turns into a mile­and-a-half stroll that takes me up to where the spectators in the start/ finish area can see me and I have to start jogging again. The last 385 yards are supposed to be the tough­est, and to start them off I have to scale an insignificant little hill that looks like Mt. Everest. I decide to see if I can pass somebody to im­press the crowd but the little hill does me in and someone with· the same idea cruises right by me. The crowd loved it, and I at least get some encouragement from the peo­ple who feel sorry for me. 
I round the Iwo Jima Monu­ment and enter the chute at a mod­erate jog that ·at least impresses me. The clock above. the finish line reads 4:10:35. Close, but no cigar. I slap some hands ·that belong :to race·officfals who. are ·saying some­thing to me,. but:.ft's ·totally inco­herent, so I just smile and try to. make ft look like I could go another 385 yards ff I had to. 
I wrap myself in a complimentary · aluminum foil "space· blanket~• and, · making sure I don't cover my run­ner number, take .the long way through the crowd to the refresh­ment trucks. Halfway there I con­vey the need to my brain for asoft spot to crash, and the instant my eyes have chosen the drop zone I pivot back ori my heels and land flat on my back. I inust have run as fast as I. could because I felt no pain on impact. · · · · 
· I rationalize that I must have drank enough water already to last a year, but my throat is demanding liquid and I'm in no condition to be arguing. There are about 20 space blanket-clad runners in line at the Coke truck and I fall in line with the other droids. My legs don't last long and I have to squat down and hold myself up with my arms, hop­ping along when the line moves. 
I get to the counter and· a pretty girl with a Coca-Cola name tag says, "What can I do for you?" At this point I'm even too tired to take ad­vantage of a good straight line, and I point· at the paper . cups full of Coke. She puts one on the counter and, feeling like I'n:i trying for a part in Oliver, I squeak out, "Can I have more than one?" In a tone of voice that sounds like a mother giving cookies to a child who has just skinned his knee she tells me I can have as many as I want. 
Having decided that I could carry orily three, I tie my space blanket around my neck like a cape and hob­ble off to find a place to recuperate. I squat down and tenderly place each glass of Coke on a flat piece of grass. I seem to be frozen in a squat­ting position, so I just fall over on my side like the tricycle rider in the old Laugh-In shows.: I curl protec­tively around the Cokes and they are gone before I have a chance to get comfortable. · 
Since I haven't eaten all day I head for the Red Cross truck, but I 

. get there just as they're opening an­other batch_ of · cans and, besides having · all my childhood· illusions about where. Red Cross soup ·comes from_ shattered,. I realize that rn · have to wait for hot soup. I crash on the. ground again with iny space blanket over my head and soon draw ·a·· crowd ·that is speculating on whether or not I am alive. Paranoia 
has set in by now and, not knowing if they are genuinely concerned or just trying to steal my space blanket, I blow off the soup stand and get some coffee: · 
. I'm starting to remember where I am and how I got here, so. I start looking for O.D. I have trouble com­prehending the· fact that O.D. has probably been sitting around for an hour and a half waiting for me to finish running. It doesn't take long to find . out ' that he finished in 
2:40:43. Brogan is another story, and after some wandering we-find_ him limping out of the medics tent. The medics had 'taken one look at Brogan's knee in the chutes and had rushed him to see the doctor. It was quickly diagnosed as something that rieeded ice until it could be X­rayed the next day and, after. the prescription was filled, · Brogan was leftto hobble around.looking for us. He had finished the race on sheer will power in 4:56:10.. 
A quick roll-call vote reveals that nobody is really hungry, so_ we jump into the car and head west. In our condition . doing everything back­wards seemed easier and we were rolling off the toll road and onto 31 in . no time. After dropping Brogan and O.D. off _at Stepan; practically at their back door, I drove to· the Mishawaka side of D-2 and adjusted my luggage'·• for the .hike to. Mor­rissey. . . · · . . ·_-, ·: 
As I approach theguard shack at the main gate, an old friend steps out and offers me a ride·in the secur­ity truck. I climb in on .the passen~ ger side. overdoing the. thank~you's. The guard · is chuckling, ~'.That new guy on the gate says he's never seen so many people running at·three in the· mornirig -Don't you. students ever sleep?" · . · · 
Closing . my eyes and leaning against the door in the warm cab, I think about th_e past 48 hours and have to agree, "No; at least I don't' ever . remember ·. having '. .slept my­self." · . · . .­
Mike· Decker is a S~ior Financ~ Major. He finished 4,34·3 .of '6,743 · · finisliers from. an original' field, .of .. 
ne~rly' 10,000.-· · · ·· · · 
. i. SCHOLASTIC 


·rn ·Retrosl)ect: 
Albert Einstein wrote the following letter on August 6, 1947, to a member. of the Promoting Enduring Peace organization. HO'J)'ing to keep concern about·the survival of civilization uwermost in our thoughts on the currmit political situations, the. Scholastic ed_itorial board finds this excerpt particularly :awropriate. · c. 
· It is a difficult· moment at which to write; All -· 
· about'us we·see the wreckage of great hopes which mankind held; for' the building of peace. The gulf between East and·West_whicli men of good will have worked to close is widening daily. Some people believe . • thaf no reconciliation is possible and: that another World War must decide the issue; we scientists reply that it is no longer possible to decide any issue by .. such·.nieans--:--ari atomic war will bring no real decision· bufonlYu.nprecedented death and·devastation on both 
. sides. < , : ., ' . ; -. ,. · ' , · ·. ·: -·· . · : . . Such a time':in 'history breeds' defeatism and despair. But there are those among us who believe _thaf riu:in• has':within him the capacity •to meet and .overcome even the'great tests ofotir-.times.What we . must i10t ·losef or we lose all; is. our .willingness to . seek the truth and·our courage to act upon the truth. • If we maintain tlies~; we cannot despair. · 
(cont. from p; 21)' 
fortably at first, and . then full and loud and almost hysterical laughter reverberated through the· stall. "I see," he said. . . . . 
"God," the man said. "That's good." . The boy stopped laughing and there was silence. Then he stood up and braced himself against the wall. "Will-you leave me now?" he said. 
"You still haven't gotten what you want, you know." 
The boy cupped his hands and splashed some of the hot water onto his body. "Oh, I'm sure I'll find that soon enough," he said. 
"Good for you, kid.'' '.'I'm ready to leave the shower stall now.". . The man smiled at him. "Don't you want to know 
about yo_tir watch first?" · "No ... you cari have it.'' .. "Thanks, kid. H'll look great with my white suit." 
The man turned to go. · · · · .· · "Wait a minute, mister. Can. I turn on· .the ·cold
?" , , , , , •,', ._ ,
now" . . . _ "Sure, kid," the man said. "Hot spell's ?Ver:'' . . 
Mac Fitzpatrick is a so,phomore residing in Dillon Hall. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. · · 
MARCH 21, 1980 
•We scientists .. :. call for a higher realism;which recognizes that .. ~ our fate is joined with that of,our fellowmen:· throughout ,,the, world. Great ideas_ may often be expressed in, ·very,, simple: ,words. In the shadow of the atomic bomb,_ it has become apparent that all men are brothers. If we recognize this as truth . and. act upon this, recognition, mankind may; go for­ward to a higher. plane of development. If the angry · 
·. passions of a nationalistic world engulf us further, we are doomed.... I believe that mankind, capable of · reason, restraint, and'.courage, wi}l choose the path of 
peace. . . 
No __ one can predict the events of, the _coming year, but-each of-us has it· in ,his power. today to act for peace. Faithfully yours, 
,~ Aibert, Einstein 

(cont. from p.18) 
in a musical, but lost to "Sweeney Todd" 's . Len Cariou. Arnaz sur­prisingly . wasn't even nominated against such competition as Dorothy 
. Loudon _and Angela Lansbury. · The · . producers carried a full-page ad in · the . New York ·. Ti·mes · ·asking ."WHY?" but Ms. Arnaz was· un­fazed. She was quoted as saying that :r,.ansbury. would win· for "Sweeney _Todd" (she did) .. And. both. Klein 
· and Arnaz had won 'the 1978 Drama Critics Circle Award for their roles in "They're Playing Our Song.'' , "They're Playing' Our' , Song" won't leave you thinking profound thoughts, but it _will leave you 
·whistling the. theme song.· H's sim­. ple, but well done: The Neil· Simon · jokes are funny, the Carole Bayer 
Sager -Marvin . Hamlisch songs are·· excellent, the lavish sets are beauti­ful,. and both casts, New York's Klein . and 'Arnaz, and Chicago's Victor Gerber and Ellen Greene, are all fantastic performers; The play accomplished exactly what it set out 
to do-provide two and a half hours of pure musical entertainment in the best way possible. This play should: ·· not be missed. D 
TMl LAST WORD 
That time of year has arrived. The gray winter snows are melting, birds (the stupid ones) are flying back to South Bend, skirts are out, diets 
·are in, the Travel Agency is busy, beer sales are picking up and the perennial springtime question is being asked. No, I'm not talking about the usual "What are you doing for spring break?" That question merits one of four boring, repetitious answers with or without variations. 
1) I'm going to Florida. 

2) I'm going skiing in Colorado . . 
3) I'm going home. 

a) 
to earn money 


b) 
to see my boy/girl friend 

c) 
to avoid spending money 


4) I'm staying here. 

a) 
I have more work than the lone pyramid builder. 

b) 
I love South Bend springs (very rare answer)~ 


We have all heard these answers and they usually pass in one ear and out the other. No one ever goes seal killing or fishing in the Tibetan Mountains or bowling in Elkhart. Generally, "What are you doing for spring break?" is a polite but unexciting conversation catalyst. · 
The perennial question with which I am intrigued is a new question for me this year and will probably be new to all students who reach the second-semester senior-year plateau. Now you know. Yes, I'm talking about that bothersome question for most of us Arts and Letters nondescripts, that welcome question for busi­ness majors and engineers, that questionable question for science majors and architects and that nerve-wrack­ing question for not-yet-accepted, . not-yet-shot-down premedders, prelawyers arid . pregraduate students. Yes, the old standard run-of-the-mill, respond in 25 words or less, "What are you going to do with your life?" · 
There are various answers to this question which elicit various under-the-breath responses· and assump­tions. A few examples: 
If you answer "I don't know yet," you possess the worth of ~ roll of toilet pape1:· 
If you answer "I have a job with one of the big eight accounting firms, making. $25,000 a year,'' you possess the worth of a single sheet of toilet paper. 
If you answer "I'm getting married," cherish the fact · that gold sells for oyer $550 an ounce, · and that is only the beginning. 
If you answer "I've been accepted to law or medical school," congratulations, enjoy studying 
by Dave Satterfield 

and may you win all your malpractice suits. 
' 

If you answer "I'm working with Holy Cross Asso­ciates or the Peace Corps," too bad about the rejection notices, next year apply to easier schools. 
If you answer "I'm playing pro ball," what are you doing. reading this? 
If you answer "I'm going to take a.year off to find my­self and then decide what I'm going to 
do/' stay away from mirrors, you might not like what you find. 
If you answer "I'm going to hitchhike across the country and look for something I like," 
enjoy eating garbage and running from rabid dogs or enjoy eating rabid dogs and running from garbage. 
If you answer "I don't know and I don't care," don't admit to the fact that your pillow is tear-stained and the lumps on your head are self-inflicted. 
I 

If you answer "It's none of your• damn business," you'll never get a job and depending on who asked you the question, you may be eating the proverbial knuckle-sand­
wich. 
If you answer-"I'm·going to be a safari guide for Nazi 
. fugitives in Paraguay," or "I'm conduct­ing the Parisian Symphony while trans­lating some· Pre-Socratic Greek· works at the ·Sorbonne" or "I'm researching the· mating habits of parakeets in Northern Alaska," you are probably as bored as I am with the question and 
· you've_ resorted to romance.' 
What are you going to do with your life? The ques­tion is actually unanswerable unless you are psychic. I doubt thaf anyone knows what he/she is going to do with his/her life. And I don't think anyone should expect to know. Maybe we should ask a new question. "What do you want to do with your life?" This is a more subjective, more open-ended question that leaves plenty of room for optimism. 
By the way, if you answered, "I'm going to hang/ shoot/poison or enlist myself," disregard all that you have read here. · · · 
Rumor has it, there's life after college. And fret not, it just might be enjoyable. · D 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
I 
I 
I' 
JENto~ A~Ts · ftsT1 VAL ~ii \3--,·q 
. . 
~ll ~ofS ,,,.., e.u.w-404 4o p--r-l;'r· 
W: bu-:t-i&r'-'3 o..tll. n.ow ~ a.~+~--. i(\ -Hu._ ~ l o-w-i\ .~~: --­
[\<idu~~ nt..oiLJ~ ' 0-·,g;,u..,\ ~i, ~ ~ic.k, ~u-<r04hs _1"q5 ~ 1~ .;z.ii-3:1.~i 
. . . . . -~. . . 

. Dr~i.:. A.c4o-!~ I\<-\-)"lrrrh~ ­

~u..c.... fuclvJJ.S&-1\. 135'\­
~ 5 du.l'¾-' ·<o ~ 5 ­Podnr~0 ~
--_ 
~ P«'", "a'a.3(°--_ -CL-;~ ha.BIC'J<A.C.... -,3~1 
1"l.u.sit-Re-~~ 

~O"( l\a~.:,:tt~ J:.~IV-..tA...-+; &"-­

, k-hu¾: f'\tM.iw,"-cr 1q11 
-­ .1980 COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL FRIDAY, MARCH -21: _: featuring the _JUDGES JAM -7:30 PM SATURDAY, MARCH 22: FIRST SESSION -:-12:30 PM . SECOND. SESSION -: 7:30 PM . Tony Williams; He~b Ellis,:Billy Taylo~,-­JUDGES:· Zoot Sims, & Dan Morgenstern as. Critic~ · . . . ~· . .­.' ·. . ··. . All· Session . Pass: $8.50 t $7.50 (students): -~riday .Nite $5.00, Sat. Afternoon\$2.50,. Sat Nite $4.00 -i Tickets at Student Uniort Ticket Office & the· door .  _ .  

· MARCH 21, 1980 -·_ 31­










