
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name --'----'-------------------­
Address ______________________ 
City ___________State ___Zip _____ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic l\fagazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.00x __ years=$___ 



SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
NEWS· 
6 
News briefs 
A weekly wrap-up of news on the Notre Dame campus 
Compiled by Ian Mitchell_ 
8 
An Interview with Father Tyson 
Scholastic speaks with the University of Portland's next 
president Interview by Scott Brutocao 

FEATURES
11 The Fantasticks 
. 'A parable about love' continues its 30-year success at Washington Hall Kristine DeGange 
14 
COVER King David 
Sophomore tennis sensation David DiLucia rises to new heights Jim Kuser 

18 
Will the Third Time Be the Charm? 
After two near-misses, Notre Dame's lacrosse team aims for an NCAA bid Pete LaFieur 


LETTERS 


Positive, Negative Responses to "The Repercussions of an All-Fop Cistercian Education" 
Dear Editor: 
This past weekend while I was on campus, I picked up a few copies 
·· of Scholastic in the South Dining Hall. I've worked as a marketing copywriter for a few years, as well as having written some in college, so I'm always interested in reading the things high school and college students write. · I've seen The Observer for years, as well as a few of the so-called "underground" publications that students write, and, for the most part, enjoy reading them just to see what different people think and how they choose to express it. But I really am writing to you now to offer praise to one of your contributors, Tim Rogers. 
I have read three of his articles in "Week In Distortion" and thought they were excellent. As I started reading his articles, it was immedi­ately obvious that he is truly a writer, that he has great abilities to express even ordinary ideas in ways that are entertaining and clever, and that he possesses the true spirit of a writer. Specifically, I have read "Cheer, cheer for no more home games," "Estrogen," and his most recent article, "Repercussions of an All-Fop Cistercian Educa­tion." Each is an excellent example of self-expression, reflection, humor, and wit. 
I hope that Tim continues to write "Week In Distortion" and that you continue to publish his work. With so much mediocre writing being "perpetrated" these days by people who are really doing nothing more than putting words together, Tim is able to construct and communicate ideas using words and sentences to create excellent and entertaining satire. 
Given some of the ideas he develops, I can see that Tim's writing 
· might be considered somewhat controversial. But I also believe that not many people these days remember how to laugh. By the time we get to be college age, especially if one is intelligent enough to get into Notre Dame, we really ought to be clever enough to be able to discern fact from satire. Tim's writing reminds us how important it is to put aside all of our fancy, hi-tech, scientific analysis and pontificating and to simply enjoy the world around us. I hope to see more of his work in the future. Thank you for your time. 
Stephen Alpert South Bend 

Dear Editor: 

While I have been at Notre Dame, on and off, for sixty years, this is the first time that I have been so strongly moved as to object, in writing, to something in the pages of Scholastic. 
I have just read Tim Rogers' juvenile scatology on page 6 (April 19, I990). I cannot imagine a single reason that might have prompted any member of your staff to accept this graceless piece of obscenity for publication. 
James P. Danehy Professor Emeritus Department of Chemistry 

SCHOLASTIC 
ON OTHER CAMPUSES 




From Wall Street to Parquet Floor 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
G 
oing from the trading floor ofWall Street to the parquet floor of college basketball is John Griffin, former vice­president in municipal bond underwriting ofPaine Webber. As reported in The Wall Street Journal, Griffin resigned his promi­nent post in mid-April in order to accept the head coaching position ofS t.Joseph University's (Philadelphia, Pa.) men's basketball squad. Twelve years ago, Griffin played hoops for his alma mater. 

Nearly two-thirds ofthe students at Boston University, which last year adopted some of the nation's strictest rules against having overnight guests in dorm rooms, say they have illegally had friends sleep over this year, according to a story by the College Press Service. Of the four hundred students polled by the school's student newspaper, The Daily Free Press, sixty-three percent said they do not fill out the forms required when they have an overnight guest. Only three percent of those students said the university took disciplinary action against them. One student said the rule, which prohibits students from entertaining guests of the opposite sex most nights after I 1:00 p.m., would "ban life after eleven." The rule does not give a clear definition in regards to "entertaining." 
It's all geek to me. Elise Hancock, editor of Johns Hopkins· Magazine, has compiled a list of the most up-to-date slang with . translations for the over-thirty crowd. Hancock said in a story by the National On-Campus Report that often student slang "doesn't reflect activity so much as anxiety." Some of the terms included in the list are all-nighter, crank-on, geek, get psyched, in the study mode, jam on it, getting a RAM overload, wanked out, wastoid, za, zog a brewsky, wired, stressing, lose it, nuke it, get a grip, chill out, orgasmic, brain dead (see "wanked out"), and blow off. 
More trouble in the Bay State. Students at Holy Cross College (Worcester, Ma.) were not resisted in their efforts to protest U.S. military aid to El Salvador by writing chalk slogans and drawings on · campus pavement and sidewalks. However, The Crusader, the school's student paper, now reports that these same students may. have to pay the cost ofcleaning up the chalk markings. One group of students was approached by security guards and interrogated for approximately forty minutes. "I'm willing to pay," said one student, ... but I just wish someone would acknowledge that we acted oui of consideration for schooJ'.grounds, and attempted to incur the least damage possible. The paradox I see is that we are Holy Cross, yet it seems to me that our grounds-keeping has taken precedence 
over the cross in this case." 
The Mystery of the Moss has caused some curiosity and confusion · at Rice University. The fungus in question was discovered in a• Renaissance teak box in the Houston campus's founder's room· during a photo session to promote next July's Western economic· summit, the College Press Service reports. "No one seems to know what it's from," reported Rice spokeswoman Kathie Krause. Inside the box, the discoverers found moss, twigs and leaves that generally resembled a large bird's nest. 

WEEK IN DISTORTION/ROGER HIPP 




What On Earth? 
It's a good thing summer is almost here, because college life is leaving me more confused every day. Let me try to get two things straight. 1) Exceptfor the first two weeks of Sep­tember, weDomersgripeabout how cold the -weather is here in South Bend/ Mishawaka/ Elkhart /Niles/ Goshen/ Jericho /Whoville /Etcetera. It's a good thing we do so much bitching, or else our jaws would probably succumb to frostbite in a few minutes. · 2) Earth Week arrives, and we're supposed to worry about the Greenhouse Effect and global warming. Isn't there something wrong with this picture? I don't understand all the fuss here about the Greenhouse Effect When the Organiza­tion of Fretting Scientists brought it to our attention a few years ago, I thought most people here would be in favor of it, like I am. In fact, I propose that the next time it snows in April, we burn several tons of coal out on the quad in order to release as much carbon dioxide into. the air as possible. We could leave our car engines running idle for several hours, too. Every little bit would help. Who knows, maybe we could form a Coalition for Global Warming with chapters at other uni­versities all over the northern United States and Canada? Now, before the Scholastic office is stormed by eco-warriors armed with biode­gradable hand grenades and recyclable bul­lets, let me admit that I don't know what I'm talking about. ·If I knew anything about carbon dioxide, or ozone, or even thermome­ters, I wouldn't be in the College of Arts and Letters. Before writing this column, I had intended to attend the Earth Weekseminaron global warming to furtherresearch this topic. Unfortunately, the seminar was cancelled when the keynote speaker's flight plowed into a snowbank at Michiana Regional Air­port. So I'm not truly qualified to address the question of whether the polar icecaps are in danger of melting. 
But enough kidding around. Hey, the Earth is a pretty nice planet, even if there is a little 

bit too much water to suit my tastes. It's also the only planet we have for the time being, which means that even "Week in Distortion" columnists should take the environment seri­ously. Allow me to make up for joking about environmental hazards by giving a short list of things Darners can do to save the Earth: 
1) Quit pestering University Food Services. The friendly folks who fed us have been criti­cized for using styrafoam and plastic. These materials are bad for the environment be­cause they will not degrade anytime soon, as in before the sun goes nova. But as a whole, the dining halls perform a great service to the environment, since they are the chief recy­cling centers of the Midwest. For.example, the scrambled eggs served at breakfast have. been continuously recycled since the last batch was cooked in 1911. 
2) Don't build lofts next year. Think about it: a tree had to dietosupportyourbed. lfwe want to keep rain forests and spotted owls and endangered termites alive, I'm afraid some of us will have to sleep on the floor. The owls will love us for it. 
3) Don't buy any more books. For one thing, textbooks are hardly ever made from recycled paper. Secondly, for the money we fork over to the bookstore, we could probably purchase and preserve the entire Amazon rain forest. 
4) Bike home for summer vacation instead of driving or flying. It's the fastest way to travel without polluting, and it's a great way to see the country. Besides, you could proba­bly use the exercise. 
5) Drink more beer. Beer is made from natural grains, not from the artificial flavor­ings found in soft drinks. With all that barley and hops and stuff, beer is practically liquid oat bran. 
If you have any additions to my environ­mental checklist, feel free to send them in on recycled paper. I will also be collecting fossil fuels for the first annual Irish Carbon Diox­ide Festival. With any luck, I can get the Greenhouse Effect in full gear by this winter. 
' 0 

MUS IC/ DAVE HOLSINGER 
Robyn Hitchcock's Surreal "Eye" 
It's not often that rock and roll can be classified as anything even remotely resembling literature. The constant "Oooh, Baby I Want You" ofmostrocklyrics tends to tum the mind of any listener to Jell­o, and it's these same lyrics that are proof positive that the artists writing these lyrics have lost anything that even might be called artistic innovation. So, it should come as a relief to those of us with a need for something original and un­common that Robyn Hitchcock has put out an intelligent, coherent, all-acoustic work which is not only a collection of songs but also a collection of literary sketches. Of course, Hitchcock's literary bent has always been fairly pronounced. Several of his previous works have been accompanied by short stories or sketches in the liner notes. The notes for Eye include a short story called "Legends of the South Wight 2: The Glass Hotel." This story, like any of his lyrics or stories, is full of impressionistic imagery, yet ends up with a resolution that wouldn't be out of place in a children's storybook. Hitchcock's latest work was recorded without the aid of his usual backup band, The Egyptians (bassist Andy Metcalfe and drum­mer Morris Windsor). However, the absence of the layered sound prevalent on his earlier albums, especially on the predecessor to Eye, Queen Elvis, works more to his advantage than against I!im. Some of them usical ideas that linger in the background of Queen Elvis and Globe ofFrogs come to the foreground instead of being drowned in other effects. The opening chords of "Cynthia Mask," for example, are almost identical to those in "One Long Pair of Eyes" from Queen Elvis, but instead ofbeing drowned in other instru­mentation, they become a simple and effec­tive counterpoint to Hitchcock's vocals. Without the layers of sludge, it's much easier for the listener to hear the unsophisticated but intriguing melodies and vocals. 
It also becomes much easier to hear the undeniable influence of Syd Barrett, Pink Floyd's legendary insane founder. Eye sounds at times like what Barrett might have sounded like had he not dropped off the face of the earth after recording his few solo albums, with Hitchcock's haunting melodies and simplistic arrangements echoing the incoherent ravings on Barrett's "Opel." 
The title of this new work, Eye, is certainly apt. These songs give the listener, or should I say the reader, a glimpse of the surreal landscape of Hitchcock's mind. This is his mind's eye turned into a set of acoustic songs. Each song is a separate work laden with imagery and tidbits of philosophy, but some­how they are all linked together by the similar music and the distinctive unsteady vocals that make Hitchcock's lyrics even more pro­nounced than they already are. 
It's not as though the music is revolution­ary in its ·complexity, or that the lyrics are profoundly thought out treatises on eclectic, intellectual topics. The thing that makes this album so appealing is that the music and lyrics are very simple, yet somehow Hitch­cock has managed to articulate common­place ideas in a way that no one has done so before. Lyrically, he pairs up strange adjec­tives with ordinary expressions so that they become oddly twisted and surreal. 
For example, in "Linctus House," instead of talking about submitting to the wishes of someone else, he says,"I know if I were on my knees you'd have a better view of my skull." "Flesh Cartoons" is another good example of this: Hitchcock describes his view of life as "I'm only watching flesh cartoons." These same goofy ways of ex­pressing otherwise ordinary facts of life come across in his music as well. Eye is full of unusual chord progressions and rhythms, as well as counter-melodies which prevent the otherwise inconspicuous guitar from sliding totally out of one's mind. 
Eye is not a tremendously complex work. It's not difficult to understand, and it doesn't strike one as being inspired. However, it shows a remarkable amount of creativity and originality that normally doesn't appear in an album; What Robyn Hitchcock has managed to do is express his uncommon originality by using the simplest arrangements available. Instead of painting with a brush, he uses his fingers and comes up with a bizarre but simple picture that doesn't seem possible. Hitchcock isn't real, though. He's surreal, and not afraid to let everyone see through his eye. D 
NEWS COMMENTARY 
EDITED BY IAN MITCHELL 



SEX YES, DRINKING NO 
.. The Observer reported on February 14 that Notre Dame would be receiving the "non­alcoholic" versions ofU. The National Col­lege Newspaper. This action was taken in re­sponse to a controversy that U. might other­wise be in violation of the Du Lac policy prohibiting alcohol ads in university-spon­sored publications. (Student government subsidizes the distribution of U. at Notre 
I 
Ill 


Dame.) Apparently other clauses of Du Lac are not of as much concern. 
The April issue ofU., distributed Monday, featured several classified ads for condoms, including some of the glow in the dark vari­ety. Another ad, under the headline "Sex is safe again!!" for "Jiffi" brand condoms fea­tured t-shirts bearing the following slogans: 


· "Got a stiffie, wear a Jiffi," "Me not dumb, me not silly, me wear Jiffi on my willy," "Play it safe, play it cool, wear a Jiffi on your tool," and "Going fora touchdown, wear it on your end zone." 
Well, at least the students of Notre Dame were protected from seeing any subversive beer ads. 


IRISH BONDING 
Notre Dame has issued $10.5 million dol­lars in bonds to finance graduate student housing. The money will also finance the relocation of engineering wind tunnels from the areospace building, which is scheduled for demolition. According to the March President's Newsletter, "The bonds will also fund the renovation of the old Heat and Power Laboratory to accommodate wind tunnels now located in the Aerospace and Engineering Laboratory (AEL). The AEL building just north of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center was built in 1945 and will be tom down." 


CROCODILE MALLOY? 
According to the February President's Newsletter: 
"Notre Dame Australia is now a legal en­tity Down Under. · An act establishing the university was proclaimed by the govern­ment of Western Australia on January 26. Father Malloy, Provost Timothy O'Meara and Father Beauchamp are among 11 mem­bers ofthe institution's board oftrustees. The new university has no legal or financial ties to Du Lac." NDA is the third private and the first Catholic university in Australia, and will begin teaching in 1992. According to a July 6, 1989 press release from the Notre Dame office of public relations: "From an initial enrollementof 400,NDA is expected to grow to to 2,000 students by the year 2001." 

NEWS COMMENTARY 
NEW 

COMPUTER LABS 
According to Carolyn Goodnight of Uni­versity Computing, some major changes in computing facilities will greet students in the fall. The existing business computer lab in Hayes-Healy will be expanded to contain both MS-DOS and Macintosh computers. A part of the old ROTC building (west of Rockne Memorial) will be converted into a 24-hour lab with both MS-DOS and Mac computers. Finally, 20 Macs and 15 "spark­stations" will be placed on the second floor of the Computer Center. A "sparkstation" is a high-end system intended to serve the needs of science and engineering students. Addi­tional sparkstations will be placed in Nieuwland (15 computers) and Fitzpatrick (80 computers). 

File photo/ Marl Okuda 

The LaFortune lab may soon be less busy as additional computer labs come to campus. 

CONNECTING THE CAMPUS: HBO AT ND? 
According to Jim Northey at the Office of University Computing, phase two of the program to connect the buildings on campus with fiber information cable is complete. Currently "All the administrative and aca­demic buildings have been connected," said Northey. In addion, seven dorms -Zahm, St Edward's. Brownson, Stanford, Keenan, Lewis and Cavanaugh -have been added to the network. According to Northey, phase three of the project, to take place at some unspecified time in thy future, will connect the remaining buildings. This fiber network will eventually link computers in those build­ings to the Notre Dame mainframe at much higher data rates than possible using normal telephone-modem connections. 
Video fibers have also been laid. This cable "lays the groundwork for future closed-cir­cuit TV and interactive television for the classroom," said Northey. In other words, some form ofcable TV could be coming to Notre Dame. Mike Langthome, of Educa­tional Media, said that this cable could either carry about 50 channels, or perhaps one super-clear signal. While many of the details have yet to be settled, Langthome said that discussions involving WNDU are continu­ing, as they would have the facilities to pick up channels off the satellite for use by the closed-circuit television system. Educa­tional Media will probably beresponsiblefor the academic channels, but equipment and arrangements needed to make the system a reality are not yet ready. So don't expect getting HBO in your room anytime soon ­according to Langthorne, "It'll be a year before we can even do anything," and he stressed that completion of the system will take additional time. 
On the other hand, the educational uses of the system could be a reality as soon as 1992, with the completion of the DeBartolo aca­demic building, which will be completely wired with fiber cable. Classrooms will be equipped with monitors or video projection systems. 


TRUTH IS STRANGER THAN FICTION 
And, in the "We Swear We're Not Making This Up Department," from Scholastic files (September 1967): 
"Next Tuesday night at the dining halls, Notre Dame's youngest student publication, Dialogue, will go on sale for its second year. According to Editor Mike McCullough, the magazine will be "devoted totally to the presentation of ideas from anyone on cam­pus, regardless of whether they already are members of the publication." The staff ofthe magazine will give direction to the 'dia­logue' taking place on its pages, giving par­ticular attention to poverty and social issues. Editorial positions and solicited articles will often reflect commitment to democratic so­cialism and both Christian and atheistic humanism. The staff of the publication also hopes to introduce new ideas into the cam­pus, such as Christian Marxism, the under­ground press syndicate, and tends to editori­alize about Notre Dame and its military (ROTC) contracts." 
Maybe the editors of Dialogue today have more Common Sense? D 
NEWS 
An Interview with Father Tyson 
Scholastic speaks with the University ofPortland's next president 
INTERVIEW BY SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
F ather David Tyson, who has served as vice president of Student Affairs since 1984 and was previously ex­ecutive assistant to Father Theodore Hesburgh, was declared the 18th president of the University of Portland on April 17. A Notre Dame graduate in 1970 and a member 
. of the faculty since 1980, the tenured associ­ate professor has seen great changes at the university over the years. On the Friday before his departure for Portland (for a week­long visit), Scholastic conducted an inter­view with the president to-be on such wide­ranging issues as his hopes for the University of Portland and the fabric of the student body at Notre Dame. 
Q: You have served on the Notre Dame faculty for a decade, and in important positions. How hard is it for you to leave Notre Dame? 
.A: Oh, I think the leave-taking will be diffi­_cult, there's no doubt. I came as a freshman in 1966, so that's 24 years. And I've been -here 19 of those years, either as a student or _on the staff, because before I came back on 
the faculty I worked in admissions. It is very much an important part of who I am, so the leave-taking will be very difficult. As I said to someone the other day I'll probably on an unannounced day in July take my bags and leave because I'm not real good with goo­dbyes. (laughs) 
Q: What accomplishments are you most proud of while you've been at Notre Dame? 
A: I'd have to say that in this job, the reor­ganization of the whole office of Student Affairs when I came in. I felt that from observation and as Father Hesburgh's assis­tant that all sorts of areas at the university had grown and expanded from the '60s to the '80s, and structurally too. As things became more complex, so did the programs, etcetera. 
Well, it didn't strike me that a lot of that had happened in Student Affairs, so when I was asked to take the position by Father Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees here, I said that I would do that only if I could restructure the whole thing and bring in my own people. They allowed me to do that, so that was an exciting part of it, and it was the part that has been most successful. Ifl could use a management term here, I think there is an infrastructure in the division of Student Affairs now that wasn't there as clearly, at least, before. So, for example, people know what their job responsibilities are. I'm the type of person that if you 're the Director of the Counseling Center, you're the Directorof the Counseling Center. If you have the re­sponsibility I want you to have the authority, too. And the assistant vice presidents deal with those people on a day-to-day basis. I think that has been a contribution I've made to the university for the future, I hope. 
I think also, too, it's interesting because student bodies change every four years, but clearly the renovation of the student center at LaFortune I feel is a big accomplishment to the extent that there will be a place available that will not only be a decent place but also where there would be an availability of places to go, things to do outside of the student dorms. I think to some extent that this has happened. I know a lot of people now say that the halls are the center of the social life, they are, but nothing like they were. 
I think also, too, the development in the student activities area, so that there is actu­ally a staff. When I came here there was a director and a half-time assistant fora student body this size. People like Joe (Cassidy), Karen (Leonard) and Charlie(Francis), those people, have been a big goal that I had. Actually, it was a five-year period that I had set up for Student Activities to get an infra­structure in. 
Besides student activities, another area that I wanted to develop was residence life, for a number of reasons. Previous to the residence life people, there was a dean of students, one . person. And I thought any person who wanted to do discipline as a full-time job was nuts. And so it needed to be distributed across a group of people who were also going to have other things to do besides just that. 
I also wanted to tackle the health service. By that I mean in terms of management. Carol Seager, now the director, has been abig help, and Dr. Moriarity. Dr. Vagner will be retiring next year so we have another young physicfan (who) will be coming in July. 
If you had to put it in a generic term, I thought that the residential side of the univer­sity was in decent shape, except we wanted an office of residence life. It was the student services side was the area that I wanted to emphasize. 
What I did want to say was that one area that we've had as a goal that this year we've had some strides made was a linkage between the academic and the student life sides. You hear a lot of it in thdntellectual Life Com­mittee, that's been big this year. It's not just another game, it's what you're really seeing in American higher education. The faculties aren't as involved with students like they 

NEWS 

used to be. And what that does, it makes the student schizophrenic, and the student life side and the hall life side is kind of what I do when I'm not at "work." We're all one person, we're not just separate people. And that's something in my own feeling that whoever comes in after me should continue to have as a goal. The only way it's going to work is not if Student Affairs forces it to happen, but it's only when the students and the faculty and the Student Affairs people do it The students are starting to work at that happening, but that's been the struggle, how to do it. How to get it to happen. 
Q: The position as vice president of Stu­dent Affairs makes you a visible figure on the Notre Dame campus. Have you en­joyed that? 
A: Yes. I'd say the first couple ofyears it took getting used to. When I took the position at Student Affairs the students primarily knew me as a teacher and dorm person. So the first couple years it was a big adjustment, but I haven't found that to be a big burden. I find that especially in student housing the student body is very, very sensitive, and almost overly sensitive I think, to all of the priests in the dorms in terms ofnot wanting to be intrusive on private time. And that's really amazing. I can't tell you the numberoftimes that people have knocked on my door and said, "Father, I'm sorry to bother you." But who said that they're bothering me? 
Q: With your veto in the Campus Life Council, you have had sub­stantial influence over many fac­ets of student life. Do you feel you've made a positive contribu­tion in that area, and ifso, in what areas? 
A: I don't know about my contribu­tion. I think the CLC is a viable 1 organization, but it doesn't know what it is anymore. In the six years that I've been vice president of Student Affairs, I've done every-, thing but plead to the student body I should set its own agenda with its own people. 
I think it could function much better than it does. It's not just a special interest group like the student senate would be, or the faculty senate would be. It's students, faculty and administration, a tripartite board, and that's the beauty ofthe thing. I can't thinkofa time that I have vetoed the CLC. I have altered decisions, and put conditions on them. The issue is not the vice president having the veto power, but it's the issue of the Campus Life Council knowing what it is, how it functions. 
Q: What do you see as the future ofstudent 
life at Notre Dame? 
A: I think that there are some things that will change here and some things that will never change. I go out and, give these universal Notre Dame talks, and I ask the alumni to go with me as I walk through my perceptions of four years at Notre Dame. So I give a name to the freshman year like the year of adjust­ment, sophomore year, the year of unruli­ness, the junior year I think I called the year ofownership, and the senior year I called the year of being outward bound. There were people in that room who had graduated forty 
years ago, and some who graduated two 
years ago, and at the end of the speech people 
would come up and identify those experi­
ences from across the board. So I think the 
hallmark of the undergraduate education 
here is really the residential life system. 
When I'm on the road I have more questions, 
by a long shot, asking about hall staff rather 
than professors. So I think that the impact 
that student life has on a person is one of the 
factors that keep our alumni so loyal. 
What kind ofchange do I see in the future? 
I think there will be some change in the 
dynamic of the place because of increasing 
cultural diversity. I think that's good, but 
there's also going to be some stress and strain 
involved in it. But that's okay. 
Q: What will you remember most about your years at Notre Dame? 
A: That's hard to say, sincelhavesomanyof them. A lot of what I believe to be true about my own faith, about education and about people is rooted in my experience here. And 
. that will come through in the experiences of the people when you talk about the place. And I think that will probably be the big thing that I'll remember most, especially the stu­
president to utilize that group. The Father David Tyson will soon be leaving Notre Dame's administration building for the Univer­CLC is a standing committee, and it sity of Portland's presidency. File Photo/ Michael Vaughn 
-NEWS 
dents. And that's been one ofthe nice things about this job. The fact that I still have contact with seven student body presidents makes me feel pretty good. 
Q: In light of what you've done at Notre Dame, what do you hope to accomplish as president of the University of Portland? 
A: They had a president prior to my time who really moved the place forward. It was never in financial difficulty or anything, but it just didn't seem to have a lot of forward move­

ment, at least as far as he was concerned. Given that the Holy Cross priests are there, it has oftentimes been compared to Notre Dame by all sorts of people, and some people are very defensive about that. My feeling is that Portland and Notre Dame are like apples and oranges; Notre Dame is a research uni­versity, and Portland is a teaching university. There are similarities in the missions of the places in terms of educating the whole per­son, including values, et cetera. 
I see myself continuing the vision that Tom Oddo had for it, in terms of wholistic education, done in the context of value edu­cation and Catholic tradition. (Father Tho­mas Oddo, president of the University of Portland and a Notre Dame trustee, died in a car accident last October.) And also of visi­bility of the university in the region, some­thing else that Oddo started. There's a serv­ice component to that, but it also has a benefit to the university in terms of visibility. And I think that that's really a priority, too. So I suspect that I'll be spending a lot of time "off the block," as it is called. 
Q: You mentioned about the Catholic aspect of the University of Portland. Does 
it matter that Portland is a Catholic uni­versity much like Notre Dame? 
A: Oh, I think so. I think as we look to the twenty-first century, to me, Catholic educa­tion is a unique, distinctive kind ofeducation. How people relate to one another and their environment does have a lot to do with edu­cation. -So I think more and more in the future, as our culture becomes more and more secular, I think Catholic education will not only be distinctive but almost an alterna­tive education. Where Portland is even more unique is that it is the only Catholic university in the state of Oregon. Its student body is less Catholic than Notre Dame's, it's open to other religious denominations, and also those from other religious denominations seem to respect the fact that it is a Catholic university. 
Q: Will you have any second thoughts 
about leaving Notre Dame? 
A: No, I really don't think so. I think that in the beginning of my own discernment proc­ess, one wonders about that When someone enters our religious community and you vow your life to the Gospel, part of what the vow of obedience is not just to do whatyou're told but you make yourself available to God's call in your life. That in itself can run against human nature where we like to be rooted and have a place to call our own. 
When you ask yourself if you can ever leavethisplace,asinmycaseyou're41 years old and you've been here most, almost all of your adult life and are you going to say it's impossible to leave here? To me, that's what a 41 year-old bachelor says, not what a 41 year-old religious man says. 
Q: You have had a close look at the student body during a decade that definitely had a character ofits own. Ifyou had to sum up the character of the student body as you 
saw it in the 1980s, what would you say? 
A: First of all I would have to say that I think the student bodies in the 1980s have taken a rap that is not true about the "me" generation, about not being concerned about issues be­yond what's on television. That hasn't been my experience of most Notre Dame students. Clearly we've had our share of couch pota­toes, but for the most part if you look at the activities of our student body and the way they are before they come, I basically main­tain that the student who ceases that kind of activity is not successful here. 
I do think that the students of the 1980s were more materialistic than thoseofthe '70s and the late '60s, but certainly not more ma­terialistic than the early '60s. I graduated in 1970 and I often describe my class as the class that came in looking very much like those in the.' 80s with penny loafers and white Levi's and button-down-collared shirts and they went out four years later with hair down theirbacksandbibbedoveralls. Idon'tknow if you will see much more of a transition in a four-year period as we experienced in those four years. But I think that the students of the '80s are more materialistic, but I don't find them greedy materialistic or insensitive to other people. 
So I think I would characterize them as clearly sensitive people, but also more col­laborative with systems than my age group was, that there could be disagreement with­out hysteria. 
There are also similarities. My genera­tion was not always sitting under trees and holding their heads about Vietnam. We were also in the football stadium, we were also in the bars, and we were also atFortLauderdale. One of the things that I have learned and that 

I have said to the Board of Trustees anumber of times -that is si nee I have been at this job I have become more convinced that there are some issues that will never change because of their functions to the age group. There is something about being in the age group be­tween 18 and 22 that there are some issues that are going to be there for mostly all ofthe time. 0 
FEATURES 


'A parable about love' continues its thirty-year success at 
BY KRISTINE DEGANGE 

Presented for the first time in May, 1960, the world's longest running musical "The Fantasticks" will be performed this weekend by the Notre Dame Student Players. "The Fantasticks" was written by Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt and is based on an old French love story about a boy and a girl who are in love yet separated by their hostile families. Actually, in "The Fantasticks" the families are close friends and secretly wish their children to marry.. They have forbidden their children to meet out of certainty that Louisa and Matt will feel contrarily. The production is about fantasy and many inven­tions are used to convey, this as the characters perform a play about maturity, realism and 
Washington Hall 

growing up. 
"Louisa is a young girl who is seeking the fulfillment ofher dreams and romantic fanta­sies," Katy Blakey, the freshman female lead said in reference to her character. "She's caught up in her own world and is searching for a happy ending. She is sixteen and naive but not stupid." 
Part of the fantasy and intrigue of the pro­duction is the stage set. Lighting is used to create a soft, dreamy mood and the stage is set on platforms and created as a child's draw­ing. 
"We've used steps and splashes of paint and color," set designer Mike Miller said. "We used a lot of right angles then distorted them like a child would. By doing this, it's like a child's drawing has suddenly come to life," he added. 
Putting together a finished musical takes long hours ofdedicated practice and rehersal. The troupe began February 15th and since the start every moment has been crucial. 
"It's so hard to be inside for four and five hours at a time when the spring weather is so nice," McGarrity said. "I think everyone really enjoys seeing the hard work pay off and seeing things come together." 
"Because it's such a small cast, it was hard to come together atfirst," actress Sarah Ester­line said. "Everyone had their own indivdual section and w orked on their own separate part until after spring break. Once we got together though, you could really see the group. The connection between characters and the bonds they create could really be seen." 
"Working on a musical is a lot more laid back than work on the other kinds ofproduc­tions-like Shakespeare," Jason Winslade 

· 'Henry,' 'Matt,' and 'Mortimer' (Jason Winslade, Paul ~alvatoriello, and Jeff Simerville) take time out from their rehearsal to pose . for a photograph. The cast and crew of "The Fantasticks" have spent many hours preparing for their performances. Marl Okuda 

· Louis LaGrange and Fran Feeley play two fathers secretly 'Luisa,'and 'Matt' (Katy Blakey and Paul Salvatoriello) play two wishing their children to marry. MariOkuda star-crossed lovers in the musical. MariOkuda 

Louis LaGrange, Paul Salvatoriello, Katy Blakey, and Fran Freely, the central characters in °The Fantasticks" demonstrate some choreography from the musical. Because the cast is so small, the actors and actresses have become close knit through their long hours of practice and rehearsal. The cast will perform four times this weekend and wait anxiously to see their hard work pay off. 
(Henry in the musical) said. "Most everyone knew each other before this production so we've all gotten along really well," he added. "Having a student producer makes it more relaxed, too." 
The musical is being co-produced by Lisa McMahon and Jeffrey McGarrity, the two advisory board members of the Notre Dame Student Players. This organization per­formed musicals like "Camelot" and "Sweet Charity" until 1985 when they overran the budget given to them by SUB. SUB then terminated their funds. No musicals were performed until last year when three Notre Dame students wrote an original musical titled "Simon" which was a success. Due to its popularity, the Notre Dame Student Play­ers was re-formed. 
"Our group is open to everyone who has an interest in musicals," Jeffery Mc Garrity said. 
Mari Okuda 

"Our job is to make sure everything gets done. We (producers) take care of money, publicity, props, food for long practices and music. Itreally gets crazy. There are so many things to do and so few people to do them." 
"The Fantasticks" will be performed in Washington Hall Thursday through Saturday at 7:30pm. . 
APRIL 26, 1990 

SPORTS 



David DiLucia, Notre Dame's sophomore tennis sensation, has risen to new heights this 
.
spring 

Dilucia has climbed to 17th nationally after beginning the season at 44. 
his first international tennis tournament. clocked at 115 miles per hour. If his first 
H 
BY JIM KUSER 

He is a tennis prodigy feared by his oppo­serve fails, which is infrequent, he has a e was born on January 15, 1970. nents, whether they be collegiate or profes­second serve that has a stifling spin. He 
When he was five, he played in sional. Who is he? He is David DiLucia, uses his strong forehand and backhand 

his first tennis match; when he was nine, he competed in his first tennis tournament; when he was eleven, he played in his first national tennis tourna­ment; and when he was twelve, he played Notre Dame's sophomore tennis sensation. 
DiLucia is one of the nation's premier collegiate tennis players. His exciting serve and volley play combines power, poise, and pace. His first serve has been baseline strokes to open opportunities to rush the net and pound his opponents with his relentless volleys. "Aside from an occassional lack of control, there is not a flaw in David's game," says Notre Dame 

14 
SPORTS 


that his prize player be a bit more concerned with his health, DiLucia is not going to change his game. When DiLucia 
makes up his mind to play, he plays. "Ifl am not 100 percent to play, I will play because it is important to me, it is im­portant to the team, and it is important to Notre Dame. Playing ten­nis for Notre Dame is too good an op­portunity to allow a little recurring in­jury to ham­per me." His determina­tion puts him 
tennis coach Bob Bayliss. 
Because DiLucia's 5'10", 155-pound frame is slight compared to many of his stronger opponents, he uses his superior speed to his advantage, proving that speed, when used intelligently, can defeat size. ''Physically, I am not as strong as many of my opponents," says DiLucia. "Hopefully, I am notdone growing. I lifted last summer to increase my strength. Until I am as strong as many of· my opponents, I am going to have to run a lot more to cover the court." When DiLucia runs, DiLucia wins. 
It is possible DiLucia runs too much. "David never quits on a ball," says coach Bayliss. "He scares me at times. However, because David· is not too cautious, he is competitive and hard to beat down. He keeps coming, like an opponent's night­
mare." 
DiLucia's running game makes him prone to injury. Throughout the first two seasons of his collegiate career, he has battled a recurring hip injury. His aggres­sion and intensity do not help heal the injury because he dives acrobatically for returns that leave his opponents flat­footed. 
Although coach Bayliss would prefer 

APRIL 26, 1990 
D:iLu.c~ 1.:~~ ~~ ~clo;:hain~ (f~tt) ~ fc~hliir.=d {b,!ii/,~'11.lj t!v ~c~,~~ Qff ibalaince\, 

.u":!Lnr~-~ ~~~. ;:\.a..,r.;~i11tt ~~P.R"·~~!"''"'J:1m '<'~I('" (:~ ~~ }~~ ~ ~ f:Hil3~m!.'ii:t:1 
pbt;r4'!':f: m~.!'"'F'§-="!1f,,..,,.,.,,. "".L"'.'.~g,,.,~ am1 <l.-:,u~ gk_,ti, he 1;;,t)t. tiH~tl iil ~~..'?I~uf'L~:g!fi!:Ji ~1;tr.,:r1r1,,:;,d ~1~ w::.§~ ~t1J re~uril I'! 

uf ifi~ ~~fu tne liltlii:10:fl il!~ oo :!1!Jl~ iiili'I~ [tr~"" ~•?',P 5,Ci !lttlii_d~s p4}'~= hE 'lh'ii"1ll ~~~-=-m (',;:·if~.g=~ Ct}rtforene•i~ ~gt~ titl~ m,.1 ~ ~1mr1}1;tlr~! ::iili ID~ NC..·~LA. :::w.:k-r::~g rf.":a•nr••')fL 
™~ ~.~~ ~i:1~•,iITT,_'.; 'i<\ t,"1o;:. ;::=::::;;:~ ©I:""" ~5'~ =•·•1 do••h~•r.:,s ~~ f'~ :E~~ G~Uifi:i;~f~:~. /~:I 

Parker, the No. 1 player in the na­tion, 6-4, 1-6, 6-1. Add to the list Wake Forest's Gilles Amaline, the 5th-ranked 

SPORTS 
player in the nation; West Virginia's Joby Foley, the nation's 11th rated player; Michigan's David Cass, ranked 17th; Duke's Mark Mance, the 20th-ranked player in the nation; and Texas Christian's Luis Rouette, the 26th-ranked player in the nation. 
Having slain these giants, DiLucia is 
-ran-ked-17th. natfonally after beginning the spring rated 44th. It is the high­est ranking achieved by a Notre Dame tennis player in recent memory. DiLucia also teams with senior Mike Wallace to form one of the nation's best doubles tandems. 
Aside from making an im­pact on the collegiate level, DiLucia has made an impact on the amateur and professional levels. He won the 1988 Omega Easter Bow1 tournament in Flor­ida; he finished third in the 1987 National Indoor tournament, a tournament that featured the nation's top 128 junior players; he was a member of the national 18-and-under USA Team se­lected by the United States Ten­nis Association; he reached the third round of the Italian Open, the quaterfinals of the Belgian Open, and the preliminary round of the French Open in the sum­mer of 1988; he played on the United States Junior Davis Cup 
Team in thesummerof 1987; he 
Stanford's Jonathan Stark de­feated Andre Agassi and Mats Wilander in an exhibition doubles match after winning the Nationals. 
The list of laurels is lengthy but DiLucia is far more than a tennis player. "Tennis is very important to me," he says, "but noth­ing in life is fool-proof. I came to Notre Dame because it offers the best in terms of athletics and academics. Notre Dame's commitment to athletics is full-time. Notre Dame's commitment to academics is full­time. Most importantly, the people at Notre Dame are genuine. If! had chosen to go into sec!usion as a tennis player first and as a student second, I would have denied myself a privilege. Coming to Notre Dame is the best decision I have made." 
DiLucia is a resident of Alumni Hall. A celebrity on the national level of collegiate tennis, he prefers to be "one of the guys" on the campus level. Although his tennis schedule is extremely demanding, he bal­ances his athletic, academic, and social lives well. As a psychology major with a He does not apply too much pressure." 
He attributes the other half of hfs suc­cess to his doubles partner, Mike Wallace, who "has been playing out of his mind. He does it all, and he does it all well." The DiLucia-Wallace combination is ranked 8th in the nation and has defeated the number 2, 4, 13, and 17 doubles combina­tions. 

played in the U.S. Open; he and and allows the success to take care of itself." 

concentration in finance, he has a near 3.0 grade point average. He makes a point of sharing his experience and knowledge with heralded freshman tennis players Paul Anthony, Chuck Coleman, Ryan Lee, Ron Rosas, Mark Schmidt, Chris Wojtalik, and Andy Zurcher. "David leads the younger guys on the team," says Schmidt. "He gets us up; he settles us down. We learn a lot from him." 
DiLucia attributes half of his success to coach Bayliss who "has been very suppor­tive. He has helped me to concentrate on tennis and school. He keeps me focused and allows the success to take care of itself. 
"David does what he does for the team," says Wallace. "It is team first. He is a great competitor." The combination will play in the NCAA championships and will proba­bly play the pro satellite this summer, if scheduling permits. 
There is no telling how high DiLucia's star will rise. He intends to remain at Notre Dame for four years, receive his degree, and join the pro tour. "With a little polish­ing, watch out for David DiLucia in the future," says coach Bayliss. "He is a total package that is filled with surprises. He is a great player and a greater person. It is a pleasure to have him at Notre Dame." 0 

ttention: Student Clubs and Organizations 
Scholastic is sending out a summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen 
If you are interested in advertising in this issue, please con­tact Tony Porcelli as soon as possible at 239-7569 or stop by the Scholastic Office, 303 La Fortune Student Center 
Let those freshmen know you are out there--advertise in Scholastic! 

Will the Third Time Be the Charm? 
After two near-misses, 
Notre Dame's lacrosse team 
aims for an NCAA bid 
N 
BY PETE LAFLEUR 
otreDame'sversionofthe"fast­
estgameon two feet" looks tonm 

away with the NCAA western lacrosse bid this week when it hosts Ohio State and Michigan State in the continuation ofaten-yearrivalry. The Irish own an 8-3 se­ries edge over the Spartans and have posted a 6-6 record_ with the Buckeyes. Despite such history and despite their 7-6 record and despite coming close to a bid the last two years, all that matters to Notre Dame now are their last two games. If they beat Ohio State on Saturday and Michigan State next Wed­nesday, Notre Dame will clinch the bid. The Irish have been here before. 
Last season Notre Dame defeated Air Force in a midseason battle atMoose Krause Stadium. When the end of the year rolled around, victories over the Buckeyes and Spartans were all that stood between the Irish and their first NCAA appearance. Notre Dame came up short, losing in East Lansing 9-7 and in Columbus 7-5. Second­year Irish coach Kevin Corrigan is focused on this season and this year's bid. 

"Every season has its own life and last year was a different team with a different season behind it," Corrigan says. "This year we're playing better competition and I just think it's important for us to concentrate on this year. What we learned from last year is that we were two goals short ofwrapping the thing up and this year all it will take is winning by one goal." 
The tough competition which Corrigan refers to has included match ups up with five recent NCAA tournament participants. In addition to Air Force (who captured the bid in 1988) and Michigan State (a two-time western representative in 1987 and 1989), Notre Dame also faced Loyola (Md.), Adel­phi, and Cornell, losing to all three. The game with the Big Red was particularly noteworthy for the Irish, who led 8-7 in the fourth period befqre Cornell erupted for seven unanswered goals. 
Senior defenseman Mike Stevens points out that the tough schedule and home field advantage could have good and bad effects on the season's final games. 
"Playing at home will help a lot because it's very hard to play on the road with dis­tractions . and just feeling tired or worn down," he says. "But these two games should be a lot closer because we've gained a lot from the tough schedule we've played. Still, though, we just need to go out and do what we know we can do and not think it's going to happen simply because we've had such a tough year." 
In order to be best prepared for the games, the Irish will look to benefit from a series of intense practices, says Corrigan. He attributes the recent poor showing against Ohio Wesleyan (a 16-6 loss) to a week of poor practicing. 
"I was upset and dissapointed with the way we played against Ohio Wesleyan," Corrigan said. "Right now, with not much practice days left, it's time to put up or shut up. The team has said that making the NCAA Tournament is a goal of theirs and that doesn't happen .with some magic for­mula, butwhen you go out andjust bust your fanny." 
Stevens agrees. "We will definitely have 
SPORTS 


Courtesy Sports Information 

McHugh, Notre Dame's sixth all-time scorer, has relinquished the team scor­ing lead to Sullivan ... 
to change how we prepare by having more intense practices," he says. "We didn't practice well before the game with Ohio Wesleyan and we came out flat for the first half." 
Senior co-captain Dave Carey envisions the prize at the end of two weeks ofpractice, saying, "They are both going to be tough games but we know we can beat both teams. The key is that we practice well this week. Good practice is essential to success in the games--we've seen all year that when we have intense practices we play well in the 
games·... 
One of the best weeks of practice pre­ceded the game against Air Force at the San Diego Tournament in late March, when the Irish overcame a 6-1 first~half deficit and posted two late goals to defeat their new rival 12-11. The next day Notre Dame beat the host team to emerge as tournament champs. Similar preparation preceded the strong showing against Cornell. 
Overall, the_pieces seem to be coming together for a 35-man squad that includes 16 newcomers. The Irish attack is led by the 
APRIL 26, 1990 
one-two punch ofsenior Brian McHugh and sophomore Mike Sullivan. McHugh, Notre Dame's sixth all-time leading scorer, has relinquished the team scoring lead to Sulli­van despite pouring in 26 goals and six assists for his most productive season. 
Sullivan, meanwhile, has exploded for a team-high 45 points (17 goals, 28 assists), boosting him to 12th on the career scoring list. Sullivan's seven goals and two assists against Canisius in the season opener tied or broke three Irish scoring records while his 45 points are the most ever by an Irish sophomore. And with two more assists, Sullivan will set the new standard for assists in a season. 
Junior Mike Sennett rounds out a start­ing attack line that has posted almost half of the team's points. Although not as prolific a scorer as his linemates, Sennett has emerged as an accurate shooter, scoring on 10 of23 shots fora team-leading .434 shoot­ing percentage. 
The midfield has also had its share of surprises, most notably the emergence of freshmen Brian 
ent have shared time in the goal, each com­piling similar totals. Parent had 29 saves against Loyola, setting three Notre Dame records. 
But what it all comes down to are these last two games. And, as Corrigan points out, if the team is willing to work for it, the bid could be theirs. 
"We know we're capable ofplaying at a certain level, butthatdoesn'tmeananything ifwe can 'tsustain itfor60minutes," he said. "I think that the shot at the NCAA bid is a big challenge for our team and all we have to do now is want to work for it. We'll do every­thing we can do in the next ten days to win. And if everything comes together, we should be all right. 
"I think we've made progress and are a better team. I want the team to show me and themselves how much they've learned by going out, working hard and getting the bid." 
Come next Wednesday, the Irish should know ifall the hard work is rewarded with a first-ever NCAA appearance. . 
Mayglothling and Ed Lamb. Maygloth­ling' s nine assists stand as an Irish record for freshman midfielders while Lamb's eleven goals are the most ever scored by a rookie midfielder. Senior co­captain Mike Quigley and junior John Ca­pano join Maygloth­ling on a quick first middie line while Carey and junior Chris Rowley usually run with Lamb on the sec­ond middie unit. 
Juniors Dave Bar­nard and Eamon McAnaney join Ste­vens on the starting de­fensive unit, with an­other junior, Pete Gillin, seeing time as a long-stick midfielder. Sophomore Tom Duane and Chris Par­
... whose 45 points are the most ever by an Irish sophomore. Mari Okuda 

SPORTS 

sportsw 
k COMPILED BY BRIAN MCMAHON 

The Notre Dame softball (24-13) team captured the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament last weekend in Dayton. After a first-round bye, the Irish defeated Dayton 2-1 and St. Louis in the cham­pionship 3-2 in 13 innings. .MISSY LINN and STACI ALFORD provided the pitching heroics. 
The Irish now tum their attention to their last 18 games, 16 ofwhich are at home after playing justfour home games up to now. 
After a two week layoff, the women's golf team will wrap up the 1990 spring season at the 54-hole Boilermaker Invitational on Purdue's South Course April 28-29. The Irish will look to improve on their 
performance at the Indiana Invitational two weeks ago where they finished last. 
The men's team finished 25th in a 32-team field at last weekend's Akron Invitational. Notre Dame was led by senior co-captain PAT MOHAN's 227, good for the eighth spot in the consolation bracket. 
The men's team closes its season this weekend at the Robert Kepler Invitational in Columbus, Ohio. It is Notre Dame's 19th appearance in the tournament dating back to 1962. Last year, the squad scored the lowest in their history at the event with a 939 over54 holes. 

Notre Dame's lacrosse team suffered a disap­pointing loss at the hands of Ohio Wesleyan last weekend. The Irish host Ohio State on Saturday, April28 at 4 p.m. and Michigan State onWednesday, May 2 at 3:30 p.m. Both games will be played in Krause Stadium. (For more on the lacrosse team, see the story starting on page 14) 
The men's track team placed fourth in a IO-team field last weekend at the Indiana Intercollegiate outdoor meet in Indianapolis. TheIrish had three in­dividual champions. PA TRICK KEARNS placed 
first in the 10,000 meters with a time of 30:57.4. MATT DEANGELIS captured the javelin with a 202-2 toss. JOHN COLE won the high jump, clearing 6-1 1.5. 
The squad will split this weekend for the Drake Relays in DesMoines,Iowa and the Hillsdale Relays in Hillsdale, Michigan. 
The tennis team (21-4, ranked 17th in the coun­try) defeated Ohio State last Sunday, led by the play of DAVID DILUCIA, WALTER DOLHARE and CHUCK COLEMAN. 
The Irish play their regular season home games this week, hosting Drake and Marquette on Satur­day, April 28 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. respectively. Notre Dame wraps up its season on the road against 
Kalamazoo on Tuesday, May I at 3 p.m. 
SportsChannel America will televise the Drake match on a tape-delay basis. The time and date ofthe replay has yet to be determined. 
Notre Dame (16-8) won both its matches last weekend, defeating Indiana State and Illinois State by identical 8-1 scores. KATIE CLARK, KIM PACELLA, ANN BRADSHAW and TYLER MUSLEH won twice in singles play. 
The Irish will finish their season at home against Butler on Friday, April 27, at 3:30 p.m. at the Court­ney Tennis Courts. 
The baseball team (25-9 overall; 10-2, 1st in the MCC) travels to Detroit (16-14; 7-5, 2nd in the MCC) for doubleheaders on Saturday and Sunday at 12 p.m. The Irish will also take on Illinois-Chicago 
in a twinbill on Monday at 6 p.m. The week winds down with a doubleheader on Wednesday versus Valparaiso at 2 p.m. at Jake Kline Field. 
20 
SCHOLASTIC 


COMING DISTRACTIONS 
LECTURES 
FILMS 


SPECIAL 

Brown Bag, "Notre Dame and the Post Cold War," Bishop Thomas Gumble­ton, Auxilliary Bishop of Detroit and President of Pax Christi USA. 12:00 p.m., rm. 121, Law School. 
Club Cup Nite,9-2a.m., Alumni Senior 
Club. 
PANEL DISCUSSION 

"The Role of Diversity in the Setting of Roman Catholic Worship." Panelists include Father Cheri, Rev. Bede Abram ofthe Archdiocese ofNew Orleans and Sr. Eleanor Bernstein, C.S .J., director of Nd's Center for Pastoral Liturgy. 7:30 p.m., Grace Hall. 
ENTERTAINMENT 

Musical Comedy, "The Fantasticks." 
Presented by the Notre Dame Student 
Players. 7:30 p.m., Washington Hall. 
Tickets Required. 
SPECIAL 

Lunch, noon-2a.m., Alumni Senior Club 
CONCERT 

Wind Ensemble Concert, 8:00p.m., Little Theatre, St Mary's. 

"Magnetic Properties and Critical Cur­rent Density of High Temperature Su­perconductors," Dr. Paul Chu, Univer­sity of Houston. 10:lOa.m., rm. 302 Cushing. 
"High Temperature Superconductivity: Past, Present and Future," Dr. Paul Chu, University of Houston. 3:30p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
"Internal and External Aspects of Ger­man Unification;" Ingrid Baumgartner, Vice Consul, Consulate General of the Federal Republic of Germany in De­troit. 4:30p.m., rm.131, Decio 
"Analytic Continuation of Bounded Holomorphic Functions in the Polydisc,"Dr.PeterL.Polakov,Newton Ma. 4:30p.m., rm. 226 Math Building. Coffee in rm. 201 at 4:00p.m. 
Humanities Colloquium, "JaneAusten's Failures: How Not to Be," Wesley Kirkpatrick (Philosophy). 12:00p.m., rm. 131 Decio. 
Poetry Reading/Lecture, by Pat Mora, writer, lecturer, consultant, from Cin­cinnati, OH; Genaro Gonzalez, Univer­sity of Texas, Pan American College; Evangelina Vigil-Pinion, public infor­mation coordinator, Cultural Arts Coun­cil, Houston, Tx; R>R> Hinojosa Smith, Professor ofEnglish, University of Texas at Austin. 7:00p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's. 
ENTERTAINMENT 
Musical Comedy, "The Fantasticks." Presented by the Notre Dame Players. 
7:30 Washington Hall. 
"Scandal," Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m. & 9:45p.m .. 
"A License to Kill." 8:00p.m. & 10:15p.m., Cushing Auditorium, Ad­mission $2.00. 
"Sex, Lies, and Videotape," 7:30 and 9:45, Snite. 

SPECIAL 

10:00a.m. -10:00p.m., Super Sale, JACC Fieldhouse. 
Blue/Gold Football Game. 1:30p.m. Tickets Required. 
ENTERTAINMENT 

Musical Comedy, "The Fantasticks." Presented by the Notre Dame Student Players. 7:30p.m., Washington Hall. 
Film, "Scandal," 7:30p.m., & 9:45p.m., Annenberg Auditorium. 

ENTERTAINMENT 

Film, "SwissFamilyRobinson," Annen­berg Auditorium. 2:00p.m. 
ND Brass Ensemble Concert. 3 :00p.m., Washington Hall. 
Super Sale, 10:00a.m.-6:00p.m., JACC Fieldhouse. 
EDITORIAL 


Your Apathy Needs a Tan 
Ah, the weather. It's amazing what a little warmth and direct sunlight does for everyone's spirits. Go ahead, get some spring cleaning done, take your first long walk without a jacket since last September. You need not have a care in the world. · Well, maybe, but not here at Notre Dame. Here we complain whenever possible, even during the best weather so far this spring. If anyone was fortunate enough to take a stroll around campus last Saturday or Sunday, no matter where you were, student voices cried the same preposterous words: "Wow, this ACTUALLY' is starting to look like a real college campus." Oh, you say you never said that this weekend? Of course you did, and shame on. all of you. No matter how idiotic such student sentiment is, two questions arise: 1) What IS a real college campus, anyway? and 2) Why haven't you done anything to make this the sort of campus you envision? Everyone gets a little apathetic and cranky when winter drags, but to bad-mouth the campus when you should be having fun is way out ofline. Apathy is a horrible thing in anyone, and it appears that Notre Dame students have an acute case of it. Does it matter that we are all in the springtime of our lives, supposedly full of youthful vigor? Evidently not. Laziness here runs rampant. It's no wonder that everyone feels that there is a crisis in male-female relations on campus these days-there must be considering the apathy shown Saturday and Sunday. The same people who sit in aroom night drinking beer, being useless, and putting down the opposite sex (along with most everything else on campus) were the very ones who were getting their first good breath offresh air this past weekend. Their criticisms just came naturally-it is part of their pattern by now. If this campus is not what you think to should be, it is, in part, because you haven't tried hard enough to either have fun or to make some changes. Leave the beer in the refrigerator, get some sun, and loosen up. Quit ruining the sunny days for the rest ofus. 
-Scholastic 
FINAL WORD 

A 
ToB 


Friend 
BY .JIM FITZGERALD 
What did you miss most year old boy named Harrison Gerard­that role, he just wants me to bea friend. when you left home? For Haus. Harrison's father died before the Surprisingly though, the catches on the me, and I'm sure for many infant was born and he and his mom live quad, the afternoons rollerskating and of you as well, it was family. I missed alone a few miles from campus. The first the games of"go fish" in my room have my parents, and especially my brother time I met Harrison he showed me a foot­come to be as special to me as I hope and two sisters. Yes, the same brother ball his father's friend (an assistant coach they are to him. I used to beat up and the same sisters I for the Chicago Bears at the time) had Quite often I find myself bogged used to love to tease were now seven gotten signed for him the day Harrison was down with schoolwork and realize I 

haven't seen Harrison in a
hundred miles away and while. I begin to wonder how 
I finally realized how I'll ever fit him into my sched­
special they were. I also ule, because after all, the main 
realized how terrible it reason we go to college is to
must be to be an only study, oris it? Yes, I've given
child and never'to know up a lot ofstudy time to be with
the sibling love I was him, but whenever I wonder
treasuring so much. whether it's worth it, I think of 
Above and beyond ev­the Christmas card he gave me 
ery other reason I could this year. The front of the card 
list, missing my own had a picture of me beating up 
family was the reason I a dinosaur (those of you who
joined the Big Brother/ know me now realize how
Big Sister program here smart this kid is) and it read
in South Bend. This "To my champion big brother" 
program, I thought, with the back saying "From
would allow me a your Little Brother, Harrison." 
"pseudo-sibling" while He then gave me a desk organ-
I was here, yet never did 
I imagine what this "sibling" would be born. izer which he bought with his own 
able to offer me in return. Rather than becoming the teacher/ba­money and told me I was the best big 
Besides my personal motives, I also bysitter I originally expected I'd be, I in­brother in the whole world. Thinking 
saw myself in the program as fulfilling stead became simply a friend. And now, I back _on that night during Christmas­
some sort of social responsibilty. Ini­don't bring Harrison up to campus because time,:! realize its worth ten times the 
tially I thought: 'TH give up maybe I have to, I bring him up here because I want amo~ntoftimel put I'm putting in, be­
one or two days a week and bring this to. He's a young, sensitive, innocent, caring caus~ it's for a friend. The sad thing is, 
kid up to campus to help him with his boy who has given to me more than I could there are still numerous Harrison's 
homework and to give him a chance to ever give him. I know Harrison wishes he just waiting for a friend like you. It 
getoutofthehouse." Well, in Novem­had a father to grow up with, but he realizes could be one of the best decisions 
ber of 1988, I was matched with a six he doesn't and instead of wanting me to fill you'll ever make. Trust me. . 
Scholastic desperately seeks: 

L, fE-f~ 
~E:~ 


HOW TO KEEP FROM EXPLODING WITH RAGE 

~C)IJ'RE. Mlf'll'Vl..)G ~OUR. Olut,J ~IJS:\Ntl>S W\-\£N F\ c<H.1.JDe~ SNtA~SOP BE-l-\lrJQ ~OU A~D 
oo~s. SoMt-l\·htJG T\-\AT MA~€S H:~N~ F t...1:1 A'20JtJ"I) IN~HJE Youe. B12.~1.:l. 
:\J 
Sc,,-...e,-r,~E:.S' ':1ov M.UST Jus;-r l,EAQ....:) TO T~SI:. ':1oue Baoc., UP ~"10 ''f>v"t A Uc:> 0~ IT.,. 

BOT &t. CAR.£..f:U\....--'::10U MAY 6-NU OP .N~PQ.IS\oJG 'joueS'~l-F. 
SITT O~'T COMPLETELY R~ <;<> ~00~ s,,,,£1T\o~<;. -n\l'> cou \...V 7 \...£AD TO SE.Q..tOOS IL..Lr-JE.~5 De. ~ E.\J&,:) U)QQ.~. ~ : 
n 
3 
n 

IF AU.. t.LSE. ~A.\LS l"\1£.N .l\.lSt "L\GITTt.....:) Or'.'' S\"t"' A.T ~ooe.. 

'Jbe World's Produ«xd by The Notre Dame StudentPlayers IA>ngest 
Running Musical-­Now in its 
30thYear!! 

Thursday, April 00th thru Saturday'April 28th 
7:30 pm Washington Hall 
$5 Gena-al Public $3 Students/Senior Citizens 
Book and Lyrics Reserved Seating Tickets 
byTOMJO~ are available at the SJxmsoredby SUB Music by . LaFortune Student Cent.er Performing Arts HARVEY SCHMIDT Box Offioo. Phone: 239-8128 
non-profit organization 
U.S. POSTAGE PAID 
Notre Dame, IN Permit No. 10 







