-,----~-­
~ ~-:f?.Fwif~~~2~~ . 


NEWS 04 
NEWS STORIES OFTHEYEAR Doug Schlarman 
Get up-to-date on campus happenings with a review of the· top news stories of the 2004-2005 school year. 
FACES TO REMEMBER Christopher Meskill 
Take a sneak-peek at some important campus celebrities that you should know. 
CAMPUS LIFE 14 

PERFECT STRANGERS Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Scholastic slims down the spectrum of roommate relations into three basic categories -"kindred spirits," "I'm OK, you're OK" and "it wasn't meant to be." 
An overview ofyour future home -the residence halls and their traditions. 
ENTERTAINMENT 2s 
CLUBBING AT NOTRE DAME Amy Meyers 
Asampling of the opportunities -from service to athletics · -available to help you do more than just homework. 
LET US ENTERTAIN YOU Nick Kolman-Mandie From live music to films and plays to art, literature and beyond, Notre Dame is alive and thriving with fun.. 

SPORTS 37 

Campus Watch. . . . . . . . 23 Cribs ............. 28 Good Eats . . . . . . . . . . ..31 Point/Counterpoint . . . . . 40 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 200S 
SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 
Times,They AreA-Changin' 
In my family, whenever college came up in conversatton, the 
• word "time" was sure to be uttered. "College," my father would say in a rather wistful tone. "Oh, college will be the best time of your life." My mother, always the worrier, took a more realistic approach: "In four years time, you'll have to go out into the real world and make something ofyourself." Even my sister, who -at 
the time ofmy admittance -was a sophomore at Notre Dame, poked me in the ribs, mischieviously saying, "Dude, we're going to have the best times together in college." But when I arrived at Notre Dame, time seemed to disappear. I would hardly notice one class pass by to the next, let alone take note of the fact that the beautiful fall weather gradually was cooling down and bringing on winter. So why the emphasis on time, when it is so obvi­ously absent from our minds? As my good man David Bowie says, "Time may change me, but I can't trace time." 
Which brings me to my next point. Looking back, I wish someone had mentioned change a little bit more often. Don't get me wrong: I didn't expect to be the exact same person as a senior donning my cap and gown that I was when I was pulling on my swimsuit for the mandatory freshman swim test. 

look for But at the same time, I was totally oblivious to how much I would change. 
NEXT 
Take, for example, exhibit (A) (pre-college) and exhibit (B) (college).


ISSUE 
in the Now don't get scared; I'm a rare case. But there are days that I look at 
FALL myselfin the mirror and can't even imagine that I ain the same person I was three years ago. And not just in terms ofphysical appearance; my political views have evolved, my intellect has grown, and -so I'm told -I'm even more mature. And to me, that's what college is all about. Yes, you will take important tests, and you also will attend your fair share of memorable par-· ties. But in the end, it i~ the person you become that makes or breaks your college experience. You begin your changes the minute you step on campus. I wish you luck. 
One MoreThing ... 
And now on for a bit ofshameless self-promotion. There is no better place to be on cam.pus than in the basement offices of Scholastic in South Dining Hall. Scholastic is Notre Dame's biweekly campus newsmagazine, and it has been coming off the presses every year for the last 13 8. ~ether you were editor of your high school publication, a budding photographer in high school, or just want to get away from your annoying roommate, Scholastic is where it's at. Stop by and say "hello" at Activities Night, or send an e-mail 
to scholast@nd.edu. We'd love to hear from you. 
)ii0~~ (B) 
Mo Ertel, Editor in Chief 


Vol. 147, No. 01 • SUMMER 2005 

SCHOL8STIC 
Editor in Chief Mo Ertel 
Managing Editor 
Lauren Wilc:ox 
Executive Editor Christopher Mesklll 
Executive Copy Editor 
Doug Schlarman 
Executive Copy Assistant Regina Gesick( 
Executive Design Editor David Redenbaugh 
News Dave Poell, editor Daric Snyder, assistant 
Arts and Entertainment 
Claire S6bczak, editor Mike Laskey, assistant 
Sports Nicole Dorner, editor Michael Kim, assistant 
Design 
Amy Meyers Jana Stewart Julie Ruffin Tekla Sauter BethAnn Visceglia 
Photography 
Brenna Mannion, editor Kristin Keve, assistant 
Distribution Bryan Lowery 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 

COVER DESIGN 
DAVID REDENBAUGH 
Disce Quasi Se1upe1· Vkt11111S Vive Quasi Cms Morit11111S 
Published blweekJy at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Marla Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine Is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or in part, may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher.You give me that funny feeling in my tummy. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liablllty for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Srudent Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published In the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue. She specializes In eggs. All letters must Include·· the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year.Avallable back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed In Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 

2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
21 APRIL 2005 




Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 

Seminarians Greg Haake, C.S.C., Pete McCormick, C.S.C., Stephen Koeth, C.S.C., and Jim Gallagher, C.S.C. 

-ANSWER~ 
THE CALL-~. 

Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 

FROSH·O 
If you get tired of constantly repeating your name, dorm and hometown, try making up a new alias each time. 
FLEX POINTS 
They're like free money, for everything from Burger King to Starbucks. So much fun, you almost forget that your parents paid for them. 
NEW ROOMMATES 
Sometimes they turn out to be your best friend, other times, your worst enemy. Either way, play nice: They'll be, taking your phone messages. 
0 
MEIJER 
' 
From CDs to paper towels, 
-
extension cords to throw rugs, this place sells everything you've ever wanted -and more. 
PARIETALS 
Sure, they make gender relations awkward. But you won't have to worry about finding excuses to leave a party early, and your roommate can't sexile you from your room for too long. Well, legally, at least. 

V\l:hat Is 1:t-Ab_oi.1~--~;otte-·oame? 
\ I,'\ I l '•-I I 1· lt I I/ 'I '/ ! L \ 
A_:primer--OJl .Our Lacfy!s-µniv~i:sity. I _ ,, , , . 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 
"Notre Dame is Notre Dame." 
The previous statement has been u.sed excess.ively in conversations about Notre Dame. However, there is truth to the statement. Notre Dame is a unique place. It is in the middle of nowhere and seemingly archaic with its single-sex dorms, parietals and Catholic identity. Yet, so many alums speak so positively about their alma mater. Many employers gush at the prospect of hiring Notre Dame students. So what is it about Notre Dame that makes it so special? Notre Dame is technically a university, but it's more than just that. It is a place that strives to fulfill its goal to educate not just the mind but also the body and spirit. Although this aim of the university may seem a bit lofty, if you let the university shape you, you will find yourself growing in more ways than just intellectually. Your four years under the Dome will give you the ultimate college experience. There is no other place that offers the combination oftop-notch academics, high-profile athletics, stellar Campus Ministry programs (and not just for Catholics), a gorgeous campus and a tight-knit community that feels like a family. You'll find that Notre Dame is a demanding place. There will be plenty of parties and SYRs to attend, as well as more interhall sports opportunities than you can imagine. However, there also will be presentations to prepare for, 10-page papers to turn in and some bickering with professors over your final grade. During the fall, you'll find that postponing your school work until the weekend will become a pointless exercise. Notre Dame football weekends will take up all ofyour time, especially considering this season's football schedule, which features a home stretch of five football games in a row (luckily, there is one bye week in-between). There are so many things to do but seemingly so little time to do it all. Yes, it's true: Life at Notre Dame may be overwhelming at times, but think ofit as an opportunity to sharpen your time management skills. Think of it as a place that tests your ability to have the boldness to say "no" in the right situations. If attending Notre Dame isn't exactly your dream.:come-true, think ofwhat a Notre Dame education can provide for you. As an undergraduate, you might not be able to see the bigger picture ofwhere your education is taking you, but trust us; a Notre Dame degree will prepare you for the real world. We live in a society that is driven by success, one that tempts many students to choose majors they think will lead to monetary success. However, it is essential that you study what you care about. It is true that picking the right major can be difficult, especially given all ofthe available options. Still, college is a place where you will learn how to think, write and read critically, as well as where you will receive a holistic sense of the vast span of opportunities that are available to you. Choose a major that will fulfill you intellectually, and the rest will take care ofitself. Look at Head Football Coach Charlie Weis (ND '78). How many football coaches do you know that majored in speech and drama? Take advantage of Notre Dame. You'll be surprised how much it has to offer. Get to know your professors. They don't bite and can be valuable resources. Study hard, but don't let it deter you from getting out of the library to experience campus events and meet­ing potential lifelong friends. Enjoy the traditions, and don't take anything for granted, because it all will go by faster tlrnn you would think. Notre Dame is Notre Dame, and you'll find out why when you arrive in August. . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 






Fight Song &Alma Mater 
The essential songs for life under the Dome 
..

SCHOLASTICSTAFF
Many incoming freshmen have the luxury of already having the Fight Song and the Alma Ma­
ter ingrained in their minds since birth. Perhaps your mother was an alumna and sung you to sleep with the Alma Mater. Or perhaps you grew up in the South Bend area and have attended numerous Masses at the Basilica or the Grotto. 
But for most freshmen, the first time they hear such songs will be during their first pep rally or the opening school-wide Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an intro­duction to the lyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2009, you'll lmow as well as your own name. 
"Notre DameVictory March" (The Fight Song) 

Honored by college football as "the greatest of all college fight songs," the "Notre Dame Victory March" was written by two Notre Dame graduates -brothers Michael Shea, a priest, and John Shea, a monogram winner in baseball -in 1908. It first was performed on campus in the Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday in 1909. Memorize the song now and you'll save yourself some flack from upperclass­men come the first home football game. (Hint: You really only need to lmow the chorus.) 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: Sing her gl01y and sound herfame, Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: Rah, rah! for Notre Dame We will fight in ev'1y game, Strong ofheart and true to her name · We will ne'er forget her And will cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus: 
Chee1; cheerfor Old No-tt·e Dame, JiVake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high,. Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons go marching Onward to victo1y. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 
"Notre Dame, Our Mother" (TheAlma Mater) 

The Notre Dame Alma Mater is per­formed at the erid of every football game at Notre Dame Stadium, win or lose. It was written in 1930 by Joseph J. Casasanta, a 1923 N.D. graduate, in honor ofthe dedica­tion ofNotre Dame Stadium -the House that Knute Built. The song also is sung at the end of every football weekend Mass at the Basilica, proving that, at the university thatis home to Touchdown] esus and We're No. 1 Moses, it is virtually impossible to separate religion and football. 
Notre Dame, our Mothe1; Tender, strong and true, Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold and Blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame; And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame! . 
..J 
~ 





Tops 
Things to do in the first month of school 
Take a coffee break with
5 · 
. • one of your professors. You'll be amazed at how much more you will learn outside of class in a one~on~one conversation with your prof than you will in a classroom . setting with him or her. 
4. Join thefacebook.com. 
• ·• It's the best way to stalk that hottie from· Frosh-0. 
·J "Borrow" dishes and 
• silverware from the dining halls until graduation. 
Better stock up for the year, especially if you don't want to make yet another trip to Meijer. 
2 Introduce yourself to the . • upperclassman across the hall. 
They're not as scary as they seem. 
I Join Scholastic Magazine. 
• Anyone with an interest in writing or design, a cynical sense of humor and a love of caffeine is welcome. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 
~SGR01!ASilil0 _fi;IE\11{_§]--------------------­

DOUGSCHLARMAN 
Jenkins Begins His Term as President 
The 2004-2005 academic year the university in 1978. He also holds two Notre Dame as a research university and brought many changes to the philosophy degrees from Oxford. A phi­as an undergraduate university while Notre Dame campus. Tyrone losophy professor at Notre Dame since maintaining its status as a premier Catho­
Willingham, former head football coach 1990, Jenkins was named vice president lic university. D for the Irish, was fired; a new layer ofgold and associate provost in 2000. He also gilding was added to the Dome; and the served as the religious superior of the university opened a state-of-the-art per­Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre forming arts center to the public. How­Dame for three years. Prior to the 2004­ever, perhaps the most substantial change 2005 academic year, Jenkins was on sab­on campus occurred in the office of the batical, serving as a visiting professor at university president. the University of Chicago. 
After a year filled with banquets and cel­Jenkins will be assisted by new univer­ebrations that recognized his hard work sity Executive Vice President John Af­and dedication to the university, the Rev. fleck-Graves, whose term began in June Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., ('63, 2004. Affleck-Graves is the first layperson '67, '69) stepped down from the position to occupy the position of executive vice of university president. Despite plans to president. A native of South Africa, he take a yearlong sabbatical to rest and finish graduated from the University of Cape some writing projects, Malloy will return Town and served on the faculty there for to Notre Dame as a professor of theology 11 years. in 1986, Affleck-Graves joined and a minister. Malloy had been in office the Notre Dame faculty as a professor in for 18 years, and used his considerable the Department of Finance. experience to train his replacement, the Jenkins and Affleck-Graves have ambi­Rev.JohnJenkins, C.S.C. tious plans for the future of the univer­
Jenkins graduated from Notre Dame in sity. Following Malloy's example, these 197 6 and received a master's degree from top university officers intend to improve following the end of Malloy's term in June 2005. 
Notre Dame on the Canipaign
As the excitement of Notre Dame Bend Transpo bus system to run routes dents in the dining hall through the dis­football season wound down to a to polling places for voters who would be t;ribution of The Irish Rover. This conser­close, a new sense of enthusiasm -unable to obtain transportation. However, vative campus publication aimed to reach 
explodedoncampusfortheNovember2, the Notre Dame chapter of the College students through a uniquely Catholic 2004 national election. Notre Dame was Republicans opposed the program, feeling perspective. Further Republican events bombarded with debates, lectures and that itwas slanted to attractliberal voters, included an election night victory party, publications that aimed to overcome the and ultimately refused its support. The held in downtown South Bend, Ind., and alleged political apathy of young voters. program consequently was shut down, as a campus canvass initiative, in which the The increased politicization of campus the university required bi-partisan support College Republicans attempted to identify was effective, and Notre Dame students before it would grant its official approval every Republican student on campus, reg­ofall political views were inspired to take and funding of the program. Still, the ister them to vote, and obtain an absentee an active role in government. College Democrats found other mediums ballot for them. 
Fearing a voting majority of conserva-through which it could be politically active Although the results of the 2004 presi­tives on campus due to the traditionally on campus, including participating in on-dential election were decided by a nation­Catholic beliefs of many Notre Dame campus debates and other election-related wide vote, the students at Notre Dame students, the Notre Dame chapter of the demonstrations. strove to have their voices heard. The College Democrats attempted to find ways Republicans at Notre Dame also were Notre Dame campus, once known for its to draw out the liberal vote. One such ef-highly politically involved on campus political apathy, is becoming a forum for fort called for the enlistment ofthe South around election time, even reaching stu-discussion on policy and government. D 

6 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 

''The Vagina Monologues'' Arouses 
Controversy
The annual performance of "1;;he Vagina Monologues" on Noire Dame's campus always draws a certain amount of discussion. However, this past year the debate was heightened when Eve Ensler, the author of the play and founder ofthe V-Day movement-a national campaign that aims to end vio­lence against women and girls -made an appearance at Notre Dame's campus. The men and women who put on the play at Notre Dame call themselves Va­gina Warriors, and their goal is to raise awareness on campus about violence against females by holding a variety of V-Day events. Included in this past year's events was Project Black, a demonstration in which 120 female participants dressed in black and marched silently from DeBar­tolo Hall to South Dining Hall to signify the manner in which sexual abuse silences women. While most ofthe V-Day events are generally accepted on campus for the message they try to send, the Vagina Warriors' performance of "The Vagina Monologues" creates a large amount of controversy among Notre Dame stu­dents and alumni due to its frank discussion of female sexuality. 
"The Vagina Mono­logues" is a mixture of blunt humor and sin­cerity, featuring women speaking candidly about their sexuality, and spe­cifically their vaginas. All the accounts are based on the stories ofreal women; Ensler wrote the play after conducting a series ofinterviews with women ofall ages, races and socioeconomic backgrounds. Notre Dame's performance was sponsored by the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre, the Gender Studies Program and the Department of English. 
The play's objectors were numerous. Protests ensued on campus, headed by Notre Dame's chapter of Right to Life, an anti-abortion student club who claimed that the show's content was "anti-life." Bishop John D'Arcy seconded Right to Life's sentiments and denounced the show as contrary to Catholic beliefs. The show 
State of the Arts on Ca111pus
The recently opened Marie P. DeBar­PAC features five distinct performance tolo Center for the Performing Arts spaces. A 350-seat mainstage theatre, a (PAC) has ushered in a "Decade of 900-seat concert hall, a studio theatre, a . 
the Arts" at Notre Dame, leaving many THX-certified cinema and an organ hall 
with hopes for improvement in the growth comprise most of the building's 150,000 
and prominence of the arts on campus. square feet. These venues allow for many Aside from housing the offices for types of performances that the university 
faculty of the Department of Film, wouldn't have had the ability to host prior 
Television, and Theatre, the $64 million to the building's opening, and the PAC constantly rotates musical acts, plays and more. The PAC has been able to draw such musical acts as the New York Philharmonic and Vince Gill. Theatrical venues also have been put to good use, as the building has been host to such student plays as "The Laramie Proj­ect," "Dead Man Walking" and "Arcadia." Despite the constant use the PAC sees, it still has adequate space to accommodate all of the university's ensembles, such 


did go on, however, and there was a lun­cheon for Ensler in South Dining Hall at which she discussed the themes ofher play and defended it against critical scrutiny. 
Despite the debate swirling around "The Vagina Monologues," the perform­ers of the show believe that they are do­ing a good thing by raising awareness of violence against women. As senior Carole Kennelly, the director oflastyear's perfor­mance ofthe play, notes, "We're trying to save women. While others may not agree with us, I feel like our hearts are in the right place." D 
as the Glee Club, Collegium, The Notre Dame Symphony and Chorale. With its high-profile performers and high-volume activity, it is easy to see that the building already has begun to improve the quality and quantity of arts on campus. 
Even if the next decade does not fulfill Notre Dame's hope that the opening ofthe PAC will ring in a "Decade of the Arts," the PAC marks a threshold and represents the university's commitment to the arts. The addition ofthis state-of-the-art facil­ity to campus makes the university more competitive with schools that are histori­cally known for the arts, such as North­western University. As Dennis Doordan, chairperson ofthe Department ofArt, Art History and Design, notes, "There is no reason why Notre Dame cannot be one of the leading universities in the visual and performing arts. The talent is here." In the coming years, many will be interested to see just how well Notre Dame uses those talents and resources to devote this decade to the arts. D 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 
Meet student members of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. Please join us. 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs will host a RECEPTION for interested first-year students: 
Monday, August 22nd 1:30-3:30 p.m . 
•
ID 

316 Coleman-Morse Building (3rd Floor Lounge) 
Visit our Web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsnl. Check under "Current Events." 
* * * 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs also sponsors: 
Coffee & Conversation at the Co-Mo 
Solidarity Sunday Community NETWORK Sessions 

TH.E STANDING COMMITTEE ON GAY ANP LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 


Learn Your Irish Vocabulary 

A lexicon of key words you'll want to know 
CHRIS KELLY 
AnTostal: the Celtic festival ofspring; 
O'Shag: O'ShaughnessyHall;home of a weeklong celebration with fun events •the College ofArts and Letters. ~~: for students. 
,.

Parietals:dorm · :~ 
Bengal Bouts: annual student-run 'visiting hours that boxing tournament that benefits charity. ! permit members of 

Bookstore 
Bas ketball: the largest 5-on-5 outdoor basketball tournament 
in the world, held every sprmg on campus. 
Co MO: the Coleman-
Morse Center, which offers •.'. study space and free soft• 
drinks. 
D6, D2/D2000: student parking lots, located near South Quad and North Quad, respectively. 
DART: the system by which students: ·Reckers: a24--hour restaurant, loJ register for classes. Now on the Internet, .• c:ated behindSouthDining HalLC:· . 
it gained the nickname from the days of· : -· ·· ·--·--· ·~---#-____ ,.,_·--, ________,._ -·-· --· ---~-• ·---~-­
--· 
telephone registration. 
Dogbook: the photo directory of Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen; a traditional aid for finding blind dates to dances. 
DPAC:theMarieP.DeBartoloCenter 
forthePerformingArts(a.k.a.thePAC). 
The HuddIe: a convenience store in LaFortune Student Center. 
insideND: online system for 
ac­cessing academic information, such as semester grades and available courses. 
JACC ("Jack"):JoyceAthleticand Convocati~n Center; home ofbasketball and 






7 ~~:~,es. _... . _ 
~~-~!iiili ' 
LaFun: LaFortune Stu.1 
•
year inAugust and onthe last day ofclasses 

•
inMay. 


, the opposite sex to bepresentonlydur­ing certain times of the day. 
·-· :.Quarter Dogs: 
Res Life: Office ofResidence Life and 
•Housing; the most despised compound , word on campus, it's where you go ifyou · break parietals -or any other rules. 
. . . 
:The Rocl<:KnuteRockneMemorial; '. ··, an old .exercise facility ori South Quad; 
...,..,,.... ~___,.. ..-... ·._. ___·,. ······ .. ·... ··-.............. Rolfs: newer, though harder to find,; . exercise facility, located on the east sideI 
of campus. 
-"" ......... ' ',' ~-::;_, 
ir~~1~~£ci~~~~!~t~:t~!:1l a11-

•ChemistryHallt 
Stonehenge: war memodal. foun­tain at the south end. of.North Quad; a popular location for many unofficial freshman orientation activities. 


25-ceht hot dogs sold in LaFortune: starting at mid-. night. Rally in the Alley: a very large I: 

party i_n the "alleys" of Turtle Creek; oc-j . 
curs during the first weekend ofthe school 
SYR: officially called a "theme dance," 
"Screw Your Roommate" got its name from the legendary tradition of setting up one's roommate with a date from the Dogbook. 
Touchdown Jesus: officially, known as the Word of Life Mural, a • famous mosaic on the south wall of the · Hesburgh Library. 
' 
WebCT: Web site that provides students with information about a class, ifthe professor chooses to utilize the site. Includes grades, class updates and more. 
WS ND: student-run fine ~rts radio · station; specializes in classical music. 
WVFI: student-run progressive radio station. D 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 
Turtle Creek ("TC"): apart­ment complex popular among ND se­niors; located very close to campus, it's a traditional party haven for freshmen. 
-· --·

--~~~?t~!-}~~J!Wt~ 



The following faces belong to those people that you, as a Notre Dame student, should know. 
JENKINS: In April 2004, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., was elected the 17th president of Notre Dame by the board of trustees. He is the university's third president since 1952. 
Jenkins, 51, is a 1976 graduate of Notre Dame. He received a master's degree from the university in 1978, and he also holds two degrees in philosophy from Oxford University. 
Jenkins was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1983. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1990 as a professor in the Department of Philosophy. From 1997 to 2000, Jenkins served as the religious superior for the Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame. In 2000, he was named vice president and associate provost of the university. During the 2003-2004 school year, Jenkins was on sabbatical, serving as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago. 
Jenkins has spent the past year learning the ins and outs of the position of university Malloy, C.S.C. Jenkins played an integral role in the firing of former Head Football Coach Tyrone Willingham, and was a key player in the search for a new coach. 
WEIS: In December 2004, Charlie Weis was hired as the head football coach of the Fighting Irish, following the firing of Willingham, who served for three years as head coach. 
Although Weis was not the university's first choice, he certainly fits the job· description. Even before coaching his first game in blue and gold, he already has something in common with Irish legends Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy -a Notre Dame diploma. Yet, his Class of 1978 ring is not the only finger accessory that justifies his hiring, as he has four Super Bowl rings highlighting his 26-year coaching career. 
Weis has studied the game from every perspective and at every level. He began his career as a high school coach in New Jersey before moving to the collegiate level with the University of South Carolina, and from there on to the NFL. Along the way, Weis worked as a defensive assistant, offensive coordinator 
Weis has assembled an impressive staff for next season and already has gained quite a following from students on campus and from alumni around the world. 
POORMAN: The Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., is beginning his seventh year as vice president of student affairs, a position in which he oversees several programs, including Campus Ministry, Student Activities, multicultural and international. student affairs, Notre Dame Security/Police and the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife). When he accepted the position in April of 1999, he said that his new responsibilities gave him a chance to "serve [the] students," a task which he admits is "at once daunting and exciting." · 
Controversy swirled around the vice president of student affairs four years ago when he abruptly announced chang­es to the alcohol policy, banning in -hall danc(!s and consumption of hard alcohol on campus. Prior to serving as vice president, Poor­man was an associate director of Cam­
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 
-----------------------1Fif..'1iil!§lill8(G!J,l!ili...iJ1,,iilillc•!INEW$_i-----------------------, 

pus Ministry, rector of Dillon Hall and a priest-in-residence in Grace Hall before that building was converted into offices. Poorman received his bachelor's degree from the University of Illinois and a Master of Divinity from Notre DaJne. He later earned a doctorate in Christian ethics from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Calif. 
WHITE: Entering his sixth year as athletic director, Kevin White continues to pursue his primary goal to rehabilitate Notre Dame's legendary 
football program. His tenure already has been marked by national championships in fencing, women's basketball and women's soccer. White also has overseen four top-15 finishes for Notre Dame in the NACDA Director's Cup, a measure of an athletic program's overall success. Notre Dame finished 14th in this year's competition. 
White worked as Arizona State University's athletic director for four years before coming to Notre Dame. He has served on several NCAA committees, on the executive committee of the Division I-A Athletic Directors Association and as chairman on the . Pacific-IO Conference's television and bowl committees. In 1997, White received the Alumni Achievement Award at Saint Joseph's College, where he studied as an undergraduate. He then earned a master's degree at Central Michigan University and a doctorate at Southern Illinois University. He also has done postgraduate work at Harvard University's Institute for Educational Management. .· 
MALLOY:TheRev. Edward "Monk'' Malloy, C.S.C., (ND '63, '67, '69) served his final term as the 16th president of Notre Dame last year, a position that he had held since 1986. He also has served as a professor of theology since 1974. Malloy was remarkably accessible for a university president, as he conducts a freshman seminar each semester and resides in an undergraduate residence hall. Several years ago, before a knee injury, Malloy even played an occasional game of basketball with students. He received undergraduate and graduate degrees in English from Notre Dame, a second master's iri theology while studying for the priesthood, and a 
doctorate in Christian ethics from Vanderbilt University. He also has received countless awards, including 12 honorary degrees. Malloy has served as co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute 
on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (a 
component of the National Institutes of Health) and chair of the National 
Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on 
Addiction and Substance Abuse. 
HESBURGH: The Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., (ND '39) served as Notre Dame's 15th president from 1952 to 1987, the longest tenure of any active American university president. As president emeritus to the university (the position that he currently holds), Hesburgh has played l! pivotal role in developing several of Notre Dame's academic institutes. 
Perhaps Hesburgh's most distinguished contributions are those he has made to national and international public service. He has held 15 U.S. presidential appoint­ments involving many major social issues, including civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, treatment ofVietnam offenders, Third World devel­opment and immigration reform. Among the recognitions that he has received are the Congressional Gold Medal and the Medal of Freedom. 
"Father Ted" finds time to connect with students, often guest-lecturing in the classroom and presiding over Mass in residence halls. His presence on campus is ubiquitous; the library, center for in­ternational studies and the public service program all bear his name. 
BREY: Brey joined· the Irish as head 
basketball coach in July 2000 after leav­ing the University of Delaware. He made his excitement about coaching at Notre Dame clear in his first press conference: "I've only been to South Bend twice before today, road games when I was at Duke University," he said. "[I] left on the bus [ ... ] and drove off this campus many times, [ thinking,] 'I wonder ifl could ever be good enough to [coach] at a place like this.' All I can say is, wow, we're here.'' 
Now that he is here, Brey has left his mark. In 2001, he led the Irish to its first NCAA tournament appearance since 1990. He since has led the team to two more tournament appearances, including a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2003. Earlier that season, Brey's Irish defeated three top-10 opponents, the first such occurrence in Notre Dame history. He also coached three consecutive 20-win teams for the first time in Notre Dame history. . 
Brey's career winning percentage in nine years as an NCAA head coach is .657. Before coaching at Delaware and Notre Dame, Brey served as an assistant at Duke under legendary. coach Mike , Krzyzewski and as head ·coach at prep · powerhouse DeMatha High School in Maryland. . 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 


It's time to begin that daunting task of packing. "Where do I start?" you ask. Never fear. Whether you're a list-maker or a bag-stuffer, Scholastic has the low-down on dorm room necessities. When you arrive on campus, don't be c:l_i~~o_t1_i:_~ged _1:>y th<:: logk~_gf_you_I ro_()J:!l:. While they come with the standard desk, bed and closet, empty dorm quarters tend to resemble prison cells. Be sure to bring plenty of posters, pictures and even Christmas lights to spruce up the walls. Some students buy curtains, rope lights or shamrock-shaped lights for school spirit. Most rooms have only a single overhead light fixture and fluorescent lights over the sink, so floor lamps do wonders. You also will want a desk lamp and maybe one small light to clip onto your bed for late-night reading before you doze off to sleep. Speaking of sleeping, the beds do not come with linens, so make sure you bring some bedding-sheets, blankets, pillows, down comforters for the cold winters, etc. -whatever will make you feel comfort-, able. Body pillows are great for lying on the floor and studying. 
Some dorms have beds that can be bunked, while others have modular fur­niture, which means you can bunk your bed on top of your desk and wardrobe. 
___ If.y:our_dorm.do.es..not have modular furniture and you would like to loft your bed, you can purchase a loft kit at a local hardware store, such as Home Depot, when you arrive. Ifyou do not have a handyman mov­ing you in, store employees often will as­semble a loft for a fee. Or, ifyou're feeling adventurous, you can even try building your own from scratch. But remember to bring a toolbox, complete with drills, wrenches and a hammer. To make for a homier crib, you might want to bring a couch or futon. Ifspace, money or transportation is a problem, canvas butterfly chairs or bean bag chairs are clutch. You also may want carpet or rugs to cover the hard floor, which can 
get very cold to walk on in the winter. A carpet sale takes place on campus at the Stepan Center during Freshman Orien­tation weekend, and usually you can find the right fit for your room at the campus sale. Room dimensions vary, and some can be found on the Office of Residence Life and Housing Web site. (Visit http: 1/orlh.nd.edu.) 
Pack a shower caddy to tote your soap and shampoo to and from the commu­
r='~-,-­
fi\
u_=::,;:_.. 
nity bathrooms. A robe or large towel and shower shoes (i.e., flip-flops) also are necessary. 
As far as laundry goes, you can do it yourself or use St. Michael's Laundry Ser­vice. St. Michael's is an on-campus laun­dry service that will pick up your dirty clothes, wash them and return them for a fee. Ifyou decide to do your own laundry, most dorms have coin-,operated_washers_ and dryers ($1.50 and $1.00 to wash and 
_dry one load, respectively). Make sure to bring rolls of quarters, a laundry basket or bag to haul your duds to the laundry room, detergent, stain remover and a drying rack for clothing you'd rather not shrink. Also, if you do not want to lug those quarters around, you should think about purchasing Domer Dollars. These "dollars" will be credited to your student card, and some dorms allow you to use them to pay for your laundry. 
One of the most important decisions will be whether or not to bring a com­puter and, ifso, whether to use a desktop or a laptop. Ifyou choose to leave your computer at home, you can use one in a computer cluster on campus, some of which are open 24 hours. However, some students prefer to write papers and e-mails from the comfort of their rooms, which makes a desktop computer an ideal choice. Many other students find it easier to bring a laptop computer to school. This allows students more freedom when working on papers o,r using the Internet, as they can relocate to their hearts' desire. 
There are many ways to connect to 
12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 

What to Bring: 
-,for the room: alarm clock, twin sheets, lamp, pillows, stereo, hangers ( (/')
· 
.,Random: gym bag, backpack "'hi u~--, wallet, keychain, watch C/1 1;06~"'l
(/")­
posters,checkbook ~ lfy (/"'-­.,Possibilities: bike an 1 ,... A.:r/Je,-_. O n Cll'Jr-1 ~ 
",. S ..:,e,. • v "',L
lock, computer, TV ~ P1, o,,_. 'h 1eA 11: rv,,e,.., refrigerator, phone AA Q.s-,-,c "JJe A Q" ~e e 
'Vfei• .s-,-. lt"f. r/"f.
.,Don't bring: ,...Br· Ver Ju, Qc~ '6 OIJ ;::-, er, microwave, Ju, ".9J,,-' Q/...41.Q ie s, Qc10r toaster, candles, ,... l Q/'41. Hoo,, Qr,,-1,e/r-,i >" answering ,... ~ 0 1",-~ Qr,,-IQ'll 0r-');. e,.s-_. machine V ,;.,. L,0"' "rq ~: 41. .Qr9e,­
, C>vc, '7o"' ,,..9e,-euer, 
_____, ,... Be /JI, e D , 1 Sc},, S'f B. QYe e/Jo,­
though, for 
,... (). Oo/ lly -,. Q11,
those late­
ecor .st.,P,b~· '<t C>vc,
night conver­
q,-,o 'e,.s-. ~­
sations when 
"1.s-: P.. • Orfi.• 
you_r roommate is 
'er I ce 41.
trying to sleep. In order i-,,,,, Q..\'"to see who is calling you on caller 
"1'-'0r,1.s
ID, you may want to bring a_phone with a caller ID display feature, because the university phones do not have this avail-· games. Remem­able. 
ber to bring lots ofoutfits and shirts with A cellular phone has many advantages, your dorm color to show your spirit at pep often including free long distance service rallies. Since most ofthe closets are small, and increased mobility. Cell phones are you may want to buy some plastic shelving one of the easiest ways to keep in touch containers that are cheap and practical orwith family, old friends from home and under-the-bed plastic containers. 
new friends around campus. 
A swimsuit is a must for the mandatoryAs far as wardrobe goes, there are a few ­swim test that all freshmen take at themust-haves. Don't forget warm clothing beginning of the year. Each dorm will for the infamously cold South Bend have a couple of dances -both formalwinter. You'll need a warm coat, gloves and semi-formal:__ each semester. Pack 

or mittens and a hat ifyou don't want to 
a fun dress or two or a jacket or suit and 
tie for such occasions. 
Don't forget a camera to capture all the fun memories you are about to experience with the football games, pep rallies and dorm events. 
Ifyour suitcases are stuffed, or if you forget something, do not worry. Although South Bend may not be a buzzing me­tropolis, it does have plenty of retail stores. The University Park Mall is com­plete with a Macy's, L.S. Ayers, Banana Republic, Gap, Express and many other stores. And if you absolutely must have your favorite teddy bear or your bottle cap collection, Mom and Dad are just a ­phone call and a care package away. D 
Check out "Cribs" on P. 28 f9r some visuals that will guioe you in your decorating endeavors. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 
the Internet in LaFortune Student Cen­ter and Hes burgh Library if you bring a laptop. These campus buildings and many others recently have been outfitted with wireless Internet connections. You may want to bring a wireless Internet card' to make connecting outside the dorm con­venient. For non-wireless computers, there are standard ethernet jacks avail­able around campus, too. Additionally, if you don't want to lug a printer to campus, both color and black and white printers are available in the computer clusters. 
As far as entertainment goes, bring whatever tickles your fancy. Most stu­dents bring televisions for those much­needed study breaks. If you and your roommate are movie addicts, you may want to bring a VCR or DVD player, since dorm rooms are not equipped with cable. A CD player or iPod will provide some musical variety. Get in touch with your roommate to divvy up the more expensive items you'll share. · 
Aside from WestandMod Quad dorms, most are without air conditioning. A fan may come in handy for those few hot nights at the beginning and end of the school year. 
One thing to remember is that mi­crowaves are not allowed in the dorm rooms. Most floors in the dorms have a microwave in the common room for mak­ing popcorn or Easy Mac late at night. It also is a good idea to bring a hot pot that will boil water so you can make Ramen noodles, the quintessential college food. 
Each room has a phone complete with capabilities for voicemail, call waiting, callerID and three-way calling. Youmight 
want a cord­



DomeLights 
I I , 3 I 6 applicantsfor the 2005-2006 freshman 
SUPPLIED BY DAN SARACINO 
class (third highest ever) You are ND 3 4 78 applicants admitted to the Class of You're a very lucky/ intelligent/ athletic/ ' 2009 talented/ well-rounded incoming freshman. I , 9 7S admitted students expected to enroll Seriously. Way back in December, there were 
2,028 mino1i'fy applicants
a whole lot of you. And now just the stron­
9 5 6 admitted minority students 
gest, wisest and bravest remain. And you are one of them. Behold, the statistics from the 119admitted international students 
applicant pool of the Class of 2009. 
Q&A 
With the Class of 2005 valedictorian 

Enrique 
Schaerer 
Enrique Schaere1; valedictorian of the Class of2005, graduated with a dual major in finance and political science. During his zmdergmduate career at Notre Dame, he managed to eam a pe1fect 4.0 cumulative grade point average, serve as a resident assistant at O'Neill Hall, and volunteerfor local organizations. He also has worked as a research assistantfor Notre Dame faculty in biology and political science and as a tutor for student athletes. Scholastic caught up with Enrique to discover his secrets to success. 
What is your favorite memory from your time at Notre Dame? 
If I had to pick just one, it would be my last home football game as a freshman. I will never forget when my three closest friends and I linked arms, swayed back and forth, and sang the Alma Mater. 
What is your favorite way to procrastinate? 
I don't procrastinate ... but if I did, it would probably be with a movie. 
I 3 11 average SAT score ofthe Class of2009 19average ACTscore ofthe Class of2009 
What is the closest you came to losing the 4.0? 
Well, I had a tough time in political theory as a junior. It was different from my other political science courses, and I was walking into the final with anA-/B+. The final was the key -I had to nail it down! So I put my "game face" on and wrote what must have been a great essay on the political theory ofJohn Rawls. 
ls it hard to balance work, extracurricular activities, free time and sleep? Which did you sacrifice the most of? 
Sometimes itis hard to strike the right bal­ance; you sort of feel like you're walking a tight rope. But I naturally move toward balance because variation motivates me. I'd probably get bored if I only studied, only worked or only did sports. Sleep probably gets put on the back burner. 
What part of your experience at Notre Dame was most instrumental in forming who you are today? 
Probably my research with Dr. Kristin Shrader-Frechette and Dr. Anthony Mes­sina. Mywork with Dr. Shrader-Frechette, a prize-winning expert on environmental justice, helped me develop a strong social conscience. She sparked my interest in public service. My thesis work with Dr. Messina, an expert Europeanist, allowed me to fulfill a short-term goal (writing a book). Moreover, I grew to love Spain (my research topic) through the process. 

What is your favorite "brain food" while studying? Favorite brain music? 
Granola bars! I go through granola bars 
like there is no tomorrow, especially when studying. Favorite music? Alternative and punk! People find it hard to believe, but I enjoy bands like Third Eye Blind, The Killers, Blink-182 and Sum 41. Being from Nevada, I also enjoy a lot of West Coast bands -Rooney, The Starting Line and Yellow Card. 
What are your plans for the real world? 
Right now, I'm avoiding it. Actually, I'm going to Yale Law School next year [...] After that, I'll see where the wind blows 
. me, but my hope is to end up in public service some day. 
Billy Joel says that if you try to be a straight-A student, you think too much. Is that true? 
That's Billy Joel for you. vVhat a character! Truth be told, I never tried to be a straight­A student. I just always told myself! would do my best. Apparently, my best was A work. I'm just grateful that things turned out the 'Yay they did. I've been counting my blessings. 
-Lauren Wilcox 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 

Welcome toyournewdormroom. Behind your door you will find a bed, a desk and a roommate. Have a good year! · It may be true that some universities house gigantic supercomputers that match each incoming freshman with a roommate of compatible sleeping and study habits, as well as ofsimiliar musical and neatness preferences. Alas, at Notre Dame there is no such system. Roommate pairings are randomly selected, and you will not receive any sort of personality questionnaire that will be fed into a su­percomputer to match you to your dream roommate. But, fear not. The indiscriminate pro­cess of the Office of Residence Life and Housing is not without its merits. For many of you, college will be your first experience living in the same room with another human being. Even for those who currently share rooms with siblings, your dorm situation will be much different. It is no longer feasible, for example, to resolve every disagreement with a punch in the arm or relentless teasing. While the resident as­sistant (RA) one door down has taken the place ofyour parents and is there to help you with your problems, you'll find that bang­ing onthewall and constant finger-pointing will get you nowhere. Rarely, however, will a situation arise which needs more thana little heart-to-heart talk. Rooming with a complete stranger is a unique opportunity. Your freshman year will perhaps be the first time in your life where you are given the resource and reason to adapt to life with another person. Despite Notre Dame's unsystematicapproach, you'll find that you are more adaptable to dealing with a shared room than you may think. What's more, the amount of influence you currently have on the matter is, well, none. Fretting aboutyour future roomie is a waste 
ofyour precious summer time, so don't lose sleep over it. 
The spectrum of roommate relations can be divided into three simple categories. Note: Remember that your roommate-to­be is probably reading this same thing right now. You both have the opportunity to make your living situation as comfortable as possible. 
Kindred Spirits 
You may move in on your first day, meet your roommate and pledge your eternal friendship to him or her within an hour. Or the engagement may take a couple weeks. Ineither case, countyourself among the few luckyifyou find a best friend inyour room­mate. You'll bothloveJohnMayerandhate rap. You'll own the same color ofshower san­dals, and you'll have more fun playing inthe boxyour Gateway was shipped inthan actu­ally using the computer. Within a month, you'll know each other inside and out. 
While rare, this situation is certainly pos­sible. Always having your best friend around you adds to your comfort level, and you'll likely meet people together and share a good number of friends. Beware, though. Don't box yourself in during Freshman Orienta­tion weekend. Use it as a chance to meet as manyfellowstudents as possible. Remember to be your own person, and for goodness' sake, don't pass up a chance to play volleyball with your brother-sister dorm because you and your roommate are busy battling it out on the )(box. 

I'm OK, You're OK 
This may be the most common situation for roommates. There is absolutely nothing wrong with notaskingyourfirst-year room­mate to be best man ormaid ofhonor atyour wedding. In this instance, your roommate is nice, considerate, relatively neat and gives you your space. Whatever his orher person­ality may be, it's not difficult to live withthis person. In this scenario, you'll both make friends ofyour own, but have pizza and watch a movie together every once in a while. At the very least, you'll have a comrade to join you as you head to the dining hall those first few nights, or to throwa Frisbee on the quad with after class. 
You'll get to meet all ofyour roommate's friends, and you can introduce himor her to yours. Failing to achieve communal nirvana in your own room will send you down the hall, to another floor or to another dorm for your best friends. The more efforts you make, the more people you'll meet, and the more likely you are to make those lifelong friends. 
It Wasn't Meant to Be 
Sadly, some roommates just don't get along. You may verbally argue on several room-related points, or your roommate could be so inconsiderate that you actu­ally look forward to parietals. Whatever the case may be, don't hesitate to ask your RA for advice. The worst rooming situa­tions can warrant room changes, but this scenario is rare. 
On the bright side, you will have an es­peciallystrong impetus for making friends outside the room, and a good reason to get involved in extracurricular activities. Don't let the person you share a room with taint your overall college experience. 
Chances are, despite your assigned room­mate, your first year at Notre Damewill be among the greatest ofyour life. Take heart in the fact that your future roommate has the same reservations you might have about living with someone you've never met. To ensure a good year, be yourself, be consid­erate and, perhaps most important of all, keep your mess confined to your side ofthe room. . 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 
Compiled by Doug Schlarman 
Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions ofits residence halls. Read on for a brief introduction to some ofthese time-honored events -from the charitable to the bizarre. 
"THE BANNER" TheVermin of Carroll Hall may live all the way across the lake, but that doesn't stop them from showing off their spirit in a big way -and by "big:• we mean 30 feet by 90 feet. 






west 

WelshFamily: Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and is traditionally a sports powerhouse on campus. The dorm orga­nizes one of the more unique events on campus: the Welsh Family Feud, a game­show style competition that pits dorms against each other, part of a spirit week full ofevents centered around dorm pride. Also, in the spring the Whirlwinds host a dance-a-thon to raise money for diabetic patients. 
Keough: The Kangaroos put on the annual Keough Chariot Race, for which each dorm builds its own chariot to win fame, 
Ben Hur style. For their White Wedding Dance-with themes such as "Pirates" and "Mafia" -the men of Keough nominate one 'Roo from each section to compete for the title of Captain Keough. Every spring KeoughholdsAussieFest, a cookoutwithlive music and a volleyball tournament with an Australian twist. 
McGlinn: With a mascot close to the Leprechaun's heart, the Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for their Ca­sino Night, where they host a night of gambling and games. Each Shamrock invites up to five friends, all ofwhom can buy raffle tickets and place bets with fake money. All proceeds from the event (real money, this time) benefit the Catholic Worker House. 
O'Neill: Built as the first male residence hall on the West Quad in 1996, O'Neill has been home to some ofthe most active and rowdy men on campus ever since. Known as "The Angry Mob," the men of O'Neill show their dorm pride when they man;:h loudly toward pep rallies and in signature events, like the Miss ND pageant. Last year, O'Neill was voted the Men's Hall of the Year. 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 

Sorin College: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., former univer­sity president, lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s, when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Vietnam War. Sorin hosts an off-color talent show on one the home football weekends each year. 
Walsh: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited yvith instituting the university's first intercollegiate football team. The 
and the Walsh Hall Fall Frolic. The Frolic is a dance for which the Wild Women dress up as Britney-esque Catholic schoolgirls. 
Lewis: Lewis is the largest women's dorm on campus, and its residents, the Chicks, participate in the SK Chicken Run to kick off their spirit week. Each resident anonymously invites a date to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which polishes off the week of dorm activities. 
St. Edward's: St. Ed's is the oldest building now used as a dorm, although it didn't become a residence hall until 1929. "The Gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall," 

Cavanaugh: The women of Cavanaugh have an annual Father-Daughter Weekend in the spring, during which dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall of Fame. Co-hosts of the Winter Carnival, the Cavanugh Chaos work with Zahm to bring a petting zoo and other kid stuff to campus. Each winter, they also put on a spirit week leading up to their Snow Ball, an annual formal dance held in LaFor­tune Student Center. 
Zahm: The most infamous dorm on campus, Zahm transforms its incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahm­bies. Before the first pep rally each year, the men of Zahm perform the Torque­mada (a ceremony mysteriously kept under wraps). Their Decade Dance each Wild Women host or Stedsmen, hold an annual event called the Walsh Wild Founders Week, which includes a 2-on-Week in the fall, 2 basketball tournament and a charity involving a series shootout. All proceeds from Founders of competitive Week go to a charitable cause. St. Ed's and not-so-com­has an end-of-the-year dance on a yacht petitive events, in Chicago that strolls Lake Michigan. It culminating in a is also home to a weekly Spanish Mass. Mr. ND Pageant Carroll: Overlooking St. Mary's· Lake 
from the west edge ofcampus, Carroll Hall offers quite possibly thebest view ofall the residence halls. TheVermin enjoy a close­knit environment, as Carroll has the fewest residents ofany dorm. ''A Carroll Christ­·mas," featuring a tree-lighting ceremony and performances by university choirs, is the hall's signature event. TheVermin also have won the Fisher Regatta four of the past six years. Ifyou've been assigned to Carroll, a bike is a must, unless you want 
· to be late to class every day; this dorm is located furthest from the rest ofcampus. Although the number of residents may be small, the men ofCarroll have enough heart to compensate. 
February is always Bash, a late-night event, with proceeds good for a laugh, supporting an orphanage in Chile. as Zahmbies and Farley: Farley, located next to North their dates dress Dining Hall, has been a women's dorm up in throwback · since ND went coed in 1972. Farley plans outfits. on welcoming its residents back in the fall 
Keenan: Con­with a Welcome Home BBQ on North nected to Stan­Quad. Pop Farley week is perhaps the 
ford Hall by the best-known event ofthe Finest. This cel­
beautiful Chapel ebration, which culminates with a dance, of the Holy Cross, the Keenan Knights features a different activity for the Finest distinguish themselves with their signa­and their dates each day ofthe week. The ture event, the wildly successful Keenan girls are known to decorate their hallways Revue. The revue is a three-night show to correspond with the dorm theme. that the Knights put on every February. Breen-Phillips: The Babes ofBP raise A sellout crowd -around 4,000 people money each year for diabetic patients with -attends this collection oforiginal stu­their Meal Auction. Students and faculty dent comedy. members bid to eat with campus celebri­
Stanford: The men of Stanford live ties who have volunteered for the event. directly across the · quad from North The Babes' 2005 auction raised $6,500 Dining Hall. The Griffins once were · fo:i;-the American Diabetes Association. In known as the Studs, but changed their the late winter/early spring, Breen-Phil­mascot in tribute to former rector, the lips provides relief from the cold with its Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Known as Beach Week. Breen-Phillips was voted "The Dynasty," Stanford has won four the Hall of the Year for the 2004-2005 · · of the last five interhall sports champi­school year, so the Babes will be out to onships. Every fall they host the Benefit defend the title. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 


Siegfried: The Ramblers ofSiegfried compete annually against Knott in the Flanner Cup, a week's worth of events, including tug-o-war matches, arm wres­tling and relay races. The week culmi­nates with a dance co-sponsored by the two men's dorms. Siegfried also sponsors the annual Rambler Scrambler, a putt­putt tournament where sections in the dorm construct each hole of the course. 
south 
QUAD 

Teen Wolf. 
Fisher: You'll know Fisher by the gigantic green 'F' on the front of the building. Every spring, Fisher hosts the Fisher Regatta, a campus-wide 
I 
Alumni: Conveniently located at the intersection of God Quad and South Quad and known to its residents as "The Center ofthe Universe," Alumni is home 
to the Dawgs. Each spring, the Dawgs hostThe Calling, an event steeped intra­dition and shrouded in mystery. Alumni Hall loves its hockey team, whose games feature costume themes and songs. Alum­ni's biggest rival is its immediate neigh­bor, Dillon, and this fall, the rivalry will be re-ignited with Rivals Week, during which Alumni and Dillon will compete in different sports competitions. 
Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, housing over 350 of the most desirable men at ND, Dillon was voted Hall ofthe Century. Its signature event is the Dillon Pep Rally, which is hosted before the first home football game of each season. The annual Pep Rally satirizes life at ND and includes keynote speakers, ND cheerlead­ers and Dillon's honorary freshman, the The ever-athletic Ramblers were the 2004-2005 interhall baseball champs. 
Knott: Known for their perhaps overly enthusi­astic support of the ND women's 
volleyball team, theJuggerknotts can be easily spotted in their orange and blue attire. Each spring, they hold Knott on the Knoll, an afternoon of free food and entertainment from campus bands. 
Pasquerilla West: Nicknamed PW or P-Dub, this dorm is home to the Purple Weasels. In the spring, Queen Week, an intradorm event, fosters inter-
boat race on St. Mary's Lake. Each fall the Green Wave holds a 50-hour roof-sit, during which RAs and students from around campus take turns sitting on Fisher's roof for charity. Fisher holds events throughout the weekend ofthe roof-sit and make fun ofthe residents stuck outside on the roof. Plus, Joe Montana lived there. 
Pangborn: Pangborn sits on the far west end of South Quad. It hosts Phoxy Facts (a trivia contest) and a 3-on-3 vol­leyball tournament in the spring. It also is the site for A Life Uncommon, a group that meets regularly to help students deal with eating disorders. The dorm's interior was remodeled only three years ago. 
Lyons: Easily recognized by its famous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, this women's dorm sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run every fall, in honor of a fresh­man resident killed by a drunk driver in 1993. Money raised from the event goes to a student scholarship fund. Lyons hosts section competitions and ends in a dance, where one girl from the winning section is crowned Queen. Additionally, PWwas the first residence hall that was built spe­cifically for women at Notre Dame. 
Pasquerilla East: PEis the home of the Pyros and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (a.k.a. PEMCo), which stages a complete musical every February. The troupe's history includes productions of "Godspell," "Guys and Dolls," "Damn Yankees" and "Into the Woods." This past year's play was "Grand Hotel." PE also is proud of its annual intradorm event, the PyrOlympics. The sections compete against each other in relay races and cos­tume contests, among other events. PE is unique because its first through fourth floors are numbered five through eight, to differentiate it from Pasquerilla West. 
a beach-themed dance each fall, complete with grass skirts and Hawaiian shirts. 
Morrissey Manor: The building isn't just its residents' home, it's also their mascot, the Manor. You'll know Mor­rissey men because they often wear togas and paint themselves black and yellow, the dorm colors. Morrissey is the 'second largest men's dorm on campus, located directly across South Quad from Fisher Hall. Its rooms aren't huge, but former resident and basketball star TroyMurphy did just fine. 
Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the first snowfall ofthe school year (arguably the only time that the arrival of snow is welcomed). Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete against each other in an annual Parade of Rooms. Every fall they host the Howard Hoedown, a semiformal dance to kick off the school year. 
Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second-oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women of Badin host a campus-wide karaoke and dance competi­tion, the Badin Spring Breakdown. Con­testants are judged on accuracy, style and performance. Their scores from the first round qualify them for a chance to spin the karaoke "Wheel of Death" to compete for gift certificates at local restaurants. . 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 


Do you see.· you~~lfon.... 
•<>urstaff?
i
L___c____.......,__;__..~--­

MAYBE YOU SHOULD. Whether you're interested in photography, writing, design or business, we're interested in you. You need something to do outside class and we need new talent to produce Notre Dame's biweekly newsmagazine. Coincidence? You decide. 
For information on joining our staff, send us an email at scholast@nd.edu or check out the Scholastic booth atActivities Night. · 





ISCHOL.aSIIC 
I 


~1--,t;.·....... 
~lZ!l::::.I¦ ....,,,,=--,·.~· 
Forgot something? 
Wan 


. ,:_ . '. _. ' ,' .:· . . . , . . ·-_. ·-·._ . 
COME.TO.THE FALLrvtALL AND.• ENTER ·•.fo·•·w1N··A FREE.·.1Poo AND·•.·1PoDSHIJFFLE! · 
SOME OF TFIE PijOCE~DS OF FALi. MALL.· WILL BENEf'ITSµ-8. ]HESE··.PROCEEDS ' HEL.P TO FUND STUDENT EVENTS SUCH 
· •· AS CUBS TRIPS AND STUDY. BREAKS! 
CA 

It's about that time, kids. Put away that cheesy high school yearbook, throw aside your graduation cap, and get ready for the best four years of your life. Some call it a mind-opening experience, some call it a break from reality, and some call it the only time in life when lewd debauchery is not only accepted but also encouraged. 
This here is the Gipper, the anonymous spy/writer who keeps this campus up-to-beat on its most absurd, disgusting, immoral and hilarious events. In every issue of Scholastic, Gipp gets to describe the best "tips" received since the last publication. This is where you come in. As readers, you will provide the bullets that allow Gipp to make his fortnightly character assassinations. The Gipper needs you to be his eyes and ears. So screw loyalty to your roommate, friends and lovers. If it's funny, juicy or obscene, Gipp needs to know about it. You report, Gipp derides. · ­
You may be asking what a typical Gipp tip is. Well, there's no exact definition, but try this for a rule oy thumb: If one of your friends does something so asinine that you know any true friend would keep it quiet, it will make a good tip. Let's give some examples. Your roommate skips class to drink half a case of Natty Lite -don't tip Gipp. Your roommate skips class to participate in some extracurricular activity in the bushes behind Main Building -by all means, tipp Gipp. 
And remember, Gipp loves to print photos. One loyal tipster submitted the picture shown at the right. Did he print it in the very next issue? You betcha. 
The Gipper would love to give some examples of past classic tips, but unfortunately we can't go into too much detail in this issue. After all, Mom probably will peruse through it after you're finished. But come this fall, you all will learn by example Gipp's unique M.O. 
Anyway, enough self-promotion; the Gipper feels a duty to let you know the things they don't 


tell yo·u in the welcome packet. · 
You've probably heard a few times that Notre Dame is all about Jesus.Actually, many students say that Notre Dame is all about football, beer and strained gender relations, but Gipp supposes that, to some extent, it still is about ol' JC. After all, his mosaic is the officially recognized signaler of touchdowns, and that's kind of important. Plus, you can't spit in the air on this campus without hitting a chapel. But for the sake of brevity, Gipp will try to give you a run-through of the heathen, secular aspects of our campus life. 
Let's start with the beer. Traditionally, the ND bigwigs had a beautifully-crafted "if we don't see it, it's not happening" policy t_hat let all of us lushes toss 'em back like candy as long as the dorm room doors were shut. But over time, that glory faded away. Now, it'nechnically illegal to consun:ie hard liquor on campus, so be careful. (But what isn't technically illegal?) 
Now, on to dorm life. While ND doesn't have Greek life, it does have a pretty solid system of on-campus housing. Compared to our peers, we have an amazingly high percentage of students living on campus, and almost everyone stays in the dorm they were assigned to freshman year. There is one gigantic catch to our dorms, though. Boys and girls, the Gipper hath seen illogical repression, and thy name is Parietals. Your dictionary (a.k.a. du Lac, the official campus rule book) 
can give you an exact definition, but just know this: If you came to college hoping to get closer to a special someone after 12 a.m. on weekdays or 2 a.m. on weekends, you might be in for a rude awakening. Some people will tell you that parietals are a good thing, because they signal the end of the night and let everyone get to rest. Right ... because college students aren't old 
•. enough to decide when the night is over for themselves. 
Like a lot of things in college, the problems you'll have with the aforementioned issues will depend largely on your resident as­sistant (RA). RAs are the seniors who, either because they didn't have enough friends to live off campus or wanted to save Daddy a few bucks, will live amongst you in the dorms to make sure you're at least attempting to follow the rules. The degree to which RAs actually give a crap varies greatly, but in general ladies get the shaft when it comes to power-tripping RAs, which, in the case of some RAs, apparently means "Retentive, Anally." In any case, Gipp adv~se!i you to befriend your RA ASAP, because it can't hurt to have him/her as a friend if you ever appear in front of the Suprem~ Irish Disciplinary Court known as Reslife. 
. . 
That should be all for now, young ones. The Gipper hopes you are as excited to start your time here as he is to ruthlessly embar­rass you on these pages. Please don't be nervous as you enter this bawdy new world of Gippland, because Gipp promises that you'll adjust quickly. By mid-September you'll be hoppin' across South Quad on your way to LaFun to get some QDs, complaining about Reslife and debating whether to ask your crush from the Rock or that cutie from FYC out on a date to NDH or SDH. Sound fun? 
Enjoy the rest of your summer, and do try to lose 15 pounds in August -just so things are back to even by fall break. And if you remember one thing when you step onto this campus, it's this: Tip Gipp! See ya soon. · · 

FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 23 


AMYMEYERS 
IACAD_EM_LC_j 
Scholastic choice: SIBC 
One of the largest student organizations at Notre Dame, the Student Intemational Business Council (SIBC) is the only one of its kind in the nation. Open to all majors, the SIBC is dedicated to providing students with real-world professional experience and international development. Every sz11nnte1; the SIBC sends dozens ofstudents around the world on intemational sztmmer internships and teaching positions. 
ENTREPRENUER CLUB: 
is an active group ofindividuals who plan to start or have already started their own businesses. Throughout the year, the "E­Club" travels to national conferences, sponsors campus speakers, guarantees internships and job opportunities for club members, and prepares members to write business plans and compete in competitions. 
YOUR GUIDE TO 


CLUBBING 
AT NOTRE DAME 
Whether you want to continue your-involvement in student government or meet other Demers who share your love of horseback riding, Notre Dame has a club for everyone. Take a look at a few of your choices ... 
MARKETING CLUB: 
allows marketing majors to interact with each other and professors through social, spiritual, educational and service-oriented events, including guest speakers, career days, educational trips and barbecues. 
NOTRE DAME INVESTMENT CLUB: 
provides students of all majors with the opportunity to manage an investment portfolio ofover $300,000 ofreal money. Weekly presentations, discussions, speak­ers and semester trips to the Chicago Board of Trade make this club unique and vital for establishing connections. 
PRE-DENTAL CLUB: 
is a pre-med style club designed to give those students considering dentistry a more in-depth view into the profession. They bring guest lecturers to campus, including local dental professionals and admissions representatives from a number of different dental schools. 
PRE-VET CLUB: 
ofNotre Dame offers an opportunity for any student to learn about and interact with animals. It also provides a fun and supportive forum and source of informa­tion for students interested in attending veterinary school. 
SOCIETY OFWOMEN ENGINEERS: 
fosters a sense ofcommunity among wom­en in engineering through social activities, career aid, service and academic support. 
ANTHROPOLOGY CLUB: 
one ofthe many clubs within a major, aims to establish connections between the stu­dents and faculty within the department. 
COMPUTERAPPLICATIONS HONOR SOCIETY: 
serves as the honor society for Arts and Letters students who have Computer Applications (CAPP) as a second major. Many majors have their own honor so­_ciety. 
ETHNIC 
Scholastic choice: Russian, .Italian and German Clubs 
These three are just a few of the many ethnicllang;uage clubs on campus. The Rus­sian Club sponsors 1mtsemn trips, ethnic dinners and other events. The Italimi Club's activities include opportunities to eatandprac­tice speaking Italian, cooking classes, trips to Chicago's Italian neighborhoodand two sports toumaments each yem: The German Club's two yearly highlights are Ok"donzer"fest and a trip to Chicago's famed Christkindlmarkt. 
WABRUDA: 
is a relatively new club for African-Ameri­can males on cam.pus. Part support group and part leadership organization, Wabru­da's events range from professional devel­opment workshops to a "Brain Bowl" for local grade school students to barbeques on campus. 
LAALIANZA: 
is one of the largest ethnic clubs on cam­pus. It was formed about five years ago when several other groups merged. It educates and entertains students through programs that include Hispanic Heritage 
Month Celebrations and the Latino. Formal. 
ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION: 
ofNotre Dame proudly celebrates Asian­American heritage through fellowship, service, and events that showcase the unique values ofvarious Asian cultures. 
HAWAII CLUB: 
works to share the culture of Hawaii through various social and educational activities, including a luau each spring. This club is open to all students. 

24 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 

1-----.-....--.•-.,..._-.-_ -_ -. -. -. -. -.-.-_ -_ -. -. -_ -_ -_ -_ -.-_ -_ -. -. -. -_-. -. -_-. -. -N_t1'~¢ft~.oo~;~N~:',J~11~B:~.t-·_L_1_F_E__'~-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.:-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.-:.~--, 

ATHLETIC 
and it provides all the necessary gear and training for participants of all levels of Scholastic choice: Bengal Bouts experience. 
The 73-year-old BengalBouts boxing to'l{T-. 
nament offers an oppo11:unity for men with EQUESTRIANTEAM: 
varyinglevels ofexperience to compete to raise . takes weekly lessons at stables located 
moneyfo1· Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. lfyoie are into boxingand happen to befemale,. check out the U1omen !\-BoxingClub, arecent!J; ·· formed group. 
WOMEN'S RUNNING CLUB: 
was named the 2000-2001 athletic club of 
the year. They compete in road races in 
the area, roughly 10 per year, and sponsor 
two big eyents: the Aloha Run and the' 
Relay for Life, on-campus races thatraise 
moneyfor charity: 
SKI CLUB: 
competes in both giant slalom.,and sla­
lom. events in ·Michigan, Wisconsin and 
Canada. 
CLIMBING CLUB: 
·sponsors rock-climbing 1:1:ips to places like the Red River Gorge 111 Kentucky, ·.· 

SPECIAL 

JJSLTE_8._EST._____. 
Scholastic choice: University Bands 
They include the marching band, sev­
eral concert bands,jazz bands, and brass ·and percussion ensembles. Tryouu for the bands are open to allst:udenu, undergrad­uate and graduate, who are enrolled at the University ofNotre Dame, St. Mary~ 
College and Holy Cross College. 
JUGGLING CLUB: 
is a group of students who get together for a couple of hours every few weeks to juggle. Nuffsaid. 
SWING CLUB: 
will restart its series of"East Coast" swing dancing lessons in September. The club currently has about 50 to 75 members who come weekly for two hours oflessons and dance time. The class is geared toward beginning dancers, but they do have student instructors who work privately to challenge and teach intermediate and advanced dancers. 
about 15 minutes fr~m campus. Riders ofall levels are welcome to join, and do not need to own a horse. The team par­ticipates in competitions sponsored by the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association throughout the year. · 
NOTRE DAME SAILI.NG CLUB: 
practices on St.Joe Lake on campus and at a nearby lake in Michigan. Members race throughout the Midwest and the nation. 
NOTRE DAM.E POM SQUAD: ·· 
is a group ofl4women from Notre Dame .·. and St. Mary's dedicated to enhancing the · spirit ofNotre Dame through the perfor­mance ofdance routines. The Porn Squad 
· performs at pep · rallies, basketball half­times and campus-wide and dorm func-' tions such as.. theNotre.Dame Activities Night an~ the.Dillcm Hall Pep Rally. 
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS & 
COLLEGE REPUBLICANS: 
hope to raise political awareness and par­ticipation among university students. 
NOTRE DAME MARTIALARTS INSTITUTE (NDMAI): 
teaches the unique techniques and applica­tions ofVee Jitsu Ryu Jujitsu and Chung Do Kwan Tae Kwon Do. Students who begin as freshmen can reach the rank of black belt in both arts by the end of their junjor year. 
FARLEY PLAYERS, THE ST. ED'S HALL PLAYERS AND THE PASQUERILLA EAST MUSICAL PLAYERS: 
are a few ofthe groups that put on student productions each year. 
HARMONIA: 
is a female a cappella group with about 15 members from the ND community. 
GLEE CLUB: 
is Notre Dame's all-male choir. Ithas a has a strong fraternal atmosphere and focuses 
MEN'SWATER POLO: 
is consistently one of the top performers in the Midwest. Its official season is in the fall. Team members travel to places such as Florida for their more relaxed spring season. Notre Dame also has a Women'~ Water Polo Team. 
FIGURE SKATING CLUB: 
started up in 1999 arid was recognized as the athletic club ofthe year for 2001-2002. The team skates against varsity and club teams, and they have competed at two national championships, achieving eighth 
_ pface in 2000 and seventh in 2002. 
' 
· 
CYCLING. CLUB: . ... . .. 
races mountain bikes in the fall and road racing in. the spring. . 
. . . . FIELD HOCKEYTEAM: . 
was started three years ago. It offers both men and women of all skill. levels a chance to participate. The team prac­tices four days a week in the spring and fall and· competes against other teams in the area. · 
on vocal technique and style. The group performs on campus and travels exten­sively in the US and abroad. They plan to tour in the Caribbean next summer. 
THE DOME YEARBOOK: 
is always looking for writers and photog­raphers to help with spreads. The time commitmentis very flexible and although experience helps, it is not necessary. 
CHESS CLUB: 
meets biweekly to increase student inter­est in chess while providing challenging games for players of all strengths. They also teach chess to younger children in the South Bend community and form a four­member team to travel to competitions. 
WORLDTAE KWON DO CLUB: 
is a recreational club that provides the op­portunity for anyone to learn an ancient Korean martial art that teaches power, strength, flexibility and athleticism. Taught by a seventh-degree black belt Master Soon Pil Hong, a veteran coach of numerous Olympic athletes, the ~tudents ofTae Kwon Do learn sparring techniques and self-defense tactics. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 25 


SERVICE 

Scholastic choice: CSC · 
The Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns offers a number ofvery popular service trips overfall and spring breaks. Students travel to southem Florida ·to work-with 111igrantfar-mers to Apptila-· chia to assist the poor and to D.C. to learn ttbout the pro,-life movement. · · 
CIRCLE K: 
. . 
completed more than 7,000 hours ofcom­munity service in the Greater South Bend area this year. The.club offers around 20 projects covering a wide range ofinterests, from playing with animals at the Humane Society to working at the Juvenile Justice Ceni:ei-:This is the kind of club to join if you can't decide what kind of service you · wantto do. 
C.A.R.E. (CAMPUS ALLIANCE.FOR RAPE ELIMINATION): 
is a student-awareness group aimed to prevent rape and help those affected by rape and sexual assault to deal with the overwhelming consequences. Theyspon­sor a Sexual Assault Awareness Week in the fall and host speakers and other events during Sexual Assault Awareness Month in April. 

FOODSHARE: 
is a Notre Dame service club that delivers leftover dining-chall food to the centerartd other homeless shelters in South Bend. 
C.A.S.H. (COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS): 
works with local community centers and offers a number of opportunities for students to serve as translators and Eng­lish-language instructors to the Hispanic comm.unity. 
WORLD HUNGER COALITION: 
is dedicated to raising awareness ofhunger issues and raising money to support hub.­. ger relief efforts worldwide. The WHC 
annually ~~ises about $20,000 for dona­tions to hunger organizations throughout the world with the Lunch Fast, in which students sign up . to give up one meal a week from their meal plans. 
. FIRST AID SERVICESTEAM: 
serves as the· first level of the emergency medical system for events and athletics on campus. Team members hold Red Cross certifications in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM: 
provides volunteer tutors to local schools and community centers with children in need of academic assistance. 
ND/SMC PEACE COALTION: 
is sponsored by the Center for Social Con­cerns and was started by a groupof stu­dents criticalof the War on Terrorism. 


I RELIGIOUS J 
Scholastic choice: The Basilica Groups 
The Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart has a number ofministries open to new mem­bers. Their choirs include the Folk Choir, the Liturgical Choir and the Women~ Liturgical Choir. Ifyou would like to be in a choir but don't sing, you canjoin the Handbell Choir. Also, the Basilica is al­ways lookingfornew readers, Eucharistic ministers and acolytes (altar servers). 
IRON SHARPENS IRON: 
is an interdenominational, student-led Bible study that seeks to foster solid Christian relationships and to challenge and encourage students to grow in their faith through fellowship, praise and wor­ship, Biblical teaching and prayer. 
CAMPUS FELLOWSHIP OF THE HOLY SPIRIT: 
is an ecumenical Christian group that -like Iron Sharpens Iron -is dedi­cated to building up faith and friendship through weekly meetings, small groups and parties 
BAPTIST COLLEGIATE MINISTRY (BCM): is an organization open to all Christian traditions that focuses on fellowship, faith-sharing and Christian living. They hold weekly Bible study meetings, church visits, retreats, shared meals and other ac­tivities. 
NOTRE DAME UNITED MUSLIM 
ASSOCIATION.(NDUMA): _ provides fellowship, support and prayer 
opportunities for Muslim students on 
campus. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS: 
is a Catholic men's organization focused on service to the community and loyalty to the Church. At Notre Dame, they are dedicated to the principles of the nation­wide order through many activities, the most notable being their Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for charity. 

26 SCHOtASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

r----------------------mm:mmm~,T~J=-.J-------------------­

ti:/::;.;/Ht?<:t\; 
. '. ·.-\-::' 
Scholastic tutors you on the most important class you'll take at ND 

CLAIRESOBCZAK
The reputation you automatically gain from your affiliation with your dorm (sorry boys bound for Zahm); your roommate who must have crash-landed from outer space; your hor­ribly boring microeconomics professor. These are but a few elements· of one's freshman year at Notre Dame that can­not be controlled. But put down that transfer application, because what is most essential to enjoy­ing your freshman year is within your grasp. It's where you crash after a night at Turtle Creek Apartments, where you laugh hysterically with your friends about that awkward encounter in the dining hall, and where you attempt to study but your friends always distract you. Yes, your dorm room is indeed the most central feature ofthe freshman experience, and how you decorate it can set the tone for the entirety ofyour first year. You will soon find that rooms fall into different categories within your section. The party room, the 4.0 room, the Domer room, the ridiculously filthy room and the movie room are just a few examples ofthe many abodes you will encounter. It is up to you to determine into which category your room will fall. But regardless of the future reputation ofyour room, some es­sential elements ofdecor can save the most hopeless quarters. 
First and foremost, do not miss this memo -buy a futon. Every successful room has a futon. In that first nerve­racking phone call you make to your roomie-to-be, make sure to discuss the futon. Buy it during Frosh-O, split the cost, do whatever you must to incorporate this necessary piece into your decorating endeavors. A futon serves as an ideal spot for your friends to crash after a night of fun. So once the futon issue is settled, you can stop worrying if friends will come to hang out in your room and start focusing on the fun decorations. For girls, color­ful bedding and lots of pictures in funky picture frames are key. Posters with Ani­mal House or beer themes set the mood · for fun in guys' rooms. And Christmas lights and ND paraphernalia will create a homier atmosphere in any student's room. A TV with a DVDNCR player is essen­tial, as is a stereo for those much-needed study breaks. 
Depending on how your roommate's tastes match with your own, consider the possibility of a themed room. Tropical themes bring cheer to those bleak winter _ days, while regional· themes can make home seem a little closer (Texas andJersey natives, take note). 
Whatever you choose to do with your room, don't forget to be considerate ofthe preferences of your roommate. Decorat­ing your room is one of the first oppor­tunities you will have to seize the college experience and bond with your roommate. Aside from the limits ofmodular furniture and low ceilings, your room is a blank can­vas; make it your own. . 
28 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 
. . ';ii·ifi~~;;1.;!f~~;s;7 

. "•'',, ;;.,,; ,' 
\ 
\·~ .;\ _, 1\ 
'=~ 
'\ 
r ~ 
r--::" -;-\: . [ ·•.··..... ".·
p<-..__ ... -. 
...•.·.·....



isi¼+=· 
' 
•' 
. \'\'\\\\'­


~!~'?)~~ 
. . 




~~~;~:·\ 
SLEEPING IN THE CLOUDS (top) Pasquerilla East Pyros maximize their space by lofting their beds. For those dorms that do not have modular furniture, it usually is possible to purchase a loft kit. 
CELL OR DORM? (middle) First impressions can be deceiving. This empty room at Breen Phillips is full of decorating genius waiting to happen. 
GOOD TIMES (right) Sorin residents sit back and relax in their comfortable common room. GOING TROPICAL (above) Residents in this room attempted to ward off the coldness of South Bend's winters when decorating their room. 
COMFORTWITH A VIEW (opposite) This Walsh common room makes the most of its bay windows by offering plenty of comfortable seating. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 29 
PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

the latest campus he~s and spo~ 
ir:i-depth cov~r;ge of ca~pus issues 
reviews of campus entertainment 
off-the-wall humor 
/ 
-2004 Indiana Collegiate Press Association News Magazine of the Year 
---· --·-----·-------·-SCHOLaSTIC 
understand campus events even when you're not on campus 
13 ISSUES DOLLARS 
SENDTHIS FORM AND Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. $35;00 PAYMENTTO: 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE · 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER NOTRE DAME; IN 46556 
PLEASE PLACE ME ONYOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. OR 
NAME:-----,------------­
ORDER ONLINEAT 
HTTP:1/MARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI 
ADDRESS:----------------STUDENTSHOP/ 
~SGHOl!AST.1€ J;NTERTAINMENTJ---------------------, 

NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
ometimes the monotony ofthe dining hall is too much to 
S
bear. Plus, there are those times that taking that prospec~ 
tive sweetheart to Reckers just isn't good enough. Better yet, maybe the parents are in town and want to fulfill their biological duty to feed you. Whatever the reason, getting off campus every now and then will keep your tastebuds in better shape. We propose visiting some of the following venues to satiate your deepest culinary hankerings. 
THE WHITEHOUSE DINER ("FAT SHIRLEY'S") 
Location: Corner of Mishawaka and Twyckenham Prices: Meals range from $2 to $5 
The atmosphere is smoky and the food is greasy, but man is it good. The Whitehouse Diner, nicknamed "Fat Shirley's" after a former waitress' girth, is the place to be after parietals have taken effect and Reeker's becomes a little too played out. The food is cheap, off of a classic diner menu, and breakfast is the house specialty, served all day and all night (the diner is open 24 hours). Note: Avoid anything labeled "stew." 
. MIKADO 
Location: 402 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Dinners range from $6 to $16 
Either sit at a conventional table or up at the teppanyaki coun­ter where the chef will prepare your food right in front ofyou. This Japanese restaurant is popular with students and South Bend residents alike. Its relaxed atmosphere is fine for family dining or a date. Ifyou like darker meat, we highly recommend the sukiyaki steak. Ifyou like sushi, come here to get it fresh. The menu includes items like octopus and barbequed eel for more adverturous eaters. Relatively inexpensive, Mikado is fun for a quick break from campus dining fare. 
LULA'S CAFE 
Location: 1631 Edison Road Prices: Coffee from $2 to $:S, food from $3 to $7 
Lula's Cafe is located just off campus; making it a popular study spot and hangout for students. The coffee is always fresh, and the specials change daily. Try one ofLula's seasonal offer­ings or go for one ofthe cafe's new twists on old favorites, such as the Brie grilled cheese. Take some time to check out the eclectic decor as you enjoy your meal. 
THE VINE 
Location: 103 W. Colfax (Corner of Michigan and Colfax) Prices: Main courses range from $8 to $15 
Looking for a restaurant that is perfect for a date, dinner with the family or a casual evening with friends? The Vine, in down­town South Bend, has a great atmosphere and even better 
food. For your main course, try one of several delicious pasta dishes, with or without meat. The dessert menu changes every day, and the wine list is extensive. Best of all, nothing at The Vine is very expensive. 
BORACHO BURRITO 
Location: 1724 N. Ironwood (I block south of State Road 23) Prices: Meals range from $4 to $7 
The philosop~y at this rundown restaurant is that quantity is quality -and that's a good. thing. Boracho's massive bur­ritos are famous among students and the object ofmany 3 a.m. munchie attacks. You can't go wrong with a steak burrito. The quesadillas are quite good as well, and their nachos come with a tasty helping of salsa verde. 
RITTER'S 
Location: 3921 N. Main St. Prices: Main. items range from $3 to $6 
We have to admit, dining hall ice cream can be pretty good, but dessert aficionados know that when it comes to South Bend, it's hard to beat out the frozen custard at Ritter's. Try their flavor ofthe day, or go for just plain chocolate. Ritter's is open only in the warmer months, soget over there before the fall chill sets m. 
ROCCO'S RESTAURANT 
Location: 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. Prices: Pizza starts at $7 
Rocco's has been a Notre Dame staple for many years. All the decorations herald Notre Dame traditions and victories past and present. It is close to campus, so students can be found enjoying the excellent (and inexpensive) pizza on almost any night. Though most people do go for the pizza, the pre-meal antipasto also is not to be missed. 
ELIA'S MEDITERRANEAN CUISINE 
Location: 111 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Appetizers range from $1.50 to $4 Entrees range from $6 to $10 
Most newcomers -and current students -are surprised at the diversity that South Bend can offer: diversity of food, that is. One Lebanese family operating an ethnic restaurant doesn't exactly mark a boom in the city's cultural demographic, but it does make for interesting eating. Appetizers include hummus, baba ghannouge · and grape-leaf rolls. Main courses are healthy and most frequently contain rice, chicken and beans. Desserts, like everything else, are homemade, and gowellwith the coffee.Also, Elia's ischeap, making. it a great eat for those on a low budget . ­
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 

-~ 
-
U]~ ~ 1)/]1_li'f? ,,•• 
The Student Activities Office is 
1ffE 111 .. 16tl3~
always seeking motivated student employees. Apply today for an pL'/ Off•L ----POSITIONS INCLUDE:
opportunity to join the team! llf ,... LaFortune Building Manager
l\1 
LaFortune Night Manager
S . 
Information Desk and Box Office 
Billiards Hall Attendant 
Facilities Assistant 
¦ 
• ... • • ~ J 
~ -~-•--------~ -· --------"--~ 

,----------------------lll!i~i(§ct~@u~o[!~l11-~.:.'1:~i§ijd[t9t§JspoRTS..]-----------------------~ 
MICHAELKIM 
CHRISMESKILL 

Termination ofTy 
.whenTyroneWillingham, for­of his head coaching responsibilities just 
mer Notre Dame head foot­
ball coach, arrived at campus in the fall of2002, Irish fans were hopeful that their new coach would inaugurate a golden era ofNotre Dame football. How­ever, when Wtllingham's team suffered its third consecutive 31-point loss to the USC Trojans in his three years as head coach, many Irish students, alumni and fans were left questioning their coach's ability. One group ofstudents, outraged by the football team's continual on-field failures, decided to take action. The fed-up fans scheduled a rally that was to take place in front of Main Building on Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2004 ---:-only three days after the Irish fell to the Trojans -to demand Wtllingham's ouster. However, their demands were heard before their cries were uttered. The university decided to relieve Willingham hours before the scheduled protest. 
Although it was not uncommon to over­hear Irish fans bemoaning the plight of the Irish football team under Willingham, the announcement ofhis firing came as a surprise to many of the Irish faithful, es­pecially since the decision was made only three days after the close ofthe 2004-2005 football season. As Tom Mahoney, sopho­more band member, notes, "My first reac­tion was shock, because I never thought it was going to happen." 
When they were notified of Willing­ham's termination, Wtllingham's players echoed Mahoney's sentiments. Sopho­more cornerback Ambra'se Wooden re­calls, "We were pretty much shocked." He adds, "It came out ofnowhere. We all got an e-mail that said the team meeting was moved to an earlier time, and announced 
As the old adage goes, "The two toughest jobs in the country are president of the United States and head football coach at the University ofNotre Dame, and not necessarily in that order." Willingham learned it, University ofFlorida's Urban Meyer was unwilling to test it, and Notre Dame Athletic Direc­tor Kevin White might disagree with it. However, following Wtllingham's firing on Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2004, White once again found himself searching for a man willing to accept the scrutiny ofthe Notre Dame alumni, students and fans, as well as the abuse of an already restless media. On Sunday, Dec. 12, 2004, White found his man in the New England Patriot's of­fensive coordinator, Charlie Weis. Weis' impressive resume (See "Faces to Remember" on P. 10) certainly justi­fies his hiring. Meanwhile, Weis brings a staff with equally impressive backgrounds to Notre Dame, and key among them are Michael Haywood (ND '78), RickMinter and Peter Vaas. Haywood is familiar with the many Notre Dame traditions because he, like Weis, played football under former 
L. J . : l. ·.J. /.l.
Enter Charlie Weis & Friends r\.}~:..-'~;,~1 

Notre Dame Head Coach Gerry Faust. 
Since his college days, Haywood has built quite a name for himself. Serving as the running back coach and recruit­ing specialist for the University ofTexas, Haywood brought in and conditioned a number of terrific athletes, foremost of which was former UT running back Ced­ric Benson. Projected as one of the top six running backs in the nation entering 2 004 by The Sporting News, Benson proved his abilities and was awarded the 2004 Doak Walker Award -an honor given to th~ nation's best collegiate running back dur­ing the season. Haywood will join Weis' staff as offensive coordinator. 
Replacing Kent Baer as defensive co­ordinator for the Irish is Minter, who -like Haywood and Weis -is famil­iar with Our Lady's university. Minter spent time coaching under former Notre Dame Head Football Coach Lou Holtz, and when Holtz left for the University of South Carolina in 1996, Minter followed. Having served as both a head coach and a defensive coordinator in his coaching career, Minter is well-suited to join Weis' that they were going to fire him." 
Since Willingham was fired, both he and the university have moved forward. Notre Dame found their new head coach in Charlie Weis (ND '78), the former of­fensive coordinator for three time Super Bowl Champion New England Patriots. Meanwhile, Willingham accepted the po­sition of head football coach at the Uni­versity of Washington, whose program is desperately in need of leadership after finishing 1-10, putting the Huskies at the bottom of the Pacific-10 conference. . 
-~-.....r
~-W-'L.. L: 
crew. Rounding out Weis' 
coaching staff is Vaas, who is returning to the Notre Dame football coaching staff. Vaas served as an assistant football coach for the Irish in 1990-1991, after which he moved on to coach in NFL Europe. Hired in June 2005 as quarterbacks coach, Vaas replaced David Cutcliffe, Weis' first choice for the position, who re­
signed for health rea­
sons. However, Weis 
is confident in Vaas' ability, commenting, 
"The support for [Vaas] from people I 
know and trust was overwhelming, mak­
ing this move an easy one." Wtthsuchan experienced and previously successful staff, many students, alumni and fans are looking forward to the 2005 foot­ball campaign. . 
34 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 


SP0:8.T_S:=]----------------------, 
Women's SoccerWins It All 

Fencing Repeats NCAATitle 


After going 24-1-1 in regular season play, Notre Dame's women soccer team was poised to make a s~ious run in the 2004 NCAA tournament, en­tering ranked as No. 2. The Irish breezed through the preliminary rounds, outscor­ing their opponents 11-1 before facing the UCLA Bruins in the championship game. Apparent disaster came in the final match for the Irish when senior defender Gud­run Gunnarsdottir's back-pass to junior goalkeeper Erica Bohn resulted in an own-goal in the 60th minute of play, causing the Irish to fall behind, 1-0. However, the Irish were able to come 
With a roster loaded with such past NCAA champions as All­American senior foilist Andrea Ament, All-American senior epeeist Mi­chal Sobieraj, and 2004 Olympic Gold Medalist freshman sabre Mariel Zagunis, the co-ed Irish fencing team entered the 2004-2005 season with high expectations. However, because of their season-long back when junior forward Katie Thorlak­son, the leading goal scorer for the Irish, was taken down in UCLA's penalty box. She found the net with her penalty kick in the 74th minute ofplay, tying the game at 1-1. In the 84th minute, UCLA was awarded a penalty kick, but Bohn came through for the Irish, making a critical save to send the game into overtime. 
The tie stood at 1-1 after 110 minutes of regulation play and overtime, but the Irish claimed their second NCAA title when the game went to penalty kicks, giv­ing the Irish a 4-3 victory over the Br:u­ins. . 
battle with rival Ohio State for the No. 1 ranking, the Irish did not enter the NCAA tournament as comfortable as they would have. liked. Further, Notre Dame was able to qualify only 11 of the maximum 12 entrants, causing them some reason for concern. 
Nevertheless, the Irish rose to meet the challenge, and despite trailing Ohio State by a 24-point deficit going into the final round, the Irish fencers went 44-10 on the final day. Their score allowed the Irish to slip past Ohio State and earned them their seventh national title. The 2004-2005 Irish fencing team was the first team in NCAA history to win an NCAA title without a full roster participating in the tournament. . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 35 


LISTENING 
-overheard student, debating the hotness of Disney characters 
GOOD MORNING, NOTRE DAME! 
These unsuspecting freshmen participate in one of the many dorm initiations. Nothing like a jog through the reflecting pool of Hesburgh Library at 5 a.m. 
I.128 Years Ago An Ideal Freshman
On September 6, 1876, Scholastic "ventured on giving a little counsel[ ... ] to those who begin their college life this year." The freshmen will be "placed in the midst of com­rades hailing from all parts of the country[... ] They have good and bad qualities, both ofwhich may exercise some influence on his conduct in life." Each student should only "endeavor to cultivate the friendship of such as may be distinguished for their virtue and in­telligence." Like the good and bad companions, there are good and bad inclinations: "If he would become an estimable and accomplished man, faithful to the duties of life, he must follow faithfully the prompt­ings of his good inclinations and banish at once those of the bad." The administration strongly adheres to this severe philosophy. Now is the time to begin the banishing, so as to-arrive on campus prepared to become "an estimable and accomplished man." 
-Meghan Gowan 
36 SCHOLASTICHUMOR FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 







ThteVOice.d.liRil~dio. is.·•. 
. . -. .-.. . . . . .:·:: ?P<?~:_>· ··.> ": ,::,.. -..___ . . . . . 
always chari9ing... ·.· ·.·•··.. 
., " , '• . : . ; ,· ,' ' . 
\Be a DJ>at tbe _--i 
. . . . . . . . 
, , . 

only student-run•·. 
. .· ',; . ..· . '.·· : 

station at Notre· 
;, Ij \ 
Dame. 
I 
t
: 
-----_ --; ---------_-V]:.]~-­
JJ~oadc~tin.aalol,al¥J at t1p·· ti ···... ·wvfi.n.d~e«u. with. ~liow~ 
. 'foom Bcun~lam 7 rlaa~ a. 1~f~\ ..· 
---~ o• ---· -_ ---u,1,__ e·e 1~.1 . i:..~t:t 
inr.• K ::?'C'.~:..C:::C:......~, ~-· ·-~~~:i}}tf-: 
.·-. I 
·. ·• Stop by our· boot.hat Student .j ·.· Activities Night in Septemberll 
·~-ou.t ffl.«~~(:..fuie.~ and tl&e campw ~c.ene at www.nd.edu/~ mindset 
. \/.\, ·, .,, ·._ . ,, , ·-.. ,, .. ··.· . . _J 




ls there 
anything 
to do around here( 
RYANGREENE AND 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
and "The Matrix," and each feature iselcome to South Bend, the preceded by a short student film. Formerly
W
city that sleeps. A lot. If known as Cinema at the Snite, this project 
you're looking for a lively, ex­is sponsored by the Department ofFilm,
citing town to paint red, don't hold your 
Television, and Theatre.
breath. But while the surrounding area is • SUB Movies hardly a wealth of entertaining possibili­The Student Union Board shows mov­ties, campus life can more than make up ies every Thursday through Saturdayfor any such shortcomings. Here's a handy night for an entrance fee of $3. Whileguide of what to do on those otherwise it also shows older, second-run films,-itdull weekends. 
tends to focus on larger Hollywood hits, SCREEN AND STAGE like "The Life Aquatic," "Ocean's 12" and 
• Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the "Meet the Fockers." Performing Arts • Student Film Festival 
Opened in the fall of 2004, the PAC is In January, the films made by Notre one of Notre Dame's newest buildings in Dame's film-production students are an ambitious campus-wide construction showcased for a week in the state-of­plan. The center features five different the-art Browning Cinema at the PAC, theatres, including the Regis Philbin courtesy of NDCinema. Consider this Studio Theatre and an innovative 100-your chance to check out the films before seat pipe-organ theater. The theaters they hit the indie film-festival circuit. This have been designed so that concerts may must-see event promises controversy, art be held simultaneously without noise and even a few laughs. interference from each other. Cover­•Theatre ing 150,000 square feet and at a cost of From classical tragedy to lowbrow $64 million, the PAC is the new home comedy to foot-tapping musicals, Notre of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Dame's got it all. Washington Hall hosts Television, and The~tre. Thenew theaters • many performances during the year, and absorb some ofthe student performances student plays also have been performed traditionally held in Washington Hall in in the PAC. A special feature at Notre addition to serving as a venue for outside Dame are performances featuring the acts. professional English troupe Actors from 
•NDCinema the London Stage in their unique rendi­
You can catch the cream ofHollywood, tions of Shakespeare's plays. Every year, independent and international films at the the Pasquerilla East Music Company PAC every Thursday through Saturday presents a popular musical to sell-out night. Recent films have included "The crowds. Recent hits have included "West Producers," "Raiders of the Lost Ark" Side Story" and "Grand Hotel." A variety 
of other shows are hosted through such additional groups as ND Opera, The­Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company, and St. Edward's Hall Players. 


LIVE MUSIC AND MEDIA 
• AcoustiCafe Every Thursday night at LaFortune 
· Student Center, the Student Union Board hosts an open-mic night for student solo . musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a hankering for some John Mayer and Norah Jones covers or you just want to check out the original music produced by campus talent, this evenfls free for everyone. If you're interested in performing yourself, SUB has open sign­ups each week. 
• Concerts and Shows 
Nota heck ofa lot ofbands pass through South Bend, but you can count on Notre Dame to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent performers have included Everclear, Guster, Better Than Ezra, Black-Eyed Peas and stand-up comedy by David Spade. Great bands should continue to invade campus with the year's kickoff event, Student Activities' "The Show." Also keep your eye out for concerts at Legends-an all-ages univer­sity-run club and restaurant south of the stadium-and at theJ.A.C.C., courtesy of local radio stations. Past years' offer­ing'have included] ohnMellencamp, Toby Keith and U2. 
• CollegiateJazz Festival 
This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a 

38 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 

FROM MACHIAVELLI TO MAKAVELI Notre dame students can entertain themselves on campus in a variety of ways, from attending live theater at venues like 
washington hall and the PAC to. listening to live bands at one of several student music festivals. 
who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. 
•NDTV 
The newest addition to student-run media, Notre Dame Television airs two weekly shows, including "The Mike Peterson Show" -a live sketch comedy show created entirely by Notre Dame stu­dents -and a news program. NDTV's news program highlights campus news, sports, entertainment events and more. Tune in to campus cable channel 14 for the goods. 

ARTS AND LITERATURE 
• Sophomore Literary Festival 
For one week each February, a commit­tee of sophomores hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their own work. Going into its 38th year, it has· featured such legendary writers as Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, John Irving and Tom Clancy. 
• The Visiting Writers Series 
The Creative Writing Program, a gtadu­ate program at Notre Dame, also hosts a number of writers throughout the year. These readings don't tend to get a great deal ofpress, so look around the hallways of O'Shaughnessy for posters, or check out the English department's calendar of events at http://www.nd.edu/~english/ calenda1:html. 
• Snite Museum 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Sunday, and admission is free. It tends to be one of Notre Dame's less-traveled treasures, although many students and professors attend the opening ofthe spring exhibit where the MFA and BFA students showcase their work. 

STUDENT ACTIVITES 
• Student Union Board (SUB) 
While South Bend isn't exactly an enter­tainment hub like New York or Chicago, 

CHICAGO 
When the Bend becomes too monoto­nous, consider a day or weekend trip to the Wrndy City. Freshmen aren't allowed cars first semester, but public transportation has you covered. The South Shore Line can take you from South Bend Airport and approximately 2 hours later drop you off on Randolph Street in downtown Chi-Town. From there, rm-South Bend activities await, like lunch at Gino's Pizza, shopping on Michigan Avenue, or hanging out at Navy Pier. 
SUB does a good job of bringing outside r·-· .. ----_........~ 
:~~::0 ~:gs~aer~~~:s~~-~::~~: :~:~~:S~ · · Ifallentertainm~i~;onsfail,you'rego~ i Divided into several branches, SUB not ing to have do it yourself. Though this list ! only provides weekly movies and occa-, may seerri ext...~nsive, i~'s almost guaran.te~d.· sional concerts but also multicultural and I that you're gorng to hit a few gray and dis-, l: 
intellectual activities in addition to student services like prize raffles, organized trips, and final exam stress relievers. 
• Flipside 
Though looked down on by some as an "anti-drinking" organization, Flipside does a good job of providing consistent student activities, usually on the mellower side. Expect a few video game and board game tournaments and prize nights, as well as organized trips to local mini-golf and bowling establishments. While not the premier source of entertainment on campus, Flipside can be counted on for planned events nearly every weekend. 
' mal Saturday evenings here in South Bend. , But Notre Dame isn't so much about the things you do as it is about the people you 
i meet. When your calenaar is empty and the snow is piled up outside, tl1ere's noth­ing like an impromptu dorm-room luau or something as simple as hot chocolate your new friends. Freshman year can be the best 
. of t:ii.nes and the worst of t:ii.nes, but a little · cfeativitycangoalongway.Itcansaveaiot ' ofmoney, too. 
Ofcourse ifall else fails yourself sperid­ingyour Friday nights staring at the wall,• you can always apply for a job at Scholas­tic. . 

FRESHMAN ISSUE 2005 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 39 
,-· 

campus. The interior of SDH includes two wings (one with a mural of the "Last Supper"), both ofwhich have wooden ceilings outfitted with chandeliers that make you feel like royalty when eating. SDH's.food is consistently fresh and tasty in a first-class facility, making this the best dining hall on campus. . .. 
I There is daily variation among SDH's differently t_liemed
! 
sections, inaking it difficult to get tired of this. dining,hall's. food. For instance, the American grill might have burg~rs and regular fries one day, and then offer Philly cheesesteaks and seasoned fries the next. The Italian section is known for its authentic-tasting sauces, and also boasts delicious meatballs and different types ofpastas. One ofthe trademark features at SDH is the Far Eastern (Mongolian-style) stir fry, where you are given your choice of vegetables, meats and sauces to be grilled by a chef. There also is another chef readily available to cut you slices of such meats as turkey, ham and sometimes steak. Other themes available are Mediterranean, Middle Eastern, European, Latin and 
. 
While you might think that ~o dining halls lo~ated on_ the same campus cant be that much differ­ent; think again. North Dining Hall (NDH) has 
been the place to eat since it was established in 1957, and it is a convenient three-minute walk from many North Quad dorms. 
Both dining halls have signature dishes, but NDH seems to provide more of the memorable ones. Whatever your palate desires, you can be sure to find what you're craving at NDH. In this dining hall's first room, you'll find a pizza station that allows you to design your own personal pizza, 
a feature that SDH does not offer. You have your choice of dough, cheese, sauce and toppings. The chef will then cook your creation before your eyes in just five minutes. Ifpizza is not your delight, you can move on to the next room. The middle room ofNDH is home to "Homestyle 

Favorites" and features a variety of such protein-packed essentials as turkey, meat loaf, roast beef 
and chicken, all ofwhich rotate on a daily basis. Ifyour tastes are a bit more eccentric; you can take advantage of the Italian and Chinese stir-fry stations. Both allow you to mix your favorite choices of meats, vegetables and unique sauces to create a fabulous grilled dish. The room also includes the •·"Liglitef"Side"''foods,Wliidf6ffeffafriyriad"of·dishes"f6f'"­those. diners that desire healthier meal options. \ For those ofyou ;¥ho constantly crave American arid Mexican food, the final rponi'is the perfect fit. Here you'll _ 
South American. For those with 
~.·-., •~. -_.,·..ffAi;lt}.. 1·-rf-1~9.1a11 the ham.burgers,: ~ot. d .. ' ogs, chicken pa~e.. s ~nd fries 
healthier eating habits, SDH 
J_ l\, '<'../'.Y JL '·\~ ~L 1.:9u_1t:9ed. NDH also pen~d1cally offer~ chicken wrngs,, 
provides a great vegan menu with 
r::oo·o rn-n~f-9i'! can cover them with.yo~ ch01ce pf sauce:l>:uffal9, 
a comprehensive soup, fruit· and 
l . "'--'"·..Jlter1yalli. or BBQ honey. The Mexican section allows you to 
salad bar. Whether you're a big eater or small eater, SDH caters to all. 
SDH also offers a better Grab 'n' Go (take-out meals in a paper sack) than NDH for those who don't have enough time to sit down to eat in-between classes. They offer more snacks (such as granola bars) to go along with the sandwich or wrap ofyour choice. SDH also constructed a welcomed addition in 1998-Reckers. Itis the only 24-hour restaurant on cam­pus, and it serves as a great hangout spot where you and your friends can satisfy your midnight munchies. Some favorites include the Reckers burger, made-to-order sandwiches and personal pizzas with toppings ofyour choice. They also have 20 different varieties of Freshens smoothies 
Remember that the food in SDH gets even better during football weekends, when the lights are dimmed and candles are lit. For those living on South Quad, consider yourselves lucky. For those living on North Quad, the walk over to SDH is worth the trip. D 
40 SCH0LASTICPOINT/COUNTERPOINT 
mak'eyour own tacos and burritos with a great variety of srichtopp.ings as·guacamole, sour cream and red sauce. ; Throw in the salad bar, sciup station, sandwich station arid dessertstation thathave-more variety (including ice 'creamflavors)than-SDH;·-lt's-easyto·seewhyNDHis···--·-··---·:··­clearly the superior spot for grub. It may not look as· pretty from the outside as SDH, but the food is what counts. D 


IJ 


'Wednesd«y,,Cugust81 
CARNlVAL GAME6 ON SOUTH QUAD 
~MMYJOHN'6 M 
DRlVE-IN MOVlE AND LATE NIGHT GRlLL ON NORTH QUAD AT 9PM 

ll'hursday, 'Weptemher 1 
ACOU6TlCAFE 10PM-MIDNIGHT IN LAFUN 
SUB MOVIE WEEKENDS BEGIN! 
Assignments/To-Do: BUY "TH£ 6HIRf GET FOOTBALL TIX 

Vrid«y, Weptem&er 2 
*DALE K-THE HYPONOTIST FIND OUT TIME AND PLACE AND GO! 
~ 

Saturday, Weptem6er 8 
LAST NIGHT TO SEE THE 6UB MOVIE! 
BUY BOOK6 
PRESORTED STANDARD 
U.S. Postage 
PAID Notre Dame, IN 
-

Permit No. 2 
-
-
-

Domer 

Mail in application __________ _ 



Enclosed is the following amount to open a Domer Dollar Account. $___ (minimum $50) 
Deposit is by: __Cash __Check 

Please mail to: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box 1129 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (s74) 631 -7814 
Domer Dollars make campus life easier! 
You don't need to carry cash! Simply use your University ID card to buy just about anything on campus. 
Domer Dollars are safe, convenient "electronic funds" accessed by using your ID card. To find out more about Domer Dollars visit 
www.nd.edu/~cardsvcs 
Opening an account couldn't be easier or faster. Just use our Web site! It's safe, secure, and very convenient. Remember this site for balance inquiries, sales histories and of course, future deposits! You can make a deposit using either MasterCard or Visa. 
A few Domer Dollar locations; 
Hammes Bookstore 
(Get your books and supplies) 
ND Food Service locations 
(these are just a few) Burger King Starbucks Subway Sbarro Reckers Legends of Notre Dame 
Vending and Laundry The Copy Shop The Copy Center, Hesburgh Library The Morris Inn ' The OIT Solution Center Riley Digital Imaging Studio University Hairstylists 






