It's our famous slogan prompted by the aim of this establishment "to serve in such an efficient, courteous way that we'll be talked about." We want the personality of this store to be outstanding in friendliness, and we realize that this feeling of good will, to be mutual, must be sincere.
Here — you are always a guest before you are a customer.
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as aecood-ciaM matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. for mailing at special rate of postage. Seetic* 1103. Oet 3. 1917. Authorised June 13. 1913.
VOL. 86, NO. 10
FEBRUARY 1, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Students Follow Team
To Chicago Tomorrow
A student basketball trip is an uncommon occurrence at Notre Dame. It is uncommon at many universities. But at the Notre Dame-Northwestern game which comes off in a jam-packed Chicago Stadium tomorrow night at 8:15 the Notre Dame rooting section will be well represented.
It all started when, at one of its many conferences, the enterprising Student Council, spurred by John Cauley and John Johnson, decided that the 1945-46 basketball squad was worthy of some school support on at least one of its 12 road games. This would be the students’ way of showing what they thought of their team. The Northwestern game was the likely choice. The Council then proceeded through the many channels and red tape which to them is all in a day’s work. The Notre Dame ticket office cooperated by reserving a block of approximately 200 tickets all of which were snatched up quickly once the student body got wind of the idea.
• So when the whistle toots tomorrow night bringing together the Irish and the Wildcats for their 48th court meeting there will be on hand a 200 man plus Notre Dame cheering section led by tireless, peppery, chattery Herbie Lee.
In the nightcap of the double header De Paul plays Indiana State whom it beat earlier in the De Paul Invitational Tournament, 74-56. This was the game in which George Mikan scored 37 points to establish a new stadium individual scoring record.—Dave Warner
Col. Robert Riordan Returns to N. D.
After five years of absence from Notre Dame, Colonel Robert B. Riordan, of Ludington, Mich., has returned to his Alma Mater to take up his former posi-
Col. Robert Riordan
tion as an associate professor of economics. Because of the present housing shortage he is residing in Dillon Hall, while his family, with the exception of his two oldest sons, is living in Ludington.
In an interview upon returning Mr. Riordan said, “The only change on the campus is the navy buildings. The students are just the same, except for the
For the children of Europe
Tonight, at 7:00 o’clock, the University of Notre Dame will close a Day of Prayer for the Suffering Children of Europe. The appeal that all Catholics devote this day to prayer for the children of Europe was made by His Holiness, Pope Pius XII in a letter to the Bishops of the world. This letter reads in part: “We ordain, therefore, that in each of your dioceses, you assign a day on which public prayers will be offered to appease God’s anger, ' and on which, through your priests, you will admonish the faithful of this urgent need, and exhort them to support by their prayers, good works, and offerings, every movement that is directing its forces fully and effectively for the succor of needy and abandoned children.”
more mature group of veterans. One thing that did affect me was the weather. Ever since I got back to the States last December, it certainly has been different from the tropical climate of the Philippines.”
At present Mr. Riordan is filling in for other teachers in the Economics Department. He is also organizing two courses, “Elementary Statistics,” and “Elementary Accounting,” which were taught before the war, but later dropped.
In February, 1941, Mr. Riordan left the University as a major in the field artillery reseiwe. He was assigned to the Army R.O.T.C. unit at Purdue University as an associate professor of military science and tactics. Later he became adjutant, and executive of the station. He was transferred in April, 1944, to the headquarters of the Fifth Service Command, at Fort Hayes, Columbus, Ohio.
In July, 1945, after receiving orders to report to the Pacific theater of operations, Col. Riordan flew from San Francisco to Manila, via Honolulu, Johnson Island, Kwajalein, and Guam. Arriving at Manila, he was assigned to the 24th infantry division on Mindanao. Enroute to his post as commander of the 13th field artillery battalion, he visited Leyte, Palayan, and Zamboanga.
Col. Riordan landed on the beach at Mitsuhama, Shikoku, Japan, in October, 1945. He took up quarters in the Japanese naval air station barracks. Five weeks later, he returned under orders to the United States. He arrived at Notre Dame on January 20.
Mr. Riordan is one of a long line of Riordans to matriculate at Notre Dame. An uncle of his, John Riordan, entered the University in 1852, only ten years after Father Sorin arrived here. Mr. Riordan enrolled shortly after World War I, majoring in journalism. While an undergraduate, his paintings and cartoons were given prominence in the Dome. After graduation in 1924, he became assistant editor of The Bengalese, in Washington, D.C., his new residence.
(Continued on page 20)
3
^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
.in............................................................................................    inn
mmii tint ■tiifttiiKaiiiataiiitiiiiaaiiiiiaiiiiittiiiiiataiaiaaaaaiaaiiaiaaiiaiaiiiitaaiiiiiaaaiiiiiaaiaaaaiaiiaaaaiiiaaaaii
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS -	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor
COLUM N I S T S
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI ----- The Crow's Nest ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN - - - The Shillelagh JACK STEWART ----- The Green Banner ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
This week, as it must to all men, the axe fell upon the neck of the genius who pens that illustrious column, The College Parade. One dark, damp, dreary night last week, (that description automatically sets the scene in Indiana) the old Ed. himself sidled up to us on the campus and thrusting a knife into our ribs, snarled, “No more frivolity in that column of yours, see! From now on it’s news or else.
You and I know that he can’t intimidate us, but just to show him that we’re really nice to kiddies anyhow, to that list of New Year’s Resolutions that we printed last week (one, to be exact) let’s add another. The second commandment from now on shall be “Hereinafter, no joke is good enough to be printed in this column” (unless it’s our own, of course!). . . . Naturally the circulation of the Scholastic is bound to suffer (the wife will stop reading it now, or rather will stop having it read to her), but for the sake of good journalism, we are compelled to bow our heads and withdraw. (Move over, Mosher, I’m joining you.)
❖
To replace the old Worst Joke of the IF. Department, we have uncovered a choice tid-bit entitled:
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLA VICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO PAUL RAGAN ROGER CAHANEY JACK HUMMEL RALPH HAYMAN JOE LANG FRANK TYCHSEN DAVE OLSON MICHAEL GREENE
JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER JOHN GUNTHER BILL BRAUN
RUDY SCHREITMUELLER WALTER S. BUNKER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY JACK SULLIVAN JOHN WALKER ' LAWRENCE METCALF ARNOLD ANDERJASKA CLARENCE ZIMMER FRANK FINN -
JAMES FERSTEL •-	-
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. M. E. VARGA -	-
- Photography
Circulation Manager
Faculty Advisor
- Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Noire Dame, Indiana.
4
NEWS FOR YOUSE FROM OTHER U S
We’ll begin this by slipping in the big event of the week at both Purdue and Ohio State. That is, a big bridge tournament. How about one for N.D.? Sorin alone has enough bridge-sharks to keep the tournament going night and day for a w’eek.
Minnesota’s big feature this month is Snow Week. Let’s hope that they have a little more of the fluffy white for their celebration than St. Mary’s had for theirs.
Whoever selected that sports short for Washington Hall really pulled a dandy—the one about West Point athletics. It wasn’t very opportune after Catawba’s football coach on Friday had accused Army of trying to pirate his star halfback. Then, too, there was the statement that the Anny basketball team was the cream of the East, only seven days after Dartmouth had outpointed them in Hanover. How about a game with Billy Hassett & Co.? The whole film had its effect, however. Phil Colella was heard to munnur something about “Give ’em licks in Forty-six.” Frank Leahy concurs.	■
At Georgetown the news is that Jack Hagerty, Hoya football coach, has returned from a stint in the Navy and is all set to place G.U. back on the football map once more.
The principal speaker at a testimonial dinner for the president of Boston U. was Gen. Dwight Eisenhower. Is Ike traveling the Banquet League to recruit talent for his team?
In last Thursday’s Indiana Student the weather was a front page subject. Is the weather so bad in Indiana that it is cause for complaint?	’
There’s anothei* school in Indiana too, called Notre Dame. Ever hear of it? Well, if you have, be sure to attend that Sophomore Cotillion there on February 8. It’s sure to be the thing. .
To conclude on a doleful note, here’s a touching poem (Continued on page 22)
Tenth Naval Ball Tonight
ROTC UNIT WILL DANCE TO MUSIC OF TEDDY PHILLIPS
At 9:00 tonight gay couples will throng into the Palais Royale to attend the tenth naval ball; the culmination of the semester’s social events given by the naval units based on the Notre Dame campus. The Palais Royale will be a far cry from the usual dancing spot, having been transformed into the U.S.S. Barry, a mighty aircraft carrier. The dance floor has been converted into an expansive flight deck and the band will be stationed behind an incoming launch. At the south end of the flight deck will be the “island”—the superstructure of the carrier. Protective 20 mm. guns will be strategically placed.
“Music for Moderns” typifies Ted Phillips band. Twenty-eight-year-old Ted, who is acknowledged to be one of the youngest leaders of “name” bands in the country, was at one time the ace saxophonist of the late Ben Bernie. Bernie fostered Phillips’ musical career by sending him through the Illinois Conservatory of Music. Phillips began his career as an orchestra leader with the entire musical library of “The Old Maestro” at his disposal. This library has been valued at $10,000. The band is not brassy, but emphasizes melody and tonal effects using full solid instrumentation. The band’s musical renditions have been described as, “as fresh and modern as tomorrow’s headlines.” Phillips also
Bondman Ted Phillips
Queen Marion Murphy
ranks among the top tune arrangers; 90% of the ballads played by the band are his own arrangements. The vocals are ably handled by Bill Howard, 17-year-old vocalist, Phillips himself and the entire band. The “Four Mountaineers” capably manage the comedy assignments. Billboard, the nation’s top musical scoreboard, recently evaluated Phillips’ group; the following is an excerpt of theii- findings:
The most intriguing factor in the band is the leader’s use of the three altos and two tenors in the sax ensemble passages. Beautiful blend of the high-voiced sax makes for a distinctive styling, such as was prominent in the rise of the late Glenn Miller's crew and also the Claude Thornhill band.
As the couples enter they will be greeted by Captain J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of the naval units, Commander George Hutchinson, executive officer, Paul Doyle, general chairman of the ball, and Miss Marion Murphy, Paul’s date who is the Queen of the Ball. Miss Murphy, a native of Chicago is a sophomore at Mundelein College.
The couples will be presented with beautiful bids which are imprinted on crystal plastic and phosphorous paper and which, when the lights are low, will glow in the dark, accentuating the silhouette of the aircraft carrier and its escort of planes superimposed upon it. The plane escort form the numeral ten, designating the tenth naval ball.
During the course of the evening, those couples who wish a permanent
record of the night’s festivities will have the opportunity to have their pictures taken. There will be a roaming photographer on the dance floor.
The revelry is slated to continue until 1:00 in the morning. The happy, tired guests will then be escorted to their residences and the trainees will begin their trek back to their quarters to secure a few hours sleep in order to fortify themselves for the remainder of the gay week-end.
Saturday, the men and their guests will have the opportunity to see the recent movie, The Bells of St. Mary’s. This picture is of special interest to the men stationed at Notre Dame because Joan Carroll, who is starring in the picture along with Bing Crosby and Ingrid Bergman, was recently adopted by the men of the naval units. The film will begin at 2:30 tomorrow afternoon.
Morrissey Hall will be open for inspection by the trainees’ guests on Saturday and Sunday afternoons from noon until 2:00 p.m. The decks will be swabbed and everything will be immaculately clean to impress tffe visitors.
Many of the navy sections are planning special parties and dances for Saturday night. Section one, composed of the men receiving their commissions in February, is having a dance at the Oliver. Other sections are planning sleigh ride parties and informal get-togethers. Many of the couples will assemble at the Palais Royale for another evening of dancing. Groups of trainees are planning small dinner dances at many of the local hotels and restaurants.
Sunday, the traditional day of rest, will be a welcome time for the trainees and their guests. A large number of the men and their guests will attend Mass on the campus of Notre Dame. Other couples will attend services of their own denomination in South Bend. Information has been posted on the bulletin boards in the navy halls giving the time of the services and the addresses of the respective churches. Most of the couples will spend Sunday afternoon taking in a restful movie.
Later in the day the guests will be leaving for their home towns; then come the sad good-byes, but all present will remember the wonderful time they had at the tenth naval ball and another chapter will be added to their book of happy memories.
5
Kno^
Your NOTRE DAME
On March 1, 1931, robust Notre Dame students exhausted themselves watching workmen digging the foundations of two new residence halls. The names were a top-drawer secret until three weeks later the Scholastic in a scoop, never before or afterwards equalled, announced that they would be called Alumni and Dillon. As if not satisfied with this one proud cock-crow, the Scholastic went on further to say: “In appearance the new halls will carry out the Gothic style of the other buildings in the near vicinity. They will be built of brick with limestone trimmings and will be connected with an arch. The architect’s drawing shows a tower on the side of the building nearest the corner. From all indications (good old cagy Scholastic) it will be a twin to the corner tower of the new Law Building. They will undoubtedly form a handsome entrance to the University grounds.”
Dillon Hall was named in honor of the Reverend Patrick Dillon, C.S.C., Noted for his administrative powers, he was also a very good engineer. Close upon the heels of his success in building the new Academy at Saint Mary’s, he was asked to stake out a new Main Building for Notre Dame. The site first chosen was where Sorin Hall stands. A drainage problem arose and the site was shifted to where the present and later Main Building is now. With the combined help of the Brothers and the priests the building was completed in the fall of 1865. Six stories high, a tea-cup dome on top, the structure was the highest one for miles around, and South Bend villagers came to gape and to deny it existed. On May 3, 1879 it burned to the ground.
In an effort to broaden the scope of the University, Father Dillon inaugurated a Scientific and Commercial course. This was the humble beginning of the Colleges of Science and of Commerce. That Father Dillon was carved out for big things could be inferred from the fact that he was only 29 when he became President of the University.
'Because of the generosity and the loyalty of the Alumni the second of the
6
new halls merited to be called Alumni. The Alumni Association had started a fund for the purpose of erecting a dormitory to be known as Old Students’ Hall. By 1919 they had collected §60,000 which was turned over to the University for a general endowment and development fund. To show its appreciation, the University set aside Alumni Hall as a general headquarters for all alumni reunions.
■	■	■ v-
1 -	/ •
Where Gargoyles Brood All Week
When the two halls were finished in a neck and neck race in the fall of 1931, the Scholastic, eager beaver that it is, came out with this bit of observation: “The two halls have wide, spacious hallways, bright, airy rooms, striking woodwork finishes and capacious showers— every convenience down to slots for old razor blades.” The Scholastic failed to mention that there were gargoyles on Alumni Hall. In Paris the gargoyles of Notre Dame brood over the wickedness of the city. Here they must wait for Saturday nights. No wonder they look so bored.
K. of C. Initiations
to be Held Feb. 10
Definite plans for the initiation of second and third degree candidates into the Knights of Columbus have been drawn up. Twenty-six eligible men from Notre Dame will make the journey to Mishawaka on Sunday, Feb. 10, where the initiation ceremonies will be conducted, it was announced by Grand Knight Robert Sullivan.
Further announcements concerning the enlargement of the campus council were made at the regular bi-monthly meeting that took place last Tuesday evening in the chambers at Walsh Hall. A memorial ritual to commemorate the war dead was held under the direction of lecturer John Luken to complete the program begun with the memorial Mass and Communion breakfast which highlighted Columbian activities earlier in the month.
On February 12 an on-campus meeting will conclude the program for the winter semester. The election of several minor council officers will then be held as well as the welcome to the new members and a farewell to those brother knights who will graduate next month. Several grand knights from councils in surrounding cities will be in attendance as guests of the local group. Detailed provisions for the coming elections and the offices to be filled will then be complete and a calendar for spring activities will be made known.—James Sullivan
RECOUNT
As you may have already expected, a correction is in order concerning the length of the vacation between the Winter and Spring semesters of this year.
An earlier announcement from the Director of Studies stated that registration for courses of the Spring semester would begin March 4. However, due to various and unavoidable complications (and perhaps consideration for the overworked student body), the registration with the Director of Student Accounts will not begin until March 11. This will then be followed by registration for courses with the Deans of the Colleges on March 12 and 13, and classes will begin on March 14.
Therefore, instead of the original four days vacation, there will be a lull of 11 days before the next semester commences. In other words this amounts to 26'4 hours of spare time, and if you use your imagination you’ll realize that we are almost overburdened by time, compared to the original calculation.
Notre Dome Veterans Honor War Dead
Returned Servicemen Remember Deceased Buddies at Corporate Communion
It was a raw, frigid, blustery morning last Sunday, a good morning to sleep until nine. But the Notre Dame veterans had other ideas. Their thoughts went back to the bloody battle of Iwo Jima, the battle of the Bulge, the bombings of Berlin. They remembered those who weren’t so fortunate as they, who would never be able to attend Notre Dame or any other college — their buddies who died in World War II. So our spirited veterans arose to receive Communion in a body at eight o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church, after which they had breakfast in the west dining hall. They received Communion not only for all Notre Dame dead, but also for their personal friends and pals who were killed in action. A book containing their names will remain perpetually on the altar of Sacred Heart Church.
The Mass began and the veterans sang in unison the Kyrie, Gloria, and the Sanctus. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Vet’s Club Chaplain, celebrated the Mass and delivered the sermon, which dealt with service life. He stressed the friendship which existed in the service, and which he said should continue to exist among veterans out of service. He related the incident of a dying soldier whose wish was to recite an act of perfect contrition. His buddy helped him to do it, and in performing the act of friendship was himself brought close to God. All servicemen should strive to maintain that comradeship, Father Hesburgh declared.
After Mass all attended the Communion-breakfast. After the meal Toastmaster Jim Sullivan introduced Frank Leahy, director of athletics and head football coach. Mr. Leahy remarked that he feels more optimistic about the 1946 football season than about any other
season since he took over as Notre Dame’s coach in 1941. He told the more than 300 vets present that he would have a good nucleus for the 1946 football season with the return from service of such players as Johnny Lu jack, Bob Kelly, and Jimmy Mello.
He expressed his deep appreciation for-the services the veterans rendered their country, and on behalf of his family and himself thanked them “from the bottom of my heart.” He concluded by telling ' them that he would show next fall in a more concrete manner just how much he appreciated it. At the conclusion of his talk, Mr. Leahy was presented an honorary membership in the Veterans’ Club.
Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., philosophy and religion professor, was the second speaker on the program. Father Brennan declared that with the players returning from service added to the returning members of the 1945 squad, the coach will not only have the nucleus of a good team, but the nucleus of an atomic bomb.
Father Brennan thanked the veterans for the honor of being present when they paid their respects to their- fallen comrades. He continued by saying that there should be rehabilitation by veterans rather than rehabilitation of veterans.
He said that the majority of the people are ignorant of the central fact of all history, the coming of Christ. Many modern philosophers and theologians have taken the two rational faculties, the intellect and the will, away from man. Father Brennan stressed the need of truth, and added that democracy cannot survive without truth; training of youth in which truth is lacking is fatal. It is the duty of-every veteran to acquire the truth and to tell it, he said.
Seated at the guest table with Father* Brennan and Mr. Leahy were Rev. John Lane, C.S.C., director of veterans affairs; Father Hesburgh; Jerry Wayno, club president; and the chairmen of the highly successful Communion-breakfast, Joe Totten and Don Juster.
—Clarence Zimmer
Vets Urged to Attend
Smoker in South Bend
The Veteran’s Club of the University of Notre Dame is sponsoring a Smoker to be held in the Indiana Club Rooms in downtown South Bend. It will he held next Tuesday, Feb. 5, from 8 to 11 pan. All veterans are invited to attend, whether club members or not. This will be a good opportunity for the vets to meet one another.
Included on the program are an Informal Variety Show, magicians, comedians, dancers and a good ol’ college barber shop quartet. Movies will be shown by Frank Cacciapagila. A variety of refreshments will be served.
General Chairman is Joe O’Toole. Entertainment Chairmen are Fred Early, J. McGuire, and Frank Kowalski.
Veterans in the Vets Club will be admitted by membership card. Other veterans will be charged- one dollar. Tickets ‘ will be obtainable at the door. Watch bulletin boards for further information. Let’s have a 100% turnout. A fine program has been arranged for you, so you won’t go away disappointed.
Men interested in joining the Veteran’s Club please see Jerry Wayno in Room 104 Walsh.
All men on the executive committee are to attend a meeting today, at 4:15 p.m. in Room 1 of the Law Building. J. W. Wayno, President.
Veterans crack smiles at Coach Leahy's wisecracks.
7
SOPHS SIGN JERRY WALD FOR COTILLION, JUST ONE WEEK OFF
As late arrangements are completed and the Sophomore Cotillion committee relaxes into the satisfaction of completion and a period of anticipation prior to the actual staging of the gala extravaganza one week from tonight, every indication points to the complete success of the first Sophomore class dance since 1942.
Highlighting the Friday night promenade in the Rockne Memorial will be the music of Jerry Wald, the clarinet sensation, and his 18-piece orchestra. Arrangements are being made to broadcast the music of the “sensation” orchestra from the Rock so unlucky stay-at-homes can shuffle then* feet to the same music the Cotillion-goers will be dancing to.
The music committe headed by Warner Stoll lays claim to signing one of the biggest name bands ever to play for a Cotillion. Jerry Wald has already established his reputation in musical circles. Taking the attendance records at hotels he has played and the waxing of top recordings for Decca records as a criterion, he is well on his way to becoming one of the nation’s top bands.
Admitted to be one of the outstanding clarinet players in the musical world, Wald comes to the Notre Dame campus with a long list of successful stands in leading hotels and theaters throughout the U. S. A few of his typical engagements include the elite Hotel New Yorker and Lincoln—at the latter he broke all existing box office records— the Sherman Hotel in Chicago, the Paramount Theatre in N. Y. and the Oriental Theater in Chicago.
It’s musical history that a band led by a clarinet-playing wizard comes along every few years to cop nation-wide recognition. In 1935 it was Benny Goodman, in 1939, Artie Shaw. And now in 1946, handsome Jerry Wald carries on that tradition. Wald and his band have been accorded an almost certain chance to equal, if not surpass, the exploits of his clarinet-tooting contemporaries.
Bids for the Cotillion at $6.50 per couple are now on sale in 330 Alumni Hall and can be purchased daily between 3 and 5 o’clock, and 7 to 9 until next Thursday. Bids will not be sold after Thursday, Feb. 7.
The committee has limited the sale of bids to 300 in order not to crowd the Rockne Memorial, and indications are that the full quota of tickets will be
snapped up by dance-hungry students. In order to assure tickets for Sophomores and those already signed up for bids with the ticket committee headed by John Moorhead, sales yesterday and today were limited to them.
The transportation problem is pretty well solved with the granting of car permissions, but for those who have to
Kay Alien, lovely songstress who will do the vocalizing with Jerry Wald's orchestra at the Soph Cotillion.
find other means, arrangements are being made to run special busses.
Navy personnel of the upper three classes have been invited to attend the Cotillion, and Commander George Hutchinson, executive officer of the naval unit, has announced that two a.m. permissions will be granted to navy personnel! attending the ball.
—Bill Leavey
AERO MEET
Mr. R. S. Eikenberry, head of the Aero Engineering department was present at the annual national convention of the Aeronautical Sciences Institute, held in New York City on January 29-31.
Fr. Furstoss Named
Student Council Advisor
Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C., has been appointed by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University of Notre Dame, as faculty advisor to the student council to serve through the coming months. Father Furstoss was selected from a short list of candidates submitted to the university president by the student council.
It is the duty of the faculty advisor to offer advice and recommendations for consideration by the council. He holds the position as advisor by virtue of action of the student council and does not act as representative of the university administration.
Father Furstoss already is well-known on the campus as the congenial rector of Badin Hall. In addition he is assistant to Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., head of the university maintenance department.
A native of Chicago’s West Side, Father Furstoss has received his entire education at Notre Dame or schools under the direction of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He started his preparation for the priesthood in 1934, and after seven years work at the seminary here, spent four years at-Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C.
Faculty Gives Support
To Europe Aid Program
Faculty members at Notre Dame last week unanimously approved a resolution presented by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., advocating the program of the “Save Europe Now” committee of South Bend.
The resolution suggested that sufficient aid be sent to foreign countries to increase the now-deficient diet of peoples in liberated and axis countries, give complete freedom to such private relief agencies as the American Red Cross, open mail service to Austria and Germany for the purpose of mailing food packages to private individuals and authorize Congress to make humanity loans to foreign governments.
President Truman, Secretary of State Byrnes, Secretary of War Patterson and Secretary of Treasury Vinson are being sent copies of the resolution.
A good deal of activity .by the committee in South Bend has been promoted during recent weeks. Father Moore is one of the secretaries of the “Save Europe Now” group.
8
OF MICE AND MSN
Build a better mouse trap and the world will beat a path to your door. Not only has the better trap been built, but it has been installed in the catacombs of venerable Sorin. Thus far the only things which have beaten a path to Sorin’s door are larger and more ferocious rats.
Great piles of cement and sand, apparently used in the installation, lie in great heaps on Sorin-Sub’s floor attesting to the complexity of this electrical Pied Piper. Specifically designed to eliminate the rat problem in Sorin, this turbo-electric trap with six speeds forward and one in reverse is said to be able to lure rats from as far as St. Mary’s. Variously described as a death ray which atomizes the unwary rodents thereby removing all evidence of the corpus de-lecti, and a devilish machine with electric fingers that tickles the rat into a lethal fit of laughter, the machine despite its ominous whirrings and buzzings has been cold-shouldered by the resident rodents of Sorin led by Oscar, Rodent Emeritus of Sorin Hall.
Oscar is no ordinary rat. He and a whole platoon of henchmen inhabit Sor-in-Sub. In the small hours of the morning Oscai- and cohorts emerge to prey upon the sleeping students and their personal effects. An indication of the ingenuity of Oscar & Company is the case of the disappearing candy. A Sorin-subber went to bed one evening happy in the thought that he had a half a box of candy to enjoy the next day. But he reckoned without Oscar who during the night made off with the contents of the box. The startling thing about the case is that Oscar left the box intact, but empty. The only entrance Oscar could have made was to remove the lid. Oscar is no ordinary rat.
Not all escape. On dark nights after lights out, Sorin men lie in ambush and at the first sound of activity by the rodents, a fusilade of GI shoes is hurled into the darkness. The GI shoes probably have more of a tendency to wreak havoc upon old Sorin’s walls than to decrease the rat population. Occasionally a shoe will connect with its target, rewarding the diligence of those who only watch and wait. But still they go on, night after night, stealing everything that is edibile and carrying their ill-gotten gains to their lairs, there to munch upon their loot in noisy contempt of the mechanical trap.
It is very apparent that neither GI shoes, nor super-duper electro-pneumatic traps will lure the plucky Oscar & Company to destruction. The only solution we can see is to have some Pied Piper learn to play the flute and lure them all into St. Joseph lake.
—Johnny Walker
Fr. Richards Goes
To Texas Parish
The Rev. Thomas D. Richards, C.S.C., a membei’ of the Holy Cross Mission Band since 1926, left Notre Dame Sunday, Jan. 28, to assume his new duties as an assistant pastor of Holy Cross Church, Austin, Texas, which is conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross.
A native of Alpena, Mich., where his mother still lives, Father Richards attended St. Bernard’s School there, and then entered Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame in September, 1913. His higher education was received at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame and at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., from which he was graduated in 1926. He was ordained on June 29, 1926 by the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind.
Father Richards was appointed to the Holy Cross Mission Band the same year and has served continuously with this band, one of the best known and most active group of its kind in this country.
Father Richards also has a brother who is a priest—the Rev. Ralph Richards, Director of Catholic Charities of the diocese of Saginaw, Mich.
Holy Cross Church at Austin, Texas, to which Father Thomas Richards has been assigned, is the center of extensive educational and medical work which the Congregation of Holy Cross has established in Texas to aid Mexicans and colored people.
DIAMOND LOST 1/2 carat diamond lost out of ring. Probable vicinity between rear exit of Dining Hall and Bus Stop. Substantial reward for return to— Frank Cacciapaglia Jr. 217 Walsh.
VETERANS FLOCK
TO NOTRE DAME
Now that the war is over, men have again begun to acclimatize themselves to a world of peace. The boys who went into the service have come out as men. Many are picking up the broken threads of their former life and continuing in their former capacity, but many more have acquired a desire for education. The government had anticipated this thirst for knowledge and made provisions for its satiation in the G.I. Bill of Rights, thereby presenting an opportunity for higher learning to those who might never have had any means to obtain it. Hundreds had the intelligence but not the finances.
All over the United States, the vets have begun a mass migration to colleges and universities. High school graduates and men with master’s degrees, former students and successful business men, all are studying side by side for selfimprovement and the increased capacity to earn. Some are interested in learning for the sake of learning; others are primarily interested in becoming economically secure. Every branch of knowledge, from music and painting to engineering and commerce, is becoming more and more thickly populated by the men who won the war for us.
Here at Notre Dame, 25 percent of the student body is composed of veterans, and Father John J. Lane, C.S.C., Director of Veterans’ Affairs, expects another 25 percent increase by next semester. At the present time, Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, and Badin, are almost exclusively inhabited by veterans.
Many men who reached maturity while in the service came to realize the value of an education. They saw those who were trained to think along some specific line rise rapidly from the rank and file. Then and there they determined to acquire intellectual training.
Why have so many chosen Notre Dame? Some have been dreaming of a college life at Notre Dame since childhood, others . ..
“I was impressed with Notre Dame men I met in the service. They seemed to have some spiritual strength that the rest of us lacked.”
“I want a good background in philosophy and religion.”
“A school with such loyal alumni has to be good.”
With so many fine men and such a zealous spirit among the veterans, the world of today will surely be marked in history as a. period of intellectual reawakening.—Michael J. Greene
9
THE MOST UNFORGETTABLE CHARACTER I'VE MET
Bv IRCK SULLIVAN
Pardon the play on Reader’s Digest, but had you interviewed this exceptional gentleman, that familiar phrase would have been constantly running through your mind.
His name is Pastor Villaflor and although the majority of the students have never heard about him, he is famous in his own right. This diminutive little man of ovei- 70 was born at San Jose in the Philippines and attended St. Vincent’s College in Iloilo. There, he met an American chaplain during the Philippine Revolution and they became good friends. After peace had been restored to the Islands, the Chaplain wanted Pastor to return to the United States with him, but the latter’s relatives and close friends offered strong opposition, believing that America was crawling with heathens and barbarians. He finally succeeded in convincing them of the opportunity in this occidental paradise, and in 1901 was the first Filipino to become a citizen of the United States.
Pastor was invited to breakfast in the White House by President Theodore Roosevelt. Among the many interesting articles that adorn the walls of his room in Corby Hall is a profile head of Lincoln, given to him by Mr. Roosevelt. It is composed of currency crushed into pulp, and after he had seen me staring at it a few seconds, he solemnly said, “Go up and look.”
This I did, and on the back was written: “Redeemable for $5,000 at the U. S. Treasury.” Did I already say that he was exceptional?
His hours at the University are spent in embroidering many of the vestments for the Congregation, and the altar cloths. Pastor says that embroidery has been his main occupation as long as he can remember, and after- inspecting some of his finished products one will quickly agree that he is proficiency personified.
To try and describe even a small part of the numerous works of art he has made would be useless. But there is one that perhaps some of you may have seen. It is the altar cloth used in Sacred Heart Church at Christmas. The whole front border is scalloped and embroidered in a pattern of American Beauty Roses, and took over a year for completion.
Pastor learned embroidery from a Benedictine nun in Chicago, from Japanese artists, and also gained knowledge from various other sources while he was a young man.
He was the first Filipino to join the Knights of Columbus, and has had audi
1C
ences with Pope Pius X and Pope Leo XIII. He was also introduced to Cardinal Mundelein of Chicago, and Cardinal Hayes of New York.
Pastor has traveled around the globe twice, and before his work became “full time,” he was master of Spanish, French, German, Latin, and two Filipino dialects. He also has taken lessons on the piano, guitar, organ, and violin.
Before coming to Notre Dame as a student Pastor lived in the Chicago suburbs of Wilmette and Glencoe, and at times had taught embroidery there. During the recent war his income from teaching, and profits netted from selling embroidery ties and mufflers have been sent to his relatives in the Philippines who were poverty-stricken and actually starving as a result of Japanese aggression.
Very slowly he spoke of the letters he had received from the Philippines. They told of the sufferings his people had undergone; how his home and the church that he had built were razed; how his mother’s jewels and a quantity of gold coins were missing in the ravaged village; and how his two cousins had died of starvation. All this was modified by his simple statement, “No good!”
Pastor excelled in Fine Arts while a student here, and has many mementos of his younger days to back up the statement. In 1893 his embroidered representation of the Crucifixion was shown at the Chicago Columbian Exposition.
In earlier years he was also the sacristan of Sacred Heart Church, but as his embroidery required all of his efforts, Brother Boniface relieved him of his position.
One of the last questions that I put forward to him was why he had chosen embroidery as his life work. His reply was very true, and I believe it without hesitation. He said, “Not many people do it. Not many do it like I do.”
NOTRE DAME SCULPTOR RECEIVES HIGH AWARD
Mr. Eugene Kormendi of the Fine Arts Department at Notre Dame has been awarded first prize for outstanding work of sculpture at the Hoosier Art salon in Indianapolis.
The work which won the award is a figure of St. Francis of Assisi carved in black walnut. Mr. Kormendi, now in his fifth year of teaching here, studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Budapest and later studied for five years in Paris. A statue of the Blessed Virgin by him
Polish Club to
Meet on Thursday
The Charles Phillips Club of Notre Dame is holding an open meeting next Thursday evening, February 7, in the Engineering Auditorium, featuring a showing of the motion picture films of the 1945 Notre Dame - Iowa football game. President Edward Stelmazek stated that all students and faculty members are cordially welcomed to attend.
Novy Mon Here
Awarded Silver Star
GM 1/c L. L. Adkins, a member of ships company here, was presented the Silver Star award last Monday by Capt. J. Richard Barry in a formal ceremony at the Rockne Memorial Building. Adkins, who was with the amphibious forces during the invasion of Iwo Jima, when the ship on which he was stationed was hit by a Japanese shore battery, organized a damage control party and attempted to keep the ship afloat and fighting. The Silver Star is the fifth highest award that can be presented to a man in the naval service.
Quiz Kids' Scholarship Winner May Come Here
Notre Dame has been named as one of the three Universities at which the “best teacher in America” will receive a full year of academic scholarship, plus $1,000. A contest sponsored by the Quiz Kids radio program and open to any grade or high school students in the United States requires that a letter nominating a teacher be written on “The teacher who has helped me most.”
The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of Notre Dame’s graduate school, is on the committee to referee the contest.
The teacher winning the prize may choose beside Notre Dame, the University of Chicago or Northwestern University as the school at which to benefit by the scholarship.
stands at the zero mile stone in Budapest. It is from this point that all roads in Hungary begin.
Notre Dame students can witness the work of Mr. Kormendi in the niches of the newer residence halls on the campus, notably Alumni and Dillon.
Students receiving instructions in sculptoring under Mr. Kormendi are chiefly members of the Architecture Department who are required to take sev- • eral courses in Fine Ai-ts.
The Notre Dame Bookstore
Brothers Meinrad and Conan, Entrepreneurs Limited
A Book of Verses underneath the bough, a jug of Wine, a loaf of Bread.
—Omar Khayyam
We can’t guarantee the jug of wine and the loaf of bread, but over behind a banging screen door within the confines of old Badin, you can find that book of verses side by side with such articles as after-shave lotion and Log-Log Decitrig slide rules. All this and pennants too, at the Notre Dame Bookstore, crossroads of the campus.
Take about twenty hundred civilian, V-12 and NROTC students and try to force them into the narrow confines of the bookstore and you have what could easily amount to sheer bedlam. Making order out of chaos are two hardworking gentlemen, Brothers Meinrad, the manager and Conan, the assistant manager. Brother Meinrad, he of the ruddy cheek and the witty remark, is the antithesis of all that is ususally associated with a musty pile of books. He takes to mixing his own pipe tobacco, dabbles in Logic and French while capably directing the bookstore’s affairs. Brother Conan of the brogue as thick as country butter, assists Brother Meinrad and also doubles as Prefect of the fourth floor of Breen Phillips Hall which is no small job in itself as anyone who has ever been up there will readily testify. Assisting the good brothers is a staff of eleven students, while only working part time, approximate their bosses in efficiency and have even acquired a goodly portion of their genial humor. The employees are: Charles Kasberg, Jim Collins, Gerard Hekker, Bernard Duclos, Fred Tansey, Tom Frushow. The part time employees: John Krueger, Ray Quinn, Tom Ferriter, Carter Nyquist and Dick Tomolak. Brother Conan asserts that one of his part time boys, Ray Quinn, is the magnet which draws the female trade from far and near. Because of his resemblance to movie star Dennis Morgan, the girls come to gaze at Ray in awe. While they are gazing, Brother Conan proceeds to sell them a goodly amount of merchandise, -which is only fair.
Handsome decoys like Ray were not the order of the day back in the early nineteen hundreds when the bookstore occupied a room in the main building with one small closet for storage-space.
Rev. William Moloney, C.S.C., was the first manager. In 1932 the bookstore foresook its humble quarters in the main building and moved to its present location in Badin Hall. This transfer occur-ed in the depths of the depression which was felt at the bookstore in the form of very light trade. Business has been on the upgrade since 1940. But prosperity came around the corner with a whole new set of problems to baffle the Brothers—wartime shortages.
During the war the jewelry business which was inherited from the Comptrollers office in 1942 did a complete fadeout. No longer could ND men patch up things with the little woman thru one of the bookstore’s lockets. However, the jewelry business has begun to revive with the lifting of government restrictions on the production of luxury items.
The skin you love to touch can be had by partaking of one of the many preparations on sale in the toilet articles section. This section was expanded upon the arrival of the Navy because of an absence of a Ships Service Store. Notre
Who's Sellin? Who?
Dame men of the past apparently didn’t care particularly if their hands were rough and red, for prior to the Navy’s arrival, this section occupied but one shelf.
For a while at the beginning of this semester Notre Dame had the only bookless bookstore in existence. The lack of textbooks was a terrible blow to the students, or so it was said. Notre Danie’s accelerated program and the paper shortage were responsible for the scarcity of text hooks. Because of the late start of the semester, the other colleges bought up the available supply of texts, leaving only scratch pads upon which nothing is written. The horizon in textbooks still looks pretty dark until the paper shortage is alleviated.
The Brothers contend that their present quarters are too small for the amount’ of business, especially at the beginning of the semester, a point which none of us will contest. As for the future, the bookstore will continue to serve its clients in its own inimitable manner. So if you want a pen that’s nifty, Brother Conan has one for $19.-50.
—Johnny Walker
11
Irish Come Charging Down Final Stretch of Season Basking in Basketball's No. 1 Spot
By DAVE WARNER
12 and 0. That’s the record of the Notre Dame basketball team up until last night’s engagement with the unpredictable Michigan State Spartans. That’s the record which gives the Irish the undisputed right to bask in the No. 1 spotlight of college basketball by virtue of hard-earned, well-deserved victories over the Midwest’s best and a decisive 56-47 win over mighty Kentucky (13-2) last Saturday. With more than one-half of its schedule already completed, Notre Dame swings down the stretch facing in order—Northwestern, Canisius, N. Y. U., Marquette, Michigan State, De Paul, Northwestern, and Detroit. Any one of these quintets is highly capable of leaving blemishes on the victory slate. So far no opponent has been found to take the place of the canceled Iowa Pre-Flight game which was to have been played here on February 13. Consequently, the next and only remaining home game will be Northwestern when they come here for a return game on February 26.
Tomorrow Night: Northwestern
' After only a day’s respite following the Michigan State encounter, Coach Elmer Ripley sends his highly regarded courtmen into action against a Northwestern quintet which is even less rested. The Wildcats, seeking to share in Big Ten championship honors, played Purdue only last night in the Chicago Stadium. Off their respective records, Nitre Dame and Northwestern are as evenly matched as any fan could hope for. The Irish eagers are currently riding the crest of 12 straight victories while the Wildcats, though less successful, have lost only twice in 11 starts, Michigan and Illinois turning the trick. The common opponents which have been defeated by both Northwestern and Notre Dame are Marquette, Great Lakes, Purdue, and Wisconsin. Of their all-time 47 game rivalry Notre Dame has won 29, and for some inexplicable reason one game during the 1935-36 season ended in a 20-20 tie. This is the only tie game which appears in Notre Dame’s basketball record book.
The starting line-up which Coach “Dutch” Lonborg will stack up against Ripley’s five packs plenty of scoring punch and aggressiveness. The speedy, cagey Northwesterners use a short pass, definitely play offense rather than the fast breaking game. Lonborg’s line-up for the Notre Dame game should look something like this: one forward will be All-American football end and the Big Ten’s leading basketball scorer last season, Max Morris. Morris along with the irrepressible Otto Graham is one of the greatest two-sport men ever to hit the Evanston campus. He had two very cold nights this season but is once again back in scoring stride after hitting for 21 points against Wisconsin last Saturday. Morris, like Klier, is a dead-eye from any spot on the court. Up front with Morris will be either Chuck Lind
gren or Phil Lofgren, both fast, tricky, dead shots. At center is the ambidextrous, high scoring LeRoy King, a six foot, seven inch giant from Denver, Colo. King played for 3 years at Monmouth College before entering Northwestern as a biblical student. For his starting guards Lonborg can choose from among Buzz Wheeler, Joe Tourek, or Bob Me Taggart, a star at St. Ambrose College last season.
Meanwhile, Coach Ripley will continue to go along with the same starters who have taken the floor at the opening whistle in 11 of 12 games. The one exception was when Ratterman started in place of Gilhooley in the first game against the St. Louis University Billi-kens. Gilhooley was then recuperating from a knee injury. At the forwards tomorrow will be Leo Klier, who now has 190 points in 12 games, and Johnny “Scooter” Dee. Center will be Vince Boryla, who boosted his season’s total to 180 points by outplaying and outscoring Kentucky’s sensational, much publicized “Wah Wah” Jones. Energetic, deceptive Billy Hassett and Frank Gilhooley will again take care of the back stations. Ray Corley and George Ratterman will divide time with Dee and Gilhooley.
Then with only 2 days in which to tune up for their annual classic with New York University in New York’s Madison Square Garden, Ripley’s boys will take to the road again. Enroute to New York they will stop at Buffalo to play Canisius College on February 7 in the Buffalo Memorial Auditorium. Memorial Auditorium has a seating capacity of 10,500 and is allegedly one of the most beautiful arenas in the country, but it has never been filled to capacity for a basketball game. Perhaps Notre
Dame will take care of that when it appears there Thursday night.
Though Coach Art Powell’s team this year doesn’t nearly approach the splen- i did records compiled by past “Golden | Griffin” teams, Canisius has the reputa- I tion of a fighting ball club. It has won only 4 of 11 games, but for a small Jesuit I school it takes on a tough schedule— teams like Syracuse, Cornell, Utah, Colorado, West Virginia, N. Y. U., Long Island, and—Notre Dame. The Canisius ; contingent lost to Colorado by one point ' and were leading N. Y. U. until the last minute when the Violets unleashed a 7	*
point scoring rampage and victory.	j
JIMMIE PH|
Head Football Coach, St. I
(Editor's Note: This is the third in a series of articles devoted to Notre Dame 4 men who have distinguished themselves in collegiate coaching at colleges i throughout the country).
Add the name of James Phelan, class of 1917 and head football coach at St. Mary’s College, California, to the evergrowing list of Notre Dame graduates who have distinguished themselves in the athletic world. Through his outstanding achievements in his playing days, and later as a coach, Jim Phelan i has carved for himself an unforgetable | niche in the annals of football.
The first of Jimmie’s many press notices came on the day of his birth, December 5, 1893, at Sacramento, Calif. It wasn’t long before he was sparking the | Columbia high school team of Portland, Ore., to victories in 1909.	’
The Notre Dame football machine was : under the combined tutelage of Jesse Harper and Knute Rockne when Phelan entered the University in 1914. In 1915, 1916, and 1917 he quarterbacked the intricate Notre Dame system, being elected captain in his final year. It was before the close of that 1917 season that ; he was called into the Army air service. -He was not a notable ball carrier* nor a great passer, but in Rockne’s opinion r Phelan was “one of the smartest and j gamest quarterbacks in Notre Dame I football history.”	L
Returning to football as head coach | at Missouri in 1919, Jimmie piloted the • “Show Me’s” to a Valley title in that ; year and a tie for the championship in . 1920. In three years at Missouri he lost only three games.	j
In the eyes of the coaching fraternity j Phelan bought his coaching “tombstone”
12
Tracks+ers Open Season Here Tomorrow;
Five Men Will Participate in N.Y. Meet
Notre Dame’s tracksters will “roll in the new year” tomorrow when they open their indoor season in a dual meet with Western Michigan’s thinlies on the field! house oval. The Irish will be without the ; services of their ace miler, Billy Leonard, and a crack mile relay team composed of Fred Jones, Ray Sabota, Bill ’ Tully, and Bob Purcell, when they meet : the Broncos. This quintet will carry the ' Blue and Gold banner at the Millrose Games in New York City tomorrow.
Coach “Doc” Handy’s boys completed , preparation for their initial test with ■ today’s final practice session. In last * Sunday’s time trials, Bill O’Neil, Notre
Dame captain and top-notch hurdler, did not participate because of a leg injury, but the Snoqualmie Falls, Wash, boy will be ready when festivities start tomorrow. The intrasquad meet showed marked improvement in many events, and the results were quite favorable. Stellar performances were turned in by Floyd Simmons and Ted Smith in the shotput, Jim Kelly and Jim Murphy in the two mile run, Bill Leonard in the mile and half mile races, Bill Fleming in the hurdles, and Tommy Thompson in the sprints. Results follow:
One Mile: Leonard, Tracey and Torrence (tied for second)
880 yd. run: Leonard, Torrence; and Tracey.
•330 yd. dash: Hampilos, Bergthold, and Thompson.
60 yd. dash: Thompson, Scarpelli, Hampilos and McCullough (tied for third) Pole Vault: Struble, Pogue and Greenway (tied for second).
High Jump: Fleming,’ Painter, and Martin (all tied for first place).
Broad Jump: Duarte, Painter, and Scar-pelli.
Shotput: Simmons, Smith, and Scott.
Low Hurdles: Fleming, Lott, and Callahan.	’
High Hurdles: Fleming (only participant) .	’	.
Mile Relay: Jones, Sabota, Tully, and Purcell — first Jost, Mahoney, Polk and Kenny — second.
IjELAN, *17
Mary's College, California
by accepting the position of head mentor 4 at Purdue in 1922. At that time football was outlawed in Indiana high schools. » Consequently, the coaches at Indiana’s universities were faced by a crop of green candidates at the outset of every season. This same post at Purdue had been left in discouragement by Andy Smith, Lone Star Dietz, and Butch Scanlon.
Determinedly building for five years, Jim Phelan in 1927 turned in a record j of six victories — one a trouncing of । Harvard — and two defeats. 1928 saw five scalps brought into camp along with two defeats and a tie. In 1929 the Boiler’ makers took their first undisputed Big Ten title with a record of eight victories. >
! The University of Washington in 1930 | beckoned Jimmie Phelan to his first Pa-j cific Coast coaching assignment. The ’ Huskies in 12 seasons under Phelan compiled a record of 63 wins, 35 defeats, and 9 ties. In 1936 he repeated his trick of 1929 at Purdue and gave Washington a Pacific Coast Conference title. The Huskies went on to the Rose Bowl, only to lose to Pittsburgh, 21-0. At Washing-I ton Phelan’s teams beat the mighty Southern California Trojans seven out i of eight tries.
| Then, in the days when “sneak at-j tacks” were foremost in the public’s ‘ reading eye, the University of Washing's ton in December, 1941, dealt to Jimmie ) Phelan what the sports writers of the • nation acclaimed a “sneak attack.” The ■ school’s reason was simply that “he : didn’t win a coast conference champion, ship with Huskies this season.” This * blow was significant in that it cut off the | trek of midwestern players to the West (Continued on page 15)
SCHOLASTIC Photographer Jim Ferstel catches center Vince Boryla with both feet still off the floor, taking possession of a rebound. Final score: NJ>. 69, Marquette 67.
13
Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH
MAKE ROOM FOR TRACK
While the Notre Dame sport scene is cluttered with basketball enthusiasm, another major intercollegiate sport will get under way tomorrow when “Doc” Handy’s track team opens its 1946 indoor season. Action for the Irish will be centered in two arenas, the Notre Dame fieldhouse and Madison Square Garden in New York City, scene of the Millrose Games. There is much promise of success ahead for the track team and tomorrow’s events will provide the test. Five men will represent Notre Dame in New York’s Millrose Games. Bill Leonard will enter the famed Wanamaker Mile while the mile relay team will also be in competition. The remainder of the team will stay at home to entertain Western Michigan in a dual meet.
The 1946 track season will be the 48th for Notre Dame, the first regular schedule having been carried out in 1898. The first track meet in Irish history was held •56 years ago, an invitational affair at Ann Arbor, Mich. Only football is senior to track in Notre Dame sport annals, gridiron festivities having started in 1887. Baseball started in 1892 and basketball in 1898.
REPEAT PERFORMANCE
On December 9, 1945, the Notre Dame basketball team opened its season with a 56-37 victory over Camp Atterbury. Against Kentucky on January 26, 1946, the same Irish quintet repeated its victory performance for the 12th successive time to remain the nation’s number-one college basketball team. The Kentucky Wildcats had actually been favored over Notre Dame in the minds of many forecasters, but Elmer Ripley’s eagers roared through with a convincing 56-47 victory, and what a great victory it was. The Kentucky game served as the real test for the Notre Dame team. Observers of that game claim that Notre Dame, in winning, actually made the great Kentucky squad look bad.
Vince Boryla scored the first 14 points for the Irish at the outset of the game and ended up as high man for the night with 18 points. Leo Klier had a rough night as the basketball refused to go through the hoop for him. He did rack up three buckets and added two free throws for eight points. George Ratterman played his usual outstanding handy man role, accounting for 13 points.
The victory was significant in that it again proved that the Notre Dame team can win its games and play first class ball when the chips are down, so to speak. All season they have edged out opponents by the narrowest of margins but yet have always proven themselves to be the brilliant aggregation that they are when the occasion demands. The team doesn’t rely upon individual stardom. If one man has a cold night, one of the other boys seems to be “on,” and so it goes—we hope.
Not including last night’s Michigan State game, Leo Klier tops the Irish scorers with 194 points on 81 field goals and 32 free throws. Boryla is second with 180 points on 73 baskets and 34 free throw's. Captain Billy Hassett is third with 103; George Ratterman, fourth, 85; Johnny Dee, fifth, 77; followed by Frank Gilhooley, 16; Joe Sobek and Ray Corley, 11 each; George Riley and Dick Kluck, one each. Notre Dame has scored 679 points to 581 for all opposition.
FIGHTING IRISH IN THE NEWS
Elmer Layden has accepted an offer in an advisory capacity for the National Professional Football League during the 1946 season. Layden, recently retired as commissioner of the league, expects to enter private business after the season is over. . . . One by one Frank Leahy is rounding up his former assistant football coaches. Latest to return to the fold is John Druze who left his job here in the spring of 1942 to enter the Navy. Joe McArdle, Bernie Crimmins, Wally Ziemba, and Ed Krause have already returned as Leahy’s helpers. ... No game will be sought to replace the Iowa PreFlight team which canceled its basketball game here February 13. Coach Ripley wanted only a major foe for that date but none were available. The athletic ticket office will refund all money for tickets sold for the game. This leaves only one more home game, that with Northwestern on February 26. . . .
Joe Sheeketski has been appointed line coach at the University of Iowa according to an announcement by Athletic Director E. G. Schroeder of the Hawkeye institution. Joe was one of Hugh Devore’s assistants last fall. . . . Paul Gordon, freshman cage star- at N.D. during the 1944-45 season, is one of the leading scorers on the Bainbridge Naval Train
ing Station quintet this season. Gordon is also considered as the playmaker of that team. He expects to be back at Notre Dame next year. . . . (Lt. (j.g.) Andy Puplis, former Irish quarterback (1935-36-37), visited the Notre Dame locker room in the Chicago Stadium after the Great Lakes game two weeks ago. Andy expects to be discharged around. April 1 and plans to return to Proviso High School, Maywood, Ill., as football coach. . . . Another former Irish quarterback, Lt. Bill Hofer, Marine Corps, is a patient in the Great Lakes Hospital. Hofer was shot in the neck by a Jap sniper in the battle for Okinawa.
IS THERE A DOCTOR IN THE HOUSE?
When Northwestern and Notre Dame meet in the Chicago Stadium tomorrow night, there had better be a doctor among the 17- or 18,000 people in the house. You won’t find two more nervous coaches than will be on opposite sides of the floor in this game. “Dutch” Lonborg has been stewing and fretting his way through Northwestern basketball games for many years while Elmer Ripley has had no end of the fidgets this season watching his undefeated ball club skim through games. Elmer is a pretty calm gentleman ordinarily but any coach would get excited watching his team win games the way Elmer’s team has been doing. However, ol’ Dutch is a natural-born bench hopper, worth the price of admission alone. No matter how good his Wildcat team is playing, Lonborg always finds someone to jump up and holler at. When he isn’t stretching his vocal cords, he is feverishly rubbing his ears and face, burying his head so as not to be further mortified by the play of his team. Dutch should wear ear muffs to save his ears, though as long as they have survived these long, arduous seasons they seem destined to remain attached to him. But for all of his grueling antics on the bench, Lonborg turns into an angelic individual when the gun sounds to end the game—particularly if his team wins. Incidentally, Northwestern teams have been winning a good percentage of their games during the Lonborg regime.
For those of you who are going to attend the game tomorrow night—according to the ticket office 250 students have claimed tickets — take a look at Max Morris, ace Wildcat forward. He is a smooth basketball player in every respect. Besides being a dead shot (conference scoring champion last year) Morris is adept at stealing the ball from opponents and then using his speed to drive in for crip shots. LeRoy King, giant N.U. center, could never match DePaul’s George Mikan for agility Taut cannot be underrated. He gets the points that count.
14
INTER HALL SPORTS
VOLLEYBALL
Scoring four straight victories, the Walsh volleyball team took undisputed possession of first place in the volleyball league at the halfway mark. Closely trailing Walsh were Zahm Green with three wins and one defeat and Breen-Phillips who has split even in four games. Trailing are Dillon with a one and three record and Zahm Gold which has yet to win a game in four starts.
Walsh added two victories last week by defeating Breen-Phillips on Wednesday and Dillon on Thursday. Walsh scored its fourth win of the season Tuesday of this week by defeating Zahm Gold. In other games played on those three nights, Dillon defeated Zahm Gold; and Zahm Green defeated Zahm Gold and Breen-Phillips.
❖
BASKETBALL	~
Putting the pressure on throughout the entire game, St. Edward’s Hall defeated Breen-Phillips Friday night, 63 to 24, to enter the championship series as the representative of the eastern division. The game was a replay of a protest game early in the season. The victory gave St. Ed’s five straight and undisputed possession of the eastern title.
Lyons Hall had previously won the western title by scoring five straight victories also. Lyons Hall and St. Ed’s will now enter a round-robin series with the title-holder of the Overflow League to decide the campus championship. This series will probably start next week as soon as the Overflow winner is decided.
Badin Hall defeated Howard 34 to 11 on the last night of play to enter into a three-way tie for second place in the western half with Dillon and Morrissey. Each of these teams won three and lost two. Walsh Hall won its first game of the season in the other game defeating Sorin, 31 to 29, in the last game of the regular schedule.
HANDBALL
Frank Parise and Lewis Polk became the first two semi-finalists during the week. Parise gained the second last round by scoring victories over Jim Suehr and Joe Yonto, while Polk was defeating Ed Kenefick and Dick Smul-len. Yonto had gained the quarter-finals by defeating Larry Raville while Smul-
len defeated Paul Porter to reach the round of eight.
A summary of results since tre last issue: First round: Tom Conley defeated Tom Benedict; Bill Vangen defeated Frank Pelliterri; and Dave Lloyd defeated Charles Kersgieter. Second round: Lloyd defeated Vangen; Polk defeated Kenefick; Roy Cangelosi defeated Dick Friend.
❖
SWIMMING
Entries are now being accepted from students wishing to enter the open swimming meet to be held in the Rockne Memorial swimming pool February 12 at 7:30 p.m. Seven events are on the program including: 50-yard free style; •50-yard breast-stroke; 50-yard backstroke; diving low board (four required dives and three optional dives); 100-yard free style; 75-yard medley; and 200-yard free style. Five points xvill be awarded for each first place; three for second; and one for third.
❖
OVERFLOW BASKETBALL
Alumni and Walsh Blue quintets were to play last night in the final round of the Overflow Basketball League. A victory for Walsh would give it the title since it went through the double- elimination tournament unscathed, while Alumni was defeated once. A victory for Alumni would necessitate anothei- game to decide the title. The winner will then enter the round-robin series with the winners in the Interhall League to determine the campus championships.
Walsh Blue played two games since the last issue, not including the game scheduled for last night. It racked up one win by defeating the Off-Campus five 37 to 26 and advanced to the final round by defeating Cavanaugh Gold 44 to 24. Alumni reached the finals by winning all its games after it had been defeated in an early game with Walsh Blue. Scores of games played by Alumni since the last issue include: Alumni 33, Cavanaugh Blue 31; Alumni 41, Dillon Gold 33; Alumni 35, Off Campus 29; and Alumni 35, Cavanaugh Gold 29. The last named of these games was a semifinal round game played Tuesday.
Scores of the other games played since the last issue: Cavanaugh Gold 45, St. Ed’s 21; Dillon 43, Zahm 17; Off Campus 25, St. Ed’s 19.
"The Squeeze Kids"
It all started when radio’s child prodigies, the Quiz Kids, were drawing national attention. The sports world soon took an adaptation to the name when Ilinois had a whirlwind sophomore basketball team a few seasons ago, labeling that quintet as the “Whiz Kids.” Latest version of this fad in nicknames has been that of “Squeeze Kids,” applied to the 1946 Notre Dame basketball team, undefeated in their first 12 contests. It seems that some of the nation’s sport scribes felt the name applicable in view of the many close games won by the Fighting Irish.
The name took hold following the Irish victory over Kentucky though the Squeeze Kids won that one by a nine-point margin. Reports from that game tell of the Irish antics that had the Kentucky crowd agog. The passing of Leo Klier—specialist at grasping the basket-bal against his wrist with one hand and passing it like a baseball behind opponents when they least expect it—had the fans dancing in their seats in amazement. Billy Hassett also had the fans as well as the Kentucky team in a state of frenzy in the closing seconds of the game when he nonchalantly stood in the middle of the floor with the ball behind his back, gazing casually about, while the Wildcats were making desperate attempts to get their hands on the ball.
JIMMIE PHELAN (Continued from page 13)
Coast in quest of dazzling fame and glory. It is interesting to note that the athletic commission at Washington wasn’t even aware that Phelan was to be ousted, and that the same commission came to him for advice on a successor.
Although St. Mary’s college, California, had abandoned football for the duration of the war, on June 20, 1942, it was announced that Jim Phelan had been placed under contract as head coach. St. Mary’s again took up the football reins in 1945, and Phelan again turned out a winning team. The Gaels had a seven-and-one season, being defeated in the final game of the season by U.C.L.A., 13-7. So laudable was their comeback to the grid game that they were invited to play in the Sugar Bowl at New Orleans. There they went down to defeat at the hands of the Oklahoma Aggies, 33-13.
Jimmie Phelan’s philosophy of football is by no means unique; rather it is typical of most of the sport’s greater coaches. It is best exemplified by a statement he once made to an interviewer: “I wouldn’t want a boy on any of my teams who didn’t like the game. In fact, I never knew a good player who didn’t love to play.”—J. M. Wieman
15
Twelfth in a row—
N.D. 56. Kentucky 47
The nation’s no. 1 collegiate basketball team —our own Notre Dame five— collected its 12th straight victory at the expense of a highly-touted Kentucky outfit before 6,000 partisan fans at Louisville by outplaying and outscoring the Wildcats, 56-47. The Blue Grassers, recalling last season’s overtime defeat along with eight other losses out of ten encounters with the Irish, were out to make trouble for the high-riding Blue and Gold. And Adolph Rupp’s boys, with only one loss credited against them—at the hands of a Temple five that was hotter than a two-dollar pistol—were figured by many of those “in the know” as the team that could do it. It certainly shaped up as a major test for the Irish who were invading the hills of “Kain-tuck” to tackle a team nigh invincible on their home court.
Kentucky started fast and had a 6-0 lead when the visitors made it evident that they were not going to be sociable. Vince Boryla started the ball rolling with a beautiful exhibition of pivotplaying by running up 14 successive points. Notre Dame went ahead, 16-15, with seven minutes to go for the half. They gradually increased this lead and at the intermission it was 28-24, Notre Dame.
But during the first half Leo Klier, that uncanny Washington, Ind., shotmaker, was having his share of bad luck. His inimitable and usually effective fade-away hook shots, the same that broke all existing Notre Dame scoring records and earned him all-American honors back in 1943, were consistently rimming the hoop, but not one registered for a score. He came back in the second frame, however, with three buckets.
Going into the second half the Wildcats managed to work the score up to a 35-35 tie. Then, with 14 minutes remaining in the game, the Irish went to work and produced one of their celebrated rallies to make the board read 47-35. But Wah-Wah Jones & Co. quickly retaliated and things started to get hot. It was then that Elmer Ripley’s eagers, displaying their championship polish and veneer, responed to the pressure by putting the game on ice.
The product of East Chicago, big Vince Boryla, was without a doubt the main factor in the 12th Irish win, scoring eight buckets and two free throws for a high point total of 18. He was a vertical off-the-backboard ball hawk — the department where Tingle usually shines.
Meek-looking George Ratterman again 16
INTRODUCING...
By John Gunther
RAY CORLEY
This week we are proud to present Ray Corley, the only freshman member of the 1945 Notre Dame “mighty seven” basketball squad. Ray is outstanding in his floor work, and his ability to play steady ball under great pressure has been one of the important factors in several games this season.
Ray earned five letters at St. Peter’s High School in Staten Island, New York, his home town. Three of these letters were in baseball, and two in basketball, and last year he captained the St. Peter’s five, and was chosen on the all-city team as a guard. He played the outfield on the baseball team, and last year he batted a sweet .528. This very high average prompted one of the outstanding major league clubs to offer him a contract, but he turned it down to come to Notre Dame with high hopes of playing basketball.
Ray entered Notre Dame at the beginning of this term, as an AB student. He has not yet made up his mind as to his major subject, but he thinks that someday he would like to coach. Ray, who stands 5 feet eleven inches and weighs 166 pounds, just turned eighteen, and is registered with the South Bend draft board; however, he hopes that the army wil not call him until the end of this term.
The greatest sports thrill thus far in Ray’s life was playing in the game that ND beat De Paul in the last seconds. His favorite food is ice cream, and he considers O’Grady of the ’43 Georgetown University basketball team the best he has ever seen on the hardwood. Ray spends his spare time writing letters to “Dottie,” the girl back home, and teasing Jack Hoey, his roommie in 205 St. Ed’s. Ray contributes all of his success to the coaching ability of ND Coach Elmei* Ripley.
more than filled the bill as a climax player by accounting for three quick baskets with the hat on during the closing minutes of the game. All told, he had five field goals and three foul shots for a 13-point total—three behind the runner-up, Jones. Capt. Billy Hassett and forward Johnny Dee played their usual fine all-around game, each accounting for seven points
—Peter Pesoli
Varsity Debate Team
Wins Two Decisions
On Saturday, Jan. 26, the varsity debate team of Notre Dame journeyed to Chicago to meet the debate team of Loyola University and of Mundelein College. It was the first of the season’s debates for the Notre Dame team, and the results of the debates were watched with interest by everyone interested in the varsity team. This first engagement was to serve as a test of the strength and practicality of the arguments used by the Notre Dame teams.
The evening’s debate was held in the Lounge Room of the Main Building of Loyola University. The affirmative team of Notre Dame met the negative team of Loyola at 7:30 Saturday evening, discussing the topic before all college debate teams: “Resolved: The policy of the United States should be directed toward the establishment of free trade among the nations of the world.” On the affirmative team of Notre Dame were Same Hazo, first affirmative speaker, and James Reedy, second affirmative speaker. The decision was rendered in favor of the Notre Dame speakers. Since Loyola had just emerged the victors of a debate tournament in which they had met seven other schools, Notre Dame’s victory had much significance. After the debate a criticism was offered by Father McGherity, S.J., the head of the English Department of Loyola University, in which he discussed not only the arguments presented in the debate but the technique used in the presentation.
While the debate between Notre Dame and Loyola was in progress downstairs, the negative team of Notre Dame and the affirmative team of Mundelein were debating on the second floor of the building. The fair ladies of Mundelein turned out en masse to spur their team on to victory. On the negative team of Notre Dame were Frank Finn, first negative speaker, and Jim Burns, second negative speaker. Notre Dame emerged the victors of this encounter, much to the satisfaction of the men from Notre Dame and to the dismay of the ladies from . Mundelein.
After the debates, Mr. Leonard Sommer of the Speech Department, coach of the Notre Dame debate teams, and the four speakers from Notre Dame were entertained by Loyola and Mundelein. Even the girls from Mundelein, a few minutes before, arch enemies, dropped their business air, and offered refreshments, dancing, and songs to the Notre Dame victors. As the party broke up, one of the Notre Dame debaters sadly looked back and muttered: “St. Mary’s was never like this!”—Frank Finn
CATHOLIC ACTION CLUB TO PRESENT
PROF. FRANK O’MALLEY AT SMOKER
Catholic Action will present Mr. Francis J. O’Malley, associate professor of English and associate editor of The Review of Politics, as the speaker for the fifth Student-Prof smoker of this semester in the Rockne Memorial Lounge on Monday, Feb. 4, at 7:30 p.m. Prof. O’Malley will speak on “A Liberal Arts Education,” and it will be the final meeting to be held this term.
These smokers, informal gatherings of the students and prominent professors, are arranged by the N.D. Catholic Action Group to aid in cementing student-teacher relationship and to benefit the student by personal contacts with
N. D. Medic Receives Service Citation
Captain Joseph R. Caton of South Bend, who served in the Students’ Infirmary before the war, is at home on temporary duty by direction of the army surgeon awaiting separation from service. Dr. Caton was assistant to Dr. Mc-Meel.
A citation for meritorious service in the field of rheumatology was given Dr. Caton for his work at the William Beaumont general hospital in El Paso, Texas.
ONLY 450 RO's
HERE NEXT TERM
The steadily decreasing number of men enrolled in the navy school programs here will take a sharp drop with the beginning of the forthcoming semester. At one time, during the period of wartime emergency, Notre Dame was host to more than 3,000 men who were in training as future officers for the navy and marine corps. As events became more and more promising for the allied nations the number’ of men in training here was reduced. The midshipmen school, which furnished more than 10,000 qualified officers for the fleet, was the first peacetime casualty. The start of the current term found 898 men enrolled in the NROTC, V-12 and V-5 programs. However, since that time many of the men have discontinued in the programs. The greater share of the men who left Notre Dame did so at their own request and proceeded to “Boot” training at Great Lakes, in order to qualify for the G.I. Bill of Rights. A minimum of 90 days active service is required in order to be eligible for this benefit as time spent in the college training programs is not classified as active duty.
campus authorities in various scholastic fields.
Catholic Action wishes to thank the students for their unceasing patronage at these smokers, and the professors— Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, Dr. W. Nutting, Dr. Daniel Pedtke, and Mr. O’Malley—for the generous donation of their time and talents in aiding this cause. Thanks go also to the Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., for his efforts in making these smokers a success.
All students are heartily invited to attend the last Catholic Action StudentProf Smoker on next Monday evening.
—Daniel Fessia
Philadelphia Club
Presentation and discussion of a plan to receive the incoming students for the spring semester representing the Philadelphia area was the theme as the Philadelphia Club at the university convened for its meeting last Monday evening.
At a brief business meeting reports were submitted by Treasurer John Moorhead and Director of Publicity Arthur Coughlan, and proposed amendments and revisions to the club constitution were the subjects of discussion. It was decided that a constitution committee should meet with the Prefect of Discipline at an early date for guidance with regard to any constitutional changes. A report was tendered by chairman Edward Nestlerode on the informal dinner party to be given at a downtown restaurant.
Frank Hieber Speaks at Bookman's Club Meeting
The development and evolution of the short story in its American form, from Washington Irving to modern authors, were traced by Frank Hieber in a speech delivered to the Bookman’s Club, campus literary organization, last Friday.
He took up the life of Washington Irving, “the father of the short story,” and demonstrated the intermingling of the romantic and classic schools in his works. Hawthorne, Poe, and Harte, who were next in rank in developing the short story as we know it today, were each taken up in turn and their influences traced.
After discussing Hamlin Garland, Stephen Crane, and Ruth Suckow, who made realist fiction the outstanding form of early twentieth century literature, Mr. Hieber concluded with an analysis of the short story of today.
La Raza Club To Go
To Loyola I.R.C. Meet
Members of the Inter-American Affairs Club and La Raza Club of the University will present a Panel Discussion on The United Nations Charter and the Act of Chapidtepec before the Internation Relations Club, Loyola University, Chicago, in the Lounge of the Cudahy Building, Sunday, Feb. 3, 3:00 p.m. Members of the Intel-national Relations Club of Mundelein College will be guests.
PROGRAM
1.	The United Nations Charter and. Regional Arrangements
Lais Beltranena, Guatemala City. Guatemala. Graduate School. Department of Political Science
2.	The -Act of Chapultepec and the Charter
Juan Anza. Mexico City, Mexico, Sophomore, College of Science. Department of Chemistry
3.	The Pan-American Union and the Act of Chapultepec
Thomas Murray. Dunellen. New Jersey. Sophomore. College of Ai-ts and Letters. Department of Spanish
Questions and Discussion
4.	Defense of the Americas through Regional Organization
Jaime Velez. Manizales, Colombia. Graduate School. Department of Philosophy
5.	Defense of the United Nations through UNESCO, UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
Joseph Menez, Cambridge, Massacushetts. Graduate School. Department of Political Science	•
Schoenherr Addresses
Economic Roundtable
Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering at the University, was the guest speaker at the Economic Roundtable which met last Thursday evening at the Ramble Inn for its weekly meeting.
Dr. Schoenherr spoke on “The Past, Present, and Future of Our Merchant Marine,” tracing the historical development of shipbuilding in all of its ramifications. He pointed out that the postwar tonnage of our merchant fleet will have a significant effect on our social and economic pattern. The speaker analyzed the development of the shipbuilding industry from the days of the early sailing vessel to the development of the “clipper ship” about the middle of the 19th century, which was capable of attaining a speed of 16 or 17 knots, through to the modern luxurious ocean liner of our time.
Dr. Schoenherr stressed the significance of the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N. Y., which “will soon be on a par with West Point and Annapolis.” He urged that the youth of America investigate the merchant marine as a career.
17
SkdldtUfk . . .
THE DIARIES OF STEWARTOVSKY
“To love oneself is the beginning of a life-long romance.”
Wladimir Lakond has translated from the Russian, The Diaries of Jack Stew-artovsky, a fascinating book for the many admirers of the great Columnist. This volume is likely also to provide modern psychiatrists with good material for study and to cause them regret that they missed such a perfect case.
The chief value of these diaries lies in the fact that their author wrote them strictly for himself, in order to keep records of daily events: here he is unrestrained, uninhibited, free fr'>m h;s usual shyness and reserve. Indeed, while reading his short, nervous phrases, filled with emotional outries where anger, pity, joy, despair follow each other without transition, one gets the odd feeling of violating his innermost feelings.
Stewartovsky’s life is fairly familiar to us, thanks to his biographers. Born in a semi-aristocratic family, he started his literary career rather early. He studied at St. Petersburg with Anton Claussiski, the famous composer on whose recommendation he joined the newly created Moscow School as a professor. The director of this institution, Anton’s brother Charles, took a great interest in J ack, shared his bachelor’s quarters with him, and was the first to appraise his works in public.
It was due ot Charlie Claussiski’s influence and persuasion that the rich widow, Mme. von Kolkoski, agreed to provide the then 26-year-old Stewartov-sky with a substantial yearly subsidy, thus enabling him to write without material worries. She added a strange stipulation to her gift—she and Stewartov-sky should never know each other- but by way of correspondence, a condition to which the writer agreed wholeheartedly. The arrangement lasted for a long period and, thanks to it, we are richer by three volumes of letters exchanged between these two, who never spoke to each other.
During these years Jack’s fame as a writer grew considerably, not only in Russia but in other countries of Europe, where he toured extensively. In 1890, three years before his death, he came to America for the inauguration of Holy Cross hall at St. Mary’s, and during that visit he registered in his diary many an amusing comment about diabolical creatures endowed with elusive tongues.
It is interesting to note the two chief
events which contributed most to Stewartovsky’s success — as a Columnist. First, was the warmhearted friendship that existed between him and the brilliant, young scholar, “Art Mosherkoff,” —who enabled him to uncover touching truths about the human heart; second and foremost, was the deep reverence he held for Omar Khayyam’s “Rubaiyat.”
On many an occasion he has been heard to utter the familiar stanza :
The moving- Finger writes; and, having writ, moves on: nor all thy piety nor wit
Shall lure it back to cancel half a line, Nor all thy Tears wash out a word of it.
With the knowledge of these facts, the Stewartovsky Diaries throw a new light on the personality of the Author of the Hozv Green Is the Banner.
In a collateral, more official diary, with an obvious eye on a possible reader, he wrote a kind of literary essay on “apollo” Welch, “Proletarian Bachelor,” and a long dissertation on Ed. “Dodg’ em” Fisher. This attempt at a critical study gives the impression of being labored and artificial. In spite of these bitter attacks, and even thanks to them, one discovers in the diaries one of the finest traits of Stewartovsky’s character, his extreme modesty.
If the writer Stewartovsky remains pale in his personal diaries, the human being emerges with the personality of
GREETING CARDS
at the
Bookstore
BADIN HALL
18
upwards
We invite you to see and acquire for her . . . one of the sharpest — the sa ... mooth ... est — the keenest valentines ever dreamed up. So come on in.
COMPACTS B
* Plus Federal Tent.
MW COMBI...MKNUMI ( MflMMM
19
color, reveals new facets of his complex character. Here we find a man of flesh and blood, a pathetic specimen of our miserable humanity. He tells us in short jerky sentences the deep drama of his fits of anger at losing at cards, his frequent and violent temper. But he confesses it all humbly and despairingly like a hero in a Dostoievsky novel. To calm'his nerves he seems to have developed a mania for walking, he never fails to give us a meticulous report of the weather, which if fine, meant to him walking to distant places, or, in case of snow or rainstorm, just pacing his room for hours.
After reading his diaries the whole picture of Stewartovsky shows a personality the French would describe as fin de siecle — oversensitive, slightly decadent, but at the same time warmheartedly human.
Readers will get out of this literary self-portrait a better understanding of the violent extremes of mood in most of Stewartovsky’s works.	-
The “Symphony of Tears” was the last he wrote. It was the testament in which he bequeathed to the world the flame of his genius and the beauty of his sorrow. The book was completed just at the time Russia was scourged by one of its frequent epidemics of cholera. Carelessly Stewartovsky drank a glass of infected water. He contracted the disease. Four days he lay in agony, and on the fifth day he found rest.
A strange ending to a strange life. A genius to whom Destiny had given the gifts of a god and denied the powers of a man. What could have been the real thoughts of so sad and incongruous a personality, wondered the hundreds of worshipers who filed past the body as it lay in state. But two weeks later the How Green Was the Banner was found and published in all its glory, and those who read it bowed their heads and wept. For then they knew.
P.S. One should be grateful to Mr. Lakond for his careful Russian translation and the courage to give us the Diaries of Stewartovsky unabridged.
COL. RIORDAN RETURNS (Continued from page 3)
He also drew comic strips for a Catholic newspaper syndicate.
He returned to Notre Dame in 1929 as a teacher of economics. A year later he became registrar. Until he left in 1941 he continued as the only layman to hold that office, as well as an associate professor of economics.
Carrying on the Riordan tradition are Col. Riordan’s two eldest sons, Thomas and Robert, who are students of the University, residing in Zahm Hall. Of his other children, there are two in high school, and five in grade school.
FOR THE SOPHOMORE COTILLION See
RALPH HAYMAN	ART HOFFMAN
247 Sorin Hall	413 Badin Hall
LES LOGAN	FRED JONES
Breen-Phillips	118 Alumni Hall
Orders taken until Thursday evening, February 7th. Your best bet since '39
ELLSWORTH’S
A Valentine Gift
Because "She's different" ... her gift will be made to order by Charles of the Ritz
Where could you ever find a made to order gift? She likes to know she's different. She brings her gift certificate to our expert who blends to order her very own powder shade.
2.00, 3.00, 5.00 plus tax
Cosmetics . . . Main Floor
for YOUR Valentine
20
INTRODUCING OSCAR BIRDBRAIN...
Let’s have more Seamanship movies starring Lt. Paige and Jood Roberts, both of whom are slated to receive Academy Awards for their unexcelled performances in their latest hit. While on the subject of “Oscars,” we’d like to introduce our own “Lt. Paige” of the Notre Dame NROTC, Oscar Birdbrain . . . Ta ta ta taaaaaa (introductory music). . . .
Officer Candidate Oscar Birdbrain is sitting in his room^i Morrissey Hall preparing to go on watch at Night Quartermaster. He expands his chest to a full 40 millimeters and a glint of determination flickers in his glass eye as he mutters to himself, “Night Qm. watch tonight . . . got to be careful ... so Salty O’Rourke was caught doping off last week, eh? . . . three weeks’ restriction . . . have to be on my toes.”
Night finds our hero, Oscar Birdbrain, in the Battalion Office, awaiting the bedcheck reports of his mates. Suddenly Willy Nilly, Assistant Mate of the Deck, rushes in and cries out, “Mr. Birdbrain, Regimental Commander Goebels is missing from his room!”
Oscar’s athletic heart did push-ups on his Adam’s apple when the full realization of the tremendous responsibility dawned upon him. He went into consultation with himself. . . . “Hmm, so Goebels is AWOL . . . the safety of the entire unit is at stake . . . wonder what the OOD would do in a case like this? . . . have to act fast.”
Oscar squared his youthful but determined chin and commenced issuing orders to his subordinate, “Batten the bridge deck! Sound the formation bell! Double the class room security! Lay aft the rum! Muster the watch squad! Secure all heads!”
An hour later, all was again quiet in Morrissey. In the Bat. Office, Oscar was sternly reprimanding Willy Nilly. . . . “Mr. Nilly, if you had not made such a stupid error, all this commotion could have been averted. When you were making the bed-check, whatever made you think that Goebels sleeps in the gear locker? Have you a Watch Officer’s Guide? No? In that case, I suggest you
Rtf, Almadl
get one and bone up on it. Remember that some day you, Mr. Nilly, you may
have to stand a Night Quartermaster watch.”
❖
JUST BETWEEN YOU 'N ME...
Mr. Higginbotham claims that he comes from a big town, but we’re inclined to take his statement with a grain of salt. After much research, this worthy unearthed the story that back in his home town, Higgy held the exalted position of dog catcher for a year and a half, but then he lost his job—he caught the dog.
❖
UNSKILLED LABOR...
Larry Sims, in case you haven’t been introduced, is one person who claims that he’s a self made man. The Almighty must be glad to hear that, it certainly relieves Him of a lot of responsibility.
NEWS AND VIEWS
FROM ME TO YOUSE...
Kent Carroll tells this story about his uncle Basil, who proposed to his ladylove, “Marry me, my sweet Anastasia, for if you refuse me I shall die.” She refused him and Basil, always a man of his word, died 52 years later.
♦
Joe Schmidt whispered ever so softly, “May I kiss you?” To which she replied, “Jeepers, another amateur!”
♦
“I owe it all to you,” Burt A. said to a girl across the Dixie, as he borrowed ten dollars. The little woman from Phil-ly was coming for a visit and -he needed the dinero.
❖
Then there’s also the story about the prof who wrote “Please wash” on the blackboard, so the janitor took a bath before Saturday.
♦
D-DAY FOR NAVY MEN...
At 2100 tonight, the Rotcees and V-12 attending the 10th Naval Ball at the Palais Royale will be gliding along to the sweet strains of Teddy Phillips and his Music for Moderns. Teddy, for the information of the music-lovers, is the man who wrote both Laura and Jeanie with the light brown hair — but they
for Your Valentine
Delivered or wired — to greet your Valentine—the perfect gift.
Feb. 14th is on THURSDAY
Order Early
★
Williams, The Horist
West of Oliver Hotel
Bruggner's
News Center - Cigar Store
127 W. Washington St.
“In the J. M. S. Building” South Bend, Ind.
' RUST CRAFT
LCO4UC
are SMOOTH add KEEN-
COME IN AND SEE THEM
21
never did answer his letters.
Getting back to the subject, Teddy Phillips has a first-rate organization and can be counted on to provide some excellent music tonight. We extend our heartiest thanks to the men on the committees who have worked so hard for the success of the Ball, and hope they have as good a time as we are planning to have.
♦
ZOLTAN S THESAURUS ...
Adjective: a word of richness and vigor which must not be used in polite society.
Article: a word of indefinite value, depending on whether you are writing a telegram or a thousand word theme.
Alimony: the high cost of leaving.
Stoic: a boid what brings de babies.
Skunk: a pussycat with a secret weapon.
And wasn’t I a silly dope
To fill my heart with sweetest hope. As I opened nothing wide. And found . . . still nothing there inside.
It was scented, as I now recall. So sweet it didn’t smell at all. The writing was worthy of a queen, So fine it wasn’t even seen.
I cried aijd laughed aloud in glee At things it didn’t say to me.
I read between the lines I swear As well as words that were not there.
It didn’t say. “I miss you dear,” It didn’t say, “I want you near.” Nor yet. “You are my everything.” It didn’t say a blessed thing.
Yet boldest thoughts it did convey, In lovely words it did not say.
I read it far into the night The witty things you didn’t write.
And at the end. your beloved name, Agleaming like a burned-out flame.
Yes. I still remember yet That cherished letter I didn’t get.
3% LOWER'S
for a beautiful selection of VALENTINE Cards
CO. FOUR WINS
INFANTRY DRILL
Company four, led by A. J. Kaiser, made a clean sweep of the honors in the recent company competition drill. The precise marching, column movements and general all-around efficiency of company four gave it the top place in the judges evaluation. Lindsey marched company nine to the second place spot in the competition and company five commanded by M. A. Dran-chak captured third place.
Platoon one of company four captured first place in the platoon competition. Platoon two of company four tied with platoon one of company five for the second billing and platoon two of company seven was the winner of the third place award.
The awards were a number of points for each event. These points, coupled with the points won in intramural sports competition will determine the high ranking company. The score as to this date shows company four the leader with 5,250 points, company five follows with 1,940 points and company nine is holding third place with 1,250 while company seven keeps the number four spot with 750.
Campus Centenary Publications
"Notre Dame—100 Years"_$4.00
"Collected Poems of Charles "L. O'Donnell, C.S.C."_.$2.50
THE SET —$5.00 • PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
Est.
1900
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any. line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.	’
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE &S O. BEND R. R.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 4) contributed by Notre Dame’s own Joseph Zeiler and dedicated to the man who never comes around—the postman:
The other day at half-past four The mailman came around oui- floor. He handed me a thing’ most rare— A little letter that wasn't there.
With emotions I couldn’t command.
I grasped it from his empty hand; I fumbled and ’twas soon revealed. The letter wasn’t even sealed.
22
SOUJH^ORf
Last night I held a little hand, So dainty and so sweet.
I thought my heart would surely break, So wildly did it beat.
No other hand in all the world Can greater solace bring, Than the pretty hand I held last night: Four aces and a King.
❖
CAMPUS QUIPS
Dan Gallivan gave out with the following definition during a particularly dull period. A professor is a man whose job it is to tell students how to solve the problems of life which he himself has tried to avoid by becoming a professor.
♦
Jim Greene, the Canadian kid, went into the peppy little hamlet down the road to do some shopping. The salesgirl, intrigued by his accent, asked him where he was from.
“Canada,” replied Jim.
“No kidding?” gasped the girl. “Let’s hear you speak some Canadian.”
*
We have a couple of odds and ends about our little brethren, the fieas, that we might as well pass along. The first is about two fleas who worked hard, and saved their money so they went out and bought their own dog. . . . Maybe you’ll like this one better: A father flea is always worried about his children, because he knows no matter how careful he is in bringing up his children, eventually they will all go to the dogs. . . . O.K., so we’ll forget fleas.
♦
And we consider this the No. 1 appropriate joke of the season: Two freshmen were in a certain eating establishment on the campus (and we don’t mean the Huddle), when one of their low brow buddies came upon the scene. “Wotcha got dere, tea or coffee?” “I don’t know,” one replied, “They didn’t say. . . .”
♦
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Dear Rabble-rousers:
You probably saw in the papers sometime ago an item which stated in a very snappy fashion that females were being employed as officers of the law. Well, it
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
slipped my mind until the other day when I saw one of the above creatures rambling around. Thus seeing, several questions occurred to me regarding them. The whole thing wrecks the ethical code built up through countless years among lawmen and criminals. For instance, when arrested by a lady cop, who gets into the patrol wagon first? Is it proper, in a brawl, to kick a lady cop in the head? Can you keep running when a lady cop, in her nicest contralto, asks you to stop? I could go on like this for hours, but you see my point. If that sort of thing continues, who knows, the male might soon be expected to pay the check. Egad! Never. . . .
One of my friends told me last week that he knows a fellow whose roommate is acquainted with a boy who was at the affair otherwise known as the Winter Carnival at ---------. After decorating
him for valor above and beyond the call of duty, I asked him whether or not he had a ghastly time of it. You can imagine the wave of horror that surged through me as I heard his reply. He said (and I see no reason to doubt him) that he actually had a most enjoyable time, and that the fair misses really outdid themselves. Disgusting, I thought. . . . So, on this revolting note, I leave you.
Still a confirmed bachelor, ADF ♦
The moon was bright, The road was dark; The perfect place To stop and park.
He gave a sigh, He gave a groan, He cursed his luck, He was alone.
Advice to roommates: You might be interested to know that snoring can be cured by good advice, co-operation, and kindness. ... Of course, an old sock stuffed in old roomie’s mouth helps, too.
ATTENTION GIRLS AT ST. MARY'S. . . .
Watch this column for a very important announcement soon.
For HER Valentine
Dan Cupid suggests GIFTS OF FINE JEWELRY
Lapel Watches Sparkling Clips Musical Powder Boxes
(Wrapped for mailing)
BLOCK BROS
CORNER MICHIGAN WASHINGTON
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-3661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-12S4	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
•25 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4a«S
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-62S SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
4OS-4OS TOWER BUILDING PHONE S-2S74
23
A™ B" CHESTERFIELD
Copyright 1946, Liggett & Mrsxs Tobacco Ca