’91 Schedule
Date	Opponent	Series Record
September?	INDIANA	22-5-1
September 14	Michigan............. 9-13
September 21	MICHIGAN STATE.......	37-18-1
September 28	Purdue............... 39-21-2
October 5	Stanford............. 5-2
October 12	PITTSBURGH...........	35-16-1
October 19	Air Force............ 16-4
October 26	USC.................. 35-23-4
November 2	NAVY................. 54-9-1
November 9	TENNESSEE............ 2-1
November 16	Penn State........... 6-7-1
November 30	Hawaii............... 0-0
All home games kick off at 1:50 p.m. Eastern time
Site
NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Notre Dame, IN Michigan Stadium, Ann Arbor, MI
NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Notre Dame, IN
Ross-Ade Stadium, West Lafayette, IN Stanford Stadium, Palo Alto, CA
NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Notre Dame, IN
Falcon Stadium, Colorado Springs, CO NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Notre Dame, NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Notre Dame, NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Notre Dame, Beaver Stadium, State College, PA Aloha Stadium, Honolulu, HI
222
Future Schedules
	1992	1993	1994
Sept. 5 —	at Northwestern	Sept. 4 — NORTHWESTERN	Sept. 3 — at Northwestern
Sept. 12 —	MICHIGAN	Sept. 11 — at Michigan	Sept. 10 — MICHIGAN
Sept 19 —	at Michigan State	Sept. 18 — MICHIGAN STATE	Sept 17 — at Michigan State
Sept. 26 —	PURDUE	Sept. 25 — at Purdue	Sept. 24 — PURDUE
Oct. 3 —	STANFORD	Oct. 2 — at Stanford	Oct. 1 — STANFORD
Oct. 10 —	at Pittsburgh	Oct. 9 — PITTSBURGH	Oct. 8 — at Boston College
Oct. 24 —	BYU	Oct 16 — at BYU	Oct. 15 — BYU
Oct. 31 —	at Navy	Oct. 23 — USC	Oct. 29 — NAVY
Nov. 7 —	BOSTON COLLEGE	Oct. 30 — at Navy	Nov. 1 — at Florida State
Nov. 14 —	PENN STATE	Nov. 13 — FLORIDA STATE	Nov. 19 — AIRFORCE
Nov. 28 —	at USC	Nov. 20 — BOSTON COLLEGE	Nov. 2 — at USC
GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS
For the next football game or your next party,, call Subway for a delicious Party Sub or Party Platterl
CALL 277-7744
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a 50* discount off any footlong Subway sandwich.
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on days of home football games.
T^rrn-rrT
.SUBWRY'
State Road 23 and Ironwood
Budgetee^
s^motor inn
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES / VCR
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
♦KITCHENETTES
♦LAUNDRY
52825 US 33 N.
South Bend, IN.
272-9000
1
i
1990 FOOTBALL REVIEW
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
MICHIGAN 4
BY MIKE FARNAN
MICHIGAN STATE 8
BY JON PAUL POTTS
PURDUE 12
BY JON PAUL POTTS
STANFORD 16
BY JIM KUSER
AIR FORCE 20
BY KEVIN T. KERNS
MIAMI
24
BY BRIAN MCMAHON
PITTSBURGH 28
BY JIM KUSER
NAVY 31
BY KEN TYSIAC
TENNESSEE 35
BYANDYHILGER
PENN STATE 39
BY KEVIN T. KERNS
use
43
BY BRIAN MCMAHON
COLORADO 47
BY JON PAUL POTTS
FINAL STATISTICS 51
INDIVIDUAL HONORS 52
1990 ALL-OPPONENT TEAM
54
FINAL WORD
56
BY BILL BILINSKI
SCHOLASTIC
2
Marl Okuda
Vol. 132, No. 12
1990 Football Review
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Michael C. Wieber
MANAGING EDITOR
Derik T. Weldon
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Ian Mitchell
CONSULTING EDITOR
Andy Hilger
SPORTS EDITOR
Brian McMahon
SPORTS ASSISTANT
Jon Paul Potts
NEWS EDITOR
Traci Taghon
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Dave Holsinger
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Mari Okuda
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Dave Raedy
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
ADVERTISING MANAGER
Tony Porcelli
BUSINESS MANAGER
Jim Fitzgerald
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during exandnalionandvaadionperiodsat the University of Notre Dame, Noire Dame,IN,46556andpriniedalThePapers,Inc.,Milford,IN46542. The	J
subscription rate is $25.00/year and back issues are available al $1251	‘
copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and	f
editors anddo not necessarily represent theopinions of the entire editorial	J
boardof Scholasticar of the University ofNotre Dame, its administration,	j
faculty or si udenls. Editorials signed Scholasiic represent the opinion of	*
the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome,	’
All unsolicitied malerials become the property of Scholar ic.	t
Copyright 1390 Scholasiic Magazine, AU rights reserved. Reproduction	j
in whole or m part without writ ten permission is prohibited.	J
FOOTBALL REVIEW
3
Rick Mirer's debut comes under the lights in a 28-24 win over Michigan
I ■	'	:
ByMikeFarnan
September 15, Notre Dame-
otre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz com-1^1 pared his 28-24 victory over the Michigan Wolverines to a great heavyweight fight it went back and forth. “If we had played another quarter we might have been behind at the end of that period. It’s a shame that a game like this had to end.” Holtz was probably the only Irish partisan who didn’t want to see this game end, as many in the sellout crowd could be seen checking their pacemakers by the fourth quarter.
No doubt Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer was glad to have the first one out of the way. His 14 of 23 passes, 165 yard, one touchdown and one interception performance might have been termed a mediocre debut had it not been for two fourth quarter touchdown drives he orchestrated to overcome a ten point deficit The sophomore quarterback from the rolling meadows of Goshen, Indiana, completed 5 of 6 passes for 52 yards during the game winning drive. An 18-yard TD pass to Adrian Jarrell capped a 76 yard scoring drive with 1:40
SCHOLASTIC
to play in the game.
“The big thing [on the final drive] was that we had a lot-of emotion going for us,” Mirer said. “We never felt we’d get beat unless we beat ourselves.”
Things started well for the Irish, when Michigan tailback Jon Vaughn fumbled on the second play of the game giving Notre Dame the ball on Michigan’s 26 yard line. Notre Dame quickly converted the turnover into seven points as Mirer kept the ball on the
Ismail burst through the Michigan line on this play for 35 of his 50 yards rushing.
option and trotted into the endzone untouched, making a “Golden Boy” pose.
Vaughn’s fumble would be his only miscue in a stunning 22 carry, 201 yard rushing day. “I didn’t think anybody could move die ball against us like that,” muttered a genuinely perplexed Lou Holtz after the
game. '
In the next series, Michigan first year head coach Gary Moeller demonstrated “hesitant” play calling. Having success on the ground, Moeller for some reason went to the pass a little too soon and too often. Michigan QB Elvis Grbac, 17 of 30 for 190 yards on the day, found himself looking at third and ten, then fourth and one. The Wolverines converted and clawed eight more yards before settling for a 38 yard field goal.
Notre Dame then marched 75 yards, culminating in a two yard dive over the middle by Tony Brooks for the touchdown. On this drive Rick Mirer began to emerge as a leader. Through the glare of the temporary lighting the number three on Rick Mirer’s jersey looked more like a question maik. Especially during the Irish warm-ups when the lights went out on the Irish side of the field. However, by the end of this drive it appeared to at least be a period. Mirer had

made a definitive statement by completing two passes for 31 yards.
“I think he’s going to be a very good quarterback,” said Moeller after the game, “He has a strong arm and the experience is
just going to come. He did a lot of good things out there.” Michigan seemed to have gotten the message.
The two fighters exchanged jabs in the middle rounds, neither able to land a punch. Michigan started the second quarter by punting. Notre Damepunted back five plays later. Michigan then got as far as the Irish 42 yard line before Eduardo Azcona again punted it through the Notre Dame end zone. Four plays later, you guessed it, Notre Dame’s Craig Hentrich punted the ball 44
yards to the Michigan 20 yard line. Tripp Welborne fielded the punt and burst up the middle and then scampered to the sidelines for a 38-yard return.
Michigan then had the ball on the Notre Dame 35 yard line. They tried all four plays to get ten yards but the Irish defense held once again. Moeller’s fourth and three pass play was gutsy even though it did not result in a first down.
Ricky Watters dropped the handoff on
■	Mari Okuda
the next play, giving the ball right back to Michigan with excellent field position. Two plays later, Grbac hit a wide-open Desmond Howard for a 44-yard touchdown pass. George Poorman was badly beat as Michigan discoveredNotreDame’s Achilles heel: the defensive backfield.
The teams went into their locker rooms at halftime with Notre Dame tentatively leading 14-10.
The third quarter was all Michigan as their defense stifled Notre Dame’s initial possession. After a Jim Sexton punt, Michigan started their most impressive drive of the evening from their own fifteen yard line. Thedrivebeganwith Elvis Grbac exploiting a decidedly weak and confused defensive backfield for three straight completions totalling 50 yards. The rest was done on the
FOOTBALL REVIEW
5
Culver chewed up 95 tough yards and added a touchdown.
ground as the Wolverines took nearly five minutes to march 85 yards. This score put Michigan up for the first time in the game.
On the first play of Notre Dame’s next possession, senior running back Tony Brooks gave the ball to Michigan’s defensive tackle Mike Evans on the Irish 25. On the next play Grbac hit Howard in the flat who easily beat Rod Smith for the score.
Freshman tailback Jeff Burris handled the kickoff. Raghib “Rocket” Ismail had left the game earlier with a bruised sternum. He
6
returned but was used sparingly by the Notre Dame coaching staff.
Again Notre Dame’s offense was lackluster as they were forced to punt after only four plays. Michigan took the ball and marched 43 yards to the Notre Dame 19 and attempted a 36 yard field goal, missing wide to the left. This miss swung the momentum in Notre Dame’s favor.
“I looked up and it was 24-14 and there were eight minutes to go in the third quarter. No, I wasn’t comfortable at all,” said Moeller. At this point Moeller may have been uncomfortable but Holtz was baffled: “In
the third quarter thing going.”
. Mari Okuda we just couldn’t get any-
Notre Dame began the fourth quarter down by ten points. The Irish needed a knockout punch and they found it in fullback Rodney Culver. On this drive, Culver touched the ball five times, including a one yard touchdown somersault up the middle. The Irish needed a little luck on the possession, though. On third and 15 from their own 15, Mirer dropped back and saw Ismail. The “Rocket” got both hands on the ball but couldn t hang on. The ball popped into the air— to freshman receiver Lake Dawson,
SCHOLASTIC i
who pulled it in for a 45-yard gain.
Michigan took the kickoff and faced a huge decision. Moeller once again showed some guts when he went for a fourth and one from midfield with over eleven minutes to play. Vaughn turned the comer and picked up 26 yards. It was for naught, however, as Michael Stonebreaker picked off an errant Grbac floater in the end zone with a marvelous one-handed snag.
On the next possession Mirer was intercepted by Vada Murray with 7:57 to go. The Irish defense held and the offense got the ball on their 24 to start the drive. Mirer, undaunted under the pressure of the big game, looked like a seasoned quarterback with everything under control. His first big pass came on third and six from the Irish 28. Chased out of the pocket and running to the left, he threw right and hit Tony Smith for 13. Ricky Watters ran for 16 on second and seven from the Michigan 33 and Mirer hit the Rocket for 15.
On first and ten from the Wolverines’ 18, Mirer rolled right and fired a bullet to flanker Adrian Jarrell at the goal line and he tumbled in for the touchdown. Craig Hentrich’s point after made it 28-24. Suddenly Mirer’s number three looked like an exclamation
knees but struggled to win the fight. Desmond Howard nearly broke the ensuing kickoff but for a Hentrich game-saving tackle. On the next play, Grbac overthrew Howard on the sidelines and Reggie Brooks hauled it in for the interception.
“I was in the right place at the right time. My eyes got real big and it came right to me,” said Brooks after the game. “Anyone who says there isn’t a mystique here just needs to look at that play.”
Head Coach Lou Holtz gave credit to a spiritual entity as well: “I attribute [the win] to competitiveness, the luck of the
Paul Webb
Stonebreaker picked off a Grbac pass in the Irish endzone in the fourth quarter.
point.
Michigan was suffering from wobbly
Irish and the Lady on the Dome.”	Rosaries. The team better make a Novena
This game left everyone clutching their before Michigan State.	□
8 |1®1		SOWRB*ftG
	: 88	
	Jill	MW®®si>BTeam Statistics	sI'bI
		BHlll/lllllBM/ll < ' B®’? >: ® ® H ® : B ® ® ; ■ J ® MB: ® \ f J,, ‘	H • B ’ ’ ® ®
	illi	\	t WHS■ ■«■*»*««*■«»*■***«■■■ •»•••••*■	B ‘‘ C
?8 (Michigan 11:8? 3: 7; ■': 14 :0 ; ".24 ;: :'		|iB;H:BRushMg;BB„..;;l®
		ill: ■ .si : ■■PflC'Jiin CT	-- ' ■ 5■ G:'.'--' U-= ■ ■ b.?- H■” J: ’ ? Q:.:	'I':" ::.O) ■ "" ■•A .C1001-1 1^	-	-	:?.? :
IJII^	EE	X-.k:. ■u: - -I^Cnalty	*• •;’■ 0 ■ ■ '	■ ft'?.? ■' 0 ■ , : ?: ?S?
118 in ft®:? < •; Hi #81		■Rushing .......8.....;®^^^
1st Quarter ND: Mircr2 run (Hentrichkick) at 11:28 1gII®® UM:Carlson38FGai7:01	1g	Sill	Passing i Total N6t Yards..::....ft..„.............8ft	399/ 8
		
2ndQuarter UM:Howard 25pass(Carlsonkick)at 3:5(		
3rdQuarter UM:JeffersonL run(Carlson kick)ait7:49 f8BUM; Hoy/axd 25 pass (Carlson kick) at 7:3	3	7; Pehalties-Yards g..........i................... W5i 5-31	: 4-31 j ? 8{ 'SB:?; Punts-Aver age.................................. B ■6-41.0 : 3-41.3will:
4th Quarter ND: Culver 1 run(Hcntrich kick):atl2:59 : j	• :	TiJTi • - Tottp! 1 /TQ inn co Zplpn tiri AH ”Vi	: of ? 1 .♦ /I ft		f Kickoff Returns;.....^^ <i B? ■' ■ ■■'■ T^rYvirrv Z'-’ Atrzi■»•'<?»/\T»c ???:?-	r.; ' ■ 'U -■ ■■ ■ ■ ■■ ' '??■'?'■/' Q T yl?.'? ??.. ■ ' — 2 -■ 1 T"?■"	1 ?'
. vc- ■ ???■??■- . ft; 8 ■' 1 .U •.:* 4Xll 011 -10 JJclob	CllLrldl JK-lvK.J dl?X .7T.\J	SIB	?						 \ O“in-	O-lis ? ?;■ 9BB8S8B-8/i B ?: ??ft |Q
1^18/^.8^:8111/18®®	livi	
Rushing: ND- Culver 19-95, Brooks 8-36, Ismail6-50,W 7 I fW	.ft'".?: ■	8:8 88:'	atta	rs 7-41, Mirer 10-12; UM- Vaughn 22-201, Bunch 11-33, Grbac 2-8,	:
A i J	1 ~	- = : J	‘ :	®® N i	® <■		IBB®! 88/ ft "8 / 8:8 8 8	8'1-/ / 8 ■/) 1? n; 81-1®
r ass ing: IN Ur MirerZJ-	; U M-GrbacJ 0-17-2-190		-8/	i ?8:<	/ H- -"M8;1 £ 3 518/ ®
* Q 66 > U <O (N & 1 c4 I iS M >—< :: t. Q Z .E IS v	w	1-45, T. Smith 3-24, Watters 1-17, Brown 1-3; UM-Howard 6433, ?!
Vaughn 6-41, Bunch 3-(-5), Alexander 2-28 J?^ / : /		BsSWftfSBS
FOOTBALL REVIEW		7
SS

Divin e
Intervention?
For the second week in a row, the Irish pull off a miracle
By Jon Paul Potts
September 22, East Lansing, MI -
"It looks like we'll be a football team that has to find a way to win every week."
— Lou Holtz after the MSU victory The Luck o' the Irish.
It’s a cliched expression that has been used countless times by sports writers in connection with Notre Dame football.
But hey, if the shoe fits, wear it—to what else can the key play of this game be attributed?
Certainly not superior play-calling and execution.
The play which shows that Mary maybe does watch over Notre Dame football from her perch atop the Dome occurred during the fourth quarter with the Irish trailing the Michigan StateSpartans 19-14. On second down and five, sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer dropped back looking to pass and fired a bullet down the right sideline
intended for sophomore wide receiver Adrian Jarrell. But Mirer had not spotted Michigan State cornerback Troy Murray who was lost in a sea of
green jerseys huddled together on the Spartan sideline.
“I missed the defender, he was so close to the sideline,” said Mirer. “[Adrian] told me [Murray] was practically off the field. For a second, I thought I was gonna’ have to play defense, but Adrian was there.”
Jarrell concurred with Mirer.
“Rick couldn’t have seen the defender,” said Jarrell. “I got ready to make the tackle but it bounced off the defender and I managed to grab it Things seem to work themselves out and I was luckily there to make the play on the ball.”
The pass had hit Murray squarely be-
Ed Ballotts/South Bend Tribune
tween the numbers on his chest, ricocheted backwards over his head and into
Jarrell’s waiting hands. The unlikely herb fell out of bounds at the MSU two-yard line for an improbable Irish first and goal. Two plays later, junior fullback Rodney Culver rumbled in off right tackle for a Notre Dame touchdown and a 20-14 lead which stood up for the Irish victory.
What made this win all the more remarkable is that it followed close on the heels of the previous week’s 28-24 comeback triumph over the Wolverines of Michigan which featured another lucky pass deflection/completion at a crucial
8
SCHOLASTIC
i i
1
point in the game.
Under the bright lights of Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish had kept a fourth quarter scoring drive alive when a pass on third-and-15 bounced off the hands of a leaping Raghib Ismail into the arms of freshman Lake Dawson for a 41-yard gain.
This recurring good fortune was not lost on Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz.
“What a football game,” said Holtz. “I’ve been involved in two of them and I haven’t figured it out yet. You can say we had the ‘Luck ‘o the Irish,’ but this isn’t something that happens every single day. There is a mystique about Notre Dame, make no mistake about it.”
Some of Holtz’s players, however, would like to think that luck had nothing to do with it.
“I don’t like to think about luck, I like to win going out,” said senior captain Ricky Watters. “It’s more like we’re putting ourselves in a position to win. When everyone is running their patterns right and we have great concentration out of our receivers, we get a great play like that (Jarrell’s recep-
tion).”	.	;
Besides luck, another similarity between the two Notre Dame victories over their northern rivals was the improving play and confidence of quarterback Rick Mirer. Following the victory over Michigan and his great fourth quarter performance, Mirer was
j i
The "Golden Boy" provided last second heroics for the second week in a row.
Ed Ballotts/South Bend Tribune
Chris Zorich and the rest of the front seven were improved against the run after their poor performance against the Wolverines.
featured on the Cover of Sports Illustrated under the moniker “Golden Boy” in obvious
reference to such past Irish quarterback stars as Joe Montana and the original Golden Boy, Paul Hornung.
The young quarterback and the offense he led continued the trend established against the Wolverines of starting strong, falling into an offensive funk for the middle two stanzas, then wak
ing in time to pull the victory from the fire. In this game Mirer led the Irish to a touchdown with a sharp drive on their second possession, then struggled until the last quarter.
When questioned about this aspect of his play, Mirer seemed unable to come up with any explanation.
“We’re not getting complacent, we just seem to struggle,” he said. “These are two great teams we played against and it’s not going to get any easier either. We just have to get better and more
consistent in those second and third quarters.”
In that fourth quarter, Mirer came alive, connecting on six of eight passes for 84 yards—80 of those yards coming on the last drive which pushed the Irish over the top. The second and third quarter blues were something the offense would have to work on with scheduled dates with Miami, Tennessee, Penn State and USC looming in die
near future.
The second quarter was disastrous for Notre Dame. The Spartans racked up 12 points on a field goal, a safety and a touchdown. The safety came on a blocked punt with 8:13 to go in the half.
On fourth-and-22 from the Irish 20-yard line, Craig Hentrich dropped back to punt. The snap from center was clean, but MSU’s Murray busted through the line and knocked the punt back out of the Irish endzone for a safety.
The Spartans took Hentrich’s ensuing free kick at their own 44-yard line and marched the 56 yards in seven plays for a 127 lead. If not for the fourth quarter heroics of Mirer and Jarrell, the coaches would have had that second quarter to blame for the loss when they examined the films the following week.
“On the punt before, we had one guy miss the block,” said Holtz. “We corrected him,
FOOTBALL REVIEW
Ed Ballotts/South Bend Tribune
KowalkowskI and the defense had yet to dominate a game like they wanted.
and on the next play, the other guy thought, ‘Well gee, I must have been wrong.’ And we ended up with a blocked kick, and those things are disastrous.”
While the ricochet pass was very important to the Irish victory, perhaps the single most important play occurred in the third
quarter. With Notre Dame marching for what would be their second touchdown, Culver kept the drive alive on sheer determination;
Showing great confidence in his young' quarterback, Irish coach Holtz elected to go for it on fourth-and-eight from the Spartan
27 yard line. Mirer dropped back to pass and hit Culver at about the 20 — short of the first down. Culver appeared to be stopped by MSU linebacker Chuck Bull-ough, but he spun and bulldozed his way to the 18-yard line for the first down that set up the touchdown that brought the Irish to within five.
Defensively, the Irish struggled for the second week in a row. The previous week, the Wolverines had rolled up 443 total yards and 24 points. Against the Spartans, the Irish defense bent again but didn’t break, allowing 117 yards on the ground, but nearly 200 yards through the air.
“We want to totally dominate an offense and a game,” said senior linebacker Scott Kow-alkowski. “We’re not to that point yet, but we will be.”
With senior All-American cornerback Todd Lyght out with a hamstring pull suffered against Michigan, freshman Greg Lane started in his stead. The young secondary featured two freshmen and a converted tailback in sophomore Reggie Brooks. Pass defense would prove to be an Achilles heel for the defense all season long.
After the game, an exasperated Michigan State coach George Perles, who lost to Notre Dame for the fourth straight year and sixth time in his last seven tries, offered this analysis of the well-played, but wacky game.
“This was a hard one to lose and a nice one to win,” said Perles. “I told [MSU] we’re not snake bit You play with the cards you’re dealt and the ball bounces funny ways. We played
our hearts out and Notre Dame played their hearts out. They were good enough to win by a point today.”
With the win, the Irish successfully defended for the second time the number-one ranking they had achieved by virtue of the Miami Hurricanes' early loss to BYU.
10
SCHOLASTIC
Ed Ballotts/South Bend Tribune
Culver went in from the one for the winning touchdown with 34 seconds to play.
“I never said we were number one,” said Holtz after this game. “You have to be lucky to do some of the things we’ve done. But I hope we don’t take it for granted and
think we can just go out and make something happen when we have to have it.”
At 2-0, and a fortunate 2-0 at that, the Irish had a breather the next week when the
forever-rebuilding Purdue Boilermakers arrived at Notre Dame Stadium for their annual beating.
□

Scoring Summary
Team Statistics
4Lc.c?22213ww4w^dPmai:



®..'.

;First:Downs®^^	;•	16	-18^;;
S H'Ru^ingS:F--4®:-^--.^-2	Zw;'®HI 9 ':?.j;lig7® 'nF:
K:Cl|paSsih2’^7'C“C': •	’	• ■'•’ ■ "-cw7	::s • If) ue.
PCT!3ItV	w ??:?>iDii®;.;::• d® () c■:; "Z.:;DD-bt? 1®®:ww


Passing ..Z ............................14-21-155 17-25-196
Tot^I Net Yards.„.........„...„..AiDLD;®	311	313
|g(Average Gain Per Play....;.g®.......®D	4.44:gH
Fumbles-LosE.... ..Z.;.........	1:0 .; ;cZ 0-0
Penalties-Yards ® S.ZSic.................	74-40 ® 7 7 ®2- i 0

gKickoffRetu	:1:3^F 9 1:^39 eg®

i listQuarter	ND:Watters5run(Hentrichkick)lat -2:43
i ' |:4tKiQ®t^bj::^
’' ............................................................„........... ............... ... i
! Rffisliing:i.-ND2Cul^i2^39^BroO;9l®SiS^^	15-63
* Enos 10-(-12)'	:
i h^sini:|WlMir&;21W0SOsK^iKM
I	jReteiving:|:NI^.Isirt)ail^71; Ja^ljFl^^	i I HI® 1 ®
I MSU- Hawkins 7-94, Bradley 3-41, Young 3-20, Hickson 2-26,<Royl-6, Duckett 1-9	1
■ FOOTBALL REVIEW
11
H
i
Boilermakers
Katey Charles
Buried
Irish givet heir fans a much needed breather with a convincing
win over Purdue
By Jon Paul Potts
September 30, Notre Dame-
Football coaches frequently speak of “balanced attacks” when they discuss offense.
“The key to a successful football team is a good passing game to balance a running game,” they might say. Unless you’re Purdue coach Fred Akers.
Despite a whopping 354 yards passing, the Boilermakers running game sputtered and died on the grass of Notre Dame Stadium as the Irish dismantled Purdue yet again, delivering a 37-11 beating.
“You can choose to rush or choose to cover,” said Irish coach Lou Holtz. “We felt
going into the bailgame that they could not beat us throwing the football. What we could not allow them to do was run the football. Our front seven played the whole bailgame and they played very well.”
To get a sense of how completely Messrs. Zorich and Stonebreaker, et al dominated
12
SCHOLASTIC
Boilermaker line, check out some of these numbers. Purdue rushed 19 times for 24 net yards. That comes to an astoundingly pathetic 1.3 yards per carry. The Boilermakers fumbled the ball twice and lost both those fumbles. The Irish recorded seven tackles for losses totaling 42 yards.
Perhaps the most telling statistic of all was that, at halftime, with Notre Dame winning by a 27-3 cushion and the game all but decided, the Boilermakers, a Big Ten team mind you, had recorded ONE yard rushing. That’s three feet. That is 36 inches of rushing in 30 minutes of football. It doesn’t get much worse than that if you’re a ■ Purdue fan, or even worse, a Purdue coach.
The Boilermakers ran a run-and-shoot offense, but they did a lot more shootin ’ than namin’.
“We just didn’t execute when we had to,” said Purdue wideout Curtis McManus. “When we had to get in the endzone, we couldn’t make the big plays. We had a couple of plays where we could have scored but just didn’t I seriously thought we had a chance to beat them.”
For the top-ranked Irish, the 37-11 cakewalk proved a welcome relief from the incredible pressure endured in the first two victories over Michigan and Michigan State.
. Katey Charles
The Irish galloped for 374 yards on. the afternoon.	;	:
FOOTBALL REVIEW
Coach Holtz chose to grind it out on the ground against the overmatched Purdue defense and his charges were very successful. LedbyRaghib Ismail’s 82 yards rushing, the Irish chewed up some serious real estate, amassing 362 yards on 65 carries.
“It was pretty plain to me that the best team won,” said Akers. “They’re the kind of football team that you can’t make mistakes on, that you can’t give an inch to. You give those guys an inch, they take a mile, and they took a couple of miles today.”
Well, Fred, it was really only 502 yards of total offense, but the depressed exaggeration is understandable.
The highlight of the
Notre Dame rushing game, and of the whole day in general, was a brilliant end around for touchdown run by Ismail.
“There was no one out there,” said Ismail. “As soon as Mirer made the fake and pitched it to me, I knew I could take the lane and go all the way. Tony Smith really helped me out by blocking his man all the way into the endzone. They aren’t all as easy as that one.”
On first-and-ten from the Irish 36 yard line, the junior flanker took the pitch on the left and turned the comer behind a Derek Brown block. He broke a tackle at midfield and took off down the sideline, charging into the endzone through a Purdue defender and an unfortunate official.
“When I called [the reverse], I thought, ‘Gee, that might have been a dumb call,”’ said Holtz. “We have never run that reverse except once in practice where we pitched the ball. All year long we ran it where we handed it off. But we pitched it and executed and I didn’t expect it to go all they way. I thought maybe we could get a first down.”
Sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer also had a good game. He passed for 130 yards on
Katey Charles
Mirer had big day, completing 15 of 26 passes for 235 yards and two touchdowns.
11 completions in 17 attempts. But, more importantly, the offense put in a consistent effort for the first time in the season. While the Irish had been plagued by offensive anemia in the second and third quarters of the Michigan and Michigan State games, Notre Dame scored three times in the second frame and twice in the third as they increased their 6-3 lead to a 37-3 margin. J
“It felt really good to play four solid quarters of football for once,” said Mirer. “When we got off real well in the first quarter, I knew we wouldn’t have to come from behind again. We did pretty much what we wanted.”
The defense played great against the run, but those 354 yards passing by Eric Hunter were not something that could be easily dismissed. Senior All-American Todd Lyght was unavailable once again due a hamstring injury and a freshman started in his spot at free cornerback.
But the front seven saved the secondary’s
13
neck with their dominant play on the line of scrimmage and two timely turnovers. In the second quarter, the Boilermakers were threatening in Irish territory when Scott Kowalkowski drilled Purdue’s Hunter
squarely in the back, forcing the quarterback to cough up the ball. Zorich recovered at the the Notre Dame 36, and on the next play, Ismail broke his big reverse and the rout was on.
“Hunter was very loose and hard to catch when he was scrambling,” said Zorich. “I was getting tired chasing him around, but we caught him and hit him hard a few times in the second half.”
Kowalkowski also forced and recovered another Hunter fumble in the third quarter, setting up a Shawn Davis one-yard touchdown run eight plays later.
“I tried to knock the ball out of his hands on the second fumble,” said the senior outside linebacker. “Purdue is a much improved football team, but we came after them a lot today. This was definitely a confidence-builder for us.”
Kowalkowski may have had his confidence boosted by the defense’s performance, but after the game the coach took a
quick breath and cast a wary eye to the future and next Saturday’s game at home against the Stanford Cardinal.
“We’re 3-0 and, gee, that’s great. But wow, Stanford next week—a team that can
Hunter eluded the Irish front line long enough to pass for 354 yards. Katey Charles
pass the ball as well if not better than the Purdue football team that we faced today,” said Holtz.
If only Holtz had known just how prophetic his words would turn out to be. □
Scoring' Summary : g-:::	:\i - • (<i -i■ ?
c y^jyfy -y- y	ri yjy 3 4	Final	■	■; /.: First Downs ••••••*.»«......•••...•.••...■i...'....	...	^'^Pyy ■-Mys	
IBM I	d 0 8	••• : llCp: ,y	:u2' Rushing;		
yy': /< Notre Dame 6 21 10 0	y&yy "y	■■(■(k■ Passing .........................	y^y-	
	■■■•	; / y:	' C: L/C;' : Penal ty..ixOkk	’ ■		y-ytyy
1st Quarter	ND: Hcntrich 44 FG at 11:29 ;;			y9-&iy	(H:M84S
ly ^yy&yy^^ Sullivan 31FG at 10:09	: (: „ y	Passing...yyyyy. 'yyyyy^	8?2iil6Li	4 20-34-277
ND: Hcntrich 43 FG at 3:34	:• 	'1 .	■yy:. Total Net Yards yy.. .yy. y "kiC; & 3 i		
2nd Quarter ND: Mirer 12 run (Hcntrich kit	:k) at 14:15	::yyy ^ Average Gain Per Play	yy. gy		yB5&yi
iyy y'^y^- Ismail 64 run (Hcntrich ki	ck) at 10:37	yy:'.: ■FumbleSr’Lostl.,;;^	^y-dyy	■^yyd-dyy
yyyyy	ND: Culver 2 run (Hcntrich kk	:k) at 2:04	yy i;		yyi^sy
3rd Quarter ND: S. Davis 1 run (Hcntrich k :	ND- Hcntrich 74 FG af 1-40	ick) at 8:56 ’ i	':.y:. Punts-Average..................................	5^2.2	\y-S^
£7 < yy \y<:■ ■■ ■■y:y -y:1 " • -±1 vilU1W1 z/r. JT\_r al/JL .*+ y : ■ ■ 4th Quarter PU: McManus 37 pass (pass to	: Calloway) at'	: :: :: : J^ItKOn KeiUrnS .......: 5:23 -. ■ ■ 3rd Dow.Qpversi^^	;214-21;:|	■y.
Individual Statistics y^	si®
Rushing: ND- Culver 13-46, Brooks 11-55, Ismail 5-82, Watters 6-41, S. Davis 2-3, Mirer 7-48, Levens 5-30, Bettis 5-19, Mihalko 2f 16, Hawkins 1-11, Spears 2-9, McDougal 1-3, M. Johnson 1-3, Clark 3-2, Scruggs l-(-6); PU-Vinson 7-42, Morrow 2-8, Hunter 10-(-yyyyy'^yy-y:'- -y;-ofyy .,:'yyy^
Passing: ND- Mirer 17-11-0-130, McDougal 2-1-0-10, M. Johnson 1 -0-0-0, Hawkins 1-0-0-0; PU- Hunter 37-21-0-354 /	S:; r J
Receiving: ND- Ismail 1-7, Jarrell 1-4, Culver 2-8, Dawsonl-9, Watters 2-(-11), S. Davis 3-39, Brown 1-40, Griggs 1-44; PU- ■ ■ (B'i 26 McManus 4-74, Young 4-36, Calloway 3-114, Dennis 3-38, Morrow 2-19, Yetts 1-33, Ross 1-14, Coleman 1-11, Lounsbury 1-10, yyy■ W. yy yy: yyy ''yyyy^y'/^	yy 'yy yyy'yy '1
14	SCHOLASTIC
Ed Ballotts/South Bend Trfoune
Over and Out
Tommy Var dell's one-yaid vault topples Notre Dame and sends the Irish tumbling from No. 1
ByJimKuser
October 6, Notre Dame -
f f IT knew the way he was looking the
JL ball was coming. I had a horrible feeling in my gut when I saw that ball,” exclaimed Stanford safety Jimmy Klein, wiping tears of joy from his cheeks, after the game. Jimmy Klein was the man who was burned on the final play of the game.
“I threw the ball a little bit behind him. It rolled off of my fingertips, just barely getting
16
away from me. It would have been an unbelievable catch. He is a great receiver with great hands. I thought he had it,” sighed quarterback Rick Mirer, wringing his hands out of frustration after the game. He was the man who set up the final play.
Two different players. Two different reactions. The jubilation of winning. The frustration of losing.
“It was like a dream come true. I saw victory snatched from the hands of defeat I really, really thought he caught the ball,” exclaimed visiting head football coach Dennis Green, fidgeting in his chair like an anxious child.
“It seemed to be the right call at the right time,” said Notre Dame Head Coach Lou Holtz. “It is unfortunate that the play was a
SCHOLASTIC
bust. He is a fine football player, and he has no reason to hang his head. This is life. Things do not -always go as they are planned.”
Two different head football coaches. Two different reactions. Again, the jubilation of winning. Again, the frustration of losing.
The central figure in all of this was Notre Dame tight end Derek Brown. The game was Notre Dame versus Stanford, played on the storied grounds of Notre Dame Stadium. The play was a tight end isolation pattern that left Brown wide open in the northwest comer of the endzone. But it was not to be, as the pass and Notre Dame’s number one ranking rolled off his fingertips. The broken play shocked the 59,075 Fighting Irish fans who thought for an instant that he had it
After last minute wins against Michigan and Michigan State, it seemed impossible that the Irish would lose. Fate seemed to be on their side. But reality slapped the Irish sharply in the face. Final score: Stanford Cardinal, 36, and Notre Dame Fighting Irish, 31. A Notre Dame player had said on Friday night, “Weknow that we are going to win. It is only a question of if we win by two or by twenty.” On Saturday night he sang to a different tune. “We never ever considered the possibility that we would lose by five. It is hard to believe.” He was right.
Said Brown of the final play of the game, “I gave it my all. I was stretched out and had the ball in my hands, then my hands hit the ground and I lost it. I should have had it.” The loss was an indication of the parity that would come to characterize college football
in the 1990 season. The loss was also an indication that the Stanford Cardinal had risen to respectability. Both coaches voiced these sentiments. “I think that our victory today shows that there are a lot of good teams with a lot of good talent,” said Green. “Notre Dame is certainly one of them.” Holtz concurred. “I think that this game has proven that the Stanford football program is on the rise. It is a force to be reckoned with. I take my hat off to that team. It played its heart out and deserved to win.”
The Irish had not lost a home game since 1987, a streak of 19 games. The Cardinal had not won a road game in as long a time. Holtz voiced his frustration in a post game interview by saying, “In all of my years of coaching, this is the most difficult loss I have suffered. lt will be’hard to come back from a
i I
Vardell loomed larger than life with four touchdown runs.
FOOTBALL REVIEW
17
loss this devastating. It might be harder for me than for the team.” The game featured this incredible role-reversal: unranked but unrelenting Stanford (2-3) had dethroned number-one ranked Notre Dame (3-1).
But do not talk to Stanford about role reversals. “We have seen this before,” said quarterback Jason Palumbis whose 256 passing yards, including 15 of 17 for 160 yards in the second half, made minced meat of a Notre Dame secondary that was not aided by a Notre Dame pass rush that was checked all day long by a solid Stanford offensive line. “However, this time it came on our side of the ball. Down the stretch we were holding hands and praying that we would not lose. Thank goodness we won. After all, we were playing Notre Dame. You know, the team that has God on its side.”
What was Palumbis talking about?
“We played hard for 59 minutes in our last second loss to Colorado,” explained Green, “and we played hard for 58 minutes in our last second loss to UCLA. This time we sucked it up and played hard for 60 minutes.”
Notre Dame’s frustration stemmed from the nature of the loss. Notre Dame mistakes led to Stanford momentum. Three fumbled punts, two by team co-captain Ricky Watters and one by Adrian Jarrell, led to two Cardinal touchdowns.
Ironically, Jarrell had been Mr. Clutch with his last minute receptions against Michigan and Michigan State. However, there was no magic on this day. In the case of Jarrell’s fumble, the problem started on the sidelines. “Jarrell should not have been in there,” said Holtz.
“Now I know that when you feel you cannotcontrol a ball you leave it alone,” said
Jarrell. “The team cashed in on our mistakes.” That was an understatement. Beyond the two scores Stanford put up after fumbles, they killed the clock after the third. Chris Zorich was whistled for a personal foul penalty late. The absence of game-breaker Raghib “the Rocket” Ismail didn’t help the Irish cause, either.
The biggest question that loomed in the minds of many after the game was where Ismail had been. Holtz knew the question was coming, and he had a well-prepared answer. “Rocket came up to me before the game and said that he could not handle punts. He probably could have played in the game, but he was banged up and it would not have been in his best interests. His thigh bruise was very, very deep.”
Green didn’t take any chances, though. “We kicked the opening kickoff out of the endzone anyway, in case Rocket had
Watters held the ball here, but his two fumbled punts cost the Irish dearly.
18
SCHOLASTIC
Brian Schwartz
grasp.
one was worried.
Afterall, the Irish had
snuck onto the field,” he laughed. “Man, that defense and ineffective offense. The 36-31 kid can run!” No laughs were heard from loss was a sharp slap in the face. When “who watched his team relinquish a ‘Touchdown” Tommy Vardell scored on a
come back before and would come back
24-7 halftime lead throng Klnri;if roucnaown tommy Vardell scored on a again. But again, as Holtz said, things do not — H;.	° gh S lack~luster five run with 36 seconds remaining, no always go as they are planned. □
GAME SUMMARY
ScoringSummary
———————
Stanford „ 7 8 k 14 7c » 36 :
Notre Dame iy	W 0.;
■ 1st Quarter ■ ND: Mirer 1 run (Hcntrich kick) at 8:03 J:
• V:A Q SU: Milbum 9run (Hopkins kick) at 6:07	;
2nd Quarter : -ND: Heni^^
k? • • i
: ■ f	U •’:.’.	;:	.;" k Y A
3rd Quarter
su: Varden irun(Hopkiiiskick)at4:03 SU: Vardell 1 run (Hopkins kick) at 8:28 ND:CHIverA^
..■.-	SU: VardcU 1 run (Hopkins kick) at 0:17
S VardcU 1 run (Hopkins kick) at 0:36
Firsfpbwhs Rushing.... Passing .... ' Penalty.....
Rushing.......
Passing.....)..
■ SU ■
k'17U
11 4)c? 31-101
Team Statistics
A;
.....i.:..-.A....„..;Q
..... Y.....;.........— f; 54-227-
..........!....k.....;/;;i^26^
Total Net Yards I;......;.............;....... J:G: ■ 433 ■ B	Y'343:k
Average Gain Per Play............4..... 1 W5.4 •:	
Fumbles-Lost	■' .O * J ... . 3-1: .
Penalties-Yards4-43	3-15
PuntsrAyerageY	p 3-49.9 '	5-32.0
Kickoff Returns.....,.,.......................^	2-26;
3rdDownCoversions.......>■'	7-14:
is ■? v: x :-i:: -	: p ;Y, Individualstatistics <k .a ■ yw/q-jy- . /.kku J:'.
l(^I^5:^Ilf^yiSinith;5-78,aaiTelliik35;-dulVeni^	m cri
FOOra^	.....ku- •••.XYA	.' Yk- Y:A?' . ...k.MijC
19
Notre Dame rebounds from the shocking Stanford upset to pummel Air Force in a tune-up for the long-awaited Miami game
By Kevin T. Kerns
October 13, Notre Dame-
After his team was shocked and embarrassed at home by the Stanford Cardinal, head coach Lou Holtz had cause for some genuine concern in preparing his Fighting Irish to take on Air Force. “Hopefully we won’t wallow in self-pity,” stated the uneasy Notre Dame mentor.
The Irish desperately needed to gain some momentum for its upcoming, long-
awaited meeting with the Miami Hurri- utes, giving credence to
canes. Thoughts of a national championship for the Irish seemed far-fetched, replaced with the reality of salvaging a season which could easily turn into a disaster if the sting of the Stanford loss was allowed to linger.
The visiting Air Force Falcons hoped to swoop down on Notre Dame Stadium and take advantage of a wounded animal. Instead, they found that they had grabbed a tiger by the tail.
“Notre Dame was an angry team coming out to play today,” observed seventh-year Falcon coach Fisher DeBerry. Air Force never got off the ground, and the Irish rolled, 57-27.”
When the dust had cleared from Notre Dame’s first half explosion, Air Force trailed 31-7. “We really hurt ourselves to-
day,” lamented
De-
berry. “We never really gave ourselves a chance to win this football game.”
The Irish tallied 542 yards of total offense despite controlling the ball less than 22 min
the theory that time of possession is a sometimes misleading statistic. Of those total yards, 253 came via the arm of sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer, who enjoyed his ' most productive day thus far at Notre Dame, completing 11 of 15 passes. Fullback Rodney Culver gained 102 yards on just 10 carries,

going over the century mark in yardage for the second straight week.
The 92nd consecutive sellout crowd at Notre Dame Stadium enjoyed a career-best
Paul Webb
Culver gained over 100 yards for the second straight week.
performance from Raghib Ismail. The Rocket garnered six receptions for 172 yards receiving, both career highs. His personal best of 223 all-purpose yards was achieved
20
SCHOLASTIC
despite the fact that Air Force chose not to kick the ball to him in kickoff or punting situations.
“It wasn’t frustrating,” said Ismail. “I guess it’s just a sign of respect.”
Perhaps the Falcon punting unitaffordedthe Rocket a bit too much respect. Maybe the blockers for punter Jason Christ were so enthralled by Notre Dame’s Heisman Trophy candidate that they could not take then-eyes off of him.
Whatever the case, they were not concerned with reserve fullback
Paul Webb (2)
Mirer, who had all day to throw, completed 11 of 15 passes for his most efficient day...
promptly took a hand-off up the middle and got into the endzone on the first play of the drive, giving the Irish a lead of 10-0. “It was a great opportunity that Coach Holtz gave me,” said Levens of his starting assignment. “It was really exciting to be out there with the first unit.
Air Force was unable to move the ball in its next possession, and was forced to punt. Once again the punt caromed off the outstretched arms of Mihalko,
Ryan Mihalko. The senior special teams standout waltzed in untouched and blocked two Falcon punts in the first quarter, both of which led to Irish touchdowns.
“We had the punt block called on both of them,” said Mihalko of his two blocked punts. “Everybody hit their gaps well and I was able to get in there pretty clean.”
After the initial block, the Irish, leading 3-0 courtesy of a28-yard field goal by Craig Hentrich, took over at the Air Force two yard line.
Sophomore tailback Dorsey Levens, enjoying his first career start,
FOOTBALL REVIEW
21
and the Irish took over at the Falcon 48 yard line. Seven plays later, Levens powered in for the touchdown behind left guard Tim Ryan. With only 13 minutes elapsed, Air Force trailed 17-0.
The game could not have unfolded worse for the visitors. With their wishbone attack and obvious physical disadvantages, Air Force was fighting an uphill battle against an Irish team determined to exorcise the ghosts of the Stanford loss.
In six outings prior to facing Notre Dame, the Falcons had completed only 14 passes-
Mihalko (35) leading the way for Jeff Burris, made his presence felt by blocking two punts.
total. The Air Force, at least on the football field, operate almost totally on the ground. This fact seemed to spell doom for the Falcons against the Irish if the game turned into a high scoring affair.
On their next possession, Air Force put together their best drive of the day, a 15-play, 76-yard march which culminated in fullback Jason Jones’ three-yard touchdown run. Quarterback Rob Perez attempted only one pass on the drive, a four yard completion to Darryl Woods for a first down.
Notre Dame’s next drive stalled, and Air Force got the ball back with 6:39 left in the half. The Irish defense, keyed by senior linebacker Scott Kowalkowski’s sack of Perez, held, and the Falcons had to punt. The Irish had turned back what would prove to be
the visitor’s last chance to get back into the game.
On their first play after the punt, Notre Dame unleashed the Rocket. Mirer faked an option left, pulled up, and hit Ismail on a post pattern for a 52-yard touchdown. That play, for all intents and purposes, ended any chances Air Force had for an upset. It was also a perfect example of how quickly Ismail can change the complexion of a game. While Air Force had just consumed nearly seven minutes in driving down the field for a touchdown, the Irish drive totalled only
one play.
“It’s always good to feel like the guy’s going to be open,” observed Mirer of his favorite target “If he’s behind the secondary, you really don ’ t have to throw a perfect pass. You just kind of let him run to it.”
More punting woes befell Air Force on its next possession. After the Falcons failed to get a first down, Christ got off a 25-yard punt giving the Irish good field position at their own 35.
“That was probably the worst job kicking that we have ever done,” complained DeBerry. “It was pretty obvious that we were trying to kick the ball away from Ismail. There is not a better football player in the whole country.”
One week earlier, Mirer’s desperation
pass to tight end Derek Brown had agonizingly eluded his grasp, ending the Irish comeback attempt against Stanford. On this day, the vastly talented junior from Merrit Island, Florida, got a measure of revenge.
Executing the two minute drill masterfully, Mirer connected with Brown three times for 43 yards near the end of the first half. On the final play of the half, Mirer rolled right and threw back across the field to a wide open Brown, making the score 31-7.
“We wanted to get the ball to Derek, because he can do so many things with it,” said
Mirer of his 6’7”, 243-pound tight end. The “so many things” that Brown is capable of was evidenced by his 24 yard reception which preceded his touchdown play. On that play he broke two tackles and dragged several defenders before finally being hauled down.
The Irish responded well coming off a defeat, giving Holtz the consistent half he sought The coach was specifically pleased with the defense, to which he had directed most of his attention during the week’s practices. Usually, Holtz
spends his time on the offensive side of the field. Perhaps their coach’s presence inspired the defense to better play.
“We played a lot better as a unit,” said defensive tackle George Williams of Holtz’s involvement with the defense.
“The intensity was very good and I thought we played well,” added linebacker Michael Stonebreaker.
The Irish starting defensive unit took on a bit of a new look against Air Force. At inside linebacker, sophomore Demetrius Dubose started in place of Donn Grimm, and freshman Greg Lane got the nod at comer-back in place of Reggie Brooks, who had had a rough day against Stanford.
In the second half, which turned out to be a statistical formality, Air Force never got
22
SCHOLASTIC
within three touchdowns of the Irish.
Many players got a chance to get out onto
the field and impress Holtz under game conditions.
Jerome Bettis, a 235-pound freshman archrival.
fullback, carried four times for 46 yards, earning rave reviews from his most important critic. “I thought Bettis performed very, very well,” praised Holtz.
Freshman Jeff Burris, making his collegiate debut, gained 30 yards on five carries, including a one-yard touchdown late in the fourth quarter. In that drive, Burris carried on four consecutive plays, culminating in his touchdown. Ricky Watters, who did not see action in the first half, came off the bench to contribute two fourth quarter touchdown runs.
Despite being blown out, Air Force controlled the ball for over 38 minutes and rolled up 337 yards of total offense, with 244 yards resulting from 62 rushing attempts. However, most of those numbers were piled up in the second half against Notre Dame’s reserves.
The Irish made some significant strides
in preparation for Miami, but the second half
letdown seemed to leave Holtz in a state of concern over his team’s readiness for their
“I was glad to win, but we needed to see a few more positive things,” commented Holtz. “We have to make an awful lot of progress this week in preparation for Miami.”
The Irish had easily turned back an invasion of the Air
Stonebreaker (right) and the defense tuned up for the Hurricanes.
Paul Webb
Force, but the following week they would be
in the eye of a hurricane. Senior captain
Todd Lyght captured the entire team’s sentiments concerning Miami.
“They’re finally here.”	□

GAME SUMMARY
i
I
I
sScmhgBummat’jl
SILL
AirForc^
NotreSaW^
Ist-Quarter
NDrHehtrich 28 FG at^
(NE^EpyW^
ND: Levens 5 run (Hentrich kick) at 1:22
2ndQuarter AF: Jones3 run (Woodkick) at9:48
j3hi{Quhrtefi
4th Quarter
ND;;Browh5pass(Hentrichkick)at 0:28i; ND:Guill6rytacklesChristfdrsafetyat9:48 ■■ND:; Hdntrich 26 FG at8:03:6	■ Y A
AF:Jones5 run(Wood kick)at0:52 ND: Watters 4 run(Hentrich kick) at 13:27 AF: Perez 1 run (Wood kick) at lO:33	:: $
NDr Watters I run(Hen^chr	'
ND:Bums 1 run
AF;:Baker:2run(Woodkickfails)at 0:16
Team Statistics
:	a"' :=<■: AA:■■ : ■: Mig?i :' ? ” U .:-7. ’	■-J \ y’’\ . FA; a	A	w		
: :	. ? y..	. ■ -W ;	. r1 .	; ■. First jPoavus .■■ •»..**5**»♦♦»•♦»•••»»•*•♦<»		
Rushing..........................................		
L Passing .......................	w-9-LC	
:	ty,	« **«	»» * 4 4 «« **» * * 444 * 4 4 4 4.4	r '<.2 Wo	y-c'2
	45-291 ■:	162-283,
(i:iPa^irig‘'.i;2;3Ci;;;;;H	Ailfef5-253:	19-W-93
'iT’oialiNeiii^	Mwi((542Y.-''i	
Average Gain Per Play.		
: Fumbles-Lost....;^		
Penalties^Yhpis ;d....„.2........4i.2L;4{l/	(:A^8-61y^	;AL7^<52S
v p i mif ci A	a cfp = ■ '-<■::	> = < ■	■■ J ■ tCv		C?;6-2ilO
.{JljUMIO nTVB <«£V 444444	««4««44 ♦		
I i KickpffiRfeuirnskiL	hO:5r73ii'f	;’:t:4741W
3rd Down Cbversions ..................A,		
।
•i


Rushing: ND-Culver 10-102, Ismail 5-17, Watters 6-29, Mirer 3-7, Levens 6-19, Bettis 4-46, Burris 6-30, Mihalko 1-9, Hawkins 1-iHp^ns 1-9,Griffin lr5;Onubha2-4(:B&erj2^(A),Chnst fe(42Y:wJ 6
.'f 'L ■■:	C::	-cG.- . ■I--.-e:..-- H	;	\	.<.■	" ■/,■ : - , ... ■ :	.. ■ {\ ... ■.. \v.-.
FOOTBALL REVIEW
23
.	Mari Okuda s
. . . . ■ ■ . ।
Notre Dame gets the last word with a 29-20 win over Miami !
By Brian McMahon
October 20, Notre Dame-
H istory will say that the Notre Dame/
Miami rivalry was best known for tunnel brawls, name-calling, a seething animosity that led to its discontinuance.
But, fittingly, the last scheduled meeting between the two schools manifested what was truly special— and what will be missed— about the series: great football.
“This is a great game, a great series,” said Lou Holtz after the Irish had won the final act, 29-20. “We respect each other. It’s why you come to Notre Dame, why
24
SCHOLASTIC
B
Opposite: Scott Kowalkowski celebrates after forcing a fumble deep in Miami territory.
you come to Miami— to play this type of game.”
“This type of game” saw the Irish pound out 305 yards on the ground against a Miami defense that entered the game ranked second in the nation at stopping the run. It featured a Notre Dame defense that held Miami’s potent offense to just three points in the second half and forced three turnovers in its own territory. And college football’s most electrifying player pulled off football’s most exciting play.
Raghib “Rocket” Ismail’s 94-yard kickoff return late in the first quarter drew the Irish even with the Hurricanes just when things were looking bleak for the home team.
It started with Notre Dame’s first possession of the game. Rodney Culver fumbled on his own 25 and Miami’s Eric Miller recovered. Six plays later, Hurricane fullback Stephen McGuire rumbled into the endzone from one yard out for a quick 7-0 Miami lead.
Hentrich. The next Irish possession, Rick Mirer threwan interception inNotreDame territory, putting the Irish defense in a hole again. They held the Hurricanes to three points, but the visitor’s momentum was building.
Then Rocket struck. Huerta’s kickoff came down on the Notre Dame six in Ismail’s rather capable hands. His legs nearly betrayed him, though, when he slipped before regaining his balance and heading up field. Ismail burst through a huge seam, cut left, and was gone. Instant 10-10.
“I was surprised they kicked it right to me,” he admitted nonchalantly. “I just let all my blocking do the work. I saw a crease and got through it. Then I saw the kicker and figured I had a good chance.”
“What can you say about the Rocket,” said Miami Head Coach Dennis Erickson afterward. “You work against it all weekin practice, you know what to do. Then you get in the game, he gets the ball... and he’s gone.”
Holtz had the luxury of not having to analyze Ismail’s performance, which
in the country.”
While Ismail’s heroics were to be expected, it was the play of Notre Dame’s defense that provided the surprise of the day. Despite Miami’s ten first quarter points, Notre Dame’s defense was playing well; with Miami’s scores all coming after Notre Dame turnovers in Irish territory.
After Ismail’s return, Miami quarterback Craig Erickson led his team onto the field in an attempt to turn the game back in the ‘Canes’ favor. The Irish defense would have none of that, though, and took matters into its own hands. Strong safety Greg Davis picked off an Erickson pass intended for Randall “Thrill” Hill at Notre Dame’s 34 yard line. Eight plays later, Hentrich gave the Irish their first lead of the game, 13-10.
Undaunted, Erickson brought the Hurricanes back. The senior Heisman candidate led the ‘Canes on an impressive nine play, 80 yard drive, finding the mark on all four of his passes for 58 yards. The drive ended with Erickson scoring on a keeper from the one, recapturing the lead for Miami, 17-13. It was the last time Miami
Notre Dame took the ball and marched to the Miami eight yard line, but had to settle for a 25-yard field goal by Craig
wound up being 100 rushing and 268 allpurpose yards, but instead appreciated him, saying, “He’s the best football player
Ismail burned the Hurricanes for a 94-yard kickoff return and 268 all-purpose yards. Mar|Okuda
FOOTBALL REVIEW
25
would make it to the endzone.
. Hentrich added his third field goal before the end of the half to pull the Irish to within one, 17-16. The Irish threatened one more time before the break but self-destructed again, this time in the form of a Ricky Watters fumble at the Miami 20 yard line.
A Miami miscue contributed to the Irish regaining the lead— a lead they would not relinquish. Scott Kowalkowski nailed McGuire coming out of the back-field, forcing a fumble that George “Boo” Williams fell on at the Miami 25. Notre Dame’s defense, for the first time all season, was a factor. The fumble was the second turnover of the day by the Hurricanes, who were held to negative eight yards rushing in the third quarter. After the game, linebacker Michael Stonebreaker joked that “we [the defense] were just setting you all up the first few weeks.”
Taking over after the fumble, Notre Dame drove to the Miami nine, where Miami linebacker Darrin Smith blitzed on third down, burying Mirer and setting up Hentrich for his fourth field goal of the afternoon and a 19-17 Irish lead.
Hentrich added another field goal before the end of the third quarter and Miami answered with a 25-yard field goal of their own by Huerta, cutting Notre Dame’s lead to 22-20. Miami’s defense forced the Irish to punt and Erickson trotted onto the field
with 93 yards and eleven minutes between him and a touchdown. On the first two plays from scrimmage; he completed passes of 40 and 17 yards. Just when it seemed like Notre Dame’s secondary was auditioning for the scapegoat’s role, it came up with a big play to end Miami’s hopes for a comeback.
Erickson, under a heavy rush from nose tackle Chris Zorich and outside linebacker Andre J ones on third down at Notre Dame's 33, rolled right and sent a pass toward wide .
PaulWebb
Mirer's offensive line kept the likes of Outland Trophy winner Russell Maryland (67) out of the pocket
receiver Lamar Thomas. Thomas slipped and fell at the 15, leaving Todd Lyght alone to conral the ball at the eight and return it to Notre Dame’s 23 yard line.
“Our front three got good pressure on Erickson,” said Lyght of the play that sealed Miami’s fate. “He was looking for the open zone.”
Notre Dame ran on six straight plays, three by the Rocket totalling 50 yards, down to Miami’s 21. On third and four, the Irish tried a play that Holtz had implemented that morning.
“The touchdown play we kind of made up at breakfast today,” said Culver, who scored on the play. “I brushed the end and came off into the open field and Rick gave me a great pass to catch.”
If only “fullback dump,” as the play is called, had been that simple. Mirer took the snap, dropped back and, pressured by an all-out blitz, coolly “threw it at the back of [Culver’s] head.” Culver pulled it in and headed left behind a block from Tony Brooks. As he neared the endzone, Miami’s Darryl Wiliams grabbed him by the jersey collar and Culver pulled his excess Miami baggage into the end zone. Hentrich nailed his second point after on the day to go with his Notre Dame-record five field goals, and the Irish led by nine, 29-20.
Needing two scores to win with only six
26
SCHOLASTIC
minutes remaining, Miami drove to the Irish 25 before Leonard Conley, who had gained a meager 19yards for the day, went around the right end for 23 yards before fumbling at the Irish two yard line after a hit by Davis. Stonebreaker recovered and the Irish ran out the last 4:44.
Conley's fumble symbolized the Canes’ second half fortunes. After the play, he lay face down on the Stadium turf, pounding his fists in frustration.
“They are a tremendous offensive football team,” Holtz said afterward. “To hold them to three points in the second half is rather amazing.”
“You just can’t make the mistakes we made in the second half and expect to win,” said coach Erickson. “Notre Dame controlled the ball in the third quarter and it really paid off for them.”
As Erickson stepped away from the microphone and headed out of the interview tent, he stopped to hug Ismail and Lyght. Clearly the animosity that called for state troopers to be stationed in the tunnel near both locker rooms had been replaced by mutual respect
“We’d like to keep playing them,” the Miami coach said. “I’ve said before, you’ve got two great teams involved and it’s a shame its over.”
Mari Okuda
Hentrich set a Notre Dame record with five field goals.
“It’s a game our players will remember for the rest of their lives,” reflected Holtz. “I know I’ll remember it for the rest of my life.”	□
G AMU SUMMARY
1st Quarter
2nd Quarter
3rdQuarter
4 th Quarter
Scoring Summary
Miaimi^^ ;	7 - 0 3 ?	20 ?
Notre Dame 10 6 ?■' ::^?S7;■ •	(
UM:McGuirc 1run (Huerta kick) at 12:17
Nb:iHchtirch25FG at6:51W^^
W:Huem23^aQ:43
NDflsmaii 94 kickoff return^ 1:30 iC
ND: Hentrich 44 FG at 11:48
UM: Erickson 1 run (Huerta kick) at 8:10
ND: Hentrich 34 FG at 4:16	:$
NDCHentrich-36fe;^ 1«D: HentrichSS feat 1:45	< v
UM: Huerto25FG atl4:01:	))b?
ND: Culver 21 passfrom Mircr(Hentrich kick)
cCTeam	i:H.	11	,
X 'X	,X7 X J?	7	' X. ' '• ND	
First Downs ..................................... .	24	;fc.;’24X7
Rushing,.;............................;........... e 15	. :9
	
,	, Penalty.............................................	3	
C - Rushing	.34-144
;™i'7 Passing............................................. . 8-16-153	20-36-355
;X C?; TotefN^Ym-dsfe.....^^	?429 C	?	473
3?) ■ > „■■ ■<■: Average Gain Per Play................... /',C 5.7	
; Fumbles-Lost...............:........C;........;	2r2	c 2-2
A'Cc. Penalties-Yards................................	6-51 C-	
C Punts-Average...................... rlCCLCC C; )■ 1-40.0	iC?^31AC
". Kickoff Returns ..;;u.C.i....C..........:2. i n 4-158	: 'C4^8(fe
• : r r 3rd Diawm Coversions	; 1 5-13;:	

Rushing: ND-Culver21-72,Ismaill3 -100, Watters 3-17, Mirer 11-34^ Brooksl 1-53; UM-McGuire 20-52, Cdnlcy 7-39, Erickson
i7^7Cl;gC*C^	'	’ '
Passing:ND-Mirer 16-8-1-153; UM-Erickson36-20-2-355	: . 3-C .:
ReceivingrND-Ismaill-24, Brownl-13,Smith2-56,Culver 2-28,Wattcrs 1-23, Dawsonl-9;UM- Carroll 6-83,'fhomas 5-114,-
Hill5-71, Conley 2-39, Bethel 1-26, Copeland 1-22
FOOTBALL REVIEW
27
Pitt Stop
Notre Dame's offense struggles in Pittsburgh before Rocket motors to the rescue
ByJimKuser
October 27, Pittsburgh, PA-
f J TJ I-T-T. Let’s Go Pitt,” shouted a
A • "raucous sellout crowd on a cold night at Pitt Stadium. Pittsburgh was a team on the bubble. It had begun the season with high hopes that had turned into elusive expectations. The talent was there but the team chemistry was not One poll had picked the Panthers as high as eighth during the pre-season. This lofty status was instantly eradicated following Pitt’s humiliating 52-10 loss to Oklahoma on national television weeks before its showdown with Notre Dame.
But tonight was different. This was Pitt’s 100th season of football. This was Pitt’s biggest home game, with campus fraternities and sororities preparing for post-game victory parties that would live in lore. This was Notre Dame, a traditional riyal because of its proximity and its history of stealing much of Pennsylvania’s top football talent Said one Pitt undergraduate, “Playing Notre Dame is second only to playing Penn State. The student body is really pumped for this game. It means the world to us and to our school.”
Pitt has a knack for playing the Irish tough, whether the game is at home or
Ismail gained 109 of his career-high 116 yards rushing in the fourth quarter.
away. In 1987, the Irish marched unbeaten into Pitt and left with a 30-22 defeat. In 1988, it took a little luck and last minute heroism for the Irish to pull out a win in a match played at Pitt. Notre Dame went on to win the national championship. Last year, Pitt was ranked in the top ten by all polls when it came to South Bend for its annual tango with the Irish. Notre Dame embarassed the Panthers 45-7.
It was payback time for all of the things that had been irking Pitt fans and players over the years. A win against the Irish would salvage the 100th season, putting the icing on the Pitt birthday cake. However, Notre Dame was up for the challenge and blew outPitt’s birthday candles with a single puff. Who provided this puff? None other than Raghib “Rocket” Ismail.
Although the game was characterized by uncharacteristically sloppy play on the Notre Dame side of the ball, the Irish weathered the storm and prevailed 31-22. Penalties took the life out of already lackluster drives. Panther aggressiveness coupled with the hard artificial turf, took a heavy toll on the Irish, who lost punter Craig Hentrich to a broken thumb and nose
guard Chris Zorich to a dislocated knee cap. “That was the most banged up I have ever seen Notre Dame,” observed a Pitt assistant coach afterward, “and we still could not beat them. This was not a pretty football game.”
The Rocket, whose thigh bruise remained sensitive, played as if he were the healthiest athlete on the field. His 214 all-purpose yards included a 76 yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter that sealed the Irish victory. It was the longest run from scrimmage of his career.
More astonishing was that Rocket gained 109 of his career-high 116 rushing yards in the fourth quarter, thereby saving his best for last. Head Coach Lou Holtz was all smiles when it came to commenting on his ace-in-the-hole after the game. “We really were not moving the ball effectively. Fortunately, Rocket gave us the spark that we needed to win.”
Rocket was typically humble after the game. “When you put on that golden helmet, it is do or die. At this time of year, there are only two types of teams: those that are going somewhere, and those that are trying to stop them from going some-
28
SCHOLASTIC

for 384 yards and two touchdowns.
where. We want to go somewhere.”
To their credit, the Panthers proved to be a troublesome opponent for the Ins . Pitt quarterback Alex VanPelt took advan tage of good pass protection against a
the previous week against Miami and Zor-ich was knocked out of the game) to throw for 384 yards on 37 completions. Van Pelt’s success through the air confirmed what a Pitt assistant coach had believed to be a vicious rumor. “I was told that if you are going to move the ball on Notre Dame, you have to throw. I guess that is true.
Notre Dame linebacker Donn Gnmm
was discouraged by Van Pelt’s exploitation of the Irish secondary. I was getting frustrated because Alex was hitting his passes all over the field. His completion percentage is probably above 100. We really did not play with the intensity that we should have.	.
In spite of what the players might have thought, Holtz was relatively pleased with the defensive effort. “Our defense carried the team for 50 minutes. It was the last ten minutes that hurt us.” Indeed those ten ■ minutes, when the Notre Dame lead was narrowed from 17 to nine, were cruel to the
Irish, i
(five completions on 16 attempts and one
interception), Holtz was very happy with : : the poise shown by the sophomore He ; • showed signs, for the first time as a starter,	; t
of overcoming the adversity of an off mght in order to lead his team to victory. Rick proved tonight why he is our starter, said • ; ; Holtz afterward. “He was out of rhythm , physically but he had his head m the game.	,
The effort was there. When he threw his , -interception, he was the guy who made the , :; tackle down field. He is a tough kid with a < bright future as long as he keeps that posi- - , ; five frame of mind.”	,	•	-'
Mirer was surprised by Holtz s kudo .	.
“I did not do anything to help us win. Sure,	-.,
I made that tackle on the interception but . -that was it The other guys earned me. Perhaps one reason for Mirer s off night • „
29 :
FOOTBALL REVIEW
with cake.
□
Culver quietly gained 71 yards on just 13 carries.
Jerri Ryan

was that those other guys,” namely his offensive linemen, were weary from the previous week’s showdown with Miami. The Miami game battered many of the trenchmen, who had to face the likes of Russell Maryland and Maurice Crumm. It was demanding to expect brilliant pass protection the week after the Miami game. Consequently, Mirer had a lot of hurried throws that were off the mark.
Call it sloppy, filled with penalties. Call it another manifestation of Rocket’s dominance. Call it Mirer’s coming of age. Call it what you will. The important thing is that it was a “W” in the record books, and any “W” against Pitt is something the Irish can never take lightly. Besides, it is always nice to crash a birthday party and come away
GAME SUMMARY
Scoring Summary
Notre Dame	7 7 3 14	31
Pittsburgh V 0 > 7 ■ 0 15	22
iij
Team Statistics
(1st Quarter ND:Brooks2 run (Hentrich kick)at 5:53	-
|2ndQuarter ND; Brpoks.28 run (Hentrich kick) at 9:39	.
w ; ?	UP: Moore 9 pass from Van Pelt (Kaplan kick)
/ =. ,	at2:28	r'.-.'
3rd Quarter . ND: Hentrich 39 FG at 11:39	,
$01Quarter; ND: Ismail 76 run (Hentrich kick) at 7:38 -UP: Deveaux 1 run (Hetzler pass)'	:
:	, at5:13	' r '■
	ND	• UP ,
First Downs	' 20	27
Rushing						15	
Passing 		.....						. 17
»»*«**«* »»	■iiitiiji	lilBiliM
Rushing		  .........	51-330	29-111 \
Passing								. 5-16-85	37-51-384 /
Total Net Yards						381	468
Average Gain Per Play					.5.69	5.85	:
Fumbles-Lbst.....;..		. 2-i	3-1 ■	•
Penalties-Yards					7-57.	. 11-125; i
Punts-Average						1-24 :	•	i-3 ' :
kickoff Returns						2-26	4-71 : ■:
3rd Down Coversions
4-13	4-13 :.
5 ND:Mirerlrun(Hentrichkick)at2:40
Dickerson 8 passfrom Van Pelt (Kaplan ' ■' / \ kick)at6:33	\	.
w '..<	p-; Individual Statistics ,	/ ' ' .
Rushing:ND-Culver 13-71, Ismail 10-116, Mirer 9-2, Bettis 1-19, Brooks 18-88; UP-Richards 12-53, Deveaux 5-28, Williams 5-(10,VanPelt 3-1,Turner 4-(-8)	‘	:	... . „ .
[Passing: ND- Mirerl6-5-l-85;UP-VanPelt 51-37-2-384	?	. .	’	. \	, \
[Rebeivihg: ND- Ismail 3-64; Davis, 1-15, Smith 1-6; UP-Dickerson 9-87, Moore 8-96, beveaux 6-45, Turner 5-39, Truitt 4-55, .. :Seaman4-51, Richards 1-11	: ..;	’ v ■ v . ■■	”	;	•„ -
30
SCHOLASTIC
Paul Webb
Todd Lyght's 53-yard scoring return of an onside kick capped a wild affair in the Meadowlands.
eightysomething
Defense takes a holiday as Notre Dame and Navy light up the scoreboard in a 52-31 Irish truimph
By Ken Tysiac
November 3, East Rutherford, NJ-
When Notre Dame travelled to
Giants Stadium to face Navy on Nov. 5, there was little doubt what the outcome would be.
The Irish had defeated the Midshipmen 27 consecutive times in the nation’s longest-running intersectional rivalry and were ranked No. 2 in the Associated Press Poll coming into the game. Navy, meanwhile,
FOOTBALL REVIEW
had struggled to win just three of its first seven contests.
Not surprisingly, Notre Dame won by three touchdowns. But the difficulties of the Irish defense in the 52-31 triumph had Irish coach Lou Holtz singing the blues just one week before his team was to visit powerful Tennessee.
“This is probably one of the lower spots in
my career,” Holtz said. “I think that you cannot be a great football team if you don’t play good defense. The reason I say this is I know what’s ahead of us and this is not a high.”
Navy had scored just 16.1 points per game through seven contests against a schedule which included such lightweights as Villa-nova, Richmond, Akron and James Madi-
31
Paul Webb (2)
Mirer picked apart the Navy defense for 265 passing yards.
' son. The Middies nearly doubled that total i against the Irish, who were playing without i All-American nose tackle Chris Zorich.
i Zorich had injured his knee in Pittsburgh a i	week earlier. Nevertheless, Holtz refused to
• blame Notre Dame’s ineptness on Zorich’s i	absence.
| “You can’t lose an individual like Zorich I and not feel the effect of it,” Holtz said, “but } it shouldn’t have had that big of an impact.
| Navy just did an excellent job.”
i	Navy did such an excellent job in the first
! half that the score was tied at halftime in a i game in which the Irish were favored by 35 i points. The Middies took the opening kick-i off and drove to the Notre Dame 19 only to ! have Frank Schenk’s 33-yard field goal at-i tempt sail wide right.
j The Irish then took possession of the ball I and methodically marched 80 yards in 15 i plays. Freshman fullback Jerome Bettis j . capped the drive with a one-yard run for his
- first collegiate touchdown, and Notre Dame ! . led 7-0 with 1:14 remaining in the first i : quarter.
; The Middies tied the score early in the 5 . second quarter when tailback Jason Pace j found the end zone from one yard out. The ' big play on that drive was a 44-yard pass from quarterback Alton Grizzard to tight
- ; end Dave Berghult which brought Navy to
the Irish 12.
Notre Dame stopped the Midshipmen on four straight plays after Navy had driven for a first down on the one yard line, but a fourth
Culver's 7-yard scoring run In the third quarter gave the Irish the lead for good.
down pass interference penalty on linebacker Devon McDonald gave the Middies a first down at the one again. Two plays later Pace struck paydirt.
The rest of the second quarter was consumed quickly as Notre Dame’s Craig Hentrich kicked a 31-yard field goal after a long drive and Schenk tied the score by booting a 27-yarder 14 seconds before the gun after the Midshipmen went 68 yards in 15 plays.
Holtz had expected Navy to come out throwing the ball, and at halftime it was obvious that his defense wasn’t prepared to stop the wishbone which Navy coach George Chaump had surprisingly employed. Chaump had been expected to utilize a more conventional pro set and rely on a lot of trick plays and a passing attack to move the ball against the Irish.
“George Chaump had been throwing the ball most of his career,” Holtz said. “He had a good game plan. He came out in a wishbone, ran basic power, they threw the ball when they wanted to and they ran it.”
The Irish defense wasn’t getting the job done. The offense was performing well, but Notre Dame only had three possessions in the first half because Navy was doing such a
32
SCHOLASTIC
good job controlling the ball and the clock with the wishbone. Holtz told his team that it had to make the most of its possessions in the second half.
“What we said at halftime is that we will get the ball to start with and we would just have to be productive with it each time,” Holtz said.
In short, the game was in the hands of the Notre Dame offense in the second half. If the Irish couldn’t stop the Middies, they would have to outscore them, and with quarterback Rick Mirer and flanker Raghib Ismail leading the way, they did. The Irish offense scored three touchdowns in the first 10 minutes of the third quarter en route to a 42-point second-half performance.
Fullback Rodney Culver gave the Irish the lead for good with a seven-yard touchdown run on the opening drive of the second half. Tailback Ricky Watters wen t over next from two yards out with 8:05 remaining in the third quarter, and just 3:01 later Mirer scrambled into the end zone from 30 yards out to give Notre Dame a 31-10 lead.
The Notre Dame defense woke up briefly in the third quarter as well. After Culver’s touchdown the Irish stopped Navy on four
plays, the last being a fake punt on which freshman cornerback Greg Lane stuffed Navy’s Dominic Flis for a two-yard loss to set the stage for Watters’s touchdown. After that score, the Irish defense forced Navy to punt after three plays, putting the ball back in Mirer’s hands for a drive which would eventually end in a long scramble down the. left sideline to paydirt for the sophomore quarterback.
But Grizzard and the Midshipmen refused to roll over and die. The Navy quarterback, who would finish the day with 93 yards on 18 carries and nine completions in 14 attempts for 161 yards, scored on
a six-yard run with 2:02 remaining in the third quarter to bring the Middies within two touchdowns at 31-17.
Notre Dame answered with yet another touchdown drive of its own early in the fourth quarter when senior tailback Tony Brooks went in from the three. Bettis set up that score witha 19-yardrun totheNavy six.
Navy’s top gun struck again with 3:46 left in the game. Grizzard cut the margin to 14 points again when he hit Berghult for a 19-yard scoring strike. Notre Dame struck back just 1:32 later, though, when Ismail got open deep and Mirer threw a perfect strike for a 54-yard touchdown pass.
Navy still would not give up the ship, though, and Grizzard threw yet another touchdown pass, this one a seven-yarder to split end B J. Mason with just 16 seconds left. But the Irish did not let Navy have the last word. The final blow was Todd Lyght’s 53-yard return of the ensuing onside kick attempt for a score with just nine seconds remaining.
Lyght was very surprised to see open field ahead of him when he fielded the kick. Although he was recruited as a receiver and expected to score many touchdowns in his
Paul Webb
Jerome Bettis contributed 24 rushing yards, including the game's first score on a one-yard burst.
Notre Dame career, Lyght switched to cornerback his freshman year, and had never scored a collegiate touchdown. Still, when the end zone beckoned, he knew how to get there.
“The thing about the onside kick return team is the main thing we want to do is get possession of the ball,” Lyght said. “The kicker kicked it and I got a good bounce and I caught the ball and the two guys who were supposed to field it ran past me. I saw open field so I just took off running. I got down the sidelines about 10 or 15 yards and I looked to see who had the angle and it was the kicker and, I think, a linebacker, so I figured I could take it all the way in.”
Lyght’s score provided the final margin of 52-31.
When the dust cleared it was apparent that two Notre Dame players could take much of the credit for the tremendous second-half surge.
Mirer recovered from a disappointing game at Pittsburgh to complete 12 of 20 passes for 256 yards. His biggest aerial strike was the 54-yard bomb to Ismail which gave the Irish their sixth touchdown.
Ismail once again proved himself a worthy
FOOTBALL REVIEW
33
Paul Webb
moment.
□
Scoring Summary
Team Statistics
3rd Quarter
4thQuarter
1st Quarter .2nd Quarter
Ismail's 219 total yards marked the fourth Navy since a 35-14 loss at Notre Dame straight game he had exceeded the 200- Stadium in 1963. Although the injury to yard barrier._________-	______________________________________________________________
■ w W	1	2 3	4	Final
Notre Dame	7	> 3 21	21	52 -
Navy 4)A	0	7107 ;7-	14' -	■ 31/
Heisman Trophy candidate. He caught six passes for 173 yards and rushed eight times for 41 yards, finishing with 219 total yards in the victory. It was the fourth consecutive game in which he gained over 200 total yards. Typically, he credited his success to the game plan devised by his coaches.
“Basically it’s just reading whatever the defense gives you,” Ismail explained. “Especially for us, the coaches seem to call all the right plays at all the right times, so it seems to work out.”
Things didn’t work out nearly as well for Notre Dame when Navy had the ball. Although the Irish recorded their highest point total of the season, they also surrendered 31 points, the most they had given up against
Zorich certainly hurt the Irish, sophomore Eric Jones did a decent job filling in, recording six solo tackles. The rest of the Notre Dame defense didn’t do as well, giving up 382 total yards for the game against the Grizzard-led wishbone attack.
The good news for the Irish was that they moved up to the top spot in the polls after Virginia lost to Georgia Tech 41-38 later that day. But the Notre Dame players were still not satisfied. A trip to Knoxville to face Tennessee was staring them in the face, and the Irish knew they had their work cut out for them.
“Tennessee gives up fewer touchdowns in a game than we give up in a quarter, on the average,” Holtz quipped.
“We’ve got talent,” senior tailback Tony Brooks said. “We work too hard to feel like we do after the week is over. You have to cash the check at the end of the week, and I don’t feel we did that today.”
But whether they cashed their checks or not, the Irish had moved back to the top of the collegiate football world, at least for the

ND: Bettis 1 run (Hentrichkick) atl: 14 NA:Pace 1 run (Scheiik kick) at 11:28 44 ND:Hcntrich 31FG at 6:27	' ■ 44'
NA: Schdnk 27 EG at 0:14 £	7 i 7;
ND: Culver7run(Hentrichkick) at 11:48 ND: Watters 3 run (Hentrich kick) at 8:05 ND: Mirer 30 run(Hentrich kick) at5:04 NA: Grizzard 6run(Schenkkick) at 2:02 ND:Brooks 3nin(Hcntrichkick)at9:09 NA: Berghblt 19 pass (Schenk kick) at 3:46 ND: Ismail 54 pass (Hentrich kick) at 2:i4 .
NA: Mason 7pass (Schenk kick) at 0:16 71
ND:Lyght53ki^ (Hentrich kick) at 0:09
	
	
■ r' Rushing	'	
- Passing********.•»•»•********•«'<**«»*■	
?d ..Penalty. • •*.** »*.••**■.■•»..***»********»*****•*•<*.	
;t;Rush^	44-23657-230
c<^Passing	..'.••****«**«*********************** * •	<13-56-2657 944-161 :
.. .nCotal/PJei Yards «**«»***«»»<**•«■**..■«••**»*/'.>	; W-3827717
^ Average Gain Pci P^	
Fumbles-Post......**„„^^	47:13-1; : 70-0 4't:
. Penalties*Y^aridls ****.;..«•»»*•****************** ■_	777 5-40 4:4'37254-3 S
-• 7. .Puntsw-Average ************>.*.**>*.;*4***»*^.** * <	7:.41-54^^
;K*iclcofF: Returns /•*■•*'•*»*■********•»*»**♦••■♦♦•*•■*''':■'	
:---3rd:Do^	
i	7Individual Statistics 7
\ : : Rushing: ND- Culver 9-55, Ismail 841, Watters 8-36, Mirer 8-34, Brooks7-22,Bettis4-24; NA- Grizzard 18-93, Pace l9-48,7' -
i ■ Purifoy 7747,
I - .
' Receiving:ND-Ismail6^173,Brown4-61,Dawson 3-44,Griggs2-25,T. Smith l-23;NA-Ma4-71,Berghult2-63, Dawson.1-26,
7 .1	744444
34
SCHOLASTIC
Road Warriors
Notre Dame escapes the unfriendly confines of Knoxville, Tennessee with a thrilling 34-29 victory over the 9th-ranked Volunteers
Captain Chris Zorich returned trom an injury to neip tne insn snence a iaie	iany.
FOOTBALL REVIEW
By Andy Hilger
November 10, Knoxville, TN-
Knoxville, Tennessee, is nothing if not an exceedingly hostile environment to take a football team into. Football is a religion and the Tennessee Volunteers are gods. Opposing teams have been known to
Andy Kelly (8) threw for a Tennessee-record 399 yards...	Paul Webb <2>
be shaken to their very souls. Notre Dame held strong though, and escaped with a win, their number one ranking and a ticket to Miami.
The victory locked up a second straight trip to the Orange Bowl for Notre Dame who, although top-ranked, were slight underdogs against the Vols.
Ricky Watters’ discovery of a tough running style helped propel the Irish to victory. In addition to his own touchdown
carries of ten arid 66 yards, the senior captairi from Harrisburg, PA, threw a key lead block to spring Raghib Ismail for a 44-yard run which made the score 34-23 late in the fourth
Tennessee uprising. The tremendous throng in attendance, accompanied by blaring loudspeakers, continuously rained down the chorus of “Rocky Top” upon the visitors.
The Irish were prepared for just such a reception. “The crowd was loud and all over us, but we practiced all week iri this environment,” said Holtz, referring to a recorded simulation of Knoxville crowd noises which shook the Loftus indoor facility during practices.
By week’s end, muffling the Tennessee faithful served as added incentive for the Irish. The play which would have Rick Mirer drop to one knee to end the game was renamed “Rocky Top” during practice.
The Volunteers, however, were determined to make such a scenario impossible. After a conservatively played first half ended with the Irish in front 10-6, Tennessee exploded on their first possession of the second half. Pickens, who ran through the Notre Dame secondary all afternoon, caught three passes and drew a pass interference penalty to bring the ball to the visitor’s ten yard line. Following an incomplete pass, quarterback Andy Kelly read blitz and called a draw play to Tony Thompson, who skirted into the endzone, giving Tennessee a 13-10 lead.
It was gut-check time for the Irish. Three weeks earlier, Tennessee broke open a 3-3 halftime tie with Florida with a kickoff
i Rod Smith’s fingertip interception H < silenced the crowd and stunned an explosive ju Tennessee football team, preserving the
< victory for the top-ranked Irish. The J- - Volunteers had roared back from a ! j - seemingly insurmountable deficit only to i J < - watch Smith, starting for the first time since 11. : the Michigan game, drift back and snag ;'< Andy Kelly’s pass five yards away from an ] > ' uncovered Carl Pickens.
’ I - : - Smith, who had been burned by Alvin 11 •: - Harper on a similar play moments earlier, ;: > correctly read the route and adjusted his r - ; coverage. “I wasn ’ t really supposed to be in ;: -: that position,” said Smith, “but I knew he i:; ? was trying to go deep towards the comer of ' < the end zone.”
I -:' The two teams treated a crowd of 97,123 L : - to “a tremendous college football game,” in ;; > the words of Lou Holtz. “We deserved to
: -; win the game. Tennessee could say the same i. : thing.”
quarter.
Watters, after fumbling twice in the loss to Stanford, had seen reduced playing time in the four games since. Meanwhile, after a shaky outing against Michigan, Holtz revamped the secondary, landing Smith a spot on the sidelines. “We were both on the outs,” said Watters, although both their silenced critics with with fine performances that day.
But there was more than critics to be silenced. The second largest crowd in Neyland Stadium history erupted during every
...but Rick Mirer (3) emerged with the victory.
fl
36
SCHOLASTIC
return for a touchdown. They went on to tally 42 unanswered points.
On the next possession, though, Ricky Watters made it abundantly clear that Notre Dame would not suffer a similar fate. Twenty-four seconds after Thompson scored, Watters raced 66 yards into the opposite endzone to reclaim the lead for Notre Dame. Often criticized for his soft running style, the tri-captain ran over three would-be tacklers on the way to his longest run since his freshman year.
The see-saw battle continued on the next series. Kelly, who had a record setting day, guided the offense on a nine play, 80-yard drive which culminated with a 32-yard scoring strike from Kelly to Alvin Harper, who was closely defended by Todd Lyght
The action did not stop there. “Effective but sloppy” became watchwords for the Irish. With a chance to put the game out of reach, Notre Dame moved inside the Tennessee five yard line on two occasions but generated only three points.
A 16-play drive stalled at the
three when Rodney Culver fumbled. But an Ismail punt return broughtNotre Dame back to the site of Culver’s fumble. Three runs failed to land them in the endzone, however, and they settled for a 20-yard Hentrich field goal.
Ismail’s 38-yard return was the first flash of brilliance from the Heisman hopeful, but there was more to come. “Ismail is a huge factor,” said Tennessee coach Johnny Majors. “We tried all differentkinds of plays to keep the ball away from him, but he has such quick movement. He has the speed of Willie Gault, but with better open field ability. He’s like a blur and was a big difference in this game.”
A Donn Grimm interception set the stage for the Rocket Ismail used his sprinter’s speed to get outside and outrun everyone for a 44 yard touchdown which seemed to put the game out of reach at 34-23.
“We just wanted to get a first down and keep possession of the ball. I tried to run up
Paul Webb (2)
Kelly's picture-perfect pass found Alvin Harper despite blanket coverage by Todd Lyght.
the middle, but bounced to the outside,” said Ismail. “I was expecting somebody to be there but no one was.” And with no one containing him it was off to the races. No one would catch him.
With 3:33 remaining, some of the Tennessee faithful headed for the parking lot. Kelly, who passed for 399 yards, quickly summoned them back. A ten play drive which consumed only 1:44 culminated when Harper burned Smith deep in the comer of the endzone.
After a' two-point conversion failed, lightning struck a second time seconds after the Tennessee
touchdown. Pickens, who seemed to be everywhere, recovered a perfectly executed onsides kick. Nobody was leaving now. “It
Ricky Watters reached the checkered endzone on a 66-yard, third quarter scamper.
FOOTBALL REVIEW
I'!
: was the first time in 17 years I remember us : not getting an on sides kick,” recalled Holtz.
Fortunately for the Irish, Smith was able to • pick off Tennessee’s hopes of knocking off - the number one ranked Irish. “There was
; great effort by both teams,” said Majors - afterward. “After they scored two - touchdowns, we could have been out of it, but we came fighting back and had a chance to win it.”
; “Notre Dame deserves all the recognition they receive,” continued
: Majors. ‘They won despite what I consider a very good performance by us.”
Holtz echoed Majors’ sentiment ‘This was a classic game. It was the longest day I’ve ever put in on the sidelines,” said the fifth-year coach. This “long day” included six lead changes, four of which came in the second half, and 924 combined total yards. “We’re not pretty,” Holtz added, “but we did come into a very difficult environment and win.”
After Smith returned the ball to the 17-yard line, Mirer got his chance. He walked into the huddle and simply said,
‘“Rocky Top’ on one.” The clock ran out. Notre Dame hung on.
Perhaps no one was more pleased than the Orange Bowl committee. This victory locked up Notre Dame’s second consecutive
Watters' 174 yards, the most by an Irish back in six years, made the difference.
appearance. When asked about a potential national title game with Colorado, Holtz responded, in typical fashion, “Penn State is
a very good football team.
□
1st Quarter
GAME SUMMARY
Scoring Summary
1	2	3	4	Final
Notre Dame	7	3	7	.17	34
Tennessee	6	0	14	9	29
Team Statistics
Paul Webb'
2ndQuarter
SrdQuarter
^Quarter
UT: Burke 46 FG, AT 9:23 NI): Culver 41 pass from Mirer (Hentrich kick)at
UT: Burke 22 FG at 5:28 • ND:Hentrich26FGat7:29 ITT: Thompson 10 run (Burke kick) at 13:36 ND: Watters 66 ran (Hentrich kick) at 13:12 UT: Harper 32 pass from Kelly (Burker kick) at 10:24	.	'
ND: Hentrich 20 FG at 14:54 UT: Burke 45 FG at 9:57 ND; Watters 10 rah (Hentrich kick) at 5:30 ND: Ismail 44 ran (Hentrich kick) at 3:33 UT: Harper 23 pass from Kelly (Kelly pass fails) ' at 1:44	z - •	''
Individual Statistics
	ND	UT
First Downs		19	27
Rushing		16	liiSilBI
Passing			17
Penalty		Siilfl	
Rushing..		53-336	32-141
Passing				5-10-92	35-60-399
Total Net Yards				408	• 516
Average Gain Per Play		6:48	5.6
Fumbles-Lbst					1-1	1-0
Penalties-Yards				10-78	4-46
Punts-Average					6-41.4	6-40.3
Kickoff Returns 					6-84	6-100
3rd Down Coversions 		2-13	9-20
Cu^	Ismail 6-44, Watters 17-174, Mirer 7-10, Brooks 13-41; USC- Thompson 18-64, Kelly 6-8, Poles 3-10,
Amsler3-19,Moore2-16	'
»assih^ND£Mirerl0-5-0-92;UT-Kelly 60-35-2-399	-	-
3-86, Browh,2-6; UT- Pickens 13-163, Harper 7-110, Tompson 1-30, Moore 5-21, Amsler 5-40, Poles 1-3, ^idams3-32\-	'' . .	.
38
SCHOLASTIC
T th r © w m Ib^y W© M©©©
Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions sneak into Notre Dame Stadium and steal a last-second, 24-21 victory
By Kevin T. Kerns
November 17, Notre Dame-
Penn State coach Joe Paterno said that nearly an entire quarter went by before he noticed that Raghib “Rocket” Ismail hadn’tcomeoutfor thesecondhalf with the rest of the Notre Dame offense.
For Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz, the Rocket’s absence was all too obvious. “No doubt we have built our offense around him,” said Holtz of Ismail, who sat out the second half against the Nittany Lions due to a deep thigh bruise, a recurrence of the injury which sidelined him in the earlier loss to Stanford. “But you have to rise to the occasion.”
To the shock and dismay of the sellout crowd at Notre Dame Stadium, they didn’t rise to the occcasion. Instead, they blew a 21-7 lead, falling to Penn State 24-21, on a 34-yard field goal by Chris Fayak with four seconds remaining.
The loss cost the Irish their number one ranking and any legitimate shot at a national championship. The stunned Notre Dame locker room was closed to the press, although, as usual, Ricky Watters found it in himself to comment on the game.
“The only thing I got to say is we shouldn’t have lost. I can’t believe it,” said the senior tailback, who gained 102 yards on 19 carries, marking the first time in his career that he posted consecutive 100 yard rushing
The win put Paterno's Lions in position for a major bowl bid.	Arthur Leach
efforts.
With the score tied at 21 and only 2:15 showing on the clock, Notre Dame took possession on its own seven yard line after Patemo had elected to punt on fourth and
FOOTBALL REVIEW
39
two from the Irish 37. Four offensive plays netted just eight yards and now only one minute remained.
Irish fans thought back to 1966, when coach Ara Parseghian had ordered his team to run out the clock against Michigan State and setfle for a 10-10 tie, preserving Notre Dame’s top ranking. But this was 1990, and unlike Parseghian’s team of. a quarter century before, the Irish were playing at home. There would be no tie.
With good protection, Rick Mirer faded back and surveyed the field. He saw Tony Smith streaking across the middle. Mirer threw a ball that sailed like an arrow straight through the hearts of the Irish faithful and into the waiting hands of Penn State safety Darren Perry.
Three plays later, as temperatures dipped below freezing in the November night, Fayak put the game on ice.
Mirer was one of the few Irish players who faced reporters immediately after the game. “I probably forced it a little bit,” admitted the quarterback of his errant pass. “Earlier we won a couple of games right there at the end. We got burned by it this time.”
“We weren’t going to settle for a tie,” added a subdued Holtz. “When you go over the middle there is a 50-50 chance the safety is going to be there.”
Irish quarterback Rick Mirer suffered a dismal second half, completing only one pass
while throwing two Interceptions.
Marl Okuda
Arthur Leach
The Irish lost Rocket power in the second half as the offense sputtered.
In the first half, Notre Dame scorched the vaunted Penn State defense for 292 total yards. The Irish did not have to punt in the first quarters, failing to score on only two missed Craig Hentrich field goals, of 53 and 43 yards in length, the latter coming as time ran out in the half. His failure to convert would come back to haunt the Irish.
After winning the opening coin toss,
Penn State decided to defer until the second half, as Patemo confidently sent his defensive unit out to meet the Irish. Notre Dame responded with an impressive nine play, 63-yard drive, which Watters capped with a nifty 22-yard touchdown run.
Penn State’s next possession yielded nothing, and after an 11 yard punt return by Ismail, the Irish took over at their own 41.
Eight plays later, Tony Brooks burst through a gaping hole from the 12 yard line and cut left into the end zone for the score. After the
conversion by Hentrich, Notre Dame had built its lead to 14-0, with nearly seven minutes still showing on the first quarter clock;
At this point, the Irish seemed to be well on their way to a lopsided victory over the Nittany Lions, similar to when the teams met the previous two seasons. In those contests, Notre Dame rolled to wins with scores of 3421 and 21-3, respectively. But this Penn State team was a more mature and disciplined group than the teams which had folded in the face of the enormous pressure and athleticism which the Irish inevitably bring to the party.
Close early season losses to Texas and USC had served to motivate the Nittany Lions, as they had reeled off seven consecutive victories before traveling to South Bend. This was the game that would show Penn State could not only play with the big
40
SCHOLASTIC
boys— but that, as in their glory years, they could beat them. ,
“We are a better football team than people give us credit for,” stated Patemo after his team had pulled off the upset.
Trailing by two touchdowns early in the contest, Patemo decided to put the game into the hands of his junior quarterback, Tony Sacca. Sacca, often criticized for erratic play, responded with the finest game of his
cornerback Todd Lyght inside the five. Smith stumbled into the end zone, cutting the deficit to one touchdown.
Midway through the second quarter, the Irish marched 92 yards in 16 plays for their third touchdown of the game. Thirty-eight of those yards were accounted for by Ismail, who rushed three times and caught one pass on the drive. Mirer sneaked in from the one, giving the Irish a21-7 lead. That lead would
longer available for duty.
Notre Dame managed only four first downs in the dismal second half, and played as if it was lost without its star performer. With Ismail gone, Penn State could afford to take more chances on defense, thus creating opportunities for turnovers. That defense harassed Mirer into a one for nine, two interception second half performance. By contrast, Sacca was 20 of 34 for 277 yards
Okuda
Penn State quarterback Tony Sacca played the game of his career, completing 20 passes for 277 yards and three touchdowns.
career.
“It was a big game for him,” praised Paterno. “I thought that he grew up today.”
Sacca took his team 68 yards in only 2:05, capping the drive with a 32-yard touchdown pass to Terry Smith. After faking a reverse, Sacca rolled right, and hit Smith who had turned around Notre Dame
hold until halftime, as Hentrich missed a 43-yard field goal with only seconds remaining in the half.
When the second half began, the Irish offense ceased to be rocket powered. Instead, it operated like a solar engine during an eclipse. Rocket Ismail, who caught four balls for 76 yards in the first half, was no
with three touchdowns for the day.	;
“We were being too tentative,” said ; Patemo of the large cushions his secondary ; gave Irish receivers. “I told my players not to have too much respect for them and to try : and make things happen.”	■
Through most of the third quarter, the -teams stood toe to toe, with neither gaining \
FOOTBALL REVIEW
41
an appreciable advantage. The closest either ' club came to scoring was a missed 39-yard
- field goal by Fayak. Then, with 1:30 left in the quarter, Penn State got a break.
Linebacker Mark D’Onofrio intercepted : a pass intended for Shawn Smith and re; turned it to the Irish eleven. Shortly thereaf-: ter, Sacca found Rick Sayles in the left ' comer of the end zone. Sayles juggled the ball for what seemed like an eternity, but gained possession in time, and the Nittany Lions were within a touchdown.
The Lion defense was now in a frenzy. **The coach challenged us,” said defensive tackle Lou Benfalli. “He made us go out and show our character.”
That they did, and the Irish were reeling. Their last four possessions of the game yielded only 22 yards. Meanwhile, Penn State was creeping closer.
With 7:15 remaining in the game, Sacca rolled right and threw back left to tight end Al Golden, who was wide open for a 14-yard touchdown catch.
“They scored on a trick play and they got me biting up on the run,” mused Notre Dame’s Lyght, who seemed less than impressed with Paterno’s innovative play calling.
Some seven minutes later, Fayak’s winning field goal sailed through the uprights,
.	Mari Okuda
Despite Burris’ effort, Fayak’s field goal ended Irish hopes for a national title.
sending Notre Dame to their second home loss of the season. It was small consolation that this year’s senior class had finished with a 21-2 record playing in front of their loyal fans.
“We didn’t get field position and they, won the battle up front in the second half,”
observed Holtz.
When faced with the obstacle of playing without Raghib Ismail, the Irish failed for the second time in as many opportunities this season. Even Joe Patemo would notice that right away.	□
			
	TTTTT		ps
			AA'27'cW
	\ ~	':>■..—Flushing-	v - "j;-- y' » PaSSing.	• V	■a 8	A- TisTTTT
	?Ts! :7I- t^O CCITIOT■ '■'	Tr ■ z -t f’-.z''	’h'	■ : /	■ r		: 0 G-l >^■013
s/udnerin v.. .-yy: diiersz run \rienuiyn kick/ at rv* ND: Brooks 12 run (Hcntrich kick) at 6:34 •• ■PS * ■ T >S m i tli 32' bass: fFa Vak kick) at 4 • 29 ■ ? -*	j ; i > - A A vera : Gai n Per Pl a V	; : ■ ■ ■;; J	"t:'	ZA /XO1	'^■■^53:^ C<::
2nd Quarter ND: Mirer 1 run (Hcntrich kick) 5:00	AA 3rd Quarter PS: Sayles 11 pass (Fayak kick) at 0:32 4di Quarter PS: Goldenl4pass (Fayak kick) at 7:15 A A PS: Fayak 34 FG at 0:04	■.: t y	• ■?.: ?;; V.Vf* lljjV tUl* X ,vl X - ACl V I;...***.....*......-»■■ AyAPenajti^ .I^iints-^^yerage-.«<.„>< ><><^1 a**!* ‘AA3rd Down Coversions ......................	1A®2A jg&QS	: : :: j < J >j ' - ■	■ ■' •
m A,--—yJ-* ZoZA vm 'v	1_—c i b •■■-a a • tS zz Zi 'z o ' a ■< t	i j kr.” An • > xx	idual Statistics . : 1 A 7.1 ■1 A ■' - O TxAi -.i A:*> 14.'?' ■ i v ■ 4 < 2. A t S: < / ■ ■ i	i.:. ini		■ n ■ c x*' ' c. z ■ z ’ j. " ‘ i
Kushmg:NP~Culyerl3-42,Brooks8^6,Ismail5 A-AAA’ "■ZtAA - Si ■ Al 1; : a ■ i Ta z‘TS; \ T ; ■ YA-A ;/. \ a:■_; ■; \< ■<A-J \ < < ■. \.	srs:197114/S;;Dayis: 1 "Gl) j LMjurerx13~y- 17j,; Pi	SrThompson	18-56, Sacca^
G^SilLOT^l-GOllinS 2"I^4 / '<	i.-i'-fy'	: F'FF - -;	■■■■'■ ■ ' ■ ’ : ‘ '¥?iijr*Hiv5tiit*'Nf TY?Tctrio 11'A	otjw' 01AAh■ ■ TT*-■/mJtin 1 " ‘ 1 $2T3-i	*nnrn	nTTiAmncATi Q'i ■ ■TT’ QtriifA		11: *■ rib cb 7 '07 i
JKvvCIAz^ lSniail 7? * /O* o *. JLZdylS;* 1	1*111x1. A t X o £>I	.o\vn d”zo, o i nvmpson / — oj , d. omitn..\D—o	Of xjOxU&Il	
42	SCHOLASTIC

Eight and Counting
The Irish beat the Trojans for the eighth straight time, thanks
to an emerging defense
By Brian McMahon
November 24, Los Angeles, CA-
T arry Smith has enjoyed phenomenal .L/success as head football coach at the University of Southern California. In his 1 first three years, he guided the Trojans to three Rose Bowls, a 21-1-1 record against thePAC 10, anda.766 winning percentage overall.
But don’t for a minute think that the fact he hasn’ t beaten Notre Dame in that time doesn’t bother him.
Although he did beat the Irish in 1982
FOOTBALL REVIEW
while at Arizona, he has had no luck against Notre Dame during the Lou Holtz era; and it’s hurt, too. In 1988, Smith’s team was ranked number one going into the last game of the season against the Irish. Southern Cal’s hopes for a national championship were blown away in their own back yard when the Irish ran off with a 27-10 victory.
Last year, Smith came to South Bend hoping to return the favor against the top
ranked Irish, but they lost a heartbreaker, 28-24.
This year, things looked good for Smith and theTrojans as kickoff approached. His quarterback, Todd Marinovich, was one year wiser after throwing three interceptions in South Bend thirteen months previous. The sophomore threatened to light up a less experienced Irish secondary than the one he exploited for 33 completions and 333 yards on a cold, rainy October day last
43
season at Notre Dame. Smith’s tailback, Mazio Royster, was averaging 132 yards per game since taking over the starting role after the Trojans’ fifth game. His club had just beaten crosstown rival UCLA the week before. Clearly, Larry Smith’s house was in order.
The same couldn’t be said for Lou Holtz. The Irish had slipped from.the nation’s top spot seven days prior when they lost in the closing minutes to Penn State at home. His top player, Raghib “Rocket” Ismail, was questionable with a thigh bruise that had kept him from the second half of the Penn State loss. The prospect of playing without Ismail was upsetting, considering the Irish had lost both games he missed due to injury. There was also concern that the Irish might not yet have recovered from that last-second loss to Penn State. Rookie quarterback Rick Mirer had a bad day against the Nittany Lions, and USC is not exactly an ideal place to regain one’s confidence. Then there was the question of how the Irish would react now that the national title was out of reach.
“How will we respond? I really don’t know,” Holtz said before the game. “When you play USC, its a very special game. So we’ll find out something about ourselves.”
All of Holtz’s questions were answered
Mari Okuda
Marinovlch was pressured all night and sacked five times.
Man Okuda
Zorich anchored an Irish defense that held the Trojans to 81 yards on the ground.
after Notre Dame grinded outa 10-6 victory over the Trojans. Mirer was unspectacular, but poised and mistake-free, and Ismail showed no signs of injury. But it’s what Holtz found out about his defense that
proved to be the key to the game.
The Irish defense had been highly criticized all season and for good reason. The Penn State loss marked the seventh straight game the Irish had given up 20 or more points—; the first time in Notre Dame history that has happened. Their points allowed average of 24.3 was the school’s highest since 1956.
But on the last day of the regular season, when any thing less would have meanta loss, the defense came up big.
“Our defense was excellent,” said a weary Holtz after the game. “We gave up no big plays and played against the run very well.”
Indeed. The Irish kept the Trojans out of the endzone, allowing them just two field goals. “They were moving the ball,” said Notre Dame cornerback Todd Lyght afterward. “But they weren’t putting points on the board, which is the key thing.”
USC’s 302 total yards produced little. While Marinovich threw for 273 yards, his longest completion was for only 23. The Irish pressured last season’s collegiate freshman of the year all night, sacking him five times, twice on third down. Royster was held to 51 yards rushing and the Trojans as a team crawled to only 81 yards on the ground.
SCHOLASTIC
“I didn’t want it to end up like last week,” said nose tackle Chris Zorich, voicing the sentiments of histeammates. For his part, the All-American had eight tackles on the night and provided a fitting close to the game by sacking Marinovich as time ran out.
The biggest play of the day for the defense came a bit earlier, though. Southern Cal was driving and faced fourth and eleven on their own 44 yard line. Marinovich hit Gary Wellman out of the shot gun on the left sideline for a gain of ten. Wellman tried desperately to get the necessary yardage for the first down but was stuffed by Notre Dame’s Lyght.
“A big key for us was to tackle them after they caught the ball,” said Lyght. “I dropped back to the first down marker and kept [Wellman] in front of me.”
Marinovich, the child prodigy turned problem child, did little to improve his rapidly deteriorating reputation after the game. When asked what he thought of the spot, which replays clearly showed to be short of the first down, Marinovich was indignant “I couldn’t believe the last call,” he said. “I expect to get homered in South Bend, but not in the Coliseum. It’s disappointing to end on that note, I don’t know where he spot it. It was just a bad spot It’s shocking.”
Marinovich’s shock and subsequent verbal analysis of the call to an official earned him a 15 yard, non-contact penalty after the play. “It was well-deserved, too,” he said.
“Anytime you score six points against Notre Dame,” said Smith afterwards, “you don’t have a very good chance of winning. We moved the ball offensively but didn’t score. We had the opportunities but we didn’t capitalize. We got in the red zone, but we didn’t get enough points. Instead of two touchdowns or a touchdown and two field goals, we got only the two field goals.”
On Southern Cal’s first possession, the Trojans had first and goal from the nine but had to settle for a 22-yard field goal by Quin Rodriguez because, on third down from the five, Marinovich threw incomplete under heavy pressure from Notre Dame defensive tackle Bob Dahl.
The Irish proved to be their own worst enemies on their first sustained drive of the night. On firstand ten from the twelve, Notre Dame was whistled for a 15-yard personal foul. Mirer made up the penalty on the next play, an 18-yard completion over the middle to tight end Derek Brown. His third down toss missed Ismail at the five and Craig Hentrich was called on for a 30-yard field goal to tie the score.
The half ended in a tie and, after Notre
Dame ran three plays and punted to start the half, USC marched inside the Irish 20, where the defense once again held strong. From the 17, Marinovich threw one incomplete pass and completed two for a total gain of four yards, and the Trojans had to settle for another field goal.
The Irish offense provided the winning margin the next time they had the ball. Mirer had two key plays that helped sustain the drive that ended with Tony Brooks taking an option pitch in from the one. On third and seven from the Irish 46, as he was hit by USC linebacker Kurt Barber, Mirer found tight end Brown over the middle for a gain of 15. Later, on third and one from the Trojan four, he squeaked out two yards for first and goal, setting up Brooks’ score for a 10-6 Irish lead.
Southern Cal’s next drive was snuffed when Zorich sacked Marinovich on third and eight on the Trojan 34. USC’s Ron Dale punted and the Irish tookover on their own 30. On first down from their 41, Ismail galloped 31 yards on a reverse. A 15-yard personal foul penalty after the play, however, left the Irish facing first down and 25.
That problem was quickly and seemingly easily solved by you-know-who. Mirer hit Ismail with a dump pass over the
FOOTBALL REVIEW
45
middle and Rocket darted through 'would-be blockers and the Trojan secondary all the way to the two yard line for first and goal.
The Irish made three tries for the endzone on the ground without success and went to the air on fourth down. Mirer lobbed an alley-oop incomplete over the middle to Brown, who appeared to be held by Barber and strong safety Marcus Hopkins.
“It was short yardage and there was a lot of bumping and shoving going
on,” Brown said. “I went up, but my arms were pulled completely down.”
Southern Cal took over on downs and made it to their 37 before Michael Stonebreaker forced a fumble thatUSC recovered
for a loss of eleven. On the next play Scott Kowalkowski sacked Marinovich for a loss of two. Marinovich’s third and 28 pass was incomplete and the Trojans had to punt. That was the last offensive threat the Trojans
mustered until late when Lyght made his play on Wellman short of the first down.
Wellman, whose 101 yards receiving set a USC single season record, summed up what everyone, or at least the seniors, in the USC camp must have been thinking. “We’ve never beaten them since I’ve been here. It’s frustrating.”
“We put
everything together this week,” said a triumphant Zorich after the game. “We wanted to prove to the world that we had a good defense.” The defense rests.	□
00®®®
Scoring Summary
Team Statistics

Notre Dame 1., n 7 0;l g ;3 ■ 7 i 10
USC: ' V/
FirstDpwns Rustimgi:.. Passing


Penalty
: -’J
/) Rushing ; Passing.

IsrQuarter ^ndl^uarter [|rdOuarteri
USC:Rodriguez22FGat8:2^® d^Ientrich]30^^
USC: Rodriguez
ND: Brooks 1 run (Hentrich kick) at3:14
Total Net Yards ........
4 ;; Average Gain Per Play 1 Fumbles-Lost .4,.,....
Penalties-Yards ............. v Punts-Average ...............
Kickoff Returns ..4...)^ gflS&jDbwnCc^
	
’Ill 17	
12 :	
	Z.	. . 		.■	.	
	
0	10.. ’ ; \	7
7-15-130^ 26-39-273
338 14.97
649.7 3-52 7-17
17302
6-43.0
2417 7-16
Individual Statistics

Rushing: ND-Culver 10r37, Ismail iRoyster; 19-51, Lockwood2-3	? 7 ^41144
!Bs«ng:;Nb-Mirerl5-7-0-130;iUSC-.Mtuii^'d<^-O64027iO|g77|yg^
46
SCHOLASTIC
Mari Okuda(2)
When Ismail broke free down the sideline, it appeared the Irish had pulled out a last-second thriller...
A controversial late penalty costs the Irish a victory in the Orange Bowl
By Jon Paul Potts
January 1, Miami, FL-
There is no greater testament to the great
American love affair with sports and hype than college football bowl week.
There are parades, beauty pageants, tennis tournaments and anything else that the particular
bowlcommitteecanconcoct,allofwhichserveas ' precursors to the culmination of the whole spec- -taele, a college football game.	: -:
Bowl week 1990-91 was no exception. ; >: i
But on New Year’s Day, 1991, when the ; >' average bowl score was 37-12, perhaps the only >: ■ gamethatliveduptothehypeprecedingitwasthe :;: Orange Bowl, or should we say, “The Federal - :'; Express” Orange Bowl, which, unfortunately for -;' ' . Notre Dame fans, resulted in a heartbreaking 10- -: < ' 9 Irish defeat at the hands of the Colorado Buffa- ;:;. ' loes.	;';
Heartbreaking because due to turnovers and '; penalties, well, one penalty in particular, Notre Dame managed to stuff defeat down the throat of victory.	-i
The one penalty that hurt more than any other ■; was a clipping call that came in the last minute of the game to negate a 91-yardRaghib Ismail punt	J
return for what appeared to be the winning touch-	।
___but when the Rocket and Ricky Watters : ; looked back, a clipping call had turned Irish Joy to despair.	j
FOOTBALL REVIEW
47

1
down.
“The return by Rocket Ismail was one of ; the greatest individual efforts I’ve seen,”
■ : said a dejected Irish coach Lou Holtz. “That was incredible. I don’t know if the clip had anything at all to do with the run — I sure
>	hope it did.”
। After two consecutive Irish sacks of <	Colorado quarterback Charles Johnson,
1	Buffalo coach Bill McCartney elected to
punt with 1:55 left Ismail fielded the Tom Rouen punt at his own 9-yard line, burst up ’ the middle and broke a few tackles, almost fell down once, then broke up the sidelines
, for the endzone. The Irish side of the stadium erupted into a frenzy, and Buffalo defenders fell to their knees in despair and । some even whipped off their helmets in disgust
j	But Notre Dame senior linebacker Scott
Kowalkowsi had been on the field in special
I teams play and saw the flag.
“I did not see the play,” he said. “As soon i as the play happened, I went over and asked ।	the ref what happened. I had my back turned
; blocking a guy. After [Ismail] was gone, I I turned around and immediately ran to the ; ref, but he couldn’t tell me who [the flag] I	was on.”
I The penalty was on senior Greg Davis, :	and though many may question whether the
I block from behind had anything at all to do i	with the run back, or if it was even a clip, the
| flag was thrown and Ismail’s spectacular i clutch effort was called back.
i “When they threw the flag, I was just :	hoping it wasn’t against us,” said Ismail. “I
■ just heard about it when I got in [to the
!	endzone].”
i	“Everybody puts all that pressure on
| Rocket and the fact is, he did it,” said senior linebacker Michael Stonebreaker. “He scored the winner. That’s what you want in that situation, and he did it Unfortunately, it
; was called back. But, that’s football and i that’s why you play the game.”
;	After a desperation pass by the Irish was
intercepted, Colorado had triumphed and one of the weirdest seasons in recent Notre
i Dame football history had ended.
The game and the week leading up to it could serve as a lesson in hype. All week, the press followed the teams around looking for something, anything that they could develop into their daily story.
Like dogs waiting for table scraps, the mediahungon therespectivecoaches’ every word as Holtz and McCartney cleverly created stories to deflect pressure away from their players.
At one point, Holtz lamented the lack of respect the Colorado players had for Notre Dame, which Holtz felt the Irish deserved. Buffs coach McCartney quickly fired back.
“To me, he’s justfooling around, because Notre Dame doesn’t need to resort to that,” the Colorado coach told the press on New Year’s Eve. “Obviously, our players respect his players. Every college football team respects Notre Dame. I don’t know if he does that for the humor in it, or if he’s getting his game face on. He’s trying to get mad at us for some reason and we haven’t given him a reason.”
Holtz’s statements came in direct contrast to comments he made a year ago at an pre-bowl practice which a Denver, CO, television station caught on tape.
“Let me tell you what, they’ve been living a lie. They’ve been living a lie all season,” Holtz told his players four days prior to the 1990 Orange Bowl. “Remember, I told you... and we’re going to whip them.”
A more subdued Holtz in 1991 kept his comments at a more modest level, speaking
Hits like the one Chris Zorich Is about to deliver here put Colorado starting quarter-
back Darian Hagan out of action with a ruptured tendon in his knee.
Mari Okuda

of how, “... we’ll play well, play hard and with intensity. The question I have is, ‘Are we good enough?”’
Meanwhile, among other T-shirts circulating during bowl week was a catchy shirt billing the ’91 Orange Bowl as the clash of “Eric ‘Public’ Bieniemy vs. Raghib ‘Rocket’ Ismail.”
NBC, the television network broadcasting the game, picked up on this theme with two tacky pre-game features on Ismail and Bieniemy. One showed Ismail emerging from a foggy set while a voiceover wondered if this was to be his final season of college football. Looking obviously uncomfortable, the media-shy Ismail stood in the fog while NBC spliced in colorized pictures of the Heisman runner-up running with the ball while flames trailed off his back.
Also in NBC’s pre-game, O.J. Simpson interviewed Stonebreaker and Chris Zorich in their hotel room early on New Year’s Day (the Orange Bowl had a 8:30 p.m. kickoff). Asked if he was nervous, Zorich chuckled and playfully held out a trembling hand for the cameras while he watched the other bowl games on television.
Perhaps it was really NBC and the rest of the media crunch who were really scared. After all, in the Fiesta Bowl, Louisville had
48
SCHOLASTIC
Back-up Charles Johnson came in after Hagan's Injury and earned MVP honors and a "Tonight Show" appearance.
leveled Alabama 34-7, and Miami had simply destroyed the Texas Longhorns 46-3 in the Cotton Bowl. Would the Orange follow suit and develop into a Colorado or Notre Dame rout?
When it finally came time to actually play the game, though, the players on the field left the hype on the sidelines and played a tough, grind-it-out football game.
The first time the Irish had the ball could have well served as an omen for the rest of the game. On first-and-ten, sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer dropped back to pass and was hit as he threw it by Butkus Award winner Alfred Williams. The resulting pass was a wounded duck that Colorado free safety Greg Thomas picked off and returned to the Notre Dame 49-yard line.
This was the first of an uncharacteristic three Mirer interceptions. Mirer seemed rusty and out of sync with his receivers all night and finished a poor 13 for 31 passing for only 141 yards.
“The first one, I got hit and let go a
FOOTBALL REVIEW
floater,” said Mirer. “The last one was just a last ditch effort, but the one down the middle was just a bad throw. I just didn’t get it far enough for my receiver and Thomas made a great play.”
Those interceptions were three of five crucial turnovers that resulted in seven points for the Buffs. At one point in the third quarter, the Irish coughed the ball up on three straight possessions. The first, a Ricky Watters fumble, gave the Buffaloes the ball on the Notre Dame 40-yard line. Colorado drove the 40 yards in eight plays, scoring on a one-yard “Public” Bieniemy plunge off the right side.
“I thought we really had some momentum,” said Holtz. “Then we turned the ball over three times in four plays. The third quarter was a disaster.”
While the Irish were self-destructing, Colorado averted a potential disaster thanks to one Charles Johnson. With 50 seconds left in the first half, Buffalo starting quarterback Darian Hagan scrambled right and was hit
hard by Bob “The Crippier” Dahl, who had : ;; -earlier put Bieniemy out for a few plays. . -: Hagan got up limping, suffering from a rup- : -: tured tendon in his left knee that would put; > / i him out of commission for the night	< < ■ i
Johnson, the backup quarterback who ; -; -had led Colorado to victory in the controver- >;; sial “fifth down game” with Missouri, came > '; in and played splendid football. He chalked -:': up 80 yards on five-for-six passing on his : way to Most Valuable Player honors for the ; - < ! game and an appearance on “The Tonight:':' Show.”	<<
“Darian told me at halftime to concen- ' < ; : trate and play tough in the second half,” said	Z -
Johnson. “We came together as a group in - i thesecondhalftopulloutthewin.Ifeelgood about winning the MVP, but it was a total ; team effort.”	>
Johnson’s success may have come as a : result of the great confidence his teammates and coach had in him.	>
“Charles had some experience at quarterback, so we weren’t concerned about the .
49	,
: .; change,” said Colorado wide ; - (- receiver Mike Pritchard. “We t. were not shocked about i • ; Hagan’s injury, but we felt k ; - . sorry for him. Hey, Charles • :	pulled us through on offense.”
r : - “Our ability to rally behind k : i a backup quarterback, Charles )	Johnson, was great,” agreed
;i:	Colorado coach McCartney.
( > “I just couldn’t be prouder of him. It was fitting that it I should end this way because 1 all year long we’ve been hav-1	ing to reach deep to find a way
; to scratch out a victory.”
One bright spot for the Irish •	on an otherwise frustrating
j	night was the exceptional play
i	of the defense, particularly
!	senior nose tackle Zorich. The
Lombardi Trophy winner was everywhere, going under, over, around and even through the Colorado front which featured AllAmerican offensive guard Joe Garten and second-team All-American tackle Mark Vander Poel. For the game, Zorich recorded ten tackles and a sack which earned him defensive MVP honors for the game.
_ George Williams had himself a game as well, blocking a Buffalo field goal attempt,
Despite MVP honors, Zorich felt nothing but despair following his last game In an Irish uniform.
recovering a fumble, and sacking the quarterback Johnson for a nine-yard loss.
And so, despite a great effort by a defense which had been maligned all year long, the Irish lost because the offense simply couldn’t perform. In fact, since halftime of the Penn State game and including the Orange Bowl, the Irish offense produced just 20 points in ten quarters of football. Two missed field goals and a blocked extra point
attempt proved to be the difference between a win and, at 102, a claim to the national title, and a disappointing loss.
Notre Dame’s troubles did not end with the bowl loss. The cloud which has hovered over Holtz all season grew darker and more ominous with the January 3rd acknowledgment by theUniversity of Minnesota of 19 of the 23 allegations of rules violations by the NCAA rules committee. Holtz, who coached the Golden Gophers for two seasons in 1985 and 1986, figures in three of the admitted allegations.
So ended Notre Dame’s personal “Season of Our Discontent” A wacky year featur
ing two upset losses at home; allegations of rampant steroid use by a former player, a Raghib Ismail run at the Heisman Trophy foiled by a man named Ty from Utah; and all kinds of controversy, ending on a fittingly sour note on New Year’s Night in the Orange Bowl with the toss of a little yellow flag.
Despite what the legends may say, national championships are not a divine right
under the Golden Dome.
□
GAMESUMMARY
HU
Scoring Summary
			Final
Notre Dame			^-9j-
Colorado	■^3	0	
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter
■-X';	-	\ : ■: / ; ■ ■ 7 /
MH^^
NDrWatters 2 niri - (Tdck^ ND:Hentric^
CU:Bieniemy1 run (Harper kick) at 4:26
First Downs ...................
Rushing........... ..kkUL ; Ph^ing^pp^ Penalty ••••••,.
Rushing..........................
Total Net Yards. A
Average Gain Per Play Fumbles-Lost................ Penalties-Yards............. Punts-Average .............. Kickoff Returns ■..
3rd Down Coversions...
Team Statistics
SB®
13-31-141
264 4.0
2-2
W 3-51.0 3-53 S12!;
9-19-109
5W--2
k<646.7k)y
Individual Statistics
'T”




Rushing: ND- Brooks 9-46, Watters 9-44, Culver 5-9, Bettis 3-27, Ismail 3-(-l), Mirer 6-(-2); CU- Bienemy 26-86, Hemingway 14-
ISiSiBSSiwO
Passing:'WMirer31-13-3-141;C^
Receiving: ND-Ismail 6-57, Brown 4-56, Davis 1-8, Irv Smith 1-9, Jarrell l-11; CU-Pritchard 3-45, Hemingway 2-13, Brown 2-23,

50
SCHOLASTIC
1990 Final Regular Season Statistics
RESULTS AND ATTENDANCE
;	9/15 MICHIGAN	W	28-24	59,075
i	9/22 at Michigan State W	20-19	80,401
;	9/29 PURDUE	W	37-11	59,075
10/6 STANFORD	L	31-36	59,075
10/13 AIRFORCE	W	57-27	59,075
;	10/20 MIAMI	W	29-20	59,075
i	10/27 at Pittsburgh	W	31-22	56,500
i	11/3 vs Navy .	W	52-31	70,382
i	11/10 at Tennessee	W	34-29	97,123
10/17 PENN STATE	L	21-24	59,075
10/24 at USC	W	10-6	91,639
TEAM STATISTICS	ND OPP
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS.......238	225
Rushing.............154	83
Passing.............73	131
Penalty.............11	11
3rd Down Conv...70/153	64/160
TOTAL NET YARDS...........4587	4293
Avg. Per Game......417.0	390.3
Total Plays.........786	779
Avg. Per Play.......5.8	5.5
NET YARDS RUSHING.........2989	1660
Avg. Per Game......250.3	123.2
Total Rushes........582	405
NET YARDS PASSING.........1834	2938
Avg. Per Game......166.7	267.1
Completion %........54	63
Had Intercepted......6	9
; PUNTS/AVERAGE.............44/41.9	56/36.3
PENALTIES/YARDS..........58/483	54/417
FUMBLES/BALL LOST.... 17/12	18/7
TOUCHDOWNS...............43	30
Rushing...........33	18
Passing............8	12
Returns............2	0
■ TIME OFPOSSESSION.....338:37 321:23
i
SCORE BY PERIODS 1 2 3 4 TOT
ND...............96	81	66	107	350
Opponent........39 58 73 79 249
Scoring TDR		TDP	TDRt	PAT	FG	Pts
Hentrich	0	0	0	41	16	89
Watters	8	0	0	0	0	48
Culver	5	2	0	0	0	42
Ismail	3	2	1	0	0	36
Mirer	6	0	0	0	0	36
T. Brooks	6	0	0	0	0	36
Levens	2	0	0	0	0	12
T.Smith	2	0	0	0	0	12
Lyght	0	0	1	0	0	6
Bettis	1	0	0	0	0	6
Brown	0	1	0	0	0	6
Burris	1	0	0	0	0	6
Davis	1	0	0	0	0	6
Jarrell	0	1	0	0	0	6
Rushing ATT YDS LG AVG TD
Culver	150	725	41	4.7	5
Walters	108	607	66	5.4	8
Ismail	67	571	76	8.0	3
T. Brooks	105	472	28	4.3	6
Mirer	98	329	30	2.0	6
Levens	13	53	16	4.1	2
Bettis	15	115	30	7.7	1
Burris	6	30	10	5.0	1
Hawkins	2	26	15	13.0	0
Spears	3	18	9	6.0	0
Mihalko	3	25	11	8.3	0
Clark	4	6	4	1.5	0
Davis	4	4	2	0.8	1
Johnson	1	3	3	3.0	0
McDougal	1	3	3	3.0	0
Boyd	1	2	2	2.0	0
Scruggs	1	0	-6	-6.0	0
ND	582	2989	76	4.7	33
OPP	405	1660	60	3.3	18
Receiving	NO	YDS	LG	AVG	TD
Ismail	32	699	54	21.8	2
Smith	15	229	47	15.3	2
Brown	15	220	40	14.7	1
Culver	13	145	59	11.2	2
Davis	8	132	26	16.5	0
Watters	7	58	23	8.3	0
Dawson	6	107	45	17.8	0
Jarrell	6	92	35	15.3	1
Griggs	3	69	44	23.0	0
T. Brooks	3	47	21	15.7	0
Levens	1	20	20	20.0	0
Pollard	1	10	10	10.0	0
Smith	1	6	6	6.0	0
ND	111	1834	59	16.5	8
OPP	232	2938	58	12.4	12
Passing	C	A	Pct	Yds	LG	TD	INT
Mirer	110	200	.550	1824	59	8	6
McDougal	1	2	.500	10	10	0	0
Johnson	0	1	.000	0	0	0	0
Hawkins	0	1	.000	0	0	0	0
ND	111	204	.544	1834	59	8	6
OPP	237	374	.634	2938	58	12	9
Punt Returns		NO	YDS	LG	AVG		TD
Ismail		13	151	38		11.6	0
Watters		3	25	11		8.3	0
Smith		2	24	21		12.0	0
Mihalko		1	12	12		12.0	0
ND		19	212	38		11.2	0
OPP		21	241	38		11.5	0
Kickoff Ret		NO	YDS	LG	AVG		TD
Ismail		14	336	94		24.0	1
Mihalko		5	61	20		12.2	0
Culver		5	53	17		10.6	0
T. Brooks		4	67	20		16.8	0
Burris		3	25	11		8.3	0
Levens		2	31	18		15.5	0
Boyd		2	18	10		9.0	0
Lyght		1	53	53		53.0	1
Smith		1	21	21		21.0	0
Spears		1	7	7		7.0	0
Dawson		1	0	0		0.0	0
ND		39	672	94		17.2	2
OPP		49 •■O	920	41		18.8	0
Tackles (Totals-SoIos-Assists):Stonebreaker (95-56^' 39), Davis (58-42-16), A. Jones (58-29-29), Zorich (57-39-18), Lyght (49-31-18), DuBose(48-32-16), Kowalkowski (45-29-16). McDonald (41-24-17), Grimm (40-24-16), Dahl (35-27-8), Lane (33-20-13), Williams (31-17-14), R. Smith (29-17-12), R. Brooks (28-22-6), Poorman (24-15-9), Carter (19-13-6), E. Jones (16-13-3), S. Smith (12-6-6), Young (8-4-4), Ratigan (7-4-3), Covington (6-5-1), Peterson (6-4-2), Flanigan (6-3-3), N. Smith (5-3-2), Simien(5-3-2), Bettis (3-3-0), Bruant (2-1-1), Sadler(l-O-1), Griggs (1-0-1)
Fumbles Recovered/Caused: Stonebreaker (1-3), Davis (1-1), A. Jones (0-1),Zorich (1-2), Kowalkowski (3-1), McDonald (2-0), Lane (0-1), Williams (1-0), E. Jones (0-1).
Passes IntJBroken Up: Stonebreaker (2-1), Davis (1-4), A. Jones (0-2), Zorich (0-1), Lyght (2-3), DuBose (0-4), Kowalkowski (0-1), Grimm (2-2), Dahl (0-2), Lane (0-1), R. Smith (1-1), R. Brooks (1-1), Poorman (0-1), E. Jones (0-1).
Sacks: Stonebreaker (3/-26), Davis (1/-11), Zorich (4/ -26), DuBose (1/-8), Kowalkowski (3/-25), McDonald (1/-26), Dahl (2/-15), Williams (1/-7), E. Jones (1/-6), Simien (2/-13).
1990 FOOTBALL REVIEW
51
and Awards
1S90 Net re Dame Feet bail
Raghib Ismail, junior flanker
Walter Camp Foundation Player of the Year The Sporting News Player of the Year Associated Press, Walter Camp Foundation, Football Writers Association of America, American Football Coaches Association (Kodak), Football News All-America (all first team)
Heisman Trophy finalist (finished second)
Notre Dame Monogram Club team MVP (by vote of players) Football News College Player of the Week vs. Miami (268 allpurpose yards, including 94-yard kickoff return for TD) VISA/ESPN Player of the Game vs. Pittsburgh (214 all-purpose yards)
Todd Lyght, senior cornerback
Walter Camp Foundation, American Football Coaches Association All-America(first team) Associated Press, Football News AllAmerica (second team)
Jim Thorpe Award semifinalist (one of 15) Invited to play in Hula Bowl and Japan Bowl all-star games

Chris Zorich, senior defensive tackle
Lombardi Award winner
CBS sports defensive Player of the Year Associated Press, Walter Camp Foundation, Football Writers Association of America, American Football Coaches Association (Kodak), Football News All-America (all first team)
Outland Trophy semifinalist (one of 11)
Athlon defensive player of the year
Notre Dame Lineman of the Year by Moose Krause Chapter of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame
Nick Pietrosante Award (by vote of teammates to player who best exemplifies the characteristics of the late Irish All-America fullback)
Federal Express Orange Bowl MVP
Invited to play in Hula Bowl and Japan Bowl all-star games
Michael Stonebreaker, senior inside linebacker
Associated Press, Walter Camp Foundation, Football Writers Association of America, American Football Coaches Association (Kodak), All-America (all first team) Football News All-America (second team) Butkus Award finalist (finished third) Invited to play in Hula Bowl and Japan Bowl
all-star games
Mike Heidt, senior center
Football News All-America (first team) Associated Press All-America (third team) Invited to play in Hula Bowl all-star game
Rick Mirer, sophomore quarterback Football News All-America (honorable mention)
CBS Sports/Chevrolet MVP vs. Michigan (14 of 23 for 165,1 TD)
ABC Sports/Chevrolet MVP vs. Michigan State (14 of 21 for 155)
CBS Sports Toyota Leadership Award vs. Michigan
ESPN Student of the Week vs. Penn State
Craig Hentrich, sophomore kicker/punter Football News All-America (honorable mention)
CBS Sports/Chevrolet MVP vs. Miami (Notre Dame record five field goals in six attempts)
ABC Sports/Chevrolet MVP vs. USC (49.7 punting average)
52
SCHOLASTIC
Ricky Watters, senior tailback
Football News All-America (honorable mention)
CBS Sports/Chevrolet MVP vs. Tennessee (career-high 174 rushing yards, 2 TDs) Invited to play in Senior Bowl
Rod Smith, junior cornerback Athlon Defensive Player of the Week vs. Tennessee
Rodney Culver, junior fullback
Football News All-America (honorable mention)
CBS Sports Toyota Leadership Award vs.
Miami
Derek Brown, junior tight end
Football News All-America (honorable mention)
Ryan Mihalko, senior fullback
ESPN Student of the Week vs. Pittsburgh CBS Sports Toyota Leadership Award vs. Tennessee
Notre Dame Club of St Joseph Valley Student-Athlete Award
Bob Dahl, senior defensive tackle
Football News All-America (honorable mention)
Lindsay Knapp, junior offensive tackle Mutual Broadcasting/State Farm Student-Athlete of the Year
Scott Kowalkowski, senior outside linebacker
Football News All-America (honorable mention)
Invited to play in Senior Bowl
FOOTBALL REVIEW
53
The 1990 Scholastic

Greg Thomas Defensive Back/Colorado
Tripp Welborne Defensive Back/Michigan
Kanavis McGhee Linebacker/Colorado
Brian Greenfield
Punter/Pittsburgh
Mark D'Onofrio Linebacker/Penn State
Lou Benfatti
Defensive Line/Penn State
Ed McCaffrey Wide Receiver/Stanford
Greg Skrepenak Tackle/Michigan
Joe Garten
Guard/Colorado
Carlos Huerta
Kicker/Miami
54
SCHOLASTIC
All-Opponent Team
Russell Maryland
Defensive LineZMiami
Maurice Crum
Linebacker/Miami
Lance Dottin
Defensive Back/Michigan

Louis Riddick
Defensive Back/Pittsburgh
Bob Kuberski
Alfred Williams
Linebacker/Colorado
Jeff Pearson
Center/Michigan State
Guard/Michigan
Tackle/Stanford
Tight End/Stanford
Carl Pickens
Wide Receiver/Tennessee
Craig Erickson
FOOTBALL REVIEW
55
Final Word:
South Bend Tribune’s Bill Bilinski
Reflects on a Tumultuous Season
One can tickle and test fate only so often. Notre Dame’s 1990 football team teased it into submission.
‘There goes Rocket... Heeee’s gone.”
Ismail’s magical “non-punt return,” clipped by an official’s flag in the final minute of the Orange Bowl against Colorado provided the ultimate bellydrop for a club that had felt more than a few.
But while Lou Holtz’s fifth Irish team
was losing by a point to Colorado and closing the book on a wild 9-3 campaign, there must have been considerable joy in the state of Michigan. To the great delight of many Wolverines and Spartans, justice had arrived. Recall the season opener when the University of Michigan had momentum yanked from it’s grasp with an unlikely turn of events. When quarterback Rick Mirer’s tipped pass wound up in the arms of wide receiver Lake Dawson for a 45-yard gain, the tide turned. It started the ball rolling for the renewed Irish, who fought their way back from a 10-point fourth quarter deficit for a 28-24 triumph.
A week later in East Lansing, MI, the Irish were down 12 heading into the fourth quarter. This time a pass that deflected off the pads of a Michigan State defensive back landed in the hands of Adrian Jarrell to set up a short touchdown run with 34 seconds to go in a one-point win.
Two games, two breath-taking victories, and still no evidence of what the season might hold. By then, all theories had to be deposited in the nearest trash can.
What was seen in the preseason was hardly what anyone got Up until the start of the season, it had followed the usual script— defense great, offense bad, offense gets better, season opener arrives. That’s about the way it looks every preseason. Then the script becomes pure ad-lib from there.
Michigan ran the ball all over the Irish. No one runs on the Irish. And, few did after that, with the exception of that perennial
powerhouse, Navy.
When things got boring, there was always the ever-present sideshow to liven things up.
It started on the pages of Sports Illustrated before the season began with the accusations of a bitter former part-time player, Steve Huffman. The steady flow never really ended. It continued with rumors of Holtz’s sup
posed departure for the National Football League and his involvement in the NCAA investigation during his tenure at the University of Minnesota.
It is difficult to know how much damage the collection of issues created. Maybe a little. Maybe a lot But Holtz’s attention certainly was diverted. It made him wonder how good things could have been without the distractions. But the team handled failures well. It’s hard to imagine his club being any better prepared—except maybe to handle it’s successes.
Twice the Irish climbed to the No. 1 ranking in the country. And, twice they waved it goodbye, once because of a sloppy defensive performance, and a second time because of a terrible second half offensive display.
But if they finished unsatisfied because of the 36-31 loss to Stanford, or the 24-21 defeat to Penn State after holding sizeable leads in each, the 29-20 victory over Miami was supposed to make everyone’s season. That’s the only game any Irish fan really cared about anyway, wasn’t it? The chapter was closed on that bloody rivalry and Notre Dame got in the last word. But beating the Hurricanes, ultimately, only made the Irish fans feel that they were in store for more of the same.
If not for these expectations, they could have relished the encounters. These Irish took you to the edge and the view was generally spectacular. There was Ismail’s kickoff return for a touchdown against
Miami, and the Rocket’s dazzling 44-yard touchdown run in the final quarter against Tennessee. There was also Rod Smith’s end zone interception in Knoxville where Ricky Watters had his grandest day with 170-plus rushing yards.	.
There was a dominating defensive performance at Southern Cal where nose tackle Chris Zorich made stops on three consecutive plays while playing on one good leg. There was Zorich again at the Orange Bowl, playing one of the great games of his career only a few hours before his mother, Zora, passed away. There was Michael Stonebreaker’s interception in the end zone of an Elvis Grbac pass that helped pave the way for the victory over Michigan.
Lou Holtz doesn’t ask for my advice, and it’s just as well. But if he’s got any game balls available, I suggest he pass it on to strong safety Greg Davis for standing up so well to tough questions when he must have been hurting so much after his clip brought back Ismail’s punt return in the Orange Bowl. If Holtz is out of game balls, he might retrieve one from Watters, who lashed out rather selfishly and completely unnecessarily over his role in the offense. In the end, there may have been too much of that attitude sprinkled in the ranks to survive the long and difficult grind.
All things considered though, a 9-3 finish might be worth celebrating.
And even if you can’t appreciate the destination, you have to admit, it was one heck of a ride.	‘ □
> 56
SCHOLASTIC
Have you been complaining about student publications? Stop complaining and do something to make them better:
Join Scholastic, Notre Dame’s Student Magazine!
Applications are now being accepted for the paid position of:
Scholastic
Editor In Chief
Applications may be picked up at the Scholastic office: 303 LaFortune Student Center.
Applications for Editor In Chief are due Friday, February 15 by 5:00 p.m.
Applications are also being accepted for all of the following paid positions: Managing Editor News Editor Sports Editor Campus Life Editor Entertainment Editor Photography Editor Copy Editor Layout Manager Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Advertising Manager Business Manager
No experience is necessary. All majors and years are encouraged to apply. Even if you have applied in the past, we encourage you to apply again. Gain writing experience and see your words in print! The deadline for these applications is
Friday, February 22 at 5:00 p.m.
Scholastic is always seeking more writers and photographers. Questions? Call 239-7569
s
B
EIGHTH ANNUAL
FEBRUARY 1st
FEBRUARY 2nd
FOOTBALL tournaflfnt FEBRUARY 2nd & 3rd
SEE INOIUIOURL POSTERS FOR DETAILS!