New filter cigarette!
WINSTON
brings flavor back to filter smoking!
FINER FILTER!
Winston tastes good—like a cigarette should!
FINER FLAVOR!
KING SIZE, TOO!
■ Winston is the new, easy-drawing filter cigarette real smokers can enjoy! Winston brings you real flavor — full, rich, tobacco flavor. Along with finer flavor, you get Winston’s finer filter . . . it’s different, it’s unique, it works so effectively! Winstons are king-size, too, for extra filtering action. Try a pack of good-tasting Winstons!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.» WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
WINSTON
... the easy-drawing filter cigarette!
Scholastic
The ARROW points to
Vol. 96 NOVEMBER 19, 1954 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized -Tune 23, 1918.
* Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART JOHN ADAMS  .....................News
ROBERT KAUFMAN ....Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ............   Copy
Charles McKendrick .....................
---------------------- Assistant Copy DAVE COHEN ----------   Features
KEN WOODWARD ..Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER   ............Circulation
PETER STURTEVANT .........Photo Editor PAUL FITZGERALD .......................
........... Photography Coordinator JOHN P. DEFANT ______Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., '^20 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
Don’t be a somber hombre .. •
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, John Boyle, Joe Connolly, John Cusack. George Dailey, Frank Dasek. Buck Harriss. Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough. Ed Joyce, David Kubal, Janies Lenox. Jim LoefUer. James McDonald. James Murphy, Arthur Price. Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust. Glenn Sheldon. Paul Underkofler. Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, and Ronald Weirs. SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Dave Davin. Bob /Early, Kit Eckl. Gary Gates. John Glavin, Jim Koethals. Jack Gueguen, Jack Kirby, Ray Lescher, goe Madigan. Bob McDonald. John Mullin, Joe 'Norton, Bob Parnell, Bob Ruhl, and Mack Stewart.
PHOTOS—Pictures taken by staff photographers appear on the following pages:
JIM GULDE—pages 18, 19, 22, 23, 25, 27.
JOHN O’BRIEN—pages 14 and 28
£ MIKE THOMPSON—pages 10, 9 16, 17, 19.
The best way we know for a bright change-of-pace is a colorful Arrow sport shirt. They’re brilliant in solid colors, keen in plaids; certain to drive your study cares away.
Arrow sport shirts give any wardrobe a shot in the arm for color and style. They’re outstanding in comfort and fit too . . . what’s more, these shirts can take a beating like nothing in the laundry. A man can ask no more of a sport shirt. But Arrow gives you more. Priced from S3.95.
Cover:LOOK OUT HAWKEYES! Last year’s 14-14 deadlock dropped the Irish behind “unbeaten-untied” Maryland. Tomorrow the Irish will meet the Hawkeyes: revenge for a remembering host of Irish gridders. Credit Al Balmer at Indiana Engraving Company for the art work.
A/MiOW CASUAL WEAR
SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
^lovember 19, 1954
letters
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
z

New "Silvered-Tip" writes the way you do . . . fine, medium or broad ... without changing points. Refills available in blue, red, i green or black ink. Get a /j Paper-Mate Pen today/ 1/1
•	Bankers approve
•	Ink can’t smear or transfer
•	Can’t leak
Silvered-Tip refills...49t J tMUtS.

Traded
Notre Dame Bookstore
Basement Badin Hall
A Word to the ‘WEEK’
Editor:
Whether or not you [John O’Brien] are correct in your assumption that the motion picture currently showing at the Granada Theatre, A Star Is Born, is not worthwhile entertainment for the men of Notre Dame, is not the criticism this letter purports to bring.
It is quite obvious from your article in the Nov. 12 issue of the Scholastic, that you hold no particular liking for the above mentioned cinema production. However, your feelings on the matter should not permit you to distort the facts in order to add impetus to your own opinions. Your claim that Miss Garland (Mrs. Sidney Luft) sings some 40 songs in the movie is an exaggeration beyond excuse. In reality she performs but nine numbers, three of which are repeats. In addition, your reference to Sidney Luft as the director of the movie is a gross misrepresentation, which would undoubtedly cause you the animosity of one George Cukor, the real director; Sidney Luft being in reality the producer.
If we were to adjudge your opinions in the same light of acceptability as your facts, we would undoubtedly be forced to disregard them. An opinion is no better than the facts upon which it is built. If the facts are weak and easily proven erroneous, what can we say of the opinion?
Albert E. Germain 162 Alumni
On Class Cuts
Editor:
Re: Article on “Cut System,” Scholastic of Nov. 12.
A college education is the personal responsibility of the individual being educated. The fact that the general experience of American educators has demonstrated that college students have not been able nor willing to take on this responsibility proves one thing; namely, those students should not be students. However, to alleviate this condition most universities and colleges have installed compulsory class attendance which cannot possibly solve the problem since it bears no relation to responsibility.
Notre Dame’s experiment, regarding the Dean’s Honor List which is composed of those students judged to assume personal responsibility because they are able to maintain a general average of 88 per cent or better, is unfair. Assuming that an 88 per cent
(Continued on page 24)
J EWELERS
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
r-	re mt a
ROYAL TYPEWR/TER
■K. FROM ROYAL
EKEE
deuveh
tUVKE
to student
Late models. Adjusted for new machine per-
Royal Typewriter Co. 309 E. Jefferson South Bend Phone No. 2-3336
(ormance Immediate • FfC< UF AW delivery. Special rates
Notre Dame Men make
Sooth Bend Floral
Your CORSAGE
for all the big dances
III So. Michigan
Out of town floral service
1

The Scholastic \
the week
by Jim O'Shea
complained. More
petent engineer might have suggested । that any loud noise would bring the i stately edifice tumbling to the ground.
At any rate, future student noises in the building are definitely taboo, and I’m wondering whether or not this is i good.
' In the first place, the usual audience at a Washington Hall movie is composed of a majority of freshmen who have
jised up their midnights, and a minority of upper-classmen who (a) have been stood up by their St. Mary’s dates, or (b) are too broke to go down and have a beer. All three of these groups, I
think, are in the throes of frustration. | Making weird, ugly noises at Washing, ton Hall seems to be an outlet for this frustration. Since I very seldom attend campus movies, these noises don’t bothei-•me a bit. I suggest that other persons ^vho object to noise refrain from attend-l4 png the movies, too, and leave the old i hall as a lone fortress for the relief of ! /‘freshman frustration.”
] ' The above remarks were not made |out of any love for the wailing chil-
I Jdren of Washington Hall. It’s just ' ; that, if the movies are discontinued, the whole, moaning horde of them will be released on the city of South Bend. And the city of South Bend (which is un-Jloubtedly in worse shape than Wash-
ngton Hall) just couldn’t take that.
In Reply
To the several students who wrote in after seeing my picture at the head of my last column. . . . No. I do not have any Ubangi blood.
. The Feminine Philosopher
I I have always maintained that men $ are unquestionably deeper thinkers than women. I am not alone in this belief | —every guy I know agrees with me.
Girls, it seems, do not have the in-
November 19, 1954
Top of the WEEK
You could hear- a pin drop in Washington Hall last Saturday . . .
Hall of Infamy
Which brings me, it seems, to the subject of—ahem!—movies on campus. Reliable sources, I’m told, indicate that if any further disturbances of the peace occur in tottering old Washington Hall, the usual Saturday night movies will be discontinued. The reasons for this inferred ultimatum were not made clear. Perhaps an irate faculty member missed a funny Rank comedy, and _____________________________________
probably, a com-
tellectual depth that men have, and are thus hampered whenever philosophical thought is required of them.
I am happy to announce that this theory of mine has been proven in practice. I refer- to a report given to me this WEEK by my trans-Dixie correspondent. It seems that a goodly group of SMC girls were gathered together in an epistemology class, when the teacher
asked a question from the front of the room:
“Now girls, can any of you tell me just what epistemology means?”
There was a dead silence, while the
class waited for an “intuitive” answer to the question.
“Come, come, girls, think!”
They—uh—thought. Finally, a confident voice rose from the back of the room.
“I know Sister—it’s the study of the Epistles.”
(Uh-huh, and I suppose botany is the study of bottles, eh?)
I'll Never Tell
Several readers have asked me to give out with the name of the restaurant which I so mercilessly japped in my last column. I regret that I am still forbidden to do this. Besides, it wouldn’t be in accordance with the best principles of “brotherly love.” (Honest Mr. Censor, that’s not a hint!)
Love at a Mixer
Had occasion to wander over to a mixer at the Student Center the other day, and I noticed that there are several couples at these little gatherings who simply don’t mix. This set me wondering as to how two people go about expressing their undying love for each other at an affair of this sort. . . .
Here’s how it goes, men. A “mixergirl” is really interested in you the
moment she begins to pick lint off your lapel. This is the high sign. As soon as you see that there’s no lint on you, you can be sure that you need “mix” no further. . . . Then, to show that you too are interested, you must ask the young lady to have a Coke. If she accepts, your romance has begun.
As love progresses at future mixers, the platonic romance develops further. After the preliminary lint-dusting and coke-guzzling, the two of you dare not dance, for feai- of being cut in on. Therefore, you must find something else to do with your time. To solve the problem, you simply walk to the nearest window, and look out. Anyone who sees you staring into empty space at a window is thereby notified that it would be folly to come between you—and if you’re standing at a window and holding hands, too—oh, brother! you’re hooked for good! The only thing left for you then is the dark room, where you can watch TV. This, I’m told, is as far as one can possibly go, in Student Center mixing. After this last step, it is permissable to ask for a date.
Flub of the WEEK
The Student Center Manager (who is one “hard guy”) trapped a St. Mary’s girl smoking on the second floor of his establishment last WEEK. In her frantic effort to hide the cigarette, the young lady burned a two inch hole in her dress.
(The Manager, I’m told, is now referring to the lady as “my old Flame,” but I’m afraid the girl is pretty burned up about the whole thing.)
And Here's a Sub-Flub
. . . The guy who showed up at the A.B. Ball last WEEK in his Air Force uniform. Seems he was a little late___
An Appeal
Would the person who has the chain letter with my name on it please sell it to somebody? Seems as though my wealth hasn’t pyramided, as yet, and if I don’t get my §10,000 pretty soon I won’t be able to pay my roommate the money I borrowed from him to pay for the chain letter in the first place. You might know that two days after I pay out my money, some doggoned Postmaster General would step in and squelch the whole thing. If my quest for wealth flops because of his outburst, I fear I’ll have to vote democratic in ’56. (so there!)
Jab of the WEEK
A good, healthy swing at the guy who keeps asking Don Gels to play a polka at the Saturday night - dances. I don’t know the character, but I suspect he’s the same guy who goes around wearing a black shirt and a pink tie. Gad!
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . boring, wasn’t it?
5
cslendat
1-2 Price
Christmas Special
EBTK BMH ■ WK
by ARTHUR J. HOPE, C.S.C.
Regularly $4.00
NOW ONLY $2—
A complete and popularly written biography of one of the nation’s best known and best loved universities, Notre Dame 100 Years is filled with anecdotes and interesting stories of Notre Dame’s great figures.
A handsome gift that will be cherished by relatives and friends —and it makes a bargain addition to your own library.
25 4 extra for mail orders
Special half price in effect until Christmas only
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame. Indiana
NOVEMBER 19
NEW YORK CENTRAL STATION (3:20 p.m.)— Two and a half days of merrymaking, noisemaking, football, dances, parties and general festivity will begin as the annual Senior Trip sets sail for Iowa City—a 175 man salute to college life!
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30 and 8:30 p.m.)—Detective Story, which got off to a fast start Wednesday, continues its campus run tonight and tomorrow night. Another hit for the University Theatre.
ACROSS THE DIXIE (8:30 to 11:30 p.m.)— The Women of the Western World entertain at their Annual Charity Ball. Dancing in both Ballrooms to the music of Don Gels.
COLFAX (through Nov. 25)—Alan Ladd, Audrey Dalton, and Drum Beat —a king size Western; only the color is different. Ladd is an Injun’ fighter turned peace commissioner who waits (on orders from higher up) until half his supporting cast is massacred before he cleans up the belligerents. Bring your bow and arrow to this one.
GRANADA—Crosby and Kaye score high in White Christmas as a couple of war-time buddies making their way back in the post war world. It’s two hours of song, dance and slapstick in VistaVision that might very well be unequalled. Guaranteed to put you in the Christmas spirit.
NOVEMBER 20
IOWA CITY, IA. (1:30 CST)—A revenge killer in four acts! The Fighting Irish will try to pick up the prestige lost in last year’s 14-14 tie as Guglielmi and Company tackle the Hawkeyes from the University of Iowa.
DRILL HALL (1:30)—Large screen telecast of the game via closed circuit for the stay-at-homes—at least those with tickets.
NOVEMBER 21
RIVER PARK (through Nov. 23)—Garden of Evil starring Gary Cooper, Susan Hayward, and Richard Widmark. Worth seeing over again.
NOVEMBER 22
PALACE—Ralph Marterie, the Crew Cuts, and Lola Dee come to town for a gala stage show. Four performances are set: 2:25, 4:45, 7:05 and 9:25 p.m. On the screen will be Dragon’s Gold.
NOVEMBER 23
PALACE—Blymie’, two flickers from across. Mr. Potts Goes to Moscow and Yellow Balloon—both good British films.
NOVEMBER 24
RIVER PARK (through Nov. 27)—Calamity Jane with Doris Day and Howard Keel.
AVON (through Dec. 3)—The Barefoot Contessa. Humphrey Bogart and Ava Gardner handle this manners and morals film in a definitely adult fashion. It’s all about a night club entertainer who is made over night into a successful movie star by an alcoholic director and her subsequent fight for satisfaction from life. A good study for budding psychologists.
NOVEMBER 25
PALACE—Track of The Cat starring terrible Rob Mitchum and Teresa Wright. Another job where everybody’s emotions get in an uproar and Hollywood makes it sound like news. Flip a coin on this one.
NOVEMBER 26
STUDENT CENTER (9 p.m.)—Buddy Morrow, his orchestra and some 425 Commerce men will spend an “Evening at Monte Carlo”—the final social fling of the Fall “season,” the Commerce Ball.
COLFAX—This was moved back a week since our last review. The Last Time I Saw Paris starring Van Johnson and Liz Taylor is a must. Van returns to Paris to regain custody of his daughter after the war and gets wrapped up in reminiscing about his first meeting with Liz there, their fast and furious courtship and marriage and her subsequent tragic death. One Of the most moving stories that’s been around for some time.
6
The Scholastic
Editor's Page
We’ll See It, Too!
Senior Trip starts today. Almost 200 seniors will watch the Irish-Hawkeye game tomorrow at Iowa City. But we’ll see it too. On large-screen movie television in the Drill Hall. After last year’s thriller that ended in a tie, it’s the big game of the season. A full house will probably watch the Irish pull all stops trying to win it. At least, we hope you’ll all be there—minus the “Irish confetti” that appeared above the freshman section last week. (Remember that extra-day at Christmas promise!)
Failing Frosh: Talk to Your Profs
Today’s the day. Most of the troops will breathe a sigh of relief. But a not-too-small number will see pink. Today the deficiency reports—the famous “pinkies”—come out. We hope there aren’t as many as last fall.
It’s been said that the greatest number of pink slips in the University’s history were handed out then. Many of these to freshmen. A lot of the recipients couldn’t make it up and failed courses. Again, many were freshmen.
Recognizing the difficulty some freshmen have in adjusting to university life, a program was set up to help them. In September the most complete orientation program yet was presented. During it a new service to freshmen was explained. Its aim: to help new students having academic difficulties. It’s being run by Dr. William Burke, former professor of English, now assistant to the Vice-President in charge of Academic Affairs, in the capacity of Student Advisor.
In the explanation of this program, it was stressed that a student having difficulties should consult his professor. This was a major part of the plan. A check was made Oct. 25. It was found that 200 freshmen were failing a total of 317 courses. They were notified and conferred with. This revealed that less than nine per cent having trouble had talked to their profs. Since then, some of these have done so and pulled up to a passing grade.
If you’re having trouble, talk to your professor or Dr. Burke before it’s too late. It’s up to you to make the choice to sink or swim.
Washington Hall Movies: Continued on Condition ...
Last Saturday an important experiment was made. Its purpose: to arrive at a decision to continue or discontinue the Saturday movies in Washington Hall. Happily we can say the experiment was considered a success. University officials considered Washington Hall conditions much improved; they were pleased with student bearing. And moviegoers probably enjoyed and will enjoy the weekly feature more.
Saturday proved the point that conditions could be improved. But it didn’t insure continuance of the movies. Not on the basis of the one day’s results. Reasonably enough, the continuance will depend upon results every Saturday. The University has left it up to the majority who want the movies continued to control the minority who cause unsatisfactory conditions. We expect it will be done.
Washington Hall draws quite a crowd Saturdays. Nuns, Brothers, Priests. On-campus and off-campus students. Students’from Vetville and their wives. Many from these groups go to Washington Hall for the movies, which have been shown there for years. They’re pretty handy for the fellows who can’t take the time to go downtown or can’t afford it; for the fellows who are campused; for the fellows who want to take in an early show before heading downtown. All in all, Washington Hall movies have become quite a standby. We think they’ll stay.
See you at the movies!
7
i-.^November 19, 1954
i'
Who are
INDUSTRY’S
TOP
YOUNG
SCIENTISTS ?
Ten men between the ages of 26 and 40 were featured in a recent national magazine article which presented a portrait of the young scientist in America today. These particular men are a sample of the most brilliant young scientific minds in industry.
It’s interesting to note that three of the ten are with Bell Telephone Laboratories, three with General Electric and one each with four other companies.
The variety of opportunity in research and other phases of telephone work has always attracted an unusually high percentage ot the nation’s best young men.
Consult your Placement Officer about opportunities with Bell Laboratories . . . also with the Bell Telephone Companies, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your Placement Officer will be glad to give you details.
THREE OF THE TEN ARE AT BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES—
Mathematician Claude Shannon won feme for his Communication Theory
Physical Chemist William Baker introduced new concepts that have improved synthetic rubber and fibers
Physicist Herring is known for his understanding of the quantum mechanics of the solid state
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
The Scholastic -
scmiAsm
Volume 96, Number 7
Notre Dame, Indiana
November 19, 1954
'MERCHANTS TO GAMBOL AT ‘MONTE CARLO’
Friday's Ball Ends Fall Social Season
Next Friday night more than 425 Commercemen will be waltzing their JJirls and week-end guests to the musi-P; cal strains of Buddy Morrow and his orchestra at the annual Commerce Ball, the finale of the fall social season on campus. Featured with Morrow will be his lovely vocalist Dorothy Kaye and singer Jerry Mercer.
The LaFortune Student Center will be transformed into the gay motif of the famed French Riviera from 9 until 1 as the merchants whirl with picturesque roulettes in “An Evening at Monte ^Parlo.” Two o’clock permissions will be granted.
* Miss Mary Camblin, sophomore from St. Mary’s College, will reign over her plush red domain as queen and date of Lee Crean, chairman of the affair. Miss Camblin is from Ridgewood, N. J.
In addition to the ball, dancegoers will be treated to a festive-filled weekend of activities. The last home game nep rally will precede the ball Friday /wiight at 7:30. Afterwards is the traditional rush to get ready for the ' dance.
Saturday will be the busiest day with informal co-educational classes in the morning for the benefit of the commercial scholars. The main event of the day will be the Notre Dame-Southern California game in the stadium at 1 o’clock. The evening will be occupied with small parties and the Commerce Ball Victory Dance in the Drill Hall J^ktarting at the usual time, 8:30. Don / Gels and his orchestra will provide the '' rhythms.
Capping the week-end will be Mass at Sacred Heart Church at 8 Sunday morning and a Communion Breakfast following at the Morris Inn. Principal speakers for the breakfast will include Rev. James C. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs; Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, C.S.C., rector of Dillon Hall; and Dr. Robert
Turner, visiting professor from Indiana University, and nationally renowned economic theorist.
Chaperones for the Commerce Ball will be the entire faculty and their wives who have been invited to take part in the College’s number one social
MISS MARY CAMBUN
Countess of ‘Monte Carlo’
event of the year. Guests of honor will be Dean James E. McCarthy and wife, and Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith and his wife.
Other distinguished guests who have been invited to attend are members of the Board of Trustees of the University and their wives.
Chairman for this year’s Ball is Lee Crean, marketing senior from Chicago. Assisting Crean are: Fred Eckart, publicity and promotion chairman; John Dwyer, ticket chairman; John Sennett, orchestra chairman; John Cogan, hotel rooms chairman; Dan Bechamps, refreshments chairman; and Gene Lesmez, business manager.
Sennett is also chairman of the Communion Breakfast.
A few dance tickets will be available
Monday and Tuesday in Room 156 Alumni Hall in the afternoons and evenings.
Car permissions will be extended from noon Friday until noon Saturday and may be obtained from the office of the Prefect of Discipline.
Frosh to Cast Ballots For Officers Tuesday
Elections for Freshmen Class officers, hall presidents, and hall senators will be held next Tuesday, Nov. 23. Polls will be open on the first floor of each of the four freshmen halls from 12 till 1 and from 5 till 7. Off-Campus freshmen will vote in the bus shelter from 11:30 till 1:30 and from 3 till 6.
As in all Senate elections the preferential ballot will be used. This method is designed to give a more decisive result in elections where there are many candidates of equal strength.
The voter marks a “1” in the box before the name of the candidate of his first choice, a “2” before the candidate of his second choice, and so on down the list. “Do not mark more choices than you have even though you can’t fill all the boxes. Why vote for someone you don’t know?” said Jim Broughton, elections chairman, concerning the preferential system.
In counting, the ballots are separated according to first place votes. If one candidate has a majority, the election is over. If not, the ballots of the lowest candidate are distributed according to the second choice marked on the ballot. The ballots are again counted, and if no candidate is yet given a majority, the ballots of the next lowest candidate are distributed as above. This is continued until one candidate has the majority. In this way the voters have stated their preference in candidates.
The Election Committee reports that much interest has been shown by the Class of ’58 despite the mid-term exams.
^November 19, 1954
—..— — — — — „ ——Beat Iowa-Student Advisor Program Led by Dr. Burke Aids Frosh Adjustment, Develops Leaders
That special aid which every pink-slip recipient seeks in an effort to remedy his situation, and that extra “push” which often opens greater academic horizons to students of superior ability are the aims of the new Student Advisor Program, under the direction of Dr. William M. Burke, Ph.D.
In effect for a month and a half now, the program has been progressing steadily toward its twin goals: to assist the marginal student in his adjustment to university life and study; and to insure that the abilities of the honor student will be developed to his capacity.
Indicating the deep concern of the University over the academic welfare of the student, particularly the Freshman, the new program is designed to “foster a closer personal relationship between the individual student and the faculty and administration,” said Dr. Burke.
To bridge the increasing gulf between the student and university personnel, which increases with the rising enrollment, the Advisor Program, in connection with the Blue Circle, has provided Student Counsellors who keep a constant check on the marginal and deficient students, helping them to learn better study habits, and encouraging them to visit their professors, advising, in many cases, use of the tutoring service.
This year’s program is dealing primarily with 900 Arts and Letters and Commerce Freshmen, and with all Arts and Letters and Commerce Sophomores on the probationary level. The outstanding Freshmen, with 90 per- cent averages or better, meet each week with their faculty advisors and are encouraged to complement their studies by outside reading.
Before setting up the Student Advisor Program, a committee was selected by Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., to study, through correspondence, advisory programs of 150 colleges and universities throughout the country. This study began in 1953, and last summer Dr. Burke visited a number of university deans. The resulting program was initiated this fall.
Although the Freshman student is the primary concern, Dr. Burke urged that any student in academic difficulty would be more than welcome to come to
his office for counselling. As it is now, from 30 to 50 students visit his office daily. “We do not want to lose the student if it is at all possible to save him. We want to see all the students take part in the proper Notre Dame family spirit, and we hope to achieve this by a more personal contact with them.”
DR. BURKE . . . Closer Student Relations
Dublin Professor to Deliver Talk on Augustine, Newman
Prof. John J. O’Meara, M.A., D. Phil, (Oxon.), professor of Latin at University College, Dublin, will deliver a lecture on “Augustine and Newman” next Monday at 8 p. m. in the Law Auditorium.
Through Dr. O’Meara’s lecture the Department of Philosophy hopes to pay homage to the memory of the illustrious philosopher-saint, Augustine.
Nov. 13 marked the 1600th anniversary of the birth of the influential philosopher, theologian, doctor and father of the Church. While at the University of Carthage the young Augustine was overcome by the temptations and sophistication of pagan culture. Subsequently, he became a famous lecturer in Carthage, Rome, and Milan. It was at Milan that he was converted by St. Ambrose, whom he later succeeded as Bishop.
Fred Snite, '33 Grad, 1 Dies in Iron Lung
Frederick B. Snite, Jr., widely-known iron lung patient and alumnus of Notre Dame, died Nov. 12 in West Palm Beach, Fla. Death was attributed to a heart attack.
A member of the class of 1933, Snite was the first widely publicized iroiu lung patient. His cheerful and coui^' ageous acceptance of his plight served ■ as an inspiration to polio victims throughout the world.
Snite’s special trailer in which he traveled over the nation was a familiar sight at the north ramp of Notre Dame Stadium at home games.
Snite had lived in his large metal cylinder for 18 years since he was stricken with polio in Peiping, China on a world tour in 1936.	®
He married the former Teresa Larkin of Dayton, Ohio, in 1939. They have three children.
A deeply religious person, Mr. Snite told fellow victims to “trust completely in God.” He hoped to be able to pass on to others the secret of “his peace of mind.”	(
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, commented on Snite’s death, “All Notre Dame men who knew Fred Snite will be sadfF* dened to learn of his death. Courageously and cheerfully he accepted the cross that God gave him to carry these past 18 years. His life will surely be an inspiration to all who are faced with adversity. We commend Fred Snite, one of Notre Dame’s most loyal and exemplary sons, to Our Lady whose school he returned to so many times.”
Funeral services were held in his home town of River Forest, Ill. Q
Chicago Clubbers Schedule Annual Thanksgiving Dance
Plans for the Chicago Club’s annual Thanksgiving Dance have been an- 1 nounced by President Frank Lolli. This year’s festivities will be held in the Grand Ballroom of the Sherman Hotel, from 9:30 Wednesday. Fletcher Butler and his orchestra will provide tunes fo^. the dance-goers.
Blind dates with Rosary and Mundelein College girls, have been obtained. Anyone interested may make arrangements at Rooms 213 and 416 Walsh.
The dance is informal and open to all. Tickets may be secured from hall representatives for $4.50. They will be $5.00 at the door, however.	,
Go Irish
10
The Scholastic^' |
Break the Tie	■ >
WNDU Anticipates Increased Reception
WNDU will soon have an increased > reception area and better quality reception if a proposal being considered by the Federal Communications Commission is approved, the station’s technical engineering department has an-f^iounced.
h. The proposal concerns restricted radi-'ty ation devices, a classification that in-t eludes WNDU’s transmission system.
( WNDU is a carrier-current station, ; its listening audience limited by the FCC to the immediate Notre DameSaint Mary’s campuses. WNDU is con-j nected with each of the residence halls by a system of lines in the University’s steam-supply tunnels, which carry -^WNDU’s frequency to a tuner in each । ' hall. Here the signal is amplified so ' that it may be picked up easily through-■! out the hall.
j If the new system is approved by ! the Commission, WNDU would be permitted to use the University’s power distribution system for its transmission. This would enable the station to transmit its programs not only to the residence halls but to all buildings supplied by University power.
. Although the system as it is now ^operated is satisfactory for most pur-P poses, it requires a great deal of main-। tenance if the halls are to receive qual-। ity transmission.
I Another advancement has been announced by WNDU’s sales department. This department provides the station with its sole source of revenue by selling advertising space on the air.
Although last year was a record sales , ^year in the station’s eight-year history, p^sales were up 20 per cent in the first | two months of this year.
't	.	_____
Jl	~ w
! Florentine Primitive Painting Given to University Galleries
A Florentine primitive painting, “The Madonna of Humility,” has been given ,	to the University galleries by Lady
j	Marcia Cunliffe-Owen of New York
j ^City, curator Paul Byrne said today.
The painting, a cradled panel set in 7 a Gothic frame, is attributed to Spin' ello Aretino who was bom about 1333 and died in 1410. Some of Spinello’s finest work is in fresco in the Sacristy of San Miniato near Florence.
Another of Spinello’s works, a small ; “Crucifixion,” was given to the Notre ‘ Dame galleries several years ago.
THE TYROLIERS
From Kitzbuhel to ND—Polkas Alpine Style
Concert and Lecture Brings Tyroliers, Alpine
Dance Group, to Washington Hall on Nov. 29
The Tyroliers, a company of Austrian players and dancers, will appear at Washington Hall at 8:15 p. m. on Nov. 29, sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series.
Under the leadership of Toni Prax-mair, this group of ten men and four women from the village of Kitzbuhel in the Austrian Tyrol have been touring the United States and performing concerts of their native songs, dances and instrumental music.
The Tyroliers got their start in Mr. Praxmair’s Kitzbuhel tavern, where they sang, danced and played for the entertainment of tourists to the small Alpine resort. There they were spotted by the Duke of Windsor and others, and finally by Royal H. Little, head of the Textron Co., who decided that they should make a tour in America.
Dressed in the authentic, colorful costumes of their homeland, the Tyroliers re-enact the 2,000 year old legends of their area. Accompanied by theii- native instruments, they swing into a lively stilt dance, symbolic of the ways their forefathers used stilts to maneuver in the meadows during the spring floods.
Other dances they will do include
an athletic dance called the Prax Plat-tier, a thigh and knee-slapping contest staged for the benefit of the village maidens, a quaint cowbell symphony and an exhibition of acrobatic dancing.
The program also has dramatic and comic features that comprise a complete variety show in the American tradition.
The stage is merely a sideline or avocation for this company of players. They all had other jobs before they began entertaining and they have not abandoned these occupations. Due to this there stay in this country is limited. They must be back in Austria by December for the Tyrolean Christmas season.
Tickets will be on sale in the Dining Hall Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov. 22, 23 and 24, from 5 to T p. m. They will also be sold on the day of the concert at Washington Hall from 9 a. m. to noon, from 3 to 5 p. m. and from 6:30 to 8:15 p. m.
Ticket prices will be $1.00 for the general public. There will be special prices of $.75 for the faculty and $.50 for the students. All seats are reserved.
Hammer Hawkeyes
'^November 19, 1954
11
. ■	। . Beat Iowa
Fr. Cavanaugh, Theologian, Author, Rector, Succumbs to Cancer After Lengthy Illness
Funeral services were held last Monday for Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., head of the Department of Religion, who passed away Nov. 11 after an illness of several months.
Celebrant at a Solemn Requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church on campus was Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., was deacon; Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., was subdeacon.
When he was stricken with his illness, Father Cavanaugh was seiwing as the rector of Morrissey Hall. He had previously seiwed as the rector of Lyons Hall for five years.
Authored Apologetics Text
While on the Notre Dame faculty, Father Cavanaugh authored Evidence For Our Faith, an apologetics text widely used in universities throughout the
Hall Addition Announced; Project to Be Started in May
Plans for adding two floors to the north-south wing of Fisher Hall, newest of the University’s 14 student resident buildings, were announced recently by Rev. Edmund J. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University.
Father Joyce said that the new structure will provide living accommodations for an additional 40 students. He said Fisher Hall was originally designed with the idea that third and fourth floors might be constructed at a later date.
The Chicago firm of Holabird, Root, and Burgee are architects for the $100,-000 project. The construction contract has been awarded to Petei- Schumacher and Sons, Mishawaka, Ind. Work will begin at the close of the present school year next May and the new addition will be ready for occupancy in September, 1955.
A gift of the late Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, Detroit, Mich., Fisher Hall was dedicated on Nov. 28, 1952. Mrs. Fisher’s husband, the late Fred J. Fisher, was co-founder and president of the Fisher Body Co.
He was a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees for more than 20 years until his death in 1941.
country, which was published in 1949. He became head of the Department of Religion in 1952 and held the post until his death.
Father Cavanaugh was born in Harpers Ferry, Iowa, on Oct. 4, 1916. There he grew up with his two brothers and four sisters. He joined the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1934.
In 1936 Father Cavanaugh entered the novitiate. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1940 and made his final
FATHER CAVANAUGH A Lasting Inspiration
profession the same year. He was ordained on June 24, 1944 by Very Rev. John Noll, Archbishop-Bishop of Fort Wayne.
Post-graduate work was done by Father Cavanaugh at Laval University, Quebec, Canada, where he received the degree of Doctor of Sacred Theology in 1946.
A Specialist in Patristic Theology
Returning to this campus, Father Cavanaugh joined the Notre Dame faculty in the Department of Religion. He taught courses in apologetics, dogmatic theology, and patrology, since he was a specialist in the development of theology in the Patristic period. He was also a member of the American Theological Society.
Surviving Father Cavanaugh are two brothers and four sisters, including Sister Jean Marie, R.S.M., of Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Annual Advent Talks To Be Held Dec. 4-5
The Second Annual Advent Symposium, sponsored by Notre Dame’s branch of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, will be held here Dec. 4-5. Since Notre Dame is a member of the National Catholic Action Study Commission, one of eleven commissions in the NFCCS, the topi^*!, of the symposium will concern Catholic Action in higher education.	1
The tentative agenda includes registration at the Morris Inn between 11 i a. m. and 2:30 p. m., Saturday, Dec. I 4. At 3 p. m. there will be a lecture ’ delivered by Rev. Albert Foley, S.J., j| of Spring Hill College, on “The Inte- J gration of Catholic Life and Catholic ( Education.” Small group discussions^ ,j will follow the talk after which th^»* delegates are free until 6 p. m.
A banquet will be held in the Morris Inn Saturday evening with Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, speaking on “The Catholic Intellectual.”	I
Sunday’s portion of the program be- । gins with the group attending 8 a. m. । Mass in Dillon Halb Chapel. Richard j Clark, chairman of the Catholic Action | Study Commission, will speak on “The Student’s Responsibility in the Institu^. tional Apostolate” at 9:45. Following a group discussion on the talk the delegates will adjourn until 1:30.
“How Can Colleges Form Students for the Post-Collegiate Apostolate” will ' be the title of the last talk delivered ' by Mr. James V. Cunningham, chairman of the Independent Voters of Illinois. The symposium will be brought to a close at 3 p. m. with a tribute to the Marian Year in Sacred Hear%\ Church.
Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., a member of the Department of Religion, will act ■r as moderator for the symposium.
*	n
Famous Historian Toynbee	.
To Talk Here Monday Night	I
Prof. Arnold Toynbee, noted Eng-	J
lish historian, will speak at the University Monday. The topic of his lec-> ture, to be given in the Drill Hall a^ 8 p. m., will be “World History and World Peace.”
This will be the second in a series g of such lectures sponsored by the South j Bend-Mishawaka International Rela- 1 tions Council.
All Notre Dame men are invited to attend.
.........	■ Go Irish
The Scholastic 1

— ■ ■ - -	' Break the Tie—
New Internal Revenue Code to Be Reviewed In Winter Issue of Notre Dame Law Journal
An evaluation and explanation of the new Internal Revenue Code of 1954 will highlight the winter edition of the College of Law’s Notre Dame Lawyer to be published Dec. 1. According to -Articles Editor Wilbur L. Pollard, the ■^ivtwo articles on the tax revision will make this periodical one of the first , law reviews in the country to consider the new tax code.
Explaining the existence of a law review, Editor Robert LeMense remarked that the Lawyer serves as a developing ground for students of the Law School in legal research and legal writing and to increase knowledge of the , law. LeMense added that after gradua-.’Wtion students will find that working for the Lawyer is a great aid in obtaining a job.
In the coming edition the two articles on the tax code will be written by experts in the field of taxation. The first article is “Estate Planning and the Internal Revenue Code of 1954” by Merle H. Miller and H. Gene Emery, members of an Indianapolis law firm. Prof. Roger Paul Peters, professor of law at Notre Dame and a former mem-‘ ^ber of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, is the author of the other article, “Taxation of Estate and Trust Income under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.”
Another feature in the Lawyer will 1 be “The Legal Profession, in Ancient ! Republican Rome,” second in a series of articles from Dr. Anton Hermann Chroust’s proposed book History of the Legal Profession. The first chapter by / Doctor Chroust, professor of law at i	Notre Dame, was published in the
1	spring edition and has received wide
; acclaim throughout the country.
Like last year, the rest of the magazine will consist of the sections on . “Notes” and “Recent Decisions” both ! written by Notre Dame law students. . The first column contains notes in which moot legal questions are thor-I	oughly discussed. The latter concerns
I	commentary and discussion of recent
appellate court verdicts.'
I The writing staff of the Lawyer is composed of students from all three years of the Law School. In most cases the “Recent Decisions” and “Notes” are written by second-semester freshmen and juniors. As a senior, a student is chosen‘to an editorial position on the basis of his legal writing ability, his
November 19, 1954
I
"I -5
scholastic rating, and the approval of the faculty.
The lead articles are solicited from prominent men ranging from Supreme Court justices to lawyers and professors of law. The editors then check the articles, a task that takes from five to 40 hours.
The other members of the editorial board of the Larvyer are: John A. Vuono, associate editor; Norman H. McNeil, Robert J. Hepler, and Richard E. Shipman, cases; Harry D. Snyder and Michael Dionise, notes; Allan E. Schmid, book reviews; and John P. Coyne, manager.
i	"	~
NO ISSUE NEXT WEEK
Due to Thanksgiving next Thursday, there will be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC until Dec. 3. The Ave Maria Press has a holiday then, making this necessary. Therefore, we wish you a happy Thanksgiving now.
Employment Service Set Up for Law Men
To aid future Law School graduates in finding employment after graduation, a placement service has been established by the Student Law Association.
Interviews are being lined up for the future lawyers with members of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Justice Department, State and Local Government, and the Judge Advocate General Court, which deals with military law. Gerald Feeney of South Bend, secretary of the Alumni Law Association, has made the employment facilities available.
Reports derived from the preliminary forms given to 63 seniors in the College of Law showed that 31 were going into the service and hoped to get into some aspect of the Judge Advocate General Court, 24 wanted immediate employment following graduation, and 6 were not interested in any placement service from the Student Law Association.
Inquiries have been received by the service concerning applicants who might be interested in clerkships with Federal District Judges, employment in trust departments of banks, trial prac-
-Hammer Hawkeyes—
tice with a Chicago firm, and also work with the District Attorney of Philadelphia.	'
Tom King, chairman of the placement service, is working with the president of the Student Law Association, Bob Maley, in aiding Seniors to line up jobs. The Student Law Association has its office in Room 5 of the Law Building with office hours 9:30-12:30 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and 10:30-12 on Tuesday and Thursday.
Fr. Burghardt to Give Marian Dogma Talks
A series of theological lectures in Mariology will begin next Monday evening, when Rev. Walter Burghardt, S.J., managing editor of Theological Studies, gives a paper entitled, “Theotokos—The Mystery of The Divine Motherhood,” in Washington Hall at 8 p. m.
The lecture will deal with the theological struggle of the fifth century, the outcome of which was a solemn definition that the Blessed Virgin Mary can in a true and proper sense be called Theotokos—Mother of God.
The speaker, Father Burghardt, was born and raised in New York City. After studying under the Jesuits, he entered the Order and was ordained in 1941. He studied patrology for three years at Catholic University under the German scholar, Rev. Johannes Quas-tens. Since 1946 he has been teaching patrology and patristic theology -at Woodstock College, Md., while at the same time managing the Jesuit theological review, Theological Studies.
The aim of this lecture series, according to Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C., chairman of the Marian Year committee, is to give an account of the principal dogmas of the Church relative to the Virgin Mary, interpreting each of them in the light of universal theological principles, and at the same time pointing out their historical significance.
The official definition of each of them by the Church, he said, seems to have corresponded in a remarkable way to the needs of the age in which they were defined, so that their providential character is almost visible.
The series will be continued the following week, with Msgr. George Shea of Darlington, N. J., speaking on “The Assumption,” and will terminate on Dec. 6 with a lecture by Rev. Ferrer Smith, O.P., on “The Immaculate Conception.”
13
Beat Iowa
Jr
r
'Detective Story' a Hit Before Full House; Year's Initial Production Finishes Tomorrow
Next Spring or Early Summer
Detective Story, starring James O’Donoghue and Gayle Baumer made its debut before a capacity crowd Wednesday night at Washington Hall. Presented by the University Theatre, Sidney Kingsley’s Broadway hit will continue its performances tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30.
Under the direction of Rev. Arthur
Harvey, Detective Story around a sadistic detective, thief, and his girl friend.
centers a young All three
scenes of the drama take place in one room—a dingy squad room of a twenty-first precinct police station in New York.
In the hubbub of the police district the case of a young man who stole from his employer is being investigated. Despite the efforts of the youth’s girl and the forgiveness of his employer, the case is turned over to detective McLoud
who at that moment with the prosecution a shady practice.
James O’Donoghue,
is also concerned of a doctor with
plays the role of the hard-working detective, McLoud, who hopes to see justice done by brutally punishing the lawbreakers.
Playing opposite O’Donoghue is Gayle Baumer, a junior at St. Mary’s College and a familiar face to University Theatre-goers.
Supporting Miss Baumer and O’Donoghue is a cast of 32. Ann Wainwright from St. Mary’s and Reginald Bair, a Notre Dame sophomore, play the roles of Susan and Arthur. The humorous part of the shoplifter is assumed by Catherine Caffinan while James Luotto and Joseph Kelly act as the burglars. Hildegarde Vargyas plays the comedy role of Miss Haych.
The technical end of the drama is under the supervision of Mr. Fred Syburg. John Noland serves as stage manager, assisted by Mary Ann Miller. John Harrington handles the stage car-
pentry, while Ambrose Seitz
and
a
freshman from
a Korean veteran Linderhurst, L.I.,
lightingproperty
and Patrick Casey manager.
does acts
the as
Jerome A. Fallon of the Depart- i ment of Speech, and moderator- of radio station WNDU, has announced ! that WNDU-TV will probably begin operation in late spring or early summer. The station will operate on an ultra high frequency and will be affiliated with NBC.
“Equipment is now being purchased 1 for the studios, which will be located in the Veterans’ Recreation Hall,” said Fallon.
Bernard C. Barth was recently appointed vice-president and general manager of the commercial station, which will be partially operated by Notre Dame students. He is a veteran of 18 years in the radio-television field, and comes from WLW and WLW-TV, Cin-^w cinnati. Barth has served as announc- ’ er, writer and producer with various stations.	i
The Michiana Telecasting Corp., which is owned by the University, bought radio station WHOT from the Universal Broadcasting System.

?
LUOTTO BEFORE THE
BULLS
Hoodlums Get the Grill . .
O’DONOGHUE IN ACTION At ... 21st Precinct
14
The Scholastic
Break the Tie-	- —
Notre Dame's Herbarium Moves to Biology Building
Notre Dame’s herbarium, the 18th largest of its kind in the world, will soon be moved from its present site to a new spot in the Biology Building to make room for a new office.
The herbarium is a museum and storeroom of plants. It keeps on file specimens of dried plants to be used t^^by both Notre Dame students and any other person desiring to use the film. At present the herbarium is being used by certain botany classes.
The one-half million specimens contained in the Greene and Nieuwland herbariums will remain intact; but some 30,000 other files will be given away. The Greene section will move to another room in the building while the Nieuwland files are to be placed in the hall.
The Greene herbarium contains over 100,000 rare plants given by the former head of the U. S. National Herbarium to Notre Dame and also a library of several thousand rare books. The Nieuwland section contains about 250,000 specimens and was donated by Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., who was credited with the discovery of synthetic rubber here at the University.
Many of the plants were collected and gathered by Father Nieuwland from the western part of the United States, as were many of the collections of Mr. Greene.
National Science Foundation To Award Grad Fellowships
The National Science Foundation recently announced that competition is now open for graduate and postdoc. toral fellowships in science.
Applications for graduate fellowships must be received in the Fellowship Office of the National Research Council by Jan. 3. Applications for postdoctoral fellowships must be received in the Fellowship Office of the National Research Council by Dec. 20, 1954. These applications are available in the offices of the dean of the Graduate 'School, the deans of the College of Science and of the College of Engineering.
Selection will be based on academic records and recommendations regarding each candidate’s abilities. All applicants will be required to take an examination designed to test scientific aptitude and achievement. This examination will be administered at various centers throughout the United States on Jan. 27.
Patriot of the Year Ballot
Albin W. Barkley..........Democratic Senator from Kentucky
Ezra Taft Benson..........Secretary of Agriculture
Paul Creston -------------Modem Catholic Composer
John Daly  .............—Vice-President of ABC News Dept.
Paul Douglas ............Democratic Senator from Illinois
William O. Douglas.............Justice of the Supreme Court Peter Drucker.............................Economist, Author, Lecturer John Foster Dulles........Secretary of State
Dwight D. Eisenhower.......President of the United States Henry Ford ..............Industrialist
John Ford ................_Top film director
Herbert Hoover.................Former President of the United States Hubert Humphrey............Democratic Senator from Minnesota
Walter Kerr...............Dramatist, Director
Jay Lovestone..............Recognized Communist threat in Unions
Clare Booth Luce..........Ambassador to Italy
Henry Cabot Lodge.........U. S. Ambassador to U.N.
Benjamin Mandel............Research Director of Un-American Act. Com.
Douglas MacArthur.........Former U. S. Army General Alex Medina...............Judge of Federal Circuit Court
John Courtney Murray, S.J...Theologian of Democratic Govt. Nathan Pusey .............President, Harvard University
Matthew Ridgwav...........General, U.S.A., Chief of Staff	-
Walter Reuther............^.President, UAW, CIO	•
George Schuyler...........Negro Editor, Pittsburgh Courier	.
Fulton J. Sheen...........Catholic Bishop, Communist Fighter	’
Adlai Stevenson ............Former	Governor of Illinois
Hany S. Truman ...........'...Former President of United States
Frederick Waltman ........Reporter, Fighter of Communism Earl Warren ...............Chief Justice of Supreme Court
Charles E. Wilson.........Secretaiy of Defense
Frank Lloyd Wright........Eminent Architect
The Senior Class will vote on the “Outstanding Patriot of the Year” next Monday night. A five-place preferential ballot will be distributed by the nightcheck man. The hall' council will collect the ballots at room, check Tuesday night. Off-campus students will receive their voting slips by mail. Jim Ehret is Chairman of the “Patriot of the Year” Committee. Write-in candidates will be accepted.
Hammer Hawkeyes
^ovem^er 19* 1954
RICHARD BEEMAN
JOHN BENDEL
1954-55 Who’s Whot,
Thirty-one Notre Dame seniors and graduate students wiil represent the University in the 1954-55 edition of Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities, it was announced here today. They were selected on the basis of their scholastic record and leadership in extra-curricular activities.
The following were chosen: Richard Beeman — station manager, WNDU, AB Student Advisory Council; John Bendel—chief production engineer, WNDU, president of the Milwaukee Club; Lawrence Brehl—editor of the Scholastic, member of the Concert and Lecture Board; Forst Brown—highest scholastic — average in Class of ’55, secretary-treasurer of Blue Circle; Richard Burke—9 Senior Class president, chairman of the Hall Council System; George Carhart— ? vice-chairman of Blue Circle, chairman of Blue Circle, chairman of the ’54 Elec- ' tions Committee; Walter Clemens—NSA travel director on campus, international affairs chairman for NSA; Joseph Daley—Student Senate president, sports director, WNDU; Charles Doherty—president of the varsity debate team, local president of Tau Kappa Alpha; Frank L. Florian—co-editor of the Technical Review, Engineering Advisory Council; Donald Gels—leader of the official ND Dance Band, vice-president of the ND Marching Band; James Griffin—WNDU business manager, top-ranking NROTC midshipman; James Hesburgh—physical facilities’^ commissioner, president of the Joint ROTC Council; Kamal Hossain—varsity debate team, international observer for NSA; Jerome Hughes—AB senator, class I
LAWRENCE BREHL
RICHARD BURKE
WALTER CLEMENS
GEORGE CARHART
FORST BROWN
JOSEPH DALEY
DON GELS
JAMES HESBURGH I
t
KAMAL HOSSAIN
16
, at Notre Dame i ' U
is
treasurer in sophomore and junior years; Roland Kueber — chairman of the Marriage Institute, student loan administrator; Bernard LaLonde—editor of the Dome, president of the Ford Scholars; Francis Maier—editor of the Juggler, AB Advisory Council; Robert Maley—honor student in the College of Law, president of the Student Law Association; Thomas May— president of the Glee Club, awarded Johnson Foundation Scholarship on basis of outstanding scholarship and extra-curricular achievements; Ronald Mealey—top student in Law School Class, Notre Dame Law Association; Francis Newman—highest average in College of Arts and Letters, president of the Wranglers; John
O’Meara—chairman of Blue Circle, campus insurance agent; John Powers—chairman of Student Leadership Training Program, associate editor of Contact magazine; Joseph Saunders—head cheerleader, NS A regional chairman; Daniel Shannon— co-captain of the varsity football team; James Sherer—class president in junior year, social commissioner; Franklin Tonini—past chairman of the YCS, AB Student Advisory Council; Henry Weisbecker —past mayor of Vetville, associate member of American Institute of Chemists; Donald Yeckel— chairman of the Festival of the Arts, “Back Page” columnist for the Scholastic.
JOSEPH SAUNDERS
DAN SHANNON
JAMES SHERER
DON YECKEL
RON MEALEY
JOHN O’MEARA
JOHN POWERS
ROBERT MALEY
FRANK TONINI
RON KUEBER
AB Ball Climaxes the Festival
Doing the bunny hop? Or the conga?
The LaFortune Student Center was^J host to the annual Arts and Letters Ball from 9 p. m. until 1 a. m. on Friday, Nov. 12. The Ball climaxed the week-long Festival of the Arts and was centered around the theme “Olympia—Home of the Greek Gods.”
Statues of mythical Greek Gods were scattered around the dance floor while the walls were decorated with scenes from ancient Greece. Tunic garbed waiters added to the Grecian atmosphere of the Ball.
Crowning Is Highlight
Hal McIntyre and his orchestra provided music for the 500 AB students and their dates.
Highlight of the evening was the crowning of Miss Virginia Warnke as queen of the Ball. Miss Warnke, the date of Dance Chairman Jim O’Shea, is a junior from Mary Manse College. O’Shea and Jerry Hughes, AB senator, presented her with a rhinestone tiara proclaiming her reign over the dance.
After the ball was over.
IS
Weekend
“One of these days.”
Miss Warnke hails from Toledo, Ohio and is majoring in English at Mary VManse where she also serves as an officer of her class.
Week-end festivities continued on Saturday morning for the AB couples, with a box lunch at 11:30 a. m. in the student lounge of O’Shaughnessy Hall. The boxes, containing one pound of chicken per-person, were distributed under the direction of Lunch Chairman, George Vosmik.
f Saturday: Game and Dance
Immediately following the lunch the ball-goers witnessed Notre Dame’s 4213 triumph over North Carolina in the Stadium. Reserve tickets assured the AB men and their dates of admittance to the game.
Saturday night many AB’ers attend-ded the usual Victory Dance in the Drill Hall and danced beneath the “Carolina Moon” to the music of Don
i November 19, 1954
Gels and his orchestra.
The AB week-end continued on Sunday morning with the Arts and Letters students attending the 9 a. m. Mass in the Sacred Heart Church.
Following the Mass, activities were brought to a close with a 10:30 a. m. Communion breakfast in the Gold Room of the La Salle Hotel. Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., and Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, Dean of the College of Arts
“Did they wear those things?”
and Letters, spoke briefly at the breakfast.
General Chairman for the Ball was Jim O’Shea. Other chairmen were: Frank Lolli, Breakfast Chairman; Bill Byrne, Decorations Chairman; Bert Metzger, Business Manager; Chuck Collins, Blind Dates; and Joe Saunders^ Publicity Chairman. Ed Kelly took charge of arranging accommodations for out-of-town dates.
19
We won! We Won!	Dinin’ before dancin’, please.
Lawyers’ Annual Blast
Switching from courtroom to ballroom, Notre Dame’s future barristers and their dates celebrated the annual Law Ball last Friday at the South Bend Country Club. Success for this traditional dinner-dance was assured by unseasonably warm weather that prevailed throughout the week-end.
The couples arrived at 7:30 for a
A Contented Lawyer Lights Up.
meal featuring trays of assorted sea food. Then, at the stroke of 9, Bob Brown and his spotlighters took the stand to prove the danceability of their “Sophisticated Rhythm.”
For the next four hours, the studentlawyers and their guests listened to “musical testimony” offered by Brown’s melodic arrangements. Their verdict—
hearty approval, particularly for the long rendition of the often-requested September Song.
During a temporary recess, dance-^ goers gathered around the band stand® for the evening’s highlight. The presiding queen, Miss Mary Manion, was crowned with a sequined garland of white carnations by her escort, Andy Walsh, general chairman for the dance.
Later, the dance committee added an element of surprise by giving out a dozen door-prizes. The fortunate winners received ND monogram novelties from the campus Book Store.
On Saturday afternoon, dance-goers® sat in a special section to watch the Fighting Irish conquer North Carolina. No formal activities were scheduled for that evening.
To complete a memorable week-end, the couples attended a private Mass Sunday in Dillon Hall Chapel, followed by breakfast at the Morris Inn. Members of the Glee Club, who had sung the Mass, provided entertainment after breakfast. Rev. Theodore M. Hes-^ burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., each spoke briefly after being introduced by toastmaster Ron Mealey.
The dinner dance arrangement “went over big” with the prospective barristers ’ and their dates again this year.
The Law Ball was the fourth “college” dance of the year. It has been the only one to make use of a dinner-dance set up.
20
The Scholastic)
Direct Telecast from Iowa l ily
•
Tomorrow afternoon 3,000 Notre Dame football fans will squeeze into the Navy Drill Hall to watch the Fighting Irish meet Iowa’s Hawkeyes in the year’s big “grudge battle,” via a direct telecast from the stadium at Iowa City.
The game is being brought to the campus by the H. E. Balaban Corp, of Chicago and is sponsored by the ^Notre Dame Student Senate.
Senate officials announced early last week that tickets will cost one dollar for students and faculty members. The doors open at 12:30 and the large-screen telecast is slated to start at 1:30 CST. '
While 200 senior trippers and other hearty Irish fans are watching ND avenge last year’s “moral victory” for Iowa, the stay-at-homes on campus can comfortably relax and see the plays on wthe 20x15 foot screen in the Drill Hall.
Senate spokesman, Jim Sherer, said, “We want to pack the Drill Hall for this game. It’s an experiment. But an important one. We’ll need a ticket sale of 3,000 to break even.”
Other campus observers are sure that the Senate won’t have to worry about merely breaking even. It’s more . likely that the troops will be lining up ' long before game time in order to get
Q November 19, 1954
seats for what promises to be the year’s roughest game for ND.
All the upperclassmen who watched Iowa’s rugged Hawkeyes in last year’s memorable tie won’t want to miss the telecast. Neither will the frosh who missed the battle that knocked Notre Dame for a loop in the pollster’s hearts and gave Maryland a disputed national championship.
Iowa games have been tough for Notre Dame—ever since the Com State boys dumped the Irish 10-7 in 1921, when the series opened. Since then the score stands 6 wins, three losses and three ties with ND out in front. This
Enough time . . .
is the best record any 1954 Notre Dame foe has over the years.
Seniors saw two great tie battles between the two schools. A 20-20 thriller in 1951 and the 14-14 stymie last year.
This year’s game is a sellout. The Hawkeyes are fighting mad after a loss to Minnesota last week. They have Calvin Jones and Ed Vincent and Binky Breeder who starred last year. But— Notre Dame isn’t forgetting the slaps at our “fainting Irish” and they’re ready for a big battle.
Come on over to the Drill Hall and get in on the fun.
. . . for a rest?
21
Lautrec and friend at Ball.
Would you like to design a portable bar? A postage stamp? A city in Arabia? Or an entire housing project? These are only a few of the numerous and varied problems assigned to the architecture major at Notre Dame.
Many people, when they think of architecture, have images of great rolls of blueprints, skyscrapers and modernistic homes. Actually there is a lot of art in architecture. The student is required to be able to handle anything in the way of design. He is expected to be able to design a piece of silverware as well as a hospital. A good architect will always do the interior decorating himself. The aspiring architect tries his hand at water colors, charcoal sketches and even a little sculpturing. He must present, or “render,” his design in as artistic a manner as possible.
ND One of Top Schools
Notre Dame has one of the top architectural schools in the country. Officially it is part of the Engineering School, but the architects have their own dean, Frank Montana, their own professors and their own building next to the Student Center. These men are skilled architects in their own right. Dean Montana and Assistant Professor Robert Schultz are the architects who designed the new Notre Dame Book Store that is now under construction.
Over 200 men are enrolled in the five year architecture course that is offered. Originally there were two four year courses of architecture, one of design and one of architectural engineering. Recently they were combined into the present five year course.
Another innovation that took place this year is the dividing of the afternoon design classes into six groups. These classes run three or four hours. Each
“What a lot of work!”
The Architects
By CHARLES GREGORY
group contains second, third, fourth, and fifth year men. They average about 25 to a group. In this way it is hoped that the beginners will benefit from the experience and knowledge of the older students while the upperclassmen are in turn aided in their large problems by the others. They are divided into Class A, the fifth year men, Class B, the fourth, and Classes C and D being the third and second year men. Each are given projects according to their experience.
These classes in design are a culmination of all their other classes such as Color, Air Conditioning, Heating and Ventilating, Mechanical Equipment and Concrete and Steel.
Fifth Year Thesis
The student progresses from the simpler assignments, such as a simple sketch, to when in the last semester’ of his fifth year he is expected to design his final thesis. This must be some large problem, for example, a shopping center, a housing project, or a hospital. His entire semester is devoted to the blueprints, layouts and step by step drawings of the problem.
They are judged in the spring and many professional architects are present. Quite a few students have stepped
from college into well-paid jobs on the strength of their final thesis. Of course before he can obtain his license as an architect, in most states he must work three years as a draftsman.
During the school year the students have many opportunities to enter their problems for cash prizes. All schools who are members of the Beaux Arts School of Design are eligible to compete for these prizes. Different comj panies offer these prizes as incentives to the student to interest himself in their type of construction or product.
Here on campus the biggest prize offered to Notre Dame alone is the Ram-busch Prize. Mr. Rambusch, who is a famous architect specializing in church designs, donates a hundred dollars in prizes annually. Every year there is a different problem. One time it will be a baptismal font, or a sacristy, or perhaps some sacred vessels.	|
Many times problems are sent to New York for entrance in national contests. Notre Dame students have distinguished themselves and the school by their fine work and the awards they have received there.
. The biggest individual prize of a thousand dollars is offered annually by the Indiana Home Show. But this contest is open not only to college students
22
The Scholastic
Visitors in ‘A’ Building
but also to professional architects. Last year it was won by a Notre Dame student, Jaime Saenz.
The school of architecture is one of the lesser known among the student body because of the time that must be devoted to these projects, to say nothing of the 34 hours the average architect major carries. How many architects do a you know well? Not too many? They wseem to be a clannish group, though not necessarily by choice. Many long hours are spent over a drawing hoard in the Architecture Building trying to finish a problem before that ominous deadline.
In the building itself is a fine library of over 7700 books, periodicals, and pamphlets in the competent care of Miss
A cozy bunch of ‘masqueraders.’
the higher the budding
They’re artists too!
Also the library contains slides for visual educa-
Ida Bonicelli. around 12,200 ^tion lectures.
So actually
architect progresses, the more time he has to spend in the building and only the required courses are taught elsewhere. Thus they become an extremely closely-knitted group through no fault of their own.
They are certainly not inactive as a group around campus though. Many of the decorations for the big class proms and other dances are done by the men of the architecture school, another example of the art in architecture.
The architects hold their own dance every spring, the Masquerade Ball sponsored by the Architecture Club whose current president is Lee Brockway.
Every month there is usually a display in the display room of the Architecture Building. Sometime in a spare moment, drop in and see their work.

“Hmm . . . not bad at all.
0 November 19, 1954
Enjoy yourself...
refresh with Cehe
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OR THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca Cola Bottling Co. of South Bend
Coca-Cola Presents This Week's
Football Forecasts by Joe Harris
Arkansas U., 13; Louisiana State (J., 7
California U., 20; Stanford U-, 14
Colorado U., 27; Kansas State, 7
Dayton U-, 20; Xavier U. (Ohio), 13
Duke LL, 20; South Carolina U., 7
Holy Cross, 27; Connecticut U-, 7
Illinois U., 20; Northwestern U-, 7
Kentucky U., 20; Tennessee U., 13
Maryland LL, 27; George Washington LL, 7
Michigan State, 27; Marquette U., 7
Missouri U., 27; Kansas U., 7
North Carolina LL, 14; Virginia, 7
Notre Dame U., 20; Iowa U., 7
Ohio State U., 27; Michigan LL, 7
Oklahoma U., 34; Nebraska U., 7
Pittsburgh U., 14; Penn State LL, 7
Purdue U., 34; Indiana U., 7
Rice, 27; Texas Christian U., 14
So. Methodist U., 20; Baylor U., 14
Texas Tech, 27; Houston U., 14
U.C.L.A., 14; So. California U., 7
West Virginia U., 27; North Carolina State, 7
Wichita U., 20; Detroit U., 7
Wisconsin U., 20; Minnesota U., 7
Yale U., 20; Harvard U., 7
Studios Air-Conditioned
YOU CAN GO DANCING SATURDAY NIGHT...
IF YOU COME IN TODAY TO ARTHUR MURRAY'S. LEARN THIS ONE MASTER STEP AND ALL DANCES
ARE EASY.
Over a million people have found new popularity and confidence thanks to Arthur Murray and his Magic Step method of teaching dancing. Why not visit Arthur Murray’s today and see for yourself how quickly you can become an assured dancer. A half-hour trial lesson costs only $1.00.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE	Ph. 2-3339
Letters
(Continued from page 4) average or better determines a responsible individual does not necessarily infer that those having a lower average are irresponsible; however, the implication is still there.
The American university or college is established primarily for the purpose of providing educational facilities for those desirous of a higher education. If a student cannot hold himself personally responsible for his own con-^ duct, who can? Not the university. They can offer consultations and issue warnings which, if ignored, only the individual student will suffer.
The administration of the United States Army Education Center, in which
II
I had considerable practical is an efficient organization fers responsibility directly individual desirous of an
experience, which con-upon the education.
There is no problem. The student ac-^ cepts or rejects responsibility in ac-” cordance with his own personal goal.
Norman F. Sanders Off-Campus

Rebuttal: by the Frosh
Editor:
Wake up, juniors!
To the four disappointed ones:
Glad to notice your interest in movies. So sorry to hear that this was your first and last visit. Properly, you could be termed ten-minute men. Why? Well, my disappointed friends, you judged 1,600 Notre Dame men in a short, brief period of ten minutes. As you said in your letter, Washington Hall is a campus theater, therefore all four years are represented and not just the freshmen. And yet, you blame the freshmen for these impolite and inconsiderate remarks. You presented no evidence that those responsible were freshmen, so in the future, my narrowminded friends, wake up and support your ridiculous accusations. Notre Dame has always been known to be the great melting pot, the fusing of all classes, friendliness abounding between senior and freshman (as well as junior and freshman). Well, a great disillusionment has followed from your letter. You seem to have the attitude that the purpose of Freshmen in a university is to supply a container, so to speak, to accept the blame for everything that goes wong. This is the attitude of the state school, but not the true Notre Dame spirit and attitude.
Two disillusioned freshmen.
Michael E. Fox, II Robert Simons 447 Zahm	448 Zahm ‘
* P. S.: Why did you fear signing your i names?
Editor's Note- No matter who was at fault, things have improved greatly.
:	The Scholastic^
24
I
Scholastic Sports
IRISH INVADE IOWA FOR GRUDGE BATTLE
* Elevens Check Clocks and First Aid Kits
As Wary Hawks Prepare for Return Match
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, unbeaten in their last five games, journey to Iowa City tomorrow to face the Iowa Hawkeyes. Some 53,000 fans will jam
Iowa Stadium to see this long-awaited clash between the two elevens.
No one has forgotten the dramatic 14-14 tie in their game at South Bend
last season, and both squads will be at
a feverish pitch.
The Hawkeyes, who have a 5-3 record for the season, are coached by Forest Evashevski. “Evy” took over the reins at Iowa in 1952, and employs an of
IRISH SHOW POWER IN DEFEATING NORTH CAROLINA, 42-13.
Schaefer Sees Daylight and Rips Tar Heel Defense.
fense featuring a single wing-split T combination from an unbalanced line.
Iowa has downed Michigan State, Montana, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Purdue, while losing to Michigan, Ohio
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
IOWA	NOTRE DAME
Gilliam ......  LE	.... (c) Shannon
Swedberg ...... LT	____ Palumbo
Hall .........  LG	..... Lemek
Lawson ....... C............. Mense
Jones .......   RG	 ....... Lee
Cummins ......  RT	....	Varrichione
Freeman ______ RE ..... (c)	Mafz
Reichow _______ QB	-- Guglielmi
Smith ........  LH	—........ Heap
Vincent ......  RH	...... Morse
Breeder (c)_... FB	.... Schaefer
Kickoff—1:30 p.m.
State, and Minnesota. In most of those games the Hawks did their scoring in the first half, and ran into trouble in the second half.
Left halfback Earl Smith is the leading scorer for the Hawks with ten touchdowns in eight games. Smith and his teammate at the other halfback slot, Ed Vincent, are two of the fastest and most rugged backs in the nation. Smith’s big perfoiinance came in a losing battle with Ohio State, as he ran back a 67-yard pass interception for one tally and a 75-yard punt return for another.
Vincent and quarterback Jerry Reichow have contributed 30 points between them. Vincent scored two TD’s
LEE	PALUMBO
against Purdue, one on a 96-yard kickoff return.
Reichow has rated the nod over Lou Matykiewicz, last year’s starting signalcaller, with his play this season. Though he doesn’t own startling straightaway swiftness, he gets the job done with tricky maneuvering. Vincent scored only one TD last year, but that was an all-important one against the Irish.
The remaining member of the Gold and Black backfield is captain George
GUGLIELMI BOOTLEGS AROUND END Irish Quarterback Paces Mates Again
0 November 19, 1954
(Binkey) Breeder, the number one fullback. Broeder was the top punter in the Big Ten last year, and is handling those duties again this season.
Iowa has three mainstays on the squad from Steubenville, Ohio, who gave the Irish a lot of trouble last season. Vincent is one, and the others are Frank Gilliam and Cal Jones. Gilliam was inserted in last year’s ND contest during a sustained Hawkeye drive, and made a sensational endzone catch for the Hawks’ second tally. A 6-2 end, Gilliam caught 12 passes for 71 yards and two touchdowns last year.
Right guard Cal Jones has tremendous speed and football savvy, and has been picked for several pre-season AllAmerican squads.
Gilliam’s teammate at right end is Jim Freeman, a junior letterman, who has converted 14 extra points this season. He shares these duties with reserve fullback Rog Wiegmann, who has booted four PAT’s and has one touchdown to his credit.
At the tackles for Iowa are Cameron Cummins and John Hall. Both are back for their third year as Hawkeye regulars. 6-2, 235-lb. George Kress and Roger Swedeberg are another pair of tackles among the Iowa “Back Breakers.”
Terry Moran operated as one of the three quarterbacks in 1953, but has been converted to guard, and has figured quite prominently in the Iowa forward wall.
Don Sucky was the regular center until the Minnesota game, but he was injured against the Gophers, and may miss the Irish tilt. If he is not in action, Warren Lawson will be the No. one pivotman. Lawson played behind All-American Jerry Hilgenberg for the
EARL SMITH
Sparks Hawks Against Gophers
CAL JONES
The Cover Boy
past two seasons.
Reserve halfback Bob Stearnes is the fourth leading scorer on the Iowa eleven with 24 points on six touchdowns. Don Inman, who failed to see a minute of action in 1952 because of injuries, seems to have regained some of the luster that he had as a groundgainer in 1952. Elden Matheson has not quite lived up to pre-season expectations, but he did electrify Hawkeye rooters with his 52-yard punt return to set up the winning tally against Michigan State.
This will be the 13th meeting between these two squads. The series
ARNETT	CROW
now stands at six games for the Irish, three for Iowa, and three ties.
Trojans On Tap
Boasting one of its finest teams in recent years, Southern California’s Trojans invade the Stadium next Saturday to battle the Fighting Irish. Trojan supporters bitterly recall the 48-14 thrashing dealt them last year.
U.S.C. has an excellent season’s record, marred only by an upset loss at the hands of Texas Christian earlier in the 1954 campaign. As a result, the Trojans appear to be in the driver’s seat as far as a Rose Bowl bid is concerned.
Much of Southern Cal’s success can be traced to its backfield, one of the finest all-around quartets in the nation. Halfbacks Lindon Crow and Aramis Dandoy have both been clocked under
10 seconds in the hundred yard dash and are extremely dangerous broken-field runners.	•
Hill’s fullback problems have been solved by the fine performances of Gordon Duvall and Jim Decker this season. Both men have alternated at the fullback slot and done the jobs required of them.
Quarterbacking the fine array of Trojan speedsters is Jim Contratto, a senior who tips the scales at 183 pounds. Used sparingly last season, Contratto completed 13 of 26 aerials for 219*-yards. A southpaw passer, a la Frankie Albert, Contratto has been one of the sparkplugs of this year’s Trojan eleven.
Operating at the key tailback spot in the U.S.C. backfield is Aramis Dandoy. Dandoy has exhibited some great running during the last two seasons, though beset by injuries in his junior year. Last year he accumulated 820 yards rushing and passing to spark theR_-Trojan offense.
The Trojan wingback, or right halfback in their starting lineup, is Lindon Crow. A 21-year-old, 187-pound senior, Crow reached the height of his collegiate career earlier this year when he scored three touchdowns in Southern Cal’s 29-27 win over California. He averaged almost five yards per carry last year and throughout his career has distinguished himself as a defensive standout and fine runner.
Southern Cal probably boasts one of the most publicized reserve backs in the nation. He is Jon Arnett, a 183-pound, 19-year-old tailback. Arnett has been plagued with injuries much of the season, but will see plenty of action next Saturday.
(Continued on page 31)
ARAMIS DANDOY Trojan’s Big Gun The Scholastic O
26
* Jordan Puts Cagers Through Paces
JORDAN STRESSES CHALK TALKS
Stephens and Weiman Check Positions
Coach Johnny Jordan and his assistant John Castellani have been busy preparing the basketball squad for the coming season through daily practice sessions since Nov. 1.
Notre Dame opens its cage season at home against Wisconsin on Dec. 4. This contest will launch a nine-game home schedule.
AN INDIVIDUAL DRILL
Smyth Defends Against Aubrey
These two-hour practices, beginning at 3:45 p. m., Monday through Friday, .give the players a complete workout. The initial 20 minutes are devoted to the practice of long and short shots. Offensive and defensive patterns are then run through on half of the court for 30 minutes.
Following this, the whole squad shoots free throws for ten minutes. Each session winds up with a 40-minute scrimmage between the first string and a much-juggled second string. During these scrimmages, Coach Jordan paces the side court pointing out the offensive and defensive defects.
The players also attend a “chalk talk” session at noon on Tuesdays and Thursdays. .These meetings are held to give the players a mental picture of their offensive and defensive play patterns. During the regular season, these.noon periods are spent reviewing the scouting reports.
IRISH DEPEND ON SOLID BENCH STRENGTH
Higgins, King, Jastrab, and Luepke Warm Up
Q November 19, 1954
PRACTICE ENDS WITH SCRIMMAGE Ayotte Shoots Over Rebora
27
spli^s f^fhe pn5sbM
by Paul Fullmer
The Fighting Irish are entering the stretch run, and much like a fine thoroughbred, they need stamina and speed to come through with these three vital victories. The last three games with Iowa, Southern Cal, and SMU are definitely the roughest on the schedule and Notre Dame will have to be “up” from now on.
Joe Heap, the dependable Louisiana speedster, warmed up for the
Another Heap TD
Hawkeyes by whipping through and around the Tar Heels of North Carolina for a pair of touchdowns and the individual scoring lead with 30 points. He boosted his average to an even four yards and served notice that he is back in pass receiving form with a brace of letter-perfect receptions.
Iowa’s Hawkeyes probably possess the fastest backfield in the country with two Big Ten sprint champions operating from the halfback slots in the person of Earl Smith and Ed Vincent. Coach Terry Brennan will have to bank on Heap to contain these sprinters if they break away. Jim Morse and Ralph Guglielmi provide fair speed on defense, but the North Carolina game proved that they are not the fastest.
Heap has always been a standout
offensive performer in his four years as a starting halfback. In teaming up with Johnny Lattner, Heap provided Irish fans with some of the greatest broken-field running ever seen, in the Stadium.
Line Will Decide The Question
Brennan realizes that he can’t rely solely on his backfield to stop the Hawks. So he has concentrated on building new defenses this week that will utilize his forwards in halting Iowa before they can get started. Jack Lee, Frank Varrichione, and Sam Palumbo will have to handle most of the heavy stuff in the middle of that defensive line and their alertness will decide the game.
No one can forget the hectic 1953 Iowa battle that deprived a great Notre Dame team of the national championship. It was one of those games that fooled the experts, sent panic through the Irish ranks, and left the fans breathless. Ralph Guglielmi’s two last second tosses to Dan Shannon saved the day for the Irish and before the final roar had subsided* Forest Evashetski was shouting “Fake and Fraud.” He accused the Irish of everything from playing dead to putting syrup in the clock. He continued his harangue when he got back to Iowa City and the country’s sportswriters took up the hue and cry. Even now many are dragging the skeleton out of the closet and repeating how Iowa got “gypped” last year. But bygones are bygones and tomorrow’s game will be won out in Iowa City and not in some newspaper.
Southern Cal and Southern Methodist Look Very Tough
Southern California and Southern Methodist could give the Irish a tougher time than the Hawkeyes if season records mean anything. The Trojans are Rose Bowl-bound and sadly remember the 1953 blasting and the smart 1952 Notre Dame victory. The Mustangs from down Dallas way knocked off mighty Arkansas by running up three quick touchdowns and sitting on the lead through the second half.
The Irish look about one touchdown better than both the Trojans and Hawks at this time and we’ll take Terry Brennan’s boys tomorrow, 21-14.
Slate Interhall Final In Stadium on Sunday
St. Edward’s backed into the Eastern division title of the interhall football league with a forfeit over Zahm. They will probably face Badin, the current leader in the West league, in the Stadium Sunday at 1:30 p.m., although the final Badin-Sorin score was not available at presstime.
Farley Hall, sparked by the 50-yard$, return of an intercepted pass by Bob Schwenker, knocked Breen-Phillips out of contention for the Eastern division crown by gaining a 6-6 tie.
Schwenker intercepted a pass thrown by Breen-Phillips’ quarterback Bob Vrancken on his own 20 and returned it 50 yards. Two plays later Frank Leahy Jr. threw to John Sullivan for the touchdown. Leahy’s PAT was no good.	£
Breen-Phillips came storming back to tie the score when Bob Vrancker scampered 40 yards to Farley’s 15. Vrancker then threw to Danilo Castro for the touchdown.
In the Western division, Dick Rust quarterbacked Badin to its fifth straight by defeating Lyons 13-0 last Thursday.
Joe Kurzeja started the first Badin assault by intercepting a pass on the Lyons’ 40-yard line, but Jerry Ryan# fumbled on the seven and Lyons recovered. Ryan retaliated four plays later by returning a punt 53 yards for a touchdown. His PAT was blocked.
The play which set up the final score was a 64-yard pass play from quarterback Rust to end Ed Cosgrove, who was tackled from behind on the three-yard line. John Hummer carried into the end zone two plays later. Ryan’s kick was good and Badin was® ahead 13-0.
In the other Western division game, Dan McCullough’s 70-yard touchdown run gave Alumni a 7-0 win over Sorin.
Morrissey remained in the running for the West title by halting a last quarter rally and defeating Dillon 13-7. They had possession of the ball throughout the first quarter and scored the initial tally as the whistle sounded ending the period. Bing Carlin took^ a 13-yard pass in the end zone to put Morrissey ahead and Bill Thees converted.
Ed Sullivan added Morrissey’s second TD on a plunge from the three, but Thees’ attempt was blocked.
Dillon’s air attack moved the ball to the 10-yard line before a toss to Mike Mulrooney gave the losers six points. John Raub caught one in the end zone for the extra point.
28
The Scholastic 9
Captures Scoring Lead Two N. Carolina Scores 1^.
' Halfback Joe Heap took over the in-
dividual scoring leadership with two touchdowns last Saturday against - North Carolina. He has scored five touchdowns for 30 points and is followed by Ralph Guglielmi, who has scored four touchdowns for 24 points.
In rushing, Paul Hornung has the ^>est average, but has carried the ball ^only 19 times. He has gained 158 yards for an 8.3 average. He carried seven
times Saturday for 72 yards and a 10.3 average. Fullback Don Schaefer has gained 457 yards in 80 tries for 5.6 yards per carry.
Heap continued to lead in the pass receiving department. He has caught 15 passes for 325 yards. He is followed closely by Jim Morse with 13 catches for 217 yards and two touchdowns.
Guglielmi increased his passing percentage by completing seven out of twelve tosses. He has now completed 49 out of 90 attempts for a percentage of .544.
SCORING TO PAT FG PTS
Heap------------------- 5	0	0	30
Guglielmi  4	0	0	24
Schaefer 1	13	0	19
Shannon 3	0	0	18
Hornung  2	6	0	18
RUSHING TC YDS. AVG.
Schaefer _______________ 80	451	5.6
Studer 26	134	5.2
Hornung ________________ 19	158	8.3
Heap  70	280	4.0
Morse  28	111	4.0
PASS RECEIVING
NO. CAUGHT YDS. TO
Heap  15	325	0
Morse  13	217	2
Matz  8	90	0
Shannon 	7	135	3
0
o
WHERE TO AFTER GRADUATION
Start your career with a company famous for Creative Engineering. Your knowledge might be a "natural” for the product engineering activity offered in these diversified lines at:
Bendix Products Division
BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION
South Bend, Indiana
AVIATION
GU.IDED MISSILES
AUTOMOTIVE
■A a
■November 19, 1954
Fuel Systems—Controls and fuel metering devices for jet and reciprocating engines.
Landing Gear — Shock absorbing struts, wheels, brakes and hydraulic controls.
Systems analysis, guidance, steering intelligence, propulsion, hydraulics, telemetering.
Brakes, power brakes, power steering, hydraulic controls for passenger cars, trucks and buses.
Talk over your career plans with the Bendix representative. Mechanical, aeronautical and electronic engineers should register with your Placement Director now.
Interviews—November 22
29
Air Cadets, Toledo Club Lead Bowling Leagues 1
The Air Cadets and the Toledo Club
moved into first place in the Blue and Gold leagues, respectively, as the Keg-lers rounded out their third week of
competition.
The Fly Boys split two points each with the Accounting club to keep the top berth. Elsewhere in the Blue league,
the Chemical Engineers occupied second place by splitting two points each with;)
the Irish club, the third-place team.
Toledo took over the Gold first place | by taking three out of four points from the Kansas City Club. Cleveland, the second-place team, dropped three of । four to the Electrical Engineers, who I are now in third place.	:
The Air Cadets topped both divisions by bowling the team high of 2,746. The Chemical Engineers ran a close second with 2,721, and the Civil Engi-*^) neers took third.
The Architects brought home the team high single, a 998 tally. The Air Cadets fell to second place with 974, and Detroit’s 951 was good for third place.
Bob Velotta of the Cleveland Club bowled 572, the individual high series. John Riley of Detroit edged Dick Hairsine of Delaware Valley, for second place by a 563-560 margin.
Riley won single top honors with a^~ 232, while John Witkins of the Air “ Cadets scored a 223. Joe Baumie of Toledo was edged into third place by a one point margin.
Don’t Forget Your Kid Brother!
Get Him “THE CATHOLIC BOY” (We’ll take care of your gift card)
48 pages every month—chock full of sports, fiction, adventure, comics. Published at Notre Dame.
Squires Paces ND Harriers In Easy CCC Win; NCAA Next
$2.50
THE CATHOLIC BOY
Notre Dame, Indiana	□ year $2.50
□ 2 years — $4.50
Please send the Catholic Boy	□ 3 years — $6.00
To: .........................................................................
Name		
Street and Number		
City	Zone	State
□ Send Gift Card From		Your Name	
Your Address
The Notre Dame cross country team, sparked by Bill Squires, easily won’-* the Central Collegiate Conference cross country championship last Friday.
Next Monday the Irish will wind up the season in the NCAA cross-country meet in East Lansing.
Squires, clocked at 20:16.3, outlasted Drake’s Bob Soth to win the four-mile race. Jim Daly of Notre Dame finished third with a time of 20:20.0. Other Notre Dame placers were: Jack Gits, fourth, Al Schoenig, tenth, and Neil|") Wallace, eleventh.	"
Western Michigan, last year’s champions, finished second.
In taking the CCC and the Indiana State meet, the Irish won both championship meets they participated in this year.
In five dual meets, the Irish have topped Wheaton, Michigan Normal, and Marquette, and lost to Indiana and Michigan.
30
The Scholastic^
DR. N. FIZDALE
(i	OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
9 -	-	. - ..I
We Welcome You to
THE TWINS
RESTAURANT
$ PIZZA and SPAGHETTI our specialties
CHOPS CHICKEN
T-Bone—STEAKS—Porterhouse
713 E. LaSALLE
2 blocks east of Hill St.
Phone 3-0951
@ For All-Weather Wear!
This dark cordo blucher oxford is made with the “all-weather welt” for added protection in any kind of weather. Leather sole and rubber heel. Ideal for year around wear.
THE HANOVER SHOE
102 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
9November 19, 1954
Bertrand, Sullivan Welcome 152 Freshman Cage Hopefuls
Tryouts for the freshman basketball team began last Friday with a record turnout of 152 players. This year’s team will be coached by Joe Bertrand and Gene Sullivan.
Bertrand, in his four years of varsity play, established himself as one of Notre Dame’s all time great basketball players. When he played his final game last season, he ranked as the second highest scorer in Notre Dame history behind his teammate Dick Rosenthal. Bertrand, who is in the Notre Dame Law School, also holds the highest individual scoring mark for one game of 35 points against Loyola last season. Sullivan also graduated from Notre Dame last year, receiving his degree in Physical Education and is now in the Graduate School of Education.
Both coaches realize the job ahead of them in selecting the actual team of 18 players out of the large turnout. Through daily practice they hope to give everyone an equal chance of proving himself. The team plays a total of nine games against the scholarship freshman team before all Notre Dame home basketball games.
Southern California
(Continued from page 26)
Starting from left to right is an equally fine Trojan line. Leon Clarke lines up as the left end. A 213-pounder, Clarke specializes in rushing opposing passers and is one of Con-tratto’s favorite receivers.
The left tackle is Mario DaRe. A 199-pounder George Gaily will be the starting left guard in the Trojan line.
At center for the Trojans will be 188-pound Junior Marv Goux. A great performer in the 1952 season as a left linebacker, Goux was switched to center with the departure of the two-platoon system.
Irish backs can expect a lot of trouble from Orlando Ferrante at right guard. He is touted as the team’s best lineman.
Starting at right tackle will be one of the stalwarts of the Trojan line, Ed Fouch. One of the team’s co-cap-tains, Fouch’s play has steadily improved since the start of the season.
Closing out the Southern California line is the lanky 200-pound senior right end, Chuck Greenwood. Along with Clarke, Greenwood is a capable pass receiver and a better than average defensive player.
Check these low fans—
SOUTH BEND to
Destination	One Way	■oomI Trie
CLEVELAND		$5.95.		$10.75
CHICAGO		2.10.		 3.80
DETROIT.			4.80.		 8.65
PITTSBURGH		9.05.	.... 16.30
GRAND RAPIDS.	. 3.00.		 5.40
NEW YORK		17.90.	..... 32.25
WASH. D.C		15.05.	.... 27.10
DAVENPORT....	5.95.		10.75
(Add U5. Tax to All Fares)
Ask is abeut sMler M»-smi^ fens frees here to yeer heeietem, uelitlin!
UNION BUS TERMINAL
117 Western at Main
Information______7-6541
31
Scouting Report
For the benefit of the senior- trippers and the rest of the “troops” who will view tomorrow’s Iowa game via television, we will diagram one of the Hawkeye’s most potent plays. The Big Ten eleven has scored the majority of its touchdowns from this formation.
Iowa has its speedy first string backs operating on this reverse. Most of the Iowa trickery stems from their sleight-
THEATRE—South Bend, Ind.
MONDAY, NOV. 22
ON STAGE—AU IN PERSON—4 BIG SHOWS Presenting Their Latest Hit Recordings—Screen Show Too!
THE CREW CUTS RALPH MARTERIE LOLA DEE
NYLON BIT Guaranteed Bite-Proof
........■..
College-g-dass
MEDICO JUtna Slater FILTER PIPE *3™ & *5™ X*
Medico’s filter strains smoke of nicotine, juices, tars, flakes. When filter turns brown, throw it away with all the impurities it has trapped. Replace with fresh filter for mild, mellow smoking.
4— Actual pipe has your own college letter on bowl
of-hand maneuvering behind the line. This play is typical of this ballhandling.
Reichow, the quarterback, takes the snap and moves quickly to his right. “Binkey” Broeder, who has riddled the Irish in past years, cracks into the line and apparently has the ball. But Reichow keeps it and hands off to Earl Smith who cuts between center and guard.
Reichow follows through on the play by faking wide to Vincent, who is running as a decoy.
The blocking assignments along the Iowa forward wall must be quick and decisive. The left guard has a particularly rough job, since he must race downfield and hit the deep backer.
This type of fast-starting, hard-hitting play has given the Irish trouble in the past, and you can expect the Hawks to keep firing all afternoon.
Civil Engineers Meet Nov. 24
There will be a meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers, Nov. 24 at 7:45 p. m. in Room 212 of the Engineering Building.
The meeting is also open to architects.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Glasses Fitted
Satisfactory Optical Sendee in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
☆
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30	5
Joe Nabieht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
The Scholastic^
32
Notre Dame Miniatures For 'Your Sweetheart
BUFF TOP STONE
FACETED STONE SET
REGULAR BAND
CONTOuR
BAND
SAPPHIRE CENTER DIAMOND OVAL
FACETED STONE SET RiNG
TOP VI ENV R nG
DIAMOND CLUSTER
Christmas 1954
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings are used as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice or to a feminine member of your family with whom you share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring design is identical with the official ring, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST — NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS
Amethyst, No. 1, dark, buff top-faceted back.... $19.00 Amethyst, No. 2, light, faceted top and back.... 17.00 Aquamarine, genuine, faceted top and back_____ 19.00 Black onyx __________________________________________ 16.00
Blue spinel No. 1, buff top-faceted back....... 17.00 Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top and back........ 17.00 Garnet No. 1, synthetic, buff top-faceted back.. 17.00 Garnet No. 2, synthetic, faceted top and back.. 17.00 Ruby No. 1, synthetic, buff top-faceted back.... 17.00 Ruby No. 2, synthetic, faceted top and back.... 17.00 Sapphire, synthetic, dark blue ................    17.00
Sapphire, synthetic, light blue............  $17.00
Tourmaline No. 1, buff top-faceted back...... 17.00
Tourmaline No. 2, faceted top and back______ 17.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
All-diamond cluster, 10K................    $125.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, ruby or tourmaline center.................  69.00
WEDDING BANDS
Ladies’, Plain or Beaded, Regular..............$ 6.00
Contour.....__________ 8.00
Man’s Plain or Beaded,	Regular.............. 10.00
Contour.............. 12.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24k Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
Finger-size
Ring Size For Measuring Finger
gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram.
i
3456789 1011
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
Notre Dame Book Store
Notre Dame, Indiana
1954	33
® November 19,
the beck pe^e
by Don Yeckel
dividual men.
Last week I talked about the faults and virtues that I see in myself and other Notre Dame men. It could be fairly asked of me now, what I think the principal virtue of Notre Dame men ought to be. In other words, what is the standard that I am using to judge myself and others?
Maturity the End
A few weeks ago I quoted the Greek poet Pindar, who said that education consists in “becoming who we are.” We have an English word that expresses the same idea, “maturity.” A thing matures when it ripens and becomes perfect, when it becomes the best thing that it can be. The same word can be applied to the development of men. When we “become who we are” we become the best men that it is possible for us to be.
But maturity is a vague word. It doesn’t mean much until we see what it means in the everyday actions of in-
The process of maturing begins when ■we start to look closely at ourselves. We say, “I have an intellect which must be taught and a will which must be trained.” These are fundamental facts. And so, when we neglect our education or laugh at rules, this is immature.
And we do neglect our education and laugh at rales. One indication of this is the fact that “studies” and “intellectual,” “regulations” and “discipline” are words that have a bad flavor at Notre Dame. The ideal Notre Dame man is the 90 student who never studies, and who gets drank without getting caught. This is one sign of intellectual and moral immaturity.
Last Week
The next stage of maturity is looking outside of oneself. When we disregard the needs and feelings of others, we are giving another sign of our immaturity. That is what I tried to say last week. Immaturity, thoughtlessness, selfishness —they are all the same.
This kind of immaturity shows itself in a hundred ways. Unnecessary noise in the halls, inappropriate dress at a concert or mixer, cutting in the chowhall line, are all signs of it. We all see it every day and every night, in ourselves and in others.
But these are negative signs: they show immaturity rather than maturity. What are some signs of a mature attitude toward our position in life?
The Positive Sign
There is another word that fits in here: responsibility. Responsibility is
our recognition of what we owe ourselves and what we owe others we live ■with. Here and now we are getting some of the best training we will ever have in the meaning of responsibility.
First of all, we have the tremendous responsibility of becoming educated in mind and will. This obligation we owe to God and to ourselves. We also have the responsibility of repaying our parents, especially for this chance to be in college.
We also have a responsibility to those with whom we are living. If God has given us particular talents, or if our classmates have given us the power to govern part of their lives at Notre Dame, we must use those talents and powers well. This obligation of doing certain things we owe other people or God is a kind of responsibility.
But responsibility is not restricted to people holding some office. Everyone has it. As long as we are human beings we have responsibility; as long as we live with other people we have obligations; as long as we are God’s creatures there are certain things we must do.
The recognition of these responsibilities and the performance of those things we should do is what I mean by maturity. It is “becoming who we are.”
The Highest
The final, highest stage of maturity comes when we are able to judge which of several responsibilities is the most important. This ability can be called
by a higher-sounding phrase, “valuejudgment.”
The need for this kind of maturity^ comes about when we are faced with several responsibilities. Sometimes fulfilling one obligation hinders the fu‘-fillment of another. For example, bein; a class officer and a good student isn c always easy. Sometimes a choice has to be made between the two. To be able to make such a choice ^Vell is probably the highest kind of maturity.
I’ve talked about “kinds” of maturity^ That’s a bad way to express the de-^' velopment of this quality. Actually, they aren’t different kinds of maturity, but different stages in the development of one maturity. They are all built one upon the other. Our whole life is an effort to deepen our insight into ourselves and our position in relation to others, and to make choices on the basis of what we see when we do this.
Remembering
One mark of maturity, no matter what its stage, is the habit of remem- i bering that we were once in the same | place that others are now in. Some | older people say too often: “What’s | wrong with this younger generation?” | The answer, of course, is that nothing | is wrong with this generation that was | not wrong with their own. George | William Curtis put it very well: “It is F a great pity that men and women forget^), t that they have been children. Parents | are apt to be foreigners to their own £ sons and daughters.” No one is genuine- I ly mature until he realizes that no | amount of talking can teach what he i himself has learned with time and K struggle. This can work two ways at 1 the same time: we seniors may be what’s g wrong with the freshmen, and some of E our teachers may be wondering what’s E wrong with us.
The Ideal	f
These matters—the stages of matu- g rity, responsibleness, the remembering— E are tied into what I mean by maturity. B I was thinking of this last week when » I decided the principal virtue of the B Notre Dame man, and what his greatest g fault seems to be. A man striving for fe maturity, sanely and steadily, is the | ideal Notre Dame man that I see. In* |
•	F
fact, it is the ideal man that I see. g
* * *
I’ll welcome any comments on last g week’s column or this week’s, especially | written comments. If you have had 1 some reaction to either of them, why i don’t you drop me a card or letter at 201 Walsh?
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
James B. Walker received his B.S. in mechanical engineering from North Carolina State College in June 1954, and he’s presently working for his M.S. at the same college. By asking pertinent questions, Jim is making sure that the position he finally accepts will be the right one for a fellow with his training.
Jim Walker asks:
Can a mechanical
engineer make
real progress in
9
"Pick” Pickering answers:
H. M. Pickering, Jr., received a B.S. in M-E. and E.E. from the Univ, of Minn, in 1940. He gained valuable technical experience at Hanford Works, in Richland, Washington, and in Du Pont’s Fabrics and Finishes Plant at Parlin, N. J. Today he is Works Engineer for Du Pont’a Seaford, Del., plant, where nylon comes from.
® Well, Jim, that’s what the lawyers call a leading question, and the answer leads right into my bailiwick. I came to Du Pont in 1940, after taking a combined mechanical and electrical engineering course. So I had what you might call a double reason for wondering about my future with a chemical firm.
I soon learned that the success of a large-scale chemical process is vitally dependent upon mechanical equipment. And the success of this mechanical equipment—especially for a new process—depends on (1) Research, (2) Development, (3) Plant Engineering, and (4) close Supervision. The net result is that a mechanical engineer at Du Pont can progress
along any one of these four broad highways to a top* level position.
My own Du Pont experience includes mechanical engineering work in fields as varied as atomic energy, fabrics and finishes, and nylon manufacture. Every one of these brought with it a new set of challenging problems in construction, instrumentation, and power supply; and every one provided the sort of opportunities a man gets in a pioneering industry.
So, to answer your question, Jim, a mechanical engineer certainly has plenty of chances to get somewhere with a chemical company like Du Pont!
*E5.U.S.PAT.Qf£
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH "CAVALCADE OF AMERICA” ON TELEVISION
Want to know more about working with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Mechanical Engineers at DuPont.” This 24-page booklet describes in detail the four broad categories of jobs mentioned by “Pick” Pickering. Typical pioneering problems in each of these four categories are outlined. This booklet briefs a young mechanical engineer on how some of the newest and most challenging problems in his field were solved. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours -& Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington, Del.
JACK WEBB & BEN ALEXANDER
You know them best as Sgt. Joe Friday and Officer Frank Smith — stars of Chesterfield’s award winning “Dragnet” on TV and radio. They're now in movies too . . . Warner Bros, great new picture “Dragnet".
1
I
>1
5
o rv
LIGGETT 4
^TOBACCO CO.

PAIR i
WHAT A BUY! Chesterfield King Size at the New Low Price and Chesterfield Regular
You’ll like Chesterfield regular — as Jack Webb does — or king-size, like Ben Alexander. Either way, you get the same satisfying mildness, the same wonderful taste, the same refreshing smoke every time. And you get. the cigarette proved highest in quality — low in nicotine.
So change to Chesterfield. Enjoy America’s favorite two-way cigarette. They satisfy millions — they’ll satisfy you.



TODAY'S CHESTERFIELD IS THE BEST CIGARETTE EVER MADE
CHESTERFIELD Besrrosroo
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
'>■ .IT?

JI JLl'lL'