13 not to b
’‘ . L* I • I |W v ‘ 7 ' - T ' 1—  
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
February 19 19 3 2
February 19, 1932
One
DEPTH SOUNDERS FOR AIRCRAFT
WITH the application of electricity to aircraft instruments, another chapter was written in the annals of air transportation. To-day’s ship is not only swifter but safer and more dependable. Modern depth-sounding devices indicate instantly the height of the ship above the ground surface. A unique feature of General Electric’s recently purchased monoplane is the almost completely electrified instrument panel.
The most recently developed instrument is the sonic altimeter, which provides a quick means of indicating changes in height above ground. Sound from an
intermittently operated air whistle is directed downward. The echo is picked up in a receiving megaphone, and the sound is heard through a stethoscope. The elapsed time between the sound and the echo determines the height Tests show that water, buildings, woods, etc., produce echoes that are different and characteristic.
Besides developing a complete system of aircraft instruments, college-trained General Electric engineers have pioneered in every electrical field—on land, on sea, and in the air.
•	95-923
generalSelectric
SALES AND ENGINEERING SERVICE IN PRINCIPAL CITIES
Two
The Scholastic
AT THE BENGAL BATTLES
o	'
To The Victors...
Competitors in five championship. bouts receive awards from Athletic Director Jesse Harper.
Fifteen, No More, No Less
But there might have been less had it lasted longer. Here are the principals in the Perone-Heitz skirmish.
(
$
February_19, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- j hk I g	1 I g ■ Entered as second-dass
lished weekly at the Univers- I MA	I	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- ■ ■»W> 1 5^/wl w* ■^Qlllw* ^^^*1 IV^ICi9wl^* diana. Acceptance for maib-scripts may be addressed to — .	—	.	. '	__.	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubu- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus section nos, October 3.191?, cations Office, Main Building.	_	authorized June to, 1918.
r 1) u N U h D 1 o 6 d
Neil C. Hurley_________________________Editor-In-Chief
Henry B. Asman______________________Managing Editor
William W. Corr__________________Departmental Editor
Associate Editors MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM C. BLIND
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN.................News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL.. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY ROBERT DILLON PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA ROY SCHOLZ MITCHELL TACKLEY JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND PAUL FOLEY BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY..............The	Week
JOHN PICK..............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY..................Campus	Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON.....Features Editor
JOHN RYAN............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER.................Staff	Artist
■Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS.........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER
JOSEPH KURTH	PAUL HOST
JOSEPH MORPER
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON.......Features	Editor
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWKHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER. Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER. JR.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS. Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY-...Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
FEBRUARY 19, 1932
Number 16.
SU MM AR Y
NEWS
Paul Host selected football captain for 1932 at the annual grid banquet last Tuesday______________________ 5
Seniors will present the University with flag Monday; program will also conform with bi-centen-nial celebration______________________________________ 5
“Highbrow” number of the Juggler is the acme of sophistication________________________________________ 7
Large crowd attends concert of the Paulist choir in Washington hall_______________________________________ 8
FEATURES
Scholastic reporter discovers postoffice to be the primary source of campus joy___________________T6
N. D.’s boxing show pronounced a smashing success from all angles________________________________17
SPORTS	.
Captain Bill McCormick and Alex Wilson entered in National A. A. U. championships in New York
Monday night_______________________________20
Eddie King scores eight points as track team beats Iowa thinlies__________:______________________________20
Free swinging, technical knockouts, comedy, championships, feature Scholastic boxing show before record crowd__________________________________________21
Coach “Hunk” Anderson voices approval of all but -two rules in newest alterations of grid code__________24
Keoganites run victory string to eleven by whipping Western Reserve, 32 to 25, in Cleveland_______________25
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, February 19—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications’ office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, Room 222, Main building, 7:00 p. m.— Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler* at Indianapolis.— Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, February 20—Movie, “Skyline,” and News Reel, Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.—Track, Notre Dame vs. Butler, Notre Dame Gym, 2:1-5 p. m.
SUNDAY, February 21—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, February 22—Washington’s Birthday, no classes.—Flag presentation, Washington hall, 10:C0 a. m.—Movie, Richard Dix in “Secret Service,” “Down to Damascus,” and News Reel, Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, February 23—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, Notre Dame Gym, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec”, 6:30 p. m.—Educational Confraternity meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.— Pharmacy club meeting, Chemistry hall, 7:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, February 24—Picture of the Chicago club for the Dome, Library steps, 12:30 p. m.—K. of C. meeting, Walsh hall, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, February 25—Spectators’ meeting, Lawbuilding, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, seminar room of the Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Picture of the Met club for the Dome, Library steps, 12:30 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
E have with us this week no less a person than the leading quick-change artist of whom we wrote last week, and whom we invited to have a little say-so right on the first page, no less. We.mean Neill Ebert, the lad who was referred to in connection with pork-chops. Incidentally, the pork on Friday’s floor was not a remnant of Friday’s meal, but of Thursday’s.
“To Mr. James Carmody.
“As Bing Crosby or Russ Columbo might say, ‘Life is just a bowl of cherries’—thus this article by one who has been extended the supreme honor of writing one of the columns on this page. The reason for such action by our indulgent columnist is far removed from me, an autocratic and sophomorish junior. Perhaps he may consider it due restitution for a few of his previous incriminations, which will not be mentioned, or mayhap he has been burdened with his many activities and shifted part of his burden to my shoulders. I am sure, however, that he, who might expect a flurry of condemnations in a more or less retaliatory measure, is doomed to disappointment rather than elation in publishing this bit.
“Instead of further antagonizing our kind benefactor I would rather show my appreciation for this space allotted me by commenting on the boxing show for the support of the Bengal Missions. The turn-out was edifying and with the evening enlivened by the Messrs Perone and Heitz, with their respective seconds, I was pleasantly entertained. However, it is my sincere hope that the poor Bengalese are not as antagonistic toward their fellow men as the two aforementioned pugilists.
“I have come to the limit of my space and gone forever is my one great chance—the opportunity afforded only once, but I do not answer the door—who can, walks in—. Such as it is, so may it be and life is still the aforementioned bowl.
“My kindest regards—love and kisses,
“Neill W. Ebert.”
JoE CASASANTA, one of the really well-dressed campus notables, walked into the gym the other night to swing the baton for his band
and to watch Syracuse drop a game. On Joe’s head was his latest acquisition, a brand new derby from Spiro’s, an article of which Joe was particularly careful, as evidenced by the fact that he chose a clean chair for a hat rack and then placed that chair in a secluded spot. All during the performance Joe would cast hurried glances at the hat, and from number to number his smile broadened as its safety seemed more and more assured. Finally he sat down in peace with his bowler near him to watch the game. Down,the floor a Syracuse forward shot a long, hard pass; Krause tipped it, and the ball went high in the air, to bounce once and then drop lazily out of the court. Joe took the cigar out of his mouth and looked to see where the ball had landed. The bowler was in shreds, flat, ruined; and for two days now Joe’s face, underneath his grey felt, hasn’t carried a smile. The blows of chance are tough, especially when they are six buck blows.
SlNCE the days when Father Farley was leading a team against Indiana and a well-known Irish center was passing the ball successfully over his halfback’s head to give the opponents a victory, the Notre Dame athletic award, the Monogram, has been considered, if not sacred, then at least respected. You hardly dared even rub the felt on the letter without the owner’s permission, and the thought of pulling it on over your own uninitiated head, even behind locked doors, made you flush and cringe in fear. But times have changed, evidently, and the old idols have succumbed in the undergraduate craze for ND’s on their own things, from grips to stationery. One chap around here, whose name at least ten men would like to know for the purpose of a little social call, has exceeded all his fellows in collecting the university initials, though. He pressed on ahead of all competitors last week by opening Frank LaBourne’s locker in the dining hall and extracting from it that supreme subject of all collector’s dreams, a Monogram sweater. He still has it. And yet the well-known Vigilantes are dashing around throwing guys in the lake for not turning handsprings at pep meetings, with characters like the aforementioned collecting gentlemen still at large.
February 19, 1932
Five
SENIORS WILL PRESEST N D. WITH FLAG MONDAY
HOST ELECTED CAPTAIN FOR 1932 AT FOOTBALL BANQUET ON TUESDAY
Edw. and Frank O’Malley to Give Washington Day Talk?;.
Notre Dame will continue its annual custom of paying homage to George Washington Monday morning, when the graduating class, through its president, Eugene Connelly, presents the University with the customary American flag.
The Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell. C.S.C., president of the University, will accept the flag on behalf of Notre Dame and will give the speech of acceptance.
The program is being specially arranged to conform with the nationwide bicentennial celebration in honor of the first president of the United States. The -celebration at Notre will open with the Ssong, “The Star Spangled Banner,” sung by the audience.
Edward F. O’Malley, a senior in the College of Commerce, will give an appreciation of Washington’s Farewell address, specially arranged in accordance with Notre Dame’s participation in the bicentennial program.
The Washington Day Ode will be given by Francis J. O’ Malley, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and immediately following, the flag-will be presented by Eugene Connelly, a senior in the College of Engineering, on behalf of the senior class.
Following acceptance by Father O’Donnell, the senior class will march to the flag pole opposite the new law building where the flag will be raised.
Bengal Mission Grateful
The following telegram was received this week by Neil C. Hurley, editor of The Scholastic, from the Reverend John Delaunay, C.S.C., one of the directors of the Bengal Missions in Washington:
“Congratulations on phenomenal success of The Scholastic boxing matches stop May you and associates who so vigorously promoted the Bengal Mission interests meet with like success in life’s encounters stop Thanks in name of Father Mathis and American missionaries in India.
“Rev. John Delaunay.”
New Grid Leader Wins Acclaim On ‘Scholastic’ Staff
By Neil C. Hurley
Paul Host was elected captain of the Notre Dame football team for 1932. The news by now has been broadcast throughout the United States.
In the sporting section of The
Captain Paul Host “. . . well be out for another national championship."
Scholastic this week you will see the fourth of Paul’s popular series of interviews with outstanding Notre Dame athletes.
I know of no other of the staff members who take more care, or pains, with the stories they write. Paul meticulously studies each article that he turns in for publication. They rarely have to be changed, and the editors who handle his copy, after writing the head, send it directly to the linotyper.
There were certain misgivings with which Paul’s first story was handled. Personally, I wondered, too, just what sort of copy he would write.
Fears were quickly shattered, however, when the first article was brought to The Scholastic office. It was real stuff. And as a result Paul’s interesting series is being followed weekly by most of the campus.
KOSKY OTHER CANDIDATE
Anderson Is Toastmaster At Annual Affair; Seniors Talk to Teammates.
By Henry B. Asman.
Paul A. Host, LaCrosse, Wisconsin, was elected captain of the Fighting Irish grid squad at the annual football banquet held last Tuesday evening in the University Dining Halls.
The new leader was nominated together with Edwin Kosky on the first ballot and defeated the man with whom he has battled for the past two years for the left end position when the votes were collected the second time.
Coach Heartly Anderson presided as toastmaster and sitting with him at the speaker’s table were the Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C. S. C., chairman of the Board in control of Athletics; Jesse C. Harper, director of athletics; Jack Chevigny, who recently resigned his position as Junior Coach; Tom Yarr, Nordy Hoffman, and Marchy Schwartz, who have been appointed to the coaching staff for 1932; Warren Brown, and J. Arthur Haley.
In addition to the varsity team, the guests present included the reserve and freshman squads, the managers and a few friends of the University.
Coach Anderson opened the evening’s program with praise for the actions of the 1931 team. He complimented them especially for their hearty co-operation with the coaching staff. Praise was then turned to include his colleagues on the coaching staff and Jesse Harper.
Tommy Yrarr, retiring captain, expressed his regrets at no longer being able to play college football, and declared his extreme pleasure at being honored with a place on the coaching staff for the coming year. Nordy Hoffman and Marchy Schwartz, who also are to remain at Notre Dame in the role of coaches, followed Yarr into the spotlight and reiterated his sentiments in regard to teammates, coaches, and school.
(Continued on Paste 12)
Six
The Scholastic
Rev. John O’Hara Publishes Alumni Religious Survey
RAY MILLER ELECTED MAYOR OF CLEVELAND
GRADS PRAISE N.D.
Brother of N. D. Grid Heroes Wins By 7,703 Votes.
Communion Strengthened Their Character, Alumni Assert In Survey.
Asserting that the practice of frequent communion was the outstanding feature of their religious life at Notre Dame, one hundred and twenty-nine alumni reported in the Religious Surrey of the Alumni, that this factor strengthened their characters most while in school. Reverend John F. O’Hara, C. S. C., compiled the information in the new Survey and published the Bulletin this week.
In the foreward, Father O’Hara writes that the report presented in the survey is the fulfillment of a plan conceived ten years ago at the University, when the first Religious Survey for students was prepared for public distribution. Not until this year was the plan carried out.
When asked whether or not they thought the discipline too strict or too lax in their time, a variety of answers were received. Such answers as “Can it be too strict?” and “Too strict at times. It’s fair, though” showed the average trend of thought regarding this question.
Alumni Express Opinions
In the Survey, the alumni were given an opportunity to express their opinions on all matters at the University as well as to render advice and constructive criticisms of the manner in which the school is conducted.
The publication is divided into seven chapters: Introductory, The alumnus, the parishioner, the law missionary, the citizen, the husband, and father, and the bachelor. Under each grouping, a list of seven or eight questions relating to the subject are answered.
Because of the almost immediate success of the Survey among the alumni, there is a possibility that future studies of this kind will be undertaken, the cumulative effect of which will be to present a very satisfactory picture of the life and mind of the educated Catholic layman in America.
March 5 Last Date For ’33 Pin Deposit
Maurice Mulville, recently appointed Junior class pin chairman, announced this week that the samples of the pins to be used by the class of ’33 are now on hand. They are very much similar to the pins worn by this year’s senior class with the exception that the black shield has been replaced by a blue spinel stone.
Depending on the color of gold desired, the emblems are priced at fifteen and sixteen dollars. The smaller sister pins are available at twelve dollars. A deposit of five dollars on all orders must be placed in the hands of the committee members by March 5.
Hall representatives are the following: Art Lavery, Howard; John Baldwin, Howard; John Donnelly, Alumni; Marshall MacAveney, Alumni; and Morry Lee, Badin.
Canton Tense Over War;
Chinese to Resist Attacks
By Intercollegiate Press.
CANTON, China, Feb. 18.—Relatives of the Chinese commanders at Shanghai, all of whom are Cantonese, said today the officers had made provision for their wives and children and had informed their families they would resist the Japanese “to the bitter end.”
Canton is avid for every bit of news from the front. The Chinese newspapers are printing long battle dispatches, full of lurid details, and their editions are sold almost as soon as they appear. The local radio station broadcasts Chinese versions of the action at Chapel and Woosung, and whenever there is a report that the Nineteenth Route Army—Canton’s own—has turned back the Japanese, the citizenry celebrate with firecrackers.
Women’s organizations are forming Red Cross units with the announced intention of going to Shanghai to care for the wounded.
Ray T. Miller, LL.B. ’14, was elected mayor of Cleveland last Tuesday in a special election which marked the abolition of the city manager form of government which has been in effect in that city for the past eight years.
Ray T. Miller
Cleveland’s new mayor tcho is an N. D. graduate.
Running on the Democratic ticket and backed by his enviable record in the county prosecutor’s office, Miller defeated his Republican opponent, Daniel E. Morgan, former city manager, by a margin of 7,703 votes.
Ray, now 39 years old, is the second of the renowned five Miller brothers, all of whom have been graduated from Notre Dame. Harry “Red” Miller, ’09, and Don, ’25, one of the Four Horsemen, are especially remembered for their gridiron accomplishments. Walter, ’20, and Jerry, ’25, were also members of their respective varsities and both. are now practicing attorneys.
Coming to Notre Dame from Defiance, Ohio, in 1910, Ray participated to a considerable extent in athletics, but gave the greater part of his attention to his law studies. Two years after his graduation he enrolled as a private in the Ohio National Guard and journeyed down to Mexico to take part in the border dispute. When America entered the World War Mayor Miller was placed in charge of (Continued on Page 11)
February 19, 1932
Seven
MANION AND ENGELS TALK OVER THE RADIO
Juggler Scores Another Big Hit With Highbrow Number
“The Decline In Ownership” Is Title of Discussion.
PHOTOS FEATURED
By Mitchell Tackley
“The Changing Scene of Animal Life” was the topic of the paper read by William L. Engels, B. S., instructor in biology, over WSBT, the South Bend Tribune station, Monday evening of this week. This talk concluded the program of the College of Science.
Professor Clarence E. Manion, J. D., Wednesday evening opened the three-day program of the College of Law. “The Decline in Ownership” was his topic.
Biology Studies Living Things
In opening, Professor Engels said, “Biology, meaning the study of livingthings, is a term that was coined a little more than one hundred years ago. It was brought into use to supplant the older, less inclusive term, natural history.” He went on in a detailed discussion concerning the meaning of these terms in everyday life.
He spoke of the changes in animal life, outlining the ecological factors which caused the changes. The dependence of an animal on the nature of its habitat is often reflected in its structure, he said. For example, he took the Amphibians which have a moist, smooth skin and are nevei-found in deserts or dry districts. Certain regions throughout the country produce animals peculiar to that climate and conditions, he declared.
Bling Fish in Indiana
“Sometimes there occur factors which operate very delicately to confine a species to a sharply delimited area,” continued Mr. Engels. “There is found a blind fish in the living caves of southern Indiana, and although the swimming distance from their resting place to the outside stream and sunlight is but a few yards they never cross the line.”
“Larger problems of animal distribution,” he continued, “can only be studied in the light of historical geology and the study of fossils or Paleontology.”
He then described fossils and their origin, and their relation to animal distribution today. The results of the (Continued on Pafe 14)
Boxing Show Nets $301.25 For Bengal
The following letter was mailed this morning to the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, concerning the proceeds of the Notre Dame Scholastic’s boxing show.
Publications’ Office, February 19, 1932 My dear Father:
Regarding the recent boxing show, which was held last Friday evening for the benefit of the Bengal Mission fund, I wish to make the followingreport :
Approximately 1,950 people attended. There were 1814 paid admissions which brought §453.50 into the ticket office. Thirty-three complimentary tickets were distributed, which went to officials and boxers, bringing the total of the attendance up to 1843.
The remaining hundred or so people included members of The Scholastic staff, who sold tickets in advance, and the Managers’ club, who aided in the seating of the crowd.
Of this $453.50, exactly $152.25 was paid out in necessary expenses, as follows:
S44.00 fol- 16 medals.
11.20 for two sets of boxins' gloves.
17.96 for the printing of tickets.
11.00 for the printing of posters.
2.20 for punching bag and swivel.
23.70 for setting up of the ring and stands.
15.00 for engraving.
15.19 for miscellaneous items.
7.00 for referee’s transportation.
5.00 for salary of McAllister in gym.
I am enclosing receipted statements for all of the items listed above, save that which appears under the heading of miscellaneous. If you so desire I will give you a detailed account of where the miscellaneous items were expended.
Substracting the $152.25 from the total leaves $301.25, which I turned over to you this week.
Respectfully yours,
Neil C. Hurley, Editor, Notre Dame Scholastic.
Usual Wit and Artistry Are Evident In Bob Gorman’s Fifth Consecutive Hit.
By Edmund Stephan
With its wit as sparkling as ever and its artistic pages enhanced by the innovation of some excellent photographic work, the Highbrow number
Joe Lopker -Decorates latest “Juggler” in a highbrow manner.
of the Juggler made its appearance on the campus last evening.
That the issue was meant to be ultra-sophisticated is quite obvious; that it is that and more is apparent to anyone who thumbs past the customary excellent art work of Joe Lopker, the spicy satirical sketches of some outstanding contributors, and the unusually fine pictures.
“Keyhole Portraits,” a new personal column in the front of the magazine, features Billy Sullivan, George Ryan, Neil Hurley, and Charles Hit-zelberger.
Giving Lopker as close a run as anybody can give Lopker for art work honors, Leo Beaulaurier, a comparatively newcomer, turned in some excellent drawings.
Editor Robert Gorman has, apparently developed the very admirable habit of adding something new and something better to his magazine each month.
Eight
The Scholastic
CRITIC HAILS PAULIST CHOIR AS YEAR’S BEST
Large Crowd Hears Youthful Singers in Washington Hall.
By John E. Ryan
Perhaps the most pleasing musical performance to be given in Washington Hall this year was held last Saturday evening, when the Paulist Choir, under the direction of the Reverend James O’Malley held an im-mensly large audience enthralled for two hours.
With selections from the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries, as well as several more modern numbers, the Choir was long applauded by the audience, which had gathered with anticipation of hearing the famed singers.
The Choir includes about sixty-five voices, marvelously well-balanced, and under the skilled direction of Father O’Malley, who has directed the organi zation for a number of years.
Four soloists added their part to the entertainment, and were enthusiastically received by the students.
Though the Choir sings regularly at St. Mary’s Church, Chicago, Ill., Father O’Malley finds time to travel with his artists. During the past summer, the Choir has appeared in theatre engagements, with unfailing success.
Repeated appearances at the University fail to dull the pleasure with which the Choir is received, as any member of the audience will agree who heard the ovation of Saturday evening.
The solo of Mr. Hombaker, a minim at Notre Dame in the late ’80’s, was especially well received by the audience.
The Choir was brought here through the efforts of the Rev. Wm Molony, who is in charge of the concert program of the University.
Small Farm Is Thing of Past
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Feb. 18.—The day of the small farm is past and factory farms must take their place unless the rural population of this country is to sink into a condition of peasantry, according to Rexford T. Tugwell, professor of economics at Columbia University.
EQUIPMENT MANAGER
Anthong Skriener, a Notre Dame man who literally lives in the gymnasium. For several years he has handled the outfitting of the Irish grid squad as head of the equipment room.
Scottish Football Competition Is Marred By Fist Fights
By Intercollegiate Press.
GLASGOW, Feb. 13.—Fist fights galore marked the game in the Scottish Football Association cup competition at Motherwell, where the Glasgow Celtic team was beaten Saturday.
The police had difficulty in separating the irate members of rival clans. A number of people were injured by the milling they received and had to be taken from the grounds in ambulances.
About half an hour before game time the fans overflowed from the stands on to the pitch and caused the police considerable trouble. The officers had to resort to the use of batons in order to preserve order.
The Scottish Football Association and the Motherwell authorities intend to make an official inves'tigation of the causes of the disturbance.
Librarians Turn Detective
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Haven, Conn., Feb. 18.—Yale University Librarians are turning detectives to stop book smuggling. Students using the library’s open shelves must check their coats and personally owned books when they enter the building. A recent survey showed 250 of 9,000 new volumes acquired since the first of this school year were missing.
RYAN OFF FOR STATE MEET
Breen Medal Winner to Speak For Indiana Title.
George B. Ryan, winner of the Breen Medal oratorical contest, will represent Notre Dame in the Indiana state oratorical contest in Indianapolis tomorrow. Eight schools will be represented in the finals which will be held at Butler university.
Ryan is to talk on “Oui- Guarantee.” The colleges to compete in the contest are Manchester, Evansville, Earlham, Franklin, Purdue, Wabash, Butler, and Notre Dame.
The Indiana State Oratorical association is sponsoring the event. The primary purpose of the organization in conducting this contest is to pick a representative of the state for the district oratorical contest. No reward, other than the honor, is bestowed upon the winner.
Professor Frank Kelly, of the Notre Dame speech department, has been selected as one of the judges.
International Relations Club Adds Four Books to Library
The Library of Contemporary Literature on Foreign Affairs, maintained by the International Relations club at Notre Dame, received four-valuable additions this week. The books are the gift of the Carnegie Foundation for International Peace.
“The Holy Land Under Mandate,” in two volumes, by Fannie Fern Andrews, is a detailed study of the working of the British Mandate in Palestine. “Making Bolsheviks,” by Samuel N. Harper, is an intimate cross-section of the reactions of the Russian people to the Five Year plan.
“The World Court,” by Maley 0. Hudson, tells in clear, impartial fashion the story of the World Court’s achievement from 1921 to 1931, analyzing and interpreting each of its judgements.
“Japan,” by Harold J. Moulton, is an economic and financial appraisal of the Japan of today. Mr. Moulton gives the step by step program by which the “Hermit Kingdom” of 1860 rose to its present position as a first-rate world power.
A college bugle corps has been formed at New Jersey State College for Women, one purpose of which will be to sound taps every night.
February 19, 1932
Nine
LETTER CONTEST TO END
Hallinan Sets Date For Final Entries At March 5.
Two weeks from today, March 5, is the deadline for the Santa Maria letter-writing contest, according to the editor’s announcement this morning. Prizes for the three best letters are: $15, $10, and $5 respectively.
Considerable interest has been shown in the competition up to date. The judges, Neil Hurley, Robert Gorman, Leslie Raddatz, and Joseph McCabe, are anticipating a large pile of competitive letters when the judging begins.
Acquaintance with the topics handled (and any may be handled), style and friendly informality of the letter will be the guiding points in the judging.
All letters should be in the hands of Paul J. Hallinan, 307 Walsh hall, editor of the Santa Maria. The publication, which this year will be issued as a year-book, is the official organ of the local council of the Knights of Columbus.
Claims Modern Literature Is Misrepresentation of Life By Intercollegiate Press.
Detroit, Mich., Feb. 18 — Modern literature does not represent life honestly, according to Channing Pollock, author of a half dozen or more plays, the latest of which is “The House Beautiful.”
“Why,” he said here today, “I know more people than anyone outside politics, I think, and not one of them is neurotic. Yet the characters in the modern drama are neurotic, unnatural, strained. The fault lies with the authors. The crowd which creates literature and drama is not normal.
“It cannot be denied that people are noble, romantic and self-sacrificing. But even if there were no nobility, no romance, no self-sacrifice, literature would invent them. Without them life would be unendurable.
“When it was first discovered that debunking could be made to earn profits a wave of it spread through literature. As the result, the world is full of men trying to shrink our intellectual giants and make the world safe for mediocrity.
“Realization may be truth, and truth of justifiable purpose may be beauty. But I denounce the literature that stands in the gutter and denies us the right to look at stars.”
BANDMASTER
Al Stewart, whose Notre Dame orchestra is gaining far more than local fame. The Jugglers, under his direction, will this summer make a trip abroad via one of the most modern steamships.
Northwestern Seeks Geniuses For Class of Child Wonders
By Intercollegiate Press.
Evanston, Ill., Feb. 16.—Northwestern university is looking for geniuses. President Walter Dill Scott is seeking six “child wonders” for next year’s freshman class. He will give them a special program of studies and will encourage them to speed through their education at a much faster pace than that of ordinary students. They will be quartered together so that competition will act as a stimulus.
He said that no university has ever emphasized genius, and that no experiment with precocious students such as that he contemplates has been attempted.
“We have had scattered instances of precocity before but never a program to foster genius in quantity,” he said. “We’d like to see if a Jeremy Bentham, Ben Franklin, James Watt or Lord Byron can be turned out under modern educational conditions.”
Bentham wrote Greek and Latin at five, and entered Oxford at ten. Franklin was a newspaper publisher at 17. Byron began to write at ten and was famous at 15. Watt, inventor of the steam engine, was an expert mathematician at six and already experimenting at 15.
“SCRIP” WILL APPEAR ALMOST ANY DAY NOW
Editor Joseph McCabe Tells All About Second Issue.
The following article by Joseph McCabe, editor of “Scrip”, the Notre Dame quarterly, is contributed at the request of the editors of The Scholastic.
By Joseph McCabe
The final returns have been tabulated and it is found that Scrip’s first edition of the year is a complete sellout. At least the copies are all gone. With this assurance of a potential campus enthusiasm for the magazine the editor hastens to assure his newfound following that the eagerly awaited second issue will be out on a certain day some week soon.
There is no uncertainty, however, in the promise of having as a feature an article that is seasoned and might even be found interesting. It is an appreciation of the title subject “Marlowe,” by Louis Brennan, the editor’s surviving predecessor, and the founder of many Scrip traditions, particularly that of begging and hunting the campus for material. The editor also threatens his public with the names of Hallinan, O’Malley and Escudier, and holds as a final menace the possibility of appearing in print himself. Watch for the new cover.
Mort. Downey, Wons, Renard Featured in Vaudeville Tour
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Feb. 18. — Box office drawing power of radio’s big names will be given a thorough test when the Camel Quarter Hour goes on an extensive vaudeville tour of Mid-We:Aern and Eastern elt’es, opt ring in St. 1 ouis tomorrow. Morton Downey, Tony Wons and the orchestra under Jacques Renard will all be included in the stage invasion.
During the 12-week trip the program will be broadcast regularly from CBS stations in the various cities. Eight weeks of vrork have been definitely scheduled, calling for stage appearances in RKO theatres in St. Louis, Cincinnati, Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Albany, Boston and Buffalo. Other cities which probably w’ill see the act are Pittsburgh. Philadelphia, Washington and Baltimore.
Ten
PREREGISTRATION WILL TAKE PLACE IN APRIL
Enrollment Will Be Limited To Three Thousand.
By Patrick Corcoran
All students now enrolled in the University wrho expect to attend Notre Dame next year must preregister for the year 1932-1933 between April 11 and May 11, it was stated by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, this week.
The enrollment for next year will be strictly limited to 3,000 students: 1,000 for the College of Arts and Letters; 800 for the College of Commerce; 500 for the College of Science; 500 for the College of Engineering; and 200 for the College of Law. Stu-students now in the University will receive first consideration, provided they preregister as prescribed.
As a guarantee of good faith, a preregistration deposit of $25.00 must be filed with the Registrar some time between March 30 and April 15. The receipt for this deposit will admit the student' to assignment of courses which will be done by the deans of the colleges, beginning April 11 and ending May 11. Should a student for any good reason be unable to determine this matter before the time limit, he should make arrangements with both the Registrar and the dean of his college for an extension of time.
The preregistration deposit will be applied upon the student’s account for the first semester of the school-year. If, after pre-registering, he should decide not to return to the University, his, deposit will be refunded, provided he notifies the Registrar of this intention before August 15. Should he fail to inform the Registrar before that date, the deposit will be forfeited. -
The deposit will also admit students to the drawing for rooms in the residence halls the latter part of May. Sophomores (next year) will reside in St. Edward’s, Morrissey, and Lyons; Howard, Badin, and Alumni will be reserved for Juniors; and Sorin, Corby, and Walsh for Seniors.
FOUND
Brown leather brief case. Call at the Lost and' Found Department.
April 15 Is Date Of Engineer ’s Formal Dance
Final arrangements have been made for the Engineers Formal dance which is to be held in the ballroom of the Knights of Columbus on •April 15. “The Kilties” will furnish the music for the occasion.
Tickets for the immediate members of the club will be placed on sale in the near future. This sale will continue for a period of two weeks; then, during the two weeks prior to the dance, the ticket sale will be open for friends of members.
“Applications of Engineering in the Field of Insurance” was the subject that Mr. Lloyed, of the Lloyed Insurance Company, Inc., spoke upon to the members of the engineers club at a meeting held last night.
Freshman Hall Vacated;
Closed For Rest of Year
Last week-end witnessed the re -moval to other campus residence halls of the eighty-four freshmen who have this year inhabited Freshman Hall. They were apportioned among the various halls in which vacancies had occurred.
No definite disposition has as yet been made of Freshman Hall. It will remain closed for the remainder of the semester, and will not be torn down or used for any other purpose at present.
According to the latest figures there are now five hundred students living off-campus. Of these, two hundred and fourteen reside with their parents in South Bend, and the remaining two hundred and eighty-six are out-of-town students who room and board in the city.
Wetli Member of Ohio Bar
Joseph Wetli, a graduate of the Notre Dame College of Law with the class of 1931, recently informed Dean Konop that he has passed his bar examinations in the state of Ohio.
Dean Konop also received a' letter from Charles Lynch, another Law school alumni, saying that he is practicing law at 218 Royal Union Life Building, Des Moines; Iowa.
The Scholastic
A. L E. E. HEARS MALONEY
First Bi-monthly Meeting Is Attended By 75 Members.
Several speakers and considerable entertainment interspersed the first bi-monthly meeting of the A. I. E. E. last Monday evening in the Engineering building. Seventy-five members were in attendance.
J. C. Maloney, district manager of the Cutler-Hammer Manufacturing Company in Chicago, was the principal speaker of the evening. Speaking on “Motor Control,” he brought into use the slide and screen to illustrate his points.
John Scanlon opened the program with a current review of the important developments in the electrical profession.
This was followed by a comedy talk on culture for engineers by Chairman Hugh Ball.
David McCaffery next took the floor to deliver a lengthy discussion of the “Development of Electrical Traction.”
“Alumnus” Carries Story on Knute Rockne As Teacher
“Knute Rockne, the Teacher” is the title of an article in the current issue of the Notre Dame A lumnus by Brother Kilian, C. S. C., instructor in science at the Cathedral High School, Indianapolis. This tribute by one of Rockne’s former students, the first of its kind to be published, shows that our University in gaining a superb coach lost what promised to be a noted teacher.
“Indeed few professors could cover as much ground as he and yet make one feel that the essential points had been sufficiently stressed,” says the writer. “. . . There were few dull moments as he expounded the laws and theories of chemistry. He had a way of inflicting the names of certain substances that made their existence seem as real as the forward pass or the Notre Dame shift. . . .
“Mr. Rockne’s keen, alert mind as well as his clear, concise method of presenting facts were qualities which helped to make him an efficient teacher.”
To relieve unemployment in the local building trades, Princeton university is to erect a memorial dormitory to house 65 students.
February 19, 1932
Eleven


MILLER-ISELECTED MAYOR
First Democrat To Receive Office In 17 Years.
March 17, Date For Economics Major Exam
ALUMNI COOPERATE IN SELECTING STUDENTS
Aim To Secure Students Best Fitted To N. D. Ideals.
(Continued from Page 6)
the 134th machine gun batallion in France, with a captain’s commission.
Returning to Cleveland after the war Ray began his legal practice, became the protege of the famous democratic leader, Edmund Moore, who nominated Cox for the presidency in 1920, and soon was admitted into Moore’s firm as a junior partner.
In 1928 the Cleveland Bar Ass’n almost unanimously agreed that Miller was the logical man to fill the office of county prosecutor. That their choice was a good one is clearly evidenced from the remarkable progress made in that department during the last four years. As the Plain Dealer put it several months back, “Mr. Miller has the most brilliant political future of any man in Cleveland.” A dynamic personality, a rapid-fire manner of speaking, and a matter-of-fact way of handling executive problems are all integral parts of his make-up.
Cleveland truly has a “man of action” in its new leader who answers questions, as it is said, before his interrogator has a chance to take a breath, and who disposes of visitors to his office as fast as they come.
Ray has been an active leader in ths American Legion since the war and served as state deputy of the Knights of Columbus in Ohio during the last term.
The new mayor was married at Notre Dame and is now the father of four children.
Thomas Daly, Humorist, To Give Skit Here Wednesday
Thomas Daly, nationally known humorist, will appear on the Washington hall stage this Wednesday evening, according to the committee on student entertainment.
Daly resides in New York City, where he is well known for his stage antics and humorous articles, which appear in many of the newspapers throughout the country.
The nature of the entertainment will be in the form of a skit, specially prepared for his Notre Dame performance.
The comprehensive examination for seniors majoring in economics has been tentatively set for Thursday, March 17.
A series of eight lectures intended for those desiring an organized review of the principles of economics will be given. The first of these will be held Wednesday, February 24, at 4:15 p. m., in Room 1, Main building.
At that time, a schedule for the remaining lectures will be arranged. At this meeting, also, the list of seniors who took and passed the examination last April will be read.
Juniors majoring in economics who intend to take the combined law course in their senior year may take this examination.
Copies of the Regents’ Book, which many find a valuable aid in review, are now available at the Book Store.
Italian Clubs Plans Dinner;
Contemplates European Tour
“Fascism, Its Rise and Development” was the title of a paper given by Professor Esposito at a meeting of the Italian club last Monday evening. Plans were made for a spaghetti dinner scheduled for the near future, under the direction of President Leo Schiavone.
A European tour under the auspices of the Italian club this summer is being arranged. It will be open to all students of the University.
A meeting will be held Tuesday evening in Room 2 of the Main Building at which time the committees for the dinner and tour will be announced. Papers will be read by Leo Schiavone, Sal Bontempo, Maffei and lachevetti, and a member of the faculty.
Prof. Campbell Talks on China
Professor T. T1 Campbell, of the department of history, spoke last Tuesday evening to the Holy Name Society of St. Joseph’s parish, South Bend. His subject was the situation in Shanghai, China, where he spent six years as a missionary.
At the meeting Professor William Farrell was installed as president of the society.
The plan initiated this year through the cooperation of Registrar Robert B. Riordan and Alumni Secretary, James E. Armstrong whereby alumni participate in the selection of pros-
Registrar Robert Riordan On the lookout for potential Notre Dame men.
pective students has thus far met with marked success.
Its aim is to secure the type of student best fitted to the distinctive ideals of Notre Dame and to eliminate those students who whould waste their time by coming and not fulfilling other than the ordinary technical requirements for admission.
It likewise furnishes means of reaching students of the Notre Dame “type” who would otherwise have no opportunity of becoming acquainted with the University. By introducing the personal element into the procedure, the ground not covered by the Registrar’s office is thus being cared for. .
Localities which have organized alumni clubs handle the work through special committees for the purpose, while in those cities without clubs it is done by individual alumni.
Committees are now functioning in Chicago, Buffalo, Western Pennsylva-(Continued on Pacre 14)
Sb
Twelve
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus - - Ray Geiger
By Roy Scholz
The first object which becomes evident upon entering 350 Corby hall is a bowl of goldfish; live, glittering goldfish swimming jauntily about their little world; glancing now and then at their year’s food supply which nestles behind the aquarium.
On every wall are pictures, between which pennants are scattered with profusion. And it is here in this bedeckled room that Ray Geiger and his goldfish are wont to live.
He is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in philosophy. Ray is treasurer of the Patricians, the classical society of the University, a club of which he is one of the original members who informally grouped together- in Morrissey hall for the purpose of studying Latin.
It was last fall, when the Patricians were seeking a suitable design for their emblem, that Ray designed a pin which was immediately accepted as the official club emblem.
Geiger comes from Irvington, New Jersey (wherever that is); there he attended St. Leo’s grammar school. And from there our subject advanced to St. Benedict’s Preparatory school.
Always interested in dramatics, he joined the Dramatic club there and took major roles in several plays. In his senior year he was elected president of the club. He was the business manager of “Tellelog,” the year-book. Athletics also claimed a part of his time when he played basketball on the “B” team.
Geiger entered the University four years ago to reside in Howard hall. Perhaps some remember the “Fourth Floor Squirrels,” and the “Captain of the Dawn Patrol.” There was a banjo which survived that first year to be played in the newly formed Banjo club. He then joined the New Jersey club, of which he is now secretary.	.
During his sophomore year Ray served on the Cotillion committee and played interhall basketball. The junior year was marked by serving on the Prom committee and being appointed a member of the Blue Circle.
Incidentally, his room was decorated with the best collection of menues on the campus, gleaned from every corner of the United States.
Ray likes ot write poetry and has contributed jokes to the Juggler. Life, Judge, and Harpers are the periodicals which attract his attention while “Green Pastures” is his
Ray Geiger
He keeps goldfish.
conception of the perfect musical show. The novels of Edith Wharton and John Galsworthy are favorites.
Topping this respectable list of accomplishments Ray has maintained a 91 average for the last three years. A magna cum laude will be his in June.
Kermit Roosevelt Still
Prefers Work to Politics
By Intercollegiate Press.
Kansas City, Feb. 19.—KermL Roosevelt still prefers the perplexities of steamship operation to the tumult of politics.
“I’m one Roosevelt,” he observed, “who doesn’t get a kick out of politics. I have never held a political office and never intend to hold one.”
The brother of Theodore Roosevelt, new governor general of the Philippines, and cousin of Franklin D. Roosevelt, said his work as head of the company operating the United States Lines “keeps me busy—quite.”
Pharmacy Club To Meet
The Pharmacy club will meet Tuesday evening, at 7:45 p. m., in Chemistry halt
HOST IS FOOTBALL LEADER
Left End Will Captain 1932 N. D. Football Squad.
(Continued from Page 5)
The remaining members of the team whose time had come to bid farewell were called upon by the toastmaster. Al Culver, Bernie Leahy, Carl Cronin, and George Kozak, having completed their years of eligibility, arose in turn expressed thankfulness for all that they had gained by being associated with football here.
Jesse C. Harper declared he was satisfied with the outcome of the past season, assuring his listeners that it was a great pleasure to hold the position of athletic director at Notre Dame. He stated, in conclusion, that he had utmost confidence for next year and that he was looking forward to another National Championship.
Jack Chevigny, for the past three years coach of the Irish backfield, took the opportunity to “sing his swan song” and at the same time wished “Hunk” every success in his future campaigns. Ike Voedisch, end coach, and Manny Kaplan, frosh coach, addressed a few words to the gathering.
Warren Brown, Chicago newspaperman and sports authority, told of the interest with which he expected to watch Notre Dame’s experiment with the new coaching staff next season. He said that he considers it an experiment because no school of such national prominence has ever boasted of so young a staff of coaches and so many All-Americans.
Father Mulcaire concluded the speaking program of the evening with a few words in which he eulogized the man who, though he cannot seem to reach the top, keeps striving every day with the spirit that makes it certain that he will succeed in later life.
Following this address ballots were passed to the monogram winners for the purpose of nominating two candidates for the captaincy. Host and Kosky received the majority of votes and the subsequent ballot elected Host to lead Notre Dame in 1932.
Host thanked his teammates for the honor and expressed the hope that he would be able to prove himself worthy of their confidence. Kosky pledged his support and best efforts in an attempt to bring. Notre Dame her third National Championship in four years.
I
I
February 19, 19J2
Thirteen
LETTER MEN OFFER PRIZE
Ten Dollars To Be Awarded For Best Monogram Skit.
A ten dollar prize will be awarded to the student who writes the best skit for the Monogram Absurdities, annual presentation of Notre Dame letter-men.
Announcement of the contest was made today by Nordy Hoffman, president of the organization and recently appointed assistant football coach for next fall.
Rules are simply that the skit must be in the hands of Hoffman on or before March 5. Announcement of the winner will be made in The Scholastic foi- the week of March 12.
Although any type of sketch will be considered, it is understood that humorous playlets are desired, especially with the locale centered about some campus object. Notre Dame letter-men will play the parts of the characters.
The date set for the show, which is always a high-light of the spring program, is April 13, 14, and 16.
“This is one contest that will be run on the level,” declared Hoffman. “And all skits that are handed in will receive equal consideration.”
Measures lOO,OOO,OOO,OOOth Second But Is Not Accurate
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Feb. 18.—Although there has been perfected an instrument which can split time into one one-hundred-billionth of a second, we have not yet, nor will we ever, acquire the ability to measure time accurately, according to Professor E. W. Brown, Yale university astronomer.
Some of the sources of error, he said, are known, so that allowances can be made. But there are many causes, cellestial and terrestial, he asserted, that act as thieves of time. The moon is one.
“Just lately,” he said, “the action of the moon, which is the greatest external effect, was measured by the Loomis chronograph (the 100,000,-OOO,OCOth measurement instrument) and shown to give accumulated errors which were always less than two ten-thousandths of a second as indicated by theory. Raising a clock one foot from the ground will change the rate of its pendulum by one part in twenty million.”
Campus Opinions
QUESTION: “What sport do you like best at Notre Dame?”
John O’Shaughnessy, Alumni hall, junior: “I like swimming or golf not only because there seems to be a dearth of these sports in collegiate circles, but also because one doesn’t need a dozen or more other contestants, such as are so necessary in other sports.”
Ed Sherman, Lyons hall, sophomore: “I like football better than any other individual sport at Notre Dame because it is concentrated upon more and consequently produces excellent results.”
Joseph Kirincich, Alumni hall, junior: “Football always was and always will be my favorite sport. It helps one to be a better physical specimen, as Ed Krause, and practically assures a good position at the end of college days.”
Richard Mullen, Lyons hall, sophomore: “Tennis is a sport that I believe should be popularized to a greater extent because it affords the individual the maximum of exercise. It also allows a perfectly balanced development of muscles.”
Don Wise, Alumni hall, junior: “My favorite sport is Notre Dame’s outstanding sport—football. The coordination of eleven men will always give me more of thrill than the rhythm occasioned by the action of any other sport group.”
Von Hindenburg Is George Washington of Germany
By Intercollegiate Press.
HEIDELBERG, Feb. 17. — Like George Washington, President Paul von Hindenburg of Germany is “first in war, first in Peace and first in the hearts of his countrymen,” Prof. Carl Wittke of Ohio State University said in a speech at the celebration of the bicentenary of the first president of the United States, at the University of Heidelberg.
A committee of American educators have sailed at the request of the Iraq government to make a study of the Iraq educational system.
COLLEGES TO HONOR WASHINGTON MONDAY
Fr. Robinson To Represent N. D. At Philadelphia.
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Washington, D. C., Feb. 19.—The Rev. William M. Robinson, an alumnus, and now a professor in Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., will represent the University of Notre Dame at the Bicentennial Convocation of George Washington university to be held in Constitution hall, the auditorium of the Daughters of the American Revolution, next Monday.
In honoring Washington on this occasion, representatives of colleges and universities throughout the country will join with the University here that bears his name, and is dedicated to his educational ideals.
The convocation address will be delivered by Dr. Cloyd Heck Marvin, President of The George Washington University and Chairman of the District of Columbia Bicentennial commission.
The convocation is designed by the Bicentennial commission as a collateral patriotic event of the National Capital’s program of participation in the Bicentennial celebration. It is also scheduled as an official part of the program of the Department of Superintendance of the National Education Association and will be attended by several thousand members assembled in Washington.
Economic Crisis Explained
By Intercollegiate Press.
Stroudsburg,Pa., Feb. 18. — “The economic crisis is a penalty for our denial of the basic ethical law. Our stimulated desires are a part of the economic structure, and when these have been stopped we will again go on an even keel.”
This was the explanation of these times of bereaved pocketbooks put forward today by Rev. Halford Luc-cock of the Yale Divinity School, who addressed the midwinter conference of Student Division of the Young Men’s Christian Association at Buck Hill Falls near here.
The National Geographic Society has determined that George Washington was the first geographer of the United States and the foremost traveler of his time.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
FOOR PAPERS ARE READ AT SEMINAR MEETING
United States Policy In South America Is Discussed.
Four papers on the policy of ‘ the United . States toward countries of South America were delivered before the Economics Seminar at their meeting Tuesday evening. “The United States’ Policy in Nicaraugua” was discussed by John O’Shaughnessy, that toward Haiti by John S. Witliff, the commercial attitude toward Colombia by James B. Clarke, and a paper on Bolivia was presented by Frank Denny.
High-Handed Policies
All the papers tended to show the policy of the United States toward these smaller countries to be rather high-handed. Witliff said that the United States’ policy towards the Republic of Haiti has been one of financial imperialism. “In 1900 they obtained one-fifth of the shares of the National Bank of Haiti and later obtained control of this bank which plays an important part in the finance of the country.”
“The effects of this treaty which President Theodore had arranged for the preserving of peace among the Central American countries was nuli-fied by the Bryan-Chamorra treaty in 1916, in which the United States took the part of the bully in forcing Nicaragua to give them the ‘exclusive proprietary rights necessary and convenient for construction, operation and maintenance of an inter-oceanic canal,” O’Shaughnessy read in his paper on Nicaragua.
Correction of This Attitude
The other papers followed the tone of these two in criticizing the policy which the United States has adopted, especially in the past few years, toward the Latin nations of the southern American continent.
Following the reading of the papers there was a discussion as to the best way of correcting this governmental attitude for which capitalistic interests in general were blamed. It was decided that public opinion must be educated to the facts. Methods of bringing this about were also discussed.
RADIO ORATOR
Clarence Manion, Notre Dante law professor, who teas the radio speaker last Wednesday over WSBT on the University’s series of educational^ lectures.
New Jersey Club To Meet;
Club Picture Is Scheduled
A meeting of the New Jersey club will be held next Thursday evening in the Law building, according to President Sal Bontempo.
Next Friday the club will be photographed for the Dome on the steps of the Library at 12:30. Bontempo asks that all members of the club be on time for the picture.
General Electric Co. Head Addresses Commerce Group
Vice-president Ripley of the General Electric Company addressed the upperclassmen of the College of Commerce Wednesday afternoon. The topic was “New Tools For a New Age.” In the course of the lecture the speaker pointed out the marvels of electricity in the modern business world.
The talk was confined to interesting practical examples of the part played by electricity and electric machinery in production, rather than’ to productive theory.
This lecture was the second in a series being planned, for the students of the College of Commerce by Dean' James E. McCarthy.
MANION, ENGELS ON AIR
Instructor In Biology Tells of Animal Life.
(Continued from Page 7)
study showed that at one time such modern African animals as the giraffe, tiger, and elephant lived on the North American continent. Thus, he said, a variation of climate must have taken place in the past.
Professor Engels then explained the mixing of animal population by the fact that at one time all the continents were supposed to have been connected by land strips. In conclusion, he spoke of the state legisla-iton to prevent extermination of any one species. He said that extermination measures were “violations against which the hands of all men should be raised.”
Manion in Fourth Lecture
On Wednesday evening of this week, Professor Clarence Manion, of the College of Law, delivered the fourth lecture. He contrasted conditions of the Civil War period with those of the present to show that the desire as well as the capacity for ownership of all kinds of property by individuals is rapidly disappearing.
“Let us ask ourselves a question,” said Prof. Manion. “Is it better for a citizen to own and have complete dominion over a few things, or to own nothing but at the same time to have access to and the ability to use many things owned by others?” He explained how the modernist would answer this question.
Scarcity of Money
Prof. Manion then described economic conditions as they existed during the Civil War. There was a scarcity of money then and exchange of goods was common. The value of food and land was unimpaired regardless of the value of money. Money, because it is not intrinsically valued, he said, “is merely a glorified credit slip.”
Communism was also discussed by Prof. Manion. By evolution, he said, “we are moving directly and unquestionably through ‘community’ to communism. It is folly to change our minds unless we at the same time change our course. The voice may be the voice of Jacob but the hands are unquestionably the hands of Esau.”
February 19, 1932
Fifteen
N. D. STUDENT HONORED
Gerend Elected Vice-President of Student Conference.
James G. Gerend, a junior in the College of Commerce and a member of the S. A. C., was elected vice-president of the Midwest Student conference at their convention last week at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville.
John Kramer, president of the S. A. C., also attended the convention.
The purpose of the conference was t« promote better relations between the various schools and the student government, and to solve the various campus problems which arise between faculty and student.
There were eleven midwest schools represented. Next year the convention will be held at the University of Cincinnati, Ohio.
ALUMNI SELECT STUDENTS
(Continued from Page 11)
nia, St. Joe Valley, Cleveland, and Western Washington.
One interesting feature of the system is that it makes contact with the student while he is still in high school and carries over his relations with the alumni of his home district through the medium of the campus clubs while he is at the University.
The blending process is completed after his graduation when he becomes a member of the alumni club itself. The recently announced regulation of the Presidents’ council requiring campus clubs to have an alumni club at home is part of this general plan.
An alumnus wrote Secretary Armstrong recently that at a “College Night” he attended at a high school near Chicago, the vice president of Wabash College, who was there, complimented Notre Dame upon the presentation of its entrance requirements as outlined by Registrar Riordan.
According to Armstrong, the results thus far make it safe to say that the system will be elaborated and definitely made a part of the work of his and the Registrar’s offices in the future. The response from the alumni indicates that they corroborate fully the present entrance requirements and scholastic standards of the University.
Notre Dame Men To Run Trip To Europe Next June
National Catholic Student Tours, an organization originating at Notre Dame, this week swung into its opening program by establishing its contacts in all major Catholic universities in the United States.
Reputedly the only travel group that caters exclusively to Catholic youth, the organization is receiving national acclaim. Letters have been pouring in from deans and presidents at other colleges, which point to a successful summer trip to the Eucharistic congress and sojourn through Europe.
“We believe that we have the cooperation of most of the Catholic colleges,” John E. Ryan, director of the affair, declared yesterday. “Advance comment from many leading educators has been favorable.”
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president, and Professor Charles Phillips are two of the Notre Dame faculty who have endorsed the tour here.
Steffel Leaves Campus
Joseph Steffel, official photographer from White studios in New York, left the University grounds yesterday afternoon for Syracuse university.
All pictures for the Dome are now taken, according to Leslie Raddatz, editor of the year-book. Satire photos were snapped Tuesday afternoon in the Walsh hall recreation room.
The first copy for the annual publication was taken to the printers this week.
Medical Society Hears Cooley
The St. Joseph Valley Medical Society last Wednesday evening heard Professor Edwin J. Cooley, member of the University department of Sociology, lecture on the subject, “Psychiatry, and Its Relation to a Community of 100,000.”
NOTICE
The Lost and Found Department is located in room 124, Main building.
Unclaimed material will be returned to finder after 60 days.
Hours: 8:00 to 9:00 a. m. and 4:30 to 5:00 p. m.
O’SHAUGHNESSY ELECTED
WRANGLER PRESIDENT
Neil Hurley Is Made Honorary President of Club.
J. B. O’Shaughnessy
James B. O’Shaughnessy, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected to the presidency of the Wranglers last evening by a unana-mous vote of the organization.
The election was held at this time to fill the vacancy left by the resignation last week of Neil C. Hurley, who has headed the club since last September.
“Activity at meetings is going to be our by-word,” O’Shaughnessy declared in his speech of acceptance. “The W ranglers have always stood for the highest traditions in oratorical
fields. I shall try and live up to the standard that has been set in the
past.”
Following the election of O’Shaughnessy, Neil C. Hurley was elected honorary president of the organization by a unanimous vote.
Routine business occupied the organization for the remainder of the evening, until James Boyle took the floor to deliver one of the best talks
ever heard in Wrangler meetings. Cutting into his opponents with ruthless verbal onslaughts, Boyle held his audience enthralled as he entered into the rebuttal of his speech.
25 To Make Washington Trip
About twenty-five students have signed for the trip to- Washington, D. C., which was arranged by Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor in politics.
The party will leave Notre Dame on March 21 and return March 23. They will travel along the Cumber-lund route. Arrangements are underway for an excursion to Annapolis.
The belief of many people that “an apple a day keeps the doctor away” is an example of the way in which modern civilization sticks to old superstitions, according to Dr. Clark Wiss-ler, anthropologist.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Scholastic Reporter Finds Post Office Is Democratic
JORDAN KORP SPEAKS ON TOOLS TO NJ). ENGINEERS
By Bryan Degnan
You have seen them all. The freshman, as patiently solicitous as a woman being weighed; the senior, tense with a sort of reserved fear; the sophomore, looking for another chance to gripe. And why all this? Daily mail delivery in the various halls: hands grasping, a few quick shouts, and the ensuing return to the room with either a brisk stride or a slow stroll.
Trace things down to that small square building of yellow brick directly opposite the old off-campus office. Three times daily the letters poud in, lavender colored and perfumed, or just plain white. There are. or course, the cards, the papers, and that package from home—but even the last mentioned can’t equal the importance of the average campus letter.
What’s the Average Letter?
It’s a question, though, just whether there should be such a classification as “the average campus letter.” Is it hers, is it Bill’s, or is it the reprimand from Father? And as to contents: the national weather forecast, the story of the other prom, or the refusal to an ever increasing demand for bucks? Hard to say and even by a careful collection of evidence a statement would inevitably be false. Yes, a slight tendency to distort is always present.
Overly tame letters from a sympathetic sister are read with avidity when a curious friend passes by. And the blush created by a bill from Livingston’s is sometimes merely for the effect—not from the shock of the bill. Then too, a boy can always be popular- by joining the matrimonial bureau or the “lonesome league” of women’s colleges.
They sell 400,000 2 Cent Stamps
Discarding the possibility of a type, however, and attempting an estimate of the quantity is less of a hazard. Something of a boast, this. Call it what you like: the appeal of national champs or a premium on virility— but in some way account for the ’ weight of mail traffic that establishes the office as first class and gives it a volume of business equal to that of a city of 10,000. Nor is the traffic
all one way. Last year 8,000 air mail stamps and over 400,000 two cent stamps were sold.
The following publications go out through the office: Ave Maria, Notre Dame Scholastic, St. Mary’s Chimes, Bulletin of the University, A merican
Midland Naturalist, Holy Cross Courier, The Catalyzer, Notre Dame Alum-mis, The Juggler, Notre Dame Lawyer, the Notre Dame Retreatant, and occasionally Scrip. The Ave Maria has the largest circulation of any of the magazines passing through the office and has subscribers in practically all foreign countries to which sacks are sent weekly.
Since distance prevents direct communication with trains the mail is transferred by a carrier who makes nineteen trips weekly including one on Sunday. These trips start from the South Bend office. All the mail for St. Mary’s College and Academy is received here mixed in sacks for Notre Dame, sorted in the postoffice, then delivered by a private carrier. A justification for the boys who use only penny stamps.
Amusing Incidents
Amusing incidents are always with us . . . the freshman who, unaware of hall delivery (as yet untouched-for the $2.25) applies regularly at the postoffice for the first two weeks . . . the letters that are addressed to the “best looking man at Notre Dame” . . . the tons of fan mail during football season . . . the regularity of traffic from certain female institutions ... we make no attempt to record comparative popularity.
If there is such a thing as a campus pulse it certainly is the mail delivery. For many it measures out the day. Letters coming in telling of good times at dear old Blayton; letters going out telling of good times around here—both more or less false.
Metallurgical Expert Has Experienced Varied Career.
By Lawrence Dunda
Jordan Korp, metallurgical engineer for the Leeds and Northrup company, addressed a joint meeting of the Notre Dame group of the American Society for Steel Treating and the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society .m Tuesday evening in the auditorium of the new John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. His subject was “Tool Room Furnaces for Carbon Steel.”
Korp is a Norwegian by birth and came to this country about twenty-five years ago to take charge of the making of Leeds and Northrup tools and dies, and has been with that company ever since. He is recognized as the inventor of the hump furnace, since it was due to his realization of the importance of properly heat treating tools and dies to obtain satisfactory results that the Leeds and Northrup company was prompted to begin investigations which ultimately resulted in the development of the hump furnace.
He spent about five months in Europe last year, visiting as much as possible, all of the companies who use Leeds and Northrup furnace equipment and collecting information and data on the heat treatment of steel as carried on in such plants as the Krupp Works at Essen, Germany, and the Arsenal of France.
Korp was guest at a dinner served in the Lay Faculty dining room at 6:30 P. M., Tuesday evening.
League of Nations Is Scored
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 18.—That the League of Nations would never be able to meet a real world crisis has been proved by its failure to settle the Chinese-Japanese conflict, occord-ing to Albert Bushness Hart, professor emeritus of history at Harvard University.
“If a majority of the people in the world do not think that the League of Nations can preserve peace, it cannot do anything,” he said today in an interview published in the Harvard
• Crimson.
February 19, 1932
Seventeen
EDUCATION WILL SAVE AMERICA SAYS FR. FOX
Noted Jesuit Sees Scholars As ' Band of Job Hunters.
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cleveland, Ohio, Feb. 18.—Education alone can save America, Rev. Dr. Albert C. Fox, S.J., dean of John Carroll university, told members of the Mu Delta Pi society, a Carroll literary club, at the society’s annual dinner here last week.
Deploring that “our idolized fetish of education” had failed us in the crisis, Dr. Fox said:
“It is disquieting to American who have poured millions of dollars into educational mechanisms to discover in times like these that our array of scholars has largely dwindled into a league of job hunters.
“These job hunters are willing to smuggle denatured educational processes and programs into our schools from the kindergarten to the university, and to peddle uninteresting capsules of unhelpful information to the minds and hearts of our youth, minus anything which smacks of wis-. dom or which can furnish the moral stamina so sadly lacking among us today—stamina which alone can be counted upon to support men and women in crises such as the present.
“Our cult of cant has collapsed in America, and we are the only nation in the world till now that has failed to or refused to see the fact and its effects. Education alone can save America, but it must be an education that educates, that fastens upon every man the responsibility that is wholly his and that he cannot unshoulder even if he would.”
‘Dome’ Pictures Still on Sale
Seniors and juniors who wish to order photographs from the negatives used in the Dome of 1932 are advised to see Paul J. Hallinan at 307 Walsh hall. If they have already returned their proofs, or if they have them but have not ordered, they can still be taken care of.
Duplicate proofs will be sent, if the first ones were returned to White’s.
Sales in photography this year nearly reached the total of 1931 when a record was set in campus sales. White Studio handled all the photographs for the 1931 and 1932 Dome.
2,000 Customers See N. D.’s Greatest Ring Show Friday
The earliest arrivals for The Scholastic’s boxing show last Friday evening began clicking the turnstiles as early as six-thirty. And the customers, 2,000 of them, didn’t stop until 8:15, when they packed into the
gymnasium to witness the greatest intramural sporting event in the University’s history.
Early arrivals from Corby and Sorin amused themselves by hoots and boos that rang through the gymnasium to give the evening a colorful aspect.
John Perone drew the largest hand of the evening when he stepped between the ropes to announce the first bout. His arm bandaged in a mock sling, and wearing a derby, he kept the crowd in fits of uproarious laughter as he told some of the background connected with the affair.
The Reverend Charles LI O’Donnell, C.S.C., led the list of personages who were on hand to witness the bouts.
Shortly before the gong, Senior Manager John Grams gave instructions to the gate-men to close the south door and to send the students through the other portals. The student section was completely filled before any of the fighters made their appearance.
Len Dunn, after training for several weeks to defend his light-heavyweight crown, was ruled out of the competition by Dr. Harry Cooper, who examined all of the fighters before the battle. Dr. Cooper was in
constant attendance at the ring-side throughout the evening. ’
Consternation was thrown into the ring-side when some bright young Scholastic reporter reminded sporting editor Jim Kearns that no one had been assigned to cover The Scholastic’s own show.
By far the greatest boxing burlesque in Notre Dame history was the now famous Heitz-Perone affair in the middle of the card. Downtown promoters are making an effort to get the competitors to repeat the show on a South Bend card.
Jerry Heffernan, who came to Notre Dame from Loyola University especially for the affair, was enthusiastic about the battles themselves. “They have lots of material here,” he declared. “And I am glad to say that Notre Dame men conducted themselves exactly as I thought they would. It was a great affair.”
Reason for much of the success was the efficiency with which the managers handled the crowd.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
No More Brass
“Boisterous orchestras whose assertedly raucous music grated upon the esthetic sensibilities of Barnard college chaperons have been banned as rhythm-makers at student dances,” a news item reveals. Only string ensembles will be approved. The decision was made after a well-known dance band had failed to meet the specifications of “propriety” set by the chaperons. As a result, artistic looking gentlemen with far away looks in their eyes will henceforth play at Barnard’s dances.
Mental Fun
Fun is the most important thing in college, according to Professor Franklin S. Snyder of Northwestern university. In a speech before the freshmen he defined fun as “exercising the muscles of the mind.”
“Take a Lecture/* Miss—
Students at McMaster university in Ontario have shown a brilliant streak of ingenuity by perfecting a system of getting complete lecture notes for all lecture courses. They have hired a stenographer to attend all lectures and to record each in shorthand. Mimeographed copies are then sold to the students who want them, the subscription price being 50 cents a week.
Chances For Champs
Statistics reveal that 60 former college athletic heroes are now presidents of colleges and universities in this country.
Girlish Relaxation
During the final exam week at Wellesley the girls are served soup, tea, and crackers at 9:30 each night in the dormitories. There are also afternoon teas and dances. Only girls with ink
stained fingers and “exam” clothes are admitted to the teas.
Son of a Bicycle
A student who lives in Plattsburg, N. Y., commutes several times a week over to the international line to Montreal to attend lectures at McGill university. When he receives his M. A. degree in 1933, he will have traveled 30,000 miles. Quite a journey for an education!
Bul. 100 Per Cent
College credit for “bull sessions” is one of the novel and distinctive features of the University of Wisconsin experimental college.
Collegians explain that “bull sessions” are informal dormitory debates ranging from “the desirability of red heads as sweethearts” to “the significance of abandoning the gold standard.”
Regarding this phase of college life, Dr. Glenn S. Frank, president of the university, has this to say: “We have felt that the conversation of college students in social rooms when the day is over is as much an index of the effectiveness of the college as the talk of students in the classrooms.	,
Something to Read
With 3,000,000 volumes in its stacks, the library of Harvard university ranks fifth among the world’s largest libraries. There are two larger libraries in the United States.
Sissies
Princeton is the college of riots. There has been a series of them from 1800 to 1930. Lengths of prayers, poor food, and unpopular presidents have been the causes for some of them. The worst upheaval occurred in 1817 when the tutors were locked in their rooms and attacked with bricks and wooden bats. .
4
February. 19, 1932
Nineteen
EDITCK’J PACE
IN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The Scholastic, admittedly proud of its achievement in reviving the Notre Dame boxing show, is sincerely grateful for the aid and assistance of its many friends who gave freely of their time to make last Friday’s event the outstanding intramural athletic carnival in the University’s history.
Acknowledgement is made, therefore, to Billy Magarrall, director of the tournament committee; to John Grams and others of the Managers’ Club; to Jerry Heffernan, boxing coach at Loyola university, and referee on Friday night; to Walter Willey and Jack Ledden, ringside judges; to all those who assisted in the distribution and sale of the tickets; to the Studebaker Corporation for their kindness in loaning The Scholastic their boxing ring.
And, finally, to all of those Fighting Men of Notre Dame, whose achievements in the ring last Friday evening will not soon be forgotten by the hundreds who packed into the University gymnasium.
❖ ❖ ❖
THE HONORARY CLUBS
Chronicled consistently in the news section of The Scholastic are reports of talks given by undergraduates to certain extra-curricular honorary clubs.
The societies themselves have recently grown to traditional importance in the field of undergraduate affairs. Revered, indeed, is the Wrangler charm, the Spectator mug, the Scribbler key. Honored is the member of the Academy of Science, the Bookmen, or the Economic seminar.
These, organizations, meeting for their, individual benefit, are doing much to raise the intellectual prestige of Notre Dame. They sound a true note in the falsetto uproar of voices from the city and state campus clubs.
They have a purpose, definitely carved for themselves. That they are achieving that goal is unquestionably acknowledged.
PROPAGANDA
The passivity of the American undergraduate as compared with the politically active European student is at present under wide scrutiny.
Groups of pacifists are spending thousands of dollars to awaken the interest of the college man in this country and to obtain his support to the cause of disarmament. This becomes more noticeable each day.
The Scholastic’s mail each morning is flooded with propaganda while organized societies are making a decided effort to urge favorable editorial expression in the college press.
The newspapers of the country recently carried a wide-spread story to the effect that a student from Yale university was to be a delegate to a European peace conference.
Fortunately most American college men take these maneuvers to secure their support with little faith. Lacking the intenseness of the foreigner, who gangs with his fellows and who stoutly supports in public demonstrations allegiance to individual policies, the American undergraduate remains more cool.
They presumably, and fortunately, take little stock in the boy scout delegations to Geneva, or the women arms experts. They are not swayed by so-called pacifistic propaganda. And college editors show a decided tendency to ignore the friendly overtures of disarmament societies.
The Scholastic does not countenance such a procedure. All such propaganda finds its way quickly and surely into the editorial waste basket. It does not believe in the disarmament conference, nor does it approve of the thousands of dollars that are being wasted annually to urge the shrinkage of explosive artillery.
This editorial will have little positive effect. But it may show misguided pacifistic societies that at least a certain group of college men believe that strong coastal and national defense is life insurance to the nation, rather than a cumbersome financial burden. And it may show the high-salaried press agents of similar groups that the college press today is extremely apathetic to such high-pressure ballyhoo.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPORTS ♦
McCormick, Wilson to New York
Irish Track Stars Seek Titles In
National A.A.U. Meet Monday Nite
THINLY CLADS WIN FIRST
MEET FROM IOWA, 51-35
McCormick In Sprint Division;. Wilson 600-Yard Favorite; Butler Here Tomorrow.
Alex Wilson and Captain Bill McCormick of the Notre Dame track squad will be seeking national honors when they step to the starting line Monday night at Madison Square Garden, New York. They are entered in the 600-yard and 60-yard events respectively in the National A. A. U. indoor meet.
The two Irish luminaries are scheduled to meet the very finest competition in the country in Monday’s meet. Champions, ex-champions and outstanding rivals are on the entry list.
McCormick Inexperienced
Captain McCormick will be called upon to face the classiest sprint field of the year in his first appearance on a board track. This inexperience on the boards and the strangeness of starting without blocks may handicap the Irish leader considerably but he is favored to go a long way in the championship event.
Emmett Toppino, New Orleans flash who has been astounding eastern audiences this winter with his breathtaking speed, is rated as the oustand-ing entry in the sixty. Eddie Tolan, Michigan’s colored star, George Simpson, late of Ohio State, and Ira Singer, veteran eastern speedster, are others who should figure prominently in deciding the championship.
All of these men, together with McCormick, have tied Jack Elder’s record of :06.2 at one time or another.
Wilson Favored
Entering the race just two weeks after a sensational victory in the Millrose'600-yard event, Alex Wilson is a slight favorite to cop the A. A. U. crown at that distance. He will face
practically the same field that wear to the barrier in the former race.
Bernie McCafferty, second in the Millrose race, Eddie Roll, third place winner, and George Bullwinkle, who ran fourth, are all slated for another attempt to outrun the slim Notre Dame star.
Sandler a Threat
In addition to these men and several other crack entries, a new threat has appeared in the person of N. Y. U.’s latest flash, Sandler. The Violet runner turned in a 1:12.8 mark in the Seton Hall games at Newark two days after Wilson’s Millrose triumph.
On the strength of that showing Sandler appears as the most dangerous man that Wilson will face. With the race scheduled to be run in pre
ALEX WILSON
liminary heats it tain that
’ field will
and final seems cer-an all-star go to their
marks for the championship race. Post
positions will count heavily in de
termining the
result because of the
shuffling and crowding on the intial turn.
Butler Here Tomorrow .
The two Notre Dame hopes in the Nationals as well as the rest of the Irish squad are scheduled for a competitive work-out on the local track against Butler tomorrow. On the basis of form the Irish should have no trouble with the downstaters.
In a dual meet with Michigan State Normal last Saturday, the Butler thinlies were swamped by a tremen-
(Continued on Page 26)
Six Firsts Boost Irish Total; King Gets Eight Points.
Annexing six first places, Coach John Nicholson’s thinlies opened their indoor track season with a 51-35 victory over the University of Iowa last Saturday at Iowa City.
Captain Bill McCormick sent the Irish into the lead in the first event of the afternoon when he equalled the local mark of 6.4 for the 60-yard dash. Saling, who later won the 60-yard hurdle race, was second, and Gough of Notre Dame, third.
Eddie King, who tied Saling for high scoring honors, made it two in a row for the Ramblers when he took down the mile in easy fashion from Gampisi of Iowa. King added three points to his total when he finished second to the Hawkeye flash, Skowbo, in the 880.
Alex Wilson, British Empire champion, fresh from his smashing victory in the classic “600” of the Millrose games, made a runaway of the quarter, winning by 20 yards over his team-mate Kelly, in the fast time of 49.1.	'
Gene Howery, cross country captain, and Ewing, finished first and third respectively in the two-mile run. The Irish relay team, made up of Scanlon, Kuhn, Obergfall, and Macbeth, won the mile in 3:26.8.
Charles Finkel, sophomore, filling the place left vacant by Marty Brill and Nordy Hoffman, won the shot put with a heave of 45 feet, 3 inches, defeating Sansen and Youngerman of Iowa. Darling of Notre Dame and Story of Iowa tied in the high jump, each clearing the bar at 6 feet, % inch. Okerlin of Iowa topped Slattery and Rohrbach of N. D. in the pole vault.
Summary:
60-YD. DASH—Won by McCormick (ND) : (Continued on Page 21)
February 19, 1932
Txventy^one
See, Those Stories Are True!
SIX RING TITLES WON AT ‘SCHOLASTIC’ SHOW
Left to right—Coach “Hunk” Anderson, and four tarpon caught by him on his recent trip to Florida. The other six, he says, were not present when the the jncture was taken.
IMPROVEMENTS MADE ON GYM TRACK; FASTER TIMES EXPECTED
Complete reconstruction of the banked curves of the running track has been carried on this week in the gymnasium. The steepening and widening of the turns is expected to make the track considerably faster and less dangerous.
The curves have been widened till they are now the full 12-foot width of the rest of the track. Concrete curbs have been installed on both the inside and outside of the curves to insure permanent retention of the improved condition.
Probably the most notable alteration was made at the west turn where the conrete step was removed and the track given full width. The sliding door and its metal frame have both been torn out and will be replaced by a new entrance. The step will be rebuilt outside the old doorway.
Coach John Nicholson was enthusiastic concerning the remodelled course. Expressing the opinion that it will appreciably lower track records, especially in the 440 and half-mile runs, he pointed to the increased track width as a solution to
the jamming and crowding prodblems that have always accompanied big indoor meets here.
“The C. I. C. meet should find the track in perfect condition this year,” he stated, “and the widened curves will allow the men in the. outside lanes to take the first turn without being elbowed out of stride.”
THINLIES BEAT IOWA
(Continued from Page 20)
Saling (I), second; Gough (ND), third. Time :6.4.
ONE-MILE RELAY—Won by King (ND) : Campisi (I), second; Bower (ND), third. Time 4:35. 8.	'
60-YD. HIGH HURDLES—Won by Saling (I) : Dupuy (ND), second: Thurston (J), third. Time :7.7.
440-YD. DASH —Won by Wilson (ND) : Kelly (ND), second; Lagerquist (I), third. Time: 49.1.
SHOT PUT—Won by Finkel (ND) : Sansen (I). second : Youngerman (I) third. Distance 45 feet, 3% inches.
HIGH JUMP—Darling (ND), and Storyfl), tied for first: Handorf (I), third. Height, 6 feet, % inch.
880-YD. RUN—Won by Skowbo (I) : King (ND), second: Roberts (ND), third. Time 1:58.7.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Howery (ND) : Trott (I), second: Ewing (ND), third. Time 9:48.7.
POLE VAULT—Won by Okerlin (I) : Slattery (ND), and Rohrbach (ND), tied for second. Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (ScanIon, Kuhn, Obergfall.- MacBeth). Time, 3:26.8.
Four Decisions, Two Technical KO*s Mark Boxing Meet.
LASTING their way through t w en t y-th r e e rounds o f hectic, wild swinging and generally furious fighting, sixteen Notre Dame boxers clashed in the finals of The Scholastic’s box-
ing show last Friday night. A crowd of about 2,000 witnessed the bouts that were staged for the benefit of the Bengal Mission fund.
Six university champions w ere crowned, one skillful exhibition bout was staged, and a wholesale suicide pact involving most of the senior class was almost consummated in public. The record throng for Notre Dame boxing went home pleased.
The Champions
Joe Ciavirella, Bill Malloy, Jim Krause. Art Cline, Howard Waldron, and Jerry Duwan punched their way to the six titles at stake in the show. Two technical knockouts and four well-earned decisions marked the six matches.
The heralded Sorin-Corby grudge battle was declared “no contest” by the judges and a “knockout” oy the fans after Bernie Heitz and John Perone, aided by their squads of handlers, had staged the most devastating three rounds in boxing history.
Billy Magarrall, outstanding campus boxer and one of the directors of the show, boxed a snappy three-round affair with Jack Gallagher.
Early Bouts Close
Joe Ciavirella opened the title grabbing of the evening with a three-round decision over Johnnie Fisher in the initial bout on the card. Ciavirella carried the fight to Fisher all the way and piled up a generous margin on points. A consistent ability to beat Fisher to the punch gave the aggressive Ciavirella a long lead.
The second fight saw Bill Malloy trim Ed Gaussland with a free swinging, relentless attack. In each of the three rounds the winner opened with a terrific burst of speed and punching power that wore down Gaussland as the fight went on.
(Continued on Page 28)	.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Murray Pitches Irish To Win In N.D.-Badger Classic
This is the second of a series of articles by Tighe Woods, Scholastic staff writer, on famous Notre Dame plays and players of the past.
By Tighe Woods
Whenever the old argument comes up about college and professional baseball, whether the old timers are cutting the smoke in Claffey’s or waiting for the steins to be filled at Ike’s somebody is sure to mention Pat Murray. With the mention of Pat Murray’s name, pipes are puffed into a red glow and chairs are drawn closer around the circle and somebody is asked to tell about that famous Wisconsin game.
Wisconsin Favorite
Notre Dame and Wisconsin are always intense rivals in all their athletic encounters and this looked like a Wisconsin day. It was Notre Dame’s first home game of the season and the squad looked anything but championship stuff.
A late spring had kept practice indoors and injuries made Coach Halas groan in mortal anguish. Captain Sjoberg was limping badly with a strained muscle, Myles played with a broken finger and Norb Barry, catcher for the Irish, was in bad physical condition on account of a recent sick
ness.
The game went for four innings without a score. Pat Murray was pitching beautiful baseball and his team kept on their toes. The stands began to show some interest. This might be a contest yet!
Errors vs. Errors
Wisconsin came up to start the fourth and the Fighting Irish were fighting hard enough but not playing base
ball. Somebody made an error. Loyalty forbade the rest of the team from letting one man feel the morti-tification of a lonely error on the scoreboard so everybody started making them. Wisconsin scored three
runs.
Myles hit a single in the Notre Dame half of the inning and Wisconsin, not to be outdone in sportsman
ship committed two errors to allow him to stretch it into a homer.
In the next three innings both teams managed to gather a few scattered hits but nobody made any trouble. Pat pitched beautifully and just to relieve the monotony, made a couple of hits, and the bat boy hurried down the first base line with his jacket to keep that arm warm. Notre Dame was still two runs be-kQ hind and the peo-pie sitting in the open tonneaus of
✓y	the Maxwells and
SL	A p p er sons and
Cases were waving bright multi-colored parasols for the boys in Gold and Blue to do something.
Things happened very quickly in the first half of the eighth inning. Bahan walked and then stole second. The Wisconsin pitcher hit Myles. Johnny Mohardt made a beautiful sacrifice and advanced Bahan and Myles. Connors was given a free pass and the bases were loaded. Norm Barry also tapped first the leisurely way and forced Bahan home and Pat Murray was up.
Murray Scores Two
Wisconsin seemed to cool after this sudden show of Yuletide spirit, and the pitcher whipped a couple into Pat that whined annoyingly. As the Wisconsin hurler drew his arm back to throw Myles left third. The ball was coming high and wide, Pat stepped squarely across the plate and held his bat in a horizontal line with the oncoming ball.
As the ball hit his stick, his body swirved slightly and a beautiful bunt went bobbing along the third base line. Myles scored and Connors stole home while the catcher was trying to catch Pat on second. Murray toyed with the Wisconsin team in the last half of the eighth and ninth and Notre Dame freshmen nudged each other and pointed to a newly crowned campus hero.
The University of California is to start soon to erect a set of new con- . crete baseball bleachers, in the form of a half circle and capable of seating about 4,000 persons, at a cost of $35,000.
HARPER OUTLINES PLAN TO TENNIS CANDIDATES
Large Group Present At Net Meeting On Wednesday.
Approximately forty aspirants for the varsity tennis team heard Athletic Director J. C. Harper outline the plans for the organization of the squad at the first tennis meeting held Wednesday.
A. system of elimination tournaments in both singles and doubles will be used for the selection of the team members. Interest in the proposed arrangement ran high among the men signing up for competition Wednesday.
March 1st is Deadline
At the close of the meeting it was announced that March 1st would be the final date for men interested in tennis to signify their intention of competing for a place on the squad. The first of the eliminations will start the later part of the month.
The plan as sketched at the meetingcalls for an elimination tournament among all the candidates as the first step. Some twelve or fourteen men will be chosen from this tourney to comprise the squad. At a latex- date and after considerable intensive practice, these men will be called on to -face each other for the places on the varsity team.
Fall Winners Present
Among the men in attendance at the initial meetings were Louis Chreist, winner of The Scholastic’s tournament last fall; Meyer, runner-up to Chreist, and Dick Kelly, a semifinalist. Many others who were on the entry list for the fall tourney were at the meeting.
The withdrawal from the University of Joe Borda, captain-elect of the net squad, was a severe blow to the prospects for the season. Borda was a consistent, efficient playei- and had been expected to annex many points this spring.
You’ll want TWO copies of the
Highbrow Number
of the
JUGGLER
February 19, 1932
Twenty-three
NEXT WEEK TO CLIMAX INDOOR SPORTS YEAR
Spartan, Army Cagers, Illini Trackmen on Home Card.
The biggest week in Notre Dame’s winter program of sports is on tap for the coming seven days. Two great basketball games—both at home, the classic dual track meet of the year, and the appearance of the outstanding Irish track stars in the national A. A. U. indoor championships are the features of the period.
Following the performing of Wilson and McCormick in New York Monday night, the Michigan State Spartans will bring the second act of the big show to the Notre Dame gym where they clash in a return game with the Keoganites Tuesday evening.
Illinois Track Meet
Saturday the Blue and Gold harriers will meet Coach Harry Gill’s famed Illini track squad on the Notre Dame track. Notre Dame-Illinois meets need no ballyhoo; they are accepted as the greatest dual meet on any Irish indoor card.
- The Urbana squad will bring a well balanced group of point-getters to Notre Dame for the meet. Prominent in their ranks is one Woolsey, a miler, who went the distance in 4:22.8 last season to set a new Illinois Armory record. The Illini took the meet, 51-44.
Army Cagers Here •
Saturday night the scene will shift from the track to the basketball flooi* of the gym. Coach Keogan’s charges will play hosts to an invading quintet of cadets from the Army. It is the second clash in history between the two teams. Last year’s game went to the Irish by a single marker, 26 to 25.
Ray Stecker, the Hazleton ghost of football fame, is the mainstay of the cadet attack. In last year’s Notre Dame game he collected seven baskets and. four free throws, for an 18-point total. He recently led the way in a high scoring victory for the cadets ovei' the touted Penn State five. To date the Army has won nine games in eleven starts.
Notre Dame will send Ray DeCook into the lineup tonight at Butler for the first time since the Iowa game. A . bad cold has prevented the veteran sharpshooter from seeing service for three games. His return should enable the Irish to face; Michigan State and Army with their strongest possible lineup. .
Navy Game of *29 Gave Schwartz Tensest Moment
This is the fourth of a senes of interviews by Paul Host, Scholastic staff sports writer, in which he describes the tense moments of Fighting Irish athletic stars.
By Paul Host
There are a good many cliekety-clicks in the rails between Bay Saint Louis, Mississippi and Baltimore, Maryland, and Mr. and Mrs. Schwartz
Marchy Schwartz
“. . . It was a great feeling."
had heard a tiresome majority of them. They were beating away from the warm, adventurous winds of the Gulf to their son who was waiting only Rockne’s word to help sink the Navy up north where the invigorating breezes of Chesapeake Bay whip over Baltimore Stadium.
TENNIS NOTICE!
All men who were not at the tennis meeting Wednesday and who are interested in competing for places on the varsity squad are asked to report at once. Names may be left either at the A. A. office, Main building, or with J. B. Sherman, manager of tennis, Managers’ Office, Gymnasium. March 1st is the final date for reporting.
Mr. and Mrs. Schwartz of Bay Saint Louis had never seen their son, whom they had christened March-mont, after an equine answering to that cognomen, participate in a game of collegiate football.
This was in 1929 and “Marchy.” who in 1930 and 1931 • was to be chosen All-American halfback, was subbing for the speed merchant, “Rabbit Jack” Elder.
Winning Season
Notre Dame was well into a season that later was to see them crowned National Champions; but, as is custohary at the Naval Academy, the Middies were represented with a well-balanced team. The game presaged a tough jump in N^tre Dame’s gridiron steeplechase, especially since Notre Dame’s “Rock” was ill in South Bend and was compelled to deiver his instructions to his players over the telephone.
True to their reputation, the Navy battled viciously from the opening kick-off, and pushed the “shock troops,” • who had started the game, down to their own goal line. Notre Dame sent Savoldi crushing into the line on their first try with the ball, but the Middies clogged up the hole and the linesman’s shouted, “Second down, ten to go.”
Marchy Tells It
The stage is all set for “March” and he steps to the footlights to describe his tensest moment in sport.
“With Rock’s words burning in my ears and my folks in the stands, I was all set to play my heart out. As we lined up on second down I heard my signal called; we shifted, and back sped the ball. As I tucked it away I saw a gaping hole torn open in the Navy line. Interferers sped down the field and blocked the secondary defense. A clear path to the goal line loomed ahead.
“Once clear of the tangled line, I started to reverse my field, and there, on the sun-baked turf which no rain had touched for weeks, I slipped and fell.”
And with a laugh, “Marchy” adds, “It was a great feeling.”
The seventh annual meeting of the national association of basketball coaches will be held in Chicago April 1 and'2.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Coach Anderson Sees New Grid Rules As Beneficial
MICHIGAN STATE FACES IRISH HERE TUESDAY
OBJECTS TO TWO
Opposes Regulation Limiting Use of Hands; Thinks Game Will Be Much Safer.
By James S. Kearns
Copyright, 1932, by Notre Dame Scholastic.
The action of the national football rules committee in revising the playing code was hailed by Coach Heartly Anderson, in an interview with The Scholastic this week, as a progressive step in gridiron legislateion. With the exception of two of the new rules, Coach Anderson characterized the changes as “improvements, both in protection of the players and in the handling of the game.”
Objecting to the ruling limiting the use of the hands by the defensive players, Anderson stated that “this rule will put a premium on the larger player with a strong body and will lessen the effectiveness of the smaller men. Such men as Bert Metzger, small guard on the 1930 team, relied on the strength of their arms and the force of their forearm shiver to drive through the offensive line. This sort of tactics will be greatly lessened in effectiveness because of the danger of striking an opponent’s head.”
Penalty Too Strong
Still on the same rule, Coach Anderson scored it on another point by showing that a “fast offensive lineman can be taught to duck and feint in such a way as to bring his head into contact with the defensive player’s hands.”
The penalty for the offense was called “entirely too strong.” The rule calls for ejection of the offender from the game and a penalty of half the distance to the goal line.
“Since the calling of the offense will be so completely a matter of the officials’ judgement,” Coach Anderson stated, “such a penalty is altogether too severe.” “Varying interpretations of the rules in the different sections of the country are liable to disorganize the visiting team.”
Blockers Favored
“The new rule will give the blocking backs, especially those working on an end, a distinct advantage. The defender, using his hands to ward off the blocker, will have to avoid all
contact with the disqualified. The contact in a case tremely great.”
latter’s head or be chance of accidental of this kind are ex-
Coach “Hunk” Anderson
“. . the neic rules protect the players”
The othei- rule to which Coach Anderson took exception was the one eliminating the flying tackle. While he believed that it would aid considerably in eliminating injuries, he thought that it gave too much advantage to the ball carriers on line plays.
Too Much Momentum
“It will be especially hard for the defensive halfbacks and fullbacks,” he pointed out, “because so often there are men piled between them and the man with the ball and. the only way they can reach him is to leave their feet.”
“Also when a back is coming up to back up the line he will have no way in which to match the ball carrier’s momentum without resorting to the diving tackle. The offensive player will usually bowl the tackler over and add a yard or two to his gain.”
Anderson was of the opinion that the flying tackle will still remain in the defensive play of most gridders if occasion should demand its use. “A five-yard penalty is a small loss compared with a touchdown,” he explained.
The other alterations of the rules were generally approved by Coach Anderson. “Declaring the ball dead (Continued on Page 25)
Spartans Greatly Improved; N. D. at Butler Tonight.
Michigan State comes here Tuesday night to play a return game with the Notre Dame basketball team. Notre Dame won the previous game at East Lansing on January 9 by three points, and if the fracas Tuesday night ends the same way the locals can consider it a well spent evening and a very creditable victory, for the Michigan five has been steadily increasing its right to be named with the best teams in the Middle West.
Spartans Dangerous
Before the Spartan struggle, however, the Irish five must meet the Butler Bulldogs. The game will be played at Indianapolis tonight.
Notre Dame-Butler battles in past years have rated with the classics of Indiana basketball. This season’s games seem marked to continue that popularity and a capacity crowd is expected at the state capitol.
Michigan State has been the only team to decisively slow the Notre Dame offense this season and to cause the Keoganites to resort to long shots by way of attack. They also displayed a flagrant disregard for the noted Fighting Irish defense. In the extremely rough contest played last month the locals won by superior shooting ability only.
While the Spartan team has improved steadily since that last game, there is no black crepe hanging from the rafters of the Notre Dame field house because of lack of this condition in Coach Keogan’s outfit.
Improve Rapidly
State scored one of the big upsets of the season last Saturday night when they defeated the University of Michigan team, 15-14, in two overtime periods. Lack of facilities at East Lansing always handicaps the team in early season games, but this year they defeated Western Reserve, Cornell and Ohio State in their opening contests. Right now they are at the height of their power.
Notre Dame will welcome Ray DeCook into the lineup this week, and although he was not greatly missed in the games with Reserve and Syracuse, he will undoubtedly bolster the strength of the Fighting Irish.
‘4
February 19, 1932
Twenty-five
Launderers
to the
Particular Student
Service par evcellence in both departments awaits you.
We replace missing buttons, darn socks and make all necessary repairs.
Sixty thousand dollars worth of the finest modern equipment awaits your order.
University of Notre Dame Laundry and Dry Cleaning Dept.
N. D. Whips Reserve 32-25 For 11th Straight Triumph
‘HUNK’ VIEWS NEW RULES
(Continued from Page 24)
when any part of the carrier’s body except his hands and feet touch the ground will do away with one of the most frequent causes of injuries— crawling and wriggling along the ground,” he declared. “It should practically eliminate all piling up on the fallen player.” ‘
Likewise the abolition of the “flying block” was approved as a protective measure for the players. The stationing of five players on the forty-five yard line by the receiving side at the kick-off was seen as an effective check on the flying wedge formation.
Brings New Danger
“There is a chance, however,” added Coach Anderson, “that this ruling will produce an occasion for injury fully as dangerous as the wedge. There will undoubtedly be a tendency on the part of the receiving players to resort to the “cross block” to halt the kicking side and this maneuver offers many chances for the man to be injured.”
Under the new rule affecting substitutions it will be possible for one player to enter and leave the game four times instead of twice. The withdrawn player may return to the game in any subsequent period.
This change is seen as beneficial by Anderson, especially to teams employing the “shock troop” system. “It will permit much more effective handling of reserve strength,” he concluded.
U. S. Net Stars Invited to Face Britons and Cubans in Havana
By Intercollegiate Press.
Havana, Feb. 18.— A quartet of American tennis stars—Clifford Sutter, Gilbert Hall, Wilbur Coen and Wilmer Allison—have been invited by the Cuban National Tennis Association to participate in an international series here.
A team of British players, captained by Frederick Perry, Davis Cup ace, and including H. G. N. Lee and George P. Hughes, now playing in Jamaica, also has been invited. The Cuban team for the proposed matches would be headed by Gustavo Vollmer.
ED KRAUSE SHINES
Moose Scores 13 Points; Irish Offense Clicks Smoothly; Redcats Stage Rally.
By T. Edward Carey
9TRE DAME’S conquering basketeers made it eleven straight last Saturday night in Cleveland w here they defeated a scrappy Western Reserve team, 32 to 25. The Fighting Irish were a bit too smooth for the Redcats and
ran up an early lead, 21-8 at halftime, and when their lead was threatened in the fourth quarter they turned on the pressure and increased their margin to its final total.
Ed Krause was in his usual good form and put on a great exhibition which fascinated the largest crowd ever to see a collegiate cage game in Cleveland. The celebrated duel be
tween Krause and Berwald, Reserve star center, was a bit one-sided insofar as the Moose dominated the tip-off, took high scoring honors, and held his opponent without a point.
First Half Spree
The Notre Dame offense clicked perfectly and the zone defense used by the Keoganites proved impenetrable to the Redcats. Krause led the first period attack with three field goals, and his example was closely followed by Newbold, Voegele and Norb Crowe who each scored two. Reserve was held to two field goals and four free throws and Notre Dame’s tremendous lead at the half was insurmountable.
Forsythe staged his own private rally in the second period, scoring ten points, two sensational field goals from the middle of the floor and six out of seven gift shots.- Bernardic, who has been bad news to most Reserve opponents, was held to a single field goal in each half.
Krause went on in the second period to prove that the pivot play with him (Continued on Page 31)
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
TRACKMEN FACE BUTLER
(Continued from Page 20)
dous margin. They are hardly as weak as that score would indicate, however, as they were called on in that meet to run on a board track. The Butler practice track is of dirt and the sudden change to the wooden flooring threw the Bulldog runners completely out of form.
Even allowing for exceptional im
"Hl Call the Folks”
"Z7Z call home and let the folks know we’re coming."
Mother and Dad will enjoy meeting your college friends and will be prepared to entertain them if you call home. Of course, you may reverse the charges.
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY
provement in Coach Phillips’ charges, however, the Notre Dame squad is a top-heavy favorite to cop tomorrow’s meet.
Prophesies More Quakes
Because of a long period of quiet in the earth’s crust, Father Joseph Lynch, in charge of the Fordham University seismograph, believes the Cuban earthquake is just the beginning of a series of such quakes.
DEFINITE ARRANGEMENT MADE ON INTERHALL TRACK MEETS
Alteration of the previously announced date for the first preliminary and a definite announcement on the dates of the other two Interhall track meets were made this week by Charles Weiss, Interhall head.
The first preliminary meet was originally scheduled for last night, February 18. The date has been set back a week, however, to Thursday, February 25. Eight halls, Lyons, Morrissey, Sophomore, Dillon, St. Edward’s, Badin, Corby, and Sorin, are slated to compete. There is some chance of Sorin’s changing to the second preliminary meet.
March 3 has been set as the date for the second elimination meet. All halls not competing in the first are listed for this second meet. Winners of first, second, and third, in each event of each meet, will be eligible for the finals on March 8th.
The list of events and the freshmen who are ineligible for these meets appeared in last week’s Scholastic and have not been altered.
Ruth Takes Boy Scout Oath;
Pledges Good Deed Daily
By Intercollegiate Press.
Tampa, Fla., Feb. 18.—Babe Ruth’s a Boy Scout now and has pledged himself to do a good deed daily. He was sworn in as a tenderfoot member of Troop 23 of the Hyde Park Presbyterian Church while hundreds of boy admirers cheered last night. Babe came here from St. Petersburg to speak at a Boy Scout gathering.
Scoutmaster A. L. Hill quizzed him on his qualifications and then administered the Boy Scout oath while Ruth held the Scout salute. After a brief speech telling the boys to honor, their parents, the Babe was swamped with requests to sign baseballs and books.
What! You haven’t seen the
Highbrow Number of the
JUGGLER?
Get your copy now!

February 19, 1932
Ticenty-seven
“Robin Hood” Band Robs Only Rich; Kills Soldiers
By Intercollegiate Press.
TEHERAN, Feb. 19.—A “Robin Hood” of the desert leads a band of Persian robbers, who swoop down upon travelers between Teheran and Ispahan.
Courtesy seems a cardinal principle of the bandits.
If the passenger is poor, they do him no harm.
If he is rich they rob him and then allow him to proceed.
But if he is a military man, they rob him and then murder him.
KRAUSE STRETCHES SCORING LEAD
THE SCHOLASTIC
says
“the best issue of the year”— The Highbrow Number of the JUGGLER
	* G	(Includin FG	g Western Reserve game.)			FCT	PTS
			FT	PF	FT5I		
Krause	13	28	31	22	20	.608	87
Newbold	15	29	19	33	13	.594	77
N. Crowe	15	28	5	24	9	.357	61
DeCook	12	23	8	14	8	.500	54
Voegele	13	16	9	14	15	.375	41
Baldwin	9	.	17	5	14	5	.500	39
Burns	15	9	10	30	7	.588	28
Davis	11	11	3	11	2	.600	25
L. Crowe	10	10	1	6	2	.333	21
Schumacher	•	10	4	3	4	1	.750	11
Johnson	10	1	1	8	4	.200	3
Fehlig	1	1	0	0	1	.000	2
Schrader	2	0	0	2	0	.000	0
Oelerich	1	0	0	1	0	.000 .	0
	—	—	—	—	—	—	—
Totals	15	177	95	183	87	.522	449
Opponents	15	103	107	150	100	.517	313
* G—games : missed; PCT—	FG—field goals ; FT—free throws ; PF—personal fouls : percentage of free throws made: PTS— total points.					FTM—free	throws
This SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
A BIG ALL STAR
‘VAUDEVILLE
AND SCREEN SHOW
Headed by
IM I I IM M!
u
Scooter” Lowry
TOUGH GUY OF ”OUR GANG COMEDIES”
WEBB AND LANE
With Vi Maye in “Anything For Laugh”
Gloria Lee & Harris Twins
in “It’s a Secret”
Zelda Brothers
in “Air Antics”
ON OUR SCREEN
HELEN
TWELVETREES
ROB’T ARMSTRONG CHARLES BICKFORD in
"Panama Flo"
Forceful Melodrama of the Tropics.
Ttcenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
SIX MITT TITLES WON
(Continued from Page 21)
By Irving B. Halper
Freshman’s heavyweights were the only undefeated quintet in the interhall league that was upset in last Sunday’s play. Sorin, Badin, Morrissey, Sophomore, Alumni, Walsh, Off-Campus, Brownson, and Carroll all passed safely the third week of competition.
Next round finds some interesting tilts scheduled. The games which will probably be the most outstanding are the Brownson heavyweights and lightweights pitted against their rivals from across the main building, Carroll. These games will go far in deciding the winner of the Group II lightweight league and the team that is to be in the cellar in the heavier class. The two lightweight teams have taken everything they have been pitted against thus far in an easy manner and the game should be a good one.
Walsh Meets Off-Campus
The heavyweight game between Walsh and Off-Campus should also be an interesting game to witness as should the games between Sorin and Badin in the lightweight class. This game will do much the same purpose as the Brownson-Carroll game in Group II, that of aiding in deciding the winner of the class.
In other games, Lyons are pitted against Dillon; Sophomore tangles with their next door neighbors, St. Edward’s; Howard plays their class ■ rivals, Alumni; Morrissey invades Corby.
Vettel and Moscow led a fighting Lyons heavyweight team to a hard fought victory over Badin, 19 to 11. Moscow, who plays right forward for Lyons, was the game’s high point scorer and all-around star. Duwan and Cummings played well for Badin.
Sorin Wins Another
Sophomore eked out a victory over Dillon in a hotly contested fray, 14 to 12. Felts and Cavender, left forward and center respectively, led the Sophomore offense. Cushing was the bright spot in the Dillon lineup.
Sorin’s heavyweights kept up their march to another championship by downing their bitter rivals, Corby, in - one of the fastest games of the day.
Backed by a record turn-out from their Sorin stronghold, Paul Host and
Norb Christman helped Bernie Heitz win the fray from John Perone’s Corbyites. Molhern also played well for Corby.
Alumni nosed out Brownson, 11 to 8, to remain in the undefeated class. Napter was the mainstay on the Alumni quintet and received great aid from Draper and Stanton. Lyons and Follmai- played good ball for Brownson.
Howard Upsets Frosh
In the only upset of the day, Howard dumped the previously undefeated Freshman five, 16 to 12. Jask-wich, Becvar, and Mahoney led in the Freshman downfall. Shink played well for the losers.
Walsh added their name to the list of contenders in Group II by downing Carroll, 19 to 13. Hitzelberger and Igoe led the Walsh offense to victory. Caldwell and Halberg were the Carroll stars.
Badin just beat out Lyons, 15 to 14, in their lightweight tilt. Thompson, Badin forward, was the main reason for the Badin victory, for he scored seven points and played a good floor game. Sauseville, Podrasza, and Bcn-tempo played well for Lyons.
Dillon won a hard earned victory from Sophomore, 15 to 12. Nerod and Brumgardner for Dillon and Montgomery and Bucci were stars of the game.
• Johnny Buckley led the St. Edward’s lightweights to an easy victory over Morrissey, 16 to 10. Buck-ley scored eight points and was the high point man. Hendricks was the only star in the Morrissey lineup.
Sorin Lights Win
Corby’s lightweights fared just about the same as their heavyweights at the hands of Sorin and were beaten, 20 to 11. Burris, Sorin forward, and Brown, center, were the stars for the victors, while Dunleavy, at center, was the outstanding Corby player.
Brownson continued their winning by turning back Alumni, 18 to 8. Carrico led the Brownson men in scoring, with eight points. Robinson played well for Alumni.
Howard, led by O’Neil, won a close game from Freshman, 17 to 15. Tuo-mey, Freshman center, starred for his
(Contniued on Page 29)'
A pair of technical knockouts featured the second pair of fights. Jim Krause and J. McLaughlin waded into a furious first round in which McLaughlin injured his thumb during a melee of right-hand blows to the head. Krause assumed the aggressive towards the end of the round and during the entire second stanza. Referee Jerry Heffernan awarded the fight to Krause at the end of this round when McLaughlin’s injury forced him to retire.
Technical Knockout
The second knockout gave the middle-weight title to Art Cline when Nick Cartan wilted under a slashing-third round attack. Cline opened the final round with a long string of hard right-hand shots to Cartan’s head, and when the latter started to reel under the effect of the punching-the referee stopped the contest.
After the Perone-Heitz-Sorin-Corby-	,
Walsh riot and the three-round Magarrall-Callagher exhibition, the directors trotted out the husky punchers of the light-heavy and heavyweight classes for the wind-ups of the program.
In the light-heavyweight division, Howie Waldron took a decision from Phil Purcell in probably the best fight of the evening. A wide margin the first round carried Waldron along till his finishing burst that clinched the decision. Purcell scored regularly during the second and early third * round with a straight left to Waldron’s face but was a shade short of Waldron’s all-around boxing ability and generalship. At the close of this bout Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper presented the awards for the fights completed.	<
Free Swinging Windup
Jerry Duwan closed the card with a hard-punching victory over Jack Fietzpatrick. Duwan controlled the fight all the way and had Fitzpatrick on the floor twice during the second ( round. The tall sophomore put up one of the gamest exhibitions of the night by staying the limit in the face of Duwan’s whirlwind of blows.
The results: Joe Ciavirella beat John Fisher (3); Bill Malloy beat Ed Gaussland (3); Jim Krause scored a ’	(
technical KO over J. McLaughlin (2); Art Cline scored a technical KO over Nick Cartan (3); Howie Wal-
- dron beat Phil Purcell (3); Jerry Duwan beat Jack Fitzpatrick (3).
February 19, 1932
Twenty-nine
Dartmouth Welcomes Shea In First Student Reception
By Intercollegiate Press.
Hanover, N. H., February 17.— Dartmouth College turned out en-masse to honor its outstanding winter sports athlete, Jack Shea, Olympic 500 and 1,500 meter speed skating champion, when he arrived on the campus Sunday night.
Shea, a sophomore, received the distinction of being the only student in the history of Dartmouth athletics to receive a student reception. Heretofore such demonstrations have been reserved for teams only. The Dartmouth band and the student body greeted him, and athletic officials as well as student leaders spoke.
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 28)
team. O’Neil was aided by Krause and Nebor.
Carroll’s lightweights ran up the biggest score of the day against Walsh in beating the seniors, 27 to 8. MacDonald with nine points and Graves and Thole with seven each were the Carroll stars.
STANDINGS
GROUP I. Heavyweight	Lightweight W L pct	w l pct Sorin	3	0	1.000	Sorin	3	0	1.000 Morrissey 3	0	1.000	Badin	3	0	1.000 Soph’m’re 3	0	1.000	Dillon	2	1	.667 Lyons 2	1	.667	Corby	1	2	.333 St. Ed’s 1	2	.333	Lyons	1	2	.333 Badin	0	3	.000	Soph’m’re	1	2	.333 Corby 0	3	.000	St. Ed’s	1	2	.333 Dillon	0	3	.000	Morrissey	0	3	.000
GROUP II. Heavyweight	lightweight W L PCT	W L PCT Alumni 2	0	1.000	Brownson	3-	0	1.000 Walsh 2	0	1.000	Carroll	3	0	1.000 Off-C’pus 2	0	1.000	Howard	2	1	.667 Freshman 2	1	.667	Off-C’pus	1	1	.500 Howard 1	2	.333	Alumni	0	2	.000 Brownson 0	3	.000	Walsh	0	2	.000 Carroll 0	3	.000	Freshman	0	3	.000
Game Schedule
February 21
Group I—
8:30 a. m.—Lyons vs. Dillon
9:30 a. m.—Sophomore vs. St. Ed’s 10:30 a.m.—Morrissey vs. Corby
1:30 p.m.—Badin vs. Sorin
Group II—
2:30 p.m.—Howard vs. Alumni
3:30 p.m.—Brownson vs. Carroll
4:30 p.m.—Off-Campus vs. Walsh Freshman—bye.
Interhall Practice Schedule
Varsity Floor	‘	Apparatus Room	
Off-Campus	Wednesday-, Feb. 11 7 P. M.	Corby
Morrissey	8 P. M.	Walsh
Howard	9 P. M.	Sorin
Freshman	Friday, Feb. 12 7 P. M.	Alumni
Carroll	8 P. M.	Lyons
Brownson	9 P. M.	Badin
Dillon	Monday. Feb. 15 7 P. M.	Off-Campus
Sophomore	8 P. M.	Howard
St. Edward’s	9 P. M.	Morrissey
Walsh	Wednesday, Feb. 17 7 P. M.	Carroll
Sorin	S P. M.	Brownson
Corby	9 P. M.	Freshman
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
405 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria
I /1 E. Jefferson Blvd. Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
SURPLUS STOCK
Men’s High Grade
Double Tap Sole—Iron Heel
FIELD SHOES
FOR MEN OR BOYS
Last year’s price was §3.85. A shoe for all outside workers.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Thirty
.The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By James
MISSED BY A LEAN
Probably the hardest luck that any track man has encountered this year was picked up by Alex Wilson last Saturday at Iowa City. Facing his only chance to run on the lightningfast Iowa track, Wilson was bent on lowering the :48.9 record for the 440 that Henke set last year on the same course.
Drawing the pole, Wilson looked like a sure fire bet to smash the time. Lagerquist of Iowa was No. 2 with the rest of the field on the outside. The start was staggered enough to take care of the first turn so that Wilson was almost six feet behind the Iowa runner. The first curve was forty yards away.
Wilson left his marks with a terrific burst of speed and caught Lagerquist just as the latter- hit the turn. The Notre Dame racer prepared to assume the lead but he reckoned without the narrow lanes. Lagerquist, leaning to stay in his own lane, cut
S. Kearns
off the passage between himself and the pole with his left arm and shoulder. Being on the inside, Wilson had no choice but to lay behind the Iowan till they straightened into the back-stretch.
At that point the Irish ace loosed a sensationally long kick, but though he lost all his pursuers by yards, he could not recover the second-fractions lost on the slow jaunt around, the curve.
BIG TEN TANGLE
The boys from Iowa certainly threw a man-sized wrench into North western’s championship machine last week. We’ve waited long and patiently for someone to do it but we didn’t think the Hawks could handle the job. Our Keoganites are looking better and better by comparison.
Eight now we’re climbing on the Purdue band wagon for the conference crown. Wooden, Parmeuter, et al, have two chances to dispose of the Wildcats and on the basis of their
game with Ohio State, look strong enough to come through both times. The first battle comes up tomorrow.
WE MIGHT HAVE BEEN WRONG
Our statement last week that George Spitz “reaches his peak rather early in the indoor season and then goes into a gradual decline” rather took it on the chin the following night. Six feet, eight and one-half inches isn’t a “gradual decline” in any language.
NOW MARQUETTE
Like Coach Carlson of Pitt, the Marquette varsity players seem to have a nice sense of values. An “unofficial inquiry” among the team found Ed Krause rated as the best center they had faced. We’ve always thought 17 points a pretty fair game ourselves.
FIFTEEN MEN
The Big Ten committee has it now. “Fifteen men, no more . . .” That’s their latest stand on the size of travelling track squads. Since their yoke also fits our neck, Coach Nicholson will have to concentrate his point-winning talent into fifteen men when Illinois comes to town next week. Fifteen Illini, fifteen Irish— that should equal a great track meet.
Isham Jones
In Person
and his
Brunswick Recording Orchestra
Sunday, February 21st
George Washington Party
Advance sale 75c. Tickets on sale Oliver Hotel Cigar Store and Palais Royale. Phone 41308.
Palais Royale
Ballroom
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
WEEK ■ END EXCURSION South Bend to Chicago $2.45
Leave South Bend station, Michigan and La Salle streets, any train Saturday or Sunday. Return on any train up to and including 11:30 P. M. train, Tuesday, February 23. For information phone South Bend 3-3111.

50UTH^ORr
Chicago, South Shore & South Bend Railroad
February 19, 1932
Thirty-one
WESTERN RESERVE FALLS
(Continued from Page 25)
at the key position is practically unstoppable by dropping in three more field goals on that play. He also converted his only foul shot.
Notre Dame slowed up perceptibly in the second half, and not until Reserve had cut their lead down to 25-20 did they bear down. The Clevelanders scored most of their points on long range shots, while the Fighting Irish, playing their usual deliberate game, kept passing the ball until an opening for a short shot presented itself. Reserve played the game with using a substitute; Notre Dame used two full teams but kept three of the first stringers on the floor at all times.
This game was Notre Dame’s thirteenth victory in fifteen starts, and Reserve’s fourth loss in thirteen.
Summary:
Notre Dame (32)	g	f	p
Newbold, rf ......................2	0	2
Voegele, If ......................3	3	3
Krause, c.........................6	1	2
Burns, rg ........................1	0	2
N.	Crowe. 1g ....................2	0	2
Western Reserve (25)	g	p	p
Bernardie. rf ....................2	0	0
Charlillo, If ....................1	2	1
Berwald, c .......................0	0	1
Finnigan, rg .....................1	2	3
Forsythe, Ig .....................3	7	2
Referee—Kearns; umpire—Warren.
K. of C. “Depression Rates’*
Terminate On Wednesday
The Knights of Columbus membership campaign at “depression” rates will terminate on Wednesday evening. The usual Monday meeting has been , postponed until Wednesday because of the Washington Birthday exercises.
The first and second degree initiation will be conferred upon about thirty-five candidates on Monday, February 29; and Sunday, March ‘c respectively, in conjunction with the councils of Laporte, Plymouth, Elkhart, Mishawaka, and South Bend.
HURRY! HURRY!
Only a few copies left of the
Highbrow Number of the
JU GGLER
INTRODUCING a Gene Howery
A slim, black haired runner rounded the last turn of a twelve lap journey at the Iowa field house last Saturday, looked back at a thoroughly beaten two-mile field, eased his stride a bit and coasted to an easy triumph. That
Gene Howery
Fastest Notre Dame two-miler.
was Gene Howery winning the first of a long string of sure points for the Notre Dame track team.
Howery started this two mile business after he entered Notre Dame. In high school at Danville, Illinois his home town, Gene was rated as a great miler. A 4:23 mile done while with the Danville team was a staunch support for the contention.
Coming here, however, he turned to the longer distances on the advice of Coach Nicholson. His races of last year testify to the soundness of that advice. In the Butler meet last February he helped the Prom week-end festivities along by knocking about six seconds from the existing Notre Dame two-mile record to bring it
down to the neighborhood of 9:37. It seems that there were other events of that week-end that he saw first hand as well.
Breaks It Again
Two weeks later, after a win at Illinois on the intervening Saturday, Howery returned to the Notre Dame gym to race the heralded Putnam of Iowa State. Putnam made a great race of it for about a mile and a half. Howery made a great race of it for two miles. Six more seconds were pared off the record time which dropped the mark to about 9:30. That record still stands as the fastest two-mile race ever run by a Notre Dame trackman.
Gene has been the mainstay of the cross country team for the past two years. During both seasons he was captain of the harrier squad. Among the startling performances he has turned in are a record-breaking run over three and one-half mile course at Evanston, and a similar trip across four and one-half mile of Iowa country. The day he smashed the Iowa record, the Notre Dame ace raced the first mile in 4:37 and practically lost the field during the remaining distance.
Plans New Attempt
At the present time he is training for another assault on the Notre Dame two-mile indoor record. The Illinois meet next week is expected to furnish him with plenty of opportunity for real running.
Howery is a senior in the Department of Physical Education and hopes to coach and teach after leaving here. He has been especially interested in the sponsoring of a widespread movement for health development among high schools. Last semester he did his practice teaching at Riley High School in South Bend.
Whatever he does won’t be his first venture into the working side of life. For two years between high school and Notre Dame he worked ac the open hearth steel mills in South Chicago. It should have been great training for prefecting in Sophomore and St. Edward’s halls. Last year he checked the boys in Sophomore and for the first semester of this year was first floor chief in St. Edward’s. Just now he is living on the third floor of Corby—no, not a prefect.
The Scholastic
Thirty-two
Here, MEN, smoke a man’s smoke
The pipe is not for pretty girls.
A PIPEFUL of good tobacco is dis, tinctly a man’s smoke. The women (long may they wave!) have taken over most of our masculine privileges. But pipe smoking still belongs to us.
hi every walk of life you’ll find that the mien at the top are pipe
smokers. And most college men agree that the pipe offers the rarest pleasures a man could ask of his smoking.
When you smoke a pipe, be sure you choose the tobacco that will give you. the greatest enjoyment. In 42 out of 54 colleges Edgeworth is the favorite. You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold.
Or for a special sample packet,
write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va. Sample is free.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO

Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by -Edge* worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth Ready* Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AH sizes, 15^ pocket package to $1.50
$
On Down the Line
FIFTY-SEVEN nations have signified their intention of sending athletes to the Olympic games in Los Angeles . . . Although LEO SEXTON, New York A. C. star, established a world record in the shot put he. took second prize ... It was a handicap event . . . JOE BOLAND, St. Thomas College coach, has decreed that his football players must wear pads and helmets when playing pingpong . . . Over 6,900,000 hunting licenses are issued in the United States and Alaska annually . . .
BILL AMOS has resigned as football coach at Washington and Jefferson U.... SIR MALCOLM CAMPBELL is back trying to break his auto speed record of 246 M. P. H.... PAT MALONE, Chicago Cub twirler. who socked a couple of newspapermen last summer, has taken a $5,000 decrease in salary without a fight . . . . It took SONIA HENIE, 20 year old blonde beauty from Norway to register the first sellout in the winter Olympics .... The Greyhound existed in Egypt 5,000 years ago ....
BABE RUTH’S pay check this year will be approximately $200 for every point in his batting average . . . WAITE HOYT, the boy wonder of a decade ago, has been released by the Athletics—a veteran at 32 . . . CULVER (Ind.) Military Academy recently lost their first dual swimming meet in 14 years . . . URBAN “RED” FABER has signed for his 19th consecutive season with the White Sox . . .
DR. HENRY BARNARD LUHN. prominent West coast surgeon, and captain of Notre Dame’s first football team, died last week .... TOP FLIGHT winter book favorite for the Kentucky Derby won all her races as a two-year-old .... REGRET is the only filly that has won the historic race .... EDDIE FLYNN, national amateur 147 pound champ, has not lost a bout in four years .... Players on the Illinois State school for the deaf cage team “hear” applause vibrations of the spectators through their feet ....
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke,
OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS ' 228 So. Michigan St.
Est. 1900
SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO
N. D. STUDENTS
0.	A. CLARK’S RESTAURANT 104-106 N. Michigan St.
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House.
■ Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
♦
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
❖
WE HAVE NO KEY
Are There Any Cobwebs On Your Door?
Mark Twain once told the story of the spider who decided to take up abode in a strange town. The wise insect scanned the pages of the papers serving that community, picked out a merchant whose name was not represented there, spun a web across his door, and forever lived in peace.
We specialize in discouraging the homeseeking spider. As soon as he sees your advertisement in the SCHOLASTIC he looks elsewhere for a place of rest. He realizes that over three thousand students who know you and your product will make your door an undesirable foundation for a cobweb.
You’ll be surprised how cheaply we can furnish “spider insurance.” Just call 3-1121 for details.
The Scholastic
University of Notre Dame

MM3NIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
3
1
BETTER
THEY'RE MILDER
© 1932. IjGGirr * Mmi Tomcco Co.
THEY'RE PURE • • THEY TASTE


• Music that Satisfies.” Hear Nat Shilkret’s bril* . liant orchestra and Alex Gray, soloist, every night except Sunday... entire Columbia Network . .
10:30 E S. T.
Q "I’m sort of restless... always on the lookout for something that hits the old taste spot... and clicks! But I’ve noticed that I never get tired of Chesterfields. They always taste better to me.
"That can’t be an accident. It stands to reason ... a cigarette that always tastes better . . . has got to be made better. You know what I mean.. . purer materials...more up-to-date ways of working. I’m willing to bet that’s why my last Chesterfield of the day
is as mild and satisfying as the first!”