The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
%
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
January 22
19 3 2
January ■1932	One
TONIGHT
you’ll Enjoy the Best Laughs You' ve Had In Years » » »
If You Get Your Copy of the
HUMOR NUMBER
of
THE JUGGLER
Featuring
COREY FORD H. W. HANNEMAN
F. G. COOPER FRANK SULLIVAN and other nationally known Humorists
» » » LOPKER FRONTISPIECE BECVAR HUMOR MAP LOCAL SATIRE 1001 LAUGHS
ON SALE TONIGHT
IN ALL HALLS ■	TWENTY-FIVE CENTS A COPY
AND AT THE CAFETERIA	WHILE THEY LAST
Two
The Scholastic
The Dome

"One great Golden Dome stands lonely with its Golden Image ...”
—G. K. Chesterton.
• ' . ‘ ■ . • -. - &
January 22, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts man be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-date matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for moding at special rate of postage. Section IIOS, October S, 1917, authorized June tS, 1918.
Neil C. Hurley.
Editor-in-Chief
William W. Corr, Managing Editor
James S. Kearns, Assistant Managing Editor
Associate Editors MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM C. BLIND
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN...........News Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL____Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY ROBERT DILLON PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA ROY SCHOLZ MITCHELL TACKLEY JOHN McELUGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND____PAUL FOLEY
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE	LLOYD TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors JAMES CARMODY...............The	Week
JOHN PICK...............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON...........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN.............Music and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER.............Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES E. McFEELY.........Sports Edtior
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JOSEPH BORDA WILLIAM O’GRADY JOSEPH KURTH	PAUL HOST
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON.......Features	Editor
HARRY BURCHELL EDWIN KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN......Circulation Mgr. RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER. Jr.....Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.......JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY.—Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
JANUARY 22, 1932
Number 13.
SU MM AR Y
COMING EVENTS
NEWS .	.
University council to control distribution of senior caps and gowns--------------1’—•--------------- 5
Pugilists drill daily for Scholastic boxing bouts- 5
Winners of Sullivan Scholarships announced by .
Rev. William Molony, C.S.C---------------------- 7
Editor Gorman’s Humor number of Juggler is hit---- 6
FEATURES
Joe Petritz sends sports information of Notre Dame to leading newspapers of country, writes stories, and edits Football Review______________________12
Twenty-five hundred hungry Notre Dame students are kept from starvation_______________________16
Choice screen plays shown at Saturday night movies in Washington Hall_____________________________17
Notre Dame students once rated high in hockey world__________________________________________24
SPORTS
Pittsburgh Panthers to invade N. D. court tomorrow— 20
Victory over Penn makes sixth in five years_______21
Coach Nicholson concentrates efforts on Millrose A.
C. games at New York____________________________25
Johnny Baldwin, possible all-American, taken ill after brilliant showing in Penn game___________26
Interhair basketeers rehearse for opening of competition a week from Sunday__________>___________28
FRIDAY, January 22—Junior Prom at Saint Mary’s College, 8:00 p. m.—Movie, Ann Harding in “Devotion,” “Land of the Nile,” and News Reel, Washington Hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m—Metropolitan club meeting, east room, Walsh hall, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, January 23 — Basketball, University of Pittsburgh, Notre Dame Gym, 8:00 p. m.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. Chicago Kent College of Law, Station WGN, 3:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, January. 24—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 p. m.
MONDAY, January 25—Debating team tryouts, Basement of the Law Building, 4:15 and 7:15 p. m.—French Club meeting, Main Building, 6:30 p. m.—K. of C. meeting, Walsh hall, 8:00 p. m.—Bookmen meeting, Law Building, 7:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, January 26—Debating team tryouts, basement of the Law Building, 4:15 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, January 27—Semester examinations begin at 8:00 a. m.—Economics Seminar, Law Building, 8:C0 p. m.
THURSDAY, January 28—Semester examinations continue.—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.— Philadelphia club meeting, Walsh Hall basement, 7 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By James Carmody
We must ask forgiveness for devoting so much space these weeks to Sorin and especially the sub, but really, there’s an awful lot of things going on there—awful is the word. Someone now has thought up the idea that the whole crew must throw a banquet to celebrate . something or other, and scouts are out trying to find a suitable place for the affair. By suitable is meant an establishment where a meal may be had for about fifty cents a head and dessert. A decoration committee has been appointed and was only deterred from naming the function the Banquet Orientale by the juniors’ announcement that they had an option on the name. The fact that John Higgins woke up the other morning with a mouse on his forehead may influence the naming of the orgy, and perhaps John’s appetite. It’ll all come out soon.
SpEAKING of naming things, we suppose that you read in the papers about the name a pair of fond parents gave an addition to the family. It was, no less, Depression. Then there is the group of young university students who are staging a fine dance in one of their university’s dininghalls. It happens that the edifice is done in the best of Neo-Gothic; very appropriately the aforementioned collegiates, after searching for a distinctive title for their production, pounced happily on that gem, the Prom Oriental. With Kassel spinning his Spanish castles in the air, and Chico crooning in his native tongue, the contrast should be very effective. From the attitude of certain of the men who are interested in the whole business the dance might well be, as far as the name is concerned, an emulation of the little girl of the first few lines of this opus. These lads have evidently not heard that there is something just around the corner, and that they should forgive trespassers, and be very sporting and that sort of thing. It will be interesting to know, and to ascertain also if George Rohrs greets the guests wrapped in a sarong.
E took the suggestion of our friend, Bill the well-known barber, and went down to see ; Greta Garbo. Previous to this we saw Jekyll and Hyde after a fan. had dogged us to sit in the balcony with him. We were both relieved and glad when Mickey Mouse skidded on and stole the show. If taste can be mental, then we . had a bad taste in pur head when we left the Colfax. We are no Puritans, but even we think that Bill Hays is getting money for being able to wink with both eyes. He certainly must have been on a vacation when the cinema magnates turned out these two epics. It is all a -result, we suppose, of the fact that the fans regarded Frankenstein as a good comedy—this development in the art of the cinema looks very much like a sort of revenge on the part of the producers. Greta wears nice clothes, and Miriam Hopkins succeeds in affording a strik- ? ing contrast, by which we don’t mean that hers aren’t nice. And the cry is louder than ever, art for art’s sake. So far as we can see, the only art displayed was in the dodging of the aforementioned czar of the screen.
^X^ELL, sir, Johnny Perone has at last found an opponent, and he’s a Sorin man of no mean ability by the name of Bernard Heitz. All the accumulated hatred of the two rival diggings will be centered in the center and on the floor of The Scholastic’s ring in the gym before very long, and there will be no end of fierce battering in evidence. It is rumored that in order to give freer play to the pent-up feelings of the two combatants the imported referee will have a rest for this bout and will be replaced by a student whose duty it will be merely to stand passive in one of the comers. If a way could be found to gag Perone, we’d bet on Bernie—otherwise there’s a chance that Bernie might laugh himself into a conclusive count.
9
January 22, 1932
Five
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL TO ISSUE CAPS AND GOWNS
FIGHTERS IN DAILY DRILLS FOK BENGAL BOXING BOUTS; SEEK N.D. CHAMPIONSHIPS
Arrangements Will Save This Year’s Seniors $2.50.
Plans for the annual Washington Birthday exercises, which all seniors of the University take part, were given an impetus this week with the anouncement that the University council will have charge of the handling of the cap and gown concession, supplanting the senior class in that capacity.
An economy has been effected by the Council this year to the extent that each senior will have saved two dollars and a half under the charges of last year.
Three dollars will be the fee for the use of the cap and gown for both the Washington Day program and for the commencement exercises. If the student so desires he may remit one dollar and a half on both occasions rather than make the initial payment in full.
Measurements will be taken in the dry cleaning establishment, Tuesday and Wednesday, February 2, and 3. Payment must be made before receipt-of the cap and gown. Graduation from the University will be contingent upon attendance at the exercises, February 22.
Engineers* Formal Is Set For April the Fifteenth
April the fifteenth is the new date set for the Engineers’ Formal dance. The site of the affair has not as yet been decided. The former price of one dollar and a half per couple has been changed and the new price set at one dollar and seventy-five cents.
Invitations to the dance will be limited to members of the Engineers’ club and their guests. Those engineers who expect to attend the dance and are not members of the club are requested to put in their applications within the next three weeks. Arrangements for gaining entrance may be made by getting in touch with Peter Trollio, 135 Corby Hall.
By Intercollegiate Press.
Twenty students were hurt in a student demonstration before the university and parliament buildings at Sofia recently.
LAUDS BOXING SHOW
Coach George Keogan
“. . . Boxing is a fine intramural sport.”
Coach George E. Keogan, varsity basketball mentor, joined other Notre Dame athletic leaders yesterday in approving of The Scholastic’s boxing show.
Stating that “boxing has always been a fine intramural sport,” Coach Keogan added that he expected The Scholastic’s show to furnish spectators with some “great entertainment.”
She Knows
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York,—Jan. 21.—Do you say, “It’s me?”
You may not get by with it in English class—although you may if the professor is for liberalization of grammar rules—but you are certain to get by with it in society.
Authority for this is none other than the eminent Emily Post, who knows what society does, says, and eats.
Furthermore, Miss Post adds, when you say “not at all,” it is perfectly proper to say “not a-tall.” But you must not, in society, talk about “the girl friend,” or “the boy friend.”
PLAN HARD WORK-OUTS
“Scholastic’s” Show Increases Pugilistic Enthusiasm On Campus—Magarrall.
By Billy Magarrall
If the boxing room was a bedlam of straining, tugging, wheezing, glovesters last week, this most recent training session made the old atmosphere kindergartenish in contrast.
Most of the championship aspirants this week abandoned the wall pulleys and shadow-boxing, as well as various other conditioning methods, for something nearer real combat — two round training bouts with each other.
Throughout the entire week these bouts went on with all the zest of a regularly arranged battle, which points to the promise of some excellent clashes the night of February 12 when The Scholastic holds the Bengal bouts.
In one of the first of these matches, Phil Purcell, a likely looking lightheavy-weight contender, paced off in a pleasing manner. The next setto also brought out a promising middleweight in Frank Gaul. Although Frank was greatly outweighed he did unusually well under a great weight handicap.
Probably one of the most interesting bouts of the week was the slambang match btween Bob Halligan, a cool, steady, accurate puncher, and Tony Scolara, who, though somewhat unseasoned, is game and eager to trade punch for punch.
John Fisher and the writer went a fast heat in which the former worked well. Joe McCabe received a few valuable pointers in his bout ■with Len Dunn, each frequently forgetting his pupil and tutor role to let fly a haymaker.
These and others including, Jack Fitzpatrick, Art Cline, Bill Case, and Walt Noonan, went through their paces daily.
Several are still in the loosening
(Contniued on Page 2")
Six
The Scholastic
Juggler Humor Number To Score Campus Hit To-Night
CONCERT ORCHESTRA WINS LOUD APPLAUSE
RIDICULE GAG MEN
Humor Reaches New Peak As Issue Turns Spotlight On Jokesters.
By Edmund Stephan
Funny Fellow Robert Gorman will present his “Humor Number” to the campus early this evening. Though it has been remarked rather frequently of late that the quality of the
Art Becvar
His humor map is a “Juggler” highlight.
editions up to date has been so laudable that a breakdown must occur soon, this current number will hardly serve such a purpose. It has a well groomed appearance about it and paradoxical though it may be, the “Humor Number” is humorous.
Outstanding among the professional contributors are the names of Corey Ford, nationally known parodist; Frank Sullivan, of New Yorker renown, and other such heralded wags as F. G. Cooper, Nate Collier, Jack duett, R. C. O’Brien, Ed Graham, Park Cummings, and H. W. Hanne-man. All donate their bit to the “Confessions of the Gagmen” department.	.
Most remarkable about the issue is the type of humor displayed by campus talent. With all due regards to the ability of the men spoken above, it must be said that the amateur contributions provoked considerably more chuckles. “An Exchange Editor Looks
•	(Continued on Page 14)
Sorin and Corby To Settle That
Age-Old Feud
By Neil C. Hurley
It’s Heitz versus Perone.
Sorin and Corby halls announced their gladiators for the Bengal boxing show last night and unanimously agreed on their candidates.
Both fighters — Bernie Heitz of Sorin, and Johne Perone of Corby— will go into immediate training for their bout, which will be a feature of the Bengal boxing matches on February 12th.
Special reserved rooting sections for the stalwart men of Sorin Agricultural college and the gay young blades of Corby School of Expression are being set aside close to the ringside, so that each group will be present to urge their battler on to victory.
Pete “Scrap-iron” Streb, the conditioner of all Sorin warriors, announced to The Scholastic last night that he will send the blonde-haired youth into the ring fully prepared for whatever Corby’s board of strategy may have arranged.
Because of the delicate situations that may arise, both halls have agreed that Jerry Heffernan, Loyola university’s boxing coach, and referee of the main bouts, should not be called into the center of the ring. Instead, Jim Carmody will fill the position and will execute all orders fro mthe floor.
Pep meetings, rivaling the football sessions, are being planned for in front of the two halls on the Thursday evening previous to the fights. It is doubtful, however, whether the trainers will allow the two fighters to taste too much excitement and proxies may attend to the oratory angle.
“I’ll talk with my fists when we meet in the ring,” one of the contestants grunted last night, “And I won’t be whispering, either.”
All of which bodes for a fight, which if it is not the battle of the century, will at least be unforgettable in one way or another.
500 Attend Recital Last Night In Washington Hall.
By John E. Ryan
The Notre Dame Concert orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard H. Seidel, gave its annual concert last evening in Washington hall before 500 spectators.
Opening the concert with the overture, “Raymond,” the orchestra delighted its audience with a group of selections which included numbers from Beethoven, Lacome, and Isen-man.
❖
Beethoven’s Concerto Number One, C major, the first movement, with Mr. James A. Kaufmann at the piano, was extremely pleasing to the audience, as was the arrangement of the Notre Dame Victory March.
Professor Seidel, whose efforts have been largely instrumental in making a success of the orchestra, may well be pleased with last evening’s concert. The response from his youthful musicians must have been heartening; certainly he could not have asked for a more appreciative audience.
The success of the Concert orchestra, while it has an element of the sensational about it, is at the same time, the result of long preparation. Professor Seidel has devoted many hours to the planning of this concert, in addition to the time spent in rehearsal. The ideal of a concert orchestra worthy of the University nears realization, and Professor Seidel takes his place as one of the men who builds Notre Dame for the future.
❖
While the musical organizations of the campus have in the past always been fairly active, the reception of last evening will. undoubtedly be an incentive to further endeavor. A program of chamber music presented during the past school year was such an an incentive, as is true of any program under Prof. Seidel.
That a good musical program, to supplement the tragic efforts of subsidized radio programs to afford amusement or even entertainment, is needed is evident from the applause heard last night in Washington hall. Men of Notre Dame have vindicated themselves before their critics by their appreciation of the work of Prof. Seidel and his men.
January 22, 1932
Seven
N. D. DEBATES KENT DYER WGN TOMORROW
Miller, Jenny, Kolb Win Roger Sullivan Awards
Darrow and Becek To Talk; Final Trials Postponed.

In a radio debate over station WGN in Chicago to-morrow at 3 p. m., Notre Dame will inaugurate the 1932 • debating season. William Darrow, a member of last year’s varsity squad and a freshman in the College of Law, will team with Joseph Becek, a first year student in Arts and Letters. Becek’s initial performances have been outstanding.
*	Kent College of Law will furnish
the opposition. The subject is: “Resolved: That the moratorium should lead to the cancellation of war debts.” Notre Dame, who for the past two years has sent men to Chicago to speak over the air, will defend the • negative side of the question.
Debate Trials Postponed
As a result of the radio broadcast, final trials for the varsity candidates have been postponed. These will be . held next Monday and - Tuesday. Schedules for the speakers have been posted on the bulletin boards in the various halls.
With the country flooded at the present time with plans for relief from the present economic stress, the • question for this year’s debates is timely.
The subject is: “Resolved: That the United States should assume control of production and distribution in the major basic industries of the country.”
Stuart Chase and Charles Beard are filling every magazine with their own plans for economic rehabilitation. The recent issue of the New Republic carried a twenty-four page supplement devoted exclusively to the idea of economic planning.
Only one-seventh of an iceberg is above the water.
Seventeen of the 111 species of snakes found in the United States are poisonous.
The Vatican stands' on the spot once occupied by the Gardens of Nero.
Pre-Law Club Votes to Slice
Members9 Dues
The Pre-Law club held its first meeting of the new year Tuesday evening, January 19, in the Court room of the Law building. Business considerations occupied most of the members’ time.
A by-law to the club’s constitution was passed. In consideration of the present scarcity of currency the club’s dues for next semester will be cut from fifty to twenty-five cents. A provision was also made to give those not yet paid up until February 19 to settle accounts for the first semester. Dues for the second semester will be payable from then on. After February 19 admission to meetings will be by membership cards only.
Professor Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, will speak at the next meeting scheduled to be called at 7:45 p. m. on February 2 in the Court room of the Law building.
ITALIAN CLUB HAS LARGE ATTENDANCE; FOREIGN TOUR IS DISCUSSED
A large attendance characterized the first meeting of the Italian club since Christmas on Tuesday evening. William C. Blind, treasurer, reported on the financial condition of the club.
Plans for the forthcoming European tour, to be sponsored by the club, were discussed. An estimate was made as to the possible cost and the arrangements planned.
Professor Pirchio, faculty advisor, declared that the facilities of the trip should be offered to all men on the campus and be not restricted to the club members. Information can be secured from Leo Schiavone, Corby hal.
Columbia university has received §28,000,000 in gifts in the last year.
$250 SCHOLARSHIP
Awards Are Given For Outstanding. Improvement In Scholastic Standings.
By John A. McElligott
Frank H. Miller, Senior, Francis J. Jenny, Junior, and Raymond J. Kolb, Sophomore, are the 1932 winners of
Frank Miller
Wins $250 for 48.3 percent raise in his average.
the Roger C. Sullivan scholarships according to an announcement made by the Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., chairman of the committee on scholarships and prizes. The scholarships will carry a cash stipend of §250 and are awarded for the most outstanding improvements in scholastic standing.
Frank Miller of Racine, Wis. received the Senior award with a 48.3% improvement in academic work. He is a senior in the College of Commerce and lives in Walsh hall.
Francis Jenny, junior winner, a student in Chemical Engineering, from Utica, New York, incerased his grades by 48.4%. He is a resident of Badin hall. „
Raymond Kolb from Akron, Ohio, sophomore winner, received the third award for an improvement of 30.5%.
(Continued on Page 15)
Eight
The Scholastic
t
SPECTATORS SELECT JOHN PICK SECRETARY
Walter Johnson Reads Paper On Government Control.
Election of John Pick as secretary and delivery of a paper entitled, “Government Control of Basic Industry,” by Walter Johnson were
John Pick
.	He was the unanimous choice.
highlights of the meeting of the Spectators held last Thursday evening in the Law building.
£	Already Acting Secretary
!	. Pick, already acting secretary, a
!	junior in the College of Arts and
,	Letters, was unanimously selected.
!	Johnson, in his paper, advocated
1	the establishment of a national board
to control production in the industries
;	which provide the necessities of life.
This board would be similar to the
1	National War board in the last inter-
national conflict and would be endowed with only a minimum of power necessary to enforce its regulations.
Regulate Over-Production
Composed of industrial leaders, economists, statisticians, labor leaders, and representatives of other associated fields, the board would chiefly concern itself with the regulation of production. It would thus tend to eliminate overproduction which is generally recognized as the cause of the present depression.
Asserting the plan, which is similar to those outlined by Stuart Chase, Gerard Swope, and others, to be neither bureaucratic nor socialistic, Johnson met with opposition from some of the other Spectators, who contended that it was really socialistic in practice and would necessitate changes in the Constitution.
Our Language Is Not So Bad, Say
English Profs
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Jan. 21.—Slang was defended here today by two lexicographers and an English professor, who decried the statement of Professor Allan Will of the Columbia university department of journalism.
Dr. Will had previously deplored the “o, yeah,” the “okay’s,” and the “lotta hooey” of modern speech and had declared that we were returning to the language of the jungle.
A fellow professor, Dr. Hoxie N. Fairchild of the Columbia English department, took the offensive this week and stated emphatically that “the slang of today may be the literary product of tomorrow.”
Professor William Grant of the same department likewise declared that the language was improving, rather than degenerating. He said “okay” was not a jungleism, but had been in use for 200 years.
“Good slang remains permanent,” chimed in Dr. Frank H. Vizetelly, an editor of a dictionary, “and even enriches the language.”
Even in Shakespeare’s day it was not unusual for an individual to accost a gentleman with the title of “old egg,” or to inquire contemptuously, “Are you so hot?”
A= B NOTICE
Students who wish to transfer from their present college to the College of Arts and Letters at the beginning of the second semester should present themselves, without delay to the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, with a letter from their parents approving the transfer.
Students in other colleges who are at present on probation by reas' of failure in A.B. subjects will not be accepted in the College of Arts and Letters unless they remove their name from the probation list at the beginning of the second semester.
What is thought to be the oldest thing in existence is a sacred bo tree in Anuradhura, Seylon. It was planted in 240 B. C., and still thrives.
OPEN MEETING IS SUCCESS
Knights of Columbus Offer Fine Program To Guests.
A sterling program of varied entertainment, arranged by Lecturer John Wiettliffe, was presented by the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, at their open meeting held last Monday in the council chamber of Walsh Hall.	’
Heading the list of fun-makers were the well known trio of Mahons, Eddie, Eileen and Patricia. Their unique dance offering of “Irish Reels and Clogs” was warmly received by the one hundred and thirty-five persons present at the meeting. Mrs. McCartney of South Bend accompanied the Mahons.
Excitement was added to the program when the two boxing bouts, announced and refereed by Johnny Perone, were staged. The contestants who supplied the punch to the program were John Fitzpatrick, who met Frank Gaul, and Billy Magarrell of Notre Dame who fought Johnny Nate of South Bend. All four men were evenly matched and the bouts ended in a draw.	•
The musical part of the program was provided by Joe Kennedy, Glee Club soloist, Johnny Perone and Florence McCarthy. The attendance prize offered at the meeting was awarded to Charles Nash. The meeting was concluded when refreshments in the form of ice-cream and cake were served.
The next regular meeting of the Knights of Columbus will be held on February 8th.
✓
Cooley Attends Conference
Edward J. Cooley, director of the curriculum in probation work, attended a demonstration of the latest developments in the use of the lie detector and galvonometer in the field of criminological research, last Thursday at the Institute for Juvenile Research in Chicago.
Prof. Cooley was the guest of Professor Edwin H. Sutherland, president of the Chicago Academy of Criminology.
By Intercollegiate Press.
Royal Society in Medicine in London were told recently by one of their colleagues that high heels are a harmless vanity on the part of women and that they cause no injury.
>
January 22, 1932
Nine
LAWYERS TO MEET HERE
Indiana Bar Association to Hold Convention on Campus.
Notre Dame will be the scene of the annual summer convention of the Indiana State Bar association early next July, according to an announcement made by Orlo R. Deahl this week. It will be the first time that the association has convened here.
Dean Thomas F. Konop of the Law school and Judge Deahl, member of the faculty as well as president of the St. Joseph County Bar association, attended a meeting of the Indiana association last Saturday, and invited them to meet here.
Three hundred delegates from all sections of the state will be in attendance. It will take place in the new Law building during the’ second week of July with general sessions and sectional meetings included on the program.
Last year the association held its summer meeting at Purdue university, in Lafayette. The year previous the members convened at Indiana university.
“Thar’s Cold In Them Pills”
By Intercollegiate Press.
Amsterdam, Jan. 20.—Rub your blue fingers, you college students up in Idaho, and shiver a bit when the sun goes under a cloud down at Rollins, if you wish, but neither of you knows what it is to be cold— speaking relatively.
At Leyden University here Dr. W. Keesom has succeeded in cooling a space of ten cubic centimeters to 0.75 of a degree K. The letter, K, he says, is the abbreviation for the absolute zero, which is 491 degrees below zero. The cold that Dr. Keeson has reached, therefore, is just 489 degrees below zero.
Student Models
By Intercollegiate Press.
Development of informal leaders among the country’s youth is the purpose of the United States Society, just formed. Calvin Coolidge, Elihu Root, Newton D. Baker, Owen D. Young and John Grier Hibbin, president of Princeton university, are heads of the organization, which will pick prominent college students to form a model Congress each year in Washington.
Flirtatious ?
Yep! And Co-Eds Find It Useful
By Intercollegiate Press.
Ann Arbor, Mich., Jan. 19.—The coeds at Michigan university have their troubles.
Last year a picked team from Zeta Phi Eta, women’s debating society, lost a verbal tussle with three representatives of Alpha Nu, men’s forensic club, on the subject of “Are coeds human?”
And last week a trio of judges— two men and a woman—decided that the men had triumphed again. This time the question read: “Resolved— That women receive their grades on other than scholastic basis.”
There was a mention of tea parties at which co-eds beamed upon professors, and of the comparative weight of brains.
“The superiority of women is just an optical illusion,” one speaker declared.
Bleeg, Uhlmeyer, Dr. Boyle Talk For Chemists’ Club
The Chemists’ club held its first meeting of the new year on Wednesday evening, January 13, in Chemistry hall. Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, of the Department of Chemistry, and John Bleeg, Jr., and Vance Uhlmeyer, seniors, were heard on the program.
“The Value of Course Work to Students” was the topic of Dr. Boyle’s talk. He laid stress on the important part that undergraduate studies play in attaining success.
Bleeg, a senior chemical engineer, demonstrated how nitrogen fixation by means of an electric spark can be accomplished.
“The Cement Industry,” with the processes involved in the manufacture of cement, was discussed by Uhymeyer.
The club members’ attention was called to the elections which will take place in February.
By Intercollegiate Press.
Dr. Lawrie Morrison, X-ray specialist of Boston, has given an arm in the practice of his profession.
PROF. WILLIAM HOLTON LECTURES AT MOREAU
“It’s Easy To Deceive the Eye,” Says Philosopher.
Declaring that sight was the most easily deceived of all the senses, Professor William Holton opened a new field of discussion for the seminarians of Moreau last Sunday, when
Professor William Holton “. . . seeing isn’t believing.”
he delivered a lecture before the seminar in philosophy.
Choosing as his topic, “Illusions— Optical and Mental,” Professor Holton went on to state that although the eye is clearly open for deception, seventy-five per cent of the knowledge of the objective world is arrived at through the sense of sight.
He illustrated his talk with geometrical figures, and explained a large number of the illusory card tricks which Houdini has been known to use.
Continuing his speech, which was attended by a large group of the seminarians, Professor Holton assailed the spiritualists, clairvoyants, slate writers, and ghost photographers. He definitely proved that all of their feats were performed through the medium of trickery, and that unless allowed to operate under the dim lights of a darkened room, they would not be able to perform.
The largest piece of coal ever mined .weighs 20,800 pounds, and it now reposes in the State Capitol of Utah, at Salt Lake City.
The Scholastic
________________ 4
Ten
JUDGE CAIN FLAYS DELAY IN INDIANA COURTS
Says Crime Usually Wins Out When Cases Are Put Off.
Declaring that the inexcusable and unnecessary delays in Indiana courts were a disgrace, Judge William Cain, professor in the College of Law, last
Judge William Cain
“. . . delays are the real trouble.”
Wednesday urged the necessity of judicial speed in a spirited lecture to his journalism class in the Law building.
“Corruption is not the trouble with our courts” the Judge declared. “It’s the long delay with which it is necessary to wait before a hearing is ultimately granted.”
He cited the case of D. C. Stephenson, which has been hanging fire for three and a half years, and brought forth other examples of equal procrastination.
“Crime is usually the winner in delay cases,” he stated. “Ninety-nine times out of a hundred delays operate in favor of the criminal.”
Praising the procedure in Milwaukee, he pointed out that an offender usual appears for trial within thirty days after the commission of his crime.
Judge Cain was responsible in a large measure for the speed with which the Nebraska Supreme Court handles its cases, and is a pioneer in the fight against court delays.
Campus Opinions
TREATS CATHOLIC FICTION
Question : “What do you think might be done to increase and to make more profitable the activities of city and sectional campus clubs?”
William C. Brown, Sorin hall, senior: “It seems to me that the activities of these clubs could be increased by establishing a system of inter-club athletic competition such as that fob lowed in interhall sports. For one thing, I advocate ball games in which the regular hard baseball and not the soft playground ball is used.”
Charles Nash, Corby hall, senior: “More frequent meetings would serve to stimulate interest among the members of ’these organizations. It would be well if entertainment and other, such features could be had at these meetings. An inter-club social and athletic program would do a great deal toward increasing the clubs’ activities and making them more profitable.”
Robert Johnston, Howard hall, junior: “Activities could be increased and also made more profitable by a larger membership. This could be obtained by soliciting all the new men from that city or section at the beginning of the school term. Frequent ‘get-togethers’ outside of the regular business meetings also would be beneficial.”
Joe McKean, Sorin hall, senior: “I suggest an investigation into club ‘slush funds’. The graft rampant in club activities reached a peak this Christmas when money was even lost on metropolitan club dances. Although the attendance was good, definite word has reached me that the only losers were the orchestra, program companies and freshmen club members. That is all I have to say.”
Frank J. Conboy, Corby hall, senior: “A dance or two at home during vacations apparently does not justify the existence of campus clubs between their dances. An increase of club activities here at school offers the best solution—smokers, banquets and interclub athletics. These, I think, could be managed on a paying basis if club officers and club activities chairmen would consent to a ten per cent cut in their earnings, at least temporarily.”
Kreps Discusses Moral Tone of Various New Books.
Writers of Catholic fiction was the subject of Kenneth L. Kreps’ papei-. presented at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening. He began by pointing out that he meant by Catholic fiction not necessarily books , written by Catholic authors, but rather books whose moral standards and philosophy were compatible with Church doctrine.
A consideration was given to most of the outstanding Catholic writers today. Kreps showed that some of <” the greatest of them, such as Sigrid Undset, Sheila Kaye-Smith, and G. K. Chesterton are converts. It seems that the Protestants examine more closely into Catholic traditions than do Catholics themselves, and in several cases the conversion of the writer has been « brought about in this manner. The speaker cited as examples of Protestants writing on Catholic subjects today, Willa Cather, especially in her last two books.
He also mentioned that a certain talented Catholic woman writing in the United States today is afraid to make her stories Catholic in thought, fearing that her popularity will decrease. Instead she chooses to be as modern and immoral as any of the writers for the less literary magazines.	•
Kreps offered no suggestion for the encouragement of Catholic writers, but said that he thought the matter would have to work itself out in time. Eventually the more educated class will react against some of the trash that is being written today, and a more wholesome Catholic literature will evolve.
Window Bath
By Intercollegiate Press.
a
Oxford, England, Jan. 20.—Baths haven’t bothered the early English stained glass in Menton College chapel here for some time.
It is to get its first cleaning since 1700, and some of the glass hasn’t been touched since 1620. But the bath it’s going to get now will take over two years. The glass is so valuable that the cellar in which the bath is to take place is locked and guarded constantly.
January 22, 1932
Eleven
ORGAN RECITAL PLANNED
Prof. Groom Prepares Musicale For St. Patrick’s.
Professor William Groom of the University School of Music has arranged this month’s organ recital sponsored by St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend. The recital is to be played by Lester W. Groom, F. A. G. O., of Columbia School of Music and organist of the Church of the Ascension in Chicago. The recital will be presented at 8:00 p. m. Monday, February 1.
The program is to be made up of music composed by, Frank, Bach, McDowell, and other prominent musicians including Karg-Eilert, the famous German contemporary. Special attention is being centered around the work of the latter owing to the fact that he is at present engaged in his first concert tour of the United States.
Mr. Lester Groom will be assisted in this, the fifth of a series of monthly recitals, by Mrs. Walter E. Bryan, prominent South Bend contralto.
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES ANNOUNCES RULES FOR 1932
The regulations governing registration for the next semester were released yesterday by the Reverend J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. They follow in part:
1.	The student must present to his dean at the time of registration for the new semester the certificate of “account arranged.”
2.	In every college of the University, except the College of Engineering, no more than eighteen semester hours of study may be undertaken without special authorization by the dean in each exceptional instance, otherwise the extra hours will not count.
3.	Required courses which he has failed or neglected must be taken before new courses as a part of the maximum amount of work allowed.
4.	A student may not change from one section of a subject to another section of the same subject.
5.	An absence from the first class of each subject in the new semester will count as three absences.
6.	There will be a fine of §5.00 for late registration.
LIBRARY NOTICE!
Beginning with the second semester all students using the University Library will be required to present, on demand, an identification card. These cards may be secured now at the library.
DESTINY OF YOUTH IS NOT PREDICTABLE, SAYS PROF.
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Jan. 21.—Dr. Frank-wood E. Williams, psychiatrist, is responsible for the most recent blast at the hopes of parents who think their child is bound to be the next president, or at least a great artist or a writer.
“Parents may not talk about such ambitions for their children,” he said, “but nevertheless they plan, push and demand that their children shall do this and that in line with such silliness. Their children may have a genius among them, of course, but it is far more likely that every one of them will turn out to be just decent, ordinarily fine, average adults like the rest of us.”
Farrell Addresses I. R. Club
Professor William Farrell of the Department of History was the guest speaker at a meeting of the International Relations club on Wednesday evening, January 20th. Mr. Farrell spoke on “Fascism and Italy.”
The popularity of European dictatorships is but the culmination of the costly mistakes made by the Congress of Vienna, is the belief of Professor Farrell. He traced the rise of Fascism from its humble beginning as a patriotic society to its present position of dominance in the politics of Italy.
The lecture was brought to a close by several of the club members commenting on the future of Fascism as a question of international importance.
NOTICE!
Those students who wish to join the International Relations club for the second semester should hand in their names to Charles Hitzelberger, secretary, and appear at the. next meeting of the club Wednesday at 6:30 p. m. in the library.
JANUARY NUMBER OF CATALYZER IS ISSUED
Joseph Toussaint Is Editor of Chemists’ Publication.
By Lawrence Dunda
The January number of The Catalyzer, publication of the department of chemistry and edited by Joseph Toussaint, was issued yesterday.
Robert E. Bannon, B.S. in Ch.E., ’28, now an instructor at the Massa-
Joseph Toussaint
“. . . the stories all have big names.”
chusetts Institute of Technology, contributed the main article, entitled “Case-Hardening with Ammonia Gas.”
In this article author Bannon discusses his discovery of the process and outlines the methods followed, with the resulting benefits derived from treating metals in this way, showing that it is superior in some respects to other methods.
An editorial points out the valuable contribution of student publications in promoting a desire for clear, concise and accurate expression. They serve to foster a spirit of research, to maintain the interest of alumni and to develop a certain amount of knowledge of business education and management.
The activities of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society, the Notre Dame group of the American Society of Steel Treaters, the Pharmacy club, the Engineers’ club, the Academy of Science and the Chemists’ club are reported.
Ttcelve
The Scholastic
K Man About the Campus »» Joseph Petritz
SONG BY ALUMNUS WILL FEATURE JUNIOR PROM
By Edward J. O’Brien
There’s a little room in the Main building next to the Brownson hall telephone booth. Looking in one day, you might see a number of freshman managers stabbing saliva-moistened tongues at flaps of enelopes and at postage stamps.
Perhaps if you inestigate a little further, you’ll find that these envelopes are addressed to newspapers in cities from coast to coast. They contain mimeographed sheets giving information regarding sports at Notre Dame.
The managers will tell you that they were written by Joe Petritz. Then they may tell you more about that gentleman, but we won’t bother with that. We’ll tell you ourselves that Joe is Sports Publicity Director.
The office of lanky Mr. Petritz is in the Athletic office of the Main building. Otherwise, he lives with the other Notre Dame celebrities in Sorin hall. But he’s in that Athletic office so much that it is seldom he occupies that room in Sorin.
Fall, His Busy Season
The Director’s busy season begins in September, before the football season, and ends just before Christmas. “Releases” and “queries” are the two common terms in his vocabulary. Joe takes care of all such items.
Queries are year-around affairs, but are most numerous after football season with rumors and Winchellisms to be met and answered. Petritz answers ever letter personally. During football season he spends from eight to ten hours a day in the office. He spends an average of a mere six hours now.
Holding the office' he does, necessitated a thorough knowledge of the sports activities here. For that reason, Joe was a manager for six months of his freshman year. Perhaps, he too, licked stamps and envelopes in the little room near Brownson.
Anyhow, he learned all he wanted to know while a manager. Then, too, he became the campus representative for newspapers in Chicago, Indianapolis, Pittsburgh, New York, and ■ Los Angeles as well as for the United Press.
Last year he had a syndicated series of five newspaper articles under his own name. The stories concerned Notre Dame after Rockne.
Joseph Petritz
He tells the sporting ivorld.
So it’s easy to see that Joe Petritz is one of the busiest students on the campus to be able to carry on this work and still amintain a high standing in his journalism course. And lest we forget, Joe has been editor of the Football Review for the past three years — which is quite an accomplishment. The first year of his editorship, Joe terms as “nightmarish.” It’s a habit now, I suppose.
Press Box Problems
He must have had a wild time at the Southern California game when there were five stations handling the game with only three broadcasting booths available. Joe solved the problem by placing extra announcers at one end of the press-box in isolation from the rest of the usual hubbub.
Petritz is a friendly fellow. Perhaps his time-consuming duties do not allow much opportunity for mingling with the students as Joe would desire but all those who know him, like him. He’s never too busy to engage in a chat, and if there’s anything you’d like to know about sports at Notre Dame, just ask Director Joe and the information will be forthcoming.
Plans Completed For Dance In Dining Halls.
By Walter Kennedy
Final arrangements relative to the Junior Prom which is to be held in the University dining hall on February 5, were made known yesterday.
The dining hall is to be transformed into an Arabic setting, with Art Kassel and his celebrated “Castles in the Air” putting a finishing touch to the “Prom Oriental.”
John Beljon, who graduated in 1930, is the author of the 1932 Prom song. In accordance with the setting, the title is appropriately called “In Araby.”
Beljon was well known on the campus as a song writer, having composed the now famous “My Prom Sweetheart” for a class dance two years ago, and having several other popular hits to his youthful credit.
Climaxing the activities of the weekend will be the dinner dance held at the Oliver Hotel on Saturday evening. It is scheduled to begin at six o’clock and will continue until eleven.
The ticket sale opened last Monday and will end on the Tuesday before the dance. Tickets may be secured from hall representatives.
Invitations may be secured from Ed LeRoux in Alumni hall.
a
Breen Winner Moves On
George Ryan, winner of the annual Breen medal award, has a chance for national oratorical fame. If he, as Notre Dame’s delegate, wins first honors in the State meet at Indianapolis next month, he will then represent Indiana in the Mid-West meet shortly afterwards.
Winners of these sectional meets lepresenting twenty-eight states will then move on to Washington, D. C. There a contest will be held to determine who is the outstanding collegiate speaker in the United States. What the best speaker will win besides the mythical title has not yet been announced, but it may be a seat in Congress.
Dover, the state capital of Delaware, does not have a daily newspaper.
January 22, 1932
Thirteen
"LAWYER” MAKES 2ND CAMPUS APPEARANCE
Issue Contains Articles By a	Prominent Jurists,
By Mitchell Tackley
During the latter part of next week, the College of Law will release the January issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer. This month’s magazine, the second issue of the current year, edited by Edward C. Massa, contains well-handled material in the field of law.
Whitman Writes Article
Professor John H. A. Whitman, member of the faculty and librarian of the college, has written an article, “The Law of Christian Marriage.” This discussion brings out the point of view of the Church as compared with the civil law standpoint on the divorce issue.
Attorney Walter R. Arnold of the firm of Shibely and Arnold, South Bend, has contributed an article, “Fatuous Cross Examinations.” In this he states: “The public often believes that a case is won on cross examination, but in doing so, too much is assumed. Contested cases, depending on questions of fact, are won by the side whose witnesses are over-cross-examined,”he declares. Several illustrations are cited.
Student Articles
In addition to the articles, the following valuable notes have been prepared by students in the College of Law. They are: “The Analysis of Automobile Financial Responsibilities of Law,” by Edward C. Massa, editor of the publication; “Procedure of Adoption and the Ranks of the Adopted Child,” by William R. Des-enberg; “Joinder of Causes of Action” by Edward L. Barrett; “The Difference eBtween Chattel Mortgage and a Pledge,” by John M. Luberto; and “Are You a Criminal?” by Prof. William M. James of the Kent College of Law.
“Recent Decisions” Retained
The department of “Valuable Recent Decisions,” is also ocntained in the issue. The contributors are: Prof. William M. Cain, George W. Vander Vennet, Thaddeus Morawski, Phillip Konop, and John M. Crimmins.
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
BOOKS AND BOOKS and books have been written about the influence of social conditions upon art, and particularly on the drama. In all probability, books and books and more books remain to be done on that subject. If this, sadly enough, be true, the prospective authors have a case in point with which to illustrate their contention, for the fact is that among the five late plays on Broadway, four of them are blood and thunder tragedies.
Passing over the psychological aspect of this lamentable discovery, the situation is slightly redeemed by the enthusiastic praise that the critics have cast upon one of these tragedies. Not only, they say, is it slightly different, but—it has actually brought the house down! “Never No More” follows “Green Pastures” into the life of the plantation, but in quite different vein.
iT IS THE STORY of a negro lad 1 who strangles a white girl, and of the sorrow caused his family by this occurrence. The movement is rapid enough, it seems, with the last two acts bursting with emotional content. The patrons are struck with fear and trembling as the mother prepares to dynamite the lynching party, and every one throws his hat in the air, feeling that even in such times as these, he has his money’s worth.
So goes it, while down the street a bit they are hailing Blanche Yurka as America’s greatest tragedienne. This opinion is not by any means the general one, however, since some of the boys still beai- Miss Anglin in mind when tragediennes are mentioned.
Anyway, miss yurka is now doing Electra with some success, and in the absence of Miss Anglin, who has been comparatively inactive of late years, has achieved something of a following. Miss Anglin, nevertheless, remains unquestionably the greatest of our tragediennes to many of those whose good fortune it has been to have seen her.
With scarcely a foreboding of departure, Captain Billy Bryant has left Chicago. His advent to that city was heralded some weeks ago as the means of inducing fagged business men to forget their difficulties, and the prescription was not a bad one. many of them found. Captain Billy had delighted the natives of Cincinnati through a long, dry summer, and had-quite as much success during his stay at the Studebaker. But his time is precious, says the old stageman; New York calls, and Billy has rushed to heed the call.
CHICAGOANS are making the most of the fast-fading entertainments afforded them. The Opera has enjoyed a good season, both from the point of view of art and from that of the box office. Patrons have been extremely pleased with the repertoire; the artists are pelased with the attendance. And thus, as the Opera is about to close, all is well.
The Studebaker and the Playhouse have been especially solicitous during this season to bring the best in Art. And not to* be neglected in comment of this sort is the part that has been played by Miss Bretha Ott, through whose efforts much of the talent has been arranged for. Situated down on Michigan, in the Fine Arts Building, these houses are in a good position to appeal to those who claim to have some appreciation of the dance, or of music. All in all, it has been a good season, with a few more things remaining, of course.
Ex-Athlete Army Head
By Intercollegiate Press.
West Point, N. Y., Jan. 21.—The United States Military academy next fall will come under the command of one of the greatest athletes that ever represented the Army.
Back in 1896 William Durwood Connor was captain of the Army football team and set what was then a record on the track, dashing 100 yards in 10.1 seconds.
Next fall Major General Connor will relieve Major General William R. Smith of the command here.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
PROF. DOWNEY ELECTED A.B. LAY FACULTY HEAD
Registrar Riordan Is Speaker At Faculty Meeting.
Election of officers and delivery of a paper entitled “Some Economic Aspects of National Defense,” by Registrar Robert B. Riordan, were the features of the meeting of the Lay Faculty club of the College of Arts and Letters last Monday evening.
Professor William Downey
Presides over A. B. Lay Faculty.
Professor William H. Downey of the Department of Economics is the newly elected president. Professor John M. Cooney, head of the School of Journalism, will be vice-president, while Professor George J. Wack, of the Department of German, is to be secretary-treasurer.
Professor Riordan, a captain in the field artillery reserve, was well qualified to speak on his topic of national defense and devoted himself almost completely to its economic aspects from the American point of view.
Tracing our experiences with wars in the past, from the Revolution to the World War, Riordan pointed out that with better management and more adequate provision for defense, “both gold and blood” could have been saved in every instance, saying “the United States has never been business-like in handling its national defense.”
In conclusion, the Registrar said, “National defense is a necessary and a productive function of government, and, as such,' it merits business-like and not sentimental consideration.”
The next meeting of the club will be held the first Monday in February, at which time it will hear Dr. Paul Menge in an illustrated lecture on student life in Germany.
There will not be an issue of The Scholastic next week on account of the semester examinations.
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES ANNOUNCES EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
Semester examinations will be held in all colleges of the University on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, January 27 to 30, according to the following schedule:
Classes taught at
8:00 a. m. on Monday
9:00 a. m. on Monday
10:00 a. m. on Monday
11:00 a. m. on Monday
1:15 p. m. on Monday
2:15 p. m. on Monday
3:15 p. m. on Monday Classes taught at
8:00 a. m. on Tuesday
9:00 a. m. on Tuesday 10:00 a. m. on Tuesday 11:00 a. m. on Tuesday
1:15 p. m. on Tuesday 2:15 p. m. on Tuesday 3:15 p. m. on Tuesday
will be examined at 8:00 a. m. Wednesday 8:00 a. m. Friday
10:00 a. m. Wednesday
10:00 a. m. Friday
1:15 p. m. Wednesday 3:15 p. m. Wednesday 1:15 p. m. Friday
will be examined at 8:00 a. m. Thursday 8:00 a. m. Saturday
10:00 a. m. Thursday
10:00 a. m. Saturday
1:15 p. m. Thursday
3:15 p. m. Thursday 3:15 p. m. Friday
Classes taught at 4:15 p. m. are to he examined at 7:00 p. m. on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 7:00 p. m. are to he examined at 7:00 p. m. Thursday.
Time of examination not provided for in the schedule above will be fixed by teacher of the course.
Period = 1 hour, 50 minutes.
Any examination taken outside of these four days will not be valid for credit.
Applications For “Dome” Staff Are Still Received
Although a meeting of candidates for positions on the business staff of the Dome was held last Monday, applications are still being received at the Publications office. The positions are open to all undergraduates of the University.
The work, consisting of making contacts with local merchants and soliciting national advertising, will begin shortly after exams. There will be cash remuneration and work on the Dome business staff will be a criteria for receiving appointments to other publication business staffs next year.
Marble Stark, the tiger trainer, had 1,500 stitches taken in her body and lived.	-
CRITICS PRAISE JUGGLER
Humor Number To Appear On Campus Tonight.
&
(Continued from Page 6)
at the Joke Industry” is a particularly well done column, and “Timely Lessons in Prom Etiquette” will have its appeal to some of the worried juniors.
The art work of the “Humor Number” is quite commendable. While the cover itself is not particularly striking, principally because of a lack of color, the other pages are well up to standard. A full page drawing by Joe Lopker will undoubtedly impress many as being his best bit of work this year. A rather ingenious “Gangster’s Map of North America” has been designed by Art Becvar. Beau-laurier, Prezebel, Conboy and Sing-son continue to show considerable promise as artists.
Sinister references to such personages as Gandhi, Hoover, Mussolini, Vallee, Coolidge, Brisbane, and “all others,” as Gorman puts it, “who make humorous magazines possible,” take up a large amount of space.
The Funny Fellow again airs that fancy of presenting stage personalities. This time it’s the exotic Eugenie Leontovich, of “Grand Hotel” fame.
When you get towards the back of the book you will realize that it was well worth paying twenty-five cents just to see the advertisement that The Scholastic has in for its boxing show, February 12.
All in all, Bob Gorman has put out another fine publication. He goes about his work quietly and unostentatiously, but the “Humor Number” will prove to you that he gets results.
Announced in this issue is the fact . that next month’s edition will be known as “The Highbrow” number, “but will be sold, however, to one and all.”
The maximum weight of the average man is 140 pounds, while that of a woman is 124 pounds.
The Canary Islands were named for dogs, not for birds.
The United States did not have a recognized national anthem until 1931.
January 22, 1932
Fifteen
SULLIVAN AWARDS MADE
Winners Announced Today By Rev. Wililam Molony, C.S.C.
(Continued from Page 7)
The Roger C. Sullivan scholarships was founded in June, 1922, by a gift of $15,000 from Mrs. Leo Sullivan Cummings and Mrs. Thomas Sullivan Brennan in memory of their father, the late Roger C. Sullivan of Chicago.
The income from this fund pro-
Frank Jenny
Increases average 46.3 percent,
vides for three scholarships of §250 each, awarded annually to the three applicants from the Senior, Junior and Sophomore class who have shown the greatest improvement in scholarship during the academic year.
Applications for the awards are made by the students during November preceding the announcement of recipients. Conditions for selection are: 1. that a written application be sent to the Chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes; 2. that the applicant have entered the current year without any deficiency in his studies; and 3. that the applicant have been a student at Notre Dame during the preceding scholastic year.
The winner’s grades made during the last semester are compared with their marks of the first semester of the same year.
Members of the Scholarship committee besides Father Molony, C.S.C., chairman, are Reverend Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C., Mr. William L. Benitz, and Mr. Clarence E. Manion.
DEVOTION, starring Ann Harding. Good dramatic presentation. Worth seeing when it arrives here Friday evening.
SECRETARY RELEASES NOTICE CONCERNING SEMESTER ACCOUNTS
Certificates evidencing the payment or the approved settlement of account have been mailed to the students whose accounts have been arranged.
Students whose accounts have been arranged and who have not received their certifications should report immediately to the Secretary of the University.
Students having employment at the University must present their credit memoranda for services when arranging their account for the Second Semester.
No certifications will be issued by the Secretary unless the student has arranged his account in full.
Only those students who have cash payments to make should report to the Treasurer’s window on the day of re-registration. Students taking care of their accounts in any other way should report immediately to the Secretary.
Therefore, 1) Bring the “Statement of Account Due,” 2) pay the Treasurer the amount of cash that is to be applied on your account, and 3) present your cash receipt and credit memoranda, if any, to the Secretary who will issue the prescribed certifications.
Predicts Meteor Shower
By Intercollegiate Press.
Wooster, 0. Jan. 21.—A meteoric shower, comparable to the historic shower of 1868, and four eclipses are included in the astronomical program for 1932, according to Professor B. F. Yanney, Wooster College astronomer.
The Leonid meteoric stream, believed residue of a comet, is to find the earth in its midst this year.
There will be two almost total eclipses of the moon, on March 22 and Sept. 14. Then there will be an annular eclipse of the moon, March 7, and a total eclipse of the sun on Aug. 31, which will be visible all over the United States.
France governs half of the desert land of the world.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE IS SUBJECT AT SEMINAR
Ostrander Gives Talk on Main Channels of Inefficiency.
“Waste in Industry” was the subject of a paper by Joel Ostrander given Thursday evening before the Economics Seminar.
The subject was introduced by a verbatim repetition of Stuart Chase’s analogy of the four inexperienced campers who by their actions and methods were made to illustrate the four main channels of waste in industry.
A concrete example of the elimination of waste in industry made possible through the co-ordinated control of the economic structure was given by showing the results of the effect of war control of industry. Before the war approximately 40,000,-000 persons gainfully employed were unable to provide for themselves the prime necessities of life, much less the reasonable comforts of living. However with 25% of the total labor power absorbed by either actual fighting or some type of war work, the standard of living for the underlying population was raised by the remaining working populace, who turned out more in the way of necessities and comforts than the previous total labor power had ever done.
The four main channels of waste, namely waste in consumption, idle man-power, waste in production and distribution, and the waste of natural resources, were taken in turn and discussed in detail. Particular attention was given to the appalling waste of the natural resources^ For every ton of coal mined another ton is lost forever in the ground through inefficient and unplanned mining operations. For every barrel of oil removed from the earth, three are irretrievably lost, besides the waste resulting from the escape of immense quantities of natural gas residing in oil pools. The great forests containing at one time untold wealth have been wantonly destroyed. For every four feet of lumber cut in the forest, only about only one foot of finished lumber appears.
One possible solution of the problem of eliminating this immense loss, suggested in the discussion following tse reading of the paper, was a reorganization of all industry.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Aha! The Inside Dope On The Dining Hall Kitchens
The average Notre Dame man’s appetite is far from sickly.
Twenty-five hundred such appetites present just that many problems to the Notre Dame kitchen staff in general, but in particular to Mr. Robert Borland, manager of the dining halls and cafeteria for the past five years.
Mr. Owen (“Tom” to you) is his assistant and he has served a like number of years in the University service.
Kitchen Employs Hundred
About one hundred people are employed in the kitchens. Their duties range from slicing the fat off the meat to operating complicated machinery to keeping the floors spotlessly clean.
Why, the ice-plant alone requires several mechanics to operate the large machines which supply the refrigeration for the food storage rooms.	'
Besides this, all of the plant has a capacity for manufacturing fifteenhundred pounds of ice a day.
Food in Carload Lots
Food is ordered in carolads. Herr Van Gamm is manager of the Commissary and, after weighing the food as it comes in, sees that it is stored in its proper place. The flour and cereals are sorted into different parts of their moisture-proof room. The eggs ‘and butter are assigned to places in the refrigerators.
Truckloads of meat are deposited on the platform in the rear, and is hoisted on a hook attached to rails and sped into the refrigerator. As the meat is used, it is again run along the rails to the “carving” room where it is trimmed.
Canned goods bear labels of only the highest quality.
Bread and pies are baked in four large ovens, spotlessly clean and ultramodern. It is these ovens that the much ridiculed “All-American,” Notre Dame bun is baked. Seven thousand of these infamous buns are baked daily in the Notre Dame ovens.
Then, too, there are three hundred and fifty pies turned out each day as well as three hundred loaves of bread.
But to get back to those buns, if the seven thousand baked per day for two hundred and fifty-two days of the school term were laid end to end, those living one thousand and eight miles from here could eat their way home if they ate one each step.
Eight Hundred Gallons of Milk
Milk seems to be an important factor in satisfying the local appetites because there are eight hundred gallons of it consumed daily. Three hundred pounds of butter are placed on the tables every day and over a hundred pounds of coffee is used at three meals. Thirty-five crates of cauliflower, eight crates of lettuce and three thousand pound of potatoes are used in one setting. /
Furthermore, forty head of cattle last only four meals. Why, it takes a large barrel of sodium phosphate even to wash the dishes each day. So if anyone is losing weight, he should get up to the head of the table in a hurry.	.
Kitchen Immaculate
The most impressive part of the kitchen is its cleanliness and the orderly way in which the food is prepared and served. The main room is well lighted by skylights. The long rows of racks contain pitchers and bowls and platters — all neatly arranged. The dish-washing apparatus is remarkable in the number of dishes, saucers and cups that it washes. The ovens for the cooking of the food are large and are kept free of grease and dirt.
It is well worth the time to go through this plant and discover the efficient methods used to feed the students, the faculty and the patrons of the cafeteria. There are a number of pleasant surprises and a fund of interesting information awaiting those who do.
DR. QUINLAN ADDRESSES ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
“Common Dental Troubles*’ Is Subject of Discussion.
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan, prominent South Bend dentist, presented a highly instructive discussion of “Common Dental Troubles” at an open meeting of the Academy of Science, Monday evening in the Law building.
Dr. Quinlan began by drawing a diagram of a tooth, explaining thoroughly its structure and the functions of the various parts. On this diagram he traced the development of pyorrhea giving its causes, treatment, and results.
Turning next to devitalized teeth, or those in which the nerve has been killed, the doctor pointed out their danger as potential sources of infection. The formation of an abscess at the apex of the tooth is but the forerunner of a secondary infection in another part of the body, caused by the removal of the pus by the blood stream.
Teeth Cause Other Ills
This is the explanation of how bad teeth may be responsible for rheumatism, neuralgia, and similar diseases. The only remedy is the removal of the tooth.
Impacted teeth and Vincent’s disease, or trench - mouth, were then treated in an equally exhaustive manner. Dr. Quinlan closed his discussion with a few words on the care of the teeth.
“They should be cleaned by a dentist at least twice each year,” he said, “and should be brushed by the individual twice a day.” The deposit of tartar cannot be removed by the ordinary tooth brush and in the course of three to six months this deposit increases the individual’s susceptibility to pyorrhea to such an extent that the dentist’s cleaning is the only sure means of protection.
At the conclusion of the paper, Dr. Quinlan answered questions asked by the audience.
By Intercollegiate I Press.
The Tempter university News last week published a 16-page feature edi- tion in celebration of its tenth birthday; In the-decade the publication has graduated froin a weekly to a triweekly.
January 22, 1932
Seventeen
PROF. O’GRADY WRITES NEW COSMOLOGY TEXT
N. D. Rialto---No Gay Lights But, Then, It’s Free, Anyway
G. K. Chesterton Is Author of Preface To Book.
Professor Daniel C. O’Grady, Ph. D., of the Department of Philosophy, has joined the select group of faculty members who have contributed books
Protessor Daniel C. O’Grady
Writes book on Cosmology.
to the field of philosophy, it became known this week, with the publication of his book “Cosmology.” .
Used As Text
The edition was published by the University Press of Ottawa, Canada, and will be ready for public sale this month. It is planned to use the book as a text in the Junior classes in cosmology in the University during the next semester. The book has already been accepted for use by two Canadian colleges and is under consideration by several others.
The preface of the edition is written by Gilbert K. Chesterton, well known to University students, who makes some interesting remarks in inimitable style.	.
The book contains a survey and study of Cosmology in general; its material has its basis in the mimeographed sheets now used in the University cosmology classes, and also written by Doctor O’Grady. Five years’ work was needed to assimilate the material in the book; the present edition stands as one of the most finished and up-to-date of its kind.
In connection with the publication of the book, Professor O’Grady has also written two articles which have appeared in the Catholic School Journal and the Revue de rUniversite’ d’ Ottaiva. These articles, “Seven Lamps of Education” and “The Heart Versus the Head,” have evoked considerable comment from critics.
We have an anomaly on the campus! Amusements are very seldom good and less frequently free. But when the two attributes are applied to the same performance—well, there is your anomaly. This refers, of course, to the Saturday evening movies in Washington Hall.
These programs are in charge of the Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C., rector of Howard Hall, whose responsibility is no small one.
Method of Selection
His method of selecting them is as efficient as any devisable. As the pictures do not come here until they have been shown elsewhere, Father Holderith is able to obtain a good idea of just what releases best fit the requirements of the University Theater.
An avid reader of reviews, he supplements this information with opinions garnered from various students. .
Several times each year he goes to Chicago where he makes the rounds of distributors’ offices in “Movie Row,” the section along South Wabash avenue, where producing firms have their Chicago branches. There he “spot picks” his selections, and engages them for certain dates.
“Spot picking” means selecting individual films from a list as they are wanted, instead of just buying blocks of pictures as professional houses are forced to do. With this type of selection, he is able to weed out the good programs. The ten reels are then shipped to Notre Dame by express several days before they are needed.
No Easy Job
On both the feature and various other films such as the news and sports reels, the University gets what is called a non-theatrical rate, as the budget from the lecture fund would hardly warrant the expenditures that the regular professional houses must pay.
This job of choosing pictures which will suit the varied tastes of several thousands of students is no easy one. However, the selections of Paramount, M-G-M, R-K-O, National, Fox, and Warner Brothers tends to simplify matters.
The projection staff consists of three men, two students and genial electrician “Hank.” John Ledding, a
junior in the College of Electrical Engineering, and John Hemming, a Science sophomore, are the two who crank the sound cinema projector.
It Might Be Greta
It isn’t all a matter of turning the machine on and inserting a trip of celluloid, either. The films must be rewound twice, then sound projection must be timed so that it doesn’t differ from the visual projection. This is a comparatively simple matter when the sound is put on the film along with the picture negative, but when it is on records or rolls it is a difficult task, and requires fine adjustment and handling.
All in all, there’s a lot of trouble to make these Saturday night pictures amusing and worth seeing. The job is well done, however, and the flickers in Washington Hall are crowded as a result.
The pictures, though often old, computing old as months after their premieres, are at least worth the price of admission.
Father Charles C. Miltner
Attends College Meeting
Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of theCollege of Arts and Letters, represented Notre Dame at the eighteenth annual meeting of the Associations of American Colleges at the Netherland Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio, yesterday and today.
Representatives of colleges and universities throughout the United States were present. A program of speeches and papers was carried out throughout the meeting.
Among the subjects discussed were “Enlistment and Training of College Teachers,” College Athletics,” “Credit System,” “Faculty and Student Relationship,” and “The Comprehensive Examination.”
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE IAEAEE
Generosity
A professor at Oberlin college recently invited 120 students to an eight course dinner, the basis of which was whole wheat. The dinner cost three cents a plate.
Ten Dollars a Day—
Ten dollars a day for attending school! What student would not jump at the opportunity? Yet it has been computed that for every day spent in school during youth, the adult eventually earns about ten dollars.
A Mature College Student?
Two apparently conflicting statements, concerning the nature of the college student of today, have been presented to the public.
One comes from Dr. Lowell of Harvard university, the other from a student organization, the National Student Federation of America.
Dr. Lowell stated that he believes “our college students as a whole appear much more mature than a generation ago, not only in scholarship but also in their outside interests and in the sense of proportionate values which is the flower of maturity.” Dr. Lowell also declared that he thinks “conditions at Harvard are not untypical.”
On the other hand, the president of the Student Federation denounced three “dominant factors in national college life at present,” namely, “campus consciousness, political apathy, and smug complacency.”
Seemingly so flatly at odds, these statements are interesting, for this time praise for the contemporary college man is bestowed by a college president, while the critical attitude is taken by the students themselves. Clearly maturity is not consistent with “campus consciousness” and if it is meant to have a eulogistic sense, neither is it compatible with political apathy and smugness. Of these two declarations, in the students’ critical estimate it is possible to find evidence of new developments in student mind and heart
There can be little doubt that in the past the campus has too often fixed the unit of student outlook, and has encouraged in many cases an unserious attitude. Comparing the American and European university systems the former seems to house a singularly uninterested and uninformed group of young men. In that sense, the federations’ spokesman speaks the truth.
Mortar Boards—
Students and professors at the University of South Carolina are using their spare time to lay brick walks on the campus.
No Such Place
The University of the State of New York has no students. It is the official name given to the state department of education.
International
The mailing list of the Temple university publications includes Lindbergh, Mussolini, Calvin Coolidge, and Mahatma Gandhi.
Murals
One of the largest series of mural paintings ever undertaken for an American college is being executed for Princeton university. Nine panels, each eight by twelve feet, have been ordered for the trophy room of the university gymnasium. Athletic teams in action and individuals will be depicted in the murals.
Needles—
The weekly phonograph concert at Rutgers university had to be called off last week because someone took the needles. As a result the largest group ever to attend had to be turned away.
January 22, 1932
Nineteen
EDITOR*! PAGE
CAMPUS CLUBS
Probably no condition on the Notre Dame campus is as deserving of scathing criticism as the inefficiently-managed city and state clubs that are now retiring into their winter hibernation, until their miraculous resurrection next May, when politically-minded egoists seek club offices.
Now that the annual Christmas dance has been held and the home town citizenry startled by the boisterous antics of the local students, club presidents and secretaries are wont to smile good-naturedly and lazily allow their organization to remain inactive.
The inconsistency of a student in wishing to become an officer of a sleeping club is quite a mystery. Apparently, certain individuals believe in capitalizing on the age-old maxim that some of the people can be fooled all of the time, and that as long as there are freshmen there is a fertile field to employ personal views of political ethics.
The situation has forced itself to the front. It must be faced.
If clubs must exist at Notre Dame, let them be active. If they refuse, abolish them.
The presidents’ council, be it said, has tried. Other individuals who have seen the possibilities of an active club life here have had their efforts ridiculed.
Certain active clubs are not intended to bear the shaft of this editorial. Such organizations as the New Jersey, Chicago, and Metropolitan clubs should serve as models for emulation.
Let the presidents’ council take the matter in handset them clean house in their own organization and then let the desirable effects which result be inculcated into the individual groups.
♦ ♦ ♦
LINE CRASHERS
Odious to most students are the line-crashers in the cafeteria, who each Sunday morning slip • beneath the rail or dart in ahead of friends, and retard the progress of individuals who have been waiting in their turn.
This practice, which has become so common that those clustered at the tail of the line often
spend five minutes without moving, has grown to a campus nuisance. Disciplinary measures should not be necessary. Common decency should dictate the etiquette on such occasions.
EXAMS AGAIN
The season of cramming, and of eye-strain, of frightened freshmen and midnight lights, is here again. In three or four days the campus will go to work with the weight of four days of semester examinations upon its back. Those who have studied earnestly since September have an indifferent air; those on the fence feel they have a fighting chance; the hopeless cases seem to realize their predicament.
A sophisticated upper-classman will tell you, perhaps, that exams mean nothing, that a student’s intelligence can not be measured in terms of units. Let him rave. Every man who has ever taught a class knows that an examination system has some glaring defects, but since it is the present method of judgment, play the rules!
THE JUGGLER
The maintenance of a standard of excellence is a task far more difficult than the establishment of that standard itself. The Juggler has long occupied a place of national prominence, enjoying the respect and appreciation of its contemporaries. Thus when Editor Bob Gorman assumed the post vacated by hilariously Funny Fellow Jack Dempsey his responsibility was no small one.
Then came the Autumn Number, in keeping with the best traditions of the magazine, and immediately allaying all fears. His burlesque of Hollywood, followed by the Winter edition more than equalled previous efforts. That the editorial swivel had been filled capably was being proved conclusively.
Tonight the latest issue of The Juggler will appear on the campus. A Humor Number of a humorous magazine is a rather ambitious undertaking, yet it is one of the best Jugglers of the year.
Bob Gorman has more than maintained a standard—he has raised it.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Panther Prowls Here Saturday
Norb Crowe Shifted to Guard Post;
Johnny Baldwin Still In Hospital
BOXING SHOW PLANS NEARING COMPLETION
Irish Plan, on Running Victory String To Seven At Expense of Fast Pittsburgh Squad.
By James E. McFeely
Sports Editor, Notre Dame Scholastic.
U T of the East pounces the Pitt Panther, determined t o break the chain of victories which Coach K e o g a n ’ s boys have been forging of late. But the local lads are just as determined that
they will tie the cat’s tail in a workmanlike fashion when the two outfits meet on the Notre Dame court Saturday night.
The Fighting Irish, which has rolled up a string of six consecutive victories and has won eight out of ten starts, will he playing without the services of one of the most colorful midwestern guards.	.
Johnny Baldwin, tricky varsity back-court man, is out of the lineup due to an attack of bronchial pneumonia, and, according to physicians attending the player in St. Joseph’s hospital, Baldwin will probably not ’ be able to put on a suit for several weeks.	•
Lineup Again Altered
Faced with the necessity of altering his lineup again because of the loss of Baldwin, Keogan has wor1' Captain Norb Crowe at guard during the practices since the triumph over Penn last Saturday. Crowe finally found his shooting eye during the engagement in Philadelphia and if he can get the range here, the locals might be able to make the grade without Baldwin.
DeCook and Newbold at forward are quickly getting accustomed to the combination and the baskets clicked . with regularity when the two were in last week’s game. Krause, giant sophomore center, again showed his ability at the pivot post. With To my Burns at the other guard, the Irish will have another smooth-running offense.
Crowe Knows His Business
In previous games when Baldwin was forced out because of illness the shift of Crowe to guard has made the squad over and allowed it to function at a normal clip. His play in these contests has shown that Crowe is a capable man at both the forward and the guard positions.
In the rivalry which began four years ago, Pitt holds the margin, having won five of the engagements. This fact should give the locals something to fight for in addition to their zeal in protecting the victory chain which started with the double win over Northwestern during the holidays.	.
Both squads have lost to Purdue, but the records behind each school point towards some hot work in store for the Pittsburgh lads
when they take the floor tomorrow night.
Pitt Aching For Victory
During their trip to the West Coast recently the Panthers recorded wins over Kansas, Colorado, Stanford, Southern California and other outstanding far western teams. Pitt suffered a reverse last Saturday when they tangled with N. Y. U., but “Doc” Carlson, who coaches the east-
. (Continued on Page 29)
Colorful Program Is Promised For “Scholastic” Meet
With the date of the fights just three weeks away, The Scholastic’s boxing show continues to loom as the outstanding intra-mural attraction of the winter season. With organization almost completed for the fistic fiesta, definite assurance is given that the event will be one of the most rounded out programs ever presented by student boxers.
Heffernan to Officiate
The announcement made last week of the selection of Jerry Heffernan of Chicago as referee, and Coach Heartly Anderson as head judge for the bouts has brought widespread approval. The presence of these two men insures the most efficient type of officiating.
Gobs of color will be attached to the eight or more bouts of the evening. Campus titles and championship awards, will be the prizes at stake when the mitt slingers clash. Johnny Perone will present the battlers in several of the bouts and will appear as a principal in one event. He is slated to carry the colors of Corby hall against Bernie Heitz, Sorin standard bearer, in one of the feature numbers on the card.
Capacity Throng Expected
Plans are being made to take care of one of the largest crowds in the history of intra-mural sports at Notre Dame. All the seating facilities of the gym will be used for the accommodation of the throng. With the proceeds to go to the Bengal Mission fund, the show is expected to attract the entire student body.
The dates for the opening of ticket sales on the campus and in South Bend will be announced in the next issue of The Scholastic.
Watch Him, Pitt!
January 22, 1932	Twenty-one
NOTRE DAME TROUNCES PENN IN ROUGH TILT
Norb Crowe Shines; Krause and DeCook Leave On Fouls.
Ray DeCook
A Mishawaka, Indiana, boy makes good.
By T. Edward Carey
For the sixth time in the last five years Notre Dame defeated Pennsylvania in basketball by winning, 32 to 25, in a hard fought game at Philadelphia last Saturday night. Seven thousand spectators jammed the Palestra to see the great mid-western team win its sixth straight victory, its eighth in ten starts. Since the series began in 1928 the Red and Blue of Pennsylvania has never been able to take the measure of the Fighting Irish.
A spectacular shooting attack early in the second half, led by Captain Norb Crowe and Joe Voegele, cinched the game for the Notre Dame team after it had possessed itself of a 15-11 lead in the first half. Crowe replaced DeCook and Voegele went in for Krause after these two were expelled on fouls during the first fifteen minutes.
First Half Rough
Notre Dame came through the rough first half with a four-point lead, mainly through the shooting of New-bold, Krause, and DeCook, but lost its two tallest players via the personal foul route in that period.
Penn hopes for a rally were blasted in the first five minutes of the second half when the Fighting Irish ran their lead up to 25-15. Crowe made a sensational average for field goals, sinking four out of five shots to head the scoring column with eight points. Voegele, who also did all of his scoring in the second half, was next in line with seven points, three field goals and a foul.
Penn Shoots From Distance
The Notre Dame offense clic-ked consistently, and the team used a cross-court game with great success, rarely having to resort to long shots. Penn, on the other hand, was not difficult to stop, being forced to take all its shots from far out, but was very successful from the foul stripe, scoring eleven times to Notre Dame’s eight on penalty shots. Penn’s offense was ruined by the one-man tactics of Tanseer, the Red and Blue’s scoring (Continued on Page 29)
Twenty-tivo
The Scholastic
PANTHERS BRING GRID STARS ON CAGE SQUAD
MacMurdo, Reider, et al, Form Shock Troops For Pitt.
The weighty boys will be thrown against each other Saturday night when the Pitt Panthers take chances with the Fighting Irish here, for advices received from Pittsburgh late yesterday afternoon were to the effect that big .Jim MacMurdo, football luminary, will play part of the game at center for the easterners. Krause, Notre Dame, also carries on his activities at center.
Following the long and tiresome western trip recently, Coach “Doc” Carlson issued a call for aid to the former grid players whom he thought could help him. out in basketball. This move was made after the contest against Duquesne when it was learned that the Panther regulars were unable to last an entire game at full tilt.
The manner in which the gridmen responded and their ability at the
INTERHALL BULLETIN!
Coach George Keogan, supervisor of Interhall basketball, has announced that, due to examinations, basketball practice for Wednesday, Jan. 27, and Friday, Jan. 29, has been cancelled. The regular contests will begin as scheduled, however.
court game has earned for them their places on the varsity.
Included among the football players who will make the trip are: Cutri, MacMurdo, Reider, Hirschberg, Brown, and Collins. A squad composed of these men started the game against N. Y. U. last week and after the boys from Gotham.had rolled up a score of 7-0 on the “shock troops,” the regulars were substituted.
Nevertheless, as we have said before, there will be plenty of these big men roaming the floor tomorrow night when the curtain is drawn back for the big battle.
There are ten motor highways in America that are privately owned and on which a toll is charged. -
' Little Eight
By Intercollegiate Press.
Swarthmore, Pa., Jan. 21.—The east, devoid thus far of any real college athletic conferences such as exist in other sections of the nation, may have at least one next year.
Negotiations are under way for the formation of an athletic league which would consist of Swarthmore, HaVerford, Hamilton, Union, Williams, Amherst, Trinity and Wesleyan colleges and universities, acocrding to Dr. Samuel C. Palmer, graduate manager here.
The colleges mentioned are in Pennsylvania, New England and New York.	.
Yale Sponsors Expedition
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Haven, Conn., Jan 21.—Just what that stream of water is that is known as the Gulf Stream is what an expedition from Yale university is to find out.
The expedition will spend four months in the deep sea waters off the Gulf of Mexico.
TO. TRAVEL THE MODERN WAY
Call
The American Cab Co
3-8285
For
SAFETY COMFORT ECONOMY
Insured Cabs—Bonded Drivers
Always demand a receipt.
FLOWERS
for the
JUNIOR RROM
AUGUST J. MEYERS
mEOMMtnjMSB
209 W. Colfax Ave. 2-1493
January 22, 1932
Twenty-three
HOPE TO UPHOLD PAST RECORD AT MILLROSE
Alex Wilson and Mile Relay Team Will Be Entered.
In. an attempt to maintain the splendid record set at the meet in the past two years, Coach John P. Nicholson will enter Alex Wilson in the 600-yard dash and the one mile relay team will also compete in the celebrated Millrose A. C. games to be held in New York on Saturday, February 6.
Wilson will run his race as the de-dending champion, having won out • in the famous “600” last year over an outstanding field, which included such stellar cinder men as Phil Edwards, Negro Olympic luminary. The chances that the Canadian runner will retain his title in this event are exceedingly bright, according to Nicholson.
Team Not Yet Chosen
In last year’s competition the Notre Dame mile relay team, which was also entered in the games, won out over Georgetown and Holy Cross.
The Blue and Gold mile relay squad this season will be chosen from the following: MacBeth, Kelly, Wilson, Kuhn and Obergfall. At present Kelly is sporting a bad leg, but if the member responds to treatment before the day of the meet, it is believed that he will run on the squad.
Pairings this year in the Millrose find Notre Dame in competition with Pennsylvania and New York university, which schools boast of two of the best mile relay teams in the eastern division.
*
Nicholson Optimistic
“Although I am not too confident that we can . beat Pennsylvania, the indoor record holder for the mile relay race, I believe that we have an outside chance of doing so,” was Nicholson’s comment when queried concerning the possibility of a win for the Fighting Irish.
In the running of the 1929 Millrose games the Notre Dame two mile team won first place over a field of about twelve of the fastest eastern outfits and in so doing set a new record.
The Statue of Liberty’s figure is that of the mother of the sculptor, Bartholds.
Host Named On Staff
The. appointment of Paul Host to the sports staff of The Scholastic was announced this week by Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief.
Host, a student in the School of Journalism, is the author of a series of feature articles dealing with tense moments in Notre Dame athletics. The first of the series appears in the
Make it a habit to telephone home at least once a week during your days at school. These telephone chats with the home folks will certainly pep you up . . . and the charges may be reversed to the home telephone if you desire.
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
sports section of this issue of The Scholastic.
In the country there are more hospital patients suffering from mental disorders than from all other diseases and ailments combined.
On Chinese clocks the dials turn instead of the hands.
The Economical Noice of Millions
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Hockey Titles Once Were Goal of N. D, Sport Fans
FRESHMAN BASKETEERS WORK UNDER ED SMITH
This is the second of two articles by Tighe Woods, Scholastic staff writer, describing hockey at Notre Dame and the possibilities of the sport being revived in our present day.
By Tighe Woods
Paul Castner, “Tony” Gorman and Father Cunningham, C.S.C., were the pioneers of Notre Dame hockey. To these three men go the credit of not only getting the University to sanction a hockey team, but to coach, manage, direct, train and play on that team. Paul Castner was one of Rockne’s better fullbacks; he was also one of Coach Halas’ greatest pitchers, and Notre Dame’s greatest individual hockey player. If allAmerican Hockey teams were picked in those days, Paul would have been the choice of every sports writer in the country.
Pioneers
Tony Gorman was a native of Canada. He played wing and he was big and fast, two wonderful assets in a hockey player. He was the manager of the 1920 team and did a very good job. He used his weight to advantage and was seldom in the penalty box.
As for Father Cunningham, we cannot improve on what his unknown biographer has said, “Some time in the distant future, when a National Championship Notre Dame Hockey Team is playing in Notre Dame’s own mammoth ice arena, and thousands of spectators are doing homage to the hockey 'Lochinvars of the West,’ some inquisitive person is going to ask the world at large just who started this thing.
“He will perhaps speak thusly: “‘Say, who started this thing?’ “Then and then only will Father Cunningham get proper credit for the work he has done in promoting hockey at Notre Dame. Coach, manager, secretary, trainer, advisor, everything to the Notre Dame hockey team, Father Cunningham is responsible for it all.”
Developed Technique Needed
There was only one thing our puck-sters feared as much as a broken ankle, and that was the weather man. From 1923 until hockey was unofficially discontinued the weather continued to play havoc with Notre
Dame’s chances for another championship team. Conditions became so bad that the team used to practice before breakfast in order to get a little fast ice. It wasn’t the fault of those two very excellent coaches, Tom Lieb or Professor DuBois, nor was it lack of material, Notre Dame just hadn’t developed the technique of playing water hockey.
Hockey’s Last Stand
The last Irish invasion of the East • came in 1927. Notre Dame played the Pittsburgh Hockey club, the Nicholas club of Buffalo and Yale and Harvard in Madison Square Garden in New York. They split even on the trip but the scores they had run up against them by Harvard and Yale were sad indeed. The former beat them 7-0 and the latter coasted through to a 5-0 win.
Athletes At Amherst
By Intercollegiate Press.
Amherst, Mass., Jan. 21.—Cheering sections were mostly vacated at Amherst college this last fall—not because of a lack of interest in athletics at the college, but more because of the opposite.
Statistics just released show that during the fall, 92 per cent of the students engaged in one or more sports. Only one-quarter of the senior class refrained from some game or other.
Touch football was the most popular with 168 college men playing (in the 78 games on the schedule.
Juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters who failed to present themselves for pre-registration on Wednesday will not be given their class cards for the second semester until the afternoon of February 3. Exception is made of those who were not attending the classes in which the pre-registration was announced.
First Year Men Show Promise For Next Year’s Squad.
Ed Smith, freshman basketball coach, has been drilling his charges since the beginning of December with the hope of developing some future varsity material.
The first freshman team, composed of Mettler and O’Kane—forwards, Paterson and Jordan — guards, and Sullivan at center will probably bid high for positions on the varsity five next year. This outfit is capable in all departments of the game and handles itself very well on the floor.
The freshmen have not competed with teams from other schools because of the Big Ten Conference rules to which Notre Dame adheres and which do not permit inter-collegiate competition for freshman squads. Nevertheless, the frosh have made good use of the time allotted them in their practice sessions by giving the varsity some stiff competition. When Coach Keogan’s regulars are not on hand, the green team keeps fit by snatching an occasional victory from the reserves.
The only public appearance made by the freshmen was made before the Marquette game when several teams scrimmaged among themselves. Through this exhibition, Stelzer, O’Brien, Costello, Lahey, and Lesko, as well as the first team, won the favor of the crowd with their snappy play.
All-American Grabber
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Orleans, La., Jan. 21.—He’s an all-American end, but he’s also probably the all-American holder of odd jobs, this Jerry Dalrymple,. the best end in the country and captain of Tulane’s greatest football team.
Landing in college with $10 in his pocket, Jerry has made plenty while working his way through school.. He now has jobs which include being manager of a restaurant, investigator for a law firm, salesman for a department store, salesman for office supplies, government investigator and newspaper sports writer. Out of all this he earned something like $2,000 last year.
January 22, 1932
Tu’enty-five
NICHOLSON FEARS TEAM WEAK IN FIELD EVENTS
An Error Provided Yarr’s Tensest Grid-Iron Moment
Millrose Games in New York Immediate Track Object.
“We’ll be strong in the running events,” Coach John P. Nicholson, veteran track mentor stated Friday, “but our weakness in field events may cost us a couple of meets.” This was Coach Nicholson’s reply to a query concerning Notre Dame’s prospects on the cinder path this year.
Nicholson has about 65 candidates in uniforms now and expects more after the semester examinations are over the end of the month.	.
The Millrose A. C. games at New York are the immediate object of his attention now and he is trying to whip a mile relay team into shape to make a fine showing on the eastern boards. With the best group of quarter-milers in Notre Dame annals and one of the best in the country on hand, he expects to have a team that will do the mile in 3:20 on Feb. 6, the date of the Millrose games.
Wilson to Millrose Games
Alex Wilson, Canadian Olympic star who will probably run under the Maple Leaf in the Olympic games next summer at Los Angeles, will try to duplicate his last year’s feat of winning the famous Millrose “600.” Wilson will also run on the mile team with “Mickey” MacBeth, Charlie Kelley, and either Johnny Scanlon or Rudy Obergfall. Regis Kuhn and Bradley are also fast in the quarter and may make the mile team.
Captain Bill McCormick, who has twice tied the world’s record in the 60-yard dash, leads the sprinters. Eddie Gough and Leo Dilling, juniors, are expected to place in most meets.
Wilson and Obergfall will run the half mile with Ed King doing the mile. King is the only good prospect in the long distance jaunt; Joe Young, a brilliant prospect, was so badly injured in a toboggan crash during the recent holidays that he will be unable to compete. Gene Howery, veteran two-miler and captain of the cross-country team, will run the two-mile with Joe Ewing and Jake Bower.
Dupuy, First Man in Hurdles
Bill Dupuy, sophomore, has been turning in some good time-trials late-••	(Continued on Page 29)
This is the first of a series of interviews by Paul Host, in which he describes the tense moments in Notre Dame sport as experienced by the athletic stars on Fighting Irish teams.
By Paul Host
Copyright, 1932, by Notre Dame Scholastic.
Score: Notre Dame, 26; Northwestern, 0.
Setting: Dyche stadium, jammed down to the playing field with wild shouting partisans; — a dull grey
Tommy Yarr
“. . . I saw the balloons going up.'’
bowl punctuated by vivid periods of purple balloons held captive until a Northwestern touchdown would signal their release.
Time: the last quarter of the 1929 game with the timer’s watch reading ten minutes to play.
Yarr Replaces Nash
Plot: Notre Dame with eight victories and the National Championship around the comer had been giving the Wildcats a football lesson for slightly more than three quarters.
Tom Lieb in charge of the Notre Dame team in place of Knute Rockne, who was ill, was substituting freely as the game waned into the single digits of time left to play.
Suddenly, with a characteristic
gesture, he turned and shouted, “Yarr, go in there for Nash.”
And here is the way that Tom Yarr, captain of the 1931 Notre Dame football team and all-American center, but then a third stringer, describes his tensest moment in -sport:
The Balloons Are Released
“It was a very cold day and my hands were so numb I didn’t want to go in until the team went on defensive. It was third down with eight to go so I told Lieb to let me stay out for a couple of plays.
“But with the score 26 to 0 Lieb could afford to take a chance and he sent me in. We ran one running play which failed and then went into punt formations. My hands were still cold and I was afraid I could not get the ball back to Cronin who was doing the kicking.
“I gave it an extra hard spin, charged, and started down the field. Suddenly I heard the crowd cheering; and as I looked over my shoulder to see if the guards, Joe Locke and ‘ Pinky’ Cassidy, were coming down, I saw the balloons going up.
Over Stump’s Head
“Then I knew something was wrong and realized I must have shot the ball over ‘Stump’s’ head—not a difficult thing to do. I looked back and saw Cronin chasing the ball near the goal line with seven or eight Northwestern men after him.
“My heart sank to the general vicinity of my knees. I felt that the eyes of all the spectators were on me and that they were saying, ‘What a dub he is’. I also feared that the players would think I was yellow and couldn’t take it.
“Boy, that was the worst moment I ever experienced in any game.”
By Intercollegiate Press.
The United States stands first on the list of countries with unemployed. Estimates place the unemployed in this country at all the way from 5,000,000 to 10,000,000; and there are 25,000,000 unemployed the world oveT This means that about 100,000,000 men, women and children are in need of economic relief in the world today.
Ticenty-six
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING a Johnny Baldwin
Perhaps you think that it is a nice jolt to take, this pneumonia business right in the height of a most successful basketball season. It’s really not the best break in the world. And the
Johnny Baldwin
Pneumonia now grips him.
physicians in attendance on Johnny Baldwin in St. Joseph’s hospital are of the opinion that the flashy guard ■will be out for the rest of the season.
Baldwin, who, by the way, is one of these fellows who never dates, was playing his second year of varsity ball for Coach Keogan when this illness hit him upon his return fro* * a successful contest against Penn -last Saturday.
And it was a tricky player who was shooting around the court, tossing passes blind until the opposition usually went into a set of duck fits attempting to stop the swift thrusts of the Notre Dame running guard. All set to receive consideration w’ the time comes to choose these mythical all-American teams, Baldwin -
will now probably view the remainder of the games from the bench.
Johnny — known to not a few as “Hoops”—is not a novice at this basketball business. For the past ten years he has been cavorting on the hardwood in and about Chicago, his home “town.”
Downtown Store
For Notre Dame Men Is Moving 2 Doors South
Newer and Larger
Quarters
ATTEND OUR REMOVAL SALE NOW ONI
His abilities received suitable recognition in 1928, when, as a member of the Englewood high school team, he grabbed off the high scoring honors and was named on the allAmerican high school team following his showing made in Stagg’s basket tourney in Chicago. And all this was done while playing as a member of a squad which was relegated to the consolation scrap pile after the first encounter.
A forward in high school, Baldwin
January 22, 1932
Twenty-seven
was shifted to the guard position when he came to Notre Dame—and he seems to be an all-around player if his demonstrations this winter can be taken as evidence.
A junior in the College of Arts and Letters, in which school he is majoring in economics, “Hoops” plans on entering law next year. He tries to do his studying in Howard hall this year in spite of the many noisy friends of Laurie Vejar’s, his roommate.
With the exception of his mania for travel, Johnny takes the geratest pleasure in showing the younger players how the game of basketball should be played.
Baldwin’s fling in the political world was taken last Spring when he was entered for the vice-presidency of the junior class and was defeated by Nick Lukats, the footballplaying gentleman.
As we said before, it is a tough break to be placed on the bench at the height of one’s athletic career. But Baldwin’s sick — the good old health must really come before all -the athletic events on the list.
BOXERS IN WORKOUTS
(Continued from Page 5)
up stage prior to lacing on the gloves and swinging along with the others. Among these are: Jim Krause whom it is certain will make all welterweight aspirants step at a fast clip to gain the nod over him for the title; Jack McLaughlin, a dark-horse title threat who has been handicapped in early preparations; Pat Goggin, lone entrant in the lightweight division.
Increased enthusiasm is evident on the part of every entrant now in training. Stiffness is beginning to leave strained muscles; eyes are becoming better suited to timing, physical improvement is enabling the ring-sters to extend themselves at a merrier clip, and greater effort is being given to the tedious labors of training.
With conditioning now in full swing one more week will be given over to tapering off before tentatively establishing matches for the tournament next month. A let down is expected during the week of exams but immediately after this, training will begin anew with increased vigor
as the entrants enter the home stretch of preparation.
The Smiths Have It
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Jan. 21.—If you are going to Columbia for graduate work, and have a friend called “Smitty,” and you yell at him from your dormitory window, don’t be surprised if twelve dozen “Smitty’s come running at your beck.
There are no less than 148 Smiths attending the university this year, as compared with 91 Millers, 68 Cohens, 60 Browns and 49 Joneses.
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
January 23rd, 24th, 25th
VAUDEVILLE
Headed by the act that was the comedy sensation of ZIEGFELD'S FOLLIES
Wi Ilie, West - McGinty
—IN—
“A Billion Building Blunders”
and 4 other outstanding RKO vaudeville acts
And On the Screen JOAN BLONDELL Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.
in “UNION DEPOT The Most Amazing Picture of AU Time!
Trcenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
With the field house well occupied every day with potential champion boxers in training for The Scholastic’s boxing show, the basketball court filled with Coach George Keo-gan’s charges, and Coach Nicholson’s thinlies sprinting about the track, one would normally think that the field house had reached its capacity. But every evening one can see interhall basketeers working out diligently in an attempt to get in shape for the league competition, which begins one week from Sunday.
Sometime during the next week the Physical Education building will be filled daily with men receiving their equipment from Clarence Tomasi, who has charge of interhall equipment. For it is this week that the 15 coaches of the various teams will have made their final choices and the 24 lucky aspirants, representing the lightweight and heavyweight fives of each hall will be selected.
Seven games are scheduled for the
first day of competition in both leagues. Alumni was the first of the halls to draw a bye. The first day after examinations, January 31, should find the players filled with the old ambition.
In Group I the leading game should be the Lyon’s-St. Edward’s fray. Both of these halls are made up of sophomores and this should cause a bit of rivalry. Another encounter will find Badin against Morrissey. Fathei-Stack’s boys have been working hard under Coaches Freehill and Fabrycki and will attempt to make it a double victory (lightweights have the same schedule as the heavies).
Sophomore, a freshman hall, is pitted against a senior hall, Corby, as is Dillon, who meets Sorin. Those interested in seeing upperclassmen downed will be out to see these games. Both of the first-year halls are anxious to get a better start than they did in football and will give the seniors a run for it.
In Group II, Howard is scheduled to play Walsh. Walsh, who went to
the finals in football this fall, is out to win the basketball toga. One Walsh halier is alleged to have said that he hopes that when Walsh wins the group title, they fight it out with St. Edward’s, who defeated them in football, for the league crown.
Howard will try to put Walsh in the cellar position right from the starting gun. Brownson is slated to play Off-Campus. The Day Dogs last season won the lightweight championship and were runners-up in the heavier play. Year after year they have had good teams and this year’s promises to be of similar caliber.
Carroll plays Freshman in a game that should be filled with rivalry that is usually present when two freshman teams meet. Alumni draws a bye.
SCHEDULE
January 31
Group I—
8:30 a.m.—Lyons vs. St. Edward’s 9:30 a. m.—Morrissey vs. Badin
10:30 a.m.—Sophomore vs. Corby
1:30 p.m.—Dillon vs. Sorin
Group II—
2:30 p.m.—Howard vs. Walsh 3:30 p. m.—Brownson vs. Off-Campus 4:30 p. m.—Carroll vs. Freshman Alumni—bye.
Ogden Dunes Ski Meet
Sunday, January 24
Starts I P. M.
$2.75
Round Trip
Including Admission
S0UTHnSeHOR[
Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
January 22, 1932
Twenty-nine
PANTHER HERE SATURDAY
(Continued from Page 20)
erners, has hopes of starting a new winning streak all over again at the expense of Notre Dame, according to Pittsburgh advices.
If Coach Keogan’s players have great hopes of staving off the rushes of the Pitt outfit, they must devote no little attention to two chaps who answer to the names of Willie Ko-walis and Tim Lawry and do their sharpshooting from the front end of the floor.
This pair was responsible for Pitt’s overtime victory over Notre Dame last year. Lawry sank two shots in the final 15 seconds of play to tie up the count and in the extra session Kowalis rang the bell thrice to give the Panthers a 35-32 victory.
Locals Must Get the Range
If the Notre Dame five displays the ability which they brought into play to humiliate the Marquette boys in the recent home contest, “Doc” Carlson’s Panthers will have one sweet time trying to avert disaster. The locals need to start finding the basket. Once the goal is ever located,
the Fighting Irish outfit is hard to stop.
Leo Crowe, Norb’s brother and a reserve guard who was kept out of the Penn game because of a bad cold, will probably shape up in time for Saturday’s contest, it was indicated Friday.
NOTRE DAME TRIMS PENN
(Continued from Page 21)
ace, who played some faulty ball when he found himself bottled up by the Fighting Irish.
The lineup:
Notke Dame	(32)	g	f	p
Newbold, rf .....................1	2	4
Davis, rf........................0	0	0
DeCook, f and c..................2	1	5
N. Crowe. If ....................4	0	8
Krause, c........................I	2	4
Voegele, c ......................3	1	7
Baldwin, rg .....................1	2	4
Burns, 1g........................0	0	0
Pennsylvania (25)	c	p	p
Klempner, rf ....................2	1	5
Mazo, If.........................0	1	1
Kayer, rf........................1	1	3
McDonald, If ....................0	0	0
Ludwig, c .......................2	1	5
Kauffman, c .....................1	3	5
Kellett, rg .....................0	1	1
Walters, ng .....................1	0	2
Tanseer, 1g and f................0	3	3
WEAK IN FIELD EVENTS
(Continued from Page 25)
ly and is the outstanding performer in the hurdles.
Ralph Johnson, one of the best pole vaulters in Notre Dame history, has been lost by graduation and the burden in this department will fall on Jim Slattery, Howard, and Behr-men.
Bob Darling, who consistently does six feet or better, leads the high jumpers and should place for the Irish in most of their meets.
Ed Gough, the sprint boy, has shown most consistency in the broad jump to date. Finkel, a sophomore, and Joe Kurth, all-American tackle, are being groomed for the shot put and may develop into dependable point-getters, according to Coach Nicholson.
By Intercollegiate Press. _
Houghton, Mich., Jan. 21.—When the Selfridge field U. S. aviators send their football team to Michigan Tech next Oct. 22, they will take to the air, even if no pass is hurled over the line of scrimmage. The team will come from Mt. Clemens, Mich., by airplane.
s
SURPLUS STOCK
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
Men’s High Grade
Double Tap Sole—Iron Heel
FIELD SHOES
FOR MEN OR BOYS
Last year’s price was $3.85. A shoe for all outside workers.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men’s Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO'S
330 S. Michigan St.
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately

Thirty
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By James S. Kearns
WITHOUT A CORNER
Rather unique in these days of around-the-corner-ism is an industry whose road to prosperity is laid on a straightaway. Such a distinction goes to the Notre Dame basketball team under the direction of Coach George E. Keogan.
With six consecutive victories behind them, and eight games won out of ten played, there is no need for the Keoganites to look for a turn in their road . . . unless to avoid it. While the early portion of the season was a bit disappointing because of a pair of unlooked-for setbacks, the first half of the year, viewed as a whole, was an indisputable success.
The second half has only to continue that record to complete an exceptional season for' the cage crew. Facing such teams as Pitt, Western Reserve, Butler, Marquette, Syracuse, and Army unquestionably makes that assignment a hard one. However, should the team go on at their present gait, the touted invaders should go the way of the six victims.
One of the chief hopes for a continuance of the victory streak is the fact that the squad has managed to produce at least one exceptional offensive star for every game so far. With the burden of leading the attack thus divided, the chances for an off night for the entire squad "are very remote. The road seems to be quite straight.
V .
PROFESSIONAL PALAVER -
They’re at it again. “They,” of course, meaning our highly respected brethren, the men who dispose of their baseball talent on the more or less open market ________________i n exchange for some ready cash. And the stunt is the same time-honored business of hold-outs and “can’t come to terms” that they stage annually at this time.
It’s really queer that somebody hasn’t discovered a new act. There must be some other way of entertaining the public during the long dry spell of January and February. It’s just about time that the Babe
and boss Ruppert produce a sensation in the form of an harmonious Spring. The other extreme was tried last year with Hafey of the Cards remaining serious till after the season was under way.
Mr. Ruth and his troupe of yowling Yankees — Lyn Lary is the newest member—are easily the league leaders in the shout for more. Terry, Ott, and a few of the Giant boys are giving them a fairly stiff challenge for the spotlight this year, but $70,000 looks - by far the best in headlines. Along in two or three weeks the ice will start to move out and Williams will do his “Sulphur and Molasses” number for his cartoon syndicate and then the boys who write the Yankee advertising will feel free to announce that George Herman has come to terms.
Of course there may be winters when the ice won’t move — which is what makes the game so interesting.
V
COMING UP
With the winter lull in Notre Dame sports reaching its depths during the
NEWBOLD LEADS AT MIDSEASON
(Including Pennsylvania game)
	* G	FG	FT	PF	FTM	PCT	PTS
Newbold	10	19	12	23	11	.522	50
DeCook	9	18	7	13	8	.466	43
Krause	8	15	13	14	9	.591	43
Baldwin	9	17	5	14	5	.500	39
N. Crowe	10	14	2	15	8	.200	30
Voegele	9	11	4	6	4	.500	26
Davis	9	10	3	9	2	.600	23
L. Crowe	7	10	1	4	2	.333	21
Burns	10	5	7	21	4	.636	17
Schumacher	6	4	2	2	1	.667	10
Johnson	7	1	1	6	4	.200	3
Fehlig	1	1	0	0	1	.000	2
Schrader	2	0	0	2	0	.000	0
Oelerich	1	0	0	1	0	.000	0
Totals	10	125	.57	130	59	.491	307
Opponents	10	74	73	97	69	.514	221
* G—games; FG—field goals; FT—free throws; PF—personal fouls; FTM—free throws - missed; PCT—average free throws made; PTS—total points.	.
coming week, prospects for a livelier time after the examinations are very bright.
Iowa’s basketball team opens the revival on Monday, February 1, against the Keoganites on the local floor. A chance to settle the score with the Hawkeyes for last season’s upset will be the principal prize at stake. Six other cage encounters will occupy the Notre Dame team during the month with Army, Syracuse, and Michigan State coming to Notre Dame. Pitt, Butler, and Western Reserve will be met on foreign floors.
The track team too, is slated to swing into action early in February. Wilson will defend his “600” title and a mile relay team, which may do 3:20 of thereabouts, will carry the Irish hopes in the Millrose games February 6 at Madison Square Garden.
Dual meets with Iowa at Iowa City and with Illinois and Butler here will fill the other three Saturdays of the month.
The interhall strife is scheduled to open on the 31st with games for at least 28 teams every Sunday. All in all it looks like a return to better days in the sports realm.
January 22, 1932
Thirty-one
TRY YOUR HAND—WHAT’S THE ANSWER TO THIS BIG TEN MUDDLE?
When the discussion arises concerning the truthful indications embodied in comparison of scores, individuals separate themselves into two groups. One section proclaims loudly the truthfulness and correctness of comparative scores whereas the other strongly asserts that the strength of teams cannot be judged in this manner.
The faithful followers of the affirmative side of the question had their heads knocked together recently when Northwestern walloped Indiana.
Dissensions Arise
According to this group, the Wildcats were due for a severe trouncing at the hands of the Hoosiers because the latter had defeated Notre Dame and the Irish had smothered Northwestern twice. Alibis were many after these two aggregations of the Big Ten clashed.
The Hoosier-Wildcat game split the followers of the doctrine.of comparative scores into two distinct groups. One division claims that Indiana’s defeat by Northwestern was an accident and that Notre Dame was decidedly off form the night they met the boys from Bloomington.
Notre Dame Better?
The other section proudly states that the two victories of the Blue and Gold quintet at the expense of Northwestern entitles them to a rating above the Big Ten group. The negative side of the argument takes advantage of the split in their opponent’s ranks and continues its hearty protests against the consistency of the doctrine of the affirmative. The latter group is probably correct, says your correspondent, in a rather firm baritone.
Student Arms Delegate
By Intercollegiate Press.
Washington, D. C., — Jan. 21.— President Hoover has “taken under consideration” a plea from the Intercollegiate Disarmament council that, because college students are among those who must fight the next war, that a college student should be sent along with the disarmament delegation to Geneva.
Freely predicted hereabouts was that no college student would accompany the delegation.
Classroom Cinema
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cambridge, Mass.—Jan. 21—“Was I disgusted!”
Such comment is bound to come from more than one youngster in the schools of Lynn, Quincy and Revere, Mass., when they find that they are not included in the three hundred from Massachusetts’ schools who have been chosen to spend several weeks of study without the aid of school books.
The lucky students will be instructed entirely by talking motion pictures, which were prepared by Harvard university especially for the experiment. During the same period the rest of the school children will study from books. At the end of the period an examination will be given both groups to see which has learned the most.
All those interested in applying for membership in The Bookmen for the second semester should call at 248 Corby Hall between 6:30 and 7:30 any evening before January 29th.
Depression Relief
By Intercollegiate Press.
Aberdeen, So. Dak., Jan. 21.—A movement, which is hoped will become nation-wide, has been started at the Northern State Teachers college. Every college student here is to contribute a dime toward the relief of distress in the country.
It is believed that nearly a million dollars might be collected in this way.
German Club Notice!
At the last meeting of the German club, held Wednesday, January 13, Bob Hamilton was appointed chairman of the Pin committee. •
Plans for the next meeting, February 2, were made and will include a short talk by Dr. Menge on “German Student Life, Past and Present.” This will be accompanied by lantern slides. The meeting will be held in Walsh hall and will be open to anyone interested.
Crumbling newspaper files were declared an irreparable loss to historians by Dr. Solon J. Buck of the University of Pittsburgh, speaking before the American Council of Learned Societies at the University of Michigan recently.
Southern California Holds
By Intercollegiate Press.
Los Angeles, Jan. 21.—There may have been an average drop of 10 per cent in football attendance throughout the country this year, but not so at .the University of Southern California.
Student officials have estimated that the total receipts for the eleven games would reach §1,262,000 as against §1,190,000 for the 1930 season.
Have You Tried
WHAT?
The
Robertson Grill and Tea Room
Dancing Each Wednesday
12 till 2
Saturday from 6 till 8
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
On Down the Line
Girls vote for
I. A. CLARK S RESTAURANT 1B4-1B6 N. Michigan St.
PIPES
Smith Bend’s Widest and Mest Reliable Eating Hause.
Catering te NOTRE BAME MEN fer ever thirty years.
Far a real man’s meal drep in any time.
❖
WE HAVE NO KEY
A DE LA SALLE High School has won the National Catholic Basketball tournament for the last five years . . . KING LEVINSKY, the former fish peddler and now one of the coming heavyweights is managed by his sister . . . Out of the 111 pinch hitters used in the WORLD SERIES since 1905 only 18 have been successful in securing hits . . . Their combined attack yielded 32 safe hits. . . .
V
During the past year at TEXAS A & M COLLEGE 1373 students participated in an intramural program that covered 15 sports . . • The best one round of GOLF on record in the United States, 58, was turned in by John Blake . . . HELENE MADISON holds 53 out of the 67 American swimimng records in the free style in the women’s division. She also holds 16 world records. ...
V
PAUL ROBESON, the greatest living Negro singer and actor, was an all-American football player and a four letter man in 1917 at Rutgers University . . . MATT McGRATH and PAT MCDONALD, the two weight men on whom the United States will depend to garner points in this year’s Olympics, are 54 and 51 years old respectively ... In order to raise an additional $1,000,000 in taxes, Massachusetts may legalize horse and dog races. . . .
(for men!)
ASK any girl you know to name her A favorite smoke—for men! Ten to
one she’ll say a pipe!
She’s discovered—trust her bright little eyes—that it!s the BIG men, on
the campus and off, who welcome the
mental stimulation and relaxation they get from this real man’s smoke.
And if she’s very wise in the ways of smokers, she’ll go one better than that. She’ll tell you the men who know,
smoke Edgeworth! No two ways
She likes a pipe— for you,!
about it, you do get a doubly satisfying smoke when you fill up your pipe with this famous old blend. It’s a happy combination of choice burleys — cut
long to give you a cool, slow-burning smoke. And its mellow flavor and rich aromahavemade Edgeworth the favorite pipe tobacco on 42 out of 50 cam-
A real man’s smoke puses.
Help yourself to a pipeful next time someone pulls Edgeworth out of his pocket. Pickup the familiar blue tin yourself at any good tobacco stand. Or for a special free sample packet write to Lanis & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St, Richmond, Va.
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke,
OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St.
Est. 1900
SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
Before the end of the basketball season the PITTSBURGH basketball team will have travelled 6,000 miles and will have journeyed from coast to coast... BAT BATTALINO, featherweight champ, once scored four one-round knockouts :in amateur competition ... He kayoed every victim with less than three punches . . . SID TERRIS, once one of the leading lightweight boxers, took on his younger brother, who had neyer been in the ring, in an informal bouFan came out second best. ...
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge-worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms
worth PlugSlice. All
package to ^1.50 pound humidor tin.

WILB EXCITEMENT - - -
FEBRUARY 12th
» IN THE GYM «
» » » »
EIGHT STIRRING BATTLES ON AN ALL STAR CARB
» » » »
UNIVERSITY TITLES AT STAKE ......
••N’T MISS
THE SCHOLASTIC
BOXING SHOW
i
'Watch out, you’ll spill the beans
WRAPPED IN DUPONT NO. 300 MOISTURE. PROOF CHLOPHANE... THE BEST ANO MOST EXPENSIVE MADE
01932» Ikgrt ft MnuToMom Co.
? COT A DATE TONIGHT? Hear "Music that Satisfies” —Nat Shilkret’s Chesterfield Orchestra and' romantic songs by Alex Grajr. Nearest Columbia station, 10:30 e.s.t.

"... but before you say any more, I want to ask you one question.
"Why do they use pictures of pretty girls in advertisements?
"And while you are thinking about what you are going to say—
"I will tell you this much:
"Many pretty girls like a MILD and PURE cigarette that TASTES BETTER • .. and that’s Chesterfield.”
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY ,-LEMMONIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL

