W']
Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vne qimsi eras nioritarus.
Vol. XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 22, 1882.
No. 32.
A Message.
December’s days had flown. The New Year’s feasting And song and laughter died upon the air;
But still the laggard rain-sprites in Elysium
Disported, deaf alike to sigh or prayer.
Across the drouth-parched fields the plows toiled slowly. And clamorous crows held revel in their wake;
The farmer viewed the scene with drooping spirits, Scant was the comfort he could find to take. '
The new-sown seed still in the ground lay slumbering. The skies seemed brazen, and frosts so severe, While all the croakers in the county grumbling Foretold by signs, and omens, “Adry Year.”
Visions of cattle lean and worn with hunger, Such as disturbed the Egyptian’s dreams of yore, And unpaid bills, a grand and countless army, The threatened season as a sequence bore.
I listened to his story, and complainings
Of loss and want, a long unending chain.
Of weather wisdom taught him by the trappers, And changing moons that failed to bring him rain.
And then I took our grave Professor’s Annual, ’
And read for him its astrologic lore
Which told of welcome storms in February,
And the blithe words of cheer its pages bore.
Until he went upon his way rejoicing.
And in due time the promised largesse came, When he exclaimed, “ Let us add one leaf of laurel Unto Professor Lyons’ wreath of fame!’’
But granger-like combined, “ He is chary Of his good gifts; when he foretells again. Let dear December and stern January Bring to our western plains abundant rain.”
I send his message, but though powers prophetic
May win both fame and blessings for the seer,
More blessed is he in scattering pearls of knowledge, And shining thoughts to light the passing year.
“ M. A. F.
Do not listen to those superficial minds who assume themselves to be profound thinkers because, like Voltaire, they have discovered some difficulties in Christianity; rather, on the contrary, measure your progress in philosophy by that of your increasing veneration for the religion of the Gospel.—Cousin.
Mineral Springs-
We generally apply the name mineral springs, or mineral waters, only to waters which contain enough of foreign matter to give them a peculiar taste. Chemists tell us that all springs contain more or less mineral matter, which they obtain by coming in contact with different varieties of sod, and gathering from different strata such mineral substances as they may be able to dissolve. Hence, in regions where the nature of the soil is such that-it does not allow to any great extent-the union of the water with foreign- matter, we are unable to detect the properties of mineral springs.
From analysis, mineral springs have been found to contain the following substances, in certain ratios: carbonates of potassium and soda; salts of magnesium, sodium and calcium; sulphates of alum, lime, magnesia, soda, and potash. Besides these, we have iodides, bromides, nitrates, silicates and sulphides of alkaline substances. Many of these compounds are kept in solution by carbonic acid gas, or by sulphuretted hydrogen, with which many of the most noted springs are charged.
The decomposition of carbonates by some sili-cious matter and heat, which is said to take place in buried strata, is generally given as the source of the great amounts of carbonic acid gases which are in many places evolved from the earth, and, impregnating the waters filtering through it, give rise to acidulous springs.
It is a noticeable fact that in Europe these springs or their sources are found in the vicinity of volcanoes either active or recently extinct; while in the United States this variety of springs have their sources in strata which are very far removed from any evidence of volcanic phenomena. We must, therefore, infer that there are agencies at work too deeply hidden to manifest themselves in volcanic eruptions, and which produce this carbonic acid so abundantly. There are a few sulphuric acid springs found in the western part of New York, and we find a number also in Canada.
Again, the action of underground heat upon those buried strata which contain sulphates and chlorides is amply sufficient to provide for the appearance of hydrochloric and sulphurous adds in springs, even without the presence of organic matter, but this is rarely wanting.
Mineral waters have been divided into four principal classes: the acidulous, of which we have briefly spoken, the sulphureous, saline and chaly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
beate. Sulphureous springs are easily distinguished on account of the sulphuretted hydrogen which they contain, forming the predominant ingredient, and by reason of which they give a very offensive smell. We have the white and red sulphur springs in Virginia, which are quite noted, and there is a famous sulphur spring at Aix-la-Chapelle, in Europe. Saline springs embrace waters of the greatest diversity. In this.class, chlorides are predominant. Those which contain any great quantity of carbonates of lime or magnesia (the matter most often found in mineral springs) are very bitter to the taste. We might add, however, that iodides and bromides are found in saline springs, but not frequently; yet those which contain either of these, possess more curative powers than the others. We might cite, as an example of this class,-the famous Saratoga Springs, in New York, probably the best known springs in the United States. As an example also we have the Seidlitz, of Bohemia.
It might be well to mention here the Hot Springs of Arkansas, which are of a silicious na' ture. These springs deposit beautiful rock crystal, fine specimens of which we have here in the University Museum. Chalybeate Springs are those which contain any salts of iron in solution. The taste left in the mouth after drinking from this variety resembles the taste of ink, more than anything else. There is a very good chalybeate spring at Bedford, Mass., and, I believe, there is one in Pittsburgh, Penn.
In the description of these four divisions I * have given but a simple and rapid outline of each, for any one of these is itself a fruitful subject for study. Mineral springs are chiefly used for drinking and bathing; the warm springs, especially, for bathing. The Greeks and Romans were well acquainted with hot and warm springs. We read in our authors that the wealthy Romans were accustomed to spend their summer months at Baiaa, which would probably correspond to our Saratoga springs,—that is, in point of fashion.
Mineral springs have their value on account of the curative properties which they possess. Persons troubled with chronic and obscure diseases have very often been restored to health, or, at least, been greatly relieved by mineral waters, when in these same cases all other remedies were of no . avail. Some attribute this to the fact that there may be some matter of a mineral nature contained in these springs -which is not yet known to chemistry. For instance, some salts of iodine and bromine have been but recently discovered, yet as components in mineral waters they have been successful in curing diseases for centuries. In certain diseases, now, doctors prescribe mineral waters just as they would the preparations of the apothecary. It is said that chalybeate waters strengthen the stomach, and, as the expression is, “make blood.”
We might mention many diseases which are cured by the different varieties of mineral springs, but space does not allow, and, moreover, we do riot mean to speak here on a medical subject. Many men of science have tried to make a substi
tute for mineral waters, and have obtained considerable success; but still it is found cheaper, and probably better, to use the real mineral water which nature has given us, rather than the artificial products of the chemist.
The United States abounds in mineral springs, but there are probably more in Colorado than in any other State. Here, hot and cold springs ooze forth within a few feet of each other, an acidulous near a saline, a chalybeate beside a sulphurous. We must attribute this to the freaks of nature, which has placed the materials. for this wonder, as we would almost call it, in such close proximity. But all goes to show its another of the innumerable ways in which God exercises His power.
M. E. Donahue.
Subiaco. .
Never was there a gloomier period in the history of European civilization than that which culminated in the universal anarchy and desolation that followed the extinction of the Roman Empire in the West. The colossal fabric of the Cassars had fallen beneath the fierce and incessant onslaughts of the Northern barbarians. The fairest provinces of the vast empire, created by the genius, perseverance and triumphs of the most powerful nation of antiquity, were lurid with the fires of uncivilized conquest and ensanguined with the tide of tumultuous war. The ruthless victors who revelled amid the spoils of vanquished Rome had in their dire advance swept away, as with the irresistible flood of the Alpine torrent, the landmarks of ancient progress, and, moreover,-everywhere arrested the labors of the early pioneers of Christian civilization. At this crisis, when the darkness of returning paganism, lowered over the West, it pleased Divine Providence to raise up in the Christian Church an extraordinary man, who, by the example of his exalted virtue, should revive the spirit of heroic sacrifice that had peopled with countless anchorets the deserts of the Thebaid, and attract in his footsteps an illustrious concourse of disciples, who, filled with apostolic zeal, should go forth to penetrate the heart of Europe, and, planting the cross amid the grim strongholds of heathenism, should arrest the barbarian in his career of violence and bloodshed; should subdue, regenerate, civilize and elevate him through the influence of religion and culture, and refine him by the light of knowledge and the priceless blessings of Christianity.
A young patrician, descended from the illustrious house of Anicius, inspired with a supernatural im-piilse, resolves to renounce forever the allurements of rank and fortune, and seek in the depths of some remote solitude an asylum from the dangers and corruption of Roman society. He has not yet attained his fifteenth year when, in A. D. 494, he secretly departs from the city, and, after a wearisome journey, arrives in the neighborhood of the desert mountains of Subiacum, situated forty miles distant from Rome, towards the southeast. In a cave amid the rocks, where the struggling waters
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	489
of the imprisoned Anio are broken into a series of foaming cascades, he takes up his solitary dwelling, • and commences his life of wonderful austerity.
The fame of Benedict’s sanctity rapidly became known, and numbers of the faithful penetrated into his solitude, eager to listen to his heavenly discourse. Captivated by the spectacle of such-wondrous virtue, many craved to live under his-spiritual guidance, and imitate his austerities in the heroic practice of the evangelical counsels. In a few years his desert was peopled with twelve monasteries that grew up around his lonely cell. Thither came postulants from every rank—noble and plebeian, Roman and barbarian—to embrace the monastic state. Thus did the desert of Subiaco become the cradle of the Benedictine institute, which during so many ages shed so great lustre on the Church and achieved such stupendous results for European civilization. ■ The innumerable saints and doctors and missionaries that were nurtured in its cloisters form the most brilliant galaxy that illumined the Christian firmament in the lapse of the Middle Ages, under whose pure and genial light the nations of Europe, reclaimed from ignorance, barbarism and idolatry, and gathered into the fold of the faith, gradually developed in political, social, and intellectual progress, and laid deep and solid the foundations of that civilization the blessings of which have been borne to every region of the habitable globe.	•
After thirty years’ sojourn at Subiaco, St. Benedict, forced by a persecution that threatened the safety of many of his young disciples, withdrew to to Monte Cassino, where stood a sacred grove and temple of Apollo. Having induced the people of the surrounding district to abandon their idolatry, he erected from the debris of the temple two Christian oratories, around which developed the celebrated monastery regarded as the chief house of the Benedictine Order. Here the patriarch of the Western monks closed Iris eventful career, 21st March, 543. His remains were interred at the foot of the altar in the oratory of St. John, where he expired, in the tomb which had but recently received the body of his sister, St. Scholastica.
Some Recent Inventions.
A new and useful application of the telephone has been the subject of experiments by a native of Toulon, France. He has invented a new species of scaphander, which permits of the utilization of several of the discoveries made of late years.-' • One of the faces of the helmet is made of copper, in which a telephone is fixed, so that the man in the scaphander, whilst he is working in the water, needs only to turn his head slightly in. order to receive instructions from above, or to express what .he wishes to say. Heretofore, when divers visited a sunken ship, it was necessary to raise them to the surface—a process that was always difficult and more or less dangerous—to obtain their account of the state of .things beneath the water, and the Instructions given them were necessarily long and
detailed, and they had to depend on their memory and intelligence. By means of the arrangement of which we are speaking, an engineer, or the captain • aboard his ship, can direct the investigations better than he could possibly do, even if he were below the surface. Then, again, the diver, in case of danger or sickness, had formerly only an alarm bell at his command to make known his needs. By means of the telephone all danger of misunderstanding is averted, the diver’s call for help is at once understood. The man in the scaphander no longer simply sees, walks, breathes at the bottom of the sea, but he hears and speaks. The experiments of which we have spoken have been very successful, and it is the intention to attach a microphone to some of the scaphanders in order-to strengthen the voice.
Not less useful than the preceding is the invention of a young Roman engineer, Trajan Theo-doresco. He has succeeded in constructing a submarine vessel which throws into the shade all previous inventions in this line. This vessel can nav- * igate for twelve hours, at a hundred feet below the water, without once coming to the surface. The inventor claims that he can go to a depth of . three hundred feet. At the surface the movement of the vessel is like that of ordinary steamers. The rapidity is not as great as in some steamers, but is greater than that of sailing vessels. It descends and performs its other motions by means of screws. Once beneath the surface, sufficient light is furnished to see objects within forty metres ahead, and the movement is so regulated as to avoid obstruction. There is a supply of air for twelve hours, which may be renewed by means of teles-copic tubes without returning to the surface. The forward and the downward movement of the vessel are noiseless. If experiments should confirm all the advantages claimed for this submarine boat, it will be a most formidable weapon of warfare. But it may likewise be turned to more profitable uses, in recovering lost treasures and for dredging. Anything that is likely to enlarge our knwoledge of what lies beneath the sea, or to facilitate the acquirement of its products and valuable deposits, is not to be slighted.
An instance of what can be done by the aid of a strong will and perseverance is furnished by .a young man named Aloys Lorentz, a Swiss peasant. Under the most unfavorable circumstances, and by his own unaided industry and skill, he has succeeded in making a- model of the celebrated clock of Strasburg, which is at present on exhibition in Paris, and excites general attention. During the siege of Strasburg, when the Prussian shells had set fire to the roof of the Cathedral, and it seemed as if the grand building was going to be destroyed, the boy took it into his head that he would make a copy of the clock. He was at that time ten years old and had no idea of clock-making, nor had he ever had a look at the machinery to be copied. Notwithstanding this, he set to work, and such was his energy that, in the space of three years, he had made a machine which was a good counterpart pf the farqous clock, Since thpn fie hits greatly
490
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
improved it. The young mechanic has gone to • Paris to exhibit his work, which had excited gen-* eral admiration in Strasburg, a
' Such a strength of will in sb young a person, and crowned by such success, is not an every-day occurrence, and we may expect to hear more about the youth in the future.	X. Y. Z.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—An authorized translation by a priest, of .“Is Life Worth Living-”? is announced in Paris.
—Dr. Ward, formerly editor of the Dublin Review, has already published a second edition of his learned essay on Science, Miracles, Free-will, etc.
—A weekly magazine, called Choice Literature, has undertaken to supply the place of The Library Magazine. It has several new and important features.
—Nuntius Romanus is the title of a new periodical lately begun in Rome. It will publish all Encyclical Letters, decrees of the Roman Congregations, etc.
—Tennyson’s “All Hands Round” has been set to music by Stanford, an English composer. The son^ will become popular, it is said, because of the genial music.
—The historical writings of St. Athanasius have been published at Oxford, by the Clarendon Press. The Editor, Prof. Bright, has followed the Benedictine text.
—Cardinal Manning’s recent article in the Nineteenth Century on the return of Mr. Bradlaugh to Parliament has been so much called for that the publishers are expected to issue a reprint of it.
—We rejoice to learn that the poems of B. I. Durward have been collected in book form. Those to whom this name is unknown have yet to make the acquaintance of one of the best poets in the West.
—Hon. Ignatius Donnelly’s learned work, “ Atlantis,” has excited great interest, both here and in England. It is now in its second edition. The author is a brothei' of Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly, the American Adelaide Procter.
—M. l’Abbe Blanc has published an exposition and refutation of the theories of Mr. Herbert Spencer, entitled Les Nouvclles Bases de la Morale. The Abbe Blanc is a Professor of Scholastic Philosophy in the Catholic University of Lyons.
—Besides The Paper World, which is one of the best conducted and most influential trade magazines published either in this country or in Europe, Messrs. Clarke W. Bryan & Co., of Holyoke, Mass., publish The Manufacturer and Industrial Gazette, and The American Plumber.
—Another English poet, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, has disappeared from earth; his death was announced by cable, last week. Besides being a poet and critic, Mr. Rossetti was also a painter of con
siderable note, and for nearly forty' years one of the active spirits of the Pre-Raphaelite movement.
—The Ave Maria will contain next week the initial chapter of a new story by Madame Augustus Craven, author of “ A Sister’s Story,” “ A.nne Severin,” and other popular works. The translation is by Lady Georgiana Fullerton. It will be published simultaneously in London and America. The story is entitled “ Eliane.”	t
—Prof. George Washington Greene, for many years an intimate friend of Mr. Longfellow, and the one to whom he dedicated “Ultima Thule” and his translation -of the Divina Coinmedia, will write the poet’s biography. Mr. Greene announces that the family letters have all been placed at his disposal.
—In regard to the controversy as to the author of “The Imitation,” Mr. Edmund Waterton has written to Notes and Queries that “ the numerous contemporary witnesses who have deposed, beyond all possibility of doubt or refutation, and at a time when the authorship was never disputed, that Thomas a Kempis was the author, form .an obstacle that cannot be got over.”
—Mr. Beresford Hope, M. P., is selling a portion of his celebrated library. Among the treasures with which he is parting are some fine illuminated manuscripts, including Beda’s “Exposition of St. Luke,” described as very beautiful. It was written by a Spanish scribe for Ferdinand of Castile. Also copies of the first edition of the “ Biblia Polyglotta,” published by Cardinal Xim-enez; the first edition of Homer, in Greek; “Cice-ronis Epistolse,” printed in 1470; Colgani “Acta Sanctorum Hibernia ”; “ Lyra Postilla,”. printed in 1471-72; first edition of Plato, in Greek; Cardinal Pole’s excessively rare “ Ecclesiastic® Unitatis Defensio,” which so infuriated Henry VIII; and Description de IEgypte, nine vols. (the great work executed by order of Napoleon I).
Scientific Notes.
—The death was reported by cable, yesterday, of Charles R. Darwin, the well-known English scientist and author.
—The transit of Venus on the 6th of December will be observed on behalf of the French Government by eight expeditions at the following points: The French Antilles, the coast of Patagonia, Santa Cruz, Chabuth, Chili, Cuba, coast of Florida, and the coast of Mexico. Astronomers anticipate that this occasion will enable them to determine, with an accuracy never before attained, the distance of the earth from the sun.
—The new material known as leatherette is being brought into use in numerous mechanical and ornamental applications. It is so perfect an imitation of leather that people are utterly unaware that they are handling something other than leather itself, and its serviceable nature renders the detection still more difficult. For all uses to which it has been applied, the article is said to have proved
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
49*
nearly, if not quite, equal in serviceableness- to natural leather.—IV. T. Sun.
—Spiders are one of the great obstacles to telegraphers in Japan. Filling the trees along the Hines, these insects spin their webs between the (earth, the wires, the posts, insulators and the trees. When these webs become wet with dew they (Constitute a good conductor, and the lines are found tto be in connection with the earth. The only (method of obviating this inconvenience is by emrploying brooms of bamboo to brush away the webs. .But, as the spiders are more active than the work-nnen employed in this work, the difficulty is not tthe less serious.	'
—Deaths from diptheria, typhus fever, and other ■fatal diseases caused by poisonous sewer and other ■gases, have been so numerous of late, that at a .recent meeting of the Academy of Medicine, <of New York, this peril was discussed by Profs. ;Fordyce, Barker and others, illustrated by some (remarkable experiments made by Prof. Doremus, Iby which it was demonstrated how the densest rstone walls are easily penetrated by these gases. ‘The suggestions made by Prof. Doremus for purifying water-closets and replacing fatal gases with •ozone by the expenditure of a few cents on chlo-;rine, chloride of zinc, bromine, or some other (equally potent disinfectant, were listened to with (great interest.
—Sir Isaac Newton wrote a’ book on the .'Prophet Daniel and another on the Apocalypse of .‘St. John, in one of which he says that, according ;to certain prophecies, before a certain period • of time has passed, there would be a species of travelling of which the men of his day had no iidea; that the knowledge of mankind would have tso increased that a means of travelling over ten 'geographical miles in an hour would be discov-■ered. Voltaire, who scouted the idea of the divine inspiration of the Holy Scriptures, attacked 'Newton on this, saying: “Consider that mighty •genius, Newton, the discoverer of the law of grav-:itation, and who revealed to us mysteries of na-.ture that fill us with wonder. When he had grown •old and childish he began to study the book they •call the Bible, and in his opinion, if we accept its -fabulous nonsense as true, we must believe that the day will come when people can travel ten (geographical miles in an hour! The poor old fool!” Poor fool!—Ave Maria.
College Gossip.
—The death is reported of the Rev. Father Van Impe, rector of St. Xaviers’s College, Calcutta. He was a man of great learning and of holy life. May he rest in peace!	.
—Student ( not very clear in his lesson)—“ That’s what the author says, anyway.” Professor—“I don’t want the author, I want you.” Student (despairingly)—“Well, you’ve got me.”
—Jt js said that this country is indebted to Rich
ard Storrs Willis, more than to any other person, for the introduction of college songs, having taught the Yale students the Latin song Gaudcamus, which he had learned in the German universities. —Boston Star.
—A new version of Virgil’s Mtneid, entitled “Dido and yEneas,” by Mr. Owen Wester, a Harvard graduate, was recently presented at the Madison Square Theatre, New York. The critics speak very favorably of the author’s work and its presentation on the stage.
—Professor Barff, of Beaumont College, explained, before a meeting of the London Society of Arts, the results of some chemical experiments in connection with the preservation of food. The discovery, it is said, has already been tested at Beaumont College, with excellent results. •
O 7
—A recent number of The Pictorial World, for which we have to thank a friend in London,’ contains portraits of the Oxford and Cambridge crews. The young fellows appear very muscular, and look as if they would be more likely to succeed in boat-racing than in intellectual contests.
—English colleges have no students’ publications; yet England is said to have 1,300 colleges.—Vanderbilt Observer.
This is a mistake; a periodical is published by the students-of the famous Jesuit College, at Stony-hurst. We have never seen it, but we remember reading a notice of it, not long ago, in one of our English papers.
—How dear to my heart is the school I attended. And how I remember, so distant and dim,
That red-headed Bill, and the pin that I bended And carefully put on the bench under him!
And how I recall the surprise of the master
When Bill gave a yell, and sprang up with the pin So high that his bullet head busted the plaster
Above, and the scholars all set up a grin.
That active boy, Billy, that high-leaping Billy I That loud-shouting Billy that sat on a pin!
—San Francisco Nezus Letter.
—Premier Gladstone, in the course .of an address to the pupils of Harrow School, which he lately visited in company with Princess Louise, said:
“ Strive now in the days of your youth to estimate aright the precious hours and the precious opportunities that are offered to you. The old are melted by sympathy as well as by admiration and by hope when, standing in the presence of the young, they reflect how much of the future lies in the form of seed now before them,—how much will be contributed by you, who are now assembled, in the years of your future life to the happiness or misery of mankind f For God’s sake, my young friends, let not these precious hours pass away unused. You never can fully appreciate these opportunities until they have becomp tilings of the past, but there is no usurer who ever drew the mpst extravagant profit from his hoards whose profits could be compared for one moment to the results you will reap if you have wisdom and grace now, in the time of your boyhood and youth, to extract from your hours and your days and your years the fruit they are capable of yielding. May you lose none of it! may every one of you manfully discharge the duty that God has given into his hands, and thereby alike fulfil his own happy destiny, and maintain the name and fame of the school to which you are fondly attached! ” (Loud cheers.)
We are glad to re-echo the learned Premier’s manly utterances on this side of the Atlantic. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
otrj
jVoti-e Dame, A.pri.1 22, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year- of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the 'many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.	’
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students. '
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,	'
Old Students should take it.
Terms, . jo per Annum. Postpaid. .
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, '	"	'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those -who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the* complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at tire office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic always will be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., the venerable founder of Notre Dame, took his departure on Thursday morning for Paris, whence he will proceed to Rome on business of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, of which he is the Superior-General. This will make the thirty-ninth time he has crossed the ocean. We unite with his numerous friends and spiritual children on both sides of the Atlantic in wishing him a prosperous voyage and safe return to the United States.
—Special attention, has been paid of late years at Notre Dame to the study of History, and every assistance and encouragement has been held out to the students to acquire a thorough knowledge of this most- important branch. It gives us sincere pleasure to notice that the efforts of the Faculty are beginning to be appreciated and seconded by the friends of the University from without.
The generous donor of one of the medals for Christian Doctrine, whose name we are not at' liberty to mention, but who cannot prevent us from saying that he is one of the most zealous. and efficient clergymen in the diocese of Fort Wayne, has kindly offered to present another for the Course of History. In this respect, as iii many others, we would like to hold up the reverend gentleman as a model, and we trust that the example which hp has set will find many imitators.
—It was stated in one of our exchange notes some weeks ago, on the authority of the London Universe, that the notorious Gavazzi had been arrested in France for some, heinous crime, and sentenced to thirteen months’ imprisonment. Having received a letter from Rome, this week, informing us that he has not been absent from the city all winter, we hasten to correct our statement, and it affords us sincere satisfaction to do so. We do not rejoice over the downfall of anyone, nor do we wish to spread false reports. Poor Gavazzi had fallen low enough already in our estimation. The public at large has scant respect for “ converted. priests ” nowadays, and they generally receive, sooner or later, the contempt they so richly merit. We once heard an Episcopalian clergyman say that he looked upon an apostate Catholic priest as the very personification of insincerity. The mistake in regard to Gavazzi occurred on account - of a similarity of names, the culprit, being a minister, named Gavazzi, from England, it is said.
-—Those who know anything about “the art preservative of all arts ” are aware that it is next to impossible to avoid occasional typographical errors. A proof may be corrected with all the care imaginable, but this is no guarantee that mistakes will not appear in the printed sheet. Blunders are often made in correcting blunders; then, again, in the process of “ locking- up ” the -forms, types may drop out or be misplaced, while in the course of printing they may be “ mashed ” or fail to “work up.” Considering the hurry in which daily and weekly papers are generally “set up” and printed, the wonder is, not that typographical errors are frequent, but that they are not more frequent. In monthly, quarterly, and especially yearly publications, we have a right to expect comparative typographical perfection, for the reason that there is generally abundant time in which to do the mechanical work and to correct what may be discovered amiss. We are very often disappointed in our expectations, and this only proves the truth of the statement that there is no such thing as absolutely perfect typography.’ Only two. or three of the millions of books published in this country can claim to be faultless as regards the printing. Such books are rarities. It is therefore the greatest folly to make an ado over the little mistakes that are met with in daily and weekly papers. A reader or writer may reasonably complain of frequent, serious blunders, and such as bear evidence ■priina. facie of wanton carelessness or incapacity on the part of printer or proof-reader; but to carp at every little slip of printing is a sure proof, among other things, of a fault-finding disposition.	'
—Students are aware that their class-standing • at the end of the session, and consequently their chances for medals, premiums and honorable mentions depend on the monthly competitions ' in the different courses. Four of these competitions will be held in each course during the present session,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and those who cherish ambitious longings know © ©
by this time on what sort of foundation their hopes are laid. We trust that this knowledge will encourage those who have been fortunate enough to hold the first places to continue their efforts, and will spur on the unsuccessful to renewed exertions. “A fair field and no favor” is what we all like to see: there can be. no fairer test of merit than the written competitions, and the best men cannot help winning.
The last competition of the series is by far the most important. As it is only right that premiums and medals should, as far as possible, fall to the lot of those who are most proficient at the end of the term, the last competition—which is the finest criterion of the relative proficiency of students at this time—counts for three. In this manner, those who have made most progress during the session are the favored ones,—as indeed they ought to be,—while, at the same time, the claims of those whose class-standing at any time during the session has been satisfactory are not overlooked.
It is rumored that a “ new departure ” will take place this year in the manner of deciding to whom the Commercial Medal shall be awarded. There are many Commercial Classes in which Seniors and Juniors are-taught separately,—in fact, Bookkeeping, Commercial Law and Telegraphy are the only Courses attended- in common by students of both departments. The duties assigned at the separate competitions have generally been different heretofore, and the class-standing of Seniors and Juniors, and consequently their, claims to the Medal, have been decided by the percentage given them in their respective classes. It is now proposed to modify this system, to a certain extent, by the introduction of a special competition for the students of both departments, and we think the suggestion a valuable one.
—There are few institutions, if any, more important to a nation than the system of education adopted and aided by the State. That which cultivates the intellect and exercises a great influence on the formation of the character of -its future citizens, is deservedly considered by every civilized Government as worthy of most serious consideration. Any system of education which is universally adopted by a State, it is plain, ought to be favorable to all classes of the community. An edu- cation which is opposed to the convictions or feelings of a large number of citizens, cannot be called national, and should not be forced on them. Legislatures assert that, as the end of legislation is the sjood of society, they are bound to secure all lawful means which contribute to it; and that, as a certain degree of knowledge is necessary, they are bound to adopt a system of national education to provide it. Most certainly it is the right of every State to secure a certain degree of intelligence in its citizens, but to attain this end it is not necessary to adopt a system of education which is opposed to the principles of a.large portion of the community. Any system which provides the required degree of edu
cation ought, therefore, to be perfectly acceptable to the legislative body.	-	'
In this country there exists a fear that such a plan would be aiding some sect or religious creed. But if the State were to permit what has been denominated the “ Payment by Results,” it would not be aiding any particular religious creed, while it would afford all that the State has a right to claim. “ Payment by Results ” means that a number of parents, or others, may organize a school, appoint teachers, pupils and school to be subject to State inspectors; the salaries of the teachers to be paid by the Government, and determined according to the number of children attaining a standard of knowledge fixed by the State.- Under such a system the State would not be assisting any particular sect, nor paying teachers for merely passing so many hours in a class-room. It would only be securing a general attainment of that standard of secular knowledge fixed by itself. It is difficult to conceive of a system of education which would contribute more to the improvement of our schools. Were a teacher to be paid only for such pupils as he brings to a determined standard of knowledge, and not for a mere routine discharge of his duties, it would be his interest to bring all the pressure he could on the young to learn. The competition between such schools and those at present in existence would have a most beneficial effect on our national education. Competition, which .has done so much for every branch of trade and industry, would not fail to bring out all the zeal and energy of teachers, if it were once fairly incorporated into our system of education.
Exchanges.
—A new college paper comes to us this week from Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn. It is called the Observer. Welcome!
—The visits of the Harvard Daily Herald, since its Easter suspension, are more welcome than ever. There are few of our exchanges with which we should be more sorry to part company. If we were publishing a daily college paper, it would be our endeavor to have it include all the characteristics of the Herald, which is a credit alike to its editors and the institution which it represents.
—The Catholic Review, having completed the first decade of its prosperous career as a high-toned family newspaper, the publishers, Messrs. P. V. Hickey & Co., have enlarged the paper and brought it out in a complete new dress of type, paper, etc. It is now handsomely printed on sized and calendered paper, and is quite attractive in appearance. The new type is larger than the old, but as the size of the paper has been proportion-, ately increased there is no diminution of readingmatter. The marked improvement in appearance cannot fail to be appreciated, and we augur, for the Review a greater success in its new form.
o
Prominent among other improvements in the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
reading matter, is a column of well-written book notices which, we think, materially enhances the value of this interesting periodical.
—South Bend leads the world in the matter of wagons, carriages, and farm implements in general, and our friend A. B. Miller, editor of The Farmer's Friend, seems determined to add' no little to South Bend’s fame as an emporium for the farmers of the United States. The last issue of The Farmer's Friend must have been the largest of any paper ever printed in Indiana. It consisted of 200,000 copies. The paper for the edition would make a pile 114 feet high and 30x22 inches in length and breadth. Folded into the 15x22 inch folds, the pile would be 228 feet high, or 8 feet higher than the Bunker Hill Monument! Mr. Miller says February h:is been a good month for the publishers in the way of subscriptions. We wish him and The Farmer's Friend success, and hope he may double the pile before December. Although a large 8-page paper, the price of subscription is onljr 50 cents a year. Address, the Farmer’s Friend Publishing Co., South Bend, Indiana.
—The April number of The Ccecilia is, like all those preceding it that we have seen, replete with interesting matter relating to church music. The Coecilia has been, from its inception, under the editorial management of Prof. John Singehberger, President of the American branch of the Csecilia Society, and is published by F. Pustet & Co., of New York,—a sufficient guarantee that both in matter and the manner of presenting it the paper is all that could be desired. The fact of its being printed half in English and half in German is a great deprivation for simply English readers. We think that in the present advanced stage of the Cecilian movement an English edition of The Ccecilia should meet with sufficient encouragement in this country and in Europe, and tend to give greater publicity to the principles of the reform. Among other matters of interest in the April number is the programme of the 8th General Convention of the American Caacilia Society, to be held in Philadelphia, on the 22d, 23d, and 24th of August next. The Concerts will be given in St. Peter’s Church. Besides the usual amount of eminent talent from various quarters, the choirs of the Church of the Holy Redeemer, New York, and St. James’s choir, Baltimore, will assist the choir of St. Peter’s. The following is a list of the composers given in the programme, the figures denoting the number of selections from each: Palestrina, 5; Rev. F. Witt (Founder of the German Cecilia Society, and President), 8; Rev. M. Haller, 5; Piel, 4; Stehle, 3; Vittoria,* 2; Greith, 2; Singen-berger, 2; Rev. F. Kbnen; Rev. F. Schmidt; Aiblinger; Schaller; Sautner; Anerio*; Ver-done*; Vechi*; Berchem*; Ett; Birkler; Ort-wein. Those marked with a star were contemporaries of the renowned Palestrina, and followers of his school, and are all of the sixteenth century. The others, with one or two exceptions, are of our own time, composers of eminent talent,
who devote themselves to the production and encouragement of music suitable to the august ceremonies of the Church. In the present connection we would say to those who do not properly understand the Cecilian movement that it is simply a following of the footsteps of the renowned Palestrina, so far as this is possible; and as the compositions of that great composer are beyond the capability of ordinary choirs, the Cecilian composers, of modern times have endeavored to give compositions of the Palestrina school that will suit various, requirements—the chief object being to exclude music of a frivolous nature or odorous of profane associations, and to replace it with compositions specially prepared for the Church. The w’ords of encouragement given the Society by the Provincial Councils of Baltimore and Cincinnati will, no doubt, result in a new impulse to the Cecilian movement and to all interested in the subject of liturgical Church music.
Personal.
—Eugene Seibert, of ’75, is practising law in Cincinnati. His office is on 3d street.
—Charles H. Muhler, of ’52, resides in Fort Wayne, Ind., where he is superintendent of an extensive manufactory of tin ware and galvanized iron trimmings.
—Messrs. Joseph P. Fenlon (Commercial), of ’64, and James Fenlon, of ’65, both of Leavenworth, Kansas, have been here on a visit to their venerable and worthy parents, whose golden jubilee was joyously celebrated on Easter Monday.
—Rt. Rev. Richard Gilmour, D. D., of the diocese of Cleveland, will visit Rome during the early summer. We hope to see him here before he takes his departure. The Rt. Rev. Bishop is well known at Notre Dame, and has many warm friends and admirers here.	.
—W e are glad to learn from the Daily Statesman, Austin Texas, that two former teachers of Notre Dame, Rev. Father John Lauth, and B. Alban, C. S. C., are conducting a very successful Academy in that city. The Statesman says: “ The last examination at St. Edward’s Academy proved that. thoroughness had been exacted in every branch.”
—The following list of recent visitors is from the College register: A. D. Tourtillotte, Toledo, Ohio.; Mrs. O’Neill, and Mrs. Heneberry,Peoria, Ill.; Mrs. Metz, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Fal-vey, Winamac, Ind. ;• Andrew Cummings, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Hackett, Watertown, Wis.; Mr. Win. Devine, Chicago, Ill.; John Price, Fairmount, Neb.; George Nester, East Saginaw, Mich.-; Mr. and Mrs. Coleman, M. Coleman, and M. Maloney, Washington, D. C.; Cayetano C. Becerra, Mexico;, John J. Crotty, Seneca, Ill.; Mrs. Thos. Ryan, Topeka, Kansas; Mr. P. F. Ryan, De Witt, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Kerndt, Lansing, Mich,; Harry H, McCord, Cincinnati, Ohio,	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Double windows are disappearing all round.
—Only two months more before Commencement!
—That $1.50 is still unclaimed; in fact, it is generally repudiated.	'
—W. H. Vander Hayden has taken the place f vacated by D. Corry in the boat crew.
—To-morrow is the anniversary of the big fire, and the birthday of Mr. Wm. Shakspeare.
—We had a pleasant call from Rev. Father Oechtering, of Mishawaka, on Monday last.
—There is an editorial this week on competitions and the Commercial Medal, to which attention is directed.
—The entertainment to have been given by the Scientific Association last Wednesday is announced for to-night.
—The Minims had a banquet, on Thursday, in honor of the laying of the corner-stone of their new building;	.
—The display of the Aurora Borealis, last Sun. day night, was very brilliant, and continued till past . eleven o’clock.
—-Prof. Gregori and the Rev. Professor of f Greek are preparing elaborate costumes for the “ Captives ” and “ CEdipus.”
-Mr. J. Francis Smith is executing in oil, for Columbian Hall, miniature portraits of all the Presidents of the United States.
—The Literary Entertainment, to be given by the Columbian Association, promises to be extremely interesting and creditable.
—Some reports of societies handed in late, and a number of local items, are crowded out. We hold to our rule. First in, first printed.
—Football is not so popular as it was. Baseball is now “ all the go,” and even “ the Iowa giant ” and the poetical Holmes take part in it.
—The one who lost a sum of money in the College, last week, can recover it by applying to B. Francis de Paul, at the printing-office.
—A little Indian boy, from Pokegon, was baptized last week, by Rev. Father Granger. The godmother’s euphonius name is Shepohaquan.
—The “servers” took a trip to St. Joseph’s Farm on Thursday. The weather was not very favorable, but we believe they had a very pleasant time notwithstanding.
—A pocket-knife was recently left in the Music Hall, and so far no one has called for it. The owner can have his property by applying to the Prefect of the Music Hall.	’
—There will be a musical soiree, under the direction of Prof. Paul, Wednesday evening, in the Rotunda. There is a good programme, and a very pleasant time may be expected.
—Among the best target-shots of the week were J. O’Neill, E. Eager—he was eager to do his best,
and so succeeded—j^let it pass this time] W. Vander Hayden, H. Steis, M. Falvey, and W. Bryant.
—We are very grateful to Mr. Eliot Ryder, of the Boston Star, for an excellent cabinet photograph of the lamented author of “Evangeline.” It is the best likeness of the poet we have ever seen.
—The Scholastic, always good and instructive to its readers, interested in practical educational wants and literary news, promises, with its new-dress, to be more attractive than ever.—Catholic Review.
—Mr. Samuel T. Spalding, of Lebanon, Ky., has the thanks of Prof. Edwards for a fine old grandfather’s clock, one of the genuine “old-timers,” used by the descendants of the Maryland pilgrims.
—The Juniors, accompanied by B. Thomas, enjoyed a long walk through the picturesque valley of St. Joseph’s River, last Sunday afternoon, and returned with keen appetites just as the bell rang for supper.	. . -
—The Scholastic, of Notre Dame, Ind., comes to us in a new dress and otherwise much improved. Good taste and a firm hand show themselves already in the pages of our bright contemporary.—N. Y. Freeman?s Journal.
—Last Sunday, at High Mass, Rev. President Walsh read and commented upon the pastoral letter of the Provincial Council lately held in Cincinnati. The document itself and the remarks of the Rev. speaker were listened to with much interest.
—A baseball game which attracted no little attention was played last Saturday afternoon between the Red Sox and Athletes. Heavy batting was made by Masters Colyar, Wendell and Roper. The latter also distinguished himself by his pitching.
—We think everyone will agree with us that the altar servers this year are among the best-behaved and best-trained acolytes we have ever had. There has been a marked improvement in carrying out the ceremonies, which, it is to be hoped, will not end there.
—At a meeting of the Boat Club, the other evening, a committee, consisting of W. B. McGor-n'sk, W. McEniry, and F. E. Kuhn was appointed to make arrangement for a new boat-house. It is hoped that the building will be such a one as will not detract from the beauty of the lake.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic, of Notre Dame, Ind., has visited us at last. We give it welcome. In its Roll of Honor we notice many of our acquaintances and friends. It also tells us that our friend, Mr. McGorrisk, of Des Moines, is again at the University.—Our Guardian Angel.
—The corner-stone of the new Minim College was blessed by Very Rev. Father General, on Thursday morning, in presence of the Faculty, students, and others. The ceremony was very imposing. After laying the corner-stone, Very Rev. Father General delivered a beautiful address, which
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
he concluded by saying that the occasion was one of the happiest days of his life..
—A meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held last Sunday evening, Rev. Father Toohey presiding. Rev. Fathers Granger and Stoffel honored the meeting by their presence; B. Basil was also in attendance to preside at the organ. The ten-minutes’ discourse was delivered by Father Toohey, who spoke on the necessity of faith. W. H. Bailey read a paper on the Passion of our Lord; M. E. Donahue treated the Mystery of the Incarnation, and W. O’Connor proved the existence of purgatory. -	'
—A meeting of students was held on the 10th inst. for the purpose of organizing a baseball association. The following officers were elected: President, F. B. Devote; Vice-President, W. B. McGorrisk; Recording Secretary, M. T. Burns; Corresponding Secretary, M. F. Healy; Treasurer, W. H. Arnold; Executive Committee, B. Paul, F. E. Kuhn, M. E. Donahue and F. Gallagher; Directors, Bros. Emmanuel and Paul; Captains, Morse and Gallagher. The association is in a healthy condition financially, and will provide uniforms for the leading nines.	.
—The i Sth regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association (Minim department) was held on April 16th. The question, “Is a Poet Greater than a Painter?” was debated by Masters J. Nester, W. M. Miller, and T. Norfolk on the affirmative; and Rdne Papin, P. Cam-pau and Guy Gibson on the negative. After debating for over an hour, the question was still undecided, but is to be settled at the next meeting. Declamations were delivered by Masters J. J. McGrath, F. Nester, and P. Johnson. The President, Prof. J. F. Edwards, informed the members that the Columbians had invited the Sorins to their next meeting, at which Prof. Paul would furnish -some choice music. The announcement was received with applause, after which the meeting ad-
champs, Devine, Dolan, Devitt, Drendel, Droste, Echlin, Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, Fendrick, French, Flynn, Fisher, Florman, M. Foote, H. Foote, Friedman, Gerlach, E. Gall, A. Gall, Guthrie, Hoffman, Hess, Hibbeler, Hurley, Hanavin, Hefternan, Halligan, Jeannot, Johnston, Johnson, Kelly, Kolars, Kahmah, Kengel, Kitz, Katz, Livingston, Lund, Lewis, McGordon, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, McPhillips, C. Murdock, Orchard, Osborn, O’Donnell, Orsinger, Powell, H. Porter, C. Porter, Peery, Pick, Quill, Ryan, Rose, Rhodius, Ruppe, L. Rivaud, Smeeth, Schaefer, Sells, Tappan, Taylor, Taggart, Warner, Whelan, Wilbur, Wile, Zeigler. Yrisarri.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Ackerman, Berthelet, Brandom, Cummings, Curran, Chirhart, Chaves, J. Devereux, W. Devine,-A. Devine, Dirksmeyer, Devitt, Davison, Dwenger, Fehr, Frain, J. Garrity, Graham, P. Gibson, Hewitt, Hynes, Johnson, A. Kelly, J. A. Kelly, Kellner, J. J. McGrath J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGordon, McCawley, Miller, Masi, C. Metz, Nash, F. Nester, Norfolk, O’Connor, A. Otis, Powell, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, E. Price, Peters, Pick, Quinlin, Rose, Rebori, Roper, Roberts, Schmitz, Stange, Studebaker, Tong, Thomas, L. Young, C. Young.
Class Honors. ’
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. Arnold, J. Browne, Bell, Bailey, T. Clarke, G. Clarke, Cleary, Donahue, Otis, Orrick, Gray, Solon, Zahm, W. Schofield, Kuhn, E. McGorrisk, W. McGorrisk, McDermott, Fleming, McIntyre, Tracey, O’Connor, Walsh, T. Flynn, J. Falvey, Farrell, Ewing, Johnson, H. Porter, C. Fisher, Porter.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Berthelet, Beall, Cummings, Coad, Curran, Chirhart, Chaves, C. Campau, P. Campau, Ryan Devereux, J. Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Dirksmeyer, Devitt, Dwenger, Fehr, Frain, F. Garrity, Graham, G. Gibson, P. Gibson, Hewitt, Hynes, Hopkins, Johnson, A. Kelly, J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, |McCawley, Masi, C. Metz, Nash, J. Nester, F. Nester, Norfolk, O’Connor, F. Otis, A. Otis, Powell, Piatt, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, G. Price, E. Price, Peters, Quinlin, Rose, Rebori, Roper, Roberts, Schmitz, Stange, Sommer, Tong, Thomas, Vosburgh, Walsh, Welch, Whitney, Winsor, C. Young, Studebaker, Pick.
Roll of Honor.	'
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]	'	•
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson, Armijo, Arnold, J. Berry, W. Berry, Bailey, Barron, Bryant, Browne, Bell, Burns, Cooper, Cullin, Clements, Carroll, Conway, G. Clarke, Cleary, T. Clarke, J. Delaney, J. P. Delaney, Dorsey, Donegan, Drury, F. E. Ewing, Eaton, Flannery, E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Farrell, Fleming, Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, Fishburne, Gallagher, Gray, Golonski, Healy, Johnson, Kinsella, Kelly, Kuhn, Kerndt, Kavanaugh, Larkin, Murphy, McErlain, Minnis, Marlett, McGinnis, McIntyre, McDevitt, Morse, W. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, McEniry, Mason, Nash, Noble, Noonan, O’Neill, O’Connor, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Peery, Paquette, Pierson, Quinn, Ryan, Rasche, Saviers, Steiger, W. Schofield, Solon, C. Smith, Steis, Tinley, Thompson, Tracy, Van Duzen, Wheatly, White, Yrisarri, Zettler, Zahm.	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT,	_
Masters Archer, Ayers, Browne, Bacon, Bailev, Barron, Bowers, Buchanan, Barnard, Boone, Castanedo, A. J. Campau, Collar, J. M. Courtney, J: §. Courtney, DeSr
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those ■who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]	'
.	COLLEGIATE COURSE.	■
Moral Philosophy—Messrs. Donohue, Zahm, O’Connor; Latin—Messrs. Zahm, O’Connor, Orrick, Donohue; Greek—Messrs. O’Connor,, Bailey, Otis, Gray; English Composition—Messrs. McEniry, Fishburne, Heffernan; Rhetoric—Messrs. Cleary, Johnston; English Literature — McIntyre; Criticism—Quinn; Algebra—Messrs. Fleming, Cleary, H. Porter; Geometry—Messrs. Morse, C. Porter, H. Porter, Johnston; Trigonometry—Messrs. McEniry, Gallagher; Surveying—Messrs. Kuhn, Fleming, Bell; General Geometry and Calculus—Anderson;' Analytical Mechanics—Orrick; Astronomy—Orrick; Physiolog}'—Messrs'. Ewing, Fleming; Botany—Messrs. Zahm. McDermott; Zoology—Otis; Physics—Messrs. Orrick. Zahm; Geology—Orrick; Mineralogy—Messrs. McDermott, VanDuzen; Chemistry—Messrs.Kuhn, Zahm; History—-Messrs. Otis, McIntyre, Solon, Eaton, Fleming, McGordon, E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Conway, Cleary, Healy, H. Porter, Anderson, O’Reilly.
—The names of Messrs. Ball, Kerndt, and Fishburne were omitted from the List of Excellence last week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
49?
One Mile. West of Notre Dame University.
—The Gregorian Chant of this festive season is rendered with beautiful effect by the young ladies who form St. Mary’s Gregorian Society.
—At the High Mass, on the 16th inst., Rev. Father Walsh, C. S. C., President of Notre Dame College, gave a grand sermon on the sublimest of miracles, viz., the Catholic Church.
—Among the visitors at the Academv during © ^ © the week were Miss Catharine Young, graduate of ’72, and the Misses Hutchison, Gavan and Thompson, former pupils of St. Mary’s.
—Easter Monday was devoted to recreation and pleasant social reunions. Very many beautifully-decorated Easter eggs and cards were given and received. The pupils of the Art department showed great skill and good taste in the ornamentation of Easter gifts for their' loved ones at home.
—Visitors at the Academy during the week were:- Miss C. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Coleman, Washington, D. C.; Mr. M. Coleman, and Mrs. Margaret Coleman, Washington, D. C.; Mr. M. Maloney, Washington, D. C.; Mr. Wm. Smith, Watertown, Wis.; Mrs. Ducey, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. I. and M. Lonergan, Chicago, Ill.; Hon. E. G. Fuller, Marysville, Cal.
—At the weekly Academic reunion, on Sunday evening, the following young ladies entertained those present by reading as follows: Selection from Cardinal Manning, read by Miss Rasche; Selection from Cowper, read by Miss N. Galen; an original essay, read.by Miss A. Cavenor, and a humorous selection read by Miss Claffey. The appreciative attention of the audience, and the kind encomiums of Very Rev. Father General, gave great encouragement to the young elocutionists and the essayist, Miss N. Galen. •
—On Easter Monday, the venerable Mr. and Mrs. James Fenlon, of Leavenworth, Kansas, who now reside in St. Joseph’s Cottage, near St. Mary’s Academy, celebrated their golden wedding. This occasion was rendered very joyful by the presence of very many of the immediate descendants of the venerable couple, viz., Mrs. A. Fenlon Blaine and two daughters, from Helena, Montana Ter.; Mrs. E. Fenlon and two daughters, Mr. T. B. Fenlon, daughter and two sons, and Mr. J. R. Fenlon, Leavenworth, Kansas, and Misses I. and M. Lonergan, of Chicago, Ill. Mrs. McGonigle, and two daughters, of Leavenworth, Kansas, were also present by special invitation. After dinner, the whole party went to the vocal room of the Academy and were entertained with vocal and instrumental music by the pupils, Misses Galen, Fen-drick, Reilly and Kate Fenlon. Mrs. Fenlon Blaine and her nieces, the Misses Lonergan, then delighted all present by their sweet singing. The whole affair was a most pleasing episode in the routine of the Academy.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
Complaint of the Left Hand Against the Right.
Out through the open window, across the dark evergreen, to where the blue sky is visible, through the maple boughs, all covered with the red buds of spring, my thoughts followed my sight. Watching the white clouds chasing each other is conducive to day-dreaming, so it was not long till a voice attracted my attention. It seemed to come from my left hand, which had been serving as a prop for my chin, addressed itself to my right, which rested idly on the open book before me.
“ Listen to me you shall,” it said; “ for years we have labored together, and no complaint have I uttered; now I shall speak on behalf of the whole aggrieved class to which I belong. Ever since the fall of Adam, human justice, aided by Divine inspiration, has sought to make wise laws to regulate the affairs of men; but none of these redress our grievances. What difference is made between the eyes ? they both weep, both enjoy, both mirror gladness, subdued sorrow, and different states of the soul. And the ears, one does not convey all harsh sounds, and disagreable intelligence, while the other enjoys only the agreeable.
“But are the hands ever equal in all things? They often labor together, ’tis true, but are they honored in like manner? You are the chosen instrument of the brain, the prompt servant of the imagination. You transcribe rich thoughts from • the mind of genius—thus making them tangible to the whole world, and earning for yourself a share in the author’s fame. . You seize the artist’s brush, and transfer to the canvas vivid pictures created in his imagination, which shall immortalize his name. You grasp the hand of friendship, for it is an affront, forsooth, that the left hand should express the sentiments of the heart. You are raised to invoke the blessing of God. Should any one slight this rule, he would be considered ignorant, or at least forgetful. But, to conclude with the most grievous of my wrongs, you have always claimed the right of sealing contracts, and you ' never consult me, though in many cases our mutual liberty is sacrificed, and, of course, we must share the sufferings.
“ Now, speak; but it is useless to urge in your defence, from scriptural authority, ‘Let not your left hand know what your right hand doth,’ for that would only add to my aggravation, and even in heaven the distinction is made, for it is written, ‘ He sitteth at the Right Hand of God.’ ”
In conciliatory tone, the counsel for the other side began. “ Granting a few of your accusations the merit of tnithfulness, they may all be somewhat palliated when you remember that the preference shown our class is simply a matter of custom. Then upon reminding you of our grand honor which we share equally, you may agree that it
'498	Trib ivorkb bAMb ScitOtAsTte.
counterbalances all your deprivations. I speak of man’s grandest prerogative. Listen to a wordpicture drawn from daily life, partly bjr the pen from which always flowed noble and beautiful thoughts, framed in most exquisite language. It is the hour of the daily Sacrifice, the venerable priest approaches the altar, joins his hands and prays for all God’s people. And the beams of the morning sun come in at the windows of the church and fall for a moment into the uncovered chalice and glance there as if among precious stones, with A restless, timid gleaming, and the priest sees it and the light seems to vibrate into his own heart, quickening his faith and love.
“ A moment later, and it is the time of the Elevation—the silent worshippers bend in adoration at the sound of the tinkling bell, and see, the venerable priest raises the Sacred Host—In his right hand? oh, no, in both! Here, in this exclusive privilege of man, which makes him envied by the angels, we are equal.”
Then the voice ceased, and my soul spoke. “Peace! wrangling servants of the body. Why seek ye the ascendancy for so short a time? Soon your toil will be over, and, folded together above my quiet, vacant sanctuary, the heart, you will be forever equal.”	N. G.
Mother I
There is a wealth of love, of sacrifice, and of unwearied devotion expressed in that one word, “Mother.” It sounds sweetly familiar to our •. ears; thoughts of our happiest moments come hand in hand with the name of that “Angel of Home.” In all the sorrows of life, and in all the miseries which others cannot lessen, one gentle word from the lips of mother will suffice to calm the troubled heart. She rules over our home as its queen, and her subjects are her children; with unabating zeal she works and prays for them. Long after the little heads have sought their pillows and the childish voices are silent, the mother works. In thought she passes to future years, when her child must, like herself, take up the burden of life unsupported by a mother’s willing hands and the frail bark which she has so long guided, will drift, perhaps aimlessly, on the great ocean of life, with no haven, no rest until it is anchored on eternity’s shore. These are thoughts which fill the mother’s mind, and do we, the gay, happy children, understand the loving heart which prompts them? Do we know of the sacrifices which have purchased our happiness? Perhaps this same unselfish, loving mother goes to her cold, dark grave before we know her value—her only thought after God, her children; her last prayer, “O God, protect my children!”
Her sacred duties are performed, her work is nobly done, and she has sought that “peace which the world cannot give,” leaving her examples to guide the souls with which she was entrusted.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, - Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Feehan, Bland, Beal, M. Campbell, R. Fishburne, Heneberry, L. Lancaster, A. Nash, H. Nash, Rasche, A. Price, Simms, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Edie Call, M. Fishburne, V. Reilly, Owens, Margaret Price, A. Richardson, McGordon, M. Richardson, Thompson, Chirhart, Sawyer, Wallace, Fleming, Behler, L. English, Reutlinger, M. H. Ryan, Adderly, Clifford, Wagner, Metzger, Newton, Green, Ives, Northrop, M. Eldridge, M. Watson. 2d Tablet—Misses Dillon, L. Fox, Wiley, Donnelly, Fendrick, McKenna, M. A. Ryan, E. Shickey, Black, Etta Call, Coryell, Hackett, Legnard, McCoy, Mary Price, Papin, Pease, Rosing, J. Reilly, Ruli-son, Todd, Thomann, Waters, Garrity, Mulligan, B. English, Gavan, N. Hicks, H. Hicks, Mulvey, Smith, Pampell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
. Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, Chirhart, Coogan, Dillon, Heneberry, O’Neill, Robertson, Chaves, Otero, Richmond, Mary Otis, Best. 2d Tablet—Misses Clarke, Considine, Martin, Paquette, Mosher, Schmidt.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Brown, Burtis, Rigney, Sawyer, Martha Otis, McGrath, McKenna, Campau, Haney, Barry, J. English.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh.	.	-
ist Senior Class—Misses M. Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Wiley.	.
2D Sr.—Misses M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Edie Call, Chrischellis, Donnelly, Fendrick, R. Fishburne, L. Lancaster, McKenna, Ave Price, M. A. Ryan, A. Rasche, M. Simms, Shickey, Wall.	-
3d Sr.—Misses Barlow, Butts, Chirhart, Casey, Etta Call, M. Fishburne, Ginz, Keenan, C. Lancaster, Legnard, McCoy, Mowry, Owens, Margaret Price, Mary Price, S. Papin, C. Pease, J. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Rulison, Thompson, Todd, Thomann, Simms, Waters, Wallace.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Adderly, Behler, Clifford, L. English, Fleming, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Wagner.
2D Prep.—Misses M. Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, M. Dillon, Martin, N. Hicks, Ives, M. Watson.
Jr. Prep.—Misses Ewing, Krick, J. McGrath, Papin, Welch.
ist Jr. Class—Misses Browne, Coyne, Campau, Castanedo, E. Mattis, Richmond, Rigney, M, Schmidt, A. Schmidt, Mary Otis, Best, Haney.
FRENCH.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
ist Class—Misses Galen, K. Lancaster, Feehan, Bland.
2D Class—Misses A. Castanedo, J. Reilly, Campbell, Morgan, Semmes, M. Castanedo, F. Castanedo. '
3d Class—Misses Barlow, Price, M. Clarke, Call, A. Clarke, Paquette.
4TH Class—Misses E. Call, Beal, M. A. Ryan, Shickey, Donnelly, A. Nash, Owens, Ave Price, Walsh, M. Price.
5TH Class—Misses Richmond, Otero, Brown, Sawyer.
GERMAN.	_
ist Class—Misses Claffey, Ginz, Behler, Chrischellis, A. Dillon, Wagner, Thomann.	'
2D Class—Misses M. Fleming, Reutlinger, Butts, M. Casey, Chirhart, Fehr.	.
3D Class—Misses H. Van Patten, Keenan, Todd, Call, Eldridge, Considine.	.	_
4TH Class, 2D Div.—Misses A. Chirhart, Mulligan, Wallace, Northrop, Williams. M. Watson, McGrath.
