Vol. XXI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 12, 1888.	No. 34.
the uAzk Afarhr.”]
Our Lady of the Pines.
And many a pass they still must brave Ere mv brief dav of life declines:
Then show thy pow’r—thy servant save, Dear Lady of the Pines 1 ‘
BY R. J. Al’llUGH.
[Here and there in the wild mountain passes of the Tyrol and Bavaria, the tourist meets with rude pictures of the Virgin Mother securely fixed in the hollow of some old pine. The representation on this account is known as “ Our Eady of the Pines,” and many a time it serves to cheer the heart of the Catholic traveller—mayhap of the , Protestant, too, for that matter—wheri a -too-ad-. venturous ascent leaves him exposed to“tHe dangers 5 which not unfrequently attend such exploits.]
The pass is narrow, wild, and steep, ' Our footing treacherous through snow;
.	But one false step—our grave yawns deep
Twelve hundred feet below!
-Our limbs are stiff, our brains afire;
Things swim before our aching sight; '	'
Within us wakes the mad desire	;
To slumber on the height.	f
But cheerily our guide: “ Fear not;
Benignant Hope still o’er us shines;	-
For see, where guards this lonely spot	.
Our Lady of the Pines! ”
We look, and lo! within a cleft .	'
Of yonder pine (Hail, full of grace !)
Some pious hand has kindly left	,
Our Blessed Lady’s face	;
New courage thrills; all fear is past;
(Who e’er in vain to Mary prayed ?)
We grasp our Alpen-stocks—at last	•
The pass is safely made. '	I
O Lady! many a pass since then,	. ;
By dangers deadlier far beset,	.
And fears that chill the hearts of men,
My wandering feet have met;	:
Electricity as a Danger to Human Life.
by ar. o’dea.
Electricity in general, and protection from the dangers of electricity incidentally, offers a fruitful subject to those who read science in order todiscover and point out the difficulties and mistakes of scientists. ■ The study or explanation of electricity by induction, without full knowledge of its essence and cause, is attended by many difficulties, stopping points, contradictions, and failures. Innumerable facts are known, but we are often reminded that observing phenomena, or making experiments and drawing conclusions are very different things. To fully explain electricity, it is essential to know what it is. To obtain control over it, and to thoroughly protect ourselves from its dangers, we must know its laws and causes.
Among the difficulties attending the study of electricity are the numerous qualifying or seemingly exclusive terms by which it is designated. For certain effects you are referred to what appears to be a special kind of electricity. Diverse properties seem to be attributed to static, frictional, bound, - dynamic, induced, chemical, voltaic, thermo, contact, pyro, animal, and vegetable electricity.. Many of these terms are synonymous, some have no distinct meaning, and some are misleading. Galvani’s name is applied to a form that he did not know and did not believe possible. The terms arise, principally, from the manner of excitation ©reproduction. They are very useful for classification,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and for indicating a difference in degree of the properties of electricity. Another difficulty, noted many years ago by Professor Silliman, is our lack of a special “electrical sense”! magnetism affords no phenomena immediately addressed to the senses.
Of the full extent of the dangers of electricity, probably we are as little aware as we are of its benefits. Before we are able to see as far by electricity as we now can'speak and hear,, some one of you may discover that it is an intimat'e.companion of the gout; or members of foreign Societies may be trying to antedate Americans for the discovery that it is the cause of epizootic. Our present knowl-cdsre seems to limit the dangers to a few forms. By far the most disastrous of these, and the one over which we have the least control, is
ATMOS P11E R IC ELECTR IC IT V.
To whatever authority you may refer, one of the first statements you will find under this head is that the cause of atmospheric electricity is uncertain. The causes supposed to produce it are vegetation, combustion, friction, condensation, evaporation, the inductive action of the earth, and the sun. Any one, all combined, or none of these may be the true cause. Each of them, and several others, have been proposed and sustained by many facts and reasons by various scientists. All agree that more observation and study by' the ablest men is greatly wanted.
Electricity is supposed to pervade all nature, and to exist quiesently in all bodies in their natural state. Its universality seems to be demonstrated by the excitement observed whenever a change in the chemical or physical condition of matter occurs. All electrical phenomena, including thunderstorms, is caused by changes in its distribution. This last statement assumes the acceptance of Franklin’s demonstration thatthe phenomena of thunderstorms is caused by electricity. Some scientists assert that electricity is not the cause but an effect. While admitting that electricity is actively present, they maintain that its duty is to act as a match to produce chemical unions of which thunder is an audible effect: ammonia, nitric acid, rain or hail, and electricity, the tangible effects. Franklin’s fluid theory of electricity has long been abandoned; but there is yet no conclusive evidence that the lightning flash is not simply and wholly an electric discharge, or series of discharges from cloud to cloud, or from the clouds to the earth.. The adherents of the chemical theory of thunderstorms hold that of Arago’s three divisions of lightning,—zigzag, sheet, and globular,—only the former .is true electricity. This is the form that has been for centu
ries represented by barbs in the “ red right hand of angry Jove.” It presents nearly all the danger of lightning, and is the one from which we are most in need of protection.
A graphic description of the thunderstorm, and a Complete exposition of its enormous power is a subject that requires the ablest comprehension and the highest degree of literary talent. To those who can claim .this talent.I very willingly relin- ; quish the task. A few examples, easily obtained,, and of daily occurrence willisuffice for the-present purpose.
DISASTROUS, CURIOUS AND HUMOROUS FREAKS
OF. LIGHTNING, r ...........
Among the many -phobias with which nervous people arc afflicted is astraphobia, or fear of lightning. Some of the efforts made to escape the danger remind one of the stories told by soldiers about new recruits trying to dodge shot and shell when entering their first battle. It is known, by actual count, that in very severe thunderstorms, and especially on prairies and over swamp ground, lightning flashes sometimes occur at the rate of thirty to fifty per minute. At such times the nervous condition of most people is given a severe test. I have a distinct remembrance of personal experience in prairie thunderstorms. Some years ago I was one of a party caught in one of these storms on the route of ,a telegraph line in northern Texas. The only prominent objects on the bare prairie that surrounded us were our horses and the telegraph poles. Even from these we retired what we considered a safe distance. Then, lying on the ground, we covered our ears and tried to shut out the terrific, incessant, rattling claps. With truth it might be said that the feelings of the entire party were similar to thbse of the child that ran to his mother, his face white with terror, after a close, sharp lightning report, and informed her that “ the sky was broked.”
On the 2 ist. of March last, lightning struck the	■
dome of the Capitol at Washington. The press	<
report says that the charge lighted up the face of j the bronze statue of Liberty, glided down the iron sides of the dome, and scattered all over the inte- i rior; creating great consternation among the mem- i bers of the Supreme Court, Senate and House of I Representatives. Electric light and telegraph wires J were burned and damaged, and many' of the lights I were extinguished.	|
From the papers of last July {Electrical Reviciv and Western Electrician), I take a few character- | istic items from the reports of a general storm that | occurred during that month. Near .Lebanon, Tenn.,	I
lightning struck a church, and “knocked senseless I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
every one of the hundred worshippers present.” At Cleburne, Texas, two men were sitting near a stove in a Baptist church; lightning struck the stovepipe and killed both men. At Opelika,'Ala., a family stood on the veranda watching the brill-idnt electric display: two of the children were killed distantly; the rhother and another child were par-. alized.-: Near- Columbia, S. C;, while a family were at dinner, the. house was struck: the father and one child;were killed; the mother and,three other chil-d rem seriously, shocked.- Near Brownsville, Texas, a man.and wife.were stunned, and. each rendered . blind in the right eye. At Vesper,.Iowa, light-ningentered on the telephone wire, passed over the bodies of two men, and left holes in their slippers. At .Marshfield, Wis., two persons .were struck, upon the shoulder; the .charge passed over the body of one, and, when leaving, made six clear cut, holes in the,toe.of each of his slippers. . .At Richwood,- .-Ill.,: the bark was pulled from a-tree, cut, into six-inch pieces, and driven into the-weather, boarding of<a house several feet distant, so that the whole front was .grotesquely decorated. The remarkable case of a man killed and buried by light-ning.was noted, several years ago. At Florence, S. C., James? Best was. crossing a field, during a thunderstorm. Mr. Best was seen just before, a. flash -hy. some people who were- watching him. His disappearance during the flash-caused great consternation, and several went out-to fathom the mystery.- -They:found an immense hole surrounded, by heaps-of dirt, but not a vestige of Mr. Best., After ...considerable work with shovels, his body . was found.several feet under the earth.
Notwithstanding-the,warnings, repeated so often, to avoid - tall trees and other prominent isolated positions, as extra hazardous, every large storm seems to furnish .additional evidence. In July, at Palestine, ? Texas, a lady and ■ gentleman sought shelter under a-tree: after-, the .storm their. bodies . were found,-blackened-and.disfigured. At Pickwick, Mo., a man, on horseback-took, refuge under a tree: horse, and rider-were killed.'.: On a farm in Indiana a flock of-sheep gathered under a tree and sixty-two were killed. -In Tennessee, three ministers, and six other-persons, attending-a funeral, took shelter under a tree, and all were, killed...
The-popular statement-that “lightning neyer strikes twice in the same place,” is very, often disproved.. On a farm near Genessee, Mich., .a barttewas struck, in 1871, and a fine team of horses, valued at. $400, .were killed; in 1878, the same barn,was struck at the ?same point, and another , team! of the. same value, - standing in. the same.
53i
stalls, were killed; in 1884 a stallion valued at $1000 was killed; and in 1887 another horse valued at $200 was killed in a field near by. All . wei'e owned "by the same' man. A writer in the „ ..
Cornhill Magazine says: “The summit of Mount'" Ararat has been riddled through and thfough by frequent lightning, till tile rock is now a mere' honeycombed mass of drills and tubes, like an old target at the end of a long day’s constan t rifle practice; Pieces of the red trachyte from the*summit a fobt long, have been brought to Europe perforated all over with these natural bullet marks; each of them lined with black glass caused by the passage of the electric spark.”
A single case from a series g-iven by Arago will illustrate the antics of fire-ball or globular light-ning. One evening in June, Madame Espert saw ’ from her window, in Paris, something like a large: * red globe, exactly resembling the moon when seen through mist. It was descending slowly. She at . first thought it was a balloon, but its color unde- ' ceived her; and while she was trying to make out what it was, she saw the lower part of it take fire. The flames were like those of paper burning slowly. When the opening enlarged, a sudden terrific ex- ’ plosion took place. The infernal machine was’ torn to pieces, and a dozen flashes of zigzag lightning escaped from it in all 'directions’. The whole ' affair lasted at least a minute. A hole was’ bored ‘ in the wall of a house, three men were knocked down in the street, and a.governess was wounded in a neighboring school.
Many curious cases of figures and images, copied or photographed on the body of persons frightened < or killed by lightning are reported as having been . seen. _Spang cites the.following: Tn one case a '-sailor was struck down in his cot near the mast of the vessel, and on his left breast was found a well-formed impression of the number “44,” which was attached in metal letters to the mast. On another" occasion a young man was struck, and on his neck was found the image, of a horseshoe which was fixed on the wall a little way off. ' In a third case, a sailor, sitting at the foot of the mizzen-mast was killed, and his back exhibited the impression of a horseshoe nailed-to the mast. A peculiar case is said to have occurred recently at Lincoln, Nebraska. During a heavy storm, a small pug dog, owned by a lady, took refuge in her room. “Noticing th'e agitation of the little pug, the lady took him in her arms to.reassure.and comfort him. _ At that instant a loud dash;pf-rain attracted her attention and she drew the curtain aside to peep out. Just then came a blinding flash and .the lady fell to the floor, stunned
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
S34
and unconscious. The dog was killed, and it was O	1
hours before the lady recovered consciousness. When she did so, she was horrified to find that an image of her dog had been photographed on her bosom. There seemed to be no way of removing the picture, which gave every shade and wrinkle of the canine form.”
In preference to quoting from d’Arsonval and other electro-medical authorities, I take the following summary of the effects and appearance of persons killed by lightning, from a paper on this subject by Professor Badt, read before the Chicago Electric Club. The majority of persons struck by lightning in the open air appear to receive the shock in the head, after which it passes through the body and out at the feet. In some cases the arteries fliroughout the body have been broken and bled freely. In others, the skin has been burned and also the hair; deep furrows are sometimes dug in the muscles, and not a drop of blood shed. Usually, there are no external signs of injury, or at most but faint marks, such as redness or swelling or blackening of the skin resulting from the discharge. Persons having afflictions of certain special senses have been entirely cured. Individuals have been deprived of memory; while others have been deprived of all movements and control of muscles, while their intellectual faculties remained normal. Death does not always ensue immediately from the shock, despite appearances. Persons, have Jain in a passive state for hours, and in some cases several days, still alive, but showing no signs of life. Early putrefaction is a reasonable indication, as bodies decay soon after death from an electrical current.
LIGHTNING CONDUCTORS.
The suggestion and introduction of lightning rods is generally credited to Dr. Franklin. In his “Poor Richard Almanac” for 1753 he made the following announcement: “It has pleased Godin His goodness to Mankind, at length to discover to o	*0
them the Means of securing their Habitations and other Buildings from Mischief by Thunder and Lightning. The method is this: . . . .” It is very doubtful whether any great invention ' has been ■ allowed to stand in the “History of Inventions” universally credited to one man. A few months ago, the following note appeared in several papers: “ The first lightning rod was not constructed bv Franklin, but by a monk of Seuftenberg, in Bohemia, named Prohop Diwisch, who installed an apparatus, similar and equal to the best form of the modern lightning rod, on the. 15th of June, I754-” Franklin suggested and described the lightning rod, in writing, in 1749. Tracing the above
item, I find it came to the American papers, through the English and French, from Austria. The Austrian writer says: “The enemies of Diwisch, jealous of his success at the court of Vienna, excited the ignorant peasants of his locality against him, and under the pretext that his lightning rod was the cause of the great drought, they made him take down the apparatus.” “ The terrible harrassment of jealousy cannot be claimed by modern scientists alone. How unexpressibly felicitous is the sensation, and how much is our. religious belief confirmed, when we occasionaly find a friend to whom it cannot be attributed.”	•
Many sufferers deny that Franklin’s rod is a protector in any sense, and those who are most competent to judge know that there has been much misplaced confidence,and many unwarranted claims made for it. The friends of the.lightning rod explain some of the very numerous cases of its total failure to protect, by proving errors in its construction and application. It is acknowledged that a bad rod is very dangerous. The fraudulent practices of the lightning rod agent and the obloquy hurled at him by his victims and the press are items of daily appearance. Mr. Spang, in the concluding chapter.of his treatise says, that “nearly all the lightning conductors now erected (1877), contain from one to three serious defects. Even upon a number of institutions devoted.to. the special culture of science, defective lightning conductors can be found, which are a standing satire upon the science taught within.their walls.”	• .
When you search for the essentials of .the rod that affords “ absolute protection ” you find much confusion, very different results by different experimenters, and contradictory rules by different authorities. Various explanations are given for the seeming-contradiction that the lightning flash does not follow Ohm’s law, preferring, as you have been shown while studying static electricity, to go through what seems an infinite resistance in the air to following a wire of comparatively no resistance. A few months ago I was shown in Milwaukee a-collection of rods; belonging to the Wisconsin Historical Society, and said to have been struck.by heavy discharges. .If. some of the various estimates of the enormous current of the lightning.d.ischarge, and the rules for conductors are correct, these rods 1 should have been melted. or ,dissipated. A few | small'nodules at the .tips, due .to. fusion, and other j signs of a small quantity of:electricity were the 1 only indications afforded. ’ Mr; C..C. Haskins has | * • £ given a series-.of the areas Lof protection .claimed 1 ■by different'investigators. .- Taking?as .a standard 1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
533
"the one usually given;and credited to Ganot, Mr. Haskins represents the series by decreasing fractions : the eight is i-qSth of the standard. You can find a quotation from the Report of the London Lightning Rod Conference,saying: “There is no well-authenticated instance of a building furnished with a properly constructed conductor having been injured by lightning within a conical space, having the point of the upper terminal for its apex and the radius of whose base equalled the height of the conductor.” From the same Report you can find another- quotation: “ Our experience is that no appreciable extent is protected by a single rod conductor, in the presence of .other influences.” If you conclude that “ absolute protection ” is an absurdity and an impossibility, you will be justified. The broadest statement justified by our present knowledge is that a thoroughly scientific rod, or system of conductors, erected under thoroughly competent supervision, will secure approximative protection.	-
.	DYNAMIC ELECTRICITY.
Using one of the literary critic’s forms, I can say it is “ really refreshing ” to leave the dark thundercloud, the mysterious, uncontrollable atmospheric electricity, zigzag lightning or chemical explosion and the doubtful lightning protector, and turn to what is commonly included in dynamic electricity. This is comparatively under complete control: those who are engaged in its application devote a very small portion of their time to considering the question, What is it? The direct danger to life is confined, principally, to the high tension electric light and power systems; and affects, principally, those who knowingly and willingly assume the risks. If it js found necessary, to protect the general public, the common law can entirely prohibit these systems. The indirect danger, by causing fires, incidental to both high and low tension, is, principally, a matter of dollars and cents and well-known certain precautions. Some dangers are of such an unknown quantity that it is impossible to eliminate or provide against them. One of these may be represented by the case of the man who puts his hand on the edge of a buzz saw to see if it is really in motion. The various companies engaged in the light and power business very often underrate and conceal the dangers, but they are certainly making strenuous efforts to reduce and to provide against them. They are spurred on in the good work by the keen criticism of competitors, by municipal laws, and by the watchfur underwriter’s requirements.
In my last paper on Electric Lighting, prepared for you, I stated: “That electric lighting is, or may
be, in certain cases, accompanied by great danger to life and property is not denied.” If the exaggerated statement made by a newspaper that “ the electric light wires and machines are killing a man a week ” were true, it would have to be admitted that this new source of danger is very serious. The number of persons killed annually by lightning in this country is estimated as low as forty-five. It’ must be remembered, however, that, as I have stated, the dangers of dynamic electricity and of lightning are very different. A majority of the persons killed by dynamic electricity are those.who are engaged in its application. Two cases of this . kind, that occurred lately, were personal acquaintances, and personal feeling forbids notingthe details. The effects are the same as quoted under lightning. One of the first accidents that happened after the introduction of the electric light occurred during an experimental trip of a new yacht built for the Czar of Russia. An electric arc light was being hoisted, and a fireman was asked to support the lamp for a moment. The man, utterly ignorant of the dangerous spot in the connections, placed his hand in such a position as to carry the current through himself. His death was instantaneous,-and his burial had to be immediate, as the tissues of his whole frame were rent and blackened. You are aware that it has been proposed for general use, and a law has been passed in the New York Assembly, to use high tension electricity for the execution of criminals. I have not seen or heard it suggested to use it as a protection from burglars, or for immediate retribution when a crime is attempted. The following from the French scientific paper Cosmos^ shows the adaptability: During a religious fete at Cotopaxi, a band of robbers attempted to extinguish the electric lights of the cathedral, in order to profit by the confusion and obscurity. The chief put his hands upon the wires with the intention of cutting them, and in so doing he established a current through his body which “ put him to death.”
MEDICAL APPLICATIONS.
There is a saying, in regard to law and medicine, that, “At forty, every man is his own doctor.” Other doctors immediately add the ready antithesis that, “In most cases he has a fool for his.patient.” The latter is often true in regard to treatment by electricity. I have often noted the fact that telegraph operators and general electricians, who have spent years in the daily use and close study of electricity, are very skeptical as to the medical efficacy of. electricity, and more so as to magnetism. As a rule, they regard the accounts of cures as “bosh,”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
534
and the numerous straps and belts advertised for every portion of the body, from electric soles for the feet to electric hat bands for the brain, as “ humbugs.”	.
These remarks are very harsh, and I am aware that many, from their own experience, will discredit them, and attribute them to what your classical friends would call ignoratio elenchi. It cannot be doubted that, in some cases, electricity is very efficacious. Its power as a general and local stimulant is known and utilized by some of the most learned and successful physicians. Its effects on individual nerves were strikingly shown at the Munich Electrical Exhibitions of 1883 by a series of photographs representing the changes of the human face produced by its action. The expressions of joy, pain surprise, doubt, disgust, etc., were easily realized according to the nerve touched by the electrode. It is one of the standard and most reliable tests of death. Speaking of its use in surgery for cauterizing or puncturing of wounds, amputation of tumors, etc., Dr. J. Dl Bonnar says: “If there were no other purpose to which electricity was applicable than this latter in the domain of conservative surgery, its importance would be difficult to estimate.”
Neither can it be doubted that its use is attended by danger, especially in the hands of those who lack experience and knowledge of its,action. Its known power as a stimulant would suggest consultation with a competent physician before using it for diseases of the heart and other organs requiring sedatives. Much of the skepticism of electricians arises from the well-known fact that the precise measurements, to which they are accustomed in other applications, are seldom used, even by regular practitioners, in medical applications. Electricians assert as one of their fundamental maxims, and all of you who are wrestling with Kempe and Kolrausch believe it, that “science is measurement.” The strength of a battery varies greatly from full power to no current. The three broad terms,- medium^ strongs found in the instructions accompanying medical apparatus, convey- no meaning. Testing a battery or coil by grasping the electrodes is a very crude, indefinite and unreliable method. The resistance of the human body to an electric current varies greatly in different portions of the body, in' different persons, at different times, and under different conditions.' The range of these variations, for a certain potential and for certain effects, is from absolute danger to absolute uselessness. Some makers promise results.from their, batteries and appliances which, if trustworthy, would be immediately recognized by electricians,
and would be of great -value, for other purposes than medical application..	-	.
■ W: Mattieu Williams, in-an article on “Electromania,” says: Conjurors, mountebanks, itenerant quacks, and other adventurers operated throughout Europe (in the early history of medical electricity), and were found at every country fair displaying the wonders of the invisible agent by giving shocks and professing to cure all. imaginable ailments. Then came the discoveries of Galvani and Volta, followed by the demonstrations of Aldini, whereby dead animals, were made to display.the movements of life. Thus arose the dogma which still survives in the advertisements of .electrical quacks, that “electricity is life,” and the possibility of reviving the dead was believed by many. ProfessorS. P.Thompson, a leading authority (as an electrician), says: “ Electric currents should not be used at all, except with great care, and under the direction of regularly
' trained surgeons.” In a recent lecture on electrical measurements, Prof. Anthony incidentally made some valuable remarks regarding another point of this subject. Speaking of the fact of the.necessity of two magnetic bodies to develop a magnetic force, reminded him of a question often asked in regard to extracting particles of-steel: that have-become imbedded in the eye. He always told the questioner that the most powerful magnet in the world could exert but a small force upon a little particle of steel. If you canloosen thc!piece of .steel, a magnet is a very good means of taking it out of the eye, but then a small magnet-would do as well as a large one. He was told'by.a gentlman that a sewing,needle that-was deep down in the flesh of the leg had been drawn out by the application of a powerful magnet. He remembered how little force the most powerful magnet can exert ..-where a sewing needle is the body attracted, and he thought that the statement needed.confirmation. -
‘ Although they would-be valuable and Jnterest-■ ing, time will not allow- me to.give examples of injury under this head. .The following is a good
’ illustration:- In*New Haven, Conn., a few years ago; a gentleman was induced to try a.shock “just for fun,” from the machine ofa peddler of electricity.- He turned away, but had not-, gone far, when he" was seen to stagger and -fall. - He was ’ picked up unconscious, and remained so until he died;-two days afterward. -The physicians pronounced it a case of apoplexy, superinduced by the electric shock. ..	-	,	,	.	.
This, gentlemen, concludes my review of the subject. Many possible dangers have not been considered, and some, of you. may - conclude that I

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
have not presented a “ strong case ” against electricity. If our present theory is correct, that electricity is so closely related to light and heat,—only a different form of motion,—why not say it is a necessary part of our existence, or condense the predictions of future development by asserting that it contains benefits for humanity equal to light or heat, only of- a different kind? Those who take the view that « everything is for the worse,” and those who think, with Emerson, that the law of , compensation requires a new danger for every new benefit, may be right. The temptation and the tendency of the day seems to be directed toward discovering arid introducing the benefits without a full regard for the dangers. It will not be improper for me to acknowledge, that personally, I think any one of a dozen or more of the applications that we have discovered fully compensates for all the known dangers of electricity.
Thoughts on State Duties. •
Immigration of good people should be encouraged, and emigration also does good by giving a nation representatives and dignity in a foreign country. Emigration should not be prohibited, except iri cases when those who desire to leave are necessary to the welfare and prosperity of the state. Immigration should be prohibited in the case of vicious and law-breaking people. . . .
Laws should be adopted and all possible precaution should be taken to prevent introduction into the state of diseases; when an epidemic does strike a country,it should as much as possible be prevented from spreading, because the state should guarantee its best efforts to insure the health and life of citizens.
Measures should also be taken against crime, and criminals should be apprehended and punished in accordance with the enormity of their offence. All law breakers should be punished likewise. And the punishment should be afflictive, indeed, and should be a cause for atonement, restitution to the injured, and sincere repentance. The Government should furnish officers to enforce laws and arrest violators; Those who pass judgment on offenders should possess fidelity, integrity, mercy and wisdom, in order that the law- may be rightly interpreted, justice meted out to the offender, and extenuating circumstances duly considered and weighed.
It is a question whether law breakers should be tried by judges or juries. The jury system has many faults and jurors also. The system was not practised among ancients to any extent. At any
535
rate, defendant in all cases is entitled to fair impartial trial, and should defend himself or have counsel. A sufficient military and naval force should be kept to insure Government respect at home and abroad.
The rights of labor should be well protected as every man has a right to earn a living. Centralization of' wealth should be prevented as far as possible. At the same time, violent outbreaks of workmen must be suppressed by proper authorities, and all property must be protected.
As regards religion, freedom of conscience should of course be allowed, and no man forced agairist his will in matters of faith. Still this does not allow the introduction and spread of pernicious doctrines opposed to the constitution of the state, the welfare of the citizens and the security of Government. Whatever self-evident principles of faith are incorporated in the constitution, these the state should promulgate or at least protect.
The education of children is a right and duty of parents, who should train their children properly. State has no right to found public schools and force children to leave the instruction of their parents and attend these schools. The' home is the first and-essential place of education.	.
The care of the poor, and the amelioration of their sufferings and afflictions should be left to benevolent, kind and charitable Christians, for experience shows that these Christians have done more to "relieve the miseries and troubles of the poor than the officials of the state, because the latter administer only to the material wants of the poor, and the former to both material wants and also spiritual needs. Then the salaries of the poor masters and officials consume a large portion of the fund set aside by the state for the poor. Then they overlook many justly needy persons and many -poor people are too timid to ask for assistance. It may sound nice “to tax the richer to relieve the poorer,” but the rich should be taught to look after and relieve the necessities of the poor class without compulsion or taxation. The Catholic Church has done more for the poor people than any other organization, and this goes to prove, that the poor can be better administered to by charitably disposed people than by the state, especially since, Priests, Brothers and Sisters have taken vows to relieve the sufferings of their fellow-creatures as far as lies in their power and capabilities. This, then, seems to us to be the solution of the poverty question that it should be left not to the state, but to the people to provide for the wants and necessities of the poor, because philanthropic and charitable people are never found wanting in all places.
536	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
wmM moim
Puiltsljcti rbcrn 5aturtan Surins »Ecnn Etntc at N. 33. iHniicrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, May 12, 1888.
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88,	P.VD. Brownson, ’88,
J. A. Burns, ’88,	Chas. P. Neill, ’89,
S. J. Craft (Lit.), ’88.
Education.
Education, according to the sentiment expressed by Edmund Burke, “is the cheap defence of nations.” It is only of late that universal fields of education have been opened for the growth of mind. Centuries ago these opportunities were open to none but the clergy and wealthy; but in our day, education overrules all other considerations, and the children of the rich and poor are educated alike. Within two hundred years, universal knowledge has taken root, grown to honorable proportions, and become the most necessary of all our possessions. Within this time gateways of learning have been opened, and common mankind driven therein.
Education, in the fullest sense of the word has three objective points: the acquiring of knowledge, the training of the faculties, and the elevation of the whole man to as high and worthy a character as he can attain. The perfection of these three form the perfect man, and when one is wanting, or exists in an inferior degree, the symmetry of the whole is marred. We should not only cultivate our intellect, but also the moral sentiments which, if allowed to remain dormant, or become corrupt, too frequently prove a curse to the individual and to society, rather than a blessing. Every ray of light should shed its benign influence over the habitations of the passions: the head and heart should be equally warmed with the glorious luminary, knowledge.
To the accomplishment of this end, every opportunity within our reach must be improved. The advantages of such an attainment and the disadvantages of the lack of it must be many. Final success in any department of labor is attained only by earnest efforts. Rich harvests do not spring from uncultivated soil, neither is intellect strengthened or moral worth developed by chance. Beauty and symmetry of character have never resulted from thoughtless or careless lives; nor has the world’s onward progress been hastened by accident. Fancy what the country would be with no educated men, no cities, no schools, nothing but a wild race.
Contrast this picture with the one that lies on the canvas spread before us to-day. What do we see? Our Government the production of educated - statesmen; our.cities the outgrowth of educated
business men, our schools the work of educated philosophers and scientists; our societies the work of educated men and women. .Whatever modern times hold over ancient is due to the superior development and facilities of education. It is true, every man is the architect of his own fortune, but the ease with which he builds is dependent upon the amount of like work he has done before. So it is with the architect of a destiny. He can make that destiny what he pleases; but he will find that the more he knows, the more material he has with which to build; the better discipline his mind has received, the more skilfully he can handle these materials. Tennyson has made his misanthropic hero in Locksley Hall, say: “Every door is barred with gold and opens but to golden keys;” but there are locks that golden keys do not fit. The best society closes its doors against the wealthy ignoramuses; the professions exclude the ignorant, though they revel in gold; the homage wealth purchases is of short duration, and from those whose homage is not to be desired. The golden oppor-„ tunities to rise and gain the esteem of the world lies within the reach of the educated alone. No higher respect can be paid to a young man than to say he is honorable and a scholar; no higher compliment given a woman than to call her an educated lady. The wealth no fire can consume, no storm or misfortune take away, the investment which pays the largest dividend to a young man, be he rich or poor, of medium ability.or extraordinary powers, is a cultivated mind. This wealth to him.is a neverending source of pleasure; makes solitude one of his cherished friends; renders society, if made up of members like himself, doubly attractive.
In the pursuit of' knowledge, nothing is more elevating and ennobling.than the contemplation of nature. Here the thinking mind can always find food for reflection. Here the searcher after truth and knowledge finds abundant materials for meditation; a book for study, bearing the impress of the Almighty hand.' Here everything is carried on with order, harmony and beauty, each in its appointed time and sphere, causing our thoughts to wander from the beautiful scenes of Nature up to Nature’s God. •
Let those who can enjoy the benefits of education—if young in years and blessed with health— not peer away into the future for. anticipated joy, but grasp with thankfulness the daily good showered about their path.
S. J. Craft, ’88.
Silhouettes of Travel.
XI.
Leaving Reno, we cross and recross the.Truckee River. Mountains of basalt approach and recede, forming pleasant valleys and deep gorges. After traversing a distance of over seventy miles, we catch a glimpse of the State-line post between Nevada and California, on the 120th' meridian west of Washington. ‘ The atmosphere grows colder; we are approaching the noble '	.. . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
537
SIERRA NEVADA RANGE;
the snowy peaks loom up in the distance. Passing Truckee, the train soon thunders through the snowsheds. ‘ These structures have been built of solid timbers in the most substantial manner, at an average cost of $9000 a mile. The sheds protect the road-bed from drifts and snow-slides in the absence of side hills or snow breaks, altogether for over a distance of forty miles. The car-wheels reverberate through several rock-cuts and tunnels before reaching Summit, which stands at an altitude of 7000 feet, and is the highest point on the road. And yet the mountain peaks visible rise from 2000 to 3000 feet higher. From this point to Colfax, distant about fifty miles, there is a rapid descent, or down grade of 4595 feet> The train sweeps around sharp curves, rushes by deep chasms—in one canon over a road-bed which clings to the side of a precipice 2000 feet above the waters of the American River. It pushes forward through magnificent pine forests, amid scenery of the sublime description—
“Rough quarries, rocks and hills whose heads touch heaven.” Perhaps there is not a more exhilarating ride or a grander panorama on the globe—bold mountain peaks veiled by clouds or mists,deep valleys,canons, gorges chasms, darkling forests.
From the cars you may see men engaged in
.	. .	HYDRAULIC MINING,
the water being carried several miles in long flumes or iron pipes from the American and Bear Rivers. The heads of water range from 50 to 500 feet, and such is the tremendous force of the water, rushing from the thick iron pipes and nozzle, that hills several hundred feet high have been completely washed away. The rivers west of the Sierras, once as clear as crystal, are now as muddy as the . Wabash in high flood; as turbid as Chicago’s far-famed stream. By the by, a western man asked me why the Chicago River is like a diminutive Hibernian. The answer to this conundrum is:—a little Reilley. I remembered a saying of John Dennis: A man who could make so vile a pun, would not scruple to pick a pocket. I kept my -hand on the greenbacks during the rest of our conversation. Through the filling of the river beds with the mining debris, thousands of acres of fertile lands are withdrawn from agriculture by the overflow of the waters.
The entrance to California is in harmony with the general physical geography of the Golden State, and would task the descriptive powers of a Marco Polo to do it justice.
COLFAX,
Placer County, is a small town 193 miles from San Francisco, and was called after the Vice-President of that name. It recalled the kindly feelings which that gentleman ever bore to the students of Notre Dame; the many-finished, learned and practical addresses which he delivered within the college halls. If he ever, committed a fault during his political career—and the proof is wanting—let it be buried with the dead; and let his many virtues and brilliant parts be to him a monument areperennius,
“The evil that men do lives after them, The good is oft interred with their bones.”
But this saying of Mark Anthony shall never apply to the old students of the University in their estimate of the deceased. I well remember entering his sanctum at South Bend, when a boy, and modestly requesting the busy editor to teach me stenography. He received me kindly, procured me a copy of Pittman’s works, and gave all the requisite directions for the mastery of this art. “But,” said he, « young man, I would advise you not to spend your time at shorthand, unless you contemplate making its practice your life profession; abbreviated longhand will answer your purpose as well, if not better.” I deemed myself wiser than Mr. Colfax, and neglected some important studies to learn the cabalistic signs. After long continued " effort, I managed to report the lecture of a converted Jewish rabbi; and here I paused, a wiser, but less joyful man. I could get the phonograms all right, but it cost too much midnight oil to decipher them—hie labor, hoc opus. N ot having the genius of a Champollion for hieroglyphs, or the talent of a Grotefend for interpreting Assyrian cuneiforms, I fell back on the homely but very practical longhand. The expenditure of-cerebral cellular tissue in learning shorthand would enable the student to gaze upon the unclouded beauties of Homer, or enjoy the „ 2icD E'er ®locte“ of Schiller in the majestic original.
A few miles more, and the Sacramento River appears on our left. Fruit orchards of the pear, peach, quince cherry, plum, and various subtropical growths, remind us that we are in the grand basin or great valley bounded by the Sierras and Coast Range. At length we cross a high trestle work, and the bridge over the Sacramento, -	.
THE CAPITAL OF THE STATE, IS REACHED. .
I called at the Bishop’s residence on an old friend and fellow-student—Rev. Leonard Haupts. With the generous hospitality so characteristic of the West, this gentleman compelled me to remain here over . a week, during which we visited the local works of art and architecture, the scenery of the surrounding country, and recounted all the
“ Battles, sieges, fortunes ” of college life in Belgium, m which each, of course, figured as a hero.
FATHER HAUPTS
is a scion of the best stock in Aix-la-Chapelle. In his early missionary life in Oregon he was a confrere of the martyred Archbishop Seghers. In the midst of the greatest privations he labored for years among the Flat Heads, Nez-perces, the Kayuse, Cowitchin, Walla-Wallas, Modoc and Klamath Indians. His gun was often his only commissary. He frequently indulged in the rough fare of his savage proteges, and pronounces the flesh of the canine species a most palatable piece de resistance when the old Latin adage,fames optimum condimentum, comes into play. Later on, he was called to the diocese of Grass Valley—now Sacramento— to attend to the spiritual wants of his fellow-countrymen in several missions throughout the diocese. The An
538	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nals of the Propagation of the Faith rarely contain anything of more interest than the labors and hairbreadth escapes of Father Haupts. At one time he was shipwrecked on horse-back—to use a Celtic figure of speech. Travelling along the shore of the Pacific, where the road wound round a cliff, a huge breaker carried himself and horse to sea: but being a good swimmer, he managed to escape the fury of the waves. At another time, sitting on the box of a stage-coach with the driver, the horses ran away while descending a steep declivity of the mountains where there was not an inch of road to spare. Jehu, in terror, handed the lines to Rev. Father Haupts, who by skill and main strength kept the six horses to the track until the valley was reached, and the danger past. He was attacked at a way-side caravansary by a bigoted giant, who had sworn eternal enmity to ministers of all denominations. Our meek and humble brother, by means of a little muscular Christianity, convinced Mr. brobdingnagian that he was not quite as big as his Creator.
There is.a story going the rounds of the press in relation to an Eastern drummer and an episcopal bishop whom the sample-man took for one of his own ilk. The festive knight of volubility asked his Rt. Reverence for what firm he travelled. The man of prayer replied: for the largest house in the world. “Whew!” said thedrummer,“ what house can that be? ” “ The Lord’s,” answered the Bishop. The good Bishop was Father Haupts. The statesman “set ’em up,” and the Rev. Father took a cigar. On another occasion, the steamer on which
O	J	K
he was travelling from Portland to Frisco ran on the coast rocks; all was confusion on board; some of the sailors were lowering the ship’s boats from the davits. Many of the passengers set about building a raft on which to escape. The captain, aided by our missionary, at length established order, and infused confidence into the crew and passengers. The men were put to the pumps, and the jetson of the Cargo, until a steamer hove in sight, which by its timely aid rescued all from danger. One of the ladies remarked that she was not surprised at their misfortune, having a Catholic priest on board. Father Haupts, having overheard the remark, replied : “ Madam, if I were not on board it is probable that you would now be at the bottom of the sea, or rather in the maw of a shark.” At a mission given by him in a country town in western California, all the adults approached the Sacraments but one—a disciple of Vulcan, physically, resembling the knight of the anvil whom Longfellow has immortalized. He had hot been to churchfor a quarter of a century. Our zealous missionary called at smithy’s atelier. ' The grimy mechanic said it would take a man stronger than himself to get him to his duty. Father Haupts immediately lifted a heavy mass or block of iron from the floor, put it on his shoulder, and carried it across the forge. Mr. sledge-hammer attempted the same feat -and failed, though he signally gained in a better way. He made his Easter Communion, and put $20 into the contribution box. While the reverend gentleman was pastor of Gold Hill, Ne
vada, he was attacked one night, as he was returning from a sick call, by a highwayman, who.demanded his money or his life. Mr. highwayman was a lowwayman in two vibrations of the candal appendage of an ovis Montana. Father Haupts is at present in charge of the Germans of Sacramento and the adjacent district.
The name of the Bishop of Sacramento,
RT. REV. PATRICK MANOGUE, '	,
is a household word throughout California and	i
Nevada. No man ever enjoyed the confidence,	i
esteem and good-will of the miners and old settlers of these states as Father Manogue. To-day his word would be taken as a bond for any amount by the big bonanza kings and other croesuses of the Pacific Slope. Born in Kilkenny, Ireland, he inherited the glorious traditions of piety and patriotism from the men who had once, in defence of their altars and their hearths, made a noble stand against the brutal butcher, Cromwell. He received his elementary education in Cavan, made his classical studies at St. Mary’s of the Lake, Chicago, and completed his philosophic and theological courses at the Sulpitian Seminary in Paris. As a missionary, filled with the spirit of Christ, labors, privations and dangers were his daily companions. He could well say with the apostle of the Gentiles: “ In perils in the wilderness; in labor and painfulness; in ' much watchings; in fastings often, besides solicitude for the churches, that the light of the Gospel of ; glory should shine unto all.”	■
The Bishop was for many years pastor of Vir- ; ginia City, Nevada, where he exercised an incal- | culable influence in the establishment of religion, 1 law, order and civilization among the rough and • adventurous classes that first flocked to the Silver i City under the shadows of the Sierras. J During the reign of the wild justice of revenge, Judge Lynch, Father Manogue, with the intrepidity of a Scaivola, or rather of a Leo I, went'boldly into the midst of infuriated mobs, and rescued many a poor , trembling wretch from the gallows.
At the time that Mf. Healy and another Irish member of the British Parliament were about to visit Virginia City in the Land League' cause, a ■	;
scurrilous, Know-nothing Anglomaniac sheet of- j the place called these gentlemen a pair of Irish bog-	|
trotters, and denounced the cause they came to ad-	|
vocate. Father Manogue called a meeting of all	j
the decent and patriotic men of every class, creed	j
and country. The opera house was crowded to	'
suffocation. On the platform or stage were sixty-	]
seven vice-presidents, many of whom, to their credit	I
be it said, were English and Welsh. Father Mano-	|
gue’delivered a speech that night which kindled the	j
enthusiasm of the audience to the highest pitch,	I
and found an echo throughout the globe in the	|
breast of every man who hates oppression* and loves	|
human freedom. It was a masterpiece of eloquence,	|
like one of Grattan’s dr Flood’s best efforts in the	|
cause, of liberty, or of O’Connell’s fiery philippics	|
in denunciation of British tyranny. The oration	|
and resolutions adopted, condemnatory of the paper’s	}
vulgarity and hostility, were published in extenso
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	539
in the columns of the Chronicle. The cranium of the Enterprise received a rap of a shillelah that brought it to its senses. For making some quotations from this speech in a public address, Father Feehan, a cousin of Archbishop Feehan, of Chicago, was thrown into prison in Ireland under the boasted Magna Charta of British liberties. When the city was almost wholly destroyed by fire in 1875, Father Manogue’s church, which had been erected at a cost of $75,000 was burned to the ground. With characteristic energy he went to work again, and soon had a larger, handsomer and far more expensive edifice built up in-its place.
The promotion of Father Manogue to the rank of episcopal coadjutor to Bishop O’Connell of Grass Valley, in 1881, and his succession to the latter Bishop in 1884, with the removal of the see to the capital of the State, gave universal joy throughout the Western Church. Though crowned with the snows of many winters, the good Bishop works with unremitting toil. There is not a finer looking man of his years in the West. He is something over six feet four in height, and as straight as an arrow. During one of the recesses of the late Council of Baltimore,- it was a mooted question which was the tallest Bishop present—Archbishop Feehan, or Bishop Manogue. Cardinal Gibbons, I believe, gave the palm of longitude of an inch to Sacramento, and that of gracefulness of proportion to the Garden City. Bishops McNeirny, of Albany, and Healy, of Portland, were the lilliputians of the Council. Bishop Manogue is now engaged in building a cathedral which, when completed, will rival in massiveness and beauty of architecture some of the famous churches on the European continent.
The Bishop’s store of border anecdote and thrilling incidents of Western life is inexhaustible. A Scott or Dickens would find material in it with which to eclipse their most brilliant and pathetic works. He tells of a man that was hanged for murder some years ago in Trinity County, Cal. Before the execution, a preacher of the Gospel offered his services to the victim of justice. The latter declined the boon, declaring that he could paddle his own canoe over the Styx—Prof. Stace’s antiquarian exegesis. will read some day, sticks, viz., two posts and a cross-beam. Being asked, as he stood on the scaffold, if he had anything to say, he addressed the large crowd that surrounded him as follows:- “Ladies and gents: If any among you wish to send the news to your fathers and your mothers, your sisters and your brothers, your aunts and your uncles in Gehenna, I am quite ready to * accommodate you.” Like Brutus, he paused for a reply.	.
■ As the Bishop was stopping for dinner one day - at a hotel in Spring Valley, Nevada, a member of the sporting fraternity took his departure with another man’s bridle in his hand. There was a splendid blooded. animal attached to the bridle. The owner, looking out of the window saw the occurrence, and, rushing out doors, drew his revolver and cried: “halt!” to the thief-, or he would give him a free pass to a place where he
would have no need of winter coal, firewood or even a linen duster. The bold disciple of Robin Hood told him, “ blaze away,” that he was going to ride to Hades anyhow. Jumping into the saddle, he was off like a flash. A shower of bullets followed, but missed the mark; A hue and cry was raised. Men mounted the first nagor mule they could find, in pursuit. The last glimpse they caught of him was at the mouth of.a shaft, into which himself and the horse plunged headlong. The rider’s neck was broken, the horse so badly injured that’ the animal had to be shot. He had kept his word as a “ gentleman.”
The zealous, pious and learned prelate effected many conversions of-non-Catholics during his missionary career. Often more by his gentle spirit and acknowledged sincerity than by the mostlearned arguments of philosophical or theological lore. Among the most remarkable was that of a Mr. Bloomer, a learned botanist, who was engaged in collecting the flora of Nevada for the herbarium of a New York scientific society or institution. Mr. Bloomer was a thorough agnostic; and Father Manogue began his argument with the demonstration of a personal Deity, contained in each and everyone of the natural sciences as well as in the higher order of morals and metaphysics or the constitutive idea of being, tie pointed out the beautiful laws which govern the three kingdoms of nature—the wonders of chemical affinity and gravitation, the fairy land of botany, the admirable structure of animals, that mysterious instinct which is the result of a guidance by the highest reason; those myriads of islands of light in the azure ocean above which reflect the glory of their Creator. He dwelt upon the wondrous hierarchy of beings, rising from the mere atom of chemistry upwards link by link in a chain of more perfect existence, through crystallization, organization,life,and godlike reason to man, the microcosm or miniature universe, and showed the grand design of an infinite Intellect pervading all creation, and reducing all its parts and forces into one harmonious whole. Then appealing to the moral sense of this modern Nicodemus, the good Father proved that God must have,revealed Himself to His rational creatures—to man “created a little less than the angels, and crowned with glory and honor,” not only in the magnificent book of nature, but especially in that Sacred Volume written by the prophets and apostles under the inspiration of the Divine Spirit, and committed to the keeping and interpretation of that grand old historical Church against which “ the gates of hell shall never prevail.” Mr. Bloomer received baptism and became one of the most edifying members of the Church. -
. Rev. Thomas-Grace, rector of the Cathedral, is a gentleman whose, varied accomplishments and refined manners prove that proper names are coii-notative of attributes, notwithstanding the theory of many English philosophers to the contrary. If any of the trinity of graces had been of the masculine gender, Father Grace would certainly be entitled to a place in the magic circle.
54°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Personal.
—Mr. F. H. Dexter, ’87, is now engaged in the practice of law in Kansas City, and is making a very successful beginning in the profession.
—Mrs. W. P. Rend, her daughter Miss Minnie Rend, Miss Lou St. Clair and Miss Kate Scully, of Chicago, were among the visitors at Notre Dame last Thursday. The Misses St. Clair and Scully were graduated last year with high honors at St. Mary’s Academy. Miss Rend is a member of the 1st Senior Class of the same institution.
—Hon. P. T. Barry, of the Chicago Newspaper Union, has been appointed school treasurer of the Englewood district, at a salary of $3000 per annum. Mr. Barry is well known and highly esteemed at Notre Dame, and his many friends here will be pleased to learn of his good fortune. We are glad that the duties of this new position will not specially interfere with the performance of the services required of him as a member of the Newspaper Union.
—It is a matter of congratulation, not only among the students of Notre Dame University, but among his many friends in South Bend and elsewhere, that Prof. J. A. Lyons has returned from Hot Springs, Arkansas, fully recovered. Many who bade him farewell when he left here, believed it was a farewell, indeed, instead of a good bye; but his cough is gone, he is taking on flesh and good color, and looks ten years younger than when he went away. Now, if he will be just the least bit lazy,.instead of working day and night like some tireless machine, he will be doing nothing more than his duty to himself and justice to his friends. —South Bend Tribune.
—Mr. Charles T. Murdock, ’S7, has the sincere condolence of his numerous friends at Notre Dame in the affliction he has sustained by the loss of his estimable wife. The following notice is taken from the Michigan City Dispatch of the 5th inst.:
“Thursday morning the sad intelligence, was received here of the death, at Lafayette, on Wednesday evening, of Mrs. Chas. Murdock, of this city,' of chronic pneumonia. Mrs. Murdock was 27 years old, and the daughter of Francis Duffy, one of the most substantial business men of Lafayette. The case is a very sad one. Mr. and Mrs. Murdock were married at Lafayette, on October 19. They started northward on a wedding tour; but on reaching Chicago, Mrs. Murdock felt ill, and at her solicitation they came to the home already prepared for her here. Mrs. Murdock’s first ailment was a bad cold, which, however, persistently clung to her, and in November last it was decided to remove her to the house of her parents in Lafayette. She did not improve as expected, and a few weeks later a trip to Florida was planned for. the winter, but the patient’s health had become so precarious that the trip was abandoned as being unwise. Mrs. Murdock was an accomplished lady, a graduate of St. Mary’s Academy, and had many dear friends here who will sincerely mourn'her early demise.”
The mourning, husband and relatives of the deceased have the consolation given them that she departed this life fortified by the rites of the Church, and in the blissful hope of a speedy union with her Creator in the abode of happiness unending. May she rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Don’t be childish.	.
—Volunteer to the rescue!
—Keep on the cement walks!
—The bulletins have gone forth.
—The prize package pipe must go.
—Visitors were numerous Thursday.
—Who said Spring was here to stay?
—What’s the matter with the Euglossians?
—The Academy will hold a disputation soon.
—Where was the oracle when the lights went out?
—Jimmie says he has to be conspicuous on all occasions.
—The singing during May devotions is highly appreciated.
—Triton-like, Mollie’s head placidly appeared above the waves.	.
—Bring on your prize essays, boys. See how they look in print.
' —The St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrians are enthusiastic over their play.
—Twenty-three Minims made their First Communion on Thursday.
—Seventeen vainly tried to brush with hasty sweep the “ dews ” away.
—It is said that “ calamity ” is even better as a bard than as a ball-player.
—The members of the Archconfraternity are planning a trip to the farm.
—Twenty-six students made their First Communion Ascension Thursday.
—Some of our law “ grads.” will look quite picturesque in their “ high hats.”
—How often have we said that piscatorial pursuits are conducive to mendacity.
—The walks around the lake on recreation evenings are appreciated by the boys.
—Some one suggests that the Junior campus be given a coat or two of green paint.
—The first nines in the Minims will play their first championship game next week.
—The St. Cecilians are holding interesting meetings. Full reports will be given next week.
—Bro. Frederick has clothed the vases and fountains in front of the College in a robe of white.
—The engineering class, on Thursday last, staked out the ground for the foundations of Collegiate Hall.
—The cold snap broke up the fishing, but the crop of fish stories has received only a temporary back-set.
—Company _A drilled, before a.select audience Thursday morning. Needless to say the drilling was excellent.	.
- —Mrs. E. Doss has the thanks of the Junior department for a magnificent donation to their reception rooms.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	54!
—A handsome mirror, presented by Messrs. Adler Bros., of South Bend, has been hung in the students’ office.
—Very Rev. Father General gave to each of the First Communicants an ivory cross which had been laid on the Holy Sepulchre.
—Companies A and B, Hoynes’ Light Guards, will have a competitive drill on the 27th of this month for a silk flag, or some other suitable prize.
—Masters Paul Healy, John Cudahy and Harry Lonergan, did themselves honor by the manner in which they read the Acts before Holy Communion in the church on Thursday.
—The name of Master W. McPhee was omitted by mistake from among the honorable mention in English Literature made in the “List of Excellence ” which appeared in our issue last week.
■ —Two new pleasure boats came last Saturday afternoon. They were purchased by the boat club from Messrs. P. J. Douglas and Co., of Maukegan, Ill., and are unsurpassed for beauty and comfort.
—There was great excitement on the Minims’ campus Thursday afternoon caused by a ball game between the second and third nine specials. The latter team was victorious by a score of 19 to 18.
—Rev. President Walsh has forwarded to Professor Edwards,from Paris, a number of fac-similes of famous historical manuscripts. The documents are a valuable and most acceptable addition to our department of History.
—The grand altar for the Chapel of the Holy Angels arrived on Tuesday.last, and has been temporarily placed in the extension to the church. We hope to present our readers next week with a full description of this masterpiece of art.
—On.Sunday, May 6, Very Rev. Father General Sorin blessed the new chapel of St. John the Evangelist in St. Edward’s Hall: he then said Mass and preached an eloquent sermon on the glorious Apostle to whom the chapel was dedicated.
—The game Thursday afternoon between the Senior “ Blues ” and « Reds ” was decidedly superior, in point of general close playing, to any of its predecessors. Batting was light, fielding sharp, and errors few. Score, 7 to 6 in favor of the “ Blues.”
—The Junior special team tackled the Senior “ Reds ” on the 6th inst., and were easily defeated. They couldn’t bat McHenry’s pitching, while the Seniors hit Pfau hard. McHenry struck out seventeen men. Following is the
Score by Innings :—1 2345 6 7S9 Juniors:—1 0000020 1=4
.	Seniors :—o 1 302 1 1 2 *—10
—The trial^of the case of Caffy vs. Knoblock Mills was completed in the University Moot-court /Wednesday evening. The attorneys were W. Tiernan and H. Smith for complainant, and S. Hummer and L. Chacon for the defence. The case was interesting and occupied the attention of the court for some time. The jury was unable to agree on a verdict, however, and was discharged.
—The a Reds” and “Blues” played a game on Tuesday afternoon which was not altogether uninteresting. Some pretty “grand stand” plays were made, particularly on the part of the “ Reds,” and some wholly inexcusable errors, which let in eight runs and cost them the game, were made in the third inning on the part of the “Blues.” Smith pitched well, and was ably supported. Tarrant also did some clever work in the box, while Pender and Burns used the stick to good advantage. Score, 13 to 10 in favor of the “Reds.”	-
—The sixth regular meeting of the Total Abstinence Society was held on last Tuesday evening. On motion, the selection of delegates to attend the State Convention in June was left to the discretion of the Rev. President. An interesting debate was had on the question, “ Resolved that Prohibition is a more powerful means to remedy the evils of the liquor traffic than High License.” Messrs. Chacon and Goebel spoke on the affirmative side, and to Messrs. Houck and Burns had been assigned the task of refuting their arguments. Mr. Chacon opened with an able, and at times eloquent, appeal for Prohibition, and though sometimes straying from the real point at issue, his argument was in every way worthy of him. Mr. Burns considered the question from apractical standpoint,and showed' pretty conclusively that Prohibition not only does not prohibit, but never can. Mr. Goebel’s remarks were entirely extemporaneous. Though lacking in fluency of speech, his effort was by no means a poor one. Mr. Houck being absent, Mr. Heinemann was called upon. He examined the question thoroughly through the magnifiers of law and logic, and completely refuted the arguments made for Prohibition. The question was decided in the negative.	•'
o
—The Feast of the Ascension was celebrated with befitting solemnity last Thursday morning. An important feature in connection with the imposing ceremonies was the first Communion of twenty-six young students. At eight o’clock in the morning the communicants assembled in the University parlor whence they were escorted by the Hoynes’ Light Guards, University Cornet Band, students and clergy to the college church, where solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Father Zahm, assisted by Rev. Fathers French and Robinson as deacon and subdeacon. After an appropriate and eloquent sermon by Rev. Father Kirsch upon 'the most solemn event of their* lives, the proper time having arrived, the communicants ascended the altar steps and received for the first time the Body of their Lord after the acts of contrition, faith, hope, love and desire had been distinctly and devoutly read. At solemn Vespers in the afternoon they renewed their baptismal vows and placed in the hands of the celebrant the written form of the good resolutions they had taken to lead a life, in accordance with the teachings of the Gospel. Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Prefect of Discipline, is entitled to credit for the happy manner in which the ceremonies were conducted under his direction.	. .	...
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The first championship game between the Junior first nines was played last Tuesday afternoon. The contest was interesting and exciting until the sixth inning when the “ Reds” began to hit the ball and, aided by their opponents’ errors, secured seven runs in three innings and won the o-ame. Following is the score:
Blues.	a.b. r. b.h. s.b. p.o. a. e.
D. Cartiers, p. and s. s.
W. Lahey, l.f..............
J. Pfau, p. and s. s......
C. Roby, c. f..............
J. Cooney, ist b...........
J. McIntosh, 3d b..........
H. Miner, r. f............
R. Hall, c...................
E. Campbell, 2d b............
41	1	2	o	3	1
51	1	o	1	o	1
5010090 4000002 4000900
4	1	o	o	1	1	1
4021100
4	o	o	o	11	2	o
41001 13
Total......................
Reds.
W. Cartier, c. f...........
S. Fleming, c..............
W. Hayes, s. s.............
M. O’Kane, 3d b............
H. Leonard, 1st b..........
R. Stevens, l.f............
J. McGrath, 2d b...........
T. Gonzalez, p...........;
W. Walsh, r.f..............
SS 4	5 3 24 16 8
A.B. R. B.H. S.B. P.O. A. E.
5 1 IOOO2 5 i	1	2	11	3	I
51	I	O	I	o	o
5000200 5	2	2	I	S	O	o
51	1	1000
5020224 5	2	I	1	2	12	O
4	2	I	O	I	I	O
Total..................... 44	10 10 5 27 18 8
Time of game: 1 hour, 50 minutes. Runs earned: “Reds,” 2; “Blues,” 1. Hit by pitched ball: D, Cartier. Passed balls: Hall, 3; Fleming, 3. Two base hits: Pfau, Cartier. Struck out: by Gonzalez, S; by Pfau,-6. Umpire: J. Clark. Scorers: H. Bronson and W. McPhee.
Score by Innings:—1 23456789 Reds:—o 1002313 *=10
Blues:—o 001 1001 1=4
—Additions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall:— One hundred and fifty volumes from the library of the late Father Neyron, presented by Rev. Father Kirsch; Italian life of the Blessed Virgin with autograph of Archbishop Whitfield, presented by J. Caren. Interesting facts relating to the life of Bishop Tyler, presented by J. M------. Nearly two hundred original manuscript letters written by early missionaries of Indiana, presented by Very Rev. Father Corby. Large photograph of an antique painting of the Crucifixion, presented by Dr. Waldron. Lot of Catholic papers, received from G. Car-tier. Lot of the Boston Pilot, presented by Prof. Lyons. Souvenir of St. Anne de Beauprd, presented by Master C. Cavaroc. Miniature;of Robert Brent, presented by Miss E. Brent. Late, volumes of “The Catholic World,” received from the Editor of the Scholastic. “ Biographical Dictionary of the English Catholics,” by Gillow, Vol. Ill, presented.by Professor Hoynes. Imperial portrait of Most Rev. Archbishop Feehan, of Chicago (Catholic), heroes and heroines of Memphis; “ Graphic Description ..of Missionary Life in Eastern Arkansas,by Rev. D. Quinn, presented by Miss B. Kavanagh.. Tunics of the first Archbishop of St. Louis, presented by Miss Eustace. Photograph of Most Rev. Archbishop Bailey.; photograph of Rev. Neal. Gillespie,: presented by Sister M. Benedict Life-size oil painting, of the third Bishop of Chicago; handsomely framed in ebony and gold; three hun7
dred and fourteen manuscript letters relating to the American Hierarchy, presented by a friend. Engraving of Brumidis’ picture in St. Stephen’s Church,New York; cabinet photographs of several Paulist Fathers, presented by Mr. Edgerly-. Lot of documents relating to the history of the Congregation of the Holy Cross} presented by Bro. Francis. •
Roll of Honoi*.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Albright, Akin, Brelsford, Bowles, Brannick, A. Beckman, P. Burke, Barrett, Beckwith, Bombeck, Bronson, Ball, Barnard, Blessington, J. Burns, Brownson, Brewer, Britt, E. Burns. Boland, Brady,* Craft, Campbell, Chacon, Craig, Chute, T. Coady, E. Coady, Cosgrove, Desimoni, Dore, Eyanson, Ewing, Fitzharris, Finckh, Fehr, Goebel, Gallardo, Geisler, Gibbs, Griffin, Garfias, Henderson, H. Biggins, G. Hobart, Heinemann, M. Howard, Hummer, B. Hughes, Houck, Inderrieden, Jacobs, Jennings, Keating, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lappin, Langan, Louisell, W. McDermott, McCune, Mattes, Mulkern, J. McDermott, W. Morrison, Mackey, Maloney, McAllister, McCart, McAuliff, .McGrath, Melady, Nations, Andrew Nicholl, A. Nicholl, R. Newton, Neill, Nelson, O’Regan, O’Shea, O’Donnell, O’Connor, O’Brien, Owens, Plato, Prichard, Preston, Pender, Rochford, Rothert, Read, Stubbs, J. Sullivan, Stephenson, Suing, Sawkins, Springer, M. Smith, W. Silver, R. Silver, Tiernan, Tarrant, Velasco, Webb, Wall, Woods, P. Wagoner, Waixel, H. White, Wilkin, M. White.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Allen, Anfenger. Berry, Bombeck, Boyd, Bachrach, Beaudry, Bolderick, ~Blake, Burger, W. Bronson, Brown, Brady, Brannick, Cunningham, Campbell, Cooney, Chute, Crotty, J. Connors, Case, Cavanagh, Carney, W. Cartier, Delaney, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Devine, Darragh, Ebner, Fitzgerald, Falvey, P. Fleming, C. Flem- • ing, J. Flynn, F. Flynn, Freeman, Frei, Grossman, Gray, T. Greene, J. Greene, Grever, Garrity, Houlihan, Henry, Howard, P. Healy, R. Healy, Heller, Hampton, Hoerr, Hall, Huber, Hillas, Hackett, Hughes, Hake, Hayes, Hill, Johnson, Johns, Jackson, Kinsella,! Kutsche, Kehoe, Lane, Lahey, Moncada, Monaghan, Merkle, Martin, Munroe, James McIntosh, John McIntosh, McCormick, McIvers, McPhee, Miner, McGrath, McKenzie, McCartney, Mayer, Monarch, Mooney, Moon, Neef, Noud, O’Neill, G. O’Brien, W. O’Brien, M. O’Kane, O’Donnell, Paquette, Powers, Prichard, Pecheux, F. Peck, J. Peck, Pfau, Quinlan, Roth, Rierdon, Reinhard, I. Rose, S. Rose, Ramsey, Rowsey, Reidinger, Roper, Roby, Stephens, Spalding, Shenk, Senn, A. Sullivan; R. Sullivan, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Talbot, Wile, Wageman, Wade, Walsh, Welch, Weldon, Wright, Wilbanks, Wood. ,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, Andrews, A. Bachrach, H. Bachrach, S. Bachrach, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, G-. Black, L. Black, Blake, Beerman, .Bates, Burns, Bradley, Boettcher, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Connelly, Clendenin, Carlile, Cudahy, W. Creedon, F. Creedon, Cornell, Crane, Campbell, Durand, J. Dunn, F. Durih, Jas. Dungan, Jessie Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, .F. Dempsey, Dench, Dorsey,.G. Franche, C. Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Ferkel, Grant, Griffin, Greene, Gerber, Goodwillie,- Hinds; Harlan,: Hagus, Howard, Hal-thusen, Hamilton, Healy, Haddican, Johns, Kutsche, Kerwin, Kehoe, Keeler, Koester, P. Keefe, Kane, Kaye, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Mooney, Marx, Morgen.weck, Murphy; McDonnell, Maternes, L. Mayer, G’. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Minor, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, Nester, Oppenheimer, O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker, Quill, Rogers, Ricksecker, Sweet, Seerey, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stone, Speir, Storey, Taft, Trujillo, Tomkins, Thornton, W; {Williamson, Wm. Williamson, J. Walsh,Welch, W. Walsh, Wilson, Young, .Zieman'.
THE NOTRE lame scholastic.
543
Glass Honors.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
M. Quinlan, J. Kinsella, C. Fitzgerald, E. Roth, J. Cunningham,, W. O’Brien, F. Wile, C. Schillo, H. Bronson, J. Talbot, J. Howard, U. Beaudry, C. Priestly, R. Boyd, R. Munro, W. Merkle, J. McIntosh, E. McCartney; W. Hill, H. Pecheux, G. Monaghan, R. Boldrick, R. Spalding, P. Healy, S. Rose, J. O’Donnell, G. O’Brien, R. Whelan, F. Duffield, F. Powers, R. Case, J. Connor, L. Hoerr, F. Falvey, F. Crotty, F. Prichard, J. Hampton, R. Adams, V. McGuire, E. Jewett, T. Gonzales, E. McIvers, W. Jos-selyn,’j. Wright, E. Hughes, W. Rowsey, F. Simpson, T. Wilbanks, S. Ciarcoschi, L. Thome, E. Greever, J. Flynn, A. Mayer, G- Frei, L. Reidinger J. Mulqueen, F. Chute, P. Fleming, C. Fleming, A. Fitzharris, J - Burke, D. Donohue, F. Henderson, J. McWilliams, Fl Webb, J. Lappin, W. Tiernan, H. Barnes, R. Pollock, C. Johnson, E. Howard, Andrew Nicholl, Alfred Nicholl, F. Albright, W. Monroe, J. Maloney, M. Howard, E. Stephenson, J. Mithen, E. Sawkins, C. Bowles, A. Maier, J. Geisler, C. Desimoni, E. Kehoe, H. Mack, E. Coady H. Smith, J. Brady, T. Pender, A. Beckman, J. Wilson, J. Kelly, R. Silver, R. Fleming, W. O’Brien, B. Owens, B. Reech.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of STUDIES.]
preparatory department
Latin—J. Sullivan, F. Chute, J. Maloney, C. Paquette; Arithmetic—H. Bray, J. Connors, R. Weldon, P. Wood, E. Hillas, P. Healy, D. Kehoe, G. Elder, C. Bowles, J. Fleming (Sr.); Grammar—F. Wilkin, A. Beckman, J. Lappin, B. Reedy, C. Fitzgerald, E. McCartney, W. Hayes, W. Lahey; Geography—L. Chacon, H. Bray, J. Bray, C. Goodman, E. Heller, L. Hoerr, E. McCartney, J. Girsch; United States-History—J. Girsch, H. Perkins, C. Goodman, J. Howard, E. Chacon, E. McCartney, W. Poweis; Reading—B. Reedy, R. Adams, T. Gonzales, L. Hoerr, E. Roth -^Orthography— R. Adams, W. Josselyn, E. Roth, .B. Reedy; Catechism— P. Wood, J. Bray, E. Hillas, C. Schillo.
The Busted Pedestal.
“Pike’s Peak or Bust.”—The Forty-Niner's Motto.
i.
’Twas dark in that corridor stately, . Where bishops benignantly beam ;
. The throng that had filled it so lately Had parted to slumber and dream. '
ii- .	.
But ere they had parted they noted ,
■ A pedestal standing forlorn, / Bereft of the bust that, devoted,
• It long on its shoulders had borne. , , .	. in.
They knew not that pedestal’s sorrow—
, ‘ They deemed it was false to its trust; While if secretly vowed that the morrow
’ Should see it recover its bust. ' .	.	. iv.	•
..“I’ll.find that episcopal figure!” -	.	_
. ’ That pedestal seemed to declare, As, gathering up all its vigor,	-
It made a wild rush for the stair. .
. .	'	• v.	.
■ But alas !- out of training, and tangled In bonds of a- plastery crust,
• It fell: and though bleeding and mangled, .
. •	'. Remarke'd: “Well, I’ve now got a bust!” .
Saint JHary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The choice flowers adorning the shrine of our Blessed Mother the past week were the gift of Stella Dempsey.
—The members of the general vocal class seem to be imitating the birds, for ever since spring opened, there has been a marked improvement in their efforts.
—The Second Seniors are deep in the delights of Botany. The analysis of flowers, found in their long rambles through the woods around St. Mary’s, keeps them more than interested. .
—The regular monthly Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament held at St. Mary’s is a privilege warmly appreciated by the pupils, as was testified by’their numerous visits to the chapel on Sunday last.
—At the reading of “points,” Sunday evening, all were charmed by Miss G. Pomeroy’s graceful recitation of “ Brier Rose.” Misses Schmauss anil Hummer rendered selections in a pleasing manner, after which Very Rev. Father General addressed a few words to the young ladies, holding out hopes for the long looked-for Parisian dinner.
Value of Trifles.
Man, by nature, is a lover of the beautiful; and he exemplifies this, trait when, strolling through the streets of a large city, he is attracted by the beauty of the architecture of great buildings which he views as a whole; but upon nearer approach, he finds them, after all, to be composed of but one brick upon another or of -numberless grains of sand which the builder denominates stone. We are told that Ruskin called the great' cathedral at Winchester “ a petrified religion,” while the same magnificent structure, Longfellow quaintly styled “a dream in stone.” Yet the buildings which called forth these beautiful ideas are, to a great extent, merely accumulations of grains of sand.
When contemplating the mighty ocean, and listening to the roar of the waves, as they dash so furiously against the shore, the question arises: of what is this great body composed? Reflection and observation tell us that this mightiest of all earthly bodies, the ocean, is formed of an almost infinite number of drops.	.
Since nearly everything we observe in both nature and art is formed from that which, considered in itself, would be regarded as a trifle, it becomes necessary to inquire into the meaning of the word. Trifles are generally regarded as something of so little value, that, as a rule, we think they scarcely deserve our notice; but this is a mistake, because every-day experience demonstrates their, importance; and it is indeed true that “trifles make up
544	TH^ NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
our most celebrated men have become so, merely by employing every, spare moment in reading, or : studying some branch, by which they might im: prove their minds.	’ ..
That beautiful art, music, affords many examples of the value of little things. A semitone.is a’trifle, yet on twelve semitones does all music-depend for its beauty. To a musician, -.what a disagreeable effect has a misplaced semitone in harmony! The discord so occasioned grates on the ear of an experienced listener or player, marring for. him the beauty of the selection. How small is the se'ed that produces the flower, yet from this seemingly unimportant atom come beautiful trees and flowers. The gorgeous colors of the corolla, and the sweet fragrance of the blossom, excite our admiration, while the pollen, which plays so important a part in the propagation of the flower, unless viewed under a microscope is scarcely noticed. Indeed, nearly everything connected with the vegetable kingdom looks unimportant until, through the influence of light and heat, it begins to assume its natural proportions. When we consider the wonderful things that have resulted from mere trifles we cannot fail to be impressed with their real value; and though we may not all hope to make wonderful inventions, or become prodigies of learning, yet careful attention to trifles will surely be rewarded, for they are the stepping stones to success.
Etta Flannery,
Second Senior Class.
the sum of life.” Most inventions, of value to mankind, have been suggested by the observation of something very trifling. •
James Watt, author of improvements in the application of steam as a motive power, while a boy
was frequently reprimanded by his aunt for what ; had, to her, the appearance of listless idleness; for we are told, that it was his habit to sit before the fire, taking off and putting on the lid of the tea kettle, and watching the steam as it issued from the spout, and finally counting the drops into which it became condensed. So far from deserving censure, the boj’, pondering before the fire, was really giving his attention to trifles, and was to be afterwards viewed as the great engineer getting ready for the discoveries that were to make his name famous.
Had England, previous to the American Revolution, submitted to the inevitable, and repealed the duty on tea as well as that on the other imports, in all probability her colonies might have been pacified; but she insisted on the trifling tax, and this may be called one of the immediate causes of the War of Independence. Previous to the discovery of the law of gravitation, thousands had seen apples falling from the parent tree; but, it was reserved for the attentive mind of Newton to seize upon the trifling fact, and from it, to deduce a law carrying with it great consequences.
Words are the vehicle by which we convey our thoughts to mankind. Analyzing the speech that has just electrified its hearers, we find it is but word added to word each in itself a trifle, yet by their union the orator is enabled to deliver a discourse which wins for him undying fame. All the great volumes that have seen the light, since first the making of books began, are but an assemblage of words arranged, it is true, with more or less regard to sound sense; and in proportion to the writer’s power over words will be his success.
Bryant’s descriptive powers were of this order, for it is said of his genius that “ a violet in his hands becomes a gem fit to ornament a royal diadem.” Again, a few words lightly uttered may destroy the reputation of one’s neighbor; nay, even a glance, a lifting of the eyebrow or a curl of the lip is sufficient to effect the evil; and shall we call these unimportant? But the trifles most neglected are the odd moments of leisure; and yet on their proper employment, success in a great measure depends; for it is a fact that those who have accomplished the greatest things have done so by turning the moments to account. How much we could accomplish if we would improve every moment, and what wonders might have been worked in this world had all men, from the beginning, improved. the odds and ends of time! A moment is a trifle when compared with the many that form our lives; but the sum of these moments, wasted in a lifetime, would form years.
An example of the result of economizing time, is furnished by Elihu Burritt, who learned eighteen languages and twenty-two dialects by employing the fragments of time after each day’s labor. It is riot always he who has passed the greatest number of years at school who becomes famous; many of 1
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Andree, Arnold, Brady, Balch, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Beschameng^ Bray, Bourne, Blacklock, Beck, Belfield, Bogner, Carmien, Clifford, Claggett, Conners, E. Coll, Campeau, Campagne, Calkins, H. Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis, Daube, Dority, English, Earley, Flannery, Fravel, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Geer, Guise, Hummer, Hughes, Hert-zog, Hellmann, M. Horner,!. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlem, Heffron, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hooker, Hutchinson, Kearns, Keyes, Karnes, Tilly, Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, McCormick, McEwen, McNamara, C. McCarthy, Moore, Marsh, Moran, C. McFadden,.J.Mc-Fadden, Mitchell, Marley, E. Nicholas, Neff, O’Brien, Prudhomme, Piper, Papin, Pomeroy, Quill, G. Regan, E. Regan, Rend, Robinson, Riedinger, Rannells, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheean, Saviers, B. Smith, Sloman, M. Smith, Spier, Studebaker, Trask, Van Horn, Van Mourick, M. Voechting, B. Voechting, Wright, Waterbury, Wehr Webb, Young, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, Burdick, Butler, E. Burns, M. Burns, Churchill, El Dempsey, Dolan, Dreyer, Eby, Farwell, Foster, Fritz, Hake, Hagus, Hughes, Harman, Hansford, Knauer, Kloth,’Lauth, Miller, Morse, Newman, Papin, Pugsley, Quealey, Reed, Rhinehart, Rogers, Stapleton, E. Smith, A Wurzburg, N. Wurzburg.
.MINIM DEPARTMENT. - -
Par Excellence—Misses E.‘ Burns, K. Moore, A. O’Mara, A. Papin, S. Smith.