

I• . 
Before :you choose a career, consider.. the kind of contacts you'd·like to make. 
In the Third World ... in the inner city ... everywhere ... there are people who need someone to help them rise to their potential or to lend a hand at moments of crisis. Maybe you'd be happier reaching out for fulfillment than pushing ahead for success. 
A growing number of young people today are attract­ed to communities that promise a lifework rather than a lifestyle. 
· Find out· about the good work that's being done·; around the country.· let us mail you our free newsletter for young people interested in social action and religion.' 
Just send your name and address to WORD ONE, Room 236, 221 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois. 60606. . . · All we're suggesting is that you get in touch.' 
The Claretians. 
· A Roman Catholic community of priests and brothers 


Mail submissions along· with a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Juggler, LaFortune Center; .University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, ·Indiana·.· 46556. Send manuscripts as often as you'd like. The staff promises a·quick reply to everyone submitting 
to the magazine. . ·:-· · ·. . ·-. ·. · . 
Let your friends· and family know 
. . 
.what's going on at ND. 
Send them a subscription o·f ·scholastic mag·a.zine.:· 
. . . 
Only $5.00 per year. 

NOTRE DAl\lE SCHOLASTIC NOTRE DAl\lE, INDIANA 46556 Please send .me a subscription to SCHOLASTIC for ...... years at $5.00 a year. I alll, enclosing $ ....................... . ·;...................CASH. ....... : .......... CHECK 
Name............................................................. : ..... · .......... ·...... 
Addr~ss .· ................· .. · ...................... · ...... : .....................-.'... 
City..· .... ·· .... ·................... · .................................. ·................. . State:_. ................... ·......... : .. ·....... : ......;•: .. Zip ............. • ...... · · 

JUGGLER 
. . . -. ­
Notre Dam.e's · Journal of 
.rth·e ·Arts-~ 
\ 

Illustrations: T~m Pauli us' 5, 8, ·1·2, 23 (2), 25. Photographs: Ed Brower 9, 10, 11,'13, 15, 18, 19 (2), 24 /, Bill Delaney 26, 27 (2), 29 
(2) / Mike Duncan 12, 24 / Tom Paulius 24,. 30 I Judy. Robb 28 (2): .. Cover: Photo by Tom Paulius. Pizza courtesy of Jiin Mccloskey. , 
Scholastic 
Volume 117, No. 3, October 10, 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 4 The "New Spiritual Tyranny" J. Robert Baker 8 Campus Culinary Capers Susan Grace and Christie Herlihy 
14 Law School: The Cartography of the Future Bill Gonzenbach 
18 Buildi_ng a. Frontier _·Michael Desmond 
20 TA...:_ ls_lt' OK?.·· Paul Starkey 
26 ..The Boys They Left Behind Paul Hess 
28·· The Blood for-Lunch Bunch. Judy Robb 
REGULARS· 
6 Jottings. Sean· Mclinden 12 · Perspective .. . James.T. Cushing 
13.. People Behind ND. Jim Romanelli 16 Gallery . Eileen Klee '.24 . People at ND .. 25 Week in Distortion Daniel Lombardi 29 Sport Shorts 30 The Last Word . Sally Stanton 
Editor· 
Sally. Stanton· 
Art Director 
Torri Paulius. 
Production Manager 
Annemarie Sullivan 
Managing Editor 
John Phelan News Editor .· Bill.· Gonzenbach Culture Editor Robert' Baker Assistant Art Director Kathy McElroy Sports . Editor Bill Delaney 
. Business· Manager Kathy Salzer Circulation· Manager 
Kevin Murphy 
Photography 'Editor 
Ed Brower 
_. Advisory B0°ard -.. Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, Ed Sanna, Madonna Kolbenschlag, Bro. Charles . McBride, C.S.C., Richard Conklin 
Staff Sieve Sl;ter,' Thomas 1: Waldoch, Dave· Beno; Ron Ru'ndstedt, John Kenward, Dave Dreyer, Leo JJ Mulcahey, Mike Sarahan, Chris Meehan; Mike Feord, Mark Hopkins,'Bob · Gilroy,· Rich Nugent, Dari Adler, Richard G. ,Landry/ Paul Starkey, Susan' Grace, Dan Lo_mbardi, !{honda Kornfeld, Barb Frey, Mark Luppino, Gary Harden, Christie Herlihy, Paul. Hess, John Delaney,_Judy Robb, Sean Mclinden, J. Peter Delaney, Jim Romanelli, Paul Barickman; Bernie Valenti, Karen Caruso, Jim Ryan,. Ed Lecuyer, Cary . Gerber, Moira Keating, Mary. Ann Chambers; John Bartone, Aridee Gotuaco. . 
The opinions expressed .in Scholastic are' those of the authors and· editors of Scholastic and. do .. not necessarily represent the opinions, of the· University • o( Notre Dame, its ad~inistraJion1 fac~lty or_ the student body. 
Second-clas~ postage p'~id at Notre Dame, ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national . advertising by' National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York;;N. v.· 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, .Ind. ·46556. The subscription rate is •$5.00. a year and. back numbers are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
•' , ' • ~ .. ' _. • , . ; l 
All. unsolicited . material becomes the property of. Sch.olastic. · · 
. . :. ~ ./ , .. 
copyright © 1975 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 
The ''New ·Spiritual Tyranny'' 
As the civil disturbances of the '60's quieted and the movements which had proclaimed peace and Jesus faded, another movement be­gan among people whose religious worship had been described as staid and impersonal. Through prayer groups and religious communities, the Catholic Charismatic Renewal Movement offered to Roman· Cath­olics a radical alternative to the quiet, unemotional parish Mass. Through baptism in the Spirit, mem­bers could receive a variety of gifts from the Holy Spirit. Among these are speaking in tongues, faith heal­ing and prophecy. 
From rather modest beginnings at Duquesne · University less than a decade ago, the Catholic Charismatic Renewal Movement has experienced extraordinary growth. However, like similar religious movements, CCRM is not without its critics. . ­
With a membership of over 500,000 persons, the movement. can boast of constituents among all ranks of Catholics, including Leon Joseph Cardinal Suenens of Malines, Belgium. The international conven­tion· of the movement has met four times at Notre Dame, and twice filled the stadium here with excited charismatics and . ecstatic prayer. Convening in Rome this·. year, the charismatics received the blessing and encouragement of Pope Paul. 
_In South Bend, the movenierit has gone through various stages, moving more and more from the Notre Dame campus into the city itself; With the' collapse of True House, a 
. once dynamic charismatic commu­
__nity modelled on early Christian examples, fewer members of. the Notre Dame community have been involved with CCRM. However, Peo­ple of Praise, a contemporary and sometimes rival of True House, re­mains a strong, cohesive group. In fact, Charismatic Renewal Services has become a millon dollar a year business. Earlier this year,· they bought the LaSalle Hotel with plans for its conversion ·into _an·· office building. 

Amid this flurry of growth and activity, warnings against and mild· criticisms of the movement · have surfaced numerous · times. Last spring the warnings became· serious and the criticisms severe. The most prominent critic to arise is Dr'. Wil­liam G. Storey, associate professor of liturgy and. church history at Notre Dame. He forwarded to Bish­op Leo Pursley of the Fort Wayne­
.South Bend diocese, aletter . citing abuses and dangerous tendencies which have developed . within the charismatic movement.· Backed with statements from former .. charis­matics,· Dr. Storey's letter represents the first extensive and documented evaluation of the movement. 
Dr: Storey, one of the movement's founders who withdrew five years ago, charges the movement-with en­couraging theological positions which do ncit coincide with the Cath~ olic tradition..This is due, in part, to an. attempt at reconciliation with. their Protestant counterparts. He 
· also views the dominating and au­thoritarian stance of the movement's leadership as dangerous. Further, using coercion and · extortion, the · leadership has in some cases vio­
by J. Robert Baker 

lated the consciences of its members. 
In discussing his objections to the movement, Dr. Storey · seems pri­marily concerned with its treatment of persons. Certainly his correspon­dence with the hierarchy of the Church about the movement indi­cates his doubts about the theology practiced by CCRM; His criticisms, however, center much more on the movement's view of its members: 
Dr. Storey's major contention is that the movement is developing into a "new spiritual tyranny" over the minds of its members. He said, "I'm not making some blind asser­tion in the dark. I think. intelligent people are very much aware that religious leaders · of all kinds are often disturbed personalities w.hose only way of getting their will in this world is by quoting the .. Almighty, acting in His place . and bossing everybody a.round." 
According. to Dr. Storey, the lead­ership of the charismatic movement is convinced that they can psycho­logically remake people. He ex~ plained that under the guise of spiritual direction, "they think they can take you apart and put you back together again the way God wants you. They ·are skillful enough with their charismatic gifts to remodel your life ·to make you more accept­able to the Lord. · 
"The most blatant, shocking, scandalous example of this is their · claim to cure homosexuality." Dr. Storey cited an example where one member of a charismatic -household was found to be a hom·osexual. The community considered him "rabid'; and offensive. To _effect a c~re;. he 
SCHOLASTIC 

was placed under surveillance .·for two years. During ·this time, his homosexual encounters were vir­tually curtailed and he was kept in the company of charismatics some­what older than himself. After this period in which a series of exorcisms were performed to cast out the demon of the young homosexual, the leadership decided to marry him to a female member of the mo_vem~nt. Dr. Storey objected that the gay charismatic had not developed a heterosexual preferen<::e, but rather that his environment had been rigid­ly controlled. · 
Of such practices, he says, "These claims, whether in an extreme form like that or in lesser forms are just not respectful of the human person­ality. I don't mean that they can't help people. But when .they say you are not really acceptable, we're go­ing to take you apart and put you together in a nice way-that to my mind is just colossal meddling." 
·He calls it a "horrible kind of deception'' because to make such a claim "assumes·· that you kriow what's . good and what's bad, and that you can handle all this, whether God wills everybody to be cured according to all yourrecipes." 
Dr.: Storey admits that many peo­ple do benefit from the goodwill arid friendship of ·others. · "But when it becomes'the set purpose to remodel people's lives,'. it can be incredibly damaging, it •can do · irreparable harm, it can remove all your defense mechanisms :which is all a lot ·of people have to keep them together anyhow," he contends. "And then when you're nice and stripped naked and unlovely and dismantled, they say you don't have enough ,faith to be put back together again." 
· The leadership of the charismatic movement claims .that Divine· Will guides these communities through the gift. of prophecy. Dr. Storey. is extremely reluctant to concede· the validity of the prophecy claim, for he says that the word "prophecy" is am­biguous. ·Rather he finds a "very interesting study in group dynamics in which people who like one another and respect one another· and who have great admiration for charis­matic leaders spontaneously, true enough, come up with what the lead­ers want." Dr. Storey points out that the phenomena of "continuous divine guidance is unheard of in the Christian tradition." The leadership, in his view, is discovering ways to have members confirm whatever they want. 
Any hold such a leader may have on a community only increases this. Storey noted that a charismatic leader who is their immediate spir­itual director or who has some sexual sway over his community is . capable of indirectly influencing them to suggest whatever he desires. "There's nothing like young girls in presence of a very overpowering male leader, who come up with prophecies of all kinds to confirm anything at all they suspect he may want. Now that's really not un­worthy or rotten or stupid. It's simply how human beings function." Although he does not totally reject divine influence, he suspects that a great deal of the so-called prophecy within the charismatic· movement is much simpler. Psychology better explains the phenomena for Dr. Storey. "Its just the way we all try to · get along with one another. There's nothing unworthy about it, 

provided you don't wipe out all secondary causality and just go around saying Lord, Lord all the time. That makes human relations unintelligible." There is a need to discover just how much of this prophecy is actually divine influence and how much is simply psychology. 
Referring to charismatics, Dr. Storey characterizes many of them as "scared stiff to grow up and func­tion as adults." He says that they want someone to dominate, and even run their lives: 
Although he concedes that many religious orders have allowed the same oppressions of their members, Dr. Storey counters, "Why repeat the mistakes of the past? After all, what we're trying to do today is to get people to take possession of their own lives, to be free, to ineract fully with other human beings." 
Despite the seriousness of his charges, Dr. Storey is not unable to view the movement with some hu­mor. Ironically· he notes that CCRM "specializes in unintelligible,·· i.m­translatable speaking just when the Church· has matured enough: to admit the use of· vernacular litur­gies." 
. 
.1., 

,.__· . --,-: 


The JV1yth of. the Pre~Corporate \IVOrld 
'• Iniii;epasiteJi decades~ a numb;;. oi ancient Hebrew texts. have been unearthed, spurring the call Jor a new interpretation of many familiar Biblical passages. It will be. years before the arduous task of trans­lating these texts is complete. How­ever, much is already known. Many of the Biblical symbols, meaningless to us before, can now be examined in a new light. 
I have been fortunate enough to discover a possible explanation for one of these symbols,· found in the account of Adam andEve: the apple in the "Garden of Eden" story. 
Biblical theologians tell us that the tree in the Garden of Eden w~s not 
, , 
an apple tree, but a pear or an apricot tree. I do .not blame them for. this misinterpretation. It'is a result of mixed translations. dating back many centuries and is easily subject to mass misinterpretation. However, for the record, the "Tree 
-. . .. --. 

of Knowledge of Good and Evil" was indeed an apple tree and Adam did indeed have apple pie the night: be­fore he left the Garden. (This also proves thatthe expression ''as Amer­ican as apple pie" should really read "as Hebrew as apple pie"-but bib­lical scholars have even debated_ this, 
. saying that the Hebrews, as a people, didn't exist then.) The point is that it was an apple with which Adam sinned. 
We know that the books of the Peritateuch were written down some­time after the seventh century B.C. We also know that when these texts were being recorded, the sacred ed­itors deleted those details which did not contribute to the point .of the story, and added a few of their own 
. that did. ·It .was during this period that the apple tree in the Garden of Eden ·story· was renamed· the ·•~Tree ofthe Knowle~ge of Good and Evil." This was to make a particular point which the apple failed to do. One . man, and one man alone, knew the·· truth. His name . is unimportant. But he came from the family of the original author of the "Garden of Eden" story and his knowledge was fact. This)s his story. 

by Sean McLinden 

In times before reco.rded history there lived.a Hebrew, Ali Ben-Besh­moth, who, was lrnown as a political revolutionary. ,He was also a story~ teller. Ali worked-'-::when he worked ---:i.n the fields. There, he and .many of his friends tilled the soil to pro­duce fig trees and.an.occasional pear ,/ tree. · .. . . . :i The working conditions were. ter­rible. Pay. was lousy; meals, when they came, were. rotten; .and there was mass oppression. :'Times were better eyen at college," he. would think to himself. But he continued to work the' fields. 
Ali ·haff a dream. And in . this dream he_saw himself and his _work­ers: united as a strong labor force. So, from tllis dream, Ali got the idea ofunionization.. His _idea gained ac­ceptance quickly among the workers and their, first·.· big , show of power (t~aditionally-the only. way to show union power), was to strike. It was at this point that Ali began telling 


stories in the square or in front of 
the bank. He had nothing else to do 
while.they were striking. Ali's stories 
were always interesting and always 
had some revolutionary overtones. 
Mostly he would teU stories about 
the Hebrews before there was his­
tory. He was quite popular and his 
fabrications became, bit-by-bit, the 
oral traditions of the p~ple. It was 
a good thing tha1'~he could always 
fall back on: journalism· because' his 
strike was doomed to fail. 
The people,· feeling the · crunch of 

the · fig crop· failure because of the 
strike, began to feel hunger also; It 
appeared· that the·farm owner was 
going t~ bow to Ali's demands. But 
something ·happened.. . 
·.In· :a · neighboring , community 
known as Phoenicia, there lived a 
man named Azrah-Abnah. His par­
ents; being jovial people, had played 
a joke on him with his name, but 
_the humor is .Jost in the translation. 
Let it suffice to say that the combi­
nation. of Azrah with· Abnah · yielded 
a very amusing title. It would be 
like naming a child "Avis Hertz" in 
English. · 
Azrah, never having reconciled the disgrace put upon -him, became a . trader. It was an easy thing for a Phoenician to become since they had . the world's greatest shipping line. 
One of the things that Azrah traded 
in was apples. Apples were not too 
common in the desert, but their de­
licious fruit was always welcomed by 
the Hebrews.' Azrah dealt in volume 
so·a·pples were cheap. 
"The people ••• failed to grasp the significance of the story." 

Meanwhile, back at the Hebrew ranch, the fig farmer (and if you think that that's alliteration, you should hear the Hebrew translation), faced with the loss of his ranch because of• crop· failure,· made a deal with the Phoenician. The original contract has been · lost,• but we cari suppose ·that the farmer decided to open-an· apple franchise with mer­chandise supplied by Azrah. At this point;·the farmer's' name is impor~ tant to know, his name being Nahaz. The apple franchise proved to be suc­cessful beyond belief and made Nahaz a millionaire. 
The success of · this business de~ stroyed Ali's chances for a union. The people soon forgot about figs 
·. and began ·eating apples and the United Fig Workers never got off the ground. Subsequently, Ali, still believing he had a chance of suc­cess, took to telling ·allegories with , political overtones with the hope of restoring the fig to a prominent place at the Hebrew dinner table. · -.He wrote a story, his most famous, in which the characters Adam· and Eve are pitted against the evil Nahaz who tempts them· to eat the apple. The point of this story was to relate · the fall of :the: people to· the ·eating 
of apples _and possibly arouse . anti­
. apple . sentiment in Israel. Any Hebrew· scholar can tell you that the Hebrew word for serpent is nahash and it is easy to see how this could have· been slurred from "Nahaz" through countless retellings. . · The people, being rather shallow as well as drunk from all that Boone's Farm Apple Wine, failed to grasp the significance ·of the story. However· they thought· it sounded good and quickly absorbed it into their tradition. The fig movement was forever lost. · .. 
Ali• gave up the political .life and wandered .about for many years. Wheri he was 700 •years old, · four years before his death, he wrote a book about his travels. ·It was never published because no one had •·in­vented writing; We suppose the manuscript is forever lost_. 
Azrah •was killed a few years after'making his famous• fruit deal, when the applecart he·:was loading overturned and crushed him. From this·· 'incident comes the expression 
.a_bout ·. "upsetting the • applecart." This just ' goes to show that yet another cliche can be attributed to the Bible. · . · · . We have no record of Nahaz after the. ,opening · of · · his franchise, although historians· have been quick 
·to attribute the Halloween· custom of ·bobbing:for apples to him. Other than· that;• no one has •since· heard from him and it is· presumed that he lived for.many years a happy-man e_njoying the labors•of his f~it. ; · : 

Calllplls Culinary. CaJ)els 
Separate Ne\V. York City tourists 
from their. copies of Cue .magazine -:-the Big ;Apple's extensive guide to limitless restaurants -,-and Mc­Donald's would be flooded with bab­bling idiots.. Separate backpacking epicures from their Guide to Cheap Eating P"/aces ,in Chicago, and they would end up at the dining hall. And it occurred ; to us as our stomachs started rumbling in the Library promptly at 10 p.m.,_that whatNotre Dame needed was _not-another ver­sion of. the football jersey, but a guide to campus food sales, a guide to the best pizza,. the cheapest soda, the most pleasant. atmosphere; Con­sider it done. ·No longer will igno­rance _be an excuse to pad blindly to the hall· basement for a Hostess cup­cake and return only to share it with organic, chemistry notes. No longer will inexperienced .· cooks force you to cultivate a taste for-burned. pizza crust. No longer are• you driven to contrive ingenious ways : of smug­gling dining haU donuts. Scholas­. tic's Underground. Guide to Campus Food Sales frees you fellow students in your quest for the optimum·study break experience, a quest which will make the Fighting Irish synonymous 
with the Galloping Gourmets. 
Since the only University policy 
regarding food sales is a list of min­
imum health requirements similar to 
that required for the dining halls, the midnight eateries vary accord­ing to inventory, service, physical ap-, pearance· and particularly · prices. Although food_ services sell the same brands of · the standard items . ­soda, pizza, chips, sandwich.es ­prices vary widely.· 

Among the most economical food sales are those in Zahm and Keenan­Stanford • (Za-land). Both of these have consistently low prices on var~ ious items, such as the ·Stewart's sandwiches, a variety of hamburgers, cheeseburgers, hot dogs, "torpedoes" and others which are sold from the refriger_ator and then reheated -iri ovens· provided by. the vendor. -Zahm sells these goods at the lowest price on campus, ranging from 35 cents for a hot dog to 70 cents .for a tor_­pedo, and Za-land sells the line of goods for not much more. These dorms have low prices on pizza, soda and dairy product prices; .The other end of the_ spectrum can be repre­sented by St. Ed's and Dillon, .whose torpedoes sell for 90 cents or_ more . Their soda and other items are also comparatively overpriced. 
The difference :in .general pricing policies can>be determined. by look­ing at the costs of pizzas sold. Some dorms sell pre-prepared frozen pizza, while most halls make them fresh on ·the , premises; The majority of these dorms, with , few exceptions, make the same basic type of pizza, 
· by Susan Grace and Christie Herlihy 

using the same -Tolona brand sauce, cheese, crusts, etc. The amount of oregano• may vary; Farley's pizza is very spicy while Za-land's is more on the mild side .. Quantity oLsauce and cheese also varies, which may account for different prices.. How­ev~r, Za-larid offers one of the best pizzas on campus at the lowest price, and gives optional extras of mushs room, · pepperoni and sausage ·· gar­nishings.-Other comparable . pizzas may cost as much as • $2.00. . 
Morrissey has> a unique policy. on pizza. Their pizza sales operation is separate from the dorm food service, · and. is patronized by students from all over the south· quad who. are at­tracted by the high quality and rea~ sonable price. Morrissey is . also one of the few places that sells green peppers as an item on the pies. 
An interesting.phenomenon in the . ancient art of pizza~making occurred 
last year in Sorin'. Joe . Antonelli (Italian, of course), the ,food• sales manager ·last year,· decided to sen a new and .better piiza. Instead of the "watered~down".· Tolona . sauce; he bought a "real'.' tomato sauce from Simon Bros., grated his own fresh . mozarella and sold what he thought was a much improved pie at the ex­tremely · low price of $1.25. · The result: pizza sales plummeted by 75%. The only explanation Joe could give was the e:,casperating realiza-tion that "people were so hooked on the artificial stuff that they wouldn't buy. ours."· So it seems that ND students haven't yet· developed the cultivated tastes of Italian connois~ seurs. They're still satisfied with the same old basic stand-by, even if they have to pay a higher price for it. 
There is a tremendous difference in the size and style of food sales op­erations between .4ormitories..Most of the women's halls have smaller­scaled operations than the men's, possibly because their appetites aren't as ravenous, and. they're watching their weight. Farley, for instance, sells a wide.·· variety of pizzas by thirds, as well as whole. Women also create .a market for diet soft drinks .. Morrissey holds. the dis­tinction oLbeing the'. only. men's dorm on campus to sell diet soft drinks and to display their caloric content. Either the men are. begin­ning to watch their weight,. too, or Morrissey has· discovered another way to. attract ,female visitors to 
their· dorm. . . 
During ·our investigative treks around campus,. a number of food­sales operations proved · themselves worthy of special . mention for one 
reason or.. another; . Grace Hall..was among those. , , . "Grace is run. like a regular gro­cery store," said one operator of 
Lyons food sales, and. when we stepped out of. the elevator with. a rush of prospective. customeri, in bathrobes and sweat suits, and gazed at the file checking out of the bright­ly lit room, we had to agree. Buyers were filling their arms wfth boxes of potato chips and crackers from tall wire racks. They were grabbing bottles of soda from three large coolers and huddling aro.und the pizza counters where o.ne worker was frantically scribbling a. phone order down while another. was · liberally strewing cheese over the sauce. We squeezed into a. corner beside the pizza ovens to get • the lowdown · from Chris and Corky Weber, .who · have managed this· enterprise · to­gether for the past two years. The brothers h~mdle their. own· books,· order the food and, turn· over 60% of the profit (to the hall) which was estimated last year at $5,400. Gross receipts totaled $37,000, an amount comparable .to half the Senior Club's. Last year the brothers were.able to set their own prices, but . now in­creases must be _approved by the hall council. 
. The reputation of . Grace's pizzas has· attracted students from other haUs on their way home from the Library, and business flourishes with an average of 55 pizzas a . night. Onion is expected to join the com.: 

binations of mushroom, pepperoni, sausage and. red pepper. Red pepper and oregano are available · on re­quest, Chris. added, as he .liberally plastered a pie shellwith sauce.. 
Besides pizza,, Grace is known. in the food underground ·for its most extens~v.e inventory. U is the_ only dorm on campus. sellii:ig coney is­lands -a hot;dog topped with mus­tard, onion,· and chm .sauce -which is a combination the brothers bor­rowed from their home tow.n, .Cin-. cinnati. _Qnly, Grace sells packs of cigarettes and, _along with. F'lanner, hot pretzels at the price of two for 45 cents. "Pretzels are new this year anc_l just starting to _become pop­ular,'.'. _said C~rky. Besides, donuts from the. Student. Union, a,. variety of candy, boxes of party crackers, onion and bean dip, fruit now joins the list.· For only. a nickel .a health nut can buy McIntosh, and Red De­licious apples, and possibly.. cider at_ the peak of football season. As soon as a freezer is located, ice cream will join_the ranks. Needless to say that when questionnaires were passed out to the hall residents, student opinion was highly favorable towards the · extensive . inventory . and_ medium 
prices . . 
' -_, . ,... _,:,' 

.Although Pangborn's food sales reaped imestimated $2,400 last year, we found it hard io believe why "the hall . makes a fortune out .of this,',' as the manager emphasized. Located in a tunnel of a basement· nearly · overcome with heat from. the nearby furnace, food sales is distinguished by a half~door counter behind which the shirtless operator chomps a wad of gum. The . single pizza· warmer just outside the door. is the center of a ritualin which customers laden with frozen pizzaswait patiently to insert them. Despite the poor physi­cal conditions, service is what makes Pangborn's food sales successful. "I'm open anytime I'm around, 10 to 12 every night, during away-football games," the manager said. "I don't need to have special sales to make money." Like Grace, Pangborn op­erates on a 60/40 profit split which 
as one former food sales operator re­. marked, "There's something· to be 
said for student incentive." 
Sorin and Morrissey are unique to 
food~sales management in that' the 
big proprietorship is· awarded to the 
highest rent' bid which in Sorin was 
$230 for every 25 operating days. 
Any profit then is divided ~mong the 
renting managers: Credit is available 
and pizza prices are low. · . 
'Fisher is a rising star in the food 
sales ·underground." The new mana:.; 
. • I 
gEfrs this year, Joe Coye and Chuck 
Ruttinger,: both accounting majors, 
plan to improve last . yea~'s hall . 
profit figure· of· $1350 and · thereby 
boosttheir own 40%earnings. The 
hall·game room.with pool table· and 
chair settings provides a · leisurely 
atmosphere· for the pizza counter 
where Joe and Chuck blend elab­
orate: combinations: of mushrooms, 
green peppers, arid offer extra cheese 
or extra ·sauce preferences. ·"The 
best pizza on campus," one prospec-· 
tive customer commented. 'To serve 
Fisher resident~ bettk:r, the'operators 
stay open' during _half time of Notre 
Dame away games,.· and . during Mon­
day' night football 'games.."It's the 
nioney; so· it's not~: sacrifice fo miss 
the games," Joe said. "The' ND~BC 
game was the. biggest' pi~ia ·sale 
ever." 
Asked.· if·· the 60/40 . · commission 
system had any effect on the way 
food sales :was· riin, Michael Moran, 

had done some investigating. "We looked i~to changing the way food sales was run. We analyzed halls where students rented from their halls or were paid ari hourly wage and we ·decided· that it · generally worked better when privately run by' students," he added. "The guys• put · more irito it than when they are guaranteed a salary." . . "It's the personal touches which count," · said a· moustached pizza maker behind Flanner's 'pizza coun­ter which is set up much like Grace's. "The extra spice, the sauce, how long you cook it, all makes the differ­ence," an important edge when other hall competitorsare using the same ingredients. "It's also an important asset to be Italian/' he added. Flan... ner recently changed from· ·student. control to the 'assistant rector.' He is responsible for employing ·student managers to buy food .and do the hiring. Any profit goes to the hall but, since no rurining inventory has been kept for ayear and a half, bills are paid by the rector ·as 'they are 
received. · · '· , · · · · · · Alumni is'one of .the.few dorms to' be ruri solely as aservice'to the stu.: dents. "Like our rector said,· the idea is not to· make money but to . offer food at . reasonable prices for the guys when they are tired· of study­ing. We make little profit,'' said James Dunne, director of Alumni food sales. One worker is paid $5.00 
\, 

average the same amount. "We hope to do better this year," Dunne said, "with our walk-in arrangement." The dorm recently painted the room, tiled the floor and arranged food sales· like a store; Since pizza is made only on weekends ·with frozen pizza filling in the rest of the week;· Alunin~ sales center on riui:s and Hostess items. Dunne agreed that he would: put more into sales . promotion and inventory expansion 
if he were on commission. . ,,. · 
At the head·of the stairs leading 
to Howard's basement is a poster ·ad­
vertising, "J and J's Fine Foods, Est. 
1975," and a gloved hand points 
downstairs towards the graphically 
painted hallway. At right is' the ·food 
sales window where Joe and Johri, 
the new p_roprietors, prompt sales 
with creative gimmicks: a purchase 
of any sandwich and soda entitles the 
buyer to a raffle ticket for a ·botUe 
of Chiv~s RegaL Needless to say, 
Howard 'sales are on the upswing, 
a.nd ice cream and beer nuts are 
hopefully going to be new additions 
which ·would·.. m.ake · up for · frozen 
pizza. 
Za-land is yet' another experience 
in food sale fantasia. Farleyites are 
known for running over to the cen­
ter's large kitchen for their prepared 
pizzas wh.ich-are kept warm in huge 
racks: A dinfrig area complete with. 
small' tables, chairs; and soft decora­
tive lights makes. Za-land a popular 

10 


~~'. 
~~:: 
~· 
IC;, 
~.:~~
,.-~­
·, 

~· 
~ 
. ~ 
' 
~ 
\ i 
Holy Cross food ·sales, · iri the past year, has undergone complete reno­vation in order to create a more social atmosphere.: The concession, which was niove·d from a· small area in the basement· to, an enclosed area with access to the'kitchen,' is unique in its sales of 30¢ fresh grilled cheese sandwiches· and. homemade delicates­sen sandwiches, arid also in its stress on its service role to :the hall resi~ dents. In accordance with this prior­ity, they ·are selling·. stamps, 'arid . a mail drop. may· even. be· installed to save the "Hogs"'the longwalk to the nearest mailbox;: But stiU bigger things;are yet fo come/ Within the week, Holy Crosil' plans to take-ad­vantage of its choice location on tlie road to ·saint Mary's. 'Every Friday night they will ·exparid to -a. restau: rant-style atmos'phere in· order·· to 'provide a· stopping'place for students on' their. way. between' Saint Mary's College'and Notre Dame: Among the improvement~' associated with this expansion -are a. comfortable eating area;·. sales .of·. fresh: pizza, -hot dogs and broiled . hamburgers, and to provide the ultimate iri class food sales, soft ,drinks sold in ·cups. Holy Cross. may be. the, new "up.· arid coming" in Huddle competition f'this year, and hopefully their plans: ~ill 
... · :. . .·. ·<. ·,. '.· '; .' '. '~-~, ' : _'-. _. 
help them realize their goal profit the $2000 cost of the necessary figure of $660 per month. equipment put a quick damper on 
For the student looking for other that idea. unique and revolutionary delicacies , Other. innovations include_ the St. from campus food sales, we have a · Ed's credit policy; -· whereby hall number of suggestions. · Lewis, the residents can get credit of up to newest dormitory food sales service, $4.00 on their purchases. Farley has is selling yogurt in a variety of also set trends recently. Its food flavors: plain, strawberry, cherry, sales has been known on occasion to blueberry, peach_ and raspberry. For sell gift certificates. Last week the 45¢, anyone can sample some. (It's dorm_ran a special bargain of ham­still cheaper than the Huddle~) And_· ·burgei-sfor 25¢ ·(thanks to a meaty if you're in the mood for a strange donation, from Dr. Emil Hofman, of new soft drink, Breen-Phillips' Nehi the leftovers from a freshman Peach might be just what you're picnic)~ · looking for. Even the ice cream ad-After reading these culinary ad~ diets may soon find a new source of ventures, we hope you will put the satisfaction for their cravings. SchoT,astic's .Underground Guide · to Walsh, Fisher. and. Za'.'land are. each use: .After an,· selecting .the opti­trying to find a used _freezer so that mum study . break' experience is an they can store and seff hard ice art' :which must be . cultivated. cream. -Walsh Hall food sales has Tonight.don't instinctivelyp~d down­gone as far as considering the pos:. stairs and tolerate.the usual. Variety sib_ility of _selling soft ice, c~eam,: but' is the spiceof li!e, no_t heartburn.. 
FOOD'SALES BASIC PRICE GUIDE· 
.-Fresh· 

Fresh Soft Stewart-Hall ·Cheese Pep. -Drinks . Type ­
-Pizza,.
-Food Sales Pizza '12-oz Hamburger Breen~Phillips 1.45 .25"· Farley 1.80 2.10. .30 Flanner 1.50. 1:75 .25 :60 Grace .1.50 1.75 .25 .55 Keenan-Stanford· 1.40. · 1.10: · .25. -·.5o· Zahm 1.40 1.70' .25 .45 
X* 

Alumni 2.00. 2.20 ;25 ' Cavanaugh 1.45 "'1:10 -/;. .25 X* Dillon 2.00 ·.·· :30 · .55
2.50 ,_ Fisher :·1.so •_-2.00· :30 .55' ­Holy Cross X .25 · Howard X ·.25 Lewis 1.75 2.00 •'j5 * · Morrissey 1.75 2.00 .30 -.45 Pangborn• X ; ~k ...25 .55 Sorin 1.50 i.60 . 30 .55 . 
St. Ed's 1;65 ''l.80 .30 .55 X 
* 

Walsh --X .25 
.50 

All priced pizzas are 12" 
* 
sells pizza muffins 

X. 
sells frozen pizza 



Up With Faculty Consciousness!.. ,: 
In the following brief space I document stresses the importance would like to gi~e.my views on the of the principles of bilateralism and evolution of the Faculty Senate and of shared governance in matters of its relation fo raising the level of academic and finandai priorities. faculty' consciousness on issues of The senate and more generally the University governance ..The purview Notre Daine faculty as a' whole, as of the senate is wide, as defined in evidenced by the . response to the the Academic Manual: February referendum on University 
.The range . of . concern .. of the . governance, .find . themselves at 
.Faculty Senate extends to matters loggerheads with an administration 
affecting the Faculty as a .whole. whose mode of operation often ap­
The Senate , seeks · to formulate · pears to be rigid, vertical and uni­
faculty opinion and for this. pur­lateral at a time which should be a 
pose may, at its discretion; con­transition· period toward shared 
duct Faculty meetings and refer-· governance. Communication is some­
enda. . 
The Faculty Senate is a relatively young organization. at Notre Dame and its brief hist~-ry is in · part a :search -for its . identity and for an 
effective mode of operation. Its 
character and style have changed 
somewhat from year to year . with 
new chairmen and Executive Com~ 
mittees.. In recent years the senate 
has been more activist than formerly.. 
Until a year or two ago, some people· 
even questioned whether or not ·the · 
senate truly was representative of 
Notre Dame's faculty opinion,. al­
though last February's referendum 
on University governance estab­
lished that it was indeed. Increas-

ingly the senate sees its task as one of articulating the .faculty's role in times cited as the source of the University governance and of mak-problem, but such is not necessarily ing the faculty's voice effectively . ·the case since there·.is a . fairly heard. efficient network in · existence to 
'Let me attempt to sidestep the po-communicate (in the sense of in­.tential philosophical morass of de-form) to the faculty any administra~ fining the nature and purpose of a tive fait accompli. Communication university, and' subsequently its and effective faculty input are dis­proper form of governance, by re-.. tinct questions:, The difference be­ferring to the 1967 Statement on tween the two is apparent in the Government of Colleges and Uni-· constitution of the new Budget Pri­versities of the American Associa-orities Committee· in which the tion of University Professors. That deans, at the, President's request, 

by James T. Cushing 

nominated the faculty representa­tive for whom _the College Councils could vote,in spite of the fact that the · faculty at·· large had, in the February referendum, clearly asked for faculty-wide· elections of. the representatives. The senate's more activist stance has· come as a result of frustration. produced by lack of administration response to other ap­
proaches. 
The administration has expressed 
the opinion that_ the senate ought 
more properly" concern. itself with 
faculty business, (i.e., teaching and 
research). Of. course these are pri~ 
mary concerns 9f .;the,; senate, but 
such questions are not uncoupled 
from _the issues. of governance, :pr~~ 
ori ties and faculty_ welfare;--·From 
another. perspective, although one 
need. not go so far. as Bolt's Crom-· 
well and see the primary job of ad­
ministrators as: that of minimizing 
inconvenience, nevertheless, it is the 
task of the• administration to serve 
the comm,~nity; not to dictate to it. 
Finally, itis important when dis­
cussing Notre Dame, )ts tradition 
and goals, not to equate.Notre Dame 
to the administration.. That is, any 
faculty_ member or organization has 
the responsibility_ to serve Notre 
Dame (110( necessarily the admin-. 
istration) by pursuing that course 
which he or it/perceives best for 
Notre Dame, which, perception may• 
differ considerably from that . of 
the admi~istration.·_ In keeping with 
this. responsibility, the senate has 
been serving the Notre Dame com~ 
munity' by attempting to· raise the. 
level of facuity consciousness on key 
governance issues· in ·the belief that 
the exer:cise of a faculty's legitimate . 
role in governance is essential for a 
viable University. 

.The· Gentle Eccentricity of·Mr. Clark 
The cover of the book reads The 

Eccentric Mr. Clark. One day four 
years ago, Francis P. Clark, the Uni­
versity Microfilm Technician, found 
it taped to the door of his office in 
the basement of Memorial Library. 
Though the book is not. his auto­
biography, Clark indicates that his 
eccentricity is . a freq9ent topic of 
humor among "some people." · 
Mr.. Clark has a very relaxed a~r 

and appears very much at home in 
his office. Indeed, he gives the im­
pression that his work is a pleasure. 
His basic responsibility is microfilm­
ing library materials; but, in addi­
tion, he is very knowledgeable of the 
history ·of Notre Dame and of the 
Catholic Church in Kentucky and 
Indiana. 
· Born into an Irish Catholic family 
in 1936, he first demonstrated an 
interest in Church history when he 
wrote a paper in the eighth grade 
on the history of his hometown 
parish in Louisville, Kentucky. But 
his historical interests were sub­
merged -for the· next-10 years while 
he worked in a bakery._ His baking 
career ended abruptly, though, after 
the owner criticized him for putting 
too. much meringue on a · lemon me­
ringue pie. Mr. Clark. describes his 
response: _"I threw down the 65 
cents for the pie, hit him in the.face 
with it and walked out." 
At 23 years of age he got a job in a printing company -where he be­came interested· in microfilming. At · the same time he began researching numerous parishes for the Diocese of Louisville on.a part-time basis. This became his full-time occupation, and · from 1958 until 1960 lie worked on seven parishes, digging· through and 
reorganizing the files in each, writing .their histories. 
Mr. Clark. wanted to create an 

archives for American Catholic 
newspapers. He came to Notre Dame 
in 1959 asking for funds, but as is 
OCTOBER 10, 1975 
often the case here, there was no money available. However, in July of 1962 he began working for the University, traveling around the country . gathering . Church history on microfilm. He spentfour years in the field and by July of 1966 he had microfilmed over 100,000 pages of documents which went into the Uni­versity. library. Since 1966 he has lived in South Benci working on a number of different . University projects. . .•· -. ·_ . 
Clark's strongest interest for many years has been American Church history,. but because of the iinm.en~ sity of the subject he has concen­trated on the Catholic. Church in Kentucky and Indiana: Kentucky, because it is his home state and In­diana, because he has lived her~ for the past nine years. His personal collection °of.-books on' Church his­tory in, th!;! two states exceeds 5000 volumes: and he gets a lot of mail from students anci . researchers re­questing information; often he is able to help them. He is presently writing 
by Jim Romanelli 

a bibliography of all books, articles and periodicals pertaining to Ken­tucky and Indiana Church history. 
Notre Dame is also a very big part of his life.. He. collects and mounts old newspaper clippings on the Uni­versity going back as far as 1843. As a member of the Committee on the History of the University, it has been his personal task to search down and microfilm complete sets of the mo~e .than 100 various types of publications the .University.has pro­duced. In light of the upcoming Sesquicentennial in 1992 .he would like to see "a . six-or. seven-volume history of the University done." But he doubts. there is enough .interest for that.. · 
And as for his . eccentricity, it is best to quote him: "There's an old saying around here that when I die they'll probably back up a semi and start heaving. But I have _news for them: If they do I'Hcome back and if they think Gipp haunts Washing­ton Hall, well, they just don't.know what real haunt~ng is." 


\ 



Law School: The Cartography of the Future 
• By the time I graduate from Notre D·ame I will have spent nearly $16,000. That's quite a bit of money for most' middle-class Americans.· Sixteen thousand dollars~that could buy two small Mercedes Benz-or a small bungalow in the mountains-or eight deluxe trips to Europe. Sixteen thousand ·dollars· and what• shall I have? A degree in American studies and a mind full of ideas· and mem­ories. · To most financially minded individuals it would appear that I've been · taken · in the · deal; Really, what's a person to do with a liberal arts· degree? it is a question inany parents of N~tre Dame seniors 'are now asking. "Son, this is mom. How are yoti doing? Did you decide what you're going to do next year? You really should ·. decide. Your father and I have· put out a great deal of money and you should do something . worthwhile with. your life.". 
Decide. Decide! Decide? Well,·· medical school is ruled out. Too late to go into engineering. Too many English teachers; Management trainee for a department store chain -no way. Well, I guess I can always go to law school. 
The law pro~ession appears to be a very rewarding one for many. in­dividuals. Prestige, wealth and social action. What more· could a· person ask for? Look at Petrocelli-every week he_. saves a .confused. farm worker, plus he gets a nifty pickup truck and a secluded·. haven· in .the desert; far from the madding crowd. And who can forget Kate McShane as she defeats all foes in the pursuit 

... of justice and truth? . 
The myth. But what is the reality? A law student I interviewed gave a pretty good description ·of the reality. "People don't realize that most lawyers put in a 60-hour week, writing and researching, and· get paid somewhere between . $15,000 and $20,000." ·There are exceptions to all rules. However, there is a. de­gree of truth to the student's descrip­tion. The average income of lawyers in the United States is $27,000. The average income. One has to realize tliai a good portion of lawyers make considerably less than this.. And the work is often demanding and te­dious. . .. 
Dean· Waddick gives a good de­scription of the. law profession ina handout for prospective law stu­dents: "The attorney's . most im­portant function is to prevent Iitiga­tion, whenever possible,' although most persons picture' him as ari ad­vocate, representing clients iff court. 

.He is a· counselor, a researcher, a writer of reports, legal arguments or 
· speeches. He is also an administra­tor who ·must devote time to the office details of his practice."_ 
The majority of students I spoke with ·about law school were not sure of their motivation for going into law. They felt law school would give them a good background, and that they could always _use the law degree · in such areas_ as business or public administration. There are conflicting opinions about the use of a law . degree as a background source. Prof. David Link, acting dean of the law school, stated, "Law-is a good train~ ing even if one does not want to become a lawyer. Lawtrains one in 
by Bill Gonzenbach 

problem analysis ·and · solution and it can always be useful." However, Dean Waddick, assistant arts ·and letters dean and pre-law _advisor stresses that one·should study law to be a lawyer. ·"Law school is ·a specific training which _develop skills in thinking ·. and · reasoning as a lawyer.J' ·_ If-e advises that if one 
··desires to go into business or public administration, · · then one should pursue studies in a business admin­istratiori ·program or a public ad­ministration· program. 
Whether one uses law as a specific training for a profession or as a background · field, · a· definite aspect and appeal of the law profession is that it offers one a degree of secur­
jty. Or does it? Dean Waddicknotes that "the young person thinking about becoming a lawyer has to con­sider certain hard facts: (1) earnings of lawyers are bound to level off and quite possibly decline; (2) employ.:. ment is•going to become more dif­ficult and will take personal initia­tive; (3)graduation from law school carries no guarantee of a job; (4) law school is very expensive; (5) the potential' law student should have a 
· purpose inmind and if he is to have a purpose in mh1d he must know something about lawyers and the profession. He should know not only what law school is but also what it is not.u, 
Both. Deans Waddick· and• Link stated. that private law practice ems ployment has declined,_ however, they noted that other areas are opening up.• As Dean Linkstated, "Job place-_ ment . in private practice~ is tough; One has to expand horizons and seek 
14 

early '70's there was a social motiva­tion for going into law. Now the average guy has a vocational motive. He looks on law ·as a profession, a job," stated Waddick. .. Dean Link. remarked that ·"the idealism still exists, but it is not as strong." .With a decrease )n opportunities, there is an increase in personal security. The ·great social concerns of the '60's have passed. However, as Dean Link noted, there. are , still some· oppor­tunities for each lawyer to do some 
work in the social arena. 
_As the job prospects . become 
limited in the legal profession and as 
more high-quality students seek the 
legal profession one is forced to 
wonder about the academic com~ 
petitiveness of the prospective law 
students. Dean Waddick feels that 
the pre-law students' competitiveness 
is not as great as the pre-med's com­
petitiveness because there is no 
definite pre-law program, and 
secondly because "one does not have
'~'-·, ~·:,.-11~
' · · ~ 

,:)@~,
· ,,,. ~;
1~-,.:: -13~,-~(
J t;.J, .~.....~ ' 
~"! ; 

' ·
•

~~za .~ 
.~::::o~:,.-lS ,-~ 
,~~ ··· 
~~·-'. : 
~-~ '->-...'\ · \

~~:~,~-~·~1:}1~1\~ .. . . . :~~;~~~:\~~! ~:~~r:a~:; ;~ 
. ~, • skip Michigan, go to Podunck U.? 
to be the very best student to get into law school." Though there is not a strong person~to-person com­petition among those desiring to go to law school, there is, however, a strong inner, personal competitive­ness. 
For the most part, individuals from Notre Dame have a strong desire for success and accomplish:­ment. They do attempt to· make ·something worthwhile out of their lives (to quote someone's mother). The fear of failure, i.e. not gaining some degree of social status, is an awful prospect for an achiever\ Therefore, to gain prestige and a 
· sense of accomplishment, i.e. to get into agood law school, the individual pushes for grades; competes in the game for a reward-the first prize being an acceptance note· from Harvard Law School.' The sense of inner competitiveness is also man­ifested as the day of the law boards approaches. Students wonder if their 
whole life will °go for naught; will they get below a 650? Will their 
· · ~~YA With the law boards upon the pro­
, ·~ ~ 

. ~ , """ spective law students and with ap­~~i?' . · · plication deadlines approaching there
~,jl,~ ::."'=~~:~ f~~:u~or,~;-:::::
aii[I-'r~ :::. ::~;n,~,u~~t:i:.~ ~:·:.!~ 
r,1, fJ1i\\ ~~:7§~J.qf~g¥,:;,;~~ 
. (_1\ ~(_J./·:_·,_:~.. 
: I I l. ·,.1 
l I f i •1 · i1'
D 'l •.,
•l 
I_ ... ·ri,•, ffl!t_·"'~·•·: .. :.:•]J.
1\··:·_:_•·.·.. 
: " .... ·'­
. ~ 1 11<!tu 
,::;;.: jf:I
~=it: 
. 
• .
' 

school routine and I'll never make it through·1aw school." The future is frightful, but forced: decisions are 
even more frightful. To be good at
something, one must want to be good at it. As Dean Link stated, "To be a great lawyer one has to want to be a -great lawyer. It's ,.determination that makes one a success." 
The pressure_ is -great to decide 
· now, but to be sure of one's decision it is necessary to step back from-the pressures and decide what one truly desires to do-devoid of mom, status _and security. 

\ 
l 

1.. 
0 




we are surrounded by visual objects that suggest meanings other than their literal ones ... forms come together in strange, unplanned ways so that often what is seen through the camera's viewfinder appears to have some meaning 
' ' 
. 

that defies comprehen.sion; as if it were a dream ... 
-Eileen Klee senior art major St. Mary's College 



Building A Frontier \ 
Whereas Stepan Center on October Fridays is usually the home. of that traditional manifestation of mindless enthusiasm for the status. quo '--the pep rally -on Friday, October 10, at 8:00 p.m., it wiUbe the setting of 
a . carefully staged demonstration 

·.against American imperialism and the practice of justifying national atrocities such as Kent State and Vietnam by ignoring the facts and spinning them · into a particular myth. Has the SDS come back? No, the ND-SMC Theater has. On that night. they will open their perfor­mance of Arthur Kopit's Indians. Written by Kopit at the height of the anti-Vietnam movement and dealing with the white man's mis­treatment of the Indians, it is set in Buffalo Bill Cody's Wild West Show, and examines Cody's role in and re­action to the Indians' troubles. 
To reinforce the setting, the audi­ence will not enter a normal theater with rows of chairs facing· a pro­scenium stage, but will enter Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show itself. On the floor in the middle of Stepan, there will be a · 32~foot-diameter 
by Michael Desmond 

circle m~rked out in Indian designs ing night; Thursday, October 9, is .with colored tape. Three sets of dress rehearsal, therefore, everything bleachers, each about 17 feet long, must be ready by Thursday night. will form a triangle around the ·Friday, October 3, was the night of circle, and will provide the seating _· the Michigan State pep rally, which for the audience. At each of the •· required an empty Stepan Center. corners of the triangle, there will be Saturday was the football game. · a tower of scaffolding about 20 feet · Sunday. is a day of rest in which high with a six-foot-square base;· ·the outside help required to move all 
· Decorated with the fake Indian arti~ of the heavy equipment is not avail­facts common to the Wild West able. Therefore, the theater would · Show, the towers will have two plat-have to be built between Monday forms on them: a lower one which morning and Thursday night. the actors will use, and an upper , . The · cast, -technical crew and one where the lights will be set up; . director, Dr.· Reginald Bain of the The audience will come in, sit in the · Speech and Drama department, are bleachers and the Wild West Show· confident of their ability to pull off will begin. . ._their four-day sprint. Yet there is· 
Of course, building a theater from · ·one aspect of developing the physical scratch in a place which was never set which has been a constant prob­intended to be used for one has its lem for Di-. Bain and his staff,'specifi-• . problems. Chief among these prob-• cally for Richard ·Bergman,· a ·. pro­lems is time -the towers have to fessor of speech and drama in charge . be · constructed, the bleachers moved of set construction. That is. the ques-. in, the center design laid out, the tion of where one finds bleachers to lights set up, focused and aimed, use for aplay. One might think that a separate · electric power source at Notre Dame, a university· with brought in and sound and light cues some of the nation's most highly de­rehearsed with the actors in four ·veloped athletic facilities, bleachers days. Friday, October 10, is the open-·• would be. easy to· come by. . 
With this .in mind, Dr. Bain and Mr. · Bergman asked the ACC mari­
. ageinerit if they could use the bleach­ers from Cartier . Field or some of the other·bleachers inside the ACC, buLthey ,were told that none were available: As of Sunday,. October. 5, 
. other sources in the University were 
. stiUworking on getting some bleach­ers, bu(with no answers yet. In the event that no bleachers can be found, . Dr. Bain ·said that they would build series of rising platforms, _and chairs for the -· audience would be ·put on 
· those. Ther~ are, however,. few prob­. !ems with the show which are so . pureiy troublesome as this; . most problems arising fr_om the form ·of 
the play or the physical :plant being . used for the play make it more chal-. -lenging . and, ultimately, more. inter­
esting. · .­

Acting in the round, in general, and acting in Stepan Center, in par­ticular, account for most of the chal­lenges facing Bain's company. None of the actors ha.ve much experience 
. :with working in the round, and the techniques used on an arena stage differ greatly from those used while acting on a.· proscenium stage such as that in O'Laughlin Auditorium or Washington Hall. In'. the round the ·actors have to play to an audience which is behind them as well as in front of them~ To help them get the sense of playing in all directions, the fir_st t\yo weeks. of rehearsal were held in Washington Hall's Lab; The­ater. The lab theatre, is a large, empty room on the third· flo_or of Washing­ton Hall, ideally suited to working without a strict definition. between 
. stage and audience. When they began working _in the much larger, emptier Stepan Center, the cast lost much of th_e feeUng-of intimacy :which had developed in the lab, and felt. over­awed by:the impersonal expanse of Stepan..Throughout'the third week of-re~earsal :the -actors worked .to regain their feel-for the size_ of the theater, realizing,that, when the set was completed -in _the. fourth and ·final week of rehearsal, they would be faced .with a new dimension in 
their playing space and would have to adjust to it. Director Bain ex­plains that this puts a·great burden on the_ actors by requiring them to imagine the theater around them and to play on that stage in their mind. 
· Another difficulty in getting used to working in Stepan Center is the fact that the acoustics there are a little worse than those in a ware­house;· When someone says a line it may reverberate for two or three seconds after they're finished. This puts .the added requirement of. over­enunciating on the actors; !twill also cause a problem for_· the ·audience, although the presence of the bleach­ers and the· bodies on them· will soften the _echoing. somewhat. How­ever, Bain feels that the audience will accept the convention of ·the sound at Stepan, that they will be able fo get used to it, and that it will help to increase the ._ dreamlike quality that the play strives for. . 
Aside from the demaiids placed on the actors and crew by the arena stage, the play itself, ~ith _its Indian sun dances, Wild West Show. se­
quences, and large number of extras, makes_ the· costuming, makeup and prop work very difficult. Not only does the play ·require around 30 dif­ferent ·cowboy and Indian costumes and the makeup jobs to go with them, but some actors go through four or five costume and makeup changes in the course of one perfor­. mance. · · Dan Daily, who is co~ ordinating the makeup for the show as well as playing the role of Buffalo Bill, says that he can think of "no other show that is worse" in terms of difficult makeup work. Indians also . pushes, the_ resources •of the prop' depa.rtirient.by calling for large, surrealistic props such as.a Russian grand duke's carriage-a-la-cowboy, and a ·1arge number _of difficult-to­ma:ke and hard~to-find Indian arti~ 
· facts. As this article is being. written before_ that crucial final week is .en­countered, the question of whether or ·not -the problems will be success­fully solved must be left unanswered here. The answer will be given Fri­day,' October· 10, at' 8:00 , p.m, in Stepan Center~ · 

TA-ls It-OK? 
I 
I 
About five years ago, I'm ·OK, 
You're OK, an introduction to Trans­
actional Analysis by Dr. Thomas A: 
Harris; held the number-one position 
on the New York' Times Bestseller 
List forover_ a ye~r and sold more 
than a million copies in hardback. 
This popular book, written in an 
easy, entertaining style, lucidly pre­
sents the · ideas of Transactional 
Analysis first developed in the 195()'s 
by Dr, Eric Berne, author of Games 
People Play, as a tool for self-under­
standing and therapy. In his book 
Harris develops an interesting case 
for Transactional Analysis. With dia­
grams and examples, Harris explains 
how TA works and shows its ap-· 

plicabiHty to · everyday situations. Harris stresses the accessibility of TA-a language that anyone can understand-and insists that it offers -much hope: TA "is enabling persons to change, to establish self-control 
and self-direction, and to discover 
the· reality of a freedom ·of choice.'-' 
How valuable is TA? Dr. Sheridan 
McCabe, Director of the Counseling 
Center, feels that-Transactional Anal-· 
ysis is a "do-it~yourself psychology.''· 
An "oversimplification," TA lllacks 
depth and complexity.'' Although TA 
is not used at the Counseling Center 
and t~e Psychological Services Cen~ 
ter, McCabe suggests that it cciuld 
prove "useful for the sub-profes­
sional," for example, in PTA groups 
or in RA training. · · · 
A different opinion comes from 
Professor Joseph Gatto, an assistant 
professor in the Department of Mod­
ern and Classical Languages. Very 
much interested in Transactional 

Analysis, Gatto co~ducts small TA workshops and "chalk talks" in the South Bend area. He also works as a ~ember of a consulting firm for business groups interested in im­proving interpersonal ·relationships. Beyond the use of Transactional Analysis ·as a means to develop better_ interpersonal relationships, Gatto feels-that TA provides an ef­fective tool for literature analysis and uses it in his Russian literature classes. Gatto points_ out that the great authors are also able psycholo­gists. He feels that TA provides one method of finding "answers· to the · existential questions" posed in litera­ture. Echoing Berne, Gatto points out the strengths of TA as providing a structure of the personality, a "hlue­print of the mind," a · "precision vocabulary," and a "much more ob­jective viewpoint';_ from which to , deal _with problems. Transactional Analysis creates. in each person l(an _awareness to.change" and the ability to ('break out of the past tradition.'' Gatto, "unable to relate" to the no­tion that _TA is simply "pop" psy­chology, feels that TA goes deeper. Transactional Analysis helps to "in­ternalize insights," lets people know . where they are coming from and that change is possible; and finally, with the ''opennessll of I'm OK, }'oti're OK position developed through TA, intimacy with .many becomes 
· possible. · · 
Professor H. Ronald Weber, direc­tor of the American Studies pro­gram, has used Harris' book, I'm OK, You're_ OK, in one of his classes and suggests that the book serves as a 
0 
by Paul Starkey ­

"cultural document," an index to con­temporary American society. Weber points to the popularity of the book and suggests that "a lot of Ameri­cans feel NOT OK.'' He notes that the 
·:book aims at the college-educated middle-class sector: people that are seeking "solutions for· dealing with other people"; feeling a "religious, spiritual void" in their lives; or-just suffering from "general disillusion~ merit." Weber suggests that the pop­ularity of similar types of books; e.g., · Open Marriage;How to Be Your Own Best Friend, indicates "a· significant widespread feeling of malaise in so~ ciety." : . The American --Studies director sees the usefulness of TA, but'further qualifies "at a certain leveL" Harris, he feeis-,-is "not clear" about the level at which TA can work. The professor also expresses the fear that the book could be "harmful" if it ·gives the impression that TA could deal with serious --problems. Weber questions the desirability of theTm OK posi­tion; asksif it· is the most human; and marks the "necessity of feeling guilt" as part of the human condi­tion. Transactional Analysis sup­posedly removes feelings of guilt, but Weber suggests that "a temporary NOT OK position may be creative." , He gives· the example of the rich (in order to alleviate feelings -of guilt) helping · to -feed the poor. Weber thinks that TA is too simplistic. "Life is more complicated· than Harris' book accounts for.'' Transactional Analysis· cannot be "the last word in explaining inner life." Harris describes Transactional 
. : SCHOLASTIC 

Analysis as the analysis '(under­standing) of the transaction, the unit of social intercourse. TA,, in other words, provides a method for exam­ining and dealing with human re­sponse in social situations. In a group situation, a person may use Transac­tional Analysis as a means for under­standing personal response · ( often~ times automatic ~•gut" reactions) to the visual and/or ·verbal stimuli of another person. A knowledge of TA may facilitate social intercourse be­cause it allows a person to .recognize quickly how another person is "com­ing on." A social psychology that stresses ·the -importance of man's gregarious nature~and need for hu~ man · relationships, TA works not only between. individuals, but, -as Harris suggests, at. the community level: "for relationships that affect entire social groups·, even nations." Transactio·nal Analysis. serves ·as a "psychology for the·masses," Harris claim,s; because it uses simple meth­odology and a standardized, acces­sible language: "The question has-al­ways been how to get Freud off the couch ·and to the masses."· Harris suggests that Transactional Analysis -used successfully by psychiatrists, 
.--medical doctors, psychologists, social workers, • p~obation officers, · nurses, teachers, personnel managers, clergy­men, judges, -marriage counselors, youth counselors ,and others-may be· the answer. In .order to ·under: stand •how Transactional· Anaiysis works, it' is necessary -first to be familiar with Berne's theory of per­sonality structure. . Transactional Analysis tenets posit that -three ego states make up a person's . psychology .. Moving away from·•· the'. necromantic jargon of Freud's· ego, superego, and id, Byrne simply refers to the three separate psychological states as Parent, Child, and Adult. It_ is important to note that these states are not merely roles to be acted out, but psychological realities that 'develop early in life, within the first five years. Harris cites from the work of W. Penfield, . Menwry Mechanisms, and remarks that all experience is recorded from the moment of birth, possibly even before birth; memories are not nebu­lous and general in nature, but a· series of specific single recollections; and feelings are inextricably asso­ciated with memories of particular events. Memories, • like tapes, record ·experiences and the feelings con­nected with them. The mind stores the tapes, but often replays .them. For example, when people find them­selves in new situations, but some­thing makes _-them feel like •"I've been ·here before"-that feeling of deja -vu-the old tapes are playing. A person's responses to early life ex­periences are -found in the Parent and the Child. 
The Parent, a tape of external events, records all the experiences that come from association with the child's parent (or parent-substitute, perhaps an uncle or a grandmother). Everything the child sees his parents do and everything he hears them say goes_ "straight," unedited into the Parent. A "taught concept of life," the Parent receives imposed, unques­tion~d, unchallenged data -"Don't cross·the street!" From the vantage point of the small dependent child, the parent ·appears almighty. Be­cause the parent figure serves to pro­vide pleasure (holding, feeding) and pain '(spanking), the "big person" looms omnipotent, sometimes terrible in the eyes of the little child; but re­mains· the source of all security. The impressionable child records all pa­rental· expression (visual as well as verbal) as truth. The Parent of a child receives all the instructional data that falls in the "how-to" cate­gory. The Parent records the "right" way, the accepted way to do things. Through the Parent, then, society transmits the accepted values and mores. The Parent; as a positive force, gives correct, valuable instru_c­tion.c....don't play with fire--and pro­vides nurturing, protection, and se­curity.· When the Parent becomes overprotective, repressive or bliridly judgmental, he/she serves -· as a negative factor and may. harmfully influence the Adult or Child. 
The Child, with a tape of internal events, records a "felt concept"­everything the subjective child sees, feels, hears, and understands. It is inevitable that the small dependent child, incapable of articulation, be­gins from his earliest experiences to store negative . feelings: "It's my fault, again. Always is .. Ever will be. World without. end." Because of the natural situation of childhood, a child, being small and insignificant, experiences. frustration;· rejection, abandonment, anger, guilt, -physical pain; and necessarily develops feel­ings of inferiority. The Child has a positive side, too. In the Child, a person finds creativity and curiosity -the urge to touch, explore, and ex­perience. As Harris suggests, the Child stores all the feelings of the "grand a-ha experiences, the firsts in the life of the small person, the first drinking from a garden hose;·. the first stroking of the soft kitten,'! and similar OK feelings. Harris rightly suggests, however, that the NOT OK feelings outweight the feelings of OK in the Child. Thus, most people must learn. to deal with their NOT OK Child. In order to attain OK feel­ings, , the small child_ may exchange his natural desires, the wants of the Natural Child (e.g., the urge to play with Daddy's favorite pipe) for posi­tive parental response. In this case, the Natural Child becomes the Adapted Child. Adaptation is. one way in which a person deals with their NOT OK Child, but the develop,; ment of a strong Adult helps even more to overcome the feelings of in­feriority. 
The· Adult, the third psychological state, gathers and processes new data; updates and reevaluates old in­formation to decide whether or not the early information fed into the Parent and Child stands up to the re­ality of experience; and keeps,_emo­tional -responses appropriate. :.The Adult begins to function at around ten months, but it is easily dominated by commands in the Parent and fear in the Child. As the Adult grows and develops, a person "can begin to tell the difference between·life as it was taught and demonstrated to him 
(Parent), life as he felt it or wished it or fantasied it (Child); and life as he figures it out by himself (Adult)." 
It is important to note that the boundaries between the ego states of Parent, Adult, and Child (P -A -C) are clearly defined, but very_ fragile, often overlap, and break down easily, especially when a person is under stress. Various conditions may result. A person might have ari impaired Adult, where he would experience an ''overload" ·from another ego state. To give an example, Bob, with the Law Boards. coming up,--begins to doubt his ability to do well and needs to "borrow" the .Adult of his room­mate, John: 
Bob (Child): I'm afraid I just 
won't do well onthe Boards. 
· John (Adult): Sure you will. You 
always do well on tests. • A person might have a contaminated Adult, a situation· in. which the ego states do not remain separate, but overlap. Prejudice is a .result of a Parent-contaminated Adult. The Par­ent data is so forceful-"Our religion is the right one"-.:.that the Child be­comes intimidated. The Adult closes off "the door of inquiry" and refuses to · make an independent judgment. Exclusion refers · to-the complete blocking out of. a state. If a person is always driving himself,. unable to "play," he ·may have a blocked-out or unhappy. Child. Stich a . situation could result from stern parental re­pression during some period in child­hood. If the parents took an attitude of "Children should be seen and not heard," the child might conform'to his parents, block out his Child and deprive himself of happy Child feel­ings. Various combinations of exclu­sion.and contamination describe seri­ous psychological problems. As· men­tioned, the functioning (or disfunc­tioning) equilibrium· oL the · psycho­logical states develops· early. in life. By about .the. third year, the. child assumes a Zife position. 
The life position is the attitude a person holds.· toward other people and Self. Four life positions are pos-. sible: I'm not OK-•-.You're OK; _.I'm not OK-You're not OK; I'm OK­You're not OK; andI'm OK-You're OK. In the case.of the first three pos­sibilities, the Jife position· is ,not a purposeful;. thought-out· decision,· but a conclusion :, based on •early child­hood, experiences.: The life position 

a person adopts depends on stroking 
and ·non-stroking.·. 
Strokes, as positive and negative sanctions, influence human behavior: Depending· on ·the type given, the stroke re-inforces a person's .feelings of OK.or NOT OK. Simply, positive strokes. feel good; negative· strokes feel bad. • Physical expressions like smiling, shaking hands .and • kissing exemplify positive strokes; Verbal expressions .provide important posi­tive psychological strokes:-· .. Good luck on the test! ; "I like being-here . with you." Certain.· actions like 


Fig_ure 1 

clenched. fists, frowns, shouting. an­grily and expressions like '.'Shut up!" produce negative : strokes.. In his 
· imaginatively illustrated b_ook, TA for. _Tots.• (and .Other Prinzes), .·Dr .. Alvyn M. Freed captures the notion of strokes as."warin' fuzzies» (posi­tive strokes) and "cold pricklies" (negative strokes).. 
Overwhelmed. _by . all th~ "cold• pricklies" the world has to offer, the first life position most.people assume is I'm not OK-You're OK. The.small 
·child accepts his inferiority and tries ­
to please {even manipulate).his par-:­
ents in order to get ·strokes. Strokes · 
are vital for survival. Without physi-:­
cal stroking (being held), a baby will die. In some sad situations, children suffer a privation of stroking {or for some reason, remain insensitive ·to stroking). :In such cases, the child assumes the second position· of··I'm not OK~You're not OK and exhibits regressive behavior-and. withdrawal. The third possibility. of I'm. OK--:-:­You're not .OK;. the ."criminal posi­tion," is the life position assumed by the "battered child."· Children • that receive .violent physical abuse from their.parents develop feelings-of I'm OK {if you leave me alone).:_You're not OK (you hurt me); In such sitl1a­tions, the child, learns to~ be: tough, hatred.sustains him and he develops '.'without a conscience." .·Again,-:the first· three life positions do not shift back and forth, but the earlier. life position can be changed. The final position of I'm OK-,-You're OK;is a deliberate attitude, not a feeling. I'm OK-You're OK is not a<position people -fall into, but ·instead, .they choose to make. it; Harris describes the. arrival. at the.·rm, OK-'."·:.You're .. OK· position· as conversion . experi­
ence. He suggests. an analogue with the idea of grace and . quotes from Paul Tillich in_ The New-Being: "A wave oflight breaks :into our, dark­ness, and· it'is as though. a. voice were saying: _'you. -are. accepted.'," According. to Harris, the position:of I'm OK-You're OK provides a feel­ing of intimacy, awareness, and inner peace. · Transactional -Analysis · pro­vides the tool for such a·change.::.-:· -·,.People, in order. to deal with their feelings of NOT OK,' play .gillmes. Games, defined .in TA terminology, 
·are a series of -"complementary, ul­terior transactions" ..that employ a ''gimmick" (a. snare) arid:lead to a well-defined, pfedictable.outcome, the "pay-off.'': The·,,most ._basic game, "Mine Is Better than Yours".. ( e.g., comparing GPA) provides a momen­tary relief from NOT.:OK feelings. ~ The hope of'.TA lies in the.fact·that it_ involves .freedom :of choice and 
1 :. 
allows people to break out of their old games. If people can analyze transactions-understand which ego states originate and respond to stim­uli in an intercourse-:..-they can aban­don imsatisfcatory learned responses to recurring and new social situa­tions· and provide more successful, satisfying responses. The problem re­mains then to analyze the transac­
tion . 

. Clues-word choice, . tone of voice and "body language"-often indicate the nature of the transaction taking place. Typical Parent gestures are a furrowed brow: p_ointing. the index finger and head wagging: The auto­matic unthinking -judgmental state­ments like "That's stupid!" arid dog:. ma.tic, absolutisi:t~rms· like "always" and "never" are generally indicative of the Parent. Tears, pouting,· a whining voice, rolling ·eyes, teasing, delight, laughter, and nail' biting all suggest the state of· the Child. The vocabulary .· of the Child-employs superlatives like bigger, biggest, bet­ter, best, and sentences that begin I guess, I want, l 1vish. When a per~ son is coming on as Adult, he is "listening"-attentive,. with contin­-ual'Inovement of the face; recurrent 


JIM. 
. ' 
Figure 2: 

blinking, straight forward, open. The Adult questions (who, what, where, etc.) and uses phrases like 
that's possible, I think, it is my opin­ion that. As a person learns to pick up the clues, it becomes easier to quickly respond to the different ego states. The following simple exam­ples provide basic transactions and may serve to further explain how TA works:· 
i) Bob and Dave are having a cup of coffee in the Huddle. Bob pounds his fist on the table: 
Bob: "I don't care about the rules. .The University can't tell me what to do!" Dave: ."Yeah, we're not little.kid~." 
. ! ·.• ·, \•; 

Bob and Dave, both feeling threat­ened by the University (Parent); 
. participate in a parallel transaction (Child-Child) that is complementary. If they maintain this position; com­munication may continue indefinitely. (figure 1) · 
. ii) ·n•s quiet hours. Gregg, study:. ing for a mid-term, goes next; door to ask _the guys to turn down the stereo: 
Gregg: "Jim, I've got a ·lot of studying to do. Ca_n you turn it down some?" 
Jim: "Aw,· man, go to the library. I want to hear this album." · 

Gregg comes on Adult to Jim, but Jim responds from his Child. This is an example of a 'crossed transaction that is uncomplenientd:ry. Communi­cation breaks down and friction de~ velops between the two persons. An argument may develop ··ori the'Par~ erit-Child -level; Gregg ·may try -to reason further' with Jim; or he may just go off·to the Hbrary. (figure 2) 
. iii) Mary-Beth and Sue are room~ mates. It is after midnight. Mary Beth, al_ready iri bed, is thirsty. 


MARY BETH 

Figure 3 

· Mary Beth: I always 'get thirsty before I go to bed." : _ -· -· Sue: "Me too: Here's a glass of water." 
, . 
This . example· shows _a duplex transaction. Mary Beth appears to come on Adult with a piece of in~ formation, -"I ·get thirsty 'at this time," but actually (like·a dependent child) wants Sue to get" a glass of water for her. Sue returns' an out'­wardly Adult response, out actually plays t_he nurturing Parent; "Here's your water." Often times, transac­tions are of a duplex nature and it is riot easy to . detect the. veiled mean­ings. (figure 3) 
· The value of TA is still open to questiori.'The widespread'use of the theory· in "clinics" ·and workshops throughout the · country;:· certainly points-to its ·Jasting popularity and apparent'. successes in . some. situa­tions. On the other hand, profes­sionals, for the rriost part, refuse to · place a great deal of importance· on it and suggest only that it may be "useful." Transactional Analysis; with 
-as many avid enthusiasts· as doubtful critics,· remains (like' most ·every-_ thing) OKfor some and NOT OK for others. 
, I 


Vince Moschella & Nancy Brenner 
Nancy Brenner and Vince Mos­chella are the co-chairpersons of the Notre Dame Mock Democratic Na­tional Convention, one of the most unique learning experiences Notre Dame' has to offer. . 
Nancy, . a senior, first became interested in the planning committee through her government and Amer­ican ·Studies major . courses. Her experience on the debate team and as a delegate to the fowa State. Conven­tion in 1972 as a member of its rules committee helps, as Nancy has been working on the political end of the convention, such· as contacting actual Democratic candidates. and other persons i':}volved on the national level to speak at ,the. convention~s four sessions. 
Vince, a junior government major, is in charge of the local organization of the convention .. · His valuable ex­perience in Notre pame activities i~"'. eludes having_ served as· a cabinet member under SEP Pat ¥cLaughlin and helping. organize An, Tosta!, the Collegiate Jazz Festival • and the 
Nazz. 
Nancy, Vince and the rest of the committee are anxious that this con"'. vention be as close as possfble to an actual one. .It will follow. the, step­by-step procedure of a national con­vention which involves not only the voting of the delegates, but also the investigation of the delegates'. er~ dentials, decisions on the rules and the writing of the platform. The platform will be another first for this 
-year's convention; the committee hopes to write one that will be repre­sentative of the Notre Dame s_tu­dents' views. In order to do that, 

pubiic hearings. will begin in a month to debate the various issues to be discussed within it. The mock con­vention itself .will take place from March 3 through March 6, 1976, in Stepan _Center. _· · 
Indians, Arthur Kopit's· p~~erful 

play_about the process _of. myth, is 
the ND~SMC Theater's first produc~ 
tion of the year. The actor playing 
the leading role (Buffalo Bill) is a 
familiar face to faithful .ND-SMC 
theater-goers. Thus 'far, Dan ·,Daily 
has had such roles as Sam in 
The Homecoming, Cheek in Fel'lows, 
and don Quixote in Man of la Man­
cha.:'He ,considers his. most impres­
sive role to be Drummond in Inherit 
the Wind, which was presentE:d. here 
this past summer. . . 
Dan is· .a · junior . with .a double 

major in philosophy and drama. In . addition .to acting, Dan has done 
stage managing. and is currently co~ 
ordi_na~ing make-up for. all four pro7 
ductions, this year . . 
Dan views the play as a manifesta­

ti~n and exa~ination of the thoughts 
of BuffaloBill. He says the play deals with the conflict between Bill's compassion for the Indians and his search for glory. "Playing this role," Dan confided, ."is a tapping of my total ability as an actor. I have to be on stage all the time-no break, not time to sit back and watch every­one else on stage." But, even before he auditioned, Dan knew he "had to get this part." He considers it one more challenge that will help to broaden his experience in the the­ater. 
There . are .numerous Jobs on 
campus which entail much more 
than the outside observer could ever 
imagine. Gabe Zarnoti, .. a·•· senior 
philosophy major,. took on one such 
job when he accepted. the position as 
director of Notre Dame concerts .. He 
was interviewed last sp~ing by.Stu"'. 
dent Union President Tom Birsic 
and was appointed even though he 
had little experience 'in such large 
operations. His_ .. ,interest· .probably 
grew out. of working .as an .Andy 
Frain usher. at concerts i11 ,Chicago 
and also as an agent. representing 
various .bands, but as Gabe admits, 
he really didn't know .what ·he .was 
getting himself into when he started. The moment he· accepted·· the job in May, Gabe was on the phone lin­ing up barids, and the calls ·haven't stopped since. As he said, it's all a matter of _keeping in touch· with people and· finding out when a group is going on four early enough to get a· good 'selection ·of dates. But first come doesn't necessarily mean first served-.:.-th~ cash and every other .specification , in . tlie contract. must 
satisfy the group. _This ·has made 
Gabe a bit cynical about the· whole 
music business and·. caused him to 
label rock bands as "a bunch of 
prima donnas" all out for the money. 
And for all this work, what. re­
wards does Gabe reap? One with 
which Gabe is not so delighted is 
the number of new friends who 
sooner or later ask the same ques­
tion: "Hey, Gabe, can ya· get me 
some tickets?" For this reason, Gabe 
moved off-campus this year. Smart 
move, Gabe! · 

When the 12 o'clock news flashed on the screen, he got up and shut off the television. . His wife remained reclined on the sofa. 
."Le!'scall Elly," he said. . 

''No, she's probably in bed. You know how she loves to go to sleep early," his wife· replied. 
"Aw, c'mon .. She's· in college now. Besides, in South Bend it's only 11 o'clock. She's probably just getting ready for bed. I'd like to talk to my little· girl, I miss her so." 
"O:K.," the wife·'.smiled, "but Elly is no little girl. ShJs a college fresh­man. Why, she's practically a wom­an. I'll get on the upstairs line." 
The five staggered down the hall bumping into doors and walls. along the way.. · . 
"Her~ u' is,. my room!". the first giri ~rew open· the ,door. "Entre!" They all laughed.. 
"'Enfre," mimicked one of the guys as he stumbled in and collapsed on the floor. .'. ·. . 
"Let's · hear some rock-n-roll," _so~eone . yelled. .The . music blared so. loud that the phone rang eight times before anyone heard it. . . 
"Why isn't anyone answering?" the father · wondered. Just then som~one picked up the phone. . "Joe's pool room. Eight ball speak­ing.". A chorus of laughter followed. 
·· Surprised; yet undaunted, the father asked, "Uh-is Elly there?'' "Elly,. it's for you. Sounds like a senior." . . . . . . 
, Elly_ had. had. a bit too much to drink,· but ,she ·grabbed .the phone anyhow. . ..· . 
·"Hi, babe!,.· . 

.. ''Elly, what's going on there?" . ·She recognized her-. father's voice immediately. . · · 
,.. 
"Oh, hi daddy. What a surprise!" She. motioned to the .others to be quiet. 
"I bet it is. What's · going on there?" 
"Not much daddy. We, I mean.:_ uh.;,_a group of people from I-uh--c-:­just got back from Michigan." 


'.'.Michigan! What on earth were yoti doing in Michigan?" cried her mother. 
"Oh, hi ·mumsy; ·how are you?" "I'm fine~ Why were you in Mich­igan?" . _ . . "Well,·uh-we went on a field trip. Yeah,·~ really interesting field trip." 
"Yeah, ·and on the way back we stopped·at three bars,i• came a voice in the background. · · · 
"Elly, that was aboy's vi;>ice. Are 
• : . ·. ~ . . . . .·* •.• :· ,' , ... 
by Daniel Lombardi 

you allowed to. have boys in your room this late at night?" "Sure, they're _allowed here until midnight." . 
. IIMidnight?'' . replied· her mother in a shocked voice.. "I. think that's shameful. What kind ~f school are you ·going to?" 
"Oh, mumsy; it's a blast! Tonight in the dining hall there was a terrific food fight. I gothit in the face by a plate of spaghetti!" . 
uohmigod, are you _alright?" 
.."Oh, yeah, the nurse at the infir­inary·said that the chipped tooth is hardly noticeabie. She also told me I could get the stitches ·out on ·Mon­
day:,, . . .. . . 
"What stitches?"· 
"Oh,' I forgot to teif yoti,.the ones I got at the football ga·me. I got hit in the head by _a beer bottle." 
"A beer bottle!" cried her father. 
"Yeah, and I was 'mad too. Just after they carried me out; the strip­per took off his ·clothes." 
'_'He what?" 
"Well, not'ail of them, mumsy. He left his underwear on. ·But the part of the game that I saw was so excit­ing," she exclaimed. "I love it here." 
"Elly,· you· sound like you're hav­ing. a good time,. but are .you learn­ing anything there?" 
. "Sure, pops. Let's see, last week I learned the hustle, the double bump and a great recipe for wapatula." 
. "Wap a :Whatta?" . . . , 
.l'Hey mom and dad, ·I've really gotta go now. It's.been so nicetalk­ing to you. Thanks for calling.. I'll call you. back sometime. I love you both. Bye." .. "Tom; what kind of school did you send her'to? Tom, Tom?" . ~: "How do you spellHesburgh?" . 
J 

The· Boys They Left Behind 
Greg Blache is 26 years · old. He 
has coached at Notre Dame since 
his sophomore year. He started as 
a defensive backfield coach under a 
man named Parseghian.. He has 
worked his way up the ladder and 
today is a full-time member on the 
staff of another coach, a man named 
Devine. His post today is head coach 
of the.junior varsUy team, affection­
ately known by those close to tli~ 
football program at Notre Dame as 
"the prep squad." Blache loves his 
job almost ·as· much as the school. 
His team reflects his feelings. : ··· · 
Coach Blache is an amiable 'man; 
whose'job is as tough· as any"on the 
staff. The maintenance of morale 
among the players who are left . be­
hind when the FighUng Irish play 
on Saturday is not ' an easy taslc 
"There are about 130 young menon 
the team," Greg declares. "We dress 
60 ·. for home games arid 48 on the 
road. That leaves ·a lot of guys be­
hind." But• this is· not to say that 
the remaining players do not play a 
role in the' success of the team. Far 
frorn it. Greg speaks with an ·air of 
satisfaction,· eyes gleaming; when he 
says, "It takes a special type· of guy . to devote himself to. the prep. squad. It takes a guy who, though he real~ izes he'll never get his name in the headlines ori Sunday moming; is willing to go an outanweek long to prepare· the· varsity. _Everyone· on the• prep· squad must be· prepared. to make this sacrifice. i I'm awfully proud of these guys." . . . . . 
. When the coach speaks, of "these 
guys," one . gets the feeling he is 
talking about his own children. But 
then, he knows. as. wen· as anyone 
the rigors of. big-time·. college· foot­
ball ... He looks back. ori his own· ab­breviated• career, saying, ."I came · here .in 1967 as a defensive back. I wanted to 'make it big' as much. as anyone." , Alas, he would never get -the chance to wear the blue and gold before 60,000-a lifelong dream. "I hurt my ankle," he recalls, grimacing at the thought, "and it never healed." . As he speaks, one can detect a trace 

of disappointment in his voice. Yet, 
interestingly enough, the arikle in­
jury was just the opportunity he needed. "At the beginning of my sophomore year," Greg relates, "our defensive backfield coach was drafted into · the Army. I went to Coach Parseghian ·and volunteered to help out." Ara was delighted at the youngster's initiative and dedi­cation to the football· ·program at Notre Dame. Today, Blache ex­presses similar sentiments concern­ing his players. "They're a dedicated bunch," he says, "who are not the least bit afraid of adversity. They've got a lot of character." One could hardly disagree. 

.• ,J. v..Coach Greg Buu:he 

.Orie wond~rs why these athletes, all of. them promising high school stars, choose Notre Dame when they have fo be aware that they might be "lost' in, ·the shuffle." Blache, hav­. irig made the choice _himself, stoutly . defends their decision. · ''If you can -come· here, you'recrazy riot to. Being · a part of the tradition at Notre Dame ·is really something to ·be proud of." Things don't always _work out as expected, however. Blache reflects, "I came here_ with great expectations. We all do.'' But what · happens when these expectations are not fulfilled'! You'd be surprised. The 
by Paul Hess 

coach explains, "I get seniors -who ask to play JV ball so that they cari contribute." Many_., other places, an upperclassman who has little hope of playing "throws in the towel," opting to ,try his luck · elsewhere rather than graduate. At ND ·this rarely happens. "That's one of the really important aspects _of -this place," coach Blache declares. "The athletes here aren't prima donnas­they have'to workjust like everyone else. But it, pays off." · It:certainly does. Ninety~nine percent ot"Notre Dame's football players get their diplomas, which is an_ impressive statistic which· not too many other · schools can lay claim to.' Not Nebraska. Not Oklahoma. Not even Ohio State-no matter wha(Woody says. Academics play a inajor role 
. in the life of the ND football player, and no one realizes this more than the prep squadders. _ ,i~ · teli' them that the. professors that make you . work the hardest are the'ories that ­you'll really· appreciate in the long 
.run,•:· Greg. says, though he leaves . the_ impression "that they don't quite 
agree. -But · then, what student ·would? ·. To the same degree, it is under the 
most trying conditions that the prep squad gi'{es Blache the greates{satis­faction. · He cites the' first JV game of the tan; two' weeks·'ago 'at Mich~ · igan State...The Irish had'jumped 
_out to a).4~0iea.d ea.rlyirdhe ·game, only to s~e the Spartans come roar­ing back~in the second half, cutting the niargir1 to 14~11.-.It'was'then, however, thatthe JV's showed their fortitude; . "I . was beginning , to · worry," the mentor admitted, "but , my do,ubts ,were _short~iived: ' No sooner had things tightened. up than· the offense'marched 60 yards against a 27-mile:.:an-hour wind in the rain 
. and cold to wrap up the victory." He adds, "It took a ·-lot of 'guts and pride.'1 Guts and .pride. That is the essence of the p·rep squad. .. 
But competing in JV games is only . of secondary importance. -The pri­mary duty ;Of the prep squad is to ­

prepare ,the varsity for its upcoming opponent. It is a job which is not as easy ,as it sounds. Each week, the prep squad is a d_ifferent "team." In .the short span of a day or two, the players must learn a different offense and defense in order to get the. varsity ready for Saturday's game. And the success of the varsity -_depends, to a large , extent, on the · success of the · prep squad. So far, the prep squad hasn't done a bad job, to say the least. _And that means a lot to Greg Blache ..',',When we look up at that scoreboard on Saturday 
.afternoon and see those 31 points up · there, we know that .the defensive prep squad did its job," Greg pro­claims, . ."and when the :opponents score, but one touchdown in three games against us, we know that the offense did just as well. It's a mighty good : feeling," he, concludes. _"We know we've done our s_hare." ...-, 
Billy Adams is a 19-year-old sophomore·.walk-on· placekicker, who resembles a.football·player about as much as Ross Browner.' does the leprechaun.. 'As.. a walk-on, he has no doubt endured.many· hardships, though he·himselfwould be the last to admit it. 'With the new eligibility rule limiting the:number of. players a team can : dress, the prospects of the ,third-string kicker's· suiting up for··a varsity game this season ap~ ­pear about as likely as Iowa's beat­ing Ohio State. Perhaps less. And with classmate Dave Reeve firmly entrenched as field goal specialist for the next three years, Adarns' chances of ever seeing action are minimal at best. Then, why does Ii.e do it? "First of all, I believe that college education is a lot more than aca­demics," says the College of Business Administration's dean's list student, demonstrating an insight on his part thattoo many students here at Notre Dame' never realize. "I'd like to get out :; of · here reasonably well­rounded;'' he adds. Easier said than done at a place where' grade point average rivals. eternal salvation as top priority in . the minds of the stu­dents. But playing football at Notre Darne is· riot your everyday, run-of­the:.mill extracurricular activity. Not quite. __ Adams continues, ."Notre Daine is the greatest team in the country and the greatest school for spirit-I just wanted to·be a' part of it." He.speaks with th_e utmost sin­cerity -and conviction,_ and one real~ izes .that, even if he never dresses for a varsity game,· to him, at least, it's well, worth . it. Arid that's all 
that counts. _ . _ , ._ _ 
_But what about the player who has been to the top, who has_ played for the·, varsity and shown great promise one year, but finds himself playing JV ball the next? One would expect such a player to be bitter and distraught. One would expect such a player to merely "go. through the motions," as the saying goes. But this is not always the case. Take Tom Parise, for example. The senior ·fullback was a full~fledged member of the _varsity last year and con­sidered by -many· to be a prime candidate for a starting berth this season. But· due to the presence of a plethora of high caliber running· backs on the Irish squad, something had ·to give, arid Parise has been­relegated_this season to prep squad st~tus. Most players would be dis­gruntled with such a turn of events. But not. Parise. ·_ At least not if Billy Adams' -testimony ·js true. · "You should seehii:n out there," the sopho­more relates, "he's.got the best atti­tude of anybody on the team. He never quits trying ,to improve him­self. He's really dedicated." And he's not the only one. Junior line­backer Marvin Russell started last season, but this year found himself on the JV squad for much the same reason as Parise-there are just too many outstanding linebackers. Such a situation is a coach's dream-but not a player's. But Russell didn't let it get him down. Again; Adams perks up at the mention of Russell's name. He explains, "Marvin is the most spirited member of _the entire team-he never stops hustling. _It's really a pleasure to watch guys like him and Parise." The sad. thing is that so few people do. 

-Uniacke. Moriarity. Palazola. The names aren't exactly household words. But then, to them at least, being a household word is not all that important. The fact that they are a part of Notre Dame football is. Adams describes the feeling when he says, ,CWhen you put on that gold helmet, even if it is only for a JV game, you get that feeling of prid~ you've got· an image to stand up for." Coach Blache agrees. "Just putting on the ol' Blue and Gold is enough to give you goose bumps," he says. Indeed, just· watching the "ol' Blue arid Gold" will suffice. Just ask-any student who ·has ev_er been to a game. 

The Blood for Lunch Bunch 
"Give Blood -Play Rugby" is a popular saying commonly displayed on the . rear bumper _· of many a rugby enthusiast. For those who are familiar with the game, either as· a player or a spectator, the truth. of this statement is beyond question. But · there are still those who are unable to comprehend the sport's reputation as one of the most physi­cally demanding forms of recreation at Notre Dame. A_s 1975 team. cap­tain Bill Sweeney stated, "You have to experience a rugby ·game-it simply ~efies description." 
Rugby's renown as a sport for only the heartiest of men originated in Great Britain centuries ago and this tradition is observed with 1prid~ by the members of the Notre Dame squad. It is a year-round sport, de­manding constant conditioning and practice; however, the players are equally proud of their antics off the 
[\?---"~~ ,---,--·---. . 
:,, ; i,' 
by Judy Robb 

field. The traditional rugby after­game celebrations are rituals in themselves, surpassing even the . old Notre Dame ·armory parties. in en­thusiasm and mayhem. "Half of the guys come out just for the good time a·t the parties," observed John Fro­man, a. senior member of the team: The club emphasizes the social ad­vantages of belonging to this high~ . spirited, cohesive group, with dues · and fund-raising projects aiding in payment for: beer and damages. The dues also enable the squad to pur­chase equipment, travel to away games and plan their annual spring tour, this year tentatively scheduled as an expedition to Florida. 
In spite of 'their notoriety as ·a "rowdy" bunch, the Notre Dame team is not to be underestimated in a game situation. The president of the Midwest Rugby Union-recently observed that Notre Dame is physi­cally capable of defeating any team in the Midwest this season. With thirty experienced players returning to compete for fifteen: starting po­sitions, the outlook for the 1975-76 season is optimistic, tci say the least. In the opening clash against Purdue, 

the Irish devastated the Boiler­makers in all three flights -an indication of what lies ahead -for upcoming opponents. The fall sched-. ule features relatively mild college competition, reserving the more difficult clubs for the spring lineup, when the ·team expects to be at its peak. Two traditional . rivals, . the Chicago Lions and ·the Cleveland Grays,· are included in the spring schedule. "These are amateur clubs with quite a few foreign players," said Sweeney. "This, along with the fact that most of the players· are older than our guys, usually gives them a slight edge against us, al­though this year we may very well have the advantage." 
Unless battered beyond recogni­tion, -familiar faces on the field this year will include seniors Mike Toby, Bob O'Coriner, John· Froman. and Sean McDonald. ·. With assistance from Doug Moeser; Bo Olsen and a clan of talented· juniors and _sopho­mores, -all positions are·• completely filled.' . Home games are . held on Saturday behind Stepan · Center, . with the first match beginning at 
10:30 A.M .. 
SCHOLASTIC 


Graduation left a large void in the Irish soccer team;· However, under the guidance of coach Bob Connolly and captain Mike . Flynn, the ND hooters are realizing their full po­
tential. · · · .: The i'A'' team lost 1-0 to avery good Boston College eleven and will 
encounter a formidable array of op­ponents. in·'. the remainder of· the '75 season, including Purdue, Central Michigan, University of Chicago and · Cincinnati... Led. by forward .Tom Bernardin and frosh halfback Bill Hagerty, the squad includes addi­

. 
tional standouts Pat Flood on the 
front line and Mark . Klein in the . 
nets. 
Paced by Steve Fitzen, Jim Hum­boldt, Bob Gildea and Pete Logan, the "B" division of the Notre·Dame club hopes to add to the winning tradition of Irish soccer.. 
A · successfui sports· effort requires the combination of experienced per­sonnel_ and a crop of fresh, young, enthusiastic athletes; the Notre Dame. men's crew has both ingredi­ents, plus some. Equipped with a newly · purchased eight-oared shell-. the· "Steve Buccini"~nd two. new docks, the crew is. practicing six 
OCTOBER 10, 1975 days a week on the St. Joseph River in anticipation of upcoming races with Purdue and Detroit U. The cul­mination of the fall rowing season will occur on ·: October 25, when the varsity eight, strokecl by captain_ Ed Tagge, travels to Boston for the head of the Charles Regatta, one of the most prestigious collegiate row.:. ing events in North America. Coaches·· Bill Godfrey and Chris Coogan and the club president John Claude feel confident that the Irish oarsmen will' ·truly reflect Notre Dame and its athletic programs. 
. Basketball coach Digger . Phelps has announced ·that juniors Billy Paterno and Adrian Dantley will be the captains for. the 1975~76 Irish basketball team. Dantley and Pa­terno, both forwards for Phelps' Irish last season, add maturity and game savvy to the Notre Da_me program. With .Indiana, UCLA. (twice) and Kentucky on the schedule, their ma­turity will indeed be tested. On be­half of Scliolastic~ we wish them the very best of luck. . 
Notre Dame's. loss to Michigan 
.State broke a number of :records iii the perennial. ND-MSU,. series .. It marked the first time MSU has de­feated Notre Dame since 1968, and also signified coach Denny Stolz's first victory over the Irish. It marked the first occasion that ..a Notre Dame team has been unable to score a · touchdown since 1965, where in consecutive games against Michigan State and Miami of Flor­ida, Parseghian. teams could not score ( 12-3 versus MSU arid 0-0 , against Miami). And of . course, Michigan State game marked the end of an age-long tradition at Notre Dame-the Naked Kahuna's show at the third quarter. . Certainly, the Michigan -State victory will be ling­
-ering for a long time to come. 

The Summer Olympic Games .at Montreal· may have one of .Notre Dame's top fencers competing for the United States. Tim Glass, a junior tri-captain for ·Mike DeCicco's._Irish fencers, is eighth on -the Olympic trial team by virtue of his second­place finish in the U.S. Nationals this summer;-.His efforts this sum­mer included a second-round elimina­tion in the World Championships in Budapest and a third-round elimina­tion atthe pre-Olympics a:t Montreal. There are three more trials remain­ing for the ·team, which will send four to Montreal. 
Swimming is perhaps the sport most overlooked at Notre Dame; the program . is generally ·lost in the shuffle of the three major sports. However, Denny Stark's Irish · tank­men had one of their most successful seasons last year, and many of that youthful group are returning for 
-another campaign.· _ Captain Mark "Speed".Foster can count on a large number of underclassmen to carry the heavy burden of a long schedule, but he has proven talent in Jim Severyn,· Pete Kinsella; Brian M~ Corry, Bob Ebel _and Ed Fitzsim­ons. Home meets _are held in the Rockne · pool, with traditional. rivals Oakland, Wayne State and Northern nlinois providing keen competition. 

by Sally Stanton 

Life is, irideed; fraught with elf were pretty slim. They were out trauma. A weekago Sunday I lost all there somewhere; my only liope was my keys-including Farley's first~ that someone had found them and floor master and the key to that hive they weren't lying. under some in.,­of journalistic activity, the Scho-nocuous bush, entertaining chip­lastic. Needless to say, I was some-muriks and stray C8:ts. 
what distressed. I once had .a. friend who trusted 
The next day I parted company no one, who guarded every posses­with my purse, with my waliet, all sion with intensity and suspected a four of my dollars, checkbook and thief ·under every shrubbery. · . It a semester's supply of pens · and seemed a little exhausting to me, like , 
pencils. . my fourth-grade watch for· World . I had nightmares of dark men, War III or freshman (even senior) cloaked in muddy trench coats, ·hats worries about law. school. When pulled down over their eyes, slurking someone went through . all the into the South.· Bend bus terminal, pockets of my deserted blazer one my purse slung over their shoulders, day and mad~ off with my 45 cents, I the last ten years of Scholastic. (we survived-perhaps momentarily dis­offered them to the Boy Scouts,, but heartened, but alive. 
they declined) and all. my floor's . The greater danger·may be· a fear stereos tucked.. in . their. portman-oflosing self; of losirig face, cif being teaux. · ridiculed or hurt. Such a fear can 
; I began to put my affairs in order, consume all our energy, spurring us to say my fond farewells. Lwalked to· scrupulously guard affour-sides the ivy-covered halls andJeaf~strewn against attack, to build defenses· paths composing my last will and strong and deep. It becomes easy to testament. use stereotypes, causes, clubs, classes 
There's a specific air of helpless-as shields to fend off any contact. ness, of "quiet desperation" which . And the larger our defenses become; persons who have lost something · the easier it is for someone to brush exude. Their eyes are glazed, retrac-up against them by' accident a.nd ing each · step they've taken in the bruise us. . . last year and a half, and it is often · 
• Perhaps it also beco.mes easier fornecessary to address them numerous Persons to walk past without notic­

times to gain their attention. A part . . . of. themselves is missing, lost in ing. us, our protective coats so thick action, and there seems to be nothing . they mistake . us for toadstools or fallen leaves. • ·· · 
they can actively do to bring it back. . _ It comes as a shock·.at times, to It is possible to worry too much 
. realize how completely we · depend . about losing things,. I think; risking on others. After I'd looked every-. even a little of oneself can be good. place I'd been between locking my It takes a certain amount of brazen­door .and missing my keys;r could ness to trust people, to loose a part only put an ad in The Observer, pray of the personal on the world, be itin to St. Anthony and wait. , The organizing aparty; or saying hello to chances of my keys falling through a stranger on the quad, or -v,riting a black hole into another universe or. som1:thing ·as .silly and insignificant being spirited· away by a· vagrant as this Last Word; There is always 
30 the ~hance that whoever finds it wiH send it back transformed not with joy and carefulcriticism, but cruelly twisted and dim_inished with disdain. 


Failure is never pleasant; yet it is 
rarely fatal. If life. were totally safe 
I suppose it would be a bit tiresome. 
Arid itis full of surprises. 
A friend told me o~ce, of · a 'girl 
she'd known who had gone to 
London for a vacation. She had 
fallen in love with England, had seen 
all the sights and visited all the 
places tourists visit and written all 
the postcards tourists write. One of 
her cards, however, had gotten lost 
in the shuffle;. she had written a 
message, addressed it, but it had 
escaped her before she'd had a 
chance to buy a stamp for it.. Some 
Londoner · must have · found · it, 
stamped and mailed it, for it reached 
its destination with a note attached: 
"Glad you enjoyed our·country." 
I finally got my purse back: I had left it in O'Shaughnessy and one of the secretaries called me the next day. My keys .turned up in the darker regions of the Scholastic sofa. One of my friends suggested I. con­vince the freshmen in my section. to · fcirm a _brigade' to monitor my' ac­tivities, to follow-me around.picking up after me.· Ahhis point I'm afraid it would be too large-scale an opera­
tion. 
The other night Ilost my detex__: 
it snuck out· of my pocket and skit~ 
tered across· the floor and disap­
peared. ;I guess I'll have to .follow 
people around for ~ while, hiding .in 
the bushes and then sliding in like a .shadow_ whEm they open_the door .. 
· I hope no one thinks I'm in to steal the·.. first··· floor's. stereos and calls security. Maybe I'll just have to stop· carrying ~y portmanteau with me. 
SCHOLASTIC 

Do you have a complaint, comment or opinion? 
Tell the . world I 
Write a letter to 
.·, 

Scholastic~ 
·. Address all letters to: Editor Scholastic Magazine
' 

-• Lafortune Student Center· ·No~re Dame, Indiana 46556 
833,500.,000
Unclaimed 
Scholarships 
Over $33,500,000 unclaimed scholarships, grants, aids, and fellowships ranging from $50 to $10,000. Cu~rent list of these sources researched and compiled as of Sept. 15, 1975 . 
UNCLAIMED SCHOLARSHIPS 
11275 Massachusetts Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90025 
. I am enclosing $9.95 plus $1.00 for postage and handling. 
I PLEASE RUSH YOUR CURRENT LIST OF I 1· UNCLAl~ED SCHOLARSHIPS SOURCES TO: I 
· I Name,____________.;____ I . I I I Address~-------------I I City·________State____c..ip_ II (California residents please add 6% sa.les tax.) . I 
L~----------------~---~--J 


;Are·_ you. interested in .marketing? . . . . SCHOLASTIC .needs· an 
. . . . ' 
AOVERTISING MANAGER ·. 
. . ; Schol;·sti~; is in need' of an assistant business. manage~ to. aid the ,current . business>inanager and to idevelop· and·. manage an advertising market; This is ·an' excellerit chance' fo put'into use those marketing techniques while being: paid, lf:in~~rested please co.nia~t Kathy Salie,r. !Jr John ,Phelari at the Scholastic . 
. · office .on the top floor-of-Lafortune. Phone 283"7~69. • • , · . · •· • · · .•· · 
I • " ' ~ ' O•,. ~ , , I • 0 • ' • 
,Thefever -.THE RISING COST 
· Like mostthings, the cost of . . attending medical school · .. has risen sharply_ . . · .. over the last · · 
· . ·.decade.To many · medical students that cost repre• 
· sents c:i heavy burden. a financial · problem that can· affect your con• centration. 
It needn't be · . that way. The 
•Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program was originated to free you from those worries. Men and 
·women who qualify .·. will have the costs of 
·their medical educa· lion covered, and will.also receive a substantial monthly · allowance.· . 

· •' ·. Theprogramoffers 
• more than tuition and salary; it offers you the , ·opportunity to begin your practice under very . . . . . .· • · Armed Forces Health Core favorable conditions. As a health care officer in .· DEDICATED TO HEAIJH CARE AND the military branch of your choice, you'll find . THE PEOPLE VJHO PRACTICE IT 
yourselfwithresponsibilitiesfullyinkeepingwith . r _____:_ __ • ___________7 yourtraining,andwiththetimeandopportunityto I A<medF0<cesScho10,,h;p, -. z-CN-t?S I observe a full spectrum of medical specialties. 1 ~~•ttou -. I 
Whenyoudecideonthespecialtyyouwishto .1 ve,iom,n1e,es1edinkmedF0<cesHe01lhProte51;on, •.. I pursue, you mayfind yourself faking those I Schola,11;poppo,1ur,1,es, uncie<>tocd ~•• is nooo,,gofiOn. . I graduatemedicolstudiesatoneofourmany 1 ~~1y·~!'-"' . A•Fc,ce _ · · ·._, largeondmodernrnedicalcenters.lfso,youcan 1 . Physicom, o0ento1 . Poc,01ry' . op1ome11y I countontholtrainingbeingsecondtonone. 1 . ">tenna,y" . PsychdogylPtDI' • 1­
~oth!heclinicalondresearchworkbeingdone . I· Nome · se,.M .F I 1nthemhavemodeArmy,NOvYondAirForce • IP1eosePr,n1J -­. hospitolsomojornewnotionolmedicol resource. I _Ado-es. =·~--..,. 1 1 .. lfsolongrood,butthefirslstepissirnple.Just I Of¥_____,fai,~----P---· I send in the coupon. The details we send you may.-· 1 Soc,o1s.cu,tv•-.,----------I mokethewholewayolittlesmoo!her. . : . , · En<otlmentu~-----<Schoot,______ .I I I
I Tog,oduole"' {month.yea,) Deg•~-----. I 
I -veterinory and POdiofro;' not ovo11able in NQ'vy Program; ' IIL POd,c.try and Psychology not ovo~oble 1n Army Progrorn ~J·I~ 






