
In Step Witli rrradition ........... . 
The Notre Dame Band 

The Band of f'he Fighting Irish 

. DO YOU PLAY A MUSICAL INSTRUMENT? . DO YOU LIKE TO TRAVEL?. . DO YOU LIKE SPORTS.........FOOTBALL? . DO YOU WANT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE 
BEST ORGANIZATION ON CAMPUS? . DO YOU WANT TO PROMOTE ND PRIDE? 
IF THE ANSWER IS YES ! ­ITHE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME BAND I WANTS YOU! 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE WRITE ~qR CALL: 
DR. LUTHER M. SNAVELY, JR. DIRECTOR OF UNIVERSITY BANDS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME BOX 1023 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 (219)631-7136 or (219)631-5054 



"A.TRADITION OF MUSICAL EXCELLENCE SINCE 1846." 


TI 




MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 1 FOUNDED 1867 SUMMER 1995 


CoVERSToRY 


A quick guide to the faces of some Notre Dame personalities that will be­come familiar in the next few months. 
................................ pages 

Return to Glory 

With the number one recruiting class and a 
promising preseason 
performance, theirishhope 
to climb back on top this· 
fall andredeem their name. 
..............................page20 


The Freshman 15 

Most of you are leaving home for the first time. And no matter how prepared you are, you probably still have many questions about daily lifeatNotreDame. Scholastic's survival guide will try to answer some ofthese questions. 

FEATURES 

The Dark Side of the Dome..................................... 7 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 

Packing 101...................~···········.······························12 · 
.· by Kristin Alwonh Service with a Smile ............................................... 16 
by J. Michelle Cox 

Best ofMichiana.....................................................28 
by Chris Blanford and Miranda Sanford 
Prerequisite: Film 101 .......................................... 30 
by Chris Myers 


DEPARTMENTS 

From theEditor ........................................................... 2 Looking Back ............................................................. 4 NDSpeak .................................................................... 14 CampusWatch ............ -...._.'.......................................... 19 Continued Excellence; ............................................. 23 Splinters from the Press Box ......... ~··················~·······26 Out ofBounds ........................... ; ............................. · ..33 Week in Distortion ................................................... 35 Final Word ................................................... ; .......... :.36 




Your New Home 
I'll never forget the first day I accidently called Notre Dame "home." My mom just about flipped. "What do you mean 'you can't wait to go home?!"' she exclaimed. ''This is your home." 
That was towards the end of my freshman year, and it was then that I realized I had fully made the transition to college. Notre Dame was my home now, and the Notre Dame family had become my family. 
Before long, you too will become a part of the Notre Dame family. Welcome. We are a spirited and diverse group spanning over all 50 states and 70 foreign countries. We come in all shapes and sizes, and we vary in age from 17 to 105. But one bond holds us all together: our love of a specialplace that has helped each of us grow into the person that we are today. . 
Over the next four years, you too willlearn to love Notre Dame. You will learn to love the way the golden dome glistens in the sun on bright fall days, the silent peace on the paths by the lakes, the squirrels which are tame enough to eat from your hand; 
Butmorethananythingelse,NotreDameisthepeople. Yourroommates,your professors, your rector ... These people, and the things you learn from them, you will take with you for the rest of your life. Cherish them all. · 

About Scholastic 
Scholastic Magazine is a weekly magazine thataimes to offer the Notre Dame community insight into campus news, events and issues, while simultaneously providing entertainment and humor. We are proud to be the nation's longest running collegiate publication, and this fall we will begin our 129th year. 
We hope that this issu~ will help to quell some ofthe fears you must have about nextyear. Someof the stories offerhelpfuladvice,whileothers aremostly for your entertainment So sit back, relax and take alook. Have agreat summer, and we'll look forward to seeing you next year. 
Michelle L. Crouch 
Editor in Chief 
Cover photo top left by Michelle Crouch. All others by Aaron Skalicky. 

~~~j 
1


The Notre Dame .Glee Cluba1~~' 
._<1 
Announces AUDITIONS for Iha 1995-95 School. Year 
Join one of -the nation's finest All­Male Choral Ensembles as we Celebrate 80 years of Musical Excellence and Notre.Dame 

Aclivilies include: 
U.S. Tours during Fall & Spring Breaks EUROPEAN tour ~ Summer of / 996 Four MaJor on-campus Concerts each year 
r 
I 
e 
s 
h 
m e n 
A· 
I· 
e 
Be a part ofa Notre Dame Singing Tradition! 











NotreDa.Ine 
LookingAhead... 


Notre Dame is renown.eel forits gor­geous campus, complete with striking architecture and vibrant landscaping. Now the scene upon arriving on campus includes fences, scaffolding, bulldozers and cement trucks. Welcome to the Notre Dame construction site. Three big projects are currently underway and work will continue over the next few years. Early in the spring of 1995, construction crews broke ground for two new men's dorms. Keough and O'Neill Halls, named aftergenerous donors, will be located on the south end of campus, on land previously occupied by the university's golf course. Each dorm will house approximately 275 men. When they open in fall 1996, the first residents will be drawn from Grace Hall, one of the high-rise dorms built in 1969. Atthe centerofcampus, thefirst compre­hensiveexteriorrenovation ofNotre Dame's i16year-oldgolden-domedMainBuilding has begun. The$5 million project, which is 
Crews finish work on the new business building. 
The Changing Face of Campus 
expected to last 12-16 months, will include therestorationandcleaningofthebuilding's 
4.3 million bricks,replacementoftheroof, painting, window replacement and minor electrical and mechanical modifications. 
.Many of the university's administrative officesare locatedin theMain Building, but renovation work is not expected to affect daily operations within the building. Inte­rior renovation is scheduled to begin in the summerof1997. At that time, someoffices will be moved to the vacated Grace Hall. 
A project which is to be completed over the summerofl995is construction of a new Business Administration Building. The building is located on the developing DeBartolo quad.· Scheduled to open in fall 
· 1995,thebuildingwillbeutilizedmostlyby MBA students. Like its neighbor, the DeBartolo classroom building, the new business building will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. 0 



News Briefs 
Looking Back ... 


Early this semester, the administra­tion suddenly infonned leaders of Notre Dame's homosexual student group that they could no longer use the UniversityCounselingCenterto hold meet­ings, since the group is not officially recog­nized by the university. This sparked a wave of controversy about the university's policy regarding homosexual groups. Many campus organizations made pub­lic statements in support of GLNDfSMC. In addition, over 300 individuals showed their agitation with the administration through three protests early this semester. Asthecontroversyheatedup,mediacov­erage exploded. On campus, a series of ·open letters to the Notre Dame community appeared. Statements from the Office of Student Affairs, C?ffipus Ministry and GLND/SMC served as a dialogue of sorts and provided fuel for the fire. The Observer was filled with editorials . and letters to the editor. Alumni, represen­tatives from other universities and homo­sexuals around the country wrote to express their opinions. The South Bend Tribune covered each new step in the battle. The story broke in other publications around the country as well, including the Chicago Tri­bune a.,d the New York Times. 
GLND/SMChasdedicateditselftomeet­ing the needs ofgay and lesbian students on campus. They continue to meet, even with-/ out official university approval. And they continue to try to educate the Notre Dame community. 
Since spring break, the roar of conflict has subsided slightly. Activities and dis­cussion have taken an inward turn in order toprotectthepeopledirectlyinvolved. Both sides have found supporters and protesters, and neither side declared itself the victor. Until the administration, GLND/SMC and thestudentandfacultybodiesfindcommon ground, this issue will no doubt again arise under the dome. D 
1 
*Interested in discussing and learning about International Issues? *Enjoy all expense paid trips to national conferences in New York, Washington, D.C., Toronto, Chicago, 
and more? · 
IF SO BE SURE TO JOIN: 
j 
Notre Dame Model United 
! 
I 
I Nations Club 
Look for our booth at Student Activities Night for more information! 


·---­
-' 



The Dark Side ofthe Dome 
Tales ofhaunted halls, supernatural bells and secret tunnels shroud Notre Dame in mystery 
Stan Evans 
Both the Main Building and Washing­ton Hall are veiled in mystery. 

three tons. When it was first rung in Sacred Dennis, the Basilica sacristan, the Saint by Mark J. Mitchell IV Heartin 1875,itreportedlybrokethewociden Anthony bell rings only a few times each beams supporting it. It was then hung with year on the most important and solemnIf you have a grandfather who gradu­metal beams, and it pulled the beams out of occasions. Because it is the loudest and ated from Notre Dame, there is little the wall again. biggest bell in the Basilica's tower, when doubt that he sparked your imag"ina­So the Saint Anthony bell was allegedly it does ring, it can be heard across the tion with stories of the university. Even if leftrestingona platform high in the tower, campus. you do not have relatives to regale you never to ring again. But its famous low 
Hidden Floors 

with university legends, a campus tour ring can be heard from time to time across will_ supply you with several bits of uni­
The Main Building carries with it many versity lore. legends of its own. Most of them center 
While these tales add color to the around its reputedly condemnedfifth floor. university's history, some of them bend Though visitors cannot go up to the fifth the truth a bit. Scholastic has tried to get floor, it is only closed, not condemned. the stories behind the legends and the There is no access because, without an 
secrets. elevator, it is too difficult to put offices up that high.Hauntings The fifth floor also holds the entry to the 
Some of the favorite Notre Dame tales hidden staircase to the balcony inside the revolve around the reputed ghosts of the dome. Hidden ladders lead all the way up campus. The most popular story is about to the pedestal under Mary's feet. the Ghost of Washington Hall who has 
Secret Tunnels 

supposedly haunted the old theater since 1886. In that year, a steeplejack was killed Miscellaneous legends surround the se­in a fall from the fly loft high above the cret tunnel system that runs all over the stage. Since then, students and professors campus. The tunnel system provides every. have reported hearing voices, loud thuds building with heat, electricity and phone 
and music coming from the stage area, The ringer of Saint Anthony's ~:i1~1ans service .. according to Tom Barkes, the manager of rumored to be the saint himself. Exits to the tunnels are scattered around Washington Hall. Barkes added that he campus. Students are prohibited from puts no stock in the haunting tale, saying the campus. Supposedly, the great bell· ·entering the securely locked tunnels be­thatall thenoiseis probably attributable to. ringsonlywhenSaintAnthonyofPadua cause of the danger of electrical shock echoes and pipes. · himself strikes it, and ifyou hear the deep from the wires and the chance of collapse 
gong of the bell and you say a prayer to in some of the older sections. Supernatural Forces Saint Anthony, your prayer will be an-The catalogue of legends about Notre 
SacredHeartBasilicaisalsothecenterof swered. Dame could stretch on indefinitely. You a popular campus legend. According to In reality, there is such a bell in Sacred will hear hundreds of tales in your four legend, one of the Basilica's bells named Heart. It weighs 7,000 pounds and hangs years here; and you'll probaoly tell them after Saint Anthony of Padua weighs over on its own rack. According to Brother . all to your grandchildren: . 

F.amily Portrait 
A guide to afew campus personalities 
by Michelle Crouch 
The Man In Charge Rev. Edward A. 
"Monk"Malloy,C.S.C., 

isinhissecondfive-year term as the 16th presi­dentofNotreDame. For­merlyamemberofPresi­dent George Bush's Ad­visoryCouncilonDrugs, he was recently appointed chairman of the new Commission on Substance Abuse at High Schools. He is also a founding direc­tor of the Points of Light Foundation, a national initiative to promote community service. 

Father Malloy hasbeenafacultymember in the Department of Theology since 1974, and he continues to teach today. He resides in Sorin Hall, one of very few university presidents in the country who lives in a dorm with students. 
An Emeritus Extraordinaire 

Rev. FatherTheodore M Hesburgh, C.S.C.,re­tired in 1987 after serv­ing as Notre Dame's president for 35 years. He spends much of his time traveling, making speeches and fulfilling his obligations as a member ofa number of international organizations. 

Despite these obligations, Father HesburghisstillinvolvedwithNo~Dame students. He can be found making guest appearances, lecturing in classrooms and presiding over liturgies in the residence halls. In addition, he chairs the advisory committees of two of the University's aca­demic institutes. 
Father Hesburgh is probably most well­known for his public service career. Hehas held 15 presidential appointments over the years, involving him in major social issues such as civil rig~ts and atomic energy. He is also a leader in the field of education, as reflected in his 127 honorary degrees, the most ever awarded to a single individual. 
Contrary to the rumor that Father Hesburgh lives on the 14th floor of the library named after him, he actually resides in Corby Hall, the residence of many Holy .Cross priests. 
The Woman Who Makes the Rules 

The vice president of student affairs, Profes­sor Patricia A. O'Harais the woman who makes many of the decisions that affect Notre Dame students. She sets the agenda for and makes 


decisions about campus ministry, campus security, student activities and residence life. 
Consequently, her relationship with stu­dents is bittersweet, as many students asso­ciate the Department of Student Affairs with discipline and punishment. ''That comes with the territory," said O'Hara. ''Partofour work is with rules and expecta­tions, but there is so much more to what we do, from CampusMinistryto student activi­ties to counseling." 
O'Hara tries to maintain contact with students, spending time in each dorm at least once a year, and working personally with theresident assistants and studentgov­emment. She also continues to teach two classes in the law school. 
O'Hara was awarded this position in June 1990, becoming the first woman to serve as an officer of the university. 
''Lou" 
WhenLouHoltzcame to Notre Dame to take over as the head football coach in 1985, no one knew for sure what was in store. It did not take long to find out. 

After only two years under his guidance, the Irish earned an invitation to the Cotton Bowl. It was their first New Year's Day appearance in seven years. The next year, in 1988, Holtz pro­duced anational championship. 

Indeed, in his ten seasons at Notre Dame, Holtz has repeatedly proven that he has made the Fighting Irish squad one of the best in college football, and the future looks promising for football. This year's fresh­man recruiting class has been billed as top in the nation . 
Probably the most telling aspect about Holtz's success as a coach is the students' undyingloyaltyandrespectforhim. Thisis evident between the third and fourth quar-. ters of every football game, when thou­sands of students hold up their hands to form the letter "L" and chant the name "Lou" over and over, to the tune of The 1812 Overture. 
Dean of Freshman Year 
Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Eileen Kolman spends most of her time doing every­thing she can to make theadjustmenttocollege life easier for the fresh­men. 


Under Kolman's guidance, the Fresh­man Year of Studies assigns each freshman anadultadvisorandapeeradvisor. Kolman advises about 50 students herself. 
The department offers sessions in test preparation, note-takirig and time manage­ment. Moreover, they will find a tutor for any freshman who is having trouble in a class. Through these and other programs, Dean Kolman helps make the transition to college much easier. 



ct\\i 
Country 
1-{arvester 
"A Great little Gift Shop!" 
O~~~t::J THE SHOP c~~ YOU'VEALWAYS WANTED TO FIND 
Discover delightful surprises in our quaint country store here on campus. We carry a variety of items such as country crafts, cards, and candles. 
Begin your collection of Irish Village today. 
Bundle up in 100% cotton ND Blue & Gold · blankets. 
Enjoy browsing for handcrafted treasures.' 
Unique toys for unique people! 
Monday thru Friday 10-5 Saturdays 11-2 
(extended hours during special events) 
The Country Harvester Lafortune Student Center · Lower Level (219) 63 1 -6 714 
U.P.S..  VISA &  
SERVICE  MASTERCARD  
DAILY  ACCEPTED  



liiii•Btil•i¦ 
The 

Fres 


This survival guide will answer all ofyour questions about your new life as a Domer 
· by Bridget Bradburn 
You've packed your entire life into six box.es and a couple ofsuitcases. You've heard all the advice you can handle from your well-meaning parents and all-knowing older friends and siblings. No matter how prepared you are, however, questions about daily life at Notre Dame remain. You are not alone. In an attempt to provide some of these important details, Scholastic has compiled this list of the important facts of life at Notre Dame to help you survive your first year. 
1. Starting Out 

Freshman Orientation will be your most entertaining, carefree and hectic time atNotreDame. Between the Graffiti Dance, where you meet other freshmen by signing their shirts, theme parties, cook-outs, Mass, moving in and saying good-bye to your parents, there is little time for homesickness. Enjoy every minute of this chance to socialize and meet new people before classes start. 
2. Braving the Elements 
Nomatterwhatcomeroftheworldyoucomefrom,you'llnever bepreparedfor the weather at Notre Dame. The days ofFreshman Orientation and moving in are traditionally hot and humid, so take advantage of the opportunity to dress in shorts and sandals. The Summer weather ends quickly, though the days of fall are often pleasant Alwaysbeprepared for rain, no matterwhat the weather reports say and no matter what the sky looks like. Never forget to pack an umbrella, and ifyou do not own a pair of waterproof shoes or boots, now is the time to invest. When winter arrives, it settles in for a long stay. The first snowfall can occur as early as November, and the campus usually does not thaw out until March. Agoodpair of warm snow boots areimperative,andit' salsoagood idea to bring along all the wool sweaters, gloves and scarves that you own. You will need them sooner than you think -no one wants to get frostbite while cheering in the student section at the football games. 
3. Food for Thought 
After the hot and tiring task of setting up their rooms, most students waste no time in finding their way. to the dining halls. Therearetwodininghallsoncampus,NorthDiningHallandSouth DiningHall, each offering a variety of choices. You can eat at either location, but most students choose to frequent the onecloserto their dorm. You will quickly learnyour way around the salad bar, pasta bar, deli line, pizza line, dessert display and cereal counter. Al­though the choices are certainly notalways appealing, atleast there is variety. And if you happen to miss the dining hall hours of operation, various fast foods are available in LaFortune Student Center. Unfortunately, students are not permitted to use their meal cards at these locations; cash must be used instead. 
4. Dining Out 

Inevitably, you will get tired of the loud atmosphere and institutional food in the dining hall and find your way to the local restaurants. Macri's Deli is a popular local sandwich spot. In addition, TGIFrlday's,DonPablo's, Chi-Chi's, Olive Garden and ColoradoSteakhouseareallclosetocampus. SouthBendhasafew formal restaurants as well, such as the Landing, the Emporium, the Wharfand Tippecanoe Place. For obvious reasons, most students wait for their parents' first visit before going to these expensive restaurants. Ofcourse, ordering in is another popular option. Papa John's and Bruno's are two favorite pizza places that will deliver to your dorm, and other restaurants also have delivery or carry-out services. 
5. Weekend Escapes 
Weekends offer the perfect opportunity for students to escape fr.om the tedium ofschoolwork. In the fall, bus trips to some ofthe away football games offerstuden~ the chance to visit other college towns. Once the football season is over, many students travel via the relatively affordable South Shore Railroad to Chicago and to Michigan City, an outlet shopping location. 
6. Shopping Around 
Speaking ofshopping, the University Park Mall is close by, and there is a bus that runs from campus to the mall every half hour during the day. Meijeris another favorite shopping place for many students, offering everything from food and househo}dproducts to hardware, music, books and electronics. On campus, there is a convenience storein LaFortune Student Center, and the bookstore has a limited amount of drug store products, as well as various school supplies and anything you'd ever need with the Notre Dame logo oh it. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1995 
7. HittingtheBooks 
No matter how anxious you may be to get a jump on your reading for the first semester, don't buy books until you have your firstclass, asprofessors may make last-minutechanges to thebook listor syllabus. Before you go to the bookstore, check posted lists ofusedbooksforsale. Thiscan saveyoutimeandmoney, butmake sure that the used books are the right editions before you pay for them. Whenyoudofinallybrave thebookstore,bepreparedtowait inlonglinesandto spendmostof yoursummereamingsinone trip. Thebookstore does offerusedbooks in certain titles, however, and lines are usually shorter in the morning. 
a diving well. Notre Dame also has indoor and outdoor tennis courts, anine-hole golf courseandmanyplayingfieldsandjogging routes. For tho~ looking for organized exercise, the RecSports department offers various classes and also plans interhall compe­titions. 
12. 'l'he Balancing Act 
No matter what diversion you choose, schoolwork must remain apriority. TheFreshmanYearofSmdies provides free tutoring for those who request it, and they also have an advising program to assist freshmen in picking classes and thinking about a major. 
8. Dollar Sense 
13. Taking the Night Off 
If it seems like you will be .Central to social existence at 
spending a lot of money in the Notte Dame are SYR (Screw 
first few weeks of school, don't Your Roommate) semi-fonnal 
worry. It slows down once you dances and formal dances. Each 
haveeverythingyouneedforyour donn typically has oneSYR and 
room and your classes, and after . onefonnaleachsemester. When 
you have bought your football heldin thedorm, thedecomtions 
.tickets. Whatshouldyou do with andpreparations thatprecedethe the money left over:! There is a dance are entertainmentin them­branch of Society .Banlc in the selves, making for a memorable LaFortune Student Center, and a day of bonding with your sec­branchoftheFederalCreditUnion tion-mates. Notte Dame men justbehindcampus,bothofwhich usually bring flowers for their offer several saving~ and check­dates, while the women often ing options. buy small gifts for their dates. 
9. Keeping in Touch 

One way to save money is to open an e-mail account All stu­dents receive theiraccountinfor­mation in themail,andopeningan accountisas easy as taking that information to a Macintosh or PC computer cluster, where a friendly computer consultant will help you with the next steps. If your high school friends do the same thing at their respective colleges, and ifyourfamily has an on-line service, you can reduce yourlong-distancephonebilltopracticallynothing. E-mail isalso a great form oJprocrastination when that huge paper is looming. 
10. Getting Involved 
Other sources of diversion available to all students are the various clubs and organizations at Notte Dame. Watch for signs within the first few weeks of sch~l advertising Notre Dame's annual Activities Night This is an opportunity to meet represen­tatives from many differentorganizations, and to sign up for those organizations that particularly interest you. There is virtually something for everyone.· · · · 
.. . . 

. 11. A Sound Mind in a Sound Body 
For those ofyou who want to keep in shape, there are several exercise options on campus. The Rockne M:emorial gym offers a pool, a weight room, racquetball courts and a basketball court for students to use free ofcharge. There is an indoortrackinboth the Loftus Sports Center and the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Genter, whileRolfs AquaticCenterhas anOlympic~sizepool with 
14. Lights Out 

Ifyou haven't heard the tenn "parietals" yet, learn itnow. Pa­rietals, which are the visitation · hours at Notre Dame, require that students be out of the opposite sex's· dorms by midnight on. weekdays and by 2:00 a.m. on: · weekends. Thereare2A-hourloungesinall of thedonns,however, 
so that co-ed studying and socializing don't always have to end. .Parietals are taken seriously atNotre Dame, and the consequences .for violations can be severe. 
15. The Joys of Communal Living 
Despite all of mom's advice and warnings, no student can escape getting sick while at school. Stress, bad weather, minimal sleep and close contactwith other students leadto IIiany colds and cases of the flu. Notre Dame's infirmary has both doctors and nurses on staff, as well as aphannacy, but there is often along wait -· to be seen. Unless you are seriously ill, it is probably abetter idea to keep yourown supply ofmedications, stayin bed when you get sick,andcallhomeifyouneedmoreattentionthanyourroommates are giving you. 
Your first days here will rio doubt involve a lot of exploration and trial and error. Scfwlastic hopes that by answering someofthe questions you have now, you can be even more excited about 
.. embarkingontheyearsaheadofyouatNotreDame. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1995 
•


Packing 101: 
A crash course on the basics you will 


Fr. Tom Gaughan, rector of Stanford Hall, helps junior Brian Anderson 
unpack his car. 

:1 by Kristin Alworth l I List:s. They consumed every open inch of my desk, dresser,
I
l mirror, cardashboard, and allother, available surfaces the summerbeforeIwas to leave for Notre Daine. Unfortunately, when the time came to transport all of my belongings, I quickly learned that all the items I had listed took up two cars and about three dorm rooms. 
Itis tempting to bring all of your earthly possessions to college, but most Notre Dame dorm rooms are downright tiny, not to mention that you will· be sharing that room with at least one other person. So here are some packing tips and a little common senseto help youprepareto make the great migration from home to college. 
Furniture 

Deciding what to bring for your dorm room can be a particularly frustrating issue, espec:ially since you probably have not seen your donn room and have never lived in a donn. One of the biggest ques­tions is to loft or not to loft. A loft is an elevatedbedthat leaves space open under­neath forfurniture. Aloftcanbe ahassle to construct, yet many students find that the space they gain makes the agony ofassem­blyworthwhile. Loftkitscanbepurchased relativelyinexpensivelyatstoreslikeBuild­ers Square. The university does regulate what kirid of lofts you can have in your room, however, so you will want to look into those rules beforehand. 
·Manystudentsalsoopttobringfurniture totheirdonnrooms. Alldormroomscome equipped with beds, desks and a wardrobe to store your clothes in.· One useful addi­tion to these basics are bookshelves to provide storage space for everything from food to school books. Couches, bean-bag chairs and foutons are also popular items, since they are more comfortable than sit­ting on the floor. Remember to check the size of your room before investing in big furniture,though, becauseitmaytakesome creativity to fit that comfortable chair into yourtinydonnroom. Carpetingis amustin thedorms, unlessyouwanttolivewithcold hard tile floors all year. Again, you will· probably want to wait to buy carpet until you have seeri your room, as ~otre Dame 
ne~d to get through yourfirst semester atNotre Dame 

donn rooms come in all shapes and sizes. 
Appliances 

Itisalsoagoodideatobringsomeofyour conveniences from home. A stereo or tape player is "practically essential, and make sure·you stockup on CDs and tapes; stu­dentsgenerallyfindSouthBehdradiolack­ing. Most students also choose to bring a 
' refrigerator, which is useful for keeping both beverages and late night munchies cold. A TV and a VCR are nice additions to a donn room, but they are not really necessary. All of the donns have at least 
· oneTVlounge,soyoudon'tneedyourown TV to ,catch your favorite programs. Coffeemakers or hotpots can be a valuable convenience as well, to make coffee or to heatwaterfortea,hotchocolateandsoupon chilly winter days. Afan, or even a couple of fans, are crucial if you are going to be living in an older donn, since they are not air-conditioned and are stifling in hot weather. Ifpossible, you really should talk to your roommate before spending a lot of money on-large items for your room, since you will not want to duplicate. Theissue of whether tobring acomputer 


is a difficult one to solve. There are numer­ous computerclusters on campus, some of which are open 24 hours a day, with both M.acintoshes andPCs. The cluster comput­ers are hooked up to the Internet, and many have CD-ROMs. If you plan to use the cluster computers, however, expect to wait in order to use a computer or to plan your schedule around the busy hours at the clus­ters, particularly around midterms and fi­nals. If you intend to pursue a major that involves a lot of computer use or essay writing, a computer can be a great conve­nience, but not a necessary one. One sug­gestion is to try the clusters for a semester before purchasing a computer. 
Personal Touches 

Though you probably will not care if yourroom looks like those inBetterHomes and Gardens, some skilled decorating can personalize a dorm room and make itmuch moreinviting. TheoverheadlightsinNotre Dame rooms are often dim and will make your room look like a cellar, so pack some lamps before you come to school. A desk lamp is a must for studying, while floor lamp~ can brighten a room tremendously. Free-standinghallogenlightsareverypopu­lar. Adormroom will also lookpretty bleak without something on the walls. Posters and pictures, whether they depict your fa­vorite music group or a beloved impres­sionistartist, add a lot of character to aroom and help muffle echoes. Creative touches like Christmas lights andplants also jazzup a room. Curtains make a room feel more homey, but many ofthe dorms already have curtains on the windows, so you will prob­ably want to see your room first. 

Ifyou forget something at home or want to wait until you arrive at Notre Dame to purchase something for your room, South Bend has plenty of discount stores where you can purchase furniture, electronics and other items at reasonable prices. On cam­pus, the Student Union Board sponsors a "Fall Mall" at Stepan Center at the begin­ning of the semester. They sell everything from furniture and posters to plants at re­duced prices. You can also rent a refrigera­tor for the year at Fall Mall. Keep in mind, however, thatifyouplanto have arefrigera­tor in your room all four years, it may be cheaper in the long run to simply purchase one. In addition, there is a poster sale each 
fall in LaFortune 
Student Center. 
Odds and Ends 
Apart from fur­nishings, there is a variety of mis­cellaneous items that you will need for dormitory liv­ing. Sfuceyouwill have to trek down the hall to take a shower,arobeand a shower caddy · are important. Many students also wear flip­flops in the show­ers, since they are not always the 

cleanest place for bare feet. A big laundry bag or basket, a stain stick, laundry deter­gentandlotsofquartersarenecessaryifyou plan on doing your own laundry. For those who have not yet conquered the washing machine and dryer, St. Michael's Laundry provides an on-campus service that will pick up your laundry each week if you choose to pay for their semester~long ser­vices: St.Michael'salsohasadrycleaning service available to all students, regardless of whether or not they use the weekly laundry service. Also, you will need to bring hangers for your clothes, unless you plan on folding everything. As far as bed­ding and linens go, you will need to bring sheets, towels and probably a comforter. The university provides a blanket, a mat­tress pad, and a pillow, but these items can be old, worn and stained, so you may want to buy those for yourself. A few dishes, some silverware, and cups or mugs also come in handy, but they are not necessary. An alarm clock, preferably a loud one, is necessary to wake you for those dreaded 
8:00 am. classes, and a backpack will get you and your notebooks to class. Toiletries canbepurchasedon campus,althoughmany believe prices on campus are higher. It is muchmoreeconomical to stockuponsham-, ' poo, soap and other items at home, where you have a better selection than atthebook­
. store. 

· No matter how many lists you make, you will inevitably forget something. One of the joys of dorm living, however, is being able to share or trad~ virtually everything with your roommate or neighbors. And if they can not meet your needs, your family is just a phone call or a care package away. 
. 0 



doesn't seem to be on any quad. Instead, it 
ND Speak 
A Crash Course in Campµs Lingo 
by Bridget Bradburn 

Although students come to Notre Dame with a variety of accents, slang words and expressions, ev­eryone eventually adopts many words and phrases that are unique. to Notre Dame. Here is just a sampling: 
DOMER: Any Notre Dame student, pastorpresent Thistenn,of course,comes from the famous Golden Dome, visible from virtually all points ofcampus. 
SMiCk: Any studentfrom Saint Mary's College.-Also used to refer to the school itself. 
SOUTH QUAD: The quad consisting of Alumni, Dillon; Fisher and Morrisey men's donns, and Pangborn, Lyons and Badin women's dorms, as well as THE 
ROCK,SouthDiningHall _andtheHammes 
Bookstore. · · 
GOD QUAD: ·The oldest quad on cam­. pus,consistingofWalshandSorinHalls,as well as the Administration Building, Sa­credHeartBasilica, Washington HallThe­ater, LaFortune Student Center and the Crowley Hall ofMusic. 
. NORTH QUAD: The quad consisting 
of women's donns Cavanaugh, Lewis, 
Breen-PhillipsandFarley, andmen's donns 
Zahm, StEdward's, Keenan and Stanford, 
as well as North Dining Hall and Field 
House mall. 
MOD QUAD: The newest quad on 
campus, consisting of Flanner and Grace 
(THE TOWERS), two men's dorms, and 
women's donns Siegfried, Knott, Pasque­
rillaWest(PW)andPasquerillaEast(PE), 
as well as the Hesburgh Library. 
CARROLL HALL: The dorm that 
is a beautiful location by the lakes, making for~ long walk for the residents of Carroll whenever they want to go anywhere. 
THE ROCK: The Knute Rockne Me­morial Gymansium, named after Notre Damesmostfamousandlegendaryfootball coach. 
FOOD SALES: The snack bar areas found in many donns that are open during the later evening hours to satisfy the de­mands of the late-night munchies induced by studying. 
TURTLE CREEK, CAMPUS VIEW, LAFAYE'ITE SQUARE: A few of the apartment and townhouse complexes, in­habited by many Notre Dame seniors. 
THEME DINNERS: The attempts of the dining halls to offerunique eatingexpe­riences to the students. A Candlelight Buf­fet is offered after allhome football games, and other recent themes have been Circus Lunch, Hawaiian Luau Dinner and Puttin' On the Ritz Dinner. 
D.A.R.T.: Direct Access Registration byTelephone. Thiscanbeagreatsourceof frustration· for students as they attempt to choose their classes within a IS-minute period, while listening ,to a computerized 
. voice on: the telephone. D 
The Restaurants To You! 
Featuring Menus from the Area's Finest Restaurants 

DELIVERY SERVICE 

. 
-~TEAK ¦
.o E·
~~-· ~' 



... Along with 23 other Fine Restaurants ..· · :.«&~..: · For Delivery Call . . '. ·~ ~~ 
·. HaCfaidii · 

·272-2-EAT 
:E 

YOUR Fl ST UNOFFICIAL 
C tLEGEEX M. 
RELAX, IT'S TRUE OB FALSE. 
D T D p Army ROTC courses don't fit into your Notre Dame schedule. 
(False . . . Military Science classes are electives which fit into most degree programs. The l •credit freshman course even satisfies your first-year P.E. requirement.) 
D T D F Oniy 4-year scholarship students can iak~ Army iiCTC .:.uw.·~aa. 
(False ... Many students try Military Science courses as freshmen, then apply for 3-year scholarships worth $46,000 at Notre Dame. About 6 Notre Dame students win 3-year .scholarships each year.) 
Students who complete the Army ROTC program serve their
.T .F country as Army officers after college. 
(True ... Over 40 Notre Dame students earn their Anny officer com­missions each year. Many enter full-time active duty for three or four years, with starting pay and allowances of over $24,600 plus 30 days annual vacation. Others pursue their civilian careers ·after college while serving part-time as Anny Reserve or National Guard officers in their communities.) 
Ifyou take an Army ROTC class, you'll be committed to militaryOT OF service until you're l 03 years old. 
(False ... You can take freshman and sophomore Military Science courses without obligation. When you accept a scholarship or enter advanced courses as a junior, you'll make a commitment to serve as an Anny officer when you graduate.) · 
Now here's the illl-in portion ofthe exam. Fill in "MSCI 111-lntr.oduction to Military Science" on your freshman schedule this fall. 

ARMY ROTC 

TBt SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
FOR DETltILS, CALL 1-800-UND-ARMY (On campus 1-6265) ASK FOR CAPTAIN GORDON PHELPS 
IY64Siiliil•i¦ 
Service with a Stnile 
A great number ofNotre Dame students participate in some type ofcommunity service activity. Here's a look at wha,t you can do to get involved 
reflection. 

The urban plunge is one ofthe mostlong­standingandpopularprograms. Theplunge is a 48-hour immersion over Christmas break in inner-cities around the country. Students observe and work with individu­als, agencies and parishes that are striving to meet the needs of the poor. Since 1974, a total of 4,110 plunges have been made by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
"The urban plunge gives students an in­side look at city poverty and personalizes it. It really helps build awareness as they meet people who are trying to help solve the problems of the world," said Sue Cunningham, who coordinates urban plunges and summer service projects. 
Summer service project participants live and work at sites sponsored byalumni clubs around the country for eight weeks. In the summer of 1994, 142 students participated in the program. A summer service project gives students the chance to work in an established service agency, to discuss so­cial concerns with alumni and to continue their education outside the classroom. ''There are so many advantages," said Cunningham. 
Senior Brian Mcconville, who did a project in Miami, FL, agreed: "I was look­ing for something besides the normal sum­mer job ... I knew I wanted to work with teenagers. I knew I wanted to be in a different part of the country and experience a different culture. I. knew I wanted to broaden my horizons and challenge my beliefs. The summer service project could do all that for me." 
Other popular experiential learning im­
mersions, in which about · 
Brent Tadsen 


by J. Michelle Cox 

Imagine throwing a party for someone you do noteven know. You bring a box full of gifts. When you hand the pre­sents to the lucky recipient, the person surprises you by bringing out an evenlarger boxfull of more gifts andgives them to you. This strange scenario is similar to an experience shared by themany people who areinvolvedinservice workatNotreDame. Through the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) on campus, about 2,000 students each year are involved in some sort of service work. These people return feeling that they were the ones who learned some­thing. They were the ones building nestled ·next to the library is a lifeline for Notre Dame. The thrust of the centeris providingopportunities for service and justice work. 
"As a Catholic university, we strive to incorporate our beliefs into everyday situa­tions. The work of the center is an attempt to link theology and life," said Fr. Do_n McNeill, director of the CSC since its in° ception. 
Part of the beauty of the center's offer­ings comes in the variety of projects which are available. Students can stay on campus, venture into South Bend, travel to another state or journey to a foreign country. Each experience involves service work, justice awareness, academic analysis and personal 
who were served well by the 
2,600 students participated experience. They were the between the fall of 1990 and ones who received the gift. the spring of1994, are the Monique Garcia, a senior numerous fall and spring who did a summer service break seminars. Possibilities project at a medical clinic in include performing manual Joliet, IL, is one of these stu­labor at a variety of sites in dents. "This·summer was the Appalachia,studyingcultural most rewarding time of my diversity in Chicago and dis­
life. It was actually a paradox. cussing current events and In giving gifts, I was given an political trends that involve even greater gift in return -social concerns in Washing­an experience that will last a ton, D .C. lifetime ... I learned how to Sophomore Anne Marie 
celebrate life." DeLuca, who participated in Much of what the CSC does the migrant worker seminar is celebrate life. The small in Immokalee, FL, over 
16 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1995 
.r . . . -. . . . ·. . .: \ . . . . 

Aaron Skalicky 

Senior Bill Sterba signs a summer service contract with Program Coordinator Sue Cunningham. 
spring break, found the total immersion in another culture a highlight of her experi­ence. "I learned to appreciate the differ­ences between people and gained confi­dence in my ability to get to know aperson who seems very different from me on the surface." 
JuniorJenny Robinson worked in Appa­lachiaoverspringbreak. "Ihad avery good experience. This waspartly due to theteam work that was involved. Everyone in my group really came together." 
"Student empowerment is an important involvementin theseprograms,"addedJay Bradenburger, coordinatorfor experiential learning and justice education. ''They get an idea, develop itcreatively, andthen help immerse other students in the experience." 
While school is in session, Notre Dame students are continuously involved with service workin the South Bend commu­nity. Students may become involved in causes ranging from adult literacy and dis­ability services to homelessness and tutor­ing. 
One means of soliciting studentinvolve~ ment is through the dorms. Each dorm has ateam ofcommunity service commission­ers that is responsible for letting the dorm know about service possibilities and for organizingprojects. "Dormserviceprojects are great opportunities for bonding be­tween the guys at the same time that we're helping someone else," said Mark Shean, service commissioner for Keenan Hall. 
The academic arena is another important aspect of the center's mission. Many ofthe center's programs are offeredfor credit and involve reading and writing assignments. Additionally, faculty are encouraged to in­corporate social concerns in their teaching, research and advising. 
"It is one of the center's goals to have people in all disciplines aware of how they can tie social concerns into any work they are doing," explained Kathleen Maas Weigert, faculty liaison and academic coor­dinator. 
As many students get involved in social service during their time at Notre Dame, it is only natural that these people want to continue theirendeavors. About IOpercent of each graduating class decides to do ser­vice after graduation. 
Since its opening, the CSC has reached thousands of individuals. It has provided students with opportunities to come in con­tact with, and gain an understanding of, the· community around them. It has facilitated the integration of faith and academics. It has enhanced the university's mission. 
AsWeigertdescribedit, ''TheCSCislike a revolving door. It is not necessarily the place where service happens, but it is a . place where we both bring people in and send people out. We're constantly encour­aging people to go into the community and experience. We're constantly inviting people to come back into the center and reflect." 0 

. S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I. N E ¦ S U M M E R 1 9 9 5 
17 
Anthony Travel )Inc. 

Welcome to Notre Darnel 
We'd like to be among the many friendly faces welcoming you to Notre Dame. Our offices are located downstairs in the LaFortune Student Center, and we're here to help you. Please call us with any questions you might have about travel. Here is some information you may find useful. 
PLAN· AHEAD -The best airfares are available to those who plan ahead. It is almost impossible to book your travel too far in advance. 
TELL YOUR PARENTS -and friends that we arrange discount airfares and hotel accommodations for most occasions when they will be visiting campus -football games, Junior Parents Weekend, graduation, etc. We can also help them with any other travel arrangements they may need. 
KEEP IN MIND -that we are a full service agency. This means we can arrange any kind of travel service you need -international and domestic air, group travel vacations, hotel and car reservations, rail transportation -even United Limo service to and from the Chicago airports. Let us assist you. 
AVOID WAITING IN LINE-The agency on campus is less busy in the morning than in the afternoon, so save time by coming to visit us early in the day. You can also use a credit card and make reservations by phone. We accept whatever form of payment the airlines accept, i.e., all major credit cards. If you · pay by check, there will be a 14-day waiting period before you can pick up your tickets. 
TAKE THE BUS -United Limo provides bus service between hoth Chicago airports and the main circle of the campus. The buses run almost every hour. Round-trip fare is $52; one way is $28. Tickets can be purchased at Anthony Travel on campus. 
University of Notre Dame LaFortune Student. Center P.O. Box 1086 Notre Dame, IN 46556-1086 
A ANTHONY TDAVE.L!I IN~
Phone: (219) 631-7080 

1-HttO-HOMl~llS-2 
Ownt>d and ope-rated by llib Notre Dame alumni who remember what it wa/li like to br. a fre/lihman. 
Ci+1i1iili•i1i1ii,iiff 
Campus Watch 
. . BY THE GIPPER 
Attitude,-A'zlegations andlnnuendo 

Greetings, incoming students! Let the Gipp here be tlie first towel­come you to Notre Dame. Since 
you do not know who the Gipp is, he'll bring you up to speed. But first, he should take care of one informality that you have no doubt already caught on to: he always refers to himself in the third person. The reason for this does not lie in some form of schizophrenic disorder, but rather in a tra­dition that started for no apparent reason. This Gipp doesn't know why the tradition started, but it sure makes writing this col­umn areal pain. Just deal with it. 
THESCOOP 

" Now, let's bring you up ·10 speed. CampusWatch is an anonymous column dedicated to bringing you, the reader, the humorous, the out of the ordinary and the. potentially scandalous events that occur at Notre Dame. This has made the Gipp Numero Uno on the administration's Top Ten MostWantedlist. Apparently, they do notliketheincrlminatingrumorsthatsome­times make itinto the Gipp' s column. The powers that· be even threatened to shut .Scholastic down unless the Gipp revealed his identity and his sources. The end seemed imminent until someone decided to remind them that this was post-Revolu­tionaryWar Americawithsomethingcalled aConstitutioncontaining somethingcalled the First Amendment. God, I love this countty! In the end, good prevailed, the evil forces were vanquished and the Gipp rode off into the sunset It was all very drmnatic. So now, .the Gipp charges on. 
JUST FOR STARTERS 

Even though Notre Danie is THE great­est university iri the world, there ~e some things the Gipp thinks you should knmu. The Gipp may sound bitter, but there are certain aspects of Notre Dame that are going to beaconsiantsourceofcomplaints 
for years, until you are finally lulled into an apathetic trance. So to brace you and save ·you from potential shock, here are a few of· 
them: 
Parietals 

Ah, yes! This is the topic which will forever be hated and debated but never abolished. For those of you who don't know, parietals are those pesky little rules that state that members ofthe opposite sex cannot be in: your room after 2:00 a.m. on weekends andmidnight on weekdays. Ap­parently, the administration believes these 
. to be the witching hours when innocent Catholic boys and girls become raging bundles of hormones hoping to indulge in sinandsex. Everyyearwehearrumorsthat the issue is under consideration. Yeah, right. If youjustignore thesenasty rumors, you won't feel as let down when nothing results from the "negotiations." TheGipp has just two words for you: off campus. But, hey, at least someorie always makes a bundle with the ever-present "Sex Kills ... SocometheNotreDameandliveforever." T-shirts. 
Ethanol 

Somewhere outside campus there is an ethanol plant which, well, produces etha­nol. Unfortunately, one of its by-products is a very distinct and mind-numbingstench which becomes particularly . poignant in cold or rainy weather. Since that's the scopeof SouthBend'sforecast, it becomes prettymuchaconstant. Don'tworry,you'll get used to it and the occasional dizziness which it sometimes causes. 
Weather 

Many of you will be fooled when you first arrive here in what would appear to be sunny, balmy South Bend. Well, let the Gipp be the first to infonn you that after about the second week of classes, the sun 
Who Is the Glpper? 

will disappear, never to be seen again until around Easter Break. It will be replaced with dark, ominous clouds which dump precipitation on the Notre Dame campus every other day. Add to this scenario win­ters which have been known to inflict frost bite on students simply walking to class. University of Hawaii this ain't. 
The Bookstore 

· This isaconstantgripe for all students­especially pre-med and engineering ma­jors. TheGipp.isn'tsayingthattheHamme's Bookstoreissomescandalous,inoney~mak­ing machine which bleeds the studentbody dry, but he is telling you new students to warn yoQr parents that they may have to take out a second mortgage on the house. Oh, the bookstore does let you sell your books back to them at the end of the year, but those $80 books are then worth only $15. What's more, that same book will be resold at $75 next year. The Gipp must apologizeforthisdiatribe-he'sjustbitter that he couldn't even buy a pack of ciga­rettes with the money he got back for his · books. 
The Gipp knows this column seems a little bitter,buthewarnedyou. Hemustsay that he wouldn't go to school anywhere else. For starters, we've got football, tradi­tion and tailgating, which is considered a sport here. The Gipper could go on, but he doesn'twantto soundlikesome sappy little tour guide inundating you with plugs about his/her school -you probably have had your fill ofthem. So, incoming Darners, be young, have fun, drink, uh, Pepsi? Any­how, one more thing -if you notice any­thing amusing or out of the ordinary when you are here, don't hesitate to infonn the Gipp. That's why rm here. Good luck! . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1995 

w.~--------­Return tO Glory 
After a disappointing 1994 season, Lou Holtz . welcomes the consensus number one recruiting class and awaits a shot at redemption 
Ron Powlus; who will have a year of expe­.had an outstanding year, but quarterbacks by Shannan Ball rience under his belt He threw for 22 are judged by how many championships touchdowns last season, a Notre Dame they've won. I don't know what more heThe 1994 preseason rankings placed record. Powlus also threw 10 interceptions could do individually, so now it's how well a talented Notre Dame squad at however, and doubts still remain. thei:eamisgoingtodo,"commentedHoltz. numbertwo, fosteringexpectations Last season he missed the protection of a In the Blue and Gold game, Powlus es­of another fantastic year of Irish football. solidoffe~velineandaconsistentrunning tablished fifth-year senior Charles Stafford But, "Sometimes things just don't fit and as another receiver. The duo connected for that's what happened," said Notre Dame a total of five touchdowns, the only points Head Coach Lou Holtz. ''Last year was scoredin the game. Mayes, who suffered·a dis_appointing not just in record but in the sprained shoulder in _the first half of the way weplayed." Theloss to Michiganinthe game.remains an importantpartof thelrish first home game ofthe year started a down­offensive lineup, as. he ~d Powlus are ward spiral that ended in disappointment as expected to connect often in the coming Notre Dame posted a record of 6-5-1. season. "Both those guys, Charlie Stafford • This spring the Irish have undergone the and Derrick Mayes, make it so much easier arduous process ofrebuilding. ''No one on on me," Powlus said. the team wants to go through another year In addition to finding a new receiver, like that,." explained senior fullback Marc Powlus can also looktomorestrengthfrom Edwards. "We're trying to put last year the offensivellil.e as they continue to estab­behind· us and get back to Notre Dame lishthemselves as a unit Lastseasoµ,Holtz football." started 11 differentoffensivelinecombina-. According to Holtz, the team has already ti.ems in 12 games. To make the lines more demonstratedthe discipline anddetennina­cohesive, the first team faced the second tion needed for a strong team. "I've really teamintheBlueandGoldgame. ''Themore been pleased with how spring practice has they play together, the more they will ap­gone. I think the first team will be solid. .preciate-each other,'' Holtz said; "We've They've stayed healthy, they've worked seen the offensive line finally start to come hard, and they're getting better," he said. together in practice this spring and we ex­Throughout spring practice the individual pect good things. How goodremains to be · players have started to solidifyas aunitand, seen."_ according to-Holtz, .the results have been Guards Ryan Leahy and Jeremy Akers encouraging. .''The most pleasant surprise Split end Derrick Mayes makes another are expected to make a significant impact, 
has been Robert Fanner. ·He is a very highlight reel catch. The split end .set th.a as is center Dusty Zeigler. Afteradding the Notre Dame single season record for
talented individual who has been very im­efforts ofFarmer and Kinder to themix, the 
-touchdown reccaptlons with 11.
pressive, especiallyrecently." Fartnerwill talentandpotential arepresentfor excellent add depth at tailback, the position also game as a result of injuries to seniors Lee play. '.'The line's really coming together .. playedbeRandy Kindei:, whois still recov­BectonandRayZellars. Thelackofasolid I,'m excited. I'll play a role running the ball 
ering from a knee injury that occurred last receiver to play opposite Derrick Mayes and if everyone plays their role, we'll. be season. He is expected to be back at 100 was alsoa factor. With animprovedoffen­tiny. ·We have high expectations," said percent by the fall. sivelineandhealthyplayers,Powlus should Kinder. Farmer elaborated on those expec­Leading the offense will be quarterback have an opportunity to·shine. ''Ron really tations, noting, "One of our goalsis to have 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1995 
been a problematic area in the. past few years, and this spring the Irish were forced to deal with the loss of Bobby Taylor, who left for the NFL after his junior season. However, the future looks brighter. "I'm very pleased with the play at secondary," said Holtz, citing safeties Jarvis Edison and Brian Magee. 
I 
Shawn Wooden will be one of the cornerbacks, but the other spot has1 been up for grabs, creating one of the mostinterestingrivalrieson theNotre 
Dame squad. Sophomores Ivory Covington and Allen Rossum, who are close friends, will vie for the starting position. Rossum ran track this spring and finished sixth in the 55 meters at the NCAA Champion­ships. Covington, however, has logged 30 minutes of game time. The coaching staff looked to the Blue and Gold game to find their secondcornerback, butneithersealed the position. 

the best offensive line in the nation." The defense isalsohopingforgreatthings 
in the coming season. Outside linebacker 
Bert Berry, the defensive MVP ofthe Blue 
andGoldgame,gained valuable experience last season and will be expected to lead the defense along with Paul Grasmanisatnose guard. Alsoanticipated to step up with valu­able contributions will be the defensive tack­les,MelvinDansbyand 
RenaldoWynn. "Berry 
and Wynn have .both 
made a great deal of 
improvement ·Their 
progress is encourag­
ing, and wewilllookto 
them for good things," 
said Holtz. He praised 
linebackers Kinnon 
Tatum and Lyi:-on 
Cobbins as well: 
"Those two 'lineback­
ers probably run better 
than any linebackers 
we've had at Notre 
Dameinquiteawhile." The secondary has 
The Blue-Gold game usually pro­vides a view of what is to come, but Irish fans were anxious when at halftime the scoreboard read 0-0. Unlike in the past, when the two teams were evenly split, this year, the Blue team was comprised of all the starters. Holtz had said, "Our first teams look promising, butwelackdepth." Lack­luster performances from both teams had Notre Dame fans fearing a repeat of last season. At halftime, the Gold team (con­sisting of the second team) was mysteri­ously given21 pointsinanefforttowakeup the Blue offense. It worked and the Blue, behind the efforts of Powlus and Stafford, emerged victorious by a score of 35-21. ''I was disappointed in thesharpnessandcrisp­ness of the first half. In the second halfwe played much better," said Holtz. 
Although it does not go in the record books, the Blue and Gold game is prepara­tion for the coming season, which will pit the Irish against several top teams. 
Notre Dame is ranked eighth in the pre­season polls. Just below the Irish at number nine is USC. Ohio State, Washington and Texas round Notre Dame's top twenty op­ponents. "Everyone we play will play well, because Notre Dameis thebiggestgameon their schedule,'' said Holtz. "I don't worry so much about our opponents but more about us winning and how we play." 
A crucial game will be against Purdue in West Lafayette, the second game on the Irish schedule. "I'm concerned about us 


Stan Evans 

Ron Powlus rolls out to his right and looks for Marc Edwards in the flat. The two juniors will be counted on to help lead the offense. 
BRUNO'S 
1111 
•i3 4i,iuiiQtuidd 

Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting re~ervations on weekends. from 4 -1 O p.m. weekdays, Available for private parties ·4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 2610 Prairie Ave. 
273-3890 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" 
We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.· 
22 




--f----------­
Continued Excellence 
You think that because you can't throw a football like RonPowlus or kick a soccer ball like Cindy Daws, your athletic career is over? Think again. 

· by Jake Schaller 

UnderthegazeofTouchdownJesus, in the fabled Notre Dame Sta­clium, in front of a rabid crowd two teams in full football gear square off. It is fourth down and long, and one of the teams lines up for a field goal attempt Digginginto thetrenches, thedefenserushes in and blocks the kick, sending half of the crowd into hysterics. If I told you that those two teams were Notre Dame and Michigan, you probably would believe me. But what if I told you that the, two teams were not varsity squads, but Zahm and Morrissey, two interhall teams? At any other college campus in the country, this scenario would seem almost impossible. At Notre Dame, it's a reality. With interhall sports ranging from football to floor hockey, Notre Dame boasts one of the most extensive recreational sports pro­grams in the country. 
Almost 80 percent of Notre Dame's stu­dent body played a varsity sport in high school, but few can play varsity in college. As a result, many former high school ath­letes fear the endoftheir competitive sports careers. But at Notre Dame, these students have the opportunity for a new beginning. "Not only was I able to continue playing sports that I played in high school, I also started playing some other sports that I always wanted to play," said junior Mat­thew Campbell. RecSports also helps stu­dents to stay in shape. 
What really separates Notre Dame's 
In addition to the many RecSports activities Notre Dame has club teams, like the Rugby team (left) and the Ski Team (right). 
Other students try boxing in Notre Dame's Bengal Bouts (below right), and almost everyone plays Bookstore Basketball (below left), the world's largest outdoor five-on­fIve tournament. 
RecSports from other campus' programs, however, is the interhall rivalries. Teams are made up ofmembers of the dorms and even off-campus students. This means that when two teams clash on the athletic field, the pride of the dorm is at stake. A match­up between Alumni and Dillon or Zahm and Keenan can mean bragging rights for thesemester. Don'tbesurprisedtosee300­500 fans at these games. 
Club sports offer adclitional · opportuni­ties for student athletes . at Notre Dame. These are non-varsity athletic teams that compete against other schools. 
So even ifyou can 'trun the 40-yard dash in under five seconds, and you can't throw a football like Ron Powlus, your athletic careerdoesn'thavetoendatNotreDame.D 


11 • ~ _ ~---------­
, ~~-­
¦ 1-illl 
j 

The Big East, new coaches and new records all made 1994-95 
An Eventful Year 
1. The Big East: Starting next year all · athletic teruns except football and hockey willjoin the Big EastConference. Football will remain an fudependent, while hockey 
· willremainintheCentralCollegiateHockey Association. 
2. 
New Athletic Director: Afterserving NotreDameAthletics as theAthletic Direc­tor since 1987, Dick Rosenthal retired. He will bereplaced by Michael Wadsworth. 

3. 
Irish Football Stumbles: The Sport­ing News named the Fighting Irish their pre-season 1994 number one team, and expectations ran high. Nobody expected thar lhe Irish would finish the season unrankedwithadisappointing6-5-lrecord. Except, perhaps, Lou Holtz. The coach's traditional bad-mouthing . of the Irish was for once on target, as Notre Daine ran up their worst record since Holtz's arrival in 1986. 


by Jake Schaller 

4. 
Women's Soccer Second in Nation: The women's soccer program continued to shine, finishing the season 23-1-1 and ad­vancing to the finals ofthe NCAA Tourna­ment, where they fell to North Carolina. 

5. 
Baseball Gets New Manager: After eight years as the Irish skipper, Pat Murphy departed for Arizona State. Paul Mainieri replaced him. 

6. 
SchaferResigns,PoulinHired: After a disappointing season, Ric Schafer re­signed as coach of the Hockey team. Dave Poulin will take the helm next season. 

7. 
Irish Lacrosse Wins First Ever Tournament Game: Notre Dame's La­crosse program made a huge step on May 13, when they won their frrst tournament game 12-10 over Duke. 


8. 
Irish Football Signs Number bne Class: There is already optimism about next season, as new recruiter Bob Chime! helped corral the consensus number one recruiting class. 

9. 
Records Broken: Graduating Senior Forward Letitia Bowen set Notre Dame's All-Time Rebounding Mark, and finished her career with 999 total. 


Senior Split End Derrick Mayes broke theNotre Dame SingleSeasonTouchdown Reception record, catching 11 on the year. 
Graduating Senior Randy Colley broke the LacrosseAll-Time Notre Dame Assist record. Colley also owns records for career points and career goals. 
10. Taylor Leaves, Mayes Stays: Jun­
ior comerback Bobby Taylor decided to forego his senior year and enter the NFL · draft Much to the delight of Irish fans, . however, Mayes decided to stay. . 
.-----------,-------PAID ADVERTISEMENT--------------, 
DO YOU KNOW YOUR MOTHER? 
We all have a mother who can give us abundant joy, peace, courage, strength, wisdom, and consolation, at all times and in all places. What do we have to do to receive these things? Just ask. · 
Mary is always ready to give them to us, but we seldom ask for them. No 
l 
matter what we are doing or where we are, ifwe earnestly ask Her for guidance and 
help, ifwe ask Her how She would have done i( if we ask Her to do it with us, if we 
offer whatever we are doing to Her, then She will bless it. 
The Children of Mary and the Knights of the Immaculata are two student groups that try to accept Our Mother's invitation to experience Her love daily. To do this, we are involvedin many activities. We meet daily to pray the rosary with Our Mother and to receive Her Son in the Eucharist. Following the examples of St. Louis de Montfort, St. Maxamillian Kolbe, and our current Pope, we consecrate ourselves to the Immaculate I!eart ofMary once a semester. We also adore Jesus in the blessed 
sacrament, go on retreats, volunteer at the homeless shelter, hang out together, and eat Jeanine's cookies 
(she's a good cook).· 

We invite you to join us for any or all of these activities. You can do something every day or just .once a semester. You don't need to know anything at all about Mary. (I can attest to that, because a year ago I knew absolutely nothing about Her, including how to pray the rosary). To get involved sing up with us at activities night in August, or call Dave Eichstadt, Danny Eisenbacher, or me, Tony Pillari. Oh, and if you get a chance, put in a good word for me with Mom. · 
I. 



WASIIlNGTON HALL--BruceAuerbach, Director of Theatre of Notre Dame Communication andTheatre, has announced that the annual reception for students inter­ested in theatre will be held Wednesday, August 23, at 
6:00 P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in acting, directing, sets, costumes, lights, management, or theatre as a major are encouraged to attend. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students--majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activities is available including: acting, scenic design and constuction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage management. There are theatre opportunities to fit Theatre (COTH) will present i mainstage season· consisting of four plays and many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 
The Imaginary Invalid Six Degrees ofSeparation Christ's Passion,· Medieval Myste1y Plays 
In addition.ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE will 
tour to Notre Dame to presentMacbeth. Acting and directing projects are showcased at the end of each semes­
. ter. All of these projects will need a great amount of student support. There are positions for all who wish to participate.. 
every schedule and level of talent. Ifyou have a willing­ness to learn, you are qualified. 
Becoming involved in theatre is an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something Ifyou cannot attend the reception, but wish to be special on campus. involved or have questions abouhe program, please call 
This season.the Department of Communication and Bruce Auerbach at 631-5957. 

Ill [YOU '171\NfJ uo l<N(f(.f/ ~AU 
[YOUR 501\T OR DAU~ER 15 DOII\TG 
Subscribe to 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
r.------------------7 
,. YES! Pleaseputmeonyour
FOR ONLY $30 A YEAR 1 I subscription list for 1995-96. . I
You'll find: 
• the latest campus news and sports 'Name· I
I I
~ national arid campus entertainment 
IAddress: · I 
•·controversial campus issues 
ICity:~----State· Zip:. I
• weekend events and activities 
Please send this fonn withpayment to: Scholastic Magazine ..-. 1 
1 1
• off-the-wall college humor 1 
303 LaFortune Student Center 

• special year-end football review L.___________::o~~~~ 465~ _ _J 
-~~---=-­
~ 
~---~----~-----­

-Compiled by Jake Schaller 
Fall 
J 

DerrickMayes: NotreDame'sMostValuablePlayer for the 1994 campaign, this senior from Indianapolis, IN, was also the leading receiver for the Irish. Mayes hauled in 47receptions, the mostby an Irish player in 17 years, for 940 yards. The split end also broke the single season touchdown reception record with 11. 
Jen Renola: A junior goalkeeper from Los Gatos, CA, Renola was named to the 1994 National Soccer Coaches' Association of America first team. She posted 15 shutouts, a school record, and finished the season witha0.641 goalsagainstaverage.Renolahad a career-high 11 saves in the tie against North Caro­lina. 
Winter· 
Pat Garrity: This 6'9" forward from Monument, CO, was only afreshman, buthis play symbolized the impending resurgence of the Notre Dame men's basketball team. Garrity truly came of age in Notre Dame's loss to Duke. Matched up against Duke's senior center Cherokee Parks, Garrity· scored 27 points and pulled down eight rebounds. 
Letitia Bowen: This graduating senior co-captain from Buchanan, MI, was a leader for the Irish all season. The forward became Notre Dame's all-time leading rebounder, and finished her career with 999. In addition to breaking therebounding record, Bowen became the tenth player in Notre Dame women's basketball history to reach 1,000 points. 
Spring 
Randy Colley: A tri-captain of the Irish Lacrosse team, this Wilton, CN, native led the Irish to their first ever NCAA tournament victory. The attackrnan had five goals in the win overDulce. Colleyled the teamin points for the fourth consecutive year with 62 in the regular season, and broke the all-time assist record to accompany his points and goals records. 
Terri Kobata: A senior from Villa Park, CA, this pitcher led the Irish to their third-consecutive Mid­western Collegiate Conference championship and was named the tournament MVP. Kobata was 4-0 during the tournament, allowing no runs, while strik­ing out28 batters in 23 innings. Afterthetournament, she was 22-3. 
Top Newcomer 


Holly Manthei: This sopho­more from Burnsville, MN, was selected for the National Soccer Coaches' Association All-America second team. Manthei had nine goals, and led the nation with 30 assists. 
Top Newcomer 


Matt Eisler: Notre Dame's sophomore goaltender from West Milford, NJ, earned a Central Collegiate Hockey ·Assoc. Player of the Week Award, and was also a star in the team's upset ofMichigan. 
Top Newcomer 


Alex Cade: This sophomore goalie· from. North Potomac, MD, compiled a regular sea­son save percentage of 64.8, and had a 6.75 goals against average. He had 16 saves in thetournamentwinoverDuke. 
26 


Catholicism is the world's most familiar religion, yet many facets of this varied and dynamic tradition remain unknown or poorly understood. Now Richard P. McBrien, author of Catholicism, and an editorial team from the University of Notre Dame present the most comprehensive, easy-to-use guide to the people and forces that have shaped the Church over nearly two millennia. 
The HarperCollins Encyclopedia of Catholicism 
includes more than 4,200 entries written by 280 leading experts from around the world and across the theological spectrum. A concise guide for understanding Catholic terms and names, the encyclopedia also includes superb feature-length entries that offer a balanced perspective on subjects ranging from the seven sacraments, Jesus, the Holy Spirit, the Blessed Virgin Mary, Peter, Paul, Augustine, and Aquinas, to prayer, Christian spirituality, women in the Church, and Vatican II -providing a fuller understanding of the changes and trends in the Church today. 
"The most assiduous student of Catholicism, inside and outside the church, will be hard-pressed to name a relevant . topic, large or small, that hasn't been included in this book." 
-Theodore Hesburgh 


Pre-publication price of $39.95 • The HarperCollins Encyclopedia of Catholicism Order Now! Offer expires June 30,1995. 
Add $3.00 for shipping and handling and applicable sales tax. 
To order, call TOLL FREE 800-331-3761 and tell the operator your order number is SO2811. 

-


Because you're probably new to the cultural epicenter ofthe Notre Dame area, Scholastic presents our choices for some ofthe best our city has to offer. From restaurants and night clubs to shopping and culture, here are some hidden secrets and old favorites that prove there's more 
to Michiana than meets the-eye. 
Video Store Morris Classic Video gives you two movies for two days for two bucks, even the new releases. Two easy. (51333 us 31 N) 
Place for Sandwiches After You've Gone to Macrl's 
Mancino's tasty grinders on fresh bread fill you up without emptying your wallet Great lunch choice when you're tired of chicken patties. (St Andrew's Plaza on Edison) 
~ n-~ Aaron Skalicky 
Jazz and Oysters on the Half-Shell The Madison Oyster Bar serves up the best of both, often drawing jazz and blues acts from Chicago. (421 E. Madison) Carnivore Dream Come True Eddie's Steak Shed is great ifyou're the kind of person who enjoys steaks the size of your body in a hardy Hoosier atmosphere. Bring cash -Eddie's doesn't talce credit (12685 Adams Rd., Granger) 

Quintessential Italian Food 
The Sunny Italy Cafe has been around since the '20s. Homemade fare tells why, and vinyl tablecloths add to the ambience. (601 N. Niles) Also worth checking out Cosimo and Suzie's by Town & Country. (2446 Miracle Ln., Mishawaka) 
n, n, n, 
Beach The secluded Lake Michigan beach makes the 40­minute drive to New Buffalo well worth it, especially.for. anyone tired of the view of the steel mill at the Indiana Dunes. 
Hiking Trail Weather permitting, try walking the river path starting at St Joe's High School and ending at the boathouse. · 
Ambience and Beer The Mishawaka Brewing Com­pany combines a cozy, rustic atmosphere with good food and, of course, beverages. Try some of the homemade seasonal brews, or talce a case or keg home (but not to campus). MBC also sports a friendly homebrewing shop for the budding braumeister. (3703 N. Main, Mishawaka) Fries CJ's spicy fries are the ideal afterlife for potatoes. ( 417 N. Michigan) 
On-Campus Cinema The Snite Museum. From Casablanca to Pulp Fiction, the Snite offers something for every taste with culture and a sound system that doesn't make the actors sound like they're gargling. Shows on Mondays,Tuesdaysand weekends for $2. 
Off-Campus Cinema For 
three bucks (with student ID), 
you can't beat the price of a 
first-run feature at the State 
Theatre (214 1/2 S. Michl~ .gan). The 100 Center 
Cinemas in Mishawaka offers 
similar bargains. (100 Center, 
Mishawaka) 
-28 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1995 

Late Night Hangout Meijer. Where else can you get bulk food, lawn furniture and .. plumbing supplies at4 a.m.? Don't be frightened when you first walk in -that's not customs, it's the mass of checkout lanes. (On Grape Rd. You can't miss it.) 

Aaron Skalicky 
la. -~--n, 

On-Campus Coffee For 50 cents get,a large cappucino from the vending machine in the basement ofLaFortune. A decent cup ofjava at a price you can't beat. 
Off-Campus Coffee A tight race between Lula's across from the 'Backer, the cool board games at Cafe Capote (100 Center, Mishawaka), and the new Cap'n ·cino's which promises to stay open later than the bars (corner of Edison and SR 23). 
Getaway for the Physically 
Uninhibited Sunny Haven · Recreation Park, Inc .. 
Granger's one and only family 
nudist park. Formore info 
write Box 100 SB, Granger, 
IN 46530. Color brochure 
upon request. 
Country & Western Bar 
Heartland downtown offers a fresh alternative to typical rock 'n' roll bars with a lot of space inside to roam. (222 S. Michigan) 
Cultural Intrigue The Morris Civic Auditorium downtown gives South Bend residents the chance to catch Broadway touring companies and cultural film fests. (211 N. Michigan) 
Thin Crust Pizza Forget aboutPapaJohn's. Goto Rocco's and eat the best pizza surrounded by pictures of the Pope. In a cozy trailer-like atmosphere. (537 N. St. Louis Blvd.) 
Deep Dish Pizza Rathskeller is one of the best-kept treasures south of town. The spinach pizza rivals Chicago's, and you're served in a medieval cellar atmo­sphere. Sorry, no Pope photos. (100 Center, Mishawaka) 
Sunday Brunch You'll leave Bibler's Original Pancake House so full you'll want to skip the sundae bar. Apple Pancakes as big as your head and reasonably priced. 
(1430 N. Ironwood) 

Aaron Skalicky 

Burger Oaken Bucket's patties rival CJ's (the peren­nial off campus burger favorite). The wooden panelling and white Christmas lights, as well as a beautiful river view, capture the essence of South Bend. (1212 S. Ironwood). 
Cheesy High School Evening Out Putter's wraps up every high school weekend you could never have. Features mini golf, video games, a laser tag arena and murals capturing the seasons of Michiana. (2500 Miracle Ln.) 
Night Out with the Guys 
For those over 21, Beacon Bowl c;:an't be beat for booze and bowling. For underage 
students, it can't be beat for bowling and the original Ms. Pacman. (4210Lincoln Way West) 

Shoe Store Money pits, trivia questions and surprise discounts: Shoe Carnival's· frenzied buying atmosphere delivers everything its name promises. (5924 Grape Rd.) 
Indian Cuisine The Malabar offers authentic cuisine with nightly menu changes. (1709 South Bend Ave.) 
Vegetarian Paradise 
Cornucopia offers selections from chicken and shrimp to vegetarian delights. Vegetar­ian chili, freshly squeezed apple juice when you order and great hummus, too. (303 
S. Michigan) 


~ HI-ia. Aaron Skalicky 
Personal Care Salon Salon Nouveau's specialty is hair design, but they off er everything from stress relief to aromatherapy to solar nails. Party packages, too, so you can plan that next birthday now. (1357 N. Ironwood) 
Golf Course Juday Creek is 

. fairly challenging, complete with plenty of water and some beautiful scenery. The new Blackthorn course by the airport promises to be a strong contender. (14770 Lindey Dr., Granger) 
Fresh Bread The Great Harvest Bread Company offers the tasties~ including specialty Italian loaves that will make your mouth water. (5932 Grape Rd., Mishawaka) 
-Compiled by Chris Blanford and Miranda Sanford 

I. 



'\. 

Prerequisite: p· ~ 101 
A brief description often films essential for 
Rudy: A definite must-see for any
Notre Dame social survival 
Notre Dame.Freshman. 
by Chris Myers 

We here at Scholastic are detennined to make your tran­sition from high school to college painless as possible. We've provided you with all the infonnation on what to bring, what to leave at home, what to expect when you get here, and now, what to watch. Yes, seeing the right movies before you get here is essential for campus social survival. To be left speechless after someone asks your favorite scene inHoly Grail is more than a mere conversational faux pas -it could forever seal your fate as social reject. While we recommend you don't go overboard and start renting arthouse movies named after colors or containing the word "Papaya," (God forbid you start to sound like a film school dweeb) we do ask that you check out the following list of movies over the summer so you can be prepared to answer such pressing questions like, "Who's cooler, White or Pink?" Our top ten choices: 
l. The Star Wars Trilogy. George Lucas' sci-fl, intergalactic epic should be at the top of your list. Multiple viewings of it in donn rooms throughout the year create some of the most identifi­able film talk on campus. Overlooking the now-retro special effects, those dopey Ewoks in Jedi and all of Mark Hamill's "acting," the trilogy presents topics and ideas that can easily be incorporated into any theology, philosophy or literature class. Classic. 
2. 
NationalLampoon'sAnimalHouse. Sophomorichumorat its primitive best. From the opening motto, "Knowledge is Good," this senseless, panty-raiding, beer-guzzling, food-fighting film is closer to Notre Dame than any administrator would be willing to admit. 

3. 
Caddyshack. Another senseless, sophomoric comedy deal­ing with the complex relationship between working toward a college scholarship and golf. Rodney Dangerfield has yet to get a better role than the obnoxious, insult-spewing AlCzervik. Crude, offensive and funny as hell. Why women don't get this movie is beyond any man's comprehension. 

4. 
Rudy. Hoosiers on the football field -at Notre Dame! Saccharine-sweet, beat-the-odds story is strictly of the been-there, 


· done-that variety, but beautiful footage ofN otre Dame makes fun for repeat viewing. A definite must-see to understand the "now he's a janitor" jokes on campus at every mention of the word "Ruettiger." 
5. Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction. Too complex to explain in one paragraph. Hollywood golden-boy-of-the-month Quentin 
· Tarantino's one-two cinematic punch has caused pages of the Internetto swell with idle chatterover how Mr. Pink was killed and the symbolism of Ezekiel 25: 17. The ear scene, adrenaline shot, tipping debate, foot massage conversation ... ifyou don'tget it, it's just not worth trying to explain. 



6. 
Monty Python and the Holy Grail. Possibly the highest laugh-per-minute ratio of any existing movie. From knights who say "nee" to deadly rabbits, every scene is instantly recognizable at the first drop ofa line. Some consider it high comedy, others a pointless waste of time. You decide. 

7. 
The TNT Late Night Classics. At two a.m. every Saturday, TNT shows. either one of two movies: Strange Brew or Clash of the Titans. Both are bad, have cheap special effects and more camp than a Boy Scout Jamboree. Face it though, Jim Carrey and J effDaniels have nothingonRickMoranis andDaveThomas, and I have but two words for Jurassic Park's T-Rex: the Crackon! 

8. 
The Graduate. Story ofBenjamin Braddock, a college grad student who ''comes of age" over the summer (Read between the lines on that one). Dustin Hoffman's genius-turned-slacker plays closer to Generation X-ers than Ethan Hawke and Matt Dillon combined, Unceremoniously spoofed in Wayne's World 2, the film is just.as relevant now as it was 25 years ago. Anne Bancroft 



The Star Wars Trilogy 
presents topics and ideas that can easily be incorporated into any theology, philosophy or literature 
, class. 

putting on her.stockings is reason enough for the rental. 
9. 
DeadPoet'sSociety. PeterWeir'spreppyShakespearemovie is perfectly suitable for every taste. Robin Williams has since reduced himself to dressing in drag, but his dramatic tum in DPS earned him a deserving Oscar nomination. Literate, stylish and smart, this is a thinking man's date movie. You'11 laugh, you'11 cry, etc., etc. 

10. 
Knute Rockne, AllAmerican. Beating Rudy to the punch by almost five decades, this is the original Notre Dame nostalgic Win One For The Gipper movie. Classier and more heartfelt than Rudy, Knute is actually a worthwhile rental for any college football fan. Greatest difference between the two: Rudy went on to do Encino Man with geek-boy Pauly Shore, The Gipp became presi­dent with geek-boy Ge:_0rge Bush. Need I saymore? · D 



SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 

...AND BUDGET 
54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 
: --, ---.. ­

MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL 
WE BRINC YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE OCTOBER 1-0CTOBER 6 "WOMEN IN THE ARTS" 
CAMPUS BANDS  ENTERTAINMENT  
October 1  ON THE QUAD  
12: 00n-2: 00pm  October 2-6  
Fieldhouse Mall  FIRESIDE CHATS  4:30pm-6:00pm Fi~ldhouse Mall  
October 2-October 6  
SPIRITUAL  12:15pm,-l:00pm  
CELEBRATION  Notre Dame Room  SPECIAL EVENTS  
October 1 2:00pm-3:00pm LaFortune Ballroom  2nd Floor LaFortune  October 3 & 5 7:00pm-11:00pm LaFortune Ballroom  
CULTURE ON T_HE QUAD October 2-6 4:30pm-6:00pm Fieldhouse Mall  Spo,ijoreJ tg:  TASTE OF NATIONS Oct~ber 6 8:00pm-l2mid · · Stepan Center  

multiculturalCxecutille Council 



I 995 CAMPUS ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5TH -7 -9 PM -JOYCE CENTER (GATE 3) 
CHECK OUTTHE MANY CLUB OPPORTIJNITIES THAT ARE AVAILABLE TO YOU! 
OVER I 50 CLUBS TO GET INVOLVED WITH -CLUBS TO MEET EVERYONE'S INTEREST! 
* 
MUSIC CLUBS * ETHNIC CLUBS 

* 
ATHLETlC SOCIETlES * SOCIAL ORGANIZATlONS 


* SPECIAL INTEREST CLUBS *SERVICE ORGANIZATlONS 
* 
ACADEMIC CLUBS * MEDIA ORGANIZATlONS 

* 
GRADUATE CLUBS * HONOR CLUBS 


BE A PART OF IT ALL! tiiiitHf ¥:lll!Mtt teurr tt&&& , 11 
SHOW YOUR SPIRIT! 
Get your Official Football Shirt ofthe Notre Dame Student Body 
Be a part ofthe tradition and wear your shirt on September 9th for 
the season opener when Notre Dame takes on 
Northwestern! 

"The Shirt" is available on campus at: 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Lafortune Information Desk The JACC Varsity Shop Alumni Association Irish Express 
By Habukkuk 

And behold a pale horse, and he that sat 
upon him, his name was Death, and hell followed him. 
-Rev. 6:8 

Sometimes when I lie awake at night I can see his evil smile, his pearly­whites glistening in the light of the moon and the acrid stench of onion breath lingering in the air as tears stream down my face. I hear him whisper softly, "Room­mate-Room -mate-be-my-friend," a monotonou·s chant that pounds my brain like a tiny hammer, pushing me toward the frayed ends of sanity. "DEVIL, BE GONE!" I yell into the darkness. I wish it were only a chance nightmare, soon to be forgotten. But alas, these scars run deep. As an incoming freshman, I was bom­barded with propaganda regarding the "Spirit of Notre Dame," a place so harmo­nious that students often frolic with deer on the quad, and iftired, a baby squirrel might curl up in your lap. A naive freshman, I blindly bought into this spirit In turn, the spirit gave me a cell block for a room and a roommate whose high school class voted him Most Likely to Receive a Restraining Order. I arrived on campus early, courtesy of NROTC orientation, and got situated be­fore my special ouddy showed up. Oh, the excitement, the fervor! I eagerly awaited my roommate's arrival, anticipating the wonderfulmemories thatwouldsurelycome as a result of male bonding. After a delight­ful dinner, courtesy of the dead Colonel who does chicken right, I returned to find theroom destroyed, butstill withoutaroom­mate. Boxes, a pre-McCarthy television and an inordinate number of obscure books littered my happy haven. Since no one was around, I decided to browse through my roommate's wealth of literature, pausing briefly to enjoy such classics as Footwear ofthe Incas and Advanced Cat Grooming. Now more of a mystery to me than ever, I pondered the student behind the books. 
That mystery was unveiled in its entirety an hour later as I had the fortune to meet his entire family. Walking into my room, I waltzed straight into a scene from the Par­tridge Family. Little kids, big kids, a mom and a dad were all enjoying a beautiful family moment when I interrupted them. I scanned the crowd and soon figured out who the 18 year-old was among the group. To break the awkward silence I introduced myself. 
"Hi, there. I'm Habakkuk." (I have replaced the names of the involved parties with those of minor prophets.) 
"I'mZephaniah,"herespondedinaquiet, unenthused voice. Because my roommate was not the social bumblebee I had hoped for, his parents came to his rescue by means of small talk. 
Thenextday,asZephaniah'sparentsleft, I didn't notice the "Good Luck" signs that Zeph's siblings hung out the window of theirfamily trucksternortheminiaturehorns that had begun to sprout from his head. 
Once on his own, Zephaniah followed me like a faithful dog, never speaking, but constantly on my heels. I searched for some subject that would spark his interest, but even the story about my cat's fur ball puk­ingproblem died a quick death. He was my shadow, and only when I went into the bathroom did hereluctantly leave me alone. If, by chance, I managed to elude him, he immediately went back to the room, an instinctual reflex that amused me to no end. Yet, as the school year wore on, he became 
increasingly harder to evade, a gnat whose 
intolerable presence left me .angry at the 
world. 
Atthesametime, thisgnathadafetishfor 

onions to such an extent that I allowed for a 
three-hour dissipation period after meals 
before attempting to go back to the room, 
where he was usually catching an episode 
ofJeopardy! Even to this day, Alex Trebek 
is the only person I know who could bring 
a smile to Zeph' s face. 
But. there is nothing that annoyed me 

more than his compulsive desire to rear­
range the room. In total, we went through 
six entire room overhauls, completely con­
ducted by him and always to my complete 
surprise. At one point, he put the bunk 
across the middle of the room, effectively 
dividing our nine0 foot wide room in half. 
Because he gave me the half with the sink 
and the door,I forbade him to walk onto my 
side, thereby trapping this Bob-Vila-on­
speed in his own creation. For him, it was 
a decorating flaw that drove him nuts. For 
me, it was a small victory in a year of pain. 
By and large, Zephaniah plagued me like . 
a popcorn kernel shell stuck between my' molars. Yet I managed to survive, passing the torch to another unsuspecting person. It is a plague that I wish upon no one, but if . you do end up with a roommate from the underworld, keep your head up and never forget the words of Nietzsche, ''That which does notkill you only makes you stronger." 
. 

This is a humor column. These views are not necessarily the views of1he editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 

One La tLook 
Katie E. Wiltout was the 1994-95 editor-in-chiefof 
Scholastic Magazine and is a recent alumna ofNotre Dame. She is currently working for the Indianapolis News. 

Around 
''Myroomisnotdominatedbyanyone 
aspectofmypersonality;insteaditis 
a sampling ofthe kind of person that I've become through my high school years. It is interesting to think ofthe changes the nextfour years in my life will bring, and how those changes will be reflected within the walls of my dorm room." 
I wrote that paragraph four and a half years ago as part of my application to Notre Dame. Browsing through someoldfiles the otherday, I came across the application. The manually typewrittenpersonal state­ment made the application look older than its four and half years. I marveled at how much even my signa­ture has changed. As I face graduation, it is time for me to stop and take a look around before I leave. 
In the personal statement of my Notre Dame appli­cation, I described my room and how it reflected the person I was. I named some ofthe books on my shelf, the cassettes in my stereo, the posters on.my wall. I. explained where the furniture came from and who made the quilt on my bed. 
In the last paragraph of the essay, the one excerpted above, I wondered what my dorm room would look like in four years. I think I already sensed how many changes I would go through in college. My room, I assumed, would manifest those changes. The book titles would change, old posters wouldby replaced by new, the cassette collection would grow. 
None of that has happened to the extent that I expected, although change has thoroughly colored me. But I have not had a single room whose walls could reflect the subtle alteration ofmy character. In college, the opposite happened -the rooms I've occupied have affected me on the inside. 
To begin with, I pictured a dorm room as relatively static and stable for four years. As I was growing up, the papered, poster-covered walls and wooden floor ofmy room were a physical sanctuary for me as well as a mental haven. During the changing decor of my youth, that fact was a constant · 
College changed all that -mostly by assigning roommates who would claim the same 13' x 8' space as theirhome, too. It was an unsettling experience for me to be forced to find refuge somewhere outside my room. As roommate squabbles escalated freshman year,Ispentlessandlesstimeinmyroom. Bytheend 
··by Katie E. Wiltrout 

of the year, it was simply someplace to sleep. That I had changed was obvious -but the walls of my room did not reflect it. 
I also never expecte<,l to live in many different rooms with many different people. Traditionally, Notre Dame students stay in the same dorm for four years. I thought I would be no different. 
Onceagain,Iwaswrong. Imovedfromacramped triple in an old dorm to a more spacious double in a new dorm between freshman and sophomore years. Junior year was an even bigger adjustment. I left the protective environment of campus housing for a flat in the middle of London. More important than gaining five rooms was gaining seven roommates, all new acquaintances. 
I did not change the room where I slept for four monthsortheflatweinhabitedinLondon. Itbearsno marks of my personality or time there. But those walls, bare though they may have been, affected me. They silently observed me test my independence, hesitatingly at first, then more strongly with each passing day. The walls stayed firm as my mind was stretched, opened and infused by my encounters with another culture and history. 
And then we moved out, as quickly and noisily as we had moved in. I found it disconcerting to leave London so easily. Simply packing up two suitcases, was not enough of a transition. 
I wanted our moving out to mirror the semester. Butitwouldhave taken too many tractor trailers to fill if physical possessions were the only measure of whom I had become in the course of a semester. I learned that a room or house or apartment is not static and stable, though its solid walls off er protection and security. It is more than a showcase of cherished objects, a place to display likes and dislikes. 
A room creates space for living, and life cannot be displayed by photographs or cassettes. It exists in actions and interactions, in raucous conversations around the dinner table or hushed late-night talks in thekitchen. WhenlleaveNotreDamenextweek, the walls ofmy room will be blank and foreboding. Only my mind willremembertheassortmentof places I've lived and the dozen people who accompanied me. The rooms will remain, ready for the infusion of freshmen and the life they bring with them. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SUMMER 1995 
j 


COUNCIL ON·•Nil,RNATIONAL ISUSINESl.OEVELOPMENT 
Congratulations Class of 1999, 
As the largest and fastest growing student organization on campus, the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development is here for you! What "The Council" can do for you: 
Provide you with a foreign internship opportunity 
~~ during the summer of 1995, 75 of our members are working in internship positions in 11 countries on 6 continents 
Expose you to the world of international business and politics 
~~ every year, The Council invites top American and foreign business leaders to speak to us concerning contemporary issues such as world trade, NAFTA, Asian opportunities, how to compete in global business, and more 
Give you the chance to develop your leadership potential 
~~ The Council is entirely student run, from our president, to our six division leaders and their assistants, to those who take an active role in organizing our special events 
Allow you to explore your entrepreneurial dreams 
~~ Not only does The Council provide you with the opportunity to rub elbows with successful business persons, members commonly work together to develop foreign contacts and explore post-graduate business opportunities abroad 
Gain the Global Advantage 
Freshmen, not planning a business major? ~~~ Don't worry! 
The Council is open to all members with an international outlook. 
We develop as you develop. 
Visit With Us at Our Booth at . Student Activities Night in September. -Gain the Global Advantage with "The Council"! 
Family Sedan too Small for all yourWorldly Possessions? 
Getting into ND is hard enough, getting all your stuff there is even harder. Let us ship your belongings with door to ·dorm room service!! 

LOW COST 
.WoI~ld,vide n~'stinatidn. 
-. ---. 
_ , -·. · j. · or . . -· ~ny,vheI•e in ~he_ {!Si\f 
TEL: (800) 752-6733 FAX: (508) 644-3722 E-MAIL: cargo@delphi.com 
See us on the WEB: http://www.village.com/cargo 

No size or weight limits! 


