
HOW THE STARS GOT STARTED
START
SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
FOR MILDNESS AND FLAVOR
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be 1
I STARTED
SMOKING MOST WERE
s
O
THE FABULOUS
Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey say: “Our Dad led the brass band
in our home towTn. He started us on our way tooting in the band when
we were eight years old. We watched and studied successful musicians as much as we could, worked real hard and, little
by little, began to get there.”

CAMELS 16*20 YEARS
SINCE I DISCOVERED
CAMELS SWELL FLAVOR. AND WONDERFUL MILDNESS
DORSEYS
SMOKING CAMELS
LONG AGO. I WATCHED. AND
THE GUYS WHO ENJOYED
GUYS WHO SMOKED
CAMELS. THERES NOTHING
LIKE CAMELS FLAVOR
amels agree with more people THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

Scholastic
Vol. 95 March 26, 1954 No. 20
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN .
PAUL FULLMER ..............  Features
FRED C. ECKART...................News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ....Assistant News JOHN A. ADAMS .................. Copy
ROBERT B. FROLICHER .........  Sports
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..........Circulation JERRY D. BAIER ............. ....Advertising
BOB FOWLER—.......Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE.....Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT._____Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey. Tim Devereux. Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates. Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton. Robert Kaufman, John Kelly, Eugene Les-mez, James Mason. James McIntosh. Charles McKendrick, Jack Mullin. Francis Newman, Dick Not ton. Jim O’Brien. Henry O’Bryan. Tom Quinn. Dick Rust. Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Norman Wendrowski.
SPORTS STAFF: Eruin Alfonsus. Phil Bolin. John Cywinski. Dave Davin, Kit Eckl. Gary Gates, John Guegen. Dave Kilkeary. Jack Kirby. Ray Lescher, Dick Mannion. Jim Morris. John Phelan, Bob Ruhl.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly dining the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
OUR COVER: Noti-e Dame’s and Coach Johnny Jordan’s eagers brought themselves to a high place in the nation’s basketball ratings—sixth—this season. Such recognition came only for turning in a great season’s mark of 22 wins and only three losses. The newspaper headlines shown, record some of the more important victories in the Irish string and Coach Jordan, honored as “Coach of the Year.”
Scholastic presents the players and a rundown of the season by Erwin Alfonsus, beginning on page 15.
The April Issue of the
Review of Politics
will feature
Professor Frank O'Malley's .
"The Culture of the Church"
To insure yourself a copy send your advance order now to Box 4, Notre Dame, Ind., or call at the Review of Politics office in the Social Science Building
Student Price
$1.00 a copy $3.40 per year
Students of other universities read The Review of Politics
WHY NOT YOU?
Other Articles in the April Issue
Father Stanley Parry, C.S.C.: “The Premises of Brownson’s Political Theory"’ Adrienne Koch: “James Madison and the Workshop of Liberty” Will Herberg: “Religious Communities in Present-Day America” Otto B. Roegele: “Adenauer’s Electoral Victory” And reviews of important books
Place Your Order Now!
Keview of Politics
Notre Dame, Indiana
March 26, 1954
Parker-Winterrowd Inc.
Complete service to all Air Force/ Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
hrker-Wiiternvd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
17% No. Main St UPSTAIRS
Irish Monkeys?
Editor:
It was my good fortune to attend the 1954 Bengal Bouts, but I was rather disgusted at the respect shown to our flag. Before the beginning of the finals The Star Spangled Banner was played, as is done at all events held on campus. I think I can say in all sincerity that a score of male monkeys chasing a female would make less noise. The books say that we maintain a high devotion to God, Country, and Notre Dame. One way that we can honor our country is by showing proper respect towards our flag.
Evidently many of the students at Notre Dame do not know just what the proper respect towards our flag entails. I would like to take this opportunity to enlighten these hardy patriots. Whenever a person is present at the playing of The Star Spangled Banner and not in uniform he is supposed to face the flag and assume a position of attention. If he is wearing a hat he is supposed to remove .it and hold it over his heart.
Most of the students know and practice the above honors but there are always a few who would rather talk to their buddy or the girls in front of them. This letter is directed to them in the hope that they will take a little more pride in their country and flag. Most likely the ones who criticize this letter will be those for whom it is intended. To this group: stop and think, and appreciate the privileges that you have by living under this flag.
Paul Robst
118 Howard
Humpl and Piffle!
Editor:
In answer to letter printed in last week’s Scholastic in which a question was asked by a certain person as to “Who is Bill Walker,” the reply can only be:
We, the Freshman Class can have a good band with a $750.00 allotment. We do not need $2,000.00 for dance music to make the Freshman Frolics the biggest first-year dance in Notre Dame history. (memo to Juniors).
Soooo, the question is not who is Bill Walker, but who is Mike Coffey?
Sincerely, Ken Woodward.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
Wo Cater to Baouptoto and Partiu
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
I
u
£ 3
I
‘ 1
I)
RESTRING WITH
COSTS LESS
At tennis shops and spotting goods stores.
STANDS UP in your racket
• Moisture Immune e Lasting Liveliness
AFHtOX. STNNGtNG COST:
Pro-Fected Braid....$6.00
Multi-Ply Braid..$5.00
STANDS OUT in play
e Harder Smashes e Better Cut and Spin
ash a a a y branded racket string
C-oo' Champions

The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the WEEK
At least the swallows returned to Capistrano, even if they didn’t stay . . .
Just A Little Grass Shack
The “Big Search”—a sport annually engaged in by underclassmen about this time of year—got underway this past WEEK. This is a local form of athletics, not unlike spring training, which is more commonly known as preparation for room registration. You know—something like preparation
for an exam. The only difference is, the room-diagrams of the various halls are tougher to figure out than most of the exams.
The procedure goes something like so: 1) The start of the game is signalled by the posting on various campus bulletin boards of the dates for registration for rooms by the various classes for the following year, whereupon. . .
2)	The underclassmen all make like journalists and scurry about their future domiciles, with pad in hand and pencil between bicuspids, opening and closing doors and industriously noting such rooms as they take a particular liking to, so that. . .
3)	When they go over to register they can readily and confidently inform the nice lady behind the window just which room suits them best, whereupon. . .
4)	They end up in a reconverted broomcloset like the one we’re typing this in anyway.
One rather frustrating instance of this whole process cropped up last Sunday morning. It seems that the room across the hall from yours truly is a bit on the spacious side, including even a private bath. The fellow who procured it last year had something like a 93 average. His roommate, however, borders a little on the stupid.
Well, there we were sitting over there engrossed in the Sunday comics, when two of the aforementioned searchers moseyed in, exhaled a couple of low whistles, and stammered:
“Cheez! This is neat.”
We glanced up at them benevolently and assured them that, yes, it was somewhat of the cat’s meow.
“What kind of average do you need to get it?” they inquired.
We noticed that the fellow with the 93 wasn’t around, so we inquired of his less-gifted roomie, “Hey, Pete, what’s your average?”
“S-E-V-E-N-T-Y N-I-N-E,” came the booming reply from the private bath.
The pair of hunters exchanged looks
of unbelief, then carefuly noted the exact number of the room as they left.
We hate ourselves when we do things like that.
Three Strikes and You’re Out
Willie Troy shouldn’t feel too badly about losing his fight with Joey Giar-dello last Friday night, because he at least didn’t talk his way into any trouble (we know, he walked into it). But we could swear we heard ref. Al Berle, while giving the boys their instructions, remark:
“The man knocked down must go to a neutral corner.”
Berle didn’t elaborate on how the pugilist so afflicted should go about arranging transportation for himself
Three Opportunities to See Europe
1.	SUMMER BICYCLE TOUR
Travel through Holland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Germany, Switzerland, France and England. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, bicycle and equipment, room and board at student Hostels. Tour conductor: Dr. Clement H. de Haas from the Univ, of Leyden'. Limit: 25 students. Time:
8 weeks. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price___
2.	SEMINAR TOUR IN EUROPE
Special program for students of Political Science. History and Geography, German, Italian, Art and Architecture, and Liberal Arts. Program lasts 95 days and attends Seminars and lectures in famous universities in Holland, Germany, Italy and Austria. Also attend the famous Salzburg Music Festival. Price includes round trip ccean transportation, room and board, and tfOQC tuition. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price-tpOxv
3.	STUDY AND TRAVEL PROGRAM—Two Semesters
Live in Vienna. Austria and take the English taught courses offered by the University of Vienna. Student groups travel and explore nine countries of Europe and North Africa with competent professors. Courses are creditable. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, complete room and board for 10J4 months while in Europe, tuition at the University, _ travel
expenses and special lectures. Deadline: June 1, 1954. Price-ipJUTxJ
SCHOLASTIC CREDITS WILL BE OFFERED BY NOTRE DAME FOR PROGRAMS NOS. 2 AND 3 For further information see Walter Clemens, 326 Badin Hall between 6:30 and 7:30 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES, 7325 S. Maryland, Chicago 19, Hl.
said rendezvous, however, so we assume it was just the old crystal set acting up again. But then, Arch Ward did refer to Marciano as Graziano once, didn’t he?
Eh Shillelagh!
One of the local radio stations (we won’t mention any names) has finally gone just a little bit too far. On March 17—St. Patty’s Day mind you—this certain station had the gall to play Eh Campari!
This, on top of the green beer scandal, was almost too much, beggorah! There was only one thing for a good Irishman to do. ’Nuff said.
Bottom of the Week
. . . They didn’t even come near South Bend.
LETTER EXCHANGE
The United States National Student Association is again conducting an International Correspondence Exchange Program. By means of this program, American students are able to communicate with their counterparts in all areas of the globe.
The Wayne University Student Council has consented to undertake the operation of this program for the coming year. If you are interested and would like to know more about this exchange see:
Gordon DiRenzo, 2 Lyons, or
Ray Long, 414 Badin
March 26, 1954
J
£


MARCH 26
AVON (through April 4)—Naked Jungle (A-2) combines a standard love story, with some pretty absorbing drama. The net result is a so-so production that might take up some time on an evening you have nothing better to do. The principals in the cast are Charlton Heston and Eleanor Parker.
STATE (through March 29)—The best show in town by far. In relation to Academy Award week, the management offers two Oscar contenders on the same bill, From Here to Eternity (B) and Shane (A-2). The show might run through March 31, depending on how it goes over.
COLFAX (through March 31)—3-D returns to town after a long absence with Phantom of the Rue Morgue, a film that surpasses House of Wax and the old Frankenstein and Dracula series in the art of gruesomeness. The movie script wanders far from Edgar Allan Poe’s short story on which it is based, inserting horror devices that the famous writer never even imagined —and would probably be glad he didn’t.
GRANADA (through April 2)—Just one CinemaScope after another. This time it’s the operetta Rose Marie that holds forth on the mammoth screen. The story, which has been screened before, revolves around a musical triangle of romance in the rugged northwest. Ann Blyth, Howard Keel and Fernando Lamas do all of the warbling and most of the acting.
PALACE (through April 1)—Seems the management is developing a mania for prison pictures. Two appeared On the same bill last week, and new we have Riot in Cell Block 11 (A-2). This one is a much higher grade picture—in fact one of the most authentic portrayals of prison life ever filmed. The second pic is another crime story, Highway Dragnet (A-2). It bears no resemblance to Dragnet a la Jack Webb.
MARCH 27
STUDENT CENTER (8-10:30 p.m.)—A party for ND juniors and the gals from SMC and St. Joe’s.
STUDENT CENTER (8-11:30 p.m.)—Another party, open to all. There’ll be a jam session led by maestro Don Gels, a Bingo game, a jitterbug contest, and door prizes. All this for two bits.	'
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:15, 6:40 and 8:25 p.m.)—A humorous thing called Tight Little Island with Basil Radford and Joan Greenwood.
MARCH 28
SACRED HEART CHURCH (2:30 p.m.)—Notre Dame, St. Mary’s, and St. Joe students join in praying the rosary.
STUDENT CENTER (3-8 p.m.)—After the rosary, the three groups are invited to attend the Senate social. Admission is 25 cents; a luncheon will be served costing 30 cents. The movie, Going My Way, will be shown.
MARCH 30
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30 p.m.)—Rev. T. McDonough speaks on “Spirituality in Marriage” at the next to last session of the Marriage Institute.
MARCH 31
WASHINGTON HALL (8:15 p.m.)—The University orchestra puts on its annual Spring concert.
APRIL 1
COLFAX (through April 7)—Liz Taylor plays a true to life role, falling in and out of “love” with those of the opposite gender in Rhapsody (B). The one difference is that in the picture, she “grows up.” The story, however, is interesting, and the many musical numbers are themselves worth the price of admission.
STATE (through April 3)—Two of last year’s Award winners, High Noon (A-2) and African Queen (A-2).
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
DRRW TURBOW
yOPTOMETRIST
— OPTICAL REPAIRS --
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED -
207 AV. Washington
Oliver Hotel
Phone 4-5777
I

&
AND BOOK

AauMai
Roak Shop.
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Fish, Steaks, Chops
and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
V2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes
Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
Joe Nabi elites
Restaurant
“Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main
Open Sunday
$
I


$



6
The Scholastic
moa's pm
JOHNNY JORDAN
‘‘They knew what they were voting about.”
SPECIAL PLAUDITS go to head coach Johnny Jordan and his 1953-54 Irish basketball team for the big job they accomplished dining the past season. Scholastic’s editors extend their “thanks” in behalf of the student body with the special Basketball Review this week.
Much has been said about the team. Some of it was stiff; some was sickly sweet. Most sports columnists throughout the country have come up with motley words of praise, often describing it as “not just another basketball team; but a special team.” We admire, and even share in. their indentions. But we think their terminologv is inaccurate.
This latest quintet was just what many of them said it wasn’t—another Notre Dame team. This doesn’t imply that they were mediocre in ability or accomplishments, however. They were far from it. The statistics sheets prove it:
The recent team outstripped all other Irish quintets in total points scored for one season. Their 1,896-point aggregate topped the 1952-53 team’s previously-high mark by 159. They piled up the longest winning streak in- Notre Dame basketball history with 18 consecutive victories. The record, before they shattered it, was set by the 1931-32 Irish after that team had gone unbeaten for 16 games. They also dumped in more points for a single game than any other team in the school’s history when they whipped NYU in the Fieldhouse, 99 to 64, on Jan. 9.
All of this proves, we think, that Johnny Jordan has spent his three short years at Notre Dame extremelv well. He has brought back another Irish team that matched—if not surpassed—the accomplishments which the university’s basketball teams made under the superb coaching of the great George Keogan. These accomplishments—combined with the fact that Mr. Jordan groomed three players who averaged better than 16 points per game, and managed to go to the NCAA two out of his first three years at the coaching reins—is proof enough' that New York Metropolitan Basketball writers knew what they were voting about when they picked him U. S. collegiate Coach of the Year.
o
THE UNTIMELY DEATHS of two Notre Dame men last Sunday ! morning have added two more names to the gruesome record of student fatalities. James Richard Byrnes, 21, of Wauwatosa, Wis., and Clinton W. Core, Jr., 20, of Greybull, Wyo., were killed a few miles northeast of South Bend when the car in which they were riding overturned on a curve.
At the time this magazine went to press, a third student—Edmund Dargis, | 22, of Chicago—lay in St. Joseph’s Hospital with serious internal injuries | which he had received in the same accident.
In the aftermath, when the depressing consequences bear heavily upon the families and friends of the deceased students, the question once again arises: “Why?” Every year, at least two or three Notre Dame students are killed in mishaps on the highway. When the word gets back to campus, friends and roommates walk around in a frenzy of disbelief.
The question “Why?” is always more than highway patrolmen—or even theologians—can answer exactly. But the question “How?” is sometimes easily explained. Perhaps these very words would have passed unnoticed even before the eyes of Jim Byrnes and Clint Core, had they been printed last week at this time. This week, however, they carry a horrifying significance for their friends who remain behind.
Remember: The life you’re always trying to save ... is your own. Caution can never be undersold.
How do you think your family, your roommate, or your friends might be taking the news about you . . . next weekend?
7
March 26, 1954
'Mons
and
THE
Catholic ChvHCH
in
WRLD AFFAIRS
A serious and realistic analysis of the issues at stake in the relations of the Church and the modern world—designed to meet the need for a medium-length, factual and readable account of the role the Church is playing in contemporary world affairs.
420 pages, $4.25
A Catholic Book Club selection
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Notre Dame, Indiana
Current Issues Discussed:
^^demar

^Rian
fl Ur
KaRl Thij-hs
Church-State problem . peace in the 20th century
Popes and Papal diplo-
macy . . . Doctrinal issue between Church and democracy . . . The Church and human rights . . . Continental Protestantism after World War II . . . The American social question . . . The Catholic Church in England, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Latin America, and the United States.
On Safe April 3^^ „
Scholastic
_muui
Volume 95, Number 20	Notre Dame, Indiana
March 26, 1954
Weekend Accidents Result in Two Deaths
An early morning crash last Sunday a quarter-mile south of the Indiana-Michigan state line on Indiana State Highway 23 spelled tragedy for the * families and friends of two Notre Dame juniors who were instantly killed and a *■ third who was critically injured.
. The dead are: James Richard Byrnes, 21, a marketing major from Wauwatosa, Wise., and Clinton W. Core, Jr., 20, an accounting major from Greybull, Wyo.
। Ed Dargis, 22, a College of Arts and ' Letters student, Chicago, is in fair con* dition in St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend. Dargis is an Off-campus student.
Byrnes was one of eight children, u while Core is survived by four brothers and sisters.
r<. Services for Core were held Thursday in Greybull. Rev. Lawrence Broestl, *»	C.S.C., represented the University. Also
accompanying the body to Greybull were Wally Clark and Fred Kracklauer, roommates of Core, both juniors.
. A solemn requiem Mass was celebrated i at Sacred Heart Church by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Juniors and seniors attended the services. In addition, freshmen * and sophomores attended Memorial Masses in their individual hall chapels.
In the meantime, two others students who suffered multiple fractures Sunday morning in an automobile smashup near Aurora, HL, have been taken off the critical list at Copley Hospital in Aurora.
They are Herbert J. Kern, 22, of Erie, Pa., and Joseph A. Boivin, 22, of Cohoes, N. Y. Both are seniors in Architecture and reside at 1127 North St. Peter- Street.
JAMES BYRNES CLINTON CORE
Auto Accident Claims Lives
RICHARD BEEMAN
Steps into WNDU’s Top Post
Knott Resigns;Beeman Assumes WNDU Reins
Richard Beeman has been named as the new station manager of WNDU. He takes over immediately in his new post for Tom Knott, who was forced to resign because of his job at WSBT-TV.
Beeman, from River Forest, HL, and a graduate of Fenwick High School in Chicago, is a junior speech major.
During his sophomore year, Beeman was a member of the sales staff of WNDU. He was appointed to the post of sales manager late last year and kept that position until he became assistant station manager last month.
It is largely due to Beeman’s management of the sales department that WNDU has survived financially .in the last two years. Beeman’s sales ability secured a nightly show on the station sponsored by Lytton’s a large clothing firm in Chicago.
Assuming his new post, Beeman stated, “With the beautiful new studios and equipment from which WNDU now operates, we feel oui- responsibilities on the campus are all the more increased. We at the station seek to justify this added trust.”
“In addition to bringing our listeners the best in music, news, and sports,
New 7-Point Tax Bill Has Senate Approval
The Student Senate at its meeting last Monday night unanimously gave the final green-light to the much debated policy for student taxation. Under the new plan, presented by Tony Mandolini, the Senate will enforce a program of seven points:
1.	The Senate will make greater efforts to inform the student body of the use to which their activities fee is put.
2.	The Student Activities Fee wall be collected once each semester during registration.
3.	One of the first duties of the Senate each semester shall be to draw up a tentative budget for the coming semester.
4.	Members of a Senate Collection Committee shall keep a strict accounting of all students who do not pay their taxes during the registration period.
5.	Names of those students who do not pay their taxes shall be turned over to the Student Activities Court, and these persons shall be made subject to a $5 fine if the court should decide that the student was able to pay the fine and has not fulfilled his duties.
6.	Students will have a right to pay their Activities Fee until such time as the Court considers their case. They shall be notified of their right to pay the fee at least one week before the court considers their case.
7.	In light of the adoption of the above policy the Student Senate will end its policy of differential prices for social events and other activities at the end of the present semester.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of students affairs, reported to the Senate that the University did not wish to add the Senate Tax to the University bill. Father Norton emphasized that the Senate itself has the powers and responsibility of soliciting and collecting this tax.
WNDU has plans for increased variety and a fresh approach in programming. Of course, we will continue to cover special events of interest to the students.”	.
March 26, 1954
9
Atheism, Growth of Asia Harassing World, Father Naidenoff Cites in New Publication
Atheism is described as “the most formidable missionary force in the world today” by Rev. G. Naidenoff, S.J., in a new book, The Catholic Church in World Affairs, to be published by the University of Notre Dame Press next Friday.
Contributing to the advance of atheism, Father Naidenoff writes, is “the prodigious increase of the world’s population and the relative stagnation of the Christian population.” An authority on the missionary activities of the Church, Father Naidenoff is editor of Rhythms du Monde, an international mission journal published in Paris.
According to Father Naidenoff, the most important event of our time is not the spread of Communism nor the ascendancy of the United States into world leadership, but rather the fact that Asia soon will have two-thirds of the world’s population.
“In Asia,” the Jesuit priest writes, “it is no longer a matter of amorphous and easily-handled masses, but of men as well-organized and alert as those of the West, whose tutelage they have shaken off while retaining western techniques. The same will be true of Africa. The techniques of the West belong to the whole world at the very moment when the world no longer belongs to the West.”
Contemplative Life Vocations Increase
Analyzing the status of the Church and its missions on the various continents, Father Naidenoff declares that “the intensive vitality of the Catholic Church in the United States” is impressive to Europeans and “a source of comfort for the Universal Church.”
“The most extraordinary phenomenon of the United States,” in his opinion, “is the remarkable increase in the number of vocations for the contemplative life. The attraction of the Trappist life, which requires the most severe cloister and the radical elimination of comfort, is a noteworthy example. After fifty years of failure in trying to plant the monastic life in the United States, there has suddenly developed a rush.”
Latin America, while nominally Catholic, is undergoing “a very serious religious disintegration,” Father Naidenoff reports. “The most dramatic of the - dangers comes from the deplorable shortage of clergy. . . . Souls are literally dying from spiritual hunger, and it is understandable that Protestant propaganda, carried on very intensively today, finds hearts ready to be nourished by it.”
“Political conditions in Western Eur
10.
ope,” the Jesuit notes, “are favorable” to Catholicism. “Almost all nations are in the hands of men who are Christians and sometimes even profoundly Christian.” But the author points up a paradox: “While in mission lands souls die of spiritual thirst and hunger, in the West where one has only to offer a hand, the masses seem to have no appetite for God.”
Asia “will weigh most heavily on the destinies of the universe,” Father Naidenoff predicts. “Today she is, of all the continents, not only the least Christianized, but the one in which Christianization progresses most slowly. It seems that Asia has been too busy with the problems of the present life and of temporal reorganization to have that leisure and sufficient freedom of soul which alone opens the way to the eternal questions.”
“No matter where one looks in Asia, except in the Philippines, the churches there are weak and fragile,” Father Naidenoff says. And everywhere, even in the Philippines, there is “the poisonous attraction of Communism.” The Jes-suit notes a small increase in the Catholics in Japan but declares that “nothing can console us for the loss of China.”
Father Naidenoff urges Catholics to develop a world perspective and to “try to have an idea of God’s plan for the world. . . . There is no grow'h nor decline of the Church,” he says. “There is the majestic unfolding of history under the eyes and direction of God.”
ACS Student Affiliates to Hold Midwest Meet Here April 2, 3
The student Affiliates of the American Chemical .Society will hold their fourth annual Mid-Central Regional meeting here on April 2 and 3, under the sponsorship of the local chapter.
Approximately 125 students from schools in Michigan, Ohio, Illinois, and Indiana are expected to attend the meeting, a feature of which will be the delivering of research papers by many of the students.
On the evening of April 2, a banquet will be held at the Morris Inn, and an address will be given by Dr. Abraham Lincoln Marshall, manager of chemical research for the General Electric Co.
The research papers will be given on April 3 at meetings in the Nieuwland Science Hall. The Notre Dame chapter will present a trophy in honor of Father Nieuwland to the student delivering the most outstanding paper.
LEONARD BLAYLOCK
Subversive Investigations Need Informants
FBI Explains Methods In Fact-Finding Forum
FBI methods and special techniques for getting the “facts” were explained comprehensively last week by four FBI regional representatives at the Law School’s Fact-Finding Institute. The allday program included films, lectures, and several exhibits of the work the FBI does.
Mr. Leonard Blaylock of the FBI’s. Indianapolis office, Mr. John B. Little of the same office, Mr. Douglas C. Cannell of the Detroit office, and Mr. Charles A. Donelan of FBI Headquarters Training Division, Washington, D. C., emphasized “the hard work carried on by skilled, highly-trained FBI agents in gathering evidence.”
“The job calls for a certain type of person -that dees not mind being transferred constantly, and who must be available for duty at all times, including vacations,” stressed Mr. Blaylock.
The panel discussion concluding the day’s activities brought out points concerning FBI member investigations and testimonies. “The FBI will not permit its experts to testify if they are to be the sole means of prosecution in a case; there must be other testimony first which the FBI experts will corroborate,” the panel stated.
Concerning “subversive” investigations, since there is no definite crime to begin with, the FBI must depend to a great extent on informants, it was added. “It is primarily from these leads that further delving is begun and extensive records formed,” stated Mr. Blaylock. “Without this aid, the FBI could accomplish little in detecting subversion.”
The Scholastic
Fry's Sensitive The Lady's Not For Burning' Scores Hit Here Under Tumpane's Direction
Spring Concert High In Musical Spotlight
Last week in Washington Hall the talents of Christopher Fry, John D. Tumpane, Miss Eleanor Kaskey, and Eugene Gorski combined to bring forth a wonderfully enjoyable two hours of theatre production. The Lady’s Not For Burning is a delightful comedy, and was very well done by the university group.
Fry’s play is fashioned in a 15th century English village called Cool Clary. It tells of a young woman accused of witchcraft and sentenced to death; and a young man, having committed no crime, but being tired of the world, wanting to be hanged. During the play the opinions of these two undergo considerable change, and their outlook on life .is a bit different when the curtain falls. The play is in blank verse and is often wonderful to hear.
Miss Kaskey, as the lady who wasn’t for burning, gave an excellent performance which showed a good understanding of the forces at work in the play. She read much of the blank verse with real beauty, and her lyricism added much to the production.
Gorski gave a quite brilliant performance as the gentleman who was for hanging. He apparently “felt” the character of Thomas, and decisively displayed his mastery of the intricate blank verse script.
Miss Nancy Irgang was excellent as Margaret Devize and has the necessary ability to make immediate contact with her audience. Leland Croghan was great fun as the chaplain, representing —along with his violin—two aspects of the mediaeval Roman Church.
Though talented Gerry Godwin may have indulged in a bit of scene stealing, he often added great zest and humor to the performance; there was, at times, a noticeable lift to the action when he entered the scene. And he should be thanked for his always being heard. Other members of the cast included Philip Donahue, William Bellis, Jerome Sweeney, Richard Robison, Rody Oppenheim, and George O’Donnell.
The entire production is marked by the now well-known directorial finesse of Prof. John D. Tumpane. Professor Tumpane brought to this production what he brings to everything he does: a complete understanding of the playwright’s intentions and the meaning of the material at hand. Add to this the ingenious bits of “business” that flow freely from him and his ability to draw so much from performers in the play, and the total is astonishing competence.
The set by John Kirby and Stephen Steckbeck was an excellent one, and Marion Leszczynski’s lighting was most
effective. The costuming, too, was outstanding. Some editing may have injured Fry’s verse at times, but this is quibbling. A fine playwright, an excellent cast, and an accomplished and sensitive director deserve plaudits and plaudits for The-Lady’s Not For Burning.—Richard Gercken
Casey Next Speaker In Aquinas Lectures
Dr. Patrick Casey, a member of Loyola University’s Department of English, will present the next to the last talk in the ninth annual Aquinas Lecture Senes Sunday evening at 8 o’clock. Dr. Casey’s will deal with the subject, “Sense in Censorship.”
The series of addresses, sponsored by the Aquinas Book Shop and Library in South Bend, are presented each Sunday evening during the season of Lent. The lectures are given in the Progress Club, 601 West Colfax Ave.
A native of Limerick, Ireland, Dr. Casey received his Doctor of English Literature from the National University of Ireland. While in attendance at the University he also studied law, and became a member of the Irish Bar Association. In addition he held a position on the editorial staff of the Irish Independent.
The Lenten series of addresses is being sponsored by a committee of South Bend laymen under the direction and supervision of Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., spiritual advisor for the group.
DR. PATRICK CASEY
Sunday: “Sense in Censorship”
The Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra will present, as a part of the Concert and Lecture Series, its annual Spring Concert Wednesday night in Washington Hall at 8:15. The orchestra, under the direction of Dr. C. A. Biondo, was last heard at the Washington Day Exercises, and previously at its Fall Concert in November.
Serving as student conductors will be two senior- members of the organization —Leo Michuda, who has been concert-meister for four years, and Richard Pilger, principal second violin and business manager. William Gibbons, a graduate student, has written special orchestrations for the group, and wrote the score for the Glee Club presentation which was performed with the South Bend Symphony on March 14.
The policy of performing less commonly heard, but still interesting and enjoyable works, will be continued. The concert will also be a review of a part of the long history of music, presenting compositions from each of the 17th through 20th Centuries.
The program follows;
Representative of 17th Century: Alessandro Scarlatti, Sonata a Quatro.
18th Century: J. S. Bach, Air on the G String; F. Handel, Concerto Grosso, No. 1; W. A. Mozart, Eine Kleine Nacht-musik.
19th Century: C. Saint-Saens, Prelude to the Deluge.
20th Century: Paul Hindemith, Patil Pieces for String Orchestra; Leroy Anderson, Fiddle-Faddle.
O'Neill to Speak Sunday At AB Senior Breakfast
The Arts and Letters Communion Breakfast, the third in a series for seniors in the various colleges at the University, will take place Sunday morning at 9 in the Morris Inn. Mass will be said in Dillon Hall chapel by Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Breakfast will follow immediately after Mass.
Mr. Denis J. O’Neill, ’26, an advertising executive for the D’Arcy Advertising Agency, Cleveland, O., will be guest speaker.	'
Sponsored by the Alumni Association, the purpose of the series of breakfasts is to acquaint the seniors with the operation and aim of the Alumni Association so that upon graduation they can at once begin to participate in the life of an alumnus.
March 26, 1954
11
Communion time at Sunday’s High Mass	Roast beef with the President.
Also a word with the Rector.
“We only hope that we can live up to the compliment that you have paid us by entrusting your son’s education to us,” Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh told the 400 parents who came to the campus last weekend for the second annual Parents-Son >; weekend.
Father Hesburgh’s address at the Saturday night banquet was the highlight of ? i the weekend. He traced the history of Notre Dame back to the lives of Father Sorin 11 and Father Badin. He showed how their devotion to Mary is at the foundation of H the Notre Dame education. He emphasized that, “You can’t go very far around the - f campus without facing God or His Mother.”	J- j
Noting that the modern world makes great demands on the college graduate, Father Hesburgh said that, “We want people with both integrity and intelligence.” He urged the development of the mind, its free expression, and the realizing of j the values in life.	7 j
Parents began moving onto campus Friday night and by Saturday morning all i J had registered at the Morris Inn.	1
Tours of the campus were conducted on Saturday morning. At noon the parents J | and sons moved to the Dining Hall and tackled a “typical” Notre Dame meal. f ,
The afternoon was occupied with open-houses in each college and a reception with
Coach Terry Brennan in the Student Center.	5
After the evening’s banquet the oilicers of the administration greeted the parents in v' -the .Student Center. The 9 o’clock high Mass in Sacred Heart Church ended the f' weekend.	tv
-
The Scholastic
The Army Won This Argument

By DAVE COHEN
The United States Military Academy debate team walked off with top honors in the second annual University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament held on campus last weekend.
The Cadets’ two-man team of Robert Henry of Montgomery, West Va., and Harvey Garn of Sugar City, Idaho, won the Rev. William A. Bolger rotating trophy over the host Notre Dame squad in the final round.
The runnerup Irish debate team was represented by Carl Gunderson and Don Dowden. Dowden was judged the outstanding speaker in the tourney and was presented a winner’s plaque. This was the third time in the past month that Dowden has been given an “outstanding speaker” award in collegiate debate competition. He won these previous honors in the Boston University tournament and the Brooklyn College Invitational tournament. Gunderson, Notre Dame’s other entrant, rated sixth place in the voting for outstanding speaker.
Wake Forest University placed third in the team competition with Vermont University coming in fourth. Vermont was led by the runner-up for “outstanding speaker,” Herzl Spiro. Vermont reached the semi-finals by edging out Wisconsin State of Eau Claire, Miami (Fla.) and Case Institute who tied for fifth place.
Awards at Morris Inn
Finalists were announced at the tournament banquet in the Morris Inn Saturday afternoon and guests William Eisen,
head of the Department of Speech, the Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., and the Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., were introduced to the visiting squads.
Following the final round in the Law auditorium, Prof. Leonard Somner, director of forensics, presented the team and individual awards in the Student Center.
Dartmouth College, the defending champion, fell in the opening rounds of the tourney. Other outstanding debate teams like The Naval Academy and Purdue also dropped out of the running in the early rounds.
The topic for the debate was “Resolved: The United States Should Adopt a Policy of Free Trade.” The sides were designated by a chance drawing.
The preliminary rounds on Friday were held in the Student Center. The Center also served as headquarters for the tourney throughout the weekend.
On Saturday the scene shifted to the Nieuwland Science Hall for the quarter and semi-finals. The Law Auditorium was the site of the finals.
Prof. Sommer said that “This tourney was well run and most teams congratulated me on the top quality competition and handling.”
Frank Draine, publicity director, assisted Sommer, and senior debaters Bill Hank and Charles Doherty in running the competition.
Draine and Al Kiley will represent Notre Dame at the National Honorary Debate tourney next weekend in Kalamazoo, Mich. This tourney is sponsored by the Tau Kappa Alpha debate society.
Cadet Garn takes Honors
To the victors belong the spoils. Professor Sommer and Father. Norton present Army delegates Cadets Henry and Garn with Bolger memorial trophy.
N.D. s Dowden is ‘outstanding speaker.”
Dr. Sandeen Publishes Anthology of Poems
Dr. Ernest Sandeen, Ph.D., associate professor in the Department of English, recently published a volume of poems, entitled Antennas of Science. The book, containing SI poems, is volume six of the Contemporary Poetry Library Series edited by Mary Owens Miller.
Dr. Sandeen has been with the University since 1946, specializing in American literature. He spent his early years on farms and in villages near Galesburg-, Ill. He was graduated from Knox College where he was awarded the Honnold Scholarship to Oxford University, England. At Oxford he received the degree of Bachelor of Literature. His Ph.D. was received at the State University of Iowa. During World War II he served as a reserve officer in the navy.
Antennas of Science is Sandeen's first work on poems. Most of the poems in the volume were first published in Poetry. A few have appeared in the American Preface and the Aeic Worker. His other writing includes an essay on William Faulkner in the book, Fifty 1 ears of the American XoeeL 1000-10.50. It was edited by Rev. Harold Gardiner, S.J., and was published in 1951.
Karl Shapiro has commented on this volume:
"We can always tell authentic poetic utterances at a glance. The Rite, Parked Car. and The Hurt of Second Death are examples of this rare authenticity. . . . Even in the more grandiose •mythic' poems in the book, there is the stamp of personality. The language is clear and certain, the style firm, and the themes are continuous in meaning and in intensity of feeling.”
Dockweiler Medal Competition Has April 22 Entry Deadline
Competition for the Dockweiler Medal, sponsored annually by the Department of Philosophy, is now underway, it was announced by Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C., administrative head of the department.
The medal will be presented at Class Day Exercises of the June graduating class to the senior in the College of Arts and Letters who submits the best essay on a philosophical subject.
There are no specifications as to the length or subject of the essay.
Essays submitted in the competition must be turned in at the Department of Philosophy office, Room 327, O’Shaughnessy Hall, not later than April 22.
The senior selected as this year’s winner of the Dockweiler Medal will be announced on May 13.
PROFESSOR FREDERICK “Time fo Read” for 160 Librarians
Frederick to Speak At Librarians’ Dinner
Tomorrow evening at 7 o'clock, Prof. John T. Frederick of the Department of English will ring down the curtain on Indiana Library Week when he speaks before an estimated 160 St. Joseph County librarians at the Indiana Club. Professor Frederick will speak on "Time ro Read,” which is the general theme of this year’s library week.
Professor Frederick, novelist and noted reviewer, is the conductor of the Northwestern Reviewing Stand program, “Of Men and Books.” In the past he has directed the Writer’s Conference workshops conducted here annually each Summer.
During the week, commemorating the state-wide library observance, numerous displays and exhibits have been featured in the South Bend main library and its branches and the Mishawaka public library. Several stores sponsored window displays featuring library material.
Library Week saw the opening of the local library’s new record collection of 250 works available for public borrowing. It also marked the first anniversary of the Bookmobile which provides library service to sections of the city comparatively remote from the main library or its branches.
Miss Helen Snyder of the Business and Industrial Department of the South Bend main library is chairman for the dinner. Librarians in charge of public, school, college and private business collections are expected to attend.
Miss Florence Bennett was chairman of the library committee for Library Week, with Miss Nancy Hogoboom, Mrs. Lester Hamilton, Miss Jane Klasen and Miss Constance Kramer as members.
Seniors Will Market Ball Ducats March 29
Bids for the 1954 Senior Ball, May 14, in the Navy Drill Hall, featuring Ralph Marterie and his “Downbeat Orchestra,” will go on sale Monday night in the Engineering auditorium at 7 p.m., according to Tom Stabler, ticket chairman.
One-fourth of the tickets will be reserved for sale Tuesday at 3 p.m., and the remainder, if any, will be saved for sale Wednesday at the same time in the Engineering Auditorium.
Bids are priced at S9.25 which will include admission to the open house in the Student Center Friday afternoon, May 14, featuring the Dixieland music of Bob Brown and his Spotlighters, and to the Senior Dance Saturday night, May 15, also at the Center.
Co-chairmen George Pflaum and Ron Mazzoli have reminded the seniors that in spite of every effort to include as large a percentage of the class as possible, the ticket sales will be limited to approximately 580, and will be sold strictly on a first-come, first-served basis.
Tickets to the Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn May 16 will also be on sale Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, and will cost $3. Rev. Thomas E. Cady, C.S.C., will be the guest speaker at the breakfast.
Decorations Chairman Leroy Bazany reports better than average pi-ogress on the committee’s construction of the Austrian Village set in the motif of “Auf Wiedersehen.” The need for painters is still acute, it was announced, and any assistance would be gratefully accepted.
Reservations at the Morris Inn are all taken. However, there are rooms available at the Hoffmann and Oliver Hotels. Room reservations at these hotels can be obtained through Jim Bouley. 115 Alumni; Bill Cavanaugh, 238 Alumni, or Rich Hohman, 327 Alumni.
St. Peter's Basilica Replica Given to University by Savoias
Within the next week the 1:100 scaled model replica of St. Peter’s Basilica, recently on exhibit in the lobby of the O'Shaughnessy Building, will have a new and permanent resting place in a rear room of the Student Center, it was announced by the maintenance department here.
The unique, 15 feet long, nine feet wide and eight feet high model was recently donated to the University by the father-son duo of Attilio Savoia, a Roman model maker, and Lucio Savoia, his architect son. The same metals used in the original St. Peter’s were put into the Savoia reproduction.
14
The Scholastic
JOHNNY JORDAN ■ • . has been head basketball coach of the Irish for only three seasons, but in these three' seasons, he has achieved his goal of bringing ND basketball back to the lofty place it once held under the late George Keogan. Jordan’s Notre Dame teams have a three-season record of 57 wins and 18 losses for a .760 percentage. Keogan coached at Notre Dame for 20 years (1922-3). His teams won 332 games and lost 98 for a percentage of .772.
After Keogan’s death in 1943, Notre Dame basketball took a definite back seat to football. Then in 1951, Notre Dame signed Jordan, who was then coaching at Loyola of Chicago. Jordan, an alumnus of ND and captain of Keogan’s 1934-35 team, jumped at the chance to coach at his Alma Mater.
In his first year at ND, Jordan had the problem of almost starting from scratch. LeRoy Leslie' and Gootch Lewinski were the only consistent scorers returning from the previous year’s team, so Jordan had to rely a great deal on green sophomores. Three of these green sophomores were Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand and Bill Sullivan, all starters on this season’s team. The Irish won some late season heart-throbbers to end up with a respectable 16-10 record.
Last season, things improved considerably. Leslie had graduated but the green sophomores, now juniors, had profited from the year’s experience. Together with Lewinski, a sophomore named Jack Stephens, and Jim Gibbons, the Irish rolled to 19 wins against five losses.
Jordan’s team made school history when it became the first Notre Dame team to compete in post-season tournament play. The Irish won their first two tourney games against Eastern Kentucky and Pennsylvania, but fell before eventual champion Indiana in the Regional finals. ND was ranked 10th in the nation.
This season, the prospects were bright. The only problem was the replacing of Lewinski. Jordan solved this with sophomore John Fannon. Fannon combined with Sullivan and the high scoring trio of Rosenthal, Bertrand and Stephens to compose what many believe is the greatest team in Irish cage history.
This season’s Irish started slow, winning only four of its first six games. After that second loss, to Bradley on Dec. 23, Notre Dame won its next 18 games. Included in this streak were tournament victories over Loyola of the South and Indiana. The Indiana victory was probably Jordan’s crowning achievement as Notre Dame coach. The Irish players worked their coach’s defensive plan to perfection,
stopping Ill’s high-scoring Don Schlundt and Bob Leonard and went on to a thrilling 65-64 triumph.
The night after the Indiana game, Irish hopes for the NCAA championship were crushed by underdog Penn State, 71-63. The loss however failed to dim the glittering record of this year’s ND five and the overall record of the last three years’ rise under Jordan. For his work this season, Jordan received the Coach of the Year Award from the New-York Basketball Writers’ Association. ND finished sixth in both national polls.
As for next year, the Irish coach faces a rebuilding job somewhat similar to his first season. Only two regulars, Stephens and Fannon, return from this year’s team. Johnny Jordan, however, is determined to keep Notre Dame basketball on top, and if his success of the past three seasons is any indication, he’ll do exactly that.
JOHN CASTELLANI ■
. . Notre Dame’s assistant coach played an important role in
establishing this year’s brilliant basketball record. Castellani did the Irish scouting and handled most of the freshman coaching duties. His scouting assignments carried him to all parts of the nation. Castellani graduated from Notre Dame in 1952 and at present is studying for his Master’s Degree in Physical Education. He is a native of New Britain, Conn. This wras his second year as assistant to Jordan at Notre' Dame.
16
The Scholastic
DICK ROSENTHAL . . . great All-American center for the Irish, captained the 1953-54 squad to its most successful season under Coach Johnny Jordan and one of the most successful campaigns in the history of Notre Dame. Under Rosenthal, the Irish finished the season with a spectacular 22-3 record and advanced to the NCAA regional finals in Iowa City.
While at Notre Dame “Rosie” set many new individual scoring marks. He finished the regular season this year with a total of 432 points and added 74 more in tournament competition to finish with 506 points, and a creditable average of 20.2.
His total broke the previous high of 392 set by Rosenthal himself last season, and also eclipsed the three-year total of 973 set by Irish star Leroy Leslie between 1949 and 1952. The three-year mark of 1227 was also good enough to crack the four-year record of 1065 held by former ND captain Kevin O’Shea, 1946-50.
“Rosie” played some of his best ball in two of Notre Dame’s upsets over nationally-ranked foes. He led the Irish with 28 points over previously undefeated Holy Cross in their 83-61 victory and then poured 25 points through in
Dick Rosenthal
Notre Dame’s 66-65 tourney upset over the NCAA defending champion Hoosiers of Indiana. Rosenthal finished far ahead of the rest of the squad in the foul-shooting department, hitting1 the nets for a .750 percentage.
Although Rosenthal started the season slowly, he gradually improved until he placed himself among the top centers in the country. His capabilities on the court, however, were not limited strictly to his offensive punch. Against two of the nation’s top centers, Togo Palazzi of Holy Cross, and Don Schlundt of Indiana, the Irish center exhibited his great defensive strength. 'In two contests against the Hoosiers, “Rosie” held the 6-10 giant to 19 points while scoring 47 himself. In the Crusader win he outscored the All-American 28-9. Both centers had been averaging well over 20 points a game.
In the opening tourney game against Loyola of the South, Rosenthal scored 31 points while holding Wolfpack center Ed Galvin to nine. Galvin averaged 17 points a game during the season. For his great performance in Fort Wayne, “Rosie” was voted the outstanding playei- of. the tourney. He also was named to the All-Regional five in Iowa City.	.
Joe Bertrand
JOE BERTRAND • - • One of the six graduating members of this year’s Irish. The 6’3” forward from Chicago’s St. Elizabeth high was the third highest scorer for the entire season with 412 and a 16.5 average. One of Joe’s biggest accomplishments is his ND fieldhouse record of 35 points which he set on Dec. 17 against Loyola of Chicago. His .424 shooting percentage was the best of the Irish regulars and marked the second consecutive year that he led in that department. Although he bows out this season, he totaled 1,052 for three seasons, the third highest in Irish history.
BILL SULLIVAN ... A 6’4” 200-pound guard, Bill is one of the five Irish eagers from Chicago where he graduated from St. Ignatius high. This year the senior guard, who makes it a point to be in the right spot at the right time, swished the nets for 169 points. Sullivan’s ability as a rebounder has been an invaluable aid to the success of the Irish this season, but his real prowess can be measured by the fact that he made them when it counted. He played his best ball during the NCAA tournament this year. A member of the Army ROTC, “Sully” is majoring in Business Administration.
Bill Sullivan
March 26, 1954
17
Stephens
Jack
JUNIOR STEPHENS • • • This 6'2" 190-pound junior guard comes from Mount Carmel high in Chicago where he played under Johnny Jordan, now coach of the Irish. Junior had his best year this season, totaling 421 points for a 16.8 average from his guard position and guiding the Irish attack with his uncanny ability as a playmaker. He finished second in scoring to Rosenthal. Stephens recorded the most playing time
on the squad during the regular season.
minutes.
His best shot is a one-handed push
He was in action 791 of a possible 840 i from outside.
JOHN FANNON in the success of
. . A sensational set
shot artist.
the Irish this season. ND's fourth
this sophomore was a big help highest scorer with 222 points,
he also proved himself as a capable rebounder. Improving steadily as the season progressed, Fannon played his best ball on the second eastern swing. Playing before a home town crowd against Penn, he topped both squads with 18 points. On this same swing John connected on 12 field goals for a 24-point output in leafing the Irish over Navy. Most of the points came on his specialty—the outside set.
John Fannon
ED McGINN - - - This 6’5” Irish guard’s play this season added the needed depth to the Notre Dame squad. Three of Ed’s points this season came in the closing minutes of the Indiana game in Iowa City and helped to cushion the slim lead ND had which eventually led to a Hoosier upset. Ed was awarded the game-winning ball after Notre Dame’s victory over Penn in his home town of Philadelphia. A senior, he is a veteran of the US Navy and playtd with the Great Lakes team while in service.
Bill Weiman
Ed McGinn
BILL WEIMAN ■ • • As a sophomore, this 6’2” guard from Si. Ambrose high in Davenport, Iowa, was the sixth man in the Irish lineup and made an appearance in 22 out of 25 games. He earned early praise as a fancy passer and ball-handler. Bill played his best game against Michigan State when he put in a tip which broke a 67-67 deadlock and put the Irish ahead to stay, and consistently confused the Spartans with his lightning passes. He is in the College of Commerce but as yet undecided as to his major.
The Scholastic

JOHN REYNOLDS - • . This 6’1” guard’s value to the Irish can’t be measured by the number of points he scored, but by his ability to fill in when needed and steer the Irish attack as a playmaker. Reynolds saw quite a bit of action this season, performing in 17 games. A three-year man, John has always proved his value during the season.
Last year he scored an important basket in
the Indiana game.
Lloyd Aubrey
Dick Honin.gford

iMuawSRW!
Reynolds
John
ft TRE
LLOYD AUBREY . . • Hailing from St. Louis, this 6’5” forward-center played in the
shadow formed tion of for the
of Captain Dick Rosenthal this season, and when he did see action, he per-very capably. His last quarter scoring spree against Butler gave an indica-his potential as a scoring threat. His field goal percentage of .455 was tops entire squad. Lloyd played his high school ball at DeAndreis, and is a sopho-
more in the College of Commerce.
D1CK HONINGFORD • • • The tallest man on the Irish squad at 6’6”, this 205-pound senior center saw action as a replacement for Rosenthal. Dick, who hails from Delphos, Ohio, captained his team in his senior year, and paced the club to the state championship of Ohio in 1949. Honingford is in the College of Commerce, majoring
in Business Administration and is in the
Air Force ROTC.
STEVE REBORA • - - Though he is the smallest member of the Irish squad, the 5’10” Rebora has been a steady performer for the past two seasons, and his one- and two-
handed set played his commercial
shots have aided his team on several occasions. Rebora, a junior, who high school basketball at Loyola Academy in Chicago, has hopes of a art career after graduation in 1955.
Steve Rebora

March 26, 1954
19
Victory Road To 22-3 Record ‘
4
By Erwin Alfonsus
“The Notre Dame basketball team is the best college five I’ve ever seen.” These words of praise from “Buster” Sheary, Holy Cross cage mentor, after the Jordanmen had rolled to an 83-61
$
win over Sheary’s previously unbeaten Crusaders, echo the sentiments of countless opposing coaches whose teams the Irish faced during the season, and also of the sportswriters and fans who witnessed them in action.
When coach Johnny Jordan assembled his squad back in December for the start of the ’53-54 campaign, he could not anticipate a season that would bring a record of 20 wins and but two defeats and win Notre Dame’s second consecutive bid to the NCAA tourney.
Yet this squad—the nucleus of which was composed of three regulars, two reserves from last year’s team, and a pair of talented sophomores—did just that. In the process they stamped themselves as one of the top teams in the country and one of the finest in Irish history.
The road to this great record started on Dec. 3 when the Irish gained an easy 84-63 opening win over Ball State. After a slow start, which found Ball State nailing by only 16-14 at the first quarter, Notre Dame started rolling and be
Bertrand Fights for Rebound in Romp Over DePaul Demons
fore long their height and speed proved too much for their opponents. A 30-point splurge in the third quarter put the game on ice for the Irish, and reserves carried most of the action in the
final period. Four Notre Dame players hit for double figures in the scoring department with senior forward Joe Bertrand leading the way with 24 points.
Four nights later the Jordanites played host to the Wildcats of Northwestern in an exciting but somewhat sloppy affair. Bertrand’s 11-point final quarter and eight important points by John Fannon in the same period aided the Irish in capturing a 75-66 edge in a game in which the score was tied 18 times and the lead changed hands 11.
The Wildcats held a slim 50-48 lead at the close of the third period, but Stephens’ field goal and Rosenthal’s free throw put the Irish ahead to stay. In the closing minutes Northwestern narrowed the mounting Irish lead to five, but Fannon’s two dharity tosses and three jump shots put the game out of the Wildcats’ reach.
Against Detroit on Dec. 10, Notre Dame went ahead after 51 seconds on a basket by Bill Sullivan and this lead was never threatened as the Irish
Stephens Jams Louisville Attempt
*
coasted to an easy 72-45 victory. Bertrand, the top scorer in the first two contests, accumulated four fouls in less than two minutes of the first quarter and saw only 20 minutes of action, but Captain Dick Rosenthal came into his own as he hit on nine field goals and nine free throws for 27 points. Junior Stephens took runner-up honors with 17.
The Irish started off very slow, unable to work any plays through the Titan defense. As the game wore on, however, ND began to click and fast breaks tore the game wide open.
Notre Dame’s victory string was short-lived, however, as they dropped a 66-55 decision in their Dec. 14 meeting with the “Hurrying Hoosiers” of Indiana at Bloomington. Rosenthal and Stephens predominated the boards to grab most of the rebounds, but the Irish could not cope with Ill’s sharpshooting “Mr. Outside” Bob Leonard, who hit six of nine sudden-stop jump shots in the second quarter to give his mates a 42-27 cushion at halftime.
Rosenthal and Bertrand teamed to hold Indiana’s scoring ace, Don Schlundt, to nine points and “Rosie” and Stephens constantly stole the ball from the 6’10” giant. However, the cold-shooting Irish could only capitalize on 19 of 87 shots while Indiana scored on 25 out of 69 • shots. Both teams were ragged and
were pressing too hard, but the Hoosiers managed to build up a substantial lead early in the game and were never seriously headed. Rosenthal led both teams in scoring with 22 points, while Leonard finished close behind with 21.
Loyola of Chicago provided the opposition in the Fieldhouse on Dec. 17, and it was Joe Bertrand who had his classmates buzzing the next day as they departed for the Christmas holidays. Bertrand paved the way to an 81-65 victory over the Chicagoans as he poured in 35 points to break the old single game scoring mark of 32 formerly held by Irish star Leroy Leslie.
His eleven field goals and 13 charity tosses helped to keep the Jordanmen in command throughout the entire contest. Overshadowed by Bertrand’s scoring outburst were Junior Stephens with 21 and Loyola forward Ed Stube with 19.
Notre Dame was held on pretty even terms by the Ramblers through much of the first half, but a torrid third period, led by Bertrand and Stephens put the game on ice.
Bradley handed the Irish their second and final loss of the regular season, as Coach “Forddy” Anderson’s Braves eked out a 74-72 win at Peoria on Dec. 23. Bradley led throughout most of the game, but a determined drive by ND in the final period, with four of their regulars out on fouls, almost turned the tide. A 12-point Bradley lead suddenly vanished and Notre Dame held a slim 44-43 margin with 7:23 left in the third period.
The Braves put on a commanding spurt and outscored ND, 18-2, during a five-minute period to take a 61-46 lead. An eight-point Bradley lead with less than two minutes remaining appeared reasonably safe, but two free throws by
Stretch by “Sully” Stops It
John Reynolds and a rebound by “Rosie” cut the lead to 72-68. After Bradley scored their final two points, Steve Rebora’s set shot and Stephens’ two free Bradley then missed two free throw throws whittled the gap to 74-72 with but three seconds to go.
attempts, but when Notre Dame did gain possession they were not able to get off a shot before the gun. Stephens was the leading point-maker with 21.
Notre Dame found little chance to celebrate on New Year’s Eve as they had to scramble for a 52-50 win in their rematch with Northwestern at Evanston. It was a defensive game with neither team holding more than a five-point lead.
The lead changed hands 11 times, but
after- Bud Grant sent the Wildcats into the lead midway through the final quarter, Stephens’ two fielder’s and “Rosie’s” free throw put the Irish in front to stay. With the Irish leading, 52-50 in the closing seconds Ehmann had a chance to tie the game with a pair of charity tosses, but he missed them both.
Back home again in the friendly confines of the Fieldhouse on Jan. 6, the Jordanites survived a third-quarter scare to hand the Louisville Cardinals a 72-53 setback, for their sixth win of the young season.
With the heat on at 41-39 late in the third period Bertrand hit three in a row and the Irish poured in 15 points in four minutes and 20 seconds to pull safely ahead. Previously the Cardinals had been averaging 80 points a game. Bertrand and Rosenthal tied for scoring honors with 17 apiece. Chuck Noble, classy Cardinal forward, and pint-size “Corky” Cox led the Cardinals’ efforts to hold the ever-increasing Irish gap to a minimum.
New York University gave the Irish a slight scare as the Violet eagers jumped to a 16-15 first quarter margin, but three ND baskets right before the first half gave Notre Dame the lead, and from then on it was an Irish picnic.
Before the game was over the Irish had scored more points than any previous Irish team. A 53 per cent shooting average in the second half enabled the Irish to romp to a 99-64 win. The game was very closely officiated as 63 fouls were called and 92 shots were attempted from the 17-foot line. Bertrand was high man in the game with 24 points. “Rosie” hit for 18, while Stephens and Boris Nachamkin, giant center of the Violets, each had 17.
March 26, 1954
21
Hey, Fellows, Over Here
The previous high for the ND Fieldhouse was 95 set by the Irish against DePaul in the closing home game of last season. Notre Dame had a chance in the last few seconds to go over the century mark, but failed. The Irish intercepted a Demon pass, but the attempted lay-up rolled around the rim and dropped out.
On their first eastern swing of the season the Irish amazed some 13,000 Boston Garden fans on Jan. 15 by completely outplaying a favored Holy Cross five in every department, 83-61. Notre Dame moved in front and was never in trouble, as they rolled to an impressive win over the then undefeated Crusaders and eventual winners of the NIT crown. Earlier in the season the Crusaders captured the Sugar Bowl Classic.
Rosenthal captured scoring honors with 28 points, while holding the Crusaders’ scoring ace, Togo Palazzi, to nine. Bertrand poured in 21, while Stephens contributed 19. It marked the second time this season that “Rosie” held the highly-touted All-American centers under double figures.
Although the Irish did not look as impressive as on the previous night, the Jordanmen captured an easy 78-59 victory over Canisius in Buffalo Memorial Auditorium. The Irish went ahead 12-10 after five minutes of the first period and led 46-34 at halftime. “Rosie” dumped in a record total of 34 points, and Stephens accounted for 20. Canisius captain Jim Young’s 22-point effort kept his mates in contention until the final quarter.
A 33-point performance by the Irish in the third quarter completely erased all Boilermaker hopes of victory as Notre Dame gained a 95-74 victory over Pur
22
due on Jan. 19. Bertrand tallied 16 of his 25 points in the hectic third period, and four other Irish collected 10 or more. The Big Ten foe provided little opposition, and it was the second time Notre Dame rolled over the 90-point mark.
In their season’s first meeting with the Butler Bulldogs on Feb. 3, the Irish went ahead, 4-3, in the first minute of play and thereafter simply added to their margin as ND romped to a 95-58 win. Bertrand with 26 and Rosenthal with 20 were the game’s high scorers.
Notre Dame failed to score a basket on their first 13 attempts in the opening seven minutes and scored only 11 points in the first quarter of their Feb. 6 Chicago Stadium engagement with DePaul. However, the Irish gradually fought
Weiman Can’t Quite Make It
their way to the front and squeezed out a 59-53 win.
Demon Jim Lamkin’s 12-point second half kept DePaul in the game, but the Irish built up a steadier offense as the game progressed and were never behind after the early minutes of the second period. Lamkin’s 18 points was high for the game, and “Rosie” was second with 17. It was a rough-and-tumble contest with the Demons attempting to play control ball to curtail the high-flying Irish attack.
At East Lansing on Feb. 9 it took everything the Irish had to outlast Julius McCoy and his Michigan State teammates for a 74-71 victory. The sensational sophomore forward hit the nets for 29 points, but his one-man exhibition was not enough.
Notre Dame held a nine-point lead at the quarter, but the Spartans tied the
count at 33-33 at intermission. The score was tied four times and the Irish’s first period bulge was the best either squad could manage. After State tied the count at 67-all late in the fourth stanza, Irish guard Bill Weiman broke the deadlock with an all-important field goal and the Irish stayed in front the rest of the way. Rosenthal led the Irish with 24 and Bertrand was close behind with 21.
DePaul faced the high-riding ND eagers on Feb. 15 in the Fieldhouse for a rematch and came out on the short end of a roughhouse-battle, 86-71. Six men —three on each side—fouled out in the hectic affair. As in the previous meeting it was Lamkin who led the way, this time with 30 points. Stephens captured runner-up honors with 26.
Notre Dame won the Al Feeney trophy on Feb. 17 at Indianapolis, as the Jordanites pulled away to an 81-56 win over Butler. The Bulldogs’ shooting was better than the Irish in the first period, but they threw the ball away on numerous occasions. Notre Dame overcame an 11-2 deficit in the first period, was ahead by 38-30 at half-time, and was in command the entire second half. Bertrand poured in 20 points in the first half, and added six more in the second to lead both squads in scoring.
Sophomore John Fannon made the Irish’s second eastern journey every bit as successful as the first. Against a high-scoring Navy squad on Feb. 20, Fannon hit on nine field goals in the first half to sink the Middies’ hopes of victory. Both Fannon and Rosenthal controlled the backboards, and the soph ace alone grabbed off 17 of ND’s 52 rebounds.
Fannon added three more fielders in
Stephens—Up and In	g'
The Scholastic

put on a sen-
battle of
Irish Fight Desperately, But Penn State Upsets Title Hopes
the second half for 24 points, the game’s best effort. Don Lange and John Clune,
defensive and their
accounted for
Stephens hit
Navy’s high-scoring duo 41 points between them. 22 for the Irish.
The high-scoring Irish
for scoring honors in the centers.
Notre Dame solved the tactics of Loyola’s Ramblers
sational first half spurt in the nationally-televised game. Nothing the Irish squad did went wrong. The second half was played on more even terms, but the spread was too much for the Midshipmen to overcome.
It was Fannon all over again the following evening as he scored 18 points to lead his mates to a 62-47 mn over Penn in his home city of Philadelphia. His seven points in the final period were key ones, as the Irish rallied to break open a tight game.
A 79-66 win over the Hilltoppers of Marquette on Feb. 25 closed the Irish home season and extended their home victory string to 20 straight victories. Notre Dame found little trouble . in handling their taller foe, as they jumped into an early lead and were never seriously threatened. “Rosie” defeated Terry Rand of Marquette, 29-21,
own relative ineffectiveness in the first and third periods to hand coach George Ireland’s crew a 71-65 loss in the second meeting of the season.
Captain Rosenthal took scoring honors with 27 points. This pushed the great Irish center to 410 points, the first eager in Notre Dame history to score more than 400 in one season.
Sophomore Rambler guard Jerry Lyne shocked the Irish with his 20 point performance which helped his mates to tie the score four times and gain a 58-55 third pei-iod edge. However, after Notre Dame took a 64-63 lead in the final five minutes the challenge of the Ramblers died out, as the height of the Irish proved to be the important factor.
To close their regular season the Irish journeyed to Milwaukee on March 5 for a rematch with the Hilltoppers of Marquette, Notre Dame again coming out on top, this time 79-68. Marquette jumped to an early 11-3 lead, but ND narrowed the gap to 14-12 at the quarter.
“Rosie” hit six out of six in the second quarter, and the Irish led 40-34 at the half way mark. Marquette tied the count at 47-all early in the third period, but this time Stephens hit six out of six shots to make the score 61-55 in the opening minutes of the final quarter. In the second half Stephens hit eight for eight and had a total of 21 points. In all he 'hit 11 of 15 for 29 points and game honors.
IRISH ENTER NCAA
This fine season’s performance won for the Irish their second straight bid to the NCAA sectional tourney at Fort Wayne, facing Loyola of the South in the opening round clash. Penn State, the last squad to be selected by the NCAA committee, played Toledo university, the Mid-American champs in the aftermath.
Playing without substitution, the Jordanmen were never behind as they whipped Loyola of the South, 80-70, at the Fort Wayne Coliseum on March 9 in the opening round of the NCAA sectional tourney.
Though the Irish were far below form, they put on a fine display in the third period when Loyola moved up to within five points. After this, they were never in danger again. Rosenthal scored 31 points in a winning effort, but his performance was surpassed by Loyola’s Bob O’Donnell, a Brooklyn lad, who hit 12 field goals and eight free throws for 32 points. Both Rosenthal
and O’Donnell finished the evening with a .500 shooting average. Rosenthal was selected as the outstanding player of the Fort Wayne sectional. “Rosie” and Junior Stephens were the outstanding representatives on the starting five.
A Penn State win, coupled with Notre Dame’s triumph, moved the two fives to the regionals at Iowa City March 12 along with LSU, the Southeastern Conference representative, and Indiana, the Big Ten kingpin. Despite Bob Pettit’s high scoring total of 34 points, underdog Penn State shattered nationally ranked LSU’s title hopes with a 79-70 win, but the Irish were to pull the major upset of them all in the second game.
Indiana’s Hoosiers, the defending NCAA champions, knew they were in for a real battle from the opening gun . as the Irish matched them point for point for the first 39 minutes of play and then moved out in front to capture a 65-64 upset victory. Notre Dame not , only defeated the Hoosiers, hut they also succeeded in holding basketball’s “Mr. Inside” and “Mr. Outside” combination,
March 26, 1954
Don Schlundt and Bob Leonard, to 21 points between them.
Dick Rosenthal was the key in the Irish victory as he poured in 25 points, grabbed up 15 rebounds, and was responsible for holding Schlundt to a solitary field goal. Stephens was the Irish eager responsible for holding the sharpshooting Leonard. Stephens caused many of his shots to be rushed and the usually !	accurate guard connected on only five
|	of 20 attempts.
| Notre Dame led by a point at the ;	quarter, 17-16, and stretched this to a
:	37-32 margin at intermission. Burke
;	Scott, peppery Hoosier guard, held his
i	mates in the game, and his 20-point
I output was second only to Rosenthal.
’ The Jordanmen led, 46-39 midway in <	the third quarter, but IU hit eight
>	straight points to take a 47-46 lead.
;	Two Irish tallies gave Notre Dame a
;	50-48 edge as the quarter ended. From
I	the start of the third quarter until the
।	final two minutes the score was knotted
;	six times. Rosenthal’s hook shot put the
J	Irish in front, 62-60, at the two-minute
•	mark. Schlundt fouled reserve guard
|	Ed McGinn and he connected on the
i	second of two to put ND ahead by three.
I Leonard hit a field goal, but Rosen-| thal followed with two important foul i shots to put Notre Dame ahead, 65-62.
Leonard came right back with the final two points of the game. The Irish victory avenged an earlier 66-55 setback at the hands of the Hoosiers, and placed Notre Dame in the favorites’ role in the regional final against Penn State.
Saturday night was an entirely different story. Penn State rattled the Irish
Have a Heart Fellow, Just One At a Time
24
with their full court press that fell back into a tight zone and dumped the favored Irish, 71-63. Several times in the first half, Notre Dame was unable to get the ball over the center line. The teams exchanged points evenly until late in the second period when State’s Jesse Arnelle dropped two free throws to put his team in front to stay.
The Irish offense was below par throughout most of the action, although Stephens’ one-handers kept their hopes alive in the first 20 minutes. Every time the Irish moved to within striking distance of the Lions’ lead, Penn State came right back with a splurge of their own. The Lions tallied six straight points without return at the start of the final quarter. For the rest of the period, ND staged a desperate drive led by Rosenthal, but the Lions matched them point for point to win going away.
Penn State’s Arnelle was high man with 22 points, doing an excellent job of guarding Rosenthal and rebounding superbly. Rosenthal, despite the defense set up against him, tied Stephens for runnerup honors with 18.
Arnelle was voted the outstanding player of the tourney and was placed on the All-Regional squad. Captain Dick Rosenthal and Junior Stephens were the Irish representatives on the first five with Pettit and Leonard rounding out the tourney squad.
The 22-3 season’s mark turned in by the Jordanmen was the best percentagewise since the 18-2 record achieved by
George Keogan’s 1942-43 squad, and was the finest won-lost record since Keo-
Now You Have It, Now You Don’t
gan’s 1935-36 five amassed a mark of 22 and two. In addition to Bertrand’s individual and Fieldhouse mark of 35 against Loyola and the high of 99 points against NYU, the Irish smashed five other ND cage records. Their total output of 1,896 points far surpassed the previous high of 1,737 achieved by the ’52-53 five. Eighteen consecutive wins also topped the previous high of 16.
Dick Rosenthal, whom Coach Jordan compares with the great ND centers of the past, was responsible for the other three new marks. Rosenthal set a new single season scoring record of 506 points, and his three-year total of 1,227 points shattered the former three-year scoring record of 973 held by Leroy Leslie, 1949-52. This total was also good enough to crack the four-year record of 1,065 set by Irish ace Kevin O’Shea, 1946-50. Bertrand with a career total of 1,052 points for three seasons also broke the former record of 973 set by Leslie.
Notre Dame’s “Big Three” of Rosenthal, Stephens, and Bertrand all surpassed the 400 mark to become the first trio to ever score that many points. Six of the present squad will be lost to the Irish next season. They are Rosenthal, Sullivan, Bertrand, McGinn, Reynolds, and Honingford.
In recognition of his great work of the past season, it was fitting that Coach Johnny Jordan was named “Basketball Coach of the Year” by the New York Basketball Writers’ Association. Jordan and his entire squad are richly deserving of praise for a job well done. Although the Irish did not make it to the NCAA finals in Kansas City they proudly represented their school all season long, and proved that they are one of the nation’s leading cage powers.
The Scholastic

The Freshmen:
Plenty Of Height And A Big ‘If
If height alone could win basketball games, Notre Dame would be National Champs next season; this year’s freshman squad averages six feet five inches. That’s the tallest aggregation of frosh prospects in Irish cage history.
Of the five regulars, John Smyth, Joe Morelli, Lee Ayotte, Hank Luepke and Jack Bedan, all but Morelli played the center posts on their high school squads. Because of this, most of them had to learn a new position. For this reason the team has been noticeably weak in driving for the basket and in the ball handling department. They’re used to being fed, instead of feeding.
This five has been hot and cold all season. At times they were sharp, fast breaking and classy; other times they were all arms and legs, too clumsy and slow. The task of smoothing out these weak spots was the job of assistant varsity and head frosh mentor, John Castellani. Castellani took these four pivotmen, along with Morelli, and wove them into a smooth functioning unit. They’ve come a long way under Castellani’s direction. He combined height with speed—result, a vastly improved team.
The tallest lad on the squad is center Jack Bedan, a 6 ft. 8 in. performer from Jeffersonville, Indiana. Bedan has a soft hook which he can serve up from either side, and as soon as he brings his defensive work up to the par of his offensive work he’ll be tough to keep out of the varsity’s first five. Bedan moves especially well on the fast break and, is a deadly set-up passer. In his senioryear in high school Bedan sparked his team to the Indiana regional semi-finals.
John Smyth, 6’5”, was forced to make the switch from center to forward this year. The classy Chicagoan has been a tiger off the boards all season long, and was probably the best offensive and defensive man on the squad. As soon as Smyth gets used to the forward slot he’ll be pressing the varsity veterans for a starting berth. John played three years of varsity ball for DePaul academy in Chicago before entering Notre Dame. In his junior year DePaul took the city crown, and the following year copped the Northern Illinois sectionals.
Hammering Hank Luepke filled the other starting forward slot. His 6-7 frame was put to deadly use on drive-ins,
By DAVE KILKEARY
and his fine one-handed shot was displayed when he was shifted to guard on occasion. His best shot is bolting into the key-hole, then hooking off.
The guards are 6-2 Joe Morelli and 6-4 Lee Ayotte. Morelli is the playmaker of the squad—a steady ball handler, an accurate shot from the outside, and the fastest man on the team. Ayotte, although he played center in high school, has developed into a good set shot
BOTTOM ROW, l-r (Lee) Ayotte, Tom Higgins, Joseph Morelli. TOP ROW, l-r John Smyth, Jack Bedan, Jude Petrie, Henry Luepke.
artist. For a guard, he is a standout rebounder.
Forward Jude Petrie, from St. George’s in Chicago, was the sixth man on the squad. Potentially he can be one of the best ball players that Notre Dame has seen in a long while. He can jump higher than any other in Notre Dame history.
Jim Cusack, Pat Donovan, and Tom Higgins round out the top nine members of this squad. Cusack, a 6-3 forward from Peoria, is the squad’s jump shot
artist. He’s a left-hander, very fast on getting off his shots, and gives added strength from the right side.
Hustling Donovan, a guard, played only half the season due to a chipped bone. Higgins, a Tomahawk, Wisconsin product, alternated between guard and forward and scored effectively with his right-hand push shot.
Pressing the top nine for recognition and providing tough opposition for this top-notch squad were thirteen other promising frosh candidates. Coached by Jack Neumayr and his assistant Tom Powers. They did a creditable job throughout the season, and will undoubtedly come in for a lot of consideration for varsity berths next season.
The starting line-up of the small but hustling ball club was composed of four regulars and three others who vied for the fifth position. Dick Flaiz from Maywood, Illinois, and Pat Corrigan from Chicago were the starting guards. Although small, both were good ball-handlers, and did a good job of setting up the various play patterns. Charlie Lanz from Elizabethtown, Ky., is the regular center, while Bill Newbold from Indianapolis, Ind., holds down one of the forward slots.
Charlie Wittenberg from St. Louis, -John Hammett from Rocky River, Ohio, and Jim Morris from Jeffersonville, Ind., usually shared the fifth man position.
Other squad members included Don Kraemer, a forward from Placentia, Calif.; Manuel Guerrero, a guard from Marion, Ind., center Don Barr from Chicago; Bud Freidheim, a guard also from the Windy City; Bob Moran, a forward from Avon, New York; and forward Harry Smith from Staten Island, N. Y.
This group of fellows dumped the scholarship boys once during the varsity preliminary games to become the first squad to accomplish this feat in the last few years.
If these giant freshmen performers can gain the polish and finesse needed for varsity competition, this over-all group will be a welcome addition to coach Johnny Jordan’s 1954-55 unit. With the loss of three members of the varsity starting five and three capable substitutes, they stand a good chance to move into prominent varsity berths in the near future.
March 26, 1954
University of Notre Dome Final 1953-54 Basketball Statistics										
Player	Games	FGA	FG	Pct.	FT A	FT	Pct.	PF	Pts.	Avg.
Dick Rosenthal, c		....	25	507	176	.347	203	154	.759	78	506	20.2
Jack Stephens, g		....	25	399	155	.388	194	111	.572	60	421	16.8
Joe Bertrand, f		....	25	340	144	.424	188	124	.660	83	412	16.5
John Fannon, f		....	25	271	89	.328	-73	44	.603	99	222	8.9
Bill Sullivan, g		....	25	205	62	.302	79	45	.570	73	169	6.8
Bill Weiman, g		....	22	76	27	.355	36	15	.417	60	69	
Ed McGinn, g		....	21	46	12	.261	16	8	.500	20	32	
Lloyd Aubrey, f		.... 11	22	10	.455	15	6	.400	10	26	
John Reynolds, g		....	17	22	6	.273	11	8	.727	15	20	
Steve Rebora, g 		....	10	11	4	.364	6	3	.500	6	11	
Dick Honingford, c		....	13	19	1	.051	10	4	.400	12	6	
Bob Jastrab, g		... .	5	5	1	.200	0	0	.000	4	2	
Paul King, f		. ... 1	1	0	.000	0	O’	.000	1	0	
Bill Kearney, g		. ... 1	0	0	.000	0	0	.000	0	0	
NOTRE DAME TOTALS ...	....	25	1924	687	.357	831	522	.628	521	1896	75.8
OPPONENTS’ TOTALS ....	....	25	1640	535	.326	779	503	.646	544	1572	62.9
w
» 26	'The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
ND SWORDSMEN DUEL IN OPENER TODAY
r Finney, Duff, Hull in NCAA Fencing Tourney; Close Season With Wins Over Cincy and Ky.
By JOHN GUEGEN
Three of Notre Dame’s top fencing stars, Gerry Finney, Rod Duff, and Dick Hull, will compete today and tomorrow in the annual NCAA fencing tournament at the University of Chicago’s Bartlett gym.
Finney, who compiled a 32-1 individual record in the sabre this year; Duff, team captain, who earned a 29-5 mark in the epee, and Hull, with an identical record in the foil, led this season’s Irish fencingsquad to a continued outstanding record, traditional with Irish fencing squads. This year’s team posted a 12-1 record.
The three ace swordsmen are competing with the cream of fencing squads from thirty schools in the NCAA this year, and Coach Walter Langford, who has an exceptional record as fencing mentor at ND, is very optimistic that his boys may be able to crack into the top five at Chicago this year.
Last spring the Irish representatives placed seventh of 37 and thereby chalked up the best NCAA achievement since the 1950 ND squad, which took sixth.
The top eastern schools, which specialize more in individual sports such as fencing, usually have little trouble annexing the top berths in the NCAA, due particularly to more experienced entrants, but Coach Langford feels that the ND trio will offer the easterners plenty of stiff competition this year.
Highlight of ND’s regular season action, which ended at Cincinnati last weekend, was a 15-12 win over the Illinois squad, thus snapping a 36-meet winning string, the longest in collegiate fencing, which the Illini were protecting. At the same time, the win provided the Irish fencers a chance to avenge a 13-14 loss to Illinois on the last touch of the last bout last season, a loss which kept the ND squad from an unbeaten season.
Irish wins were over Chicago, 21-6; Lawrence Tech, 25-2; Ohio State, 16-11; Northwestern, 18-9; Michigan State, 1710; Wayne, 19-8; Illinois, 15-12; Detroit,
18-9; Case Tech, 17-10; Iowa, 16-11; Cincinnati, 20-7; and Kentucky, 24-3.
The ND squad will enter competition next season with hopes of extending the present ten-game win string.
Two other leading team members this year were: Jerry Brainerd, who finished with a 20-12 record in the foil, and John McGinn, with a 26-8 record .in the epee. The Notre Dame epee squad was especially outstanding this year, having won 72 of its 117 bouts and defeating each of its thirteen opponents. Other epee men who had better than a .500 sea"on were John Malfa, Don Tadrowski, and Jerome Isaacs.
The sabre squad, aided by Tony Mandolini, Gene Gase, and Ed Koester, finished the season with an 11-2 record, while the foil team, with the help of Tom Beeler, Jim Waters, and Jim Burlage, had a 10-3 mark.
JIM HARRINGTON
Up, Up and Over
Thinclads Compete in Chicago News Relays
Coach Alex Wilson takes seven members of his Irish thinclads to Chicago tomorrow for the Chicago Daily News Relays. Representing N.D. in the relays will be high jumper Bernie Allard, the one-two pole vaulting punch of Capt. Joe Springer and Jim Harrington, and a mile relay team tenatively consisting of Dennis Malec, Al Schoenig, Jack Alexander and Bill Squires.
In tonight’s meet the Irish will be going against Indiana, the Big Ten champions, and Oklahoma, the title holders in the Big Seven conference. By virtue of their victory in the Central Collegiate Relays, the Irish earned the right to participate in this meet, also termed the Champion of Champions Relays.
Harrington again turned in the top Notre Dame performances in last week’s activity as he twice vaulted 14 feet, 4 inches. These leaps, identical with his own N.D. record, set only a week before in the Milwaukee Relays, gave him a fourth and a first place tie in the Cleveland and New York Knights of Columbus meets. In the Cleveland meet he finished behind Jerry Welborne, national A.A.U. indoor champ, the Rev. Bob Richards, and Don Laz. Both Welborne and Richarc’s cleared 14 feet 9 inches. After his fourth place finish on Friday, Harrington came back the next night to tie Welborne for first in -the New York event. Capt. Joe Springer went 13 feet 6 inches at Cleveland, but didn’t participate at New York.
Sophomore Bill Squires got a fourth in the Cleveland meet, covering the mile in 4:20, and coming home behind Len Treux, Fred Wilt, and Lawton Lamb. Ace high jumper Bernie Allard leaped ; 6 feet 6 .inches to get a second place tie, and the mile relay team of Malec, Schoenig, Alexander, and Bill Copeland . -copped a 3rd place. All these performances were on Friday in the Cleveland Relays, as Harrington was the only one to compete at New York.
27
March 26, 1954
New Styles to Mark ‘54 Spring Grid Drills
When Coach Terry Brennan sounds the call for the annual spring practice session on April 2 he will be faced with two important problems.
Since there will not be any drills during Easter vacation, Brennan will have to stress fundamentals for the majority of the twenty day period. Also he will have to find six players to fill the vacancies left by the graduation of All-Americans Johnny Lattner, Art Hunter, Neil “Bull” Worden, Captain Don Penza, Minnie Mavraides, and Jim Schrader.
With the innovation of a new coaching staff at Notre Dame, there will also be new styles on the football field. Coach Brennan plans on using a “B” team in conjunction with the regular Varsity. During spring drills, there will not be a freshman team, but it will be continued next fall. In April the squad will be divided into the “B” squad and the regulars.
The main objective in sight at present is the annual Old Timers Game which will be held on Saturday, May 15. That will be the first test that Brennan’s basic split-T formation will have to undergo.
Eighty-five members are expected to answer the opening day call, although most of the day will be devoted to picture-taking. Most of the competition is expected to shape up for the center, fullback and guard positions. Although the Irish played off-and-on between the first two elevens, the gap left by the loss of six first-stringers will be hard to fill.
It will mark the first time that the new Brennan coaching staff will be working together as a unit. Head coach Brennan, end coach Johnny Druze, backfield coach Bill Earley along with freshman coach “Blacky” Johnston all were with the Irish last season, while both George Dickson and Bill Fischer are returnees to their alma mater.
Freshman Thinclads Display Talent in Winning Five Meets
Notre Dame’s freshmen track squad, coached by Lee McEvoy, have completed their 1953-54 season with an undefeated slate in five postal meets. McEvoy was assisted by Harry Snyder, who handled the distance runners, and Bill Leeds, who worked with the sprinters.
In a postal meet each school runs at home separately and the results are transferred by mail to determine the winner. The Irish victims were: Missouri, 65-38, Indiana, 68-39, Michigan, 65-39, Michigan State, 52-51, and Ohio State.
28
Frank Hall and Frank Pinn were stand-outs as dashmen, turning in times of :06.4 and :06.5 respectively in the 60-yard dash. Joe Manzo competed in the 440 and Eugene Jordan in the 880, while Jack Donagon took part in both events. The mile relay team was composed of Dick Kirschnen, Tom Jewell, John Keller, and Manzo. Al Porter ran the mile and his best time was 4:33. Neil Wallace and Jack Michno competed in the two-mile run to round out the distance men.
In the high jump Mike Kearns cleared six feet, while in the shot put Byron Beams leads with a toss of 46 feet eight inches. Mike Hoffman and Gil Blakeslee are other promising shot putters. Jim Redmond led the pole vaulters with a ■ vault of 12’ 6”, while Ross Matson was close behind with 12’ 3”. Jim Stephens rounded out the trio and the frosh squad with a vault of 11 feet six inches.
Rebuilding Awaits Sampson In First Year at Tennis Helm
In his first year at the helm of the Notre Dame netters, Coach Charles Sampson faces a big rebuilding task. Loss of Captain-elect Don Crowley for the coming season and the graduation of standouts Ken Angyal, Ray Smith, and Matt Tuite leaves the Irish with open positions.
COACH CHARLES SAMPSON
Faces Rebuilding Job
However, the return of lettermen Wally Clarke, number one in the singles, Bill Reale, Chuck Gallagher, and Don Kennedy provides Coach Sampson with a good nucleus. John Stuhldreher, runner-up in last year’s interhall competition, is one of the promising aspirants.
Notre Dame, looking for another successful year, open their season at home against Michigan on April 30. Besides
the Wolverines, the Irish season will be highlighted by matches with Cincinnati, led by Tony Trabert, the nation’s num-her one amateur and a veteran of the Davis Cup matches, and Western Michigan, paced by Jim Farrell.
The Irish will also face Detroit, Marquette, Chicago, Michigan State, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Iowa but the dates of these matches are still on the tentative basis. Until weather permits, the Irish will continue to practice in the fieldhouse.
As yet no one has been named to replace Crowley as the netters’ captain for the coming campaign.
Linksters Open 26th Season; Fr. Holderith Rebuilds Squad
Shaping a winning golf squad is the task of Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., as the Irish linksmen open their twenty-second season under his tutelage and celebrate their silver anniversary on the fairways. This year’s duffers hope to equal the 8-1-2 record of last season.
Only three monogram winners return to form the nucleus of the squad. The entire first team graduated after placing seventh out of the fifty-six schools represented at the NCAA tournament at Broadmoor Country Club in Colorado Springs.
These three veterans are: Jim Terry, a senior from Kewaunee, Ill.; senior Paul Minnick from Lorain, Ohio; and junior Bob Filipiak from Toledo. Other-squad members include senior Ed Gsch-wind from Reedsburg, Wise., John Foley, a junior from Indianapolis; and sophomore Leo Matt.
The dates of the meets have not been released, but there will be a ten match season. Western Illinois is the only new addition to a field of competitors that includes Valparaiso, Bradley, Michigan State, Indiana, Wisconsin, Purdue, Iowa, Northwestern, and the NCAA tourney at Houston, Texas.
Weather permitting, the golfers will begin practicing this week for their first match with Western Illinois on April 23. It is also hoped that the course will be open for all students by the end of the week.
ND Gym Squad Bows, 50-46, In Meet With Western Illinois
Notre Dame’s gymnastic squad lost its first official home meet to Western Illinois by a narrow four point margin last Saturday. The score was tied at 40-all going into the final event of the meet, tumbling, but Don Cox of Western took first place in that event giving the visitors a 50-46 edge over the Irish.
Sophomore Corky Cairns of Western
The Scholastic
Illinois took scoring honors for the day by getting 19 team points for the winners. Cairns placed first in both the Horizontal Bar and Flying Rings, second on the Side Horse and third on the Parallel Bars.
Captain Dave Engels and Reg Grimm led the Irish scoring by collecting 15 and 13 team points respectively. Engels took first on the trampoline and Grimm won the honors on the side horse. Both tied for first on the parallel bars.
The Irish led after the first two events, but lost their lead on the horizontal bar. They regained it again on the parallel bars, but went into a deadlock on the flying rings, and lost out in the final event.
Stephens to Captain *54 Irish Cage Squad
Jack “Junior” Stephens, Irish guard, was named yesterday as captain of the 1954-55 Notre Dame basketball squad. Stephens succeeds present captain Dick Rosenthal.
The 6’2” 190-pound junior was the second highest scorer on the Irish squad this season finishing with 421 points, for a respectable 16.8 average. In his sophomore year the Irish playmaker hit the nets for 329 points to capture the fourth-place slot.
Besides his scoring ability Stephens is best noted for his excellent rebounding ability. In many cases he has outjumped taller Irish foes to help the Irish control the' boards. Along with forward Joe Bertrand and Rosenthal, Stephens formed the potent “Big Three” with all finishing the season over the 400 mark.
Stephens’ favorite shot is a long onehanded set-shot from outside. However on many occasions he constantly harassed ND opponents with his deadly drive-ins from the fast break.
Stephens, of Irish-English descent, hails from Mount Carmel in Chicago where he played under Johnny Jordan, present head coach of the Fighting Irish. Stephens captained the Mt. Carmel squad in his senior year and also won All-City honors in the same season.
He captured scoring honors in three of the Irish contests this season and finished close behind in the number two spot in many others. His high for the season was 29 against the Hilltoppers of Marquette, scored up in Milwaukee. He also tied Rosenthal for top honors with 18 in the regional finals at Iowa City.
For his performances during the tournament, Stephens won a berth on the starting five in both the All-Sectional five in Fort Wayne and the All-Regional squad in Iowa City.
March 26, 1954
by Bob Frolicher
Charge of the Lancers
Today Notre Dame travels into the Windy City to participate in the NCAA fencing tournament. In Captain Rod Duff, Gerry Finney and Dick
Hull the Irish have one of the top college fencing trios, and with these “Three Musketeers” Coach Walter Langford hopes to place the Irish in the
GERRY FINNEY Leads Irish in NCAA
in his weapon. In his two
senior, has chalked up
top five, which would be the highest ever attained by a midwestern squad.
Finney will be fencing in the NCAA for the second straight year, being the only one on the present Irish squad with tournament experience. The crack sabre man became the first swordsman in Irish history to reach the 30 mark, finishing the season with an outstanding record of 30 wins with but one loss. The other two representatives, Duff in the epee and Hull in the foil, just missed reaching the coveted mark, both finishing with identical 29-5 records.
The Notre Dame sabre artist achieved quite a distinction in last year’s tourney. He was the only man in the NCAA to beat Bob Par-macel of Penn, who captured the sabre title with a 34-1 record. Finney will be out to better his outstanding accomplishment of placing sixth years of varsity competition, Finney, a Detroit
a total of 60 wins while dropping only six.
The Old Form Returns
After sitting out two of Notre Dame’s indoor track meets because of a badly sprained ankle, ace pole vaulter Jim Harrington has returned to action and gives every indication of being in for the best season of his college career. Two weeks ago Harrington participated in the Milwaukee Relays and captured fourth place, clearing 14’4” for the best vault of his career. This broke his previous high of 14 feet 3% inches set last year in the Closed Central Collegiate Meets. It appears somewhat of an oddity for Harrington to finish fourth since he has seldom dropped below second place in any competition. However, in the latter instance this was quite an accomplishment since the Rev. Bob Richards took first place, going over the 15-foot mark. Don Laz formerly of Illinois and Jerry Welbourne of Ohio State, both postgraduate stars, finished second and third respectively. Last Friday at the K of C meet in Cleveland the exact same finish was duplicated with Harrington jumping 14’4” and the three tieing for first at 14’8”.
The following night at New York’s Madison Square Garden the Irish ace gained a tie for first with Welbourne, again hitting the 14’4” mark. Richards did not jump because of a leg injuiy. Harrington has one more indoor meet —the Chicago Daily Neivs Relays tomorrow. Harrington’s mark in the CCC last year earned him the number one rating as the top collegiate vaulter in the nation during regular season competition. In the post-season NCAA tournament however, Fred Barnes of Fresno State vaulted 14’6”.
Rosenthal Hits Again	'
Irish center Dick Rosenthal was named today to the Catholic College AllAmerican Basketball squad. The team is chosen for the Brooklyn Tablet (a Catholic publication) by a committee of 50 coaches from across the nation. Tom Gola of LaSalle, Togo Palazzi of Holy Cross, Dick Ricketts of Duquesne and Ed Conlin of Fordham round out the top five. Gola was chosen player of the year. Dudley Moore of Duquesne was named “Coach of the Year” succeeding “Honey” Russell of Seton Hall.
29
Fr. McDonough Talks At Marriage Institute
Rev. Thomas McDonough. assistant chaplain at the Calvert Club of the University of Chicago, will speak on “Spirituality in Marriage” at the sixth and next to last forum of the Marriage Institute in the Engineering Auditorium Tuesday n’ght at 7:30. The regular question and answer period will follow the lecture.
The 1954 Marriage Institute has been sponsored jointly by the Department of Religion and the Senior Class.
Father McDonough has been a conductor in both the Cana and Pre-Cana Conference area for over five years. He was ordained in 1944 and did post-graduate work for two years.
“The purpose of the Marriage Institute is to supplement Notre Dame education with vital information concerning marital status,” asserted Bill Guil-foile, Senior C’ass President, who is in charge of the lectures.
He further commented that although this week’s subject of spirituality is probably the most important of the series, it has previously been the least ' attended.
Guilfoile pointed out that the attend-
How many Indians make a reservation? OR whose aching back, did you say?
Once there was a Sophomore who was planning a Whale of a Weekend in New York. Being a Man of Foresight, he carefully packed his copy of “New York Confidential,” his compilation of Terrific Manhattan Numbers, and his list of Solvent Alumni in the Big City. Likewise 1 clean shirt, 1 toothbrush, 1 razor and 1 package of Sen-Sen. He was Ready.
J ust then his roommate came up with a Tip for the Traveler. “Hey,” he said, “have you wired ahead for your Hotel Reservation?”
Our Hero guffawed. “Don’t be dull,” he answered. “1'11 make up my mind where I want to stay when I get there. New York is Full of Hotels.”
He was right. New York is full of hotels. On this paiiicular weekend,
105 N. Main St.
ance at the talks has been greater than in past years. Seniors have purchased more than 700 season tickets. The sale of books and pamphlets on marriage has also bean very good. Three such books are given away at every session.
Ticke's may be purchased at the door for this and the concluding lecture of April 6. On that date Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Burke will discuss “The Success of Marriage,” to be followed by a movie on reproduction.
Fr. O'Brien Maintains Irish Are Disappearing
Despite comments to the contrary emanating from the homeland of the Irish, Rev. John A. O’Brien maintained before the Irish Club here cn St. Patrick’s Day that a “serious population decline threatens the existence” of the Emerald Isle.
Addressing a St. Patrick’s Day Communion Breakfast, Father O’Brien warned that the tendency of Irish men and women to marry late or not at all “is a detriment to their nation and themselves.” Father O’Brien is the editor of the book, The Vanishing Irish. An increase of industrialization and development of Irish agriculture would
however, it was also full of People. Political convention.
Oh, he's all right again now. Two nights on a bench in Central Park never killed anybody. The thing that bothered him most was the Squirrels. He thought they were looking at him Oddly.
If you’re Going Somewhere and want a Roof Over Your Head, it’s smart to make reservations by Telegram. (Western Union even has a special Hotel Reservation Service you can call to Make the Arrangements for anything from a One-Night Stand to a Transcontinental Trip.) No fuss, no friction, no sleeping on a pool-table. Use Telegrams in any plans you're making . . . Dates, Deals or Dre_i Talk. You get Results when yc-r words arrive ou the YelL BlaMr.
Telephone 3-6101
encourage Irish men and women to remain in their homeland and establish families, Father O’Brien said.
“The Irish have made a matchless contribution to the wit, gaiety, wisdom and culture of America,” Father O’Brien declared, “and they have enriched every segment of our national life with their distinctive talents and genius. American civilization is a mighty tapestry woven by many nations and many of its brightest and most glorious colors were woven by the sons and daughters of the Emerald Isle which has given more generously to America than any other European nation.”
“No nation of comparable size has made so great a spiritual contribution to Western civilization,” Father O’Brien asserted. “Ireland’s sons and daughters served as missionaries of Christianity to the nations of Europe and later to countries across the seas. Ireland was known as the island of saints and scholars when much of Europe was in darkness.”
Art Exhibit Portrays Life of Blessed Virgin
The life of the Virgin Mary is depicted in 29 paintings now on view in a special Marian Year exhibit at the University galleries, it was announced recently by Paul Byrne, curator. The paintings will be exhibited in the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall daily from 2 to 5 p.m. through April 3.
The paintings portray events in Mary’s life from her betrothal to St. Joseph to her Assumption and Coronation. Italian, Dutch, German, Spanish, Ruthenian and American artists are represented in the exhibit. The exhibit is one of several Notre Dame events and activities commemorating the 100th anniversary of the promulgation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception in 1854.
Oldest of the paintings on view is a 15th century Italian primitive of the Espousal of the Blessed Virgin and St.	:
Joseph. The artist is unknown. The	|
most recent work, Queen of Heaven, was painted by Emil Jacques, formerly head of Notre Dame’s art department. It I shows two angels holding a crown over j the head of Mary with the Child Jesus i in her arms. An 18-foot copy of the I Jacques painting hangs over the main { altar of St. Mary’s Cathedral in Port- I land, Ore.	j
Six additional paintings of the Virgin Mary are included in the University’s permanent collection. Among them are works of di Credi, Botticelli and del Garbo.
• i
The Scholastic % s t
30
Maritain Begins Annual Lecture Series Thursday
Dr. Jacques Maritain, well-known philosopher and expounder of the Thomist Theory, will begin his annua] series of lectures next Thursday and Friday in the Faculty Lounge of the Main Building, it has been announced by the Department of Philosophy. The general theme of this year’s series will be “The Nature of Historical Knowledge.”
’ The series will continue April 8 and 9. The afternoon forums will consist of round-table discussions prompted by Dr. Maritain’s talks and student questions. Each lecture will extend over a two-hour period.
The seminars will be open only to graduate students and members of the Departments of Philosophy and History. Dr. Maritain’s primary aim is to set forth principles and ideas to guide students in the various philosophical problems of history.
Dr. Maritain is now a regular visitor at the University. This year marks the third year in a row that he has given Spring and Fall lectures.
Dr. Maritain has, from the beginning of his career, urged a return to the harmony of faith and reason as exemplified by the philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas. He has been called “the general commanding the ordered offensive of Thomism in the Western World.”
Fr. Hesburgh Will Announce '54 La eta re Medalist Sunday
The 72nd recipient of the Laetare Medal will officially be announced Sunday morning by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Established in 1883, and awarded annually to an outstanding American Catholic layman, the Laetare Medal has been awarded through the years to 56 men and 15 women who have distinguished themselves by exemplary Catholic lives in their chosen fields of endeavor. Soldiers, statesmen, philanthropists, physicians, writers, scientists, and movie actresses have been among those honored by the University each fourth Sunday of Lent.
Last year’s Laetare Medalist was the oil industry executive and philanthropist, I. A. O’Shaughnessy. Mr. O’Shaughnessy is the donoi- of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts on campus. Previous recipients include Thomas E. Murray, a member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, and Gen. Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff of the United States Army.
Among other recent recipients have
March 26, 1954
been Irene Dunne, actress; Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster General of the United States; Carlton J. H. Hayes, historian and former ambassador to Spain; William G. Bruce, publisher; and John Henry Phelan, Beaumont, Texas, philanthropist.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A Notre Dame Tradition 11:30—1:30 NOON LUNCHES—75< 601 N. Niles Ave.
a new undergraduate favorite... OUR "346” TROPICAL WORSTEDS in medium or dark oxford grey and other good-looking shades
Our popular "346” tropical worsteds are made of attractive 8-oz. worsteds...on our exclusive single-breasted models.. .and with special lightweight linings that make them unusually comfortable. Jn solid shades of navy blue, brown, medium or dark oxford grey...and in brown or grey Glenurquhart
plaids. Coat and trousers.
$68
ESTMUSH EDWIt
CCWjk©THJM9GO
346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 4+TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y. BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
31
Profits From '54 Mardi Gras Approach $ 17,000, Old Mark
“The 1954 Mardi Gras has been a resounding success,” announced Joe Gio-vanini, business manager for the event. The net profit for the entire celebration totaled $16,850.88, making this year’s pre-Lenten celebration the second most successful in the history of the event.
The contest realized a gross profit of 815,996.85. After expenses of $5,418.13, a net income of $10,578.72 was yielded. The carnival netted $5,483.56 after deducting expenses of $2,021.29 from the gross profit of $7,504.85. On the dance, a net income of $809.23 was gained after deducting expenses of $1,902.12 from the gross income of $2,711.35.
The Schumachers of Chicago, the recipients of the Chrysler and Ford, have shown their appreciation by sending a $500 check to the University. The money will be added to the proceeds of the festival.
For the third consecutive year, the Washington - Maryland - Virginia Club copped the prize for the most money earned, netting $1,244.90. This is the most any club has ever made in one year.
SCIENCE PRE-REGISTRATION
Pre-registration for courses in the College of Science for the Summer Session 1954 and the Fall semester, 1954-55, will be held in the office of the Dean, Room 248, Nieuwland Science Hall starting next Thursday, April 1, and continuing through Tuesday, April 13.
Freshmen will pre-register April 1, 2, and 5. Sophomores will be taken April 6, 7 and 8. Juniors will be taken April 9, 12, and 13.
Hours will be from 8 a.m. to noon, and from 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.
Second place honors were shared by the Commerce Forum and the Italian Club. First prize was $25 and second $15.
A $25 first prize was awarded to the North Dakota Club for appearance. The Art Guild received second prize of $15.
The Student Senate will divide the proceeds of the Mardi Gras between the Campus Charity and the Student Center. The money will be given in the name of the student body.
AB's Will Stage Annual 'Major1 Forum Tuesday
The College of Arts and Letters will hold a “Choose Your Major” forum Tuesday night, at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium. During the week all sophomores received a collection of brief written statements from various departments expressing the purpose and values of their respective major programs.
Representatives from each of the departments will be present at the forum to answer any questions concerning their major programs. Pre-registration for Arts and Letters students will be held from April 6-13 in Room 134 of the O’Shaughnessy Building.
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., will deliver a talk on “Liberal Arts Education,” which is to be followed by a short address from Mr. Devere T. Plunkett, of the Department of History, on careful choice of major subjects.
After the forum, students who have already selected their major can see the head of the department whose major program they are interested in. After conferring with the head, they will receive cards authorizing their entries into that program. These cards must be submitted at pre-registration time.
Available for the first time to
NOTRE DAME MEN and their families
Box
A fascinatingly different musical cigarette box that will evoke admiration and comment. When you raise the lid you will be thrilled with the clear and splendid rendition on a genuine imported Swiss movement of
NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCH
The cigarette box itself is of pure, rich, solid mahogany in either light or dark finish. Holds a full pack of regular or king size cigarettes. Cover is decorated with tarnish-proof, gold-plated, cloisonnee Notre Dame Seal.
A POSSESSION THAT WILL BE LONG CHERISHED
---------------------------------------------ORDER BLANK-------------------------------------------------------
Please send me....Notre Dame Musical Cigarette Boxes at $9.95 each. (That is all you pay—We will pay all shipping charges). V the color you prefer: Light Mahogany □ or Dark Mahogany □ Enclosed find Check or MO in amount of $.
NAME
ADDRESS
CITY & ZONE ................................................. STATE	.......
Exclusive with MUSICAL CREATIONS, INC., 18 Exchange St., Pawtucket, R. I.


ft
32
The Scholastic

ATTENTION JUNIORS
Appointments are now being accepted for senior formal portraits for those who will graduate in January ’55, June ’55, and August ’55. These appointments can be made any day between the hours of 1—6 p.m., 7—9:30 p.m. in the basement of Walsh Hall. The Dome staff asks your cooperation by making your appointment early and avoiding a last minute rush. A charge of One Dollar will be made at the time of the sitting. This charge includes six poses and one glossy print for the ’55 Dome. The appointments will be accepted until Friday, April 2.
Nationalism Historian Kohn to Lecture Here
Hans Kohn, considered the foremost authority on the history of nationalism, will deliver a series of three lectures in Room 101 of the Law Building March 31 and April 1. Prof. Kohn will speak on “Nationalism and Socialism in the Interwar Years” March 31 at 8 p.m. On April 1 he will discuss “Nationalism in the Middle East” at 4:30 p.m. and conclude the series at 8 p.m. with a lecture on “The United States and the Future.”
Professor Kohn, a native of Prague, Czechoslovakia, is the author of The Idea of Nationalism, regarded by historians as the standard work on the nationalist movement. His Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology, recently published by the Notre Dame University Press under the sponsorship of the Committee on International Relations, provides an historical background for the Russian problem that the world faces today.
Professor Kohn’s three lectures will serve as the basis for a second volume on The Idea of Nationalism covering the period from the eighteenth century to the present time.
Prof. Kohn is presently a lecturer at the United States War College in Newport, R. I. His many first-hand experiences throughout the world include a five-year visit to Russia at the time of the Bolshevik revolution, a spell as a prisoner of war of the Russians during World War I, and 11 years in London, Paris, and Jerusalem studying the phenomena of imperialism and nationalism and the conditions of the Middle East.
The lectures are sponsored by the Committee on International Relations.
"FLASH” BROWN’S TWO-HEADED
BROTHER
A certain Sophomore named Brown acquired the appellation “Flash,” not because he was lightning on the gridiron, but just because he was never without an answer.
You’d pass him on the quadrangle and say “How’s it goin’, Flash?” He’d answer, “Air Express.” Get the pitch?
Brown often referred to his “two-headed brother” in conversations. One day a few men in his fraternity were needling him.
“Your brother’s two heads must present quite a few problems.’’
“Not really. The only problem rvas his neatness,” said Flash.
“Neatness?” “Yes,” answered Flash, “he worried about it. Said he couldn’t find a shirt that didn’t wrinkle around the collar. You see, he was often looking in two directions at once, or eating and talking on the telephone.
Hard on a collar.”
“What did you do?” They knew he did something about it.
“Simple. I got him the Van Heusen Century shirt with the exclusive soft collar that won’t wrinkle ever! I got him different collar styles and colors. S3.95 for the white, S4.95 for the colors and superfine whites. You should have seen the grins on his faces -when he saw how those collars stayed neat all day and night without starch or stays.”
“I guess he can really hold his heads up now,” said one.
“Yep. He figures he gets four times more wear from Century than from other shirts. Of course, he actually only gets twice the wear. He just figures in both heads.”
One of the men visited Brown at Christmas, and found it was all true.	’
See the New Van Heusen Shirts at
RASMUSSEN
men's shop
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STREETS
March 26, 1954
33
by Gordon Bergquist
When one has attained the age of the use of reason and has spent four years at Notre Dame (the two are not synonymous), he feels it necessary to pass on to the budding freshmen the wisdom that he has picked up in the course of a long and full life. r
These, therefore, are a few brief observations which I have picked up in my sojourn under the Golden Dome. This is a brief bit of advice from the old dad to those who are just fairly started upon their academic endeavors. The statements contained herein do not necessarily imply that the
author has had personal experience with all the things that can entangle the honest but naive freshman, but only that I have observed carefully and that these are the things I have found to be true.
The first bit of wisdom to impart is that concerning girls. As has been obvious to all men from all time, there are girls and then there are women. The two are not to be confused. Admonition number one, then, is to steer clear of the
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S * Jeweler 325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
latter—they are nothing but trouble and can easily cause one to believe that he has become a man—and such is only rarely the case.
One thing the freshman is soon exposed to, upon his entrance to the University is the St. Mary’s Girl. This is a strange species of animal to be found in the wilds that cover the west side of the Dixie. Strange tales are told by those students who have survived the harrowing adventures of the long trek. The unwary are enticed into the lair by means of female beauty. Admonition number two, then, is—Do not go near St. Mary’s except for reasons of beauty.
That Old Problem of Study
A problem which often confronts the student of tender years, is that of studying. You will have heard that the Administration urges—nay, even .insists upon—studying. Do not be deceived. Accept no substitutes. Require the brand name—wait till those nice men who run the I.B.M. machines send out to you a nice little note on pink paper. The third admonition is, therefore, If you feel the urge to study—fight it, It’ll go away.
A very nice situation exists in regard to the matter of attending classes at the University. The men who run the I.B.M. machines — those ogres again — would have you believe that attendance is compulsory—don’t believe them. This is merely a trick to force you into learning something. There are even some professors who would seem to be in cahoots with these men of I.B.M.; such men have been known to take roll—indeed, there are even some of these men extant on our campus to this very day, despite the most valorous of efforts to root out them and their error. Admonition number four—Attempt to get a professor who does not take roll; failing in this, make sure that you cut only those classes which can be taken the next semester. (The preceding comments do
rX ■
not apply to Phys-Ed or Hygiene—any methods may be used to circumvent the taking of such courses.)	f
Then the younger set upon campus - J should be warned against the evil of attempting to act like a senior. This is ■?'. a prerogative reserved to seniors. This 4 is necessary in that it is best to have jf- ' some method of distinguishing the classes. Next admonition—When attending 4 movies in Washington Hall, be sure to / rave and scream. You will not be con- 1 -
fused with an upperclassman that way.
By the end of your freshman year, you will have discovered that a small village lies directly to the south of the campus. This place offers bars, movies, girls(?), and Hoosier Hysteria. The first three may be indulged in small doses, but on your life keep away from the last. This admonition, then—Take everything you see or hear in the Philadelphia with a grain of salt—the last time we were in there, they didn’t have any.
Last, But Not Least
The final Evil that you must be warned against is that of taking things seriously. Don’t listen to rules—they were just made for everybody else. You have heard that this was a party school, (where we don’t know), so you should do your best to liven the old place up. Again, remember that you are here to become a Well-Rounded Man. Thus, the final admonition—To be well-rounded, merely recall that a rolling stone gathers no moss. Keeping this in mind, you will be able to leave at a moment’s notice in the middle of the semester, with no harm to yourself other than the lack of a few grades. Also, never forget that the moss is always greener on the north side of the fence.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, March 27 — Saturday of the Third Week of Lent; Feast of St. John Damascene, Bishop, Confessor, and Doctor of the Church.
Sunday, March 28—Fourth Sunday of Lent.
Monday, March 29—Monday of the Fourth Week of Lent.
Tuesday, March 30—Tuesday of the Fourth Week of Lent.
Wednesday, March 31—Wednesday of the Fourth Week of Lent.
Thursday, April 1—Thursday of the Fourth Week of Lent.
Friday, April 2—Friday of the Fourth Week of Lent. Feast of St. Francis of Paula, Confessor.
34
The Scholastic
A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY
Emmett Smith, E. E., ’50, never heard of telephone traffic work, but what he saw of the job intrigued him. He explains how it worked out.
{Reading time: 40 seconds)
Emmett Smith supervises operation of this training switchboard, which he originally helped to design.
“Communications have always been one of my main interests —in the Navy and at the University of Michigan. So I was very happy when the Michigan Bell Telephone Company invited me to visit their headquarters to talk about a job.
“In Detroit I had a chance to look at a number of departments, including one I’d never heard of before, the Traffic Department. I found that, in addition to the engineering of switchboards, its work involved the supervision and the actual handling of customer calls. It struck me like a wonderful opportunity to combine staff engineering and field management.
“My first impression was right, too, because my work covered both. First, I had on-the-job training assignments in several different kinds of offices —local, Long Distance, dial and manual. Then
I worked in engineering, translating estimates of future growth into the actual number of circuits and switchboard positions required.
“Now I’m supervising the operation of one of the boards I helped engineer. Briefly, my job is to see that my district gets the kind of equipment it needs and that what we have is functioning properly. Working with people is another major part of my job, too, because I serve in an advisory capacity to the supervisors of the Long Distance operators.
“Needless to say, I’m happy with my job. A job I didn’t even know existed.”
• • •
Emmett Smith’s job is with a Bell Telephone Company. There are similar opportunities for college people with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation.
(Al BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
a
serials division
UN IVERSITY
NOTRE DAME
LIBRARY
IND
Copyright 1954. Ltccnr & Mrau. Tobacco Co.
have this proven record with smokers.
these statements are a matter of record.
Like Itell you on
by the thousands w changing to Chesterfield^
... enjoying the one cigarette that s
highest in quality—low in nicotine.
And remember, only our Chesterfields
No adverse effects to the nose, throat and
sinuses from smoking1 Chesterfield. Both



CHESTERFIELD
BESE FOR YOU