
;Jg_;gi_:A! '' •£j~ll Ljq Ti 
mrimmrn:~-~ 

·Subscribe to 


MAGA I 
E 
Published 20 times a year, Scholastic covers . every aspect of life at Notre Dame from the 
students' perspective, presenting a clear 

picture of news, sports andstudent life direct 
LY$30 
from the campus of Notre Dame. Yoursub­
scription will help support the student editors, 

writers a·nd photographers of Scholastic, and 
it will keep-you in touch with Notre Dame. 

Name: 
------------------' ------------------------­_...;.;._________ _ 

Address: ___;...____;________ I want a yearlong subscrip­tion, to Scholastic Magazine. I will receive 20 issues, including the annual Football 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Review. Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine · . 303 LaFortune Student Center ·Notre Dame, IN 46556 

It's the Climb that Counts 
I don't know about anyone else, but I, for one, get so sick of hearing old sayings and proverbs. That is, until I actually see an example of where they would be true. 
Last summer, when I went to Hawaii with my family, we landed on Oahu. We decided to go sight-seeing immediately, jet lag and all. We made a whirlwind tour of the island, spending time at Pearl Harbor and the other famous sights. 
By about four in the afternoon, we were all beatand more than a little irritable. The only thingstandingbetween thepool at our hotel and wherewewere on the island was Diamond Head Mountain. Despite our fatigue, my family and I decided to stop and make the hour or so hike to the top. 
At first I was far from happy about this. The base of the mountain resembled a desert. It was dry and ugly-the opposite of how I pictured Hawaii. My mood became worse as the climb up the mountain became harder and harder. But once we finally got to the top, the view, as you may have already guessed, was spectacular. Breathtaking. I was amazed by how beautiful the landscape looked from the top of the mountain, as opposed to its view from the base. And the fact that the hike up was so difficult made the view that much better. 
When the Fighting Irish opened the 1995 season with aloss to Northwestern, the majority offans, including myself, expected the worst Add the dismal 1994 season and what looked to be a soft schedule to the equation, and you have people search_ing for answers and looking for scapegoats. 
But as bleak as the season looked back then, I believe that at the end of the season we can beproud. Firstofall, the Irish finishedtheseasoµ9-3,ahugeimprovementfrom 1994. Among their wins were spirited triumphs over evehtual SWC champion Texas, PAC-10 champion USC and rival Boston College. Their losses came to Northwestern, Ohio State and Florida State, all top 10 foes. Funny how a schedule that seemed so weak at the beginning of the season was ranked as the toughest slate in the country according to final regular-season statistics released by the NCAA. 
Most impressive is the fact that the Irish accomplished what they did under a lot of adversity. They constantly had to answer for last season and theNorthwestern loss. They had to deal with the loss of their starting quarterback. They had to cope with Lou Holtz' s surgery and his absence. 
So when we look from atop the mountain that was the 1995 season, let's remember not where the Irish slipped or stumbled, but how treacherous the climb was and how well the Irish navigated it. 
Thanks 

Special thanks to ourphotographers Aaron Skalicky andStanEvans who were at all but two ofthe games this season; John Heisler and the Sports Information Department; Ryan Leahy for his thoughts; Ryan Kennedy;Jeremy Dixon and Brian Hiro for theirinput; and the rest of the Scholastic staff who helped with layouts and editing. This issue wouldn't have been possible without you. 
Jake Schaller 
Sports Editor 

Cover Photo by Aaron Skalicky 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 




SCHOLASTIC 

MAGAZIN~E 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 11 FoUNDED 1867 JANUARY 25, 1996 
Features 
1:From the Editor 12 Filling Big Shoes by Bridget Casey 16 Headbangers by T. Ryan Kennedy 
.22 Life in the Trenches by o~ Betcher 23 Immediate Impact by Brian Hiro 24-All-Opponent Team 
26:Season of Healing by Tom Coyne 
31:• The Doc by JeremyDixon 
46:Splinters from the Press Box 5 I :• The Silver Lining by Jake Schaller 
52 :Final Word by Ry~n Leahy 


:······••Vanclerbilt•·······­

Purdue= 
Northwestern ­
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


• • • • • • 0 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
•
• 
• Texas

e 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 

0 • • O e e • • 0 • O • • • • 9 • 0 0 0 

. 

• 0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
•
• 
•
• 
•
• 
• 
• Ill
• 
• 0.•
• BC• • 
0 


• 
• 0 

.. •
•

..0 • 



Air Force 
S C HO L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ l• 9 9 5 F O O T B A L L R E V I E W 

The prophetic Gary Barnett and his upset­minded Wildcats made Notre Dame the first victim oftheir Cinderella season, 12-15 
BY JEREMY DIXON : SEPTEMBER 2, 1995 -NOTRE DAME, IN
•.I 
t was one. of th.. e biggest upsets ever in Irish : football history. Northwestern, a team which 

• 
had not had a winning record since 1971, a team : that last went to the Rose Bowl in 1949, crashed 

• 
Notre Dame's comeback season party with a 17-15 : shocker. Dreams ofthe Fiesta Bowl and a National 

• 
Championship .were dashed by a team intent on : ending the running joke their program had become. 

• 
"It's not about talent, it's about 11 guys pulling : together. We all believed in each other a lot," said 

• 
Wildcat Head Coach Gary Barnett In a game that 

• 
Northwestern fans will forever relish, the Wildcats


•

• 
held off the Irish at every crucial point of the game. 

• 
Nothing went well for Notre Dame. On the! opening drive, the Irish offense moved the ball out to. 

• 
mid-field when tailback Randy Kinder fumbled a •• handoff from Ron Powlus. "I should have had it," 


UH OH. Head Coach Lou Holtz watches helplessly as Northwestern drives down the field and runs down the clock. Wildcats Head Coach Gary Barnett predicted victory over the lrlsh. 
said Kinder. ''The defense wasn'. t involved." North­western, behind the running of sophomore Darnell Autry, marched through a lackluster defense. After rushing to the 8-yard line, quarterback Steve Schnur found Dave Beazley in the end zone for six points. Sam Valenzisi added the extra point to give North­western a lead they would notrelinquish. "Ithink that [thefumble] really hurt us mentally," saidPowlus. "I don't think we ever really recovered from that" 
The Irish offense seemed out of sync the entire afternoon. Passes were off-target, blocking assign­ments were missed, and the running game was never established. "We just could not seem to develop a rhythm," said Irish fullback MarcEdwards. ''That's all offense is, and we couldn 'tseem to find it today." The Irish finally put together a drive at the end of the first quarter. Behind Edwards and Robert Farmer, along with a 26-yard pass to Emmett Mosely, the Irish marched to the Northwestern 15. The drive stalled there, however, and Notre Dame had to settle fora35-yardfieldgoal from freshman Kevin Kopka. 
Schnur and the Wildcats came right back. The Northwestern signal-caller threw to fullback Matt Hartlfor al7-yardgain followed by a 10-yardrun by Autry. On a third down from the Irish 40, Schnur connected with junior wide receiver Brian Musso for a 19-yard gain. Thankfully for the Irish, Schnur overthrew D'Wayne Bates, who was wide open in the end zone, forcing the Wildcats and V alenzisi to kick a 37-yard field goal. 
After the Northwestern field goal, the Irish offense seemed to wake up. Farmer and Edwards powered forward, setting up a 17-yard completion to Derrick Mayes which gave the Irish a first down at the Wildcat 10. Two plays later, Farmer danced into the end zone bringing tfi.e Irish within one. Then came oneofthemostcrucial plays ofthe game. Kopka, the supposed savior ofNotre Dame's maligned kicking game, missed the attempt wide right Shades of Scott Cengia clanging a PAT off an upright in the Florida CitrusBowllastyearflashed through the heads of the Irish faithful.· 
"I thought that thePATthatwemissedreally hurt," said Holtz later. ''The snap was a little bit low, he rushed italittle bit too much, and the timing was off." 
Indeed, special teams hurt the Irish all afternoon. Northwestern kickoffs consistently sailed out of the endzone, while they would begin their drives outside of the 30-yard line. Scott Sollman, due to poor decisions ori fielding punts and break downs in blocking, ended up with negative three yards in returns. Meanwhile, Northwestern's Musso aver­aged 11 yards per punfretum. "Special teams was a key factor, and it was critical to us going in," said 
4 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• 1995 p'ooTBALL REVIEW. 
play for 15 more. Three plays later, Kinder rolled : over the goal line for a two-yard score. • 
Due to Kopka's earlier miss, the Irish were still : down 17-15. Atwo-pointconversiontotiethegame • seemed to be Holtz's only option. The Notre Dame : faithful held their breath as Powlus went under • center. After a quick sigh of relief over a successful 0 center-quarterback exchange, the crowd gasped in ! horror. Tripping over his center's feet, Powlus fell to 
0 
the ground and lofted the ball incomplete. The play, : which was going to Mayes, never had a chance. The Irish were not finished yet, however. With 
over five minutes left in the game, the defense came up big for the team, forc­ing Northwestern to punt after only three plays, and giving the offense the ball 
WHAT THE DOCTOR 

at their own 36. But the
ORDERED. Paul Grasmanis congratulates Kory Minor on 
offense seemed to have his stop. The suspect Irish nothing left After three defense came up big, giving 
plays, theIrish faced fourth 
the offense the ball numerous 
and two. Holtz rolled the
times, but they could not stop 
dice and kept his offense
the 'Cats on Northwestern's last possession. on the field. But a sweep 
Barnett. The only bright spot for the Irish special teams unit was the punting of freshman Hunter Smith, who averaged 49.3 yards on his eight punts. 
Holtz's woes continued in the second half. After the offense went three and out to open the half, the defense seemed to stay on the sidelines. The Wild­cats went55 yards in threeplays, toppedoffby Bates' 26-yard touchdown reception, which gave North­western a 17-9 lead. 
The Irish offense continued to struggle. Another 
'I

fumble, this one by Farmer, stopped the Irish on the second play of their drive. On the ensuing posses­sion, theIrishstarted to move theballbehindEdwards. But an incomplete pass and a fumbled snap stymied the offense again. 
"The turnovers hurt us. · The team that makes the fewest mistakes and the fewest turnovers usually wins," Holtz said later. · ,, In the fourth quarter, the Notre Dame defense came to life. After another Irish punt, the Wildcats startedattheir own 26. Aholdingpenalty drove them back further before Autry was stopped for no gain. On third down the defense came up with their biggest play of the afternoon: Paul Grasmanis broughtdown Schnur for the only Irish sack of the day, igniting Notre Dame Stadium and filling heads with thoughts of another miracle comeback. Backed up to their own six-yard line, the Wildcats were forced to punt out of their end zone. 
Powlus and the offense played off the crowd's energy on the ensuing drive. The junior quarterback dumped off a pass to Edwards, who ran up the right 
UPS. Emmett Mosley and Brian Magee get up high, but not high enough to r side for 14 yards, then optioned to Farmeron the next block a WIidcat field goal attempt .. / I' 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
5 
:! 
NOT QUITE. Derrick Mayes lays out for a Ron Powl.us pass but cannot quite reel It in. 
Mayes had a strong showing despite the loss. 
to Edwards was stuffed by a pack ofWild­
cats, and the offense left the field quietly. 
"A punt would have been logical with 
two timeouts left, but hindsight's 20/20," 
Holtz remarked. 

With nearly four minutes left, the Irish 
now had to shut down the Wildcat offense 
again. But Schnur and Autry stepped up to 
the challenge, refusing to let the game slip 
away. Twice the defense forced a third 
down and twice Northwestern came up with 
another first down. As time wound down 
and Notre Dame depleted their supply of 
timeouts, itbecameapparentthattherewould 
be no miracle to rescue the Irish this time. 
"You don 'tever think about losing here," 
said Holtz later. "We all hurt at the present 
time, it's very disappointing". 

Butifthe bottoming outofNotreDame' s 
program looked to be the big story in the 
wake of the upset, it changed during the 
course of the year. To the Wildcats, what ! 
transpired was not a miracle, it was only the ~ 
beginning of a year in which they would ~ 
consistently astonish the nation. North-< · western would end their regular season 10­
1 with a Rose Bowl bid. 

But it all started with the Irish, who were 
caught off guard by the 'Cats. "I told. the players when we boarded the bus that I didn't want to be carried off the field when we won," remarked a jubilant Barnett. "I wanted them to act like we had done this before." O 
FIELD DAV. Northwestern running back Darnell Autry threw his helmet In the ring for the Helsman Trophy with his 160-yard rushing performance. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
BY JAKE SCHALLER 
SEPTEMBER 9, 1995 -WEST LAFAYETTE, IN
NotreDamefootballhasalwayshadaflairfor late-game. heroics. Irish teams are de­fined by their last-minute comebacks and nail-biting wins. But this year's edition of the Irish might love them too much. Why else would Notre Dame let the Purdue Boilermakers back into their second-week showdown, making a last-minute de­fensive stand necessary? And nearly making CPR necessary on the shocked Irish faithful who traveled to Purdue's Ross-Ade Stadium. With a mere three minutes to play in the third quarter, the Irish struck what looked like a devastat­ing blow. On second and six from his own 49-yard line, Ron Powlus dropped pack and faked a reverse to Derrick Mayes, a play ~ey had run earlier. While PurduedefenderskeyedinonMayes,flankerEmmett Mosley slipped behind the safeties. Powlus then lofted a 51-yard bomb to the wide-open Mosley who gathered the ball and continued into the end zone. "Basically, we knew they were keying in on Der­rick so we ran the fake reverse," said Mosley. "The safety came u1{and tried to fill quickly and wegothim coming up. The line gave Ron plenty of time." Aftei:'tradingpunts,PurduetookastabattheNotre Dameleadwithasix-play;80-yarddrivethattailback Ed Watson punctuated with a 13-yard touchdown run right through the middle ofthe Irish defense. The drive was aided by a lO~yard pass interference pen­alty against cornerback Allen Rossum and a 15-yard roughing the passer penalty called against linebacker Kory Minor. 
With the offense churning, Irish fans were expect­ing a long, run-oriented drive that would milk some time off the dock and end any Wildcat-like upset thoughts that the Boilermakers might be entertain-• ing. But what happened bordered on disaster. 
Three plays into their drive, on third and six, Powlusaudibledoutof asprintdrawplayand tried to hit Mayes on a post pattern. Northwestern safety Derrick Brown broke on the ball, however, getting there a step before Mayes. "If [the ball] had been there one one-hundredth ofa second earlier, it would have been a touchdown," Powlus said. It wasn't, and Brown capitalized. · 
"We had worked on that particular play in practice sowewerelookingforitalltheway,"Brownsaid. "It happened just like it was supposed to. I stepped in front and I was in the end zone even before I got to the ball." 
Fifty-four yards and a two-point conversion later, theIrish found themselves in another dogfight, tied at 28 with nine and a halfminutes to play. 
The next play from scrimmage was absolutely critical. After the loss to Northwestern, the team's confidence was obviously shaken. Now, after blow-
SEE YA'! Emmett Mosley looks back at Purdue defensive back Derrick Brown after reeling In a 51-yard bomb from Ron Powlus off a fake reverse. The Irish totalled 252 yards through the air. 
! I 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
MY ROCK! Irish defensive back Mark Monahan skies to pick off a Rick Trefzger pass. The late interception gave the ball back to the Irish with 7:03 remaining. 
ing a 15-point fourth quarter lead against Purdue, its confidence bordered on shattered. But it didn't show. "At that point we just came back and answered," said Mosely. 
After Robert Fanner took a short Purdue kick 26 yards to the Irlsh48,Powlusenteredthehuddleandaskedforsomehelp. "I told the guys in the huddle, 'OK, I made it interesting,"' thejuniorsaid. "Then I said, 'Let's make a big play."' 
Tailback Randy Kinder came through for Powlus and the Irish. Kinder took a pitch to the right side, stretched it out, used a superb block from Marc Edwards, cut back and then raced 52 yards for a much-needed Irish touchdown. "Marc got his guy down, I cut back, and it was just open field," Kinder said. 
THAT'S THE BALLGAME. The lrlsh defense 
exults after Ivory Covington and Bert Berry 
tackle tailback Ed Watson at the 5-yard line 
on fourth. down to preserve the victory. 
"We're sort oflike the OJ. jury. We've been sequestered and everybody on the outside 
has their own opinions and voices them." -Lou Holtz 
It wasarelieffor Powlus, whoseprevious miscue hadknotted the game. "Kinder' s touchdown was huge," he said. "I ran up to him afterwards and said, 'Thank you."' 
The whole team should have said "thank you." Kinder had a game-high 142 yards on the ground. Despite these Irish efforts, Purdue just wouldn't lay down. After a Mark Monahan interception and a 45-yard drive, the Irish put 
·• Kevin Kopka in position to put the game away with a4l -yard field goal. But that would have been the easy way out. Kopka missed it, and Purdue had one more chance. "I really, truly thought he would make it," Holtz said after the game. 
Taking over at their own 23, Rick Trefzger's passing and Watson'srunningbroughttheBoilerstotheNotreDame47. That's when the A-Train took over. Mike Alstott, Purdue's Reisman Trophycandidatefullback,rambled34 yards to theNotreDame 13.. It would be the last run of his impressive 118-yard performance. 
'· With first down on the Irish 13, Purdue Head Coach Jim Colletta calledfor four straightpasses. The first three were incomplete, and Bert Berry and Ivory Covington stopped Watson three yards short of the first down on the fourth attempt. 
Despite giving up 478 yards to the Boilers and almost giving ! them the game, theIrish wereglad to leavewith awin. The win also · began to answer the questions of critics. "Our defensive coordina-

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
DERAILING THE A-TRAIN. You can't do it very often. Helsman Trophy candidate Matt 
Alstott racked up 118 yards on 21 carries. 
tor Bob Davie said it best," said Holtz. "We're sort of like the OJ. jury. We've been sequestered and everybody on the outside has their own opinions and voices them. But the only thing that matters is the people in the room. The only thing that matters to us is our people in the room." 
"Toget this win was huge," Pow lus added after the game. "We needed a win and we needed it now. An 0-2 start would have really hurt us." Powlus' performance, 
HEADED FOR PA YDIRT .. Junior receiver Scott Sollman dismisses Purdue's Lee Brush and scampers Into the end zone for his first career touchdown: 
though tainted by the interception, was im­pressive. Heput up great numbers (17-25, 252 yards and four touchdowns), and he also moved the ball around, hitting Scott Sollman,Kinder,MayesandMoselyforhis record-tying four touchdown strikes. 
And so the Irish won another pull-your­hair-out-victory. Though .it was not as :/ aesthetically pleasing as most Irish fans wouldhaveliked,itwasatleastastepinthe rightdirection. Withninegamesleftagainst good competition, a Tier One bowl game was still a possibility. But it was obvious the Irish could nottake anyone lightly, and this win was only one stop on the road back. . 

,I'! 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
9 


l'M IN! Marc Edwards looks for the refs signal after burrowing through the Commodore defense for a score. Edwards had two touchdowns on the game. 
FUMBLE RECOVERY+ TOUCHDOWN: BIG PLAY. Jarvis Edison puts this equation to use, scooping up a fumble caused by Kurt 
Belisle In the second quarter. 
• 

With LouHoltz watchingfrorr1: home, Bob Davie led • •• • e the Irish to a 41-0 rout ofVandy 
• 

: BY Mum McAursTER SEPTEMBER 16, 1995 -NOTRE DAME, INFirst the Northwestern loss, and now this? The 
Irish faithful were beginning to think the 
season was scripted by Boston College fans. After the opening clay disaster and the near flop againstPurdue, Notre Dame was shaken by the news that their tenth-year coach, the man to whom part of an overture and an entire cheer is devoted, was undergoing surgery and would miss three to four 
• 
weeks. In 33 years as a college coach, LouHoltz had & never missed a practice, let alone a game. But now, : he would have to undergo emergency surgery to 

• 
remove a disc that was .bulging. against his spinal : cord. 

• 
The team that hadjustgiven Holtz his 200th career! win now lay in the· hands of defensive coordinator 

• 
Bob Davie. While many speculated that,Holtz's : absencewouldthoroughlydecimateanalreadyshaken 

• 
team, Davie used it as a rallying point on which to 

• 
turn the season. : "It's a•big challenge to win a game without Lou 


Holtz," Davie said at the Friday night pep rally. "But we're not going to win without Lou Holtz, we're going to win for Lou.Holtz." And with those words and a letter from Holtz that was read to the team before the game, the.Irish took the field and acted out a modem day "Win one for the Gipper" scenario. 
But while the media and fans entered the game thinking ofHoltz·as the story, the Irish turned in their best performance of ·the season to date to make themselves the story. Behind a potent offense, a defense thatheld the'commodores to less tQan 100 yards, and a big-play special teams unit, Notre Dame cruised to a 41-0 victory and began a new season. 
TheIrish offense began the game with a statement, rushing Randy Kinder five times for 29 yards on the game's first five plays. Ron Powlus then silenced critics of his "tunnel vision" by throwing to tight end Pete Chryplewicz for 19 yards. Kinder ended the · drive with a 6-yard score. · 
After giving up a combined 45 points in the previous two games, the Irish defenseplayed with an attitude arid intensity not seen under the Dome in quite some time. They shut down the Vanderbilt 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
attack which just a week earlier had scored 25 points on Alabama. Led by Shawn Wooden, the secondary looked much im­proved; holding Co_mmodore quarterbacks to only three completions for 38 yards. 
Meanwhile, the defensive line simply outmuscled Vandy. "They were just too physical on defense," Vanderbilt Head Coach Rod Dowhower said. With the ex­ception of some missed sacks, they played the best they had all season. 
The second quarter provided the fire­works that Irish fans had been waiting for. An inspired Notre Dame squad notched a pair of touchdowns and a pair of field goals whilekeepingtheCommodoreoffensefrom advancing inside the Irish 31-yard line. 
Then a long-awaited special teams spark helped put the game away early. After a five-yard Autry Denson touchdown scam­per, the Irish kicked off to Vandy's sopho­more returner Corey Chavous. At the 20­yard line, Irish linebacker Kurt Belisle jarred the ball loose, and sophomore Jarvis Edison scooped it up at the 8-yard line and sped in for the score. Another field goal by Kopka put the Irish up 27-0 at the half. 
More of the same awaited the Commo­dores in the second half. The Irish defense repeatedly turned Vandy away. When they 
eventually reached the Irish 27-yard line, Paul drasmanis recovered a Damian Allen fumble. Marc Edwards bowled his way to a touchdown to push the Irish lead to 34-0, butthe Irish execution didnotseem as sharp. "We got a little sloppy in the second half," Davie said later. 
The fourth quarter was a mere formality. Senior safety Brian Magee intercepted a pass and re­turned it to the Vandy 18-yardline, 
setting up another Edwards touchdown to 

tl:iI·~ftiilc:iiiifii;);{Y'•·,,•
cap the scoring. "In Marc's two touch­downs, he showed tremendous effort," Powlus said. "He's a fighter." 
The game left Irish fans to ponder which Irish team would show up the next week. But for now, they were happy. · Kevin Kopka hit all five of his extra points and was 2 for 3 on field goals. Powlus not only completed 13 of 18 for 200 yards and no interceptions, but he also spread the ball around, hitting six different receivers. And although therushing attack received a blow with Robert Farmer's knee injury, they showed their depth, with Kinder racing for 110 yards and a touchdown. 
And then there was Davie, who received rave reviews for his first head coaching job. The interim coach had successfully con­verted three fourth down attempts as wellas 
. opting for a field goal to get points on the board early in the game. After he received the now traditional Gatorade dousing and 
was carried off the field, it was certain that he had filled the unfillable shoes of Holtz. "This has been an amazing week and day," Davie said. ''To say I'm humbled by this is to make an under­statement" The in­terim head coach tried to keep the vic­tory in perspective. "Hopefullythis foot­ballteamison track," he said. "But I'm still very realistic about where we are. Wearejustsoyoung and so thin, particu­larly on defense." 
The emotion of the 
game underscored a truly different Irish team. Overcoming the loss of their head coach, the Irish turned in their best performance of the season to date and were finally back on theright track. 0 

...-.,:0·ll1Mi'* ·· 
VANDERBILT·. , , r . . ., 

y 'IDMMIR 
'---~=~;-•:,z:.\;::i//fc1F:-,•··' . ··. ;:·;· 


11
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ .1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 




Filling 

Defensive Coordinator Bob Davie served admirably as interim head coach while Lou Holtz recoveredfrom spinal cord surgery 

BY BRIDGET CASEY

The announcement that Lou Holtz was temJX)rarily out of commission struck fear into the hearts of even the most devoted Noire Dame fans, but interim head coach anddefensive coordina­torBob Davie quickly dispelled any doubts with a convincing win over Vanderbilt less than a week later. Perhaps the most resounding endorse­ment of Davie's temporary status; though, came from the student body at the begin­ning of the fourth quarter of that game. Duringthetraditionalrenditionofthe"l812 Overture," sprinkled in with the regular cheers for Lou, the word 'Bob' resounded from theblock ofblue shirts in the comer of the stadium. These cheers for Davie were a vote of confidence for a man who, while viewedas crucialto the success of the Irish, is not yet a well-known figure on campus. Ifanythingisevidentabout thewayDavie approaches his coaching position, it is that hard work is the key to success in football. His no-nonsense attitude is personified in his sparseJACC office, which is filled with videotapesofgamefootage andblackboards covered with defensive plays. Jumping into Holtz's shoes would be an overwhelming task for anyone, but Davie took it in stride. 'The hardest thing about taking over on­the field for Coach Holtz was the organiza­tion," says Davie. "I was experienced in workingwith thedefense,butsuch things as giving the pre-game talk and facing the team at half-time were added pressures. I wasn't used to being the central focus, and I really had to concentrate on gathering my thoughtsandcommunicatingtherightJX)int at exactly the right time." The advice given to him by Lou Holtz prior to his debut? "Coach Holtz told me to be myself. That piece of advice goes for everything, though, not just coaching foot­ball. The bottom line is that you are what you are, and you shouldn't try to be bigger than that" In Davie's second season with the Irish, the defense has made incredible strides. The games against Texas, Washington and even Army exhibitedthe team's tenacity in adverse situations. '"Ihereis a great attitude on the team this year and a sense of comraderie that is crucial to winning tough games," says Davie. "We are not a domi­nant defense and we don't have a lot of 

DEE-FENSEi Davie gives his defense a hand during the win over Washington. With Lou Holtz In the press box, Davie had Increased responsibility. 
depth on the squad, but we always say, 
'Find a way to win,' and that has carried us 
through a lot of tough games." 
With an undefeated record in his brief' 
tenure as the head coach ofNotre Dame, it 
is probable that other teams and schools 
will now look to him to fill vacated posi­
: "The hardest thing about :taking over for Coach Holtz :was the organization ... I 
:wasn't used to being the :central f~cus."-Bob Davie 
tions. According to Davie, however, there 
is a lot of work yet to be done at Notre 
Dame. "I just want to see us become really 
good," he says. "When !first gothere it was 
hard to see the light at the end of the tunnel, 
but we are making some definite progress, 
and I would hate to leave here without 
becoming a really great football team." 
The cheering students may have recog­
nized Davie's 'talents as a coach during his 
short_ stint in the golden spotlight. Davie 
clearly has a vision for the Irish defense and 
the football team as a whole, and his laid­
back approach and respect for the players 
has already had a positive impact 
And while for now the traditional "Lou" 
cheer will continue, Davie's efforts and 
enthusiasm will not go unnoticed. D 
12 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

TEXAS TWO-STEP. Tailback Autry Denson dances through the Longhorn defense for some of his 61 yards. The Irish piled up 511 yards of offense against Texas. . · 
.The Irish branded anND on the collective hide ofthe Longhorns with a 55.,.27 win thatspurred Notre Dame's season 
S C.,.H OLA ST I C M A G.A ZIN E ¦ 1 9 9 5 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
13 

BY JOSHUA M. DICKINSON and begin an onslaught of points. SEPT. 23, 199S -NOTRE DAME, IN Again, Texas failed to move the ball, asOn this day, the University of Renaldo Wynn sacked quarterback James Notre Dame Fighting Irish foot-Brown to end the drive. On the ensuing ball team entered Notre Dame punt, not only did Emmett Mosley relieve Stadium to take their first exam ofthe year. fans by catching the ball, he wowed them This exam was preceded by three quizzes. with an electrifying 64-yard punt return for ThefirstwasagainsttheNorthwesternWild-a touchdown. Mosley juked right and then cats. The Irish assumed, as usual, that this jetted down the right sideline, outlegging firstquizwouldbeeasy. They were wrong, Longhorns to the end zone; and they failed miserably. The second quiz The Longhorns refused to be lassoed so was the Purdue Boilermakers. Although easily, however, as Brown grabbed the thisdidn'tlooktobeverydifficult,thelrish team's reigns and displayed his ability. came unprepared and barely escaped with a Throwing on five of the next six plays, he passing grade. The third and final quiz was marched his team down the field, moving the simplest yet This time the Irish aced it, theLonghorns to theIrish 1-yardline. There destroying the Vanderbilt Commodores. he hit tight end Pat Fitzgerald for the touch­Their first exam, however, pitted the Irish · down. Phil Dawson's 54th straight extra against 13th-ranked Texas. The Longhorns point brought Texas within three, and tied loomed as a stiff test, but one that could him for the all-time Texas record for propel the number 21 Irish toward the head consecutive PATs. 
of their class. Not wanting to have the spotlight The game opened with a fired up Notre stolen,DerrickMayesreeledinatouch­Dame defense stuffing Texas and forcing a . down pass, putting the Irish up 17-7. 
punt ·As a result, the Irish received good  Thereception was the 100thin Mayes'  
fieldpositionandtookadvantageofit. Led  career, putting him in sixth place all  
byrunningbackRandyKinder,NotreDame  time. Though Texas responded with  

marched down to the Texas 9-yard line · anothergooddrive,itendedupgiving before stalling. Kevin Kopka knocked in a the Irish more momentum. After 27-yard field goal to give the Irish a 3-0 lead Brown hit Fitzgerald for their second 
USING HIS HEAD. Linebacker Lyron 
Cobbins pushes 
Ricky Williams 
away and attempts 
to pursue the play. 
, touchdownconnection of the day, the stage was set for Dawson to break the PAT record. But "Old Faithful's" kick was blocked then scooped up by cornerback Allan Rossum, who sprinted 98 yards, giving the Irish an extra two points. "Even though I didn't break [the record], it is still an honor sharing · the record," Dawson said. "What's more impor­tantis on that play Notre Dame ended up getting two points." The score remained 19-13 Irish at the half. 
The Longhorns looked ready to take over the game in the beginning of the second half. Texas drove down the field with ease, and on a fourth 
. down try from the 5-yard line, Brown hit a wide open Steve Bradley in the end zone. Dawson started anew streak with a success­ful point after, giving the Longhorns their first taste of the lead, 20-19. When Powlus fumbled the snap from center on the ensu­ing drive, Texas seemed to have the gamein its hands. But then -the Irish secondary responded with a big play. LaRon Moore and Jarvis Edison both leapt for a Brown pass over the middle. The two converged on the ball simultaneously, creating a spectacular col­lision. Edison wound up injured, but Moore hung on to the ball. The critical turnover took the buck out of the Longhorns. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Two plays later,Powlus launchedabomb to a double-covered Mayes, who made an­other trademark grab that left fans wonder­ing how he did it. The play set up a 3-yard touchdown by Kinder, which gave the Irish the lead back after a two-point conversion. A Shawn Wooden interception and Kory Minor's second sack of the game helped the defense keep the Longhorns out of the end zone, and when the third period ended, the Irish had the ball and momentum. "Mo­mentum wise, [the interceptions] hurt us more than anything else," Texas Coach John Mackovic said. "It gave Notre Dame a lift more than anything else and gave them something to feel good about." 
Tobegin thefinal period, theIrishjumped on the backs of Kinder and Marc Edwards and put together their longest drive, ending with Edwards slamming into the end zone from two yards out. The drive put the Irish in command, 34-20, and gave Kinder his third straight 100-yard game. 
The lead allowed the Notre Dame de­fense to settle in. After heavy pressurefrom the Irish, Brown coughed up the ball, and John McLaughlin recovered at the Texas 12-yard line. Three plays later, Powlus showed somefancy f~t, scrambling before finding Edwards for a score. This strike vaulted Powlus to seventh on the all-time Notre Dame touchdown list, tied with Joe Montana. 
With only 7:42 left, Brown, the "Godfa­ther" oftheTexasoffense,workedhismagic. He took the Longhorns 74 yards in a little overaminute,cuttingthelrishleadto41-27 witha 19-yardtouchdownpass toFitzgerald. 
The Irish soon got the ball back and made fans feel a bit sentimental by reviving their smash-mouth ground game of old. It carried the Irish offense down the field, setting the stage for Edwards. From the27, thebruisingfullbackwentofftackle, broke through more than a handful ofTexas defenders and remarkably kept his balance on the way to paydirt. 
This was evidence that Edwards would beable to continue theNotre Damefullback tradition. He hadsuccessfullyreplacedRay Zellars who had replaced Jerome Bettis who had replaced Anthony Johnson. For his 116 yards and three touchdowns, Edwards was awarded the NBC Sports/ Chevrolet Notre Dame Most Valuable Player Award. "We went out and played Notre Dame football," Edwards said of the game. ''This is the way things need to be." 
Rossum added insult to injury with a 29­yard pass return, giving the Irish a satisfy­ing 55-27 win. ''This was a huge win," Powlus said. "We can't afford losses." 
Although the Irish gave up 422 yards overall, they were able to capitalize on five Texa;;tumovers and blow the game open in the fourth quarter. Thegamewas filled with impressive numbers posted by the Irish. In addition to Edwards' performance and Kinder' s 100-yard day, Derrick Mayes had 146 receiving yards. 
Exam number one was thus passed with flying colors. 'But with three exams in the next four weeks in the form of Ohio State, Washington and USC, the Irish clearly had a lot of homework ahead of them. D 

BETWEEN A ROCK AND A HARD HIT. LaRon Moore and Brian Magee prepare to make a Texas sandwich. The secondary helped to force five turnovers against the Longhorns. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

stronger than many defensive linemen, and the ball without great difficulty -until all 
they can run with the fleetest of opponents. 6'0";-216 pounds of Kinnon Tatum deliv­Thethirdquarterhadjustended. Notre Just ask Beau Morgan. Then again, he ered the hardest hit Notre Dame has seen in 
Dame was making a mockery ofits wasn't the one who almost got his head years. USC tailback Delon Washington 
skeptics andpounding the daylights taken offby Tatum. That was DelonWash­had just collected the ball on the second­out of Air Force 37-7. One of ESPN's ington of Southern Cal. down hand-off up the middle. Then Tatum sideline cameras zoomed in on two of the At this juncture, there is no need· for left his feet, flew over Southern Cal's full­four men bearing the largest burden of the conjecture.. The Headbangers are undoubt­back and derailed Washington, popping the five-game Irish win streak: Lyron Cobbins edly oneofthe bestlinebacking crews in the ball.Washington fell to the ground as ifhe and Kinnon Tatum, who were grinning country, ifnot the best. They are the prod­had been shot with a cannon, and Berry from ear to ear, and with go_od reason. uct of defensive coordinator Bob Davie, made the.recovery. 
Seconds earlier, Cobbins had iced the whose styleconsists of two elements: speed "When you see a kid make a play like game. Falcon quarterback Beau Morgan over size and the ability to make big plays. that, it's a credit to the whole defense," , had moved to his left and prepared a pass. "They'vemade some of the biggest plays Davie says, trying to conceal his almost Cobbins had read the play and dropped of the entire team," says Davie. boyish jubilance at recalling the hit "He back in front of the tight end. He grabbed Indeed, Tatum's play against Southern wentairborne. Hewasparallelto theground, the ball with the form of a receiver and CaltumedthegamearoundforNotreDarne, flat out, laid out. Plays like that don't just 
barreled down the field like a fullback for and you could even say it turned the season happen. That's a guy totally selling his 33 yards to the Air Force 4-yardline. It was around. Well, almost body out." his fifth pick in four games and it set up the ''The turning point of the season was . Later in the · same game, sack master final Irish touchdown by Marcus Thome. Ivory Covington's hit against Army," as­Kory Minor led a blitzkrieg on quarterback 
Meet Notre Dame's starting linebackers: serts Berry. "It was a crucial point. We Kyle Wachholtz, recording his first safety number 4, freshman Kory Minor; number were on the ropes. As a team and a unit, we and making the most important play of his 13,junior Bertrand Berry; number6,junior carried that momentum intoUSC. We were young Notre Dame career. The safety put 
Lyron Cobbins; number 2, junior Kinnon full steam ahead against USC." the score at 23-10, but the damage was not Tatum. 
With Notre Dame ahead 6-0, Southern yet complete, as Notre Dame would score 
They call themselves the"Headbangers," Cal had the ball on the Notre Dame 3-yard on its ensuing possession. In a sense, a and withgoodreason. Theyplayfearlessly, line and was threatening to take over. So far Minor sack had added up to 10 points. yet they ought to be feared. They are in the game, the Trojans had been moving · Cobbins came away with two intercep-
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBA.LL REVIEW 
a,"' 
l 
0.. 
in u 

MISSION ACCOMPLISHED. Kinnon Tatum and the Notre Dame defense walk off the field after stopping the Boston College offense cold. 
tions in the game, while Berry had smoth­ered Wachholtz with pressure and forced him to throw when itwas third and goal with seven secondsleft in the half. Each of these plays had sent the Trojans reeling, and each of these plays had helped Ron PowIus and the offense rip off 38 points against a team that had not given up any more than 16 all year. 
"Next year, we want to be the unit every­body looks upon,"saysBerry. "We want to go out and make big plays on defense, but also help the offense score points. And who's to say that the defense can't score points?" 
The 6'1", 241-pound Cobbins has put together a one-man offense of his own. He finished the year with five interceptions (more than any player on the secondary), three fumble recoveries, one forced fumble and threepass break-ups. Hebroke the 100­tackle mark in the Navy game. 
In comparison, Notre Dame's leading tackler last season was Brian Magee, with 
81. Along with Berry, Cobbins was consid­ered a candidate for the .Butkus Award, which goes to the top lipebacker in the nation. 
"As a credit to Lyron, there was a point [last year] where he should have started more, although he did start against Air Force," asserts Davie. "What! found is that these guys have .to pay their dues a bit We'll have to address that with Kory Mi­nor. We're going to make sure he works hard in.the off season and pays his dues." The 6'2", 225-pound Minor finished the season first in sacks with six. 
On the other side is the quiet, butubiqui~ tous, BertBerry. The fact that he hails from Humble,Texas, might explain his modesty, but Berry may also have the most talent of the four. Firstofall,herunsa4.35 inthe40, He also led the '94 team in sacks with six coming off the bench, and the one that got away from him was not his fault Berry was the one who nearly had Michigan's Todd Collins in the pile-drive position when Collins managed to complete the pass that set up Michigan's winning field goal in 1994. 
When defensive end Melvin Dansby in­jured his neck last spring, Davie had to maneuverhis troops. He movedBerryfrom rush end to drop end, aswitch that might make some players pout, others ineffective. But Berry chose to excel. 
"Culverhelped meoutalot, getting away from everybody," says Berry. "It was the most critical point for me, in terms of hon­ing my skills and preparing mentally." 
Of the number change from 60 to 13, Berry says it was merely psychological. "That'sanattitudeadjustmentwiththenum­ber change. It looks better, it gives a more athletic look. It changes the mindset a bit and brings some unity to our group because we all have low numbers." 
"When Ithink ofBertBerry, I'm thinking totally unselfish," says Davie. "He's prob­ably playing out of position and yet look at what he's doing." 
Davie isa lot like a mad scientist-Dr. Frankenstein perhaps. He came to Notre Damefrom Texas A&M two years ago,and quickly concocted this. monster, a linebackingmachine that only getsbetteras time passes. In the nine years he coached at A&M, every one of his starting linebackers was drafted into the NFL. He is setting the table for a similar record at Notre Dame. "There's something to a style of play you create," says Davie. "You see guys making plays and that's what motivates a team." 
According to Davie, due to the small size of the defensive line, guys like Renaldo Wynn andCorey Bennettgetpushedaround and the traffic comes to the linebackers. The constant pounding makes them weary. But with towering Dansby returning next season, the defensive line will begin to have some size. This will give the linebackers the opportunity to make even bigger plays next year. 
They call themselves the Headbangers, not to be confused with Horsemen.· They are big fans of the intimidating face shield, and they hit hard, brutally hard; bµt dean. Three of the four ~ leading tacklers and the. other is the sack master. 


. Someoneoughtto remind Washington to keep his head up and his hands wrapp~ painfully tight around the ball, because the Headbangerswill all be coming back next year. 0 

j 
i 
I 

THANK YOU. Lyron Cobbins salutes the student body after an Irish win. The crowd came to expect big plays from the . Head bangers as the season went on. 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a 19,95 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
17 
The Irish: BY SHANNAN BALL 
e 

• SEPTEMBER 30, 1995 -COLUMBUS, OH 
gave the· 1

twas called a rivalry renewed, and the hype 
: surroundingtheOhioState-NotreDamematchup was incredible. Days before the game, ~ts to

Buckeyes •. 

watch the 15th-ranked Irish take on the seventh­thvee ~ed Buckeyes were selling for hundreds, even , 1 thousands, of dollars. Thousands of Notre Dame students entered the campus ticket lottery, hoping toturnovers see the Irish defeat Ohio State in Columbus. Before the game the streets surroundingcampusoverflowed 
• with fans from both sides, and police had to use tearin a Seven-gas to keep the excited crowd under control. • • The last time these two teams faced off, 60 years
minute snan •before, thematch-uphadbeendubbedthe"Gameof 'l:' ' : the Century." That time, top-ranked Notre Dame gift-•emerged victorious. This year, however, the Buck­
: eyes were the favorites. Ohio State went into the • • contestundefeated, while the Irish posted a record ofWrapping: 3-1. ltwasc~earthisgamewascrucialtobothteams' 
o seasons. Ohm State wanted to beat a national power HEISMAN-WORTHY. The kind of day Eddie George a45-26 ° andfurtherlegitimizetheirrunforthenationalcham­
(top photo) had against the Irish, rushing for over 200 yards.
: pionship, while Notre Dame was looking to continue 
RUNNING ON EMPTY. Randy Kinder (above) and the 
• • theirturnaroundagainstatop-rankedopponent And 
Irish ground game couldn't overcome some costly
victory :in the frrst half, at least, it looked as though they ·
mistakes. 
18 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
--1 
would. 
But a tumultuous 6:57 second span in the third quarter turned the tide. Three key Irish miscues translated into 21 quick points for the Buckeyes. NotreDame'smistake-lacienfootballprovedagiftto the Gods of the Horseshoe, and gave· the rowdy Columbus fans something to celebrate. 
You could almost call it the Buckeyerule ofthrees. In the third quarter, the Irish committed three turn­overs which resulted in three, three--play touchdown drivesfortheBuckeyeswhoscoredallthreetimeson third down. So often in football the game comes down to who capitalizes in turnovers. Ohio State knew it, and they made the Irish pay. ''The name of the game was turnovers, and we got some good breaks today," Cooper said. 
Strike One: After taking the second-half kickoff and driving 76 yards in 17 plays, the Irish settled for a 22-yard Kevin Kopka field goal, putting them up. 20-14. TheNotreDamedefensethenforcedanOhio State punt, and it looked like an Irish knock-out punch would not be far behind. 
But as Irish fans have learned over the last few years, every punt is an adventure. Emmett Mosley attempted to field a punt he should have let go, muffed it, and the Buckeyes recovered. Mosely said later that he thought the Ohio State player next to him wasaNotreDameplayer,andhedidn'twanttheball tohithim. Threeplayslater,BobbyHoyinghitsenior 
tight end Rickey Dudley, who carried an Irish de-SAID fender into the end zone. After the PAT, it was 21­20, Buckeyes. 
Strike Two: The very next drive began omi-COOPER·. nously. Mosley started a kickoff return left and tried to hand the ball to Autry Denson. The exchange was bobbled, but Denson recovered on the Notre Dame 

''THE NAME Of 
12. Aided by a 56-yard bomb to Mayes, the Irish drove to the Ohio State 32, setting up a crucial third down. Powlus tried Mayes again, but because of a ftlE GAME 11111~ mix-upMayesranthewrongrouteandPowlusthrew • 10 fflti1
. 
too deep. Comerback Shawn Springs chased down • . the ball and made a diving interception. Three plays • TIJRNOVERS 
later, former walk-on wide receiver Terry Glenn : blistered a path to stardom with an 82-yard touch-• down. On third down and three, Glenn ran a simple • AND WE GOT 
10-yard curl in front of comerback Allen Rossum, : who slipped. Glenn turned and burned, out-legging • · · Rossum, the all-star sprinter, for the next 72 yards. : SOME GQQO
After the PAT, it was 28-20, Buckeyes. • 
Strike Three ('Yer Out): The Irish didn't wait ! until they had established a drive to tum the ball over .• ·BRr11us1 TO­again. On the first play from scrimmage on the next ! l:Hl\i drive, quarterback Ron ·Powlus and center Rick • Kaczenski finally botched a snap when it counted. ! ftllV" The Buckeyes recovered. • UH I 
Three plays later, on the first play of the fourth : 
CLOSE DOWN. Buckeye middle linebacker Greg Belllsarl closes up a hole and stops Marc Edwards. 
S<;,HOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
for 207 yards, and although the Irish man­ standing," commented Holtz.  "I thought  
Powlus' completion to favorite  aged tocontainhim in thefirsthalf, hebroke loose in the second stanza. Hoying also boosted the Ohio State offense, completing  we could keep up with them as long as we could mix the run and the pass. The touch­down before the half was a big break for  
target  14 of 22 passes for a total of 272 yards,  them, I'm-sure."•  
Mayes gave Irish fans something to cheer  including four touchdowns. Two of those touchdown passes were caught by Glenn who made four catches for 128 yards. "Eddie [George], .Terry [Glenn], and  It had all . started so well, despite the crowd of95,537 gatheredin Ohio Stadium. As the teams ran out into the bright sun at the horseshoe in Columbus, they were  
about.  Bobby [Hoying] had great grunes.  Our  . gre.etedbydeafeningnoise. ''The 12th man  
today -wow-the  
crowd wasfantastic,"  
Ohio  State  Head  
Coach John Cooper  
said. "ltreallyhelped  
us." Holtz, an Ohio  
native and former as­ 
. sistant coach atOhio  
State under Woody  
quarter,  Eddie  Hayes, appeared on  
George took the ball  the sidelines for the  
infromfiveyardsout  first time since his  
for the score.  After  neck surgery.  This  
the PAT, it was 35­ was a bit of a sur­ 
20, Buckeyes.  prise, since Holtz  
To Notre Drone's  was expected to re­ 
credit,itfoughtback.  mainin the press box  
Kinder scored the  foratleastonemore  
third touchdown of  game.  

his impressive 144-.....----------------------------·.. 1 had planned on· yardday,butamissed [coaching] upstairs two-point conversion [in the pressbox],but 
left the score 35-26 assistant coach Bob andoutofreach. The Davie thought I Buckeyes then used should be there [on their workhorse, thesidelines],"Holtz George. Thetailback said. immediately made a The Irish defense big play, racing forced the Buckeyes around the left end to punt twice, and for 61 yards before Shawn Wooden fi­nally made a touch­down-saving tackle. It wouldn't matter, however, as George would get his pay­check three plays later on a 3-yard cut­back run. FRESH 
Any chance of a miracle ended after entire offensive line deserves credit And I START. 
. ti-· • Glenn's
uldn•

MarcEdwards was stopped short on afake wo t want to get m a oot race with touchdown punt The Buckeyes added a field goal, Terry Glenn," Cooper said following the reception making the score a lopsided 45-26 as the win. ·opened mob of scarlet and gray took the field. The 45 points scored by the Buckeyes OSU's 
scoring as 
The powerful force behind the Buckeye were the most surrendered by Notre Dame -the Buck-victory was the performance oftheir trio of under Holtz. "Ohio State played an out-eyes went Heisman hopefuls. Georgerushed32 times standing grune. Their offense was out-nuts. 
. SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 F.OOTBALL REVIEW 
HIGH-O. The big O, as In Offense, couldn't pull through for the Irish as the crowd of 95,000-plus watched the Buckeye victory. 
tookoverondownsonceduringOhioState's first three possessions. A Kevin Kopka field goal gave the Irish an early 3-0 lead. 
During the second quarter, both offenses gotin sync, scoring two touchdowns apiece. TheIrish were led by Kinder, whose 83 first half yards and two touchdowns helped give the Irish a slim 17-14 lead. The Buckeyes' attack came primarily through the air, with Hoying completing 10 of 17 passes for 152 yards. He hooked up for touchdowns with Glenn and Diinitrious Stanley to account for the Ohio State points. 
After being·out-played for most of the first 30 minutes, Ohio State had been able to shake off 10-0and 17-7 deficits. The touch­down to Stanley came with only 44 seconds left in the first half, and clearly gave the Buckeyes some much-needed momentum going into the lockerroom. Starting their drive at their own 24-yard line with only 4:27remaining, theBuckeyesmoveddown the field swiftly, courtesy of George and Hoying. The senior quarterback showed his poise, delivering the touchdown pass in the face of a Notre Dame blitz. 
The three turnovers killedan outstanding first half effort by the entire squad, as well as the individual perfonnances of Powlus and Kinder. "We shouldn't have lost the game the way we did," said Powlus, who completed 13 of16 passes for243 yards. "If they weregoing to beatus, they should have beaten us on a last second field goal or a last touchdown drive. We beat ourselves today, there's no question." 0 

I 
11

SAID POWLUS: "WE SHOULDN'T HAVE LOST THE GAME THE WAY WE DID. WE BEAT OURSELVES TODAY, THERE'S NO QUESTION." 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
21 





LIFE IN THE TRENCHES 



Undersized as a 245-pound defensive end, sophomore Corey Bennett fought off ihe "Big Nasties"and held his own 
BY DEREK BETCHER to get around blocks," he explains. Bennett hard, he's been diligent in the weight room,Sophomore defensive end Corey credits Defensive Line Coach Kirk Doll and he's held out pretty well." Bennett has always lined up on the and teammate Renaldo Wynn with helping Junior linebacker Lyron Cobbins also defensive side of the ball, but each him to make the transition. appreciates Bennett's contributions this sea-year with the Notre Dame football program has seen him move progressively deeper into the trenches. Bennett actually played in the secondary for much of his high school career until Notre Dame recruited him as a prospective linebacker. His freshman year was spentadapting to the more physical play of a rush backer, but Bennett's most dra­matic switch didn't come until this summer. "CoachDaviecalledmeathomeandsaid to gain as much weightas !could because I'd be playing on the line this fall," Bennett explains. On the line? At the time of Davie's call, Corey tipped the scales at 225 pounds. That's a respectable girth for mortal men, but for a starting Notre Dame 
GET IT OUT! Bennett (above) leaps to bat down a Mark Hartsell lineman, that's notably under­pass. Below, he takes dow.n Vandy quarterback Damian Allen. sized. An unfortunate spring in­
jury to projected starter Melvin Bennett sees his son. "Corey has made a big sacrifice for the Dansby necessitated the move. game against Texas' team by moving up to theline," he says. "He 
At Davie's recommendation, [ sizable and accom­goes up against bigger physical players, but Bennett had upped his weight to i plished line as a mi­he's very fundamentally sound." 240 pounds by midseason. His J crocosm for his sea-Corey also knows where his bread and secret? "I just try to eat every­son. butter is: "I see leverage as my biggest thing in sight Two-forty fluctuates a little "The first few quarters, I was all right. In strength, especially when we run stunts. bit, though, because the dining hall food the second half, they started putting double I've got to use my quickness, too" he says. isn'ttoo consistent," Bennettreveals. While teams on me. After three quarters I was With 1995 only his second season, his newfound bulk adds respectability, it getting worn down, but it feels good to earn Bennett's future could be even more re­leaves Corey at a consistent 60-70 pound a double team, especially when you know it warding. The question now is whether he disadvantage compared to today's behe­helps to open holes for your teammates." can make the transition into a big time moth offensive lineman. These size adjust­·The Texas game was quietly consistent­playmaker. ments have only been part of the challenge like most ofthe 1995 season for Bennett. He "Sure he could, he's only a sophomore," for Bennett this season. The fundamental handled the transition to line admirably and notes Cobbins. "Anyone who works hard differences between linebacking and line. finished the regular season with 37 tackles, will get the payoff." play have also been a major adjustment so why the fuss? Bennett is a sterling Rudy­Bennett acknowledges that the most dif­
"Sure they're both defense, but in some like reminder that size isn't everything. ficult transitions are behind him. He ad­
ways they're totally different. On the line CoachDoll appreciates the valueofspeed mits, "At first, I was amazed at how well 
it's so much more physical because you and athleticism ·in linemen, especially his I've done at my weight, but I guess I've 
have to make contact every play. For one undersized ones: "Ifyou'renotreal big, you known all along that I could do it I just put 
thing, I've had to learn how to use the hands better be real quick. Corey's worked very my heart into it and play well." . 
22 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ 1 9 9 5 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

mmedi 

pact 
a steady punter for the firs~ time in two years. 


Notre Dame's highly-touted freshman class was instrumental in the team's rebound 
BY BRIAN Hm.o _Before the ink FRESH LEGS. Autry Denson supercharged the Notre Dame rushing attack even dried on the against Vanderbilt, giving it another game breaker. 
I take that as an initia­tive,"hesays. "Butthere are a lot of things I need to work on. I guess I'm doing pretty good for a freshman, but I can defi­nitely move my game up another level." 
Tailback Autry Den­sonalsomadesignificant ) contributions. Early in the season, though, two 
~ things appeared to block 

I 
g hispathtofirst-yearstar­
cn • • •

[ dom. Frrst,Juruorreturn-I 
0 
ees Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer looked prime for huge seasons. 

25 letters of intentlastFebruary, theNotreDamefreshman class was unanimously lauded as the bestin the nation. Recruiting analysts tossed around phrases such as "no weaknesses", and "once-in-a-lifetime." Many considered this group superior on paper to Holtz' s 1990 class, which produced familiar names like Jerome Bettis, Bryant Young, Aaron Taylor and Jeff Burris. 
Even with the·summer defections of star receiver Randy Moss and speedy tailback James Jackson, bringing the total number down to 23, the class was expected to make an immediate impact WhilemostfreshmenarrivedatNotreDameinAugustfeelingthe ordinary pressures of starting college, the new football players were saddled with an extra burden-the responsibility ofrevital­izing the Irish football program that had fallen so far in 1994. 
As the 1995 season began, two freshmen emerged from the collection of eight Parade and five USA Today 1st-team All-Americas, one on each side of the ball. 
The defensive standout in the class, rush end· Kory Minor, surprised no one. After all, he had been everyone's national defensive player of the year at Bishop Amat High School in California. What did surprise some was the degree of his contri­bution. Minor started every game of the season from his rush end position and, while backup John McLaughlin was out with a sprainedknee,rarelyevenleftthefield. Hefinishedtheseasonwith 48 tackles, six sacks and a world of valuable experience. 
Minor, however, believes he has just scratched the surface of his potential. "My coaches and teammates tell me that I'm doing real well and 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 11! 1995 FOOTBALL 
Second, Denson began the season as a backup comerback. But the week before the Purdue game, Lou Holtz gave Denson a try at running back and was impressed with his speed and elusiveness. Denson' s 69 yards on just seven carries against the Boilermakers m~de the switch permanent 
As the season progressed, Denson steadily improved, while both Kinder and Farmer succumbed to injuries. In Notre Dame's I biggest win of the year, 38-10 over USC, Denson was the work­
I 

horse, rushing 27 times for 95 yards. His 695 yards on the ground I rank second in Irish history for a freshman back and his eight touchdowns tie Marc Edwards' freshman record. 
I 

Minor and Denson may have sitolen the show as freshmen, but thereareothercontributorswhowillcomposethenucleusoffuture Irish squads. Massive offensive tackle Mike Rosenthal provided qualitydepthtothelineandevenstartedinsomeimportantgames including Ohio State, USC and Air Force. He has All-America written all over him. Bobbie Howard gave the Irish another great linebacker. Kevin Kopka struggled at times with his kicking, but he still made six out of 11 field goals and all but two of his extra points. And Hunter Smith, despite his modest 36.4 yard average, stabilized thepunting game and showed glimpses of a booming leg. 
Soweretheso-calledexpertsrightaboutthisclass? Isitonefor the ages? Maybe not, but Smith thinks it's good enough to get Notre Dame football back to the promised land. 
"I'm sure that this class can win the national championship," he says. "l'veneverseen thiskindoftalent,thiskindofathleticability, within a group of guys. It's a special group." O 
REVIEW 23 

I. 


THE ALL· 
0 
E T E 

The Wildcats and Buckeyes head the list ofthe best the Irish faced 

OFFENSE 

Sam Valenzisi, K Ed Stover, OG Eddie George, RB 
Northwestern Army Ohio State· 
Nailed a field goal and two Three-year starter helped clear His 207-yard, two-TD perfor-PAT s versus the Irish; one of the way for 365 Cadet rushi.ng mance was Heisman-worthy. nation's best before injury. yards 
Jake Campbell, KR Ryan Padgett, OG Air Force Northwestern 
OneoftheFalcons.' lone bright How did Autry surpass 100 spots against the Irish, he re-yards on the ground in every turned six kicks for 145yards. game? Thisfirst-teamAll-Big 
Ten 'is part ofthe answer. 
Andre Cooper, WR Orlando Pace, OT ' · Florida State Ohio State Rob Johnson, C Three TD' s and a two-point The 6' 6" 320-pound terror Northwestern conversion grabkilledtheIrish opened holesfor Mr. Heisman See above. Darnell Autry, RB · chancesandextendedtheSemi­as large·as his waistline. Northwestern noles' remarkable bowl streak. 
His160yardsandcrucial third-down run shocked the Irish and HONORABLE MENTION beganhisquestfortheHeisman. Mike Alstott, FB 
Purdue · 

Pat Fitzgerald, TE 
Texas Keyshawn Johnson, WR Broughtbackmemoriesofirish-USC killerPeteMitchellwith histhree touchdown receptions. Mike Adams, WR 
Texas 

Terry Glenn, WR 
Ohio State Rashaan Shehee, RB Pete Kendall, OT. Ohio State Four catches, 128 yards, two Washington Boston College Riddledtheirishsecondarywith· TD' s. Made sprinter Rossum l)espite his herculean efforts, 272 yards and/our touchdown look slow. Jeremy Hogue, C Boston College could not pull passes. USC off~ third straight upset ofthe Irish;repeatAll-Opponentper-DanNeil,OG former.. · 
Texas 




24 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
u, 
Gary Barnett, Head Coach 
Northwestern 
w The stunning victory over the Irish was only the beginning ofthe Wildcats' storybook season. Greg Gregory, Offensive Coordinator 
Army
ON~ 

. ...J Orchestrated the Cadets' wishbone attack that shredded the Irish defense for alrrwst 400 rushing yards. 
Ron Vanderlinden, Defensive Coordinator 
Northwestern 
THEW -C His troops limited the Irish to 15 points, their lowest point total ofthe season.
en 

o••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••o••• 
DEFENSE 
Bill Marinangel, P HONORABLE MENTION 

Vanderbilt Matt Finkes, DE Shawn Springs, CB Averaged48yardsonfivepunts, Ohio State Ohio State Chris Akins, DT 
including a 70-yard bomb. Failed to match his linemate' s The sophorrwre recorded eight Texas numbers, but did apply pres­tackles and made a te"ific div­sure to Powlus. ing interception that continued Tyson King, OLB 
the Irish second-halfdemise. Texas 
Greg Bellisari, LB 
Ohio State Chris Martin, CB Daryl Bush, MLB Was everywhere for the Buck­Northwestern Florida State eyes, making 12 tackles. Led a Wildcat secondary that 
contained Derrick Mayes and Chris Carter, S the Irish passing game. Texas 
Darrell Russell, DT USC 

Matt Keneley, DT 

JoeSpeed,S USC Navy 
Helped neutralize the Irish power running game,· the only ~att Haff, OLB defensive player to repeat as Boston College A/I-Opponent. 
Pat Fitzgerald, LB Tim Morabito, DT Northwestern Derrick Brown, S Boston College His 11 tackles in the opener Purdue Tallied three tackles for losses kicked off a season in which he His 54-yardfourth-quarter in­an.da sack; still trying to get the was voted the nation's best de­terception returnfor a TD sent number of that truck named fensive player. Ross-Ade Stadiumintoafrenzy Marc Edwards, though. before the Irish pulled out the 
Ink Aleaga, LB win. Mike Vrabel, DE Washington Ohio State AlsonominatedfortheAll-Name Lawyer Milloy, S The All-Big Ten performer had team, the Butkus candidate Washington eight tackles, two/orlosses, and made seven tacklesandforceda The Thorpe Award candidate caused an Irish fumble. fumble for the Huskies. argued his case convincingly 
with 14 tackles from his free 
J
safety spot. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•. 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
25 


"We felt this was a football team that was going to get better ... The most encouraging thing was the way It refused to yield. I think It could've played any team in the country 
and it would have a legitimate chance to win." 
BYTOMCOYNE5 itting in his modest office amidst subtle reminders of hard-fought victories and legendary games, Lou Holtz is brace-less and busy. By no means does he look like a man who has ridden the roller coaster called the 1995 Notre Dame football season: a season of ups and downs, of disappointment and ela­tion, a season that sidelined players and coaches. But Holtz's roller coaster turned into a straightway when the Fighting hish re­sumed their rightful position among the premier programs in the nation and Lou Holtz resumed his rightful position among his players on the sideline. His medical difficulties are now a thing of the past Looking at him now, it is difficult to recall that this is a man who faced more than Ohio StateandUSC this season; this is aman who faced his mortality. The night before his neck surgery,Coach Holtz, legendaryleader of the blue and gold, was faced with the 
possibility of life without football.· 
"Anytimeyouhavepressureonthespine and somebody's going to go in there with a• · knife, even when you're at the Mayo clinic,.. you remember what they called the person who finished last in his class at medical school -they called him doctor," says Holtz. "When someone goes through your neck and operates on your spine, you never know what's going to happen." 
Holtz recalls his concern about what an unsuccessful procedure would have meant for him and his family. "I didn't want my wife of 35 years to spend her remaining years taking care of me, if at all possible. But sometimes you just have to put your future in the hands of other people, and when I started thinking about it, that's what I do every Saturday-putour future in the hands of other people." 
The hands of other people have been friendly to Holtz and his football team as they ascended after a suspect start. "After ouropeningloss to Northwestern, we came back to beat Purdue, and I had two objec­tives at that point," says Holtz. "One, not to doanythingthatwouldjeopardizemyhealth long range. Second was that if this was going to be a bad year, and it looked like it had every ingredient to beone, I dido'twant the seniors to go through it without me being a part of it, encouraging them and providing leadership." 
Holtz would indeed be a part ofit. After aspeedyrecovery ,he wasbackto coaching. The new perspective of the pressbox had certain pros and cons in Holtz's estimation. ''There are a lot of advantages to being upstairs. You sort of feel like a general in war. You're not on the front lines, but you're back where you can see and make strategic decisions," muses Holtz. "Yet at the same time, there were some instances where there was a lack ofcommunication. I think the proper place for a head coach is on the sidelines, for leadership, for decision making." 
The only thing that recovered faster this season than Coach Holtz's neck was his football team, as they improvedin ways that 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
and new faces were.early question marks for a young team that had a lot oflearning to do, but this coach is most impressed with the result. 
"We felt this was a football team that was going to get better. We played, according to the experts, the most difficult schedule in the country. W elost three games, but if we don't tum the ball over and we don'tgive up big plays, we can play with anyone." 
''Themostencouraging thing," Holtzsays, "was the way this football team refused to yield. No matter what happened, no matter how bad people got down on us early, this football team has just gotten better and better and better as the year has progressed. I think this football team could play any­
body in the country and we'd have a legiti­mate chance to win." 
Faced with the dilemma of losing Ron Powlus, Coach Holtz remained confident that the Irish will continue to improve with Tom Krug in the lineup: "I feel very com­fortable now with Tom Krug. I think he's going to play well. " 
What pleases Holtz most about this de­termined team is not their victories, but their attitude. "The most positive thing is thatwewin,butwe'renothappy. 'Hey,that wasn't a very impressive performance to­day. We won, but we can play better.' That's the.way Notre Dame should be.'' 
Although disappointed by a second straight defeat in a bowl game, Holtz was pleased with his troops' efforts. "I am proud of our football team. I thought we played well. Florida State did a tremendous job. I felt our fans were great." 



Looking ahead to next season, Holtz is optimistic. Along with their winning atti­tude, next year's squad will bring a height­ened level of talent and experience to the new Notre Dame Stadium. "Thirty-eight of our 44 players have eligibility remaining. I know that we're young in some respects, butnextyearwhen we get Dansby back and Cliff Stroud back and Lamont Bryant back, what we're really going to have is a talented football team.'' 
Coach Holtz speaks from his leather chair of gold and blue sipping his Diet Coke and cracking an occasional smile in an office that smells of sweet pipe smoke. Under­neath the tradition and the mystique, Notre Dame's head football coach is indeed a regular guy, but the chances for him to be one during the hectic season are extremely limited. 
"I really don 'thaveany diversions during the season. I never make speeches; I don't play golf. I take my wife out to dinner on Wecfuesday and from the time I sit down to the time I'm out of there is less than an hour.''When he has the time in the off­season, Coach Holtz partakes in his other interests, though he approaches all of his endeavors with the intensity and focus he brings to football. Heloves the game of golf and, by his modest estimation, he is not a particularly good golfer at a seven handi­cap. He participates in charity work and speaks publicly as a way to get away from the Xs and Os of coaching. 
The motivation and drive that Lou Holtz brings to Notre Dame football ~ over into the way he. lives his life. By any standard, his non-football accomplishments are truly remarkable. 
Dining at the White House, appearing on "The Tonight Show," jumping out of ail. airplane, landing on an aircraft carrier and being in a submarine are just a few of Holtz's life experiences, experiences em­barked upon out of his genuine zest for life. "You don't do them to say 'I'm special;' you do them to experience life.'' 
With such a wide array ofadventures and accomplishments,LouHoltzacknowledges he still has goals outside of football. He readily admits he is less adept than the 

I 
average Notre Dame student in two particu­lar areas that he hopes to explore someday: I: he can't speak a foreign language and he knows nothing about computers. 11 
Regardless·ofthe amountoffootball pres­tige and success packed into one person, Lou Holtz is foremost a father and a hus­band. He speaks of his children not like a football coach, but like a proud Notre Dame Dad who isn't above a little harmless brag­ging. 
"What gives me the greatest satisfaction? My 34 years of marriage and that I talk to my children once week. We never end a conversation without saying 'I love you;' it's just automatic and there's nothing awk­ward about it. To have that relationship with my children," says Holtz as he reclines in front of a wall of trophies and game balls, "is by far my greatest achievement. By far." . 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE~1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
27 

~~--~-----~ 
• 

BY JAKE SCHALLER 
OCTOBER 7, 1995-SEATILE, WA 
Mayes, DerrickMayes,anlrishsaviorforthreeyears, has always had the ability to make the impossible catch. Starting with his diving,
Rossum 

one-handed miracle against Boston College in 1993, 
number one has reeled in his share of tough balls.
and the 

But while snagging the hard-to-reach balls might e be his specialty, Mayes sometimes has a tough time
h• 

hangingontothetossesthathithiminthehands. This
IrIS 

was never as evident as it was against the Huskies. Mayes dropped two sure catches, but that wasn't even close to the worst of it 
overcome Withtheirishdown21-14anddriving,RonPowlus found Mayes over the middle. The senior split endmistakes clawed his way to the 21-yard line before losing the football, which Washington recovered.and the Three of the mostvivid visual images ofthe season H k• . •followed: The first was Mayes, helplessly lying onus Ies the field after the fumble. "Maybe I'm trying to do 
• too much," Mayes said after the game. "You know
In a a lot of times your team is relying on you, and you know it's third down. You just want to go out there and do so much. Maybe you lose yourconcentration and try to hurry."
29-21 
The second image was again Mayes, this time on the sideline, head in hands.
battle in The third image was once again Mayes, but this one was different It was Mayes split out to Powlus'Seattle. left, all alone and waving. This one needs some explaining. 
Following the afore­mentioned fumble, the Irish defense had made their best stand of the game,forcing theHuskies to punt. "When we fumbled the ball ... that could have been disas­trous," Holtz remarked. ''The defense rose to the occasion." 
The Huskies lined up to puntwith 2:51 remaining, and backup punter John Wales (starting for the in­jured Geoff Prince) fumbled the snap. Mark Monahan smothered Wales and gave the Irish the ball on the Husky 18. 

(above) cuts his way through • AutryDensondashedintotheendzonefromseven "When we were moving in motion, there ·was the Husky defense. • yards to bring die Irish within a point, setting the 
some confusion on their part," Notre Dame Offen-.. •• stage for that third image. When the Irish sent a sive Coordinator Dave Roberts said.
WOO HOOi Paul Grasmanis . . . . (center) celebrates a sack. • receiver m motion, Mayes was left alone on the side Realizing the Huskies' miscue, Mayes signaled 
: of the field. Completely alone. and yelled to PowIus, who noticed, but tried to act as 
28 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
AaronSkallcky • HELPONTHEWAY. Kinnon · Buthis eyes weren'tdeceivinghim, andthe junior • Tatum speeds In to help bring 
. . • down Rashaan Shehee. Despite
quarterback sailed a pass to Mayes m the comer of • the efforts of the Irish defense the end zone, giving the Irish a scanty 22-21 ad.van-: the tailback still ran for 171 ya;ds. tage. ltwasMayes' 13thand14thpointsofthegame. • . The senio~ had already grabbed IO-yard and 30-yard : touchdownpasses. Andtogivecreditwhereitisdue, • ll't.ll Mayesdidhavesevencatchesfor132yards. Butthe : "1J8 
two-point conversion play made up for his earlier • 
d d 

mistakes, in addition to setting the stage for Allen : nee e a 
Rossum. • A week earlier against Ohio State, Rossum fell, • e was beaten, and was outrun-allon one play. With : .....In 
Terry Glenn's 83-yard touchdown still fresh in the • ,,,, I minds of Notre Dame fans, Rossum was beaten : . 

: i 

again by Husky receivers in this game. • 
'i 

But just when it looked ·like Husky quarterback : and in 
I 

Damon Huard would lead Washington down the • · field for an all too familiar last-second field goal, : • I.I Rossum saved the day. Picking offan overthrown • a WJn l pass, the sophomore comerback bobbed, weaved : i•k· h• . . I 
and sprinted his way 76 yards through the Husky • I e t IS offenseforatouchdownandcheckmate. "Wereally : I I. 
needed that," Rossum said of his redemption. 




"I • every·•

finally got my confidence back." · : ForDefensive Coordinator Bob Davie, the result-• b d ing feeling was more tangible. "One of the players • 0 y
commented that coming back to win this game and : Rossum's interception cut about two hours off that • flighthome. !said, 'I was probably going home by : .came I 
busifhedidn'tcomeup with thatinterception.' Itcut • i! a lot more than two hours off that flight for me." : h II I.,
MayesandRossum'sfourthquarterheroicsover-• toget er shadowed an excellent Husky perfonnance and a : shaky Irish perfonnance. Washington running back • 
if he didn't Rashaan Sheheerushed for 171 yards and two touch-:-Ron "Rightaway,Iknew,"Powlussaid. "Ididn'twant downs on 32 carries, while Huard, except for the • to stare out there·too long and give it away. I didn't interception, was an efficient 10 for 13 for 109 yards. 
: Po-_-'us 

know if I couldn't see a guy out there for them or Meanwhile, Powlus suffered through what he • 1W I what." · thought might have been his worst day under center : 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
29 


• 0 ,•. 
· 

DA YUGHT. Damon Huard scrambles out of trouble. His 26-yard run looked like a knife through the heart of the Irish until Allan Rossum's interception saved the day. 
at Notre Dame. Powlus was 12 of28 for 197 yards, two touchdowns and one inter­ception. But he badly underthrew some receivers and killed a drive with an inter­ception that he threw while falling to the ground. On his way down, Powlus hurled the ball across the field, right into the hands of linebacker Reggie Davis. For therecord, it was his third poor game on artificial turf, after Boston College and Michigan State 
lastyear. "Idon'tknowwhatitwas, but I couldn't throw the ball right ­today," he later commented. Kevin Kopka continued to struggle,missinga30-yardfieldgoal just before halftime that could have ,..____ killed the Irish, if not for the late-game heroics. · Despite the ease with which Shehee ran 
through the defense and the many mistakes the Irish made on both sides of the ball, it was nonetheless another win. ''We beat a goodfootballteamawayfromhome,ateam which had won 32 of 34 games at home," Holtz said. ''To come in here and win it the way we did, with a lot of big plays, it's a big win for us. We just have to go from here." 
Powlus agreed: ''This is a huge win. ComingoffOhio Statewhere we thoughtif we hadn't turned the ball over we would have won the game, that was a real tough lossforus. We needed a win, and in a tough win like this, everybodycame together." . 
11Maybe I'm trying to clo too much~ -Derrick Mayes 
LAYOUT. Derrick Mayes goes after yet another Powlus pass. Though Mayes had a few drops and a crltlcal fumble on the day, his two-point conversion catch was key. . 
30. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
T 



Former walk-on Marcus Thorne . excelledforthe Irish while maintaining a 3~6 GPA in pre-med 
BY JEREMY DIXON 
veryone has seenRudy by this point. It's probably even a . 
· part of Freshman Orientation by now. Still, why would any 
: walk-on want to de.vote himself every day to football and 

never see the field? For some, it's a yearning to wear the blue and gold; for others it's simply a Iife~Iong dream. For fullback Marcus Thome, it.was a dream come true. . · · · When Thome, now in his senior year, came to Notre Dame, he _did not expect to play football fo~ the Irish. But his brother and his cousin persuaded him to try out for the team. "They said that they 
thought I was as good as anyone else, so why not walk on and see whathappens," Thome recalls. Taking his family's advice, Thome made the team. It was not an easy transition for him, though. "When I first got here, everyone was bigger, stronger and faster 
than I was, and the system seemed so in-depth that I didn't think I'd be able to understand everything that we had to do," he says. 
To get him through this difficult time, some seniors helped him out, including former.tight end Irv Smith; Thome remembers, "During freshman year, we were doing a drill and Irv said not to be discouraged because I would.learn." · Hissophomcire year, Thome began playing on special teams and even had a few carries at fullback. . Thome credits his playing time to his work ethic. "I gained weight and speed, and gained confi-· dence inmy ability, which made me start playing better." · 
All of the hard work and dedication paid off this year. Although ,he was already receiving .a partial academic scholarship; the football program decided to pay the rest with an athletic grant. Thome was stunned at the decision. •:1 don't kn_ow [why I received the scholarshi ] . Maybe because sqme other players in my class 
::, 
.!!! 
~ 
! C: 

FOLLOW ME. Marcus Thorne clears a path for Emmett Mosley. As afullback Thorne acted as a l_ead blocker on most of his plays .. 

I 
I : I 
I 
TRUCKIN'. Thorne rumbles down field during practice. For his work on and off the field, the fuHback was given the State Farm/ Mutual Broadcasters student-athlete of the year award. 
left and they had somemoney." 
Running Back. Coach Earle· Mosley has a different answer. "[Thome] did a good job, and he knows the system well," Mosley says. "Marcus steadily improved his football skills and worked hard in the off-season." · 
· Even though he didn't carry the ball very much, Thome re­mained an integral part of the team by aiding younger backs. Said Mosley, "Marcus is one of the leaders of the team. He has helped bringtheyoungerguysalong,especially[freshmanfullback]Jamie 
Spencer." · · · · ·His role goes far beyond simply teaching, though. He relieves starting fullback MarcEdwards and has performedas well as many starters this year.· Many recall a key block he threw on a Randy Kinder touchdown against Ohfo State or the time he found paydirt himself against Air Force. Besides all ofthe hours spent on the field, Thome also finds time for his studies, not an easy·task considering he is pre-med, How does he find the time to play football and still maintain a 3 .6 GPA? "I know that out of sports, I have to study," he says. "Many times I'm tired and don't want to study, but you have to make yourself." After graduation, Thome plans to attend medical school some­where in the midwest and thanks Notre Dame in part for the opportunity. "Here they give you the tools to go elsewhere and perform well." Although Mosley calls Thome "one of the unsung heroes on the team," Thome himself feels comfortable with his place. "I don't think that what I'm doing is any different than what anyone else is doing," he says.· "I'm just trying to do what's right." 0 


SCHOLASTIC _MAGAZINE.¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
31 

~ . ~ ,' . . '~ . . . .· . --~ 
. . .
' .,,. \ ' 
--~------------~­


• 

• BY Jmm C. lLLIA
. 
. 

• OCT.14, 1995 -EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ: 0 ne hundred sixty pounds and one foot 
• · That's all thatkept the Cadets ofthe United READY FOR BATTLE. : States Military ft..cademy from pulli~g off (Above) The war In the • one of the greatest upsets mcollege football history. trenches Is about to • Who would have thought that with 39 seconds left in begin as Ron Powlus : the game, one of the smallest players on the Notre bark~~~t~!n':ii::: : Dame roster would mak:; a tackle that was descri~ defensive lines of both • by ABC announcers as one of the greatest plays m teams did battle all day • Notre Dame history?" 
as both rushing attacks : Almost everyone associated with . the game, flourished. h th th uld elm' . .
· • w e er ey wo a 1ttt or not, expected Notre !Dame toroll. TheIrish entered the gameranked 17th 
• 
in the country. Although Anny had fallen just short : of upsetting Washington earlier in the year, it was 

• 
still a service academy. Every team needs a couple : ofeasy games on its schedule and Anny was seen as • one for the Irish. With Lou Holtz entering the game : 17-0 versus the service academies, the outcome 

• 
seemed obvious. A walk in the park was expected, 


Ivory Covington's eight-million dollar tackle preserved Notre Dame's 28-27 victory and kept alive hopesofa Major Bowl berth· 

and that's actually what happened, atleastforthefirst three quarters. 
It all began as expected for the Irish. After Anny went three and outon itsfirstpossessionofthegame, the Irish took control and quickly drove42 yards for a touchdown ·and first blood. On the following possession, however, Anny showed why it was ranked fifth nationally in total yardage coming into the game. With their versatile wishbone offense, quarterback Ronnie McAda,running back Ron Tho­mas and fullback John Conroy gave the Irish an option-running seminar. The Cadets needed only threeminutes and, 32seconds to drive 80yards and tie .the game. · 
Notre Dame scored twice more before the half. Autry Denson shined in the first half of his first collegiate start, rushing for two touchdowns, while Derrick Mayes showed offhis skills with receptions of 31 and 47 yards. Indeed, as Ron Powlus took a knee to end the first half, the Irish seemed primed to complete a rout in the second half and preparefor the 
32 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• 199.5 ,.FOOTBALL REVIEW ===--------r-~------. ---~ --~ 
--~ . -. 
complete a rout in the second half and prepare for the fifth-ranked USC Trojans. A glance at the scoreboard revealed a 21-7 Irish lead which seemed certain to expand in the second half. 
The Irish received the ball to start the second half and after three Denson runs, Marc Edwards took a Powlus screen pass 46 yards to put Notre Dame in front 28-7. Little did the Irish know that those were the last points they would score the entire after­noon. 
On their first possession of the second half, the Cadets capitalized on a Notre Dame pass interference call to bring the score to 28-14 with a Conroy 5-yard touch­down run. Notre Dame responded with a quick 55-yard drive to the Army six and seemedpoised toscoreagain when Edwards made an uncharacteristic mistake. The bruising, ever-dependable fullback showed his human side, losing a fumble. 
Having walked away with no points after recovering the fumble, the Cadets had to wait only two plays for another scoring opportunity. On a diving interception by John Tomasits, the Army offense was set up on the Notre Dame 33. On a 3rd and 7 play, McAda found Coby Short for a 24­yard gainer. Two plays later, Conroy sealed the drive with a 3-yard touchdown run. 
"When he caught the ball, he was on about the 2-yard line. I knew I had to hold him up." -Ivory Covington 
ThelrishreceivedtheArmykickoffwith a little over four minutes remaining in the ball game. What happened next seemed scripted from a Boston College voodoo book. 
The offensive line for Notre Dame lined 
up on fourth and one. Ron Powlus ducked under center Rick Kaczenski and the ball was snapped. Instead ofbeing a successful quarterback sneak for the first down, the ball jumped wildly out of the hands of the quarterback and was swarmed by a sea of Army defenders. 
A reoccurring offensive error this season had come back to haunt the Irish. "I was upstairs. Itwas fourth down, it looked like a half-yard, there were three minutes in the game, and I wasn't sure I wanted to give Army the ball back," said Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz. "But the decision was made at that time to let the clock run down and call timeout, and I was screaming to let the clock run down and call timeout ..You don't want to do something like that when you're racing against the clock." 
With 2:33 remaining in the ball game, Army had the ball on the Notre Dame 42­yard line. During that walk in the parlc the Irish had come face to face with a mugger. 
True to form, the Cadets continued with their three-man game, pitching to Thomas around the end and handing off to Conroy 



OVER THE TOP. Army fullback John Conroy leaps over the pile his line has made of the Irish Defense. The Cadet rushing attack racked up an eye-popping 365 yards. 
SCH OLA ST I C M AG A Z IN E ¦ 1 9 9 5 FOOT BA LL REV IE W 
33 


He was all 
goal line, a one-hun­dred and sixty pound 

comerback hit the tight end and the comeback was over. "We always talk about how the low man wins," Covington remarked after the game. "I had some momentum going forward, and he was going sideways. When he caught the ball, he was on about the two-yard line. I knew I had to hold him up." , 
Covington did just that and, in the pro­cess, earned the Sports Illustrated Defen­sivePlayerofthe Week award. Simplyput, Ivory made the most important play of his career. He helped keep dreams of a tier one bowl and an eight-million dollar pay-off alive. D · 
fist(
"NDYif 
?ARN{ 
Ii 



:~:r 

up the middle. Then, suddenly, with 39 seconds left, Armybroke the mold they had been using all day. McAda faded back and hit Leon Gantt with a pass on the right side ofthe field slightly behind theline of scrim­mage. Gantt took the pass seven yards and,
l 
on a diving leap, put the Cadets within one point of Notre Dame, 28-27.
I 
It took Army head coach Bob Sutton no timetomakethedecision. Annywasgoing forthewin. On the snap ofthe ball, instead of heading down the line of scrimmage as he had all day, McAda faded back. Ron Leshinski, the Army tight end who had caught a pass from McAda for Army's first 
SMOTHERED. The Notre Dame defense converges on Army's Ron Thomas. In the second half, however, Army's offense riddled the Irish defense. 
34 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 iFOOTBALL REVIEW 
The Irish snuck up on the nation's numberfive team, whipping the men ofTroy 38-10 in their best peiformance ofthe season • 
• 
LOOKS GOOD FROM 0 HERE. Senior

• 
Derrick Mayes 

• 
(above) helps out the 


0

J S
_B_Y_AKE CHALL_ER • officials by signalling 
An Open Letter to the Notre Dame Football Team • a Notre Dame score . 
•

Dear Lou and the boys: • NOWHERE. Irish I would like to publicly apologize. I admit it. I thought you guys would lose to the Trojans ofSouthern Cal. : defenders converge 
Well, as long as I' mwriting this,/ had better come clean. I thought you had no chance. I thought USC would • to bring down a · · wipe the rain offthe'field with your uniforms and then run up and down the field on you. I thought that • Trojan rece!ver (top Keyshawn would strike that H eisman pose in the end zone all day. I thought Robinson and his Men ofTroy : :e~~n!:::~1:h 
would.finally end that pesky streak ofnon-victories in style. marvelous job 
And could anyone not suiting upfor the Blue and Gold on that.October day feel any differently? I mean containing USC's this is a team that came inches away, literally,from losing to Army! And now number five USC was rolling high-octane offense. into town? Please., 
OCTOBER 21, 1995 -NOTRE DAME, IN
In one motion, a reborn Irish squad shocked the nation, turned in their best game of the season, threw themselves into the hunt for a majorbowl and eliminated a national championship contender. That very smooth motion was the USC game, a story in domination. 
On two October21stpossessions, the Notre Dame football team took a huge step towards becoming agreat 
SClfOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
team instead of only a good one. 

Afterashocking firstquarterin which the Irish thoroughly dominated the fifth-ranked Trojans, and less than six minutes of an equallyimpressivesecondquarter,allNotre Dame had to show for its efforts was a one­point deficit. 
The Irish defense had just sent the Tro­jans to the sidelines without points for the third time in three tries during the game when a series of events that most watching thoughtwouldspell disasteractually brought out the character of this Irish squad. 
Junior Scott Sollman caught John 
RUNAWAY TRAIN. To the delight 
BIG MAN BOOGEY. Following another Irish touchdown, senior guard Ryan Leahy shows that linemen can dance. 
of Irish fans, bruising fullback Marc Edwards pounds his way Into the USC end zone. 
Stonehouse' s punt, and USC's Jesse Davis jarred the ball loose. His teammates recov­ered, giving the Trojans the ball on the Irish 17-yard line. Two plays later, Key~hawn Johnson caught a pass on an out pattern, slipped out of an Allan Rossum tackle and pranced into the end zone. 
A successful extra point, a feat Kevin Kopka was unabletopulloffearlier,putthe Trojans up 7-6. 
But just as the television audience and fans at Notre Dame Stadium began to roll their eyes and think to themselves, "Here wegoagain,"thelrishcamerightback. The fumble could have sparked a Columbus­esque turnover-fest. But the Irish shrugged offthe turnover just as they had the rain and the cold, which bothered the visiting Tro­jans all day. 
An offsides and an illegal procedure pen­alty on the Trojans gave the Irish the ball at the USC 40. An 8-yard Autry Denson run and a 15~yard center screen to Denson got the drive going. Then a highlightreel block by fullback Marc Edwards on defensive end Israel Ifeanyi, which later appeared in Sports Illustrated, allowedPowlus to sneak out of trouble and scramblefor six. Edwards and Denson then shared seven of the next eight carries, taking the Irish down the field before Edwards scored from two yards out. 
Maybe even more impressive was that theeighthcarrywasm.adeby Powlus. Criti­cized for his inability to run the option effectively, Powlus had asked Holtz to run it more in practice. ''I said, 'Coach, I don't mind running the option if you want to run it,"' he recalled. Practice didn't make per­fect, but it made it at the very least effective, giving the Irish another weapon; "We felt we had to run a little bit of option," Holtz said. 
Edwards, who staked his claim forplayer of t4e game honors with his 82 yards, three touchdowns and tremendous blocking, also showed pisathleticism on a crazy two-point conversion attempt that put the Irish up 14­
7. Edwards took a pitch right, ran and then pulled up. Helookedfoi:Mayesandbackto Powlus, who he thoughtwascovered. Doing his best Fran Tarkenton imitation, the big fullbackreversed his field and danced away 

S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ 1 9 9 5-F O O T B A L L R E V I E W 
from the defenders1 He then headed for the left comerof the end zone. The man cover­ing Powlus had to commit to Edwards, who then calmly lofted the ball to Powlus. 
''The two-point conversion was a well­executed play," Edwards said. "I got great blocking from the line and USC took the bait. Ron was wide-open in the comer of the end zone." 
The second series inwhich the Irish grew up came just before halftime. Denson had justgiven thelrisha21-7 lead witha4-yard touchdown run off of a delay. But the Trojans wanted to notch another touch­down before the last 41 seconds of the first half evaporated. Good field position and two long strikes gave USC the ball at the Notre Dame 5-yard line with only 19 sec­onds to go. Shades of the Ohio State game, inwhich the Buckeyes tabbeda momentum changing touchdownjustbeforehalf, danced through the heads of Irish faithful. 
Quarterback Kyle Wachholtz tried un­successfully to hit Johnson on comer pat­terns three times, but an interference pen­alty on the first of the three tries had given the Trojans the ball on the Notre Dame 2­yard line. On third and goal from the two, Wachholtz tried to go over the middle. Inside linebackerLyron Cobbins batted the ball and USC running back Rodney Ser­mons collected it, but was swarmed short of paydirt as time expired. Momentum saved.''Thatwastremendous,"Edwardssaid of the stand. ''That was a huge boost" Powlus agreed: ''The defense, they won the 

game." to put the game away with a 29-yard field plan, they executedit,and theyoverwhelmed : t 
Notre Dame continued to slosh through goal. This miss, however, provided one of us." the soaked Trojans in the second half of the most striking visual images of the sea­The Trojans seemed upset by the cold, play. But tenacity and a little Fighting Irish son. Intercepting Kopka as he made his rainy weather, while the Irish fed off of it luck kept the Trojans at arm's length. way back to the sideline, Mayes grabbed The offensive line pushed the Trojan de­
The defense had to step up first. Powlus, the freshman to ensure eye-contact, and fense out of the way, and Irish backs ex­perhaps because of the wind, underthrew spoke to him for over a minute. ploiteditfor216rushingyards. "[Edwards] Mayes to start the second half, and the ball In the fourth quarter, the Irish iced the was areal tough runner, and hewasrunning was intercepted. Backed up to their own game. Kory Minor crumpled Wachholtz in behind a great offensive line," senior line­thirty, the Irish defense allowed the Trojans the end zone for a safety, Powlus threw a backer Scott Fields said. ''They were easily to advance to the six,,but then slammed the touchdown pass, and Edwards notched his the best offensive line we have faced this door. USC settled for a field goal. third touchdown of the game. year. Not only are they big, but they are 
· Later in the third quarter, the Trojans' The spectacular plays, however, could athletic and they were able to execute to­LarryParker took a Hunter Smithpuntathis not overshadow what was without a doubt day." own 41. He ran straight up the middle the best, most complete win of the Irish The line also gave Powlus plenty of time before breaking to the right sideline. Enter season. After the game, USC coach John to turn in a solid performance. Not flashy, Irish luck. Hisjauniwhich endedin theend Robinson couldn't even point to a single with huge numbers, but effective, the way zone, would have been a game-breaking play as the turning point ''There's really Holtz likes it The junior completed 18 play, save for a little yellow hanky. An not much to say," he said. "We played bad, passes in 29 tries for 189 yards and a nifty illegal block on USC brought theball back. NotreDameplayed good. It was a matterof 2-yard flip to tight end Pete Chryplewicz. 
The defense stepped up again later in the their ability to run at us and our inability to After Notre Dame struggled against third quarter, after Kopka missed a chance makeplays on third down. They hada good Army's option wizardry, questions 
S CJI OLA ST IC M A GAZ IN E • 1 9 9 5 FOOT B A LL REV IE W 
37 

. :., .-_ -' . ' ~ . . ..--' ­
--------~--~ -·----.. 
abounded before the USC game. But start­ingwith Tatum'smammothhit(seesidebar), the Irish forced three turnovers and put the game away with a safety. Cobbins, who in two years had no interceptions, picked off two, returning one 37 yards. "We worked on pass drops during practice all week," he explained. "We played our best to get the bigplaysweneededtoproduceawin." Bert Berry contributed a drive-killing tackle, andKoryMinorasafetyinafineall-around effort by Notre Dame's standout linebacking core. 
Of all those certain of a USC victory, the Trojans themselves might have been themostcocksure. Pregame comments from thtfMen of Troy incited Irish fury. "Some people can do it with their mouth, and we proved that we could do it by ac­tion," said Mayes. 
So please accept my apol­ogy. I promise to stop talk­ing about that Army game. I guess it was midterm week. 
Thanking you in advance, 
Doubting Schaller 
P.S. Lou, loved the tight end screen, the middle screens and the whole de­fensive plan. The play call­ing was as good as it has been in the past three years -greatjob. Whichreminds me, no offense, but you be­ing in the press box isn't so bad after all. . 

TO.UGH GAME. University of Southern California's Keyshawn Johnson (below) stands alone on the field. Johnson had 122 yards receiving, but could not carry USC to vlcto_ry. · 
I'll TAKE A LEG. A Southern Cal defender (bottom) pulls down Charles Stafford by one leg. The Southern Cal defense was unable to contain Notre . Daine, as the Irish gained 191 yards on the ground and 278 yards in the air . . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 ,FO.OTBA.LL REVIEW 


BY DAVID FREITAG 
B 
•• 
OCTOBER 28, 1995 -NOTRE DAME, INThe 1995 Notre Dame-Boston Collegematch­u uphadrootsdeeperthanmanyofthelargeoak trees on the campus. It was a grudge-match that, for the Irish, meant far more than revenge. 
s 
Think back to 1993. Thelrishhadjustcomeaway with a victory in "The Game of the Century" over a powerful Florida State team which some had ac­
T 
claimedasoneofthebestever. Togoalongwith their perfect record and soaring confidence, Notre Dame owned the#l ranking. Along came aBoston College team which was supposed to be just another step to 
E 
Notre Dame's ultimate goal. But the Eagles refused to be stepped on. Not only did Boston College manhandle the Irish throughout the first three quarters, they prevented a 
R 
patented Irish comeback with a 42~yard game-win­
ning field goal as time expired. Fast forward to 1994. The Irish were seeking 
revenge for having their fairy-tale season end in the HIGHSTEP. Senior Pete Chryplewlcz (top) drags 
two Boston College defenders down the field. 
second slot of the polls. Once again, the Irish were coming off a big win, this time against Stanford, and 
CHEER. Cheerleaders (above) excite the crowd. 
they hadmomentumontheirside. They were slowly •
s .climbing the polls, as well, after an early season loss •• 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 11 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
39 

at the hands of Michigan. The Boston College game amounted to just another stepping stone on the path to recovery. 
Once the dust, and the score, had settled, it was Boston College 30, Notre Dame 11. In a game that was more lopsided than the final score indicated, the Irish were thor­oughly dismantled in every facet of the game and sent home with t,heir tails be­tween their legs. -­
On paper, this year's game looked to be an Irish cake-walk. After all, it was the 12th-ranked Irish talcing on a subpar Boston College team which was coming off a 49-7 drubbing at the hands of Anny. But there was that pesky curse the Eagles had con­cocted. 
On the first series of the game, the Irish 
started with the ball on their own 30-yard 
line. From there, carried on the broad 
shoulders of Marc Edwards, Notre Dame 
found itself deep in Boston College terri­
tory in a handful of plays. The drive was 
capped with a center screen from quarter­
back Ron Powlus to Edwards, who hauled 
in thepass and dodged defenders enroute to 
the end zone. Following a successful point after attempt by Scott Cengia, who was. making his first start in place of sporadic freshman Kevin Kopka, the Irish held an early 7-0 lead. 
The ensuing kickoff gave the Eagle's possession on their own 28-yard line. From there, the running back tandem of Justice Smith and Omari Walker carried the ball down to the Notre Dame 22-yard line injust sevenplays. But theIrish secondary stepped up. On the next play, Notre Dame free safety LaRon Moore made a difficult grab for an interception. It amounted to a crucial play, abruptly ending an otherwise impres-. sive drive which could have knotted the score at seven. 
The powerful Irish rushing attac ad­vanced the ball to the Eagles 20-yard line. But then, the offensive line went on break, and the Irish threw it in reverse. The run­ning game sputtered and Powlus received pressure. On a fourthdown attempt,Powlus was flushed from the pocket on a pass attempt.and hit from behind. The junior coughed up the ball and the Eagles recov­ered. 
The Eagles came out rolling. After sev-
WHAT'S UP, 
COACH? Derrick Mayes (above) tries to listen to Lou Holtz during a bt'eak In the game. 
FANCY FEET. Ron 
Powlus (left) shows off his escapability by leaving a BC defender eating dirt. 
eral effective runs by Smith and a couple of completions by quarterback Mark Hartsell, 
. the Eagles · found themselves on Notre Dame's 40-yard line to begin the second quarter. Once again, the Eagles were driv­ing and Notre Dame's defense was bend­ing. After stµling on their first drive of the game by attempting a pass that resulted in an interception, the Eagles were sticking to 
-the ground game this time around. Th~y · capped the drive with an Omari Walker 2­yard run, tying the game at seven. 
The score indicated that the Eagles' had definitelycometoplay,puttingbehindthem their embarrassing loss to Anny ·the week before. After all, they were now playing Notre Dame and they had an opportunity to play the spoiler once again. ''Emotion playedahugepartin this game," saidBC's Darryl Porter after the game. "Last week in practice guys realized that we were still a good team. We are just young." 
Notre Dame added a Cengia field goal before halftime, but it did not seem like enough. 
A missed BC field goal in the third quar-

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ 1995' FOOTBALL REVIEW 

ter gave the Irish the ball on their own 32. With seven carries shared between Autry Denson and Edwards, the Irish were able to advancetotheEagle's31-yardline. Powlus found Derrick Mayes for a 16-yard gain and then hit Chryplewicz over the middle two plays later for.another 16. The drive was cappedbyEdwards barreling over left tackle for the score. The Cengia PAT gave the Irish a 10-point cushion.But the Eagles refused to fly peacefully away. On the following drive, Hartsell took advantage of Notre Dame's sagging secondary. He was able to move the Eagles into field goal 
the ·exception of a fumbled snap, i-;;;;;;;.;~ which has managed to find a pro­longed stay in Notre Dame's playbook, Notre Dame's last drive could be categorized as perfection. The drive put three more points on the board, amassed 83 yards, re-'---­quired 18 plays and, most importantly, sucked 9:41 off the clock. With a 10 point lead, the Irish defense closed out the game. "I really liked the way we used up nine minutes on our fourth quarter offensive drive," Holtz said. "To me that shows good old-fashioned football." 
GET IN FOOTBALL POSITION. Senior safety LaRon Moore breaks down and prepares to stick Eagles running back Justice Smith. 
range, where they successfully converted the kick from 41 yards out. Up by only one touchdown, Irish eyes were not smiling. 
As usual, Notre Dame did not fail to make the game even more interesting. On the next series, Notre Dame went three and out. To make matters worse, a low, line­drivepuntbyHunterSmithcoveredonly37 yards, and was retqmed to the Irish 43. 
The defense_ was summoned to make a play once again, and itanswered. This time it was linebacker Lyron Cobbins, picking off his third pass in two games. Cobbins snagged the pass on the Irish 2-yard line and returned it to the 10. Fortherecord, thepick marked the Eagles' second turnover in the red zone on the day. "The two errors inside the 20really hurt us," said Boston College Head Coach Dan Henning. 
The rest was vintage Notre Dame. With 

Edwards continued to bulldoze his way to stardom. The junior fullback carried the ball, as well as the load, during the game. He rushed for 167 yards on 28 carries and a touchdown, and caught a touchdown pass that covered 17 yards; Though his 167 yards were a personal best, thejunior passed along the credit. "That's a tribute to our offensive line-they just dominated," he said. "They came through all day. We never got less than three yards on a play." 
Despite playing down the rivalry and denying therevenge factor before the game, itwas obvious the Irish shook a huge burden from their shoulders. 
"We can't undo what happened the last two years," said Ryan Leahy. 'We were thinking about the guys on the '93 team, like Aaron Taylor and Tim Ruddy. This was for them." 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
41 


• RonPowlus broke his humerus bone, but Tom Krug rallied the Irish to a 35-17win over the Middies 
: BY FRED LEBRERQUE 
way through about four inches above his elbow. Dr. : NOVEMBER 4, 1995 -NOTRE DAME, IN Willard Yergler, who examined Powlus, said after ven before the game started, it would be · the game that the recovery time for this injury would
•E 

• 
rememberedasagameofendings. Thefinal befourtosixmonths. RonPowlus'seasonwasover. : home game for the Irish matched them up This was not how this season was supposed to end 

• 
with the Midshipmen ofNavy in what would be the for Powlus. Enter Tom Krug. : lastgameatalented group ofseniors would everplay Andwhatadifficultentryitmusthavebeen. Krug 

• 
in Notre Dame Stadium. . took his heavily meaningful snap of his college : Even more than that, though, it was the last game career with the much favored Irish down 17-14. 

• 
any Notre Dame football player would play in the After being·outplayed by an inspired Navy team, : sta.dium as it had stood for so many years. Construe­most felt that the Irish werelucky to bedown by only 

• 
tion, scheduled to begin the next day, would add an . three points. Krug also entered the game with less : extra 20,000 seats to the house thatRockne built All than seven minutes playing time in only three games • of this was expected. But it was the unexpected on the season. Factor in that he had yet toattempt a 


'· • ending in the second half that became the most pass this season, and you had a potentialrecipe for NEW FIELD GENERAL. : memorable for Irish players and fans alike. disaster.
Tom Krug (above • . . . . . center) tossed two • Less than five mmutes mto the second ~. Ron Buttheothermembersofthelrishoffensewerenot touchdown passes • Powlus rolled left from his own 17-yard line. Navy about to allow Krug to lose confidence in himself. while filling In for Ron • finebacker Fernando Harris blitzed through the line They knew he needed to execute in order for Notre Powlus and leading the : untouched and slammed the junior quarterback for a Dame to come back and win this game.
lrl.sh to victory. • 9 d 1 p . . · MILITARY PRECISION. • -yar. oss.. ow 1 us came down heavilr ort his l~ft "I encouraged [Krug] every play. I let him know A Precision Drill Team • arm,andned1dnotgetup. Notaprettys1ghtforlrish that indistress, I'm always there ifheneeds me," said leader oversees the half • fans. Derrick Mayes. Simple translation: ''Throw me the time performance. : · The humerus in his left arm had snapped all the ball." Krugdidnottakethisadvicelightly, unloading
.. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995FOOTBALL REVIEW 

a bomb down the sideline in the direction of Mayes on his third passing attempt of the year. Mayes came back to the slightly underthrown ball, eluded the defender and coasted the rest of the 42 yards to the end zone. This play gave Notre Dame its first lead of the garrie. 
On the vexynextdrive,Krug hitMayes in the comer of the end zone to put the Irish up by 11. 
The Irish went on to win the game 35-17. That score implies that the Irish had easily handled an under-matched Navy team.just astheywereexpected to. After all, most people had expected the game to be over by halftime. Butthey all forgot to tell the Middies. 
Navy entered Notre DameStadium as the least penalized team in thenation. As it turned out, how­ever, the little yellow flags were one of the Midshipmen's big­gest enemies against the Irish. 
Eric Paredes

Navy had two touchdowns called back because of penal­ties in the first half, and they ended up with seven costly infractions for a total of 61 yards. 
"I felt we should have had35 or38 points in the first half, but we beat ourselves," first yearNavy HeadCoach Charlie Weatherbie said, "I think in the first half we had more penalties than we had all year." 
Penalties aside, Navy thoroughly domi­nated the first half of p,ay. While the Notre Dame offense sputtered, the Midshipmen sailed down the field with little resistance from theIrish defense. Indeed,Notre Dame seemed confused "by the well-engineered option attack of Navy. 
Irish defensemen were tackling three Navy players on every play because they did not know where the ball was. When the first half mercifully came to a close, the Irish had been outgained 3.01 yards to 132. Navy quarterback Ben Fay, who was start­ing his first game of the year for the Mid­shipmen,accountedfor 180ofNavy'syards, 113 through the air and 67 on the ground. Obviously, adjustments had to be made. 
The Notre Dame defense came 
to play in the second half, shutting N 
Navy out for the final 30 minutes A 
of play. Moreover, the same de-V 
fense that had allowed Navy to 
rack up 188 yards on the ground in y 
the first half held them to ameager .____ 
14 in the second stanza. The Irish offense 
had just needed a jump start to really get 
things rolling. Unfortunately, it was the 
injury ofone ofits most vital members that 
ended up being this spark. Everyone knew that the final home game for the seniorsandthe final game in Notre Dame Stadium be­fore its renovation was going to be an emotionalone. Holtz had told his players before the game not · to let their tears get in thewayoftheirblock­ing, tackling and catching. Fortunately they wereableto heed his advice, and put their emotions aside long enough to take careofbusiness. D 
ONE ON ONE. Autry Denson prepares to Juke Navy's Gervy Alota. Denson led the Irish In rushing with 115 yards on 16 carries. 
LAST DANCE. Band members dance to the music of Miami Sound 

JUST.WYNN BABY. Machine's Conga 
Senior Renaldo during their final Wynn puts the hit on peformance of the Navy's .Ben Fay, year in Notre Dame 
Jarring the ball loose. Stadium. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
43 . ­
--------~ -----­



With a scary rushing attack, the Irish piled up 410 yards on the ground and secured a spot in a major bowl with a 44-14 win over the Fa/cons. 
. .
. 
•

RIGHTTHISWAV. Withe blockers opening • mammoth holes, o 
Clement Stokes (above) • has room to run. The •• sophomore picked up • 11 yards on the carry. • 
• 

BUT COACH! Senior • captain and defensive : back Shawn Wooden • (right) talks with • · defensive coordinator • Bob Davie.•
• 

NOWHERE. That's : where Air Force • quarterback Beau • Morgan (next page) Is • going. The Irish held • the dangerous • quarterback to 63 yards : passing and 40 yards • rushing. • 
•
•
• 


44 
SCHOLASTIC 
BY JAKE SCHALLER 
NOV. 18, 1995-:-COLORADO SPRINGS, CO
Listen toLou Holtz talkabout football and you will begin to understand. Look back at the big games that the Irish have won with Holtz 
and you will fmd more insight Peruse stat sheets from his tenure and it will begin to be quite clear: Lou loves to run the football. . 
. . 
To Holtz, the passing game is a last resort. A plan B, ifyou will. The game is controlled by the rushing attack. Whomever can control the lineofscrimmage and push the opposing team back will win. 
Holtz's tenure with the Irish has been marked by ferocious rushing attacks. Taylor, Ruddy, Heck, 
. Dahl, Grunhard. Giant men who open giant holes. Bettis, Brooks, Watters, Rice, Becton. Talented runners who run through those holes. These names are synonymous with Holtz' s smash-mouth philoso­phy . On a night when eight-million dollars rode on his football team, Holtz turned to his newest stable to 
MAGAZINE ii 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


lead his team toa44-14 victory. Though the injury to Ron Powlus had necessitated a simpler game plan, the Irish rushing attack became thestory of thegamenot because of how much they were used, but because of how brilliant they were. 
True to-Holtz form, it was not one star, buta collection that carried the load. Randy Kinder's 121 yards, Autry Denson's 109 yards and Marc Edwards' 84 yards led the way. ''They complement each other so well," Offensive Coordinator Dave Rob­erts said of his runningbacks. ''They,along with Robert Farmer, are threegreat backs." So great, that Krug only had to supervise, handing off and throwing the occasional completion to win his first start For the record, eight completions in 13 tries for an unspectacular but solid 96 yards. With the exception of one interception, Krug did everything he was asked to do. "Coach Holtz did a great job and I felt so comfort­-able with the game plan," the junior quar­terback said. "Iwas gettingall thereads and 
it seemed so easy." 
Holtz's plan was apparent from the start. During the first Irish scoring drive, the offense went 94 yards-all on the ground. 
-Edwards even got the ball on a thirddown with seven yards to go. Kinder's 17-yard scamper gave the Irish a 7-0 lead that they would not relinquish. The Irish scored on all but one of their first half possessions, jumping out to a 20-0 lead. 
While the offensive onslaught brought 
smiles to thefaces ofthe Irish faithful,itwas the defense that made them proud; The defense showed that the third timereallyisacharm,shuttingdown Air Force's dangerous option at­tack, which Army and Navy had used so effectively. ''What really made a difference was the fact that they have had four weeks of preparation [one each for Army and Navy and two for Air Force] defending against the option," AirForce HeadCoachFisherDeBerry said. "I really salute thejob they didpreparingfor this game." 
Vindication was made even sweeter for the defense because ofthepraiseheaped on theFalcons before the game. Ledby Lyron Cobbins, who picked off his fifth pass in four games, the Irish created three turn­overs and shut down the wishbone. · 
A second halfletdown was non-existent, as the Irish continued to pile up the yards and.stack up the Falcons. Touchdowns by Kinder, Denson and Thome and another fieldgoalby ScottCengia (whokickedthree field goals and five extra points without a mi~) wrapped up the blowout. 
I 

Cengia' sreliabilityandnewpunt-returner Derrick Mayes' exciting bursts highlighted a rare mistake-free special teams day. The whole game, in fact, seemed perfect. You might even say the Irish looked like a million bucks. Make it eight million. 
''Thisis definitely a great way to go out," senior captain Ryan Leahy said. "Now we just have to get ourselves ready for a big bowl." . 
I 
t 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
45 

RESULTS.AND A TTENDENCE SCORING -PAT's ­TD Run Rec Kick FG/ A Pts RUSHINGAtt Yds Avg /G TD LP
Sept 2 N'WES1ERNL 15-17 59,075 Sept 9 at Purdue W 35-28 70,569 Edwards,M.12 2-2--76 Kinder, R. 143 809 5.7 80.9 9 52 Sept 16 VANDY W 41-0 59,075 Kinder, R. 10 -60 Edwards, 140 717 5.1 65.2 9 27 Sept 23 1EXAS W 55-27 59,075 Denson, A. 8 -48 Denson, A. 137 695 5.1 63.2 8 25 Sept 30 at Ohio State L 26-45 95,537 Kopka,K. ---27-29 6-11 45 Farmer, R. 43 194 4.5 32.3 1 22 Oct 7 at Washington W 29-21 74,023 Mayes,D. 6 -1 -38 Thorne, M. 5 49 9.8 4.5 1 30 Oct 14 vs. Army W 28-27 74,218 Cengia, S. -12-12 5-5 27 Stokes, C. 12 43 3.6 4.8 0 11 Oct. 21 USC W 38-10 59,075 Rossum, A. 2 1 --14 Mosley, E. 4 32 8.0 2.9 0 19 Oct 28 BOST. COLL. W 20-10 59,075 Mosley, E. 2 -12 Spencer, J. 9 22 2.4 3.1 0 4 Nov.4 NAVY W35-17 59,075 Powlus, R. 1 0-2 1 8 Sollmann, S. 1 16 16.0 1.5 0 16 Nov. 18 at Air Force W 44-14 54,482 Chryplewicz 1 6 Barry, K. 3 11 3.7 3.7 0 7 
Sollmann, S. 1 6 Mayes, D. 2 10 5.0 0.9 0 5 TEAMSTATISTICS ND OPP Farmer, R. 1 6 Krug, T. 5 8 1.6 1.6 0 10 FIRST DOWNS ..................... 248 213 Thome,M. 1 6 Powlus, R. 58 -34 -0.6 -3.4 1 12 
Rushing.......................... 154 117 Edison). 1 6 Total 562 2572 4.6 233.8 29 52 Passing ............................... 84 83 Wallace, L. 1 6 Opponents 468 2098 4.5 190.7 11 61 By Penalty ......................... 10 13 Total 47 2-4 2 39-4111-16366 
RECEIVING No /Gam Yds Avg TD LP 

3rd Down Conv ............. .513 .388 Opponnents28 -1 25-26 7-12216 
4th Down Conv .............. .500 .524 Mayes, D. 48 4.4 881 18.4 6 56 TOTALPLAYS ..................... 801 740 INTRETURNS No. Yds Avg TD LP Edwards, M. 25 2.3 361 14.4 3 46 TOTALNETYARDS ........ .4619 3984 Cobbins,L. 5 86 17 20 37 Mosley, E. 17 1.6 268 15.8 1 51 Avg. Per Play ....... '. ........... 5.8 5.4 Wooden,S. 3 10 3.3 0 10 Chryplewicz 17 1.6 204 12.0 1 28 Avg. Per Game ............ .419.9 362.2 Rossum,A. 3 105 35.0 2 76 Wallace,L. 8 .73 79 9.9 1 35 RUSHING YARDAGE ...... 2572 2098 Moore,L. 2 9 4.5 0 9 Kinder, R. 8 .80 75 9.4 1 30 Y ds. Lost Rushing .......... 218 276 Tatum,K. 1 8 8.0 0 8 Denson, A. 6 .55 65 10.8 0 15 · Avg. Per Rush ................. .4.6 4.5 Monohan,M. 1 7 7.0 0 7 Stafford, C. 4 .36 72 18.0 0 38 Yds. Rushing/Game ..... 233.8 190.7 Magee,B. 1 43 43.0 0 43· Farmer, R. 3 .50 19 6.3 0 17 Rushing TDs ..................... 29 11 Total 16 268 16.8 2 76 Sollmann, S. 1 .09 15 15.0 1 15 PASSING YARDAGE ........ 2047 1886 Opponents 8 100 12.5 1 54 · Carretta, K. 1 .09 8 8.0 0 8 Attempts .......................... 239 272 Total 138 12.8 2047 14.8 14 56 . Completions .................... 138 148 OpponentS · 148 13.5 1886 12.7 16 82 
Interceptions ........................ 8 16 Percentage ....................... 577 544 KICKOFFRET No. Yds Avg TD LP PUNTING No. Yds Avg Blkd LP



________..:;._,___ 

Avg. Per Catch ............... 14.8 . 12.7 Mosley,E. 15 419 27.9 0 50 Smith,H. 38 . 1382 36.4 0 58 Avg. Per Game ............. 1.86.1 171.5 Sollmann, S. 6 142 23.7 0 51 Palumbo, S. 1 16 16.0 0 16 Passing TD's..................... 14 16 Denson,A. 4 39 9.8 0 22 Total 39 1398 35.8 0 58 
FUMBLES-LOST ............... 25-12 18-14 Rossuni,A. 3 94 31.3 0 38 Opponents 45 1881 41.8 0 70 PENALTIES-Y ARDS ...... 53-453 57-455 Farmer,R. 3 ·. 53 17.7 0 26 TIME OFPOSSESSION .... 31:39 28:20 Stafford, C. 2 25 12.5 0 16 Tackles (Total): Cobbins 105, Tatum 82, 
Stokes,C. 1 6 6.0 0 6· Berry 76, Moore 70, Magee 69, Grasmanis Kinder,R. 1 5 5.0 0 5 69, Wooden 63, Wynn57,Minor48,Bennett SCORE BY PER. 1 2 3 4 TOT Carretta, K. 1 10 10.0 0 10 46,Rossum 36, Covington 24, Howard 16, Total 36 793 22.0 0 51 Monohan 15, McLaughlin 13, Carretta 12, 
NOTRE DAME 6811177110 366 OPPONENTS 42 50 58 66 216 Opponents 59 1116 18.9 0 40 Wagasy 12, Quist 7, Thome 6, Mitoulas 5, Guilbeaux 5, Kramer 5, Smith 4, Babey 4, Edwards 3, Belisle 3, Goode 2, Farrell 2, Kopka2,Friday2, Maloney l,Frascogna 1,
PUNT RETURNS No. Yds Avg TD LP PASSING Cmp AttYds TD Int LP Effie 
Denson 1, Leahy 1, Edison 1 Mosley,E. 10 145 14.5 1 64 Powlus, R. 124 217 1853 12 7 56 140.7 Sollmann, S. 8 39 4.9 0 24 Krug, T. 13 21 186 2 1 42 158.2 Sacks: Wynn 6.5-46, Minor 6-30, Mayes, D. 4 85 21.3 0 34 Perona, M. 1 1 8 0 0 8 167.2 Grasmani_s 4.5-42, McLaughlin 2-27, 
Total . 22 269 12.2 1 · 64 
Total 138 239 2047 14 8 56 142.3 Cobbins 1-4,Smith 1-3,Berry .5-11, Tatum Opponents 15 124 8.3 0 18 Opponents 148 27218861616 82171.5 .5-7 . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL RE:VIEW 


Autry Denson, tailback 
•ABC Sports/ChevroletNotreDameMVPvs. Army (23 carries for 111 yards, 2 TD's; 1reception for 12 yards) 
Bert Berry, outside linebacker 
• Nominee for Butkus Award as top linebacker in the country 
Lyron Cobbins, inside linebacker 
• 
Nominee for Butkus Award as top linebacker in the country 

• 
Football News All-Independent team 


Ivory Covington, cornerback 
•
SportsIllustratedDefensive Playerof the Week vs. Army (for his game~saving tackle on two-point conversion attempt 

• 
Athlon Defensive Player of the Week vs. Army 


Marc Edwards, fullback 
•
Nominee for Doak Walker Award as top running back nationally 

• 
Football News All-Independent team 

•
NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Texas (8 carries for 44 yards, 2 TD's; 6 receptions for 72 yards, 1TD) 

•
NBC Sports/ChevroletNotre Dame MVP vs. USC (17 carries for 82 yards, 3 TD' s; 4 receptions for 30 yards; one two-point conver­sion scored on a run and another thrown to Ron Powlus) 

•
NBC Sports/ChevroletNotre Dame MVP vs. Boston College (28 carries for career-high 167 yards, 1 TD; 1reception for 17 yards, 1 TD) 


Paul Grasmanis, nose guard 
• 
Football News All-Independent team 

• 
Selected to play in East-West Shriner Game 


Randy Kinder, tailback 
• 
ABC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Purdue (14 carries for 142 yards, 1 TD;.2 receptions for 38 yards, 1 TD) 

• 
ABC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Ohio State (28 carries for career-high-tying 143 yards, 3 TD's) 

•
ESPNNISANotre Dame MVP vs. AirForce (14 carries for 121 yards, 2 TD's) 

•
Nomineefor Doak Walker Award as top running back nationally 


· Ryan Leahy, offensive guard 
• 
Football News All-Independent team 

• 
Notre Dame Lineman of the Year by Moose Krause Chapter of National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame 

• 
Selected to play in East-West Shriner Game 


Derrick Mayes, split end 
• 
Notre Dame National Monogram Club team MVP (by vote of players), his second straight 

• 
Football News Independent Player of the Year 

• 
NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Northwestern (career-high 8 receptions for 94 yards) 

•ABC 
S rts/ChevroletNotre Dame MVP vs. Washin 


132,includingTDreceptionsof10and30yardsandgame-winning two-point conversion reception) 
• 
One of IO semifinalists for Biletnikoff Award as top receiver nationally 

• 
Selected to play in Senior Bowl all-star game 


Mark Monohan, strong safety 
•KnuteRockneStudent-AthleteAwardfrom theNotreDameClub of St Joseph Valley 
Richard Rolle, receiver 
•Nick Pietrosante Award winner (by vote of players to individual who exemplifies characteristics of late Irish All-Americafullback) 
Marcus Thorne, fullback 
• State Farm/Mutual Broadcasting Student-Athlete of the Year 
Dusty Zeiglar, offensive guard 
• 
Football News All-Independen~ team 

• 
Selected to play in Senior Bowl all-star game 


Offensive Line 

• NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Vanderbilt (493 total yards and 41 points, including season-high 293 rushing yards) 
Senior Captains(PaulGrasmanis,Ryan Leahy,DerrickMayes, Shawn Wooden, Dusty Zeigler) 
• NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP's vs. Navy 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
47 


Fans had to wait until 1994 for the rematch, but Ali-Frazier II it wasn't. The Irish brought a less than spectacular 5-3 record into the game and were thor­oughly outplayed. They gave up 517 yards to the Seminoles while managing only 221 of their own. Florida State had its revenge, 23-16. 
Now with the stage set for the rubber match, nobody seemed to care. The game wasn't sold out; in fact, fans were selling extra tickets for as little as five dollars before the game. Both coaches seemed to be searching for ways to motivate their teams. Days before the game Seminole Head Coach Bobby Bowden lamented that Lou Holtz had "gaining mo­mentum fornextseason" asamotivatingpoint, while he had none. The Irish and the Seminoles were used to playing a part in the national title picture on New Year's Day, and this year, both teams were notice­ably absent. 
But when it came time for kickoff, all of a sudden it· didn't matter that the National Championship would be decided in 24 hours over2,000 miles away. On the field were two great college football teams with extensive tradition. Pride was at stake, and that was all that mattered. 
In heavyweight boxing fights, it's often telling to see how a fighter reacts to a punishing shot from his opponent When a boxer suffers a ~arrageofpunches, he is very likely to hit the canvas. 
With 11:43 leftin this year'sirish-Seminolefight, Notre Dame had just delivered its haymaker. After taking a 17-14 lead in the third quarter, the Irish added a safety and another touchdown to begin the fourth quarterandpush their lead to26-14. The Notre Dame sideline exploded with exuberance, while Bobby Bowden and his troops looked beaten and befuddled. 
Notre Dame's 12-pointfourth quarter lead evaporated as the Seminole explosion left Irish fans feeling glum
YOU AGAIN?• 

Coaches Lou Holtz • and Bobby Bowden • BY JAKE SCHAU.ER (above) meet again, • this time at midfield • JANUARY 1, 1996 -MIAMI, FL before the 62nd : Q a humid January ls.t nig.ht in Miami, two Orange Bowl. • eavyweights, Notre Dame and Florida 
RITE OF PASSAGE. : State, met in the Orange Bowl. The last According to Holtz, • chapterinathree-yeartrilogy,thisfinalbattleseemect" Farm~r "became a : to shape up as more of an afterthought than a rousing 
man through his • conclusion. In 1993 we had number one versus unexpected • b ''Th Garn fth ,,·
contributions to the • num er two, e e o e Century. The hype Irish offense, like this • was tremendous, but the game lived up to it A 51,yard scamper on a : stirring 31-24 Irish victory seemed to set the stage for key thIfrd dohwn In .the • a bowl game rematch, until Boston College got in the · 
ourt quarter. •

• way. . · 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995.FOOTBALL REVIEW 
SANDWICHED:-. Caught between two : · Seminole defenders, wide receiver • Derrick Mayes was unable to play tips • with this heave from Tom Krug as time • 
expired In the first half. 
But just when it looked like Florida State would remain on the canvas and be counted out, the Semi­noles got back on their feet Refusing to let the Irish breaktheirstreakof13straightbowlvictories,Florida State mounted a Rocky-like comeback, scoring .17 unanswered points and stealing a 31-26 decision in the62ndOrangeBowl. Ofcoursethey.didhavesome help, from the Irish and the officials. Let's start wi~ Notre Dame's last points. 
Leading17-14,HunterSmithlaunchedabeautiful punt that the Irish special teams chased down and killed at the I-yard line. The Seminoles tried to get back a bundle of yards in one play with a deep pass, but quarterback Danny Kanell'sfootgrazed theback of the end zone, resulting in a safety. · 
The Irish didn't waste any time after taking .the .ensuing free kick. On their third play, Lou Holtz calledonRobertFarmer. Withonlyfourrushessofar in the game, Farmer had fresh legs, and it showed. The junior tailback took a Tom Krug hand-off and explodedfor51 yards to theFloridaState4-yardline. It was sweet vindication for Farmer who, due to a knee injury and the eI).'lergence of freshman Autry Denson, was a forgotten man at tailback. "I thought Farmer really became a man tonight," Holtz said after the game. • · 
Two plays later, Krug found Pete Chryplewicz in the backofthe end zone for his third touchdown toss and the 12-point bulge. 
And. though theNotre Damesidelinecelebrated,it was premature. After·a11, this was Florida State, a 
· pass-happy squad with game~breaking personnel. Momentum can switch sides so_ quickly in football; 11 minutes and change proved to be more than enough for the Seminoles. 
"Therein the fourth. quarter, Iwas wondering ifwe hadachance," SeminoleHead CoachBobbyBowden 
MAKING ADJUSTMENTS. Defensive Coordinator • Bob Davie (above) gives Lyron Cobbins some tips •• on ho~ to defend the Seminole spread offense. • 
SCHOLASTIC MA GAZ IN E ¦ 199 5 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

said. "But the kids stayed together and made the plays they had to make." 
Florida State's stars responded. First, slippery tailback Warrick Dunn ate up 17 yards on two carries. Then Kanell took to the air, completing three straight passes for 56yards,thelastgoing 11 toE.G.Greenfor a score. With prodigal son Scott Bentley's extrapoint, theSeminoleshadpulled within five, 26-21. 
"I don't think there's any doubt that we got worn down," Holtz said. "It was-a hot and humid day. [Florida State] probably turned up the tempo a little bit too." 
The quick reswnse seemed to shock the Irish whose next four plays from scrim­mage were disastrous. First, Farmer tried the left side, but slipped for a loss of two yards. Then Holtz gambled on some trick­ery. Edwards took a hand-off and then attempted a pass back to Krug. . Under heavy pressure, the fullback threw the ball away, setting up third and 12 and awaken­ing the Seminole crowd. 
A false start by. tackle Mike Doughty pushed the Irish to third and 17 and incited the crowd further. Finding nobody open, Krug scrambled and picked up 13 yards, four yards short of the first down after a 5­yard penalty. 
After punting extremely well the entire game, Smith booted a 41-yard punt Its length was adequate, but it was low enough to give Seminole DeeFeaster a chance at an excellent return, and he sped all the way to the Notre Dame 30. 
The Irish defense forced the Seminoles into a fourth and five situation, but Kanell came through again. A 22-yard laser to Green set the 'Noles up with first and goal from the three. On second down, Kanell found receiver Andre Cooper in the end zone for the third time in the game. He did it again on the two-point conversion, push­ing the Seminole lead to 29-26. 
Inaback-and-forthgame, theIrishseemed confident they would have the lastlaugh, as they often do in close games. But for a smash-mouth offense that this night would line up in the shotgun with five widereceiv­ers, nothing would happen as planned. 
That could be the explanation for reli­able Marc Edwards fumbling on the next Irish drive. While attempting to cu_t left, offensive tackle Chris Clevenger's helmet jarred the ball loose. Henri Crockettrecov­ered on the Irish 43, and the game seemed over. 
"I thought the fumble was criti­
cal," Holtz lamented. "We.had a 
firstdownatmidfield. Thefumble · was really critical." . 
Then the true pride of the Irish 
defense came through. A some­
times dominant, sometimes reck­
less, sometimes porous Bob Davie cre­
ation, it came through when it had to and 
stopped the Seminoles at the 3-yard line. 
Butthe storybook 97-yard winning drive · was shut down before it even started. An 
officialflagged Krugfor intentionalground­
ing in the end zone when he was pressured 
on the first pl;;ty of the drive. That meant a ·safety and a knockdown from which the Irish couldn't get up. 
AtiredanddowncastHoltzaddressedthe 
media after the game. From the way he 
looked and talked, it was obvious that this 
game meant more than people had thought 
it would. "I thought our players competed 
well. We had a lot ofrostly penalties," said 
Holtz. "Itseems like when you come to the 
Orange Bowl, you have a · controversial 
puntreturn calledback. We don'tmakeany 
alibis." . 
UNHAPPY ENDING. Cornerback Ivory Covington came up with a key Interception, but the defense was unable to stop the Seminole passing attack down the stretch. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1995 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

¦ BOWL COMMENTARY 




Silver Lining 
Beyond bad calls 


BY JAKE SCHALLER
Thirty years from now, when alumni and friends think back to the 62nd Orange Bowl, what will they re­member? Perhaps it will be Danny Kanell's fumble that was ruled a dead ball after Rossum sacked him. Or maybe they'll re­memberanotherquestionablecallonaNotre Damepunt return for a touchdown. Oreven the questionable intentional grounding call that resulted in a safety' sealing the win for the Seminoles. Odds~ that it will be one ofthese three. And that's too bad: As much as those calls can be debated, argued and lamented, they overshadow not only a great game, but an inspired effort by the undermanned Irish. Notre Dame came into this game without their starting quar­terback, their starting tailback imd one of their tight ends. But they came to play. So instead of remembering one of the above calls, here's what I'll take away: 
• Holtz's offensive game plan: Are we sure that was Lou' out there? Five wide receivers and the shotgun? .One back with threereceivers, includingChryplewicz split wide? The offense still leaned on the rush­ing attack, but ope~g it up did wonders. And the timely passing attack was effective and utilized Krug's abilities welt 
Placeklcker Scott Cengla exemplified Notre Dame's problems with Florida State. Cengla's missed field goal from close range was one of many missed opportunities 
to capitalize on Irish momentum. 
•Thefakepunt: 
Ialmosthadaheartattack when I saw this happening. Never in a million years would I (and more impor­tantly FSU) have expected it. That's why it was so great. There wasn't a Seminole within 10 yar:ds of Marc Edwards. It's a shame we didn't get any points out of it. 

• 
Tom Krug's gutsy performance: Cool as the other side ofthepillow, Krug took on the heralded position of Notre Dame quar­terback as if it were a pick up game on Thanksgiving. "I stepped on the field and there wasn't a butterfly in my stomach; there was just the drive to win," Krug said after the game. "When itgets down to it, it's ball and these are my teammates and my friends.» Spoken like a true Golden Boy. He put up solid numbers (14-24, 140 yards 3 TD's 1 IN1), put his team in position to win and, maybe most impressively, con­tinuously got up. Krug suffered what bor­dered on aridiculous amountofabusefrom the Seminole defense on options, when scrambling and while being rushed. Some­how, he just kept getting up. 

• 
Scott Bentley missing a field goal wide. 

• 
Scott Cengia hitting an upright and the ball going in. 


•
DerrickMayes: We should have thanked him every day for coming back his senior year. His last performance in an Irish uniform? "Derrick Mayes is am~g." Thank you, Coach Holtz-thataboutsums it up. Mayes' finale was classic: Six receptions for 96 yards and two touch­downs. But what don't show up on the stat sheet are the handful of times he played defensive back, knoq<lng away possible interceptions. His tip-the-ball-out-of-the-. defender's-hands-into-his move made him look like he was playing games with a little brother. 

• 
Robert Farmer: He finally stole the tailback spotlight which had been occupied by Lee Becton, Randy Kinder and now AutryDenson. Hissevencarriesforateam­high 93 yards were a pleasant surprise and a shot in the arm for the Irish offense. 


The last six minutes of the game just didn't seem fair for Irish fans. They didn't seem to fit. After a terrific performance by such an undennanned team, it seemed po­etic justice would ensure one last drive, another patented Irish comeback. Fate would not have itthis time, but the Irish had nothing to be ashamed of. D 

S C ,H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ 1 9 '9 5 F O O T B A L L R E V I E W 
51 
-

' . , 
l I 




It's Time 
by Ryan Leahy 


toGoAgain 
: Ina year that began with doubt, the Notre Dame 
• 
football team, students and community never 

• 
lost faith. One moment, for me, which exempli­: fies the 1995 season came to light immediately 

• 
following the Vanderbiltgame. The preceding week 

• 
held much speculation over the pending results of


. 

. 
Coach Holtz's absence. Many people predicted mayhem, turmoil and defeat Exactly the opposite occurred, however. 
Because of Coach Holtz's disciplined practice structure, our excellent assistant coaches and the team's willingness to accept more personal respon­sibility, .I knew success was inevitable. When the game clock ticked to zero and Vanderbilt was left scoreless, we were all overcome with emotion. We hadputasideourfears and competed with the oppos­
• ing team rather than with ourselves. All of us knew nized standard that is unmatched and that few others that we had the physical ability to beat any team we · attempt to achieve. Not only is the student body an faced provided we properly execu~ ourgame plan. assetinwinning,butitisalsoasourceofpridetoeach 
The 1995 team was close in the locker room and team member. As athletes, we are an extensionofthe extremely competitive on the field. Coach Holtz student body, and I hope that we have represented emphasizes "togetherness" and I believe that de­you, the students, in the best way possible. scribes our team. The season carried many ups and I will miss the unique electricity present during downs. Without all of our teammates working home football game weekends. This atmosphere of together, the season would have been a disaster. excitement extends far beyond the football team and 
Our biggest challenge came after the Northwest-involves many groups which dedicate hours ofwork. 
• em game, when we were incredibly disappointed in . Obviously,somefamiliarfaceswillnotbepresenton ourselves. We had to redefine some goals and, most football Saturdays next fall. Seniors on the football importantly, exercise our resolve. Our togetherness team have finished their eligibility and now gra­and determination took us through the season, adding ciously, as wellas sadly, hand theprogram overto the only two more losses to our record. Looking back, juniors. Some members of the cheerleading squad, we realize how close we were to winning those porn pon squa~ and band are also leaving their 
Offensive guard games and beingoneofthe truly great teams ofNotre individual experiences behind them. Most impor­
Ryan Leahy was a 

• • ,+" h Dame. tantly, the class of 1996 will pass into aiumni status
senior captain OJ t e

h . 1 . h Every game demonstrated that the Notre Dame and will never again experience a game from the
199'5 F. 

ig ting ris . . 1ru1· ial T . th f
• commumty1s yspec . woumquestreng so student section. Now that my final season is over, I
fi ball .
oot team. 

: Notre Dame are that our student body 1s second to want to say farewell to the graduatjng seniors, the 
• 
none and support is ever-present Home and away, "House that Rockne built" and an experience which 

• 
the student body remains on its feet throughout the canneverberecreated:butwhich willprovidememo­: game, never leaving early. They have set a recog­ries to last a lifetime. . 


• 

52 S C H O L A S T re M A G A Z I N E ¦ 1 9 9 5 F O O T B A L L R E V I E W 



' ,,,... ' . ·,<;< ., '"'""'''';.•,,:,,,%;.i!~ . 
. . ,'~·..-.. · ·:'ll· 
.fr '.. \~, . .. 
•.. -&.,r:-~~)-~~1~;1; 

ij , 
J :.<: 

·_,aoa,, :.-. ,. < i"~}"-­
... ,'li ··.1 ·, 
.:.•""''-1' 
I
,.ry,,... 
t 




