



Bruno's Pizza 
ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAY 
1, ~ 119 U.S. 31 (just northof campus) 
,lti Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in ij 
11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch I: 
4:00 to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 
11 4:00 to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday
!1 
1, 273-3890
I I
I . Ii I 
i! "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" !, 
ii We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and . !/ 
1 
l 

i Saint Mary's campuses. _. 
l i1 
/L.......,....,..~~=---~~--==------·--===-===---=·-,---=-.--~---==-----"',-------------------==-------,.. ~-=-=---=c--~-JJ 


since 1867 
.nd.edu/~scholast 

since 1997 





oastic
M~ MARCH 9, 2QQQ age 13 
Cover: Breaking Through 13 
After finishing their best season in team history and ending the season in the top l 0, the Lady Irish have high hopes for the NCAA tournament. by Gerard Meskill 
Sister for Life 9 
Support for the death penalty in America is at its lowest rate in 19 years. Sister Helen Prejean, author of Dead Man Walking, is coming to campus to discuss capital issues facing Americans and Catholics in the 21st century. by Eden Essex 
Taking off the Gloves l0 
Step aside, Caesar's Palace, boxing belongs in the Louvre. A Bengal Bouts fighter engages the question of whether boxing is an artistic expression of violence. by Kyle Smith 
All That NAZZ 26 
Who's the best? Scholastic previews the bands slated to appear at NAZZ, Notre Dame's Battle of the Bands. 
Animal House  by Adam Kronk  7  
Molding Young Minds by Katie Walters  8  
Weather Wonderland by Tina Zucher  12  
On the Rocks by Alex Grunewald  21  
Departments  

From the Editor 2 Special 3 Listening In 4 ND Notebook 5 Campus Watch 18 Splinters from the Pressbox l 9 Out of Bounds 25 Week in Distortion 30 Calendar 31 Final.Word 32 
Hoop Dreams

0 ne of my favorite parts about the 1991 remake of Father ofthe Bride is that the father and daughter play basketball together. In the middle of the night, in the middle of an argument, shooting hoops was a way they smoothed over the bumps. It was a way they related to each other. I grew up about a block from the town park. Dad often took me to play on the swings or the monkey bars or the tunnel, and it was always so much fun when he brought the basketball. We'd play one on one, only we never kept score and Dad had to hoist me up so I could sink a basket. Some small part of me always wanted the home with the basketball hoop in the drive­way. But as the daughter of my mother, athleticism was never a strength for me. (Dur­ing the year I played soccer, the only game my team won occurred on the weekend I wasn't there.) I can't remember the last time I played basketball, but I know how difficult the game is. That's why I reaUy respect the athletes who never gave up. This year, the women's basketball team demonstrated this persistence and success. Jerry Meskill has the story on page 14. 

Moving On 
When I was in third grade or so, I joined the Brownies. I was a proud member 
of Troop #137. I got the sash, the patches, the nail-polish-covered matches that 
you could use even after they got wet. 

Then, one day, I became a Girl Scout. There was a whole ceremony with a little 
bridge we had to walk across to show that we had made the transition. Instead of 
brown, I wore green. Instead ofa sash, I had a vest. I still got matches, but this time 
I had to coat them with my own nail polish. 

We make transitions throughout our life, even though we don't always get a 
ceremony with a little bridge to help us get through them. 
This May, I will graduate. That will be an enormous transition with an equally 
enormous ceremony. For me, though, the toughest transition is happening right 
now: this is my last week as editor in chief ofScholastic. I've been an editor here 
since the second issue of my freshman year. Every Thursday at 6:30 for the past 
four years, I have been at a staff meeting for the magazine. Next Thursday at 6:30, 
I might be eating dinner or watching TV or sitting on the quad like any other 
student. Wherever I am, I'll be missing Scholastic. The magazine, the work, the 
staff -especially the staff. 

Someone once asked me whether I would go back to high school if I could. 
Absolutely not, I answered. I loved my high scµool experience; but I did that once, 
and I moved on. Sometimes you just aren't supposed to go back. 
Once again, it's time for me to move on. I'msad, excited, nostalgic. But deep. 
down, I know that it's time to accept it gracefully. 
The staff this year has been the best I have worked with. I've been blessed with 
editors who are as fun-loving as they are diligent, as humorous as they are 
dedicated. People who never take themselves -orwhat they do -too seriously. 
I thank everyone who helped to make this year's magazine as good as it was, and 
I wish the incoming staff all the best as they move on in their own ways. 



Scholastic 
Vol. 141, No. 11 • March 9, 2000 
Disce Quast Sempq Victurus · Vive· Quasi CrclErMoriturus 

Editors in Chief 
Brian H. Christ Meredith W. Salisbury 

Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Zachary W. Kulsrud James J. Pastore, Jr. 
News  Jared P. Marx, edito~  
Staci L. Pangle, assistant  
Campuslife  Kate l. Jacques, editor  
Tina Zurcher, editor  
Sports  Gerard J. Meskill, editor  
Rebecca Frazier, assistant  

Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor Kathleen M. Corte, assistant Departments Karo S. Zuaro, editor MatthewJ. Cremer, assistant 
Layout Michael P. Griffin, editor Heather .I. Hogan, assistant Agatha Noble, assistant Matthew Barr, Cristin Fenzel, Cristin Manary 
Photography Benjamin K. Wojcikiewicz, editor Graphic Arts David B. Leeney, editor Copy Sarah E. Childress, editor 
Adam Aroian Web Design · Michael J. Gonzales 
. http://www.nd.edu/ .. scholast 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic is copyright ©2000. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine; either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic. does. not assume. liability for . unsolicited manuscripts or mate.rial. All correspondence should · .be sent to Scholastic, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, 
:IN 46556. To be published in UiEl next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All fetters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription rate, including the literary special issue, is $20 per year. Available back issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Advertising rates available on request The opinions expressed in Scholastic are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame orthe student body. 
Cover photo courtesy of Sports Information Cover design by Michael Griffin 
2Scholastic From the Editor 



Pastore elected 2000-2001 editor in chief 

Scholastic bids farewel.l to senior staff members Brian Christ, editor in chief, will graduate in 2001 with an electrical engineering undergraduate degree and a Master's in business administration. Though he enjoys the study ofengineering, he finds relief in journalism, photography, the Muppets, pretzels and citrus fruit. He recently developed a passion for architecture. 
Meredith Salisbury, editor in chief, is a senior double-major in English and government with a concentration in journalism. She goes hot-air ballooning or at least on lots of food runs when work at Scholastic gets too crazy, but for some reason she is still p_ursuing a career in journalism. · 
Michael Gonzales, web designer, resides in 
Zac Kulsrud managed to retain his sanity Zahm Hall and is graduating with a degree in after four memorable years on Scholastic electrical engineering. He enjoys traveling, staff. As managing editor, Zac invested many webpage design, the accordion and singing hours producing the literary special. Zac is a with Coro Primavera, Notre Dame's Span­PLS major who hopes to dabble in various ish choir. He also loves walking around the professions before settling down in Colo­stadium before home football games playing rado to write a novel.or two .. the accordion. 
Kate Jacques, campus life editor, has been 
Dave Leeney joined Scholastic as art editor on the magazine since her freshman year last year. Dave is also a member of the Irish 
'$.~~-when she joined as an assistant for campus Guard, the off-campus co-president, and an life. Kate is an American studies major, and interhall lacrosse player. He wants to pursue she has accepted a position at an advertising_ a job in marketing and hopes to settle some­firm in New York City where she interned where in the northeast. last summer . 
..-.~·0--~....... -·~-:...-.•..... ~ 


The Scholastic staff unani­mously elected Jim Pastore, 

Jr., its editor in chief for the 2000-2001 editorial term. Hailing from Breezy Point, NY, he is a junior English and computer appli~ cations major. 
Pastore has been on staff since his freshman year when he was hired as assistant news editor. "I wanted a chance to write and work in the magazine format," he recalls of his decision to join Scholastic. 
Currently serving as the magazine's associate editor, Pastore believes much of his en­thusiasm stems from the people he works with: "It's a very fun staff," he says. He knows, because he spends countless hours on Sunday through Tuesday nights in produc­tion with many of the staff mem­bers. But another aspect of this work entices Pastore, too. "It's also really exciting to see people in the dining hall pick up some­thing you produced and read some­thing that you wrote," he explains. 

Pastore says he has wanted to be editor in chief of the publica­tion since the first time he wrote an article for Scholastic. "Ithought it would be a really big privilege to lead a staff like this," he says. 
As far as his goals for his ten­ure, Pastore comments that he wants "to continue to put out an excellent magazine and have a great time doing it." He also be­lieves it is important for the staff to consider adopting a yak. 
Pastore remains uncertain ofhis career plans, saying only that jour­nalism is a possibility. He will begin his tenure as editor immedi­ately following spring break. 
SCHOYAKSTIC. Jim Pastore, the new editor in chief of this magazine, hopes to begin his tyrannical reign by bargaining for possession of the new Scholastic mascot, the yak. 
Staff Special Scholastic 3 


"Every now and then I run the danger of thinking that the class pays too much atten­tion to me, so it's good that you bring me down to earth." 
-government professor to his class 
"You'll get the opportunity to live like you never will again.... We had to clip coupons when we went shopping." 
-Holy Cross Associate advocating the program after Mass 
"I tell the dean we have an oral exam, so don't screw me on the TCEs saying we don't have a final exam." 
-overheard professor 

Professor: I suggest you read over the test and then stop and take a deep breath. Student: And then change your underwear. · 
-overheard before a midterm exam 

How many women did he sleep with? 
Can you imagine his STD count? 
-student at DeBartolo after the last James Bond flick 

"As a student I'll tell you that it works better if the person teaching you actually knows what he's talking about." 
-overheard student 

"It was bacon; salty, crispy, hot, oh-so-good bacon is what kept Father Sorin going." 
-suggestion card pleading for more bacon in the dining halls 

:Soph Sibs niores decided to mobilize support atND's hotbed for 
!Petition political activism: the dining hall. 
spri ng A•· ;,;eelio]',;est:\eia;;dti~·n:and into~itatioiigu~f anted Break ·.to leave.yourhodybruised, walletsli1nandbeerbelly . bZflping_. . . . . _, ___ _ _ 
Sunglasses t t .The sunbathers on the quad don't realize I'm staring. 
_ J 
Q&A 

10uestions with 


Brother Edward Courtney, CSC 
Brother Flag 

For four years, we at 10 Questions have been driving past this man as he sits at the side of US 31, waving to traffic from his perch between American flags. We have finally achieved our goal of interviewing Brother Courtney. While in the Army dur­ing WWII, he served under 'Blood and Guts' Patton and earned five bronze stars -for Normandy, northern France, the Battle of the Bulge, the crossing of the Rhine and central Germany. He joined the Brothers of the Holy Cross in 1945, and writes essays on a range of topics, some of which have been printed in national newspapers. "Brother Flag," as the media call him, has been sitting by 31 for 11 years, drawing 
attention from President Bush, Charles Schultz and, most notably, us. 
Where did you get the idea of sitting out here? 
The flag means a lot to me. In 1984, there was a Mr. Gregory Johnson who burned a flag at the Republican Convention, and he was ar­rested for it. The Texas Court ofAppeals took the case to the Supreme Court in 1989. The Court ruled against us, saying that desecration of the flag was in keeping with the First Amendment. ... I got my flag, ran out to the highway and I wasn't there five minutes when Channel 16 was out there interviewing me. 
Has anyone ever sat out there with you? 
One day, there was a man standing there, and he had an 'Abolish the CIA' sign, and he was standing there right next to me. Well, that confuses the people, so I asked him, 'Sir, would you move about a hundred yards down the road?' And he did, he moved. One guy wanted to bring his 60-foot trailer on the property with ... balloons. I didn't want to do that, because it would spoil the unique­ness of what I am doing. 
continued on next page -. 
Notebook Scholastic 5 


Q&A 
continuedfrom previous page 
What is the coldest day you've ever sat 
out there? 
I don't go out in the rain or snow anymore. I was out there when it was about 10 degrees once, and I caught pneumonia. They put me in the infirmary for two and a half months. 
What's the nicest car you've ever seen 
drive by? I like the red kind. 
There's a lot of news about Republicans being anti-Catholic. What do you think of GW Bush's trip to Bob Jones University? 
I support McCain, because I think that Gov­ernor Bush is just a little too inexperienced for the presidency. As far as Bob Jones University, I would never have gone there, but they've changed their attitude about interracial dating, so maybe that's a positive out of it. This is the 21st century, I mean. 
Who's your favorite president? 
Lincoln, and then Washington as number two. In my lifetime, my favorite president is FDR. It's a well-known factthatSouth Carolina still flies the Confederate flag. Do you feel the South is conquered territory and should be treated as such? No, they're all Americans, the Civil War is over. But I think it's wrong, you don't need the Confederate flag. I see the governor is going to put the American flag above it, though, so at least that's good. 
Walking around campus, the only state 
flag you ever see hanging out of dorm windows is that stupid Texas flag. !think they think it's their own country. What do you think about this? Ifs true, they do. I think they should put the American flag in ahead of it. We' re Ameri­cans, we're not all Texans. 
Charles Schultz, creatcfr:of Peanuts,-died 
recently. He was a D-Day Vet and did 
many strips honoring Vets. Did you ever 
meet the man? I never met Mr. Schultz, but !was in Pea­nuts once. The boy, Charlie Brown, he was carrying a flag. They called me up and asked me ifthey could use me. So I was in Peanuts once, about four years ago. According to a 1994 TV Nation poll, 14 
percent of Americans surveyed agree 
"that Puerto Rico should not be the fifty­


first state because 'that extra star would 
make the flag look bad.'" Any comments? I don't know. I think they could bunch them all together. 
-JeremiahConwayandJasonHammontree 
6Scholastic Notebook 
BATTLE OF WITS 

Here Come the Irish 


ND hosts Ireland's top debaters 
The Fightin' Irish? Perhaps it's time to make way for the Debatin' Irish. The week after spring break, Notre Dame will welcome the three national winners of the annual Irish Times Debating Competi­tion. During their visit from March 19 through 21, these versity, in Omaha, Neb. 
"It's pretty incredible that.we got selected [tohostlreland's national champions]," says Chris Huck, the head coach of the Notre Dame debate team. He believes that it is partly due to the success that the ND team 
has experienced this 

Irish law students year. It is currently will participate in ranked 15th in the na­a showcase debate tion, out of about 200 withNotreDame's schools. According to debate team. Huck, this is the high­Earlier this est ranking ND has seen in the past 15
year, 400 under-years. Notre Dame's
graduate and debate team travels
graduate students around the country
competed at the National Univer­throughout the year, sity of Ireland in debating topics that range from reformed
Galway in nopes of becoming one health care to the of Ireland's top Middle East peace three debaters. process, says Dan Peate, .the team's
The winners of this competition are now touring the United States, stopping at several American universities. Besides Notre Dame, they will visit DePaul Univer­sity in Chicago, William and Mary in Vir­ginia and the Claremont Colleges in Los Angeles. They also will make an appear­ance at the National Parliamentary Debate National Championship at Creighton Uni-


1---------'=-----=----=-------------------..::.._--i 
DOMELIGHTS 


president. 
The scheduled exhibition debate will pit the Irish national champions against three Notre Dame debaters. Peate expects a lively competition because the Irish debaters prom­ise to be "witty, sarcastic and fun." The debate, open to all, will be held the evening of March 21 in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
-Tricia Kelly 




·vummy in the·tummy! 
The truth about when and where ND students are eating grab 'n' go. 
Breakfast NOH 

SOH  
Lunch  NOH  
SOH  
Dinner  NOH  
SOH  





Animal 

A~ 
Kronk 



ouse 

In a ruling that could make the Dawghouse just that, Student Affairs declares that rectors may now keep pets 
Atypical evening in your dorm the Office of Student Residences, Facilities ceive rabies and distemper shots. when -you've just finished rotting Operations, and Risk Management and needed, keeping pets on leashes, and per­your mind with another epi­Safety. They feel that potential pets not haps most importantly, "any bodily injury sode of When Good Pets Go only provide welcome companionship, but or property damage caused by their pet." Bad instead ofwriting that theo also serve as "a means by which students are Despite the strict regulations on the new paper. Turning off the tube and flipping the attracted to stop by and visit with rectors." policy, some rectors are quite pleased with remote onto your couch, you contemplate Possible downsides include scaring off those the privilege and have assumed the respon­with some discomfort the keyboard lying in students afraid of or allergic to animals. sibilities without a second thought. Sister wait on your desk. Nothing a trip to the Strict guidelines for pet pos­Pat Thomas, rector of Walsh vending machine couldn't fix, right? Waltz­session have been stated Hall, has a new cat named

Can you
ing down the hall and side-stepping some­as well. Authorized pets Charlie. Formerly property of thing that strangely resembles dog-drop­are limited to domestic­the Animal Service

1mag1ne
pings, you notice that your rector's door is bred cats and dogs, non­League, Charlie now ajar. You two aren't exactly chums, but carnivorous fish in an spends her days en­what could a little chit-chat do but increase aquarium (30 gallons or joying the vie\•i' of ··
dod~cloo? your chances in the quest for a position as less) and caged birds. the passerbys fre­RA? Nudging .the door innocently and call­Dogs must be .50 -Father George Rozum quenting God Quad ing out your rector's name, you are attacked pounds or less. The from the confines of by your rector's newly-acquired border ter­lengthy list of non-authorized animals in­Thomas' s newly-installed screen door. Tho­rier (straight off the set of There's Some­cludes rottweilers, pitbulls, any wolf-mix mas has always liked animals. She feels the thing About Mary). dogs, canines bred as fighting dogs, all cat's presence "adds a homey touch and 
Well, good news, Irish snakes, poisonous in­promotes good conversations" with students fans: rectors can now sects or spiders, any who drop by to see Charlie. ­have pets! animal or reptile of Other dorms whose rectors are taking 
To quote Vice Presi­"wild, vicious or dan­advantage of this policy include Badin, dent for Student Affairs gerous propensities," Howard and Pasquerilla West. Mark Poorman' s Novem­and any farm or "e~­Not everyone is all smiles, however. Fa­ber 19th letter, "Rectors, otic" farm animals ther George Rozum, the rector of Alumni as full-time residents of "such as a potbelly Hall, would "rather be dead" than own a pet. the hall, are permitted pig." These items Regarding the prospect of an actual canine to have pets." But be­comprise a fairly wa­in the Dawghouse, he speculates, "Can you fore you go out and buy ter-tight list, though imagine the doo-doo?" When asked about a couple of German the rector with a par­the possibility of maybe having a fish or Shepherds to ward off ticular hankering for two, the rector expressed his feelings in a those guys who always bending the rules word: "Yucks!" borrow your hot pot, could conceivably Personal preferences of some rectors know that students proudly displays her cat, Charlie,. house a tame cougar aside, the new policy seems to be a friendly won't be granted the outside of Walsh Hall. or lion, noting the lack gesture of appreciation to the guardians of same privilege anytime soon: "Consistent of a weight restriction for felines. our dorms. For those students looking for with student behavioral expectations and Housing these pets is certainly no light something to nail the administration on, regulations as found in du Lac, students matter. Poorman's letter also places within rule sticklers might have a case for parietal may not house pets." the responsibility of the pet-owning party violations if rectors housing pets of the 
Parties involved in the decision this past refuse cleanup and disposal, obtaining dog opposite sex don't heed Bob Barker's ad­fall include the Office of Student Affairs, or cat licenses, ens_uring that animals re-vice to have them spayed or neutered. . 
News Scholastic 7 




MOLDING 
A brand new partnership gives Notre Dame students a chance to teach 
of their proposal, which must be submitted able to teach a first grader how to read BY KATIE WALTERS 
by May. Recipients will be chosen by May without first instructing him on the basics of
Ever had the compelling urge to finger 1 and begin to work next fall. phonics." paint? Can you imagine yourself read­Institute member John Erikson says, "We Ideally, the teacher who will provide the ing Dr. Suess to a group of second­want to have people feel empowered. We training will be from the same school that 
graders? Do you want to relive the project aim to support good ideas, cultivate new the tutor or tutors will be working in. Addi­when you planted bean sprouts in the fifth ideas and create programs." He added that tionally, training will be age specific: tutors grade? Maybe discuss The Catcher in the the program intends to serve as both a "cen­will be matched with trainers according to Rye with high school freshmen? Well, now tral clearing house" and a "catalogue of the age of the children they plan to work you have the chance. opportunities." Erikson hopes that the Notre with. These teachers will be hired by the 
If you're a Notre Dame student who's Dame Schools Partnership Project will be "Institute this summer, so that training and interested in serving as a tutor or mentor to able to spark interest in education, while tutoring can begin early next semester. a K-12 student in the South Bend school providing system, another opportunity has arrived. valuable in­
"We aim to support good
TheNotreDame Schools Partnership Project form at ion is a new program which intends to provide about current 

funding for any ND student, student group, develop­or academic department that wishes to tutor ments in the i children in the South Bend community. In field. 
I ideas, cultivate new ideas 

l and create programs."
addition, the opportunity will exist for de­One way

l ! paitmental grants and research opportuni­this will be ties. The Institute for Educational Initia­accomplished -John Erikson tives will run the program. For the past is through the seven years, the Institute has sent Notre establishmentofa web page, through which Erikson and the Institute are well aware Dame graduates to teach at schools in the any student will be able to access informa­of the numerous organizations that already southern and southeastern United States tion on programs available, as well as links provide some sort of tutoring opportunity, through the Alliance for Catholic Educa­to all ofthe South Bend schools. According including the Center for Social Concerns tion. to Erikson, "teachers will be able to list the and the athletic department. The Institute has been given a five-year tutors that they need, and students will be . According to Erikson, the Notre Dame grant to study the issue of education in able to receive this information and re­Schools Partnership Project seeks to create South Bend. This year has served as an spond." new programs, thereby avoiding duplica­inventory year, during which the Institute An important aspect of the Notre Dame tion. "We have already interviewed and has examined South Bend schools and the Schools Partnership Project is that training shared all ofour information with the CSC," programs that currently exist. Over the next for potential tutors will be provided by teach­Erikson says, "and we look forward to col­five years, the Institute will provide funding ers in the South Bend school system. This laborating with them and with all other for interested students and student groups, will provide more thorough and effective groups in the future." 0 as well as departments, in an attempt to tutoring. Students will learn from local teach­better satisfy the need for tutors and men­ers about specific teaching methods, as well All interested students should lookfor cam­tors in South Bend. The Institute will award as ways to handle classroom behavior. Says pus-wide ads after spring break, andshould funding to applicants based on the strength Erikson, "You can't expect a student to be plan on attending a meeting on March 30. 
8Scholastic News 


• 

Dead Man Walking author brings anti-death-penalty campaign to campus 
BY EDEN ESSEX s America enters the 21st century, it 
remains one of the last of the world 
superpowers to continue to use the death penalty. But as deeply ingrained as capital punishment is in American culture, it continues to spark debate among many American groups, not the least of these being American Catholics. 
On Wednesday, March 29, Sister Helen Prejean will speak on campus about the· death penalty. Prejean's talk, "Dead Man Walking," will focus on recent advances in the campaign for the 
A
abolition of the death penalty, as well as on victim-offender rec·~ onciliation and for­giveness. 
Due partly to the ~ Hollywood movie ~ 
> 
Dead Man Walking, ~ 
u.
the United States has 0 
been forced to con-1;; 
w 
front the religious, ti: moral and national 8:::i implications of the 5 death penalty as a it means of deterrence 
Sister Helen Prejean
and punishment. The movie, based upon a book ofthe same name that Prejean authored, traces a convicted murderer's path from sin to redemption. In the book and movie,· Prejean stays by his side as he faces execution. 
Prejean, a nun of the Franciscan or­der, has devoted her life to the death penalty issue. She has counseled count­less death-row inmates and has served as a spiritual advisor to those facing imminent execution. In addition, Prejean has been instrumental in founding programs dedi­cated to reconciliation and forgiveness. She has inspired many anti-death-penalty orga­nizations and has participated in several Dame community has a duty within their role,regardless of their Christian tradition, to actively realize their beliefs, the university also has a special duty to educate and teach." 
Prejean' s talk will highlight several issues closely connected with the pro-life stance ofthe death penalty. Says Cortright, "Since there isn't as much consensus among the pro-life community on the abolition of the death penalty, Prejean will be sure to challenge those who profess to be execution vigils nationwide. 
According to a February 2000 Gallup poll, support for the death penalty, despite being at its lowest rate in 19 years, is still favored by 66 percent ofAmericans. While it seems that Prejean has a daunting task ahead of her, David Cortright, president of the Fourth Freedom Forum based in Goshen, Ind., and a visiting research fellow at Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, believes that Prejean's presence will em­power concerned citizens. "Sister Helen enables everyone to draw inspiration from her crusade and to actively live out one's 
beliefs," he says. 
Because Notre Dame is a Catho­lic institution, Prejean 's presence will focus on aspects relevant to Catholic views of the death pens alty, particularly specific faith­related implications. Elizabeth Moriarty, a junior member of Notre Dame's Pax Christi, says, "Although everyone in the Notre 


Although everyone in the Notre Dame community has a duty ... to actively realize their beliefs, the university also has a special duty to educate and teach. 
-~'It!~ 
considering a nationwide moratorium on the death penalty. 
Prejean' s presence and words will serve to challenge the Notre Dame community to confront the issue of faith in action. "As humans, we should endeavor the deepest commitment to protect and defend life," Cortright says. "Sister Helen encapsu­lates this belief -she witnesses against all that is immoral, unjust and un-Chris­tian." 
Campus Life Scholastic 9 
anti-abortion yet still call for the death pen­alty." 
Prejean will also speak on recent devel­opments sun-ounding the death penalty such as the moratorium enacted by Illinois Gov. George H. Ryan. Many erroneous convic­tions have been revealed recently by some Northwestern University students and their professor. Amid this controversy and na­tionwide concern over a possible racial bias in the imposition ofthe death penalty, Ryan issued a moratorium on all executions in Illinois until the death penalty can be more fairly imposed. 
The last moratorium on the death penalty occurred in 1972 with Furman vs. Georgia, only to be reversed in 1976 by Gregg vs. Georgia. Since then, more than 300 execu­tions have occurred, 120 of them in Texas. However, with the recent moratorium en­acted by Ryan, Prejean and others hope that additional states will follow suit. Sister Kathleen Beatty of Lyons Hall expresses hope in the fact that President Clinton is 



Christian communities cannot agree on the restoration of 
Jerusalem's Church of the Holy Sepulcher, and the Greek Orthodoxy and the Franciscans tangle on the steps on Christmas, I must hold that boxing, or fighting ifyou will, at least gives them expression when nothing else does. 
-W.C. Heinz 1961 
W.C. Heinz, a sports writer for the New York Sun and the Saturday Evening Post during boxing's glory days of the 1940s and '50s, knew a paradox when he saw one. Throughout his long and distinguished career in journalism, Heinz acknowledged the baseness and brutality of boxing while simultaneously claiming that it more properly constituted an art, an art that finds its 
1 0 Scholastic Campus life 

fulfillment and expression through the easily understood medium ofblood and fists. Pugilism undoubtedly is the most basic and most fundamental form of competition and, if it is an art, surely is the most expressive of them all. 
As a means of expression, boxing has long been identified with classes of oppressed peoples. In the past hundred years, Jews, the Irish, Italians and recently, African-Americans and Hispanics have dominated boxing. The violence typically associated with the inner city that has now exploded in affluent suburbia is the expression of a people without a voice. When ideas and frustrations cannot be articulated in civilized ways, they are expressed in the way closest to the human heart: violence. Is it appropriate, then, to say that this viol_ence can be expressed in an artistic way through the. sport of · boxing? I hesitate to say so. 

Poetry, music and painting, to name a few, should certainly merit a higher place in ourcultural history than boxing, warfare or other forms of violence. Still,nothingdrawsacrowdquitelikeafight. Maybe boxing's simplicity of expression, crystal-clear to any spectator, makes it so timeless and so appeal­ing. No one needs prior knowledge of the rules of boxing to figure out who is winning and who is losing a fight. But boxing's simplicity and univer­sal appeal should not determine its status as an "art" -werethat the case, Monday Night Nitro on TNT could claim to-surpass the quality of A&E or the BBC. To master boxing's technical craft, however, one needs the tutelage of an accomplished trainer and an unending amount of practice. Kandinsky, for example, used to spend hours drawing circle after circle after circle to master his control of the line before he would dare to pick up his paintbrush. In Heinz's The Fireside Book ofBoxing, to which this article is greatly indebted, there is a piece written in the late 19th century by "Professor" Michael Donovan, who prescribes rigorous artistic training for a boxer. 
Donovan goes so far as to say that before each day oftraining, the prizefighter should drink "the yolk of an egg in a glass of sherry" and, after each day oftraining, "be rubbed down vigorously by two men with soft, Turkish towels." Though I doubt the university would sanction Donovan's training methods, his formula suggests the pre-20th century, aristocratic notion of boxing as an art. These days, however, any &ood trainer has his fighter spend hours in the gym honing his jab, jumping rope, running or shadowboxing in front of a mirror -not concocting ridiculous regimens of health drinks and massage. But, again, just because lots of practice is involved, even highly technical and specific practice, it certainly does not follow that boxing deserves the title of "art." 


Despite the vainglorious delusions I harbored about boxing in the past, there is no way I can legitimately or honestly begin to describe boxing as anything close to an art. In fact, I would not even call myself a "boxer" (just watch me in the ring to find out why), though I have enjoyed practicing the sport for four years now. But Heinz and Donovan are certainly not the first to characterize boxing as an · art. From Plato and Virgil to Hemingway, Zimmerman and Shaw, boxing is often described in lofty verse and prose. In several of Plato's Dialogues, boxing is called an art that should be used only within the bounds ofsporting competition. Shaw, on the other hand, is less intrigued by boxing than he is by the hypocrisy of a society that looks down upon it -a society that scorns boxers and boxing as base and brutal but upholds soldiers and war as noble and honorable. 

Perhaps Shaw's point explains everything. Boxing is an art-a martial art, an art ofwar. Even so, boxing cannot claim to be one of the high martial arts -just the oldest. The highest m~tial art is the all-encompassing destruction of thermonuclear war, followed closely by chemical and biological war, intercontinental ballistic missiles, heavy artillery, guns, knives, clubs and (finally) fists. If boxing is to be understood as an art, it must be understood as an art . 
ofwar-an ancient precursor to more modern means of competition through brute power and subjugation. Un­like other sports, there are no "finesse" boxers. 
I am, supposedly, an educated young man; I have a concentration in Notre Dame's Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies, and I am a vocal member of Pax Christi. Why, then, would I want or need to find expres­sion through boxing? This urge to box may be cloaked in the guise ofstalwart athletic expression, but that does not justify nor excuse it. It is still an urge to fight. 
My dear friend and this year's boxing captain, Mike Romanchek, frequently discusses boxing with me. Once, when Mike and I got to talking about why we box, Mike hesitated for a moment before saying, "I just like to hit people." I could never have phrased my motives so simply and so honestly. And for me, that may be boxing's most puzzling paradox. 0 
Campus Life Scholastic 11 







Finally, the true story behind South Bend's capricious weather patterns 
BY TINA ZURCHER 

n old Hoosier saying goes some 
thing like this: "Don't like the 
weather? Just stick around awhile!" 
The fickle South Bend weather can be hard to handle for students coming from more temperate climates. When a foot of snow topped off by freezing· rain and hail covers the ground one weekend, and it's 70 degrees and sunny by the next, many people just shake their heads in confusion. 
Accounts of this variability are not exag­gerated. Wayne Falda, who covers the weather for the· South Bend Tribune says, "You really do get more clouds than your counterparts atIU and Purdue." 
Why is South Bend weather so inconsis­tent? Believe it or not, there is a real, meteo­rological explanation. Falda explains that South Bend is in a unique geographic loca­tion that is responsible for the weather fluc­tuations. Two factors, the city's position in the path of two widely different air masses and its location within Lake Michigan's microclimate, cause the weather's capri­ciousness. 
South Bend is situated right in the middle of a great clash of air flowing up from .the Gulf of Mexico and air rolling down from the Arctic. Falda says that this "incendiary mixture" of hot and cold air results in wild swings of weather as the air masses collide. "[The air masses] really come together in our area more than in any other case," Falda says. 
Kevin Barjenbruch, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in norther·n Indiana, explains that this stormy weather results from three factors: instability, lift and moisture. Instability results when the cold air from the north hits the warm air from the south. Then, as the cold air sinks, the warm air rises to cause what is known as 
12 Scholastic Campus Life 
"lift." Finally, the warm southern aircarries moisture that can form precipitation. 
Unfortunately for students, the weather in South Bend fluctuates much less in the summer than in the spring and fall. Seasonal changes in the patterns of steering currents in the atmosphere account for this effect. In · the summer, thejetstream that brings down cold air flows north of South Bend, so the warm air from the Gulf simply sits on the city without being disturbed. In the other seasons, however, this jet stream migrates south and collides with the warm air. Bad weather results because "we are caught in a transition zone," Barjenbruch says. 
The other factor in 
South Bend's tempera­
mental weather is Lake Michigan. Falda explains that winds from the lake blow into South Bend and affect the weather; this "lake effect" causes instability ,just as the clash of air masses does, and induces the formation of snow, rain and clouds in the area. 
In the fall and early winter, the lake itself is still warm, although cold air flows over the top of it and then sinks. This weather clash causes the formation of snow bands. 
"It is hard to determine where the lake­effect snow bands will set up," Barjenbruch says. Since South Bend is in the so-called "fetch area" for the lake, it may boast clouds and a foot of lake-effect snow while towns 20 miles to the west or south experience nothing but sun. 
Despite the lake's negative effects on winter weather, Baijenbruch says that the coldness of the lake has. a stabilizing effect on the weather in the spring as the warm air moves on top of it. 
The two fluctuating systems that affect the weather in South Bend make the city more subject to climate variability than other places. Neither southern Indiana nor Chi-


cago experiences weather like South Bend because neither experiences both of the fac­tors that cause South Bend's unpredictable weather. 
"It's truly in a unique position," Falda says. "That's why we'll end up with 10inches ofsnow next week .... We al ways get a good snowstorm in March." 
From March 12 to March 18, Indiana will have a Severe Weather Awareness Week. Notre Dame's spring break takes place dur­ing the same time. Falda' s snowstorm should also occur then. In fact, significant snow fall has occurred during Notre Dame's spring break for the past two years. Coincidence? Superstition? Or just lucky scheduling? And we thought the administration just wanted us to miss St. Patrick's Day, D 

~-----·--·--;----------. 
-' 



!'ut~t\ 

i. ,/ :::_.·:·•:_t~:."i ..·:> 
:1:!~I! 
ornethinghad happ~ned~.A·crowd of p~ents visiting for JPWgathered 
1

withtheir sons angclfu.gl.}ters aroundthebig-screentelevisioniilLaFortiliie. ·· · Peoplevycill<iµg.tl}rpµg1rtpe.·Stll.4entCf11ter:§tOppedand stared... The·.crowd; · ~ no.""·..fiy~•Qf iSif•..a~ep,·. hH:sg~~;)"'}t~;····anticigati~11.···}n.. ·:a·gutsy·•·display '·6f...s~o9ti11g~,... ~,• .• ...... freshinanguardAlicia Rijtay'fi,ad tyVice C0111¥:dC>wn·the .court ··and ~t cl clµttfi,< . \ thrt:e-poiBts,h9tJo f orceth~game into·•overtirn~. :Now, with.seconds,,remainm1f-? ~. 
,··•··on•·th~·.21b6k,·the.·Notre.D.arne.~.s Women,B.ask~tballTea1n,was,ppis.~d··to... 9ohlpiete ,th¢irBtellcir comeback-apd defeat Rutger~. As the fin,aL$icogds:tJcked off the · • cl~~k;tije crowd exploded'.)vithcheers and appiau~e; ~ f~w efub~iced. The Lady 
Irish hat! dtjce againpr6ventheywere serous cqntenders with the ability to pun .. .out tough victories ..even in:fa;qnt-ofi·hpStile crdwd. . 
. . ,' ., ' .. ~· ·.-' . ,· .' ,-.... , ' '• ·. ' ..':::· :·:.:~,': 

Every one realized we had a lot oftalent on this team, and ifwe focused, we could go far," reflects senior guard Niele Ivey. "I think we have more talent [ on this team] this year than any other year I've been here." . Considering Notre Dame's accomplishments in the last three years, Ivey's point is well taken. Since Ivey has joined the team, Notre Dame has experienced its most successful three-year period in school history. During that span, the Irish have posted a 79-22 record, winning more than 78 percent of their contests. 
As much as these accomplishments are a credit to the incredible talent of the Irish basketball program, the players are quick to recognize that none of this success would have been possible without help from the sidelines. "[Coach McGraw] has done so much since she's been here," says juniorAll-American Ruth Riley. "She's made us into a top five/top 10 program. She's turned this program around with her knowledge ofthe game, her getting players to come here and her ability to win." Freshman guard Karen Swanson adds, "Coach McGraw is our most important asset. She is the driving knowledge and enthusiastic force behind our team." McGraw is in her 13th year with Notre Dame. During her tenure, McGraw has tallied an incredible 285-113 record (.716), including six appearances in the NCAA Tournament. Of those six appear­ances, half have come in the last three years, including a trip to the Final Four in 1997. Notre Dame opened with exhibitions against the Premier All­Stars and the Swedish BOS Malbas. In Notre Dame's 94-85 win over the Premier All-Stars, Ratay led scoring with a team-high 22 to come. 

"[Ratay] is the best freshman I've ever seen to understand the offense," says Ivey. "She is a great addition to our team. She is one of our leading scorers as a freshman. She will help our team to win in many different ways for years to come." 
Senior guard Danielle Green adds, "Ithink afternext year [Ratay] will be our.leader. She's just an awesome player and an awesome person." 
Notre Dame had little trouble dispatching Toledo in its season opener before traveling to No. 15 Illinois for its first big test of the season. Illinois' Allison Curtin stole the show, netting 28 points to lead her team to a 77-67 victory. With the loss, the Irish dropped from seventh to 11th in the AP poll. 
Undaunted, Notre Dame bounced back with a convincing win over Butler in the Irish home opener. Three days later, Notre Dame traveled to Virginia to face No. 9 North Carolina in the opening round ofthe Wachovia Women's Invitational. Again, Notre Dame's freshman sensation took command, hammering 32 points, includ­ing six three-pointers. 

points, and had 9 rebounds and 6 assists in her collegiate "I'm very debut. She gave an encore performance againstEOS Malbas, pleased with
5 Current Rank
again leading the scoring with 25 points. With Ratay, the Ratay," said Irish entered the regular season armed with another powerful 15-1 Conferenc·e Record McGraw follow­weapon for years ing Notre25-3 Season Record Dame's· 99-86 win. "You don't
20 Gam·e Win Streak expect a fresh­man to take over in a big game and she did today." The Irish won the tournament the following day, beating Liberty 85-68. Riley earned Most Valuable Player honors after notching 32 points in the final game. The Irish were afforded little time to celebrate their title. Three days later, Notre Dame ventured to Purdue to take on the No. 18 and defending national champion Boilermak­ers. With 10 minutes remaining, the Irish and Boiler­makers were tied at 48-48. Purdue then took control of the game, outscoring the Irish 23-13 in the closing minutes to clinch a 71-61 victory. The Irish were beaten by mistakes, coughing up 24 turnovers in the loss. · ' "You can learn more from a loss than a win," commented senior forward Julie Henderson. Notre Dame took the lesson to heart. The Irish machine picked up steam, closing December with four consecutive wins, only one of which was closer than a IS-point margin. January marked the beginning of Big East com­petition with Notre Dame hosting West Virginia. 
Despite the Mountaineers' awful 25 percent shooting, Notre Dame sparked by Green secured the win for Notre Dame, 72-59. only led 21-18 with fiveminutes left in the first half. However, the The win improved Notre Dame to 15-0 at home, matching the Irish closed the halfwith a 20-0 run to seal the game by its midpoint. school record. Coach McGraw decided to give the Irish a few extra Notre Dame cruised to an easy 75-54 win. days rest before a showdown at home with Pittsburgh four days 
Nevertheless, it was apparent to McGraw that the Irish had taken later. It appeared the layoff was too much as the Irish opened the West Virginia for granted. "I was really disappointed with our focus game 5 for 18 from the floor. Still, Notre Dame took a 33-27 lead tonight," McGraw said. "I think we looked like we were bored. We into the locker room. Early in the second half, Pittsburgh cut the · really just didn't feel like playing tonight." Irish lead to 35-34. From that point, Notre Dame took control ofthe 
Again, Notre Dame proved its adaptability, this time against game, building a 73-51 lead with 4:18 remaining. However, the Georgetown. Determined not to come out sluggish again, the Irish Irish crumbled in the closing minutes, allowing Pittsburgh to close went on a 23-5 run after beginning the game in al0-10 standoff. The to within six with 45 seconds left. Notre Dame held on for a scary Irish never again let the margin shrink below 10 points. The Hoyas 81-74 victory. couldn't contain Ratay and Riley who netted 23 and 18 points, Coach McGraw was less than pleased with the performance. respectively. The result was an impressive 82-60 road win. "We had a lot ofproblems. It's hard to pinpoint what they were, 
"I was pleased with the way we sustained our intensity through-but definitely the mental part, the lack offocus, the lack ofintensity, out the entire game," McGraw says. "We played well at both ends the lack ofpride and the lack of any basketball knowledge whatso­ofthe floor and were very aggressive for 40 minutes. It is something ever were all key factors .... I think we'11 just bring our track shoes · that we had been stressing to our players. From the start we were tomorrow and get the kinks out that way." ready to play and I like what we did this afternoon." As is always the case with a good team that gets a rude awaken-
As the month progressed, the Irish continued to pummel confer-ing, the Irish returned to the court angry. They hosted Saint John's 
ence opponents. Notre Dame closed the month 9-ALL RILED UP. Ruth Riley, the Irish center, earned Most Valuable Player at the 0, with eight of the nine wins coming against Big Wachovia Women's Invitational after scoring 32 points in the final game. East teams. During that span, Notre Dame amassed 682 points, an average of 75.8 per game. Mean­
while, the defense only allowed 494 points, or54.9 per game. The Irish win streak had extended to 13 games. Notre Dame's dominance did not go unno­ticed. During its winning streak, Notre Dame rose from 11th to fifth in the AP poll, securing the highest rank for the Iris_h in school history. 
Notre Dame was not distracted by either accom­plishment. 
"We weren't focusing on the win streak or the polls," says Riley. "We played game by game, but as the season went on, the games got tougher." 
If the games did indeed become tougher, the Irish did not show it. Notre Dame opened the month ofFebruary in Providence. Seeing a chance to rest her starters, Coach McGraw used her re­serves extensively. Even without putting out their best lineup, the Irish produced the same result. Junior forward Kelley Siemon boosted the offense by posting a career-high 23 points. 
"[Siemon] was a real spark forus and set the tone for the rest of the players who came off the bench and played hard," McGraw said. "We gave our starters a chance to rest tonight, which is important with our upcoming game with Boston College." 
Four days after the 90-60 rout in Providence, Notre Dame took to the Joyce Center against No. 18 Boston College. Notre Dame built a 29-22 advantage before Riley went to the bench after committing her second personal foul. The Eagles capitalized on the center's absence, going on a 7­0 run to tie the game at 29. Notre Dame regained the lead and held a 38-35 advantage at halftime. In the second half, Riley returned to the game and took control. She netted 15 ofNotre Dame's open­ing 21 points in the half. Boston College drew within seven with 2:58 to play, but a 9-0 run 



I 
1 
J 
ing to New JerseyJo face No'. 8 Rutgers.·The contest between-the . . ··''Everybody's comfortable, at home. It's_ always better to be at . · two conference 'p6wers was to be a good late~season test ofwhere .· :home.' You·get to hear the fight sbng ari.d the band, and to play· in the team stdod in the NCAA. The game lived upto the hype. front ofpeople you know;" ·· ..• ..• • . . ·NotreDameran out to an early 19-point lead. The Scarlet Knights ·· ·.. "We have great fan support," adds Henderson, "Fan support has 
•rallied,late in the half with a 12-3 run to .close within 10. In the gotten·.better throughout the year as well." . . second half, Shawnetta Stewart drainedthr~e:straight three-point-· ' With one game left in the regular season, Notre Dame and No. 1 • 
ers during·a 21-4 · · · ·.•. · · · · ·. · · · · · 


·!:J:e~~1t!~::·· ····vou cart:.lear1imore•'fN)111.a;:1oss·=1h·an:a win.·
L.~~::::;:: 6ti:: ... ....... ,:__ senio:r for'Ward Jolie!· Henderson 
· 17.3 se~orids left; . . . . . . . . . . . .· . 
Rutgers held a six-point lead, Alicia Ratay took over: the; offense for the· Irish, · Connecticut were deadlocked for the Big East crown; As fatewould sinking a3-pointflr to close the gap to three. After Tasha Pointer .. haveit, the two teams faced :off in the season finale. Since Notre 
. missed.a bonus with 16.1 seconds remaining, Ratay drove up court : Dallle joined the Big East,theirish andtheHuskies have me_t on 10 · 
l 
and sank another three, forcing the game jnto qvertime. · . other occasions, with all ten co.ntests goihgto Connecticut. N_e:ed-. 
·. '-'I can't,say enough about Alicia aild :he(poi,~e at the end of the . : : less. to•say, this game meant more.than_ a' rflgular season title to'die · · · game," McGraw,-$aid. ''To have afresliinan coine up big, time after Irish·. . . . . . . . . · ·•~ time· after· time: Not just the · three~point shots : but. the offensive· ..}'I· was' really nei-vciu;' [goin,g i11t6 Conriecticrit] b~cause I never 
,. 
•· · rebound latefa. the overtime was the difference.in the game. I am· · : played in_front ofthat inany p:eopl~ befoJ:"e;" J;'eflects Ratay. "lkriew .. 
'. I 
>just so pieased\Vith her." . .. . . : • we had tb tome out really aggressive to:·play with them." . In overtime,theidsh againJ;iad to play fro:m behind.Trailing71-Junior forward Meaghan Leahy .adds; "As a whole we were 68, the Irish went on a 6-0 run to take a three~pointlead with 1:10 exdteq; we knew we hadn't performe:d well [against Connecticut] 
16 Scholastic Cover Story 

.· to 'play, buf aRutgers three-pointer with 46.2 seconds to play re-tied the score. Ratay and Ivey sealed the 78-74 by sinking four consecutive free throws. , . 
Coach McGraw saw the thriller as more than justNotre Dame's 19th consecutive win. 
"Having a top-10 team that you can beat on their own court in front of a great crowd, I felt that was something we needed to show the NCAA tournament selection committee, and hopefully they were watching," McGraw says. 
Notre Dame concluded its home schedule against Miami · three days later. Once again, Ncitre Dame looked sluggish following a big win. After amassing a 12-point lead in the first half, the Irish allowed Miami to force a 36~36 tie early in the second halt Atthat point, Riley took . control, sparking a 17-5 fun.by sinking two free · throws, blocking a shot and draining a three­pointer in qu1ck succession. From there, the Irish coasted to an 83-68 win, concluding a perfect 13-0 season at home and extending Notre 
. Dame's winning streak to 20 games. However, . home dominance is not a-new .concept to the Irish, especially against Big East opponents. . ·. Since joining the Big East in 1995, the Irish are , 
CARRYING THE LOAD. rii'nielit Gr~en's tenaciou~ ·defense causes the Pitt ·player to 
travel;.. and held a 24~point lead at halftime. This time, the Irish did not yield. When the game was ayer, Notre Dame had a94-51 victoryto . celebrate,.The 43-pointdisparity wasNotre;Daine'.sJargest margin ofvictory ofthe'year. ·. . . . . ·.··. _·. ··.··· ....· . .. . . I~ simifarf~shfon,,the Irish polished off\lillaiicivabefore travel-·· 
. 

''[It] is an accomplishment we are all proud of; however I think our·mostimportant goal of the season is to win the conference," saysfreshman griafd Karen Swanson; : . . . , ··.. · : . 
> But what makeStheirishso muchcinore dangerous at home? . Sophomore guard Ericka Hl~ney=provides sonie insight. . 
42-3 (.933) afhorile, against conference oppo~ .. ; , -~~ntS; \Vithau three home losses coming against .. 
Connecticut. 
Needless to say, the perfect home record did not go uncelebrated; .· .· . 

However, there were positives to be· found in the THE SIXTH WOMAN. Kelley Siemon adds depth to the· 1rish squad. Her career-· high 23 points led the Irish to a victory over Providence.
defeat. "Now we know we can play with them," ob­serves Ratay. "We have to keep building momentum from the start. We have to keep playing smart:" 
With the loss, the Irish occupied the second seed 
going into · the Big East tournament and finished a ,-· remarkable regular season.Throughout the season, ~e · Irish offense averaged 77 .0 points per game while the 

-. :' .. defense allowed a mere 61,4 point$ per game. · : ·. · Freshman forward Amanda Barksdale sees Notre bame':s defensive numbers as more important than just keeping the opponent at bay. . ._· "Defense played a huge role this. season. We've . improved a lot this year [on defense]; Good defense helps us have a good transition offense." Ifdefense is important to the Irish, then Ruth Riley is ·crucial, For the second consecutive -year, Riley was named Big East Defep.sive Player oftlie Year. Riley led the conference in rebounds (7,8) and blocked shots · · (2.7), whil~ also finishing third iil scoring (16.4). N oi surprisingly' Riley took control ofthe offense in Notre Dame's Big East Tournament opener against Miami.J~.iley scored 18 points and.posted 14 rebou11ds iil'th~ Irish' s 67-52 victory over the Hurricanes, iriclud.:.. ipg eight in the final 12 minutes. "Ruth Riley is probablythe best center in the na~ion," · • .·._ says Miami Coach Fem Labati. · However, Riley's 20 points the folio Wing day were not enough to hold off the vengeful Scarlet Knights, .still hurting from a crushing loss in overtime t_o the 
Irish. . . . .• 
"Of cpurse we remember [the los_s]," said Rutgers Coach Viv~an String~r. "It was like a dagger in the 
heart~,> . · .. · · · · ·· ­
. . . . . ·-.. 
Like~.predictable television drama, two free throws by Green in the closing seconds sent the contest into ...· overtime, aperiodall too familiar to both teams:Rutgers' Shawnetta Stewart a~d Linda Miles both·went6-for-6 from: the charity stripe in the extra period, securing the 
. 81-72 q.pset. .. . . . . . . . . "Wehit free throws: in the end," said Stringer. "That's when it counts, doesn't it?",· It didjn Monday's cont~st. Nevertheless, the Irish 
in the past. However, we had more ·confidence going in this time than in past years." 
Notre Dame entered the contest with a half-game lead on the conference title at 15-0, while Connecticut boasted a 14-0 confer­ence record. The game did not begin the way the Irish would have liked. Connecticut opened the game with an 8-0 run, a lead that they would never relinquish. Meanwhile, two early fouls kept Riley on the bench for most of the first half. The Irish shot a pathetic 28 percent in the first half, falling behind 33-19 at halftime. However, the Irish came back in the second half ready to play. Clawing back 
· throughout the final half, Notre Dame closed to within six with 4:46 left. Unfortunately, the Irish would get no closer, as Sue Bird scored nine consecutive points to give the Huskies a 71-57 lead with 1:15 remaining. Connecticut closed the door in the final minute, com­
. pleting the 77-59 win and a perfect conference record. "I thought we panicked and were intimidated," says McGraw. "We didn't play our game in the entire first half." 

took many positives from their inspirational season and look forward to avenging the early exit from the Big East Tournament with a deep run in NCAA's. 
One of Notre Dame's greatest positives is the stellar play of freshman Alicia.Ratay. The Big East honored Ratay last Friday, naming her the conference's Rookie of the Year. Ratay finished sixth in conference scoring (14.8), fourth in three-point percentage (.493), arid sixth in free throw percentage (.833). She set the Big East single-season three-point field goal percentage against Rutgers, going seven for seven that night. Ratay is Notre Dame's first Big East Rookie of the Year. 
The amount of firsts accomplished by this year's team are overwhelming. Yet there are still bigger firsts to be accomplished, namely a national title. With the NCAA Tournament rapidly approaching, one has to look at this team's accomplishments in wonder. D her own sweet selfunderher 




HooRir\g Up--------­
robe each Sunday. Ten o'clock Mass at the Basilica has never been so appealing. 



BP: 30 Kee11a11: 19 
Malling Office Hours Bearable 
This one student goes to 
A 
......,..
see his professor in Decio. 
I> 
He knocks on the door to the 

office, and is greeted by a El Hook-up achieved 
sound like chairs scuffing D Still looking 
across the floor and the profs voice saying, "Uh, just a minute." After a few sec­

The nine girls from BP managed to hook up with guys from more states than the eight guys from onds, the prof" cracks open 
Keenan. Both groups scored well in the midwest and mid-Atlantic states, but the girls' dominance the door and says, "Could 
in the plains states led them to victory. you hang on a sec? I need to 
TIP THE G I PP. 
0reetings, campers. The Gipp has an importantnews briefing. Since Scho­lastic rarely features news from other colleges, the Gipp has been nominated to spread this fascinating news. There is a college in suburban Philadelphia in the pro­cess of changing the name it has held onto since its founding in 1853: Beaver College. The problem is that the term "beaver" is locked out by parental web controls, and college-hunting kids can't find it on the web. In other words, when the powers that be go about selecting a new name, some­thing like "Boner University" probably won't cut it. The Gipp feels thatthe problem here is not the name of the school but the presence of parental web controls on high school kids. Down with censorship, says the Gipp. Support the Gipp's cause and call 1­888-BEA VER-3 to schedule your campus tour. 
Choir Girl Hotel 
The Gipp heard about a certain young maiden in the Liturgical Choir who wears nothing but take care of something." 
The student says okay, but through the slightly opened door, he sees a woman sit­ting on a chair in the room. She looks rather disheveled, and her blouse seems to be kind ofwrinkled with some buttons undone. She sees the student looking at her, smiles and says, "Oh, don't worry. I'm just his wife." 
The Gipp has no comment. 
Luons State Pen 
Last weekend a young man rode his bike over to Lyons to pick up his ladylove and, leaving his bike behind, escorted her to an evening at Corby's. The ladylove's room­mate went to bed early, only to be awakened at 2:15 a.m. by a loud knock on her door. She tried to ignore the pounding, but the visitor was simply relentless. 
It was the AR who sheepish! y asked ifthe ladylove was at home. The roomate said; "No, my God, is there something wrong?" 
Getting an inadequate response, the room­mate asked the AR if she was checking for the ladylove's suitor. The AR admitted that, yes, she was. Apparently, the security guard had told the AR at two a.m. that she thought the boyfriend was in the sanctified quarters beyond the witching hour. In fact, the secu­rity guard, though she'd never met the boy­friend, knew him by name. Here's a security guard who really stays on her game. 
Her evidence for suspecting the boyfriend's presence was the tell-tale bi­cycle, which he'd left under the arch. She saw his bike under the arch, pulled out his bike registration and cross-checked it. The guardian had access to a list ofbike registra­tion numbers -perfect for keeping tabs on naughty boyfriends. 
The moral to this story is: Ifyou're a boy, try not to sleep over at Lyons. But if you must venture into that hallowed hall ofwom­anhood during the forbidden hours, be sure to park your hog at the Manor. 
The All-American HOOR-Up Challenge 
Making the most ofbeing a national uni­versity, eight juniors in Keenan set some goals for themselves. They decided that they'd try to hook up with a girl from each state before graduation. So far they're up to 19 states. Not bad, but then comes along a group of nine BP women who have inde­pendently started their own national hook­up challenge, and they're already up to 30. Impressive. 
That's all for now. So make· the Gipp proud and go out and get some from an Alaskan. And remember, kids, if you're looking for the definition ofhooking up, it's kissing her (or him) like you wouldn't kiss your mother. · . 
18 Scholastic Campus Watch 
When it comes to swimming, junior Carrie Nixon knows the meaning ofsuccess and the feeling ofvictory.Named this year's Big East Swimmer ofthe Year, Nixon's abilities have made their share of waves among the competition. 
I first started swimming: when I was eight. I needed something to do during the summer, and I sucked at soccer. My favorite event to swim is: the 100 free. That's where I think have the most potential. But the 50 free is actually my best event. 
My greatest mom~nt in swim­ming here at ND was: making my first automatic NCAA "A" cut last year at the Big East competition in the 50 free. I didn't even know how fast I'd gone until I'd cooled down. 
My most memorable moment at ND outside ofswimming is: 
beating Michigan last year in . 
football! That was one of the greatest "feel good" games I've ever watched. 
The hardest part about being rn a swimmer is: the time com­mitment. We're in the water three hours a day with dryland and weights on top of that. While growing up, my favorite athletes were: Janet Evans, Mark Spitz, Tom Jager, Matt Biondi -I was a swimming geek. My role models now are: Jordan, Gretsky and Elway. They are incredible athletes who know that "it's just a game." 
The toughest obstacle I've had to overcome to be successful is: 
being comfortable with "being a swimmer." I think I've missed out on a lot offun stuff because ofthe time commitment, but I now realize that I have a talent that lets me do things most "normal people" will never experience. I chose ND because: of the opportunity I would have to build the swimming program here. I wanted to be a leader and a role model. Ifl could play any other sport at ND, I would play: football. I'd love to run out of that tunnel, catch some long bombs and bang heads with people. My greatest honor in swimming was: being named Big East Swim­mer of the Year. It culminates a lot of hard work and time I've spent in and out ofthe pool. I'in flattered and thankful that all the hard work has paid off. 
-Rebecca Frazier 

The Irish men's basketball team bounces back from heart-rending losses against Miami and Syra­cuse by advancing to the Big East final, locking up its first NCAA berth since 1990. 


With the momentum built up from the Georgetown game, the team should do well in the first round of the Big East tourney, but don't expect the Irish to get past the second round this year. 
~®b®[t(OJ fnOJ]j®w 

Notre Dame easily handles Rutgers in the first round of the Big East tourney. In the s·econd round, the Irish beat Miami for 
the first time this season. But in the semi-finals, Big East Player of the Year Troy Murphy fails to perform up to.par, and the Irish 
are pummeled by Saint John's. 

~ri((ff~ Christ 


Sports Scholastic 19 




·-~··.lthotigh Notre Dam~ had met rival Miami many times on the 
football field, February 24, 1986, marked the first time Notre 
ame and Miami met on the hardwood. Miami's basketball 
program was back on its feet after a 16-year break and was amazingly 
pulling a 12-12 season. Notre Dame, on the other hand, was running 
over opponents right and left. With an 18-5 record, Notre Dame was 
guaranteed a spot in the NCAA tournament. Still, the pressure was on 
for both teams. Miami, which boasted nine freshmen on the roster, had 
beaten established teams that season including Georgia, Florida State 
and Arizona. Notre Dame had just beaten Manhattan 102-47 the week 
before. 
The two teams met in Miami's James L. Knight Center and played in front of a crowd of more than 4,000 fans, but the game received national coverage on ESPN. Notre Dame, the favorite in the match up, quickly established itself as the superior team. Irish star Ken Barlow set the pace, scoring 28 points and grabbing eightrebounds in the first 28 minutes of the game. Teammate David Rivers added 19 points and nine assists during the same time, while Donald Royal .scoredl 7points andpulledin seven rebounds. By the end of the first 
half the Irish were up by 26 points. 1985-86 Captain Tim Kempton 
The first half indicated Notre 
Dame's exceptional talent rather than Miami's lack of skill. The 
Hurricanes managed to hit 55 percent of their shots in the first half, an 
impressive showing that nonetheless fell short ofthe Irish' s 67 percent. 
Notre Dame was simply playing better. The second half resembled the 
first as ND continued to dominate the game. Miami hit only 29 percent 
of their shots and managed to score a mere eight points in the first 10 
minutes. The game quickly became a rout. Notre Dame scored 30 

points to make its lead 96-48 with 10 minutes left on the clock. The only_ 
question that remained was when the Irish would break the 100-point 
barrier. The answer came just a minute later when Irish player Scott 
Hicks scored a jumper from the foul line. 
The final outcome ofthe game: Notre Dame 126, Miami 73. This loss 
became the second-worst in Miami's history. Ironically for the Irish, 
the 126 points became the most ever scored on the road by a Notre 
Dame team. The win over Miami marked the second straight game of 
the season in which Notre Dame scored more than 100 points. The 
average of the last three Irish games jumped to 101 points. 
Notre Dame's enormous win over Miami was attributed not only to 
good shooting, but also to the team's rebounding. Notre Dame was 
ranked seventh in rebounding in the nation. The Irish also produced 
nine of the game's 13 slam dunks. Both Irish Head Coach Digger 
Phelps and Miami Head Coach Bill Foster agreed that Miami had been 
outplayed in every area of the game. Notre Dame's defeat ofMiami 
would be one in a series of wins that the Irish enjoyed in the late '80s .and early '90s. Continuing its winning tradition, Notre Dame managed to beat Miami again four years later by a score of 107-60. Notre Dame's fortunes have changed this season as the team dropped both ofits games to Miami, the first on January 25 by 14 points and the second on February 26 by just three. The losses come during a season when every win is crucial for a berth in the NCAA tournament. 
-Rebecca Frazier 
20 Scholastic Sports 

Key Stat: The Irish won their opening game against Denver (18-7) this past Sunday. Prime Time Performer: Lael O'Shaughnessy and Alissa Moser each scored four goals to help lead ND to victory. Next game: The women host Ohio and Richmond this Friday at Loftus starting at 3:30 p.m. 



~ (17-3)
Key Stat: With a 77-54 win over Georgetown, the Irish locked up the No. 7 seed in the Big East Tourney.. . Prime Time Performer: Troy Murphy has been named the Big East Player of the Year, leading the conference in both scoring and rebounding. Next Game: The Big East conference tour­nament continues through Saturday in.New York. 

W((l 
Key Stat: Although the women dominated the boards, their effort was not enough to beat out Rutgers in overtime. Prime Time Performer: Freshman Alicia Ratay hit two 3-pointers to force the Rutgers game into overtime. Next Game: After their loss to Rutgers, the Irish were eliminated from the Big East tournament.The NCAA tournament begins March 17th. 
Bose Ii (4-2)
Key Stat: The Irish'posted a 2-1 win at the Hormel Foods Classic in Minneapolis, Min. this past Sunday. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore Steve Stanley's impressive performance earned him all-tournament honors. Next Game: The Irish face Duquense in Jacksonville; Fla., this Saturday at noon. 
WANT TO MAKE 
INTERHALL SPORTS REALLY EXCITING? JUST ADD ICE. 



ON THE 

BY ALEX 
How do you make Stanford and Keenan, typically· bitter .rivals, get along? Try putting them on the Same team. Sound im­possible? Think again. The combined team of these two dorms is .one of the most suc­cessful in interhall hockey. Combined dorm teams as well as the excitement of being on the rink late at night make ice hockey· an entertaining interhall sports. Interhall ice hockey, which justconcluded its season, takes players from all skill levels. The majority of the players played on high school teams or have some experience on the ice, but there are still many participants who barely know how to skate. Finding enough players is a problem a lot of the dorms face. It's typical for about 20 people to sign up, but usually only 10 players show upforgamesonaregularbasis; Uriah Dodge, captain of the Fisher team says, "It's a little frustrating to have· so much talent and not enough players. If more of the people who had signed up would show up for games, then I think we could have done a lot better than we did." Because of the problem finding players, combined teams have become ~he norm. In addition to the Stanford-Keenan team, O'Neill-Keough, St. Ed's-Alumni and Siegfried-Knott have all combined to form 
i 
;·._: ..
, 
,­


~~f~ii'.f\l~i!!lii 
I< 
Sports Scholastic 21 



:·!5:~ 
..§;z1;,i}f-;; .. _•_ .. :_•· ;,;;::,s;:j(ii.i,~:~~~~::ft;;:j 
·ici~~~~eenan~stanfo~dt6~k~r,'s/ , ~-"~ ·net m.. . .. hpckeychampipriships;;Siegf~i~'.d~l(:n,..'t,,_,t,.,_':·,.,a.,,s,.,,·v.,,,ic...,t,..,IS""r.i""o.,.··.....,~......,......,.===~"ii' 
22 Scholastic Sports 
teams aren't afraid of any fights that may break out. According to Dodge, "Our strat­egy consists of play­ing as· rough as pos­sible when it's pos­sible. Refs who play on varsity are tough, 
. but it's pretty easy to ~~-; get away with stuff:'··.,. ·· · :j= when you have just a 
LATE-NIGHTSKAT ostofthe · Ji student r~f." 
interhallicehockeyga· stakeplace l!!l To give you a i ' lateatnight. . .~ broader view of the
·L:.....:.:____ 
· ·· · ··· · · ·· · -interhall hockey sea-teams. son, here are summaries of all the teams' Sometimes, though, this joining offorces seasons. can be a problem to other teams. Justin 
S O R I N 
Torok, captain of the Morissey team, says, 
After a disappointing losing season, the
"It's good that there are more teams, be­
Otters were the only team not to make it to 
cause we get to play more games. But the 
the playoffs. It was a general consensus
only problem is that the competition is a 
among the captains that everyone had pretty
little lopsided. The powerhouses, like St. 
well beaten Sorin.
Ed's-Alumni and Siegfried-Knott, have an 
advantage over teams like ours thatjust got F I S H E R 
enough guys so we can have our own team." Fisher also suffered a pitiful season. Af­
Some dorm teams didn't join with other ter doing well in the playoffs last year, 
dorm teams but wish they would have. "We Dodge was looking forward to a repeat. 
started out the season real strong, but when However, the team barely made the playoffs 
we got near playoffs, our attendance really ahead ofSorin with a record of 1-4-3. "Un­
flattened out," says Zahm Captain Paul fortunately, we didn't get the breaks that the 
Nebosky. other teams got," Dodge says. "We had a lot 
How do these differences between paired of close games that could have gone either 
and single teams affect what some think is way. For us, though, they just went the 
the best part of hockey -the fights? Ac­other way." Butthe season was not an entire 

cording to Jonathan Doria, captain of the loss. ''The main point of playing is Just to· 
Siegfried-Knott team, "Fights are very ran­have fun, especially when we knocked down 
dom, but when you have all these guys that a couple girls in some of the games." Fisher 
are just so competitive, you're bound to endured a humiliating loss in the first round 
have a little glove-tossing scuffle." Some of the playoffs. 

\•,', 
,\' . ' 
Z A H M 
The Zahm team started out the season strong, but as the playoffs approached, fewer and fewer players showed up for the games. Accumulating a record that could make Bob Davie jealous, Zahm finished the regular season with three wins and five losses. A number of Zahm players have little or no experience, but according to Captain Paul Nebosky, the team is just out there to have fun. The pinnacle of the season came in a 5-2 win over Fisher in which they were trailing with only five minutes left to play. Zahm suffered a dismal 6-2 loss to Keenan-Stanford in the first round of the playoffs. 
M O R R I S S E Y 
Morrissey also had a disappointing sea­son. Like many ofthe teams, Morrissey had no practices and, therefore, hardly any time on the ice. Because of this, it was difficult for Morrissey to develop a strategy, espe­cially with so many inexperienced players on the team. Morrissey finished the regular season with a record of 2-5-1. 
S T , E D ' S -A L U MN I With a roster of about 20 guys, St. Ed's­Alumni was looking to repeat as champi­o.ns. But Captain Dave Melander expected a little more out ofthe team that finished the regular season with a record of 4-3-1, com­pared to the previous year's record of 7-0. "Lastyear we won all ourgames, and so this year felt different because ·of our three losses," says Melander. The key game of the seasonwas the tiewith Keenan-Stanford. "It was close all the way," Melander says. The team overcame a 1-0 deficit in the first­round game against Dillon to win by a score of 3-1. 
•"\e: 
-.....-..>,:;:;,.~.·~ ~-· .,-~,: 
_....._...;;; 7·~;7;-;t~l: 
-':~ _:/:::'?:? 

KEENAN-STANFORD 
After coming in second place last year, Keenan-Stanford was looking for revenge. The team accumulated only two losses this season against the top-ranked teams of Keough-O'Neill and Siegfried-Knott. "We' re just out there to have a lot of fun," says Captain Adam Martzke. "We just try to get the right line combinations and then we. see what happens." After pummeling Zahm 6-2 in the first round, Keenan-Stanford looked toward their second-round game against No. 2 Siegfried-Knott. According to Martzke, "If it's not Keenan-Stanford hockey, it's not hockey." The team finished the regular season with a record of 6-2-1. 
S I E G F R I E D -KN O T T Siegfried-Knott has never had a strong team. Last year they only made it to the second round. But after years of playing with a team ofonly 10 members, Siegfried­Knott' s determination has paid off. With some solid play from the small tearri, the year looked promising. Their biggest game was a tie against first-ranked Keough­O'Neill. "We just try to shoot a lot, and luckily we've had some very solid play from everyone on the team," says Captain Jonathan Doria. Siegfried-Knott came out 
of the regular season ranked second with a record of 6-0-2. K E O U G H -0 ' N E I L L 
This team dominated the regular season with an undefeated record of 7-0-1 and won the interhall championship, getting revenge after losing its title as defending champion last year. "Seeing as we can't check in this league or anything, we try to institute a game similar to that of Eddie Shore and Tobe Lake," comments Captain Brian Steffes. Basically, this means they play dirty whenever possible. After a win in the first round, Keough-O'Neill went on to defeat defending champion St. Ed's­Alumni. D 

SLAP SHOT. Some players on the interhall teams are beginners to the sport while some are seasoned players. 
Don't lose 

your head 





We'll be 
back April 
6th. 


Sports Scholastic 23 


Professor Denis Donoghue is a 
Discinguished Visicor ac che Nacional 
Humanities Cencer, and che Henry James 
Professor of English and American 
Leccers ac New York University. 
The Inaugural Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 



Denis Donoghue 
'½.dam's Curse: Christianity and .Literature in the Twentieth Century'' 
All leccures will cake place at 4: 15 p.m., Audicorium ~ Eck Visitors' Cencer (Nocre Dame Avenue, souch of the Morris Inn) 
Thursday, March 23 
God without Thunder 

Tuesday, March 28 
Beyond Belief 


Thursday, March 3.0 

The Idea of a Christian Society 

Tuesday, April 4 
Christ and Apollo 
Thursday, April 6 
Otherwise than Being 
Tuesday, April 11 
After Virtue 
Thursday, April 13 
Church and World 
Tuesday, April 18 
The Death ofSatan 




Cosponsored by the Office of the: P,o,.·ost and the Erasmus Institute Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from thC generosity ofan anonymous donor, The Pow Charitablo Trusts, and the University of Notre Dame 
24 Scholastic Advertisement 
. SURVEY SAYS 



Welcome tn the Underground 

3 bstudio ~ ndtoday. com is an all-access website for the student body 
ast semester I got an e-mail from a friend of mine with a link to
L
a "fire Bob Davie" petition. The link brought me to 
www.ndtoday.com. This professional-looking, easy-to-navigate website was fou11ded by a mysterious organization called 3bstudios. A little detective work led me to section 3B of O'Neill Hall, the headquarters of ndtoday.com, which was pioneered byjuniors Frank Helgesen, Andrew Warzon and Nick Fellers. I met with Frank and Andy over Chinese food to talk about the site. 
The guys came up with the idea last year during finals, and they started building it over the summer. Andy and Frank say they e­mailed each other about 20 times a day, and they managed to get the site running by the fall. Nick, who couldn't make it to lunch with us, is something like the artistic director. "He's the right brain," Frank explains. "He just thinks in colors." 
Though the strengths of ndtoday.com lie in its humorous and often irreverent nature, Frank and Andy 8:fe impressively articulate and extremely professional about the site. They make it very clear that ndtoday.com is completely unaffiliated with the university. They have a cell phone to avoid using campus phones for business calls and rent their own PO box. The combination of their business sense, web savvy and sense ofhuinor has come together to land a really cool website. 
The poll section gives you the power to vote on: whether you think it is acceptable to wear a bathing suit on the quad in March and to submit your choice·for the hottest hockey player. Another part of the site features a listing of campus events, as well as off-campus guides to movies, bars and restaurants. The bar and restaurant guide includes directions ·from D2 or D6 to the given destination. The message boards and free press sections are as close as you'll get to an underground newspaper here on campus, and the search engine is another site novelty. It allows more search options than the Notre Dame home page-it works like a reverse directory. Ifyou need homework from somebody in your class, but you only know their first name and the dorm they're in, this could help you find them. It's also a good stalking tool, which brings us to my favorite part of the site -the e-dogbook. 
At e-dogbook, you make up a password for yourself, log in and then type in a list of your "<logbook favorites." So you punch in a person's name, and that person will get an anonymous e-mail which informs him or her that somebody's interested in them and urges them to check out e-dogbook for themselves. Ifone of these people punches in your name as someone they're secretly admiring, you'll 

both get an e-mail that reveals your identities to one another and declares the love match. "It's huge," Frank says. ''The database has 800 or 900 people in it-at least." 
''That's about a sixth of thepeople on campus," adds W arzon. The serviceiscompletelyanonymous-computersdothematchmaking by themselves, but W arzon gets a notice every time there's a match. He estimates that there have been about 40 or 50 real matches. 
Pretty impressive. And while we're on the subject of e-dogbook, if somebody out there has me on their list of "dogbook favorites" (and I know you do because I got the anonymous e-mail), why don't you just call or e-mail me personally before I put everyone I know on my list of favorites, thus sending the system into overdrive? . Anyway, that's what's going on at ndtoday.com right now, but 3bstudios is constantly updating the web page. "We've got~ ton of ideas," Andy says. "One thing that's probably going to be out in a couple of weeks is online teacher evaluations so you could go there when you're DARTing and look through at all the teachers." 
Frank adds, ''We've been laughing at all the campaign posters that are promising all this online stuff-wecould get this together in two weeks." 
"It would take two years for the bureaucracy to put it through," Andy says. 
They hope to add more academic links, like message boards on literary works and links to read Cliffs Notes on the texts. 3bstudios would also like to get more involved with clubs on campus, and they are in negotiations to get the entire bookstore basketball bracket online. In addition to that, they've been making contact with local bars and restaurants because they'd like to feature coupons for local businesses. 
Right now, a lot of people still haven't come across ndtoday.com, but according to Frank, "Eventually, our whole vision is that the whole school will know about this -kind of an. und~rground community, kind of independent of the university." 
Itelltheguys thatlreally likethesitebecauseit'smoreofan alternative pressthananythingelsewehaveoncampusrightnow.It'saccessibleto everyone, but it has yet to be accessed by the masses. 
"It does kind of have that kind of reputation that it's almost something you've got to know about," Frank says. 
"Or you have to get the e-dogbook e-mail," I say. 
"Yeah," says Andy. "Ifyou wantto see our site, somebody has to like you." D 





by Kara Zuaro 
Out of Bounds Scholastic 25 



,·:.. , ../; . ·:· '· ·,,;';",:', .. .: . 







lllltl\tl,ljl:ll[II!\ 


Josie Vodicka 

When Josie Vodicka started singing and playing the guitar as a 16-year-old, she had no idea that, less than a decade later, she would be on her way to a career in music. But that's exactly where Vodicka, a second­year MFA student finds herself. 'Tm put­ting out my fifth demo CD at the end of 
ij March, to shop it around and see how it 
j goes," she says. 
I 1' Vodicka has reason to hope that her CD will be well-received, as she already has quite a following in the Notre Dame area. In addition to playing regularly atAcoustiCafe, 
I 
she also performs at places like Lula's Cafe and Barnes and Nobles several times a month. "Since this is a close-knit commu­nity, when people hear you, they tell others, and then they call you with invitations to perform, so I've found that to be cool," Vodicka says. 

Vodicka will be showcasing her talents at NAZZ this year. "I played in it last year, and it's really neat to hear what talent is out there. It also gives each musician a chance to hear their peers and see how they com­pare to the people they go to school with," she says. 
Vodicka is also a fan of the "fun, party­event" atmosphere of the battle and is ex­cited that it brings so much attention to Notre Dame's musical talent. "It's really huge, and you see a lot of different people and performers that you wouldn't normally see all in one place," she says. 
With a style she describes as "acoustic folk pop," Vodicka currently performs solo, although she played in a three-person band as an undergraduate. She now focuses on writing original songs, including audience favorite "Indiana," which she plans to per­form at NAZZ. 
Vodicka' s talent and daily three-hour prac­tice sessions have enabled a 16-year-old who discovered she could sing to suddenly find herself a student with a promising mu­sical future. 
-Carrie Sweeney 


Justin Dunn 
When he isn't analyzing Nietzsche or identifying ions as a PLS/pre-med major, senior Justin Dunn finds time for another talent: music. Dunn is one of many accom7 plished student musicians who will perform at this year's Battle of the Bands. 
When Dunl), a solo guitarist and singer, arrived at Notre Dame as a freshman, he had been singing since grade school. He de­cided to learn guitar to accompany his voice, 
28 Scholastic Entertainment 
and by the end of the year was playing well enough to perform at AcoustiCafe. After practicing all summer, Dunn's skills and experience improved. Returning as a sopho­more, he and his brother Aaron, then a senior, joined musical forces, calling them­selves the Dunn Brothers. They released a CD in December ofthat year and focused on selling it throughout the spring. They also participated in NAZZ for the first time, placing third. 
After his brother's graduation, Dunn went solo, writing his own "folk alternative rock" songs, as well as covering hits from Dave Matthews Band and Simon and Garfunkel, among others. He now tries to play at least a half-hour every day after classes to relax and keep his skills in top shape. He credits Notre Dame for providing him with several opportunities to perform in public. "SUB has been really good about letting us play on the quad, and we've also performed at school events, like retreats and Masses," he explains. 
Dunn looks forward to performing yet again in NAZZ, where he will play mostly original songs, including his popular "Sing to Me," which, he says, many people know as his "Irish song." "NAZZ is one of the best things SUB does," Dunn says. "You get to hear all of Notre Dame's music in one place. This school sometimes gets a bad rap in terms of performers, but there really is a lot of talent here, and I think NAZZ proves that." 
-Carrie Sweeney 


American Standard 
Not every band at Notre Dame can brag that it shares the same name as a well­known toilet manufacturer. But for follow­ers of the band American Standard, the name refers to the group comprised of lead singer Holly Hoffman, lead guitarist Chris Osos, rhythm guitarist Dan Puccini, bassist Tom Hayes and drummer Grant Ramsey. Although the band has only been together for a year, it quickly has become a noted presence at Notre Dame. 
Puccini, who assembled the band last year, wanted to create a group with a sound unique from bands currently playing on the radio. In Hoffman, he found the voice to complete his vision -a combination of the sounds from groups like No Doubt and Veruca Salt with a twist. Originally knovyn as SarcastikBite-, American Standard's rep­ertoire now includes a variety of covers, from Guns 'n' Roses to the Cardigans. The band also plays originals and recently re­leased its first album, Close Eye on 2, which it completed in December 1999, and is cur­rently marketing nationally over the Internet. 

The band, who first appeared in NAZZ last year after being together for only three weeks, is eagerly anticipating its return ap­pearance in this year's battle. "We think that NAZZ is more about having fun and getting everyone on campus to support the Notre Dame music scene than it is about competi­tion," says Puccini. "All of the bands who 

In the restive spirit, a student shows his chest at NAZZ last year. 
are going to be there are personal favorites of ours." 
Since its first performances last year, American Standard has gained experience performing in the South Bend area at Corby's, Benchwarmer's and the Madison Oyster Bar, as well as at house parties and on-campus shows. 
With all this practice performing live, the band is sure to provide a professional show­ing at NAZZ. As Puccini promises, "When it's our turn to play, we're gonna play our music with our unique level of intensity." 
In the future,American Standard antici­pates a possible name change and a national tour this summer. At the moment, however, the members are looking forward to a crowd of Notre Dame students, their first fans. "When the whole place is singing along with the words to our songs while we're playing our hearts out...." Puccini trails off. "Well, honestly? No first-place trophy's gonna take the place of that." 
-Kathleen Corte 



Sexual Chocolate 
"We like playing anything bad. We mock everything," Sexual Chocolate's J.P. Montufar says. Bad music is anything from cheesy '80s pop to the Backstreet Boys. The band, however, is far from bad. Sexual Chocolate has gained popularity on cam­pus, even when they are playing bad rap or the song that is their own personal inspira­tion, Marvin Gaye's "Sexual Healing" ­the band changed the lyrics to "sexual choco­late." According to lead guitarist Montufar, the idea for the band came "on one night of extreme non-creativity while watching the movie Coming to America." 

one of those few campus bands that have achieved popularity and a loyal following. According to rhythm guitarist Bill Varettoni, Doc Brown's style is "definitely hard rock." 
Members include Varettoni, Bart Lanahan (bassist), Ryan Murray (lead singer), Brian Petrina ( drummer) and Joe Madia (lead gui­tarist). 
The band attracted campus attention after last year's NAZZ festival, which was the first major show they played. 
Although their last show at Benchwarm­ers, at which the Dunn Brothers also played, attracted about 350 fans, Varettoni says the band still enjoys smaller performances: "We love playing house parties." 
The band is currently working on an origi­nal album. "We have about 10 ... originals," Varettoni says. The CD, which will be pro­duced by Ron Garcia, should be released sometime after spring break. Doc Brown's goal is to make the CD accessible to all of their fans. The band plans to burn the CDs themselves to cut down on production costs. "We don't want to make any money off of it," says Varettoni. 
With unusual hits like the Juicyfruit gum theme-song cover, Doc Brown promises to bring in quite a crowd at this year's NAZZ. 
-Meredith Salisbury 


11We think that NAZZ is more about having fun and get­ting everyone on campus to support the Notre Dame mu­sic scene than it is about competition," says Puccini. 
Sexual Chocolate is composed of four main members, though they usually per­form with five to eight people. When asked what the back-ups do, Montufar laughs. "The back-ups are called 'Pralines and Dick' -they're my roommat~s. They usually do vocals, interpretive dance and sometimes they strip." Although the members ofSexual Chocolate have different tastes in music, the band unanimously agrees that "Billy Passed the Third Grade" from Billy Madi­son is their favorite song. 
At NAZZ, Sexual Chocolate will play songs that define the "bad" in this band, including "Bohemian Rhapsody" by Queen, "Why Can't We Make Out," one rap song and one '80s song. 
Although NAZZ is a battle of the bands, Montufar and the other band members do not see it as a competition. "We're in it for the fun," he says. Montufar speaks for the rest of the band when he says that the music scene at Notre Dame, although not great, has improved as a result ofSUB events such as AcoustiCafe and NAZZ. Sexual Choco­late has taken advantage of the opportuni­ties on campus and plans to continue to do so even after the seniors in the band gradu­ate. When asked to comment on his fellow band members, Montufar jokes, "Usually what I'd say would be bad, so I'll just stop here. We really tease each other a lot." 
-Aggie Noble 


Doc Brown 
Formed about a year ago, Doc Brown is 


New blues band to perform 
The blues is an emotion, a force, a feel­
ing as much as it is a musical form. Fresh­
man Neil Carmichael and his as of yet 
unnamed band have captured the feeling of 
the blues and have invoked the spirits of 
great legends of the .past. 
Two weeks ago, the band got together 
for the first time. Carmichael, a guitarist 
from Granger,
Neil 
formed the group 
Carmichael's from freshmen rec­
Unnamed Band ommended by his 
advisor: Brendan 
O'Connor, an experienced bass player, 
Daly Barnes, a drummer for the ND Jazz 
Band and singer Zach Linnert, a newcomer 
to the blues scene. Before practice, these 
strangers were quiet, tentative, and all a 
little unsure how the session would turn 
out. 
The group dove into a standard blues 
jam. Daly and O'Connor formed a stellar rhythm section, immediately playing to­gether like old veterans with a surprisingly . solid beat and an almost prophetic antici­pation of transitions and stops. Then the guitarist came in. Carmichael, a Stevie Ray Vaughan disciple, laid out a furious solo. An incredibly capable guitarist, his playing reflects a deep emotional force, attempting, as he says, "to speak through 

my guitar." The song came together without the need for preparation or revi­sion. Zach, holding back at first, entered with a deep, powerful voice as the group began to work on some covers for the Battle of the Bands. Though rough at spots and not quite complete, in an hour and a half they had prepared four songs, including The Brian Setzer Orchestra's version of "The House is Rockin'" and SRV's "Let the Good Times-Roll" and "Tightrope." 
"I'm attracted to the passion and the raw feeling of the blues," Carmichael says. He speaks of Stevie Ray with an almost hushed reverence. 
Brendan forms the backbone of the songs, creating a wall ofsound to back the guitar solos. He can adapt quickly and, at one point, changed his bass line for a song, saying, "all you had to do was ask." Daly, who injects a startling, funky, jazz feel to the blues, cites drummer Dennis Chambers as one of his greatest influences. The band does not have a name yet, but Camrichael insists they will have one before NAZZ applications are due. Possessing a rough, raw blues style and abundant talent, these guys are the newcomers to watch at this year's battle. 
-Dan Birk 
Entertainment Scholastic 29 

' -.... . . ---~~-~-­
For Those Who HaveA.Brok'd Heart 
Suggestions to land that special someone 
by Larice N. Woods 

"I don't know what love is ... but ifmy hands are the color ofblood, then I can tell you. Love kills." -Joe Strummer,from the motion picture Sid and Nancy, 1985 
Damn you, Cupid. Blind punk, after so many centuries of practice can you not get your aim right? Spring comes upon us and many have been left out in the cold, without a warm body torelieve that winter itch. Some either have their eye on a 'scratcher' who will not cooperate or had a 'scratcher' who has gone. In either case, I have some suggestions for winning the affections of those who refuse to embrace love. 
Woo Them 

Mama always told me that the love shared be­tween two people also needs the support of a community in order to be truly realized and to 
grow. Thus we must recognize the effective­ness of ritual and ceremony as an expres­sion of the bond between two individu­als. The ceremony I call "This is what happens when you reject me" has proven effective. Sometime late in the night, when most of the people that live in the same neighborhood or building as your sweetie are at home, stand outside your beloved's 
window and scream his or her 
name. If you get no response, 
toss a brick. As Romeo to Juliet, Cyrano to Roxanne and Stanley to Stella -confess all that wounds your heart. After witnessing your fiery 

passion, neighbors will encour­age your precious one to speak to you. "Do something now," they will say. "Before everyone wakes up." When the police arrive, your story of heartbreak and loss will inspire the officers to rush the home of the one you adore, SWAT­team style. And you will be united. 

Collect Keepsakes 

Maybe your beloved does notunderstand that absence does not make the heart grow fonder. A demonstration is in order. To signify each day spent in longing, an item froin your beloved' s room should "disappear." First a picture, then the CD collection and finally the television. Once your honeymuffin finds out that you visited a pawnbroker for comfort, he or she will come running to you. 

Leave A Gift 

It is possible that the object of your heart's desire is not aware of the blistering sting of rejection or apathy. A gift should not only carry meaning for the recipient, but also the gift-giver. I suggest that you leave a pig's heart on your sugarplum's doorstep with a note attached that reads: 
Obviously you were born without a heart. Here is one that will fit you pe,fectly. 
Don't forget to sign your name. The response to the gift will be so great that there is no telling what emotions your adored will pour forth. 
Declare What Could Be 
You must communicate the physical delight the lover gone astray will ex­perience once you have shared kisses and caresses. Thus a bunny-or a squirrel because there are plenty of them aroun~ here -should appear in your sweetie's bed as if to say, "In this very same place, we could 
frolic, too." 
These logical and well thought-out tactics will ensure that your beloved will end up in you arms. Then again, you may end up 

· serving time in the slammer. I am only 5'2" -small women do not do well in jail. Living as big Bertha's bunk punk would defeat the purpose of pursuing any romance. So I offer one more solution. 

Disco 

Believe it or not, honey, just as the earth moves, your world is gonna keep on turning. And at the disco, our great goddess -the eternal glitter ball -goes round and round. Radiant and indepen­dent, she needs nothing but a little light to demonstrate her fabu­lousness. And when the night takes you, have fun in her loving arms. Then the next day, ifl may paraphrase the Gap ad, get up early in the morning and find you another love. 
30 Scholastic Week In Distortion 
,.-. ·. ': 
•
Lecture: "The dfe ind Times bf Rosie the Riveter," 5:30 PM, Grace.Hall Lower Level 

•Concert: 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, 


8:00 PM, Washington Hall 
•Acoustic Cafe, 9:00 PM, LaFortune 



THURSDAY 
I•spring Bre~kBegirts //=~----._ .. i • Lecture: ''Airplade Saf~ty aiid tii'e Lqcation
; l i , r \ ·.
!of Emergency Exits," Fligl~t Attenda.nt parci
: · ' I I : • · 1
iFlemming, 6:34;Pl\1, Soµth Bend N,~tiqna 
' . l I \ I / l 
lAirport I i \ \ J I : •Track and Field at NCAA. Ch_ampionships
• . : I '\_ , ..___ /I J ; • /
l -­

· ­
. •Breaking Biirriers: Selections from 
. . , , , . contempo~·ary quqan Collectipn1atFort . Lauderdale, Snite : : . . •Channel.St1rfing; iii_ .PaJ'anias, 3_:00 PM,
• 
. My Basement i ; · i : 
•Workshop: "H9w jo make peffe~t Margarita;'' . 6:00 AM, La Boom,' Cancun 


-SATURDAY 
•
First Sunday ofLent 

•Brunch 
with my;grandparents, 11:30 a.m., Bob Evans 



SUNDAY 
MONDAY 
•
Altitude Sickness in Aspen . . 

•
Exhibit: Various Drunken Fools Passed Out on Random Beaches, 2:00AM, • 


Bahamas ; .• . . -: 
•Listening to music while playing Mario Kart 7:00 PM, my basement ····· . -­
' .. 


TUESDAY 
. -------'------------------....) 
j 
i
: 
I I 

4' Lecture: 'i•N.t_011/·ey,' Matiers· !inltiie::=i . /I '!1P.?rt:u~c~ 9f a..P;l1oto IDi 01£icei, -: · .. 
Fernanda Heri·ha, 4:30_.AM,,'c'oztimelJaii 
1

•Expens' · Pl ' 1 -· -, \ ' 1 1 
. i~e: l~n7 Call to Parents\ExplainingJ

why I am mjail irj Cozumel ·· ; / / 
:· · j I / ' 1 1 ' 
· · ·· ·. ·. : ...,J \._~~=~~:~_,,/ · / . . i 
. WEDNESDAY .. / 

,---·--------........,___,.c.._·_,_c________:,;_~.· ......~ ......---·-·· .....J 
NOW SHOWING 
March 9-16 
l 


University ParkWest 
C277c7336  
All Shows in Stereo  
Sleepy Hollow  5:10  7:15  
Grizzly Falls  4:30  6:15  
Any Given Sunday  6:30  9:22  
DeuceBigalow  4:00  6:50  


Movies 14 

C254--9685 All Shows in Stereo American Beauty . 1:30 4:15 7:10 9:50 Drowning Mona 12:45 3:00. 5:15 7:35 10:05 Hanging Up . _ 9:30 Mission to Mars 1:15 4:05 7:15 10:00 My Dog Skip 1:05 3:20 5:35 9:55 · Ninth Gate _: 1:00 3:55 7:05 9:50 . Pitch Biack · ·. . . 2:05 4:30 7:05 ·. 9:50 ...... Reindeer Gaines . . 12:50 3:15 5:35 s·:oo 10:25. 
Scrcain 3 .. 10:25 < -···· ·.. . Sriowp:iy '-, __ .. ·. ·· l_:10. 3_:25 5:40_ ?:5.?..~• The Ne.~t Besi:Thing 1:?0 4:1-0 •:7/00,_2;3.5Y. . 
The Whole Nine Yards .-i 3:,05,5:30 -7.:55 ·10:20 Three Strikes . . . ·3:20 :S:25 }:30 9:40' \Vliat Planet Arc You From 1:55 '4:35 7:25 10:15 \VoridetBoys · · .. l':25 4:00 _7:15 9:55 
*StadiumSe~tingAvtiilable >: .. 

Calendar Scholastic 31 


by Bill Varettoni 

Whippets for the Soul 
In that instant, something went through the band -all the excitement and enthusiasm we had lost returned in a torrent. 
Bill Varettoni is an accounting, CAPP and environmental science major. He defines a whippet as the brief high resulting from inhaling the propellant used in whipped cream cans. However, companies have changed how they manufacture these cans to prevent such inhala­tion. 

Being a guitarist in Doc Brown has afforded me my greatest rushes -and greatest frustrations -under the Dome. Easily the greatest rush came at least year's NAZZ festival, Notre Dame's battle ofthe bands. As a band, we had only played out a couple oftimes (I believe it was a pair ofparties) by the time NAZZ rolled around. Just getting into NAZZ proved a difficulty for Doc Brown. We made a demo tape-and we saw that it was good. Unfortunately, we were not known well enough to merit a place in the competition. It was not until SUB decided to lengthen the event that a timeslot was created for us. We were quite dismayed by the whole process and, as a band, we lost our enthusiasm for the competition. I say that the band as a whole had lost a lot of enthusiasm, but I personally thought we had some­thing to prove. To say I was nervous about the competition is an understatement -I didn't sleep one wink the night before, but rather I spent the time chewing disgusting amounts of Tums. I had never played in bands before ND, so this was one of only a handful of times I've played in front of people. We were opening with The Who's "Pin­ball Wizard." This was by far the most difficult · song for me to play, and I could totally see my­self getting so nervous that I'd drop my pick or something. When the moment finally arrived, I was fully prepared to blow chunks at any second. Then I played the opening chord to "Pinball Wizard" and a roar erupted from all of our friends in the crowd. In that instant, something went through the band -all the excitement and enthusiasm we had lost returned in a torrent. For me, it was rather overwhelming. It was like I was just watching us play on stage; it was surreal. The greatest moment was still to come. We began playing the first original we wrote (creatively titled 01). I finally mustered enough courage to look out into the crowd, There were girls on guys' shoulders singing along with our song. I make no exaggeration when I say this was the single greatest moment of my musical career. To see people dancing, smiling and singing along to a song that we wrote completely enthralled me. 
When we got offstage, I looked at everyone in the band. I could tell from their eyes that they were totally elated-we had played our hearts out. When we were told that we had placed third, it had abso­lutely no effect on us. Before the show, I thought that we would have felt vindicated for placing in a competition that we weren't even let into at first cut. But it wasn't like that. We could have come in first, we could have come in last-it wouldn't have made a difference. We loved playing, we loved the crowd, and we loved the moment. I was supposed to go abroad the following semester, but I knew with absolute certainty that I was instead going to stay and play with Doc Brown. 
Yet, for as much as Doc Brown has been a fantas­tic experience, it has also been a source of great frustration. I had played the guitar for years before joining the band, but those years were not typical for a guitar player. The vast majority of time I spent writing acoustic songs by myself -playing guitar and writing music was my catharsis. Although I developed great chops on the acoustic guitar, it always remained an accompaniment to my lyrics. I never had to focus exclusively on guitar playing until Doc Brown. Playing in a band is completely different from being a solo performer, and I had a difficult time adjusting. I was a musical midget compared to the· others in the band. It took every ounce ofmy concentration to keep up with them. I'd spend hours in my room just trying to learn covers that the rest of the band learned in minutes. I found myself getting depressed and disgusted with the whole process. 
Last semester it came to a hilt -I was fully prepared to leave the band. I told Bart, our bassist, of my intentions. He understood, but urged me to play one more show before I quit. I did. 
That show was just what I needed. We had our usual crowd -the guys from 222 St. Louis, the Siegfried and Alumni guys, and the rest of our friends. I looked out at all of them. They were da:1cing around, smiling, singing and having a great time. Watching everyone's faces, I knew that this was truly what it's all about. 
We're making an album right now and that album is for the hundred (and growing) or so of you who always come out and support us. You make it all worth it. For me, you supply that inexplicable rush -my whippet for the soul. Thank you. . 
32 Scholastic Final Word 


Al 1-nighter bu Brian Christ 




wvfi.nd.edu 
wvfi.. nd..edu 






