Discs quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 20, 1883.
No. 7.
To Most Rev. Patrick W. Riordan, D. D., on the Occasion of his Visit to Notre Dame.
Most Reverend Father, again yon behold The scenes that to you were so dear,
When a student you dwelt in those sweet times of old, |	’Neath the roof that we also revere.
Our old Alma Mater, the same, and yet changed,
Yon find at your honored return, And long years of absence have never estranged Affections that faithfully burn.
New walls and new faces you see, it is true, But a spirit the same as of yore
Will greet you to-day, though the body be new, With the smile that it formerly wore.
Destruction has raged through the well-beloved scene, And fire has to ruin essayed;
But what seemed extinction a profit has been. By God’s Divine Providence, made.
For fairer and statelier mansions arise
.	On the site of the elder destroyed,
I ' And the Dome, sb superb, the delight of our eyes,
■	Now crowns the once desolate void.
i	And high on the Dome see the statue appear
Of Her, among women the Blest, The true Alma Mater of all that have here Their pray’rs at her footstool addressed.
Amid the new faces surrounding you now, There are yet some familiar of old, And one to whom all in affection must bow— The Founder, still here you behold.
Oft, oft in the far-distant land of the West, O’er which you are called to preside,
You will think of these friends—for the old friends are best—
Though new ones your heart may divide.
We deem it a privilege fondly to gaze On one of our number to-night, I	Whom Wisdom Divine has selected to raise
To so noble and honored a height;
And long may you live in your bright, Western home, ’Mid joys of the spirit so calm,
The pride and the glory, wherever you roam, Of the students of old Notre Dame!
Revelation.
Address delivered before the Archconfraternity, Sunday evening, Oct. 7th, by T. Ewing Steele, ’84:
There is no subject fraught with greater interest to all mankind than that of Revelation; to prove its possibility, to show its necessity, and above all, to establish its actuality-, as comprised in our own. Christian faith, is a labor at once fascinating and sublime. To every thinking man is this life-problem given: “Whither am I going, and how shall I go?” And it behooves him, if to his eager, earnest questioning all nature gives back but an uncertain sound, to study the tradition of mankind, and find if in the long ago some fortunate men, working at this same weary problem, were not given guidance from another world, which they in turn handed down to all posterity. And it is this same guidance which Christian philosophy calls by the name of Revelation—a direct communication of some moral or religious truth from God to man.
In proceeding to the discussion of our thesis, we shall assume what Aristotle or Cicero would have freely granted: The existence of a final cause as Author of the universe; in intelligence, infinite; in duration, eternal; the immortality-of the soul, and the obligation of the natural law. For it is the.pd-culiar misfortune of all decent men who deny the existence of revelation, to insist upon the religion' of nature, which is nothing- more or less than the full understanding of the natural law. We, all of us, I suppose, have a pretty fair idea of what is meant by the natural law. We know that all men—whenever born or wherever educated—know instinctively that there are certain things they should do, and certain things they should not do. That it is right, for example, to offer some kind of worship to the Deity; that it is wrong, for example, to lie, to steal, to be ungrateful to a friend, cruel or neglectful to a father or child.. The remote applications of this law are, of course, very uncertain; but the great precept, “Do good and avoid evil,” is whispered in the ear of every child on whom 'the light of reason ever.shines. •
And now, being given God, eternal, infinite; man, an immortal creature bound by a certain natural law, on the observance of which (for of all sinners against nature, the vilest on. this earth may' often be the most prosperous) depends his condition in the life to come, let us discuss the points at
o8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,-
issue. Is revelation possible? Answer the schoolmen with major irrefutable: “ Whatever is not contradictory is possible.” Now, if from man to man truth may be spoken, can we deny that it may come to man from God? True, we' have already the natural law, but no revelation could evef-be in contradiction to it, for both are from God, and God is truth. Therefore revelation is not absurd; therefore it is not impossible. ' ”
But some one may say, what is the use of splitting metaphysical straws about the possibility of revelation? The real problem is this: Why God, who gave to man at his creation a natural law for his guidance, should in the reign of Augustus Csesar have addressed new moral and religious truths to him ? In point of fact, what was the necessity of revelation? To a'‘Christian, there is no’difficulty; he realizes that both the intellect and the will of ’ man were so weakened by the fall of Adam that he could not know the whole of the natural law, nor practise its elevating precepts. But in addressing one who professes only the religion of nature, we must reduce the whole question to a historical point, and show (whatever the cause) that, as a mere matter of fact, without revelation, the natural law can neither be wholly understood, nor to its civilizing precepts obedience be given.
It is manifestly unfair to take a cultivated American of the nineteenth century and say that he, ignorant and careless of all revealed religion, still knows the whole of the natural law and conforms his life unto it. It is manifestly unfair, because he is from his birth more or less influenced by the elevating teachings of revealed Christianity. We should take instead a number of the most civilized nations of antiquity, and see how they neither knew the natural law nor practised its ennobling precepts. What do we find in Rome, in Greece and in Egypt? Everywhere the worship of idols and of many gods. And these gods were all supposed to be addicted w to the lowest human passions, and in the latter days of Rome were chosen from the vilest of the emperors; their religious rites and mysteries, too, were celebrated by the most’ general and degrading debauchery. But it may be objected that there were many men, like Socrates and Cicero, in wonderful accord with Christian truth and morality. Granted, but they-were among a few notable exceptions; and after all, Socrates, gifted with .marvellous genius, ended his pure life by a sacrifice to JEsculapius! For to dispel the ignorance and corruption of the people was for ancient philosophy a hopeless task. The remedy it knew, not, nor knowing equid have used; nor did it ever really long to heal the pestilence of corruption and unbelief, to lead the people to a fuller truth, a purer day. It knew no' remedies, for it groped, by its own confession, in the darkness of uncertainty, knowing not the origin of evil, it could suggest no efficacious remedy for sin. It was unable to check the evil of the world, for it lacked unity, earnestness, morality and authority. Philosophers quarrelling among themselves, disobeying their own precepts, could indeed accomplish little. But, indeed, one may question their willingness to.
change the order of things, impregnated, as they were, with the errors and superstitions of their day. And, after all, who can wonder at their failures, when we see the absurd errors so rife in modern philosophy divorced from revealed religion—a philosophy of negation, which, so far from helping the man busy with the problem of the life to come, cannot even assure him of his own existence. Thus, we see to the man of things nor to the. man of thought can the national law be unfolded without the aid of revelation.
In proceeding now to demonstrate the actuality of our Christian revelation, we cannot but be struck by the vast number of impostors—of whom our own Brigham Young is perhaps the most recent— who have claimed to be charged by God with a message to mankind. Now, how are we to distinguish the true from the false? Philosophy gives us two tests, miracles and prophecies. Let us apply them to the Founder of our faith. A miracle is a sensible effect, contrary to the general law of nature, with God only as an efficient cause and giving the sanction of truth (since God can never confirm a falsehood) to any moral doctrine with which it is united. Now as a mere matter of history, did Christ perform miracles? Profane contemporary history speaks scantily but wonderingly of them; but they are fully recorded in histories written by four of His disciples, and which are best known as the Gospels of Mathew, Mark, Luke and John. They describe these miracles worked by Christ, before and after the crucifixion, * naming definite times and places, and claiming the presence of thousands of witnesses. Can we claim that these four ignorant men could have gained credence for such colossal and notorious falsehoods? But it seems to me that the conversion of the world to Christianity silences all objections to the miracles of Christ. For an executed malefactor, an unknown Judean, by means of a few ignorant fishermen to bring the whole civilized world for untold ages to recognize in Him the Son of the living Gody unless he had given some astounding and undeniable proofs of His Divinity, is, of all miracles, the least comprehensible.
Christ, too, had the sanction of prophecy defined by the schoolmen to be “ a certain prediction of a future event that cannot be foreseen by human causes.” To prove this, we refer the most exacting to the Bible; in the Old Testament are found the prophecies written in the days of Romulus, perhaps of ^Eneas,*fulfilled in the person of Christ, in the reigns of Augustus and Tiberius Caesar. But there is another test of a true revelation—the blessings it showers upon all who accept it. « By their fruits,” saith the Master, “you1 shall know them;” and worthy fruit indeed hath His blest tree of Jove and mercy given to the world. For wherever there is true civilization, wherever liberty and social order are united, wherever there is true manhood—each man by right of nature claiming independence and equality—wherever woman . rises from the tool and the slave to be the helpmate and friend,—wherever, in a word, the natural law is understood and obeyed, there is Christianity.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
99
It seems then to me that not only has there been a revelation, but that we who follow “ our fair father Christ ” possess it.
Excelsa Super Sidera.
Ltetis sonant quid vocibus aera?
Magno tonantis murmure tinnuli
Ad gaudium magnum vocantur;
Tempus adest, properate gentes,
Videte: Vastavit furiens modo Vulcanus istum tam placidum locum,
Mansit nihil; tristes ruinse .	,
Undique per spatium jacebant.
At tunc maligno fervida spes subit
Exinde nunquam visere Virginem
Throno sedentem. Quje perennis, Quae rabies cruciat furentem ?
Quid corde vol vis, pectore quid latet?
Ah! tune sentis.......vana putas, miser!
Nunquam locum cernes relictum, Firmiter hie pede stat Maria.
Elata quaerens jam solium micans Nubes nigrantes vertice contigit.
O	O
Mirantur audaces cacumen, .
Dum pavidi dubitant tueri.	..
Est digna sedes quanta Tibi potest:
Corona stellis assimulat facem
Solis: fere possunt subire.
Intrepidi jubaris nitorem.
-	Novitius.
I	' A Few Thoughts.
I	It is surprising to notice how many there are in
i	this wide world that think themselves prodigies,
I	made from a different sort of material than the
majority of mankind; nearly every hamlet, village, town, city and, in fact, every place where ।	there is a gathering of people you are certain to
, |	' find a “ great man.” How they ever* acquired their
,	greatness is indeterminate, and it is unnecessary to
11	talk/-on such subjects, for they will tell you their
1	whole history, should you happen to have the
i	pleasure of a few minutes’ conversation.
’	Do we not many a time and oft meet men as:	suming manners so thoroughly inconsistent with
’	their real characters, as to subject themselves to
remarks such as these: “ I do not understand him,”
i	“He is a perfect riddle to me,” etc? Some of
these men are .called eccentric, which is but a mild '	term implying their selfyconceiL One would best
express their idea of themselves by calling-them the “ necessary beings ” without whom the world must needs come to a stand-still, and slowly but surely, return to that epoch of man’s existence • when fig-leaf apparel was prevalent; or, if the Darwinian theory be true, tails would be added to us and our principal amusements would, instead of the conventional, be the antics common to the Orang-outang state of civilization.
|	- o	o
' How often have we seen humorists, in their own estimation, whose lightest words appear.to them-, selves so inconceivably witty, that they are forced to violent fits of laughter which sometimes endanger their lives by arresting digestion? Invariably this class of men associates with weak-minded creatures that, from custom, are wont to laugh at everything they say. Of course, these contempt ible beings are never choice in the themes for their disgusting humor; the distress of poverty, weaknesses of old age are their favorite topics, and they are determined to show the superiority of their mind even at the expense of morality and religion. Opposed to this class is another, equally as repugnant, but essentially the same; in this are found men who never smile, or if they do, it is incredulously; always appear indifferent, and, when most interested, they seem least concerned. They never find merit in anybody or thing, and give you to understand, by a look, they know better. Indeed, it is true, but not remarkable, that this world is filled with a variety of characters as different as possible in color, form, manners, expression and intellect, but all agreeing that they are the smartest people alive.
It is commonly thought all the studies one requires are summed up under the head of the different sciences and arts, so-called; but there is a study higher than these, equally as essential, equally as profitable, but a thousand times more difficult: “The proper study of mankind is man.” In this study it is not necessary to overload our brains with a knowledge of the excessively intricate structure of the physical frame. We need not know the fibrous condition of the heart, or note the chemical changes in the blood after the oxygen of the air has been inhaled. The capillary arrangement of the blood-vessels, process of digestion, relation of the sympathetic system of nerves to the cerebro-spinal, all these may be neglected without impediment to our progress in this line. What we must know and study are the passions of. man and the physical impressions which they make; in a word, the inner workings, the workings of the heart. We must understand why that heart stands still or beats more quickly, those cheeks turn white or glow, those lips tremble, that eye stare vacantly or sparkle, those hairs loose their color.
We must look at men and women in the different walks of life, record the changes in expression, consequent to a change of fortune. Follow men to the field of battle, into the courts of justice, the halls of legislature, into the very bosom of their families, everything connected with the human heart must be laid bare. Neither the different 'forms of belief nor systems of philosophy have anything to do with this study of man, nor does it embark on the sea of spiritual existences. It makes us familiar with the world of men and women, exposes their caprices, tells us their thoughts, takes note of their actions, and assigns motives,—their words, looks, character of dress, all are known to •us; shows us the fallacies and inconsistences we cherish, and makes us see ourselves as we really are, by exposing our faults. The mirror is held
ioo	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
before us, we need but look in and everything is clear.
The faces of men are the stamps of their character; observe them closely, and the heart is known. Their words are keys.
John A. McIntyre, ’84.
Junior Address to Very Rev. Father General.
Very Rev. and Dear Father General:
The Juniors in. general, and the Knights of St. Edward in particular, congratulate you most heartily on this propitious occasion. Forty years ago began the special observance of this day at Notre Dame. This was done in deference to a widely-recognized and long-sanctioned custom. That custom is to celebrate, with appropriate exercises, the day dedicated to your patron saint. And to the honor of St. Edward the 13th of October is dedicated. Hence, this is your patronal feast, and all the Juniors cordially join you in celebrating it.
There is something inexpressibly touching in reflecting upon the exalted virtues and untarnished lives of those who have earned the palm and won the crown of sainthood. They looked up into the firmament, and there, like the kings of old, they beheld the star of duty; and, with courage and fortitude, they followed it through all the privations and vicissitudes of life. They never wavered. The light shone in darkness, but they comprehended it. They never did wrong to anyone. They lived only to do good. Their lives afford examples that anchor mankind to a becoming sense of dependence upon the Great Master of all. Such examples invite us not to contemplate the legerdemain of statecraft, the blood-stained laurels of military triumph, or the transitory greatness that rests upon avarice, misery and oppression. Far from it! They are examples of humility, ■gratitude, purity, benevolence and love of God, as well as of all God’s creatures. They invite us away, from the contemplation of injustice, selfishness and wickedness, and show us that religion, right and philanthropy still have an abiding place upon the earth and a saving influence upon men. They show, us that, though tempest fills the land and storms lash the sea, the Voice that said to sinking faith, “ Arise,” and to stormy sea, “ Be calm!” is still trusted, and loved, and revered. The life-of a good man has been beautifully compared to a fixed star which, though it becomes extinguished forever, nevertheless leaves its brilliant coruscations in space and. continues for countless ages\ afterward to shed its glittering light upon the earth. So the examples of "holy men who have passed away, and gone to their reward continue with us,for time indefinite, illuminating the paths of. duty and making it easier for us worthily to bear the-burdens of life. Where their country or which their, century, matters not., -They constitute a universal.brotherhood,.and their examples are a, common heritage. To the whole .world they, belong, for -they tend to.bring down blessings upon
all mankind. It is salutary to reflect upon their lives, to do them- honor, and to implore their- aid, whether in our homes or churches, or in
—“ That cathedral, boundless as our wonder, Whose quenchless lamps the sun and moon supply, Its choir the wind and waves, its organ thunder, Its dome the sky.”
The great God is everywhere, and everywhere He deserves our love, and our obedience, and our devotion. Everywhere, just and holy men who made good their claims to rank as saints recognized o	o
that fact; and it does more credit to our independence and self-respect to honor them for it, than to honor those who built their greatness upon the miseries of others, whether by the sword in war, or avarice in peace.
On .this glorious occasion—the Feast of St. Ed-ward—the Juniors are naturally reminded of all those things; but, at the same time, they attach a local and special interest to the day. They recognize in their beloved Father General one in every way worthy to bear the name of good St. Edward. Yes, most reverend and dear Father, they are alive to the magnitude and importance of the great work you have done. Were your life measured by deeds, it would even now reach far beyond the limits of a century. As it is, they felicitate you upon a life so full of years, and every year so full of usefulness. The trophies you bear carry no suggestion of sorrow or tears. The work you have wrought has not even the remotest corner of its foundation in misery and suffering. The wonderful success in material concerns that has attended your labors has been scrupulously directed to the promotion of religion and the good of mankind. You have given an example that for many and many a year shall excite a spirit of laudable emulation. And that example shall always be fondly cherished at Notre Dame. That you may live to see this feast return scores of times, is the wish and prayer of
Your affectionate
Juniors.
Address from the Minims to Very Rev. Father General Sorin on his Patronal Festival.
A happy feast, and thanks unbounded, For. joys with which we are surrounded, Dear Father! Now, our ninety-four Show that we need not wait much more Before our grand Parisian dinner— That is, should not our ranks grow thinner— Which, at this time of year, one knows, ’Twould be preposterous to suppose!
Felicitations, long and loud, From heart to lip in numbers crowd; And should one ask to know the reason, Let him go back to one bleak season, Some-forty-one .shortyears ago, - When yonder, vale was white with snow,
And one.-log cabin, lonely stood-. Beneath the dense.and;darkling-wood,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ioi
While swarthy Indians gathered round, Their wigwams scattered o’er the ground. Such was this place when first you came And founded our grand Notre Dame, • Dear Father. Now, when we behold A “ city of Palaces ” unfold In beauty on the enraptured sight, To glory in it is but right.
Change, fire and flood have done their best The power of faith and hope to test, But your unwavering energy Has turned all adverse shafts away, And eighteen hundred eighty-three Might rank as Mary’s jubilee;
Since for her sake your work is done: *
Her battles in your battles won. . Dear Father, let this fancy dwell In hearts that love her cause so well.
St. Edward’s Feast has brought at last, Triumphantly to crown the past, A victory that we long have waited And now behold inaugurated;
For, grandly o’er our classic home, Her noble statue crowns the Dome; Brilliant and calm she stands on high Enthroned—the Queen of earth and sky.
Dear Father, ne’er rose in the East For you than this a brighter feast, Since ne’er before were hopes you prized So near completely realized.
See Mary’s image smiling down On hamlet, woodland, vale and town 1 List, as the mellow sounding bell Deep mysteries of her heart doth tell, Waking the echoes, pure and clear, For leagues around; afar and near!
Our Lady of the Sacred Heart Likewise, you have enshrined in Art. A perfect gem her chapel stands, Unparalleled in Western lands. Gregori’s magic brush has given Its walls the character of heaven;
For holy saints, divinely fair, In every space assembled there Where God Himself dwells day and night, . Veiled, yet revealed to faith’s clear sight.
Ah! Altar, lamp and reliquary, All join to publish praise of Mary, While true devotion sees in Art, Deep homage to the Sacred Heart.
The College, too, so blest of late, Fresh progress seeming to bear date With its young President’s accession— So says the popular impression;
Then, Notre Dame this year may boast -That, to the rich Pacific coast, One of her sons goes forth as Prelate— Exultingly, we Minims tell it, For, who can say we may not hope Some time to furnish Rome a Pope?, At least, we’ll strive to worthy be Of such exalted dignity!
The Angel fair-above our door
Will guide “your Princes ” ever more: Hence, germs of wisdom pure and knowledge Will flourish in the Minims’ College;
Will blossom and bear fruit sublime
For vast eternity and time—
Aye! sixty years from this bright day • We shall look back with joy and say, “ Dear Father General’s loving heart, Which always took the Minims’ part, Laid the foundation of success
Which made our lifelong happiness! ”
In view of this, dear Father, take Renewed good wishes, for your sake,. With thanks renewed for each great grace Which we receive in this bright place. A happy Feast! Peace, health and bliss Make all your days as glad as this.
A happy feast! With love unbounded, Dear Father, be your life surrounded! This earnest wish, we know, convinces Your heart that we are loyal Princes, And your ever loving children,
The Minims of. Notre Dame.
Books and Periodicals.
The American Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader. For the Use of Colleges, Academies, and Schools. By Joseph A. Lyons, A. M.. LL. D., Prof. of English and Latin in the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Author of “The Silver Jubilee,” “Questions in Grammar,” and Editor of “ Household Library,” “ Scholastic Annual,” etc. With an Elaborate Introduction on Elocution and Vocal Culture by the Rev. M. B. Brown, A. M.. late Prof, of Theology and Moral Philosophy in the University of Notre Dame. 6th Edition—Revised and Enlarged. Philadelphia: E. H. Butler & Company. 1883. 468 pp. Price, $1.50.
With so large a number of works on elocution already in the field, the success of Prof. Lyons’s book is phenomenal. The sale of five large editions since its first appearance in 1871 would seem to indicate special merit, and, arguing from this success, one would be disposed, from a perusal of the title-page alone, to regard it as an efficient aid to both pupil and teacher. Such is, in fact, the case.
With few exceptions, the older text-books in oratory are much alike, being little more than selections more or less carefully edited. Prof. Lyons, in addition to these, has given the public a carefully prepared manual of elocution both as a science and an art. The admirable chapters on physical culture in the first part of the Rev. M. B. Brown’s introduction treat at much length, and with great discernment and clearness, the anatomical functions of the orator, the laws governing the organs of speech, the best means of training these organs, and what should be avoided as well as what should be done to secure the best effects. In the second part, treating of “ Voice Culture,” speech and its elements—tonic, subtonic, atonic—are analyzed and explained, the sections on tone or timbre and the modulations being illustrated on the music scale. In the third part, or ^Esthetic View of Elocu
102
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tion,” we have general rules for the mastery of a correct technique, a tabulai- classification of the emotions, and examples for their illustration, bringing us to the point at which most manuals begin. The seven general rules for posture and gesture are illustrated with nine pages of engravings, thus leaving nothing to be desired for a proper idea of this necessary accompaniment to the voice.
The 368 pages of selections in prose and verse, forming the body of the book, afford examples of every variety and style of declamation. They are, as might be expected from a teacher of long experience, admirably selected. The drama of “ The Recognition,” originally written for Prof. Lyons’s classes at the University, gives fine scope for action and dramatic power. Some of the pieces for declamation have never before appeared in any book of oratory, and many of them are original. The book is brought out in the excellent style of typography and binding characterising Butler’s publications.
—Notwithstanding the feeling of disappointment in the contributed articles of the first two numbers of Dio Lewis's Monthly, the October number more than makes amends for any drawbacks in the preceding numbers. We have read it from cover to cover with unflagging interest. “ Our Rich Men,” by Dio Lewis, applies scalpel and salve with wonderful skill to a sore spot—one that a great deal of quackery has tried in vain to heal.. Dr. Howard Crosby gives some excellent advice to girls and their mammas, which if followed will save the mammas a great deal of perplexing anxiety and make the girls a great deal happier. If the latter don’t believe us they will do well to read the article and let us know what they think of it. “ IdolWorship in India,” by Amrita Lal Roy, seeks to prove that the -East Indians are not such blind idolaters as most people imagine. There are a number of other articles, full of interest and worth reading:. The subscription price of the Monthly is $2.50 a year.
—The October number of The Dial, a monthly periodical devoted to current literature, opens with a brief, well-written sketch, or rather criticism, of Mathew Arnold and his writings. The writer, Horatio N. Powers, is a warm admirer of Mr. Arnold’s prose and poetic works; however, the necessity for the apology, or seeming apology, for Mr. Arnold’s want of orthodoxy, with which the article closes, is greatly to be regretted. Mr. W. H Wells contributes a review of Hunter’s “ Encylo-paedic Dictionary,”—a work now publishing in parts by Cassell & Co., London and New York. “Howells—Harte—James,” by James B. Run-nidn, the literary arid dramatic critic of the Chicago Tribune, is interesting on account of the contest now going on between the friends of these three writers as to which should hold the first place among American novelists. Mr. Runnion thinks it would be unfair to institute a comparison between Howells, Harte and James upon the basis of their three latest volumes, but he believes that they indicate more progress on Howells’s
part than the others in the domain of fiction. “Recent Philosophical Works,” by John Bascom, is a hodge-podge of half-fledged ideas and a mass of high-sounding but meaningless words. If Mr. Tohn Bascom, whoever he be, knows anything of philosophy he has a very poor way of expressing it. W. F. Allen’s appreciative review of John Esten Cooke’s “ American Commonwealths—Virginia,” gives Mr. Cooke - the credit of clearing some very obscure points in the early history of the Old Dominion. “ The Briefs on New Books ” and “Literary Notes and. News” in this month’s Dial will be read with pleasure by every bibliophile. The Dial is published monthly by Jansen, McClurg & Co., Chicago, at $ 1.50 a year.
Art, Music, and Literature. .
—The last composition of Flotow was apathetic ballad entitled “ The Blind Musician.”
—A collection of books, published by the women authors of Maine, is to be one of the features of the women’s exhibit in a fair in Boston this month.
—An international exhibition of the arts, manufactures, science and industry is to open at the London Crystal Palace next April, and last until October.
—Max O’Rell, the author of that clever sketch, “John Bull et son Isle,” is said to be a French professor in an English school. Nine editions of his book have been issued.
—The tenth and last volume of Richard Wagner’s collected works is to be published this month. It will contain a number of essays, letters,, and reports; also the text of “Parsifal.”
—Berlin and Leipsic have for a long time been rivals in the publishing trade. In 1881 Berlin published 2,464 works and Leipsic 2,452. Last year Leipsic published 2,628, against 2,245 at Berlin.
—There will soon be a literary congress held at Amsterdam, in which England will be represented . by Blanchard Jerrold, Germany by Heyse, France by M. Victor Hugo, who is to preside at this congress; America, it is said, by Consul-General Walker.'	.	.
—Great preparations are being made at Hamburg for the celebration of the second centenary of the birth of Handel, which occurs in 1885. The chief attraction will be a grand musical festival at which all the principal works of the celebrated composer will be performed. t -
- —A fresh contribution to the literature on the subject of the relations off Ireland with the Holy See will shortly see the light in Rome. It will be in .the form of a pamphlet, entitled “ England, Rome and Ireland,” and is from the pen of Signor Soderini, an officer in the Noble Guard of his Holiness. The interest in the brochure will chiefly centre around -a number :of documents from the Vatican archives, bearing on relations between Ireland and the Vatican, which have never before been published. -	1	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.	103
Exchanges.
much prefer to be a high private in the rear rank. We cannot describe 1	'	'	.
“ How angels, in their crystal armor fight, • A doubtful battle with our tempted thoughts.”
—We are'glad of an early greeting from our much-esteemed-'confrere 'The Fordham College Monthly, which even at this early stage seems full of healthy vigor. The Monthly enters upon its second year with prospects of a long and useful career, and it is needless to say that we rejoice at its success. Tiro’s verses, “ To a Rose,” are excellent. The Commencement address to the Graduates of St.John’s, published in the Monthly, contains much good advice. The editorial’ on the much-abused classics—we use the : term “ much abused ” in a double sense—takes issue with Charles Francis Adams and exonerates the present university system from the blame heaped upon it. The assertion that to the study of Latin and Greek in colleges and universities is due the want of a proper knowledge of English will hardly hold good, in face of the fact that Latin and Greek scholars write the best English. The -cause for the prevalence of poor English must be sought elsewhere. Might it not be traced to the conservative ( ?) spirit that retains so many anomalies in . the language, and the manner of presenting it? If English were written as it is spoken, time enough to learn Greek and Latin would be saved.
o	_
But of this more anon. We congratulate the editors of The Fordham College Monthly on the excellence of their paper, and the liberal, manly' treatment given their exchanges.	'.
—We welcome to our ranks The Xavier, a bright-looking sixteen-page monthly, published by the students of St. Francis Xavier’s College, New York. The Xavier starts out auspiciously; the contributions show talent and industry. The . opening article is especially good. Jos. Delaney, A. B., ’83, seizes “The College Fetich” by the horns and administers some sturdy kicks. ’ By the way, this “ College Fetich’’has become the chief subject of discourse in the college papers since its ghost haunted the brain of Charles Francis Adams, and there is no telling when the vile spectre will down. . Mr. Delaney says truthfully that we need a language like the Greek, “ whose structure • ' is fixed and decided, which has seen all its changes and reached its perfection,” in order to mould our own after it. “ Language,” he adds, “ is the sign of sotil,- of intellect, of thought, and is only more or less perfect as it more or less truthfully represents 'tvJiat it signifies” Very good; and to begin with, would it not .be well to follow the Greek in . so far as to make our written speech conform to the sounds which it-is intended to rep-r resent? As if is, nearly a lifetime is required to learn to~sf)ellwA pronoimce era? written language, -or to’squeeze-certain sounds from very-uncertain signs; but few even of our gray-headed scholars can stand a test, without making mistakes. We doubt very-much whether Charles Francis Adams would do as well as many others; in any event, the effort would probably make the “ tough cough . • and hiccough plough him through.”
—Last week we said the number of visitors from ■other colleges were few. We cannot say so now. They begin to crowd our sanctum, and with a few more accessions to the number we will probably have to do as did Dr. Rawlinson, one of the contributors to the Tattler, who stuffed his four rooms ■so full of books that he was compelled to sleep in the passage. All right though; the more the merrier. Our latch-string still hangs out, and our friends will always find us “at Home” to their calls.	•
—The Philomathean Revievu, of Brooklyn, N. Y., is out in a new cover of tasteful design, and also “ sports ” a new heading. Short sketches of the late “Judge Black” and “West Point,” and “ Parliamentary Law,” are the .chief literary articles. The essay on the “Origin of Phrases” is ' poorly. conceived, and not worth a place in the magazine. The same may be said of the “ poetry ” on “The Philomathean.” Perhaps J. W. D. and H. J. S.
“---write because all write, so have still • Excuse for writing, and for writing ill.”
—As announced last week, the Harvard Daily Herald and the Crimson have united their forces. The result of their joint-labors is now. called The Herald-Crimson, published daily. Besides the general news of the University, the gleanings entitled “Fact and Rumor,” etc., it is proposed to give a fair share of the paper to literary articles, and without trespassing on the grounds of the Advocate or Lampoon to endeavor to combine prose, poetry and news in such a manner as to please the majority of readers. In truth, there is but little change in the make-up and character of the paper; the Harvard Daily Herald was always much more than an ordinary college news-sheet; it even reached a high grade of journalism. As the Crimson was noted for the excellence of its poetry, we have no doubt the combined forces will work to advantage.	•
—By an oversight we failed to acknowledge the receipt of the College Message last week. The October number arrived promptly. The issue is a creditable one. The editors promise the patrons of the Message a brand-new suit of paper and type —the best in the market—if delinquent subscribers pay what they owe. Surely, this should be inducement enough to said delinquents to pass in the shekels, if they have the least interest in the. paper’s welfare. It is bad enough to (defraud any paper; but a college paper—the result of the sacrifice of their few leisure hours by hard-worked students— is the last from which money should be withheld. The exchange editor of the Message says that we we have “ not come to the front yet, to show the keenness of our weapons; that they are rusty, no doubt, and need polishing.” It’s a fact, Mr. Editor; you have hit the mark. But we would rather not go to “ the front,” not just yet, at least—would
104
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, October 20, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day. •
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct. ‘
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
—An event of joy to all at Notre Dame during the past week was the visit of Most Rev. Patrick Riordan, the newly-consecrated Archbishop of Sa-basa and Coadjutor to the Archbishop of San Francisco. Accompanied by the Rev. Francis Hene-berry, his former assistant in his parochial charge, the distinguished prelate arrived at the College on
0 last Friday evening. The Faculty and students were assembled to greet him, and an address of welcome, which is published elsewhere, was delivered by Mr. E. A. Otis. His Grace replied briefl}7, expressing his thanks for the welcome accorded him, and the joy he felt in revisiting the scenes of his youth and his Alma Mater for which he had ever retained a most sincere affection. Later in the evening he attended the entertainment in celebration of the patronal festival of the Founder of Notre Dame and President of the University during the student life of the Archbishop, and, as reported elsewhere, made most appropriate closing remarks. The Archbishop remained at the College until Monday morning, and during his stay the various departments of students ■ vied with each other to do-him honor and make his visit a pleasant one. It was not, indeed, in the halls familiar to him* as a student, for .these had been destroyed by fire, and newer and grander ones had succeeded them.
. Twenty-five years have rolled by since Archbishop Riordan went forth from these College walls to engage in the immediate preparation for the sacred calling which he had chosen, and the pursuit of which has been crowned with such honor and dignity. In those early days of Notre Dame, there was naught .to compare with .the grand and imposing buildings which now meet
the eye, but though lacking in material resources— to use the words of His Grace—the education given was then, as now, solid and practical and imparted by a learned Faculty. Of the bright students who then attended during the years ’56 and ’58, Bishop Riordan was the foremost, and the old College catalogues record many a premium, prize and honor which he received. It was therefore with no ordinary feelings of pride and pleasure that his former President, now the venerable SuperiorGeneral, and the present directors of the College welcomed him, and strove to make him feel that Notre Dame was truly an Alma Mater and received him as the most distinguished of her sons.
The visit of the Archbishop will long be remembered by the students of Notre Dame, and the best wishes and prayers of all go with him in the grand and noble sphere of action upon which he is entering, o .
Celebration, of St. Edward’s Day.
Following a long-established custom, the festivities in connection with the celebration of St. Ed: ward’s Day—the patronal festival of Very Rev. E. Sorin, the venerable Founder of Notre Dame— were begun on last Frida}7 evening, the eve of the festival. The entertainment provided on the occasion was under the auspices of the Euglossian Association of the University. 'Numerous invitations had been sent out, and in response a large and intelligent audience assembled to greet the performers and do honor to the occasion.
His Grace, the Most Rev. Patrick W. Riordan, the newly-consecrated Coadjutor Archbishop of San Francisco, perpetrated a most delightful surprise by his arrival on the evening train, about an hour before the entertainment began. His presence added no little interest to the proceedings, especially when it was remembered that he was an old student, and in “ days of yore ” had taken a prominent part in such exhibitions on precisely similar occasions. With his former President, the venerable recipient of the evening’s offering, he occupied the place of honor, and was an interested spectator of all that was carried on. Among those who had come from abroad, we noticed Rev. F. Heneberry, Chicago; Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., Watertown, Wis.; Mr. B. Eisenhauer, Huntington, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Chicago, Ill.; E. A. Bray, editor of the Catholic Citizen, Milwaukee; Mr. J. Wile and son, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. Stumer, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Houc, Cleveland, Ohio; Mrs. English and daughter, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. M. -Cole, of Denver. > . .	.
The College Band opened the entertainment with a well-executed morccau, entitled “The Vanguard Quickstep.” We may say here, disclaiming all intention of repeating any stereotyped phrase of flattery, that the Band on Friday evening gave credit to itself and its worthy leader, and promises to be the best we have had at Notre Dame for a number of years. The ;address to Father Sorin, from the Minims was read in a clear and distinct
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
IO5
voice by "Master B. Lindsey; he was supported by Masters R. V. Papin and J. Wright, the former of whom'presented, a beautiful bouquet of flowers from St. Edward’s garden. Master D. G. Taylor read the Junior address. Mr.-C. A. Tinley, of the Class of ’84, spoke, in behalf of his Class and the Seniors in general, and presented an address excellent both in composition and style of delivery. Then followed music by'the University Orchestra, who rendered Rossini’s overture to Othello. The dramatic feature of the evening came next on the programme. The play chosen was Ben Jonson’s “ Cataline.” Mr. J. Solon delivered the prologue, in which he described effectively.and interestingly the plot of the play about to be produced; showing how it centred upon the great conspiracy formed by Cataline against the Roman republic, its discovery and denunciation by Cicero, the banishment of the traitor, and the subsequent conflict with the Roman arms.
In regard to the manner in which the play was presented, we must say that the Euglossians did not.fully answer all the expectations of their friends. The play, itself was a somewhat monotonous affair. The feat of remodelling it was accom-plished—not at Notre Dame, we are glad to say, but by one whose ideas of dramatic effects were but too plainly derived from school-boy exhibitions. Still, had each one’s lines been more carefully committed, had a greater spirit and earnestness been shown, the play, such as it was, would have run more smoothly. However, defects are unavoidable in an entertainment at the beginning of the year, in which many of the performers are new, and necessarily but little time is given to preparation. No doubt in this consideration much can be found to excuse the drawbacks of the performance. At the same time, praise must be given to Messrs. Otis, Solon, Saviers, Spencer, Conway, Coll, Brown, Steis and Rudge for the spirit displayed at times and the effort to make a weak play interesting.	’
On the close of the play, Very F ather General arose, and, after a few words of thanks, introduced Archbishop Riordan, who spoke feelingly of the recollections of his own college days, which the events of the evening recalled, and concluded by words of practical, earnest advice to the students. The audience then dispersed to the strains of a grand march by the Band.
Saturday, the xjth.
Solemn High Mass was celebrated at 8 a. m.,by Very Rev. Father General, with Rev. Fathers Granger and Walsh as deacon and subdeacon. At 10 o’clock, the members of the Faculty assembled, and a reception was tendered Very Rev. Father Sorin. Prof. Hoyne eloquently expressed the congratulations of all upon the return of this happy day, and the venerable Superior-General feelingly responded. At noon, a grand banquet was served in the Seniors’ dining-room, at Avhich Archbishop Riordan and Very Rev. Father General presided.
The Regatta and the Field Sports, which were -to have been the great features of the day, werepost-
poned on account of the rain. However, the day was made to pass pleasantly enough;, all entered into the spirit of the festival, and wished the venerable Founder many happy returns of his Pa-tronal Day.
' Presentation to Archbishop Riordan.
' A pleasant event in connection with the Archbishop’s visit to his Alma Mater was the presentation of a gold chalice by the University. On Sunday evening, when the Archbishop returned from a visit to St. Mary’s Academy, he found the students drawn up in front of the main building,.and the Facuity and a number of visitors on the porch. On.alighting from his carriage he was conducted to a throne which had been prepared for him, while the Band played a march of welcome. . Mr. W. Bailey, supported by Masters Devine and Papin, who bore the gift with its beautifully-wrought covering, made the presentation on the part of the University, with the following address:
Most Reverend and Beloved Archbishop:—Your visit to Notre Dame has given joy to all of us. The students of the University have long known of your indefatigable labors in behalf of religion and morality, and they are glad that such signal success has attended them. The good Brothers, whose devoted lives and steady perseverance in pious offices bear witness to their practical zeal and earnestness, rejoice to see you among them, and to receive the blessing of God at your hands. Our beloved Father General, and the President of the University, and all the Faculty, esteem themselves honored by your visit, and are grateful that it is their privilege to make you feel “at home” at Notre Dame. Your old Professors,and all who knew you when you were a student here, cannot restrain the expression of a sense of pride at seeing you return so rich in honors from the most glorious conflict in which man can engage. You went forth from this University, bearing the lam els of its learning, and attended by its blessing and best hopes for your future; and you have justified its highest expectations. You bear back the crown which testifies to devoted labor and great capability in the service of God. It was a great pleasure to the entire Communitv to see you return crowned with such honor, and so worthily bearing it. It was a great pleasure to Notre Dame’s venerable Founder to have you use in celebrating your first Mass at Notre Dame a chalice that he personally received from our Holy Father the Pope. In receiving that chalice, he felt that it was a gift which he would cherish with care and gratitude to the last conscious moment of his life. And, in view of the fact that this is regarded by him as so worthy a gift, we have assembled to ask your Grace to accept from us, in the name of the University, a gift of like nature—a chalice dedicated to the service of God. We shall feel honored by your acceptance of it; and we shall know that when you go to your new home by the “ Golden Gate ”— the beautiful city of San Francisco—you will be certain that you carry with you our love and our prayers, as well as this holy chalice—this memento of the visit to your Alma Mater. Furthermore, we expect to accompany and be with you, in a more tangible manner, even to your new home. Our beloved Father General has kindly consented to represent us, and the University, and the entire Congregation of Holy Cross, in showing you this mark of our esteem and affection. He will accompany you to the shores of the great Pacific. With you he will inspect the field o’f your future labors. With you he will behold the famous “ Golden Gate.” And thereafter he will return and give us information in respect to all these tilings. As to yourself we are already certain he will tell us that in the larger, broader and grander field in which your services shall hereafter be utilized, you must, by the merit of your work, rise to a most .exalted distinction in the hierarchy of holy Church, and more than realize the expectations of your
io6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
warmest friends. And be assured that you can have no warmer friends anywhere than those who claim with vou the same Alma Mater.
All men of good will shall be pleased with the work you are io do. You will teach humility, and make men
“ Know that pride, ■ .	•	.	.
Howe’er disguised in its majesty, Is littleness.”	.
You will instruct men as to how trifling, mean, unworthy, and worse than worthless, the fame, the wealth, and all the material things of the world are, when they jeopard man’s ■salvation. They perish in a few short years, but the soul lives on forever—
“ It lives all passionless and pure;	-
An age shall fleet like earthly year, Its years as moments shall endure.”
Ah! who can think upon the soul, and form even the faintest conception of its immortality, without believing that he does best for mankind who gives his life to the work of making Ins' fellow-men purer, and worthier, and more certain to stand well in saving deeds at the last .day!
“ Life may be given in many ways, And loyalty to truth be sealed As bravely in the closet as the field,
So generous is fate.	.
But, then, to stand beside her When craven churls deride her, To front a lie in arms, and not to yield, This shows, methinks, God’s plan And measure of a stalwart man.”
And all at Notre Dame are certain that the truth shall ever find in your Grace a positive, courageous and unflinching defender.
The Archbishop responded in substance as fol-• lows: “ It is with the deepest feeling that I listened to your address, and receive from your hands this beautiful present. In receiving your gift, I desire publicly to thank Very Rev. Father General, the President, Professors and students of the University, for the kind attention shown me in the past few days. I would say to you, young students, a word in parting. Wherever we are, whether in high position or low, we can all do our duty manfully. You will go out of this school of learning into a world of impiety. You will hear a great deal against the religion which is taught you here. You will hear men say there is no God; that a man is to live for this world, and beyond that there is doubt. When you listen to such things remember your early training in this place. Speak an honest and noble word for truth and virtue; and although men may scoff at your morality, I say to you, wherever you are, never be afraid to uphold what is right. Let the students of Notre Dame be known for their ardor in the cause of truth and the extent of their Catholic learning. Remember the gallant band of 300 Spartans who fell in the combat with their country’s oppressors,.one of whom,before dying, wrote with his spear upon the famous pass the-words: ‘Passer-by, tell Sparta we died for her.’ Let this motto be yours. Let the world know, that you live to preserve the laws of God and the honor of our country. You cannot' degrade yourselves more than by living contrary to the Christian principles taught you here. Always remember that beyond this earthly scene which encircles you there is a God and an eternity, and that yours is an immortal soul; In other words, let come what will, this should be your motto; ‘ Seek, above. all things, the king-
I dom of God and His justice, and all things else shall be added in abundance.’ In other words, when you learn to love truth and immortality, then God’s blessing will be upon you. Thus you will be an honor to this Institution and those who love you. - Remember what the mother of the Gracchi, pointing to her children, said: ‘ These are my jewels,’ and I hope that this University may be able to say of you: ‘ These are my jewels.’ Again I thank you with all my heart, and in bidding you good-bye, I ask your prayers.” .
All then knelt and received the Archbishop’s blessing, and a “good-bye” and a “ God speed ” went forth.from their hearts, as the students dispersed to their various departments.
Field Day.
The rain on Saturday, the 13th, interfering with the.regular fall athletic sports, they were postponed to last Tuesday. The programme published in the Scholastic of last week was followed as nearly as time would permit. Some postponements were necessarily made, as indicated in the subjoined reports:
Minim Sports.
As usual, the Minims opened the “ ball ” in the morning, in the presence of as large an audience as the most interested “prince” could desire. The President, Faculty, students and many visitors were all there, and heartily encouraged the young athletes. The first race, a 100-yard dash, was won by E. Amoretti first, with A. Moye second. The second race was won easily by W. Stange, of'Milwaukee, Wis., and J. Grunsfeld second. Other foot races followed these, and were won by Masters Walsh, Papin, Landenwich, McNally, Ernest, Adams, Costigan, and Nusbaum. The fat boys’ races were most amusing, and were won bv Masters Sokup, Schmitz, O’Kane, Young, Wright and Costigan. The three-legged races were numerous and amusing, as were also the sack races. • As time began to press “ the young princes,” it was found necessary to abandon part of their programme, much to the regret of the audience assembled. Accordingly, one of the sports reserved for the last was announced, namely, the tug of war. After a spirited contest, the side captained by B. Lindsey, of Denver, won the much-coveted prize—a barrel of fine apples. A mile-race was won by C. Brown, with E. Amoretti a good second. The second-mile race was won, after a hard struggle, by''Master Studebaker, of South Bend, M'. O’Kane second!-.'’ The7'exercises- closed with the ball throwing, C/’Brown and E. Thomas winning. During the sports, great interest was displayed by the audience, and all depaited well pleased with Notre Dame’s favorites.
. - . . Junior Sports.
The field sports of the Juniors proved of greater interest this year than in former years, and many excellent feats of running, jumping, etc., were dis
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
107
played. The grounds were tastefully decorated with flags, etc., and a large number of visitors were in attendance, foi whom accomodations had been provided. At 1.30 p. m., the exercises opened with a 300-yard dash, in which T. McGill came in first, closely followed by J. Dorenberg and C. Porter. The first prize was a very handsome (10 x 12) photograph of the Rev. President of the University; the second, an inkstand. In the second race, the first prize was won by J. Henry, and the second by A. W abraushek. J, Rhodus took the lead in the third race, closely followed by E. Porter. The prize in this race was an elegantly-bound volume of “The Prose and Poetry of Ireland;” The laurels of the 4th race were carried off by A. Myer and J. Hetz, both of whom received handsome prizes. The first hurdle-race was won by T. McGill, seconded by J. McDonald. Master Dexter made a graceful finish in the unprecedented time of three seconds, but, unfortunately, he made it at the first hurdle, over which he executed a double somersault that would have kindled enthusiasm in the heart of any showman. J. Dorenberg immediately took the lead, when all at once he diminished his chances by making a sudden “ spurt,” amidst the most intense enthusiasm. But the flight was a short one. On one of the last hurdles, he was observed to fall like a shooting star, and strike a graceful and becoming attitude. Whether he assumed this position in the wild exhilaration of the moment or was forced to it by the attraction of gravitation, we cannot say. A smile of hope stole over the features of McGill who saw the palm of victory within his reach. He was not slow to secure the emblem. The 2d hurdle-race was won by Masters Sedberry and B. Henry; the third by J. Rhodus and and R. Devereux; the fourth by A. Meyer and J. Weiler, each of whom received prizes in their various races. The ball-throwing match came next on the programme, but owing to want of time that and the “hungry man’s” race was postponed until Thursday. In the first 3-legged race, Masters Seegers and Violette were the lucky victors; Masters Foote and Dexter taking second prize. The 2d was won by Masters Courtney and Henry, with E. Porter and R. Devereux coming in second. Then followed the 3d and 4th 3-legged races, after which the 1st burden-race took place. G. Seegers won this having for his burden J. Courtney, Masters Barons and Sedberry coming in second. 2d burden-race was won by A. Wabraushek and R. Devereux, E. Porter and Holbrook coming in second. The 3d race was won by Masters Shaefer and Devine, Masters Mulane and <Mulkern coming in second. The jumping matches were postponed until Thursday. The prizes were all very handsome and costly. The Juniors extend then* thanks to Rev. President Walsh, Profs. Edwards and Lyons for prizes donated.
Senior Sports.
The interest of the day centred in the Senior meeting, as here the “ record ” was to be made. At 3 o’clock, the performance began with the 100-yard dash. There'were seven runners. F, W.
Gallagher, Boston, Mass., won the first prize; T. ’ McKinnery, Deland, Ill., second, and M? Dolan, Charlotte, Iowa, third. Time, 11 ^.seconds. J The second-class race was won by P. Warren, Chicago, F. Combe, Brownsville, Texas, second, and H. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis., third. Time, 13 seconds. The third-class foot race was won in sixteen sec-onds.by H. Steis, Winamac, Ind., with- W. Whalen, Wilmington, Ill., second, and J. Wilson, Mason City, Iowa, third. The three-legged races were next in order. The first was won by P. Warren, Chicago, and M. Dolan, Charlotte, Iowa. F. W. Gallagher, Boston, and T. McKinnery, Deland, Ill., were awarded second prizes. The sack races were then announced. The first was won by H. Turnock, South Bend; P. Carbajal, Chihuahua, Mexico, second prize, and W. Dennis, New York City, third. The second sack race was won by H. Steis, Winamac, Ind.; second, J. W. Guthrie, Carrol City, Iowa, and third by W. Fogarty, Lincoln, Ill. Prizes not yet awarded. For the milerace, there were six entries. It was won by H. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis., easily in six minutes; J. Handy, Three Rivers, Mich., 2d, and 3d by W. Fogarty, Lincoln, Ill. First prize, silver cup. The hop-step-and-jump was won by T. McKinnery; distance, 38 ft., 5 inches; J. Lasley second, with" 37 ft., 8 in.; and J. Whalen third, with 30 feet to his credit. Jno. Guthrie won the running jump, he covering the distance of 16 ft., 5 in., while T. McKinnery was credited with 16 ft., 5^ in; W. Whalen, 16 ft., i inch. F. W. Gallagher won the standing jump bjr 10 ft., 4^ in.; T. McKinnery, 10 feet, 3 inches.; and W. Whalen, 10 ft., 2^ in. as second and third. In the second class, M. Dolan was the winner of the prize in the standing jump. He jumped 5 ft., i in.; F. W. Gallagher second, with 4 ft. 11 in.; and D. Saviers third, 4ft., 8 in. The hitch and kick was won by F. W. Gal- -lagher after a hard struggle in which D. Saviers and J. Fogarty were the contestants. F. Gallagher, 7 ft., 5 in.; D. Saviers, 7 &•» 3 in., and J. Fogarty, 7 ft., 2 in. Time would not permit the programme to be followed, and it was agreed to finish on Thursday. The last for the day, a high kick was was won by J. Burke, Ashtabula, Ohio, 6 ft., 10 in.; and J. Bannigan, Providence, R. I., second, 6 ft. 9 inches.
*
On Thursday, though late in the afternoon, the • weather cleared enough to make out-door movements possible. The Seniors availed themselves of the opportunity and -concluded their athletic exercises which had been postponed from Tuesday. Twelve of the strongest Seniors volunteered . to “ put the shot.” The shot tipped the scales at 24 pounds. F. W. Gallagher won first prize; " distance, 24 feet. T; McKinnery, 2d 23 ft., 55^ in.; and G. W. Wall, 23 feet, 5 inches. Putting the shot (light): J. W. Guthrie first, 35 feet, in.; P. Warren, second, 32 feet, 4^ in., and W. Fogerty, third, 31 feet, 6^2 inches. Throwing.the baseball: John Hellebush first, throwing the ball 320 feet, 6 in. F. W. Gallagher, second, 318 feet;
i
w8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
C. A. Garrett, third, 314 feet, 7 in. Vaulting was won by M. Dolan, with 8 ft. to his credit; 2d by AVin. Bailey, 7 feet, 10 in., and third by F. W. Gallagher, 7 feet, 4 in. Thirteen entered the three-mile race, and only five finished. The day’s rain damaged the track, causing it to become very heavy, and this, in a manner, compelled many to withdraw. The first place was won by J. Hyde in 20 minutes, 45 seconds with Harry Porter and P. Goulding a good second and third. The sports ended with a “ Consolation Race.” All those who participated in the races and had won nothing were allowed to enter. The number was large, and it was no easy task for the judges to decide who were the victors. AV. Campbell, A. Browne and J. Guthrie received first, second and third prizes. AVith this the field-day of ’83 passed into history.
Local Items.
—“On, Romans! on!”
—“ Back, lictor! back! ”
—“ Stand constant, then.”
—“ Hence, traitor, hence! ”
—“ Roger supported the------curtain.”
—Let us have more music at our exhibitions.
—A lightning-rod has been put on the statue.
—The AVhite Knight is a Knight of St. Edward.
—The Knights of St. Edward appeared in full regalia on the 13th.
—When will the reading-room be finished? is the constant query of the Princes.
—Owing to press of other matter the “ personals ” have been crowded out this week.
—The Euglossians had a grand reunion after the entertainment, on Friday evening.
—If the Chinese and the Republicans must go, why not let our dude do the bouncing.
—Lost—On Tuesday, a black kid glove. Finder will please return it to Bro. Emmanuel.
.. —The yams and yaps still persist in putting their hands into their pockets and their knives into their mouths.
—The Junior altar boys sallied forth on a nutting expedition on Thursday morning, and met ' with great success.	*
—The St. Cecilians lose no time in preparingfor their grand exhibitions, as they prepare for them on recreation days. "	. :
—One of our funny men told us the other day that the only way to ride a burro was to let some one else do-the riding.	(
—rEvery Knight of St. Edward is a St. Cecilian, but every St. Cecilian is not a Knight. One must be an Arch-Cecilian to be a Knight.
—The Juniors are indebted to the venerable Founder of the University for a mammoth pyramidal cake presented for their field sports.
—The. members of the Euglossian Association
tender an unanimous vote of thanks to Rev. Father Stoffel, for favors extended to them at the last entertainment. •
—The statue of St. Edward was elegantly decorated for the feast, and numberless lights and choice flowers artistically arranged enhanced the beauty of the grand statue. The floral'decorations were the gift of Mrs. C. Studebaker, of South Bend.
—The following measurements of College and -Dome may be of interest. Height of College from basement to roof, 78 ft.; height of Dome, 91 ft., 6 inches; height of pedestal on dome, 11 ft., 6 inches; height of statue, 16 ft. Total height, 197 feet.
—The case of Smith vs. Chicago & Grand Trunk Railway Co. was tried before Judge Hoynes in the University Moot Court on AVednesday evening. Messrs. Fitzgerald and Ancheta were attorneys for the plaintiff, while Messrs. Callan and Callaghan represented the defendant. It was a jury trial, and a verdict for the plaintiff was returned. Mr. Johnston acted as clerk, and Mr. Christian fulfilled the duties of reporter.
—The October boat race, postponed by the severe rain Saturday, came off brilliantly on the afternoon of the 14th. Although no prizes were awarded, both crews rowed gallantly over the prescribed course. It seemed at first as though the Blues, captained by Mr. Jno. A. McIntyre, had gained the start, and though several seconds behind in the turn, all hopes were not given up by their supporters on the shore.' It was too evident, however, from the first that the race was hardly an equal one; and the Whites came in easily a length ahead. Their captain was Mr. Chas. A. Tinley, of the Class of ’84.	.
—A grand promenade concert, to which all the Seniors had the privilege of securing-tickets, was given last Saturday night under the management of the Crescent Club. The orchestra consisted of . the best musicians of our. neighbor city, South Bend, directed by Mr. Lorenz Elbel, whose name is sufficient guarantee for the musical excellence of the concert. Among the visitors were Archbishop Riordan; Rev. Father Heneberry, of Chicago; the President of the University, members of the Faculty; Mrs. Cole,"of Denver; Mr. Plischke, of Chicago; Mrs. Schmauss,|of Rockford, and several ladies and gentlemen from a distance..
—One of the Juniors, while looking over a set of old catalogues, found that the following premiums were awarded to Archbishop Riordan during his col-	■
lege days at Notre Dame: 1856-57—First Honor; 1st Premium Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium Geometry; 1st Premium Algebra; 2d Accessit Surveying; 1st Premium Theme and Translation in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit Elocution; 1st Premium Rhetoric; 2d Accessit Grammar; 2d AccessitComposition; 2d Accessit Public Reading; 2d Accessit Vocal Music; 1st Premium Progress Violin: ’57— ’58—First Honor; 1st Premium Christian Doctrine; rst Premium History; 1st Premium Mental Philosophy; 1st Premium Greek Version; 1st Ac-cessitGreek Theme; First Premium. 1st Latin Ver-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ision; ist Accessit 1st Latin Theme; ist Premium Geometry; ist Premium Trigonometry; 3d Accessit "Elocution; 2d Accessit Public Reading.
—Most Rev. Archbishop Riordan, accompanied by the Fathers and members of the Faculty made a most pleasant visit to the Minims on Sunday evening, at 8 o’clock. St. Edward's Hall was beautifully decorated to honor his visit. He made | an interesting and humorous speech, and concluded i	by asking the Minims if “ they would constitute
i	him President of the University for five minutes.”
They responded by a unanimous and vociferous vote . in the affirmative. His Grace then said “ he would give the Minims a day’s recreation.” Those who know what that means can imagine the burst of applause this announcement called forth. At the expiration of the five minutes he said he would now “resign his position in favor of Rev. President Walsh.” The pleasant visit of the distinguished ! visitor will long be remembered by the Princes, and their affectionate good wishes will follow him to the Golden Slope of the Pacific.
—In the early part of the week a reception was tendered to Archbishop Riordan, by the Juniors. Their elegant reception-rooms were cheerfully deci	orated for the occasion by Brother Lawrence and
|	his assistants. On the entrance of His Grace, Mas-
j ter Schaefer read an appropriate address, as follows:
j	Your Grace :—We listened with the greatest attention
■ to the words of encouragement which you were pleased to address to us and all the students last night. The one i	idea, however—the pearls of your discourse in our minds
;	—that best pleased us, and that has sunk deeper into our
souls, is that wherein you told us of our Divine Lord, who, as is related in the Gospel, meeting a young man, loved him. It is surely a sweet and encouraging thought for us to believe that He, the Lord of all, has a special love for us on account of our youth. This being the case, we were not surprised to hear you declare that you also loved us on account of our youth, that your heart went out to us; for the true disciple of Christ tries to adopt the sentiments of 1 his Divine Master. We find this to be the case in regard to our professors as you experienced it in regard to yours, j -But,. Your Grace, there is another inference from your I words, which you did not express, leaving it for us to work it out in our own minds. Love begets love. When we heard your fatherly voice assuring us that your heart went out to us, our hearts could not but respond. It is said 1	that nothing is lost in physical nature. Heat may become
'	latent, but it is -given back again in due time. Even so it
is with those words of wisdom that you have spoken to us, and with those feelings of affection which you have expressed. We cherish a reciprocal, filial affection towards you, and we assure you that your advice is not lost on us. We will often think, and think with pride, of one — who has gone before us in these halls of learning, who had no greater advantages here than we are blessed with, whose professors and prefects did not exceed ours in devotedness and learning, and who has made such good use of his opportunities, both whilst a student at Notre Dame and afterwards, as to merit even in the eyes of Rome and of our Holy Father to. be made one of the- Angels of the Church of God. Your example and j our words will remain deeply engraven on our hearts, to encourage us whilst here as students, and-hereafter-when we take our place on the stage of life. With these sentiments we welcome Your Grace to our little reunion this, evening, and hope that it will afford you some share of the pleasure which it does us to have you amongst us.	"
.	Your devoted children,.	The Juniors.
.Then each .of-the young Masters was introduced toithe Archbishop by President. Walsh and .Pro
fessor Edwards. His Grace spoke a kindly.word to each one, and then mingled with the boys to witness the different games of chess, checkers, authors, etc., they were engaged in. Master Schott performed several pieces on the piano, and Master H. Foote, executed several violin solos, to the satisfaction of his instructors. Before leaving, all were invited to partake of a sumptuous collation.
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Messrs. Anchando, Ancheta, Aguilera, Bowers, Brosseau, Barron, Buchanan, Becerra, Bailey, J. Burke, V. Burke, Browne, Combe, C. Carroll, Coll, Callan, Cass, Cartier, Jas. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Creel, Celia, Conway, T. Carroll, Christian, Callaghan, Campbell, Connell, De Groot, De Wolf, Donohue, Dickerson, Dolan, Delaney, A. Dennis, Eisenhauer, Ewing, Fishel, Fogerty, Foster, Farrell, T. Fenlon, Gonsor, Goulding, Gonzalez, Guthrie, Gieser, Gutierrez, Gray, F. Gallagher, Garret, J. Gallagher, Godfrey, Hyde, Henderson, Howard, Hofstetter, Hopkins, Hellebush, Handy, J. Heffernan, Jones, Kimmel, Kaufmann, Kolars, Kleiber, Lucas, Larkin, Long, Meyer, McErlaine, Mahon, McCabe, McKinnery, Marquez, C. Murdock, Mittendorf, McIntyre, T. McNamara,, J. McNamara.iNeeson, Nedeau, O’Connell, G. O’Brien, Eugene O’Brien, Ott, O’Kane, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Porter, Rudge, Reach, Slusser, Shea, Stull, Stover, Steis, Scholfield, Spencer, Steele, Saviers, Solon, G. Smith, E. Smith, Tinley, Teasdale, F. Uranga, J. Uranga, C. Warner, Whalen, Jno. Wagoner, Warren, Wheatley, F. Burke, Rogers.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Arnold, Anchando, Borgschulze, Berthe-let, Barela, Baur, Barclay, Breen,* A. Chirhart, E. Chir-hart, J. Courtney, Curtis, Chaves, Caveroc, Cartier, G. Crilly, Cleary, Clarke, Costigan, C. Combe, Devereux,. Dexter, C. Dennis, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fierro,. IL Foote, Foster, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grothaus, Grunsfeld,. Hagenbarth, Hemisbaugh, A. Howard, E. Howard, Halligan, Huestis, W. Henry, Houlihan, Hagerty, Holbrook, Houck, J. Hetz, Hagen, Holman, F. Jensh, Johnson, King, J. Kelly, Letcher, G. Lewis, Loscher, P. Lake, Monschein, Mullane, A. Miller, Meyer, Menig, McGill, Mason, C. McGordon, J. McGordon, Moye, McDonnell, C. Metz, Mug, Murphy, Muhler, McCawley, O’Brien, J. O’Donnell Plischke, C. Porter, Pohl, Rogers, Regan, Rothschilds, Reynolds, Rhodus, E. Ryan, Shea, Sedberry, Schmauss, M. Scheurman, Schott, Schaefer, Seegers, J. Smith, Stubbs, H. Saunders, Talbot, D. Taylor, Terrazas, Tarrant, Tre-panier, Uranga, Violette. H. Warner, Wagoner, Wabraus-,chek, Waixel, Weber, Williamson,* M. Kelly.
MINIM DEPARTAIENT.
Masters Amoretti, Adams, Ackerman, H. Addington, J. Addington, Boos, Bunker, Butterfield, Brown, .Benner, Crawford, Curtis, Crotty, Cole, E. Costigan, Cummings, Dirksmeyer, Delaplane, W. Devine, Dungan, Drown, Devereux, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Garrity, Gonzalez, Grunsfeld, Harris, Henry, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Krause, Keefe, Landen-wich, Lowenstein, La Tourette, Lewis, B. Lindsey, -C. Lindsey, Loya, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, F. McGuire, W. McGuire, McNally, McGill, McPhee, McVeigh, Morrison, Morgan, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, Mqj’e, Meehan, A. Nester, Noonan, Nusbaum, O’Connor, Otis, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, R. Papin, V. Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Quiggle, Rebori, Stange, Studebaker, Schmitz, Spencer, Schdneman, Sokup, Steele, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Smith, Stewart,, Thomas, W. Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, West," Weston, Wright, L. Young, Quill.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
IIO
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Jflary's Academy.
' One Mile JPcst of Notre Dame University.
—The painting on the German address for the Feast of St. Edward was done by Miss Williams, that on the French address by Miss S. Papin, and that on the Juniors’ by Ada Shephard.
—-A cordial and most grateful acknowledgment is tendered to Mrs. James Ward (Class 76), of Chicago, for her beautiful gift to the new Church— that of a crystal Sanctuary Lamp of a most delicate and elaborate pattern. This welcome token of affection for her Alma Mater arrived from New York City on the 15th inst., and will speak for itself before the Altar in behalf of the kind donor.'
—On Sunday, October 14th, the Most Rev. Archbishop Riordan said Mass in the Convent Chapel, at 8 o’clock, and at the close preached an eloquent sermon which thrilled all hearts. The text was from the Gospel of the day, «Render, therefore, to Caesar the things that are Czesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” In the course of his sermon His Grace said that, walking in a graveyard once, he was struck by an inscription on a tomb-stone: “Pray for him for he reposes from his labors.” For a long time he pondered the significance of this demand. Why pray for one who reposes from his labors? But the solution of the question was revealed in the thought of .the great trial it is to see how much is to be done for God, and to be able to do nothing. The Most Rev. speaker enlarged upon the grandeur of laboring—and laboring to the last moment of life, for God. The exultant vigor of a lively, intelligent and all-embracing zeal rang out in every tone of his voice, and in the pure and faultless articulation of every word. The Archbishop remained at the Academy throughout the day, and gave Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament at half-past two. He goes to his new and important duties accompanied by the affectionate remembrances and the fervent prayers of all at St. Mary’s.
St- Edward’s Day at St. Mary’s.
The celebration of the Feast of St. Edward was „ everything that heart could wish, and on the eve and early in the morning, joyous voices were heard everywhere expressing the delight that this day never fails to bring to hearts at St. Mary’s. This year the, ordinary pleasure; however; was greatly enhanced by two very notable circumstances, the presence of the newly-consecrated;Coadjutor Archbishop of San Francisco, and the exultant realization at last of his ardent wishes, for. four years by-the Very Rev. and venerable object of the day’s festivities and felicitations, in the. coronation of the Dome by the beautiful statue of the Blessed .Virgin.	'
. At. three o’clock p. m., His Grace, the stately and urbane Archbishop, accompanied. by Very
Rev. Father General, Rev. Father Hennebery, of Chicago, Rev. President Walsh of the University, and several clergyman and Professors of of Notre Dame entered the hall, which had been gracefully adorned for the occasion, and the programme was opened by the Misses Fendrich and Reilly in a charmingly-executed sonata from C. M. Von Weber. Miss Campbell followed, and presented, in well-chosen language, the English address of congratulation to Father General, “A Garland of Memory and Hope,” gathered from the blooms of the past and the . buds of the future. The poem was appropriately transcribed on leaves in the form of a harp, enclosed in an exquisite cover of the same form, designed and painted in St. Luke’s Studio by Miss Campbell.
Miss Murphy then read, in a voice eloquent in its modulation, volume, and expression, a “Welcome ” to the illustrious guest of Very Rev Father General, the Most Rev. Archbishop Riordan. She embodied in the effusion the idea that the young ladies of St. Mary’s experienced a laudable pride in common with the University that so signal an honor as that of the Archipiscopal consecration should be conferred upon a “son of Notre Dame.” This address was also ornamented by the skilful brush of Miss Campbell. His Grace ac ceptedthe-xozzvewzr, when presented by Miss Murphy, with a hearty “ God bless you, my child! ”
“ Festgruss^ delivered in clear, correct and beautiful German by Miss Ginz, preceded one of those admirably-executed choruses, which have long been a distinguishing feature of entertainments given by St. Mary’s Vocal Classes. The one chosen was among Mendelssohn’s brightest. The accompaniment was played by Miss. Cummings. “ Souhaits de bonheur” a fine literary production written in his native tongue, so dear to Father General, was read with feeling and animation by Miss Call, and when we consider that the young lady appeared for the first time in public, and that she has studied French but two years, we must say in justice that it was remarkably well read.
With fresh, cheerful faces Mary Dillon, Manu-elita Chaves, and Lily Van Horn, now came forward to greet the venerated recipient of the honors of the day on the part of the Juniors. They were succeeded by Miss Hunt in a neatly-executed instrumental piece—“A Scottish Gem.”
The entire group of Minims offered their .good wishes. Misses Lindsey, Chapin, Schmauss, and Ducey adding some important considerations. The Juniors followed them in a most amusing Medley, superintended by Agnes English, as “ Mrs. Nightingale, giving a rehearsal.by her w;arbling class.”
Bendel’s “ Cascade du t Chaudron,” beautifully played by Miss Gove, completed the first part of the programme, and Miss Munger struck the strong, pure key-note to the main feature of the evening by reading the prologue to “ St. Rose of Lima,” an original Drama in two acts.
A vocal duett, from “Der Freischutz,” C. M. von Weber, was charmingly rendered by the Misses Reilly and Bruhn; and the curtain was drawn aside, presenting a scene which imagination could
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
m
easily transfer to the capital of Peru, some three hundred yeas - ago, for the conversation of the performers was of events, and represented actual occurrences, in the life of the first canonized saint of the New World—St. Rose of Lima.
Those who have been so happy as to peruse the admirable history of this' lovely young Dominicaness, can easily apprehend what salient points would tempt the pen of one who would wish to improve the hearts by elevating the aspirations of the young ladies, who for the time being are to stand as the representatives of, or to throw into relief, two among the most exalted female characters recorded in Christian history—St. Catharine of Sienna and St. Rose of Lima. -	.
!	In the limited space alloted to a report like
this, no adequate explanation can be given; but when one reflects upon the debased standard of womanly traits that skeptical literature and art has I	inaugurated, as, for example, of a Cenci, who for
I	a year together protested her innocence of the
crime of paracide, so that her sincerity was trusted, until at last, when her jailors threatened to despoil her of her beautiful locks, she yielded and acknowledged her guilt; or of a Cleopatra, to go farther back in the annals of history, who, to preserve the beauty of which she was so vain, applied an asp to. her arm, that she might die from the sting. When we reflect upon the inutility—to employ the softest term—of making much of these miserable representatives’ of womanly weakness, we may apprehend the wisdom of knowing something of those - holy women who lived for no other purpose than to cultivate and perfect themselves in heroic virtue. Such was St. Rose of Lima; such was St. Catharine of Sienna.
Miss A. Murphy as St. Rose, Miss B. Gove as St. Catharine, Miss M. Munger as Dona Mexia, Miss C. Ginz as Dona Sereno, Miss L. Williams as
।	_ Dona Marianne, and Miss C. Campbell as Dona
_ Venergas, might by some be cited as superior to the rest, but it is not easy to acknowledge that.
! Dona Florez (Miss Sheekey), Dona Herrera (Miss ; Hunt), Dona Quignonez (Miss Todd), were much I	inferior, and we may add the same of Dona Mich'	elle (Miss Babcock), and Dona Petria (Miss Spot-
I wood). The closing tableau of the “Cross of Roses” was pronounced as one of celestial loveliness. No calcium lights were used,—a decided improvement on the past—but it was the thought embodied in the picture which constituted its chief beauty.
The music with which the scenes were interspersed improved as the evening advanced. Miss Reilly showed'great musical progress in the rendition bf her‘solo,- ahd lhe:'trio, by Misses-B." English, Hale and Neu, was one of the most pleasing numbers of the evening.' It was the first time any of these young ladies have favored us, and •we shall hope to hear them frequently at entertainments given during the year. The crowning gem was Miss Laura Fendrich’s rendering of Men-
’ delssohn’s Concerto G. Minor.
At the close, Very Rev. Father General rose to thank the young ladies and called upon Arch
bishop Riordan, who commended them and the character of their play. He spoke in beautiful terms of affectionate reverence of addressing Father General, as a Junior, at Notre Dame many years ago on. this anniversary, and said he delighted to present the same congratulations again. He thanked the young ladies for their good wishes, and begged' their prayers for him in the-arduous labors now before him. The company-dispersed, well satisfied with the entertainment.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY", COR-. RECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
' •	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Ashton, Adderly, H. Allen, Bruhn, Black, A. Babcock, C. Babcock, Billings, Burgher, Cones, Call, Cummings, Campbell, Carney, Castenado, Duffield, Dunne, Danforth, Dungan, Dowling, L. English, B. English, Fendrich, Fitzpatrick, Fisk, Fogerty, Gove, Ginz, Ada Gordon, Alice Gordon, Gage, Gavan, Holt, A. Heckard, Helpling, Hunt, Hale, Hart, Horn, Hack, Heneberry, Haney, Johnson, Keenan, Keating, Kearney, Kearsey,” Kearns, King, Legnard, Lintner, Leahigh, Mohl, Munger, A. Murphy, Mooney, McCarthy, M. Murphy, Neu, O’Connell, S. Papin, Platte, Quill, Ramsey, Reilly, Rosing, Reynolds, Ryan, Russell, Sheekey, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sear, Sheridan, Stackerl, Scully, L. Spotwood, Schmaltz, Todd, Udall, Vandebogart, Williams, Wilson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	"
ist Tablet—Misses I. Allen, M. Allen, Best, M. Barryr Brown, Bailey, Barth, Cummings, Chaves, Campeau, M. Dillon, Duffield, Dodge, Ducey, Eldred, A. English, Fehr, Halsey, Haney, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, Lucas, Morrison, McEwen, Murphy, Malbceufj W. Moshier, Metz, Naylor, Otis, Papin, Richmond, Regan, E. Roddin, Shephard, M. Schmidt, Scott, Stumer, Sheekey, Snowhook, Turpie, Van Horn, Wolvin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Chapin, English, L. Johns, V. Johns, Lindsey, Murray, G. Papin, Paul, Reynolds, Schmauss, Van Fleet.
SCHOOL OF DRAWING AND PAINTING. HONORABLY MENTIONED. - .
OIL-PAINTING. ’
2D Class—Miss L. Fendrich.
3D Class—Miss R. Evarts.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses Campbell, Papin, Shephard, Williams.
DRAWING.
ist Class—Misses Campbell, Beal, Papin.
2D Class—Misses Legnard, E. Sheekey, Dunn, Spotwood, A. English.	.	_
3d Class—Misses Richmond, Dillon, Stackerl, Heckard, Van Horn, Chaves, Fehr, A. Duffield.
3p Class, 2d Div—Misses M. Priestman. L.Priestman, Black, Danforth, Udall, Leahigh, Dowling, Hale, M. Reynolds, Eldred.	'
• . General Drawing.	<
-	• SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Priestman, R. Billings, Hack, Mooney, McCarthy, Kearney, Gordon, Sheridan, Schmaltz, Scully, C. Babcock, M. Reynolds, Vandebogart, Lintner.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Bailey, Dodge, H. Jackson, S. Jackson, E. Jackson, Best, L Allen, Brown, M. Allen, M. Murphy, Turpie, Snowhook, Keyes, Regan, N. Sheekey, Richmond, Van Horn, Barth, Schmidt, Wolvin, Otis, Metz, A. Duffield, M. Papin, Moshier, Barry.
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NEVIUS & CONKLIN.
ESTABLISHED AND RELIABLE DENTISTS, Cor. Michigan & Washington Sts., South Bend, Indiana, employ the latest methods in treating Natural Teeth and Roots. Superior work and reasonable prices. Will visit Notre Dame each Thursday during the School Year.
G. F. NEVIUS.	F. G. CONKLIN, D. D. S.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, postpaid, -	$1.00
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
814 Arch St., Philadelphia, Pa.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 27, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.00 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m'.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3-55 a-m-
_6.2i p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.28 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.55 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.50 a.m. Chicago, S.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.20 a.m. Chicago, 10.40 a.m.
. 1.30 p.m., Special Michigan'Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 p.m.; Chicago, 8.00p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt, South Bend. -
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON; Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P.- P. WRIGHT, GenTSup., Cleveland.--JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger,-Cleveland. <•
ARNOLD	LANDVOIGT, (E. E. Arnold.class of ’78.) Attorneys-at-
Law, 470 Louisiana Avenue, N W., Washington, D. C. Practice in. the District Courts, and: Court of'Claims, before the Executive Departments and Committees of Congress. Special attention given to Claims of all kinds, including Customs, Land Office Cases, and to securing Pensions.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough'and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music; Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
The Only Through Line from Chicago by way of
Pacific Junction, or by way of Omaha, or Kansas City, or by way of St.
Joseph and Atchison,
TO DENVER DIRECT
Connecting at above named points in Union Depots with Through Trains for
SAN FRANCISCO
And all points in the Far West. It is the Great Through Car Line of America, and finest equipped R. R. in the World.
For all classes of travel Through Tickets -via this celebrated Line can be secured at any R. R. Coupon Ticket Office in the United States. Baggage checked through.
Ticket Offices, 59 Clark St., 47 Monroe St., Grand Pacific Hotel, 16th and Canal Streets, and at Depot. : All-Trains leave Chicago from Union Passenger Station, on Canal St., between Madison and Adams Streets.
T. J. POTTER, PERCEVAL LOWELL, Vice-Pres, and GenTMgr.	Gen’l Pass. Agtf
Cor.* Adams and Franklin Streets; Chicago;'