The Notre Dame Scholastic
101
COMMENT
At present, the main topic of comment seems to be the World Series. In bated breath one hears reverent mention ’of the great Ehmke, the lesser Root, the hapless English. And predictions as to the ultimate outcome are as many, and thick, as swarms of bees around a hive.
$
Which, of course, is all the business of the self-appointed prophets, and not ours. But we wonder if it has ever occurred to you that you are, night and day, the holder of a box seat at what is for you, the World Series of World Series?	.
❖ * *
In other words, from the time that slightly groggy feeling strikes you as you pull yourself from bed in the morning, until the time when you shut your eyes on it all at night, you are watching, ancl playing, the game of games for you—the pitting of • yourself against the World.
* * *
Each day is a game in the longest series ever played. The World is facing you; it is your job to take her offerings and make the most of them. And a foul never lands anything for you!	' '
* * * -
But you have the consolation of knowing that, if you don’t do so well one day, you’ll always come to bat again. Life has a habit of renewing one’s innings and then, suddenly, like an ill tempered umpire, calling the game off.
% # %
And it’s all over—then!
* * *
But one thing we do know—in our particular World Series—Ourself versus the Scholastic—we are bottlethrowing spectator, cheering spectator—though we do most of that ourself—striking hitter, and struck-out batter, all in one.
* * *
Which is something of a consolation. And again, something of something else. We can’t quite think of the right word. And so, with your kind and eager permissions, we’ll consult—the Scholastic!
T. Vincent McIntire. Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A. Cannon. . J. Archer Hurley.... Walter Langford..... Joel Egeker......... Joseph Reedy........ Alfred E. Gall......
Paul J.
Hallinan
Harrington J. Noon
|	' GRe
| No^reDame Scholastic
i Disee- Quasi-SerrnpeT-VictuFus^Vlve-Quasj-Cras-Morilum
E	Founded in 1872	'
:	Murray Hickey Ley.......Editor-in-Chief
5	Harley L. McDevitt.........Graduate	Manager
1	EDITORIAL STAFF
.....Managing Editor Ass’t Managing Editor Ass’t Managing Editor ......The	Week ...The College Parade 	Music and Drama 	Campus	Chibs ..........Script...Editor ................Features Editor
LITERARY STAFF
Richard Sullivan Literary Editor
William Knapp Louis L. Hasley John L. Nanovic Edward E. Brennan Louis A. Brennan
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor James J. Kearney James Collins Howard Webster Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor William J. Macarral, Interhall Sports Editor
Harry A. Sylvester
Henry B. Asman
James McFeeley’
Robert G. Balfe
BUSINESS STAFF
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman........Foreign Circulation Manager Frederick N. Davis.......Local Advertising Manager James L. Rizer...........Foreign Advertising Manager
James H. Rorke
Frederick J. Bauer
William Sherman Frank J. Conroy
John Blanda
Andrew McGuan
VOL. LXIII.
OCTOBER 11, 1929.
No. 4.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week—Archer Hurley-------------------1_________
Coming Events-------------------------------------
A Man About the Campus----------------------------- A Man You Know—Emil L. Telfel
Campus Clubs—Joseph Reedy__________________________
Editor’s Page______________________________________
Two Stories—Robert Mulhall----------------------- In a Romany Circle of Light—Robert Clemens------ Our Dining Halls—Cornelius S. Ruffing-----------.—
The Wink____________________________________________ . Rockne’s Rockets Shoots to Initial Win—John A. Kiener—
Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr.---------
102
103
104
105
107
108
109-110
111
112
114
115
126
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to 'rHE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office. Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
iiiHiiiiiiiuiinninMHMiHniniiiiiiiiiiiHiiHiiiiiiiHHiiiHHiiiiiHiiiiiiiHinHimiiiiiiiiHHiiiiiniiiiHiiininHHHinimiiiiiiiinmiiiiniiHiiinimiiHHitnHQ
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of '	All Notre Dame Men

102	The Notre Dame Scholastic
I jITERATURE supplanted by architecture. A general complaint from the hall janitors that their pay should be raised if so many Scholastics are to be thrown in the refuse boxes every Saturday morning. And a complete sell-out of Harpers at the campus news-stand. All these things as a result of my failing to write a Week for the last issue. But a public, especially one whose paper baskets are such accurate barometers in attesting the power of my page, must not be deserted. And so here’s for another Week.
D OWN at Indiana we learned any numbei- of things over the week-end—amongst others that fraternity brothers are mostly candied apples who will never recover until they get away, from old Lotta Bologna, that sorority ' sisters are sisterly only to brothers, and that school spirit at Indiana is about as strong as the Socialist vote in the Garden of Eden. Moreover, that the Book Nook has nothing to do with either books or nooks, though one can easily see that it has plenty to do with crooks.
O UR football team is as plucky a group of fellows as ever jogged out on any field, and if they get the right sort of support from here, plenty of surprises await some other teams before November 30. If you think playing away from home all year isn’t difficult, wander down to Studebakers’ alone some noon and shout to the force at large what a very little you think of second generation Americans. You will then be fighting on a foreign field without support.	.
^/^AN once used clubs to drive inquisitives, heathen, stray women, or hungry baboons out of his cave. Clubs in those days were clubs, and as such wielded considerable influence. Clubs protected men, their hearthstones, and their whet-stones—but we degenerate into moderns. Now a club is something that a man joins to protect himself from himself. He knows that if he can get a crowd together with the implied purpose of having each and every other member tell each and every other member just how good they
all are, that^-well, it usually ends by believing one another. All men living within a radio distance of any large city have met in. Badin “rec” to decide just who is going to buy the crepe paper for the Christmas dance, and to ask one another how good the old high school team is going to be this fall. Organizations Week it is called; meaning, of course, that things should be organized for one week at least.
OT very often do we stoop to literary criticism—but anyone can tell a rotten tomato from a fresh, juicy one, especially if the tomato smears itself over the critic’s ear. And because Vince McIntyre wrote an editorial in a recent issue that was exceptionally good—we want to thank him. It was courageous, not many of us would have our initials under such a work. In that editorial was none of the artificial lustre of a literary glass eye, rather it had the calm truth that belonged to our eyes before we lost faith in Santa Claus, tales of cherry trees and hatchets, and the other simplicities that are as great as truth.
' 1.^ HREE HUNDRED and fifty students working their way through school, and as many more being worked through, and the rest jiist going through, pushed on by nothing more exacting than ennui. Student trips to Chicago should bring some out of the annual hibernation; quarterly exams will take the toll in about three weeks; and then, too, what a whale of a difference just a few cuts make.
]P LAYING in the band isn’t what it used to be. Corcoran uncorks a few quips at their expense in his Cork Tips; the piccolo players have struck because they all wanted to be called Pete; and Busscher isn’t to deposit his tobacco juice in the base horn any ’longer. But then, there are compensations. Four trips to Chicago seem like a gift to those who are not musicians, but if they had risked the hoof and mouth disease to the same extent that the band members have, they too would be worth taking on a few excursions. Blow your own horn, and the band will blow its saxophone.	•
The Notre Dame Schola
JI Coming Events II
FRIDAY, October 11—Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications’ Office, 7:00 p. m.; Scholarship Dance, Playland Park, 8:30 p. m.; Music by Indianans.
SATURDAY, October 12—Football, Notre Dame vs. Navy, Baltimore. Gridgraph, University Gym, 1:30 p. m.—Movies, Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Reginald Denny in “His Lucky Day.”
SUNDAY, October 13, Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00,— High Mass at 9:00 a. m.; Interhall Football, 10:00 a. m. and 2:00 p. m. Benediction, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY, October 14—Knights of Columbus Meeting, Council Chambers, 8:00 p. m.; Rochester Club. Meeting, Law Building.; Scribblers Meeting, Journalism Room, Library, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, October 15—Toledo Club Meeting, Badin “Rec” 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, October 17—Joint Banquet, East Penn and Johnstown Clubs, South Bend Inn, 6:30; Spectators’ Club Meeting, Journalism Room, Library 8:00 p. m.
FRIDAY, October 18—Scholastic Editorial Staff Meeting, Publications Office, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY October 19—Football, Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin, Soldiers Field, Chicago, Student Trip, no classes. Cross Country Quadrangular Meet, Northwestern Course.
CHICAGO CLUB PLANS ENTERTAINMENT AFTER
FOOTBALL GAMES
Plans are being made by the Chicago Club of Notre Dame to provide the students and visitors with entertainment after all the “home” games in Chicago this fall. The Chicago Club is working in collaboration with the Alumni Club of Chicago in order to make the affairs a huge success.
There will be a dance held after each game, with the exception of the Drake game.. All the dances, which will be informal, will be held in the Main Dining Room of the Stevens Hotel. The Stevens Hotel will also be the' official headquarters for all Chicago games. An information desk in
the lobby will be in charge of the Chicago Club and all student visitors are requested to avail themselves of this convenience in locating themselves in Chicago.
After the Wisconsin game, October 19, there will be an informal dance at the Stevens. The cast of “Follow Thru,” now playing at the Apollo theater, will entertain the host of visitors. Admission to the dance will be $3.00 a couple at the door. Tickets for this affair were placed on sale this week. The Club urges every student to buy his ticket beforehand in order to insure a reservation for himself, as the campus sale of tickets is limited.
LOCAL BRANCH OF A. I. E. E. HOLD MEETING
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its second regular meeting last Monday evening. Among the 75 members present were Dr. Caparo, counselor, Mr. Northcott and Mr. McCoy of the department of Electrical Engineering.
Edward G. Conroy, president of the organization, presided at the meeting and introduced the speakers of the evening.	-
Edward Coomes, of the junior class, gave a talk on “Airport Illumination.” John Scanlan, a member of the sophomore class, presented a paper on the “Life of Maxwell,” distinguished English physicist.
The principal speaker of the evening, Mr. Diedrich of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company, gave a comprehensive treatise on “Low Voltage Network for Power Distribution.”
The following committee chairman were appointed: program, Robert Holmes; finance, Edward Dempsey; refreshments, James Malloy; publicity, Patrick J. Goggin.
SENIORS TO GIVE DANCE
The Senior class will sponsor a dance in the K. of C. ballroom, October 26, according to Ray Reardon, president of the Senior class. Tom Purcell is chairman of the committees for the dance, and further details of the affair will be announced at a later date. Inasmuch as the Sophomore cotillion will be held the evening before, the Sophomores and their guests are especially invited to attend. The committees assisting Mr. Purcell for the dance will be appointed next week.
tic	103
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS MEETS
The first meeting of the Board of Publications for the present college year* was held last evening in the Publications office of the Main Building. The Reverend P. J. Carroll, C. S. C., chainnan of the Faculty Board, presided at the meeting, at which the various Editors and Advertising Managers of the University Publications were informed of their duties for the coming year.
“DOME” PHOTOGRAPHERS TO BE HERE WEDNESDAY
The work of photographing the various classes, officers, faculty members and club officials will begin Wednesday according to Robert Pendergast, editor of this year’s Dome. The photographs of the Senior Class will be taken on Wednesday, O.ct. 9, and for two weeks thereafter. The regular charge of one dollar will be made for these pictures. The faculty photographs will be taken on Tuesday, Oct. 15, Friday, Oct. 18, and Monday, Oct. 21.
The Juniors will be taken in groups of four only. Pictures of smaller groups than these will not be taken. These photographs will cost fifty cents. Class officers, club officials and activity men are urged to come as soon as possible so that they may receive individual attention. If the pictures are taken without delay it will help greatly to facilitate matters for the editors.
According to present indications all of the pictures will be taken in the old dining room in the west basement of the Main Building. ‘
1 NOTICE I ’ J = On Monday evening, -October e : 21, the Scribblers will hold an E = election of new members. E E All those wishing to enter the E E club must have their applica- = E tions in the hands of the Secre- = = tary, Murray Hickey Ley, 327 e = Sorin Hall, by 6 p. m. on that E | day.	|
E At least two articles in the E E Scholastic, and those of a lit- = | erary nature, are necessary for = E qualification.	E
E An inaugural banquet will be E E held the following Saturday E E with Mr. Benjamin Musser, edi- = E tor of Contemporary Verse, and e E Mr. Charles Phillips of Notre E = Dame, as speakers.	E
SniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiitttiniiQJ
104
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
No doubt many of our faithful readers (never mind, never mind, we know what you are going to say) noticed that “Campus Personalities” (oh, beg pardon, we forgot that the column now has a new title. How do
John J. Quinn
you like it?) was written by a Mr. Smith last week. It has been suggested to us by unkind critics that we let Mr. Smith write the column every week. After reading his excellent write-up of Johnny Law, we begin to have the unpleasant suspicion that perhaps the critics are right.
But that is neither here nor there. This week we want to introduce to you “Smiling” Johnny Quinn. Of course, everyone should know him; to those who do not, however, we recommend the reading of this article.
Johnny is Senior Football Manager as the reward of four years of managerial duties faithfully performed. When we think of all the free train rides that he will get, we become slightly envious. However, on second thought, remembering the perpetual worried frown on Augie Gram’s face last year, we feel sure that Johnny will more than earn his transportation.
One would think that a senior football manager’s worries would be more than enough for anyone. But not for Johnny. He is a glutton for punishment, for he is also the treasurer of the Senior Class, and tries to collect class dues from bland and hardened seniors. The job so far must be a rather hard one, for he asked us if we didn’t know of some way to entice dollars from reluctant owners. But as we ' are trying to
think of some way to elude the Junior Class treasurer, we could not suggest anything.
Last year, Quinn was on the Invitations Committee of the Junior Prom. That completes his list of honors. He is a senior in the College of Commerce. Home address; Massillon, Ohio; campus address;—oh— you know—Sorin Hall.
“Are you sure,” asked Johnny wistfully as we started to leave, “that you don’t know of any way I can collect class dues instead of excuses from some of these seniors?”
OFFICIAL PLANS FOR WISCONSIN GAME
ANNOUNCED
The Student Activities Council, through the courtesy of the Faculty Board, announced Monday that the Wisconsin and Southern California games will be the official student trips this year. Robert Hellrung, chairman of the S. A. C. in collaboration with Harold Duke, chairman of the Student Trip committee, has issued the following statement in regard to the Wisconsin trip.
All classes will be excused on October 19th, Saturday, the day of the Wisconsin game, whether or not a student attends the game. There will be no charge for the tickets to this game, as well as for the Southern California and Drake games. However, there will be a band tax of $1.00, payable by each student, once during the season, in order to finance the sending of the band to all four games in Chicago.
The official trains conducted by the S. A. C. will be run on the South Shore line, from the Hotel LaSalle station in South Bend. The first section will leave Saturday morning at 8:00 a. m.and every half hour thereafter- until 11:00 a. m. After eleven o’clock, the trains will run on the regular South Shore Schedule. The round trip fare for the day will be $3.65, while the week-end rate is $4.25.
The first student special returning from Chicago will leave at 10:00 p. m. and then every half hour thereafter until 12:00 p. m. All students must leave Chicago by 12:00 o’clock, and must be in their place of residence by 2:30 a. m., Sunday.
Railroad tickets will be sold beginning Monday, October 14, in the candy store. A representative from the South Shore line will be there every day from 11:00 a. m. until 5:00 p. m. Game tickets have already been distributed to the students.
Music and Drama
At Sam Harris’ Theater in Chicago, we have Ethel Barrymore in “The Kingdom of God.” It is a religious play and will not appeal to every one. Miss Barrymore takes the part of a Sister of St. Vincent de Paul. There are three acts; the first when Sister Gracia enters the Convent at the age of nineteen; the second, ten years later in a maternity home; and the third, in an orphanage. In the last act, Sister is seventy and reminiscent. Her beautiful life lies behind her. -When she was young, she could have shared the joys of the world, but she is glad she took her work. To her it has meant the only happiness in a sordid world. Her sacred duties were her shower of roses, her kingdom of God. G. Martinez Sierra was the author of this somewhat weepy production which nevertheless must be described as superb and lovely.
During her sojourn in Chicago, Ethel is also to be seen in “The Love Duel.” There are some very dramatic parts with La Barrymore at the switch but generally speaking the “drama” is not worth the trouble.
Leopold Stokowski and the Philadelphia Symphony have announced plans to broadcast a series of Sunday afternoon concerts. They, of course, will be well worth while. The first of these performances will begin next Sunday at 5:30 Eastern Standard Time, 4:30 our time. The program has not been announced but will no doubt prove interesting.
On October 22, Maestro Paderewski will begin his American tour. He is booked to play in forty-five American cities and towns. His arrival in this vicinity is at present unknown, however, as soon as the date is learned do not tarry about purchasing tickets. They usually go at least two days after box office’s sales begin. He is possibly the best drawing card on the American concert stage and rightly so. His technique, his tone coloring, his selections, his charm and personality are exceptional. Do not miss him. He is very close to seventy years of age and who knows, maybe this tour will be his last. Beg, borrow, pawn or steal, but by all means, hear Paderewski.'
This is rather late to be announcing the fact, but Fritz Kreisler is giving a concert in Orchestra Hall, Chicago, Sunday afternoon, October 13.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
105
|| A Man You Know

The average student is under the impression that philosophers have no sense of humor. When-he first ventures into the rarified atmosphere of abstract thought, he is so impressed with the necessity for logical reason-
Professor Daniel C. O’Grady
ing that he almost immediately becomes obsessed with the idea that philosophy is a very serious subject indeed; and ergo, all philosophers are very serious persons. And indeed, philosophy is a very grave and dignified subject, but there are philosophers who have not allowed that fact to deaden their sense of humor. Doctor Pace, the dean of American philosophers, and William James are striking examples; and here at Notre Dame we have a philosopher whose sense of humor and ready wit are as well known as his profound knowledge of the ultimate causes of things. He is Professor Daniel Charles O’Grady, Assistant Professor of Philosophy.
Professor O’Grady is a Canadian. He was born in Ottawa, in 1901; and attended the Ottawa public and sep-ate (Catholic) schools. In. 1924, he received his Ph. B. from the University of Ottawa. After a year of further study at the same university the M. Ph. and B. A. degrees were also conferred upon him. In 1926 he received his M. A. from Catholic University in Washington, and in the following year his Ph. D. from the University of Ottawa.
Doctor O’Grady came to Notre Dame in September, 1926, and since then he has taught classes in every branch of philosophy. The wide range of his philosophical knowledge
is apparent when one considers that at one time or another he has taught classes in logic, psychology, metaphysics, cosmology, philosophy of the mind, ethics, epistomology, aesthetics, theodicy, dynamic psychology, and personality. A very formidable array! And yet he has found time to write a text, The Philosophy of Nature, on cosmology. The text is at present used by cosmology classes in the University in the form of mimeographed sheets, but it will soon be published in book form. He also finds ’ time to be a member of the American Catholic Philosophical Association.
It might well be said that philosophy is Professor O’Grady’s avocation as well as his vocation. In his own inimitable way he told us that philosophy might be considered as his real hobby. “It was the subject,” he said, “rather- than the teaching of philosophy that appealed to me. Now that philosophy has become a career, aesthetics may perhaps best represent my hobby. However, after three years of teaching, I must admit that being a teacher also has its own appeal. I have other hobbies which I ride rather consistently. Skiing (that is, when there is any snow), golf, wistful music, and humorous literature, especially the absurdities of Stephen Leacock, (whom I consider to be one of the most amusing men I have ever met), are some of them.”
In fact, Doctor O’Grady does not confine himself to any particular field for his hobby, as the list of them he has mentioned indicates.
FIRST SCHOLARSHIP DANCE TONIGHT
Tonight Playland Park will be the scene of the first Scholarship dance of the year, sponsored by the Scholarship Club of South Bend. Mrs. John L. Worden, president of the club, has complete charge of the dance, which will be from 8:30 until 11:30 p. m. Students attending the dance must be in their place of residence by 12:00 o’clock. Music for the dance will be furnished by the Indi-anians, popular radio artists. Tickets, which will be one dollar per couple or for “stags,” may still be obtained from the rector of the halls, and from the Off-Campus office. Girls for the dance will be furnished by the Scholarship Club for those who do not bring their own.
According to Robert Hellrung, chairman of the S. A. C., special
street cars will run from the campus direct to Playland Park. After the dance, ample street car and taxi service will be available.
During the course of the evening, a season box seat for the Wisconsin, Southern California and Drake games will be drawn for. Tickets for this may still be obtained from the S. A. C. members.
“JUGGLER” OUT MONDAY, OCTOBER 14
According to Editor John L. Nanovic, the first number of the Juggler will be out on Monday, Oct. 14. It will be called the
“Freshman Number” and will contain some improvements in its general make-up. The Hibberd Printing C o m -pany has a new layout and type face for the magazine. Advance proofs sent to the editors of the Mid-west College Comic publications resulted in some very favorable comments.
The cover drawing by Bob Rice, Jr., will be rather different from drawings seen on the cover page last year. A special feature will be an article by McCready Huston, author of a number of books, and Managing Editor of the News-Times. The various preparatory schools of the freshmen will be used as dash lines between the reading matter.
This year the Juggler will have more pages than last year’s editions, owing to the unusually large number of contributions. The largest staff of contributors the Juggler has ever had has sent in material for the Freshman number. All contributors will receive “contributors’ cards.” Those
who have not yet received their cards can get them by calling at 130 Sorin.
KEEGAN CHAIRMAN OF INTER-HALL DEBATING .
Thomas A. Keegan was named chairman of Inter-hall debating at the last meeting of the Wranglers, sponsorers of the Inter-hall debates. Coaches for the various freshmen halls will be named next week.
106	The Notre Dame Scholastic
PRESIDENT O’DONNELL AND COACH ROCKNE TO
ADDRESS N. C. C. M.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and K. K. Rockne, director of Athletics, will be among the principal speakers to address the convention of the National Council of Catholic Men, which will be held in Fort Wayne, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of next week. This convention will be attended by representatives of every state in the union.
COTILLION CHAIRMEN BEGIN PREPARATIONS
The “Cotillion of Charm” is near. Neil Hurley’s “Cotillion Clippings” appear at intervals on campus bulletin-boards; ticket sellers in Sophomore, Lyons, Morrissey and St. Edward’s report favorable results; posters are alternately “up and down,” and committees in general, are resting, prior to two weeks of steady detail work.
There is only one week left for the socially-minded Sophomore to get his ticket and John Ryan, chairman of that committee, looks forward to seven busy days for his men. On the ticket-stubs are written the names and cities of the guests. This will enable the list to be compiled in time for the “Sophomore Cotillion” number of the Scholastic, Oct. 25.
Programs have been definitely settled upon by Bernard Heitz and his committee. The exact nature of the program will be described later.

REVEREND FRANCIS WENNINGER ADDRESSES THE
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
The Notre Dame Academy of Science started its fourth year of existence last Monday evening with elections of officers. Forty-eight members were present, twenty-seven of that number* being eligible to vote, eleven eligible for office.
The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator and founder of the society, welcomed the new members.
He briefly outlined the activities of the Academy in the past and promised to give an illustrated lecture at the next meeting, Monday, October 21. The programs during the remainder of the year will consist of papers to be read by Academy members.
Edward T. York was elected president; Marshall S. Wallner, vice-president; Freeman H. Longwell, secre
tary; and George P. Heil, Robert L. Jackson and J. Walter McFarlane were delegated by their fellow members to fill the executive positions.
LOCAL K. OF C. FORMALLY INSTALL OFFICERS
In an impressive and ritualistic ceremony held Tuesday evening, October 8, in the Council Chambers, Walsh Hall, the officers for the coming term were installed in the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. The ceremony of installation was presided over by District Deputy, Otto Dorsey, of LaPorte, Indiana, and he was assisted in his
Jack Chevigny, Grand Knight
task by a group of five other brothers from his home Council in LaPorte. It was at this meeting also that the ’ appointees for the positions of Financial Secretary, and Lecturer were announced. Vernon Knox was again chosen to fill the important post of Financial Secretary, and Frank Mc-Greal, was announced by Grand Knight Chevigny as his selection for the position of Lecturer. Both of these men were duly installed with the other officers elected at an earlier meeting of the year.
The meeting was adjourned with the conclusion of the installation proceedings, and it was annuonced that the first regular business meeting to take place under the new regime would be held in the Council Chambers, Walsh Hall, next Monday, October 14.
All members are urged to be present at this meeting to give the new officers a good send-off for the year. The address of the evening will be delivered by the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline at the University. The various committees for the year wilLalso be appointed by Grand Knight Chevigney*
BAND WILL HOLD SMOKER NEXT THURSDAY
In an effort to get the new members of the Notre Dame band better acquainted with the “old heads” in the organization, plans have been laid to hold a smoker during the next week in the faculty dining hall. Several members of the faculty will speak, and selections will be rendered by members of the band, it was announced Friday, by Jack Folks, bandsman in charge of the program. The tentative date for the gathering has been set for next Thursday at 7:30 p. m.
Joseph Casasanta, director of the band, and the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will speak to the musicians. John Beljon, pianist, will be featured in several popular selections, and Gordon Salmon and William McAleer, the “Harmony Boys,” have been obtained to sing for the musicians.
BOY SCOUT AUTHORITY VISITS CAMPUS
Dr. Ray O. Wyland, director of the Department of Education, Boy Scouts of America, was at Notre Dame, Tuesday and Wednesday. While on the campus, Dr. Wyland discussed the possibility of a summer Leaders Training Course with University officials, and spoke to the Boy Guidance students on the educational aspects of scouting. Dr. Wyland is well known on the campus, having directed a Scout Leadership Course in 1925 and 1926.
NEBRASKA CORNHUSKERS WORK OUT HERE
Twenty six members of the Corn-husker football squad of the University of Nebraska stopped off at Notre Dame Thursday afternoon . long enough to hold a limbering up workout on Cartier* Field. The Cornhusk-ers are coached this year by Dana X. Bible, former coach at Texas A. & M.
The last time the Comhuskers appeared on Cartier Field was when the now famous Four Horsemen ran rough-shod over them to the score of 34-7. The Nebraskans left at 5:40 p. m. for Syracuse, New York, where they will encounter the strong Syracuse University team Saturday afternoon.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
107
LA RAZA CLUB
La primera sesion del Club La Raza un exito. Every Latin-American country was represented by either freshmen or upperclassmen at the meeting held Friday night in the north room of the library. Enrique Rodriguez presided as chairman and introduced the new men to the old members.''of the Club. Speeches were given by the officers: Alex Rivera, treasurer; Ralph Garza, vice-president; and Antonio Diaz, secretary. A committee was named by the president for the writing of the charter, and Professor De Landero, of the Spanish department, was chosen as advisor. The next meeting will be held Friday, October 18.
YOUNGSTOWN CLUB
The Youngstown Club held its initial meeting, Tuesday evening, October 1, in the south room of the library. A discussion as to activities for the year was taken up, fol-■ lowed by a short talk given by the president, William Dunlevy. Co-operation was urged between the members here at school and the alumni in Youngstown.
The new members of the Club were welcomed to the assemblage and the purpose of the campus organization explained. A number of brief talks were given by upper-classmen and a banquet and smoker arranged.
The officers for this year are: Frank Savage, vice-president; Gabriel Moran, secretary; and Joseph Wallace, treasurer. The next meeting will be held October 15.
BOSTON CLUB
A meeting of the Boston Club members was held in the north room of the library, Sunday morning. This year the organization has an enrollment of thirty-five, and the Club anticipates a most successful year. Already committees under the general head of Jack Saunders, are working in harmony with the Notre Dame-Boston Club to hold a college dance in the “Hub.”
The first of a series of smokers is to be held October 23, in the Faculty Dining Room. The committee has a number of prominent speakers selected and promises a * special treat to those who attend.
The officers of the year are: Charles Driscoll, of Brookline, president; Arthur McManmon, of Lowell, vice-president; William Brown, of Swampscott, treasurer; and Frank Gartland, of Dorchester, secretary.
j	PITTSBURGH CLUB
The Pittsburgh Club held its organization meeting • Monday night in Badin “Rec” with an enrollment of forty members. /Thomas Murphy presided as chairman and gave a short introductory speech to the Freshmen and new men who made their first application for membership this year. All students who have not yet joined are urged to be present at the next meeting and take part in discussing plans for the Club’s activities during the year.
►	PRESS CLUB
Members of the Press Club are requested to be present at the next meeting October 22. The president, John Motz, I	wishes to remind the members of the prize offer of $5 00
made by Professor Charles Phillips, of the English depart
ment, to be given to the member who has the most perfect attendance record throughout the year.
An announcement will be made at the next meeting of the forthcoming competition for the best editorial, best news story, and best feature article during the year, for which prizes will also be given.
VILLAGERS CLUB
The Villagers’ Club of Notre Dame held its first meeting Monday evening, October 7, in the Lay Faculty dining room. After the dinner was served the members were addressed by Mr. C. H. Wagner, District Manager of the South Bend branch of the Standard Oil Company. The new officers for the year presided at the meeting, which a large number attended.
The officers of the organization for the school year of 1929 and 1930 are as follows: John Marcus, president; Jack Shively, vice-president; Tom Brandon, secretary; Bob Holmes, treasurer; and George Bryan, sergeant-at-arms.
NEW JERSEY CLUB
On Thursday evening, Oct. 3, the New Jersey Club held its first meeting of the year in the Law Building. Twenty-four Freshmen were admitted into the Club. Although fifty-three members attended, a number were absent and their presence is desired at the next meeting. The report of the Summer Dance which was held June 12 at the Montclair Golf Club, was read and the results proved it to be a social as well as a financial success. Following the report all members were introduced.
Suggestions were made for the election of a Freshman vice-president in order to create a greater interest among the Freshmen and to allow them a representative in the Club. A motion was made and passed. The nominations for this office will be made at the next meeting, the date of which is to be announced in the Scholastic.
A Mass will be said for the repose of the souls of Rupert Mills, an alumnus, and Orlando Pucci, a junior, both having met death by drowning last summer.
The officers elected this year are: Robert Massey, president; James Dilly, vice-president; William Gadek, secretary; Richard Connelly, treasurer.
DETROIT CLUB
A special meeting of the Detroit Club was held Wednesday evening in Badin “Rec.” Plans for the first banquet of the year were discussed and reports were given by the committee. Bob Neydon is chairman of this committee, assisted by W. Mortenson and D. Sutton.
A formal dance during the Christmas vacation was also considered and tentative plans made. Former dances given by the club have been limited to students and alumni; this year the dance will be open to friends of members, and of the alumni.
The officers of the club are: James W. Sullivan, president; Malcolm E. Trombley, vice-president; J. Walter McFarlane, secretary; Edward J. Nebel, treasurer; and, Dennis Bedard, financial secretary.
108	The Notre Dame Scholastic
EDITOR’S PAGE

THE PRCTETTCRT AT I AI I I ’
Dean Max McConn of Lehigh University declares that the American College professor himself is largely to blame for the prevalence of students who rank football games above their studies in importance. (News article.)
As J. P. McEvoy would say, “Oh, the pity of it!” But what kind of students are they? Surely not serious enough to make themselves interested. When taking the indifferent class of student as a type, why blame the professors ?
To date no one has been able to conceive a reason why a college professor should cause a lapse in the mentality of the student body. Nor has any one been able to suggest a scheme whereby calculus or economics or politics should be as interesting as their football game. The whole trouble seems to be that the students evince more appro val for their football than they do for their studies. Accept it as true or reject it as false; admit at least that the professor is not wholly to blame, if at all. What man can explain the mysteries of algebra in such a way as to intrigue the whole class?	.
There are many cases on record where professors have been forced to teach certain things against their will. There have been cases where professors have been required to bear the brunt of an attack for which they are entirely undeserving and innocent. But we never hear them plead for justice. Probably because they never make a request public. Dean McConn said that instead of devoting themselves exclusively to their classes they spend much time and energy in research, the interest of the class is lost and the consequences are bored students and indifferent professors.
It is the writer’s opinion that Dean McConn has made a grave mistake. Research does not dull the interest of the class. Neither does it reflect on the professors, because by their added efforts to gain complete knowledge of their subjects they give the students first-hand information on their experiences. If the class is a bore, in most cases it is the fault of the student. He fails to place himself in a receptive mood and consequently loses what good might be derived from the class. It* is true that some instructors have not the talent to interest as well as to inform, but their number is small. One of the first requisites for the college professor today is ability to hold the interest of the class.
Teaching is at best a thankless job unless the student is serious enough to try and profit by the experience and knowledge of his instructor. Instead of criticizing the harrassed professor, Dean McConn would have done better to analyze the general run of students attending universities. It would be interesting to know the percentage of those who come with serious intentions.
Instead of referring to research as misdirected energy, Dean McConn should have used his own energy not to criticize the professor but to fathom the real cause for dis-interested students. Football games are recreational, not educational, to the masses. Why could he not have drawn a finer, keener example? It seems absurd that he should accuse a sport as ruinous in its effect on a subject entirely foreign to it. What relationship exists between football and education is undeterminable. Probably the students he champions came to college merely for the privilege of seeing football games and not for education. If such an assertion be true, then Dean McConn had better rid his own university of undesirables and recommend the same policy to other schools.	—T. v. M.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
109
Two Short Stories: Robert Mulhall
Judge
EVERYBODY was curious about that artist fellow that came on the afternoon train and went right up to the big house in Judge’s own carriage. Judge hadn’t had any vsitors in a long time, not since he’d been away on that long trip. So naturally we were interested in this one. He was an artist too, because he . looked queer and wore funny clothes, and there were a lot of funny boards and sticks and paint things in his baggage. I know because I helped Joe Davis take his stuff up to the big house.
Judge was an odd one all his life. I remember when he was a lad about town, loafing around, getting in and out of trouble. He was never serious, always easy going. Everybody said he was a disgrace to his parents. Not that he was outright bad. He just couldn’t do anything that counted. He could dance and be funny and show everybody a good time and spend the old man’s money. But he couldn’t earn enough himself, and what he did earn he spent on foolishness.
All through high school, he just played around like he didn’t have a thing to do. He was good in those plays they gave, though. That’s how he got his nickname. His real name isn’t Judge. He played the part of a judge once, and he did it so natural, they kept calling him that. Funny, too, afterwards he really was a judge.
He finished high school mostly on account of his old man. Prof. Wilkins didn’t dare disgrace Harvey Woodruff’s son. Not as long as Harvey was president of the school board. Then he went away to college to be a lawyer. Stayed there about a year until he got kicked out for some kind of high jinks. I guess it was a good thing anyway, ’cause everyone knew the terrible amount of money Harvey was spending on him. Why Norma, that’s the Woodruff’s maid, said that the old man sent him three hundred a month, and that she’d heard Harvey telling Mrs. Woodruff that Bill sure was going through money.
Well, as I was saying, he came back and went to work in his Dad’s store. He didn’t do much. Just drove the delivery truck and fooled about the store. He had a good time at night with the fellows. He was so easy going with his money and he always had a crowd around him. Oh, he was a fine chap all right even if he was a little queer.	*
He wasn’t a bad lookng fellow, tall and developed enough to fit his clothes. I always admired him for that. He never looked like the rest of us with our clothes just hanging on. He had a pretty face, sorta, like a girl’s, except that his eyes were too determined looking and his chin was a man’s. Yes, even in working clothes, Judge was good lookin’.
Jane Norris was the Judge’s girl. She was darn nice too, pretty and bright and dandy with a violin. She used to play in the intermissions of the plays they gave at school. Jane was all for Judge, no mistakin’ that. Isn’t it funny how the nicest girls fall for the queerest fellows? But Judge was good looking and . there was something about him that made you want to be with him. That’s probably what made Jane like him. I remember how happy she looked the night they graduated and how long she looked at him—I just happened to notice—when Prof. Wilkins was talking about ambition and making a success of life.
Even when they went to college, she was the same way. I used to talk to Jed, the Norris’ hired man. He told me what he’d picked up around the house. How Jane used to tell her folks what Judge was doing and how she was trying to make him stick to his law learning. Why even after he was kicked out, she wouldn’t let nobody say a word against him! Said he was unlucky and unfortunate. She used to make him come over to her house, that is in the summer when she was on vacation. She’d play the violin for him—he liked that—and then she’d talk to him and try to make him start in to real hard work.
Towards the last of the summer she seemed to lose interest in him. Started going with a young lad who was working in a drug store for the summer. He was working his way through college, and Jane thought that was just fine. She didn’t drop Judge. She just wasn’t so nice and didn’t give all her time to him—and once or twice, when he called up for a date, she refused him. When she’d do that, he would come down to the pool room all sulky and mad as a hatter.
I don’t really think she meant any harm. She just wanted to wake him up, to get him fightin’ mad and make him do something worth while. She thought she was being kind and good. Instead she caused no end of trouble.
When Jane began to turn him down, Judge started to drink. It’s funny how a little thing will make some people lose all the sense they ever had. On one of his drowning-his sorrow trips, he met a woman. She saw the sucker in him and played up to him. The first thing we knew she’d married him and had come home with him. His old man and the Missus wouldn’t even meet her much less let her in the house, so they stayed down at the hotel.
Jane heard about the affair of course. In this town everyone knows everything about everybody. For a week nobody saw her. She must have stayed pretty close to her house, because even Mrs. Kemp, who lives right across from the Norris’s, didn’t see her go in or out once. But everybody knows what happened. She disappeared,—just was here one day and wasn’t the next. The last one to see her was Joe Davis, the station man. She didn’t buy a ticket or say anything to him, just took the early train. Prob
110
The
Notre Dame Scholastic
ably went to New York, ’cause that’s where the train goes
After she went Judge changed. He didn’t moon around like he used to. He got rid of the woman. Nobody knows what happened. One day she left town, and Judge didn’t see her off, and no one dared ask him about her because he looked so fierce for a week after. Did’ya ever notice how some people go off on a workin’ streak when they’re mad and excited about something? That’s what Judge did. He turned that store upside down with his new notions. Made it bigger, put in all sorts of new things, hired more help, and started doing a bigger business than his old man ever did.
As soon as he’d got the business going, he went off to school again. This time he stayed. He was away for five years. Never came home except when the old man died—that was about two years after he’d left. After he finished his law learning, he came back and got mixed up in politics. He always did get on well with people. Now he got on with everybody, and the first thing we knew he was elected judge. He made a good one too.
Meanwhile the Missus just slowly grew older and weaker, and then died easily and quietly like she’d lived. That left Judge alone in the big house, but he didn’t seem to mind. He was even building a bigger house. A fine new one like you see in the movies. He’d made big connections in Frinton, that’s the county seat. He was always going back and forth on cases and the like. He even went to Washington on court business. Got to be quite an authority on law, was called in when others got stuck. Judge was working, and preparing, and hoping for something big. Something which meant a lot to him. Why he never had time to come down to the pool room! And we never saw him in town, that is, never long enough to talk to him. He was always going or coming.
Then came that long court trip. Judge was called in to help out at some big case in Philly. He was away for three months. When he came back, he was so changed you’d hardly recognize him His hair was gray instead of shiny black. His eyes looked like they used to when he’d been off on a spree. And his face—you know how a paper bag looks when it’s old and wrinkled and dirty—well, that’s how his face looked. He was an old man. Something terrible must have happened. Nobody ever found out what. But it must have been awful to make Judge a total wreck in three months.
Even since then, he’d kept to the big house. He sold the new one just as it was. He didn’t even bother to finish it. He gave up his judge business. Never went out. Never had anybody in to see him. That’s why this artist fellow made us all so curious.
The fellow stayed for more than six months. Lived up with the judge. Went out riding with him. Was with him all the time. He was painting a picture, we knew from Norma. She told as much as she’d found out. The fellow worked in the library. He had a big piece of canvas on a board, over by the big window. He’d work there for a while, then draw a sheet over the canvas and talk with Judge or go out with him. Judge never left Norma in the room alone, so she couldn’t tell us what the picture was then.
She did see it later though. The judge kept close watch on that room for more than a year. And then one day, Norma got her chance. Judge was sitting away over in front of the fireplace. She walked in quietly and went over to where she could see. He was sitting in his big chair, his head resting on the back, and his face looking straight up at the picture. Norma didn’t go any closer because
she didn’t want him to hear her before she got a good look at the picture.	•
It was a big picture and showed a courtroom like you’d see it from a place where the judge sits. There were a lot of faces in the back, sorta misty-like and starey. Up in front, standing before a wood rail was a girl, about fifteen or sixteen, I guess, and awful pretty.. She had on one of those silvery dresses what they wear to balls and a bright red silky shawl—I remember the shawl, because Norma said the flames from the fire lit up the shawl like it seemed to be on fire. Well, anyway, the girl was standing there begging something of someone, probably, the judge. She was crying too, and looked awful pitiful—I don’t know what such a pretty girl could have done to bring her into court like that. Just behind the girl, was an old woman. She wasn’t very clear, so Norma said, but you could see that her face was all wrinkled and marked with scars. She was all in black, sorta raggy and dirty lookin’. She must have been this pretty girl’s mother, though, because, she was looking so worried and sad. Norma said her face made her start. And that face must have been terrible or something, because it isn’t easy to get a rise out of Norma. That was all there was to the picture, except that this old woman with the pretty girl had a violin which she hugged tightly to her and which she seemed to be trying to hide.
I guess we’ll always be curious about that artist fellow and that picture and what happened on that long court trip, ’cause Judge never did take his face away from looking at that picture.
—o—
Matins
“"T" "T"0W ’bout a shot, bud?”
I I Bill hesitated, looked square in the other’s eyes, I J then filled a glass and slid it across the bar. The other took the glass, sipped a little, then gulped down the rest.
“How much, bud?”	-
Now, Bill usually charged a buck for his good shots, but, glancing at the other’s clothes, he muttered, “Four bits.” From a rather worn wallet the other pulled a new dollar bill, slid it across the bar, and walked out before Bill could make the change.
“Huh, guess I am gettin’ soft, meanin’ to let a guy like that off at half price. But he sure looked poor enough! Got a strong face though. Never did see such a determined lookin’ eyes. Gave me the creeps when I looked in 'em. Just like lookin’ in the eye of a gun. Yet, he didn’t seem dangerous! Funny how one bozo out of all the rest will sort a get you.”
“How ’bout a shot, Bill?” '	.
Bill didn’t hesitate now, not with an old customer. He filled the glass, slid it across, and stood back ’till the other had finished. “Like it, Jim? That’s some of the new.”
“Tastes like good old stuff to me, Bill.”
“Want another, Jim?” •
“Nope, one’s my limit. Hafta be goin’ now anyway. Here’s my pay.”
“Say, Jim, you always pay with a new dollar bill. Where do you get ’em ?”
“Why, I make them.”
“You what?”	.	.
“I make them.”
The Notre Da
“Do you make a lot of them?”
“Oh, no, Just enough to keep me supplied with ready cash.”	•
“But, could you make a lot, if you wanted to?”
“Yea, but it’d take a lot of time, so I just make enough
for what I need.”	'
"Why don’t you make larger ones, like tens or twenties?”
"I would if I had the plates, but they cost a lot of money.”	-
How much, Jim?”
“’Bout five thousand.”	’
“Gee, that is a lotta money!”
“Yea, and don’t I know it! That’s what keeps me making ones instead of twenties and fifties. Well, so long, see you tomorrow, Bill.”
“Say, Jim, I been thinkin’ ’bout what you said yesterday ”
“Yea? What about it? Discovered some new way to ge some money in a hurry?”
“Well, yes and no. Yrou see, I been athinkin’ that— well, would you split fifty-fifty with me, Jim if I lent you that five thou?”	"
“What! You’re going to give me, a stranger, five thousand dollars, just because I told you I could get them plates if I had that much?”
“Yea, I sorta trust you, Jim. I think you’re square. You’ve been cornin’ here for ’bout two months now, and you always pay with one of them there new dollar bills. That kinda proves that what you say is straight. Besides there’s somethin’ compellin’ about you. Somethin’ in the way you look at a person. I’ll bet you’d make one sweet lawyer or judge! Now, if you’re willin’, I’ll get you the money right away.”
“Sure, I’m willing, but first let’s get this straight. You’re going to give me five thousand outright. Then I use the money to get the twenty and fifty plates. When I start making the new money, I give you half beside your five thousand. That it?”
“That’s right, Jim. You’re willin’ ain’t ya?”
. “Sure thing, Bill. But first, let’s fix up some kind of contract. Something to protect you, you know.”
“Aw, that’s all right, Jim. I told ya, I trusted ya.”
“Nope, we’ve gotta have a- contract. Got some paper?
\ Never mind, here’s my notebook. That’ll do. Now see, in case our' plan doesn’t work, you’ve got some kind of a comeback. Otherwise, I might play you dirt.”
“Here’s the check for the money, Jim. James E. Dillon, that’s the name isn’t it?”
“Yea, that’s right. Now that everything is settled, I’ll leave you for awhile, Bill. I may be gone for about two weeks. Don’t you worry though. I have to get the plates over from Germany, and that takes time. So long, Bill, ’till the plates come in.”
During the next two weeks Bill was in a state of happy anticipation. Life would soon be just one joy after another. Anything he’d want would be his. Jim sure had been a lucky find for him. But then, he’d seen rightaway that there was somethin’ unusual about Jim, somethin’ compellin’. . He’d wager no jury could stand against Jim’s plea—and Jim’s eyes. Why, when he looked straight at you, it was like a boring machine going through soft wood!
Another week passed, and another, and another. What in the world had happened to Jim? Couldn’t he get those darn plates? What if the firm had stopped makin’ them? Maybe the ship, their ship, had struck the rocks!
At the boarding house, Bill learned that Jim had left with all his things some six weeks before. And no other address, gee, that was queer. But he still had the con
meSchoIastic	*	HI
tract. That was pure luck. Now where was it? Oh, yes, now he remembered. Jim had written it in the notebook, then they both’d signed their names, and Jim had closed the notebook and put it in his pocket. He’d meant to ask Jim about it, but forgot in the excitement of gettin’ Jim to accept the money and take him as a partner. Gee, wonder if those dollar bills were really what Jim said they were! Better go to the bank and find out.	;
“Is that bill good, mister?”
“Just as good as they make them. The whole United States treasury is back of that bill—and that’s prettygood backing, isn’t it?”
“Yes,” said Bill, “I never thoughta that. They make ’em too, don’t they!”	•
In a Romany Circle of Light
A Sketch: Joseph Clemens
"‘There is something in October sets the Gypsy blood astir. We must rise and follow her, When from every hill or flame,
She calls and calls each vagabond by name.”
—“A Vagabond Song.”—Bliss Carmen.
YELLOW shadows flickered, and played on the outlying- ground. The lilting, liquid notes of an unrestrained violin ran through the air. There in the circle of deep glowing light, swayed the violinist.
His head, thrown back in exultation, was bound in a closefitting scarlet rag of silk, and his fingers raced playfully from the scroll to the bridge of his instrument. His blouse was open at the neck, and his breeches fitted him tightly. He swayed as the music surged and grew pensive, and those around him swayed. Then a mandolin joined in— notes of a running stream.. Lively music again, and the violin’s strains once more became liquid, k n oboe, added to the rivulet of melody, and an accordion’s notes suddenly burst into the chill air.
A lissom maid dressed all in silks, paused at the edge of the circle, and then whirling a spangled, be-ribboned tambourine in her hand, she ran to the center of the ring, where she hesitated for a moment. Her dress bloused out, and her glittering peaked skirt hung loosely from her waist in thick folds. Hei- dark skin caught the full glow of the dying embers, and her red lips parted in ecstacy. Black hair crept from under her multi-colored head-dress, and the beads on her neck rippled with the music as she danced, arms and face lifted skyward, in a swirling, rythmic motion, while her skirts twirled and untwirled about her ankles. The violin took up the dominant strain, leaving the.notes of the others to fade into silence. The sound of her lover’s music and the sight of the red embers made her Gypsy blood race as she sped around the circle in a wild, abandoned whirl. She was dancing for him alone. And then the other notes returned swiftly as the girl ran out of the light with glistening eyes. The music swelled, it colored, and then sobbed into almost silence, leaving the violinist playing by the fire.
The lilting, liquid notes of an unrestrained violin ran through the air. There in the circle of deep glowing light, swayed the violinist. Over at the edge, in the half shadow, the dancer beckoned, and the musician, still playing, sauntered swayingly to her- as the fading red light played on his smiling, swarthy features.
112
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Mr. Robert Borland
ARMY,” said Napoleon, “travels on its stomach.” What was true in 1800 remains equally true in 1929. Just as the soldier depends upon food to withstand the rigours of a long march, so does the student fare much better on his quest for knowledge if he is well fed. Food is obviously necessary in both cases. Wholesome meals and attractive surroundings: that is the combination Notre Dame offers her students.
The average housewife frets over preparing a meal for two or three people; yet daily the management of the dining halls sets three meals ■before 2,800 diners. Furthermore, meals at the refectory are not the dainty snatches of an after-bridge luncheon nor the vegetable diets of hurried business men. The proverbial “square meal” is the rule. No one every goes hungry; “seconds” are for all—not for the lucky or the . powerful.- It is a gigantic task to see that everyone is well fed. Imagine ordering steaks for over 2,000 hungry young men, or'milk to flow down 2,000 throats. Such a problem requires someone well acquainted with the business of feeding men. v
Mr. Robert Borland, the manager of the Dining Halls, is the man. Not only does he capably handle the
“pork and beans” situation for the University, but he is to be given a large part of the credit for the efficient organization of the kitchen and other departments that make breakfast dinner and supper a reality. As chief steward of the Union League club of Chicago and manager of the Hamilton club, Alexander hotel and Bradley hotel, all of Chicago, he gained the experience necessary to successfully handle such a task as the local meal problem presents. The administration of the University considers itself fortunate in having-secured a man of Borland’s experience. In the winter of 1926, when the halls were nearing completion, the authorities began
searching for a man to manage the place. After many inquiries they heard of Mr. Borland and they found him in Lakeland, Fla., where he was engaged in hotel work. Mr. Borland came to the University in March, 1927, and aided the building committee -with sound advice. The dining halls opened Sept. 14, 1927, and within a week things were running with the smoothness characteristic of group organization.
Old and New
The new dining halls are a monument to Notre Dame’s spirit of progress. Before the fall term of 1927, the rooms beneath the Brownson and Carroll study halls re-echoed with the clash and clatter of knives and forks. Here the freshmen and sophomores gathered for meals prepared by the Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, who for so long, and with such unforgetable devotion, fed the hungry hosts. In the north basement of Badin hall, the clatter of trays indicated that Clark’s cafeteria was doing its best to satisfy the hunger of juniors and seniors.
It is all different now. t.A splendid Gothic building of brick and
Indiana limestone enriches the beauty of the western campus. The impression gained as you ap-
Cornelius
proach it, is fittingly expressed b; Professor Francis Kervick of the de partment of Architecture at the Uni versity. “In the central motive., says Professor Kervick, “one is re minded of the guild hall of some oh provincial town with its open porcl below and tall lancet windows abov lighting the hall; a roof of purpl slate with the silvery gleam of th lead lantern forming the culminatin.
point of the design. Upon eithe side are the great masses of the dir> ing halls lighted by the same type o tall lancets, placed high above th floor, with cup trims of limestone.”
The building is a tribute to th genius of the designers, Cram an< Ferguson of Boston. Mr. Cram senior member of the firm, did mos
of the actual designing. The asso
East Din
The Notre Dame Scholastic
113
fate architects were Kervick and ’agan of South Bend.
The interior plan provides for the »vift and efficient handling of thou-hids daily, without sacrificing any the architectural beauty intro-z'eed by the exterior. The tile floors . the arched corridors lead to the so student dining halls and the | feteria.
| Unique Setting in Cafeteria *
Again in the cafeteria, the old-)rld motif is suggested. Not only । es this department serve many ngry off-campus students and siting mothers and fathers, but it । the popular gathering-place for Indents before and after meals.
ith its vaulted Gothic arches on
either end, the cafeteria reminds one of an old French ale-house, with modern corduroy knights drinking deeply of chocolate malteds.
On the second floor of the dining halls are the lay faculty and trustees’ dining rooms. A large, well-lighted hall accommodates the lay faculty members. The second floor plan also includes a lounge, and a kitchen equipped for preparing a la carte orders.
The basement contains wash rooms, check rooms, telephone booths and locker rooms, all for the use and convenience of the students and student waiters. In all, the dining halls comprise a perfectly planned building—modern conveniences and comfort combined with dignity and beauty.
Few people realize the work entailed in preparing food for over two thousand physically and mentally fatigued men. Over two hundred men and women are employed in the kitchens of the dining halls. More than two hundred students earn their board as waiters. Four hundred employees . . . this indicates that there must be a rather enormous amount of food consumed.
Facts, Figures and Food
During one week 8,100 eggshells are shattered. Twelve sacks of flour are ripped open daily to make up 5,000 rolls which seldom* last for the evening meal. Butter —250 pounds of it, are spread in any desired thickness over 350 loaves of bread during the course of three meals, a little over an hour’s time. “A pound per man” might well be the slogan of the cooks every time meat is served for from 2,000 to 2,500 pounds is the butcher’s order. Notre Dame men are peculiarly fond of the food of the “ould sod” and every day 6,000 pounds of potatoes slip off their jackets.
Impossible? Not when you learn that during one year enough food leaves the Notre Dame kitchens to provide one meal for every living Hoosier. Including the cafeteria’s
Main Corridor
business, over 8,000 breakfasts, dinners and suppers are eaten in the largest college commons in the world.
Notre Dame has always been noted for the democratic spirit existing in the student body. This spirit is an outcome of the close association of the men in all activities. And the daily gathering of the students at the refectory is not the least of these activities. It is at the table that the freshman makes his first college acquaintances and his firmest friends. (We hear the “griper” saying, “fellow sufferers,” but the first local case of ptomaine poisoning is yet to be reported.)
Common refectory service is fast disappearing from the American college system. Many a graduate of Ohio State, Columbia or Southern California has never known the thrill of an extra slice of ice-cream on Thursday night, or an added sweetroll on Sunday morning. He may have never known what it is to expect “mystery meat-balls” and get instead a slice of delectable ham. The sandwich grille, the “hash-house,” and the Pullman diner each has its place, but there’s only one Notre Dame refectory.
As three times a day the crunch of gravel sounds from the paths leading to the refectory, we can say, while thinking of Napoleon: “There goes Notre Dame’s army.”
114
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Director of a certain well known (in fact very well known) band had just distributed a large number of uniforms. Next day, quoth he, “Has everyone a uniform now?” to which the very corpulent player of the large horn (one of those that wraps and wraps around one) replied, “Yea, I got most of one.” To this the Director inquired, “How much of one?” And the large chap meekly piped, “The pants.”	—Wild Orchid.
—o—
SHADES OF RIPLEY
Believe it or not ....
One Freshman actually became acquainted with a South Bend girl at the recent “Howdy Hop.”
Pat Goggin reports that the “Far West” magazine was not a complete sell-out at the news stand last week.
The Wink finally did get a contribution this week.
This is merely put in to fill space.
—o—
ELEGY
A silken hat upon his head,
A red nose on his face,
With dragging feet as if of lead, He headed for no place.
His coat was half and half was not, His pants were minus knees.
And on his feet was not a sock; ' His shoes caught in the breeze.
DUTCHMAN’S NIGHTMARE OF LITERATURE
Oh, I vunder, chass I vunder
Ven der sun iss dripping slozv, ■ Und der mist iss on der plum trees
Singing koo lee ooh lee oh.
Iss dere any bulls in Svedezi?
If dere ain’t, den tell me vhy.
Did he luff a sveet young maiden, Ass efen you und I?	'
Der Russians hef der Vodka,
Und der Vops, dey hef der vine, But der biggest Svede in Sveden
Must be dot Svede, Adeline.
If your head bumped der ceilin’ up You surely vozild be long,
Causs six hundred t’ousand Frenchies Could nefer haf it wrong.
London Breetches failin’ ofer In der vest side off der tozvn, Und der bets all fly der belfry oudt, Und scatter all aroun’.'
Oh, I vunder, chass I vunder
Ven der beer iss running low, Shall ve haf it once a wetness
In der next election, no?
—Number 55.
—o—
He asked bread here, he begged meat there, He got it without strife,	•
And then he hit the wooden ties, Azzd sazig, “This is the life.”
—Bud Me.
FIGI COMPLAINS
We zised to feed on roasted Babbits, In the splenderiferous days of old.
Now all our ancient tzdbal habits Are vazvished as a tale that’s told.
Ouz- meats are sent from Kansas City, By Arznour, Morzds, Libby, Szvift.
One can’t bzit feel it is a pity _ That we should with the fashion drift.
When long-pig was ouz~ dailzj ration, We lived in proud and zzoble style. But hot-dogs ziozo enthrall our nation, Azzd we grozo comznon, vulgar, vile.
—Illini Pat.
Of course we wouldn’t want to say that No. 55 deserves a padded cell for this outburst because when you come from a town that is under water a greater part of each year you just can’t help yourself. And so you become either- a poet or a high jumper.
On the other hand, Attache deserves more space than we can give him. We like to favor New Yorkers who read the Neto Yorker but still and all or all and still we know how Attache felt because we too have had one or another sail away out into the river and down the harbor.
ITEM OF INTEREST TO CLEVELANDERS
“Saturday Molly bit Galigan Gonzales, 2120 W. 44th Street. Sunday she bit Pedro Menedes, 2138 W. 44th Street. Yesterday she bit William Papenfuse, 2136 W. 44th Street.”—Plain Dealer.
About 16 more bites and Molly’d have drowned in Lake Erie, because dear kiddies, you cannot bite Lake Erie and get away with it.
—o—
Bubbles Soap can now be had in Pink, Orchid, Green, Yellow or Blue. Will someone please throw bath salts at 1 me while I take my shower?	—DONNIE d.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
115
Rockne’s Rockets Shoot to Initial Win
Elder Glides Over Crimson to Cinch Notre Dame Victory
-	SUMMARY			
2	Notkc Dame		Indiana	
	Collins	LE	Hanson	-
	McNamara	LT	Unger	
	Kassis	LG	Ringwait	
2	Nash	C	Hojnacki	•
	Metzger	RG	Shanahan	-
	Donoghue	RT	Shields	-
	Conley	RE	Zeller	2
2	Gebert-	Q	Brubaker	
	Schwartz	LH	Ross	2
•	O’Connor	RH	Balay	
•	Savoldi	FB	Todd	
•	Substitutions-	—Notre Dame	: Carideo	z
E for Gebert; Kaplan for O’Connor ; Law E : for Metzger; Vezie for Conley; Two- E E mey for McNamara: Moynihan for E : Nash; Brill for Kaplan; Cannon for = E Kassis; Col rick for Collins; Leahy for E E Donoghue; Mullins for Savoldi; Elder E 5 for Schwartz; McManmon for Leahy; E E Kenneally for Carideo; Murphy for E E Vezie; Mullins for Savoldi: Kassis for E E Cannon; Collins for Colrick: Conley E E for Vezie: Donoghue for Leahy ; Metz- E E ger for Law; Gebert for Carideo; B. E E Leahy for Elder; Culver for Twomey: E E O’Connor for Brill; Shea for Mullins; E E Gebert for Carideo. Indiana: Me- E s Cracken for Hanson; Catterton for E E Unger; Faunce for Todd; Bennett for E E Shanahan ; Koenig for Ross; Manhold- E E ski for Shields; Jasper for Shields: E E Faunce for Ross; Hanson for Me- E E	Cracken: Bennett	for	Shanahan :	E
E Thomas for Catterton: Bauer for E E Koenig.	E
E Score by quarters:	E
E	Notre Dame ...............0	7 7 0—14	E
E	Indiana ..................0	0 0 0— 0	E
E Touchdowns: second quarter, Elder; E E third quarter. Elder. Points after E E touchdown: Carideo 2. Officials: ref- E E eree, Fred Gardner, Cornell; umpire, E E Coffin, Cornell; field judge, Fred E E Young, Illinois Wesleyan: head lines- E E man. Perry Graves. Illinois.	E
|ill»iU»»iiiillitmiiiiiiiiiiiii„»»inuiiinuinim»innHn»FI
A “one-man” team, they said, after Jack Elder’s duet of illustrious runs for touchdowns to help defeat the Hoosiers of Indiana, 14 to 0, last Saturday on the down-staters’ greensward.
It’s true, Elder rode the Crimson-high and wide, but it must not be forgotten that there are three other men in any coach’s backfield.
But for once we must give all credit to this fleet back who tore around right end in the second quarter, made a beautiful cut-back close to center, and finally eluded three Indianans for the first points of the fray.
In the third quarter, the Kentuckian repeated his scoring procedure, plunging through left tackle, ripping through a stubborn secondary, veering suddenly off to the right and speeding down the field past the Hoosier backs with only the safety man, Balay, in his wake. A sudden burst of speed and Balay’s hearty lunge was short by inches, Elder romping on to a touchdown over his favorite distance of 60 yards.
Joe Savoldi
We mustn’t forget the splendid work done by the starting team, composed entirely of reserve material. Mind you, Indiana was unable to make a single first down during that initial quarter when Rockne had
El 11II1IIMII tiiiiiiuimiiiiiiiiiiuii tin 11111111111111.nut Hilt
=	First Downs:	e
E Notre Dame—15.	E
E Indiana—3.	=
= Passes Completed:	- E
=	Notre Dame—3	out	of 12 for E
E 60 yards.	E
E	Indiana—5 out of	12	for 69 E
E	yards.	E
E	Penalties:	e
E	Notre Dame—110 yards.	E
E	Indiana—10 yards.	E
E	Yards From	Scrimmage:	e
E	Notre Dame—351.	e
E	Indiana—83.	E
SllUltlllllltltttlllltlilHHIIIItHIIIHlItillliiHlIllitlllllHlitlll□
occasion to present his 1929 edition of shock troops.
The starters w’ere even so close to a touchdown that it was merely a decision of the referee, Fred Gardner, that prevented it from being counted.
Toward the latter part of the first quarter, the second-team had worked the ball down to the eight yard line. With it third down, Rockne then used a bit of strategy and pushed in Carideo and Kaplan. A quick pass that caught the Hoosiers unawares resulted, but the officials decided that Kaplan took Carideo’s pass outside of the end-zone. It was Indiana’s ball then, and the last chance the shock troops had to score, as immediately following, Rock sent in the main corps.	-
Lateral passes appeared to be the mainstay of the menu that was served so pleasingly to Pat Page’s squad by Rockne’s Rockets. Although only three of ten attempted passes were completed they amounted to a total of 60 yards. Indiana’s five successes totalled only 69 yards. ■
What the fans saw last week was undoubtedly a minority of the Notre
116	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Dame plays and plans for the season. Whatever Rockne has secretly planned for the other three of his backfield, besides Jack Elder, will be opened shortly, that’s certain.
Joe Savoldi and Moon Mullins are hard to choose between for first honors at the fullback position. Savoldi carried the ball the majority of the time in the first quarter and gained ground repeatedly. Mullins alternated with Elder, principally, and made shreds of the Indiana line.
The total yardage gained from scrimmage, 351 yards, is but a little criterion of the total strength of the Rockets. The defensive power is aptly shown in the figures that Indiana totalled only 83 yards from scrimmage.
That’s a most pleasant thing to think of, considering that the Hoosiers were able to make first down only three times during the entire contest. Indiana’s initial first down came late in the second quarter, this offensive drive ending futilely with an incomplete pass over the goal line.
A strong team, well-balanced on both the defense and offense, is the combination of Rockets Knute Rockne has assembled for the entertainment of his admirers.
Suitable reserves and shock troops to wear down the opponents are on hand and we look for a hopeful season. The Ramblers were fast and in- teresting in their major debut last week and we will be patiently watching them for future developments.
One may expect to see other players, besides those who starred against Indiana, shine in the near future. We’re hoping that they are being kept in reserve until the vital moment.
The entire line, Captain Law outstanding, is one to conjure with. They compose the "silent partners” of Rockne’s company of stars.
NAVY TO SHOW POWERFUL STRENGTH TOMORROW
The Navy Midshipmen made a very unimpressive showing against William and Mary last Saturday, playing ragged football and causing their supporters much concern over the outcome of the struggle with Notre Dame, at Baltimore tomorrow afternoon.
Nevertheless, we are informed that Navy has been building her forces carefully, under the direction of “Navy Bill” Ingram until this year, when he has been successful in put
ting on the field the first complete product of the new system.
A dozen big, fast, and shifty backs, all well-drilled in the fundamentals of sound offensive and defensive play will be at Ingram’s command tomorrow.	.
During the last three years the Navy style of play has been undergoing a rejuvenation; a line that is capable both for defense and offense alike, and a backfield that can block, tackle, and provide interference for1 the ball-carrier has been the result of Ingram’s plans.
So successful is Ingram’s latest effort that his backfield combination gained 424 yards from scrimmage against William and Mary last week. They rolled up a total of 21 first downs. But they certainly lacked the scoring punch, for* their winning margin amounted to only two touchdowns and a safety. ‘
They opened their season two weeks ago, taking a listless contest from Denison U., 47 to 0. Here Navy showed their strong offensive by rolling up touchdown after touchdown, certainly possible against a weak opponent.
Headed by Joe Clifton, a very punishing sort of fullback, are Kohlas, Toth, H. W. Bauer, Spring, Binns, all sturdy, bruising halfbacks.
The Midshipmen have had fair success so far* with this combination but one noticeable detriment to their fu-
Laborers Start Work on Stadium
Actual construction of Notre Dame’s new $800,000 football stadium is now under way, with a force of carpenters and engineers on the premises preparing for the preliminary operations. Ralph Sollitt & Sons, South Bend contractors, are working rapidly in order to insure the completion of the structure by September 1, 1930. The carpenters, under the direction of J. A. Biron have already erected a field office on the west side of the site, and the engineers headed by C. J. Pankow are making surveys in preparation for the excavations for the foundations structure of the stadium.
Already the field south of old Cartier is covered with numerous small buildings, which house the tool and equipment sheds, lumber racks, and the field offices of the contractor and
ture supremacy lies in the eradication of fumbling. Last week, the Middies lost the ball to their opponents, four times on fumbles. If Notre Dame’s line can rush the ball-carriers tomorrow, they may receive the golden opportunity of retrieving a fumbled ball for material gains.
Underwood and Captain' Koepke, two powerful guards, along with Moret and Beans, ends, and Bow-strow and Bryan, tackles, with Hughes at the pivot post, will probably be the line the Ramblers will be forced to penetrate tomorrow.
Notre Dame’s chances for its second victory of the season are good, excellent in fact, if Bill Ingram has not already ironed out all of the major difficulties with which he has been confronted in his two opening struggles.
| NOTICE!	j
E All sophomores wishing to try E = out for Varsity cheerleader will E i meet Dan Barton, tomorrow e E noon at 12:30 in the gymna- E | sium. Next year will be the E E first year in the new stadium E = and as cheerleading will play an E E important part in it, it is urged i I that sophomores be present at = E the meeting.	i
Q 111 11111 fl 111111111111111111i ill 11111111t11111 > 1111 1 1111i111111:111111 iQ
the engineers. There is one hoisting engine at the field along with mixers and chutes and other machinery for handling the vast amount of cement to be poured into .the structure. The pile of lumber now being hauled to the field is mounting steadily.
The engineers have been working for the past two weeks staking out the grades for the footings and workmen are busy pouring concrete. In a statement made by Mr. Biron he said, “It is the hope of Ralph Sollitt & Sons to get in the footings before cold weather sets in. The footings are the concrete bases upon which the superstructure of the stadium will rest, and of course, they have to be • put in solidly and with great care to prevent settling and consequent cracking of the concrete walls of the stadium.”	•
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
117
HELLO MEN!	I
s
SMITH’S CAFETERIA	|
111 East Jefferson Boulevard	=
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
Follow The Crowd, Men,
to
The Rainbow Restaurant
South Bend’s Most Beautif ul Place Opposite Palais Royale
—0— »
We serve
Special Breakfasts. Lunches and Dinners.
Mid-night Specials also.
—o— OUR COOKING AND FOOD ARE WONDERFUL.

Prof. Charles Phillips |
of the- English Department	=
Knute Rockne	I
Director of Athletics	i
|	Two Notre Dame
=	men whose articles
|	appear exclusively
|	in
|	THE
| NEWS - TIMES
f	“First in Sports”
QmiiiiiuiiiiiiimuiiimmiiiMiiiiHiiiniuimmiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiniiiimiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiij
1 For school supplies i
[	and	- I
I appropriate reading material | j	patronize	।
1	The Book Shop	|
|	119 North Michigan St.	I
Qltlllll.IIIHIIIttlUttlllll'llIllIlllIlllHlttlllllt'lllllllIlltM.tttllllllllllllllllllllllllllSlllllllllQ
118
The Notre Dame Scholastic
INTERHALL FOOTBALL HAS AUSPICIOUS DEBUT
All was favorable for the official opening of the Interhall Football League. The weather was ideal, the games were run off smoothly, and no serious injuries resulted.
Little could be learned of the comparative strength of the teams, but more training and a bit of polish will be required before each team can display its real power.
Fate provided a happy stroke when pairings were made for the initial contests. So well matched were the teams that two games ended in scoreless ties, and a third verged on this. Two touchdowns comprised the widest margin of victory.
Walsh defeated Freshman, 13 to 6, and copped scoring honors for the day.
St. Edwards, 0; Lyons, 0
Sport history was begun in a very creditable manner by the representatives of St. Edward’s. The new entry in the interhall league this year played fine ball in holding Lyons, last years’ champions, to a scoreless tie. Both played an even-up game, with neither gaining an advantage.
Sophomore, 2; Badin, 0
Forfeit game. Badin failed to appear.
Brownson, 0; Off-Campus, 0
An intercepted pass by Hall, Off-Campus center, almost placed his team among the winners. Marek, a speedy Brownson end, overtook him on the seven yard line, however, after long pursuit, and narrowly averted a score. Brownson held stubbornly at this point and retrieved the ball on downs.
Howard, 12; Carroll, 0
Freakish football had its place in the Howard-Carroll game. The former team, in three successive punts, with the wind at the kicker’s back, lost forty yards. Carroll failed to score on these reverses even though the final attempt was barely eased to the three yard line after a bad pass over the Howard goal line.
Morrissey, 2; Corby, 0
An unfortunate “break” swerved a certain deadlock to defeat for Corby. A bad pass from center to quarterback, Kahaim, who was preparing to punt from behind his own goal line, was smothered for a safety before he could get off the kick. The winners pressed into their opponents’ territory frequently but were unable to score.
Walsh, 13; Freshman, 6
Freshman threw a scare .into the Walsh group early in the openingperiod by counting a touchdown as a result of a fumbled punt. The losers never threatened thereafter’as Walsh forced them to punt on almost every occasion. Thirteen points hardly indicate the winners’ superiority, for they gained almost at will.
Group 1	G.P. Won Lost			Pct.
Morrissey			1	1	0	.1000
Sophomore __		1	1	0	.1000
St. Edward’s		1	0	0	.000
Lyons 			1	0	0	.000
Corby 			1	0	1	.000
Badin 			1	0	1	.000
Group 2	G.P.	Won	Lost	Pct.
Walsh 			1	1	0	.1000
Howard			1	1	0	.1000
Off-Campus _		1	0	0	.000
Brownson			1	0	0	.000
Freshmen			1	0	1	.000
Carroll 			1	0	1	.000
Games scheduled Sunday, Oct. 13:
Group 1—Lyons vs. Badin; Morrissey vs. St. Edward’s; Sophomore vs. Corby.
Group 2—Freshman vs. Brownson; Howard vs. Walsh; Off-Campus vs. Carroll.
Nunri-Bush cAnkle-Fashioned Oxfords
qou can see and feel the difference
GRIDGRAPH USED FOR FIRST TIME
The S. A. C. suffered -from overzealousness in endeavoring to give the student body and the townfolk a play-by-play account of the Indiana game, by direct wire from Bloomington last Saturday. Under the original plan, the audience would have heard the voice of Frank Dailey who was in the press box covering the game, but technical difficulties, previously 'thought well under control, confronted the men in charge of the amplifying equipment only a few minutes before the game started. In the face of these difficulties, the plan was altered and it was deemed best that the account of the game be relayed through another announcer at this end. A closer degree of cooperation may be expected between Jack Walker in charge of the gridgraph, and Royal Higgins in charge of the amplifiers for the game next Saturday. The first trial kinks have been ironed out, and both amplifier and grid-graph are now working smoothly; with prospects of perfection in both hearing and seeing the game assured.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
119
[BpItt'ItllltlllttlllllllllllllllllUllllUlllUlilUillUlttllltlUllIlltttUlllllllllllIlllItllllllUllIlltlUltllllQ
| Hey, Gang, |
1	HAVE YOU SEEN	I
I Hhe ।
I CockTLyed I I World” I
i NOW SHOWING AT THE 1
GRANADA
| If not, don’t by any means fail to = j: see it today. It’s the longest laugh | e	of a life time.	i
I IT’S JUST ONE CONTINUAL I I . ROUND OF LAUGHTER. I
i And just a line, lest ye forget	=
‘Salute’
:	with	1
1 GEORGE O’BRIEN and	i
I	HELEN CHANDLER	j
= will be the next attraction to play | i the Granada. The football game 1 i between Army—Navy as a climax 1 ( to “SALUTE,” is the thrill of a | 1 life-time.	|
i	Come on down, fellows,	1
I	Just “Doc.” 1
! PALACE i
COMMENCING SUNDAY for 3 DAYS
5 BIG ACTS VAUDEVILLE
Tom Brown With	ON THE SCREEN Talkie
The Original SIX BROWN BROS.	Singie Laffie
CLAYTON LEONARD	“OH
A Sundae in Londoh	YEAH”
SIX ROCKETS Europe’s	With a Great Cast including
Greatest Novelty	Robert
2 Other Big Acts	Armstrong
4 DAYS STARTING WEDNESDAY A Big- Gala Musical Comedy Triumph That’s Going to Set the School Agog “PLANTATION DAYS” 30 People in a Gorgeous Display of Color, Life and Variety.

I	ON THE SCREEN	j
1	Paul Palo and Lola Lane in	I
[	“ The Girl From	I
[	Havana"	1
[■jtlllHH..........    Illlllllllll.111111111111111111^
120
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE SOUTH BEND	I
CLEARING HOUSE BANKS	I
—o—	1
St. Joseph County	[
Savings Bank	i
—o—	1
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS	I
OF NOTRE DAME MEN	I
|	WALK - OVER	|
I Shoe Store	i
=	PRESENTS THE NEWEST IN	1
1	SHOE STYLES WITH PER-	1
1	FECT ASSURANCE OF	i
I	QUALITY AND COMFORT.	I
Walk Over styles are authentic!
Walk Over prices are moderate!
I	. J. M. S. BUILDING	|
faTititiiiittiiimtttiitiiittmiiitiiitmimiitiiiiiiiiiittiiimiitiiimitiiiiitiiittiiiiiittiitiiiititiimttiiiQ]
1	STORE LOCATED AT	\
i	111 S. MICHIGAN	]
(■XtiiiiiiiiftitiiiititimtitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitmiiiiiiiiiitiiitiittiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiitiiiiiQ
£a|iiimiiitiiitiitiimiiiiimitmiiiiiitiiiiiittiiiiiiiiitititittmiimiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiimittimitiiiiii^i|
^JtiiiiHiiiimiitiitiiiiiiiiHtiHiiitiiiiiiiHiiHitiitiiitiiiitntiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiimitiiiiritiiiitiiii mmff]
| SODAS	PAPERS i
I	UNIVERSITY	I
|	CAFETERIA	|
-	 CLTld-	E
I Soda Grill j
I DAILY SPECIALS	|
|	Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.	f
I CIGARS	CIGARETTES -]
(^iimitiimiimiimittiiiiiiitmiiiiitiiimiitiimitttiiiiimiiimitiiiiiiiittimiimiiiiiimitiiiiuiiii^I
CAMPUS TOGS
THAT ARE IN NOVELTY
CORDUROY PANTS „ .$2.95 and up
FIELD SHOES, Double soles, Riveted Vamps, original army shoes $3.85
Crue and V Neck SWEATERS ......$2.00	and up
SUEDE JACKETS .:.. $9.85
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE '	330 South Michigan Street •
i
Scholastic
The
THIRTY-FIVE PLAYERS
MAKE TRIP TO BALTIMORE
Thirty-five members of the varsity football squad, accompanied by Coach K. K. Rockne, Assistant Coaches Lieb and Chevigny, left Thursday noon over- the Pennsylvania railroad for Baltimore, where they will meet the
Notre Dame
powerful U. S. Naval Academy team tomorrow afternoon in Baltimore Stadium. John Quinn and Bernard Conroy, senior managers, and Robert C. Balfe and Jack Saunders, juniormanagers, will also accompany the team.
The squad is smaller than that which went to Bloomington last week, as many changes have taken place in the roster in the past week. All ar
121
rangements were made for the trip by Managers Quinn and Conroy.
The players making the trip were: Moynihan, Nash, Yarr, Law, Cannon, Metzger, Kassis, Frank Leahy, Twomey, Donoghue, Culver, McMan-mon, Colrick, Vezie, Collins, Murphy, Conley, O’Brien, Vik, Carideo, Gebert, Elder, Bernie Leahy, O’Connor, Brill, Schwartz, Kaplan, Mullins, Savoldi, Shay, Locke and McNamara.
Parker Pressureless Touch
In School
*To prove Parker Duofold is a pen of lifelong perfection, we offer to make good any defect, provided complete pen issentbytheowner direct to the factory with 10c for return postage and insurance.
Parker Pressureless Touch — presented in Duofold Pens—asks no one to strain his muscles and exert his mind to do its job of writing. The ink connects with your paper a split second sooner than the point, and its flow
Does Everything but Your Thinking ... and Clears the Track for That ■^Guaranteed Forever Against All Defects
At the wheel—Bobby Giddens, of Harvard, All American Ice Hockey Star-known to radio listeners as the" crooning artist.” With him four classmates just arrived at Cambridge — all of them fortified with Parker Duofold Pens for a flying start in the new semester.
er 'Duofold sn-io
—not by pressure!
Pressureless Touch is Geo. S. Parker’s 47th Improvement, combining capillary attraction with gravity feed.
A census of pens in 13 technical schools disclosed that Parker leads in popularity 2 to 1. It was voted the favorite by students in 55 colleges. And a nation-wide poll conducted by the Library Bureau proved Parker the preference by 25% over the second pen and 48% above the third.
Non-Breakable Barrels —28% lighter than rubber, balding 24% more ink than average, size for size.
Step up to any pen counter and select your color and point. Look for the imprint, “Geo. S. Parker—DUOFOLD.”
Pencils to match, $3 to $5.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, Janesville, Wisconsin. Offices ana Subsidiaries.-New York.Chicago, Atlanta, Buffalo.Dallas.SanFrancisco
I
e Scholastic
Daniel Hays Gloves

"E
PRESENTING
A NEW SERVICE
By Notre Dame Men for Notre Dame Men
of
Suits, Overcoats, Dress Clothes, etc.
Unexcelled Workmanship
Standard Prices
Insurance Against Loss Satisfaction Guaranteed
See Our Representative in Your Hall.
The Student Tailoring Association
Phone 3-0580
Office, 128 Walsh Hall
Dan Halpin Jos. Thornton Dan Cannon
.a
Men Tcc Yolk Mcney
Rood looks and jewel movement.
case.
strap.
Luminous A value
to duplicate at only ...........
This strap watch is a universal favorite for all around service. Combines sturdiness with
time-keeping accuracy. 15 Highly polished white finish dial. Good quality leather that you will seek in vain ........MT.OO
AT THU BIC FACTORY
JTORE
NOWHERE else can you get such bargains
monds, jewelry and gift wares as at this big factory store.
in watches, dia- j
and tested in case
We buy here for one of the biggest mail order jewelry businesses a in the world and a nation-wide chain of gift stores as well.	Z
Only one small profit added. No middleman. You get	Jj
the benefit in prices that are far below the market. Thousands of gift items to choose from. You’ll enjoy looking over the attractive display and you’ll find plenty of opportunities to save many dollars on desirable purchases. Only 10 minutes from down town by North Side car line; five minutes by auto. Come once and you’ll come again.
TO I T I BEND MATCIi CC
1720
Store hours
Retail Store
Mishawaka Avenue
8 until 6 — Saturdays until 9 .
15 jewel movement timed
for dependable time keeping. Case of highly polished white gold filled stock. Radiumlite dial, tells time in the dark. Hand sewed, tooled leather strap with close fitting buckle. A wonderful value that sells usually for much more
than our special price of .........
S24.CC -
The Notre Dame Scholastic
123

Mi
Recommended by the English Department of the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary— It is based upon
Webster’s
New International
A Short Cut to Accurate Information — here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it. A wealth of ready information ’on words, persons, places, is instantly yours. 106,000 words with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and other special features. Printed on Bible paper.
See It at Your College Bookstore or Wrice for Information to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this paper.
G. & C. MERRIAM COMPANY Springfield, Mass


The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms ’ at American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in, Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
THE corn flake flavor championship is won year after year by Kellogg’s. On campuses from coast to coast they sweep the field. Why? Try them!
Pour milk or cream into a brimming bowl of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, crisp and golden. Relish the matchless flavor of the first spoonful. Savor the satisfaction of the last. Then you’ll know why they’re champions!
Particularly good with fruit or honey added. Ask that Kellogg’s, the original Corn Flakes, be served at your fraternity house or favorite campus restaurant.
Patronize SCHOLASTIC Advertisers.
| On Down the Line , |
. . . Whatever it is . . . ‘yo-yo’, a game, is played by students ... at U. of Georgia and Tennessee . . . 390 pounds of tackle . . . that’s Arthur Wolff . . . he’s Thayer High School (Mo.)’s line . . . The International league must be tough on umpires . . . six have been released in that circuit this season . . . Two men were arrested for stealing ‘bases’ in Massachusetts ball park . . . Red Sox wouldn’t need them anyway . . . Portland has had quite a bit of trouble in keeping shortstops . . . three of them were sold last year . . .
. . . 100 targets straight for the 100th time . . . that’s the record of San Antonio world’s champion shot . . . Rather tough for the husband . . . Speaking of Texas, do you know that Berkeley Bell, a Texan, is the New York State singles tennis title . . . Longest hole-in-one ever scored in Michigan was 345 yards . . . sunk on the Paw Paw Lake course by • Gus Thompson . . .
. . . Athletics have averaged an attendance of 15,000 a day all season . . . don’t forget . . . Sunday antibaseball edict on too . . . ever hear of cross-handed batters in professional .ball . . . Earl Moore of Cleveland and Philadelphia Nat’ls, and John Neydler, Nat’l league prexy were cross-handed hitters . . . Altho 33 years old Paddy Driscoll, famous Northwestern star, still plays . . . football, basketball and baseball, and not through yet . . . The Philadelphia fans razz Jimmy Dykes daily ... no one knows why tho . . .
... St. Louis University has three ex-Notre Dame footballers . . . “Hunk” Anderson, “Chile” Walsh, and Christy Flanagan coach the Billikins . . . With one exception University of Illinois’ coaching staff of six men played under Bob Zuppke, head coach . . . Since its organization the National league has been made up of 24 different clubs ... it had twelve at one time . . . six was the lowest number . . . Art Shires, the explosive man from Chicago, has a brother playing the infield with Waco, Texas.
. . . Georges Carpentier, in case you remember the former French boxer . . . has had his nose rebuilt ... by a plastic surgeon in Hollywood . . . Walter Hagen may drop out of tournament golf after this year . . . which will be hard to take . . . Hagen being one of the most consistent golfers on the links today . . .
124
The Notre Dame Schola
s
I! 5. A. a Notes ||
NOTRE DAME TRADITIONS
We of Notre Dame know that life under the Dome is different. There is a different atmosphere, an individual spirit at work here, a spirit which all Notre Dame students take for
granted but never attempt to explain. This fact can be partially explained by the abundant traditions which have grown up with the school. Traditions are elusive, but they are also vital. Scores of sacred traditions have taken root on the campus, until the most common things at Notre Dame have become hallowed. This rich heritage has become a vital part of the school, and it leaves its impression upon everyone who comes under
its influence. Traditions of .religious devotion, of loyalty, and of goodfellowship have combined with beautiful, historical legends to build up this intangible, spirit that is Notre Dame’s.
First of all, Notre Dame is a traditionally democratic university; it is a scholastic “melting pot.” Social caste is forgotten here; men matriculate and graduate on the same level of equality. Democracy has always been an outstanding characteristic of
At NOTRE DAME
At better stores everywhere
Sheaffer’s outsell all others*
SAFETY SKRIP. Successor to ink, 50c. Refills, 3 for 25c. Practically non-breakable, can't spill. Carry it tc classes!
That graceful, tapered shape means more than a sleek, modem design. It proves the Balance in Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 pens and pencils. Balance means speed—more words
per minute in class, and restful writing of lon& themes. Moreover, such service is guaranteed you for your entire lifetime. No wonder Sheaffer’s outsell at 73 of the 119 leading American colleges and universities! At your dealer’s, try the easy 'feel” of Sheaffer’s Balanced Lifetimes' and note their smart lines. That will explain their sales leadership, and will probably make you an owner, too.
*A recent survey made by a disinterested organization showed
Sheaffer's first in fountain pen sales at 73 of America’s 119 foremost seats of learning. Documents covering this survey are available to anyone.	•
All fountain pens are guaranteed against defects, but Sheaffer’a Lifetime0 is guaranteed, unconditionally for your life, and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green and black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $7.50 and $8.25. Black and pearl De Luxe, $10.00; Ladies’, $8.50 and $9.50. Pencils, $5.00. Golf and Handbag Pencil, $3.00. Others lower.
SHEAFFER’S
PENS'PENCILS DESK SETS SKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON, IOWA, U. S. A.
a Bec. U.S. Pat. Oft.	,	© W. A.8.P.Co., 1K»
/"luniiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniiii^

MMTifa
OUS
The
Notre Dame life. A man’s ancestors and their achievemeents, his own accomplishments in high school or in the old home town, are all forgotten when I e enters this university. Here his aim should be to enlarge himself and to prove himself worthy of being a son of Our Lady. When he arrives he has nothing to boast of; he is unknown. It usually takes him the four years of his college career to achieve his ambitions and to make his posi-
Notre Dame Schola
tion solid. And when he has done so, he has acquired too much sense to parade his attainments before his fellows; he is content to let his deeds do the talking. This is the foundation of Notre Dame’s democracy.
This fraternal spirit of equality is only one of the many traditions that have been handed down from the days of Father Sorin; and it is the problem of those who would understand Notre Dame to learn such traditions.
stic	125
COLLEGE OF LAW NOTES
The senior class seminars are now fully organized. The seniors are now discussing the questions that were submitted to last year’s graduates at the recent bar examinations.
Last Wednesday evening, Dean Konop of the College of Law spoke before the “Yungfelbus Club.” The subject of his talk was concerned with his experiences while in Congress.
1
126
Remember, Boy. It’s the Early Bird What Catches the Worm!
Well, Who Cares About That?
You’ll care a lot! You know them! Now, see and hear these head men!
“THE TWO BLACK CROWS” Moran & Mack in
The Paramount ALL-TALKING SINGING
& DANCING RIOT
“WHY BRING THAT
UP” ' with EVELYN BRENT (Of “Fast Company”) and	'
HARRY GREEN
One Entire Week Starting Saturday
A Publix Theatre
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ ❖ ♦ ♦ ❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖ *	BY H. A. S. JR.	❖
*** *** ❖ "S’ ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦♦♦ *** &	❖ *•* *♦*	*** *** *♦* ♦♦♦
As the season progresses, the so-called smaller teams ________ are coming to the fore more than ever. Western Maryland ________ took the Georgetown team into camp; St. Mary’s tied California after playing the Golden Bears to a standstill; and it took all Princeton had to beat Amherst, 7-0, in the last few minutes of play, after the Sabrinas had outplayed the Tigers for two periods.
* * *
Adam Walsh sems to have carried his own genius for smart, tough line-play to Yale with. him. Adam is coaching the line at New Haven, and critics say that the play of the Yale line was the feature of the Eli’s 89-0 victory over Vermont, which was, incidentally, the largest score ever rolled up in the Yale bowl.	*
* * * .
In the first football game ever played between an American and a Mexican team, Louisiana College defeated the eleven of the University of Mexico by a score of 59-0. But . Reginald Root, old Yale lineman, and now coach of the Mexicans, was congratulated on the fine work he had done in such a short' time in teaching his charges the elements of the game. The Mexicans made one march of 35 yards towards the close of the game.
3jt
Eddie Collins, one of the grand old men of baseball, and now coach and utility infielder of the Athletics, is the only player eligible to compete in the present series, of those who were in the Cubs-Athletics series of 1910. This will be his seventh world series and his fifth as a member of the A’s.
Elmer Layden seems to be bringing the once lowly Duquesne eleven along at quite a pace. Last Saturday his Dukes tied the strong West Virginia team, staging a 90 yard march in the last two minutes of play to knot the count. $ * *
Another pair of brothers will play against each other several weeks hence when Rolf Carlston of Penn will play against his brother Earl in the Quakers’ annual game.with Columbia. Earl is a senior and Rolf but a sophomore, although the younger brother made an impressive debut against Franklin and Marshall two weeks ago by running a kick-off back some 97 yards for a touchdown.
* * *
One of the things which stood out in our mind as regards the game last Saturday, and yet received little mention in any of the newspaper accounts that came within our ken, was the air-tight defensive play of one Martin Brill. His tackling was the hardest we have seen since O’Boyle and Wynne backed up an Irish line. Off-hand, we can think of no better pair to back up a line than Brill and Shay.
- * * * .
Navy should not be so tough tomorrow, but a young man  by the name of-Spring will bear watching; he is Navy’s -------- ' one big threat.
* * *
We have given up predicting scores as far as our own games go, but in the future we will occasionally try to pick the results of one or two prominent games each Saturday. Tomorrow we select Syracuse to beat Nebraska, and Pittsburgh to trim West Virginia. -
The Notre Dame Scholastic
127
40 ANSWER INITIAL CALL FOR BASKETBALL'
Forty varsity basketball candidates answered the call of Coach George Keogan last Monday. The initial meeting was held only to obtain information regarding the candidates. Equipment will be issued next Monday afternoon and daily practice will follow.
Of the Monogram men of last year-only three, Captain Donovan, Smith, and McCarthy, will be available for this year’s team. The remainder of the team will be made up of last year’s reserve material and a few likely looking prospects from the freshman team.
Con Carey, Jr., is manager of the team this year and is completing plans for the season; the schedule will be announced shortly. The first game will be played early in December on the home floor.
Ready-made And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES.
TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR ' DISTINGUISHED SERVICE INTHE UNITED STATES
TEAM STATISTICS SHOW
SQUAD WEIGHS SIX TONS
Football tonnage at Notre Dame exceeds the tonnage of the Navy by more than two tons, statistics of the two squads show. The accumulated beef of the Irish amounts to 13,436 pounds, or roughly, six and one-half tons. The weight of the Annapolis team is 9,256 pounds, about four and one-half tons.
However, when boiled down to individual weights the figures do not sound so impressive. The 77 men on the Notre Dame squad average 174% pounds per player, and the some 55 Navy players have an individual weight of 172 pounds. .
Notre Dame has an average altitude of five feet, ten and one-half inches. However, this cannot be compared with that of the Navy, as their heights - have not been calculated. However, the Navy tops the men of Rockne in age as they are 22% years old per man, while the Irish men average only 20 years.
(Charter Mouse
Suits *40, s45, *50 Overcoats
BX SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE	;
Charter Mouse
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	:
:	The character of the suits and :
■ overcoats tailored by Charter House 5 , will earn your most sincere liking. ’
MAX ADLER
On the Corner
Inc.
Michigan and Washington
83 PIECE BAND TO APPEAR AT WISCONSIN GAME
When the Notre Dame band makes its first appearance of the year at Soldiers’ Field next Saturday to furnish music for the Notre Dame—Wisconsin game it will be the largest in the history of the school. A corps of eighty-three men will take part in the maneuvers that will be necessary for the forming of a big N. D. for Notre Dame and a large W. for Wisconsin.
BEAUTIFUL ALAMAC CARDS MAKE SELLING A PLEASURE
Selling ALAMAC Christmas Greeting Cairds is an easy, pleasant -way for college men to make money. This distinguished line opens every desirable door. Intelligent selling plan, sample hook of personal cards and dollar box assortment start you off to Christmas profits.
FREE SAMPLES.
The Alamac Company sf NewTork
Dept. CW—6 Varick Street—New York
128
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Text Books	develop
a new blaze of interest after a breakfast of shredded wheat. Natural food makes you feel fine, shredded WHEAT contains everything you need nothing you don’t.
Shredded Wheat with fruit and milk or cream
ESSENTIALLY collegiate, distinctively up-to-date, subtly luxurious .... the Conklin Endura Black and Gold is in many respects a student’s pen of outstanding suitability. So sensibly priced at $5 and § 7. Pencils to match $3.50and$4. Otherap-propriate Conklin pens $3.50 and more; pencils $1 and more. Modern colors. Traditional Conklin quality.
Not obtainable in static stores.
The Conklin Ten Co. TOLEDO, OHIO
New York Chicago San Francisco
PENS - PENCILS - SETS DESK SETS-LEADS
{•JtttiiiiiiiiiiHntMttiitiiniii.nt mini mtn iiiiiiiiiiiiiiniuiniiiiiHg | YOU CAN FIND j 1 No Better Food in Town | =	Than at	i
| SUMMER CAFE I 1	126 N. Main St. 1
I	SPECIAL	1
= CHICKEN DINNERS 1
EVERY SUNDAY.	1
e After Theater Specialties.	e
LACK
AND COLD
Identify a ConElin Endurabythe annular lines rn contrastmgcolor on cab and barre l
SERVICE UNCONDITIONAILY AND PERPETUALLY GUARANTEED
SAWYER'S
Rainwear
ZEPHYR-WEIGHT
IN this new and ultra smart line of Sawyer’s “Forain” Zephyr-weight rainwear, carefully dressed college men and women everywhere have at once discovered their ideal wet weather garment.
This lightest weight waterproof clothing is made of balloon cloth, rendered absolutely waterproof and windproof by thefamous Sawyer Process. Street coat weighs only 20 oz.
FROG BRAND SLICKERS
These justly famous oiled garments have been supplying the nation with snug warm comfort in wettest weather sincel84O. In addition to their reputation for rugged serviceability, Frog Brand Slickers may now be had in a wider range of models that possess snap and good looks. Buttons or buckles and your choice of colors.
See them at your favorite shops.
H.M. SAWYER^ & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE.-----— MASS
OJiret.
w York. N. V. Chmg9.ltt- St. Lotus. Mo. San Antonio. Tc«aa
The Notre Dame Scholastic	129
INDIANA
©e £uxe Cab Company
“The Cabs the Students Ride”
;	It was Indiana that reduced the
;	cab rates.
It was Indiana that first had the students interest at heart.	,
It is Indiana that will continue to render to Notre Dame students the very best service NOW and ALWAYS
Call 3-7147	Call 3-7147
^Reliability! Safety! Courtesy!
ImtiiiimiiiiHmiiiHiititiiiHiiiiHiiiimimmtiiiiiimmmtiiiiiumtimiiuiniiiHtiuiiHiiiiitiiiiimmiimimtmiitiiiiiiiiimiiMtiniiiintiintun
The Notre Dame Scholastic
131
132
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Aj NOTRE DAME
Sheaffer is leader*
Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 pens were discovered by the old alumni of most American schools, and as these writing instruments are guaranteed against everything except loss for the owner’s whole lifetime, they’re probably still in use. The swifter, easier writing brought by Balance in Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 pens and pencils is a very real help in class and makes quick work of long, themes. Just try the smartly designed, smooth-writing Sheaffers , at your dealer’s. You’ll know why Sheaffers outsell all others at 73 of the 119 leading American colleges, and you’ll unsatisfied until you own yours!
At better stores everywhere
All fountain pens are guaranteed against defects, but Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 is guaranteed unconditionally for your, life, and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green and black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $7.50 and $8.25. Black and pearl De Luxe, $10.00; Ladies’, $8.50 and $9.50. Pencils, $5.00. Golf and Handbag Pencil, $3.00. Others lower.
* A recent survey made by a disinterested organization showed Sheaffer’s first in fountain pen sales at 73 of America’s 119 foremost seats of learning. Documents covering this survey are available to anyone.
SAFETY SKRIP, Successor to ink, 50c. Refills,3 for 25c. Practically non-breakable, cant spilt Carry it to classes!
SHEAFFER’S
V/ PENS PENCILS DESK SETS SKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON, IOWA, U. S. A
° Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.	© W. A. S. P. Co.. 1929
QliaiaaaiiniaaaiaaaaiHiaaaitaiaaatiiaifiaaaiaaaiaaaaiaai
| SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTIONS-—
I	Students desirous of having the Scholastic sent to their
|	parents or friends, send check or money order to the Scholastic
I	Office, Administration Building. Three dollars per year.
^Jaaaaaaaaaaiaaaiaaiiaiiiiaaatiaaaiaaaiaaaiiiiaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaiaaiataaaaaiaiaanaiaaaaaataaataaaaaaaiaaiiaaaiaaatsiaaaaaaaaaaaaiiaaaaiaaaaaaaiaaataaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaiiaaaaaaaaaaia aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaiaaaiaaaaaaaiaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaiiiiaiaaa
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
133

JUGGLER SUBSCRIPTIONS-—	|
Students desirous of having the Juggler sent to their parents ! or friends, send check or money order to the Juggler Office,, | Administration Building. Two dollars per year.	j
134
The Notre Dame Scholastic
for the sophomore cotillion and for all events requiring formal clothes we have an evening ensemble that will insure your being smartly dressed for
CC-00
complete
&
dinner suit — coat and trousers florsheim patent leather oxfords — dress vest - black silk - dress shirt - 1 or 2 stud open hack — black tie - batwing or butterfly — black silk hose — shirt studs and links — wing colors 2 — silk suspenders
if purchased seperately these items would cost considerably more
adler brothers