
•. FIGHTIN' CHRIS CHOCOLA, JOE DONNELLY AND THE'WORDS BATTLE FOR INDIANA'S SECOND DISTRICT 


S(tHOLASTIC 
·· ,The Third of November 2006 
news 04 

.. ······-VILLAGE TO VILLAGE
Daric Snyder Although the dire political and social situation of Uganda is often unspoken, many at Notre Dame are taking action. 
COVER: FIGHT TO THE FINISH 
David Poell Scholastic dissects the insults, income and Irish involvement in the heated Indiana congressional race. 

Culture 11 
LOYAL DAUGHTERS 

· Sarah Barrett Amid controversy over "The Vagina Monologues," Notre Dame students have writtel). aplay expressing their own experiences with sexuality on campus. 
CAMPUS CHATTER 

Mike Laskey and Kate Dresser WVFI and Chicago. Could there be abetter combination? 

Sports 28 

/:'~i)&tt····• ==::::::c~:=~~ 
to-day activites ofNotre Dame's students and. athletes. 
Hum.or 36 

-FROM DORM ROOMS TO BOARD ROOMS 
Mike Healy Scholastics humor editor waxes nostalgic about his favorite parts of the college scene. 
Letter from Abroad . ·: . . . . . . . 23 Serving History ...........30 Gipper ........•.•...•..37 Political Cartoon ...........40 
, No. 4 • 3 NOV 2006 
SCHOLASTIC 
Editors In Chief Christopher Meskill 
David Pooll 
Managing Editor Doug Schlarman 
Executive Editor Miko Laskey 
Associate Editor 
Claire Sobczak 
Executive Copy Editor 
Regina Gesicki 
Executive Copy Assistant 
Kate Dresser 
Executive Design Editors Julio Ruffin Jana Stewart 
News 
Daric Snyder, editor 
Kate Furlong, assistant 
Culture 
Michael O'Connor, editor Sarah Barrott, assistant, 
Sports 
Megan Teigen, editor Brittany Lash, assistant 
Humor Mike Healy, editor 
Joe Lattal, assistant 
Design Emma Daugherty, assistant BothAnn Viscoglia, assistant Kathleen Dilenschneider 
Carolin Hubscher 
Jane lee 
Mandy Miller 
Katie K Napleton 
Jamie Schulle Chris Sebastian 
Ellen Voglrieder 
Photography Kristin Keva, editor Juan Muldoon, assistant Courtney Sullivan 
Business 
Bryan Lowery, manager Jemini Patel, assistant 
Distribution 
Bryan Lowery, manager 
Online 
Michael King, webmaster 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 

COVER STORY 
DAVID POELL 
COVER DESIGN 
JULIE RUFFIN 
Disce Quasi Se111pe1· Victlmts Vive Quasi C.-as Mo1·it1mti 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. Shimmy. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher:Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsoliCited manuscripts or material. Baby Teeth! Robert Sedlack is super cool. All correspondence should bo sent to Sch_o­lastic Magazine, LaFortune Stud8nt Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556, To be published in the ·next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 
p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's 
• name, address and phone number, All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Top Dalla, Flav, and Pant8aze foreva. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and,number, or date, You know when they feel like bags,..of sand.Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions , expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body, 
3 NOV 2006 


r;
v·: i·
i: 


·Lifetime service opportunities with multinational organization Jo·r graduating seniors. 


. .1. 
t·

www.n ..·· uI_':;~ .ca ion 

ANSWER~ Ti-IE GAL.L.·~•· 


A Changed Opinion 
Notre Dame students take measures to address the world health crisis 
I.n the September 21st issue of Scholastic, an editorial ran that criticized the university following the second annual Notre Dame Forum, which focused on the global health crisis. Scholastic 
predicted that little would be done apart from the formality of an academic discussion, thus rendering the forum's lofty goals as something beyond the scope of this university. A little more than a month later, Scholastic would like to rescind that statement. On behalfofthe entire staff, we can officially state that we are impressed with the measures taken by Our Lady's University to alleviate the global health crisis. · 
Last week, three poignant and well received medical ethics lectures were delivered by highly acclaimed health professionals, addressing issues that are crucial to the crisis. After the forum and the lectures, a number of student leaders have taken the initiative of unifying the student body in opposing this problem. The two purveyors of this effort-seniors Amanda Golbabai and Brian Hambley-have asked for the help of all student organization leaders to unite and determine the best course of action this university's student body can take to solve this global health crisis. 
As ofnow, Golbabai and Hambley have drawn up a plan ofaction that combines the rigor and character of this university to combat this terrible reality. They are issuing five initiatives to approach the problem: fundraising, political activism, academic inquiry, formal educational opportunity and faith. 
This university is blessed to have so many eager young minds with such diverse skills. It is time to stand by our convictions as a Catholic institution and put our abilities to use in order to benefit others. We all have something to contribute to this effort; we simply need to identify it. As for Scholastic, we will support this cause through increased awareness. To start, we have outlined the problems in Uganda and the efforts of the Millennium Village on pages 6-7 ofthis issue. · 
Golbabai and Hambley will be discussing this issue on November 8th in the Notre Dame Room in the LaFortune Student Center. They ask that any student leader or highly interested student attend to offer their insights. ,We all can contribute to the betterment of this world, and this is a good place to start. 0 
3 NOV2006 

Don't Worry, Be Happy 
A new interdisciplinary field makes its de_but at Notre Dame 
T 0 

Eric Gomez 

here's a new faith in town. Anyone who's ever smiled be­lieves in it, and practically all ofNotre Dame's student body is pursuing it. As Professor Darrin McMahon of Florida 
State University states, its popularity has risen to the point where it has begun "to occupy the space formerly occupied by religion." McMahon was just one of 20 scheduled guest speakers offering opinions on the world's most enigmatic emotion at "New Direc­tions in the Study of Happiness: United States and International Perspectives," a conference held from October 22-24 in McKenna Hall at Notre Dame. 
But what is happiness? This is the central question behind Happiness Studies, a relatively new discipline that did not appear as a legitimate area of research in academia until the 1950s. No longer do we live in that state of nature the philosopher Thomas Hobbes described as "nasty, brutish and short;" happiness has come to be an expected part oflife in the modern Western world. Interest in Happiness Studies itself has grown exponentially with this expectation, and happiness has now been attributed to influencing everything in society from mortality rates to the economy. 
The normalization of the pursuit of happiness is reflected in McMahon's own definition ofhappiness as "the natural human state, the way men and women ought to be." Speakers from a variety of disciplines including psychology, history and economics offered insights on happiness from their diverse perspectives. Professor Anthony Ong of Cornell University approached the subject from his field ofhuman development by focusing on happiness as a small part ofthe multidimensional concept ofwell-being. "The question of'What is happiness?' should be broadened to 'What does it mean to be well?"' Ong says. 
The struggle to grasp and define happiness was only one facet pursued at the conference. The presentations were divided into six categories, examining happiness' role in everything from politics to the justice system. Some of the questions raised included whether democratic regimes make citizens happier, the effect of a strong welfare system on overall national happiness, and the relationship between happiness and obesity. 
Pursuing happiness may be popular, but it might not be completely sound. Though Happiness Studies generally concerns itself with making people's lives happier, whether that is missing the point is still up for debate. As Ong reflected, "It is only in the context of adversity and tragedy that the true meaning of life's purpose can be expressed." 0 

3 NOV 2006 

•. · hile p6'ver.t.y .'and:war · explain.edin.aneditorialto be published . 
.· undeniably are life...:destroying in The Observer that for 'the p:rojectto
W

. . forces for billions of people, succeed, it is• necessary "that we begin nothing ~ould be further distanced fro11i with :1 great deal of listening/' Ji'r. Dowd. life at Notre Dame. Sheltered by our says that by hearing the thoughts of prosperity, ipany here are never forced · Notre Dame community meml,)ers, 
11>::tq~e#o1s.lfdisc:u_sst:heseissues, let alone.••..• developmental experts aridthe people.~}lti,~;1,~:stI§h::~~1 :',.· .. /} 'i· •• \. _:_ .'•' . \/. ; of ug~e,1a; Notre. Da1lle. cim find·-the <\ J#?a~~pih{ the insulation;l}iaity het'(!.~': bestrway,:tcdielp ''e111pqwer peopletqJ{ft;-• 
lril!il~1Hi;'~:~;t~li!l{~~:ll1
f::dt~atio:i'of th~-Not1iDa:fue-Millennium -.. -The...r:egiohc: is. the1most'•imp:oo/eiisHedt ~;t'~f1,iJl{f.?R~e11t,!fJtia#ye:'i;'heiriiddil~ei~Iff'~"~]j:;fth'';;;crthI'~~sF~mr~i~~Jti§.~t#{;: t'fqcµs Its resourcesmlJganda,.an Afncan More than.31.J rn1U1op.•pf!opl,~;i~:P:J:~'4,Q",:: {!{ii~#bn'.yith·.which}Ii:i:.,urfr~i:sityfhas ;a Saharan•Afric:aJh~e qn less tpan;~gifp}iy~~ / \~trcmgi;elati6ns,h1p\1i:f tji¢;Congregation :and lll,O}'.e tl;ian:a:. thi:rcf of th~_:J?OR\.il11#§ii ·:,
ltl,ii£f&~~ijiit~d:iillK~ilil
·.· <ihtet:Mff6 i \Ui: JffblF:t:Mt,Mve ~:xlr6fue\: ·, sucn ':1:h~' ''ed leofi:he:area hav~the ni:cist(.
Hi,-"J~Jf/i;~<&Hif'!•!'\{ :f ,t'(·oUits·'H/i.,i:;'. :':!t\:ffi~i::l-?fb;; ifktfb1tfhe·MHi~An'hiniP£djett artd'i:i 
~~.;/ hfe ' -iirdirecte't:kl:f ·•ecbifiomist Jeffre '.. :· sli'tlt· . .. ftet"hbSfsi:b:fif'als&:.with\ifr:it
~~:i;:~::~;-ii~~\1!.'.;f~~';_'flt,:i~-·
•i1i0•lll•,i:rie-proJeCtfi:1-·. ;·'}.s,J.-',i:': !;:>. . s.~6 tarv~,c;:6u 
~ ;-rr~-i:-:.:.,;.-,~ -·--(':.,ii'¥:'... +,. •·•,;-i,.,)t,;:-;·'-"~ ;..i.)/i ~ · ,.J~'•· ..·:•:'F"' , •,.-:,1; 0.,?, '"'' y 
,-:k,,:':1,rn ,a'!,·let?t,er to,C:tlie ,.un , ./ tan0'., ,,fo.r,~con " 
•l-Et111 "-.J."~'q1,1v:,-."'-'• f¥ I~"'·~ ••·l~i ! '(.!·~; •',V:,<..1. ''f'' "l:,'•;.•i ;t ..., •..:••
:.t'sf't:enioli 26th' Fr. :J:~nkfns~ex •1~me •;,'..8ou , \,,· '"resia·· . 6We'r
,,~·· .-.P;. ~ ..,,-,,..: .·· ,'I,= '~1· . ,v_,., ··, ,,,-t;:\1., p ·· · 1 • • ! • .,_,, ..-... ·~~.,,--.,. i;rll,f -~{... f,'I:• .. ;~:·•==-· .\i: .Ni.>fre;,~Dain'e!s'., c·omriiitmeirt,to;·the...-·:-Mus ·,: afu'e,~torp·oweb'in 86"1'iii' 
~-:;;..,,,,;', 1)rx:1'•:,k"·~•~... ••,,,;;,:j,;,ti••;_' .. ,~:•,.•,t}; ,I• \l,"l11f~1 ·.,..... , l' :·, ,,. •wJ··.~·.'•i•,Jt~'.l··.1.:; ·..:-,,~.... t·•, :~• =-~ ., ...•t" 
\\-N:fil\€l_ri"N; ,:;y.-!I~*.ge'.;Pf.oj_~~¢;)~.'e.ff9it t9 ' .'.· r~µiai~s ·~ JI~1119~rlatic~lly;i~le~t'~~~lea~¥r,\ .{i;i{a¢.h'i.~~~~{ . ._illeri.~i'4'~:·.Proj~c'e~~'g'_9als,::'.'. .·c1~~P,it~:i~yqlv~me*t'~n: wil~~a,ty c/.6~~~ct~\ '.'. 
~i~~~f!tf!lt!i~tf:rfifi1iltti:lil!I'
:/in(·1ementirt.·,,11:lie' fote&intiorisfdeB.fraf :: claihi¢a::thous'iri'.asfd£1ives ~'hd ~ ··tadu~8d -1. 
.:~aC!OSS th~ cohi:ineri~;IJlt~•Ogtober.,, Ii'r: to kilLmemhers'9ftheir:· own_ fanj:ily... ;.) . ·. _· :J?.o~d.·... tr.av.e~l~.~:to~g~i?,da with'lnitia·t·.~ye A.s..·• t~e .•conflict has ra~ed. op··.; .~ver: two.···.•;~~ ·.'.'<j 
.As!l1stant Director Tim Lyden and will mill10n people have,been ·displaced <,":1 'i•,. r~main: th~re •,untiFlate N9:vem.ber.-:,I:I.e ... ·from::their• homes: a11d:Jorced:to. live.:in·. ·•·r.•.•:·:: .,. ~:.:.\_i{}A:.)(i·,>i?:· = ---'-7:,~,, i:::::::. ;~;;;_.: :·-'-' -....·?-,. :.)-:, .• ,.. ,;~"i-fov2~~~> 
·.. 
.·,'.... : .~ 

internally displaced person. camps that Hero, drew over 150 walkers frcifuJ~~/~~re: lack infrastructure and safety'. This Dame and the localcommunity. Iii.the insecurity forces many children to flee spring, -the Nolre Dame Millennium the camps on foot each night and trek Development _Initiative will begin to for miles to find refuge in larger towps · offer more strident activities and chances and cities where they are protected from ·. for participation, Fr. Je::11ki:nsjntends to .. abduction.· .· · · · visit with other :membeis of'i:he Notre :Despire the undeniable horror of_ DameconitriunityinJanuary,anda:nother . 
.• the situation(for-the:niosspart. this group.fromth~ Ul.l;iVersitywiUmakethe ::·\>rtgoi~gcrisi,~_J.las been neglecteclby tlt<:!,C journey-this summer, according to _Fr. .· · i11ternationaLcoininunity-'.:and ~with~!l? Pow.cl, T~~-initiative. is quicklywfining, · Vganda.:Mich~~l Kozak,.ajuniorw.hr:}nioin~iltuJµi~A:f2fa~J)()_wd· s,ays,·•·'''This" 
i:,{;~:1.~[0~1Jflt~f~:~R!t:j;;tn::;;:d,;i.b~t~~;p~i1t~r,''t~litr;fr•·,·i!itf;..·. •'='~v:1 
~,Jidq,r~ss\t; Tfiey tyll,y9~, '.If yoµ go thfff!; / 
C' ofsub:-Sab:aranAfnc,a· setsthe,;d1ffic.11lt / i 
, 
;:,.· 
,_ 

. :?YStu?ent~,hayeh~!p:eqJ~raiseaw.i1t~ness... 
. a11dinyolv~ment'bil.,cafp.p:µ(ari:cl,acr0ss_ .._·. ! ,,th~: cou,ntry. Iii 20.05/alum,ni'Mi'chael'. .... '.'.'PofferiBerger .('05)and Petf!r Quaranto · . G06)·startedtheJJgancia Cq~flict,AdF)h'·· ,,Netw,otk\(Uga11da~CA.N) -"to build a .·• ·:poJitjcal;:c~pstitµ~:n.cy_. in:_the. _lJ;S.:.dAilt:iY: : could:pusl;i,foc1riore fesponsiblepogc,y<; 
};~t1~t;i~t:I:i!,/~~tl~il
; Qtfober-Q.uh1W~lksthllt sta_ited.lastjrear· · -)1ar~'riie~~xpande~,s~czce_ss 1:hisyear :·The ,,,, ·walks·ga,jhei-ai:i:eiition·for"thep,lighi.of·­i ~-·· ~-childrej:lin.l'g'orthernUganda:'thisyear's , 
•~~ -· lo~,a:twalk, organized by senior Lindsay 11·.~.·:~-~~·-·-~..;-;';('~-~:::,~:;2f~g-;:~~ 
' . :./ . -. 

............... GiiScho/asticNews 

Food Services airns to remove trans fat frorn dining halls 


8 Doug Schlarman 

ou may notice something 
different about the food you're 
eating in the university dining halls. You might even feel a little healthier at the end of the day. 
Notre Dame is currently taking steps to address one of the most deadly -yet least understood -substances found in an assortment of everyday foods: trans fats. This action coincides with a campaign to create a healthier dining hall environment, including posters and nutritional stickers scattered about both the North and South Dining Halls. Despite these changes in the food that many university students eat daily, Notre Dame Food Services is taking steps to ensure an improved nutritional profile and consistent taste in the food it serves. 
Food Services Nutritional and Safety ManagerJocie Antonelli is involved with this campaign to improve the nutritional profile of dining hall food, which is centered around the removal of trans fats from the dining halls. "We really felt this 
Y 
......,s was something we had to do," Antonelli says. "There was no reason not to make the switch." 

Trans fats are a type ofunsaturated fat that occurs naturally in animals like cows and sheep, and can be found in products taken from these animals, like milk and butter. However, most trans fats are produced artificially, through a process called hydrogenation. Hydrogen is added to vegetable oil, creating fats that have a variety of practical purposes. They aid in the refrigeration process, give a more defined shape and structure to baked goods, and provide a cheap alternative to vegetable frying oils. For this reason, trans fats are present in shortenings like Crisco, non-stick sprays, margarines and most common frying oils. 
Despite their versatility, there is a health risk inherent in trans fats. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recognizes that some level of fat is necessary to maintain an active body. According to the FDA Web site, however, trans fats "provide considerable risk to the human body with no potential benefits." While a certain amount of unsaturated fat assists in stabilizing cholesterol levels, trans fats increase bad cholesterol levels, which causes blockage of arteries and strains the heart muscle. This stress is associated with Type-2 diabetes; heart disease and certain kinds ofcancers. The risk of death from a heart attack also increases. "[Trans fats] are a very real threat to our health," Antonelli says. 


The real danger of trans fat is that 
small amounts can have drastic effects on health. A recent study in The New EnglandJournal ofMedicine found that "a two-percent increase in [ ... ] trans fatty · acids was associated with a 23-percent increase in the incidence of coronary heart disease." Numbers such as these prompted the United States government to strengthen recommendations against trans fats, but many in the country 
remain unaware of their danger. 
Because ofthe hazardous complications 
resulting from trans fat consumption, 
Notre Dame Food Services has chosen 
to take active steps to remove trans fats 
from the dining halls. "We are currently 
switching all ofour fry oils and vegetable 
sprays [the non-stick sprays used on 
the waffle irons and panini grills] from 
trans fatty oils to oils without trans fat," 
Antonelli says. There-is no specific date 
for this changeover, as each facet ofFood 
Services is using the last of their stock 
containing trans fat before they can 
switch to healthier options. "We were 
waiting for our suppliers to make this 
switch," Antonelli says. "We like to be 
ahead of the trends." 
In fact, the switch from products 
containing trans fat to those without has 
become a political trend recently. On 
September 26, 2006, the New York City 
Health Department presented a plan that 
essentially would ban trans fat from all 
New York City restaurants. The proposal 
is pending a series of public hearings and 
would go into effect on March 1, 2007. 
The Chicago City Council will discuss a 
3 NOV2006 

"The dininghalls are always goingthrough ahalanci~g act: _ha,lancing the am.ount of space we have with the popularity ofthe food and how healthy it is." -Jocie Antonelli, Food Services Nutritional and Safety Manager 
similar bill within the year. "The recent media coverage definitely played into Notre Dame's decision," Antonelli says. 
However, Notre Dame's decision to rid the dining halls of trans fat was not simple. There were many steps taken to ensure that the quality of the food 
would not suffer. "The dining halls are always going through a balancing act: balancing the amount of space we have with the popularity of the food and how healthy it is," Antonelli says. "We had to do a lot of testing of flavor profiles to ensure that our food would .be just as good, if not better, after we removed the trans fat." Dining hall managers attended presentations about the new products they would be encountering to ensure they were prepared for the switch. Only after Food Services ensured the 

ScholasticNews CI! · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
quality of the food did they decide to make the change. 
Money was not a factor in Notre Dame's resolution. Although the switch will cost the university more money, Food Services believes that the quality of the trans fat-free oil it is buying will result in a longer shelf-life and a better product. In this manner, buying -trans fat-free products may be :financially beneficial for Notre Dame. 
However, Notre Dame is still not completely without trans fats. They remain present in the icings used in Food Services' desserts, in addition to many of the frozen foods found in the dining hall or Grab 'n' Go. Antonelli ensures that steps are being taken to switch these 
products out for healthier options. "We 
are currently doing testing right now to see if we could improve the nutritional profile of these items," she says. "It is something we're still investigating." 
Despite the continued presence of trans fats in the dining hall, Food Services is 
attempting to provide the kind ofhealthy, appealing food that landed the university in the top 20 of The Princeton Review's rankings for "Best Campus Food." "We have to do our best to balance what people should be eating and what they want to eat," Antonelli says. 0 
9 


CoverStory 


TWO YEARS AFTER BEING DEFEATED, DOES JOE DONNELLY HAVE WHAT IT TAKES TO WIN A REMATCH AGAINST INCUMBENT CHRIS CHOCOLA? 
0 DAVID PoELL 

Former President Lyndon Johnson didn'tlike to mince words. Legend has it that during one ofJohnson's heated political campaign he told an aide to accuse his opponent of being a "pig f---er," for no other reason than to have the satisfaction of hearing the alleged deviant deny it. Like Johnson, today's politicians are the heirs to a tradition of mudslinging and partisan bickering that has been perfected into an art form, especially in races where the margin of victoryis predicted to be razor-thin. The battle for control oflndiana's 2nd District in the House ofRepresentatives between Democratic candidate Joe Donnelly and Republican incumbent Chris Chocola regardless ofwhether Donnelly emerges Bend suburban home. At first glance, has been no exception. RealClearPolitics. from Election Day victorious, the race the gathering had all the attributes of com has ranked Indiana's 2nd as the 12th is sure to be remembered for producing a rather mundane,. albeit festive, affair most likely House seat to switch parties, one of the most contentious political comprised of upper middle class families and the Cook Political Report describes environments of the 2006 Midterm from around the are.a. One could tell the race as a virtual toss-up. As the race Election season. that everybody in the house was enjoying enters its final weekend, it remains to the general sense ~f community that the be seen if Donnelly has what it takes The Rejuvenated Challenger party was designed to inspire. Yet a closer to unseat an extremely well financed On a cool autumn evening in October sampling of the conversations percolating opponent who defeated Donnelly by just a few weeks ago, Ted and Michele in the room made one realize that the nine percentage points in 2004. Yet Beatty threw a party at their South purpose ofthe Beatty's party transcended 
3NOV2006 


the banality of the setting. There was revolution in the air that night, and it was all because ofthe Beatty's guest ofhonor, a local lawyer and businessman named Joe Donnelly. . 
Donnelly arrived at the party that night to a hero's welcome. One of the first people to greet the candidate was an elderly woman by the name of Jo Lake, who. enthusiastically called him 
"Congressman Donnelly," only to concede that she knew such a title was premature. Making sure to shake the hands of everybody present-teenagers and small children included -Donnelly manages to exude the air of a confident, natural politician who knows what he's doing. It is clear that he has emerged from his nine-percentage point loss to Chocola in 2004 relatively unscathed and ready for a rematch. After he had introduced himself to everyone, Ted Beatty formally 
· welcomed the candidate to his home and described what he, and everybody else in the room, viewed as an historic time in American politics. "You need hope if you're in politics," Beatty said, "and Joe represents the hope that this country could switch direction." 
Speaking in front of the family's fireplace, Donnelly delivered his stump speech to wave after wave ofapplause. In defining himself as a candidate, Donnelly has tried to portray himself as a moderate Democrat with a working class image who will provide an independent voice for his constituents. "There's a real feeling that the people of Indiana, the people from here in our town, th.at everyday folks and working families are going to be the ones who change this country. We will win this seat, and when we win this seat we will win the Congress, and when we win the Congress we're going there for one reason: to make this country a better place," Donnelly said. Like many Democratic candidates ' this election cycle, Donnelly is trying to capitalize on extremely low approval ratings for both· the 
·Republican~controlled Congress and an embattled President George W. Bush, whose administration is plagued by the quagmire in Ir\lq, 
As the speech progressed, Donnelly painted his opponent, Chris Chocola, as 
3 NOV2006 
an out-of-touch patrician who is beholden to the interests of pharmaceutical lobbyists and an overall culture of corruption in Washington. "We look at our. congressman for the last four years and we deserve better than a rubber stamp for this pr~sident and this Congress. It's time for an independent voice. And when I win, I'm going there to represent you, not the special interests of this country," Donnelly said. 
Donnelly's supporters at the Beatty's that night held the fervent belief that they were all at the center of a momentous grass-roots effort that could help sweep a Democratic majority into government once again. "You really wonder if this is the best use ofhis time," said Ted Beatty in reference to Donnelly's attendance at his residence that night. "But this is real democracy! This is the epicenter of the grass-roots movement," he says. 

Mobilizing the Democratic Base 
. Ever since losing their majority in the House of Representatives to the Republicans in 1994, the Democrats have failed to secure any sizeable political momentum, save for Bill Clinton's presidential win over Republican Bob Dole in 1996. A byproduct of these electoral failures has been an increased level of hostility toward the Republican majority on the part of the Democrats, which has resulted in the latter's desire to be politically relevant again. Recent polling data shows that such a time may well be at hand. According to a recent Associated 

Press-Pew Research Poll conducted in 
late September, the interest ofAmerican voters in politics is at its highest level since 1994, with 70 percent of those polled saying they are discussing the issues with family and friends. 
Donnelly's campaign manager Katie Nee identifies this revitalized interest in the public's political motivations, combined with a general sense of mistrust 
toward a powerful Republican majority, 
as the main reason for Donnelly's relative 
success against Chocola in polls so far. Throughout the summer and early fall, several polls have shown Donnelly with 
a steady lead over Chocola. In the most recent Research 2000 Poll, conducted from.Oct. 16-17th, a sample of400 likely voters favored Donnelly 50 percent to 45 percent over Chocola, with five percent 
still undecided. 
Nee and I met at her office at the Donnelly campaign headquarters, located in downtown South Bend. The headquarters was occupied by several 
volunteers calling Donnelly supporters and was littered with partisan-labeled placards, chief among them a black and white slogan that simply said "Had enough?" -a reference to what most 
Democrats view as the Republicans' sheer mismanagement of government. When asked why she thought Donnelly was faring better now than he did in 2004, Nee focused on the shortcomings of Chocola. "I think the reason that we're winning is that he cares about people who were willing to give Chocola and the Republican Congress a shot. And in the two years that they gave him he just got cozy with the special interests," Nee 
says. 
Nee characterizes the 
Donnelly campaign strategy 
as one that has been defined by 
the intensity of its supporters, an 
element that is common among 
a sizeable portion of Democrats 
this year. According to a New York 
Times/CBS News Poll conducted in 

early October, 46 percent ofDemocrats 
consider themselves more enthusiastic 
about voting this year than in previous elections, compared with only 33 percent ofRepublicans. "Really our strategy has just been to work hard and to go from one end of the district to the other in order to have Joe in as many places as we can," she says. Nee has been especially pleased with the increased level of Donnelly's television exposu.re in the form of advertisements, which has highlighted various elements of matter, but there's no question that it's hurting Chocola," Roos says. 

Throughout the election season, the College Democrats have worked with the Donnelly campaign in an effort to generate enough lo·cal support to sweep Donnelly into office. In the course of phone-banking and canvassing local communities on behalf oftheir candidate, 
Adeosun hopes she 
Chocola's tenure in "Sleep is not an option." and her allies can Congress so far. "Really help fill the gap invoter the focus is just to . . turnout that existed 
,, -Joe Donnelly, referring to his
d

compare an contrast, . , d h between Donnelly she says. "I think that ctamtp:ign s st rategy own t e and Chocola in 2004. th . h "d" s re c "C . l h
ere 1s so muc n mg onvement y enoug , on this election and su---------------;,outhBend is a heavily 
much at stake in our country that we have a responsibility to make sure voters know his voting record." 
In an interview with Donnelly, the candidate summed up his strategy down the stretch in hyperbolic fashion. "Sleep is not an option," Donnelly says. 
Helen Adeosun, co-president of Notre Dame's chapter of the College Democrats, generally agrees with Nee on the importance of tying Chocola to the Republican Party's negative national image, but she insists that local issues must also play a part in Donnelly's electoral success. "In going door-to-door and talking to people, I come from the mindset politically that all politics is local. In these midterms, that could not be more true," Adeosun says. 
In attempting to frame the election in terms of Indiana politics, Adeosun points out the low approval ratings of northern Indiana residents toward the Republican Governor Mitch Daniels as a factor that has damaged Chocola's political stock. Duringhis first two years in office, Daniels leased the Indiana toll road to a foreign company for 75 years and brought daylight savings time to Indiana, two decisions that have resulted in dissatisfaction. 
Professor John Roos of the political science department believes that Chocola has not done enough to distance himself from the governor. "Here in the northern part of the state [Daniels] is enormously unpopular on those two issues. So Donnelly has criticized Chocola for not standing up and speaking to Daniels or taking a position. Chocola says it's a local Democratic area. The problem I saw with the 2004 election was that South Bend should have been better represented in the nine-point deficit between Donnelly and Chocola. That's what we're trying to do this year," Adeosun says. 
Yet for all the talk about 2006 being a watershed year for Donnelly and the Democrats thanks to an increasingly mobilized voting base, there is another element for Donnelly that has been extremely instrumental in his increased chances of victory this time around: an infusion of money. In contrast to 2004, Donnelly has garnered attention from the Democratic national leadership and has received substantial contributions from labor unions and law firms. According to his finance reports covering the first 18 days of October that were filed with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) last week, Donnelly raised $187,206 for the period, and his receipts for the election so far total over $1.3 million. At the time offiling, Donnelly still had $242,324 cash on hand to spend for the remainder of the campaign. 
Perhapsoneofthemostinfluentialassets to the Donnelly campaign this election cycle has been his positive relationship with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), a national committee that did not endorse Donnelly in 2004. Despite differing with the DCCC on certain social issues (Donnellyispro-lifewhiletheDemocratic leadership is predominantly pro-choice), Donnelly praises his relationship with the organization. "I have a great relationship with the DCCC, and there is no litmus test on any issue. They strongly support that. My job is to represent the people of this district, not this party," Donnelly says. 
The most significant infusion ofmoney from the DCCC has come in the form of television advertisements courtesy ofthe DCCC's independent expenditure wing. Independent expenditures operate under the domain of certain political action committees, but by law there can be no coordination between the independent expenditures and the party's leadership or an individual candidate. According to Adrienne Elrod, a spokeswoman for the DCCC, the DCCC has so far put about $725,000 toward television advertisements. When asked ifthe DCCC could continue to support Donnelly down the stretch, Elrod assured me that they would, saying, "We're still going to be doing a television buy. We will be on TV for him." 


Chris Chocola and the GOP Machine 
Despite trailing in various polls, two­term incumbent Chris Chocola does not act like a man who is currently engaged in a fight for his political life. When I met with him two weeks ago at his campaign headquarters in South Bend, Chocola was in good spirits about his chances for victory and was eager to discuss the issues of the campaign. Oiocoladownplayed the negative national image of the Republicans and instead framed the election as a choice between two Republican voters the past two election cycles. 

Given the incumbent's clear vulner­ability to a Donnelly campaign that is better financed and organized now than it was in 2004, it is becoming clear that Chocola's chances of victory will ulti­mately hinge on two crucial factors: his almost 3-to-1 funding advantage over Donnelly and GOP voter turnout in the 2nd district. According to the most recent FEC finance records, Cho cola's campaign has collected over $2.9 million and still has $656,687 in cash on hand. Also, dur­ing the first 18 days of October, Chocola outspent Donnelly by a 2-to-l margin and spent about $340,000 on television advertising, according to The South Bend Tribune. "Holding big external events constan_t, I do think that the most likely way for Chocola to win is to overwhelm Donnelly in the last two weeks with direct mail especially," Roos says. "Chocola is just dropping massive amounts of direct mail just like he did in 2002 [in Chocola's victory over Democrat Jill Long Thomp­son], and the question is whether he'll have enough ofan advantage there to eke out a margin." 
Luckily for Chocola, running out of money is not an issue. With an estimated worth of over $15 million, Chocola was placed No. 20 on Roll Cali's 2004 listofthe 50 wealthiest Congressmen. According to Ed Patru, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee 
very different 

"It's not that they're negative
candidates policy wise. "There's no ads, it's that it's important for 
question that this voters to know the difference is a challenging 


between the two candidates." 
election for incumbents -Katie Nee, Donnelly's campaign manager in general and 
Republicans in particular," Chocola says. "But elections are about individuals. Elections are about the choice between two people, and that's what people will do on November 7th." In defending his record, Chocola talked primarily about his reputation as a defender ofpro-growth tax policy and his national security credentials, two bedrock principles of the Republican majority that have been effective at mobilizing 
(NRCC), given Chocola's strong advantage in campaign funding, the NRCC will not contribute any funds directly to his campaign during the final weeks. "With 

this fundraising advantage, Chocola will have all the resources he needs to win this race," Patru says. Patru did note, however, that independent expenditures by the NRCC in Indiana's 2nd District race have totaled $373,772, mostly in the form of advertising. According to FEC records, the majority of this money has been in the form of advertising against Donnelly. 
13 •••••• 
~ 
~ 
0: 
w 
> 
u 
u 
~ 
0 
I 
u 
CJ) 
• 


When I asked Chocola about his campaign's general strategy for the home stretch, he gave me a sly smile and pointed to the prevalence of cell phones laid out on tables around his headquarters. 
"See all these phones around here?" he quipped. "Elections are a choice between two individuals. Polls can say whatever they want. But what matters is who votes on election day. And one thing the Republicans have learned how to do very well is get out the vote [ ... ] We've had 

An Independent Voice Protecting Our Values 

people using these phones and going to doors, and we know who the Republicans are in this district through months and months of identification," Chocola said. 
This election cycle, the Indiana Republican Party .is running what they call their own "Defend This House" program. A pamphlet promoting the campaign boasts that this operation is the most aggressive Get Out the Vote (GOTV) operation the Indiana GOP has ever undertaken. The program began 
on Oct. 27th as part of a 12­day blitz that will continue until election day. Taking advantage of their superior funding, the GOP has made the program incentive-based. Dividing each day into 3-hour shifts, the GOP will pay each volunteer $50 for every three shifts, and $200 for 12 shifts. Jonathan: Klingler, president ofthe Notre Dame chapter of the College Republicans, is extremely optimistic about the effectiveness of the Indiana GOTV program and believes that it will ultimately tip the scales for Chocola on election day. In describing the Republicans' fight for the House this November, Klingler cannot help but conjure up the image of the 13th century Scottish hero William Wallace. "In 
'Braveheart,' William Wallace 
faces all these obstacles in 
front ofhim, and everything 
says he should lose. And we've 
seen that in the past and 
defeated the Democrats. And 
they throw so much money, 
so many volunteers against us 
and we've continued to win. 
So the greater the odds the 
more energized our people get 
because we know we have the 
ability to win," Klingler says. 
The Negativity Factor 
Yet for all the sophisticated maneuvering of each camp, it is impossible to avoid the cutthroat negative campaigning on both sides that has shaped the high-stakes mood of this election. During the fall season, each candidate has been viciously attacked by television and radio ads, along with direct mailings that highlight negative aspects of one of the candidates. In this campaign, almost everything has been fair game. Donnelly has been the subject of ads that point out his failure to pay certain property taxes on time, even alleging that he misappropriated funds from others; Chocola has been attacked continuously for his alleged coziness with big businesses. . 
The primary strategy in advertisements put out by Donnelly For Congress, Inc. has been to portray Chocola as a politician who is beholden to the Bush administration and an unpopular Congress while simultaneously benefiting from business relationships with various special interest groups like the oil and pharmaceutical industries. Donnelly has been aided in this strategy by several DCCC and Moveon.org ads which, though not formally endorsed by the Donnelly campaign, are filled with negative imagery and similar themes. In one DCCC ad criticizing Chocola's alleged close relationship with the oil industry, romantic music plays in the background while an archetypal oil tycoon exchanges bouquets of roses for boxes ofchocolate representing tax breaks, courtesy of Chocola. The ad is entitled "A Washington Love Affair" and asks, "Don't you wish Chris Chocola cared about you this much?" In our interview, -Donnelly said that he has asked Chocola to run a positive campaign, a sentiment he reiterat_ed in the candidates' final debate last Saturday. "Iintended to run a positive 
· campaign, but his hallmark has always been running the nastiest campaign a person could possibly run, and he_ leaves you no alternative to respond. He set the tone on this issue," Donnelly says. 
Nee asserted that judging an ad as negative or not was a matter of interpretation. "I think that we don't consider them negative," Nee said. "It's not that they're. negative ads, it's that. it's important for voters to know the difference between the two candidates." It was a masterful display of spin that can only be expressed by the most clever campaign strategist. 
3 NOV 2006 


Unfortunately for Donnelly, some ads run by politically liberal organizations like the DCCC and Moveon.org have played right into Chocola's strategy of associating Donnelly with a left-leaning Democratic establishment that is allegedly out of touch with "Hoosier values." One of the most controversial ads run by the DCCC during the summer shows pictures ofAmerican soldiers' flag-draped coffins. The Republican establishment immediately lambasted the Democrats for using dead Americans for political gain, and Donnelly got caught up in the maelstrom. Failing to distance himself immediately from the advertisement 
-which was later pulled by networks 
-the Donnelly camp gave Chocola ample ammunition when Katie Nee was quoted in The Hill, a D.C.-based newspaper, as saying, "Joe's not in favor of cutting and running, but he feels itis appropriate to see what sacrifices have been made." Cho cola immediately jumped on the quote and initiated a media blitz ofcommercials and direct mailings that mentions Nee's use of "appropriate" to describe Donnelly's stance on the issue. (Donnelly issued a statement saying he would not have supported the ad.) The most extreme ads derived from the fallout appeal to voters' emotions 
level of negativity coming from his campaign, Chocola described the ads as a natural byproduct of humanity's fascination with and attraction to the morbidity of nature. 
"The unfortunate thing is, when you turn on the six o'clock news [.: .] it's rarely something positive that is the lead story. It's somebody got in a car wreck on the toll road, some house burned down or somebody killed somebody last night. It's not positive stuffand so the reality is, whether we like to admit it or not, 
3 NOV 2006 


or her opponent 

reaching effects of the bitter partisanship on the American voting population. "I think it's especially problematic in America," Roos says. He describes the problem mostly as a disconnect between what people claim to be important and what they really believe to be important. "Even though we think [elections] are important and we say it's important, the average person is less engaged and less connected than many European democracies. If they're relatively less attentive and have less information, in that environment negativity works best." 
As entertaining as political spectacle may be, perhaps it is best that it is only every couple years that politicians, ·who are supposed to represent the interests of the people, have to resort to such debased forms of discourse to get their messages across. The war of attrition between Chris Chocola andJoe Donnelly is finally near the end, and one man will emerge from the struggle victorious next Tuesday. Hopefully the winner can put aside any lingering qualms and travel to Washington a better man for having put himself through the grueling process that is the American political campaign. Perhaps the French political thinker Alexis de Tocqueville put it best: "There are many men ofboth parties in America, 
but there is no party of principle." 0 
the negative ads appeal to human nature and people watch them and remember them. They don't want to admit that to themselves, but they do. I wish it was different. I really do," Chocola says. 
Lately, one of for the state of the nation. Given the closeness ofthe race, Roos does not fault Chocola for running a predominantly negative campaign, noting that it's natural for an embattled incumbent to define his 

Chocola and the negatively befurethe 
"There are great inconsistencies 
GOP's favorite opponent constructs 
in Democratic candidates saying
jeremiads has a positive image. been raising the what they believe and what they Roos calls this specter of a House do when they get there." "preemptive led by California negativity." Yet he congresswoman -Chris Chocola worried more about Nancy Pelosi, a self­some of the long-
proclaimed liberal who would presumably become Speaker ofthe House in the event ofa Democratic majorityin the House. Nothing captures this Republican sense ofdread more than a satirical newspaper in the Chocola phone bank called America Weakly (pun intended) in which the Republican National Committee (RNC) prophesizes about the supposed road to ruin that lies ahead if the Democrats win. 
In Chocola's opinion, Donnelly's whole premise of running as an independent voice for Indiana falls apart if he cannot distance himself from Pelosi and other Democratic icons like Hillary Clinton and Ted Kennedy, both of whom grace 
thecoverofAmerica 

by using a South Weakly. At the end Bend woman who ofour conversation, lost a son in Iraq. Chocola professed The final sentence that he would of the woman's not vote for any statement says, Republican "It's inexcusable leader whose thatJoe Donnelly views differed would play politics from his own with our troops." and challenged 
When asked Donnelly's ability 
about the high to hold to such 

a standard as well. 

"There are great inconsistencies in Democratic candidates saying what they believe and what they do when they get there_[. .. ] And it's hypocritical to say I'm for all this stuff, but I'm going to vote for people who aren't. That's not independence; that's hypocrisy," Cho cola says. 
As a longtime observer of American politics, Roos has developed a perspective on the implications of negative campaigning and what it currently means 
LLI 

:c ~<j) 
DomerDollars 
8J]lI!i!ljYf .
1-­
•
-'II~ . 

@ 
-110:BO)E
HUDDLEMarl 
"NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 
food.nd.edu 



ScholasticCulture @ ..... • ...... •. 


II 
It 
I ay USIC 
Campus musicians perform in the DPAC's Bach's Lunch program 
•Regina Gesicki 

After class ends at 11:30 a.m. on [a piece]," says junior Nicholas 
Friday, most students begin Shaneyfelt, a computer science and 
-focusing their energy on the piano performance double major. 
night's plans or the next day's football game. The Penote provides students 
But in the Penote Performers' Assembly of with an intimate yet professional 
the Marie P. Debartolo Performing Arts setting. "The Penote was chosen 
Center, the peers of these preoccupied because it is one of the smaller 
students are warming up for the afternoon's performance spaces with good 
Bach's Lunch, aninformal concert featuring acoustics, especially for voice, and 
Notre Dame music majors and faculty. it is [a performance space] in which 
Started in early 2005 to highlight food is acceptable," says Jennifer 
student artists and promote student and Marley, coordinator of office services for doublemajorwho performed onSeptember 
community appreciation for classical publicity and outreach in the Department 29th.. 
music through informal gatherings, ofMusic. Still, the initial obstacle of the intimate 
Bach's Lunch has recently featured Notre The double entendre title of the series setting proves beneficial. "It was good 
Dame musicians performing works by aims to encourage the audience to bring because ifyou can perform in that setting, 
Mozart, Brahms, Schumann and Ravel, lunch .to the 12:10 p.m. performances on it's a lot easier to perform on a stage when 
among others. Both vocal and instrument Friday, hopefully removing some of the you're separated from your audience," 
performance majors are featured in the unnecessary formality associated with Smith says. Shaneyfelt agrees that the 
concerts, allowing students to gain valuable classical music. "I think as far as classical somewhat daunting intimacy ofthe Penote 
experience in front ofan audience. recitals go, people tend to stay away hones performance skills by creating a 
Exceptionally talented students are from them because they're not sure of close rapport between audience and artist. 
approached by the music department and the etiquette," Shaneyfelt says. "Bach's ''You're going to become more comfortable 
given the opportunity to perform. \Vhether Lunch is so informal; you're supposed the more you get to perform in front of 
working on a vocal solo or performing to bring your lunch and just have a good people, especially in this kind of setting," 
on an instrument, student musicians are time. There were no tickets left for this he says. 
encouraged to practice pieces they are performance. And it just showed that Bach's Lunch is free and open to the 
preparing for more formal concerts. "The people were willing to have a good time in public, though tickets need to be reserved 
department is small enough that they ask an informal setting." through the DPAC box office. Scheduled 
people that they know are working on Though the Penote is a good space for in the early afternoon, the concerts draw 
students moving crowds from the university as well as the 
from practice greater community. "I know there are 
rooms in Crowley some regulars from South Bend that 
Hall to other come," Shaneyfelt says. Both he and Smith 
concerts at larger emphasized the benefit of performing in 
venues, it provides front offriends. ''\Vhen you're surrounded 
a challenge for by your friends and you're perfom1ing 
the artists. "It's a for tl1em, you're not nervous," Shaneyfelt 
really small space says. Because Bach's Lunch is scheduled 
so it's kind of on a weekday afternoon, students are 
hard for a singer comfortable dropping in to support their 
because people friends. "There were probably 60 to 70 a: 
w 
are right there people there, which is pretty good for ::, 
!::i 
in front ofyou," an afternoon concert, when people have ::, 
u 
u
says senior Erin class," Smith says. "It's almost like you're 
55
Smith, a political sitting in your living room playing." 0 
s 
science and vocal I 0 
u
performance (J) 


17 •.••••••• 


-' • , ~ -• \ • • -.e_ --. ~ • ~___...,_._.______ --• -------~~-­
, ,._ . . ­
---------~--· --" ­

IN PERFECTHARMONY 
Students Explore a New Concentration in the Music Department 
•Michael O'Connor 

he Notre Dame Department
T of Music is unfamiliar to many undergraduate students. It is a common misconception that music majors only study music history or take lessons in their specific instrument or in voice. The major, however, is actually broken up into three different concentra­tions: history and theory, performance and the newest concentration, music and culture, which was introduced this fall. 
The idea to form the concentration was developed under the guidance ofDonald Crafton, the interim chair of the music department. Other universities around the country have similar programs that focus on ethnomusicology, or the study of the music ofa specific culture, but Notre Dame's goal has been to make its program distinct from these other courses ofstudy. 
Karen Buranskas, director of under­graduate teaching and learning in the mu­sic department, had a central role in this process by leading the com­mittee to form the new curriculum. "We wanted to _diversify the of­ferings in the music department," Buranskas says. 

"We want to make it an interdisciplinary concentration by tying it in with anthropology and hopefully with the­ology, gender studies and East Asian studies." This branching out to other departments in an attempt to bring 

Both majors and non-majors alike tune in to one of Fiol's lectures. 
more undergraduate students to ethnomusicology will not de­ter the department's interest in music ma­jors. "We are not abandoning our roots," Buranskas says. "We plan to integrate the concentration with our traditional Western musical theory and courses so that majors can have a more comprehen­sive and rewarding learning experience." 
One professor teaching new courses in the concentration is Stefan Fiol, a Ph.D. student at the University of Illinois cur­rently working on his dissertation and teaching two courses at Notre Dame during the fall semester. With a research interest in popular and religious music in Northern India, Fiol is able to capital­ize on his ethnomusicology knowledge and background by teaching courses like "Understanding World Music" and 
"Music, Religion, and Media in South Asia." The courses are also designed to expose students to live musical perfor­mances with instruments that are studied, such as the sitar and mbira. 
"This concentration is very timely," Fiol says. "Everyone recognizes the need for it, both within the major and for other undergraduate students looking to broaden their horizons while fulfilling their fine arts require­ment." Fiol hopes that his courses break musical stereotypes, show­ing the difference between tradi­tional, commercial and religious music in places like India, Paki­stan, Nepal and Bangladesh. "I try to show the students indigenous music that they would never see anywhere else," Fiol says. "I want to give them a respect for the cul­
tures and the music that influences them." 
The promising concentration seems to 
be affecting students in a way that Fiol 
and Buranskas hope for. Alex Woller, a 
sophomore music major and a student 
in Fiol's "Understanding World Music" 
class, sees the music and culture concen­
tration as a launching point for a more 
long-term research interest. "I want to 
go to graduate school for ethnomusicol­
ogy, so it's great having readings and mu­
sical recordings from around the world." 
But the courses are not just for those 
thinking of pursuing graduate work in ethnomusicology. Kaitlin Shorrock, a senior anthropology and pre-profes­sional studies major, and Mauricio Rojas, a senior political science major, are tak­ing the course for other purposes. Fiol's South Asia course cross-lists with an­thropology, allowing Shorrock to take it as a major elective. Rojas is taking Fiol's class as his fine arts requirement. "The courseis particularly interesting because of the opportunity to become exposed to new styles of music, while asking questions about the relations between music and-culture, how it is formed, who performs the music ;md how it pen­etrates society," Shorrock says. Rojas agrees, commenting that he particularly enjoys learning about world music when "so little access to global music exists in the United States." Through music majors and non-majors alike, the new concentration in music and culture will certainly help introduce Notre Dame students to this ·growing area of study. 0 
3 NOV 2006 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1;.7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu 

S: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
roduced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

2004 Indiana C~llegiate Press 

SCHOLaSTIC
n News Magazine of the Year 



SCHOLASTIC
J:iapfot· 





• Dave Hartung 
My trip to the Jinmao Tower ... 
Our first stop in Shanghai was the Jinmao Tower. At 88 stories, it is the tallest building in Shanghai. It was the tallest building in the world in 2003, but there have been about three buildings that have surpassed it since then. You can see almost all ofShanghai from the tower. You'd be able to see everything, but after about two miles, the city 


begins to blend into a cloud of smog. CITY GOD TEMPLE IN SHANGHAI 
The second place we visited was the City God Temple. The only working Nanjing in the winter of 1937-38. The temple in Shanghai, it is dedicated to the memorial is one of a series of mass god ofthe city (as the title might suggest). graves all over the city. Not only did it The caretakers gave us incense to light display pictures of the massacred, but and instructed us to make a wish. Then, the memorial left bones of the excavated we placed the incense on the altar. More grave open for public viewing, as well as interesting, though, was the ritual that the iron nails hammered into the people was going on inside the temple when we to save ammunition. arrived. During one ofthe daily prayers, The memorial was moving and opened we saw about eight temple authorities my eyes to how brutal the Japanese playing their instruments and reciting invasion was. After the memorial, we left prayers. In addition to the prayers and and had time for one more trip, so we ceremonies, we walked through some decided to see the kilometer-long bridge really interesting gardens that were like that crosses the Yangtze River. We went mazes that just kept going. to a giant pagoda structure to see the 
impressive view of the bridge. Visiting Nanjing ... 
During a trip to Nanjing, we dropped Climbing the Moutain ... off our bags at the hotel and headed for A week had passed since the Nanjing the Rape of Nanjing Memorial. This trip and we were off to Taishan, the was a sobering experience. It is dedicated most-often climbed mountain in the to the over 300,000 citizens who were world. I did not want to go on this trip systematically killed, raped and pillaged because it was supposed to be freezing in the city when the Japanese invaded cold (the high was 24 degrees Fahrenheit), 
not to mention it involved 

BRIDGE OVER THE YANGTZE RIVER climbing a mountain. After my travelling, I wasn't in the mood to get back on a train. I finally decided to deal with it. 
After arriving at the hotel and having breakfast, the group began the expedition to scale Taishan. We knew many dangers awaited us, but the group had a firm resolve to climb it succesfully as we made our way to the base of the climb. The behemoth is 


• C t:;;;• :i
Scholastic ultµre 1.5' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •, 
. 
almost a mile tall. Instead ofusing trails to scale the mountain, climbers use stairs -six thousand and six hundred of them! It was a balmy 65 degrees outside, over 40 degrees higher than had been predicted. 
Daoist and Buddhist temples are situated at various spots along the climb. I bought some incense to set on the altar. Apparently I bought more than what I needed. After bowing and putting it in the giant incense holder, the man I bought it from dragged me 

inside the temple, had me bow three times 
in front ofthree statues and then had me 
sign my name in the ledger. My name 
is now in a ledger in a· Daoist temple, 
halfway up the climb ofTaishan. 

THE TAISHAN MOUNTAIN 
The last part of the climb was 100 meters ofvertical staircases with no spots to rest. My lungs were fine, surprisingly, but my knees were dead. On the very last stretch, I had to rest on every step to make it up. People were cheering us on at the top, and finally, we made it. There is a saying that if you climb to the top ofTaishan, you will live to be 100. That means I have 79 years left ahead of me. Thanks, mountain. 
Dave Hartung is an off-campus senior who studied in Shanghai, China. 
23········· 



7 I••••••••••••••• @ Scho/asticCulture 

bA 



Sexuality and Sexual Assault as told by Notre Dame students 
\ .
' 
\ • Sarah Barrett 
\ 
\ 
l
\\ \ 
) 
l
\J 


½_revolutionary event is about to take place on the Notre Dame campus. 1 Last spring, the university's dfbate over academic freedoin and Catholic character attracted national m~dia coverage. The primary cause of this deeply politicized discussion was Ev~ Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues," a p~oduction performed across the globe aiming to end sexual violence against worhen and girls. /While recognizing the need to dis­cuss the issues of sexuality and sexual issault at Notre Dame, antagonism Jolidified in the production's opposition · f o Catholic teaching. Inspired by this 1discussion, senior Emily Weisbecker
1 
·responded constructively, advancing the goals of the monologues while heeding the Catholic character of the university. Her initiative, a production entitled "Loyal Daughters," will do just that. Written specifically for Notre Dame, about Notre Dame students 


and by a Notre Dame student, "Loyal Daughters" exposes sexuality and sexual assault as a reality experienced by both men and women regardless ofpolitical or religious affiliation. Byincorporating the theologi­cal perspective absent in the monologues, 
"Loyal Daughters" provides an avenue in which these important issues can be discussed at a Catholic institution. 
With the backing ofan undergraduate research opportunity grant from the Institute for Scholarship in Liberal Arts, Weisbecker began to work. Collecting a small number of written submissions and conducting over 50 interviews of Notre Dame students, faculty and staff last spring, Weisbecker hit the ground running. Hergoalwas to explore sexuality and sexual assault as it is experienced by Notre Dame students, thus incorporating perspectives from members on both sides of. "The Vagina Monologues" debate. 
"I am presenting a show that exp~ses what happens on our campus in a way that allows the audience to make their own decisions and judgments," she says. 
"I want to attract the picketers who stand outside 'The Vagina Monologues' just as much as the supporters seated inside.. People will 
' ' . '', ' >· ··• . )l be shocked by the 

•~----~...,....~·~-----•·•··--·--...---.. -------·----··--' truth."· 

......... 24 
3 NOV 2006 


ScholasticCulture @·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
alienating any portion of the ~ ~tis a show meantto bringhealing, aware-do,iiate to the Sos R_ape population, driven by the Qrisis Center and.the local reality that these issues affect ness and inspiration for positive chan,., 1fWCA, both.· organizations 
iStudent~ a8t oufd~e cifthe scenes based on l._~Dstud~nts) experi:~:~r '-. ~~·-' 
"Loyal Daughters" incorporates the perspectives of Catholics and non­Catholics, conservatives and liberals, and males and females, as both perpetrators and survivors. "I actually have accounts of male survivors and male perpetrators, as well as female perpetrators," Weisbecker notes. Voicing such diverse opinions, the production opens.up the dialogue of sexuality and sexual assault to a much larger audience. The motivation behind "Loyal Daughters" was to avoid 
everyone. Contextualizing the stories of Notre Dame students, the messages in the play become much more effective. "These stories are not stories about strangers; these are stories about actual Notre Dame students. Your roommates, classmates and peers could be depicted in these stories," cast member Mackay Gunn says. "It hits close to home, and it needs to. We need to realize that sexual identity and sexual assault are issues that must be discussed on this campus, and 'Loyal Daughters' is a great way to begin these conversations." 
Director Madison Liddy, a senior Film, Television, and Theatre major, voices the challenging yet irreplaceable experience she has had directing "Loyal Daughters." 
"Seeing some of these pieces performed day after day is emotionally draining. I have literally come home after rehearsal 
3 NOV 2006 
that .work to end violence
1 • .

-Emily Weisbecker fgamst women. 
over the past year and also developed an ad hoc committee designed to encourage this discussion. The university has tentatively decided to allow "Loyal Daughters" to be performed in the Patricia George Decio Theatre in the Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, a stark contrast to how "The Vagina Monologues" was prevented from being performed in the DPAC last spring. 
As seniors, Liddy and Weisbecker hope that "Loyal Daughters" becomes a production thatwill propagate discussion ofsexual assault here at Notre Dame even after their graduation this spring. "It is a show meant to bring healing, awareness and inspiration for positive change," Weisbecker says. 
and cried. The reality that these things have happened on our campus to our students hits home, and it scares me. I have grown not only as a director, but this play has opened my eyes as a student, a woman and a human being," she says. It is this effect that "Loyal Daughters" aims for. By evoking a sense of realism, the play ensures that these issues are not overlooked. 
Central to the debate last spring was the argument on the importance of academic freedom -Notre Dame's responsibility as a university to support unrestricted academic inquiry -countered by a 

second argumei:t _c?ncerning N ~t~,,,. ·In2Q05,the producdon of''Thifa~ina Dame's respons1b1hty as a Cath?hc Mpnologut:!s'' at Notre Dame qused university to uphold the values oythe over $15,000 for local '\Vorne11's sh~hers. Church. In his "Closing Statepient • But amidst the controversyJast spring, 
on Academic Freedom and Catholic Character" issued last April, thd Rev. John I. Jenkins, c.s.c., expresse~ the university's need to "affirm the highest principles and practices of a univer~ity -ensuring the academic freedom'ito explor~ the full range of ideas ard express10ns produced by human thought 

and creativity-a~d, at the same time, tot .fundraising with the .productton of 
affirm our Catholic character." 
While Fr.Jenkins is not sponsoring the production of "Loyal Daughters" in any way, he has participated inrelated dialogue 

)'Loyal paughters" as welL Becans~. of 'this· limitation,. Liddy and Weisbecker:. are\.hosting~r-.tyat theBeiger Mansion·, following the shd"".;s final performance on Thursday, November 16th. Tliey wiU be collecting a sm~llfee at the door to 
Fr:Jenkinspreverited the produdtion's organizersfrom.fondraisirig. Angered by thedecisiqn, the play's organizers/wrote that Fr. Jen.kins "effectively den[ied] criticalfrinds .to local mgaridations working _to end violence ~gaipst women and girls/' A:' ~n acade~lC e'ent, Notre Dame proh1b1ted We1sbed~er from 
For other Catholic universities, where opposition has banned the production of the monologues from campus, there exists a need for a production like "Loyal Daughters." In response to this need, Weisbecker and Liddy are presently in search offunding that would allow them to bring the play to these campuses next year. "By developing the script to make it more universally applicable, we could take it to other Catholic campuses, especially those who do not allow 'The Vagina Monologues,' allowingthem a way to talk ,aboiffilie-iss~es ofsexuaf'assault and sexuality," Weisbecker says. . \ 
I Concluding his "Closing 

Statement," Fr. Jenkins wrote, "The!deep reflection onour ideals and actions \inspired by this discussion should not 6nd here. We must channel the energy 'awakened by this debate to serve th~. causes that animate the debate -the 'µeed for open, unrestricted academic inquiry; the need to. foster a constructi~e engagement with the Catholic intelllectual trndition;-and the pressing need (or the University of Our Lady to be a rising force for defending 
wc::,

and advancing the rights and dignity of ::, all women, everywhere. May God bless ::, !:i our efforts." "Loyal Daughters" takes on. 0 u Fr.Jenkins' impdrtant challenge. 0 ii 
:'.5 

0 ;­
i
di 
............. @Scho/asticCulture 
"I\ 


Fus10N DEPT. 
THE CHICAGO SouND 

t marching band practice on the 
-Monday after the UCLA game, it was clear that something was up. New music and marching directions for the next home game against North Carolina were distributed as per the Monday routine, but trumpet player Dom Tassoni noticed some peculiarities as he walked from the band building to practice at the indoor football field in Loftus. For one thing, the music was in strange keys for marching band, with two or three more sharps in the key signature than usual. Even stranger was the notation of a "guitar solo" at two points in the music, since none ofthe 380 members of the Band of the Fighting Irish had ever played or seen a guitar on the field. Also, the band had already played one of the songs-Chicago's 1970 hit "25 or 6 to 4" 
-duringhalftime two years ago, and save their near-annual performance of the 
immensely popular "Livin' on a Prayer," the band doesn't usually repeat music within such a short span of time. With their groundbreaking use of trumpets, trombones and saxophones, Chicago's music is perfect for marching bands, but the upperclassmen were surprised to see them back in the program so soon. 
A 
.•••••••• 26 


CAMPUS CHATTe~ 
Not only were there some questions 
about the music, but the marching drill 
was abnormal, too. All ofthe formations 
left the bulk of the front half of the field 
open, a space that is usually filled with 
marchers. Tassoni flipped quizzically 
through the papers. "Something's gotta 
be going on," he said. 
The band congregated in Loftus to 
start rehearsal, standing in a huge block to go over the new music. Along with "25 or 6 to 4," the program featured two other Chicago tunes, including the "Chicago Opener" (a· selection from the band's song "Make Me Smile") and "Does Anybody Really Know WhatTime It!s?" Dr. Kenneth Dye, the band's director, led the group through the music, remaining noticeably quiet about the odd aspects of the music that Tassoni and others had 
noticed and were murmuring about. 
After running through the music, the 
band started to learn the marching drill, 
a process that with its many starts and 
stops allows band members to chat with 
each other. "I heard a rumor that Dr. Dye 
went to the DPAC to get a huge sound 
system for the field," trumpet player Nick 
Schott said. Another band member could 
be overheard saying, "Yeah, and Chicago 
is playing in South Bend right after the game, so that makes sense." 
At the end ofthe 90-minute practice, the band gathered around the drum major's ladder, and Dye addressed the marchers on his microphone. "We're going to have a few guests with us during halftime," he said, confirming the rumor that had shot through the band and ·drawing a cheer from the 380 members. Adding to the excitement was the announcement that each band member would receive a free ticket to see Chicago at South Bend's Morris Performing Arts Center after the North Carolina game. "We've always had a great relationship with Chicago," Dye said, "and we've wanted to do this for a long_tim,,e." . 
Dye· then mentioned the interesting history that links the rock band with Notre Dame, which dates to before the band's creation in-1967. Before the Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C., started his 30-year tenure as Notre Dame's band director in 1972, he taught music at Notre Dalll;e High School in Niles, Ill. One of his most talented s!=Udents was trombonist James Pankow, who went on to become a founding _member of Chicago and is often credited as the primary creative force behind the band's unique "Chicago sound." Parikow's relationship with Fr. 
3NOV2006 
Wiskirchen continued long after high school, as he often brought other Chicago band members to Notre Dame to visit his former teacher, who passed away in 2005. 
Pankow will take the field at N otr.e Dame Stadium for the first time on Saturday, along with the rest ofChicago's current lineup. Plugged into a giant speaker on the 45 yard line, guitarist Keith Howland will save the marching band from having to figure out just how to simulate a guitar solo with a bunch of trumpets, clarinets and piccolos. 
-Mike Laskey 
DEPT. OF RECORDS 
WVFI ON THE AIR
Last Monday, I waited at the top . of the stairs by Starbucks in 
LaFortune for Christine Nguyen, 
DJ extraordinaire at WFVI radio, the 
Voice of the Fighting Irish. She sprinted 
up the steps and whipped into action -grabbing CDs from the Vault, saying hello to the previous DJs (the men ofthe "Three Idiots" show), and deciding what songs will make up her playlist tonight. 
The short, narrow entrance hallway 
of WVFI's studio contains the station's 

identification letters spelled out in five-
foot letters made of pushpinned CDs. 
Straight ahead there was a room filled 
to the ceiling with music. Shelves lined 
every wall, all filled with vinyl records and 
CDs. Along the_adjoining hallway, there 
is a huge chart made of ripped pieces of 
computer paper listing whose radio show 
occupies which block of airtime each 
week. In this hallway, directly across from 
a water cooler with a sign requesting DJs 
to bring their own cups, is where the on­
air magic happens -the broadcasting 
room. Inside, the air is blistering from 
the heater and the walls are pasted with 
decrepit, slate-colored soundproofing 
foam material. I instantly was intimidated 
by the amount of electronic equipment, 
but Nguyen moved in like an old pro. 
Nguyen pulled up the computer screen that logs the songs she plays; she typed her show's name (Christine is Dancing) into the appropriate box and adjusted the microphone. I sat down in the chair next to hers, unsure of how quiet to be. The "ON AIR" sign lit up as "Hi, this is ... uh, you're listening to WVFI" started the show. She gave a short introduction to each song, constantly adjusting volumes on the massive control board. As the special guest of the night, I requested a Ryan Adams song, so Nguyen inserted the CD and pressed play to start his cover 
of Oasis' "Wonderwall." 
The rhythm of the show was apparent 
immediately. Nguyen worked the two CD 
players and inserted her songs into the log 
with finesse as we chatted about recent 

Scho/asticCulture ~ ············· 
' \,:;:i 

events in the pop culture world. She showed me the rotation: a group ofbrand­new albums specially sent to WVFI and categorized by type. They are labeled with such names as "Soft as Pillowtalk" and "Hard as Childbirth," indicating the intensity level ofthe choices, but the DJs aren't required to only play rotation. Nguyen leans more toward the indie and folk music scene, with a little hip-hop 
-such as Lupe Fiasco's "I Gotcha" ­thrown in for good measure. She said that there is a surprising variety of listeners during any given show: Nuns have been known to listen, in addition to the parents and friends who are loyal listeners to the talk, sports and specialty shows that play live online during the school year. 
We made it through 12 songs and a public service announcement about cranberry juice on Monday night. There was some singing involved, although none into a microphone. I planned on just taking notes about the show, but somehow ended up adding my two-cents' worth about the gender ofBritney Spears' latest spawn to Notre Dame's own radio broadcast. One student sent an instant message to the station's AIM screenname, 
"WVFI Radio," asking if we knew the score of the MNF game. Nguyen's reply asking him what "MNF" was might have been a clue that he was listening to the wrong show. 
-Kate Dresser 


w 
0:: 
::::, 
!:i 
::::, 
! (.) u 
3 NOV 2006 
27 ········· i 


r--~­
; • • • • • •·• • • • · · · @ScholasticSports 
I 
! 
I 
i 
I 
I 
After Notre Dame slipped in the polls following a victory agairist UCLA, Weis spoke out Was his anger justified? 
•Brittany Lash 

After almost two years with Head Coach Charlie Weis, the Irish faithful know one thing about his personality: He doesn't pull any punches. . 
Weis isn't afraid to express his opinion in press conferences, but he typ1c~lly steers clear .of the overblown, embarrassing histrionics of some of his coaching peers. That~ exactly what makes Weis' recent rant over Notre Dame's slipping poll rankings so unexpected. . . 
At his weekly Tuesday press conference on October 24th, reporters elicited a harsh response from Weis when they brought up Notre Dame's new rankings. After a last-minute comeback against UCLA, the Irish fell one spot in the AP Poll fro~ No. 10 to No. 11, two spots in the Coaches' Poll from No. 8 to No. 10 and one~ the BCS standings from No. 8 to No. 9. It wasn't the numbers that concerned We1S, but rather the teams who vaulted ahead of the Irish. 
"We go into a game with 27 seconds to go, come from behind, win a thrilling game and because we win a thrilling game, let's move [the Irish] down because [Florida] is not playing and [Tennessee] had the exact same game[...] Maybe I'm just stupid. Just tell me how that works," Weis said concerning Tennessee's 16-13 ! : 
victory over unranked Alabama in the final fout minutes. Tennessee fell from No. 7 to No. 8 in the AP Poll. 
Weis then berated voters for not dropping No. 5Texas after their last-minute 22­19 victory ·against then No. 17 Nebraska, and questioned Florida's unsubstantiated bye-week rise. "Another team that jumped us [Florida] wasn't ~ven ~laying. They're sitting at home eating cheeseburgers, and they ended up Jumpmg us. So that befuddles me," he said. 
Should it befuddle the Irish too? At a glance, it appeared as though Texas and Tennessee struggled and lost nothing, and Florida benefited whil: doing no~g. 
The answer, unfortunately, is no. Like Notre Dame, the previously mentioned teams all had one loss. The voters' moves, though debatable, are fairly logical. L> ~eTexas' opponent, Nebraska, is now unranked after a loss to Oklahoma State, N~braska's No. 17 ranking atthe time made the comeback seem like a higher quality win. Tennessee was punished with a one-spot drop, but two goc,~ wins -a 51-3 3 thrashing of Georgia in the previous week and a marquee win against then-No. 9 California-kept them ahead ofthe Irish in both polls. No. 13 Geor&ia Tech lost to No. 12 Clemson in the same weekend, sending GT's stock plummeting. LSU and Tennessee, Florida's key wins, consequently appeared stronger in rank than Irish opponents and led to the Gators' bye-week bypa!,S of the Irish after their loss to Auburn. 
The week 10 polls produced siinilar headaches: As the Irish beat Navy, Cal passed ND to No. 10 in the AP in a bye week. USC fell six spots to No. 9 after their first loss, not nearly as far as the ten-spot Irish fall post-Michl~. Cal's leap wasn't as significant as it looked-the Irish trail Cal by only three AP votes -and USC had lingering voter goodwill. The loss was their first in 3 8 regular season contests. 
~ While Weis' overreaction may not have hurt the Irish in this week's polls -theyf held steady at No. 11 in the AP after their win at Navy -he does not want to ~ hold the team back with any more inflammatory remarks. In his press conference 5i on Sunday, October 29th, he interrupted a reporter who tried to provoke further ~ poll comments: "I'm not going there," Weis chuckled. "Next thing you know I'm a.
r:l)::whln~.• 


-~~-'.~~~~~~~z~~~i.-~~::t;..Y,f~;'t-~~~;_~~¾F-'1!'1>\~;J~..";t,fl!f:':~ 
The Irish hockey team stunned No. 1 Bosto.9. College 7-1 on October 20th. It was the third time the Irish have upset a top-ranked BC hockey team. Junior Mark Van Guilder led the Irish to victory with his second career hat trick and senior goalkeeper David Brown stopped 26 of27 shots on goal ... 
Former Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola ('97) was recently named to the NCAA 25th Anniversary Women's Soccer Team: A three­time All-American, Renola posted 18 shutouts during Notre Dame's 1995 NCAA championship season ·and was the ·1996 National Player of 
the Year ... 
On October 23rd, freshman midfielde~ Michael Thomas was named Big East Rookie ofthe Week for the second straight week. Two days before, Thomas scored the 
lone goal to. boost the No. 8 men's 'soccer team t,o a 1-0 win over No. 14 
Connecticut ... 
On October 24th, freshman 
Colleen Rielley captured the 
Women's Tennis ITA Midwest
,· 
3NOV2006 


~l~' ?. 
t 
~­M.­
'J;
I 
tt f
;x,­

~--'?,"<'1~,..,,:.'.,;,,.,;cef<f.<;>~;'C";o>:;,i"·s,j•C'-"~!\'1,<~~~·;'((,((,?;;,,,?l",,,.!e:"?'ci 
Regional Singles Title, defeating freshman teammate Cosmina Ciobanu in the final. Junior Brook Buck and sophomore Kelcy Tefft combined to win the doubles final, and all four earned berths to the ITA National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships in February ... 
Notre Dame's comeback over UCLA on October 21st marked the third time in Irish football history that a game was won on a touchdown in the last 30 seconds. The only other touchdown victories were against Penn State in 1992 and Houston in the 1978 Cotton Bowl. Quinn's touchdown pass to Samardzija earned a nomination for the Pontiac Game­Changing Performance of the week 
and kept BC~-~~~1--~~p~s ali,:e. 

3 NOV 2006 

Adrianna Stasiuk 
• GrantSch~idt 

Junior accounting major Adriarma Stasiuk, co-captain of the ·Irish women_'s.yolleyball team, leads the team this season in several categories, including kills(231), total points(292,5) and points per game (4.06). Stasiuk was recently named Big East Player of the Week for the second time. Last season, she was named an AVCA honorable mention All~American and became the ninth Irish player to be_Fe,cqgqi?Eld,,.e_s the Big East Championsh.jp!sif'ylo~~to'ufstM:~f~g)?,layer. . 
.. ,<t Tif'>.-_ -,•:tr:(;;{0>:­

. As a ccfl~~pt~iYn, what leadership'fol~\tD%\ do Y,B\~))11):>fthe team? .·. -_-·,,i}'.,fij·;{)\ . 
. -.. · .--. .-·. · · 
Eve'frth.o;dgh I'm not asenior, as a~/":':JQit;.~1ghth floor of the hotel, and ,t starts up~~l9lassn1an, I've had the experience of~:.:Msn~~i_ng, We;,-Qidn't know what to_ do, and b~fijg;oo.Ith~ court and in pressure-filled/fJb,~{p;pwer1vtJi..tout._ ~awaii was not the sif9:~tii?M9rtwoyElars. I lead b~ examplet:fi}PA~~9ise '«~)tnRpght ,t would b_e. But the . ar\g,T,~!~~~?-,~freshrr,eri, who are 1na totall~}.!}%:R·~~~: c~w-_~j~~~.~-onthe morning before ne\'\f:,exper1Elnce. _.. .. . _ /i::,;t\?.Ytf1rst•:m~tFh.i:,Jhe gym was packed
~:;~!ij~~;;:~.:o;;;;~:i.~,,~,1iif~{,11!:itwhich made ii 
·effect doesJhat:re~()gn1tror:i,J:ic1'111!\<;>1l7 _wp.9:;is your ~9I~,'.Q1,9,4~1? _. __ . _ _ _­your perfor~ii'ti8,~in-~?:/?il}{;t]).::}'.;>v -Miri}iSharnpov4:Jfav,~J~i;mis, and I like her It's kind ora moJi_ya,tional'"tllftg. Once A6t@~ilsfrf,;.[~g/,i?rk~ftort. ltry to have 
·~~"1:;;6~;.}Jl{i~i1fl{l~j;~i;~1Jtsamtet$]Y'~{7~~ttilive spirit. 
you des_e_rve..1ii'lplay harder aqB2,~?"nD5'{E=l, '-,~~~tr:iw~11tiisdescgrj:,:}5.,,fer on the ~ 
0 
D.

competitive [becAuse ofthe aw~;tt{\ _ ~iiif{bb~i';/J~;o~;!~e,_of;i~~bj~~\t\ lc:3der fl) .How was theteam's recenttourWalrien '":;:~wil't:f{e'lp st.art"tt,at 'riiomentum~~6riijg .a ~ u 
::i •
in Hawaii in light of the earthquake spark and bring alot of energy. And that's 
~­
that occurred while you were there? what I'm trying to do right now.. 81 Surfing the first day was awesome. Then, . I first thing the next morning, we were on 
i........ ·.. @ Scho/asticSporls 


NotreDame's 38-14victoryover Navy on Saturday kicked off a four-game stretch in which the Irish face all three Division I-A service academies -Navy, Air Force and Army 
-for just the fourth time in 25 years. It also extended the Notre Dame-Navy series to 80 straight games and gave the Irish their 43rd consecutive win over the Midshipmen. College football's longest­standing non-conference rivalry is also its most lopsided and the series againstArmy and Air Force are not far behind. Notre Dame has dominated Army 36-8-4 and are 21-5 against the Air Force Academy. 
The outcome against Navy was no surprise, and the Irish are heavily favored against both Air Force (3-4) and Army (3-6). Analysts have been quick to point out that these games do nothing to help Notre Dame's strength of schedule, and the likely sweep of the academies won't 
~ 
0 
ll. 
(/) 
u 
~ 
0 
I 
u 
(f) 
boost the Irish much in the polls. Army and Navy were football powerhouses in the early 20th century, but post­graduation military requirements now deter many of the nation's top recruits, who often have NFL aspirations. This inherent disadvantage makes it difficult for the academies to be competitive against schools like Notre Dame. 
So why continue the series? 
For Navy, the monetary gains compensate for the competitive losses. This year's game brought in around $6 million in television revenues and ticket sales, and Navy will keep most of that profit. "The national exposure and the visibility [are] invaluable for us, and we don't want to lose a multimillion-dollar game," Navy Athletic Director Chet Gladchuk said in an interview with the 
Baltimo1·e Sun. 
But the relationship reaches far beyond 
finances. Notre Dame's history, both on 
and off the field, featqres close ties with 
the academies, especially Army and 
Navy. 
"There's a huge amount of history 

and tradition there," Senior Associate Athletic Director John Heisler says. "Going back to the '40s, '50s, '60s, those schools were as highly ranked as any 
team in the country." 
Going back even farther, it was 
Notre Dame's 1913 game against a 
powerhouse Army team that, Heisler 
says, "did as much as anything to put 
Notre Dame footbaHon the map." The 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre 
Dame's President Emeritus, colorfully 
summarizes the game. "The 'Ramblers,' 
as they were known then, showed up 
in New York with about 16 players, 
and everybody thought they would 
be murdered," Hesburgh says. But 
quarterback Gus Dorais and senior end 
Knute Rockne stunned the Army defense 
when they introduced the forward pass, 
and Notre Dame won, 35-13. "They 
murdered Army, despite the fact that 
everyone thought the shoe would be on 
the other foot,'' Hesburgh says. 
Games against Army have produced 
some of the most famous Notre Dame 
football lore. "The Four Horsemen" 
rode to fame in a 13-7 victory over Army 
during the team's 1924-25 National 
Championship season. In 1928, Rockne, 
then the Irish head coach, inspired 
his team to a 12-6 comeback win with 
his famous "Win One for the Gipper" 
speech. · 
Notre Dame has Army to thank for its 
long-standing rivalry with Navy as well. 
The Irish lost just one game in 1926, to 
Carnegie Tech. Coach Rockne wasn't 
there for the loss; he was in Chicago, 
watching_Navy tie Army to take the 
3 NOV 2006 


national championship. Notre Dame and Navy met for the first time the following year. 
World War II cemented relations with Navy, when the Naval Academy established training bases on campus. .Between 1942 and 1946, as many as 12,000 officers completed their training 
at Notre Dame. "Navy had a lot to do, 
just on a day-to-day basis,' with keeping 
the university going," Heisler says. 
3 NOV 2006 
Since then, common ties between the academies and Notre Dame have fostered an exceptional mutual respect. Notre Dame boasts ROTC programs in all three services which, Hesburgh says, 

"are considered by them [the academies] to be among the best in the nation in preparing officers for commission." The games, he says, are "a great occasion for our getting together, having some memorable games and deepening the 
ScholasticSports @ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
relationships over the years." 
All three ROTC programs are taking advantage of this season's meetings. About 3 8 members of Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC will travel to Colorado Springs for the Nov. 11th game against the Air Force Academy. They will visit several bases in the area before attending the game. "Basically the base visit is an excuse to go to the game," Senior Cadet Captain Kim Dueffert says. "The base trip is the main objective, but [seeing the game] is definitely a great perk." 
When Army comes to Notre Dame the following week, many Army ROTC students will host West Point cadets in their dorm rooms. Senior Cadet Major Peter DeMoss is looking forward to the game. "Of course we have to cheer for our teams, so there will be a lot of good-natured ribbing-especially since we'll win," DeMoss says. "But I think everyone realizes that we are all really on the same t.eam, and respect each other, in the same way the stadium went silent for the Navy alma mater last year." 
Notre Dame is one of only a few schools that can claim a national fan base. Army and Navy, like Notre Dame, are independents, but Head Coach Charlie Weis is quick to point out that the service academies are on a level of their own. 
"They're different in the fact that Navy is a national school, and to me a national school means this: Navy has a connotation of representing our country, not just an opponent," Weis said at last week's press conference. "In the next month we have three teams that all fit this same criteria, and I think that our team better look out every time you play an academy because they've got a lot bigger picture in mind than sometimes wedo." 
Despite Navy's 43-game losing streak against the Irish, junior Midshipman Josh Priebe has no desire to see the series end. "This is our biggest game of the year," he says. "We don't play a lot of really good teams, so ND is always a big game. We have a little bit of what you might call a losing streak, but[... ] every year we come out hoping for the best." 
Whatever the effects of Notre Dame's 
~ 

dominance against Air Force, Army and 0 
a. 

Navy, itis clear that all three series extend U) 
u far beyond the football field. 0 ~ 
::i 
0 
I 
u 
Cf) 
31 ••••••••• 



' U) 
Ii: 
~ 
• Christopher Meskill

Just as former Notre Dame President, the Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., was formulating his 10-year plan for the university, Athletic Director Kevin White 
was quietly resculpting the landscape of Fighting Irish athletics. Football, softball, golf -one by one, White rejuvenated Notre Dame programs and has now turned his attention to basketball and volleyball. 
On October 5, 2006, White called a press conference to announce the anticipated $24.7 million renovation of theJoyce Athletic and Convocation Center OACC), the second most recognizable athletic facility on campus. The construction is expected to take a little over a year, and to finish in time for the JACC's 40th anniversary. 
White spoke of the future of the JACC at the October press conference. "The Joyce Center has been our home since 1968, and these upgrades and additions will give it a completely new identity, as a showcase facility for our athletes and teams for the decades to come," he said. "Our plan is to create a state-of-the-art facility for both the student-athletes and the fans who watch them." 
Senior Associate Athletic Director John Heisler notes that the renovation was in the works for longer than most suspected. "All of this dates back to when Kevin White first came on board about six years ago," Heisler _says. "One of the first things he did was put together this facilities' master plan." Bringing the master plan to fruition, the university has overseen the construction or improvement of multiple facilities, including the Guglielmino Athletics Complex, Ivy Field for the softball program and the Robert and Marilyn Rolfs Golf Facility on Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course. 
The start date for construction has yet to be announced, primarily because of a university policy concerning funding. "It is the university's philosophy that you need to have 100 percent of the money committed and 75 percent of it in hand before you can put a shovel in the ground," Heisler says. 
Fortunately, funding shouldn't be a problem because of donations by Notre Dame graduates Phil Purcell and Vince Naomili. Purcell, a former CEO at Morgan Stanley and a member of the Board of Trustees, donated $12.5 million to renovate the basketball facility that will soon bear his name. Additionally, Naomili, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays chairman, gave $5 million to aid the cause. With all current donations accounted for, the university is only $3 million short ofbreaking ground. 
White said that these two major donations built momentum for the fundraising. With stories floating around the Internet on Notre Dame fan sites such as NDNation. com and BlueandGold.com, affluent alumni are expected to bring the fundraising campaign to an end within a month or two. It is at this point that the story becomes all the more interesting. 
"Once we have all of the $25 million in hand, then we will sit down with the architect and figure out exactly what the plans are," Heisler says. While not definite, -some ideas are already circuladng. The university plans to replace the bleachers with full, hard-backed seats, dropping the capacity from 11,418 to 9,800, :while adding a clubhouse luxury box that will accommodate about 800. Other improvements include better concession stands, more accessible handicapped seating and more women's restrooms. 
Although the facility has some direction, a number of questions still go unanswered. Timing is the most major issue. Since construction will take over a year to complete, the basketball and volley_ball teams are going to be inconvenienced at some point in time. "[During construction], we are going to need to find a way to play basketball in there," Heisler says, "because there isn't any 

3 NOV2006 

ScholasticSports@ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 

-
real option to go elsewhere." 
-

This space crunch poses a number of problems. Considering the facility has enough difficulty 
-

accommodating the large number of students and the thousands of local fans who seek tickets for individual 
-

games, having to play a season with ~ections of seats removed will exacerbate an already strained situation on 
-

campus. Even when construction is completed, a 2,000­seat reduction in capacity will leave many students short 
-

a ticket for the popular winter sport. Basketball is not the university's only worry though. 
-

"Part ofwhat we are doing is trying to make sure that we Ill have a complete understanding of all ofthe different events that happen in [the Joyce Center]," Heisler says. Since the Joyce Center is a year-round complex, alternate plans 
-

are in the works for many other campus events. These other events, which add up to 325 academic, athletic, 
-

administrative and social gatherings a year, will have to be 
relocated, further inconveniencing students. Some ofthe 
-

more notable potential relocations will be Junior Parents' ·weekend, Graduation Commencement, The Show, next 
-

year's pep rallies, the Fall and Winter Career Fairs, and 
any academic convocation sponsored by the university. 
-

Since the Joyce Center is the largest cold-weather facility Ill at N:otre Dame, the solutions to these problems are far from obvious. 
Heisler admits that the situation isn't "perfect," 
-

considering the JACC's scope of usage, but the future benefits outweigh the short-term nuisances. He notes that FUTURE FACELIFT Artistic renderings of the new Joyce Center exterior 
-

the best thing about gutting the current seating is that and entranceway. "it gives us an opportunity to start from scratch in that 
-

area." Student seating is being reevaluated, with multiple 
options on the table. Among the leading ideas is a return 
-
-



~ 
0 
D. 
en 
0 

I 
(f) 



~

Ii,
j•; ....•..•...•.•@ Scho/asticSports 
l ' l 


to the traditional student section in one corner, as well as a plan to mirror Duke University's Cameron Indoor Stadium with the student section filling the first few rows around· 
the entire court. 
Meanwhile, an improved arena would help basketball recruiting. "Prospective student­athletes these days are big-time consumers," Heisler says. "They are looking at what 

you've got by comparison-to what other schools have got [ ... ] I'm not sure ifwe are going to sit here and say that we have to have the best of everything at Notre Dame, but you want to be competitive." 
The· renovation couldn't come at a better time for the men's basketball team, which has not reached the NCAA Tournament since 2003. Basketball Head Coach Mike Brey has been under scrutiny as of late, especially after 
a 15-13 finish last year. With the restructuring ofthe Atlantic Coast Conference, the Big East emerged as the most elite conference in basketball, adding high-.quality programs like Louisville, DePaul, Marquette and Cincinnati. In order to recruit competitively from within the elite Big East conference, a major change, like this renovation of the basketball facility, may be 
~ 
0 11. necessary. Ill In addition, the clubhouse seating 
u will add another social space to the 
~ 
0 university's repertoire. Similar to I CJ) u the 5th floor of the press box at 
Notre Dame Stadium, the luxury 
__I········· 34 
-
-
-
-
-~ -

box will be a site of future university functions. Heisler said Iii that its usage will not be limited to game time. While there is much excitement and concern s~rrounding 
-

"Our plan is to create a state-of-the-art facility for both the student-athletes and the fans who watch them.." 
-Kevin White, athletic director 
. . 
th1s latest addition to the Notre ma Dame athletic community, one thing is for certain 
-
,-itwill be coming Iii soon. As the money continues to roll in from donors, the 
-
plans continue to 
-

grow in complexity. "Part ofthe reason for having the press conference a couple weeks back was to let peopie know that this was on the horizon," Heisler says. 0 
-
-
-
EE 


-
-
z ­
0 
-
~ 
::;; ll:'. 0 
IL 
~ 
~ 
-
fu .• 
Cl 

A WHOLE NEW BALLGAME Artistic rendering of the new Joyce Center are~a. 
z­
3 NOV2006 
-
-


~he best part of cable in the dorms is on ,NDtv channel 53 
' 
..... 
·._. 


www.nd.edu/~ndtv 
channel-53 
'·•. • 1 


•'................. . 




,.j, ··· · ·· · · · ·· · · · ·!i)Scho/asticHumor 
I 

I 
'.IDOOGOOO DODOO 

· Dillon Hall 
¦ Female student 1: "Howwas Hallowe~?" 
Female student 2: "50 girls wearing lingerie as a· costume looking for a date.'' 
¦ Myboxis sos"/oppy! 

. -female biochemistryteacher ... while drawing on the chalkboard 
• You could do anything in Alumni and not get caught I 
could live in Alumni and not get caught .. _-. overheard female student 
¦ .H4what's your riame? You wanna go home with me? 
· ··-male studentintroducinghimself at Oover Ridge · 
Fifty-SixYea_rs Ago ·­
sometimes you've just got to dance -make awkward, rhythmless snapping motions, thrust yourpelvis outawkwardly, lean backand shimmy as much as your little heart desires. However, as I discovered last weekduring_my philosophy professor's office hours, you can't just dance whenever you want. That's whyit's important to know the Rules ofthe Dance. Examine, ifyouwill, the November 3, 1950 issue ofScholnstic. 
"Thisweek'sjunior dance in the NmJJ barn [..J em­phasizes thefact that agreat many ofour readers need advice on theprobkm ofgoingt:o, beingat, orrecweri.ng from ND dances. The first ruk is very dmpk. Get a girl{..J Getsomegirlwho can'tdance. 1hisrukwilldo mureforyour evening's entertainment than anything else. Ihm, a/1,you have t:o do iscmseyoureyes, getatight, butnut t:oo tight, grip (Jflyourpll'l1:l'leram/.go whirling andst:ompingaroundlike afrenzied dinosaur, bumping int:o as many other couples asyou can. 
So that'swhatlwas doingwrongwith the ladies for all theseyears. Iwasn'ttakingthem andforcibly shoving them into people. 
-Doug Schlamzan 



GJOOLJOOOGJGZJOO 
Somehow, Idoubtthese''women''have actuallytakentheirreligious vows. Especially the vow ofchastity, because the one on the left is wearing a habit that's justalittle too tight. 
3NOV2006 


j ~ . . ' ' .. ' . //. . . . 
_ . _ ([!Scho/asticHumor · · · .. · · · · · · · · · ·. 

c:: 
0 ::E 
::, 
:c 
u 
~ 
::i 
0 
I 
~ 



i,;-············· (i}Scho/asticHumor 
From Dorm Rooms to Board Rooms 
•Mike Healy

Some ofyou reading this might not know what big shots we are here at Scholastic. Sure, you swoon over 
us at parties, let us cram you in lockers, 
and probably want to go to prom with us, 
but at the end of the day, you still think 
we're just a sleepy campus magazine 
that's only been publishing since a feisty 
little man named Andrew Johnson was 
president. Well, naysayers, do I have a 
shock for you: Very recently, a reputable 
publishing institution (Crendall & Rose) 
has sent one of our editors (no, it wasn't me, it was Michael O'Connor, but I stole it from him) a complimentary copy of a book for review. You see, when you are a famous and influential writer (or at least good at stealing from one), people want you to review and talk about their books, since it will make followers such as yourselves think, "Wow! That guy thinks this book is good! I've gotta buy · 
it!" Silly as it may seem, it works. Just ask Oprah. Or me. 
So, that being said, I happen to have come into possession of a copy of Dr. Victoria Pilate's "Dorm Rooms to Board Rooms," a work the good folks over at Crendall & Rose were hoping Scholastic would give the final push it needed to become the next "Goosebumps." As I'm sure you've gathered, this book is basically a compendium of quotes, statistics and apocrypha meant to aid today's young adult in the arduous transition from college life to the real world. When I first looked at "Dorm Rooms to Board Rooms," I assumed it was going to be a laughably naive textbook containing worthless and obvious information that anyone should be able to figure out and would thus be rife with opportunities for pithy comments and sharp zings. 

As such, this column was intended to be a satirical masterpiece, incisively cutting through Pilate's words and lessons like a Ir: o hungry goblin through a maternity ward. , ~ Unfo]:'.tunately; that brilliant idea never 
•0 came to fruition. Pilate's work is nowhere 
~ near stupid enough to deserve such ·: o ridicule and I am nowhere near smart
I:g ~nough to ex~cute it. In honesty, the thing ·~1s prettyall right. The only two segments 

I......... 38 
that had any real comedic value were an unintentionally humo,rous section about when and how it's appropriate to swear in the workplace (complete with examples), and a potentially hilarious section on STDs that the author really screwed up on by not including a single joke (''I took a nice girl to a lobster dinne1; but the only leftovers were these lousy crabs!''). On the whole though, "From the Dorm Room to the Board Room" is a pretty decent book. I wouldn't personally recommend it, since the world has approximately six billion better things to read (This column included. Please?), but it's not bad by any means. 
In any case, even if"Dorm Rooms to Board Rooms" (who lives in the board room anyways? Especially in their first year?) didn't catapult me into a future on The New York Times Book Review, it did kind of get me thinking about next year, and the things I'm goirig to miss about college. Not the stupid things like friends and memories and all that. If I ever get nostalgic for that I can just rent "The Big Chill." I mean the little things you don't even think about. 
For example, I'm going to miss my school email address. Admit it, you like having that little "@nd.edu" at the end of your name. I know I do. It's a little piece of armor, one that says "I'm not just an idiot signing up for a credit card so I can get a free thermos; I'm an idiot signing up for a credit card so I can get a free thermos with a future." Also, I thinkI should point out that ND's Webmail service is second to none. Last year, they put in a [SPAM] blocker that has absolutely changed my life. It filters out all the junk! It's so much easier to have machines determine what's important and what's not. For instance, last week I found out that the [SPAM] blocker had intercepted a September 25th email from a potential employer requesting a second interview but had allowed through an unsolicited message from a nice gentleman named Dario Weiss entitled "Horny wife in action." Not only do I want to thank Webmail for saving me from ajob that it knew just wasn't for me, but I want to· thank Mr. Dario Weiss for alerting me to the fact that somewhere out there, there is a wife; she is horny;. and she is in action. I checked .and it wasn't my wife (thank God), but, like my good friend Dario 


.. I • -' • • ,,,. • • • 
ScholasticHumor (~) ... • • • • • • • • • • • 

Weiss says, better safe than sorry. He also says "Sexy chick taking pee," but I think that might be more of an inside joke. 
Another thing I'm going to miss about college is the abundance of girls. There are cool girls everywhere, and they :rll want to talk to you. Try to screw it up. You can't -don't shower, don't cut your hair, pick your nose (I push this one to the limit) -it doesn't matter, there's still great girls everywhere ready to party. It's like playing basketball against a bunch of 11-year olds -you can take stupid shots, try dumb dribbling tricks you're not really good enough to do, and you're still going to tear through them like a hungry goblin through a maternity ward. (And so concludes yet another paragraph in which I start out talking about something normal and end up talking about 11-year­old boys, goblins and dead babies. Itwon't happen next column, I swear.) 
I'm definitely going to miss daytime drinking. At least, I hope I miss daytime drinking. Ifat this time next year, I don't miss drinking during the day, then this whole "go to pollege and get ajob'' thing won't have worked out for me very well. 
Probably my favorite thing about college, well, school in general, is "Saved by the Bell." No, not the TV show starring Tiffani-Amber Theissen in a rousing, almost Shakespearean turn as Kelly Kapowski. I mean the actual phenomenon. When in the real world will there be an occasion in which you're 

'½.dmit it, you like having that little '@nd.edu' at the end of your name. I know I do. It's a little piece of armor, one that says 'I'm not just an idiot signing up for a credit card so I can get a free thermos."' 
totally unprepared for a meeting, but if you pretend like you're doodling for 75 minutes everything will be roses? It doesn't work in presentations for your job; it doesn't work when your landlord wants to know where the rent is; and believe me it certainly doesn't work when you're going through the drive-thru at Wendy's. 
As much as I complain about it or poke fun, I'm also going to miss stupid fake feuds like dorm rivalries. Sure, they do kind of have a day camp feel, and I've never really participated in them, but I do have an appreciation for the sense 
·of identity and tradition .they can add to the local universe. As I write about it, I'm almost getting a little nostalgic for that kind of irrational attachment to something with no real basis. I'm idealizing brainwashing. I think I'm going to join a militia next year. 
One of the biggest things I'm going to miss is that after this year, when I watch college sports on TV, I'm going to be older than everyone playing (yes, that's right, I'm going to miss something that's in the future). I mean, as stupid as it is, while I'm still in college I can always ding to that little glimmer of hope that somehow I'm going to be spotted by Charlie Weis playing football on the quad and he'll put me on the team and I'll do something glorious. When I'm a grown-up next year, that possibility isn't going to exist, and I hate that. Actually, thinking about it, graduating from college means a lot ofthose embarrassing secret fa_ntasies aren't going to happen. I'll never be a secret agent (though if I were, like I'd be stupid enough to write about it in here), I'm never going to be known as "the wildest man on campus" (well heavens, I hope not), and I'm never going to be able to get people to start calling me "Hollywood." Yes, sadly, it looks like part of growing up means that ifl have a secret fantasy, the only chance I'm going to have ofrealizing it lies with a man named Dario Weiss. 0 


I .
I
!'1 

S!I I 

n 

Jdcleskom ­
, 
co\or your 



JOE 
1 Slings mud 

_ 2 Made poor decisions in college 3 _Loves global warming 4 Wants to raise gas prices 
5 Supports the troops 6 Doesn't support the troops enough 7 Lets anyone into the country 8 Builds a wall around America 
··CHRiiS 
9 Uses Just For Men Brown 10 Is a pretty boy 11 Loves freedom 12 Is probably friends with Saddam 
13 Has no soul 14 Hates babies 15 Kicks the elderly 16 Negative campaigning.? H~ started it 


WHAT ARE YOU DOING TONIGHT? 
MAY WE MAKE ASUGGESTION? 
JEN CHAPIN lllBR & YCilE MDSSBON TOMMY MAKEM AND KENNEDY'S KITCHEN EL GRAN COMBO PAUL ii'AY!!.OR DANCE COMPANY BAYANIHAN PHILIPPINE NATIONAL DANCE COMPANY THE CAPITOL STEPS lil'ZMAf-t PERLMAN IVO POG0RELICH ROYAL DRUMMERS OF BURUNDI MAR ~t O' CONN O fl' S IF UDD lL E CE.LE 1B RAT BON ACOUSTIC AFRICA CARLOS FUENTES/ SAN ANTONIO VOCAL ARTS ENSEMBLE SAVION GLOVER: CLASSICAL SAVION THE VIENNA Cn-BO!R BOYS LONDON PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA CHRIS THH.E AND EDGAR MEYER NEW ORLEANS JAZZ ORCHESTRA CiUNGARIAN SiAYIE lFOU{ IENSEMBLIE JUILLIARD STRING QUARTET PIEIRUVlAN, SC:MMilllT & !3ADIL!E.Y DECADANCE VS. THE FIREBIRD NATAILBE MACMASTER SFJAZZ COLLECTIVE TBE'1JJPO ILBBRE RAVI SHANKAR PARSONS DANCE COMPANY 
HTTP://PERFORMINCiARTS.ND.EDU 
~UNIVERSITY OF
DEBARTOLO 

PERFORMING ARTS CENTER WNOTREDAME 




