Vol. XXL
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 19, 18S7.	- No. ti.
Christian Motherhood.
BY M. M. RICHARDSON.
Empress, by right divine, was she who rose Pale from her couch, and held her boy on high Before her nobles, with a mother’s cry That won, that hour, the wild hearts of her foes. Ay, great; but lighted by the beam that glows Beside thy shrine, great Mother of the sky. There taught that woman’s love and pain can buy The deepest ministry that Nature knows.
Ah, beautiful young face'whose semblance shows On every canvas of Italia’s fame, How myriad-tongued, through centuries, are those Who learned their power only with thy name. A tender strength like even to His who came To lift the dark world from its bonds of shame.
Thomas Chatterton.
In the ancient -city.of Bristol there is a stately and beautiful church, several centuries old, called St. Mary Redcliffe. It may not be true, as the sexton informed me once, that it is “the largest parish church in Englandbut it is of great magnitude and very great beauty, and filled with the most quaint and interesting monuments. There are effigies of knights in armor lying flat upon their backs, with their legs crossed, and their hands joined as if in prayer. There are statues of ancient benefactors of the church, noble painted windows, curious and elaborately decorated chapels, and above many an ancient grave there hang the armor, the sword, the spear, and the banner of the hero who sleeps beneath. Among the objects in this grand old church which arrest the attention of American visitors are the armor and banners of Admiral Sir William Penn, father of the founder of Pennsylvania.	'
In Europe, where they know nothing about rotation in office, or the one term principle, it is. not
uncommon for places in church and state to descend from father to son for many generations. It was so with the sextonship of this church. For two centuries the office of sexton had remained in a family named Chatterton—the incumbent being generally named Thomas Chatterton. In 1748, when sexton John Chatterton died, he was succeeded by his son-in-law, who appears to have held the office only until John Chatterton’s son was old enough to take it.
Thomas Chatterton, father of the wonderful boy poet of the same name, was of this family of sextons, though not himself the heir of the office. Being, however, in the way of church employment, he received the place of singer in the choir of the Bristol Cathedral, and afterward the mastership of a free school. He was a jovial, dissipated man, fond of reading, a composer of music, a writer of convivial songs—one of those good fellows who abound in cathedral towns, the delight of every circle, except that of their own homes, of which they are the blight and the curse. He died in 1752. Three months after his death, his son, Thomas Chatterton, the ill-starred child of genius, was born. His mother, left without property, set up a girls’ school, took in sewing and ornamental needle-work, and in these and other ways supported, in an honorable, frugal manner; her aged mother, her daughter, and this marvellous boy. She was a good, kind woman; but as little able to appreciate or understand her son as a hen to comprehend a soaring falcon which she had hatched from the egg..
At five, he went to the free school at which his father had been master. The teacher soon sent him home as an incorrigible dunce. He could not, or would not learn to read. He was wilful, and objected to reading, as he said, out of a small book. But one day his eye was caught by the decorations of an old sheet of music of his father’s, which his mother was tearing up for waste paper; and, as she used to say, he fell in love with its illuminated capital letters. He now became interested in his letters, and was taught to read from an old blackletter Bible. From this time, reading was his passion. He read from early morning till; bed-time, if they would let him, and nothing pleased him so
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
much as the quaint letters and curious spelling of old books and parchments.
In one of his father’s closets there was a quantity of parchments, ancient deeds, conveyances, and other documents, which his father- had taken from some oaken chests in an upper room of the church. He delighted to copy the old letters, decorations and emblazonments. He would shut himself up, when he was only seven or eight years of age, in his little attic bedroom with a piece of ochre, some charcoal dust, some black lead powder, and there he would remain, hour after hour, copying and imitating the ancient manuscripts, and making drawings in the antique style, issuing at length begrimed and black from his work.
He appeared to pass the whole of his boyhood iff antiquity; for although from seven to fourteen he attended a Bristol charity school as a boarding scholar, yet he spent Saturday afternoons at home, roaming about the old church, musing upon its inscriptions, or else shut up in his garret, composing poems, such as he supposed might have been written three centuries before. It seemed as if the good priest Rowley, and his patron Canynge, and other worthies buried in the old church, were the only real persons with whom he associated. These he loved, revered, believed in; but the citizens of Bristol whom he chanced to know were commonplace mortals, indeed, with whom he jested, and whom he deceived and played upon, as an elderly person may with a child. He amused himself once by making out a long pedigree for a pewterer of his acquaintance, pretending that he found it in the old church; and he frequently produced pieces of antique verse upon parchment, which he said were written by Thomas Rowley, a priest of the city of Bristol in the time of the Roses.
Not a soul suspected that these antique poems could be his own. To show the power of the verse which he wrote when he was a boy of fifteen or sixteen, I will copy a stanza from one of these poems, the spelling of which has been modernized :
“And now the battle closed on every side, And face to face appeared the Knights full brave;
They lilted up their bills with mickle pride.
And many wounds unto the Normans gave. So have 1 seen two weirs at once give ground, White foaming high, to roaring combat run;
In roaring din and heaven-breaking sound, ' Burst waves on waves, and spangle in the sun; And when their might in bursting waves is fled, Like cowards steal along their oozy bed.”
- Chatterton wrote many a finer stanza even than this, when he was a lad of fifteen. There is no trace of the boy nor of the young man in them. There is a maturity, a strength and finish in many of his antique poems, which have never been so much as approached, before or since his time, by so young a person.
' Why, then, should he have chosen to hide his powers in this disguise? Some writers have thought it was a mere whim of genius, a fancy,,a wish to mystify and surprise, such as has induced many authors to write in the style and manner of other days. Others have conjectured that the great sue-
cess of Ossian may have suggested to Chatterton the idea of Thomas Rowley and his ancient poems. The first portion of the Ossian poems appeared in 1760, when Chatterton was a child of seven; and in 1762, when the great .Ossian hit was made by the publication of Fingal, the boy was little more than nine. All the world was talking of Ossian in those years, and nothing is more likely than- that MacPherson’s success led poor Chatterton to the impostures which prevented his recognition.
After leaving school, he was bound apprentice to a Bristol attorney to learn the art of a scrivener. During his apprenticeship, this most gifted boy that ever lived, and one who was almost as proud as he was gifted, was obliged to take h’s meals with the servants and sleep with the foot-boy. His master was a limited, ill-tempered man, who held poetry and literature in savage contempt, and who, if he caught his apprentice writing verses, would tear them up and throw the pieces in his face. One advantage, however, he had in the office of this man: he had plenty of time to pursue his studies, and manufacture his documents.	'
Among his chance acquaintances was a pom-, pous, shallow antiquary named Barrett, who was engaged in writing an elaborate folio history of Bristol. No antiquary was ever more gullible than this one. Cha'.terton supplied him with an abundance of ancient records, descriptions of old churches, castles and crosses, wholly his own composition, but which, he said, he had found in the ancient chests of the church. Barrett incorporated them into his history without questioning, rewarding the boy occasionally with a few shillings. From his tenth year, Chatterton sent poems to a weekly paper in Bristol, and occasionally palmed off upon the editor some antique description, his own composition, of an interesting event in Bristol history. At sixteen, he was a frequent contributor to the London periodical called The. Town and Country Magazine.
The dream of his life was to go to London, get his poems published, and become a great and famous author. As preparatory to this, he wrote to Horace Walpole, author of a work upon painters and painting, offering to supply' him with “several curious manuscripts” relating to ancient Bristol painters, and enclosing a few as specimens. At first Walpole was delighted, and cordially thanked his correspondent. Soon, however, with the aid of some of his literary friends, he discovered that the “curious manuscripts” were manufactured, and refused to have anything further to do with the lad—as was natural. There never lived but one Chatterton, and Walpole cannot be blamed for not understanding at a glance, and at a distance, so strange and difficult an enigma. He ought indeed to have been startled at some of the Rowley poems which Chatterton sent him. He was not insensible to their merit, but his indignation at the attempt upon his credulity closed his- heart against the poet.
To London, however, Chatterton went when he was seventeen years of age,in quest of fame and fortune, full of confidence in himself and in his future.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	163
Boy as he was, he had an appearance of maturity beyond his years. His best and kindest biographer, Dr. Daniel Wilson, of University College, Toronto, describes him as having a proud and frank bearing, a manly presence, an'air of spirit and self-reliance. He wrote home to his mother in the highest spirits, and plunged into literary life with amazing vigor and buoyancy. He wrote essays for the political papers in the style of Junius; he wrote satirical poems and political squibs; he wrote the words of burlettas played at the theatre; he wrote anything and everything that he could sell; holding, however, his Rowley poems in reserve for a time when he could bring them out in becoming style. His habits were perfectly temperate and regular, and when he had an occasional piece of good luck, the first use he made of it was to send home presents for his mother, his sister and his grandmother. He loved his mother dearly, and wanted fame and fortune as much for her sake as his own.
For a few months he lived by his pen, frugally and precariously, it is true, but still he lived. Literary labor then was most meanly compensated indeed. He would get eight pence for writing a song, and a shilling' for a long essay. The only considerable sum he ever received was five guineas for a burletta in verse. He would not go in debt. If he had no money, he starved, and sometimes when he was starving he was too proud to accept a dinner. Even to the last, he was a solvent person; for he had in the offices of magazines accepted articles enough to give him daily bread for some weeks longer, if he could have brought himself to make known his situation. When he had passed two or three days without food, he went to his room and swallowed poison, and he was found the next morning with limbs and features distorted, a frightful corpse. At the time of his death, he was seventeen years and nine months old.
His poems were published some years after, and they yielded a sum of money for the benefit of his sister, who was living in extreme poverty. A monument has been erected to his memory in thechurch-yard of St. Mary Redcliffe. But his best memorial is Dr. Wilson’s work, named above, in which the mystery of his life and genius is interpreted with equal charity and acuteness.
J-P-
Negligence.
(Conclusion.)
Common carriers of passengers are not answerable as insures for the safety of their passengers, as common carriers of goods are. And hence they are liable only for discoverable defects in their conveyances, horses, or appliances, and not for such as could not have been discovered by any degree of intelligence, prudence and skill. • But they are bound to the very highest degree of care and watchfulness, and are answerable for the least negligence and want of forethought, not only in using their conveyances and appliances, but also in determining that they are safe for transportation.
Common carriers are not exempt from liability for negligence, because the passenger does not pay fare. Even in the case of a drover accompanying his cattle on a pass, the terms of which limit the liability of the carrier for injuries done to the holder; the carrier is not relieved from liability for his own or his servant’s negligence. It is otherwise in England, and in the State of New York. The carrier’s liability for injuries caused by his own or his agent’s negligence extends over the entire distance for which he has contracted to carry; and.it matters not whether the destination is reached over connecting lines. Carriers are liable for reasonable damages arising out of their negligence in delivering passengers within reasonable time. For the numerous special regulations respecting the conduct of steamers and sailing vessels, the disregard of which is culpable negligence on the part of the master. Passenger-carriers are considered as common carriers as regards their passengers’ luggage; and they cannot relieve themselves, even by express contract, for damage caused by their own or their servant’s negligence. Steamship companies are an exception to this rule. And the liability for negligence of the owner of a tug-boat to his tow is not that of a common carrier. A common carrier of passengers who occasionally and free of charge receives some luggage for the accommodation of a passenger, is not answerable as a common carrier of goods. He is considered a gratuitous bailee merely.
The liability of an innkeeper for damages arising out of his negligence in regard to his guests’ goods is much the same in character and extent as that of a common carrier. Unless he can prove that the loss or damage arose from the act of God, or the public enemy, and was not attributable to any negligence on his part, he is responsible for the chattels deposited in his inn by any person who is his guest. The goods need not be delivered into the immediate personal custody of the innkeeper to make him responsible. It suffices that they are brought to the inn in the usual manner. The innkeeper is responsible for the negligence of his domestics and servants, as well as for the negligence of his other guests, if the goods are.stolen or lost.	.
The principal is civilly liable to third persons for the negligence of his agent in the course of the agency. He is also liable for the negligence of sub-agents who are retained by his express or implied direction. Also in cases where he controls and directs the mode and manner of doing the __________	-	o work. ..These principles rest on the very reasonable ground that, where one of two innocent persons must suffer through the negligence of an agent or sub-agent, the principal who employs the former, and is accountable for the retention of the latter, should suffer rather than he who neither directly nor indirectly occasioned the loss. •
The liabilities of-agents arising from negligence on their part vary according to the nature of their employment, and the relation in which they stand to their principal. If the agent be one whose profession, employment, or business implies the pos
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
session of certain skill or experience, an omission to exercise that skill and experience will leave him liable in damages for gross negligence. However, when his agency does not imply any particular skill, and he acts gratuitously, he is not answerable if he act bona fide and to the best of his ability. With regard to the liability of agents for negligence in their dealings with third persons, the general rule is that the agent incurs no personal responsibility as long as acting within the scope of authority.
The cases discussing the liability of telegraph companies for negligence are rather conflicting. In many of them telegraph companies have been held to the extraordinary diligence of common carriers. In others they have been held responsible only for gross negligence. The better opinion would seem to be that they are analogous to common carriers, and are bound to more than ordinary care and skill in the transmission of messages. Telegraph companies, though they may limit their liability by special notice to the sender, as in the case of unrepeated messages, can in no manner protect themselves against the consequences of negligence of themselves or agents.
When one person, in managing his real property negligently, causes injuries or damage to another, it is obviously only just that he should be the part}' to suffer. He is bound sic uti suo ut non Iced at alienum. Thus, where a person allows wells or mining shafts to remain on his premises unguarded and unprotected, he must respond in damages to all persons who are injured by falling into them, provided they were not trespassing, and were exercising ordinary care. As regards the right of support of land and buildings, every one has a right to such a degree of lateral support to his own land from the adjoining land as will sustain it in its natural state without being weighted by buildings. It is obvious, therefore, that a neighboring owner cannot excavate his soil on every side to the boundary line to an indefinite depth. If he should make the excavations, and thus cause the adjoining soil to break away, he is responsible for the injury to the land, but not to the building, unless he has acquiesced in the benefit of lateral support from his land to the latter for more than twenty years. As regards houses so built together as to require mutual support,, the owner of the house which is being pulled down is liable to make compensation in damages for the consequences of his negligence in conducting the work.
As regards the negligent management of premises, a distinction must be made between the case of customers, or those who enter the premises in the course of business, on an express or implied invitation of the owner, and of those who enter merely as visitors or bare licensees. In the case of the former, it is a well settled law that liability for damages will attach where there is evidence of negligence on the part of the owner. Mere volunteers, or licensees, or guests, or servants, or persons whose-employment is such that danger may be considered as bargained for, do not come under, this rule. No action can be, maintained by them
unless the accident has been occasioned by the gross and culpable negligence of the occupier.
In one case the plaintiff, while crossing certain premises, which he was permitted to cross, to • reach certain water-closets, accidently fell near a revolving shaft which was placed across the nearest and most convenient way to these water-closets, and which was negligently left partially uncovered. His arm was caught by the shaft, and severely injured. In an action to recover for the injury it • was held that he was a mere licensee; that his right to cross the premises was only the right not to be treated as a trespasser, and that therefore he could not maintain the action.
No general principle can be laid down regarding the responsibility of railroad companies for protecting their tracks by fences. In most states this is regulated by statute. In those where no statute exists, and where by the common law cattle may run at large, the railroad company is only liable for injuries to cattle where it has notice of their presence, and fails in the necessary caution and care to avoid the accident. But the fact that there is no fence at all greatlv influences the degree of care to be employed by the company in running its train.
As regards negligence in the keeping of animals, a distinction must be made between animalsyi;r^ ■ naturae and animals domitce naturae^ or such as are vicious by nature and such as are naturally of a mild disp >sition. The keeper of an animal fierce naturae is liable for any injury it may cause, unless he can disprove negligence. Thus, if a man negligently put a dog in such a situation in the way of access to his house that a person innocently' coming there for a lawful purp »se in the day time may be injured by him, he is liable. But the keeper of animals domitce natures is not liable for the exercise of any dangerous propensities, which are not in accordance with their nature, unless he knew, or ought to have known, of the existence of such dangerous propensities. The gravamen of the action in such a case is not the negligent keeping, but the keeping with knowledge of the dangerous propensity.
Every one is bound to take care that his cattle do not trespass on his neighbor’s land. And he is liable for any trespass thereon, whether he has been guilty of, negligence or not, unless there is a fence between his land and his neighbor’s land, and that fence belongs to his neighbor, and is not kept in good repair by his neighbor; for in that case, though the owner of the cattle is chargeable with a wrong in suffering his cattle to trespass, yet his neighbor has no remedy, because of his own contributory negligence.
The reasonable rule, that the owner of animals must by some means keep them on his land where there is no fence, is in force in most of the states. But local laws and express statutes have in many cases modified or abolished it. In some states the owner of land must enclose it with a specifically described fence before he can sue for injury which was the result of trespasses of cattle upon them. .
Public bodies, such as. municipal corporations, •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	165
county commissioners, supervisors, etc., are liable, like an individual, for injuries occasioned by negligence in discharging their duties. Their duties and liabilities are generally defined by statute, and the extent of their liability must be determined by the terms of the statute which gave them public authority. Thus, where a city negligently had ditches and watercourses cut in such a manner as to wash away the plaintiff’s land, it was held that the city was liable for any consequential damages. And a city was held liable for negligently leaving sidewalks and gaslights in a defective condition. '
The liability to keep highways in repair is in this country determined by statute, and usually devolves upon the towns. Sometimes the duty to keep them in repair may rest on an individual, or on a corporation. For neglect to keep them in repair the towns, or body chargeable, can be indicted as for a nuisance; or can he made liable, in many states, to an action for damages sustained by any person by reason of such neglect. The same principle obtains in the case of turnpikes, bridges, canals and docks.
Although there may have been contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff, yet, unless he might, by the exercise of ordinary care, have avoided the defendant’s negligence, he is entitled to recover; if by ordinary care he might have avoided this, he is author of his own wrung. The mere fact that one person is in the wrong, does not necessarily discharge another from the due observance of proper care toward him, or the duty of so exercising his own rights as not to do him any unnecessary injury. Thus where the defendant, by his careless driving, runs into and injures the plaintiff’s animal, which was wrongfully on the highway with its fore-feet fettered, it was held that the plaintiff could recover. And where an obstruction has been negligently placed in a public thoroughfare by the defendant, and the plaintiff, while riding at an improper pace, or in a state of intoxication, strikes against it, thus injuring himself, he cannot recover damages from the defendant. And the mere fact that a footman crossed a street elsewhere than at the usual crossing is not -per se contributory negligence, which will defeat an action against • another who injures him by recklessly driving or riding against him. And where an engineer of a passenger train might have jumped from his engine when he saw the danger, and thus probably . have avoided much danger, but to save his passengers he remained at his post, and lost his life, it was held that he was'guilty of no contributory, negligence which would release or lessen the emo o
ployer’s liability.
But where the evidence shows that the plaintiff has been guilty of such negligence that the accident would not have occurred without it, he should be non-suited. Thus, it is negligence per se for a traveller to cross a railroad track without first looking and listening for a coming train. And if his view is obstructed, he must listen the more attentively, and if he is riding with bells attached to his sleigh, and does not stop his horse in order to listen, he is guilty of such contributory negligence that no
action can be maintained against the railroad company for any injuries sustained. But when the evidence shows that the plaintiffb -came frightened by the defendant’s misconduct, and in endeavoring to escape the consequence of the defendant’s misconduct, rushed into d mger and was injured, it is held not to be contributory negligence on his part.
The doctrine, that where the negligence of an adult disentitles him to recover for an injury sustained, the like negligence on the part of a parent or custodian of an infant would also prevent the infant from recovering damages, obtains in Massachusetts, New York, and some other states; but it is denied in others. The question of contributory negligence depends on the circumstances of each particular case, and is one of fact for the jury.
The presumption being that every man does his duty, it always devolves on the plaintiff in an action to recover damages arising from the neg'igence of the defendant, to produce evidence of the existence of such negligence. The mere fact that an accident has occurred, is not necessarily of itself evidence of negligence, since its occurrence may be qifte consistent with due care having been taken. There are certain cases, however, in which the presumption of evidence arises from the very happening of the accident. Thus, as a rule, it will be assumed that if a railroad train runs off a track, there is negligence on the part of the company. So a collision between trainsof thesamecompanv would \>&prima facie evidence of negligence, and where a bailee returns in an injured condition an article loaned him", the injury makes out a prima facie case of negligence.	•
P roofs must be produced that the in jury proceeded from,and was cau-ed by, the negligentactof thede-^. fendant; but the causation is not to be tested metaphysically, or by any occult principles of science,but rather as persons of ordinary intelligence apprehend cause and effect, and see one fact proceed fiom another. The amount of evidence necessary to warrant a case’s being brought before a jury varies in many cases. Slight evidence may suffice in some cases to make out a prima facie case of negligence. Thus it was held that the act of shifting brakes, or the stretching or relaxing of couplings of cars at the moment a vehicle passes across the railroad, in obedience to a sign from the brakeman, urging the driver to proceed, is evidence of, negligence on the part of the company’s servant. However, the evidence must exceed a mere scintilla before it is sufficient to give the case to the jury. Cooley, C.J., in 17 Mich., 99, says:
“As a general rule, a question whether a party has been guilty of negligence or not, is one of fact, not of law. Where, however, the plaintiff brings action fora negligent injury, and the action of the two parties must have concurred to produce it. it devolves upon him to show that he was not himself guilty of any negligence; and if he gives no evidence to establish that fact, the court mav pro, erly instruct the jury that they should return a verdict for defendant. Where, however, the question of negligence de? pends upon a disputed state of facts, or where the facts though not disputed, are such that different minds might honestly draw different conclusions from them, the court cannot give such positive instructions, but must.leavejthe
166
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
jury to draw their own conclusions upon the facts, and upon the question of negligence depending upon them. To •warrant the court in any case in instructing the jury that the plaintiff was guilty of negligence, the case must be a very clear one against him, one which would warrant no other inference.”
B. T. Becker.
Electrical Notes.
—The Pope is to, be offered on his birthday a contrivance by the French engineer Arragon, for ringing church bells by electricity. A similar arrangement is in use in a London church, and it is proposed to use the same method for ringing the large bell at Notre Dame University, Indiana.
—The Royal Commission on Accidents in Mines has condemned as unsafe the historical safety lamps of Davy, Clancy, and Stephenson. The House of Commons confirmed the report, and Government inspectors of mines are now advocating and hoping for the immediate and universal introduction of the electric light in coal-mines.
—The curious fact that the usual heat produced by friction is absent when the articles are magnetized is just now being discussed by scientists who are seeking an explanation. Very striking examples are described in alate number of a scientific periodical. A workman fastened a couple of powerful magnets to his lathe to hold more securely a piece of metal which he wished to drill and turn. The presence of the magnets kept the metal so cold that no water was needed to keep the drill moist and cool. This unusual circumstance may lead to important mechanical advantages.
—Mr. C. J. Woodward gives an account of some experiments by which he demonstrated the well-known fact that the combustion of coal gas for illuminating purposes injures the leather bindings of books. Prof. Tilden, of Mason College, thought that in actual experience the injury was much greater than in experiments, because of the rise and -fall alternately of the temperature when the gas was lighted and extinguished. When the gas was lighted a film of moisture containing minute quantities of sulphuric acid was deposited bn the books on the upper shelves;*when,the moisture evaporated the acid remained, and accumulated until it destroyed the books.
—To get an idea of how vigorously electricity is taking hold of the every-day affairs of life, says the Electrical Rcvieiv^ one has but to pay a visit .to the American Institute Fair of i S87. Electric lighting, of course, by dynamos and primary and secondary batteries. Electric motors in abundance, .driving sewing machines, wood-working machinery, fans, blowers and ventilating apparatus, street car propulsion, etc. And all these in no experimental manner, but in a practical, business-like way, as though the various devices had been grinding -away at the same work for years. The new electric welding process is practised regularly, and is particularly interesting.
—A French company has developed a process for electro-plating"delicate organic bodies such as flow
ers and insects. It consists in the employment of an albuminous liquid, with which the different substances in question are treated, to prepare them for metallization. When thus treated, all organic matter is rendered fit to receive a galvanic deposit, and the galvanic products obtained are far superior in fineness and neatness to those obtained by any other known process. Even the finest and most minute fibres and veins, the smallest unevenness of surface, and hairs scarcely visible to the naked eye are clearly discernible, and come out with great neatness, the metallic deposit being of perfectly uniform thickness and adherence.
M. O’D.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The Catholic World for December will contain several articles in prose and verse which have evidently been inspired by the approaching Papal Jubilee. Among them the most interesting will be generally conceded to be Father Hecker’s paper, which is at once characteristically American and profoundly Catholic and Roman.
—The revisers of Webster’s Dictionary say that all words of recent origin which convey distinct ideas and are used by reputable authors w.ill be incorporated in the new edition. “Dude” is one of these words, and one of the revisers savs: “ The word conveys a specific idea expressed by no other word, though it may be hard to give the meaning which the word conveys.”
—The French art schools, supported by the state, are found in every large town, and are open free of charge. That of Toulouse contains nearly one thousand pupils. The Trench schools lay more stress upon the teaching of art as separate from its application to indu-try than the Germans. The French idea is that the workman imbued with good art ideas will naturally use them in his work. Both the Germans and French attach importance to the value of rapidity in drawing, and claim that it fosters in the workmen boldness and originality.
—Lawrence Barrett said recently: “Mr. Booth and I expect to work together for the rest of our lives. The relations existing between us will remain as they are until our labor is over. Having commenced in this way, it is impossible for either Mr. Booth or myself to draw out and return to the old order. So we shall go on. It is the beginning of a movement for the better, and we looj< forward to a work which will be in the line of our own endeavor, and will be.for the good of the stage. It is in a peculiar sense fitting that we should come together for this work. Our careers were begun at nearly the same period, and our aspirations and sympathies are similar. Much of my own inspiration I have drawn from Mr. Booth. I need not say . -what he has done for .the stage.”
—William J. Linton, the wood engraver, has gone to his native country, England, to get out his new book bn the history of wood engraving. At his home near New<Haven, Mr. Linton has a printing press, on which he is continually printing dainty
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
volumes of poetry, much of it original, much of it chosen from sources entirely beyond the reach of ordinary people. The little books are illustrated by Mr. Linton, who engraves the blocks, sets up his type, prints the pages and binds the books. He has printed three copies of his new book; one copy is for his American publisher, one for his English publisher, and one for the British Museum. The book when published will be in every detail precisely like the copv. Not every author knows what his completed and published book will look like before the “copy” goes to his publisher.
—The Jubilee gift of Albert, King of Saxony, which has already been presented to the Holy Father consists of a facsimile reproduction of the celebrated Biblia Pauperum of Constance. We are indebted to the Muniteur de Rome for a fuller account of it than has yet appeared in English. During the Middle Ages the name Biblia Pau-ferum (Bible of the Poor) was given to manuscript editions of the Bible, which contained wood-engravings of all the events in the Old and New Testaments which were either figurative or real descriptions of the principal acts of the life of Our Blessed Lord. Among the most ancient of these manuscripts that have been preserved is the one at Constance, which dates back to the year 1300. And what gives it an exceptional importance, from an artistic point of view, is the fact that its wood-cuts have served as models for all the paintings and designs that adorn the windows and sacred vessels ^of mediaeval churches. In the Constance Bible there are seventeen engravings accompanied with their appropriate Scriptural citations. The work of making the facsimile was entrusted to M. Nieper, who has succeeded in presenting a real masterpiece of art. He has copied faithfully, and reproduced with an exactness which an artist alone could give, the expression of the various figures revealing the grand faith and inspiration of mediaeval art which make it so much superior to modern art, however much the latter may excel in cold mechanical execution. On the first page of the book is a beautifully engrossed dedication to the Holy Father from the King. The frontispiece is an engraving of the arms of Leo XIII supported by angels, and on either side are portraits of their Majesties the King and Queen of Saxony. The binding of the volume, executed after designs made by M. Nieper, ' is in itself a superb*work of art.—Ave Maria.
College Gossip.
—The Hastings family, which has been represented at Harvard in every generation but one for over two hundred years, has given the University $250,000 with which to erect a “Hastings Hall.”
—The “ chestnut” about Dartmouth is said to have the largest circulation of any college paper— 1.100 copies per issue—has started on its annual round. N. B.—Please credit the Scholastic with 1250, and at the same time remember that the
Scholastic appears four, sometimes five times a month.
—tommy’s explav\ti>x	.
“ Who threw that paper wad?” The teacher • ■ Pointed up to the ceiling.
“ Nobody, sir," said honest Tommy, With show of injured feeling;
“ I went to lay it on the stand, And it just slipped out of my hand.”
—Texas Siftings.
—At a meeting of the Board of Trustees, Princeton College, on the 10th, Dr. James McCosh resigned the Presidency of the college. Dr. McCosh said the college had reached the point he had been striving for, and being an old man, he thought he had earned release from work. It is believed his only reason for retiring, which is fixed for next February, is to have a younger man at the head of the institution.
—It is said that the professorship of poetry at Oxford is about to be abolished, or merged in a professorship of English literature, which again may be merged in a professorship of Anglo-Saxon. Mr. Palgrave will be the last of the Mohicans. This calamity, says the London Daily Nevus, would not cause a panic in the markets of Europe, but it may be the occasion for a passing sigh or moan from the student of academic affairs. The professor of poetry has held a singular position at Oxford. -People have attended his lectures! This is so very unusual that he has received but a small salary, and has probably been quite content with the honor and glory of the thing. If he is abolished, and if his humble emoluments are added to the golden stores of yet another professor of English as it was spoken before the English conquest, Oxford will have one more professor with no audience to speak of. This does not much affect the serious affairs of the world—the great mundane movement will go on much as usual.” Yet a decent regret may spare a tear for the professorship of poetry.—Home Journal.	■
—Prince Bismarck is still as obstinate as ever, • says the London Standard, in his refusal to read any German book or document not written in the ordinary “Gothic” characters, and so far every effort has failed to convince him that the introduc- -tion of Latin characters into schools and offices would be a great saving of both time and eyesight. Since, however, it has recently been pointed out and historically proved by Professor Cohn that the “ Gothic ” letters are nothing but an ornamental form of the old Latin used by the monks in the Middle • Ages, the chancellor will perhaps desist from his efforts to keep intact this “unlucky present of the Middle Ages,” as a German scholar calls the present mode of writing in Germany, which can now no longer be supported for patriotic reasons^ The great painter, Albrecht Diirer, agitated for the return to the more simple and mathematical form of writing as long back as 1525; France, Italy, and -Spain, who for a period adopted ‘-1 Gothic ” writing, have long ago gone back to simple Latin characters: and Germany, in this matter by no means agreeing with her great leader, will be only too glad to follow suit. ,	.
168
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 19. 1887.
Terms, S1.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88, P.VD. Brownson ’88, James Burns,’SS, Chas. P. Neill, ’89.
— The Catholic Family Annual for 1888, published by the Catholic Publication Society Co., New York, besides the usual information imparted by year books, contains a great array of articles entertaining and instructive that make it particularly valuable. These articles, though concise, are well written, and present, in a condensed form, a full treatment of the subjects with which they have to deal. The titles of some are as follows: “The Rt. Rev. A. M. Blanchet, First Bishop of Nes-qually”; “ Pere Rouquette”; “Father Champ ignat, Founder of the Society of Little Brothers of Mary”; “Prof. J. W. Kavanagh”; “James A. McMaster”; “A True Woman of the Time— Mother Angela”; “ Rev. Thomas M iguire”; “ Giacomo M irgotti,” etc. The engravings which fill the number are all well executed—truthful as portraits, and elegant as works of art.
In the interesting sketch of the late Mother Angela, the writer has committed an error to which we must call attention. The Ave Maria, the first periodical in the New World devoted to the Mother of God, was founded, May.1865, by Very Rev. Father Sorin—at present Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He was also its first Editor, and for two years Mother Angela was associated with him in the work. In the summer of 1870, her brother, the late Rev. N. H. Gillespie, was named Editor, and retained the position until his death, November 1874.
—The Catholic Union and limes (Buffalo) publishes an interesting communication from a student of the American College at Rome, narrating the circumstances of the visit of the Hon. George Bliss, of New York, to that institution. Mr. Bliss dined with the Rector, Mgr. O’Connell, who, in the course of the repast, arose and announced to the students that they had the honor of entertaining, in the person of Mr. Bliss, one of the noblest ,p itrons of the college. He said that it had been chiefly through the efforts of Mr. Bliss that, the college had been saved from confiscation by the Italian Government, during tho administration of President Arthur. Mr. Bliss replied substantially as follows: “ I think Mgr. O'Connell has done me too much honor, and I fear that, our people on the other side, hearing of this, will think that I am sailing under false colors . I confess that I had sbme-. thing to do with the forementioned affair, which
was about as follows: Archbishop Corrigan was at my house, when the telegram from Cardinal Simeon! came, announcing that the college was to be sold, and calling upon the American Bishops to raise funds to redeem it. The Archbishop and myself, on receiving this intelligence sat down and, as we were wont to say in schoolboy days, put up a job. I telegraphed immediately to Washington, and the following morning went to the capitol, and had an interview with President Arthur, who was my special friend. Three hours later, the cablegram was on its way,’which saved the American College. So you see that it was all owing to the fact that I was in a position where I could get in a good word with men of authority. And so I counsel you,” continued Mr. Bliss with a smile, “ to always keep on the right side of men of authority.”
Letter from Very Rev. Father General.
The following letter, written to Very Rev. Provincial Corby, C. S. C., will be read with great interest by all at Notre Dame and tne many friends of Very Rev. Father Sorin everywhere. In it the venerable Founder announces his approaching departure on a tour through the Holy Land, so that his return will probably be delayed until the Spring of next year. In the meantime, the good wishes and prayers of the students and his spiritual children will be with him that the happiest results may attend his voyage; while preparations will be made for the fitting celebration of his own Golden Jubilee next June:	’
Rome, October 30, 1SS7.
Very Rev. Dear Father:
On my arrival here on Thursday morning I found a number of packages of letters, and even of cablegrams (one in particular from yourself), to which it was evidently impossible to send individual acknowledgments, as 1 would have felt only toi happy to do if L had simply listened to the promptings of my heart’; for [ can never-remain indifferent to such proofs of sincere affection. Age may weaken our physical strength, but the heart gains, it seems, in vitality as the body loses in vigor and energy. This morning another foreign mail, as interesting as copious, with the Scholas ric of the 15th inst, was handed to me by a joyful carrier, whose graceful Italian smile clearly revealed he had under stood what a gratification he brought me, in this precious American bundle, f thanked him in a manner that left him n > doubt that he was not mistaken. The very sight of so many dear handwritings had made me cheerr ful. But the opening and reading of the whole made me happy! But I have to apologize for want of time in this new case, as in the first one if I do not reply to every one of my very kin 1 correspondents. I trust they will excuse me. Since I commenced this letter I went to St Paul’s new Ba-ilica, now very nearly lini-hed, and there prayed awhile, for all who wrote me such beautiful festal epistles. I may seem to forget my friends; but in point of fact, when the feelings of my heart have been once elicited by merit and virtue, they will remain unchanged to the last moment of my life.	,
I have been’visiting already several of their Eminences and other Ecclesiastical dignitaries from-whom I never before received a more gracious welcome. At the Sacred Congregation of the Propaganda, in particular, 1 was most agreeably edified by the clear evidences of the exceptional interest they take in the growth of the Congregation in America. They are delighted to see our schools so remark- . • ably blessed and so promising for the good of the Church,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
When I mentioned there my intention to visit the Holy Land, while waiting Tor the celebration of the Sacerdo'ul Jubilee of His Holiness, [ was complimented and spontaneously ollcred a h ill* fare for the party to Jatfi and return. I thank. God with ail my heart for granting me finally a favor for which I .have been praying during forty years. To-morrow morning I will telegraph Father Zahm to come stibifo, that we may stirt for Jeru-alem in fifteen or twenty days. In case my cablegram should have failed to reach Notre Dame, pray, lose no time in sending him to me here. I wish to say Mass at Bethlehem on the 25th of December. Oh! what a delightful privilege in prospect! What a joy to bring in my heart all I love on earth to the cradle where the Divine Child was adored bv Mary and Joseph! Please to send the list of the names.of every living soul at Notre Dame, St. Mary’s, etc. to the Fianciscan Convent in Jerusalem. The mail is closing.
Your devoted,
E. Sorin, C. S. C.
Will Shakspeare down Bacon?
Glancing over the papers of late, one cannot but perceive that every editor of note has had his say concerning Mr, Donnelly’s new brand of Bacon,the first lot of which has been sold at $1.50 per piece under the trade mark of William Shakspeare. We feel that our position among eminent litterateurs requires us to pass judgment upon the controver.-y, and we are confident of our ability to do so, having read Mr. Pope’s opinion of Bacon, and having often declaimed to spell-bound audiences William’s “ To be, or not to be.” It is our firm conviction that William wrote this very article in anticipation of just such an argument as Mr. Donnelly has given rise to. We have carefully examined the cryptogram to which Mr. Donnelly frequently refers, and we have discovered that in its intricate meanderings it closely resembles the toothsome pretzel; and from its having existed so long without becoming stale we infer, by induction, that, like the aforesaid dainty, its principal ingredient is salt. Relying on this fact, a large sale of cryptograms to leading brewers is confidently expected. A glance at the habits and resorts of Shakspeare clearly demonstrates that he had more use for pretzels than Bacon. Again, by induction, we conclude that Shakspeare would have been more likely to use cryptograms than Bacon.
We attach no weight to the argument that Shakspeare’s time was so preoccupied with poaching- that he had no leisure for scribbling. We have known college Freshmen who have spent considerable time poaching eggs and other property, who, however, managed to take the cake and principal prizes on Field Day. And it is generally claimed by the “Fresh” that more time is consumed in preparing for Field Day than writing Shakspearean plays. If we grant that want of time is an argument against Shakspeare, we must maintain that it holds good to a greater extent against Bacon; for William required less time to attend to his poaching duties than Bacon did to grease his accounts in order*.that they might slide through the inspection of Her Majesty’s accountant —as Canada, you know, was in the Queen’s do-jninions. Poaching and similar eccentricities are
the trade mark of poetic geniuses; whilst defalcations are common only to philosophers and cashiers. At least this was the case in Bacon’s time. This fact prevents any possibility of considering the latter as a poet.	•.
Bacon, as we know, was wont to hobnob with Royalty, and the language found in some of these great plays could not possibly have been the language of a courtier. No; such plain and forcible English could only have dropped from the pen of one who chummed with Ben Jonson whilst Ben was minus his learned sack.	'
Moreover, when a poet in the flush (see Hoyle) of manhood acquires riches, rank and conceit, his poetry begins to decline. If Bacon had been writing these plays, they would have fallen to the level of Tennyson’s Jubilee Ode, whereas the last of Shakspeare’s plays are the best. Furthermore, the author of the plays was evidently a versatile genius. Now,William was well versed in the versatile genius act, as he testified by his equal ability to showscenes, play the big drum or MacDufF, poach, desert his better half, consume Dublin stout and chew cryptograms.
But while we cannot agree with Mr. Donnelly’s theories, we must admit that the book possesses a handsome binding and a plot well calculated to shake William from his peerless throne. Mr. Donnelly is evidently trying to make a hog out of Bacon, but we ardently hope that the lovers of fair play and ham will see that Shakspeare does not receive injustice or too much bacon.
Correspondence.
Richardson, Utah.
To the Editor:
Where you enter Utah from Colorado west of Grand Junction on the D. & R. G. Western, the surroundings are desolate in the extreme. On the prairies east of Denver, if the landscape is monotonous, the wild vegetation gives some relief to the eye. But on this interior plateau you view a veritable desert of alkali and white “doby.” Slowly as the light of morning grows stronger, you see the outlines of the Roan, or Book clifls, then far to the southeast a wavering line of peaks, seeming to turn and alter their position every, moment, as the cars hasten toward Salt Lake. This is the Sierra La Sal, and between you and the mountains are some twenty-five miles of dreary plain and the red walls washed by Grand River. .
Between the mountains and river lie valleys so favored by climate, so rich, in soil, and so endowed with beautiful scenery, that.only the almost impassible barriers of nature have kept them from the search of the western home builder.
One Mormon settlement, that of Moab, has been formed for some seven years in Little Grand Valley; but two years ago the first settler of this valley was obliged to hire a guide and horses and proceed after the manner of an explorer. Cisco and Thompson’s on the D. & R. G. Western are the nearest
Ifo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
railway stations. From Cisco a man may make his way down the river by boat or trail, but this is not always easy' at present. The most common j course is to leave the railroad at Thompson’s and then ^o to Moab, from there wind around and up into Little Castle Valley. By wagon, during four months in the rear, it is possible to come from Montrose through Paradox Valley. There is another trail from Grand Junction, but which is sometimes dangerous, owing to high water.
The river is full of fi-h and the mountains abound with deer, while the long, open winters permit a man to work in comfort at times when others are freezing feet and fingers in the biting weather of the North. At the same time utter solitude has been the lot of the first settlers. Within the last week heavy rains have fallen, which serve two purposes: to stop the dry winds, which in spite of irrigation injure growing plants, and to start winter feed for the immense herds of cattle that have been suffering of late for green herbage.
Seven months without frost is the usual season, and snow does not fall two inches deep in winter, never lying more than a day or two; spring work begins in February. Salt springs abound, and large beds of anthracite coal have been found in Fisher Valiev: gold is washed on the river,and other mines V * o
worked on the mountain. There are recent reports of more valuable discoveries, of which I shall say nothing until better informed.
The summer heat, while very intense, so great as to scorch the hoofs of animals on the bare rocky trails, is mitigated by cool nights, and breezes from the river or mountains. The high lands within a day’s ride, furnish a place of refuge in summer time. Here the rich green of another climate greets you, the rushing waters, the pines, the thick grass and wild flowers that delight on moisture. Utah is wonderful for her neglected loveliness. Where other places are advertised, with far less charms throughout the continent, Utah, with a rare combination of beauties, lies apart like an unknown land. Her resources are vast and as yet but slightly developed. The Mormon settlers have done much with agriculture, and are to-day the best farmers in the Territory; but little has yet been done in other directions. Utah is pre-eminently formed for homes. Her land possesses more than a speculative value. It is good to live on, yielding generously of fruit and wine and corn.
Some years ago certain prominent and public-spirited citizens of Salt Lake sent to Denver a magnificent display of Utah minerals. But in minerals Colorado is not easily astonished, owning to her own great plenty. If a similar collection of agricultural products could be made, Denver ’would open her eyes. From the grapes and melons of the south to the berries and grains of- the riot th, Utah can manifest a diversity of riches that can hardly be equalled in the West, this side of California. And, for the scenery, lake, river, mountain, and desert, fertile gardens, and barren crags, a world of contrast, of novelty and interest! A population that is not without faults, but is still invested with legendary romance and individuality,
slowly awakening, as it is, to the possibility of a newer life and a wider field for its young energy. For to-day Utah, Mormon and Gentile, is in the current of change that is moving over the world. At another time I shall speak more at length on the subject, and till then I remain respectfully,
M. M. R.
Personal.
—Alex. Gordon (Com’l), ’S6, is in a flourishing business at Elkhart, Indiana.
—Geo. F. O'Kane (Com’l), ’87, of Cincinnati, Ohio, is on a pleasant visit to the University. He is gladly welcomed by many friends.
—Major H. F. Brownson, of Detroit, passed a few days at the College during the week on a visit to his son Philip, of the Senior department.
—Students of ’70 will be pleased to learn that at the election for city officers held at Nashville, Tenn., Nov. 10, two former Notre Dame boys were chosen to fill two of the most prominent offices, Mr.P. J. Flanigan being elected City Comptroller, and Mr. P. M. Tomble, City Treasurer. Mr. Ferdinand Kuhn, of ’81, has for some time been City Clerk of Nashville. Mr. Flanigan is a step-brother of James Dougherty, of the Senior department.^
—Prof. Hoynes was recently called to Chicago as an attorney in the case of Farrell vs. the City of Chicago and the Chicago & Alton-RR. Co.’ The trial of the case, which began Thursday of last week, in the Superior Court, Judge Gary presiding, was finished Monday afternoon. The Professor, together with the Hon. John Gibbons, of Chicago, appeared for the plaintiff, who was easily successful, the jurv returning a verdict in his favor for the sum of $4,000. It is a remarkable fact that Prof. Hoynes has never been on the losing side in any trial in which he has taken part in any court of record.
—Among the many7 visitors during the week were: J.W. Jackson, Denver, Col.; G.W. Barham, Granger, Ind.; the Misses C. and L. Lusk, Battle Creek, Mich.; B. F. Horn, Idaho; E. C. Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio; Miss C. St. Clair, Mrs. V. Reis, J. F. Richter, T. Duggan, P. Smith, R. M. Hinds, Mrs. E. T. Kaye, H. Dench% Mrs. W. C. Walsh, M. M. Elkin, B. Goldman, Mrs. J. A. Smith, Mrs. M. B. Trainor, Wm. Leitch, James Walsh, Chicago, 111.; Miss N. Stephens, Morcuce, Mich.; Mrs. F. Towsend, Dowagiac, Mich.; S. Sharpe, Benton Harbor, Mich.; Mrs. C. A. Roberts, Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Reithman, P. Frain, Denver, Col.; S. Tudor, Berrien Springs, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. A. Ford, Chariott, Mich.; Mrs. A. L. Thorp, Mrs. D. Lovense, Mrs. A. Roper, Mrs. E. Jernegan, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mrs. C. W. Thorp, Michigan; Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Dukes, Mrs. Geo. Douglass, Winamac, Ind.; J. Oaks, Morris, Ilk; .Mrs. Judge P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Jno. J. Murphy and daughter, H. C. Murphy, Woodstock, Ill.; Dr. E. C. Dunn, Rockford, Ill.; Mrs. P. Fairbanks,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 171
Mrs. A. Baker, Kankee, Ill.; Mrs. L. Jaquith and daughter, Wright’s Corners, Ind.; Major Brownson, Detroit, Mich.; Geo. O'Kane, E. C. Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio; Miss C. R. Dustman, Elkhart, Ind.; Messrs. T. J. and AV. A. Meiser, Buchanan, Mich.; Miss C. Minnig, Roylston, Mich.; Air. and Airs. J. N. Carlile, Jno. Shield*, Pueblo, Col.; Aliss B. Keeney, Crawfordsville, Ind.; A. S. Hughes, Denver, Col.
'—The following, from the Chicago Citizen of the 5th in*t., referring to former students of Notre Dame, will be read with interest by their many friends here and elsewhere:
The Three Friends.
[Metrical translation of “Finn's" Gczlic ^ocm of last weeA]
I.
I ish to raise a song of praise
To loyal comrades three;
Dwelling beside Michigan's tide
In Chicago’s famed ci'ie:
One heals the souls of sinful men, The second swears by pills. And the other deals in medicine
That rarely ever kills.
11.
There’s Father Tim O’Sullivan,
\Vi*h forehead high and bald, -And Doctor Patrick Curran
By classic lore enthralled,
And Fitzgibbon, of the Galtees blue, Who dearly loves the Green— A rebel true as the mountain dew That flows in Ballyporeen.
in.
' ’Tis comfort on a winter night To see them by the fire— ' Erin's story of gloom and glory— Their noblest thoughts inspire: In the olden tongue their mothers sung For Ireland's dawn they pray.
Doctor, and Priest, and Separatist*— Three leaves of shamrock spray.
IV.
For purple or for linen fine These worthies little care, No diamonds on their bosoms shine And careless is their air;
For manly truth and learning wide Their equals can’t be found.
From St Lawr ertce’/S side to Frisco’s tide, Or on Ireland's holy ground.
V.
Had they gone to school with Finn McCoul, That Fenian leader brave,
Each of the three a king would be,
Yet never rule a slave:
For honor guards their chivalry, And Freedom is their creed, And for the poor man’s liberty Each heart would bravely bleed.
VI.
Oh, often’neath their rafter,	/
In the city by the lake,	’
I’ve split my sides with laughter, And did many a cruiskecn take;
_	. May glory, wealth and jollity
Their footsteps still pursue And Ireland know, through weal or woe, Full many as bold and true!
* Mr. John J. Fitzgibbon is President of the Total Separation Society,	.
Local Items. *
—Retreat.	-
—Toothache!	-
— 118 Minims.	*
—Thanksgiving!
—Who plays the accordeon?
—Only five weeks to Christmas.	■
—The retreat begins December 5.
—Brady will lead the football team.
—Next Tuesday is St. Cecilia’s Day.
—Next Thursday is Thanksgiving Day.
—Prof. S. Al. Sperdon next Friday evening.
—Our local Nimrod had bad luck Thursday.
—The tower on the Alusic Hall nears completion.	'
—“Joe’s ” reminder of childhood’s happy days is teething.
—The absence of the marines was remarkable, to say the least. ” •
—The author of “Stroke, stroke, stroke!” has been discovered.	.
—No one should fail to attend the first lecture of the new series.	„
—The imperial beard is now much affected by the military officers.	'
—They were pretty smooth, but they were caught all the same.
—There seems to be always room for one more in the Senior study-hall.
—A new walk will be laid from the 'Junior study-hall to the church.
—The members of the Staff are all “ablebodied” men. Verbum saf I	-
—The photographs of the boat crews are much admired by the local connoisseurs.	-	-
—The monthly competitions have delighted the hearts of the students during the week.
—Prof. J..A. Lyons will entertain the members of the St. Cecilia Society next Tuesday.
—The Boat Club pictures have arrived, and will soon be placed on exhibition in the Alusic Hall.
—It is somewhat provoking to the “ rec ” loving student to have Thanksgiving Day come on Thursday.	.
—Large lithographs have been posted around the University grounds announcing the first lecture of the season.	’	'
—Hand painted neckties are now much affected by the brainless dude. We hope they will not become the style at Notre Dame.
—The fence separating the Junior and Senior campuses has been torn down. ; It adds much to the appearance of the grounds.	'
—Judging fro® the earnest and cheerful way in which the Band blows out symphonies, we will . have some pleasant band music this year. ■
—“Sport” is of the .opinion, that his anglified1

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ateral appendages are destined to revolutionize the prevailing styles in the art of beard-raising.
_____The surviving members of last year’s Radiator Art Circle have made several attempts at reorganization, but were obliged, through lack of steam, to desist.
_____The handsome' painting which adorns the Tailoring Establishment is said to be a representation of three Juniors attired in the latest and most becoming style.	.
_____The many friends of Prof. Hoynes will be glad to hear of his recent legal victory in Chicago in which he was pitted against some of the best attorneys of the city.
—Last Saturday was the feast day of Rev. M. J. Regan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline. The “G; ads.” return thanks for the choice cake sent to them in honor of the occasion.
—Students should not forget the necessity of bodily exercise. The gymnasiums are full of apparatus, and are far more conducive to good health than the smoking-room.
—The new football rules were tried for the first time last Thursday. Some difficulty was experienced, owing to the players not having familiarized themselves with the rules.
—Some venturesome roomers have decided to glide over the frozen surface of the lakes this winter on ye festive ice yacht. They hope to lower the record of the last boat race.
—The Thespians now have Shaksperean readings at their-weekly meetings. At the last meeting Messrs. Stubbs and Houck recited some good selections in a masterly manner.
—Those who would defile their mouths by the filthy habit of “chewing the weed ”should remember that only two creatures use tobacco in that-way: Man and the tobacco worm.
—We hope that the Thanksgiving turkeys, now being pastured near the shoe shop and preparing, as Burdette says, for “ the necks twirled,” will not be allowed near the pile of scrap .leather.
—We would remind those who are - prone to occasionally manifest levity in church that such conduct is unbecoming and out of place. The church is a place of worship, and in it we should conduct ourselves with respect.
-—At the last meeting of the Pansopbical Conversational Society, a determined move was made to put the Treasurer under bonds. While he may not love honesty less, it is feared that when the “store” is open he will love pie more.
—Prof. Spedon is; a young man of talent, an interesting speaker, skilled artist and clever mimic. In drawing crayon sketches and humorous cartoons before an audience he has few superiors. He will appear before the students in Washington Hall
.. next Friday.	.
—The-new portico over the entrance to the clothes-room supplies a “ long felt want.” Its graceful design and ornamental finish add so greatly to the.exterior appearance of the building that-the'
only wonder is that the improvement was not thought of sooner.
—The long looked-for cement walks between o	•
the College and the Presbytery were partly laid during the week. As expected, they are, as far as they go, both ornamental and useful—things of beauty, etc. We hope the weather will continue favorable enough to permit their speedy completion.
— The Debating Society of the Law Department held a very interesting meeting Wednesday evening, and discussed the benefits which would arise from total separation of England and Ireland. The debate was exciting, and the speakers showed themselves well versed with the situation existing in Great Britain.
—The University of Michigan Football team is expected here next Wednesday to play a match game of football with the Notre Dame Association. W. Harless and G. De Haven, former students of this place, are leading members of the visiting organization. The Michigan University team holds the college championship of the West.
—A man who buttonholes a fellow-creature and, for an hour and a half, deliberately pours into his tortured ear every possible kind of wearisome information regarding the science of baseball, not omitting, of course, an exhaustive history of his own remarkable exploits on the diamond, is worthy of the most barbaric torments which have ever been devised.
—The recent improvements made in St. Edward’s Hall have caused quite a transformation in that building. By the addition of new lavatories, class rooms, dormitories, etc., at least 150 Minims can now be accommodated. The recreation hall and reading room have been greatly enlarged, and the princes rejoice in the possession of a new armory, “store,” and baseball parlor.
—On the evening of Tuesday next, the festival of St. Cecilia, the members of the Euglossian and St. Cecilia Associations will unite in an entertainment in honor of the day. The exercises will be literary, musical and dramatic in character,concluding with the presentation of “The Proscribed Heir —a Melo-drama.”J The Oration of the Day will be delivered by Mr. T. O’Regan. It is expected that the music on the occasion will be of a high order of excellence.
—The University lecture course for the ensuing season will be inaugurated next Friday, Nov. 25, by Prof. S. M. Spedon. Efforts will be made to have the present course prove entertaining and instructive to all. If the students will cheerfully cooperate with the committee, this can easily be effected. The price of admission is very low and only calculated to defray expenses. It is expected that by the end of the season some of the best attractions in the country will be . secured for Notre Dame.	;	. ,
—In accordance with a time-honored custom, the members;of the Staff, together with Fathers Regan and Morrissey, gathered in the J unior refectory
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

last Tuesday evening to partake of the annual Staff banquet. The board was graced with turkey and all the delicacies of the season, and the manner in which they vanished was a sight to behold. The Staff members return thanks for the spread, and hope by their efforts to make the Scholastic what it ought to he—a paper fittingly representative of our Alma Mater.
—The case of Donelson vs. the State occupied the attention of the University Supreme Court last Saturday evening. It was a case brought up on an appeal from the lower Court, and called into question the Constitutionality of an act passed by the Indiana State Legislature. Messrs. Stubbs and Kell v argued the case for the appellant and Messrs. Griffin and Pollock appeared for the appellee. Judge Hoynes spoke at some length in delivering the opinion of the Court, and fully explained the Law bearing on the case. The judgment of the lower court was affirmed with costs.
—The Scholastic publishes the Latin text of the address of the Catholic Total Abstinence Societies of the United States to tie Poo.*, on the occasion of his Jubilee, accompanied with a translation for English rea lers. The copy for transmission is printed on white satin in blue and gold, and illuminated by Prof. Gregori. How can Latin be called a “dead language,” while we have it employed in its classical purity, in the discussion of modern events and ideas? And, by the way, the Latin student would learn the language much easier, faster, and better, if he could study it in the narration of present occurrences.—Ypsilanti Sentinel.
—Among the visitors at Notre Dame last Sunday was John J. Murphy, Esq., of Woodstock, Ill. Mr. Murphy is regarded as one of the most intelligent and enterprising business men and bankers in the Northwest. Very seldom does one meet in the busy marts of trade a gentleman so well informed, so deeply interested in the advancement of education, so amiable and kind of heart, and so conscientiously upright in all re-pects as Mr. Murphy is. He was accompanied by his son Henry, 'whom he intends to have enter the University as a student next year. Miss M. F. Murphy, his daughter, and Miss Estelle Horn, bright and accomplished pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, also accompanied him.
—The Carnoy Microscopical Society held its first meeting of this scholastic year on Thursday evening for the renewal of lastyear’s pi oceedings by active resident members. F. Long and H. Rothert were voted to the honorary list in accordance with constitutional requirements. Wm. McPhee was elected to membership. Communications made to the society at its last meeting are under consideration for publication, and.subjects for investigation and donation at the next societv meeting are given. __	o o „ The society did good practical xyork last year, and may rightly pride itself on accomplishing its end— the-furtherance of biological knowledge amongst its members—and'on being the only active society in the house whose facta non verba counts.
—The Columbian Society held its sixth regular meeting last Saturday evening. The meeting was called to order by the President, Father Morrissey, and the regular business attended to. The program of the evening consisted of selections and an interesting debate. Tne selections were aptly cho-en, and ably given by Messrs. Joyce and White. The debate is the same argument wrestled with at the preceding meeting, when neither side was able to score a throw. The affirmative was upheld by Messrs. Hull, Meagher and Jewett,- the negative by Messrs. Fisher and Prudhomme, who, their fellow-worker, Mr. O’Regan, being unavoidably absent, were well compensated by the favor of a short address from Father Morrissey in their be-h df. A decision was rendered in. favor of the affirmative, the Judges being out but a few minutes. A criticism of the preceding meeting was given by Mr. W. L irkin. The Columbian Society is now well started upon its year’s work. In the course of the meetings held, many of its members have “been up,” an J from the shewing we m >y with confidence look forward to their appearance, and expect the C dumbians to be this year, as in previous years, one of the first societies in the college.
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall: Gold embroidered mitre owned by Rt. Rev. Augustine Verot, first Bishop of St. Augustine, Florida; seventy-two page manuscript in the handwriting of Bishop Verot; Catholic Miscellany, Vol. IV, Charleston, 1825, presented by Rt. Rev. Bishop Moore. Lock of Bishop Verot’s hair; photograph of Bishop Verot and a letter written by him in reference to the school question,presented by Mother Lazarus. Fifty-five letters written by American prelates; thirty-two letters written to and by several western missionaries; box of historical documents relating to the Rocky Mountain Missions; Indian book, given to Mrs. J. Chambers by Rev. Father de Smet, S. J.; Indian Catechism for the Dakotahs, presented by Rev. Father Rosen. Eleven letters written by American prelates, presented by Mr. P. Nolan. “ History of the Catholic Church in Iowa, Part I,” presented by the author, Rev. John F. Kempker. “History of the Church in Northern Ohio,” presented by the author, Rev. G. F. Houck. Travelling case, with red morocco mitre box containing -pontificalia supposed to have been owned by Bishop Egan, presented by a friend. “ The Present State of the Catholic Mission Conducted by the Ex-Jesuits in North America,” by the Rev. Patrick Smyth, Dublin, 17S8 (relates especially to Pennsylvania and Maryland); a collection of old Catholic papers, magazines and pamphlets, presented by J. B.
—The Total Abstinence Societv.—This society, which, ever since its formation, has ranked among the very best in the University, not only as regards numbers, but more especially with reference to quality, was reorganized on last Sunday evening. Previous to its reorganization,Rev. President Walsh addressed to the students a few but forcible remarks on the alarming strides which intemper
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
ance has taken in these latter days; the wholesale ruin and devastation which it has everywhere wrought; the necessity for noble examples of selfsacrifice bv those who, realizing the destructiveness of the plague, deplore the evils it has brought and is still bringing on the human race; and, finally, the beneficial effects produced in both soul and body by total abstinence. The words of the Rev. speaker were listened to with rapt attention, which was no doubt heightened by the reflection that he had been but recently honored for his unswerving devotion to the noble cause, by being unanimously elected to the Vice-Presidency of the National Union. At the conclusion of his remarks, those who desired to take the pledge and become members were invited to the society room. Here, after the usual preliminary explanations,.the pledge was duly administered to all, after which the real organ-ization'of the society was effected. The following officers were elected: Director, Rev. President Walsh; President, T. O’Regan; Vice-President, J. A. Burns; Corresponding Secretary, J. Heinemann; Recording Secretary, P. Burke; Treasurer, F. E. Henderson. The members of the society are determined to make it at least as fruitful, if not more so, in good results as it has been during years past. The membership at present, it is true, is not as large as it may have been at various times since the society was first organized; but if zeal and earnest work count for anything, it is safe to predict that the Total Abstinence Society for 1887—88 will be inferior to not even the palmiest of its predecessors.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Albright. Beckman, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Barnes. Beckwith, Bronson, Barnard, Blessington. J. Burns, Bush, Brownson, Becker, Britt, Baca, E Burns. Boldrick, Cosgrove, Campbell, E. Clarke, J. Cassidy, M. Cassidy, Chacon, Cusack. Crill, Carlier, Chute, T.-Coady, E. Coady, D. Donohue, Dempsey, Desimoni. Dore, Dulaney, Francka, Fi'zharris, Finckh, Fenton, Fehr, Fink, Goebel, Gallardo, Giesler. Gibbs, Gilmartin, Henderson, Heinemann, M. Howard, Hummer, Hughes, Houck, Jennings. Joyce, Jacobs, J. Kellv, Keating, Kerwin, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Leonard, Lappin, Luhn, A. Longmire, W. McDermott, Metzer, Mul-kern, L.Meagher, McDermott, Mackey, Munroe, Maloney, McAllister, McCart, Mack, McAuliffe, McCune, Andrew N choll, Alfred Nicholl, Norton. O’Hara, O’Regan, O’Shea, Plato, Paschel, P. Prudhomme, Prichard, Preston, Roper, Rochford, Reynolds, Rothert, Rudd, Raiebsamen, Reedy, Stubbs, Scholfield, Sullivan, Schang, Siephenson, Suing, Sawkins, Spencer, H. Smith, M. Smith, Tiernan, Tivnen, Velasco, Webb, Wall, Woods, Welch, White, Wilkin.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Anfenger, Allen, Berry, Bombeck, Bronson, Boyd, ’ Back rack, Beaudry, Bolderick, . Blake, Burger, Benner, Brannick, Brown, Brady, Cunningham : Cauthorn, Campbell, Carelton, Cooney, J. Connors, Carroll, Case, Coad, Chacon, F. Connors, Cavanagh Cooke, W. Cartier, < onnelly, Chute, J/Doherty, J. S. Doherty Delaney, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Devine,.Darragh, Elder, • Falvey, Fleming, F. Flynn, Freeman, Frei, Galbreth, Graham, T. Greene, J. Greene, Gale, Gonzales, Girten, Garrity,
Houlihan, Henry, Henderson, Hoffman, Hagen, Howard, R. Healy, P. Healv, Heiler. Hall, Hampton. Hackett, Hartman, Hughes, Hake, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Johnson, Jewett, Johns, Jackson, Josselyn, Kinsella, Kutsche, Kellner, Kehoe. Lane, Lahey, Leona d, Moncada. Monaghan, Merkle, W. Martin, Munroe, McGuire. McMahon, McNulty, John McIntosh, James Mclnto-h, McGurk, W. Malku, McIvers, McPhee, Miner. McGrath. Mulqueen, McKenzie. McCartney. Neef, O’Neill, O’Hearn. G. O’Brien, W. O’Brien, O'Donnell, M. O’Kane, B. O'Kane, Oaks, Priestly, Paquette, Powers, Pritchard, Pecheux, F. Peck, J. Peck, Plan, Quinlan, Roth, Rierdon, Reinhard, Ryan, I. Rose, S. Rose, Ramsey, Rowsey, Reidinger, C. Schillo, Stephens, R. .-spalding, Shenk. Senn, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Schloss, Silver, Simpson, C. Spalding. Talbot. Tewkesbury, Thome, Wood, Wile, Wageman, Wade, Welch, W. Walsh, Wright.	’
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	‘
Masters Ackerman, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, A. Back-rack. Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour. G. Black, L. Black, Beerman. Boettcher, Bites. Burns Bradlev, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Connelly, Cummings, Carlile, Cudahy, Crane, Durand. J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, Jas. Dungan. Davidson, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench, C. Franche, Flannery. E. Falvey, Grant, Goldmann, Griffin, Greene, Hind-, Hagus, Healy, Halthusen, Jennings, Jaramdlo, Johns, Kerwin, V. Kehoe, Khmer, Koe-ter, Keefe, Kinsella, Kane, Kaye, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Moonev, Marx, Morgen week, Maternes, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plauntz, Parker, Quill, Rogers, Ricks cker, Sweet, Savage, Seerey, F Smith, E. Smith, Stone, Stephens, Speir, Tomkins, J. Toolen, F. Toolen, Taft, Trujillo, Thornton, Welch. W. Walsh, Wit-kowsky, Wilson, Willien, W. Welkin, E. Welkin, Young, Zieman.
Class Honors. .
[In the following list will be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
P. Brownson, G. Craig J Burns,- C. Stubbs, E. Ewing, M. Mulkern, G. Houck, T. Goebel, P. Burke, L. Chute, A. Finckh, R. Newton, V. Morrison. A. Larkin, C. Spencer, H. Prichard, H. Langan, C. O’Hara, R. Nations, W. Larkin, J. Mackey, W. Rochford, J. McDermott, M. Howard, E. Prudhomme, H. Jewett, E. Chacon, H. Hull, G. Cooke, H. Luhn, J. Keating, M. Dore, J. Meagher, W. B. Akin, E. Britt, T. O Regan, A. Gibbs, P. Nelson, J. V. O’Donnell, T. Griffin, W. Blake. H. Pecheux, J. Delaney, C. Burger, J. McGurk, L. Scherrer, C. Cavanagh, D. Tewkesbury, M. O’Kane, D. Barrett.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in-this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of STUDIES.]
COLLEGIATE course.
Moral Philosophy—P. Brownson, J. Burns, G.' Craig; Logic—W Rochford; Latin—J. Burn-, T Griffin, E. Ewinw, C. O’Hara, C. P. Neill; Greek—P. Burke; English Literature—A. Larkin; V. Monison, C.'E. O’Hara; Drawing in Civil Engineering Course—W. Mulkern, G. Houck; Civil Engineering—W. B. Mulkern; Descriptive Geometry—E. Ewing; Mechanics—G. Houck; Calculus—V. Morrison; Trigonometry—J. A. Burns, C. Spencer; Geometry—W. Larkin, W. Blake. A. Finckh, H. Jewett. H. Luhn, J. Mackey, R. NationsjL. Preston, J. Sullivan; Algebra—D. Barrett; Botany— G. Craig; Physiology—C. Cavanagh, A. Adelsperger, R. Newton, R. Nations, H. Prichard Ancient History— ]. Mackey, J. Maloney; Arithmetic—Y. Lane, C. Metzger, W. Tiernan; Modern History—Thatcher; English History—W. McPhee, H.,Cooke. ' ■	:

1'HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JFlary's Academy.
One Mile J Pest of Notre Danie University.
—Mr. J. J. Murphy and son, of Woodstock, Ill., were welcome visitors last Sunday.
—Mrs. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, is at St. Mary’s visiting her mother, Mrs. M. M. Phelan, who is quite ill.
—Misses Irma Butler and L. Dolan, of the Junior department, received too in lessons for the week ending Nov. 12.
—The new vocal room is to be very artistically arranged, but we defer a description until the work of adornment is accomplished.
—Miss M. Dillon was called home on the 15th by the serious illness of one of her brothers. His speedy recovery is prayed for by all.
—The Junior Preparatories held a competition in Arithmetic last week. Those who excelled were L. Farwell, M. Campbell, L. Reeves and M. Miller.
—Special thanks are returned to Judge Scully, of Chicago, for a copy of Rev. L. A. Lambert’s latest work, “Tactics of Infidels.” It is a welcome addition to the Library.
—The Third Seniors are now settled in their new class room, formerly the Junior study-hall. Two new blackboards have been put up, and everything is arranged as conveniently as possible.
—On Saturday Jast the music pupils had the pleasure of an instructive lecture on “ The Growth of Music.” The Directress of that Department spares no pains to make the young ladies thorough in the important study of music, and her efforts are appreciated by all.
—At the Academic meeting on Sunday last, Rosa Mystica was read by the Misses Gavan and L. Meehan. The principal article it contained was a description of the windows in the new chapel. Very Rev. Father Corby made a few remarks complimentary to the young ladies, and promised to say more at another time.
—The fancy-work room is now where the vocal room was, and is a bright, cheerful apartment. No doubt, wonderful flowers will blossom on plush and silk in the new room, and cranes and birds of Paradise will be at home in the sunny atmosphere. Great industry is shown by the young ladies who frequent this department.
Silent Influences.
Away up in the Alleghanies is a spring so small that, to all appearance, an ox could drain it dry in a single day. Quietly the waters from this little spring steal downward till they form a tiny rill. This rill, constantly supplied from its diminutive, but exhaustless source, hurries along down the mountain side, till at length it enlarges and spreads
out into the beautiful Ohio River. This lordly stream, perhaps unconscious of its insignificant origin, rolls proudly past many flourishing cities, and.cultivated farms, until its waters are merged in the great Mississippi, which, in its turn, takes up the fresh deposit, until the quivering waves of that little distant mountain spring are.emptied into the ocean, the majestic symbol of eternity, which will not cease to roll, until '
“ The mighty angel who shall stand One foot on sea, and one on solid land,”
shall announce the dread decree, that time shall be no more.
The influence which we exert is like that small, sequestered stream. Its consequences may not be felt beyond the passing hour—just as the waters may be absorbed by the sun-dried porous rocks— yet, like the rill, the river, it may flow onward, accumulating, power as it proceeds, till, like the mighty ocean, it becomes resistless in its course. It is a trite comparison, we know, but who has not seen a pebble, tossed into the calm, blue waters of a lake? It sinks noiselessly into the clear, translucent depths, and that is all. No! It is not all. Numberless ripples are seen to mark the place where the pebble sank. They rise, and expand, one after another, till their ever-widening circles recede from the centre and break upon the shore. The disturbance was slight, it is true, but conscious still, and the motion was communicated by the fall of that stone, and no one will pretend to deny its power to agitate the tranquil surface of the lake.	.
If we speak a hasty, or an unkind word, it seems to produce but a momentary depression, and that is all. No, it is not all. Not a word may be uttered on the part of the one whose feelings have been wounded by your unkindness, but time will, tell the sad mischief it has wrought. When a loving heart came to repose confidence in you, you were cold and unsympathetic. Your selfishness, which you may plausibly pronounce to be prudence, unveils your partiality, and your pretended goodness, discouiages one who, had you been wisely tender, would have been diverted from some impending danger. ' Your sarcasm—meant only to amuse your associates—may excite disgust in the half converted, and from your disedification they may contract an aversion for piety and all. that is good and noble. Are you guiltless because you “meant no harm”? For the relapse into carelessness, and even into sin, your thoughtlessness may render you accountable.
Of necessity, everyone must exert an influence, either for good or for evil, and perhaps, upon our most careless or indifferent actions the,success or failure of another may depend. Our influence may be exerted at the critical moment when the future is decided for an immortal soul. It. may be the turning point in her life. _
We have reason to suppose that the vast majority of people are mistaken as to the character of their influence. It was’not those who were confident of their charity that received the approba-. tion of our Lord.; He does not say: Come .ye blessed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of J/y Father, to those who were sure that they had fulfilled the precepts of charity, hut rather to those who never dreamed that their unconscious acts were garnered awav in the Divine memory. When saw zve Thee enhungcrcd? thev ask, and to their glad surpiise they find that their little acts of humble devotedness have earned for them eternal blessedness.
Careful, indeed, should we be not to draw upon ourselves the disapprobation of Heaven by our evil influence, but rather distrusting ourselves we should strive to invite the smile of God, so that when the records of our lives are read before an assembled world, we shall merit to hear the consoling words: Well do ne, good a nd faithful servant. Beca use thou hast been faithful over little things, I zvilt make thee ruler over many. Enter into the joy of thy Lord.
The interior voice heard by St. Augustine, “Take and read,” seemed very trifling in itself. He obeyed; he read; not as many read, regardless of what they read, and without the least endeavor to enter into the sentiments and purpose of the. author, but with attention and the reverence due to the mysterious mandate. What was the result? Not only his own wonderful conversion, but that of innumerable others, who were drawn bv bis example and eloquence to turn from evil habits, and through his powerful influence to embrace the holy life of a true Christian. .
When, on the fearful night preceding the crucifixion, the unhappy disciple denied his Saviour, what caused him to repent so thoroughly that the tears of a lifetime could not satisfy his desire to expiate his weakness? A single look from his divine Master.	<	.
We might go on multiplying instances where a seemingly small cause has produced momentous results. Let the supply of water, for example, in a city be cut off even for a day, and what consternation is felt in every quarter. Imagine every timepiece in the country to be simultaneously stopped, and no means afforded for knowing the exact hours! What confusion would he the consequence: railroad accidents, suspended industries, and misunderstandings without number everywhere. Yet a clock is but a very small piece of furniture. A watch is but a “bauble,” as Napoleon once called it; but how many golden hours of time it saves. Kindly act«, thoughtful words, gentle courtesies, are the “small change” of social intercourse. Let them be despised, or transmuted to their opposites, and, trifling as they are looked upon, domestic discord, social disorders, and political anarchy, will everywhere be found.	.
However dry and trite the words we have been writing, they contain a most important suggestion which each one would do well to learn; but each one must take it to heart, for Father Faber well says of another axiomatic lesson:
“’Twas as old as the hills; but it isso with youth, It must find out as new, the most primary truth;
.No wisdom, self has not found out, is our own;
Truths taken on trust are oft cold as a stone.”
.	...	. ; Nellie Brady (Class ’<?/).
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS. ORDER, AMI \BILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
RULES.	...
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allen, Andree, Arpin, Brady, Ba’ch, Bub. Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Bbver, Bray, Beschameng. Biurn , Butler, Bates, Blacklock, Beck, Carmien, Clifford, Cbggett, Carey, Conners, Clore, E Coll, M. Coll, Campeau, II Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Ducev. M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis, Dunkin,. Daube, English, Early, Fiannery. Gavan. Geer. Guise, Gordon. Hughes, Hummer, Hertzog, Hellmann, Hviand, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, llarlen, Heffron. C. Hurlev, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann. Hutchinson. Hepburn. Johnson, Kearns. Kennedy, Kohler, Kron. Keves, Latra. Leonard, La Berge. M. F. Murphy, L. Meehan. N. Meehan. Me-Carthv. McCormick, Momn, McEwen, McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Marlev. McFadden. Mitchell, Neff, E. Nicholas, L. Nicholas, O’Brien. Orr. Prudhomme, Piper, Papin, Quill. Quealev. G. Regan, Rend, Riedinger, E. Regan. Richardson, Robinson, Rowsev, Rannells. Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler. Sheehan. Saviers. M. Smith, Sloman B. Smith, Spier, Trask, Thompson. Van Horn. Van Mourick. Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Young, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence.—Misses T. Balch. E Blaine. F. Burdick, Butler. Emm.i Burns, M. Burns..Campbell. Crane, Churchill, N. D.tvis S. Dempsev, Dolan, Drver, Farwell. Foster, Fritz. Hake. Hagus. Hull, Hughes. Knau r. Kloth, Lewis, Longmire. Loonie. Lauth, Mercer, Miller, McCune. B Mc-Corm ck. N. Morse, M. Morse.- Newman. G. Papin, Pugsley, Quealey,Ree-J, Rhinehart, Rose, Rogers, Simons, Stapleton, Wyatt.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses L. Reeves, A. O’Mara, A. Papin, S. Smith.	’
Class Honors.
LANGUAGE COURSE.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Miss M. F. Murphy.
2D Div.—Misses Beschameng, Snowhook, Van Horn.
2d Class—Misses Gavan, McCarthy, Campeau, McEwen Studebaker, Marley.
3d Class—Misses 1 lorn, Regan, T. Balch, Barry, Kron, Prudhomme, Hellman. Fenton, Campagne.
4TH Class—Misses Barth, McCormick, Latta, Burton, Horner, Sloman, Sheehan, M. Desmond K. Desmond, Wagner,Van Mourick, Flannery, Wyatt, Ducev, La Berge Brewer, Waterbury, Dolan, Arpin, Rhinehart, G. Papin, Hepburn, Coll, Spier Butler, Newman.
5T11 Class—Miss A. Papin.
GERMAN.
Advanc’d Course—Miss E. Horn.
ist Class—Misses I. Bub, O. H jffman, A. Beschamen0, L. Trask.	.	'	.	°
2d Class—Misses F. Morse, T. Hinz, M. Hummer, O. Knauer.	'	- .	•
3D Class—Misses Wiesenbach, Kron. Quealey, Burton, Ducev, Balch, Hyland, Latta, Slonian. Piper. Wehr.
4TI1 Class—Misses Thompson," Smith, Horner, Quill,; Davi-s, Daube, Leonard, Neff’, Dryer, Miller; Fritz.
5Tii .Class-—Misses C. Hurley, K. Hurley. Heffron, Bourne, McFadden, Horner, O’Brien, Kennedy, Connors, Lewis, Crane.	-
'	LATIN.
Miss Mary Burton. < .	. . :.	- . .	.