Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Von. XVII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 13, 1883.	No. 6.
Colorado.
The dazzled morning strikes thy crown, O, Lady, clothed in living flame; .
And gold and crimson ripples down To light the land where Cortez came.
The virgin glories of the snow Lie silver-white across thy breast, And in thine eyes the world below Sees shining stars of faith and rest.
A vibrant harp of changing tone, We hear thy voice in wind and wave, Through all its wondrous music blown A warning, solemn as the grave.
“ The splendors of the skies are mine,” She proudly sings, above the storm, “ And mine the mountain ores, and kine ' That crop the green in valleys warm.
“ But let him fight who seeks for me, With dread and pain, as heroes dare.
For pure and strong the soul need be That hopes a reign like mine to share.”
Marion Muir.
—Denver Transcript.
---------- —-----------
A Question in Philosophy.
“ Nihil est in intellectu quod prius non puerit in sensu."
The human soul, with its wonderful, divinely bestowed power of intelligence, is ever presenting a rich and varied field for investigation and research. Manifold and various, indeed, are the workings of this sublime faculty, as manifested in the diversity of its creations corresponding to the multiplicity of its objects. The mind of man is ever a mystery to itself, and questions without number spring up about the answers to which it can constantly busy itself. But there is one question which lies at the foundation of all philosophical study, and which, either directly or indirectly, has been the source of the divergencies found to exist among the various schools of philosophy. “ What is the origin of ideas ? ” is a question that has at all times agitated the philosophic mind, and widely-differing theories have been put forward in the attempts towards its solution.
It is not necessary to say that the question does not concern all ideas. Since the activity of our intelligence was first awakened, we can, without difficulty, account for the ideas which we may have of persons, places and things. Experience is fundamentally their source and origin.
But there are ideas whose existence cannot be thus easily explained—ideas which are absolutely necessary to the full exercise and development of the rational faculty in man. They form the basis of those primary truths, those first principles of reason, upon which every judgment and act of the intellect depend. These principles are thus enunciated in the schools: 1 st, the principle of identity: What, is, is; 2d, the principle of contradiction: The same thing cannot be and, at the same time, not be; 3d, the principle of causality: Every effect must have a cause. And the ideas which lie at the basis of these principles are the universal and indeterminate ideas of being, unity, truth, goodness, cause, possibility, etc. These are ideas possessed in common by all men in whom the use of reason resides. However much the ideas and thoughts of men may and do differ—however great may be the inequality existing between minds in regard to the powers and perfections of the various faculties, yet, as regards the possession of these first ideas, these primary principles, all—except those deprived of reason—are on the same footing. These ideas accompany every act of the intelligence, and are known to exist at the very first dawn of reason. They are the proper objects*of the intellect, inasmuch as they represent the very essences of things.
When the intelligence of the child is first awakened to activity and directed to the object which it perceives through the senses—for example, the flower, or the toy with which it plays—it has within its little mind a conception of the object ?&being or thing; in other words, it has the universal idea of being.. In a short time, other universal ideas are seen to exist: the object is recognized as something real, and therefore true; something one in itself, distinct Isom others and good. In a word, experience teaches that the child, long before it can be said to have arrived at what is called the age of reason, has already formed these ideas of being, unity, truth, etc., and has fully grasped all the first principles of reason.
Evidently, experience has not been the source of these ideas. All that the' mind can know from experience is but singular, contingent and mutable;
I i
8i	THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
whereas, these ideas represent the eternal, necessary ahd immutable reasons of things. Whence tome they?
In answering this question, we propose to follow, as best we can, ,a system which, of all. others, presents a solution most in accordance with experience and common sense, viz.:
THE SCHOLASTIC SYSTEM.
It seems to us that to understand and properly answer the great question of the origin of ideas, a correct view must be taken of the nature of the union subsisting between the body and the soul in man. As a fact, all the various theories that have been advanced in the consideration of this question, may be seen to spring from different views as to the mode of union between the human soul and body. Plato, for example,—who has been followed in a measure, by modern ontologists—considered the soul as a kind of angel or pure spirit, imprisoned within the body, clogged and confined in its-oper-ations, by its material prison, and always longing for its release, that it might soar aloft into the realms of infinity, there to rejoice in the full and perfect exercise of its powers. The greater liberty enjoyed by the soul, or the further removed it is from the influence of sense, the more perfect is its action. Evidently in such a theory no real union can be said to exist between the body and soul. However, it is precisely this theory that has given birth to modern systems adapted so as to be in greater accord with Christian philosophy. The theories of “Intuition,” and “Innate ideas” are both modifications of the Platonic doctrine; the former teaching that soul has an intuition or vision of the Supreme Being, in whom it perceives all the most general or universal ideas, while the latter holds that these ideas are implanted in the soul by its Maker at the very first moment of its existence. Locke, the great modern leader of the Sensist School, though admitting the spirituality of the soul, yet maintained, as he was logically bound to do, that it was possible for matter to be made intelligent. In his system, the soul, in all its operations, is tied down to the organs of the body; all knowledge is derived from the senses; the soul can perceive nothing more than the elements which it discovers in the act of sensation. This is the opposite extreme, in which the powers of intelligence are weakened and even destroyed. It is the system followed by all materialists or those who deny the spirituality of the soul.
Now, what does scholastic philosophy teach concerning the nature of the union between the body and soul in man? It teaches that man is a rational animal, and therefore in his nature is not wholly spiritual, nor wholly material. Man is a compound of body and soul—two elements distinct, but united by a real, physical union, so as to form one complete substance. From this union, it follows that in the human compound there is one person and one complete principle, to which all the actions of either substance are to be attributed. This can be explained only by conceiving the soul united to the body as the principle of life,—the principle communicating to the body the nature of

living being, and consequently those powers by which the operations both of vegetative and sentient life are exercised. The soul is the form of the body—possessing it in unity of substance by the-closest physical union, and consequently com mu- M nicating and receiving influences. • The body is-made for the soul, to serve and minister to the ex-- f ercise of its powers; the soul is created to animate-and perfect the body and employ it as an instru- | ment in its operations. The union between both is;
a most natural one—not violent or unnatural—	$
a union by which both substances are perfected: and completed in their existence and operations.. This is the view dictated by experience and common sense, and it leads to the most natural explanation of the origin of these primitive ideas now in: question.
This most intimate union between the body and5 soul reveals their mutual dependence, as we have-just said. The intelligence is first awakened to' activity through the action of the external world upon the senses. Our knowledge begins with objects that produce an impression upon the senses-This does not mean, as sensism does, that the first intellectual cognition or idea, possessed by the soul,	|
is of sensible things. The intelligence in man is a	1
faculty superior to sense, and has its own proper < object, which is the essence of things. Hence the meaning of the word intelligence, as derived from j intus legere. It reads, as it were, what is internal' ’ in the being; it perceives in what its essence consists. In perceiving being, it perceives the ratio	:
of being, or what being is; in perceiving substance,	i
it perceives the ratio of substance, or what substance is, etc.
Now, in. all sensible objects, essences exist, corresponding to the intellectual perception, and may be perceived when removed from their concrete existence. ' Thus the flower which the eye beholds has the essence of being, of substance, of life, of unity, quantity, and other ratios or essences that may be predicated of it; and although these are not discovered by the senses—for they cannot go beyond the qualities—yet they can be perceived by the mind when they are freed from their concrete, physical existence. In other words, in every- ' thing that, exists, the ideas of being, substance, unity, etc., have an objective existence. Everything that is, is a being, is one, true, etc. .	-
Briefly, the Scholastic doctrine is this: When an object is for the first time brought before the mind through the senses, the intelligence, by that power of abstraction which it possesses, divests the object i of its sensible qualities, and considers its essences. It then perceives the ratios-of being, substance, etc., and forms conceptions of them. The object is conceived as being or thing, and thus the first and most universal idea is formed, to be followed in "quick succession by the others. Of course, these ideas are hot reflexly universal or recognized as universal by the mind. Before this stage of knowl- ' edge can be reached, reflection and comparison with individual objects must be made.- But these ' ideas are really and objectively universal, for they ; represent what is common to many.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. -	' 83
In this theory, the intelligence is both an active and a passive power; its activity is aroused through the action of the senses. This view best accords with man’s nature, as a compound of matter and spirit. In the present life, it is but natural that the senses should have their part in intellectual cognition. The senses, however, are not, as the sensists erroneously maintain, the efficient cause of the intellectual act. They simply furnish the material upon which the intelligence, aided by the imagination, acts.
The expression quoted above—“Nihil est in intellcctu quod prius non fuerit in sensu ”—may be rightly understood in the sense that all the ideas of the human intellect derive their oricrin, either remotely or proximately, from the senses. It is an expression of frequent occurrence among the sensists, who mean by it that in the intellectual cognition naught can be found but what it receives from the senses, thus making the intellect a mere . passive power. It has been erroneously attributed to Aristotle, the father of the Scholastic theory, but was never employed by him. It is, however, as we have said, susceptible of an explanation in accordance with his theory. It may be, and is, true in this sense: “The material objects presented to the intellect were first perceived by the senses; but in the same objects different things are apprehended by the senses and the intelligence. By sensible things the mind is led to the understanding of many other things which are wholly immaterial; which, however, it does not understand except when aided by the imagination.”
We may here conclude with a quotation from the Angelic Doctor:
“ Inferiores substantive intellectivve, scilicet animve hu-man:e, habent potentiam intellectivam non completam na-turaliter; sed completur in eis successive per hoc quod accipiunt species intelligibiles a rebus. Potentia vero in-tellectiva in substantiis spiritualibus superioribus, id est in angelis, naturaliter completa est per species intelligibiles connaturales ad omnia intelligenda quve naturaliter cog-noscere possunt. Ex hoc etiam ex ipso modo essendi hu-jusmodi substantiarum apparet. Substantive enim spiritu-ales inferiores, scilicet animve, habent esse affine corpori, in quantum sunt corporum formve; et ideo ex ipso modo essendi corhpetit eis ut a corporibus, et per corpora suam per-fectionem intelligibilem consequantur; alioquin, frustra corporibus unirentur.” (Summa, 1, q. 55, art. 2.)
“ The lower intelligent substances, namely, the human souls, have an intellectual power, naturally incomplete. It becomes gradually completed in proportion as they receive the intelligible species from things. But in the superior intelligent substances, i. the angels, the intellectual power is naturally complete, inasmuch as the intelligible species by which they understand everything which they can know according to their nature, are connatural to them. This is seen also by the being respectively belonging to these substances; for human souls have a being akin to the body, inasmuch as they are the forms of their respective bodies. Accordingly, in order to attain to their intellectual perfection they require the instrumentality of their bodies. Were it not so, their union with the body would be purposeless.”
S. C.
Nostrae Dominae Uhiversitas.
Nostra quidem regio silvis ingentibus olim Horrebat: Iveti nunc viridantur agri.
' Quacumque immanes errabant more ferarum Silvicolve, decorat florida messis humum.
Indica gens abiit, mores mutantur et usus, Atque novum tellus Indica nomen habet.
Quis Nostrve Dominve fuerit fundator et heros Dicere nil opus est: gloria vera latet.
Teque tuamque fidem muti, venerande Sacerdos, Conclamant lapides: vult domus ipsa loqui.
Salve, Magna Parens, totum celebrata per orbem, Quam Nostrve Dominve nomen habere decet!
Horrendas frustra flammve fecere ruinas:
Majorem reficit Virgo Maria domum.
Nec jam sufficiunt vedes, noctemque diemque Ad portas juvenum fervida turba ruit.
Dilata pectus, Mater generosa, benignum Ut lac doctrinve multa juventa bibat.
Ah! turri statuam properes imponere, ut alma Septem stellarum luce Maria tegat.
Quis digno Nostram Dominam depingere possit
Carmine? Quisve domfis aurea dona canat?
Arboribus late radians nemorumque corona
Ut regina sedet floribus in mediis. .
Hie blando resonant undarum murmure lacus;
Hie dulci cantu musica corda movet.
Hortulus hie ridet Minimorum: campus et illic Quem sonitu Senior turba fremente quatit.
' Hos rapidis manibus fragilem perducere cymbam, Illos saltando membra movere juvat.
Seria succedunt, quum tintinnabula, signum Ordinis, ad classes vel sacra templa vocant.
Quve teneras valeant mentes formare docentur: Scire homini prodest, vir bonus esse, magis.
Americve Leges, Medicina, Historia, Linguve: Panduntur coeli, terra, profunda maris.
Multa agitur viva Shaksperi tabula voce: Quin etiam Antigones carmina pura sonant. Hi logicis pugnant rationibus: illos
Vivendi normam lingua Latina docet.
Omnia nunc paucis liceat concludere verbis: “ Mens hominis sano in corpore sana viget.
Quamvis esse Deum monstret sapientia, vera Relligio pax est unica, sola salus.
Nos sal vat Christus, Christumque Ecclesia tradit:
Per Christi Matrem gratia tota venit.”
Hvec Nostrve Dominve pueri prvecepta docemur: , Doctrinam firmet gratia, vita fidem I Nos sacram officii volumus defendere causam:
* Victorem in ccelo splendida palma manet.
Alumnus, ’83.
Consult your friend on all things, especially on those which respect yourself. His counsels may then be useful, where your own self-love might impair your judgment.—Seneca.
Habit, if not resisted, soon becomes necessity.
—St. Augustine.	,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Vatican Library.
The following brief account, obtained from a reliable source, of the principal treasures in the Vatican Library, will, I think, be most interesting reading at the present time, when Pope Leo’s recent letter again calls attention to the treasures of that great storehouse of learning:
The Vatican Library maybe considered to have been founded by Nicholas V (1447), who transferred to his new palace the manuscripts which had been collected in the Lateran. The Library, at the death of Nicholas V, is said to have contained 9,000 manuscripts, but many of them were dispersed by his successor, Calixtus III. These losses were not repaired until the time of Sixtus IV, whose zeal in restoring and augmenting the Library is celebrated by Ariosto and by Pladeletina, who was appointed its librarian, about 1480. The present building was erected by Sixtus V, in 1588, from the designs of Fontana, a new apartment having become necessary to receive the collection made by his immediate predecessors, and particularly by Leo X, who, like his father, Lorenzo the Magnificent, had sent agents into distant countries to collect manuscripts.
The celebrity of the Library dates properly from the close of’the sixteenth century, when the munificence of the Popes was aided by the acquisition of other important collections. The first was that of Fulvius Ursinus, in 1600, followed by the valuable collections of the Benedictine monastery of Bobbio, composed chiefly of Palimpsests, that is, manuscripts which have been written upon twice, the first writing having been erased to make place for the second. The Library then contained-10,660 manuscripts, of which 8,500 were Latin and 2,160 Greek. The Palatine Library, belonging to the Elector Palatine, captured at Heidelberg by De Tilley, and presented to Gregory XV in 1621 by Duke Maximillian of Bavaria, was the next accession; it contained 2,388 MSS., 1,956 of which were Latin and 432 Greek. In 1658, the Vatican received the Library of Urbino, founded by Duke Frederigo, whose passion for books was so great that at the taking of Vol terra, in 1742, he reserved nothing but a Hebrew Bible-for his own share of the spoil. This collection enriched the Vatican with 1,7 n Greek and Latin manuscripts. In 1690, the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, the collection of Christina, Queen of Sweden, was added to the Library;- it comprehended all the literary treasures taken by her father, Gustavus Adolphus, at Prague, Wurtzburg and Bremen, and amounted to 2,291 manuscripts, of which 2,101 were Latin and 190 Greek. Clement XI, in the beginning of the last century, presented 56 Greek manuscripts to the collection; and in.1746 it received the splendid Library of the Ottobuoni family, containing 3,862 manuscripts, of which 3,391 were Latin and 474 were Greek; about the same time it was augmented by 266 manuscripts from the library of the ‘Marquis Cappom. The last addition of importance was that of 162 Greek manuscripts from the Convent of San Bassillio, at Grotta Ferrata. At the peace
of 1815, the late King of Prussia, at the suggestion of W. Humboldt, applied to Pius VII for the restoration of some of the manuscripts which had been plundered from the Heidelberg Library by De Tilley. A more favorable moment for this request could not have been chosen. The service rendered to the Church by the restoration of the Pope to his throne was acknowledged by-that enlightened and virtuous Pontiff on all occasions, and in this instance the request of the King of Prussia was immediately answered by the restoration of so many manuscripts of great importance to the German historian. At the present time—for we do not know of any additions certainly since twenty-five years—the Vatican Library contains in the Oriental collection 590 Hebrew, 787 Arabic, So Coptic, 71 yEthiopic, 459 Syriac, 64 Turkish, 65 Persian, 1 Samaritan, 13 Armenian, 2 Iberian, 22 Indian, 10 Chinese, and 18 Sclavonic manuscripts. The amount of the whole collection of Greek, Latin and Oriental manuscripts is 23,580, the finest collection in the world. The number of printed books is estimated at .30,000, and includes the collection of Cardinal'Mai, a munificent donation of Pius IX to the Library of the Vatican.
’ The principal manuscript treasures of the Library are the following:	.
The celebrated “Codex Vaticanus,” or, “Bible of the end of the Fourth or beginning of the Fifth Century,” in Greek, containing the oldest version of the Septuagint, and the first Greek one of the New Testament. This most important document in Biblical literature was published by the late Cardinal Mai, in 1857. The “Virgil” of the fourth or fifth century, with fifty miniatures, including a portrait of Virgil, well known by the engravings of Santo Bartoli. The “Terence” of the ninth century, with miniatures; “A Terence” of the fourth or fifth century; the oldest known. “Fragments of a Virgil” of the twelfth century; The “ Cicero de Republica,” the celebrated Palimpsest discovered by Cardinal Mai, under a version of St. Augustine’s Commentary on the Psalms. This is considered the oldest Latin manuscript extant. - The “ Palimpsest of Livy, lib. 91,” from the library of Christina, Queen of Sweden. The “Plutarch” from the same collection, with notes by Grotius; The “Seneca” of the fourteenth century, with Commentaries by. the English Dominican monk, Triveth; A “Pliny,” with interesting figures of animals; A “ Menologia Grteca; or Greek . Calendar of the Tenth Century,” ordered by the Emperor Basil; A fine example of Byzantine art, brilliantly illuminated with representations of basilicas, monasteries, and martyrdoms of various saints of the Greek Church. The “ Homilies of St. Gregory Nazianzeri” of the year 1063, and Four Gospels of the year 1128, both Byzantine manuscripts of great interest. A Greek version of the “Acts of the‘Apostles,’’ written in gold, presented to Innocent VIII by Charlotte, Queen of Cyprus. The large “Hebrew Bible,” in folio, from the library of the Duke of Urbino, for which the Jews of Venice offered its weight in gold. .The “Commentaries on the New Testament,”
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-85
with miniatures of the fourteenth century, by Nicola da Bologna. The “Breviary of Matthias , Corvinus” of the year 1492, beautifully-written and illuminated by Atlavanti. The Parchment Scroll of a Greek manuscript of the seventh century, thirty-two feet long, with miniatures of the history of Joshua. The “ Oflicium Mortis,” with beautiful miniatures. The “ Codex Mexicanus,” a calendar of immense length: The dedication copy of the “ Assertio Septem Sacramentorum ad-versus Martinum Lutherum,” by Henry VIII, printed on vellum, at London in 1531, with the King’s signature and the autograph inscription on the last page but one, “ Finis, Henry, Rex”
Anglorum rex Henricus, Leo Decime, mittit, Hoc opus et fidei teste et amicitiie,”
Letters from Henry VIII to Anne Boleyn, seventeen in number; nine are in French and eight in English. The “Dante” of the fifteenth century, with miniatures, by Guilio Clovio. The “ Dante del Boccacio,” in the very beautiful writing of the author of the Decameron, to which his signature as Johannes de Certaldo is affixed, and with notes said to be by Petrarch. Tasso’s autographs, Petrarch’s autographs. Several manuscripts of Luther, and the principal part of the Christian Catechism,” translated into German by Melancthon, 1566. The Latin poem of “ Donizo,in Honor of the Countess Matilda,” with her full-length portrait, and several historical miniatures of great interest, among which are the repentance of the Emperor Henry IV, his absolution by Gregory Vll^etc.
The great hall, which is 320 feet long, is divided by pilasters into two portions, is beautifully decorated with frescos, and is one of the most magnif-icent halls of the kind. Attached to the pilasters and the wall are the painted cabinets or presses, which contain the manuscripts; these are shut with closed doors, so that a stranger might walk through the entire suite of apartments and have no suspicion that he was surrounded by the first literary treasures of the world. Between the pilasters are placed several valuable modern works of .art. (Jut of the great hall a door leads into the archivio secreto, where are preserved the most interesting manuscript historical documents connected. with the government of the Popes, diplomatic correspondence? etc.
The galleries, which open from the extremity of the great hall and which occupy a length of 1,3’60 ft., contain also presses with the manuscripts; they are divided into several halls, three of which form the Museo-Cristiano, or, Museum of Christian Antiquities. In the first of these, enclosed in cabinets, is a most interesting collection of lamps, glass vessels, gems, personal ornaments, instruments for domestic use of the early Christians, chiefly from the Catacombs; there are also various instruments of torture employed against the early sufferers for our faith; such as hooks for tearing flesh, scourges made of iron chains, and particularly deserving of, notice, a ^lumbatum.ox copper ball, filled with lead and attached to a chain, found alongside the body of a Christian martyr in his tomb.
From the tenor of the Pope’s letter to the Car-
dinals, I think he refers more especially to the documents contained in the Archivio Secreto, because admission to the Library to consult and study manuscripts on certain days, during stated hours and under proper restrictions, has been enjoyed by scholars and literary men for as long back as we know of. A room called the Chamber of the Scribes, which adjoins the beautiful ante-room, is fitted up with stalls and tables for the use pf persons so admitted, and I recollect when I passed-through that room to have seen a number of men apparently engaged in literary work.—F., in Catholic Review.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—A. Rubinstein’s latest song is entitled “Yearnings.” The words are from the Russian of Ler-„ mon toff.
—Mr. Gladstone received his first critical congratulation on his recent translation of Cowper’s “ Hark, my Soul, it is the Lord! ” into the language of Dante, from Cardinal Manning.
—The Magliabechiana Library, at Florence, has bought of Count Luigi Capponi the important collection of writings regarding Fra Gerolama Savonarola, which had been collected by Count Carlo Capponi.
—Victor Nesler, the composer of the “Ratcatcher of Hamlen” and the “Wild Huntsman,” has finished his latest opera, “ The Trumpeter of Sackingen,” which is to be brought out in Novem-ber at Leipsic and Strasburg.
—Dr. Heinrich Schliemann has nearly completed a new illustrated work, which will embody the results of his latest excavations on the site of Troy. Simultaneously with the original, English and French translations will be published.
—A national exhibition of architecture was re-, cently opened at Brussels in the Palais des Beaux Arts. The section which contains drawings dating back more than three centuries is especially remarkable. Some of the exhibits, as, for instance, the drawings by Rubens, are almost priceless.
—Ivan' Turgeneff, the Russian novelist, who died in France, on the 3d of Sept., is described as a singularly lovable, fascinating, and courtly person. . He was remarkably handsome, of imposing stature and commanding presence. He was the most modest of writers, rarely speaking of his own works, but always generous in his appreciation of others.
—A Goethe exhibition has been opened at Frankfurt-am-Main, in' the house where the poet was born (Grosser Hirschgraben 23). In one room are two large cartoons by Hermann Junker, representing incidents in the life of Goethe; in an? other, objects belonging to his parents, and a MS, in his handwriting, with many corrections upon ancient art.
—The November number of the North American
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Review will contain a contribution from Dr. Norvin Green, president of the Western Union company, in opposition to the proposed government management of the telegraph; also, an article on John Brown, by the Rev. David N. Utter, which is calculated to seriously affect the popular estimate of the hero of Osawatomie.
—A new instrument, invented by the talented musician, Carl Hahn, and by him christened “ Cantus Transcendentalis,” has, at the request of King Albert of Saxony, been played before him and the Court at Pillnitz. The effect of the cantus, the tone of which greatly resembles that of the human voice, is said to entitle the instrument to universal attention from the musical world.	-
—Among the recent interesting acquisitions made by the Berlin Museum of Art Industry is the spinet once belonging to Duke Alfonso II of Ferrara, the identical instrument upon which Eleonora of Este played to Torquato Tasso. The front of the key-board bears the name of the princely owner and the inscription: Dum vixi tacui, mor-tua dulce cano—“ When alive (the wood) I was silent, now that I am dead, I emit sweet strains.” The wood-work is richly lackered in red and gold, the cover is painted, the sounding-board inlaid with ivory and ebony.
—During the excavations carried on by the ' French school at Athens, in the Island of Delos, a very interesting discovery has been made. Near the theatre of Apollo a private house has been discovered, probably of the Alexandrine period. A court, surrounded by pillars and twelve rooms, has thus far been revealed. The floor of the court is of beautiful mosaic, containing flowers, fishes and other ornaments, and in the middle of the court there is a cistern full of water. The gate of the house and the street-leading to it have also been dug out. As the excavations continue, an entire quarter of the ancient city may possibly be discovered.	'	.
—The colossal monument raised at Niederwald, on the banks of the Rhine, to commemorate the German victory in ’70-71, is th§ work of the celebrated sculptor, Prof. Schilling, of Dresden. The rocky base of the monument rises from the waves of the Rhine, and is a part of the'mountains of the “Niederwald,” opposite the ancient city of Bin- gen. The pedestal is built on artificial rocks, and ' has been finished some few years, and on it the gigantic figure of Germania, holding in.her hand the imperial crown, overlooks the forest. The height of the figure, from the foot to the tip of the upraised hand, is 41 feet, or 13 feet less than the - great “Bavaria Monument” in Munich. The > thumb measures 5^ inches in diameter, and the small finger 4 inches. The crown upon the head of the figure measures 31^ inches in diameter; the length of the nose from bridge to point is 12 inches, and the width at the nostrils 11 inches. It takes both hands of a grown person to span the little finger of the “figure. The weight of the “ Germania” is 350 tons.	.	,
Scientific Notes.
—The total outflow of all the mineral waters of France is estimated at 10,334 gallons per minute.
—M. G. Foussereau has proved by some recent experiments that the electric resistance of glass diminishes on its being tempered. On the other hand, annealing tempered glass restores its higher resistance.
—The difficult task of inducing the Victoria Regia, the giant water lily of South America, to grow to perfection in the open air in.this country has been successfully accomplished by E. D. Sturtevant, a florist of Bordentown, N. J.
—M. Victor St. Paul has placed $5,000 at the disposal of the Paris Academy of Medicine, as- a prize to any person—whatever may be his vocation or nationality—who shall succeed in discovering an infallible means of curing diphtheria.
—M. Marcel Desprez’s invention for transporting electrical force to great distances has been applied to a waterfall near Grenoble, which is enabled to work, to the extent of seven-horse power, a sand-mill, a printing press, and other machinery at Grenoble. .
—In Breslau, a chimney shaft, fifty feet high, is composed entirely of paper pulp, which has been chemically impregnated so as to resist combustion. Paper has been put to some extraordinary uses, but this is perhaps the most astonishing violation of preconceived ideas yet attempted. The next thing in order now will be gun-cotton crucibles.
—Prof. Cohn, of Breslau, believes that slates lead to short-sightedness, and would substitute pen and ink, or an artifical white slate with black pencil, manufactured in Pilsen. Black or white is proved by experiment to stand out most clearly to the eye. The Zurich School Board forbids slates. They are noisy, and invite dirty habits in erasure. -
—The Moniteur Industriel gives an account of the trial of an electric boat, at Geneva, on July zzd. It was 20 feet long by 14 feet wide. The boat was driven for several hours, at a speed of from 5^ to miles per hour, by three bichromatic batteries of six cells each. The motor—which was on the Thury system—acted directly on a small, two-bladed screw, there being no intermediate gear*	.0	o
ing.	.
—The pagan custom of cremation is threatened by a formidable rival, quite as pagan, and possibly quite as ancient: this is no other than the old Egyptian system of mummification. A certain number of advocates of this system in Brussels are about to address a petition to the Chamber, begging permission to mummify the bodies of their friends, which, they observe, would permit ..the families of the deceased to contemplate from time to time the carefully-preserved remains of their ancestors, and thus perpetuate filial piety and the family spirit for generations. They further allege that cremation does-not at all destroy the body, but only reduces it to ashes, producing
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	87
(deadly miasmas, which, being suspended in the air, rare often breathed by men, or else mingle with the water that is drunk~by man and beast. Thus, wherever cremation is practised on a large scale, as iin India, it is a constant cause of fatal epidemics, ■such as the cholera, which, it is well known, has; its home in Hindostan, where that terrible disease :is endemic. It will probably be thought that the indictment of cremation is much more convincing ■ than the. defence of mummification.—London
Tablet.
—In a paper recently communicated to the Med-, ical Hospital Association of Paris by Dr. Debore, he describes a form of alimentation which has attracted much attention. His system is to apply nourishment in form of powder instead of in bulk. Uncooked meat, from which the fat has been removed, is minced finely and allowed to dry in an oven at about 900 centigrade until it becomes perfectly hard, without being burnt; it is then reduced to impalpable powder by pounding in a mortar and passing through a fine sieve. The jpowder so obtained represents about four times its. weight in flesh. The fibre and the large percentage ■of water contained in flesh are thus removed, and tthe essential properties of the meat retained and presented in a form the least difficult to digest. 'Other alimentary substances can be prepared in the •same way. In cases of consumption, the treatment is said to have proved marvellously successful; and in general debility and nervous disorders, restoration is rapid and permanent. ,A few spoonfuls of the powder is equal to the meal of a person with a healthj^ appetite. The powder, when boiled, wilk keep an indefinite time, arid may be taken with a little milk, gravy, wine, water, or other liquid.— Scientific .American.
College Gossip.

—A shorthand class has been organized at Yale.
—Positions on the board of editors of the Dartmouth are obtained by competition.
— Old St. Xavier’s Church in New York is now used as an exhibition hall for the college.
—At Niagara University they are making strenuous efforts to get a new Exhibition Hall.
—A large number of pupils study. Lustra paint-, ing at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
—Three mummies, said' to be 300 years old, have been brought from Alaska, and have been duly entered at Yale College.
—Cornell claims that she employs the only professor in the United States who'-devotes his time exclusively'to American history.
—Amherst and Dartmouth are to have daily papers. Harvard, Yale and Cornell are the only institutions where dailies have succeeded so far.-
—President Porter, of Yale, testifies emphatically in favor of college athletics, stating that they not only benefit the student physically, but even morally.
—The original endowment of Harvard College, made by John Harvard, after whom the College was named, amounted to only eight hundred pounds sterling.
—The new Catholic college at Columbus, Ohio, under the directorship of Rev. H. L. Magevney, ' was dedicated recently by Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson. The house has 28 rooms, and begins with about 60 students.
—The Harvard Daily Herald and the Weekly Crimson have discontinued. A new daily paper, to be known as the Herald- Crimson, will be published by a consolidated board composed of nine editors from each of the former papers.
—The Harvard students, tired of being cheated by local dealers; have formed a co-operative society or club, by means of which they are able to save a good deal of money. The terms of membership are easy, and cash payments are insisted on in every case. It is estimated that over $3,000 have been saved already.
—A movement is on foot to form a Temperance League in the University of Toronto. The success of such an organization at Harvard is pointed out as a favorable argument. Here at Notre Dame, a Temperance Union was formed last year, numbering over one hundred members, and was very successful in the attainment of its object. The same exists at present, with a very large membership.
—The eminent German Protestant historian, Johann Frederich’Bbhmer, wrote in 1850: “Would to God that the next Pope, who has been predicted as a lumen de ccelo, would look upon the truth-loving, serious science of history, as a ‘light from heaven’ in the darkness and errors of the . want of principle of the present day.” The next Pope has come in the person of Leo XIII, and his letter to the three Cardinals directs their attention to just the science of history.
-—We are in receipt of a copy of the “ Antigone,” as prepared and represented by the Class of ’83, at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. The Class of ’82 of that Institution claims the distinction of having brought out the first Greek play ever represented in the West; and now the “Hellenists” of ’83 come forward with the first libretto. Assuredly this speaks very highly for the literary taste and classical culture of our Western friends; and their labors are to be so.much the more appreciated, as the type-setting and translation have been entirely done by the members of the Class. The copy is .done up in neat pamphlet form, with the original text and English version on opposite pages. . .,. Notwithstanding slight imperfections, which are but the tiniest specks when we consider the greatness of the undertaking, the Class of ’83 is to be congratulated on the success of their eflforts in producing this drama. They have erected for themselves a monument, the grace and beauty and strength of which will be fit subjects for the eulo-giums of future generations of “Hellenists” at . Notre Dame.—Fordham College Monthly.
88-	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Notre Dame, October 13, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate lor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents sKoutd take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
. Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—-We acknowledge the receipt of a pamphlet, issued by the Tribune of South Bend, entitled— “ South Bend: Its Industries, Enterprises,” etc. The Tribune Company have shown commendable enterprise in the publication of this finely-gotten up folio of 24 pages, giving a history of the various private and public enterprises in and around the city, some of which have made the homely name of “ South Bend ” familiar throughout the civilized world. Go where you will, you will find a Studebaker or Coquillard wagon or carriage, an Oliver chilled plow, a Birdsell huller, or a Singer sewing-machine. Like Swiss watches and English cutlery, these articles of South-Bend manufacture are found almost everywhere. Besides these, the young city contains within its limits more than sixty other manufacturing enterprises of greater or less magnitude. For its population, South Bend displays wonderful activity. Nearly $4,000,000 are invested in grounds, buildings and machinery, and the product of the manufactories aggregate in value nearly $11,000,000 a year. About one-third of the entire population of South Bend are employed in the factories, the annual pay-roll amounting to about $3,500,000. But all this, and much more, will be found fully described in the Tribune pamphlet, which should be widely circulated.
—The great event of the past week was the placing of the colossal statue of the Blessed Virgin on the Dome of the University. As is well known, since it was first brought to Notre Dame in the summer of 1880, the statue has been adorning the front porch of the main building, and awaiting the time when its pedestal—the Dome—would be ,
completed. As announced in the Scholastic, a short time ago, the exterior work of the Dome was finished, and everything was ready for the statue. On last Monday afternoon, the statue was lowered from the front porch and brought to the rear of the College. There it was allowed to remain until all the apparatus necessary for raising it to the summit of the Dome could be prepared. Everything was ready by Wednesday noon and that afternoon, slowly but surely, the grand figure ascended to the roof of the College. On Thursday work was resumed, and at length, at five o’clock p. m., amid the ringing of bells, the statue was seen to rest firmly and securely on its grand pedestal.
The statue is the work of the late Mr. Giovanni Meli, of Chicago, and is the largest of its kind in the United States. It stands sixteen feet in height, and weighs over 4,400 lbs. The work of raising it to its present position was skilfully accomplished under the direction of Mr. Alexander Staples, of South Bend.
—“The Statue is on the Dome!” was the general exclamation, last Thursday night. Few and simple were the words, yet they contained a wealth of meaning. They announced the accomplishment of long-cherished desires of the heart, the filling up of a void long too open at Notre Dame, the crowning act in the public expression of honor to her under whose patronage this Home of Religion and Science is placed.	'
Notre Dame—“ Our Lady.” These two short words speak volumes in explanation and praise of the motive which has led to the erection of this glorious monument to the Mother of God. On the very first day—almost a half century ago— that Father Sorin with his little band took possession of this spot of earth, it was called by her name, consecrated to her honor, and placed under her protection. Through the long years that have followed, this confidence in her watchful care has been signally rewarded, and most fittingly to find suitable manifestation of gratitude has ever been the great desire of the venerable Founder and his spiritual children.
Amid all the changes wrought during the thirtyseven years that preceded the great fire of 1879— while old buildings were torn down and new ones erected—while additions and enlargements were made, the statue of Our Lady has ever stood surmounting the main structure, and typifying the maternal care exercised over its inmates. More than three years have glided by since Notre Dame passed through its fiery ordeal, and the time was well employed in preparing for the erection of a monument which would be, as far as loving hearts and willing hands could make it, a fitting expression of gratitude, and the most glorious of its kind in the country.
And now these desires are realized. To-day this grand statue, so familiar to the visitor and student at Notre Dame, stands upon her magnificent throne, and, with extended arms, gives the assur
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	89
ance of the continued protection of her whom it
—For the fortieth time in its history, Notre Dame is celebrating to-day the Festival of St. Edward— the name-day of its venerable Founder, Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. This day is ever one of great rejoicing, inasmuch as it presents an occasion for giving fitting expression to the feelings of admiration and respect which all here must entertain towards one who, under Heaven, has been the guiding spirit of a great undertaking in the cause of Religion and Education.
More than forty years ago, Father Sorin inaugurated the great work which to-day we see the wonder and admiration of all. With a few, devoted Religious, he planted the little grain of seed, and under his directive mind it took root, and grew and developed into the grand and noble tree, whose fruitful branches extend far and wide. During the long years that have passed since first this great work was begun, Notre Dame has had, indeed, its trials and reverses, the last and greatest of which is well known to all; but it has ever gone on, doing its noble work, fulfiling its glorious mission; and, as year after year rolled by, receiving, in return for the trials and visitations from Heaven, the blessing of increased prosperity, both temporal and spiritual. Our Alma Mater, now in the forty-first year of its existence, occupies a leading place among the great educational institutions of the land. Its fame extends far and wide, and its students are gathered together from all pans of the country, and fill its extensive halls.
All this is, indeed, a magnificent tribute to the faith, devotion and learning of the venerable Founder, and the great wish that springs up in the hearts of all to-day, and seeks to find expression in voice and action, is, that Heaven may grant Very Rev. Father General many more years of health and strength to watch over the destinies of Notre Dame, and be witness to the grand results yet to be obtained !
—It has been often said, a perfect education is of a threefold nature: it must be moral, intellectual and physical; for it supposes the perfect development of a man as he is—a compound of body and soul. His education, therefore, which has for its object to develop him, as near as may be, into a perfect human being, must seek the perfection of the two substances which enter into the composition of his being. The powers of the body as well as the soul must be trained and perfected in order to the completeness and perfection of an education. It has been well said: “ If we were to cultivate the physical powers only, we would be lower than man—brutes; if we cultivate the moral only, we become higher than man—angels; if we cultivate the intellectual faculties only, we become worse than men—devils.”
Practically, the general impression that seems to prevail is, that physical training is of little or no consideration in a scheme of education. This is
wrong. But a far more serious evil is, that, to a great extent, the same impression exists as to moral training. It is a sad but undeniable fact that, outside of our Catholic schools and colleges, particularly throughout our enlightened land of liberty, the moral education of youth is wofully neglected at the present day. And the consequences are felt in the evils which afflict society and government, and threaten their subversion. But of this again. We wish to speak now of physical training.
The great maxim among the ancients was, “ Mens sana in cor^ore sano? and they showed their practical appreciation of the truth in all their schools of culture. They and our fathers of a century ago entertained the idea that without proper physical training it would be impossible to find in a nation either warriors or statesmen. It was this same idea which drew from the Duke of Wellington, when looking on at the boys engaged in their sports in the playground of a renowned school, the remark: “ It was there the battle of Waterloo was won.”
Practical success in life depends much more upon physical health than is generally imagined. Take any profession, and it will be seen that success in its pursuit, in no slight degree, depends upon physical strength and activity. Thus, a well-trained, strong and manly voice is considered almost indispensable to the successful lawyer or politician. They are called upon to display powers of physical endurance and energy even more extraordinary than those of intellect, and so with many another pursuit. The observation of an eminent writer is doubtless in a great measure true, that the greatness' of our great men is quite as much a bodily affair as a mental one. It is in the physical man that the moral as well as the intellectual man lies hid, and it is through the bodily organs that the soul itself works.
Therefore, healthful bodily exercises are deserving of every attention whilst pursuing our studies in college. We are glad to see the interest maintained in oiir athletic sports at Notre Dame, and we have no doubt that one of the many advantages that result from our Field Day meeting on the 1 Vli is the awakening of an interest in this branch of education to endure throughout the year.
Exchanges.
—Most of our exchanges start out quietly. The bluster with which new editors usually begin work is conspicuously absent in the publications before us. Wordy resolutions are not piled up on one another, and the customary advice given to other college papers, which they must follow, or—die. As a matter of fact, it used to be the strong point of editors in former years to be able to manage every other paper except their own; and being so laudably devoted to the welfare of others, they forgot their own. We don’t deprecate the absence of such philanthropy. The quiet start made by college papers so far seems to mean business—a quiet but firm determination to help themselves first,—and their neighbors afterward, perhaps.
9o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—But few, comparatively, of the college papers on last year’s exchange list have yet put in an appearance. It takes them some time to get started, but they will probably be all the better for the delay. The first that came were The University Quarterly, New York University, The Badger and the University Press, followed shortly after by the Harvard Daily Herald, the Niagara Index, the Cornell Daily Sun, the Oberlin Review, The Lariat, and the St. Mary’s Sentinel, R little later came the University Magazine, from Pennsylvania University, the Columbia Spectator, the St. Viat cur's College Journal, and the College Record. We have just been informed by a note from the editorial association that the Milton College Journal has suspended publication.
Personal.
—David J. Brown, of 71, is in the insurance business in Chicago.
____Joseph Winterbotham, of ’68, is a prominent contractor in Chicago.
____Henry W. Cassidy, of ’75, is a leading lawyer in Youngstown, Ohio.
____J. Knight is a partner in his father’s law office, in Dubuque, Iowa.
—John S. McNally, of ’73, is with the E. & N. S. Dispatch Co., Detroit, Mich.
____W. P. Fletcher, of ’70, is prospering in the commission business at St. Louis.
____Henry W. Ackhoff (Com’l), of ’70, holds a position in the Custom House, Chicago.
—Mrs. Hopkins, of Pueblo, Colorado, is at Notre Dame, visiting her son, Lisle Hopkins, of the Senior department.
—W. Ryan (Com’l), ’83, is Assistant Bookkeeper in his father’s large Pork-packing Establishment, in Dubuque, Iowa.
____Geo. P. McNally, of ’66, is a member of the firm of Rand, McNally & Co., Chicago, whose colossal printing and publishing house is one of the largest in the world.
____Mr. Herbert Fassett, of the South-Bend Register, accompanied by Mr. Martin. H. Price, editor of one of Indianapolis’s leading papers, visited the College this week.	'
____F. Kinsella (Com’l), of ’82, is in business in Dubuque, Iowa. Frank has many happy recollections of his college days, and promises "an early visit to his Alma Mater. .
____M. Kinsella (Com’l), of ’74,Js a.partner in a large hardware.store, in Dubuque, Iowa. Mike is a thorough-going business man, a genial gentleman, and one that reflects honor on his Alma Mater.
—Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., of Watertown, Wis., accompanied by Mr. E. A. Bray; of the Catholic Citizen, Milwaukee, arrived at the College yesterday, in time to. attend the celebration of the festival of St. Edward.	.
____J. Phelan (Com’l), of ’77, is a partner in a large .boot and shoe store with his father, in Du
buque, Iowa. John is pleased to meet old college friends, which he demonstrated in a most cordial manner the past vacation.	.
—Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, accompanied by his organist, Mr. H. Hoerstmann, paid us one of his genial visits this week. Mr. Hoerstmann, his companion, has been for thirty-six years a parochial school teacher.
—Among the visitors during the past week were, Carlisle Mason, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. Orlando Kimmell and wife, Ligonier, Ind.; Mr. Thomas J. McGuire, Clinton Co., Iowa; Mr. Dennis Peters, Troy, N. Y.; Mr. Henry McGill, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. David J. Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. A. Fife, Chicago, Ill.
—David J. Wile, of Laporte (Class of ’71)5 was at the College this week. Mr. Wile carries a very heavy law business, but it doesn’t seem to bother him much, for he is getting fleshy under the burden. Mr. Wile was, in days of yore, a leading member of various societies, among others the St. Cecilians and Thespians.
—Rt. Rev. Mgr. J. Benoit, Vicar-General of Fort Wayne, arrived at Notre Dame on Wednesday evening, and remained until Friday, the guest of Very Rev. Father Sorin. Mgr. Benoit, despite bis many years, looks hale and hearty, and, we are glad to say, bids fair for many another year of usefulness. His visits are always welcome.
—W. S. Bolton, of ’83, has passed a very successful examination at West Point, and is now a cadet at the Military Academy. He attributes his success, of course, to the training he received here. He likes his new life; he finds it harder than at Notre Dame, but expects to get used to it. He has the best wishes of his old friends for his continued success.
Local Items.
—Founder’s Day.
—Waddie wants “ rec.”
—He has adopted the calla lily.
—“Really, that is very elevating!”
—Be sure you write and go ahead.-
—The Bulletins were sent off last Thursday.
—The Juniors have a new “Rugby” football.
—Crehore still holds to the Republican party.
—The Euglossians appeared in full force last night.
o	—
—Competitions, next week, in the Collegiate Course.
—-Full reports of all the proceedings will be given in our next.	. r
—The devotions of the month of October are well attended every evening. -
—The entertainment last evening was short and excellent, and largelv attended.
—How many candidates for the Mason Medal figure in this week’s “List of Excellence”?
, .—The. students’ Retreat will be preached by Rev. D. J. Spillafd, C. S. C., Class of ’64.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
9i.
—On account of the rain, the field-sports have been postponed to another day.
—This afternoon, the regular fall field meeting of our Athletic Associations will take place.
—All are agreed that the shouts of “John Maynard!” and “Fire!” are somewhat mitre after 9 p. m.
—Prof. Hoy ne represented the F acuity on the occasion of the reception of Father Sorin, this morning.
. —103 Juniors appear on the “Roll of Honor” this week. This is a very good showing, boys, keep it up.
—All the Princes figure in the “ Roll of Honor” this week because of the festival day of their venerable Patron.
—The vocal room is rapidly approaching completion. It is to be elegantly fitted up for the use of the Orpheonics.
—The reason why Waddie did not ride the burro was because M — was a stockholder and would, not send her favorite out.
—The Minims desire to express their thanks to the Fathers and members of the Faculty who kindly donated prizes for the field sports.
—On the 7th, the Atlantics and the 2d nine of the Junior Club played a championship game of baseball. Score, 9 to 8 in favor of the Atlantics.
—No pains are spared to develop and perfect the Law department. A large and valuable collection of law books was added to the Library last week.
—The Senior dining-room has been handsomely and artistically decorated in honoi- of Very Rev. Father Sorin, the distinguished guest of the College to-day.
.—Signor Gregori and his son left for Detroit last Saturday evening. _ They have been engaged to do the fresco painting of the Pro-Cathedral in that city.
—The fifth and sixth Latin classes, and all the Grammar and Arithmetic classes in the Preparatory department were visited by the Director of Studies during the past week.
—Owing to the large attendance, it has been necessary to- divide the courses in Book-Keeping. A new commercial room is greatly needed, but it is a want which, we learn,-will be soon supplied.
—The result of the Ohio election has sadly demoralized the stalwart wing of the Republican party in this locality. At least he was observed to be in very bad humor on Wednesday afternoon.
—The work of lathing the interior of the Dome is now completed, and the plastering has begun and will be finished in a few weeks. The Dome, however, will not be opened to the public before the Christmas holidays.
—Last Thursday afternoon, an exciting game of football was played on the Senioi- Campus, between the Reds, captained by Charles. Murdock, and the Blues, byE. V. Chelini. After a well-
fought contest, the Reds won the prize—a barrel of fine apples.
—The address of the Seniors on last evenings was a creditable production, and well read. Master D. Taylor presented a fine address in behalf of the Juniors, while the Minims (the young Princes) were ably represented by Benjamin B. Lindsey, assisted by J. Wright and R. V. Pap:n.
—Frank Olds, Fred Hunt and James Barger went to Notre Dame yesterday on their bicycles, where they were entertained _ very pleasantly by Brother Paul and Messrs. Bannigan and Saviers. They made the trip down in about three hours, and the distance there and back is about 29 miles. —Elkhart Review.
—The regular meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held last Sunday evening, Rev. S. Fitte in the chair. T. E. Steele read an interesting and instructive paper on “Revelation,” and was warmly applauded. N. H. Ewing and E. A. Otis were appointed to prepare papers for' the next meeting. After some instruction from Rev. Father Fitte, the meeting adjourned.
—When the lecture season begins, our friend John will deliver his famous lecture on “ Patagonia.” His tale of travel and adventures in that country, and description. of the beauties with which it is covered, will cause the greatest interest and wonder among his auditors. After the lecture, copies can be procured at the office for the nominal price of fifty cents. Order early, as only one edition will be printed.
—The 6th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia P hilomathean Association was held Oct. 10th. Masters Monschein and Stubbs were elected members. A debate on “ Classical Education ” was held between C. Porter and F. Dexter, ably assisted by D. Taylor and W. Mug. Essays were read by G. Schaefer, W. Schott, and W. P. Mahon. Public readers for this week are J. Fendrich, W. P. Mahon, Jos. Courtney, D. Taylor, J. McDonald and E. Porter.
—We are glad to see Bro. Anselm, the genial and energetic Director of the Orpheonics, around once more. He is now rapidly recovering from his late severe illness, and will soon be as active as ever. The Orpheonics were greatly missed on last evening, but, owing to the -illness of their Director, they were not prepared to make their debut. But they will soon be in active training, and during the long winter nights many an occasion will present itself when they can entertain their friends.
—Most Rev. P. W. Riordan, Coadjutor Archbishop of San F rancisco, arrived last evening, and was heartily welcomed by the Faculty and students. Archbishop Riordan was an honored guest at the entertainment in celebration of St. Edward’s Day, and made most appropriate closing remarks. He feelingly referred to his own college days at Notre Dame, and the love he always retained for his Alma Mater, and concluded by earnestly advising the students to realize their present opportunities and profit by them.
92	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,

—At the 40th annual celebration of the Festival of St. Edward—Patronal Festival of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and Founder of Notre Dame—by the Euglossian Association, the following programme was carried out last evening:
Music (Quickstep)—“The Vanguard ”.N. D. U. C. B. Song—“Then You’ll Remember Me!”...T. Cleary Address from the Minims: B. Lindsey, R. Papin, J. Wright Address from the Juniors..........D. Taylor
Song—“The Bend of the River”.........H. Foote
Address from the Seniors...........C.	A. Tinley
Overture—“ Othello ” {Rossini).University Orchestra
Prologue...............................J. Solon
Music—La Gazza Ladra.............String Quartette
CATALINE.
(yLz Historical Drama in Three Acts.)
Characters :
. E. A. Otis .. .J. Solon D. Saviers J. Conway O- Spencer .... A. Coll
Cicero......................................
Caisar......................................
Catiline....................................
Cassius.....................................
Cethegus....................................
Manlius.....................................
Lentulus...................................A.	Browne
Autronius.....................................H. Steis
Petrius..................................J.	E. Rudge
Faesulanus..............................F.	Callaghan
Sextus.................................W.	C. Orchard
Mettelus.................................J. Kleiber
Senators, Lictors, Guards, Soldiers, etc. Epilogue.................................E. A. Otis
TABLEAU.
Closing Remarks.....Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C.
Music—“Flying Dragoon”...............N. D. U. C. B.
The programme for to-day (the 13th) is as follows:
Solemn High Mass........................... 8	a. m.
Reception by the Faculty................... 10	“	“
Regatta..................................10.30“	“
Minim Field Sports......................... 11	“	“
Dinner.................................... 12	m.
Junior Field Sports........................ 2	p. m.
Senior Field Sports......................3.30	“ “
Supper..................................... 6	“	“
Soiree__'..............................  7.30	“	“
Roll of Honor.
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchando, Aguilera, Banigan, Bowers, Burns, Brosseau, Barron, Buchanan, Becerra, J. Burke, Browne, Combe, J. Carroll, Coll, Cussen, Callan, Cass, Cartier, Jas. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Creel, Celia, Conway, A. Coghlin, Callaghan, Chelini, Connell, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf, Donohue, Dolan, A. Dennis, Eisenhauer, Fishel, Fogerty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, Gonsor, .Goulding, Gonzalez, Gieser, Gutierrez, Gray, Garret, J. Gallagher, Godfrey, Henderson, Howard, Hopkins, Hellebush, Hausberg, Handy, Johnston, Jones, Kerndt, Kimmel, Kaufmann, Kolars, Kleiber, Lucas, Larkin, Long, McErlaine, Mahon, McCabe, McKinnery, Mathers, Marquez, Mittendorf, McIntyre, T. McNamara, J. McNamara. Neeson, O’Connell, G. O’Brien, Eugene O’Brien,- Ott, O’Kane, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Rourke, Otis, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Kavanagh, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Shea, Stull, Stover, Steis, Shields, Spencer, Saviers, Solon, G. Smith, Tinley, Teasdale, F. Uranga, J. Uranga, C. Warner, Wilson, Whalen, Jno. Wagoner, Wheatley, Wall.
-	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. _
Masters. Aiken, Arnold, Anchando, Borgschulze, Berthe-let, Baur, Barclay, E. Chirhart, A. Chirhart, J. Courtney, Curtis, Chaves, Caveroc, Cartier, Cleary, Clarke, Costigan, Cassilly, Dwenger, Dorenberg, - Dexter, Dennis, Eisenhauer, Fendrich, Fierro, H. Foote, Gerlach, E. Gimbel, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth;- Hemisbaugh, E. How
ard, Halligan, B. Henry, J. Henry, W. Henry, Houlihan, Hagen, Hopkins, Houck, J. Hetz, Holman, Johnson, King, J. Kelly, Letcher, G. Lewis, Leony, Mulkern, Monschein, Mullane, A. Miller, A. Meyer, Menig, McGee, Mason, Mahon, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, McDonnell,‘Marcott, Metz. Mug, Muhler, O’Brien, J P. O’Donnell. C. Porter, E. Porter, Pohl, Rogers, Regan, Rothschilds, Reynolds, E. Ryan, Shea, Sedberry, Schmauss, L. Scheurman, M. Scheurman, Schott, Schaefer, Stumer, Smith, Stitt, Stubbs, Saunders, D. Taylor, -Tarrant, Violette, Wile, Wagoner, Wabrauschek, Waixel, Weber, Fehr.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	,
Masters Ackerman, Amoretti, Adams, H. Addington, J. Addington, Bunker, Brown, Boos, Butterfield, Benner, Crawford, Curtis, Crotty, Cole, E. Costigan, Cummings, Dirksmeyer, Delaplane, W. Devine, Dungan, Drown, Devereux, Ernest, Fitzgerald,Garrity, Gonzalez, Grunsfeld, Henry, Keefe, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Krause, LaTourette, Landenwich, Lowenstein, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Loya, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McNally, F. McGuire, W. McGuire, McGill, McPhee, McVeigh, Morrison, Morgan, F Mullen, A. Mullen, Moye, Meehan, Nusbaum, Noonan, F. Nester, A. Nester, O’Connor, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, Otis, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Quinlin, Quiggle, Rebori, Stange, Studebaker, Schmitz, Schoneman, Salman, Sokup, Steele, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, L. Scherrer, Smith, Stewart, Spencer, Thomas, W. Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, Weston, Welch, West, Wright, L. Young, C. Y oung.
Glass Honors.
[ In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Grothaus, Mulkern, Berthelet, Holbrook, S. O’Brien, Reynolds, McDonnell, Wilson, Monschein, Jno. Shea, Pour, G. O’Brien, W. Cartier, Dexter, Ott, O’Dea, J. Burke, J. McNamara, L. Cavanagh.
List of Excellence.
[ The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of studies.]	-	'
. PREPARATORY and commercial courses.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. Hellebush, Deaderich, Cleary, Rogers, Monscheim, Caveroc, Muhler, J. Shea, Hagen; Grammar—Messrs. J. McNamara, G. O’Brien, B. C. Ciissan, Warner, T. Taylor, Violette, J. McGordon, Seegers, Murphy, Terrazas, P. Johnson, T. McGill, F. Waixel, A. Howard, Clarke, Weber, S. O’Brien, W. Wright, Foote, Wall, W. O’Connor, Hafner, Cleary, E. Porter, Yrisarri, McDonnell, Mulkern, Monscheim, Holbrook, Cassily, Gerlach, Hagenbarth, W. Henry, Sykes, Mahon, Ott; Arithmetic—Messrs. Leffingwell, Cussen, W. Mahon, C. Warner, Weiler, J. Garrity, P. Wagoner, E. Howard, Arnold, Cleary, E. Ryan, T. Williamson, Holman, Divine, Gimble, Deaderich; United States. History—Messrs. DeWolf, W. Mahon, P. Warren, W. Cartier, O’Connell; Geography— Messrs. W. Cartier, G. O’Brien, O’Connell, Kerndt, O’Rourke, Gonser, J. Hopkins, Menig, Gimble, Regan, Harris, King, Weber, Caveroc; Algebra—Messrs. Celia, Halligan, J. Smith, Gerlach, W. Cartier, J. Burns, Costigan, J. Eisenhauer, McDonnell, T. Carroll, Orchard; Latin—Messrs. Reach, J. Smith, Hagenbarth; Greek— Messrs. Schott, W. Henry; Book-Keeping—Messrs. Wilson, Fogarty, Berthelet, Jno. Shea, Monscheim, Hafner, Newman, W. Cartier, Holbrook, Ott; Penmanship— Messrs. Gutierrez, Creel, Fishel, Foster, Gerlach, Stumer.
. "	, For the Dome.
Mrs. Cr C. Connelly.......................... $500
Miss C. C. Connelly.....................;.....	5.00
- C. C. Connelly...............  ;........... 5.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
93
Saint JHavy's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—On Sunday the usual monthly Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament took place; the Catholic pupils all, as usual, approaching the Holy Table at the early Mass.
—The list of Competitions show that no time has been subtracted from class duties to be given to the lighter, but fax* from unimportant, pastimes which impart gracefulness and self-possession to those who engage in them.
. —In the Competition in Geography of the Second Preparatory Class, Manuelita Chaves and Sadie Campeau deserve special mention for readi-iness, clearness, and accuracy of recital, and marked superiority over all other competitors.
—On Tuesday, at three o’clock, release from class duties was granted to the young ladies, in, honor of the feast of their Prefect of Discipline. A walk and a most palatable collation gave zest to the occasion and made the day very pleasant to all.
—At the regular Academic reunion, Miss Anna Murphy recited, with excellent effect, “Asleep at the Switch,” and Miss Mattie Munger rendered “How Rubenstein played,” in a very amusing manner. Even the grave Chaplain could not control his risibility.	.
—The Etruscan gold cross for elegant-deportment is worn for the first time this week. On Sunday, six young ladies who had distinguished themselves among the most courteous and obliging were accorded the unusual pleasure of a visit to Notre Dame, where Very Rev. Father General paid them the honor of superintending the award. Misses Ashton, Bruhn, Fendrich, Gove, Reilly and Munger drew for the prize. Miss Bruhn was the successful one.
—To excite emulation in the First Preparatory Grammar Class, a little prize was offered for those who did not miss during the week, and on Saturday the following young ladies drew for it: the Misses C. Babcock, B. English, M. Fisk, C. Fehr, A. Gavan, Alice and Addie Gordon, L. Heneberry, H. Jackson, C. Lucas, E. Kearns, W. Lintnef, A. Mooney, W. Moshier, C. Richmond, G. Regan, A. Ryan, M. Scully, B. Snowhook and M. Schmidt. The fortunate winner was Miss Babcock.
—By mistake, the name of Rachel Metz was omitted from the list of those who drew last week for the badge of politeness in the Junior department. The competitors for this week are: Misses Barth, Cummings, Chaves, Campeau, Dillon, Dodge, A. English, Fehr, Helen, Ella and Sybil Jackson, Keyes, Lord, McEwen, Malboeuf, Murphy, Metz, Naylor, M. Papin, Richmond, Regan, Roddin, Shephard, Sheekey, Schmidt, Stumer, Snowhook, ’ Scott, Turpie and Wolvin. The badge fell to Minnie Schmidt.	'	.
\ -
—Sunday, Oct. 7 th, was the three hundredth and twelfth anniversary, to a day, of the famous battle of Lepanto, which was gained by the Christians against an overwhelming Turkish force, and secured, as it is piously believed, by the prayers of the faithful who were at the same time reciting the Rosary in the churches of Rome for the success of the Christians. The Society of the Holy Rosary was reorganized, and the following officers were elected: President, Miss Louise English; Vice-President, Miss Sophia Papin; Secretary, Miss Emma Neu; Treasurer, Miss Louise Black.
—Miss Kate Young, of Class ’72, has donated an exquisitely painted badge to the Freach Classes. On Father General as the head of the French department devolves the disposition to be made of the beautiful gift. As a compliment to the Feast of St. Edward, the young lady who is to read the French address will wear the badge. On the streamers are painted the “ Marguerites ”—the favorite flower of France. Very Rev. Father has decided that, as an award, an article so unique in its beauty should be reserved until the marked proficiency of the progress in French shall warrant the competition.	.
—Visitors at the Academy during the past week were: Rev. J. Staufs, Manchester, Mich.; Mr. Blossom, Jamestown, Dakota; Mrs. F. T. Jackson, U. S. A., Fort Sully, Dakota; Mrs. P. Ducey, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. T. L. Starr, Hudson, Ohio; Mr. Wm. Brown, Louisville, Ky.; Mrs. L. E. Scott, Miss Angela Wells, Mrs. Susan Kersey, Mr. W. Russell, Chicago; Mr. Trucou, New Orleans, La.; Mrs. J. L. Bailey, Denver, Col.; Mrs. H. C. Platte, Mrs. L. Platte, Niles, Mich.; A. B. Younkmen, M. D., and Mrs. Younk-men, Bremen, Ind.; Mrs. O’Hara, Mr. Charles Quinn, Miss Quinn, Mrs. A. W. Webster, Walkerville, Ind.; Mrs. Gould, Mr. Charles Brown, Marenetti, Wis.; Miss O. Robbins, Benton Harbor, Mich.
.—The delight of the Minims on Wednesday, the 28th ult., may be better imagined than described when they were summoned by their Prefect and then* French teacher to take a walk to Notre Dame. To them, never was a day more delightful, and, we think, few, since that unlucky buggy capsized, were more pleasant to Very.Rev. Father General, for the enthusiastic little group stormed -his castle and took possession, which act of invasion broke the monotony of his long imprisonment. Marie Lindsey addressed him neatly, and appropriately in poetry, Lala Chapin and Grace Papin ■ spoke to him in his beautiful vernacular, and all the charming little accomplishments of which the Minims of ’83 are mistresses were brought into requisition to amuse their venerable and urbane host. Some one had considerately placed a box of confectionaries on the programme, but the young people did not let it remain there long. Bon-bons were distributed broadcast, and rosy lips and cheeks, bright eyes and smiles, borne homeward on the lightest of light feet, reached St. Mary’s in time for dinner, which, however, they considera
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tely declined, as a sumptuous repast had been prepared for them at the Convent. Everybody was made more cheerful by witnessing the exuberant happiness of the artless little Minims.
—The following is the programme of the Annual Entertainment to be given this (Saturday) afternoon at 3 o’clock—Feast of St. Edward, Patronal Festival of Very Rev. Father General, the venerable Founder of St. Mary’s Academy:
Entrance Sonata....................C.M. Von Weber
Misses L. Fendrich and J. Reilly.
A Garland of Memory and Hope........Miss C. Campbell Festgruss..........................Miss	C. Ginz
Chorus................................Mendelssohn
Vocal Class, Acc’d by Miss M. Cummings. Souhaits de Bonheur......................Miss	E. Call
Welcome from the Junior Department, Miss L. Van Horn Music—A Scottish Gem...................Miss	M. Hunt
Joyful Voices from Bright Minims.
By Special Request, Mrs. Nightingale will give a Rehearsal, by her Warbling Class.
Mrs. Nightingale, Miss Agnes English; Chorus, Juniors Cascade du Chandron........................Bendel
■ Miss B. Gove.
ST. ROSE OF LIMA.
(An Original Drama, in Two Acts.)
Dramatis Personae.
Dona Rose Florez...................Miss M. Murphy
“ Florez.........................Miss E. Sheekey
“ Herrera...........................Miss M. Hunt
“ Venergas.......................Miss	C. Campbell
“ Quignonez.........................Miss E. Todd
“ Mexia..........................Miss M. Munger
“ Serreno...........................Miss C. Ginz
“ Marianne.......................Miss L. Williams
“ Michelle.......................Miss C. Babcock
“ Petria.........................Miss L. Spotwood
St. Catharine of Sienna...............Miss B. Gove
- Prologue...........................Miss	M. Munger
Vocal Duett from Der Fraschutz.....C. M. Von Weber ‘	Misses Reilly and Bruhn.
Act ist, Scenes ist, 2d. Lucia di Lammermoor (Sextuor Finale).......Willmers
Miss J. Reilly.
Scenes 3d, 4TH.
Vocal Trio..............................Randegger
Misses B. English, Hale and Neu. '
Scene 5TH.
Song—“ Salve Maria"......................Mercadante
* Miss J. Reilly. Act 2D, Scene, ist.
Concerto, G Minor.......................Mendelssohn
Miss L. Fendrich.
tableau. Music....................................Schubert
Misses M. Beal and E. Neu. ' Closing Remarks, Retiring March.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Adderly, Allen, Ashton, A. Babcock> C. Babcock, Bruhn, Beal, Black, Billings, Call, Campbell, Carney, Cummings, Dunne, Duffield, Danforth, Dowling,. Dungan, L. English, B. English, Evarts, Fendrich, Fitzpatrick, Fogerty, Fisk, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Ginz,
Gove, Gavan, Gage, Heneberry, Helpling, Heckard, Hunt, Hale, Hack, Horn, Holt, Hart, Johnson, Keenan, Kearns, Kearney, Kearsey, Keating, King, Legnard, Lintner, Lea-high, Munger, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, Mohl, McCarthy, Neu, O’Connell, L. Priestman, M. Priestman, Papin, Platte, Quill, Reilly, Ryan, Russell, Reynolds, Ramsey, Rosing, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, Sheekey, Schmaltz, Sear, L. Spotwood, Todd, Udall, Vandebogart, Weckler, L. Williams, Wilson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses I. Allen, M. Allen, Best, Bailey, Barth, Cummings, Chaves, Dillon, Dodge, Ducey, Eldred, A. English, Fehr, Halsey, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S Jackson, Keyes, Lord, Lucas, McEwen, Murphy, Malboeuf, Metz, Papin, Richmond, Regan, Roddin, Shephard, M. Schmidt, Stumer, Sheekey, Snowhook, Turpie, Van Horn, Wolvin. 2d Tablet—Misses Brown, Morrison, Naylor, Scott.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses L. Chapin, Ducey, J. English, L. Johns, V. Johns, Lindsey, Murray, G. Papin, Paul, Reynolds, Schmauss, Van Fleet.
Glass Honors
[The following-named young ladies have been best in class—according to competitions held during the month.[
Geology—Misses Fendrich, Johnson, Todd; Logic— Misses Ginz, Keenan, Dunn, Call, Papin, Gove, Sheekey, Campbell, Ashton; French—Misses Duffield, Gove, Holt, Ashton, Lord, Dungan; Literature—Misses Gove, Dunn, Keenan, Duffield, Papin, Sheekey, Ginz, Ramsey, Rosing; Rhetoric—Misses Danforth, Heckard, L. English, L. Williams, S.JSt. Clair, L. St. Clair, Munger, Rosing, Black, Carney, Bi uhn, Helpling, Dungan, Wilson, B. Kearney, Morrison, A. Babcock, M. Dillon; History—Misses Gove, Keenan, Call, Dunn, Papin, Sheekey, C. Ginz, Ramsey, Heckard,- Munger, L. English, Danforth, Williams, Rosing, Black, Dungan, Kearney, A. Murphy, E. O’Connell, Keyes, Hunt, Wilson, Wolvin, Legnard, E. Sheekey, Vandebogart, Kearsey, A. Babcock, Horn, Shephard, Lucas; Chemistry—Misses Danforth, Heckard, L. English, Mohl, Cummings, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Helpling, Carney, L. Williams, Munger; Arithmetic—Misses Kearsey, Hale, Rosing, Hart, Hunt, A. Babcock, Vandebogart, Shephard, A. Allen, I. Allen, Dillon, Morrison, Wolvin, Legnard, O’Connell, Lintner, Sear, Reynolds, Keyes, A. Duffield, A. Mooney, Dungan; Grammar—Misses Kearns, Ryan, C. Babcock, Mooney, Lintner, Gavan, B. English, Heneberry, Fisk, Scully, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Richmond, Van Horn, Moshier, Regan, Snowhook, Schmidt, Lucas, Jackson; United States History—Misses G. Regan, Richmond, Moshier, Spotwood, Schmidt, Lintner, Dodge, Ryan, Fisk, Kearns, Fehr, Snowhoook, Van Horn, Halsey; Geography—Misses Campeau, Chaves, Lord, Best, Cummings, Brown, Otis, Rqddin, Turpie, Leahigh.
“ You certainly play very well,” said the musicteacher, encouragingly; “but you have not had good instruction. If you will promise to practice four hours daily, I will make an artist of you in two years, and only charge you my regular rates. By the way, where do you live?” .“Next door; just got lodgings there.” - “Oh! ah! yes—I forgot to say that your fingering is bad, and it is now too late to correct it. Take my advice, and give up music altogether.”
A contemporary mentions a case beyond the ordinary oculist: it is that of a young lady who, in- • stead of a pupil, has a professor in her eye.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
95
THREE GREAT CITIES OF THE WEST
LINKED TOGETHER BY THE
Chicago & Alton Railroad
No Cbange of Cars) WM*
0F Shen ASS ) ST. LOUIS & KANSAS CITY.
Union Depots in EAST ST. LOUIS, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS CITY, and CHICAGO. No other line runs
PALACE DINING CARS between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY. Meals equal to those served in any First-Class Hotel, only 75 cents.
The finest
PALACE RECLINING CHAIR CARS in the world are run in all Through Trains, day and night, without change, and FREE OF EXTRA CHARGE.
Pullman Palace SleepingCars
the finest, best and safest in use anywhere.
The best and quickest route from CHICAGO TO MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS, and all points SOUTH via ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Texas, Sansas, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Nebraska, Oregon, California, etc.
The GREAT EXCURSION ROUTE between the NORTH and SOUTH, and to and from KANSAS LANDS and COLORADO HEALTH RESORTS and MINING DISTRICTS.
See that your tickets read via “CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD.”
For Maps, Time Tables, and all information, address JAMES CHARLTON,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, 210 Dearborn Street, Comer Adams Street,
CHICAGO, ILL. J. C. McMULLIN, General Manager.
EDWARD L. WILSON’S
i	PERSONALLY PHOTOGRAPHED VIEWS OF
THE ORIENT,
EGYPT, ARABIA PALESTINE
i	For the Magic Lantern, -
;	For the Craphoscope,.
'	For the Stereoscope,
! For Archceologists, Architects, Geologists, Bible Stu' dents, Antiquarians, Artists, and all lovers of the beautiful.
! This Grand Collection is Unique.
Made During the First Half of 1882.
1 A FULL CATALOGUE SENT FREE.
। Also my own views of Naples, Pompeii, Herculaneum
• Rome, Paris, and London.
i Stereoscopic Size, ----- $3.00 Per Dozen
i 8 x 10 inches, -----	$9.00 Per Dozen
I
I	'
!	Careful selections made personally.
| EDWARD L. WILSON,
Publisher of Photographic Books.
|	912 and 914 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILAD’A.
! api4-ym	(Second Floor.)
! ----:-----------------------------’
I	-
G. F. NEYIUS,
DENTIST.
Office—101 Michigan, cor. of Washington- St.;
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome < f the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal
Statue of »he Blessed Virgin Mary.
- Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price, -	-	- gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children’s Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire to know the condition of their children’s teeth.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, postpaid, -	-	-	-	$1.00
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
814 Arch St., Philadelphia, Pa.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NEW BOOKS.
ARNOLD i LANDVOIGT, (E. F. Arnold, class of '73.1 Attorneys-at-Law, 181 0 Street, South East. Washington, D. 0. Practice in the District Courts, and Court of Claims, before the Executive Departments and Committees of Congress. Special attention given to securing Patents, Pensions, and to Claims of all kinds.
The Household Library of Catholic
Poets, from Chaucer to the present Day. The only work of its kind in the Language. Subscription Edition (with an admirable portrait of Chaucer). Price, post free, $5.00; Cheap Edition, -	-	-	-	- $2 00
The American Elocutionist and Dra-
matic Reader, for the Use of Colleges, Academies, and Schools. Contains the celebrated Drama of “ The Recognition.” 46S pp. Price, -----	1 50
NEW PLAYS.
For Male Characters Only.
If I Were a King. A Drama in Four (4) Acts. Postage free. Price, -------	50c.
Le Bourgeois Centilhomme; or, The
Upstart. A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted irom the French of Moliere. Postage free. Price, -	-	25c.
Rogueries of Scapin . A Corned j. T'i an slated from the French. Price, ------	25c.
The Malediction. A Drama in Three Acts. Translated and adapted from the French. Price, - 50c. Other dramas are in course of preparation.
A liberal discount to dealers and those purchasing in quantities.
Address .- JOSEPH A. LYONS, Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Maj' 27, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows :
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.00 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland,' 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55-ji.m.
9.10 p.m., Atl antic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3.55 a.m.
6.21 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.28 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.55 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.50 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.20 a.m. Chicago, 10.40 a.m.
1.30 pm., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 p.m.; Chicago, 8.00 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W- CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
•AV. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P- P- WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
The ’ Minim- Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN-
TRY WILLSEE BY EXAMINING THISMAPTHATTHE
CfflCMBOMLMDiPACIFICR'T Calls the attention of travelers to the central posi-tion of its line, connecting the East and the west by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Blufls, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Beelining Chair cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri Biver Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville. Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express -Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
~ GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address
R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN, Vice-Pre*. A Gen’l M’«r,	Gen’l nt. 4 Agfa
CHICAGO.