I
Vol. XXI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 19, 188S.	No. 35.
'[Selected.]
The Blessed Virgin.
This is indeed the blessed Mary’s land;
Virgin and Mother of our dear Redeemer: All hearts are touched and softened at her name— Alike the bandit, with the bloody hand, The priest, the prince, the scholar, and the peasant, The man of deeds, the visionary dreamer, Pay homage to her as one ever present!
And even as children, who have much offended A too-indulgent father, in great shame, Penitent, and yet not daring unattended To go into his presence, at the gate Speak with their sister, and confiding wait, Till she goes in before and intercedes;
So men, repenting of their evil deeds, And yet not venturing rashly to draw near With their requests an angry Father’s ear, Offer to her their prayers and their confession, And she for them in heaven makes intercession. And if our faith had given us nothing more Than this example of all womanhood, So mild, so merciful, so strong, so good,.
So patient, peaceful, loyal, loving, pure, This were enough to prove it higher and truer Than all the creeds the world had known before.
Military Life and Army Organization.
BY PROF. WM. HOYNES, LL. B., A. M.
It is safe to say that the militia and volunteer forces must ever constitute the main dependence of the United States in time of war. A large standing army is justly regarded as antagonistic to the settled policy of the Republic and the true interests of the people. From the industrial pursuits it withdraws for a term of years large numbers of men, and the duties to which it accustoms them tend to diminish their capacity for engaging afterward with activity and success in the practical
concerns of business, trade or professional life. -Besides, when a standing army is large the people in general become discontented, and the honorable calling of soldier suffers greatly in their estimation. Begrudgingly they furnish the necessary supplies, and parsimoniously they pay for the military services rendered. But not so when the army is comparatively small. Then it is regarded as necessary to the protection of public property and the enforcement of the laws. The men composing it are treated with due consideration, respect and generosity. They are credited. with rendering important and valuable services for everything they receive. So it is with reference to our own small army. Those composing it hold honorable rank in the social and governmental plan, and not a word is heard against treating them with generosity in the matter of subsistence and pay. Military life, so far as they are concerned, is popularly viewed as honorable and glorious. As applied to them, the public find no fault with the sentiment embodied in the lines—
“ For gold the merchant plows the main;
The farmer plows the manor;
But glory is the soldier’s prize, The soldier’s wealth is honor.’’
The existing status of affairs realizes the true policy of our Government. But it would be otherwise if the army were largely increased. If its maintenance were felt to be a burden—if it were thought to be unnecessarily large and costly—the soldier would soon fall from his proud position in popular estimation. The dissatisfaction with and murmurs against the army as a whole would not be likely to pause upon the line of discrimination between the whole and its parts. We may see this tendency in the case even of the volunteers who fought in the War of the Rebellion. Many of them have become old, feeble and incapacitated
54s
T&& AOtkE DAMk sdiOLAStlC.
for work. Not a few of them, indeed, have become recipients of public charity, and inmates of asylums and almshouses. And yet a strong protest is heard against all propositions that look to the pensioning of these unfortunates. It matters not that the services they rendered contributed to preserve our institutions from destruction. By preserving the integrity of the Union, and preventing it from being divided into two or more hostile parts, the volunteers of the late war deserve well of the country. By their services the people have escaped the expense of maintaining large standing armies in each of these sections. The people have thus saved more than enough to maintain in comfort every old soldier now suffering in poverty and helplessness. Yet the cry that the pension list is too large seems to make it appear impracticable to recognize the equity and justice of their claims. The war in • which they took part saved republican government from becoming a synonym of weakness, if not a memory of the past. But notwithstanding that fact, only a minority of our citizens appear to cherish a sense of gratitude sufficiently active and pronounced to favor a policy designed to leave no old soldier of honorable record in a poorhouse. Such being the prevailing sentiment with respect to the old soldiers, how much stronger would not the feeling be if directed against a large standing army and the burdensome expenses incident to its maintenance? But it would be supererogatory to dwell upon a fact so selfevident.
At the same time, however, it must be admitted that it is of signal importance to have the people accustomed to the use of fire arms and familiar with army tactics. The smaller the standing army, the greater will be the interest in martial display, and the stronger the tendency to form militia or. ganizations. In such case, martial life is regarded as specially honorable and creditable, and occasional exhibitions of it are attended with manifestations of favor and enthusiasm quite gratifying to common vanity. It is hardly necessary to say that it is consonant with a wise public policy to encourage and promote the organization of militia companies’and regiments. Large numbers of young men voluntarily enter these organizations, learn the use of. fire-arms, and become accustomed to drilling. This they do without noteworthy expense to the State.' Thus the Government is placed in a position to re-; cruit a disciplined soldiery in case of war, and at: the same time it avoids the irritation and expense; incident to maintaining a large standing army,muclr to the wonder and envy, of the nations of EuropeJ
This policy should include young men attending colleges and universities, as well as those engaged in the various trades, occupations and callings. But some of our public officials, unfortunately, do not appear to take this broad view of the matter. They seem to think that no higher motive than the mere amusement of the boys exists for including students in these voluntary organizations. Personally, I am far from sharing such narrow views. To me it seems that military knowledge voluntarily acquired by students in a collegiate course is particularly conducive to the public welfare, as it renders them more capable of discharging creditably their duties to the state in war, as well as in peace. It more thoroughly equips for.the duties of citizenship young men likely to take placed more or less prominent in civil life—young men who, without this primary impulse toward military affairs in college days, would seldom think of entering the local militia organizations after returning to their respective homes.
At Notre Dame young men possessing the military spirit in anything like a pronounced degree, have for several years been afforded all reasonable facilities for gratifying their taste in.that direction. That they have not been wanting in a disposition to avail themselves of these opportunities is amply proved by the fact that we now have here probably a larger and more efficient cadet organization than can be found in connection with any other university in the country. The young men composing the organization have been fully instructed in the manual of arms and all the ordinary movements in marching. The devoted and efficient officers under.whose immediate charge they are, have faithfully performed their duties in that respect. It would be quite superfluous for me to supplement their work with remarks relative to matters properly taught in what is technically called the school of the soldier, or the school of the company. This evening I propose to say something about military affairs in their larger aspect. What I have to say will deal with military organization in its more comprehensive and practical features. It may-be well also to state by way of explanation that I shall seek to make my remarks embody as much information as possible in the fewest words consistent with clearness.
A military company comprises from 50 to 100 men. There are ten companies in a regiment of infantry, and twelve in a regiment of cavalry. In a battery of artillery there are six field-guns. In a company are three, commissioned officers and from ten to thirteen non-commissioned officers.
HotliJE bAAte SCHOLASTIC.

The commissioned officers are a captain and two lieutenants, while the non-commissioned officers usually number five sergeants, including the orderly, and as many corporals. Formerly there were eight corporals in a full company. The company is under the immediate command of the captain. He is held responsible for the discipline, soldierly bearing and general efficiency of the men. The regimental organization consists of a colonel, lieutenant-colonel, major, adjutant, quartermaster, chaplain, surgeon and assistant, and sergeant-major. The colonel is the commanding officer. He is assisted by the lieutenant-colonel and major. They stand with reference to the regiment in much the same position as that in which the captain and first and second'lieutenants stand with reference to the company. In the line of promotion the officers who have been longest in the service have preference. The companies forming a regiment are generally lettered with reference to the time of organization. For example, the company first filled and ready for service is called Co. “A,” the next Co. “B,” the next Co. “C,” etc. The position of Co. “A,” is on the right of the regiment, while that of Co. “ B,” is on the left. -Co. “ C,” which has charge of the regimental colors, and is consequently known as the color company, is placed in the centre. The color-guard which is specially detailed from other companies, is composed of a sergeant and seven corporals. Between these in like order, are arranged companies “D,” “E,” “F,” “G,”“H,” “I,”and «K.” In camp the tents of the companies are placed in rows with reference to the positions they respectively take on wheeling into regimental line. The parade and drill ground is on the right of these rows of tents, the range of vision being from Co. « A,” to Co. “ B.” On the left are the tents of the captains and lieutenants, the sergeants, corporals and enlisted men being together. Further to the left, and as near the centre of the regiment as practicable, are the tents of the colonel and other regimental officers.
The headquarters of the police guard, which is composed of details of men taken every 24 hours from the several companies, are usually on the parade or color-front of the camp, and at a point not remote from the right of the line. While on duty, the guards are not under the immediate command of their company officers. They are commanded by a lieutenant, who acts under supervision of a captain known for the time as “ officer of the day.” These are detailed successively from the different companies of the regiment. A police guard usually comprises two sergeants, three corporals
and two drummers, trumpeters or buglers, together with the required number of private soldiers. The number of soldiers detailed for the guard fluctuates with the requirements of the service. The guard is divided into three reliefs, each of which succeeds the other every two hours. Ten sentinels of each relief are posted at and around the camp: One is placed over the arms of the guard, another is posted at the colonel’s tent, a third has charge of the colors, three are posted on the color-front, three others are posted about 50 paces in real' of the field officers’ tents, and one is posted on each flank when there are other regiments on either side. If the regiment be alone two sentinels are placed on each flank. An advanced post is commonly detached? from the police guard. It comprises a sergeant, corporal, drummer or bugler and nine men. At this post three sentinels are kept on duty. Two of them are a few paces in front of the post, on the right and left flanks of the regiment, and so posted as to be able to see well to the front, while the other keeps watch over the arms. Neither officers nor soldiers are allowed to take off their accoutrements while on guard. The sentinels are required to note everything that takes place within sight or hearing. While on duty they walk to and fro on their respective posts. They walk in the same direction, so that each may keep in view the post of the man in front when his back is turned. A sentinel may incur the penalty of death for leaving his post without permission, should a court-martial see fit so to decree. Where a call is made at some point on the line remote from the guard-tent, it is successively repeated by the sentinels between such point and the guard rendezvous, and the corporal of the guard, on hearing it, starts at once for the post bearing the number of the call. Should the sentinel on post No. 7 fall sick, the call would be, « Relief, Corporal of the Guard, No. 7.” In such case the corporal would take a substitute to the post and relieve the sick man. From “retreat” in the evening until broad daylight a sentinel challenges every person that approaches him. When challenging he takes the position of charge bayonets. He permits no person to approach nearer than eight feet without giving the countersign. When he sees a person approaching, he calls out: “Who comes there?” If answered, “Friend, with the countersign,” he says: “Advance, friend,with the countersign.” If several be approaching him and, in response to his question, the answer is “Friends!” he calls out, “Halt, friends; advance one with the countersign.” Should, the answer.be “Relief, Grand Rounds,” the sentinel calls- out,.
548	THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC
“Halt, Grand Rounds; advance, commander, with the countersign.” When this is done, and the countersign given him, he says, “Advance, Rounds 1” Where a person without the countersign is challenged, in answer to his acknowledgment of the fact that he is without it, the sentinel orders, “Advance to be recognized.” When the person approaching is mounted, he should be required to dismount and then advance with the countersign. In receiving it, the sentinel takes the position of charge bayonets. When speaking with persons under other circumstances, he takes the position of “armsport.” About midnight the officer of the day makes the “ grand rounds.” In doing so, he takes with him a non-commissioned officer and two privates. This escort marches in front of him. They visit the sentinels on the different posts around the camp, with a view to ascertaining whether the men are vigilant and attentive to duty. Sometimes the sentinel furthest from the guard-tent is instructed to call out about midnight, “12 o’clock, and all’s well!” This is repeated until it reaches the sentinel next to the guard-tent, who changes it into “All well round.” A soldier who gives thecoun-tersign, parole or watchword to a person not entitled to receive it max' be punished with death, should a court-martial so decree.	-
The countersign is usually the name of a battle, as “ Shiloh,” “ Gettysburg)!,” etc. It is given daily to guards, sentinels, and others authorized to receive it, with a view to enabling them to identify persons at night, to know whom to allow to pass their posts, and to facilitate the performance of the police regulations of the camp. The officer of the guard receives dailv before “ retreat ” at the headquarters of the command both the countersign and parole. Before twilight he communicates the countersign to the guards. Should a guard desert, these words would have to be changed as soon afterward as possible.
The parole is ordinarily the name of a general or public personage, as “ Sherman ” or « Lincoln.” It is given to officers commanding the guards, with a view to having it serve as a check upon the countersign and distinguishing or identifying persons entitled to make visits of inspection or grand rounds in the night.	-
The watchword may be chosen from a wide range of subjects. It is commonly the name of a people, place, country or battle, or it may be the name of a person. It is given only when near the enemy. It is designed to enable bodies of troops operating at night to identify each other. It consists of a word given by way of hail, with a different
word for response. For example, were two bodies of troops operating between the lines at night to approach each other, the commanding officer of one would call out, let us suppose, “ Sheridan,” and the response “ Victory ” would come from the commander- of the other. Such being the watchword received from the principal headquarters, the troops that thus interchanged the proper hail and response would recognize each other as friends, and the serious mistake of a fatal conflict between them would be averted. The watchword might be “America,” with the response “ Liberty,” or any other words chosen from the wide range of subjects indicated.
A battalion comprises from two companies to ten, and a regiment is often called a battalion. During the late war, two or more regiments constituted a brigade, two or more brigades a division, and two or more divisions a corps. A corps constitutes the largest body of troops existing under the American system of army organization. In 1867 a new system of tactics,.known as “ Upton’s Infantry Tactics,” was prepared by Gen. Upton, and adopted by a board of officers convened at West Point for the purpose of considering and passing upon its utility and merits. Thus was introduced a uniform system of tactics for infantry, cavalry and artillery. It is designed to make information and experience acquired in any branch of the service available in the other branches, as where infantry troops are required to serve as cavalry or artillery, or cavalry find it necessary to dismount and serve as infantry in the presence of the enemy. This new system of tactics is thought to be peculiarly adapted to American topography and the breech-loading fire-arms now in common use. It prefers the single rank formation to double ranks, and it introduces into the infantry drill many of the cavalry movements of the war period. In short, it aims to combine and make as nearly uniform as possible the movements and drill of infantry, cavalry and artillery. The changes made refer almost exclusively to the company and regiment. They can hardly be said to have affected in any material respect the evolutions of the larger bodies of troops, as brigades and divisions. However, the unit of organization in the case of these larger bodies has been increased to three. For example, three or more regiments of cavalry, instead of two or more, now constitute a brigade. A brigade of infantry comprises about four battalions, or from three to five regiments. In a division of the line there are three brigades of infantry and two batteries of artillery. A corps consists of three

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
S49
divisions of the line, with a brigade of artillery and a regiment of cavalry. This is the case when it is in active service and acting as the component part of an army. Where the corps is operating alone or independently, it should be accompanied by nine or ten regiments or a division of cavalry. Whenever brigades or divisions act separately or independently, the accompanying artillery and cavalry forces should be largely increased. In such case there should be at least a battery and a regiment of cavalry attached to each brigade. A brigade is commanded by a brigadier-general, while a division or corps is commanded by a major-general. A general or senior major-general may be in command of the entire forces. He gives his orders to those next in rank to himself, and they attend to the execution of these orders by their subordinates. In respect to routine matters and camp duties the officers of regiments are left very largely to the exercise of their own discretion. But in matters of greater moment that require the whole army to act together the orders of the commanding general must be obeyed. Except in battle,or in the presence of imminent danger, the orders of the commanding general are not so strict and specific as to forbid all latitude and freedom of judgment in executing them. They direct in a general way what is to be done, and in doing it the exercise of some discretion, . or as much as the circumstances seem to warrant, is left to the officers who are more immediately in command of the troops.
In camp, it is sought to have each organization as united and compact as the nature of the ground will permit. For example, the troops comprising each brigade are placed as near together as practicable. The tents of the regiments composing it are usually pitched along the same line when the . conformation of the ground allows. The brigades comprising a division’ are also grouped together, although they sometimes occupy an area of several square miles. The same order is observed with respect to divisions in the encampment of a corps. However, sometimes extensive intervals are permitted to exist between the divisions of a corps and the corps of an army. When not in the immediate presence of the enemy the encampment of an army may occupy a space of from ten to twenty or more miles in length, and from four to eight or ten miles in width. This affords scope for such military evolutions as may be deemed useful, and it gives the troops a large area from which to procure fuel, water and forage. Camp life is attended with fewer. hardships and inconveniences when the troops are thus scattered .over an extensive area and have
plenty of room. Camped along a river or large stream, they have at hand an abundance of water for men and horses. In a wooded district, or among groves of timber, they can readily chop and haul to the camp all the fire-wood they need. If there be productive farms within some miles, they can send out “ wagon-trains,” accompanied by the necessary details of armed men, to procure hay, corn, oats and other forage for the use of mules and horses. Of course, all requisite forage for the animals and rations for the men are furnished by the Government when an army is near or not cut off from its base of supplies. But when remote or cut off from its supplies, it must chiefly depend upon the enemy’s country for subsistence. When forage is taken under such circumstances from persons who can prove that they are not enemies of the Government, vouchers are usually given them in return. The Government pays the sums represented by these vouchers whenever they are duly presented to the proper authorities at Washington. There can be no question as to the right of an army to live upon the enemy’s country when passing through it in time of war. But it is deemed better and wiser not to do so, unless in case of absolute necessity. However, public property of the enemy may freely be taken or destroyed. This is true as to all implements and materials of war, as well as to things fairly intended to increase the resources and to further the interests of the enemy in prosecuting war. But monuments of art, public records, documents, etc., cannot lawfully be taken or destroyed. The only private property that may be taken for the use of a passing hostile army are food products and animals to be substituted for those disabled on the march. Under no pretense may clothes, jewels, furniture, and household articles generally be destroyed or disturbed. The laws of war forbid acts of vandalism—all acts likely to cause needless suffering.	t	■
To return from these incidental matters to the main subject, it may be said that in time of peace large bodies of troops seldom come together in camp or on the march. The forces are so scattered at forts and frontier points that seldom can more than a few hundred men be found together. At some of the cantonments not more than a single company is stationed. Needless to say, consequently, that these remarks have reference to army organs ization and conditions existing in time of war.
When near the enemy, or approaching a point of expected battle, the troops keep closer together than under ordinary circumstances, and the army is more compact. In this case the area of the encampment
55°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is comparatively small; but as it is always deemed a matter of primary importance to encamp near wood and water, a place possessing these requsites must be found. The brigades, divisions and corps comprising the army occupy no more ground than is actually needed for their tents, wagons, horses, mules, forage, supplies, etc. The tents of the artillery and cavalry regiments are distributed at proper intervals here and there through the camp. All parts of the army are sufficiently concentrated to be within supporting distance of one another in case of attack. Confidence, self-reliance and victory attend upon union and compactness, while distrust and defeat result from aimless and disjointed action.
The camp signals may be worthy of passing notice. They are given by means of fifes and drums or bugles, the former being for the infantry and the latter for cavalry and artillery. However, the bugle is frequently used by the infantry, as well as by the other arms of the service. About sunrise is sounded the signal known as the reveille. On hearing it, as it passes from regiment to brigade, and from brigade to division, its notes ringing out from a thousand bugles, and extending for miles along the stream and through the woods, the men of each company rise from slumber, dress and fall into line in front of their tents, where they answer to their names as the orderly sergeant calls the roll. After roll-call they break ranks, wash themselves, put their tents in order, and prepare for breakfast. Within an hour or so after breakfast-call the 1st sergeants’call is sounded. On hearing it the orderly sergeant of each company proceeds to the regimental headquarters, where he presents his morning report. About 9 o’clock a. m., the signal known as “troop” is sounded, and then guard-mounting or morning dress parade takes place. “Drill call” is sounded about 10 o’clock a. m., and 2 o’clock p. m. The corresponding cavalry signal is known as “boots and saddles.” It notifies the men to proceed to the line with horses saddled and bridled and ready for any manceuvres or formations that may be thought advisable. At 12 o’clock the dinner signal is sounded, and the men repair to their noon-day meal. “ Retreat,” which invites to roll-call and dress parade, is sounded at sunset. The soldiers of each company fall into line in front of their tents, the 1st sergeant calls the roll, and afterward, if the weather be pleasant, they march under arms to the parade ground, where they take their proper place in the regimental line. In the course of the dress parade ceremonies the adjutant reads the orders, if any there be, and details for the following day are pub- lished. From the parade ground the companies
return to their respective quarters, and the men break ranks, place their arms and accoutrements in their tents, and then respond to the supper call. After 9 o’clock “ tattoo ” is heard, the roll is again called, and the men prepare to retire. About half an hour afterward the last signal of the day, or “ taps,” is sounded. Then all retire, lights are promptly extinguished and quiet reigns over the camp. However, all night the weary sentinels monotonously pass to and fro on their posts, and ever and anon neighing horses and noisy mules in the distance unite in a chorus so weird and unwelcome that even a Wagner could hardly appreciate it. In case of attack or an unexpected advance of the enemy the “long roll ” is sounded. On hearing this the men at once procure their arms, fall into line and prepare for action. The “ general ” is sounded when the whole command is to march. It is the appropriate signal for striking tents and preparing to start. When the “ assembly ” is heard the men form by company, while “ to the color ” is the signal to form by regiment. The “ march ” is the signal for the whole column to move. Many of these calls are omitted, and very little attention is paid to drilling, parades, etc., when the army is engaged in active operations against the enemy. In garrison a six-pounder cannon is fired daily at the first note of the reveille and the last note of the retreat.
When the enemy’s forces are known to be in vicinity of the encampment, grand guards are detailed and stationed on all the lines of approach. When possible, they are stationed on elevations or high ground and at points sheltered by timber. It is always a wise precaution to station these guards at exposed points around the camp when operating in ■ the enemy’s country. They are instructed to observe the movements of the enemy and to conceal . the position and strength of their own forces. They constitute the advanced posts of the camp and are : sometimes several miles from the main body of the army. Upon them rests the duty of securing the troops against the serious danger of a sudden attack. = I refer to a sudden attack as constituting a serious . danger, because, if vigorously pressed, it is likely to throw the army into inextricable confusion and to : render its defeat comparatively easy. Should the -< enemy’s skirmishers approach the position of the grand guards, they must be received with a rapid and well-directed fire and driven back. Even if the enemy should advance in force and endeavor to brush aside the grand guards, the latter must nevertheless endeavor to hold their ground, directing as vigorous a fire as possible upon the advancing forces.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Thus they give warning of the attack in time for their friends in the rear to form their lines of defense and to prepare for battle. If unable to hold the enemy in check, the grand guards fall back on - the main body of the command, stopping at sheltered points to deliver fire on the advancing enemy, if not too hotly pursued. The paramount duty of the grand guards is carefully to watch the enemy and to prevent surprise. When they perform their duties faithfully and effectively the men in camp can feel as secure by night and by day as though they were a hundred miles from the enemy. Upon the vigilance and courage of the grand guards some-times depend the tranquillity and security of the army, if not its very existence. On duty they comprise, ist, a chain of videttes or sentinels, who form the exterior line; 2nd, inside these, a line of small posts, which serve as the immediate supports or reserves of the videttes or sentinels; 3d, the main guards, on a line further back from the front, and forming the reserve for the small posts and the videttes; 4th, reserves of outposts, occasionally-placed between the outposts and the camp when the outposts are pushed far to the front or when the ground is hilly and offers obstacles to their retreat in case of attack in force by the enemy. Under certain circumstances, from a sixth to a third of the entire command may be needed for service in the grand guards. When practicable, they should comprise both cavalry and infantry. In all cases, however, there should be a few cavalry soldiers with the guards, so that, in cases of emer-o-ency, they can speedily ride back to camp with information as to the movements of the enemy. If the cavalry force with the command is unusually strong, larger details are taken from it for the grand guards, and in this case the advanced sentinels may be horsemen. Two or more cannon may very prudently be placed in such a position near the main guard as to command the road. From the main guard the small posts and the videttes are thrown forward in a circular or fan-like order. The men on the outpost must be vigilant and silent, so as to see or hear the enemy, if possible, without being themselves seen or heard. Trumpet signals must not be given unless there be a skirmish with the enemy. In that case it is everybody’s privilege, if not his duty, to make all the noise he can. Fires must not be built at the small posts when near the enemy. But the main guard may have fires in cold weather, providing* such fires can be masked, as where they are built behind a wall or an abrupt rise of the ground, or kept burning jn holes dug for that purpose. A pile of moist
earth is kept at hand, and with this the fire is promptly extinguished if the enemy make a sudden attack. If the enemy be in close proximity to the outposts no fire whatever is to be built, no matter how cold the weather or how much the men and horses suffer. In this case the position of the guard should frequently be changed. About one half of the men should be mounted, and 200 or 300 feet ahead of the others, who should hold themselves read}’- for immediate action, keeping the bridle reins in their hands while standing or sitting beside their horses. Ceremonies are ignored at the outposts. Should a major-general venture to go there, he would be entitled to no greater military honor or ceremony than a private soldier. In some instances fires are lighted on ground not occupied, with a view to misleading the enemy. At night half the men of the grand guard watch under arms. The rest lie down with their accoutrements upon them and their arms at hand beside them. They carefully examine all persons that seek to pass the lines, whether entering or going out.
As it is now too late to warrant me in entering more fully into the subject this evening, I am constrained to defer to another time the treatment of the most interesting part of what I shall have to say in regard to “ Military Life and Army Organization.” When I next address you, which, I trust, will be at an early date, I shall undertake more fully to describe the organization of the grand guards, to show the ends attained by sending out patrols and reconnoissances, to tell you of the march of armies in war, and to give you so far as by language I may an idea of an actual battle, treating it from the initial skirmish to the burial of the dead.
Hon. James G. Blaine visited the American College in Rome on the 8th of last month. He dined in the college refectory, and after dinner was introduced by Mgr. O’Connell to the students, who entertained their distinguished visitor with some patriotic songs. In his remarks; to the students Mr. Blaine spoke substantially as follows: “I am not the only American who takes an interest in this institution. All citizens of the United States, though they may differ in creed, look with pride upon the North American College at Rome. You are reversing an opinion which gained ground in America some years ago, and which was prejudicial to Catholics, that America should be for Americans; you are making it appear that Americans should be for America; that the culture and religious training of America’s sons is an honor to America and the glory of every American heart. It is for the interest of all religious denominations that its ministers should be highly educated, and the American College at Rome furnishes ample opportunities for thorough and profound education.” In conclusion, the speaker wished the students a prosperous career «in their great mission; than which there is no greater in the Catholic Church—that Church which is so widely spread and so profoundly respected by all,”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MOM seiwsnc.
Publtsijrti r&trg Saturtag liurtntj Ecrnt Eime at N. 3. Sniferrsitji.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, May 19, 1888.
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88, P.VD. Brownson, ’88,
J. A. Burns, ’88, Chas. P. Neill, ’89, S. J. Craft (Lit.), ’88.
—Rev. President Walsh left the shores of the Old World on Wednesday last, and will, D. v., be home with us at Notre Dame before the end of the coming week. Our thoughts have followed him during his two months’ absence, and all here will heartily pray the return voyage may speedily and safely be made. ------------------------- *----------
—We take occasion to state that We are not always to be held responsible for the expressed sentiments .of our contributors. As a rule, we—as we are placed in charge of the Scholastic— allow the insertion of no article that does not meet with our approval; but occasionally sentiments may escape notice, or may be permitted to appear with a view to greater good.
o	o
—From the tone of our exchanges during the year now drawing to a close we are gratified to learn of the rapid disappearance in our western colleges of that disturbing element dignified by the name of “class spirit.” Class spirit of the proper kind is good and commendable. But the spirit that prompted such brutal pranks as were formerly associated with the idea of collegiate life, that laid out a line of conduct alike disgraceful to the advanced classes and humiliating to the manhood of the lower classes was a spirit inconsistent with the manhood and independence of our western boys, and its disappearance is a credit to the college men of the West.
We may be behind the East in conventionalities; but when it comes to a display of true, interior manliness, we concede not an inch. It is to be hoped that the “class spirit” of the future will be the proper spirit that should animate those drawn together by the bonds of college life, and that it will prove a stimulus to class work, beget close and lasting friendships, but despise the pettiness that in the past has made some of its features a disgrace to college men.
The New Altar.
One of the richest of the many art treasures which embellish the church of our University is the magnificent altar lately imported from Rome by the venerable Founder of Notre Dame. It was made, as we have already stated, about two hundred years ago by Bernini, a famous sculptor and architect, who was protected by Pope Clement XI. The base and urn of the altar are made of wood richly carved, gilt, and most skilfully and artistically painted to represent verde-antique,giallo an-tiquo, and oriental agate, and ornamented with festoons of gold and figures in full relief. A skilfully carved pelican graces the centre of the urn, and two large angels gracefully poised uphold the table of the altar. Two immense, curiously carved coscali of burnished gold spring from the steps of the altar and support a baldachino richly carved and gilt. A dome of verde-antique and two exquisitely carved angels appear above the baldachino. The dome forms the pediment for a globe of polished lapis lazuli and a cross of gold. From the coscali spring golden candelabra for wax tapers. The tabernacle is of malachite and giallo antiquo, and its door is ornamented with a representation of the Resurrection of Our Lord cut in basso-relievo. Raised above the tabernacle are silver clouds and golden cherubs uplifting an exquisitely sculptured crucifix, the masterpiece of the altar. Back of the tabernacle, filling the space from the steps to the baldachino, appears a large sun darting forth gold and silver rays through clouds of silver relievo, with cherubim and seraphim in gold. Among the ornaments for the altar are massive golden candlesticks, two large golden angels bearing candelabras for numerous lights and lamps. An antique book rest for the missal, sculptured with seraphs and ecclesiastical designs.
The selection of this grand work of art is another evidence of the fine taste and good judgment of our venerable Father Founder, who takes advantage of every opportunity to secure for Notre Dame what may make it the home and patron of Art, as it is already of Science and Religion.
Silhouettes of Travel.
XII.
SACRAMENTO’—
I was struck with the beauty of the name, and the piety of the early Spanish explorers and settlers of the El Dorado of the Western World. They gave to valleys, mountains, towns and rivers, the names of the saints—of the men and women of heroic virtue, the most beautiful flowers and fruit on humanity’s warped and stunted tree. They gave names which connoted the holiest mysteries -and institutions of religion—names which continually reminded men that they were not mere worms | prawlirig in the dust, but eagles who should spurn
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	553
the earth and soar upwards to the eternal Sun of Justice. :
What a contrast do not the men of Saxon lineage present in this respect! Instead of San Francisco, San Josd, Los Angeles, Santa Cruz, La Conception, Trinidad, San Timidos, we have Dog Town, Hang Town, Fiddle Town, Bottle Hill, Brandy City, Brandy Flat, Whiskey Diggings, Whiskey Slide, Jackass Gulch, Devil’s Gulch, Bogus, Humbug, Poker Flat, You Bet, Greenhorn, etc. Dr. Vaughan, Bishop of Salford, wrote a very interesting article to the Catholic World in 1866, on California and the Church, in which he alluded to this matter, compared the charitable conduct of the Spaniards towards the aboriginal Indian tribes, with the inhumanity of the early settlers from the states; described the progress of faith and the obstacles to the spread of religion, and forecast the future of the Church on the Pacific Slope. With the exception of a few remarks, the. article was ably and correctly written, and can be perused with profit even at this late day.
Those outlandish Yankee names sometimes caused no little embarrassment to strangers and foreigners. As a gentleman on horseback was one day approaching Yuba Dam on the Yuba River, he met a little boy on the road-side, and asked him the name of the village; young California re. plied, “ Yubedam.” The gentleman was somewhat shocked at the little man’s profanity. “ My good boy, the Bible forbids us to swear; I simply asked you to tell me the name of that village yonder.” “ I never use no cuss words, Captain; I says my prayers—Yubedam.” “ What is that sheet of water over there?” “Yubedam.” “ Well, my little hero, where do you live?” “Yubedam.” “ Where is your governor’s ranch?” “Yubedam.” “Who’s dead, and where’s that funeral coming from?” “ Yubedam—man fell in the dam, struck bed-rock, gone up the flume, they’re giving him a send-off— you bet yer boots, boss—Yubedam.” The stranger could not explain such apparent rudeness and precocious profanity until he arrived at Yuba Dam. At another time a clerical descendant of the worshippers of Odin and Thor wanted to announce that he would officiate the following Sunday at Jackass Flat. “ Mine preddern, I.vish you dell de beoples I koom Zoontay to Assyack Vladt. I vil zay to Vladtyack Ass, oder Vladtass Yack. You moost ogscuse me ven I say Zlabyack Flat, English is very teefficult zomedimes, it take me dree year to say th in mouse (mouth).”
Sacramento has a population of 30,000. It is about 90 miles distant from the Metropolis. Besides being the capital of the State and a railroad centre, its geographical position in the very centre of California at the junction of the Sacramento and American rivers, on the broad rich plains of an immense valley, secures for it great natural advantages, especially as a depot and distributing point for vast quantities of produce—green and dried fruit, grain and manufactured goods. The Sacramento, which was formerly navigable for ships of one thousand tons burden, now floats only small vessels and stern-wheel steamers of light draught.
The business portion of the city is built of brick; the residences of wood. To an Eastern man, there is nothing of interest in the way of architecture except the new Catholic cathedral, the capitol and the exposition building of the State Agricultural Society. A marked feature of the city is the abun-. dance of shade trees in the residence portion, and the number of orange, palm and other ornamental trees and flowering shrubs and vines and calla lilies in the front yards of the houses. It would be difficult to-day to realize that this peaceful seat of industry was, a little over a quarter of a century ago, a noted. resort for gamblers, roughs and adventurers of all kinds. Strains of music from the doors of gorgeous saloons swelled and floated on the air day and night. The crack of the revolver furnished the appropriate discords. A gambler was elected for sheriff, and the devotees of faro {Pharao, Justin Thyme,) and the hoodlums lived for a few years in a fool’s paradise. There were no families, no firesides. An Irishman writing home, remarked: that California was a great place entirely, only the people there had no ancestors, and it was useless to do anything for posterity.
THE CAPITOL
is a magnificent structure, and was erected at a cost of 2^4 millions. It is modelled after the old capitol at Washington of the Roman or classic style. Its front is 320 feet; height, 80. The first story is of granite, the other two of brick. The portico in front is supported by massive Corinthian columns, and is reached by several granite steps. The great iron dome is supported by fluted Corinthian pillars. It is surmounted by a smaller dome which rests on a circle of pilasters, and the whole is crowned by Power’s bronze statue of California, 220 feet from the ground. On. entering .the rotunda, which is 72 feet in diameter, we pause to examine a fine group of statuary representing Columbus before Queen Isabella. It was executed at Florence, Italy, by Larkin I. Meade, and donated by D. O. Mills. It cost $60,000. From .the colonnade of the dome a splendid view presents itself to the tourist.’ To the north and east appear the snow-covered summits of the Sierras, and their lines of foot-hills; to the west are the hazy outlines of the Coast Range, out of which the round-topped Monte Diablo proudly towers as monarch; to the south lie vast stretches of bottom lands and the San Joaquin Valley. The chambers of the Senate and Assembly are large, artistically decorated, and furnished sumptuously. The library rooms are commodious, and contain over 50,000 select volumes, some of which are very rare and expensive. The park around the capitol contains 25 acres, which are laid out with much taste, and ornamented with a rich profusion of semi-tropical vegetation, such as olive and orange trees, the fan and date palms; the yucca, umbrella, and Monterey cypress.
J. P. Dunn, Esq., State Controller, acted as our guide. He is a man whose sterling honesty, solid business qualifications and legal ability are universally recognized. In his report for the fiscal year, ending with June ’86,1 find the total assessed value
554
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of property in California to be $816,446,700; personal property, $151,937,132. The State debt amounted to $2,953,500. I have read an able letter of his to Attorney General Marshal upon the unsatisfactory condition of the railroad tax suits. The controller’s books exhibit the face of the tax from ’So to ’84 inclusively as amounting- to $971,403 which, if reckoned together with penalty and interest, will reach the sum of $2,373,418.
THE NEW CATHEDRAL
will cost about a quarter of a million. It stands near the capitol, which it will at least equal, if not far excel, in the harmony of its proportions and the beauty of its architecture. The building is now far advanced. The roofs are on, and the lofty dome al most complete. The work is being rapidly pushed on the front and in the interior. It will be opened for divine'worship next year. It is located on 1 ith street, within three blocks of the capitol, which fronts on the same street. Its style is classical. Its extreme length is 214 feet; width across the transepts,! 18, and across the aisles 102; height of ceiling of nave, 62; span between the pillars supporting the clerestory, 59. The building is in the form of a Latin cross with a dome at the intersection of the arms and aisles on the north and south sides. The dome inside rises 116 feet above the floor, and on the outside its height above the side-walk to the top of the cross is 172. The seating capacity will be over 2,200. The front is ornamented with three towers of unequal dimensions. The central tower which will contain a chime of bells, is 24 feet square at the base, and 220 feet in height; the side towers are 15 feet square, and 125 feet high. All three are square below, but change to octagons in the upper stories. The cross on the spire of the main tower rises 15 feet above the statue surmounting the second dome, or temple of liberty, in the capitol. The material used is brick resting on a solid concrete foundation and strongly bonded with iron. The upper part of the towers and dome are of wood completely covered with galvanized iron. There is a large basement 13 feet in height under the church, which will be portioned off for Sundayschool and confraternity rooms, as well as for a subsidiary chapel. The windows will be filled with stained glass, the large triple window over the altar, will contain a representation of the Last Supper, the others will contain biblical and ecclesiastical subjects mainly referring to the Holy Eucharist. Besides the main altar, there will be four chapels in the cathedral, dedicated respectively to our Blessed Lady, to St. Joseph, St. Patrick and St. Rose. The interior decorations will be on a scale of magnificence in harmony with the general features of the building. The large panels of the dome will be devoted to the twelve Apostles or to some other sacred subject.
CATHOLIC EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
are well represented in Sacramento, and receive a liberal share of public patronage. The Sacramento institute of the Christian Brothers has an attendance of 330 pupils. In addition to the linguistic, scien-iifie.and literary courses, a special department has
been organized for the purpose of furnishing a first class com mercial education. The staff or faculty consists of ten Brothers and three lay professors. Prof. Elizah Nichols, a native of Virginia, a fine French scholar and finished elocutionist, once a celebrated lawyer and for many years a member of the State Legislature, has just died a happy death at the institute at the age of 65. The academy of the Sisters of Mercy has 25 boarders and a roll call of 300 day scholars.
The average winter temperature of Sacramento County is 48° F.; average summer 750; mean annual 6i°. The thermometer runs up occasionally to 106-9° in summer, but owing to the purity of the atmosphere the oppressive heat which such an expansion of the mercury would indicate at the east, is not felt here. Sun-stroke is unknown. A trade-wind coming from the Pacific early in the afternoon and blowing till morning tempers the great heat. The average rain-fall is 19; number of clear days, 240. The site of Sacramento has been overflowed by high water for ages, and hence the natural level has been raised by official grade. A system of levees protects the city so that little sipage occurs. There are large swamps or tutes and tracts of waste lands near the city, especially to the south and west, owing to the overflow of the rivers and creeks; but in course of time these vast but useless areas will be reclaimed and the rich alluvium utilized for the culture of vegetables and berries of every kind. In the immediate neighborhood of the city garden vegetables, fruit, hops, sugar-beet are the staple products. Many Italians and Chinese are engaged in the business, and it is said make heaps of money out of a few acres of land. The yields per acre run from $200 to $1000, and upwards. Hence fruit or garden lands in the vicinity of the town are very high-priced, ranging from $250 to $1000 and over, according to improvements.' As we advance into the couhtry we find the lands principally devoted to the pasturage of horned cattle or the raising of-cereals. Land, at the foot-hills capable of bearing trees and vines—say at a distance of 20 miles, and upwards—can be bought for from $25 to $100. We drove one day north of the city through the Rancho del Paso which contains 44,000 acres and is the largest stock farm for horses in the world. It belongs to I. B. Haggin, a man of checkered history and indomitable pluck. John Mackay, the superintendent, stated that thoroughbred running and trotting animals are brought to their highest perfection in the California ranches. The choicest of feed and the fine climate, which allows of exercise almost every day, favor the development of the greatest speed and staying qualities.
I forgot to mention that the Crocker Art Gallery which was transferred to the city by Mrs. E. B. Crocker, is well worth a few hours’ inspection by the traveller.. It contains 700 rare paintings which represent nearly every school of art—the various schools of Italy, the German, Flemish, Dutch, Spanish, French and British Schools—with Rome good specimens from the brush of American artists, A school of design has been established in the building; it contains sorps fjne statuary and a full
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	555
set of casts. The teachers here maintain that painting is the only universal language. I asked what we should do with the Rev. author of Volapiik, who lays claim to a newer and still more universal language than that cultivated by Leuxis and Raphael? They had read Ruskin but not Kerchhoff’s abridged grammar. So I said: “0! obik flenik kademal, sagob, osagob, usagob adelo: Diinan olik divodikiin,” and presented a dissolving view.
The average daily wages paid mechanics and laborers in this city, are about as follows: bricklayers, $5 to 51^ ; hod carriers, $3;. carpenters, $3 to 4; plumbers, $3^; tinners, $3; laborers, $3 painters, $3 to 4; fresco-painters, $5 to 6; springpoets, o; blacksmiths, ditto. We concluded that Sacramento was not a healthy place for our individuality, so “ we folded our tent like an Arab, and silently stole away.” Good board and accommodations can be had for $6 a week. It was here that the Central Pacific Railroad Company was organized, consisting of Leland Stanford, as President: C. P. Huntington, as Vice-President: Mark Hopkins, as Secretary and Treasurer, and the two Crockers. Whatever may be said of the grasping' monopoly and lawless policy of the road, it is certain that much credit is due those five enterprising Sacramento merchants, who boldly undertook one of the greatest engineering feats of the century, pledging their own private fortunes for its accomplishment in the midst of almost insurmountable difficulties and numberless discouragements. Forty miles of, the road had to be built and accepted by Congress before they could profit by the “ Pacific Railroad Bill.” As the Sierras were approached, mountains had to be pierced or pushed aside; immense snow-galleries built, then the road had to be constructed for hundreds of miles over alkali deserts and waterless plains. All the material for the roadbed and running-stock had to be shipped around Cape Horn for thousands of miles at a vast expense. The gigantic work begun in January, 1863; was completed at Ogden, Utah, May 10, 1869, and the iron girdle which spans a continent and unites the great oceans of the globe was at length successfully completed. Hopkins and E. B. Crocker have passed over that railway which has no return train, but Stanford and Huntington still occupy their old positions, and Charles Crocker lives to enjoy the abundant fruits of his daring and long-sightedness. : Taking the California Pacific Railway and switching on to its northern branch at Davisville, I paid a visit to the Academy conducted by the Sisters of Holy Cross at
WOODLAND, YOLO COUNTY,	•
twenty-three miles from Sacramento. Crossing the river, we are on a narrow strip of land on which the chickory and peanut grow most luxuriantly. The chickory is certainly not grown for ornament. Could our ground Mocha speak like the animals and plants of ancient times, it could no doubt
“ a tale unfold ”
that would be better left untold, though green grocers who are far from being verdant, assert that the California intybus is one of the wholespmest and
most palatable specimens au jardin des -plantes. We run for several miles on trestle-work or long __________________________________________ o embankments across the tules or rush lands. These lands are covered for many square miles with sheets of shallow water dotted over with flocks of wild fowl—the hawker, the white and speckled-breasted brant goose—the teal, canvass-back, sprig-tail and mallard duck, and on terrafirma the dignified sandhill crane.
The birds made me think of poor Father Ney-ron. Many a day we spent in olden times on the classic waters of the Kankakee, he shooting from one skiff, and I blazing away at the pond lilies from another. Though he shot, as he prayed and spoke, directly at the mark, my game-pouch nevertheless was always the most plethoric, to his great astonishment. He was not aware of the fact that the one-armed dead-shot of the Kankakee, Pat. Flaherty, Esq., proprietor of the Hotel de Flahertee at the I.P.and C. railway bridge, was my compagnon de chasse.	■
I also thought of the saintly Bishop Luers, who, on his way to the orphan asylum at Rensselaer, occasionally indulged in the innocent excitement of the chase for the benefit of his beloved little orphans. Through a slight optical illusion, he fired one day into a flock of the domestic, instead of the wild inellagris gallopavo. He wished to make good the damages to a farmer who mysteriously appeared upon the scene like a deus ex machina; but the honest Hoosier would take nothing, not even the defunct turkey, as soon as he recognized the zealous and charitable prelate.
From Davisville to Woodland, a distance of 10 miles, and as far as the eye could reach beyond from the cupola of the Academy, the country is covered with large orchards of the olive, pear, peach, apricot, almond, plum, orange, lemon, quince. English walnut—many of the trees in blossom—vineyards, berry-vines, and grain fields. The acre brings from $100 to $500 according to the amount of labor expended, and the growth of the plantations. Unimproved lands at the distant foot-hills may be had from $15 to $50 and upwards, according to water facilities. Woodland has a population of 5000.
THE ACADEMY OF OUR LADY OF THE HOLY
ROSARY
is a large, commodious and Beautiful edifice constructed of red-wood. The study-halls and classrooms are well lighted and thoroughly ventilated. The academic course comprises all those branches that are useful, ornamental or essential to the highest culture. Music, both vocal and instrumental, is a specialty. Drawing, painting in oil and watercolors, or on china, and all the decorative arts are taught with the greatest success. Several of the married ladies even, both of town and country, partake of this inland Castalian spring. The boarders number 25: the day-scholars 100. Sister M. Bethania has 40 art students in her studio. There are as many more in the musical department. Many of the pupils come to school from the country on horseback or by stage. Miss Fuller, who graduated witfi sych distinguished honors last year
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, has a class of 25 pupils in elocution; and the spirit with which they rendt r the “Charge of the Light Brigade,” or “Marco Boz-zaris,” would put new life and mettle into the veteran elocutionist, Prof. Lyons. A sister of Miss Ada Shephard, of Arlington, Neb., who graduated with Miss Fuller, is making her academic course here. Mother Lucretia looks as strong and fresh as ever, notwithstanding her incessant labors, and the many' responsibilities connected with her position. In Sister M. Kevin I recognized an old acquaintance. On seeing her I remarked that I believed Cummings, Ill., was the only place in the United States that had a church dedicated to her noble patron saint. During my visit I met W. E. Lant, Esq., one of the most intelligent and influential citizens of Lancaster, Pa. Mr. Lant was travelling in a special car with a body7 of citizens from the “ Keystone State,” and switched off the main line to visit his sister, Sister M. Amadeus, whom he had not seen for several years. The academy was erected under the supervision of Rev. M. D. Slattery, now of Napa, Cal. The Rev. gentleman is most anxious to secure a corps of teachers from the Mother-House for his present mission. Father Coleman, the present incumbent of Woodland, takes the deepest interest in the success and progress of the institution. He is a learned and hardworking priest, with all the essential qualifications for a ruler in Israel, specified by St. Paul.
’	S.
Personal.
—Dr. and Mrs. M. E. Willien, of Terre Haute, Ind., were callers last week.
—	Rev. J. Roche, C.S.C., St.Vincent’s, Ind., paid a pleasant visit to Notre Dame on Tuesday last.
—	Miss Mary Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, paid a flying visit to Notre Dame during the past week.
—	Mr. and Mrs.W. F. Fleming, of Fort Wayne, Ind., visited their son in the Junior department on Thursday of last week.
—	Very Rev. John Dempsey7, Rector of St. Paul’s Church, Valparaiso, was a welcome visitor to the College during the week.
—	Mrs. S. H. Chute, of Minneapolis, Minn., accompanied by7 her daughter Miss Bessie, visited her sons Louis and Fred this week.
—Mr.zF. Schmauss, of Rockford, Ill., made a pleasant visit at the College last week. He has a daughter at St. Mary’s and a son at the University.
—Among.the visitors last Thursday were Miss Maltye Johns, of Terre Haute; Miss Laura Fen-drich, of Evansville, arid Miss Sophie Papin, of St. Louis.
—Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Gibbons and son, of Keokuk, Iowa, visited .Notre. Dame on Tuesday last and met with a hearty, greeting and welcome from many old friends.	:
- —Mf. Sam. T. Murdock, ’86; “"bobbed up" serenely ” last Tuesday, much to the': delight of his many friends here., Sarri. increases in avoirdupois
and geniality as the years go by7, but we can always find room for him at Notre Dame.
—Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Greever, Cincinnati, Ohio, stopped at Notre Dame last Saturday on their wedding tour west. .. Mr. Greever has a brother in the Junior department, and Mrs. Greever is a sister of Mr.Wm. McKenzie, one of our promising Juniors.
—Very Rev. Provincial Corby has accepted the invitation of Rev. Father Hannin, of Toledo, Ohio, to conduct the retreat for the. First Communion children of St. Patrick’s parish, and to preach the sermons of the Forty Hours’ Devotions. He left for Toledo last Monday, to be absent about ten days.
—Among the visitors on Ascension Thursday were: Mrs. Duff}7, Little Rock, Ark.; Mrs. Eyer, Mrs. Thornton, Mrs. A. W. Longley, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Papin and daughters, St. Louis, Mo.; Mrs. Dunn, Cleveland, Ohio; Mrs. J. Cudahy, Mrs. M. Cudahy, son and daughter, Mr. Goodwillie, Mr. Connor, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. F. Fleming, Michigan City, Ind.
—Very Rev. C. Lefebvre, C. S. C.—This distinguished religious of the Congregation of the Holy Cross founded St. Joseph’s-College, Memramcook, N. B., in the year 1864, and has since occupied the position of President of the Institution. From 1871 to 1879, he was *he Provincial of the Congregation for the Dominion of Canada. Ever since his ordination in 1855,'he has been actively identified with the spiritual and educational interests of the Acadian provinces, and, to a great extent,‘of the whole Dominion. A late number of the Catholic Record contains a lengthy and well-written sketch of this eminent religious, distinguished by his missionary7 zeal and piety, as well as by his great learning. We present the following concluding extract:
“To say that Father Lefebvre is esteemed and loved by his parishioners is to convey but a slight idea of the wealth of affection and reverence to which, at will, he has access; and with which, when fitting opportunities occur, he is spontaneously overwhelmed. Such an occasion presented itself on the 14th of February last, his birthday; and assuredly no pastor could desire a grander recognition of his labors than that which he then received, from his devoted flock. The congratulatory addresses, in French and English, which accompanied the presentation of a handsome gift, breathed a truthfulness unmistakable, investing the sentiments expressed with a genuineness quite foreign to the matter-of course compliments usual on such occasions. And never perhaps did the pastor of Memramcook appear to better advantage than in his response to those addresses. Physically and mentally gifted with all the advantages that can contribute to the external graces of a speaker, he possesses in addition the sympathy, vividness, and fervor that make speech truly eloquent. Somewhat above the medium height, and of rather portly build, his exterior is dignified and imposing. His physiognomy is indicative of high and vigorous intellectual powers. A. rich, rotund voice that can run at will the gamut of all the passions, gesture always graceful and commonly abundant, an inexhaustible vocabulary which secures elegant and -forcible diction, an exuberant fancy regulated by a judgment always clear, such are some of the qualities that have won for the pastor of -Memramcook high rank among the pulpit orators of the Provinces. Fifty-seven in February last, he is still in his prime, and shows but few traces of the hardships encountered during thirty-three arduous years of sacerdotal and educational labor. His sanguine temperament has enabled hirq
the Notre dame scholastic.
557
mb
to survive reverses that would have prostrated many; and there appears to be no reason why he should not continue, for several decades yet, to do the Lord’s work in his chosen field. But come his summons soon or late, a nation’s sobs will chant his requiem; and on the living monument of a people’s heart, his name will live as the best-beloved of the Acadian race.”
Local Items.
—“ Oh, say!”
—Is it spring yet?
—All donations thankfully received.
—No overcoats in class-rooms, please.
—Another man went diving after turtles.
—A new pipe is badly needed in room 60.
—We trust the Botany classes will not collide.
—Thanks for a donation of smoking material.
—Work is progressing rapidly on the new boat house.	.
—The band and the choir go on much the same as ever.	.
—The prize package pipe at last brought an open war.
—The boys are earnestly practising for the competitive drill.
' —Everyone speaks of the new altar as a paragon of loveliness.
—A new fence is being built along the road to St. Joseph’s Lake.
—The St. Cecilians have begun to prepare for their annual dramatic entertainment.
—The boat club will probably present Larkin with a new boat in the near future.
—We had a slight fall of snow on Monday morning, the 14th of May, A. D. 1888!
—The recent picnic of the delegates to the national association of Tramps was a success.
—The special football eleven and several baseball nines were photographed on Thursday.
—Competitions are being held in the Collegiate Courses. They are the last before the triples.
—Six-oared boat crews are practising for-the two lengths’ race which will occur Monday, May 28.
—It is customary to carry calendars in the pocket to keep track of the “days until Commencement.” . —The first championship game in the Minims was played Thursday. The “ Blues ” were, victorious by a score of 38 to 20.
—The First Communicants enjoyed themselves on the banks of St. Joseph’s River. Wednesday.
. They had a pleasant day.	.
—Men have been actively at work during the week excavating for the foundations of the new college building soon to be erected.
—To-morrow will be a gala day for the Senior Archconfraternity. A grand excursion to the Farm will be among the events of the day.
—The boat club members had some very exciting wheel-barrow races on their grounds last
week. Schofield, White and Patterson distinguished themselves as sprinters.	.
—Work has been resumed on the cement walks between the main building and the Presbytery; It is hoped that they will soon be completed; and thus remove the “ eye sore ” that at present mars the beauty of the landscape.
—Prof. Hoynes has received an invitation to address the Marquette Club, of Chicago. This organization has a large membership of young men prominent in the professions and business.	„•
—Since the fish have ceased to bite, “Swei ” has again lapsed back into a comatose state; but Ball has simply changed his mode of capture; and he still plays havoc with the finny tribe. He runs the fishes down and then kills them with a club!
—Notwithstanding the trials it experienced during the past couple of weeks, the band is once more on its feet. The assiduity and earnestness displayed by the members at the rehearsals during the past few days, augurs the turning over of a new leaf. We hope it will be thus. --
—Col. Hoynes delivered an instructive and interesting lecture on topics connected with war before the members of Companies A and JB, Hoynes’ Light Guards, Thursday evening. The lecture was greatly enjoyed by those who attended. It appears in another part of this paper.	.
—A large force of workmen are engaged on the new Novitiate building. The mason work is almost completed, and the carpenters expect to have the roof on in a couple of weeks. It is now assured that everything will be in readiness for the formal opening on the 15th of August.
—The six-oared crews which will participate in the race, May 28, are comprised as follows: Evangeline—P. Paschel; 6; A. Luhn, Captain and 5; Geo. Houck, 4; F. Mattes, 3; J. Hepburn, 2; J. Kelly, Bow; J. Meagher, Coxswain. Minnehaha —L. Meagher, 6; F. Albright, 5; F. Springer, 4; . T. Pender, 3; E. Prudhomme, 2; P. Brownson, Captain.and Bow; W. Aiken, Coxswain.
—The classes in Chemistry and Physics have been making a series of experiments with some of the new instruments purchased for theScience Hall, and the result has been a renewed interest in these two important branches. Without boasting, we can now lay claim to one of the best fitted physical laboratories in this country. The newest acquisitions include a number of recently invented apparatus that cannot be mated on this continent.
—Interesting papers for and against the conquest of Mexico by Cortes,, were read in the History class during the week by Messrs. McPhee, Scherer, Berry, Barrett,Wagoner. The paper of Mr. Berry was especially good. After the readings a discussion took place relative to the arguments advanced. Messrs. Brelsford and Sullivan of the Literary-Department, and Mr. H. Smith of the Law De--partment,distinguished themselves by their knowledge of the subject, and advanced many new ideas with regard, to the Conquest,
—Nine men from the “ West End ” of South
55§	■	Notre dame scMolasTTC.
Bend suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of the Senior “Specials” on the 13th inst. The following is the
Score by Innings :—1 23456789
Specials:—2 00011200 5=20
West Ends :—o o 5 1 o 1 o o 2=4
—The inaugural game of the spring championship series was won by the “ Blues ” by hard and sequential hitting. The “Reds” also batted well, but their hits were scattered, except in the ninth inning, when White racing up was hit for two triples and a double. The fielding- of both nines was not so bad, but the errors being made at critical points, resulted in a larger score. Following is the
complete score:
Blues.
Kegan, s. s................
Burns, 2db.................
Cartier, c.................
White, p...................
Fehr, xstb.................
Tewksbury, c. f..........
Springer, 3d b.............
Cusack, l.f................
Tarrant, r. f..............
T.A.B.	R.	LB. S.B.	P.O.	A.	E.
4	4	2	5	2	5	1
4	2	-	5	4	3	2
5	1	2	1	10	2	3
5	1	1	1	o	13	o
53 I o 10 I o 521 IOOI 5	2	3	2 1 4 1
4212000 4	1	x	1000
Total......................... 4r	18 14 16 27 28 8
Reds. Pender, c.................... Jewett, 3db.................. Paschel, s.s................. Kelly, l.f................... Smith, p. 2d b.............................. Gallagher, r. f.............. McHenry, 2d b and p.......... Melady, 1st b................ Preston, c. f................
T.A.B. R. I.B. S.B. P.O. A. E. 5212783 6000221 5100032 4220101 5330080 4	i	i	i	o	o	i
3	3	3	3	2	7	2
4	I	o	O	12	o	o
5001 IOO
Total............. 41	13 10 7 24 28 9
Time of game: 2 hours. Runs earned: “Blues,” 5. Base on balls: off (White, 4; off Smith, 4; Struck out: by White. 11; by Smith, 7; by McHenry, 5. Two base hits: Smith, O’Regan, Springer. Three base hits: McHenry, Pender, Fehr. Passed balls: Pender, 4; Cartier, 2; Burns, 1. Wild pitches: Smith, 1; White, 3. Umpire: S. J. Craft. Scorers: A. Leonard and John B. Meagher.
Score by Innings :—1 23456789
Blues:—o 3105450 *=18 Reds:—o 1206001 3=13
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armstead, Brelsford, Bowles, Brookfield, Brannick, Beckman, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Beckwith, J. Bombeck, Bronson, Barnard, Blessington, J. Burns, Boland, Brady, Craft, Campbell, Cassidy, Chacon, Cusack, Craig, Cartier, Chute, Cosgrove, Desimoni, Dore, Dulaney, Ewing Eyanson, Fitzharris, Finckh, Fisher, Fleming, Goebel, Gallardo, Gibbs, Griffin, Garfias, Henderson, Higgins, G. Hobart, Heinemann, M. Howard, Hummer, Houck, Jacobs, Jennings, Keating, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Leonard, Langan, W. McDermott, McCune, Mattes, Mulkern, L. Meagher, McWilliams, J. McDermott, Major, Munroe, W. Morrison, Maloney, McAllister, McCart, Me Aiiliff, McGrath, Andrew .Nicholl, Neill, Nelson, O’Hara, Orr, O’Regan,. O’Shea, • O’Donnell, O'Connor, O’Brien, Owens, Plato, Prichard, Pares, Rochford, Reynolds, Rothert, Read, Stubbs, Schol-'field, J. Sullivan, Stephenson, Suing, W. Silver,'Tiernan,. Webb, Wall, Woods, Welch, Wagoner, Wilkin/M. White.
~	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Allen, Anfenger, Berry, Bpmbeck, Bronson, Bachrach, Beaudry, Bolderick, Blake,
Burger, W. Brown, Brady, Brannick, Cunningham, Cau-thorn, Campbell, Cooney, J. Connors, F. Connors, Carroll, Case, Coad, Chacon, Cavanagh, Ciarcoschi, Carney, W. Cartier, Chute, Delaney, Daniels, Davis, Devine, Fitzgerald, Falvey, S. Fleming, P. Fleming, C. Fleming, J. Flynn, F. Flynn, Frei, Goodman, J. Greene, T. Greene, Gonzales, Girsch, Grever, Garrity, Houlihan, Henry, Hoffman, Howard, R. Healy, P. Healy, Hampton, Hoerr, Huber, Hackett, Hayes, Hake, Hill. Josselyn, Kinsella, Kutsche, Kehoe, Lane, Lahey, Moncada, Martin, McCormick, McIvers, McPhee, Miner, McGrath, McKenzie, McCartney, Mayer, Monarch, Mooney, Moone, Neef, O’Neill, W. O’Brien, G. O’Brien, W. P. O’Brien, M. O'Kane, O’Donnell, Paquette, Powers, Prichard, Pecheux, Plan, Quinlan, Roth, Rierdon, Reinhard, I. Rose, S. Rose, Rowsey, Reidinger, Roper, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, Stephens, Spalding, Shenk, Senn, L. Scherrer, Talbot, Wile, Wade, Walsh, Wright, Wood, Wilbanks.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, Andrews, H. Bachrach, S. Bachrach, A. Bachrach, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, G. Black, L. Black, Blake, Beerman, Bates, Burns, Bradley, Boettcher, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Connelly, Cummings, Clendenin, Carlile, Cudahy, W. Creedon, F. Creedon, Cornell, Cohn, Carpenter, Campbell, Durand, J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, Doss, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, H. Dench, Dorsey, Des Garrenes, G. Franche, C. Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Ferkel, Grant, Griffin,-Greene, Gerber, Goodwillie, Harlan, Hagus, Howard, Hal-thusen, Haddican, Jaramillo, Johns, Kerwin, Kutsche, Kehoe, Keeler, Koester, Keefe, Kinsella, Kane, Kaye, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Lansing, Mooney, Marx, Morgen week, Murphy, McDonnell, Maternes, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Minor, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, Nester, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker, Quill, Rogers, Ricksecker, Sweet, Savage, Seerey, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stone, Speir, Stephens, Storey, Taft, Toolen, Trujillo, Tomkins, Thornton, W. Williamson, J. Walsh, W. Walsh, A. Witkowsky, S. Witkowsky, Willien, Wilson, Young, Zieman, Zeigler, Hamilton.
Class Honors.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. Brady, J. Bombeck, F. Carney, J. Clarke, W. Devine, A. Eyanson, T. Greene, E. Grossman, A. Hoye, R. Hall, W. McDermott, F. Neef, R. O’Hara, J. Whalen, A. Woods, W. Boland, J. Berry, E. Blessington, R. Bronson, A. Hake, J. Henry, A. Joyce, F. Lane, A. Larkin, W. McKenzie, H. McAllister, V. Morrison, W. O’Brien, L. Orr, J. Phau, J. Reinhard, A. Rudd, C. Senn, M. Smith, B. Stephens, F. Suing, B. Tivnen, H. Wageman, D. Brewer, G. Ball, H. Barnard, E. Burns, .T. Darragh, J. Delaney, S. Fleming, P. Fleming, T. Greene, J. Hepburn, W. Hayes, T. Lahey, J. Mooney, T. McCune, J. O’Shea, A. Plato, A. Pares, L. Reidinger, H. Silver, W. Silver, D. Sullivan, W. Schofield, F. Springer, F. Schillo.
List of Excellence.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-Keeping—J. Henry, A. Joyce, V. Morrison, W. O’Brien, C. Senn, H. Miner,J. Whalen, D. Brewer, J. Mooney; Arithmetic—M. Quinlan, F. Springer, J. Clarke, J. Hepburn, W. Lahey, L. Davis, W. Cartier, R.,Sullivan, W. Allen, R. Boyd, P. Fleming, W. Hayes, C. Ramsey, S. Rose, J. Talbot; Grammar—F. Wile, F. Schillo, J. Talbot; Reading —J. Brennan, S. Nirdlinger, J.Wall; Orthography—M. McCart, T. Neef, H. Miner, T. Greene; United States History —W. Boland, C. Fitzgerald, J. Hartman,.T. Greene, W. McKenzie, J. Brady, C. Bombeck, A. Rudd, W. Rowsey, C. Weldon, W. Hayes; Geography—W. Boland, C. Fitzgerald, W- Hartman, J. Brady, C. Bombeck, E. Blessington, E. McIvers, A. Rudd, F. Shenk, T. Greene, T. Hill; Penmanship—F. Suing, J. Mithen, K. Newton, T. McCune, A. Plato, S. Ciarcoschi, L. Hoerr,. A. Daniels, H. Carroll, J. Peck, W. O’Brien, T. Gonzales, J. Reinhard, M. Quinlan..
TUB ifOTkB DAMB SCHOLASTIC.
:5S9
Saint Gary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
-—Misses L. St. Clair and K. Scully, both of Class ’87, were welcome visitors at the Academy last week.
—Misses S. Papin, L. Fendrich and D. Fitzpatrick are spending a few days at St. Mary’s, much to the delight of their many friends.
—On Sunday last, Rev. Father Corby preached an eloquent and instructive sermon on the Gospel of the day which spoke of the nature and advantages of Prayer.
—The May sermons, by Rev. Father Morrissey, are enjoyed by all. They are interesting and practical, and cannot but awaken devotion to the Blessed Virgin.
—The Children of Mary were delighted to have their Monday morning instructions resumed this week by Very Rev. Father General, whose earnest words cannot but reach the heart.	-
—The different literary societies are evincing marks of special interest in the various exercises. St. Angela’s in particular seems to be animated with •great zeal for the promotion of literary knowledge.
—Misses M. Papin, L. McNamara and S. Crane were the readers at the Academic meeting of Sunday evening. All acquitted themselves admirably. Very Rev. Father General seemed well pleased with their efforts.
—The First Preparatories held a very interesting competition in grammar lately. Those who deserve special mention are: I. Stapleton, J. Daube, M. Mitchell, M. Newman, M. Piper, A. Johnson, N. Morse, A. Thirds, E. Quealey, A. Beschameng, L. Wiesenbach and M. Hughes.
—On Ascension Thursday, Very Rev. Father General presented all the members of the sodalities with a pair of beads, or a cross, which had rested on the Holy Sepulchre. They will be cherished on account of their contact with so sacred a spot, and also as a precious souvenir of the donor.
—While the members of the Graduating Class are fitted to give a mental feast to those who examine their powers, they have made such progress in the culinary line that they feel equal to the preparation of a first class meal. Their regular Wednesday cooking class does not come often enough, so enamored are thejr of the womanly art.
—Among the late visitors were: Mrs. C. Morse, Grinnel, Iowa; Mrs. W. P. Rend, Mrs. C. Winckler, Mrs. J. Hertzog, Mrs. P. Barry, Mrs. A. W. Longley, Mrs. M. Cudahy, Mrs. J. Cudahy, Miss J. Flynn, Miss M. Flynn, Chicago, 111.: Mrs. McCambridge, Morris, Ill.; Mrs. A. T. Hughes, Denver, Col.; Mrs. J. Dempsey, Miss N. Dempsey, Manistee, Mich.; Mrs. L. J. Willien, Terre Haute, Ind.; Miss A. L. Bourne, Amboy, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. T. H. Rooney, Minneapolis, Minn.; Mrs. W. Fleming, Fort Wayne, Ind. .	.
—The Feast of the Ascension, 1888, will long be remembered by all who witnessed the ceremonies attendant upon the celebration of that day at St. Mary’s. ' At the solemn High Mass, which was celebrated by Rev. Father L’Etourneau, assisted by Rev. Fathers Boerres and Coleman, seven pupils had the happiness of receiving their First Holy Communion. The choir rendered Zimmer’s Mass with fine effect; the altars were beautifully decked, and the bright sunshine, mellowed by the stained glass, seemed to raise all hearts to Him who on that day ascended to His Father. Rev. Father Hudson delivered a touching and appropriate sermon on the Blessed Eucharist. In the afternoon, the First Communicants renewed their baptismal vows, and received the scapulars at the hands of the Rev. Chaplain.
Variety.
“What exhibitions various hath the world Witness’d of mutability in all That we account most durable below!
• , Change is the diet on which all subsist, Created changeable, and change at last Destroys them.” J
Travellers on the vast prairies of the West tell us of the sense of weariness that comes over them when, after miles and miles of plains, they find themselves on the same tiresome level. Sailors, wedded to a “ life on the ocean wave,” seem rested by a change from the monotonous vision of the sea; while to all there comes, at times, a longing for new fields and untried paths. The restlessness of human nature is shown in the child who eagerly reaches out his hand for that which is new, is further evidenced in the youth, ever weary in the course marked out for him, and is clearly portrayed in the man of the world, who, like the times, is progressive. Yes, “ variety is the spice of life,” and in this all nations agree.	'
' How irksome it is to follow the dull routine of daily life! If a man engage in the same pursuit day after day, and year after year, his mind becomes centred on the one object, and the whole world.is viewed from a single standpoint, tinted with the hues on which his everyday gaze is thrown, just as he who looks through blue glasses beholds all things blue.
Variety in thought and occupation it is that awakens every faculty; quickens the sensibilities; gives courage to seize opportunities, and thus aids in the attainment of success and happiness in life. The craving for change is what fills the cars with travellers, the steamers with tourists;. and in no other way is the longing for variety better gratified than in'travelling. The. ever shifting scenery, kaleidoscopic in its effects, as viewed through a car
5 <56
THE NOTRE DAME SCUOLAStTC.
window gives a rest to the weary mind, and strength ( to the tired body that no calm routine could ever ! give. The sky is the same, it is true, in the East . as in the West; the grass in the lawn before our ! home differs not from that in foreign fields; architecture bears no striking diversity in our large cities, and yet one feels the change. The eye rests on new sights; the very air seems different, and the whole system is vivified: new energies are aroused, and things assume a cheering aspect.
This variety that man so longs for is to be found in nature. She presents no two specimens in the floral kingdom just alike: no two clouds the same
proportion and hue; no two persons whose charac- | teristics in body and mind are similar; and yet in J this verv variety do we find uniformity, inasmuch ' as the laws of nature are ever the same.
All people need relaxation; the student poring over his books must have hours of recreation. The regularity of school-life is no doubt conducive to good health and to the forming of robust habits of mind and body, but holidays and vacations are no less necessary. The lawyer, the minister, and the merchant feel the oppression occasioned by sameness in their duties, and the stress can only be raised bv change.	■
In reading, too, a diversity is as necessary as different aliments are to the menu of a Parisian dinner; while the substantial meats of science and history are essential, the feast is not complete without the delicacies of poetry and fiction. The mind may relish the profound philosophy of St. Thomas, but after a taste of the graceful diction of Father Faber, it returns with keener appetite to the “Angelic Doctor.”
The depths of the ocean remain unmoved, though the surface is broken into mighty waves which toss to and fro; so the principles that underlie a man’s character are not affected by the restlessness of his actions. The rock of Faith deep in his heart is not moved, neither are the seeds of solid virtue washed away by the waves of change of scene or occupation. These remain as marks of the abiding love of Him in whom there is no change or shadow of alteration.
Mary Allen, Third Senior Class.
The violet beneath the grass, the nightingale amid the foliage, the genius who has patience, the virtue which hides itself,—these are four charming things.—Abbe Roux.
The folly which we might have ourselves committed is the one which we are least ready to pardon in another.—Ibid,
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allen, Andree, Brady, Balch. ■ Bub, Burton, Barth, Brewer, Boyer, Beschameng. Bourne, Bates, Blacklock, Belfield, Bogner, Carmien, Clifford, Clag-; gett, Conners, Clore, E. Coll, M. Coll, Campagne, Calkins, । Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Dunkin, Daube, Dority, ; parley, Flannery, Fravel, Fenton, Geer, Gordon, Hummer, ’ Hughes, Hertzog, Hellmann, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlem, Heffron, C. Hurley, Hoffmann, Hutchinson. Hepburn, Hooker, Kearns, Kohler, Kron, Keyes, Loonie, Lilly, M. E. Murphy, L. Meehan, N. McCarthy, N. Meehan, McCormick, McEwen, McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, C. McFadden, J. McFadden, Mitchell, Marley, Neft, L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, Prudhomme, Piper, Papin, Pomeroy, Quill, Quealey, G. Regan, E. Regan, Robinson, Rannells, Snowhook, Sullivan, B. Smith, Sloman, Spier, Trask, Thompson,Van Mourick, M.Voechting, B. Voechting, Wright, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr,Webb, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence.—Misses Blaine, Burdick, Butler, E. Burns, M. Burns, Churchill, Dolan, Dreyer, Eby, Foster, Fritz, Hake, Hagus, Hughes, Harman, Lauth, Aliller, Mercer, Newman, Papin, Pugsley, Quealey, Reed, Rhinehart,- Rose, Rogers, Stapleton, E. Smith, N. Wurzburg.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Burns, A. O’Mara, A. Papin, F. Palmer, S. Smith.
Class Honors.
LANGUAGE COURSE.
LATIN.
Miss Mary Burton.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Miss ^1. F. Murphy.
2D Div.—Misses Beschameng, Van Horn.
2D Class—Misses Gavan, Marley.
3d Class, ist Div.—Misses McCarthy, Campeau, McEwen, Studebaker.
2D Div.—Misses Burton, Balch, Spier, Prudhomme, Campagne, Fenton, Pomeroy, Arnold, Kron, Hellman, Barry, G. Regan.
4TH Class—Misses Barth, McCormick, M. Desmond, K. Desmond, N. Dempsey, Flannery, Sheean, Horner, Rhinehart, Hepburn, Waterbury, G. Papin, Van Mourick, Pugsley, Wagner, Webb, Doian, Kingsbury, Butler, B-Smith.
5th Class—Miss A. Papin.	.
GERMAN.
Advanced Course—Miss E. Horn.
ist Class—Misses Bub, Hoffmann, Trask, Beschameng, Henke, B. Voechting, M. Voechting-
2D Class—Misses Hinz, F. Moore, Hummer.
3d Class—Misses Wiesenbach, Burton, Piper, Ducey, Wehr, E. Balch, Quealey, Sloman.
4.TH Class—Misses Thompson, Davis, Lauth, M. Horner, M. Smith, Quill, Daube, Leonard, Fritz, Dreyer, Miller, Kohler, Andree.	‘
5TH Class—Misses C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Heffron, B. Morse, O’Brien, I. Horner,.Bourne, Kloih.	’
3D Div.—Misses Foster, Connors, Crane, Rogers, Lewis.