tlxe notre dame SCHOLASTIC feb 19 ^patriot of tlxe year rictiard m. nixon
SUITS, TOPCOATS AND SPORTCOATS
at savings of
Save up to one-half on America’s finest clothing, suits, topcoats and sportcoats from our regular stock ... in sizes to fit all men. Stock up now while selections are complete. . . . Charge it the Campus Shop way.
^GILBERT'S '/^ampusSJliop1 J;
On the Campus—Notre Dame ..
Onfeuqns Mk Shulman
(Author of “I IFas a Teen-age Dwarf”, "The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
THE THUNDERING MARCH OF PROGRESS
Today, as everyone knows, is the fortysixth anniversary of the founding of Gransmire College for Women, which, as everyone knows, was the first Progressive Education college in the United States.
Well do I recollect the tizzy in the academic world when Gransmire opened its portals 1 What a buzz there was, what a brouhaha in faculty common rooms, a rattling1 of teacups, when Dr. Agnes Thudd Sigafoos, first president of Gransmire, lifted her learned old head and announced defiantly, “We will teach the student, not the course. There will be no marks, no exams, no requirements. This, by George, is Progressive Education 1”
Well sir, forward-looking maidens all over the country cast off their fetters and came rushing to New Hampshire to enroll at Gransmire. Here they found freedom. They broadened their vistas. They lengthened their horizons. They unstopped their bottled personalities. They roamed
the campus in togas, leading ocelots on leashes.
And, of course, they smoked Marlboro cigarettes. (I say, “Of course.” Why do I say, “Of course”? I say, “Of course” because it is a matter of course that anyone in search of freedom should naturally turn to Marlboro, for Marlboro is the smoke that sets the spirit soaring, that unyokes the captive soul, that fills
the air with the murmur of wings. If you think flavor went out when filters came in—try Marlboro. They are sold in soft pack or flip-top box wherever freedom rings.)
But all was not Marlboro and ocelets for the girls of Gransmire. There was work and study too—not in the ordinary sense, to be sure, for there were no formal classes. Instead there was a broad approach to enlarging each girl’s potentials,
both mental and physical.
* * *
If you like mildness but you don*t like filters—try Marlboro’s sister cigarette, Philip Morris. If you like television but you don’t like cowboys—try Max Shulman’s “The Many Loves ot Dobie Gillis” every Tuesday night on CBS.
4
Take for example, the course called B.M.S. (Basic Motor Skills). B.M.S. was divided into L.D. (Ljung Down), S.U. (Standing Up) and W. (Walking). Once the student had mastered L.D. and S.U., she was taught to W.—but not just to W. any old way! No sir! She was taught to W. with poise, dignity, bearing! To inculcate a sense of balance in the girl, she began her exercises by walking with a suitcase in each hand. (One girl, Mary Ellen Dorgenicht, got so good at it that today she is bell captain at the Deshler-Hilton Hotel in Columbus, Ohio.)
When the girls had walking under their belts, they were allowed to dance. Again no formality was imposed. They were simply told to fling themselves about in any way their impulses dictated, and, believe you me, it was quite an impressive sight to see them go bounding into the woods with their togas flying. (Several later joined the U. S. Forestry7 Sendee.)
There was also a lot of finger painting and sculpture with coat hangers and like that, and soon the fresh wind of Progressivism came whistling out of Gransmire to blow the ancient dust of pedantry off curricula everywhere, and today, thanks to the pioneers of Gransmire, we are all free.
If you are ever in New Hampshire, be sure to visit the Gransmire campus. It is now a tannery.
© 1960 Max Shulman

SHORT AND SWEET
Response to t he "Repercussions” column this year has been most gratifying. Once again we urge you to send brief letters to the editors. We will reserve the right, as has been the case in the past, to abbreviate long letters by omitting nonessential selections which do not change the meaning or intention of the ivriter. We also request that all letters be signed. Unsigned letters will be published only in exceptional instances, although names will be withheld upon request.
Send all letters to “Repercussions,” c/o The Editors, 207 Fisher, Notre Dame, Ind.
ONE WHO KNOWS
Editor:
Perhaps, just perhaps, if those indi- y viduals who are giving out with all the unfavorable criticism towards the NDEA were in the same financial position as the 151 Notre Dame recipients of this aid they would be a little more thankful that a means to continue their education has been made available and a little less inclined to stand on a rather * flimsy soap box and expostulate on a matter which in reality doesn’t directly concern them.
Of course, I suppose that one should realize that without small comments by smaller people on still smaller controversies, much talent would be lost to the world of journalism.
Name withheld , by request
IMPARTIAL REQUEST
Editor:
I enjoyed reading an analysis of the coming political scene in Mr. Trohan’s “1960 Presidential Campaign”; but I certainly hope you might put in an “impartial” Democratic analysis as well. That Mr. Trdhan is a writer for the — quote, “Worlds Greatest Newspaper” can be seen by his interpretation of the status quo. A democratic analysis of the Democrats would be appreciated.
Rivers A. Patout III 223 Fisher
(Continued on page 25)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. !t !S represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Pub-tished weekly during the school year, except eJLVK. . “d . examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year, manuscripts to the Editors. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited yjSS. becon,es Property of the SCHO-LAuTIC.
The Scholastic
I The Notre Dame |


♦ -	■ Vol. 101	No. 15 1 J FEBRUARY 19, 1960 |	
»■	Founded 1867	
ij	editor-in-chief RONALD BLUBAUGH	
i	associate editors E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE	
	news editor and staff ROY RUBELI	. Wade Clarke .	. . Arthur Graham	. . Thomas Weiss	y ■ 5
• ►	features editor and staff CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith Thomas Sullivan William Sweeney , William Veeder	
t /	sports editor and staff THOMAS ROSE William Cary .	• ’	. J. (Jay) Kilroy	
I ' *	copy editor and staff WALTER RUDGE George Casey , Peter Geniesse	'	. Thomas Marciniak	“'J
	art editor	: JERRY FLORENT	
• A . ' - -	photographer	. : WALTER DALY, Jr. business manager and staff ROBERT HORN Thomas Carey Joseph Finnigan	X	j
>- *■	circulation manager	, LAWRENCE LEACH	' ;
	moderator	' REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.s.c..	J J - <
4 '	news reporters Philip Larrabee	/	_ John Ohala Thomas Schlereth < t William Sparks	; sports reporters • J X 1' V X' John Bechtold A.X ' •	\ "i
.-XXf (■ Jerry Hewitt.jSr'. v.	>
f ThomusWalsh ;'‘'i s.?< X*
- \x vx,',7 .■ •.•'...r- . V V v C	* <*A V'*»	'-3 * i. v	v' '¥’?'$
*4 X ad
.-% *" * fehar^W^
h > 5
PRO AND CON: When Vice President Nixon arrives here next Tuesday there will undoubtedly be some persons on campus who will desire to show audible or visible manifestations of approval or disapproval of his selection as Notre Dame’s “Patriot of the Year.” In a situation such as this, however, when the seniors of the University have elected a man to receive an honor annually bestowed on some American citizen, it behooves the would-be demonstrators to consider their actions before any hasty maneuvers. The Vice President (or any recipient of the award) is here as an official guest of the University. He is not here merely because he wishes to visit the campus as are other such political figures. It is usually the custom of the host, in this case the senior class, to make the stay of its honored guest as pleasant as possible.
DEATH: For the second time in as many months a Notre Dame senior was killed in an automobile accident. The most recent victim was Thomas Malia, a resident of Mishawaka. Most of us did not know him but upon learning of the accident the sense of tragedy hung close. For those of us who are seniors, it is a hard thing to watch our classmates meet such sudden death. After 16 years of school and preparation we are almost ready to meet the world, and death seems quite remote. Yet the reality of these two losses brings it quite close. We of the Scholastic offer our condolences to the families of both of these students.
IN FOUR MONTHS: On Sunday, June 5, the senior class of Notre Dame will graduate in commencement exercises in the Stadium (the ceremony will be held in the Drill Hall in the case of inclement weather). This year several changes in the exercises are being considered. In order to avoid the rather long length of time involved in pre- . senting diplomas to the entire senior class, there is a probability that this year students will graduate by colleges. Thus diplomas would be handed out at four places,-one for Arts and Letters, another foi- Commerce, and two more for the Engineering and Science schools. Naturally, this renovation would cut down on the time of the ceremony. The actual commencement address may quite likely be given at an earlier time than has been the custom during the past if the President delivers it, in order that he may be able to make connections to West Point where he is expected for- his 45th reunion. Certainly the planned changes are for the good. An excessively long commencement is never desired, and graduating by colleges will give each student the feeling that he is graduating with his fellow classmates. We hope that the planned changes become a reality.
NUMBER TWO: The second of a series of inserts is featured in this week’s issue of the Scholastic. Given to the magazine by the Notre Dame Alumni Association, the inserts deal with cultural topics of interest to students and alumni. This week’s insert is entitled “Casual Reading for Fun and Profit,” and was especially prepared by members of the English department. It reviews a number of works for good reading and brings up several interesting points. Once again we would like to thank the editors of the Alumnus for the use of this series, and we are looking forward to the next article in the spring. Cooperation between the students and the alumni as has been urged in past editorials is still a necessary element in the growth of the University. Since the present students will soon become alumni and since this cooperation can best be effected by alumni who still have strong ties with the students, it will be our generation of students who can and must cement these ties. Although no definite steps in this direction are yet observable, it is our hope that in the future this situation will be remedied.
A CURRENT COUNT: A current “nose count” around the campus indicates that the senioi- class of the University will receive about the same numbei- of scholarships as in the past, although more of different types. For instance, while probably only 14 Woodrow Wilson fellowships will be obtained by seniors, one Rhodes and one Marshall scholarships have already been announced as going to two Notre Dame students. In addition to these, the Fulbright and NSF grants for study have yet to be announced, and there should be some given to Notre Dame students. Notre Dame is pleased with the ability of its students to win such honors, but the true perspective should not be lost in the glory. Students won these scholarships because they were found deserving of aid to further their education. They did not win them to advance the numerical standing of their college. While certainly the number of these grants reflects most favorably on Notre Dame, it does not tell the entire story of the student’s personality and educational background upon which the decision to give the scholarship is based. In looking at the number of fellowships given to our seniors we should above all be proud of the individual students who received them.
— B.T.&T.
5
B
Iwla
ISO
a
□□□□ SHB SQJBEEBQS
□□BQ asaa____________ 00SQEB ESS
E3BBE3E
Contents
HE
EHEBIinSB
d
DSBDL'^BEIBEE ---- BOMB
EEBB HQQffl BBBBG
a
□EQBS BED IBDEBH
EBEElBDSn EBES a » ■	» m *roi«i m ji ar ■	r- 'wr^nVT'VF. I
AV
Fins earns aaas
U3MSNV1GDX
	At the Theaters			19	Feature of the Week ...	.....14a	
3	Back Page			26	Odds and Ends		.......30	3
•	Campus Scene 			11	L. David Otte				13	3
s	Commentary 			 5	Our Cover		.......10	
	Critical Horizons 			15	Repercussions 				 4	2
	Editorials 			 7	Sports Picture 		..... 21	
	Escape 			 9	Time Out		.... 23	
B
imB
KQDL ■CROSSWORD
ACROSS
1. The main event
5. Death and taxes, period!
9. Suboptical luggage
12.	Kind of wolf
13.	Opera version of “Camille”
15.	Marilyn's mouth is always_______
16.	Gal who was meant for you
17.	What kid brothers do
19.	What Simple Simon hadn’t
20.	Article
21.	Abbreviated officers
25. Sister
27.	High point of a mural
28.	Daquiri ingredient reversed
29.	Start over again
30.	“Bell Song” opera
32.	Quiz
33.	Odd ball
34.	Kaltenborn
35.	Little George
37. Way out
40. What white side walls are
44.	Vocal
45.	High math
46.	Italian wine town
47.	Six pointses
48.	Small child
49.	Pour
DOWN
1.	Chinese theatrical-property item?
2.	It can keep you hanging
3.	A third of the way out (2 words)
4.	Kools’ secret ingredient (2 words)
5.	Kind of crazy
6.	Ash receptacle 7. Pro’s last name 8. Kind of money
9.	Kind of guy in Westerns
10.	Consumed
11.	Play the field
14. Whereyou appreciate
Kools (3 words)
22.	It’s obviously by amateur poets (2 words)
23.	Hula hoops, yoyos, etc.
24.	Here’s where the money goes 25. Kind of ish 26. Tentmaker 31. Make a makeshift living (2 words)
36.____Kools
have 4 Down 37.1 left Elsie 38. Satisfy 39. Gary Cooper-ish 40. Between Sept.
and Nov.
41.	Doodle equipment
42.	Trade Lasts (abbr.)
43.	Willie the Penguin’s cousin
KGDL
°F kgdl
Qieeo, Brown * WUllamaon Tobeceo Corp.
a real change
YOU NEED THE
4
t
k

MENTHOL

' The Scholastic
♦


patriot
< /

I

A
4
>
4

I-

At the annual Washington day exercises next week the Vice President of the United States will receive the seventh “Patriot of the Year” award granted by the senior class of Notre Dame. The choice of this man at this pai-ticulai- time is extremely significant not only to the student body, but to the general public as well. There is a possibility that Nixon will be the next man to sit in the White House.
The name of the award makes the choice of a recipient very difficult. One usually thinks of patriotism in terms of heroic deeds on the field of battle or at least a stirring defense of the flag or Constitution in the midst of attacks by those who would destroy our democratic system. In this era1 of an uneasy peace, however, such patriotism is uncommon. Few men are called upon to make the supreme sacrifice of Nathan Hale and there is little time or opportunity to demonstrate the more orthodox manifestations of the traditional patriot. But patriotism is still a moving force today. It lives on in a different form as a silent sense of service and duty to one’s country, and in its ideals as reflected in the performance of certain duties which in some way contribute to the general welfare of the United States.
This year the senior class nominated such a group of distinguished men, governors, senators, diplomats and other public seiwants. Each had in some way contributed to the betterment of the national welfare in the performance of his duties. Richard Nixon was chosen from among this group as being most exemplary of this type of service. He has worked diligently in his capacity as Vice President, and has taken many burdens off the shoulders of the President. Aside from what his critics may say of his political ambitions or tactics at home, in foreign countries he has admirably represented us — in Austria near the Hungarian border during the Revolution, in South America during the riots which might have caused him serious injury, and in the Soviet Union where he engaged the chief of the Communists in a running dialogue on the relative merits of our opposing systems. In these trips and in other capacities, Nixon has fulfilled his job to the utmost.
On the domestic scene Nixon has, by pel-mission of the President, taken a more active role in government operations, and has by so doing changed the importance of what was once called “the most anonymous job in the world” into an office second only to the presidency. In addition to his participation in meetings of the National Security Council and other such bodies, Nixon has headed several special committees on current political problems. During the prolonged illness of President Eisenhower he held the delicate position of acting President and handled the affairs of state which needed immediate attention.
It is not our intention to list all of the actions of this man while in office, good or bad — and there are undoubtedly some of each. Nixon has, however, in the space of seven years conducted the office of Vice President with vigor and acumen. It is for this reason that he has been chosen “The Patriot of the Year” — not because he fought in the armed services, raised the flag or hunted out Reds in the past, for certainly these activities were not generally known by the members of the senior class. When the Vice President arrives to receive his award next week it will signify an important event in the University’s calendar year. But it will also signify a tribute to a dedicated public servant.
—C. T.
compliment
In the past week about the biggest news on campus has been the prospect of President Eisenhower delivering the commencement address this spring. Although the President has not yet given final notification of his acceptance, he is expected to do so by the end of the month. If he does come, Notre Dame may be the scene of a major address. The topic has not yet been determined but it could concern the role of the United States in international affairs. The Marshall Plan was unveiled in a commencement address by Secretary of State Marshall at Harvard University in 1947. The Notre Dame exercises could hold such a major program. Only the future will tell.
But in all the roar over the President’s possible visit, one significant thing has been overlooked. Why should he come to Notre Dame? A man of his stature receives a hundred such invitations each spring, some of which have been long standing. Yet he is strongly considering the Notre Dame offer and will in all probability be on campus June 5. Why?
Probably there are several motivations underlying this decision. Notre Dame’s President, the Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., has served on the Eisenhower Civil Rights Committee since its founding in 1957. In this period of time, Father Hesburgh has gained the respect of educators across the country as well as the members of our government. President Eisenhower’s visit offers an opportunity for him to honor Father Hesburgh by accepting his invitation.
However, the reason goes deeper than this. The President would be honoring Notre Dame. In the past ten years this University has assumed its place as the leader- in Catholic edu- -cation and is highly regarded by any standards of higher education. Our graduates have annually received a tremendous number of fellowships and scholarships (see “Commentary”) and a great percentage of them go on to advanced schooling.
The Distinguished Professors program has added many renowned men to the faculty who have raised the academic standards of their various departments and have, by their association with the University, raised its national name. Our building program has been astounding. The Notre Dame Foundation has somehow managed to collect the funds and the administration has built the buildings. There has not been a single year since the present student body has been at the school that a new building was not either under construction or under close consideration. This year it is the library.
During the past ten years, every college on campus has been completely “overhauled.” The College of Commerce will this year graduate the first class under its new program and the other colleges have programs which are almost as new. And in these colleges, entirely new departments have been ere-ated. In Engineering it is engineering science and in Arts and Letters it is communication arts.
Almost every issue of the Scholastic reveals some new grant to one of the professors or to one of the various departments. Notre Dame’s Lobund has developed the germ-free animal and our biology department is now working on a cold vaccine.
A list of our recent achievements could continue for pages. The University is dynamic and growing and we feel that it . is in respect of this fact that the President of the United -States has taken such close consideration of an honorary degree from Notre Dame. When the President accepts the in- . vitation, we will have been paid a compliment from a very impressive source. Notre Dame: congratulations.
—R.B.
7
February 19, 1960
IBM WILL INTERVIEW MAR. 2
IBM invites candidates for Bachelor’s or Master’s Degrees to discuss opportunities in Applied Science, Business Administration, Marketing, Product Development and Programming . . . positions throughout the United States.
Laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vt.; San Jose, Calif.; Lexington, Ky.; and Rochester, Minn. Corporate headquarters is located in New York, with 192 branch offices in cities throughout the United States. The IBM representative will be glad to discuss with you the type of career of particular interest to you. IBM offers:
•	Leadership in the development of information-handling systems.
•	New applications for data processing and advances in computer technology.
•	Favorable climate for continued career growth.
•	Opportunities for a wide range of academic backgrounds and talents.
Contact your College Placement Officer to arrange an appointment for	<
a personal interview with the IBM representative.	<
If you cannot attend the interview, call or write:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager IBM Corporation, Dept. 868 618-620 North Michigan Street South Bend 1, Ind. CE 2-8251
IBM.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION

The Scholastic
I
►
lest they
•	by CHRIS FOLEY
be forgotten
► rT'HE other day I chanced to come upon a lad of my acquaintance who was just sitting all alone in his room, eating his heart out. This is actually a ‘ rather disgusting spectacle, I mean with all the blood and arteries and such, but I nonetheless became determined to ascertain the cause of his anguish.
“Friend,” I said, “friend, why do you sit here in the solitude of your room eating youi- heart out?”
He looked up at me with tear-stained ' eyes and sobbed while he munched on a ventricle. “Do you know what day it is? It’s Valentine’s Day, and I didn’t get not even one Valentine. That is why I am sitting here eating my heart out. Want some?”
Politely declining his invitation, I quietly left him to his grief. Right then and there, however, I decided that this week we should devote a column entirely “ to those poor forgotten souls here on campus who through some oversight or malice received naiy a remembrance on the feast of good St. Valentine.
I therefore embarked on a tour of the campus, that I might gather up all the discarded messages of warmth and love and reprint them here.
' First I stopped by the Huddle, to see if perhaps there were a few old Valentines lying around there. Upon entering, I saw two females, one twelve and the other 70, who had dared to venture onto our campus and were being subjected to a deluge of crass remarks and insulting inspection. Priding myself on being just as crass as the next man, I tossed a couple of witticisms their way and inspected each several times insultingly. The twelve-year-old maintained her reserve splendidly, but the older one was wavering a bit.
Just then a young man, obviously confident of his intellectual and moral stature, thought that he had come up with a solution. Striding over to the fair damsels, he said, “Ladies, if you wish I will have the room cleared, and you will not have to be subjected to this deluge of crass remarks and insulting inspection.**
__-____ tn
Though noticeably surprised, the girls were quick to answer. “Beat it, Buster,” they cooed menacingly. “Whatta ya think we came over here for?”
But I was looking for Valentines, and therefore hastened around the campus gathering up all the love messages I could find.
A HESITANT LOVER
The first that I found had never been sent at all. It had been composed by a Badin Hall junior and was designed to let the lady in this fellow’s life know that she would really be perfect, except for one thing. . .
Gracious, charming, gentle, kind,
You fire my heart, you fill my mind.
Bzit your kiss, my dearest, is the kiss of death;
’Cause good lord, baby, you got bad breath!
As I said, this message was never sent. The fellow decided on a shorter, more direct approach. . .
Blue is for violets, red is for roses.
Pepsodent’s great for halitosis!
Prof. Gerhardt Grunch of the history department dropped off this verse he received from a group of former students.
Last semester was barrels of fun With Mr. Grunch and History 21. Gosh how the class enjoyed your capers;
Your 34 tests and 19 term papers.
There were 32 men in your class, Valentine,
Wasn’t it hilarious you flunked 29? But no hard feelings, Mr. Grunch, You’re still revered by all the bunch.
That is why all of us guys
Are going to give you a little surprise.
First we’re giving you cheer after cheer,
Then slitting your throat from ear to ear.
Of course not all the Valentines were sent to sweethearts and professors. One of the very nicest originated over in Farley Hall, sent from one roommate to another.	''
What whim of fortune, what stroke of fate,	.
Caused me to be yours, and you my roommate?
How pleasant it’s been for you and me Through freshman year at old ND!
But it’s been five months since first we came,
And one thing bothers me, all the same.
Heaven forbid that I raise your wrath, But roomie, roomie, when’ll you take a bath?
REPLACEMENT PROBLEM
An Alumni Hall senior who earned no small repute for gridiron feats during the last three seasons reports that he received the following in his Valentine mail. . .
How strange it will seem to look down and see
A Notre Dame team without Monte.
I guess we can always find another receiver,
But who’ll keep an eye on Mike McKeever?
The last of bur post-Valentine’s presentations was sent by a young man of my acquaintance who has actually had ’ a bit of trouble with regards to social life because of a rather rare, though not-entirely unknown, phenomenon which is . a constant source of bother to him, especially in the summer months. . .
I know I’m not perfect, or anything near,
But the presence of you dispenses my ' fear.
So please, my dearest, be nice tome; For get'all the little faults you see.
And while my looks may cause dis- : taste,	/
Please, oh please, don’t call me Flyface!	:
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
•
The Rescue
Conrad
•
Protestant—Catholic—Jew
Herberg
•
Doctor Zhivago
Pasternak
•
Look Homeward Angel
Wolfe
•
For Whom the Bell Tolls
Hemmingway •
Tender is the Night
Fitzgerald •
Age of Reform
Hofstadter
•
Catharine of Aragon
Mattingly •
Italian for Beginners
Duff
•
Aku - Aku
Heyerdahl
•
Man & Superman
Shaw
•
Idea of Nature
Collingwood
•
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
OUR COVER: Barry Maguire, after a much delayed absence from the cover of the SCHOLASTIC, has returned today with a drawing of Richard Nixon. Nixon will receive the “Patriot of the Year” award given annually by the senior class at the Washington Day exercises. Maguire is a senior fine arts major from Pennsylvania, and has drawn numerous covers and illustrations for the magazine in the past.
Shirts Expertly Laundered RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Une
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
To err is human ...
to erase, divine with
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
Try it! Just the flick of a pencil-eraser and your typing errors are gone! It’s like magic! The special surface of Corrasable Bond erases without a trace. Your first typing effort is the finished copy when Corrasable puts things right. This fine quality bond gives a handsome appearance to all your work. Saves time and money, too!
Erasable Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weights and onion skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Made only by Eaton
EATON PAPER CORPORATION {Ej PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
AVAILABLE AT
HOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
t
10
The Scholastic
\ VICE PRESIDENT NIXON TO ACCEPT , ‘PATRIOT’ AWARD NEXT TUESDAY * Invite President to Deliver Commencement Address;
* Expect Eisenhower to Notify University Within Week
" With the impending arrival of Vice , President Richard Nixon and the possible visit of President Dwight Eisenhower, the political spotlight will be including the Notre Dame campus in its sweep across the nation.
As recipient of this year’s “Patriot of the Year” award, Nixon will be arriving * by plane at 4:30 pan. on Tuesday after> noon for a five hour campus stay that * will include dinner and the presentation , ceremonies at 8:15 p.m.
Not yet accepted. Although local papers quoted “unofficial sources” as saying that Eisenhower had accepted Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh’s, C.S.C., invitation to deliver the commencement ad-• dress in June, University officials denied this. While affirming the invitation, they ' maintained that the president’s decision to come or not come will not be received until Monday.
Because of the critical time during which the commencement will occur, a major policy speech has been hinted at. 1 The June 5 date will be just before the national Republican convention, and just / after the President’s good-will tour to South America, the summit conference k in Paris and his trip to Russia.
Nixon’s election by the senior class was by one of the largest margin’s ever
?	VICE PRESIDENT NIXON
Taking over where “Rocky” left off
February 19, 1960
J
recorded. The two-man committee of Bill Scheckler and Paul Hundt proceeded to reflect this popularity in terms of warm praise for the Vice President. Besides mentioning Nixon’s “untiring” and “successful effort to expose subversive men and movements,” the citation goes on to point out his representation to the world of the American idea and his role as “preserver of the peace of America and the world.”
This is the third visit to Notre Dame for the Duke Law School graduate who achieved national honors by graduating
Tickets Needed
The Washington Day Exercises committee reminds everyone that admission will be by ticket only. Consequently, they ask anyone who now has a ticket, but who will be unable to use it Tuesday night, to please give it to someone who can. A capacity crowd of 2,700 is expected to attend the locally televised event and all available tickets have long since been distributed.
third in the class of ’37. His undergraduate days were spent at Whittier College, a small Quaker college in California where the champion debater made student body president on a platform advocating previously outlawed “on campus” dances.
Following law school, Nixon returned to his home town where he joined a firm for general practice. After five years of practice, he joined the Office of Price Administration in Washington. This second job was halted by his commissioning as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy and his assignment to the South Pacific. The end of the war found him a discharged Lieutenant Commander and a freshman Congressman from his home distinct.
Conscientious conservative. His defeated opponent summed it all up: “He will, I imagine be a conservative (Republican Congressman), I believe he will be a conscientious one.”
Eisenhower’s selection of him as a running mate was the interruption of a Senate term and the climax of two previous Congressional stints. The second of these stints was secured with both the
PRESIDENT EISENHOWER Major policy speech?
Democratic and the Republican nomination.
Neither of his vice presidential campaigns was particularly noted for its placidity. During the first there was the disclosure of a publicity solicited “secret $18,000 fund” — a disclosure that required the famous “Checkers” speech to restore Republican confidence in him. The second campaign was prefaced by the President’s implication that he was considering finding a less controversial running mate. The touchy situation was further aggravated by the Senate investigation of Murray Chotiner, his old campaign manager and mentor.
Dim future. Although Nixon had promised his wife Pat in 1954 that he would not run again, the thought of leaving the vice presidency under a black cloud was completely against his nature. So, in the spring of election year Nixon took up the President’s advice to “chart his own course” and decided to run again.
In view of the fact that no Vice President since Martin Van Buren has been nominated as his party’s presidential candidate, many felt that a wiser political move would have been to enter the Cabinet. However, these people did not count on the increased importance that Nixon managed to add to the job.
Besides his Constitutional duties, Nixon is a member of the National Security Council, a participator in Cabinet meetings and chairman of several executive committees. His world-wide travels to over fifty countries have increased his stature both at home and abroad.	-
As the seventh recipient, Nixon is following such men as J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton Sheen, Senator John Kennedy, General Curtis LeMay, Robert Kennedy and last year’s winner, Wernher Von Braun.
11
Nu Delta Epsilon Ends Probationary Period; Petition National Organization for Acceptance
Yesterday the National Engineering Society of Notre Dame, Nu Delta Epsilon, was visited by student and faculty representatives of chapters from Purdue, Michigan and Rose Polytechnical Institute.
Nu Delta Epsilon, founded in January, 1958, for the purpose of recognition and honor of the outstanding scholarship of engineering students, has now served its two-year probationary period. The members, under the direction of
PRESIDENT NAGEL Now under inspection
Dave Nagel, president, have submitted, and have had accepted, their preliminary petition for final acceptance to the national organization, Tau Beta Pi. This petition included the name of each member, letters from the various heads of the University, a history of engineering here at Notre Dame, a catalog of the engineering faculty members and finally a constitution for the newly formed honor society.
The representatives who visited the University yesterday were headed by the national vice president of Tau Beta Pi, Arthur Consoer and the secretary-treasurer of the organization, Robert Nagle. Their purpose was to examine the engineering facilities here at Notre Dame and to meet the students and faculty of the College of Engineering.
An initial meeting of these men was held at eleven in the morning, followed by a luncheon at the Morris Inn. After a thorough inspection of each department, a final meeting was held in the early evening.
Final consideration will be given to the petition at the October National Convention of Tau Beta Pi at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa. It is at this time that Nu Delta Epsilon hopes to be granted its charter and henceforth be
known as the Indiana Gamma Chapter of Tau Beta Pi.
Notre Dame’s honor society presently has thirty-one active members. This honor society is open only to juniors ranking in the upper eighth of their engineering class and to seniors in the upper fifth of their engineering class. For entrance, the aspirant must submit a 1500 word paper on a specified technical or liberal subject. By June, the membership will be increased to around 45 members.
Last Sunday, Mr. Thomas T. Murphy, the assistant dean of commerce, gave a lecture to the honor society on stocks, bonds and investments. This was just one in a series of lectures being presented on various subjects by Nu Delta Epsilon.
Forty Teams to Enter Debate Tourney Here
Forty debate teams from colleges and universities from all parts of the nation are expected to assemble here for the Eighth Annual University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament, to be held in the La-Fortune Student Center March 4 and 5.
Among the schools expected are the four service academies; traditional eastern and southeastern debate powers such as Pittsburgh, Miami (Fla.) and Kentucky; leading Midwestern debate teams including the defending National Champions from Northwestern, Augus-tana College, Butler, Wheaton and Eau Claire, Wisconsin, State Teachers College; western schools expected include Nebraska and Southern California.
The name of the first place winnerwill be inscribed on the Rev. William Bolger trophy, and the Richard D. Schiller debate trophy -will go to the winning school. Father Bolger was the long-time coach (1910-1928) of the Notre Dame Debate Team and first president of the Wranglers. Richard Schiller is a former president of the debate team and was a member of the team that won the Notre Dame Tournament in 1956.
Participants will be debating the proposition, “Resolved: That Congress Should Be Given the Power to Reverse Decisions of the Supreme Court.”
Six preliminary rounds will be held all day Friday and Saturday morning in the Student Center. A banquet for the visiting teams will be held Saturday noon in the Morris Inn. Representatives of the University who are expected to be at the speaker’s table include Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president; Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., vice president for student affairs; Thomas Stritch, communication arts head; and Leonard Sommer, director of forensics.
Freshman Hall Council Sets Formal Dance for Mid-May
At its last meeting, the freshman hall council, composed of all freshman hall presidents and senators, decided that the annual Freshman Formal will be held May 13, in the LaFortune Student Center. Such a late date was decided upon because of this year’s late Easter vacation.
Dan Baldino has been selected by the council as the general chairman of the affair and announced his committee heads this past week. In the role of executive chairman will be John Cunningham. Positions of business manager and publicity chairman will be filled by Lee Piovarcy and Joe Kelly, respectively. In charge of entertainment will be Paul Tschirhart, designing the decorations will be Dick Junkniess, and heading the ticket committee will be Mike Becker. Ed Collins will act as the accommodations chairman while Bob Bartoto has been selected to organize the Communion breakfast.
Formerly known as the Freshman Frolic, this year’s dance will be the highlight of the social season for the freshman class. The dance committee has already set high hopes for the success of the formal in attempting to sell a record 500 tickets to the affair. The only freshman class to come close to this figure was last year’s, when 430 couples attended the spring prom.
Philosophy Dept. Allotted Six Government Grants
Philosophy scholars with doctorate dreams in mind came down to earth long enough to check their bank books this week as they learned that six more j graduate fellowships have been made : available in the philosophy department. The three-year grants have been allotted under the recent Defense Education Act passed by Congress.
Awarded to those beginning doctoral : studies in the University’s graduate ; philosophy program next September, they are being given to Notre Dame in ; conjunction with the philosophy depart- I ment’s expanded program in symbolic ‘ logic. Fellowship winners will be re- j quired to devote approximately one | quarter of their studies to this speci- f alized field.	\
Each graduate school will receive up J to $2,500 per year for the cost of edu- : eating each fellow. - The fellows them- = selves each receive $2,000 for the first 'year of study; $2,200 for the second;
$2,400 for the third plus an allowance : of $400 per year for each dependent. All of the programs to which the fellowships have been allotted must lead to a doctoral degree and must either be new pro- * grams or expansions of existing gradu- ; ate facilities.
Students qualified to commence studies for their doctorate in philosophy at Notre Dame may obtain an application at the graduate dean’s office. ’
The Scholastic
Industrial and Labor Leaders to Meet Here; Eighth Annual Conference to Start Next Friday
Midwestern industrial officials and labor leaders will be congregating on campus next Friday as Notre Dame’s eighth annual Union-Management Conference gets under way. Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., is founder and chairman of the one day conference which is held in Washington Hall.
Slated for this year’s conference are addresses and discussions centering around the theme “Improving the Relations Between the Parties.” Over 500 men are expected to attend the sessions which begin at 9:30 a.m. An integral part of the conference will be addresses by a nationally known arbitrator as well as representatives of industry and labor.
V-P on labor. Edward L. Cushman, general vice president of American Motors Corporation will present “An Evaluation of Industry-wide Bargaining” at the opening session of the conference.
Cushman, who served as director and later vice president for industrial relations at American Motors, was widely known as an industrial arbitrator before joining the company when it was founded in 1954. He is currently serving as chairman of the Governor’s Study Commission on Automation in Michigan.
David L. Cole, a veteran arbitrator who has served many times as a member or chairman of presidential boards in industry-wide labor disputes, will speak on “The Outlook for Free Collective Bargaining.”
Labor ref. Cole, who addressed the first Union-Management Conference at Notre Dame in 1953, is the pei-manent arbitrator under several labor agreements including those at International Harvester, Inland Steel and DuMont Laboratories.
EDWARD CUSHMAN “Rambler” chief views unions
Thomas M. McCormick, secretaiy-treasurer of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers International Union, Denver, will give “A Union Appraisal of Job Opportunities.” McCormick has served as secretary-treasurer of the OCAW since its first convention in 1955. He held the same post for nine years with the Oil Workers union before it merged with the Chemical Workers.
Also included on the day’s agenda are panel discussions. Ten prominent representatives of labor and industry will participate in the discussions.
Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis attorney and arbitrator, will serve as chairman of the first panel on “Living with the Contract.” Included in the discussion will be the subjects of negotiations, grievance handling and day-today relations.
“Meeting Some Problems in Communications” will be the title of a second panel discussion to be moderated by Professor Ronald W. Haughton, director of the Institute of Industrial Relations at Wayne University, Detroit. Particular attention will be given to joint industrial committees and keeping work standards and job content up to date.
Fr. Scherz to Deliver Lectures on Stenonius
A noted lecturer and scientist, Rev. Gustav Scherz, C. Ss. R., 'will deliver a series of lectures here on three aspects of the life and work of Nicolaus Stenonius, famous natural scientist of the seventh century, Monday through Wednesday of next week.
In room 101 of the Geology Building on February 25, at 4:00 p.m., Father Scherz will give his first talk entitled, “Steno — Geologist, Paleontologist, and Chrystallographer.” This initial lecture is under the sponsorship of the Geology Department. On the following afternoon at 4:00 p.m. in Room 107 of the Biology Building, “Steno—Biologist, Anatomist, and Physiologist,” will be his topic. The Biology Department will sponsor this discussion. The College of Science will be responsible for- Father Scherz’s last talk entitled, “Steno—Scientist and Saint.” This final lecture will be held in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Building at eight o’clock on the evening of Wednesday, February 24=
Father Scherz, a native of Denmark, came to this country through the University of California where he taught last semester. Presently he is on a lecturing tour of American colleges and universities, having already spoken at Illinois, Berkeley and Yale.
The Nicolaus Steno Guild, an organization in Copenhagen, Denmark, which is working to secure the beatification of -religious scientist Stenonius, is sponsoring Father Scherz’s tour of the country.
Seise aid Neiseise
Lack of controversy does not mean a lack of activity, or at least that is what the Senate and this reporter were pointedly told last Monday evening. Reluctantly, and in retrospect, I think Babbitt, Naughton, and Scanlon had a valid point in their criticism of last week’s column. There are some, mostly the veterans, who do work
at their job, but others are merely weekly seat-warmers, and it is they who cause the ever-increasing level of unanimity.
The preparation, of the budget for a new semester is one example of how work is done in advance by some. Apparently, most of the rough spots had been eliminated in prior cabinet and committee meetings because when it got to the Senate floor, its components were passed in a set-’em-up-knock-’em-down fashion, despite Babbitt’s admonishments. In the process, the Blue Circle, the classes, the commissions, and the committees received their funds for this semester’s activities. This was a major part of the meeting.
The second spiritual commissioner has resigned, and a new approach taken toward the job. It was decided to remove the job from the influences of legislative, political, and budgetary limitations. The Blue Circle will probably take on the potentially-influential job.
Student Affairs Commissioner Butler is working on a golf pro show for May, a geographical “ride-roundup,” and the final tabulation of last year’s permanent hall resident poll.
Academic Commissioner Lawlor plans on a March 6 discussion of the beat generation, is trying to get Mor-timer J. Adler and David McDonald to speak here, wants help on the hall speaking programs, and asked for and got $50 for a February 24 debate on the National Defense Education Act.
The Freshmen received a loan of $200 and got the budget for their formal passed, but there was some doubt expressed as to its optimistic figures.
The annual Spring “Help Week,” will be handled henceforth by the Blue Circle, being taken out of the jurisdiction of each Junior class.
A quaint and hairline parliamentary loophole was worked during the budget proceedings. A mysterious absence of people resulted when a brief recess was called, and not even a quorum came back. But business continued because no one called a quorum to stop the meeting. The attitude was expressed eloquently by Chris Lund: “Get it over with.”	,	.
	
in
13
Patterns of Convention Begin To Shape Up for Democrats
Patterns of the coming Democratic Mock Convention began to take shape recently as the delegation of 48 states and four territories held organizational meetings. Following the lead of the Illinois and New York delegations which, due to numbers, had met earlier, the groups heard the views of chairman candidates, who introduced themselves and expressed the direction of their support.
Many of the delegations have room for a few students. Those interested should note the date, time and place of the second meetings on the hall bulletin boards.
CURTAIN GOING UP
“Tiger at the Gates,” the University Theater’s second production of the year, ends its campus engagement this week with performances tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 in Washington Hall. Following their local run, the University Theater players will put on a benefit performance of the play at the Eighth Street Theater in Chicago. This final appearance is sponsored by the Chicago Club, and proceeds will go to the club's scholarship fund. The Washington Hall box office will be open today and tomorrow from 4 to 9 p.m.
To Feature 'Dam Design' At Next ASCE Meeting '
Dr. Jack W. Hilf will address the student chapter of The American Society of Civil Engineers on Wednesday evening, Feb. 24. The meeting, beginning at 7:45 p.m. in room 212 of the Engineering Building, will feature Dr. Hilf’s talk on the subject “Design and Con- J struction of Earth Dams.”
Dr. Hilf is the Chief of the Soils t Problem Unit, Earth Dams Section, tt Dams Bronch, for the Bureau of Re- ? clamation in Denver, Colo. He has won international recognition as a pioneer in the field of earth compaction, and in various soil mechanics problems of design and construction of earth dams. i
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave! regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves... try Old Spice Smooth Shave!	100
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
4
r
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
14
The Scholastic
I
AROUND the turn of the century, the British actor-producer, Herbert Tree, is reputed to have said, “Tragedy is great fun but comedy is damned serious business.” From the production standpoint, nothing could hit the truth more squarely. The range of skill needed to create a genuine comic character, the timing which can make the difference between a pointedly funny line and an absolute dud all place upon actors and directors a far greater burden than emotional, roundly declaimed tragedy. Moreover, the “higher” a comedy is, the more it depends upon satire and comic insight as opposed to farce and caricature, the more difficult it is to realize upon stage. Tiger at the Gates, currently completing its run in Washington Hall, is high to the point of being stratospheric. This perhaps explains at least in part why the University Theatre production of it is less satisfying than one might wish. There are many things to be admired in the production. What they do present of this play, Mr. Fred Syburg and his determined crew do well enough, but they do not present nearly enough to do justice either to the play or to themselves.
This comment does not refer to the several cuts, which for the. most part were justified and skillfully executed, but to the de-emphasis of the satirical values of this often bitter work in favor of box-office-proof farce and ribaldry. Their approach to the work as a whole was unsubtle and often a bit heavyhanded.
In all justice to them, it must be pointed out they have tackled a play of enormous difficulty. Personally, I suspect Tiger at the Gates of being a member of that curious species of drama which reads brilliantly and stages not at all. It is a satire on man and war and the causes of war. The scene is laid in Troy shortly before that classic scuffle with the Greeks. Hector, being the only character who has lived intimately with war is the only one who stands in proper horror of it. He is set against his irresponsible brother, his ineffectual father, a bunch of romantic intellectuals and poets, and against Helen, the “mirror,” the personification of those perverse elements which make man make war part of his destiny. It is a play not so much of action but of ideas. Its conflicts are not so much conflicts of people as of ideologies. Its outcome is unfortunate not merely for the characters involved but for mankind in general. Throughout it is peppered with biting, cryptic comments on the follies of men. the follies of the ideas they put forth, since these ideas are false and ludicrous set against the staggering reality of war. These comments, plentiful and penetrating form an essential part of the comic life of the play, but they were not designed to produce guffaws. They are often blase and invariably rapier quick.
But the people down at Washington Hall were doing a better traffic in broadswords than rapier's. The most immediately apparent flaw in the production is that they are attempting to use methods better suited to Molliere than Giraudoux, and the play itself and the style of presentation often clash violently. Particularly in the first act, there was a lack of enthusiasm, a slowness which made the characters seem like essentially dull people trying desperately to be brilliant but finally sitting around to do nothing but talk. Often the actors were trying so hard to make a line funny that they smothered it in exaggeration. Not infrequently a pungent dart was lost in garbled diction.
But there was a far more basic defect underlying the very conception of the current production. It was decided that the laugh at the moment was a surer bet than the over-all effect,
Tiger at the Gates ’
by Bernard McElroy
and hence frequent use was made of the age-old crutch of comedy, caricature. The secondary characters, Demokos, Bu-sirus and the mathematician were played for surface laughs. Dottering age, senility, effeminacy and pompousness were exaggerated to an outlandish degree in order to make these characters funny. The guffaw tactics succeeded. The characters were very funny, but in the process began to look like refugees from Italian comic opera. And once again we see that expediency pays a dear price in the final outcome. In this case the very peak of the drama, the killing of Demokos and the declaration of wai' became ineffective, • became indeed rather unfortunate farce. There is a great deal of viscousness in the character of Demokos and his ideals are not merely ludicrous but pernicious and eventually bring about the war that so great a man as Hector has been trying to avoid. But in this production, we became so used to dismissing him as a ridiculous fop, so used to seeing his false ideals put to the mock that when we were asked to take him seriously, we found the request something too much. Moreover, if there is no serious conflict of ideas in this play, there is no conflict at all worth mentioning and the valiant Hector begins to look curiously like Don Quixote. If his adversaries are unworthy of him, the very nature of his struggle is undermined.
If the production was unsuccessful as a whole, it was nothing less than brilliant in some of its parts. There were, as noted before, at least three performances of real merit. Outstanding was the wry Ulysses of David McDonald, who in appearance, delivery and movement stood out as a striking and subtly conceived character, wily, cynical, yet philosophically curious, a diplomat more than a warrior. More than any other member of the cast, McDonald acted in the style of the play, and mastered the casual delivery needed to bring the lines to life. His scene with Hector stood head and shoulders above anything else in the production and was its main saving grace. It even made the rather tedious first act worth sitting through.
In this first act, brief flashes of comic brilliance were offered by Michael Ehrenreich as Paris and Diane Crowley as Cassandra. Ehrenreich not only brought to focus the character of the irresponsible, egotistical libertine, but played the
(Continued on page 19)
February 19, 1960
A CASE
FOR THE
WHEN the American voter goes to the polls this November, there are two questions he should ask himself. Does the record of the present Republican administration justify a continued stay in office? Is the Democratic Party capable of providing the nation with a more capable, imaginative, and inspiring leadership? Because the answer to the first question is no, and the answer to the second yes, the people should turn to the Democratic Party for leadership in the next four years.
For a long time we have been told that the Republicans will run on the issues of peace and prosperity. In truth these are the issues of the Democratic Party. The Republican administration has given the nation neither peace nor prosperity. More typically, they have demonstrated in the last seven years that they do not correctly understand the meaning of either term.
PEACE AND PROSPERITY
Peace does not consist in the mere lack of immediate peril, or the absence of actual hostility. It is a much more encompassing notion with long-range implications. It consists in an effective foreign policy.— a positive foreign policy with clear objectives, one which can provide leadership and inspiration to the free world. Equally as important it consists in strength at home, in an adequate defense, one with the power to deter unquestionably any aggressor.
Nor is prosperity merely uneven and unbalanced splatches of productivity and wealth. It consists in a real concern for the future and for those things which insure a rich and prosperous future for all Americans. Concern for the farmer, for depressed areas, for slums — the blight of our cities — for educational institutions, these are all a part of the jigsaw puzzle that is our economy. To ignore some of the pieces is not only to mar the totality of the picture, but also to weaken the economic unity essential to continued growth. If we look at peace and prosperity in this, a long range view, it is clear that the Republicans have given us neither.
The lack of consistency and purpose in our foreign policy is by now obvious to all. It began in 1952 with the Republican campaign fantasy of emancipation for captive nations. Later we were told that the policy was massive retaliation coupled with “brinksmanship.” Still later we witnessed a complete reversal. The President who deplored personal diplomacy, the Summit meeting, not only pledged to go to the Summit, but agreed to exchange visits with Premier Khrushchev. The resulting confusion has weakened the NATO alliance, an alliance already weak because the President has not taken steps to bring it more into line with the military realities of the missile age. Our policy in regard to the “new” nations, or tiiose seeking freedom is utterly confused.
The lack of a coherent foreign policy coupled with an in-
16
Continuing the spring political series begun last week, Dennis Shaul declares the incumbent Republican Party incapable of imaginative leadership. The former Student Body President then procedes to outline the far-sighted policy he feels only the Liberal Democrats can provide in this age of missiles, higher education, and farm headaches.
DEMOCRATS
adequate defense policy clearly places us in grave danger of becoming a second-rate power. This President’s defense policy and public statements have had the effect of making the United States incapable of fighting a limited war. We have been put in the unenviable position of making every issue, no matter what its gravity, one over which we will fight full nuclear war, or one over which we will not fight at all. This despite the fact that Admiral Burke believes “limited war is the most likely future combat condition.” Yet the President has done nothing to prepare the nation for the possibility of war. It is no wonder that our position on Berlin has weakened. How could it be otherwise?
The President has imperviously disregarded all criticisms of his defense policies. It is true enough that he has given his life to the military, but he is a soldier of another age. This is the age of missiles, and of near-instant destruction. Intelligence estimates now give the Russians a perilous 3 to 1 or better missiles edge by the end of 1962 or ’63. The Strategic Air Command, ground-based, is a very easy target. Yet the President insists we have a firmly balanced military posture. It may well be that that balance is all too fine. As General Taylor put it, “in over-all strength the tide will run against
The Scholastic
us by next year unless heroic efforts are made to step up de-► fenses.” No such heroism is likely from an administration whose prime concern has ever been a balanced budget.
J At home the situation also requires review. The fact that we now have a gross national product of $500 billion only emphasizes the absurdity of a nation so prosperous which still cannot afford the necessity of a first-rate educational system, adequate benefits for all its aged, adequate housing—without slums—for all its citizens. The Benson farm policy has frustrated to a great degree one of the President’s promises — a balanced budget — but has done little to aid the small farmer.
I Most simply stated, the truth is that the nation’s economy has not grown fast enough under the Eisenhower administration, / and that America’s productivity has not been properly channeled. We have been satisfied to accept less than we need k and less than we could have.
k
A LIBERAL DEMOCRAT: IDEOLOGY AND DUTY ♦
To criticize the present Republican administration is not enough. It must be shown that the Democrats can do better. And here we encounter a problem. The truth is that there are wide differences within the Party. Only by seeking a candi-। date true to the real tradition of the Democratic Party — the Progressive or Liberal tradition — can the Democrats legiti-4	mately claim the attention of the voter. Nor would the Demo'	crats fear to be labelled once again as the liberal party. Ma-
। ligned as the word is, it would be well to say a few words about it.
y A liberal is not one who believes that all budgets must be unbalanced, or that all problems require federal solution. He is rather one who believes that because we are a nation existing now in a technological age, and engaged in a momentous .	struggle, we face problems that require immediate, but long*	lasting solutions. His prime concern is not the budget, nor
4 even local control, but our continued status as a great nation.
He realizes that that requires large expenditures, perhaps h higher taxes, sometimes perhaps deficit spending, sometimes [ increased federal control. But we cannot wish for the past. L As all of society grows larger, more complex, it would be sheer i	folly to expect government to grow smaller. As more problems
|	are created by our progress, it would be idiotic to expect them
I to solve themselves.
I The liberal Democratic program must be ready to meet | America’s problems head on. To begin with our alliances
must be reviewed. NATO must be seen in the context of the /C missile age. A long-term, much more extensive foreign aid : S program, probably costing a great deal more than the present : $3.5 billion dollars must be developed. We must start asking -	~
ourselves whether we are building strong economies with this > aid, not necessarily whether we are gaining friends. "While . * \ continuing to explore the possibilities of disarmament, we ~ should raise ourselves once again to an unchallenged defensive ■ position. More money must be spent on research, on missiles, on space exploration. Perhaps more important a strong execu-	""
tive must exert real leadership to end interservice rivalries	.
and missile development duplication.	-	-
ECONOMICS AND DESTINY
Increasingly the federal government is going to be forced to take a hand in the problem of education. There the Eisenhower administration has done a complete reversal. In his first term, Eisenhower was for federal aid to education. He is now against it. The Democratic Party should take an unequivocal stand for federal aid for both classroom construction and teachers’ salaries. A matching system of local support equalled by federal funds would tend to reduce the “local control” criticism. It should also be remembered that the federal government distributes one billion dollars to higher education now with no loss of individual control.
The government under the Democrats should also begin plans for a “channelled” economy. This does not mean a controlled economy, rather one in which the government would attempt to raise our present rate of industrial growth—below
3 -per cent—to a
rate closer to the Rockefeller Report recommendation, 5 or 6 per cent. Aid to depressed areas, more extensive and more judicious awarding of government contracts are necessary here. The government must say more in regard to the farm problem. More markets must be found, perhaps more regulations on what to plant imposed.
The Democrats should also pledge themselves to a much more expanded housing program,
and again possibly / through a matching- . funds proposal join with local governments on a war against slums. Social security benefits need increasing, and close inspection ought to be given to the idea of a plan for nationwide health insurance. Tax reform is vital — especially relief { for those sending children through school. Many of the tax . loopholes can be done away with, and Democrats should have " no fear of raising taxes if necessary. ■	. ",
The Democratic Party’s historic mission has ever been the ■ party of vision, the party of progress. It has been its destiny . to work to reviving American institutions, to spark America - "V to her greatness. The need for reform, for a strong execu-' .; tive, is every bit as great as it was in 1912 or 1932. America . ' < ■ once again needs a voice to recall her to her greatness, to remind her of her destiny of leadership. Such a voice cannot be expected from those sorry chambers where men gather to -discuss yesterdays, and “might have beens” where the prime concern is figures in a ledger and not people in progress. Such a voice must come from the party of confidence and imagina- . tion, the party of the people^ the Democratic Party. ft'is a ' <Ws world — confused, leaderless, yet hopeful and expectant— that seeks that voice. America should accept nothing less. ?
SYMINGTON ...
and his campus men
Bill Hanley begins his series of personal profiles this week with a capsule political biography of Stuart Symington, nominee candidate at the forthcoming mock convention. Also pulled in for a quick look is Peter Aylward, Symington’s campus manager. Succeeding weeks will see articles on the other major mock candidates.
By Bill Hanley
SENATOR W. Stuart Symington of Missouri may well prove to be the “Missouri Compromise” of 1960 at the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles this July 11. Despite being officially unannounced (and unofficially announced) he has many qualities which may give him the Democratic nomination in a deadlocked convention. Among these are:
INTELLECTUAL MODERATE
Coming from a border state he crosses sectional lines for he is identified with neither “Northern liberals” nor “Southern conservatives.”
As a graduate of Yale (B.A.) he is felt to have an appeal as being well educated.
In 1946 he was named by President Truman as Assistant Secretary of War for Air and became in the following year our nation’s first Secretary of the Air Force. In 1956 he was appointed to the Senate Subcommittee on Air Power, and in 1957 he was appointed ex-officio member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Department of Defense —all of which qualifies him as an authority in the controversial area of defense.
His government experience is considerably extensive outside the field of de- ' fense. In 1945 he was chairman of the Surplus Property Board, in 1951 “Cleanup” administrator of the RFC, in 1952 elected to the Senate, in 1955 appointed to the Senate Public Works Committee, in 1956 appointed to the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and in 1958 appointed to the new Senate Committee on Outer Space and re-elected by a margin of four hundred thousand votes.
Finally, for those voters of the coun
try who are seriously concerned with a candidates’ health and appearance, he is tall, attractive, athletic and, at 58, he has a dignified, youthful air.
As is evident, the weight of Symington’s government background has been with the Ail- Force and defense. He is known for his persistent support of a stronger defense program and an expanded Air Force. His Senate voting record has kept him in favor with organized labor. He is a consistent supporter of civil rights, but very cautious on questions of racial integration. He has been also consistent in voicing “nays” to the Benson farm programs. In short, his voting record qualifies him for the title of “liberal.”
As a potential candidate he has no particular offense to any major voting group. His political support is not as strong as it is with other potentials (i.e., Kennedy, Stevenson), but in the event of a deadlock, he does appear to be “everybody’s second choice.”
MEANWHILE, BACK AT THE . . .
The man on campus behind “everybody’s second choice” is Peter Aylward, a freshman in the Commerce school and senator from Stanford Hall. Aylward’s home is Ellsworth, Kansas, where his father is state campaign manager for Symington. Aylward was first introduced to politics by being elected governor of Kansas Boys’ State and running for presidency of Boys’ Nation.
• Despite the fact that Symington has yet to declare his candidacy (which Aylward feels he will do early this spring), Aylward has been very active in planning his campus campaign. Through the facilities of the “Youth for Symington” organization in Columba, Mo., he is pro
curing a large supply of Symington buttons, badges, pennants and placards. Other sources of material and information which he is drawing upon are Symington’s administrative assistant, Stanley Fike, Congressman Charles Brown of Missouri, and our own Mayor Voorde of South Bend.
Aylward’s immediate plans for the Symington cause include the formation of a “Symington for President Club” built around the Missoui-i delegation to the mock convention. Assisting him in this project is Terrence Larkin, a third-year engineering student.
COMPROMISE OF 1960
Campaignei- Aylward is also tentatively planning a pre-convention rally featuring either Representative Brown or Senator Symington himself.
Aylward feels strongly about Symington’s qualities, as well as his chances of being both nominated and elected. Of Symington’s qualities as a compromise candidate, he says, “Altho Symington is not an announced candidate, he is regarded by many Democrats high in party circles as the ideal candidate. Senator Symington is ideal in that he would be acceptable to both North and South, his religion would be no handicap, and he has an impressive record in the executive and legislative branches of our government. A recent poll by a national magazine revealed that Symington was almost every state’s second choice, and for this reason, Symington’s prestige and fame have skyrocketed as he has become the number one compromise candidate.”
Anyone interested in the organization of the Symington for President Club or in the campaign in general can contact Peter Aylward in 445 Stanford.
A.
18
The Scholastic
'Tiger at the Gates'
।	(Continued from page 15)
, part with an enthusiasm and trip-hammer touch which brought things to life whenever he was on stage. Miss Crow* ley, armed with a curious but quite valid interpretation, delivered her withering lines with spirit and clarity, yet was by-and-large free of the exaggeration which ♦ plagued the tiresome Hecuba of Carol Ann Finn.
' There were other performances which, though not outstanding, were well conceived and solidly presented. Charles McCarthy’s Ajax was boisterous and humorous without being outlandish and the Andromache of Mary Armbruster " was a competent, occasionally moving portrayal. Dennis Shaughnessy was an affable Troilus filling the part effectively.
AT THE THEATERJ
Indecision is the keynote as to what the Avon Art will be showing this week. The manager wasn’t around when called, and the other inhabitants of the theater had not even the slightest idea whether they would hold Isle of Levant over or make a much-needed change. Nevertheless, you can rest assured that whatever they decide to show will not be worse than Isle. To be sure, call AT 8-7800.
Held over for a second week at the Colfax, Story on Page One is still unconvincing. Clifford Odets has gone astray somewhere along the plot and has come up with a not-vei-y-cleverly contrived melodrama, staining Rita Hayworth, Anthony Franci-osa, and Gig Young. Rita and Gig are accused of murdering Rita’s spouse in order to marry, and Anthony Franciosa defends them successfully. The rest is pathetic. My telling you the ending is no high treason, because the audience is predisposed to it from the beginning. Rita is shown quite worn out by her housework and general in-a-rut life. Her husband is a bullying satyr, and Gig Young is a lonely man deprived by death of a wife and son. It all adds up to a flurry of scented handkerchiefs thoroughly drenched by poetic matrons. We can only hope for this one to go away and speed up the arrival of Porgy and Bess, close at hand in the plans of the Colfax management.
THE TROJAN MESS
John Smith’s well-intentioned Hector suffered from defects which were rather signal of the whole trouble with this - production. A dependable, versatile performer, Smith gave a competent reading • of his part. But the character of Hector, indeed the entire play demands more than mere competence. It must be brilliant or it is completely unimpressive. > Smith lacked stature and real wit and !	often played both his comic and serious
-	speeches for the effect of the moment.
His approach was often heavy-handed •''and his characterization lacked intensity. Nor did his wooden deportment help matters any.
Elizabeth Young was a striking stage figure as Helen to say the least, but her affected coyness and exaggerated stubbornness showed us nothing of the per. versity, the unfeelingness, the blase ini’ difference to men’s fate which Girau-doux wrote into the character. She at no time was the “mirror” of man’s perversity that Hector calls her. And when ’ Ulysses calls her “one of the rare creatures destiny puts on earth for its own * personal use. . . the shallowest brain, the hardest heart, the narrowest under-7 standing of sex,” we wonder if he can possibly be talking about the spoiled schoolgirl we have just seen.
TIGER’ TECHNICALLY TOUGH
If Tiger presents a host of difficulties £ to the actors, it presents even more technical problems to the director. Once one V has accepted his basic concept of the play, one must credit Mr. Fred Syburg L with having solved these problems expertly. His method of alternating fluid > action with some very striking stage pic’ tures makes us often forget that nothing • much is happening on stage. And for the eleventh consecutive Theater produc-* tion, all available laurels must be presented to Mr. Gil Rathbun for his rei- markable set and lighting. The uses he makes of Washington Hall’s narrow stage often boarder on the miraculous, and the balance and functionalism of his
(Continued on page 20)
Made from the book some critics said should have been burned, The Bramble Bzish replaces Suddenly, Last Summer at the Granada (Feb. 18-24). Perhaps they should have burned the book after all, for the raw emotions portrayed in the film may prejudice moviegoers against the Granada. The story concerns Richard Burton as a doctor, Tom Drake as his fatally ill friend, and Barbara Rush as the friend’s adulterous (with the doctor) wife. The friend wants Burton to give him a fatal shot of morphine to end his misery, and Burton complies. From here on the movie shows shades of Story on Page One. It has been embellished with unnecessary scenes which dip into the darkest recesses of bad taste. The subject of euthanasia is clumsily passed over by all except a clergyman who denounces it as against the laws of God. That’s one good point.
The River Park is showing (Feb. 18-21) a couple of box office success formulas which didn’t quite work out: A Private’s Affair and The Blue Angel. The former has, above all else, Sal Mineo and Christine Carere. It also has Gary Crosby. Also some funny lines and some songs. The latter has as its main asset one May Britt. Perhap the reason why Miss Britt has yet to create a real splash is the difficulty moviegoers have encountered in trying to figure her out. Be it as it may, she is a difficult character to classify. ..
The State, of course, has Toby Tyler (Feb. 11—ad infinitum). What more can be said about this except that it was filmed by Walt Disney, has Kevin Corcoran and Mr. Stubbs in it, and faithfully follows the Disney formula for spiriting cash from the wallets of doting parents?
Elsewhere in this issue, you will find Bernie McElroy’s review of Tiger at the Gates, done in his usually perceptive thoroughness. After seeing the play myself, I am in complete agreement with him in regard to John Smith’s wooden behavior — constantly fretting over his cape — and the grave injustice done to the character of Demokos which renders him an acceptable clown but an improbable warmonger. However, I beg to differ with him in the general acceptability of the play, since it was never meant to be a vehicle for adroit comics. That is where the University Theatre failed: in not presenting what can be a compelling play in the style best suited to it. What would happen if they should next present Macbeth and play up the comedywhile soft-pedaling its more important aspects? In my opinion, the satire was rendered too subtle to be as biting as it should have been, and that is the main reason for the dismal failure of Demokos’ characterization, in spite of Richard Kavanaugh’s praiseworthy efforts. It might even be suggested that Cassandra, ably portrayed by Diane Crowley, was played up as a cackling prophet of doom merely because that is how we have always been asked to remember her. Otherwise, her lines would have probably suffered the same fate as Demokos’. Looking to future presentations, it will be interesting to note what happens to The Most Happy Fetta. If the performers can interpret it correctly, it can be a hit. But since they seem to have paid no attention to the fact that the “tiger” at the gates is really human destiny, which marches on relentlessly, the success of their musical is not assured.
This week, there was no Movie of the Week award for the simple reason that, in my humble opinion, no movie playing presently is worthy of it. An unyielding but equitable policy. Better not to recommend at all than to recommend an undeserving effort.	.
Tony Wong
February 19, 1960
19
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
THE WRONG WRONG
The SCHOLASTIC’S apologies go to both the Student Forum and James Rose for our mistaken revision of Mr. Rose’s headline, ‘‘What’s Wrong with the Student Forum.” The title in last week’s issue should have read, “What’s with the Student Forum.”
W
Here's a
PILE’ worth making
Books, like money, never go out of style, so add to your personal library more regularly than you would to your savings account. There are dividends to owning and reading books. And who knows, you might save just the right book for a rainy day. A book a day, we say “keeps boredom away.” Stop in often to check our ever increasing stock of popular and academic books.
^Notre Dame^
BOOK STORE
'Tiger at the Gates'
(Continued from page 19) sets are a boon to both director and au- ‘ dience alike.
This was not so happily handled in the costuming department, for Tim Car-roll’s designs vary considerably in their quality. The women’s costumes are, without exception attractive and expressive, but of the men, only Priam and Ullyses are clad in a manner that befits 4 them.
The people at the University Theatre chose to treat Tiger at the Gates as a rather bald comedy. One could seriously dispute the wisdom of this choice, but once they determined upon a course, they carried it through unwaveringly. The show is funny. It should be more, but if you are willing to let it go at that, it is a production which will please you at the moment.
Award $52,613 for Research To Notre Dame Professors
Research grants totalling $52,613 have * recently been awarded to University of Notre Dame scientists by three U. S. government agencies and a Denver in-dustrial firm.
The Office of Naval Research has made a grant of $20,000 to underwrite a one-year extension of current studies in solid state physics being conducted * by Dr. Edward A. Coomes, professor of . physics. Professor Coomes was given * the University’s Lay Faculty Award four years ago and has been on the physics staff since 1933.
Research on “Reactions of Alkyl Phos- । phites with Organic Disulfides” will be directed by Dr. James Danehy, associ- I ate professor of chemistry. The three-year project is supported by a grant of $13,900 from the National Science Foun- J dation.	*
Dr. Charles Mullin, professor of 4 physics, will be conducting research on “The interaction of Protons and Parti- i cles with Nuclei.” The U. S. Atomic Energy Commission has made a grant of $13,813 augmenting $45,724 preri- * ously awarded for the project.	.
Under a grant of $4,900 from the * Stearns-Roger Company of Denver, Col., Dr. Julius Banchero, head of the chemical engineering department, will carry i on a research project entitled “Dinitra- • tion of Benzoic Acid.” Dr. Banchero J was recently apopinted to the Notre ’ ’] Dame faculty after teaching at the Uni- j versity of Michigan since 1943.	Y
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY ★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittaauer Watches
*
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	J.M.S. Bldg.
I
20
The Scholastic
SfMU Pichm
ND SEEKS SECOND WIN OVER BLUE DEMONS
Tough Small College Quintet * Opposes Green on Tuesday
DePaul battles Notre Dame tomorrow in the Fieldhouse in the game which will go a long way toward deciding the at-large berth for the Midwest in the , NCAA playoffs coming up next month. Since Detroit has already accepted a bid to the NIT tourney in New York, the Blue Demons and the Irish are the - two leading contenders for the bid, with Marquette also having an outside chance for the nomination. The Irish won the first meeting between the two rivals in Chicago last January 12, 73-70. Tip off time is 2 p.m.
Win over Louisville. DePaul is coached by the able Ray Meyer. Last Saturday they outlasted a good Louisville team on the loser’s home court, 85-76. This win avenged an earlier 75-74 loss to the Cardinals in Chicago.
Howie (Hershey) Carl is the offensive leader for the Blue Demons. He is their leading scorer and also sets up most v vof their plays from his guard position. Carl is a 5-10 junior and thus has another year of competition left. Carl’s running mate at guard is another junior, 5-11 Billy Haig. Haig has picked up on his scoring considerably this year as k the opposition has been focusing its attention on the slick Carl. These two comprise one of the outstanding backcourt combinations in college ball today. Bek sides their offensive abilities, both are also topnotch defensive players.
Five players carry DePaul’s hopes in the front line. Leading the way here is
TULLY DRIVES
Teammate Noonan watches anxiously
McKinley Cowsen. Cowsen has been a three-year regular for the Windy City five and is one of the leading rebounders and scorers on the squad. Cowsen stands 6-4.
Other big men who spark the Demons are Mike Salzinski, Paul Ruddy, Jim Flemming and Bill Coglianese. Salzinski usually teams with Cowsen at one of the forward positions. Mike is a 6-2 senior. Ruddy is also a senior and is a handy man to have around since he can play both forward and center. He measures 6-5. Flemming is a 6-6 junior who is much improved over last year, according to Coach Meyer. He has developed into a good rebounder and is a fair marksman. Coglianese has just regained his eligibility after being sidelined for the past year due to scholastic deficiencies. He will give the Blue Demons added bench strength and ■will help out underneath with his 6-6 frame. He too is a senior.
Small college champs. Following this crucial battle with DePaul, the Irish will have little time to relax since they must
WANT PUBLICITY?
If you would like to have some news concerning the athletic activities here at Notre Dame published in the SCHOLASTIC which is not being printed at present, please bring such news to the SCHOLASTIC office Sunday nights or to 337 Walsh at any time. With your cooperation a more complete and accurate coverage of the nonvarsity athletic events will be possible.
meet the challenge of small college power, Evansville, on the Aces home court next Tuesday. The Aces were rated the top small college team last year and they occupy the same spot this year. Theii’ only losses this season have come to Iowa in an early season encounter and Valparaiso in the Indiana State Conference. They lead the pack in their conference and are the favorite to repeat as the small college titleholders in the tourney coming up next month.
The Aces are coached by Arad Mc-Cutchan who features the fast-break, race horse type of offense. Pacing his offense is the top small college player, Ed Smallwood. This 6-4 senior is not only a master marksman but is also an outstanding rebounder. Indicative of his scoring potential is the fact that he scored 35 points against Iowa even though he fouled out with 14 minutes of playing time left.
Last Saturday at Lexington, Ky., the Irish battled the Wildcats of Kentucky down to the wire before bowing to the Men of Adolph Rupp, 68-65. The Irish found a 14-point half-time deficit too
DEARIE SCORES IN CLOSE
Soph outmcnuevers three cadets
much to overcome. However, they still lead the all-time series, 11-10, although the Wildcats have won the last five games.
Schnurr sparkles. The game was the homecoming for Irish sophomore guard Eddie Schnurr, a native of the Blue Grass state who hails from Louisville. Moreover, it was the first starting assignment for the 6-0 playmaker. Clearly the pressure was on Schnurr. He was not only drawing his first starting assignment but he was also perfonning before the home folks. If the pressure affected him, he gave no indication of it. He led the Irish in scoring with 15 points, getting nine in the first half and adding six more after the intermission. He scored on jump shots, driving layups and even added a tip-in on a follow-up off a fast break.
The Irish jumped into an early 16-10 lead but the Wildcats, paced by the brilliant Billy Lickert, soon overcame this deficit to grab a 44-30 half-time lead. The Irish held them to six field goals in the second half but the damage was done.
John Tully had 15 points along with Schnurr and Mike Graney chipped in 13 before fouling out with five minutes to play. Loss of the 6-5 captain undoubtedly hurt the Irish cause. Don Mills’ 19 tallies paced the Wildcats. Sid Cohen with 14, Lickert with 13 and Ned Jennings with ten were other Ruppmen in double figures. After the game, the Baron said that “Notre Dame is as good as any team we have played this year.”
February 19, 1960
21
ODDS and ENDS
Pete Dawkins fractured his jaw in the recent Oxford-Cambridge hockey game. Pete was leading an Oxford rally when he was sidelined with the jaw condition. Cambridge won the game, 6-5. Dawkins is earning his second “blue" at the English school, having won his first “blue" in soccer last fall. A “blue" is equivalent to the letter won by a college player here in the U.S. Dawkins is studying at Oxford on a Rhodes scholarship. . . .
DID YOU KNOW? Notre Dame’s fencing team lost their first match of the season after nine straight wins when they were shaded by Wayne State last Saturday. It was only their second loss in their last 43 dual meets. . . .
Monty Stickles will head a team of Irish “All-Americans” against the Harlem Magicians at Mishawaka on St. Patrick’s Day, March 17. Monty and cohorts will be matching wits with a star-studded group of court jesters led by dribbling magician Marques Haynes. Stickles had many offers to play college basketball but passed them up in favor of the gridiron. . . .
On the college basketball scene last week, there were some surprising developments. St. John’s of Brooklyn upset West Virginia and Jerry West in Madison Square Garden. Villanova was the victim of ever-improving NYU by a twelve point margin. It was only the second loss of the season for Al Severance’s crew. Across the country, California polished off USC and UCLA to improve their position as the nation’s No.' 1 quintet. In the Midwest, Ohio State and Jerry Lucas continued unbeaten in the Big Ten and ran their conference ledger to 9-0. Cincinnati got a great clutch performance from the “Big 0” to beat St. Louis and Bradley won from Drake to set the stage for their NCAA playoff contest. . . .
When Ron Johnson of Minnesota outscored Horace Walker of Michigan State in their meeting last week, it was the first time the Spartan jumping jack had been bested in his personal duel with the big men of the conference. Walker at 6-3 is not big as college centers go. But he has battled the likes of Jerry Lucas and Terry Dischinger this year and has always come out on top. Johnson stands 6-7 and is one of the outstanding pivot men in America. He bested Walker in the point totals 30-23 after Walker won the first match between the two this year. . . .
Although it still is winter, the major league teams will soon be heading south for spring training. And the early voting of one poll picked former world champions to win their respective league pennants. In die American League, the *New York Yankees are the pick to return to the top spot after a year’s absence. In the National League the Milwaukee Braves are expected to benefit from the managerial talents of Charlie Dressen and cop the senior circuit flag. . . .
Fencers Seek Rebound Wins Over Detroit, MSU and OSU
Notre Dame’s fencing team hopes to rebound from their upset at the hands of Wayne State University last week when they face the University of Detroit, Michigan State University and Ohio State University this week end.
Today the Irish meet the University of Detroit in a dual meet at Detroit. The Titans, while not as strong as their crosstown rival Wayne State, field a better than average team that holds some impressive victories this year. They are led by epee star Jim Brace.
Tomorrow Coach Walter Langford’s fencers travel to East Lansing, Mich., to participate in a triangular meet against Ohio State University and host Michigan State University. Ohio State’s
JIM RUSSOMANO All-American fencer 24-1 in the foil
weak Buckeyes should be handled easily by the once-beaten Irish fencers.
The Spartans of Michigan State hope to avenge an earlier defeat suffered this year at the hands of Notre Dame. While they are led by a fine fencer, Charles Schmitter, Jr., son of the Spartan coach, in epee and foil, they are not figured to give the Irish too much trouble.
Last Saturday Notre Dame was beaten for the first time this season by a strong Wayne State University team, 14-13. This broke the Irish victory string at nine this year, and was only the second loss Notre Dame has suffered in their last 43 matches.
Notre Dame recovered from the defeat to whip the University of Chicago, 21-6, in the second match in the three-way dual meet.
The Irish almost pulled out the Wayne State match, after trailing 13-9, by winning four straight bouts, but the fifth and deciding match was taken by Wayne State for the victory.
(Continued on page 24)
Interhall Track Meet Set For February 24 <
On Wednesday, February 24, there will be an all-campus indoor track meet in the Fieldhouse. The meet will begin at 7 p.m. Mike Morando, supervisor of the meet, said that all entries should be brought to the interhall office, located on the second floor of the Fieldhouse, 1 before February 23. However, entries will be accepted up until the time of the meet.
The meet will include the following events: the 60-yard dash, 60-yard low hurdles, 110-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 440-yard dash, 440-yard relay, 880-yard r relay, shot put, high jump and the broad jump.
Awards for the participants will be on an interhall basis. The points accumu- <r lated by the individual halls will count toward the President’s Cup.
D. J. Napolitano, director of the meet, stated that more information will be * placed on the hall bulletin boards concerning the meet.
Tonight in the Fieldhouse during the 4 Pittsburgh-Notre Dame track meet, there will be an 880-yard relay featuring the winners from the last interhall track meet. The halls entering four men . each are Zahm, Walsh, Breen-Phillips and Lyons. This event will be the third । of the meet.
____________ 4-
Stephanie Win Settles Irish-Bronco Struggle
4
Last Saturday the Notre Dame swimming team won a close victory, 51-44, over- the Western Michigan Broncos in Kalamazoo. An Irish victory in the 400- 4 , yard freestyle relay, accomplished by Witchger, Meany, Dinger* and Cronin, broke a 44-44 tie, and was followed by Paul Stephanie’s clinching win.
Bill Cronin won the 220-yard freestyle and Gene Witchger the 200-yard indi- ( vidual medley for early Irish victories in the closely contested meet.	s
Paul Chestnut and Jim Carroll then took one-two in the diving competition, to further the Notre Dame cause.
After a series of Bronco victories, Stephanie’s victory in the 440-yard free- i style race clinched the victory for Notre " Dame.
The only double winner in the meet was Ronny Moyer of Western Michigan with his dual wins in the 50- and 100-yard freestyle races. Moyer also man- / aged to set a new pool record of 23.2	.
in his 50-yard victory.	!i
Throughout the remainder of February, Coach Dennis Stark’s swimmers W will be busy. Notre Dame meets Bowling Green today and Detroit Institute of Technology tomorrow. Both of these meets are away. On February 24 the tankmen return home to face Loyola of Chicago.
22

Track Team Battles Pitt ► 4 In Fieldhouse Encounter
J After a fairly successful trip to the Michigan State Relays at East Lansing last week end. the Irish spikemen go after their seventh straight indoor dual meet victory at the Fieldhouse tonight against the University of Pittsburgh.
ii f The Panthers will be bringing along one of the top sprintmen in the country ‘ , in Mel Barnwell, who set the world record in the indoor 300-yard dash last > year with a clocking of 30 seconds flat.
He is a probable entrant in both the 60-and the 440 this evening.
A week ago, Coach Alex Wilson’s ' trackmen picked up one blue ribbon in a relay event, and also managed to finish in the money in several other races. The first place came in the Sprint Med-4 ley Relay (440-220-220-880), as the team of Steve Schwartz, Frank Hemphill, Jerry Fitzpatrick and Ron Gregory carried the baton across the finish line in *• 3:26.8 for the victory.
, Dan Rorke placed third in the 1000' yard run for the Irish, and Tom Demp-
. sey and Dave Cotton came in fourth and sixth, respectively, in the two-mile ran, although Cotton’s performance was hampered by a cold.
t In the mile relay, Hemphill, Chris Monahan, Schwartz and Rorke took
I fifth, the same place achieved by Fitzpatrick in the 75-yard dash. Galen
•y -r Cawley completed the list of Notre Dame finishers with a sixth place in the mile.
TIME OUT
Tyler Jr.’s Picks of the Week TOMORROW
California over UCLA Cincinnati over Houston Bradley over North Texas State Ohio State over Michigan State West Virginia over Pittsburgh Illinois over Wisconsin Providence over Siena Kentucky over Auburn Indiana over Iowa
Evansville over St. Joseph’s (Ind.) Utah State over Wyoming LaSalle over Temple Texas A&M over Arkansas Kansas over Colorado Minnesota over Michigan St. Louis over Tulsa Northwestern over Purdue SMU over TCU
St. John’s over St. Francis (N. Y.) St. Bonaventure over Marquette Duquesne over Loyola (III.) Notre Dame over DePaul Louisville over Dayton Detroit over Canisius
Memphis State over Oklahoma City
LAST RESULTS
20 right, five wrong, 80 per cent
TOTALS TO DATE
62 right, 11 wrong, 84.9 per cent February 19, 1960
With the start of the Winter Olympics out in Squaw Valley, Calif., yesterday and no less than 16 scheduled dates for our own teams here at Notre Dame, the next eight days are important ones to those interested in the sporting world.
So far, the weather worries, parking problems, policy bickerings and equipment failures connected with the Winter Olympics have caused more commotion than the influx of 800 athletes representing 30 national teams. For a while it was doubtful whether the best skiers and skaters in the world would even get a chance to perform.
TROUBLE IN SQUAW VALLEY
Since February arrived the California weather has turned into a moody monster with the power to bury or drown the careful plans of the meet’s sponsors. On February 1, a blizzard accompanied by avalanches knocked out a transcontinental cable causing a blackout in communications. No sooner was this damage repaired than torrential rainstorms and violent winds threatened to wreck buildings, ski runs and ice rinks. There was even a possibility of floods. Right now Squaw Valley is peaceful and snow conditions are good but the situation is anything but secure.
Parking problems were created when the heavy rains rained the snow-compacted area that was to have served as a lot for 15,000 automobiles. An extra crew of men were quickly hired and worked feverishly in order to restore the lot to a usable condition.
Squabbles over Olympic policy are becoming as regular as the games themselves and this year is no exception. As usual, Avery Brundage got right into the middle of things by proposing that national flags and hymns be eliminated from future Olympic ceremonies. This caused a loud if not too intelligent reaction and protest. Also, Olympic .Chancellor Otto Mayer got into the picture by complaining that the lavish entertainment program was turning Squaw Valley into a “second Disneyland.” Ten visas of East German officials were held up by the U. S. State Department, adding an unfortunate political memo to the competition. Technical rulings have forced India and possibly Nationalist China to withdraw their entries. And finally there have even been complaints from the U. S. damsels that their uniforms are out of style.
The brand new $4,000,000 ice arena has been the center of several equipment headaches. First, the roof developed leaks. Then it was discovered that late-afternoon sun shining through the roof was melting the ice. Finally the refrigeration system conked out.
This is the first time the Winter Olympics have been held in California but it is not the first time similar troubles have occurred. At St. Moritz in 1948 and Oslo in 1952 officials sweated out melting ice and blinding snowstorms. Somehow the Winter Games always take place as scheduled. Yesterday the 1960 version got stalled at Squaw Valley. With CBS scheduling to televise ten hours of competition stalling with skiing and speed skating tomorrow and an expected crowd of 35,000 this week end, the 1960 Winter Olympics is certainly the major sporting event of the winter season. As the pretournament worries vanish and the breath-taking beauty of the international spectacle comes into focus, the games do indeed take on an aspect of fantasy — a “second Disneyland.”
ACTIVITY AT HOME
While athletes from all parts of the world are competing for gold medals out West, the various teams here at Notre Dame will be very busy themselves for the next eight days.
Coach Johnny Jordan and his team face Ray Meyer’s well-coached squad tomorrow afternoon and then travel to Evansville Tuesday to meet last year’s small college champs who are ranked number one among the small cage squads this year. The Irish eagers will be watched closely by the NCAA tournament committee. Two victories will probably get the Irish a bid.
Coach Langford’s fencers will try to get back on the track against Detroit, MSU, OSU, Illinois and Wisconsin after losing their first meet of the year last week to Wayne State.
The swimming team and wrestling team also will be active. Each has four meets in the next eight days. Coach Wilson’s indoor track team will wind up the indoor* dual meet season against Pittsburgh tonight and compete in the CCC next Saturday. — T.R.
23
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS “JUST BRING IN THE PIECES”
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
^RWTURBOW \pPTOMKTRMT 207 W. Wash. (Pick-Oliver Hotel)
Phone CE 4-5777
Met Club Members:
UNITY THRU EXPERIENCE ★
VOTE “METROPOLITANS”
JOE MARTINO
President ★ DICK BALLOT Vice-President ★
KEV. CONNELLY
Secretary ★
CHARLIE D. GIOVANNA
Treasurer ★
BOB MULSHINE
Recording Secretary
TRY SOME AT
KEGLERS' KORNER
CLASSIC LEAGUE
Pabst Blue Ribbons......... 44-16
Brunswick Shop ............ 37-23
Dan Halloran, 181-233-206—616; Don Dvorak, 174-203-185—562; Len Hanlock, 233; Jim Flannery, 222; Jim Hoover, 221; Dan Laux, 214; Frank Prantil, 213; Greg Schwartz, 206; Larry Nay-mik, 206; Bill Lieber, 203; Earl Moss-ner, 201.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 186; Don Dvorak, 184; Dan Halloran, 184.
Rock Dantona converted 7-9 split and Ray Stefani rolled a 180-180-180—540 triplicate.
KAMPUS KEGLER — RED Rochester Club .......—.... 35-17
Beatniks .................. 33-19
Dave Leicht, 265-233-143—641; John Linehan, 128-213-189—530; Barry Merrill, 202; Ray Stefani, 194.
Averages: Don Dvorak, 181; Dan Halloran, 178.
KAMPUS KEGLER — WHITE Sixty-Niners ............ 42-6
FFGM .................... 29%	-18%
Chuck LeRose, 226-193-198—617; Denny Panozzo, 177-182-167—526; Lenny LeRose, 213; M. Kubiak, 199.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 185; M. Kubiak, 176.
KAMPUS KEGLER —BLUE
Detroit Club “A” ........   36-16
AIChE ..................... 35-17
Maury Lefere, 167-196-185—548; Pat Heenan, 161-195-167—523; Don Prairie, 200; Bob Kriner, 200.
Averages: Jim Roark, 169; Earl Moss-ner, 169.
KAMPUS KEGLER —YELLOW
Lucky Strikes ............. 42-10
Shady Grove.............. 35%-16%
Em Sharkey, 190-167-193—550; Lou Romano, 157-178-207—542; Ed Arnold, 219; Bill Gaynor, 210.
Averages: Em Sharkey, 169; Frank Araneta, 167.
KAMPUS KEGLER — GREEN Five Jokers  ............ 31%-16%
Irish  .................... 28-20
Jim Lewis, 172-181-258—616; Dave Akers, 158-191-195—544; Norm Latona, 190; Norm Tarbous, 167; Bob King, 167.
Averages: Jim Lewis, 179; Dave Akers, 174.
—ED SILLIMAN
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave
Fencing
(Continued from page 22)
Wayne State, called by Langford “as good a team as we will see all season,” was paced by several sophomores who regained eligibility this term. Sophomore Bela Szentivanyi stood out for Wayne State by winning two of his three matches in foil, including the deciding bout.
Top men for the Irish were co-captain Jim Russomano and Pete Giamo, both winning all three of their matches in foil and epee, respectively. These victories made Russomano’s record 24-1 for the season.
Irish Grapplers Travel To Wheaton Invitational
Today four and possibly five Notre x i Dame wrestlers are competing in the ' annual two-day Wheaton Invitational * Tournament in Wheaton, Illinois. This y tourney yearly attracts the best grap-piers from Iowa, Illinois and Indiana. Seniors Jerry Sachsel and Dick Sapp in ■■' j the 123-pound and 147-pound divisions , * respectively, Soph John Churnetski in ' the 157-pound class and junior Jim Burnette in the heavyweight ranks are r definitely slated to see action. Junior Jim ] Kane, 177-pound class, will compete if he is sufficiently recovered from the rib ... injury which kept him out of last Fri- . day’s meet with Cincinnati.	$
Milwaukee •will be the scene of the j next Irish match against the Marquette
WRESTLING SCHEDULE	F
Feb. 19-20—Wheaton Tournament at Wheaton, III.	\
Feb. 22—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Feb. 24—Northwestern at Evanston.	4
Feb. 27—Miami of Ohio at Notre I
Dame.	£
March 11-12—1.1.1.1. Tournament at Cleveland.
------------------------------------ $
Warriors on Monday. The Warriors are of somewhat unknown quality, but with J several promising sophs and a few re- £ turning veterans, they are expected to y provide a stern test for the Irish. f;
Rounding out their week’s activity, f; the matmen journey to Evanston, Illinois, on Wednesday where they will attempt to avenge last year’s 19-11 setback at ffe the hands of the perenially strong Northwestern wrestling forces. Leading V the formidable Wildcat squad "will be Art Craft, a contender for the national 157-pound crown.	V!
The Irish defeated the University of J Cincinnati, 16-11, last Friday at the . Notre Dame Fieldhouse. As usual Cap- 'j tain Jerry Sachsel provided an early lead for the Notre Dame team with a pin of 123-pounder, Paul Fleming.	4
The next match produced a draw be- i tween Notre Dame’s Dick Nielsen and Cincinnati’s Steve Skomp.
Carmen Belafonte, 137-pounder, pushed the Irish further ahead with a tight 2-1 victory over Tom Craim.
The Bearcat’s captain, Bob Vegar, eked out a 7-6 decision over Dick Sapp . j in the 147-pound class and in the process shattered Sapp’s six-match unbeaten T skein.	f
John Churnetski added to the Irish point total with a win over Lou Thamen J in the 157-pound section.	i
Triumphs by Cincinnati’s Hurike Phil-	J
lips and John Medvechia over Gene Me- J Fadden and Ed Oswoski in the 167-pound and 177-pound divisions respec- > tively, drew Cincinnati dangerously close. However, Jim Burnette won his & match against Paul Palka, 'Cincinnati © heavyweight, and thus gave Notre Dame J its fourth victory against three defeats g this year.	g
The Scholastic |
24
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
, ANONYMITY
Editor:
> In last week’s issue, you printed a letter from three unidentified St. Mary’s girls. Obviously, they are freshmen because they say they have been enduring “your digs for five months,” not two, three or four years. Now, I don’t see * anything wrong with some satire on St.
Mary’s. I’m sure the girls don’t really ► mind it either, but the Scholastic goes too far. These three girls made a most important point concerning girls who come on our campus. I feel that the -> Notre Dame students should take it for what it is worth. But the Scholastic > couldn’t let a chance go by. You deliberately mocked these girls. This situa-& tion does exist and it is not healthy especially for a Catholic college. It is a man’s privilege to look. The world was made that way by God. But, I ask *» a question, using the girls’ words, does the Notre Dame student have to look - with “crass comments and insulting inspection?”
I think that these girls as well as the whole St. Mary’s student body should receive an apology.
.	Gregory Rogers
*	428 Walsh
Editor:
. The “cracks” directed at SMC stu-f* dents by ND men are meant merely as gestures of fun. We are quite sure that the majority of these same SMC students will agree with us on this point. However, there are always a certain few who persist in pretending to be “non-
4 conformists.” For these few we express L our sympathy. It may be that this minority is not “subjected to a deluge of crass remarks and insulting inspection.” ► Is it possible that you have been slighted and consequently, you are reflecting your mislead attitudes towards ND men? PerI haps you have led a sheltered life and
* have not become acquainted with the trials and tribulations that a “good-| looking” girl must endure in this Big Bad World! It also may very well be
X that the “reserve status” that you are maintaining is acting as an “Iron Cur* tain” between SMC and ND personalities.
Frank A. Martello John J. Obermiller 321 Stanford
r
* t
WATCH YOUR FAVORITE TV PROGRAMS IN YOUR ROOM • Rent-A-Television
RATES AS LOW AS 50c A DAY
Bradley's 606 N. Michigan CE 2-7211
Editor:
In last week’s issue we were forced to endure a letter concerning the “silent endurance” of three St. Mary’s girls.
We are over 12 and under 70 and have never been subjected to a “crass remark” on your campus. We maintain a congenial and friendly attitude and have discovered that this alleviates any necessity for reserved snobbery.
Incidently, we feel that the only time D. Jim Ausum approaches a semblance of humor is when he subjects St. Mary’s to a “deluge of crass remarks and insulting inspection.”
We are not particularly reserved but for obvious reasons, we must remain anonymous.
Two St. Mary’s Freshmen
A NEW TWIST
Editor:
I don’t go to many movies, so I don’t know how correct your [Tony Wong’s] criticisms are and I care less.
I consider your column to be one of the best in the Scholastic. I really get a kick out of your White Owl Awards.
Keep up the good work.
Pat Logan
426 Stanford
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
eyes examined OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
WORLD off UH!
THE INNER CIRCLE
The Blue Circle Honor Society is currently holding its annual drive for new members. Any student interested in joining the organization should send an application to Emmet McCarthy, 327 Walsh, Notre Dame, Ind. Deadline is March 3. The Blue Circle is an organization devoted to service on campus at various functions the year round.

Alto law-cast trips to Mazica $169 up. South Anwrica 1M9 up, Hawaii Study Tour SMSup and Around th. World SWN up.
27tk Yur
l-ISSt
WORLD TRAVEL
Not this: a student who	This! Perspicacious ...
studies drowsily no matter	sharp! NoDoz keeps you
how much sleep he gets.	awake and alert—safely!
If you find studying sometimes soporific (and who doesn’t?) the word to remember is NoDoz®. NoDoz alerts you with a safe and accurate
amount of caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. p So to keep perspicacious during study and exams—and while driving, too—	=.
always keep NoDoz in proximity.
The safe stay awake tablet—available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
February 19, 1960
25
I
money and michigan
1
by THOMAS J. KANE
c/,
“But the Governor refuses to accept the increased sales tax, a levy on even the poorest auto worker, which the Republicans offer. He is holding out for a tax on profits and a graduated income tax which would fall most heavily on the better off— the automobile manufacturers, for example.”
The Economist, April, 1959
DURING the past months, every major weekly publication, as well as every “thinking” man, have expressed views on the Michigan financial situation, and all have come to one of two conclusions: Michigan’s crisis is a product of the inability of the political parties to agree on a tax program, or, the people of Michigan are unwilling to pay for the services which they demand. Both positions are partly true, but both fail to touch the primary source of weakness in the economic structure of the state.
Michigan’s geneial fund is hobbled by the constitutional limitations placed upon its freedom of economic decision. It is forced to make payment to local units according to demand rather than according to need. In the Michigan constitution at the present time are 14 separate and distinct stipulations for the dedication or “ear-marking” of money from the general fund. These “earmarked” funds represent a total of 67% of Michigan’s total tax revenue.
••EAR-MARKING”
The Diversion Amendment is a good example of this type of “ear-marking.” The amendment was placed upon the constitution in 1946 by referendum. Also, at this time, prices were rising rapidly as a result of the war effort, but the evaluation of property was dwindling. Since the property tax was the major source of revenue for cities and school districts, school construction almost ceased, and teachers’ salaries dipped to a new low. On the other hand, the state sales tax revenue had grown tremendously because of the war effort and in 1945 the state general fund
26
showed a surplus of 79 million dollars.
By November 1946, local units had attached themselves to this surplus. The people forced the adoption of the Diversion Amendment. This amendment gave to local units 78% of total sales tax revenue. Five years after the amendment went into effect the general fund showed a deficit of 65 million dollars.
What is behind this frantic race for the “ear-marking” of funds? It seems to be a politically engendered fear of economic insecurity. Governor Williams, a Democrat, has been elected by popular vote for six terms, but the Republicans have never relinquished control of the legislature in all this time. The people know that political strife has become an inescapable part of each request for new appropriations. Consequently, they have done all that they can to secure the funds that they feel are their due.
After 141 days of political stalemate, the legislature finally passed a “use tax” on August 19, 1959. On October 20, it was declared unconstitutional by a vote of 5-3. And on December 19 a nuisance tax was passed with the promise that the question of a sales vs. income tax would be placed before the people in the November, 1960 election.
The sales tax, proposed by the Republican party, is a good tax in the sense that its yield is stable and predictable. However, for Michigan’s present economy, it is both inadequate and inequitable. It is inequitable because it is not based on the ability to pay, and because
Thomas J. Kane, author of the “Back Page" for this week, is a senior economics major from Lansing, Mich. Active in the Economics Roundtable, he is also a member of the Glee Club and served as its treasurer in his junior year.
One of the greatest problems facing our state governments today is adequate financing, and in the state of Michigan this problem has become a crisis. In this article Kane points to the basic weaknesses in that state which have allowed such a problem to come to a head.
its passage would intensify the already regressive tendencies in the tax structure. More important, however, the passage of a sales tax would only postpone a solution to the real problem by sinking more money into the general fund. It would do nothing to lift the “welfare state” climate from Michigan. Nor would it give to local government the authority and responsibility to collect its own taxes. This it needs most desperately if they are to achieve theii- own maturity and autonomy.
A POSSIBLE SOLUTION
The income tax has the advantage of being based on the ability to pay, and is elastic enough so that its rates can be altered to reflect shifts in income. Also, its passage would be a big step toward the stabilization of the tax structure, and would probably be followed by the repeal of the odious business activities tax and intangibles tax.
The Michigan situation can hardly be mentioned without reference to Governor Williams. But Williams is not responsible for the welfare climate of the state. In 1948, the year of his acceptance of the gubernatorial office, a request for the repeal of the Diversion Amendment was defeated by 81% of the voters. It is true that his budget proposals have been optimistic, but they have all been ratified by a Republican House and Senate.
He is responsible in this sense: he is at fault because his forte is his personality rather than his ability to translate his convictions into action. In 1953 he again warned the legislature and the people of the dangers of an “ear-marked” general fund, but his words fell in-fertilely upon deaf ears. Finally, Williams is responsible for the Michigan crisis in the same way that John Brown is responsible for the Civil War. The people looked for a familiar name in a familiar, and vulnerable position. They needed a scapegoat; a man to bear the consequences of their misplaced optimism.
Certainly he is guilty to some extent. But let us not hang a man for the crime of a state, which no single man could have prevented.
The Scholastic

J
*

A wide selection of Arrow University Fashions

Add up the points of this Arrow University shirt and you'll understand why it’s the college man’s favorite. Buttondown collar front and center back. Full back box pleat.
Exacting quality and workmanship. $5.00.
Shown with it. a silk tie, also by Arrow. $2.50.

$mral
Arrow Oxford Buttondowns
Check your supply ... the average college man owns at least ten shirts. He consistently buys oxford cloth shirts with the Arrow label. Reason? Only Arrow offers the authentic, soft roll collar, luxurious “Sanforized” fabric. Ask for the “Dover” collar. $5.00.
Whtrntr you go .. . you look bottor io on Arrow thirl

GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend

Next move... "upstairs"
In the science of modern communications, the sky is no longer the limit.
No one is more aware of that than a major communications system. That's why we are constantly exploring and developing new areas of research far beyond our celestial canopy.
Take “MASER,” for instance. This is a wondrous new device that can noiselessly amplify extremely weak signals from outer space.
In working to improve and simplify MASER, we are bringing closer the day of intercontinental communications via man-made satellites.
MASER devices have many possibilities, including the tracking of missiles, and increasing the range of radar and radio telescopes.
This is a typical example of how we use research -not only to meet today’s communications needs, but to answer tomorrow’s.

I GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRON ICS
GENERAL