

Do you have too little responsibility? Would you like the weight of the world (well, a weekly magazine) on your shoulders? 
Then apply to be Scholastic's 
IEID)IluCO)ffi ITN CCIBJITJEIF 

Applicants should have a solid background in journalism combined with strong writing skills and managerial ability. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate is eligible to apply. 
For information contact Kathleen McKernan in the Scholastic office at 239­7 5 69. 
All completed applications are due by November 22, 1988 at 5 p.m. 
s.
. 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine November 10, 1988 
Cover 
G~tting T~gether Graduate administratC>rs say graduate students 
~eed more support from each other and the university. 
By Andre.a Rogers/ Page 10 
(Re)Detining NqtreDame Notre bamedoesn'tquitefit the 
definition ofa ''university" -yet. 
By Jim Greco/Page 12 
' ..... .·, ::· 
Wh;ti;up, Vic? &.s.-u. president Vic.tor Krebs discusses life as a .. 
graduate studentatN9treDame; • 
By l\1aggie Sieger/P,age 15. 

News 
Facilitating Athletics The question of accessibility has been raised with regard to both the Loftus Center and the Eck Pavilion. 
By Mike Wieber/ Page 7 

Sports 
The Famous Secret Jethrow Kyles' collection of sports memorabilia in the basement of the Hesburgh Library is known to everybody but the people at Notre Dame. 
By Jon Paul Potts/ Page 16 
Sportsweek A weekly roundup of the lesser-known varsity sports. /Pagel9 
~ :.' ..... :. '·. ·., 
Managing 
Terry Lyn 
. . .... 
Execuliv
Mike •.·... ·.· 
1-D_e_p_a_r-tm_e_n_t_s-----------------------------1 ~mig~,a~.:~i~W:Ji)I'•;•,•····: ......................... 
Spo~~: l<~vin.Boughal . . . . )< t, > News·: Andy Hilger; Mike Wie_b~r> · · Week in Distortion From London, with love. / Page 3 Copy: Joe Maloriey Features;MaggiEl•~leger
Movies A review of "Imagine," a documentary about John Lennon. /Page 6 
Departjllents:AmYWeber,' · 
Music Time to take a look at what you listen to. / Page 5 
On Other Campuses Of Whippets and fruit juices./ Page4 



·~rdc1ticiiii~;i:iff: •:··•-' · .\, 
Coming Distractions A lsit of what's going on, both here and in the area. / Page 20 s stems'M~iia' er: 'Mciith~vi .
. Y • ..•..,.,,,.,,.. 9 . .. _., ·.....•..• ,,,. •· 'GraphlciA~ts·,MariS'ger:Vivierin
Ernie Pook's Comeek "The Total Book"/ Page 24 
Padilla 
Phot~ Ma~~ger: M~n Okuda : . 
1-------------------------------------t Ad. Deslgii:. FtpsWiririer ...•· . 
Editorial Buslness:WeiChee Toh, Pianria,••·Billir,gs;HE}icli T,ratipman. . . . ' 
.Get the graduate students out of their broom closets / Page 23 
itf~t?gi~stic i~ pu~µs~~~~hJciy dutjn;{ihJJi~9?>(y~r~i%tt d~rfug ff~A~J~hhdJacatiori:~tii~fr:tI~~ ~nive..... ,· ..·' ..~~;...
~d printcd_.at•·The. I>apers;;rn,c;, Mil.ford; IN •. 4(i$4i; •,The•subscription ratf is $2,0.00/yiiarand back_issii,es ~.available._at $1.00/copy;\
§c~<>l11stic a~ tliosi; ofthe 11utho.rs and editorsand'Aonotnecessarily rep~~entt,h~ opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholl!stiC: 
Dame, itsadrrunistrati~ii:fac:lllty or students.. Editoifals signed ScholasticJepresent ~e opinion·of the majority of the executiveedito1 
1 
·1r;:t::r;:1J:Jsr::::::t:J:r2trzh::::onlli:Eho1~6rin ari mtho~ti~ssiljis ~hibited; ... 
November 10, 1988 




Week In Distortion/ Bob Palladino 
"Hey, didja hear we beat Rice?" she 
asked. "Great, great," I replied but the ole pig­
From London... 
skin fades when confronted with the real 

With Love? 
Bob Palladino relates his Russian experience, one offear, belly buttons and Olga 
G 
et this: A significant portion of Domer distortion oscillates · wildly across our planet. Beyond the cuddling anns of our oh-so-comforting N.D. world and ripped away from Notre DameOurMommy'sbreasts, we, thestudy­abroad-types, happily sip the lovely poison ofWestern Decadence in a host ofdeclining countries. The few, the proud, and the happily irresponsible, we Darners study abroad! However ... the voice of England, The Smiths, so wisely explain in song that "Some Girls are Bigger Than Others," and this is perceptive. Even in the London program, Notre Dame is with us. I, like you, . cannot escape; my distortions are your dis­tortions. For on both sides of the Atlantic, the N.D. experience remains the same: With rules to our left, and regulations to our right, we are trapped in an awkward cleav­age, and from here we attempt to have fun. 
This is why I write. 
THIS WEEK'S FOREIGN AFFAIR: 
BEHIND THE IRON CURTAIN. During 
our first major travel break, 22 brave 
Darners chose to explore the evil empire, a 
land of strong vodka, stronger women, and 
the strongest human body odors. We 
boarded Aeroflot, the Soviet airlines, and I 
clutched my N.D. sweatshirt, my crunchy 
Jifpeanut butter, my American Dollars, and 
my President Quayle button. And we were 
afraid, for we understood the implications 
ofentering a Communist state. We knew of 
the bald and raving Gorbachey monster, that 
splattered forehead of a beast that was 
known to wear nice ties and occasionally 
shave his left leg. We feared. 
I was seated next to Bruce, a philosopy major, and I knew immediately how conver­sation would progress. 
Bruce began, "Ya know, Bob, Popeye was the original existentialist 'I yam what I yam' was his philosophy. And Olive Oyl, now there was a ... " 
"Shut up!" I snapped. 

Bruce's face grew sullen, and as the tears welled up in his eyes, I knew I'd hurt the old chap's feelings. "There, there," I said, put­ting my arm around his shoulder. I bent over him and kissed him tenderly on the lips. How smooth and soft his lips were. Actu­ally, I just made that last part up. I never really did put my arm around his shoulder. 
"Bob," Bruce breathed, "Do you really like me?" 
"Actually, Brucey-boy, I hate your guts. But you see, I'm writing for Week In Distor­tion, and I know that this part of my Russia report will make !]1any people very uncom­fortable." I smiled. "And I rather like that." 
The flight passed romantically and in no time at all we landed in Leningrad, where our tour guide awaited us. She was a big girl. Her name was Olga. She had a moustache. 
"Oh, hello/' she whispered, in her very best Eenglesh. "I am Ole-gah, and I theenk Notre Dame men are veery hondsum." 
"I see," I responded. What I really saw was a women who had been hit by The Ugly Truck. 
Shetouchedme. "Youahrveerytall. Like Amereekan basketball player, no?" 
My brain screamed "BOB! SHE'S TOUCHING YOU!" Trapped inside my twenty-year-old's emotional purgatory, the usually overzealous hormonal hankerings went on strike. I grabbed the nearest Domer. ''Talk to me, Cathy." 
thing. Olga was batting her eyelashes at me, so I had to think fast I blurted, "Cathy, have you ever, just for fun, seen how far you could stick your finger into your belly but­ton?" 
Olga interrupted. "I have tried. And my finger it smelled like rank Russian cab­bage." Olga grinned. "Come weeth me into bathroom. We go behind Iron shower cur­tain and I show you my belly button." 
I attempted to distract her. "Hey, Olga, in Russia do you gals get those silly little, white, fuzzy lint balls stuck in your belly buttons?" No reply. I tried again. "I've got this awesome belly button lint collection and I just thought maybe you'd like to see it?" 
But Olga was uninterested in my belly button. She had other things on her mind. Defying language boundaries, she engaged in that cross cultural language of love. My brain grew squishy. It felt like wet marsh­mallows. I thought of England and how much cuter English sheep are compared to Russian women. 
But her mustache was getting closer. 
"You ahr veery tall, like basketball player. You ees like, how you say, Magic Johnson,no?" 
"Olga, can we just forget about my magic johnson, okay?" 
Lights out, comrade. Blown fuse, a long Russian winter. Immaculate sky, no stars, baby, no stars. Russian mustache was too much for this boy's brain. All systems are down. 
I awoke in London. My Russian excur­sion was over..For some reason, my entire body was very sore. I poured myself a glass ofPepsi and turned on the telly. I raised my glass and toasted,"Tocapitalism!" I smiled. On the telly, Reagan was speaking. 
Ron giggled, "Ahh... that Maggie Thatcher, what a wonderful woman. Ifonly I could do to her what we've been doing to her country;" 
Ah, yes, it was good to be back in the 
West.¦ 
Robert John "Guido" Palladino is a jun­ior in the London Program. He will proba­bly be a marked man upon return to campus. 

On Other Campuses 

Getting Juiced 
Studies show students the pros and cons of cheap highs 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
G
etting Whipped. Whippets, the latest fad in inexpensive sensory stimulation, may be much more costly than stu­dents would like to believe, the Marquette Journal re­ported. The search for thrills has led many students to inhale nitrous oxide out of smallcartridges usually used to charge whipped cream cans. Nitrous oxide, also known as "laughing gas," is used to gain a momentary "high" which comes from the temporary numbing of the brain. What users usually do not know is that in inhaling nitrous oxide they subject themselves to the possibility of suffocation from a lack of oxygen. The cartridges, which can be bought by anyone for less than $1 each, contain absolutely no oxygen and are very dangerous to anyone unqualified using them for personal purposes, Dr. Paul Kwon, chairman of oral surgery at the Marquette Univer­sity Dental Clinic, said. 
Wow, you should have had that V-8. According to a study conducted at Texas Christian University. the last hour of "cram­ming" that a student spends before ~ test could be better spent jogging, swimming or participating in some sort of physical activity to give the brain an extra oxygen boost. According to theDaily Skiff (TCU's campus paper), the study also recommends drinking fruit juice during the exam to maintain the brain's glucose level. The results of the test show that following these procedures could mean the difference between "a 'B' and an 'A' or a 'C' and a 'B-."' 
Revolutionary or reactionary on the Rutgers University cam­pus? In September a notice was sent out includ10g new full-time, tenured track appointments of faculty members. Whenever new members of the faculty have taught elsewhere, it is listed with their academic honors. The name of new faculty member Dr. Barbara Foley is listed with a reference not to her teaching at Northwestern University but, instead, as the recent holder of a NEH Fellowship at the Newberry Library, the Rutgers Measure reported. The reason for this is that Dr. Foley was dropped from the teaching staff at Northwestern for violently disrupting the lecture of an invited university guest At the Newark, New Jersey campus she joins Dr. 
Bruce Franklin who, a few years ago, was dismissed from his duties as a professor at Stanford University for inciting the students to riot. ... One suspects we will probably hear more about this in the future. 
To err is human. Everyone makes mistakes. How many times have you heard those statements? Part of being human is making mistakes, innocent mistakes where people fall victim to their own forgetfulness. Being locked out of a room falls under this category, doesn't it? Not according to the Kansas University administration. At Kansas on-campus residents have been given a new, strict lockout key policy that is designed to deter their forgetfulness, The 
\ /

'I 
!

~ 

l(~r_ 
, 'I 
\·1
"· 
U· 

University Daily Kansan reports. The policy allows each resident to be human only twice a semester. In other words, each resident is only allowed to use their lockout key twice before they start to pay the price for their common mistake. The first two times the student uses his lockout key it is free but each time afterwards a $5 fee is assessed. ... What exactly could anyone hope to accomplish by implementing such a policy? 
And Sports Illustrated reports that the toll-free telephone number for Stanford football ticket information is 1-800-BEAT-CAL. 
Ill 


Music/ Heather Ingraham 

Try It, You Just May Like It 
Heather Ingraham provides her own wake-up call for the listening public and invites you to enjoy something new 
I 
'ni really getting tired of people who like progressive music. Really tired. I'm starting to lose my sense of humor about the whole thing. There's no point writing this column because people are already convinced they know what's good and what isn't. It's not like anyone is asking you to change your fundamental beliefs, they're just asking you to listen to a record. Or maybe being "progressive" means moving in only one direction, ahead, as if there's nothing worth knowing on either side of you, and certainly nothing behind you, for heaven's sake. Come offit, hipsters: don't play open-minded if you're not going to experiment; don't play cutting­edge if your tastes always coincide with college charts. There's a lot out there that you've never even tried. 
I'm not aiming at people who, either becauseofgeographic location or pursuit of other interests, haven't had a broad expo­suretomusic. I'm not aiming at people who know that, by and large, their musical tastes run within certain categories, and know this precisely because they have listened to a lot of music they don't like in order to find the stuff they do. Such people may have catego­rized their preferences, but they'll admit that they are only preferences, not some sort of canon. I'm not aiming at them. I am aiming at the kind of person you'll find hanging out at the Commons on a Friday night, with. his artfully scuzzy clothes and his new-wave hair hanging in his eyes. I'm aiming at the type of DJ who won't play your requests on WVFI because he's never heard of them, or because they don't fit into the "theme" of his show. Yeah, right. Like most of the DJ's know enough music to have a "theme" in the first place. 
This kind of arrogant label-sticker, who's got every band grouped into a cate­gory and every band worth listening to in his record collection (excuse me, CD col­lection) at home, is exactly the sort of per­son who claims to be the most open­minded. Ifthere's any truth to that claim, it must be the air whistling between the person's ears. Honestly, how "progres­sive" can you be when your tastes coincide with the latest in hipness? Progressive means exploring the unknown, not the trendy. And the unknown may be uncom­fortable: Ifyou're going to play like you've explored the dark underbelly of life (as so many progressives do), then dammit, get out there and explore it Listening to "new" bands who merely recycle what you're al­ready comfortable listening to is hardly cutting-edge. 
It's too easy to play progressive here: A lot of people don' tknow new bands, so it's easy to skim the latest New Music Express and seem like a prophet. And it's all too common for progressives to play elite, as if they had some God-given knowledge of Music. Yeah, right. What happens as a result of this arrogance is that people who listen to mainstream music actually apolo­gize to someone who favors off-beat bands for liking "normal" music, as if normal somehow meant boring. Mainstream doesn't mean boring, or mediocre, any more than unknown means talented. There's a lot of crappy bands out there, mixed in with a few good ones, and you've just got to keep looking for the good ones. 

The distribution is pretty much equal be­tween famous and not-famous. 
WhatI'd really like is for people to not be so competitive about listening to "cool" music. The ideal listener would look for music that's inventive and honest in ap­proach: what it actually sounds like is a matter of taste. I personally favor a lot of distortion and a good crisp snare, but if someone's doing something interesting with a keyboard, that's fine too. Or take a friend of mine, who recently acknowl­edged that he really likes music that came out in the early 80's, such as the B-52's, "only it isn't the early 80's anymore." I wish more people could be like him, and just accept where their preferences lie while still remaining open to suggestions. There's really no place for elitism when it comes to discussing music; most of us aren't creators anyway, simply reviewers. You don't have to like everything, but do keep your ears open. When you talk or write about music, feel free to make your likes and dislikes known, but remember that they' re only your preferences. And get that hair out of your eyes.fl 
November 10, 1988 

Movies/ .Jason Winslade 

Imagining 
Finally, an honest testimony ofthe life and career of John Lennon in a new documentary by producer David Wolper and director Andrew Solt 
S ome legends never die. Look at Elvis. He's received almost as much publicity after his death as he did 
when he was alive. However, Elvis hardly died a hero. He did himself in with alcohol and drugs. One of the truly tragic deaths of a musical hero, though, was the shooting death of former Beatie, songwritc,r peace activist John Lennon. On the eighth anniversary of his death, a new documentary film on Lennon's career, called Imagine, has been released. 
The film, directed by Andrew Solt and produced by David Wolper, takes its title from the classic Lennon song about the musician's dream for a better world. The documentary is a compilation of over 200 hours of film and interviews, with new in­terview footage of people like Cynthia Lennon, Yoko Ono, Jul­ian Lennon, and Sean Lennon. No narrator talks through the film. 

and others. The included footage ranges from early press conference interviews with Beatles' manager Brian Epstein, news reels, live concert footage, the famous press conference in bed, appearances on talk shows and many new interviews. A particu­larly striking scene is Lennon's confronta-
Only the voices of John Lennon J,!Jl~n :l.~!fl!i'I~JL. -th;r. 
and those interviewed appear in th•· tr•l,::,,r movie. The scene is set around Lennon's estate, where he is recording a new album with producer Phil Spector, of which "Imagine" will be a part. The time frame shifts back and forth constantly between these recording scenes and Lennon's his­tory from his early family life to the forma­tion of the Beatles and so on. 
The narration by film and interview tech­nique is quite effective. It produces no bias by a third party narrator. The viewer is left 
' to judge for himself about the films pre­
'. 
sented and the statements made by Lennon 1;;,r,~ii1f!2n::;rr,1,:;~\ ·i.:''.~iT'r'.'.''.:',rn'r;~ 'i'':.''('~' i.~~•J•'t~ I~~ Lennon's nude album cover and a song in which Lennon says he will be crucified. Another involves Lennon explaining to an overzealous fan who has camped outside Lennon's mansion that the former Beatle writes his songs for and about himself and not for any one fan. 
.. Many of the controversies surrounding Lennon, the most radical Beatie, are cov­erect. Unfortunately, the whole drug issue is mentioned only briefly. A majority of the film · is spent on the development of Lennon's writing styles and ideas, and his maturation past the Beatles. The break up from the Beatles, Lennon's two marriages, the divorce from his first wife, Lennon's family life with his sons, his solo career, and his eventual murder are all covered in the many film clips and interviews. The time shift can be a bit confusing at times, es­
wht:!,i :L.cnnon became a solo artist, it unclear what happens at ....~.:r~~k, points. 
'l'ht, viewer gets to see many ~iifi,~.~ r.:if Lennon, including a side :J1a,. ,;;.,m be less than appealing. r ,,,,,f,r"'''"'I is hardly presented as a ;i;iilnt, !tmt neither is the film an 
•~;,~~r.,.:ic:,J of his sometimes errant The audience also can make btfr own judgements about 111}:1's radical ways and meth­achieving his ideals. Al­n~'b the major issue of drugs is; t!:te most part, overlooked ex­im a few sporadic instances, film is an accurate portrayal of num rnnd his feelings. No one can !:.':lp f::1,1:t be moved when, at the end 

nftht>a ~~h~i, [ ;3,,.,,rnon' s death and its effect on the masses is presented, along with a touch­ing final performance of the finished prod­uct oflmagine. Some legends can be killed, but director Solt and producer Wolper prove that the memories live on, and noth­ing can prolong these memories better than an honest documentary presented by Len­non himself. Many attempts have been made at biographies and fictional accounts on Lennon's life, but none has been as suc­cessful and hit so close to home as the movie 
Imagine. ¦ · 


FACILITATING 



ATHLETICS 
The question ofaccessibility has been raised with regard to both the Loftus Center and the Eck Pavilion 
BY MIKE WIEBER may not even be known to some students. "I ing this building, wanted this building to beThe sounds of colliding helmets, of-don't think many of the students know this used by the whole Notre Dame family," said 
fensive ~l~ys, and linemen' s grunts building exists unless they have class over Smith. "As such we have developed a sched­
are familiar to students at Notre here," said Smith. uling philosophy so that we can ta1ce care of Dame and are invariably associated with the He added, however, that the building is for all of the facets of this family and, secondly, football stadium on crisp Saturday after-the students and it has been since its incep-that there'd be no charge for the use of this noons. But northeast of the field lies another tion; "The building was the donation ofthree facility." area where these sounds are not uncommon families: John Loftus, Ed and Joe Haggar, Having only reached its full competion in on weekday afternoons, the Loftus Center. and Ray Meyo. These gentlemen, in donat-April 1988, the Loftus begins its day early at This building, along with the 5:30 a.m. Monday through Eck Tennis Pavilion, became Friday with cardiac reha­fully active in the fall of last bilitation classes and year as new facilities for the ROTC drills at 6:30. The students. day continues with lectures 
Whether or not these facili-and activities in any of sev­ties have truly served the in-era! conference rooms. terests of the students has Richard Rosenthal, athletic been questioned by some. For director at Notre Dame, many students, the Loftus has said that the auditorium is been viewed as just a nice used for classes in the indoor practice field for the morning. football team .. Some students During lunchtime, fac­have also claimed that the Eck ulty and staff soccer and unjustly charges for the use of touch football is played. 
tennis courts when so many · · • .. . . •· . . . To"-n-yP-.o-rce-,r-1, All other times before 3:00 
other athletic facilities are '' Tllesethings,Jike golf and ten11is, are so expen-the facility is open to stu­free for the asking for Stu-sivethatw~ don'thave space for casual use ofthe . dent use. dents. facility~" · · · · · . · · ·· After that, the football 
Charles "Lefty" Smith, di-team has the option of using rector of the Loftus Center, ~ichard Rosenthal, Athletic Director . the building. Also, men's explained ·that the building ...._"----"-----"-"-----"-"---"-"-----"---c....;..-"---c....;..--',J and women's soccer as well as the marching band use to correct them," Bou lac said. the building for practices in the people who participate the early evening. Flag in these games make pledges football and Non-Varsity to give a certain amount of Athletics trade off later in money for each point their the evenings until closing team scores toward spinal which occurs at 11:00. cord rehabilitation research. 


On Saturdays, Loftus This tournament is scheduled opens at 8:00 a.m. and to take place November 11,­closes at 10:00 p.m., Sun-12, and 13. days the schedule runs The only part of the facility from noon until 8:00 p.m. which is restricted from gen-
Smith described which eral student use is the weight activities get first choice of room. The weight room holds the facilities. "Our priori-· some$250,000 in weights and ties are: varsity athletes get can hold over 100 athletes at ~rst crack, club sports and ;;;"'li5-5 antici any particular time. Thefacil­mterhall sports get second 1....,;,..'-"-''----'----"'----------------------ity was donated by Haggar. 
crack," he said.  This is the largest [indoor] track in the U.S.  "The weight room is for varsity athletes  
Rosenthal added, "We give priority to  They didn't even have to bank the track,"  only. The weight rooms in the Rockne  
teams that are in season."  said Smith.  [Memorial] and the JACC are for students,"  
He added that although one team is in the  He hopes that this will bring students into  Smith said. As to why this division occurs,  
main field of the building this does not neces­ the facility during the coming months.  Smith said, "I have my opinions and the  
sarilypreventothers from using it at the same  "What we hope is that the students who run  'powers that be' have another. I'd rather not  
time. "With the netting system, when a  on Juniper Road when the weather's bad will  talk about it."  
varsity team is out there practicing, the track  come over here," Smith said.  Rosenthal also noted that the Loftus weight  
can still be used. By putting the nets down,  Rosenthal added several other uses for the  room has created more space for students in  
the faculty can use the field -half for touch  facility besides those listed by Smith. He  the other athletic buildings. "The weight  
football, half for soccer," he said.  mentioned a flag football _tournament named  room is for varsity athletics, but what that's  
The center, which cost $6.3 million, occa­ after Nicholas Buoniconti, Notre Dame foot- done is free up the facilities over here [in the  
sionallyopensupforathletesatothertimesas  ball team captain in 1961 and an All-Ameri- JACC]," Rosenthal said.  
well. For example, when the football team  can. Mark Buoniconti, his son, was injured  Boulac agreed with Rosenthal, saying it  
chooses to practice outside, students can use  receiving a spinal cord injury while playing  was to be used by all varsity athletes. He  
the center. Also, when the track team prac­ football at the Citadel, according to Brian  added that those who work out in the Loftus  
tices, it uses lanes one through fol.J!, leaving  Boulac, assistant director of athletics. "Be- are chosen by coaches. He said both men's  
lanes five and six open for others. The only  cause of the injury, the family became very  and women's sports use the facility. He also  
time the main fieldhouse is completely closed off is during football prac­tices or when a team needs  interested with spin~ cord injuries and how \\/{"<: ·<,  noted that~ootball uses the facility because of its size and the number of players.  
the whole area.  Although the Loftus Center  
Students are asked to  is directed toward activities  
bring their own athletic  from varsity to individual  
equipment or to check it out  athletics, the Eck Tennis Pa- 
fromNon-Varsity Athletics  vilion is targeted primarily at  
in the JACC. Though he  students' individual play. Un­ 
said the entire fieldhouse is  like most of the other athletic  
open if equipment is  facilities, however, the Eck  
brought in, Smith · again  charges students a dollar per  
emphasized the value ofthe  student per hour for use. It  
track to the student body.  also charges faculty, staff, and  
"The track is made of  their families various rates of  
Mondo, the Cadillac of  as much as four dollars an  
running surf aces. The track  hour for use of one of the six  
is one-fifth of a mile long.  indoor courts.  


when they arrive. 
Rask also said he was looking into the possibility of a pass for a collection of activi­ties that NVA sponsors. He suggested that the pass could be for activities such as jazzer­cise and activities at the Rolfs pool which are not free, in addition to the use of the tennis courts. 
Rosenthal also offered some views on the Eck Pavilion. First, he ~oted that unlike the JACC, not all parts of the Eck must be lit and maintained at all times, and thus its cost should be more directed at the individual user than the student body as a whole. "We're I going to have the lighting and heating on 
I
~!u?r""r~rmot;" said Rosenthal. ' 'The~t: things, like golf and t;~'.irnn~~,.ru-eso expensive that ,_,.,,,.. r!r1,m't have space for ~utllt! use of the facility ... ill'!i:;, case of the tennis ~If!'.~, we must have strong 
S1,\:!Dndly, the athletic di­,+.Lm; ,h,,oted that the athletic f,if,,IT,t••E;S here are donated r.::,t ~·,e1i,~ for through the ath­
:pmgrams such as foot­ft,,dt ,tE:t~d that the only fees =-~"""~'!;;,,.,,"if''~ pay are for mainte­
"The JACC was J~tiY~il!:.':'ly funded," he said. ""it\'\) t1:perate here .in the §thi11;,tk department sup­r,,qrfrti:g the total of all the :ith~e;t\it:: programs on cam­
f~t~~. Thirty percent of reve­il'tilJi,!:.': .~i:::es to activities that ~!.:!.'ii'~) :il!nthing to do with ir,t;E;t,tt'iHegiate athletics." 
1\tfti,~m, however, is used 
in addition to athletic revenues to support the maintenance of these facilities. 
Whether students are getting a "fair deal" on their academic dollar with these two fa­cilities is still in discussion. Rask said he will continue to investigate the Eck and may look into Loftus eventually. "I'm working on meeting with NVA this week," Rask said. 
Rosenthal also feels that a continued ex­pansion of athletic programs should be avail­able to the students. "We are constantly trying to broaden the program." II 

Tom Rask, student senator from district four which includes Stanford, Keenan, Grace, Flanner, Pasquerilla West, and Pasquerilla East, has initiated an investiga­t.ion to discover why students must pay for the courts while the other athletic activities are free. "I talked to Coach Bayliss and he indicated that the dollar cost cannot be re­moved at this time," Rask said. He noted that the reason Bobby Bayliss, the men's tennis coach and director of the Eck Tennis Pavil­ion, said the Eck charge was for high mainte­nance costs and because the building lost money last year. 
Bayliss confirmed these expenses of heat­ing and lighting Ima I!.dd1:;;d !,t.vil'!ttll tithe:rn.. 
One thing he did ........---.-__,...............,.,,., 
can call 48 hours ahead for a court. Alumni and guests can call 24 hours before. The facility isn't open to the public," he said. 
The building, which allows reservations on Monday through Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 
9:45 
p.m. and Sunday from 10:30 a.m. until 

9:45 
p.m. with a one hour and 15 minute time limit, only lets NVA and the tennis team block off the court. "Some halls have rented it out. The most anyone would have to pay is $24 [for a period of time]," said Bayliss. 


Because of the student orientation that Bayliss stressed, Rask feels that the Eck or NVA should offer some sort of pass to make it simpler for the student to have access to the 
size, however, w.r~~ ·~~ relatively low ratr.::-:s ,t.,!}!'!!!· pared to other w,,;~,,,.,,o:!i,,, t.ies. "Anywhere ,,:Js:,., ;'n" would pay $20 tci ~:':C") ~-­hour. At Marqm>.t!iE: t!r.r,:~' pay $6 an hour. At ,C,p­Iumbia, they pay ·:1: l!:!11·':' more than that. WI!': :trrt: the lowest cost lm:rnilh>.:; thatwe know of;' fS:r,yli\;~ said. 
The other reasnn :Hi1y.., Iiss gave was the pr{1b11::rr. of students makir~.~ :r"•~•;"t·" vations for courts iiii!fl!f! ifllnt showing up to p~~Y, "You'd be surp-11:~••,r§ the number of pec,pf,!.:i t call, reserve a CC1'itil1, don't show up, [Rolfs or Rocknet] ~¥.)111 there. It doesn't m,~uer 500 people or tWt'l re•··~· want to use the pool, the 
pool is there. If you don't show up, we keep your name on file and you have to pay for that reservation," Bayliss said. 
Along the same lines, Bayliss stressed the responsibility factor involved. "The fact that you had to pay puts a little more responsibil­ity in the process. You're not going to friv­ilously cali up and reserve a court. You'll check with your buddy next door and then call," Bayliss said. 
The $1.4 million building which opened in 1987 has tried to meet the needs of the stu­dents first, according to BayliSSi "Students convenience and price. The season pass might bring in students who don't use it that often. The price would bring in those who do,"Rasksaid. Rask added thatitcan be very incon:venient to carry a student I.D. and a dollar and a pass would eliminate this. 
"He [Rask] called me yesterday. His idea was to come up with a pass. I think it would be workable, but the student would lose. It's like trying to reinvent the wheel," Bayliss responded. Bayliss also noted that if a stu­dent had to carry a pass, he might just as well be carrying an I.b. and that students pay 


GETTING TOGETHER 
Graduate administrators say graduate students need more support from each other and the university 
O'Meara feels the focus of the students' interaction would have been soley in the departments. But thanks to such living quar­ters their social lives, part of a complete education, were expanded. 
"I think that was one ofthe best times ofmy life, living there. I think that my education was considerably broadened and deepened by that experience," concluded O'Meara. 
This Graduate College still exists at Prin­ceton and continues to provide the same cohesiveness as it did 35 years ago, accord­ing to Victor Preller, master of the Graduate College at Princeton. 
"We house just under one third of the [graduate students]," he said. There are up to 450 unmarried men and women who have chosen this sort of close communal living, sharing meals and social areas. 
"In too many cases there is a continued grouping of students in graduate school by 
disciplines, even in the Graduate College," 
Preller pointed out. "But disciplines are 
mixed here and there is more conversation 
between them than in many other places." 
He also stressed the importance of the 
diversity of the residents: ''To me, one of the 
most exciting aspects of the Graduate Col­
lege is that over one third of the students are 
not citizens of the United States. They come 
from every continent of the world; [and that , 
is] one of the greatest potential values [of a , 
situation like this]." 
O'Meara was himself a member of this " 
percentage, having come originally from 
South Africa. 
Preller indicated, however, that this way of 
life is not for everyone. There are those who 
originally come to the Graduate College and 
find they prefer to move out. This echoes 
O'Meara's views about the way students 
want to live now. 
' ! 
BY ANDREA RODGERS 

f Ithinkthatwhat we're asking foris that 
there should be greater recognition of 
graduate students and graduate stud­

ies. And that is part of the direction in which the university is going at this time," Timothy O'Meara,Notre Dame provost, said recently concerning planned improvements of the graduate programs. O'Meara feels part of this increased attention should be paid to the students themselves in terms of their envi­ronment and sense of community. 
For undergraduates, the majority of whom live in on-campus dormitories, the "Notre Dame experience" is readily available. A good sense ofunity comes relatively easily to them due to varied course selection and close living arrangements. 
"Surely the cohesiveness of the type that occurs at the undergraduate level would not be realistic nor do I think it would be appro­priate [for graduate students],". explained O'Meara. Greater specialization is called for among masters and doctoral students which somewhat restricts their contact with others in their departments. 
O'Meara recalled upon his own graduate days at Princeton University as an example of his idea of the sense of unity possible at the graduate level. 
While studying Mathematics from 1950 to 1953, O'Meara lived in a dormitory called the Graduate College. This was a living, not a studying, college in which students from all disciplines lived together. 
"We had meals together," said O'Meara. "An economist one night would sit next to a mathematician and the next night might sit next to somebody in literature, etc. So this cohesiveness occurred through our living arrangements at the university and I found that to be a fantastic personal experience ­one of growth." 
Virtually all of the students at that time lived this way. Without such arrangements, 
GSU vice-president Jeff Smart Is part of a team working to Improve graduate life. 
Scholastic 


• r • -~~~ , 
•-' , . . .' . ~ , ' -~ ... 
"Given t.lte way young people are today, I think it would be unrealistic to reconstruct [the arrangements I had at Princeton] in the hope that people would find that attractive," he said. "People are looking for more inde­pendence and more choice ofwhom they live with now than they did in years past." 
The university is conscious of the problem of living arrangements for the graduate stu­dents and "certainly intends to do some­thing," declared O'Meara. That "some­thing" has not yet gelled but could possibly come in the form of town houses. While the provost does not intend to reproduce a Graduate College, "I think it will be impor­tant as we go into the planning stages for graduate housing ... that also a spirit of com­munity is created," he said. 
"To find a way of funding it -that's what we are engaged in at the moment" The necessary money may come from a private or corporate donor or perhaps from the university's resources. 
"Another possibility would be to see if we could create a revenue stream," suggested O'Meara. "That is to say if enough revenue would be generated by the residents of these buildings so that over a period ofmany years, that revenue stream could pay off the cost of the building. That could be another way of doing it." The rent for this housing would have to bekeptatareasonably moderate level for this plan to work, he continued. 
While attractive living quarters help to interest students, stipend funds and the repu­tation of the school as a whole also play a large part in a student's choice of school. Most important, however, is the . area in which these men and women will be special­izing. "The primary drawing card [for a graduate school] is the strength and reputa­tion of the department," said O'Meara. 
The departments with graduate programs at Notre Dame attract thousands of applica­tions each year, and. from those, select ap­proximately 2,000 students from all over North America and the world. Each program differs in the opportunities, atmosphere, dif­ficulty and facilities it has to offer a person. Whether scholarly or research oriented, however, students can find what they need in Notre Dame's varied courses of study. 
Thirty-two states are represented by the · majority of the 250 business students this 
year. The remaining 18%come from foreign 
countries. 

While at Notre Dame, they follow either a 
three semester or two academic year program 
to earn their degrees. "Ours is an intense 
program requiring the great majority of their 
time," explained Larry Ballinger, Director of 
the MBA program. Therefore, students do 
not have much involvement with the univer­
sity as a whole. They tend to stick with 
people from their own department, according 
to Ballinger. 

"We try to encourage them to interact with 
as many people as they can," said Ballinger. 
"This is the beginning of their professional 
careers. [Their classmates] will be profes­
sional contacts at a later time." 

An interesting trend Ballinger has noted 
among graduate usiness students is an in­
creasing involvement with law students on 
an informal basis. 

The vast majority live off campus as it is 
often difficult to get on-campus housing. 
Due to the fact that many don't live together 
and as many as a third of them are here for 
only one full academic year, a strong sense of 
cohesiveness is not present among all stu­
dents. 

After graduation, most tend to go to work 
with larger companies located primarily in 
the Midwest and the East, said Ballinger. 

The Law School is also a relatively self­
contained unit. ''This is a professional 
school; all are engaged in . a common en­
deavor," said Assistant Dean Willian 
McClean. "The law library is located in the 
building and there is no undergraduate pro­
gram, so it's necessary that we function as an 
entity." 

Law students are not totally shut off from 
the university, though. Many are involved 
with groups on campus and serve as assistant 
rectors and resident assistants in the under­
graduate halls. 

The 510 three-year students come pre­
dominantly from the United States, with 15 
or so from abroad. 

Each year more than three hundred em­
ployers interview from a graduating class of 
160. Most students go on to private practice, while others work with public interest groups, positions with the government and judicial clerkships. 
"We think the Law School is on the as­cent," concluded Dean McClean. "Weintend to remain on that road." 
Another 1400 students are divided among the departments that have a masters or doc­toral program. The faculty of each depart­ment is riot divided but rather teaches both graduate and undergraduate students. 
According to Dr. Richard Hilliard, director of admissions for graduate studies, the ma­jority of the students come from the Great Lakes area and remain in their respective academic fields after graduation. Half of these applicants are usually international, said Hilliard. The same proportion is not accepted, however, since they must be fully financially supported and the Notre Dame faculty must be familiar with the institutions they are coming from. 
The percentage of foreign students is higher in the science and engineering depart­ments where as many as two-thirds of the applicants are from outside of the United States. 
Each department is independent and re­sponsible for the selection of its students, stated Hilliard, and Notre Dame is being turned down in favor of some of the top schools in the country. "Some of these pro­grams are more [nationally] competitive than others," Hilliard added. Some difficulty in attracting students is due to money for sti­pends and scholarships, yet approximately 80 percent have full support in at least tuition. 
A combination of many factors make up the decision facing a student as to where to go for graduate study, not the least ofthem being the caliber ofacademics in the programs and the environment they would be living in. A strong sense ofbeing in the right place doing the right thing is indispensable in higher education. 
It is most important, therefore, to know what students want and just what would re­ally serve them and the university best This is a question to ask the scholars themselves. Through their cooperation with the Admini­stration the most productive and nurturing atmosphere will be created. Ii 






e Defining 
Notre Dame doesn't quite fit the deji 


BY JIM GRECO 
N otre Dame is a great university. 
This statement is accepted blindly 
by many students and alumni. But is it true? A great college achieves excellence by offering a top-notch unpergraduate pro­
gram to students. A great university, how­ever, must talce the time and effort not only to develop its undergraduate programs, but balance them by developing its research and analytical capabilities as a graduate institu­tion, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Once again, is Notre Dame a great univer­sity? Maybe; maybe not. Notre Dame's undergraduate programs are some of the most reputable in the country. The university's professional and graduate pro­grams are arguably far weaker. 
The imbalance has not been ignored. Throughout the past fifty years, the graduate program has grown under former University President Father Theodore Hesburgh. Last year, University President Father Edward Malloy declared in his inaugural speech that Notre Dame would undertalce "a strong com­mitment to excellence in the graduate pro­grams." 
Notre Dame has the potential in each ofthe schools to offer solid graduate programs, according to O'Meara. Each school says it is committed to instill in its students some ofthe same ideas that have worked in the under­graduate colleges: a broad, well-rounded education combined with an individual sense of values that has become a Notre Dame trademark, according to Chau T. M. Le, assistant vice-president for graduatein­struction. But in order to reach their full po­tential, both the administration and individ­ual schools each say that certain things must be achieved in order to enhance the quality of the graduate schools. 

Taking the main responsibility for follow­ing through with Malloy's declared commit­ment is Provost Timothy O'Meara. "Upon finishing graduate school, we want our stu­dents to be desired by the community be­cause ofbroad knowledge in their discipline, creativity, practicality and individual sense of values," he said. · All the graduate schools need more attractive qualities in order to draw more high-caliber students, he contin­ued. The administrators of all three schools -the Law School, Graduate School of Busi­ness, and School of Graduate Studies -say ­they know what they need to enhance their respective reputations and compete among the graduate school elite. 

Notre Dame Law School 
The philosophy of the Notre Dame Law School is not only to teach the student the mechanics of the law and its applications, but also to analyze the philosophy and meaning behind the law, according to Law School Dean David Link. "A great law school teaches the student to analyze the meaning of the law in addition to its everyday applica­tions," he said. 

The Law School faculty is well-rounded and the admission of students is very selec­" live, comparable to the undergraduate level, according to Link. Link said he feels that an improvement can be made in the school's ability to interpret and analyze the law, something Link calls analytics. "Our legal system badly needs a Catholic school to be a leader in analytics and I believe Notre Dame 

can fit that mold." 
The need for improvement in Notre Dame's analytical capabilities is tied to·its need for more and better resources. For ex­ample, the library, Link said is at a "working level," in that it teaches the student techni­cal applications of the law. It needs more support for and references to the analytical side of the law; the side that interprets the meaning and philosophy behind the law, according to Link. He said that the addition ofinore faculty also affects the school's ana­lytical potential because hiring more faculty allows the faculty hired to spend more time on analytical research. 
"At this point in time, the student-faculty ratio is good but not great compared to other law schools," Link said. · "Better faculty resources are a concern if we are to stay on pace with the rest of the country's law pro­




Notre Dame? 
~nition of a"university" --yet 
j 
The Graduate School Of Business recruit Notre Dame MBA graduates, espe­cially those outside of the Midwest since that Associate MBA director Robert William­percentage ofrecruiters on campus is already 
son said he believes that the school's destiny very high." What this calls for is selling Notre Dame's 
lies in its own hands for the most part. The areas he sees for potential improvement deal Business School to the business world, ac­cording to Williamson. It requires the faculty 
with admissions and recruiting, things usu­to work closely with recruiting companies on 
ally handled by business faculty. Yet Wil­both their needs. If the working relationship 
liamson said he feels that the program is still very solid. "There is no area in the Business is good, it is likely that those same companies would recruit students learning under that
School that is sub-standard. But as always, there is room for improvement." professor. The Business School relies heavily on Another area Williamson said could use improvement is the number of minority stu-·
placement bureaus and recruiters to find jobs dents in the business program. Minorities·
for their MBA' s, because some of the main currently make up six percent of the student 
criteria for determining the quality of a busi­
ness school lies in the after-school success body, a little below the national average of eight percent for other MBA schools. Again, this adjustment could probably be made within the school's admissions department without calling for any administrative help. 
Notre Dame Program of Graduate Studies 

For the record, Notre Dame is not satisfied with its graduate studies programs., accord­ing to Le. The programs, which incude all master'.s and doctorate degrees in different disciplines offered by the university, are re­alizing that it is going to take a deep com­mittment to strenghten Notre Dame's repu­Law students, Including John Foradora, Jim Hogan, Brett Granville and Edward Kiel, tation as an elite graduate study program. eviewing strategy for their upcoming cases before class and In the library. Marl Okuda This isn't to say that the program is not sat­
--------'-------------------------....Jisfactory now. 
It continues to move rapidly grams." · rate of its graduates. Williamson gives a lot in its push for quality academics and student 
· Increased financial aid is also ofconcern to of attention to diversifying Notre Dame's support. But since the School of Graduate Link: "We want a certain type of quality and career placement and recruiting potential. Studies is much more diverse than the Law or ethic-conscious individual and it should not "We definitely want to increase the number · Business schools, itconsequently has further matter if he is wealthy or not," he said. of corporations and companies that come to to go in its pursuit for excellence. 



Itis evident by the heavy amount of atten­tion that has been given to improving the graduate schools in recent years. Like the Notre Dame Law School, the Program of Graduate Studies has earned a good reputa­tion as a teaching institution. What they want to do is have their students and faculty be leaders in graduate research as well. "Notre Dame wants to strive for excellence in research as well as academics,''· Dr. Chau 
T. M. Le, the assistant vice-president for advanced studies: instruction. ''There is a long way to go, and much commitment and 
many resources are needed if we are to achieve our goals." These goals revolve around the students and Notre Dame as aresearch institution. Le felt the task of enhancing the level of Notre Dame students was divided into two parts: finding the quality student and supporting those students as they progress through the program. Thefirstpartisunderway,as there has been a "general trend of improvement" of accepted students over recent years. In 1978, the average entering GRE test score was 1766 out of a possible 2400. Last year that average reached 1816. Lehopes that ad­missions will continue this ti-end. As with the Law School, increased firiancial aid also is a possibility that could be used to attract the top-notch applicant and increase minor­
ity presence, according to Le. 
The other facet of improvement on which Le places great importance is the ability of the students and faculty to use top notch re­
search facilities to achieve their aca demic goals. This improvemen would not only help students an faculty, but it would also enhance th capability and reputation of th university's research. Le said h feels that room for improvement lie now with the amount of available re search space. Office space, espe cially for teaching assistants, is ex · tremely limited. With the addition and improvement of research facili­ties, both students and faculty cool be more productive, set higher goals achieve those goals and thus build reputation for themselves and Notr 
Dame, according to Le. 
"The university has a commiF 
ment to improve the entire Gradua 
Studies Program," Le said of the po 
tential improvements. The Gradua 
Studies Program can improve in 
almost every area. It is workin 
closely with the administration, ac­
cording toLe, on goals that set the 
foundation of the best graduat 
schools: students, faculty, and facili 
ties. 
Each of the graduate program 
wants to improve, according to the· 
respective officials, but the school 
themselves have different ide 
about how to do it. Thus, forwar 
movement . has progressed 
slowly. For example~ a proposai t 
· combine the three schools into on 

graduate school with different programs was supported by the School of Graduate Studies but was disliked by both the the Law School 
and Business School. One possible reason 

fqr this may havebeen that the quality of each 
school is at a different level. 

Based strictly on admissions statistics, the 
Law School is the hardest to gain entry into, 
followed by the Business School and Gradu­
ate Studies Program. It seems logical that the 
first two would not want to reduce their cur­
rent reputation and quality in any way. Wil­liamson from the business school even said that he felt thaf Malloy's comment at the inauguration last year regarding necessary improvements in graduate studies was di­
rected only at the Graduate Studies Program. O'Meara, however, disagreed, saying al­though the words were vague, he was confi­dent that Malloy directed his words to all graduate schools at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame has developed in fifty-year 
· time frames, according Provost O'Meara. The first fifty years established Notre Dame. The second fifty developed it into a great undergraduate institution. The third has just begun: to develop Notre Dame into a great graduate institution. ·II 



What's Up, Vic? 
GSU President Victor Krebs discusses life as a grad student 
BY MAGGIE SIEGER 

When the task force report on the 
state of advanced stu.dies at 

Notre Dame, commissioned by Notre Dame President Father Edward Mal­loy, wasissuedlastyear, theuniversityfam­ily was surprised to read about the "spirit of alienation, bewilderment and discontent" felt by a whole segment ofthe student popu­lation -graduate students. "It's a problem that we can't integrate (into the university community)," said Victor J. Krebs;president of the Graduate Student Union. 
In an effort to correct the situation, Krebs and other graduates formed the Graduate/ Undergraduate Committee last spring. "Pat Cooke was (student body) president then and he really helped us out," said Krebs. The way to integrate is to see what student govern­ment is doing, what kind of organization the undergrads have and how they communicate with the administration." The G/UC in­stalled an observer at student senate meet­ings for firsthand knowledge of the senate's activities and they worked with student Cri­mestoppers in order to get and give input 
From that initial contact. many more ideas of how to feel more at home at Notre Dame evolved. "The whole idea is to try and get more integration between graduates and undergraduates, to get undergrads aware that the grads are here and to get the grads to participate in activities, especially in the in­tellectual life ofthe community," Krebs said. 
Why do the graduate students care about becoming integrated and why should the undergraduates care? Krebs believes under­graduates can benefit from exposure to graduate students. "Any good university has integration at least at the intellectual level, right?" Krebs asked. The only contact many undergraduates have with graduate students occurs in a situation where the graduate stu­dent is in a position of authority over the undergraduate, as a TA or assistant rector. This serves to create a wall between the two. Krebs suggests thinking ofgraduates as half­students and half-teachers, as bridges to pro­fessors. "We know professors on a more personal basis so we can call them up and say, 'Hey, Gary, would you please do this for us?' or whatever," he said. 
Krebs decries the attitude here that gradu­ate and undergraduate students have nothing, or at least, very little, in common. "Before we decide that, we should all get together and see," he said. "The mindset is so prevelant that there is a total segregation. Even in the areas where we do have things in common, they're never considered. It's become a habit." 
One of the major problems for the G/UC is the university layout. In order to integrate the graduate students into the undergraduate comm unity, there must first be a unity among the graduates themselves. "As itis, there is no place where grad students can go," Krebs said. "You have to have a place to congre­gate." Toe GSU is currently working o~ establishing a weekly lunch at the Alumm/ Senior Club for graduate students. Because of its central location and facilities, the Club offers the best place on campus for graduate students to meet on a regular basis. "We have parties every now and then and they are really good mixers and so on," Krebs said. "But. you can't live on parties and we'd like some­thing for regular meetings." An advantage for law and MBA students meeting other students is that each has its own building. The graduate school, composed of 800 to 1,000 students, all specializing in different depart­ments, shuttle between O'Shaughnessy and the Hesburgh Library. 
Another concern for graduate students is housing. The G/UC has discussed ways of involving graduate students in the various undergraduate residence hall activities. One of the big housing issues this year centers on graduate students living in Knott and Siegfried halls. Although temporary, female grad students have taken up residence on the fourth floor of both halls. "It's kind of strange," said Krebs. "(The women) are not even participating in the halls. There's some mindset here against graduate and under­graduate students mixing. You w~n?er _at the reasoning." Besides lack of publicity m.the three graduate dorms, O'Hara-Grace, St. Joseph and Brownson, the dorms have no representation on the Hall Presidents Coun­
cil. "We could at least be included with the intellectual life commissioners," said Krebs. ''The paradoxical thing is that we're sub­jected to all the policies everyone else is, parietals and the other rules, but the benefits, they're never there. 
"On the side of the grad students, it would be great to feel integrated, but, for the school, Notre Dame wants to be a graduate institu­tion ofprominence," said Krebs. "No matter how much you beef up the the programs, no matter how you beef up the stipends, people are not going to feel like they belong until you give the graduate students a good quality of life at the university. They're going to leave and the graduate students are not going to be contributing to the life of the university." 
Graduate students leave Notre Dame with a totally different concept of the university than the undergraduates, according to Krebs. While undergrads continue to flock to the campus year after year following graduation, graduate students feel "I don't want to deal with Notre Dame anymore because it's been a miserable four years." There's been a growing resentment on the part of the gradu­ate students due to the continuing segrega­tion, Krebs said. "A university dedicated to improving its graduate programs better take a look at the living situation of its grad stu­dents not just the academics," Krebs con­cluded. "[The living conditions] need to be paid attention to and [they've] been ne­glected so far." II 
Interview conducted by BrianBajuk. 

15






Jethrow Kyles' collection ofsports memorabilia in the basement ofthe H esburgh Library is known to everybody but the people at Notre Dame 
titles and more than 500,000 scrapbooks, 
BY JON PAUL POTTS 
programs, films, photographs, video and 

L
ooking for an 1899 Notre Dame audio tapes and sports memorabilia, only football program? Or maybe, if 17 percent is Notre Dame related. boxing is your passion, you'reinter­Curator Jethrow Kyles would like to em-

~ ~ -;-:-~ s »~ '-" v---:. ~ ~ n -" ~ , " ~ , -~, ~ --~, •_ ~ ~ ~ ' 

on the scene, the library had a small budget and was not very well organized. But, through his efforts, the budget has been in­creased and the library today is one of the best of its kind in the United States. 

in the 100-and 200-yard dashes, the long jump and the triple jump. 
The library is organized by formats. That is, similar materials are grouped together and put on the shelfs. Thus, all the programs what to discard," said Kyles. "What seems trivial now may have significance forty years from now." 
Nationwide, the collection is well­known and well-respected. Both the New 
Items pour onto Kyles' desk every day are organized together, as well as all the York Times and the Sporting News have from a variety of 
written articles on sources. The na­
it. Andrew H. tional Notre 
Malcolm, noted Dame fan base 
New York Times sends material 
writer, said of the 


jor League Base-......_...... missioned a Ii-ball are also very Joe Frazier's sparring gloves from the epic Ali-Frazier "Thrilla in Manila" of 1975. brary' who did 
helpful to Kyles.  they contact to  
The NCAA also frequently calls on the  magazines, serial publications and films.  help them out? Jethrow Kyles at the Notre  
library forinformation as well, so it is a re- The oldest material is. the aforementioned  Dame Sports and Games Research Collec­ 
ciprocal situation.  I 899 Physicians and Surgeons football pro­ tion.  
The collection was founded in 1968 by  gram.  Peter Ueberroth, director of the 1984  
Victor Schaeffer, who was then the direc- There is also a whole wall of film reels  Olympic extravaganza, had a $94 million  
tor oflibraries, and Francis Wallace, who  which covers all the men's basketball and  surplus and appropriated $4 million ofthis  
graduated from Notre Dame in 1923 and  football games. Coaches of the various  surplus to a library under the direction of  
was a sports writer. It is intended as a  teams frequently .make use of the many  Wayne Wilson. Wilson spoke to Kyles  
research collection about sport 'and its so- reels of film to prepare for an opponent or  several times on the telephone seeking  
cial implications. ·The collection repre­ for any other number of reasons. Kyles is  advice on how to organize and catalogue  
sents two of the more salient features of  currently in the process of transferring the  this new library.  
the University of Notre Dame -athletics  women'sbasketballreelsfrom theJACCto  The resulting Paul Ziffren Sports Re- 
and academic endeavor.  his alcove in the basement of the Hesburgh  search Center and the Amateur Athletic  
Sports research used to be considered a  Library. He is also working on a project for  Foundation in Los Angeles opened on  
side pursuit, but recent events such as the  a Detroit television station, organiazing  August 12th of this year. The collection is  
Olympic boycotts of 1980 and 1984 have  footage of the Detriot Pistons' forward  named for Paul Ziffren, chairman of the  
emphasized the place ofsports in society.  Adrian Dantley' s collegiate career here at  board of the Los Angeles Olympic Organ­ 
"Sports research is very legimate now  Notre Dame.  izing Committee. The Ziffren Center ri­ 
because of the big business of sports, the  As _can be seen, with only two under­ vals the widely-respected collection of the  
huge contracts, sports advertisement and  graduate assistants, Kyles' job is a lot of  New York Public Library, and Kyles  
the politics of sports," said Kyles. "Con­ work. Frequently working on Saturday, his  admits that the Ziffren Center is probably  
sider 1936 and the impact ofJesse Owens  office abounds with material waiting to be  superior to Notre Dame's sports research  
on Hitler's Olympic Games."  catalogued and filed, and it is up to Kyles to  center because of the large budget they are  
Owens ·disproved Hitler's theory of  decide whether something is history or not.  working with.  
Arian supremacy by beating the Germans  "It is tough to decide what to save and  One of the more interesting features of  



Notre Dame's Sports and Games Research Collection is the Red Smith Collection. Walter "Red" Smith was a famous sports journalist and a 1927 Notre Dame gradu­ate. Smith's passions were baseball and horse racing, ~nd he became recognized as a leader in his field while writing his syndi­cated columns for the now defunct New York Herald Tribune during the 1950s and '60s. "Red Smith was a sports journalist and not just a sports writer," said Kyles. "He was the first sports writer to win the Pulit­zer Prize." Smith died in 1982, and in 1987 his widow, Phyllis Smith, donated most of his personal collection of articles and books ­both those written by him and those from his personal library, as well as his sports  ,j~_.i}((~e,Jto~ls!~Jjiftiin)1 ;·. i~I~'P[i,~~.1~~.~.•. IJ~.IJJ\(pr str11gr·•·•• •..~·jin~.\•...··.~tucI~11f~,•···•••·•·•·110r~1!§f.s•·.••• !!t:{t~1f~l~~iti: ••fewLanecdhtes\t&li~~nU ii •··.•~()~·~·f'1Ispgfti~gi~ve~t.tid•.·•··•'•· 1 ·····•····;;,.,. .••. ;..···.•··••7A.ij.~r~-w·~1.·····~a.1s~]~t.••·•..;..... •·· notedNewYorkTimes  column drafts. The manuscripts of the books he wrote are also included in the collection, complete with notes to himself. This collection provides a useful tool for anyone interested in sports writing, or any kind ofjournalism, for that matter. The Red Smith Collection was formally dedicated in March of 1988 and stands next to Kyles' desk as a tribute to this great American writer. The Notre Dame Sports and Games Re­search Collection stands today as one of the bestofits kind in the the United States. Both the obscure, like the fact that the Notre Dame football team played South Bend High School in 1892 and only won 52-0, the socially significant aspects of sport, as well as all types of sport and game going back as far as the ancient Egyptian chesslike game  

memorabilia, such as Joe Frazier's auto­graphed boxing gloves -to Notre Dame. His library also included quite a bit ofNotre Dame related material. The collection presents the development of a sports jour-

I, 
I 
i i, 
nalist. 
Many young sports writers have con­sulted this collection for many of the notes that Smith kept, said Kyles. Smith saved his own columns and saved many of the of Senet, are represented in the collection. So give Jethrow Kyles a call, he'll be there. He 'II be the one surrounded by a wealth of records and literature documenting the sport and games ?f man. ¦ 






COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO
sportsweek 



placed third in the third singles flight, while ANN BRADSHAW fmished fourth in the sixth-flight singles. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER. 

cer ~~, Morris w~· rranied the .MCC 
PlayeroftheYear.>HeScoretl 14,goalsami i{assi~.ts on the year (40 pqints), iriclu?ing a pair (>fgoals in the 2~0 upset,win over ij.y~nsville. that pavetl•· ,thy \V,ay for N?tre 
Dame's first~everberthin the NCAATour:: 
backstroke relay (4:16.15), with MARY ACAM­
PORA, KATHY QUIRK, KATIE PAMENTER and CHRISTY MOSTON, .and in the one-meter diving relay with freshmen ALLISON BAKER and JEN­
NIFER KIPP. In the dual meet, Acampora, Moston, TRACY JOHNSON and BECKY WOOD all turned in strong performances. 


.......sw-.-un~te_a_m--,.,.-~-e-x-p-en...-1­enced the same fate as the ladies last week, finishing second in the Notre Dame Relays behind Texas Chris­tian and losing to the Frogs in dual meet action. TCU outscored the Irish 226-162 in the relays on Friday and 135-108 in their dual meet last Thursday. On Friday,Notre Dame won the 1000-yard freestyle 
relay (9:40.68), courtesy of DAVE LEDRICK and BRIAN RINI, while ED VEOME and ADAM HIRSCHFIELD paired up to win the three-meter div­ing event. Thursday's meet saw PAUL GODFREY take first place in the 1000-yard freestyle (10:02.71) 


~11!li!lll~!fi
J~~ersi11th~ ~~Jyai:Q•·fr~§~Yl.e(15:f8)(•-~nd 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team completed 

its inaugural varsity season last weekend with a 3:0 loss at the hands of Michigan State. They finished the year with a 13-6-1 mark. 
SUSIE ZILVITIS led the Irish with 14 goals and 

seven assists for a total of35 points on the season. K.T. SULLIVAN added ten goals and three assisis (23 points), and MIMI SUBA led the team in assists with eight. 
WOMEN'SSWIMMING 

The Irish women's swim team (0-1) took second place in the Notre Dame Relays last Friday behind Texas Christian University only one day after TCU and the 500-yard (4:53.37), while Rini finished second in both the 200-yard freestyle(l:46.68) and 200-yard butterfly (1:57.54). 
VOLLEYBALL 

TheIrish improved their record to 14-9 with a pair of wins over Michigan schools last week. Notre Dame defeated Eastern Michigan last Friday in four games, 15-8, 16-18, 15-8, 15-10, and needed only 53 minutes 
to polish off Michigan in three, 15-5, 15-6, 15-5. 
MARY KAY WALLERled the way for Notre Dame against Eastern with 19 kills and a .571 hitting percent­age, and ZANETTE BENNETT recorded 17 kills and a team-high nine blocks. TRACEY SHELTON con­
handed Notre Dame a 151-92 defeat in dual-meet tributed ten digs while MAUREEN SHEA had 15 kills
.swani:.th~firs!:1~g•()ft11~~um.lJ¢rtwoAOQ~ 
action. TCU outscored Notre Dame 226-186 in the and a .462 hitting percentage. Waller was impressive
yai}ifyye#y,ii~iiay_($:4-7.87);: 
·········· · ' 
,,..\..,.; relays. against Michigan as well, hitting .642 with nine kills Notre Dame took first-place finishes in the 400-yard and no attack errors. 
November 10, 1988 


Students 
semester 
Sponsored by the Women for Justice and Peace at the Center for Social Concerns Coffee House. Lunch will be served from 
11:30 a.m. to I p.m. 

Radiation Laboratory Seminar "State­Selected Ions at the Gas-Solid Interface," by Dr. Dennis C. Jacobs, Notre Dame. At 4 p.m. in the Conference Theater of the Radiation Laboratory. 

Department of Art, Art History and Design lecture "Warhol In Context," by Charles Stuckey, Curator of 20th century paintings and sculpture at the Art Institute of Chicago. In the Annenburg Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. 
Center for Critical and Interpretive 
Studies Lecture on Critical Feminism 
Philosophy, Legal Theory and 
Deconstruction. "Gramsci and 
Feminism," by Anne Showstack Sasson, 
Political Science, Kingston Polytechnic, 
London. Co-sponsored by the Gender 
Studies Committee. In the Galvin Life 
Sciences Auditorium from 4:30 p.m. to 6 
p.m. 
Department of American Studies and the Center for Continuing Education 1988 Fall Faculty Faculty Seminar, Part Three, by Professor Michael Novak, Visiting Welch Chair of American Studies, ND. Theme: Choosing Our King, 1988: Monthly Election Watch. At 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. Call 239-6691 if you plan to attend. 
Drug and Alcohol Abuse Joint Lecture for · the General Student Body and the General Twelfth Night presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre in Washington Hall at 8:10 p.m. through Saturday, November 12. Tickets, available from the Lafortune Box Office in the LaFortune Student Center from 


12: 15 to 6 p.m. weekdays, are $6 for the main floor, and $5 for the balcony. 


FRIDAY, NOV.11 

Open Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous from 7:30p.m. to 8 a.m. in the Holy Cross House. 
-
Economics Department Public Policy Workshop with Kevin Brunson, graduate student in Economics. In room 131 of Decio Faculty Hall at 11:30 a.m. Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns open to all faculty and staff. Theme: The Year of Cultural Diversity. "Respect for Human Differences as a Potential Outcome of Cultural Diversity," by Dr. Roland Smith, Executive Assistant to the President of the University of Notre Dame. Brown bag or soup and bread for $1. Call 5142 for soup-bread reservations. At 12: 15 


p.m. in room 124 of the Center for Social Concerns. 


Aerospace/Mechanical Seminar with Jinsoo Cho, Purdue University. At 3:30p.m. in room 302 Cushing. 
Chemical Engineering Seminar "The Direct Liquefaction of Coal by Thermal and Catalytic Routes," by Phillip Varghese, Mobil Research and Development Corporation, Paulsboro, New Jersey. In room 356 of Fitzpatrick Engineering Hall at 3:30 p.m. 


Reilly Chemistry Lecture Part III, "Non­Metal Redox Kinetics: Cl + Transfer versus O-atom Transfer Reactions," by Professor Dale W. Marjerum. In room 
123 of Nieuwland Science Hall at 4:30 
p.m. 


Veterans Day Observance at the South 
Flag Pole at 4:30 p.m. 
Scholastic 


















"Interpolation of Ban~ch ;;;~;~~;;d ,, ..,, Mass with members of Emmaus, a differential geometry," by Dr. Stephen community with the mentally Semmes, Rice University. In room 226 handicapped. At 2 p.m. in Moreau Seminary. A coffee hour will follow the 
of the the Computing Center and Mathematics Building at 4:30 p.m. Mass. 
Friends of the Snite Museum of Art free 
Notre Dame Men and Women vs. the tour for the general public. Tour begins at 
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. the main (south) museum entrance at 2
At 5 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. p.m. 
The Golden Dome Classic featuring e vs. Air Force at 2 p.m. in 
Duke, Northwestern, Penn State and Notre Dame. In the JACC Arena at 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Also on Saturday. 
Call to Peacemaking Retreat and Dinner. Theme: Passover to Peacemaking: 
FIX at 8 and 10:I5 p.m. in the Cushing Making Friends of Enemies. Retreat with Engineering Auditorium. 
Jim Forest, General Secretary of the International Fellowship of
Au Revoir les Enfants at 7:30 and 9:30 Reconciliation, author and peace activist. 
p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Registration $5 at the Center for Social 
This fictional biography is set in Concerns. Sponsored by PaxChristi. 
Occupied France in 1944, when writer­From 3 to 8 p.m. in the Center for Social 
director Malle was an I .I-year old at a Concerns.
Catholic boys boarding school near Fontainebleau that sheltered several Jewish boys. The Gestapo learned they 
Twelfth Night concludes with a 3:10 p.m. 
were there, sent the ones they found to showing in Washington Hall. Tickets
Auschwitz, and the head master to a available at the Lafortune Box Office 
work camp. The film powerfully but from I2:I5 to 6:I5 p.m. weekdays. $6 for
discreetly reworks·these events, main floor, and $5 for balcony. 
concentrating on Malle's alter ego and a Jewish boy in his class. 
MONDAY, NOV.14 SATURDAY, NOV.12 
The Spider's Strategem at 7 p.m. in the 
tfNationatiaieacfierstExammauoiitm1t0tr01mira 
Annenburg Auditorium. Director
In the Engineering Auditorium from 8 Bernardo Bertolucci adapts a Borges story 
a.m. to 3 p.m. with a Twilight Zoneending about a youn 
man who returns to the town where his father was murdered by fascists thirty 
A Fish Called Wanda at 8 and 10:I5 years before.
p.m. in the Cushing Engineering 
Auditorium. Night and Fog in Japan at 9 p.m. in the 
SUNDAY, NOV. 13 

Annenburg Auditorium. The wedding 

November 10, 1988 
-



Final Word 



Let's Be Adults Here 
Student Senator Pat Kiernan expresses his dissatisfaction with the paternalistic Notre Dame Administration 
BY PAT KIERNAN 



T here are many important sub­jects that need to be discussed on 
this campus and it is hard to 
choose one that stancfs above the rest However, I've decided to talk about a trend that has frustrated me since I arrived at Notre Dame four years ago. This is the increasing paternalism displayed by the administration towards the students. Though an old issue here, it has become a hot topic at campuses all over the country. For example, Boston University has expe­rienced a lot of student unrest over its administration's decision to clamp down on drinking and overnight visitors. (Sound familiar?) But I think the question that has not been examined enough is whether or not it is right for the administration to assume the role ofparent. I believe that to simply dictate residence life policies to the students and not involve them directly in the policy process is terribly damaging to the university and the students. 
However, before I outline my two rea­sons why the present way ofdoing things is harmful, let me clarify one point. My argument rests on the assumption that the conduct of the administration over the last few years has been obviously paternalistic and has for the most part excluded the student voice. There is ample evidence to show that this is, indeed, the case. Like parents, the university has told us when we should go to bed (parietals), how we should conduct our social lives (the alcohol pol­icy) and how often we should date (the SYR restriction . Also the Ian a e that administrators use constantly raises the imageofa "Notre Dame family." Finally, in the recent change in the alcohol policy, the university officers virtually ignored stu­dent input and "laid down the law" like my Dad used to when I was in junior high. So,. the question is not whether the administra­tion is paternalistic, but if that way ofgov­erning the campus is right. I feel it is wrong for two reasons. 
First, when the administration acts like a parent, it insults our student body's intelli­gence. Notre Dame has one of the finest groups ofstudents in the country, ifnot the world. Notre Dame undergraduates were the ones held up by their communities at home as mature and trustworthy young adults. We weren't the troublemakers who required extra supervision and guidance. Yet, when we arrived at Notre Dame, we were, and still are, treated like we don't know how to take care of ourselves. In addition, we are old enough to vote and have a direct say in how the policies of the most powerful nation on earth are formed. Yet we are not trusted with the mundane re-· sponsibility of forming the regulations which govern our everyday lives at the university we call our home. 
The second problem with ND paternal­ism is that it destroys the very sense of community that the administration says it wants to create. Most students love this place and want to be equal members in the Notre Dame family. However, we grow resentful at being treated like little kids, which we no Ion er are. This is not to sa that we are perfectly mature and not in need of the wisdom the elders can provide. The crux of what I am trying to say is best summed up by columnist Ellen Goodman in a recent article she wrote on the troubles at Boston University. She says, "In the passage tofull adulthood, college students want guides, not overseers. They need the sense that there are community standards and other adults who uphold them. But they also need to feel like substantial and welcome participants in the community, and not like subjects." 
It is silly for the administration not to let the students have a direct voice over the scope or content of student life policies. We obviously wouldn't do anything to make this a decadent and unlivable place. In fact, if students were equal participants in the policy making, I bet that policies would not be any less conservative than they are now. The bestindicatorofthis was seen in the the recommendations of last year's alcohol policy task force. If that group, halfofwhose membership was stu­dents, could recognize the shortcomings in the alcohol policy and recommend a tight­ening ofthe policy, then the administration has nothing to fear. The real worry is whether or not the univeristy's leaders have the courage to tap that student matur­ity. Will they continue todrivea wedge be­tween themselves and the rest of the Notre Dame family? II 
Patrick Kiernan i~ a senior in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters. He is the District #1 Student Senator. 


,. t . --~------·· . . . . . / , 
-, • • '' 1 ~ -' • -.. 


Get grad students out of their broom closets 
To undergraduates, graduate students are enigmas. They're not exactly profes-· sors, but you can't walk down the hall in most dormitories and run into them. This tension between the two types of students is not unique to Notre Dame; it's inherent in the way the academic system is organized. 
Still, that's no reason why changes can't be made. The Graduate Student Union, for example, has recently come back from the dead. Recognizing that undergraduates can help them through student government channels was a key move in getting some needed improvements in the programs. 
Newsletters and the graduate handbook are concrete ways to improve graduate life by providing students with practical hints they don't have the time to learn between short tenures, especially for MBA students, and a large amount of work. But beyond simply figuring out how to keep themselves informed, graduate life could improve dra­matically through certain quality-of-life improvements that only administrators and trustees could implement 
The graduates students need better housing. It's difficult to become part of the proverbial Notre Dame family when you live apart from your "siblings." A , graduate dorm should be available for students, especially first-year graduate students, that is close to campus, if not on it. This also would be an excellent opportunity to experiment with the idea of co-education dormitories with the older and ostensibly more mature students. 
And students in the nonsprofessional graduate departments need a central place to socialize. After all, a few undergraduate programs' majors have their own lounges. Graduate students should have a place of their own on campus to social­ize, drink coffee or rest. Aside from carrels in the library, nothing exists for graduate students on campus. The G.S.U. office is little more than a broom closet on the third floor ofLaFortune. 
Until recently, graduate students have not been very vocal about their difficul­ties, but task force recommendations have shed light on an area of university life that has been ignored for a long time. It is time for the graduate students to push for change, and for undergraduates to support them along the way. 
-Scholastic. 
" -~ -~~-~----~-~ 

Ernie Pook's Comeek 


THe~S I ONE CH.APTflZ CAL.Leo ''Wt-\lGH lS niE 
WofaST?'' ITt SOR.T Of A CONTEST OF Awful, S1TUAT10NS'.. 
MAINl.-~, 1\16" IDEA OF , ,-IS LISTS OF KNOW­LEDGE": KINDS OF DOGS, WH-o AR.e n+t= Pf2..E510ENTS, FAKIE'ST MONS~RS, MOST 
INT1:R.rST\NG 1l-llN65 11> C-ATlH ON FIRE, AND Wt\ f\ i TI-HN6S Wou 1,0 Be T¾ e Wf; 1F?-Oe!>T IN YovR Bi:OR.0OM AT N161-tT IF TI-\€"~ SuDOeN L.~ j~~T ST Ai2..'ft:l) COM ING in l,lfE" ~ 
--0 

iHe fv\0ST ex err IN6 FEATUR.e OF TI-fE 8ooK 11t0l.(6tt \S CAU£D: T\-(E 6AR.niS MoST CoM ­
I . ­
fLFf"f!,lj LONGfST Ll~T IN IBEGAt..A'>'~ t:NO VN\VeRs~, Of A1,~ TIME,..: ,r TVi<.tJ> OVTTO Ju~-( se Ti-\c U5f OF Af'l~Tt\1"16, ONl!:f NVM ­
B6~,o, so s~ me eND  yolA CAN TELL  
EXAc.TL.~  How MAN~.  ,  ,  1  , \  1  I  
I  l  
\ I  



~tl!...€.1­
t= i\-le-rA&.€, 
vP S1QA1e:, UT':lfll-"Te.f:I oJ'1fl2.Ci-lE 
AU. Al<.oulJQ Me M1>10U,!.S 1.-Au61-\Ttlt lLlH\1,I:; 
I WEE? WIT+li,J-­l=o'2. l.O, I: A A 1O,00O•'jE GoooESS, T 
1.i A Qoo 
, T+IE 
THAN~~ou, 
MOTHE.k?.. 1 ONl-'1 HOPE: ~'i t'!:AMPl.,E. 1.UlL.1., Se 
I-IEE.OE.O 
BY ·n-11:. 
0Tttc'2.S. 
11-\E.. "TAl"t l£i'A1...-E. 
M.OMM'I !! AMWl..A>JO 8'2A,lt)0.J A~ 1..i WE !)Ool,l{oUSE. PIA\41.i(::, oocrojl. ANo SN01:.1111G c,1:,A/Jem:, 
ANO 1c.1,1..1,J6 01Q.T'1 JOl:-€S I\NO l.,OOl=-1>16 At" NUOIIT "'IAGA'Z-1'""• A"'t7 
itlE~ W'.JN'T SHA'2E.'/.' 
. . . . 
;S·-..... ­
·· ..... ·.. ·.. 






