

why does aman join··Maryknoll? 
There are probably as many answers and power to an excessive degree. as there _are individual Maryknoll Others look to learn from peoples priests and Brothers. Some men are who have grown up with a different deeply moved when they hear of mentality than that which is theirs. babies dying in their mother's arms All feel that the only solution to the because of hunger or disease. Others crises that threaten to split men are distressed by the growing antag• asunder is the love of God as shown onism and separation between the in the life of His Son; Jesus Christ. rich and the poor nations. More are This love of God urges men to go concerned about th·e great injustices forward and be missioners so men that have been· inflicted upon · the can love one another. What could be poor by those who possess wealth your reason-for joining Maryknoll? 
If you keep saying you want to do something with your life-here's y9ur chance to prove it 
,---------------------------------------~----------------SH 1 
:: ,-..._ For information, write or phone to: : 
1 'MARYKNOLL MISSIONERS, 104 ELM AVE.-WYOMING t : · CINCINNATl,.OH. 45215 (513) 761-5888 : 
Dear Father: : Please send me information about becoming a · : Marykrioll Priest O Brother 0-SisterO ' 
. 
Address_________________ 
City______ State______Zip_·.___
I do want to· do something: Age~ Phone__________ : 
----------------------------------------------------------• I 

,; 
i. 

Editor 
Keny McNamara 
Art Director 
Jim Purvis 
Production Manager . Janet Cullen · Assistant Editors ; Greg Conti, Jim Gresser, Pat Roach, ··Joe Runde, Jack Wenke 
Assistant Art Directors :John Phelan, Tom Waldoch 
Sports Editor 
-Tom Gora 

Business Manager 
Joe Meyer 

Circulation 
'Frank Zaletel 

Faculty Advisor 
. Frank O'Malley 
Staff 
. Paul Bolduc, Paul Colgan, Kevin Dockrell, : Betsy Dwyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Casey Pocius, , Mary Siegel, Sally Stanton, Steve Shea, Gil ·Zachary, Pat Sheehan, Jean McQuillan, 
Maureen O'Brien, Eileen O'Grady, Mark 
Nishan, John Whalen, Tom Bursic, Jack 
Brown, Katy Sullivan, Sean McLinden, Kathy 
Kelly, Tara Carey, Jorge Lopez, Jack Hange!, 
Tom McAndrews, Bob Griffen, Fred Graver, 
Pat Fanning, Pat Dillon, Kevin McCormick, 
Bill Murray, Frank Coughlin, T. J. Clinton, 
Mark Luppino, John Moore, George Sibley, 
Craig Spengel 
Art & Photography . 
Mike Budd, Ed Earle, Nan Smith, Pat Hanifin, 
Joe Kuspan, Bill Foglia, Bob McMahon 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at.Notre Dame,· Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational . Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during_vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC :. is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu­scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Daine, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
copyright© 1973 Scholastic / ltl1 rights reserved / none of the contents may be re­produced without permission · · 


Seholastie 
... Volume 115, No, 6 December 'l, 1973 : Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINERS 

5 Editorial -A Question of Self-Determination "The question ·is several. years old, the arguments mainly.the same, and the decision once again made behind dosed doors." · 
6. ·· The Str":et Academy ."We're taking a student that. the 
· School-Corporation said they. couldn't educate, and we're educating him." · 
12 A Homily "I claim that to become a Father is to believe in God." 
.FEATURES 6 The Food ·Stamps Office · Pink cards and _Second Thoughts. 
15 Reviving the· Vomit Comet -South Bend to Chicago over the rails. . · 
18 Madrigal Dinner -Boar'~ Head and ~ass:rul_.' 
20 The Shrine . Circus -''Step 'Right Up,. Ladies • and Gentlemen." 
22 -The Practice Court -. Justice in the State of Hoynes. 
26 Missing the Cut -. Under the Boards with the Big Boys. 
27 Bring on the Bruins -A Talk with Digger; ' _ ­
REGULARS· 4 Letters 
4 The Crooked Rook 

19 Book Review 

24 Coming Distractions 
30 The Last Word 
Illustrations: Photos on front cover, back cover, 19, 25 by Mike Budd/ Photos on 7, 8, 9, 19 by Ray Jablonski/ Photos on 13 courtesy of the Fiorenzas / Artwork on 15 by Janet Cullen / Photo on 21 courtesy of Polack Bros. Circus / Photos on 27, 29 by Ed Brower/ Artwork on back cover by Kate McCarthy. 

Letters 
Dear Editor: 
I find it highly questionable that you report the results of a survey in which one of every three persons, selected randomly, responds. I am referring to the article entitled, "The Social Stalemate: A Student Poll'.' in the November 2nd issue of your magazine . . · The research done on respondents and non-respondents of survey re­search indicates that those who re­turn questionnaires tend to differ from those who do not. In fact, to report the results of a survey with . a response rate of less than 60% is open to question. Even with a re­sponse rate of 60% or higher, an 
explanation should be given as to the probable uniqueness of the non­respondents (the other 40% or so). 
· In light of my information, I con­sider it misleading to your reader­ship that you report as valid the results of a survey in which 33% (one of _every three persons ran­domly sampled) respond. Was your consultant in the Sociology Depart­ment in agreement with your pub­lishing these -results, considering that the survey's response rate_ was so low?· 
Sincerely yours, Suzanne Areson 
. ­

j 
GIUSEPPE'S RESTAURANT 713 E. LA SALLE AVE. SOUTH BEND 
featuring ­
ITALIAN AND AMERICAN F0ODS 
also 
PRIVATE PARTY ROOM 
for 25 TO 250 PEOPLE PHONE: 233-0951 
. . 


The Urooked:-Rook 
ANSWER TO LAST PROBLEM 
1. R-KB8 NxR ... N-B5 ... N-R5 
2. B-B5 Nany RxN etc K-K2 etc. 
3. 
BxN B ·any, 

4. 
P moves N any 

5. 
B mates 



FREDERICK GAMAGE First Prize ,__ Tidskrift fiir Sclzn:ck 1911 
White mates in two moves 

SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE 

THE SCHOLASTIC· 



Editorial 

A Question of Self-Determination 
The point in question is several years old, the argu­ments rest largely the same and, predictably enough,.: the decision-making seems to have gone on, once again, somewhere far behind heavy wooden doors, despite 'claims that ."the matter has been discussed publicly for two years now." 
It is obvious, both from the HPC poll last week and from individual comments and conversations across campus, that a considerable majority of the Student Body is unhappy with next year's Academic Calendar. However, at this point, the biggest problem is not the proposed calendar itself (though alternatives have been suggested which seem in many ways preferable); The problem is a perennial.one; .the prevailing feeling~ among students that they exercise no effective in-·· fluence upon the decision-making processes of the -· University,-that such influence has been (and will continue to be) denied them. It grows increasingly clear that such a feeling is well-founded. 
To claim that the Academic CounciUn any way · "legitimized" the Administration's proposed calendar -· is to dangerously stretch the truth. By, a slim 20-19 margin, with_28 members absent, the Council (a body containing only 7 students) gave its assent to the consideration of a pre-Labor Day start.· It is not -­quite clear just where the rest of.the decision was made. What is clear, however,· is that student influence on the decision was minimal at best.•:And therein lies· the root problem. -·· We are all familiar with the common claim that;, Notre Dame is a "community" -indeed, a "Christian· community." We most fervently hope that this should_ be the case. However, in a situation where the student body is denied an effective voice in-important decisions which touch us all, any talk of community is brought ·: into question. And furthermore, when those respon-. sible for such decisions turn a deaf ear to the sincere protests of students, the very idea of-a Christian . community is rendered illusory. 
It is obvious at this point what must be done. If the student body is obviously and sincerely displeased with the calendar, it is the explicit duty of the Aca~ demic Council, as a tripartite representative body, to;· convene to reconsider the specifics of that calendar. The question at stake here is not whether or not we return before Labor Day next year.· The question at stake is whether or not the students are to be allowed an ef­fective voice in the decision~making processes of this University. And this question must be answered now. 


./ 
Food Stamps_ 
·Onyx Rings and Wasted Afternoons? 
The Food Stamps Office of the U.S. Department of waiting for an hour. and a half and, as time slowly · Welfare occupies a small northwest corner on the eighth passed, each minute. seemed to render their effort less . floor of South Bend'.s City-County. Building, an office and less "worth· it." Finally,. it. was "a waste of an complex which ·houses inost of the,city's public-concern afternoon." ·· bureaus. It is a queerly inanimate place. There are six Among other things I chanced upon that afternoon, or seven stainless steel desks w,th -similarly . styled I discovered that one of my three colleagues had bought chairs, clearly intimating every detail one would con­the plain ·gold ring with the black onyx stone· because jecture if asked to describe a government-issue office "it was the only decent-looking one they had." :A min­set. A riumber· of plastic seats rest on ·ten rows of ute later I was inforined of the. necessity of getting to parallel. bars, · each ·row-··containing· seven-·_ differently a bar, "any bar," as soon as the beggingfarce was:over colored seats, each color appearing once:in every row. and done with. To ,the left of the chairs, mounted midway up the wall Half consciously, I slipped back into my thoughts.)~ is a large IBM which computes exact minutes by, split­I wondered if all four of us from: Notre Dame shared ting each into 360,000 inaudible bleeps. The other most the same needs a~d how much, in fact, ours approxi­notable component of the _office is its collection of six mated those of the waiting people surrounding us there. strategically located telephones, one of which · rings It nia.Y have been the grayness of the day or the result constantly every day until 5 after 5 in the evening when of too · much introspection; but as l sat .there in the the· office is •temporarily· vacated. All in all, the Food Food -Stamps Office I became increasingly· aware -•of a Stamps· Office is a place where a. sense of <'function" is deep melancholy that was beginning to come over me. overwhelmingly: apparent, and one would never guess Mine was :the last file to be taken and I gave Mrs. that the drama which takes place there day after day Teel all the information· she needed without hesitation. ever. could under such methodically meticulous auspices. --Without .further . thought, as I distinctly recall; I -went 
,But the people who inhabit this office·from 8 to'5 down to meet the 5:15 bus in one of the most somber and those endless numbers who enter and leave i_t daily moods I can ever remember having experienced:· tell the true story; ·The five caseworkers who determine Every four-weeks I receive a tan and pink card. Mr. the dietetic destiny-of those who come day after day Tetuan signs the tan one and,;as Director of the Food articulate the storyc as: they ·jot down all the tragic Stamps . Bureau, certifies.: me ·as· the worthily deficient details in the words and figures which alone can-hide subject whose name appears below his on the card and the real gnawing of destitution. The "subjects" are not authorizes me to barter with any A & P or Kroger man able·_ to -hide their stories quite as well. ·_Their dresses ·· in the continental U.S. The pink card yields $38 of odd-and shoes generally fill in the void of the words left out; . looking coupons in various denominations. . . sometimes _their faces do, but not often. · Chances are,. two of the three ND students who sat 
Destitution hardly seems to be the real reason that . behind me that day also get $38 or so every four weeks would• bring a· Notre Dame senior to the Food Stamps _ by the same procedure. Office on a gray November afternoon. And as I sat And so does the woman who sat next to me along there waiting ·for. my file to surface from the growing with her five teenagers and_ two four-or-five-year-olds stack, I wondered what real material unsettledness I'd who clustered about her, . holding desperately ._ to the convey to the caseworker who would soon interview me. dress through which I could see a yellowed half-slip 
Such disconcerting thoughts, however, are usually. coming apart at the seams. highly vulnerable to the_first opportunity.of.escape and . Thanksgiving has come and gone. Christmas 1973 a conversation behind me caused their temporary flight. soon ·will. But though my thoughts had taken leave, I became cer-· · I hoped I would pass out of the depression such gray tain that they were still omhiously present as I became days often bring about this time of year. I usually do more conscious of the conversation at·my back. after_ three or four days. But the fleeting thoughts of 
First I learned that two of the three Notre Dame that November dayseem to dissipate even more slowly students whose faceless voices I ·heard were applying than the gray clouds which bring the white ones filled for Food Stamps. "The percentages," they confided, with snow. · "were in their favor." Next I found thatthey had been -:.denis krill 
-. THE SCHOLASTIC 



A Second Chance 
"We're taking a student that the School Corpora-· tion said they couldn't educate and we're educating
him." . . Herbert Lee, Street Academy 
· Marilyn is a good example. She dropped out of 

Washington High· School two years ago · because she 
lost interest in. school. .No longer did she. want to com­
pete in a system that. simultaneously bored and pres­
sured her. Soon after _dropping out, Marilyn was in ·a 
car accident. The time spent recovering kept her from 
working and gave her time to think She wanted to 
continue her education, .she decided, .but refused to 
return to the public schools. · 
As .an alternative, Marilyn enrolled in the Whitney 

M; Young, Jr, Street Academy, of South Bend and is 
no:w working diligently for her high school diploma. 
She says she likes it at the Street Academy because 
there is no pressure. She feels she is learning more 
because the treatment is different at the Street Aca­
demy. . 
•,,Marilyn's story is less -extreme than the majority of the_ Street Academy students ..Most of them dropped out of public school b~cause of more difficult · prob­lems -failure, disruptive behavior, marriage, preg­nancy, drug or alcohol problems, arrest, .discipline prob­lems. Yet the majority of the students share Marilyn's opinion ·of the Street Academy.· They like it. 
"Yeah, man," says. one. 
''I like it. You learn more and get freedom,". says 

another.· 
. , ·"I think the school .js the very best in the Bend," 
says a third. "It's better than-the public schools/' · 
The Whitney M. Young, Jr. Street Academy is an 

alternative. education· program. for students aged 16-21 
who have dropped out of the South Bend public schools . 
. It is a project of the South Bend Urban League, funded by the Experimental Scho~l Program of the National Institute of Education,, and located at 320 South Main Street in the t heart of downtown· South Bend. The Street Academy serves a real need; a recent .ten-year study by the South Bend Community School. Corpo­ration shows that there is ari average of approximately six hundred students per year dropping out of the South Bend school system. There are now an estimated 3,000 dropouts in South Bend between the ages of 16-21. 
DECEMBER 7; 1973 
What are the prospects both for these young people 

arid for society? To quote from the introduction to the 
organizational plan of the Street Academy: 
,For those students who do "drop out" of public education the future is not entirely bright. This is especially· true in South . Bend, where recent re­search ... indicates that there is a marked positive correlation between an increase in the number of "drop outs" and an increase :in the rate of juvenile 
· crimes in specific neighborhoods in the city. 
The problem that emerges .here, then, for the -City of South Bend is how to cope with the dissatis­. faction of an increasing number· of minority youth 
who leave public education,· but who find no accept­able alternatives open to them in the social; econom­ic, and educational structures of :the city. · · Can these young persons, many. of · whom ,are highly talented, find some opportunity to dev~lop ,their abilities without being· forced. to·•becoine another statistic in the column of juvenile crime? ·. 



The ·Street . Academy feels it offers ·just such an opportunity. The current-program began. officially on May.2, 1973, but the story of the Street Academy long precedes that date. · The first Street · Academy · was sponsored'. by· the South Bend Urban League in· 1968 for over forty black, students who had dropped out of school. Although, well .received .by the ghetto neighbor­hood, it operated on: a severely limited, budget and a volunteer staff.--The Urban League leased a building, teachers volunteered from local colleges,• and supplies were provided by-the•. South-. Bend Community School Corporation. -~The• initial. enthusiasm· waned -without a strong foundation, however,: an·d 'the first Street. Aca­demy died after· orie year. -• _ _ ' 
The idea; however, · lived ,and was resurrected late in 1971 on a .more' professional basis/ This second Street Academy was funded equally by the locatUrban League and the South Bend Youth Advocacy for $100, 
000. The grant was onl;y'for one year; January, 1972, through December, 1972, but the program was· a sue"". cess. Better physical facilities were secured and com­petent professional teachers were hired. This Street 
Academy served over 100 dropout students, three of 
whom are nowattending college. -. 
. The dilemma before Director Roosevelt Thomas and staff was how to continuedheir program. "Since·.we had a good; viable, thriving Street Academy we applied_ for the Experimental _School grarit-with the National Institute of Education, a part of H.E.W.," recalls·Her"' bert Lee, former ·all-state basketball player at South Bend Central and current evaluator-and documenter for the Street Academy. "It was approved in the sum­mer_ of 1972. The Experimental School program is a five-year grant broken into two-and-a-half-year pack­ages. The first six months of the first package is spent in planning. This is when we wrote our detailed plan. The other two years is the academic phase. The seconrt package is strictly academics. The grant was funded on the basis that the South Bend Community School Corporation be· willing to assume gradually the finan­cial responsibility of the program over the five-year period and finally incorporate it totally within the pub­lic system. At the beginning of the second two-and-a­
8 
half-year package they will assume 20% and the N.I.E. 80%. In the fourth yearthe School Corporation picks up 40% and the N.I.E. 60%. The last •year it's fifty, fifty. -Then we become part of the School Corporation." 
On: the basis of his experience arid expertise, Roose­velt Thomas,: the director -of· the ·old Street ·Academy, assumed the directorship . of the new program; In October· of ,1972, however,· Thomas was iriformed by 
_Lee McKnight, ··executive director•of the -Urban'League, and the N.I.E. in Washington that he could not func­tion as director of both programs: · Thomas :then be­came· the director of-the experimental program. in its 
. planning phase, and 0Herbert Lee· became·the µirector of the old Academy.· until its termination on December 31,•·1972. Although the··N.LE.'s officially :scheduled opening was May 2; 1973; the school ·has been operating since last February because the -staff felt committed to-the 60 students carried over from the old•Academy. They•feltit:wrong to close the school to these stud.ents for four months, so it was· kept ·open much to the chagrin· of-officials · in Washington.: In' September, Roosevelt -Thomas •resigned· his .·.position to· attend ·law schoobit Notre Danie.' The Street Academy appointed Mrs. Adam S. Arnold, a South Bend educator and 'civic leader, as the new director on· November 7; 
. , The N.LE.: grant is based on -the same per pupil expenditure· as 300 public -school·-students, which·-• is $800 · per :student. This budget is adequate now, but there are· orily· 156 students now enrolled. The staff 
is working hard to· recruit 300 students in: order to meet the terms of the grant. When this happens there may-be new problems. · "The budget is not adequate," claims teacher· John Reid. "We should be -funded on another basis. What they' are doing is giving us the same amount of -money· that the public schools failed on. Plus we pay $15,000/year rent, plus we had to pay a $5,000 damage deposit." 
Dick-Hendricks, the liaison to the School Corpo­ration, agrees that the budget is inadequate.· "Our per pupil expenditure doesn't even include operating costst he explains. "The only reason we have enough money and can operate -now is that we don't have 300 stu­dents." 
-THE SCHOLASTIC 
II 

The Street Academy operates in small quarters. There are two floors with eight classrooms and one activities room. Nobody. feels this is large enough for 300 students. Yet the prevailing emotion is hope be­cause those involved in the Street Academy are com­mitted to a program they believe is important and worthwhile. They .are prepared for struggle and sur­vival. The Academy has three goals: to provide alearn­ing environment for those youths disenchanted with traditional secondary education, to obtain recognition of its diploma as a standard academic credential; and to seek incorporation. of its program within the .· public school system: · 
To achieve these· objectives_ the Academy employs what. it calls a multiphase program, emphasizing aca­demic achievement, supportive services,. and participa­tory management. Each person .cin the staff is urged to become a teacher in the purest sense, to be what ·they call a facflitator, a catalyst and resource for learning. The ·environment they ·hope' to create is a humanist; student-centered, supportive. one ;that will encourage the student toward a positive direction in life. . . . 
The academic phase of the program is built around the yearly scheduleiwhich is broken.into four cycles of twelve weeks each with a three-day break between cycles·. A stucien(-takes only two courses per cycle­one nieets in the morning, the other. in the ·afternoon. The courses are designed to follow the inquiry "method of learning,. which emphasizes questioning. The. pro~ cess of inquiry is stressed over facts and material. Nevertheless, students at the . Street Academy are offered · six -traditional high school courses. . . . . 
. Within. this traditional academic. structure is a unique approach to education, one that the StreetAca~ demy situation demands._ "We try to gear our curri­culum to the needs of the students,11 explains Evaluator 
and Documenter Herbert Lee. . . . . . "Usually\ at-a public school if ~· student is considered slow, whatever they use to determine fr: a student is slow, if turns the student off. They don't give him :the individualized attention that .we _give him here. Con~ sequently he drops. out because he is considered ·_in­
ferior.· . · · 
"Yes, I definitely believe the public schools are fail­ing these kids. We see ourselves as an alternative in that .the· method of teaching is different here. It ·is individualized. For example, some of·<our teachers have aids, and; i.La student is behirid in :a particular 
area, the aid is the one who· tries to beef him up. Also _the teachers help the slower students after regular class." · . . · 
''We are doing some things and not doing others," _said .· Hendricks; the 1iaison . officer. "One thing we haven't done is measure the differences in the_ students before they come and after they come." 
Hendricks, . a former counselor at -LaSalle High School, ·is responsible for all communication and action between. the .Street Academy and the School Corpo­ration. He is working to get the Academy accredited by the state. It nieets all the requirements for accredi­tation:· except teacher certification arid. Hendricks is c_onfldent that this will soon be waived. Last summer Hendricks conducted a remedial course ·at -the Street 
DECEMBER .7;-1973 
Academy for 40 eighth-grade students from the public schools who had failed. He is also working on securing a hot lunch program for the Academy. Most of the students will qualify for a free lunch, he says, because they fall below the poverty level..· 
The measuring of attitude andbehavior, and evalua~ tion of students and teachers_ have been a pr_essing prob: lem. "On paper we're a good program," states Hend­ricks, "but the faci is we'.re a bunch: of amateurs. We haven't been able to measure .exactly wha_t our success has been. A lot of the things we're supposed .to be doing, we're not doing. We're learning as we go along, but we must learn quickly so we don't iose the credi'." bility of the students. 
"I think our .biggest. success is just:getting the. kids to cdriie.:'' • 

. ''I think our biggest ·~uccess is just getting the kids to come.. These were hostile kids· .. But student reaction here is 'positive and relaxed .. We haven't had any racial problems. I think this is because our teachers-are basi­cally different than teachers at. the public schools. I attribute this to the·· sensitivity training our teachers get. We have a strong teacher in-service program con­ducted by Drs. Richard Tirman. and Richard Calvin of I.U.S.B., which·, focuses on human relations arid sen­
• • • ', . . • • . ! ,, ; . --. ~ • _,; . -• • . ' ; -­
s1tiv1ty trammg. , , , . ... . . In a.Ume ~f general disillusionmerifahout schooling, with. teacher strikes.arid falling enrollment, the Street Academy displays a remarkably positive ·outlook. There is ,a healthy idealism, a belief in the nature of educa~ tion,· at all levels~ . This . is grounded in the small . triumphs the ·Street Academy has made, such as send­ing former. 'ctropoiits to __college; They are .involved..in the exhilarating. experience of iiberation: . . : .. Dick Hendricks recalls a vivid incident: "We picked up· a student,· 18 years old, who couldn't read a.word. He was.put,out of publiC;SChool in the seventh grade arid sent to '.a mental institution~ ·He came in here, and I couldn't see anything retarded about him, and • even though we're .not supposed to_.take anyone who can't read ata third~grade _level we wanted to help. So one· of our teachers took him and in two weeks he could read 80 words: . The question is·'. ~hy didn't someone help him in public school? Arid how· did he get fo the seventh grade? It speaks of a lack of sensitivity fo the situation. Most of the failures we get failed be­cause of behavior, not because'of a lack of intelligence .. You can get through public school if you're stupid, but well behaved." · 

Discipline is a major concern, but not a major 
problem, at the Street Academy. "We try to let the 
students know· this is their school," says Lee. "We 
let the students :gefinvolved with the decision making 
on how to run:the school. · The attitude is very good, 
very loyal ·for most of the students; The students are 
involved in all aspects of running the school." . 
The teacher attitude is as positive as the student 
attitude.· There(·are • only three teachers on the staff 
who have taught in public school. "Their-comparison 
is_ fu.atthi~_is the place to be as far as teaching goes," 
says Lee. · "The classroom situation is hot structured 
by the administration. If a teacher wants to go on a 
field trip he goes. He has the chance to assert himself 
and be the type of teacher he's. always wanted to be. 
Word has gotten out, too, and we have numerous appli­
cations from people seeking employment." 
Right now the Street. Academy is an intimate 
operation, which may account for its positive spirit and 
success. But word is spreading and the Academy may 
soon have to deal with the problems of growth. "We 
have heard good things in' the neighborhood," says Lee. 
"But we're new, and people are slow to accept change. 
We are pleased at the progress we're making in terms 
of how people in the neighborhood see us as an educa­
tional institution ..We are progressing at a greater rate 
than we expected. The student · body is growing, the 
community is accepting us, and we have had no serious 
incident that would. cast bad' light on the Street Aca­
demy. Maybe. we;re just fortunate. The commu.'r1ity is 
coming to tlie point where they are ·accepting uS more 
readily than when we began." . , .-. ' 
. m 
John Reid's Social Inquiry class is held in the. first 
room' i:m the· right on· the first floor. ·nis a few minutes 
before 9 A.M., and the class is still trickling' into this 
small, blue brick room.' Orie student· signs the atten­
dance 'roster on·· the wall; others \alk, others fidget 
with· books. : A sign on ,the. wall says, "The. most educa­
tional thing anyone can do is breathe/' In front of me 
is'the "Watergate File"-a box of manila folders filled 
with information ·brought in by the . students .. Now 
all the students have arrived~tweive in-· all,. six white 
and six black~and they sit around· the · horseshoe ar~ 
rangement of long cafeteria tables waiting for John. 
Reid to appear. ' . ·,. . . . . . _ . . _ _. 
They are unariim·ous iri their approval of the''street 
Academy. ;It' is easy to sense the strong rapport here 
between students, teachers, . and. administrators'. . . 
· "Yeah, I like it," says a small, young looking, pretty . girl named Michelle. "They d()ri't hassle you.";Michelle 
went tc:i LaSalle, became pregnant, dropped out, ',a.nd 
was referred to the Street Academy b)'.'_µi5alle. . 
Marilyn, with the beautiful, big blue eyes, likes the 
approach to education here. .. ''Going to. the courts 
makes it: more interesting -than justtalking about 
them," she says. ·_ · · · 
Someone explains that Social Inquiry is a modern 
approach to · social science in which the course content 
is directed toward the actual life situations of the stu­
dents. This involves a heavy emphasis on projects, dis­
cussions, films, visiting the courts, and field trips. 
Finally Reid walks through .the door. to begin his 
class. He is tall, lanky, and bearded. His manner is 
loose and informal. He opens with' a discussio·n on the 
film about Hiroshima shown yesterday. He makes 
some general and random remarks about the .atomic 
bomb, WWII, Fascism, and propaganda, trying to in~ 
still a sense of the horror and its ramifications in the 
modern age. "We used a weapon whose effect we didn't 
know how to counter. : Children still are born today 
who are deformed · because of ·• damage their . parents 
received at Hiroshima;'' he says.. Then the 'discussion 
inoves to Commuriisin. : Reid wants to know what we 
really know about it; and how we caine to know it. 
He ·contrasts the ideal of communist theory with the 
actuality of _state Communism .·and draws the distinc.~ 
tion between Coimriunism,· Democracy, and Republican­
ism..Then he t:alks about blacklists, McCarthyism,and 
control of intellectuals. · . . 
·. Now the class·votes in favor of seeing a· film. about Harriet' Tubman; Reid adds that individual profP.cts cari be worked on if anyone· wishes to skip _the film. . The students select.· these films. from the catalogue in the Street Academy library.' They are usually· ordered through.the South Bend Public Library; Studerits also cari borrow the films to show at home. The' film they are now seeing is called ''The Great Adventure,"· part 
of ·an old C.B.S: series..It sfars Ruby Dee and Ossie 
Davis·_· with music by_· Richard. Rodgers. .It is . about 
Harriet Tubman and the Underground Railroad, astory 
about lib,eration from slavery._· . ., ' 
1

~,~~¾r1~J
;, ,::.--~-:t~~~~~~~~ 
·THE 'SCHOLASTIC 


Reid stops the film at10 :15 for the daily 15-minute break in the two-and-a-half-hour class and comes over to talk with ine. Reid is a native of South Bend. He attended St. Joe High, graduated from Notre Dame, then tended,:bar at the Notre Dame Faculty· Club for a year before beginning work at the Street Academy. 
"Teaching here is a challenge," he tells me. "These are kids who dropped out of school;,they had problems of one sort or another, so they don't accept, they· don't fall into the system easily. Therefore, everything !do, everything accomplished, is. earned." 
Each student in Reid's class works on an individual project, which is determined by the student and re­lated . to his life. One girl was laughed at and con­sidered strange in public school because she wants to be a missionary in Argentina. For her project in Reid's class she. is doing a. study, first, of Juan Peron, then of the whole country. Marilyn's project is a study of prostitution in South Bend. She is reading .on the subject, visiting· the . courts, and interviewing· whores. Brian ·. is reporting on a local drug abuse program; which he is attending to clear up his own -problem. "He gets credit for an important life experience," says Reid. "No one in public school ·can duplicate what he has learned there." 
Other individual projects involve the local penal, legal; and social · service systems, evaluating local judges, reports on the conflict at Wounded Knee, cul­tural · comparisons, and other contemporary·. issues. Each project is somehow related to the students' life in· order to eliminate what Reid calls dead-end learn­ing. 
, "Students are given· credit for jobs that have to do with their goals or career," he explains. "One student is working in a hospital and will· get credit for it be­cause he is trying to' get into Notre Dame to study psychology. we·try to give credit for everything we can. because most everything is educational. For ex­ample, we're trying ,.to set up an· apprentice program based on the. Learning Exchange idea. If a student is interested in a tra,de or. skill we will call a man in town with that trade and set up a program so the student can begin to learn." 
Reid is trying to get,a Cable TV program for his class to produce. .They would write the script, perform, direct, and produce u; and learn all the technical· as­pects of TV production. Another Street Academy plan is a pottery, leather, 'and jewelry co-op sponsored by the art class. The business · class would arrange to market the student-made merchandise. Reid takes his class on trips to the local colleges for films and lectures and to let his kids walk around and talk to people. He wants them to see that college is real, not some vague dream. Often students decide to attend college only after they come in contact with one. 
Reid likes the freedom ·. he has to determine . his curriculum. He, in turn, transfers that responsibility to the-students so he can help them learn what they want to learn. "You can't legislate learning," he ex­plains. "You just have to let-it happen .. It's beginning to happen now and it's beautiful. You· know,· I'm sick today;· running. a little .fever, but I wouldn't miss it: · I love it here." · · · · 
I definitely: -believe· the public schools are failing these kids ,, 

I ask him what the Street Academy. is trying t9 do. He answers succinctly: "The Street Academy em­phasizes reading, environmental survival, and career orientation;• .We want to clean up the streets, of the dropouts out · there; then become part of the School Corporation as an alternative to those who would. drop out." '"· 
· The break ends and the students return and wait for the Harriet Tubman film to continue.' Two of the kids are talking to Reid about getting high. They want to know if teachers get high. · 
"Teachers get high, sure, . only not.here," he, an­swers.. , : •>,•. , :.:, Then he turns ·to me with .a smile. and .says, "We don't lie here.". · · -greg aiello ,; 
DECEMBER 7, 1973 · 
\ 

To Become A Father Is To Believein •God 
Professor. F'rank Fiorenza delivered this homily at the baptism of his daughter this past summer. We feel it deals eloquently with the problems of parenthood in : our time. Professor Fiorenza and his wife, Dr. Elisabeth Fiorenza, are both members of the Theology Ja.culty at Notre Dame. 
· Exactly nine months · ago Elizabeth and I were attending mass on Gaudete Sunday in Walsh Hall.· .It was a special occasion for us.· We were commemorating our wedding anniversary and we were celebrating our.. first inkling thatwe would have a child. In his homily; the celebrant, Father Hesburgh, recalled that his < . • mother once told him, "Even.though you are a priest; you cannot know God as I can because you are a man. and only in becoming a mother does one experience and believe iiiGod in avery special way~" Unfortunate,:: ly Father Hesburgh did not tell us how he did or would reply today. The experience of becoming a father has taught me what answer could be given. If my mother would say the same to me, I would reply, "Mom! Is there any chance that you might be a female chauvinist?" Now I am confident that this was not Father Hesburgh's reply. I would like, however, in this sermon to explain why I claim that to become a father is to believe in God. 
Tobecome a parent today involves a decision.that differs significantly from such an option in previous times. Medical advances havein the first place made the decision.into a real choice.: To initiate and even to continue a pregnancy. is from a practical point, of · view• rio longer a ·natural event or a necessary conse­quence. It has become'a deliberately,free act and a :· · conscious choice.,, Many of. the reasons for. having•·. children in the past, moreover, no longer exist today. • If previously children were an extra helping hand at the farm and·a•flnancial asset; today it is estimated that:forty thousand dollars are required·to.raise and· educate a child as far as high school.· If previously · . children·were'a consolation:in one's old age arid could be expected within the structures of a large family to take care:ofelderlyparents;·today the situation is more · readily exemplified by a friend's bitter complaint that:' one father could raise nine sons, but his nine sons could 
'\, 
not,take care.of one father. If previously children could: be expected to carry on the family tradition or· to take over the father's occupation and even,to share his interests so that Albrecht Ritschl, the most in­fluential leading German theologian of the_ latter part of the nineteenth century, .could naturally discuss the interpretation of Friedrich· Schleiennacher, the "father of modern theology,r,with his son; Otto-and what , theologian would not want to discuss. Schleiermacher · with his daughter or son, the situationi~ no longer the1 same today. In short, many of the natural, financial,· lJ social and psychological reasons'for having children no longer exist. ·. :-·, --. 
, .Yet the decision to have children raises an' issue . more· fundamental than the superficial reasons just mentioned might indicate. Basic reasons ·do exist not ' to have children. A few years ago, a college valedic-' torian criticized America's war policy and claimed 'that she could no longer responsibly bring children into the world. S~_e poses a question and raises a challenge that we cannot overlook; . I should like. tQ recall a passage . from Tennessee William's play, Suddenly La,st-Summer, that focuses our attention upon a dimension, of the reality of our world, a dimension too readily neglected. Sebastian watches the annual egg-laying of the sea turtles on the beaches of the Encantadas Islands. After depositing their eggs in the sandpits; the female turtles crawl back to the sea half-dead and do not see· their offspring, but Sebastian does. "The narrow beach, the color of caviar, was all in.motion. But the sky was in motion, too.... -. Full of. flesh-eating birds and . the rioise of the birds, the horrible savage cries. . .. ·. The just:hatched sea-turtles scrambled out of the sand­pits and started their race to the sea. To escape the flesh.;eating· birds that made the sky almost as,black ·. as the beach! And the sand all-alive, all alive, as the . hatched sea-turtles made: their dash for the sea, while the birds hovered and swooped to attack. They were:· diving down on the. hatched sea~turtles,turning them . over to expose their-sofe::undersides, tearing the undersides operi and rending and eating their flesh. : Sebastian guessed. that possibly only a hundredth of · one percent of their number would, escape. to. the -, sea."-The scene fascinated Sebastian.· He was looking ·for a cl~arimage of God. oWhen he returned he said; 
'-'Well; now I've see!} Hiin!'~ He meant God.' ., ,·> :, 
'.'THE' SCHOLASTIC 
.. I ,' • .. ·' 

·::_·!,:.~,:-.L~J 

This passage frightens us. Its reality is not limited to some South Sea Island or to the wilderness of the Yukon where in Jack London's words the law is to "eat or be eaten, to killor be killed/' But ,it pervades 
. human existence. In Clockwork Orange when.Alex's aggressivity and .cruelty· are taken away from him, he can no longer survi.ve. We a·ppear to be·as:helplessly · caught within· the aggressivity of the world as the protagonist of Kosinski's Steps is. Wanting to avoid killing another man, he exchanges his rifle for a knife. Yet instead of shooting another, he is forced to decapi­tate the man standing befoje him. If he resists, no good is achieved, but he will himself be decapitated. In our everyday lives, we are all too conscious that while we eat, others starve. The food we eat has often been bought at the price of the cheap labors and at the cost 
DECEMBER 7, 1973 
. . 
,.,:.;.;.ii . 
., . 
L. • f 
' !', i .,:( foJt~,
: ' < , •• \. \ t ' i·:'-~i '':;' 
< _
, -/ ' 1 .:-,,,-'• • f 7 t -,~ l:.i''. 
l ? ! , ,&._ ,,, '; :.~· ~ ;,-.~1'J<lM,-J 
, · . t . ··~1 . . ··: ~:-. }· ,=::,; ! . i~;.._J, ,. J~~·l 
L:__.._L;:_1.J -I~.;!, A~; ,-_-~;'.~!;:,.L__ t~·::.J ~:·?~Ar,;~ 

of the lives of God's creatures. The jobs we hold and are happy to hold are jobs that someone else is not •. holding, -but wants and needs to hold. Even the child . to whom we have given birth may be taking the place of other children who wait to be adopted. We are all . too conscious that the scene in 1984 where the lovers betray one another terrifies us not because it depicts · an imaginable future, but because the possibility of •.. our betrayal of our friends ~nd loved ones is very :-.. 
. . . . . -. . .. ­

real to each of us here and now. . , . 
w_e have _announced on our baptismal invitation. that Christina is born into a world of oppression and discrimination and that she will be reborn into a · church. of inequality. With. this announcement we ~ot . only describe the state of the world and church, but we aiso confess our guilt and admit our culpability.' But why have we then brought her into this,world? Why do we bring her. to this church? She was born unable to feed herself .. She may die unable to feed her-­self..Why should the life between birth. and death be worthwhile and . meaningful in our world?.. 
Christina has a right to an answer to these questions. She ~ay demand one from us, her parents. What can we say.to her? Any answer is perhaps too . easy, too glib, and too deceptive. Maybe no theoretical justification is po~sible,. rm abstract explanation honest! Perhaps.all we can do is to give her some signs anil' to attempt toshow her what we cannot . 
explain to her. . . . . . . . . .... 
. The· first sign is her name and her baptism.' By ... giving her the name Christina, we signify an expecta­tion, we express a wish, and we document a hope, namely, that she be and become a Christian. In the 
language of transactional analysis we are attempting with her name to write a script for her. Her name, which we would have preferred to have given to her at this baptism rather than at birth, expresses the meaning of this occasion, her baptism. 
By coming here today to acknowledge that this 
world is dominated by oppression, discrimination, and 
inequality, we are confessing that man lives in aliena-· 
tion and_ estrangement. from his world, his church, · and himself.· In classical terms we are saying that 
our existence is pervaded by original sin and that, in 
such a world of sin it is questionable whether life is 
good or human existence is meaningful. But we do not 
confess at this baptism only the alienation and sin of 
the world. We also express a specific hope, a hope 
not as vague as that of two of my philosophical men-. 
tors who after the Holocaust would not have children 
and would admit that what is left for man is only the 
desire for the "totally other." No, we come here with 
a concrete hope. We hope that Christina becomes a 
Christian and we believe that if she were to become 
a Christian, if she were to believe in Jesus, she would 
then have an answer. She would then know why we 
have brought her into this world and why her life 
is meaningful despite appearances to the contrary. 
To help her understand the meaning of her baptism 
and the significance of her name, we have given her 
another sign. We have chosen Madame Marlene Rey­
Stausberg, a German friend of ours, and Father Ray-· 
mond E. Brown, the scripture scholar, to be her god­
parents, fo sponsor her initiation into the Christian 
community. Why have we chosen them? What sig­
nificance can or do they have for Christina:? They cari 
help us provide Christina with a foundation for the 
faith. How? 
What is faith? In our theological tradition, faith 
has been described as an intellectual •assent;· it has· been 
understood as an act oftruth; arid it has been explained 
as a total affection of inan. I would like to suggest· 
here that the meaning of faith can best be illustrated by 
the terms "loyalty" or ''faithfulness." In a world where 
nature is pitted· against nature, where·man fights 
against mari, where peace and friendship are rare, 
only the encounter with faithfulness can disclose the 
meaning of faith. Such an experience contradicts the 
very alienation of this world. Such an encounter 
counters the very aggressivity of man. Our faith is 
not an act which we can perform as individuals as if 
individuals alone could believe or as if faith could be 
reduced to an _act. But rather our faith in Jesus is · 
mediated through the community, is supported by a 
community, and has its foundation in the faithfulness . 
of a community.·· Whereas previously prophecies,; 
miracles, and the resurrection of Jesus were considered 
as both the foundation of faith and of the Christian 
community, today, I would suggest,-the faithfulness of 
the Christian community becomes for us the transcend-. 
ing foundation of faith that makes possible our belief 
in the objects of faith, in the.resurrection of Jesus.and 
the hope that it entails. The loyalty of the early 
Christians to Jesus as evidenced in their proclamation 
of Jesus and their witness to him is the historical 
foundation of our faith. The faithfulness of Christians 
to their Christian beliefs and their witness of this 
faithfulness in their loyalty to their fellow men pro-. 
vides a contemporary foundation 'for the belief in · 
salvation despite alienation. Since the godparents have 
been for us concrete living examples of the Christian _ 
faith both in their faithfulness to us and their beliefs, 
they have served for us as exemplary models of 
the Christian community and are a source of our faith. 
Therefore, we have asked them to represent the 
Christian community at this occasion and to sponsor 
Christina's initiation into this community. Their 
exemplary significance for us has ·given us reason·to·-u 
hope that Christina can learn from them the meaning 7 
of her existence and the realUy of the Christian faith/ · 
We have invited you, friends and members of the ­
community of Notre Dame; to assemble here tonight 
to admit Christina to the Christian community and to 
witness her acceptance. Our'invita:tion, however, is also 
an appeal to each of you, an appeal to give her by your 
faithfulness a foundation of faith so that your faith 
in Jesus can become the basis of her belief in him. Our 
invitation is ~ reminder to each of you that every one 
of you is responsible for the faith of Christina. Only 
through your fidelity to Jesus, to one another and to 
her can she comprehend the basis-of our hope, the 
foundation of our faith, and the reason for her 

existence. 
I began by claiming to become a father is to believe in God. The reason is that in our ~orld parenthood 
-involves an act of faith'just as our coming here to­
gether for a baptism does. We have assembled here 
tonight to confess that the world is in sin and yet to 
profess our belief in God as its creator. We have come 
to profess that.despite sin, hope·and meaning do·· 
exist in the world and they exist in JesusChrist as · 
mediated through the faithfulness and faith of the 
church, of the Christian community. Christina was · · 
born because of the hope and faith that she could find 
in the Christian community the reason for her 
existence and the meaning of her faith. 
THE· SCHOLASTIC 

;j 

Revivirlgfhe "Vomit Comet" 
There are several modes ·of travel between Chicago With that dilemma still •,unresolved, most recent 
and South Bend, and my return after Thanksgiving be-.. developments have arisen which place the whole situa­came a choice between the Greyhound and the South tion . above immediate politically expedient remedies. Shore. Somehow I.had successfully managed to avoid . The energy crisis will undoubtedly prompt the owners the latter until this;year. Yet, even an evening on the, of aU railroads, the goyerninerit and the public to con­. irreverently dubbed "Vomit Comet" can be considered sider measures which stress the ecological aspects of the 
beneficial if only to promptone to wonder-whatever problem. · 
happened to American trains? By weighing the consequences involved in shifting 
Railroad dominance in America was largely reduced -· railroad freight · to. trucks, o~e becomes increasingly 
with the invention of the internal-combustion engine. aware of the important p_otential ecological aid that 
After World War II, people began choosing cars and trains represent: trucks use four to six times more fuel 
airplanes for travel, and manufacturers sought trucks than trains, make about 10 times more noise by virtue 
and planes for transporting freight. Today, highly of the increased distances they travel, require construe-
unprofitable passenger service accounts for only 3% of tion and maintenance of new highways, etc. The chief 
American railroad traffic, and the remaining companies advantage is that goods arrive sooner and in smaller · providing freight service are. finding it increasingly dif-and more convenient units by truck. ficult to keep their heads abcive water. . ... It was ·once thought that lack of profit }Vas due to lack of freight voluine involved._ Yet, in 1972 thatvol­

mne increased by 10% with nary a change in benefits. 
The circumstances leading 'to this form a_coniplexmaze' 
which has grown up over the years: the physical plant 
of. _the railroad industry is grossly run-down and an­
tiquated. American railroads are running today by 
means of capital which is then unavailable for use in · 
planning for the future. Instead of rejuvenating their 
facilities, the railroads have been struggling for quite · ·sometime merely to stay above'water. 
_. Thus, some midwest companies have 60% of their 
mainline track under speed regulation due to weather There's no simple remedy in curing an enterprise '. and the wear and tear of time. And some tracks that now physically and financially disabled. The most effec­. should h~ve~beeri replaced after 20 years have, in fact, tive decisions aren't necessarily those most economically been standing through. 150 long, cold winters. Train and·ecologically sound. However, with foreseeable allo­yards, cars, tracks and locomotives all need rehabilita­cation, price control and priority rationing of fuel .. tion..In the case.of American railroads, extra business supplies, consideration should be taken of those mea­.· doesn't equal extra ·profit, because additional efforts sures in :view .of projected resources in the long-range 
· · inc.ur additional costs. · future. · -Until. recently, despite· the industry's ever-present. -~ Several railroad presidents stress the possibility of a 
struggle with financial difficulties, some companies were slow transformation of· their trains to electrical power. faring well (excluding the eastern lines). It seemed Others encourage a more realistic approach to the bene­doubtful that any crisis could adequately stir Americans fits of partial or total nationalization-a subject hither­
_into doubting that the railroads would linger on. Then to abhorrent to the American way of thinking. the Penn Central affair in 1970, the largest bankruptcy Only through viewing the situation on a wide scale in American history, began· an unprecedented tangled and through time can this liability become an asset to network of hearings, discussions, government pro­the country. The ride from Chicago to South Bend grams designed to alleviate the economic problems in­really needn't be unpleasant. volved. -janet cullen 
DECEMBER 7, 1973 

ii . 
..,. 

,. • ~ ,_ , • : '. ; • ? , , 

;mabrigal 119inner 


Welcome to this Christmas Feast! The fanfare of the trumpets hails the season of Christmastide. Let all join in the festivities this night and pledge to the health and good heart of all gathered here. 
THE SCHOLASTIC
18 

.;J,I 
write and perform compositions especially designed for 
the Madrigal Dinners, Dr. McCray· defends the antics 
of his troupe by· explaining· that. "they actually had 
people singing and carrying on like that!" 
Tickets for the dinners are modestly priced at $6.50, 

and though this year's Madrigal Festival is completely sold· out, Dr. McCray promises to expand the festival · to perhaps ten evenings next·year, . to accommodate all requests. The proceeds from the Dinners go to the Col­legiate Choir Fund, which among other things, helps to finance the choir's summer tours. Last summer, Dr. McCray led the choir on a tour of Northern Europe; · this year, they have received invitationsto perform in 
Vienna, Moscow, and at the 1974 World's Fair. 
The second half of the Saint Mary's Collegiate Choir Christmas celebration is the concert choir on Sunday; December 9, at 8:30 p.m. in the Church of Loretto. (There is no admission charge.) Dr. McCray explained that the concert will be much more extensive this year, with the addition of two other performing groups .. 
Dr. McCray was also very proud to announce that on Monday, December 10, the Collegiate Choir and Mad­rigal Singers will be in Chicago, preparing a tape for . NBC, to be aired on Christmas Eve at 11 :30 p.m., in _the Chicago area. · ·· · 
Also, on Wednesday, December 12, the Madrigal Singers, the Women's Chorus, and the Collegiate Choir 
· will perform throughout the evening at Scottsdale Mall in South Bend. Dr. McCray and the members of the Collegiate Choir invite any or all to these Christmas celebrations; their way 'of adding a vocal bit of cheer to Christmas, 1973. 
-tcnn gora 

DECEMBER 'J, 1973 

''Call Me 
When You Find America" 
"I tell you, I don't like this business of you guys biking off into strangeand unknown parts!" 
"Zonker, we'll only be gone a few months." 
"Man, it's dangerous out there! Who do you think you are, Peter Fonda?" 
"Zonker, it's something we have to do. Both of us want to search for America." 
"Look, will you call me as soon as 
you get there?" 
"I promise." 
Thus begins the odyssey of Mark and Doonesbury in. the latest of Garry. Trudeau's series of cartoon chronicles (Call Me When You Find America, Holt, Rinehart and Win­ston, $1.50). · What follows is an hour's worth of pure enjoyment -a most welcome study break -and an ideal Christmas· offering for the Zonker in everyone's life. 
In a time when everyone seems fed up with everything, when cor­ruption seems the. rule rather than the exception and politics have be­come an endless circus, when Decem­ber on the calendar seems to bring with it a bleak December of the soul,• along comes Garry .Trudeau. Brand­
ishing his drawing pen like a sword, he. reminds us that· even the most ludicrous and frustrating situation can be . comical if we only. temper our approach. 

\. 
And good old Mike Doonesbury, / .. ;,I tho~ght..you were ahfpiie o~--a 
sort of aimles_s but contented Every-. negro ~r somethin'.!" . ·kid, has nothing much better to do. · ·· · · · · 
Call Me When You Find America 
aC/Joof/.esbury book by G. B. Trudeau 

So off they go; and before they re-· "Nope! Not me." . turn to Walden Pond (where our .· ~ . . .. friend Zonker is still "communing". ~~We have all encountered Garry with the lily pads) they hit _every'.' Trudeau enough in. the past to know thing from the Republican Conven-that; at the age.of twenty~four, he tion to Frisco to Washington, D.C., to has. already ·succeeded in topping the Vegas to Philadelphia (the City of charts as a cartoonist. And anyone Brotherly Love?). There they en:-who has.read him.. closely will _have counter everyone's favorite mayor, no doubts. about his deserving such and Trudeau's dialogue reaches its fame. He has. his thumb firmly on prime: . the pulse of ·a nation in the midst ·of 
an identify~ crisis. His keen aware­"Hey! You! I thought I told you to ness of the multiplicity of paradoxes get out of town!" and the ludicrous situations· which 
plague oui-every day is . .refreshing, "Uh-oh! Here's trouble!" though at times' embarrassing. Having over ahundred of his gems "What you still doin; in Phillie, boy?"• together in_·. one book· is a special 
treat, and a . necessary palliative for "Gee, I'm sorry, sir, I didn't think· the psychic ills· of an . exam· week. you ·were serious. After all, I'm a Pick up a copy. (or buy one for 
The reason for. the odyssey (othe~ fellow Italian-American." a fr~end) and spend a quiet hour than the native allure of "hitting the hunched up in a comfortable chair. road" still eating away at all' Easy •·•You are?! Well, now,·. that's dif­But be careful. You might find your­Rider freaks) is simple. Mark has ferent! Yup, that's a very different self in there;:And worse yet, it might been. disowned by his loving father: . kettle of fish!" · be you he's dumping on. . J · . 
' . 

"Goodbye, you little thug."_ "Oh good!" •. .;_kerry' mcnamara 

Step Rig1-it Up, ·_ :·1adie,:; and Gentlemen!· 

I 
This year's prime·deterrent from last·weekend cram-. ming before finals niay come not from such old standbys as the tube or the. Rock,· but .from a new option: the circus; The Shrine Circus will arrive in South Bend on · Saturday, December 15;. to make :us finaf two per­formances ofthe 1973 tour in the Athletic and Convoca­
tion Center. •··. :·;_ 

20 . THE · SCHOLASTIC 
·-ORAK-. SHRINE "TEMPLE 


··SOUTH BEND SHRINE CLUB 

ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 


ONE DAY ONLY!

PRODUCED.BY 
2 -PERFORMANCES -2 
2:00 P.M~ & 7:30 P.M.




·.. p~fl/NIS-
Mr.· Louis · Stern, the owner and operator of -the Polack Bros. · Shrine.· Circus, ••has .. gathered · all the familiar sights and sounds of the circus into seventeen top acts. involving over one_ hundred·. performers from . around the world. , '· · 
This year's feature performances will include both 

. single and multiple aerial, trapeze, acts; balancing and high-wire acts, an amazing exhibition' of ferocious lion fighting, and assortment of animal performances, and a host of clowns. Aerial performances wiU include mid: air gymnastics by·_ single. trapeze. artist Miss Sarazochil and _the Flying Gibsons..Walking the bounding' rope willbe the world-renowned Spanish artist Segura. The Dresler Brothers and Hedy will perform aerial motor~ . cycle feats, while Eric Acadis performs amazing feats of muscular ·control and balance. Top animal :acts in­clude the Adams Comedy Chimps and Dogs, Bianco and ­his lions arid the Polack Brothers' performing elephants. All the action will be' coor_dinated and' announced by ringmaster Don Nothdort. 
The Polack Bros. Shrine Circus is traditionally spon­sored by the local Shrine clubs throughout the country. 
that contract the independently:-C>wned circus to play in their area. Mr. Louis Stern, who owns and operates the circus independently of the Shrine organization, is re­sponsibie for_puttin'g·the circus together. 
Every year the: circus is ·completely new, with ·most · performers signing only one-year' contracts. Once the circus contracts the desirednumber of performers for a given tour· they will begin practicing, anti' Mr. Sternwill accept offers from any organization tha_twishes the circus to perform. In the past the Polack Circus has performed only for the Shrine organization, hence de­riving its name; ,but today_ it accepts bids from any organization capable . of providing the facilities and meeting the financial_ agreements. , All 'touring is done by trailer with this year's tour starting in January an_d erding with the South Bend performance.'. This wili be the third year the Shrine _has performed in the Athletic and Convocation · Center with the :sponsoring of_ the South Benci Shrine. Club. General admission to either performance (at 2:30 and 7:30 P.M.) is $2.50, while reserved seats go for $3.50. A pleasant time is guaran-• teed for all. 
-tom birsic 

DECEMBER. 7, 1973 
.. Justice Abides in The·· State of Hoynes 
If ever one were to find himself on the witness stand 
of the Marion County Superior Court, facing· charges 
ranging anywhere from murder to negligence, it would 
undoubtedly be due to the efforts of Law Professor 
Edward F. Barrett; for-Marion County lies in the state 
of Hoynes which is owned and operated by Professor 
Barrett for the express purpose of introducing Notre 
Dame's third-year law stu_dents to the experience of try­ing a lawsuit. 
For twenty years Professor Barrett has been con­structing real-life courtroom drama· in the mythical Marion courtroom as part of the law school's Practice Court program. The practice court was founded in 1953 by former Law School Dean Joseph O'Meara, Judge Luther M. Swygert and Professor Barrett with the feel~ ing that each student of law at Notre Dame should have the opportunity to experience the actual trial" of alaw­suit in tlie most realistic and intimate atmosphere pos­sible. Based on the age-old axiom, "You can't learn to swim until you get into the water;" the practice court was established as asupple~ert to the knowledge gained through textbooks and classroom discussions of the law. In the classroom students learn the various techniques, strategies and critical questions ofthe law. In the prac:. tice court they get an idea ofwhat it means to apply that knowledge.to an actual piece oflitigation. 
. The first. cases held by Professor Barrett were called 
irito session iii a:_room of the Law School building and 
fell under the jurisdiction of the Superior Court· of 
Marion County, located in the state of Haynes (named 

~ter a _former Law School dean). In 1958 the location ,, of the .court was changed to the courtrooms of the United States District Court for -Northern Indiana and the Superior Court .of St. Joseph County, but the juris­diction and procedure remained the same and still con­tinue today. 
Preparations for each. case begin five weeks inc:ad­
-·' ---,..,_) 
vance of the scheduled trial o.ate, wheri Profess9i:;,Barrett hands the four student counselors-two for both the de­fense and ·the plaintiff_:_tlie names and. numbers of clients and witnesses. It is then up to the counselors to contact their clients and' through their pre-trial :inter­views determine what the case involves. 
Every case presented ·to the student counselors throughout the year contains situations involving crit~ ical questions and issues of law. All cases are personally constructed by ·Professor Barrett and, although each case is simulated, the situations presented are real. 
In constructing each case Professor Barrett . will first rummage through the law books in search of an interesting case that has been previously tried. Then he will take the old trial records and transcripts and pre~ pare a complete statement of testimony for each ·client and witness he intends to involve in the case. Once the roles and testimonies of the witnesses have been estab­lished, he then fills those roles by consulting a pile of index cards accumulated through the years, ·containing the names of hundreds of individuals willing to partici-, pate in his court. _ _ _ __ _ _ ­
Witnesses and clients are drawn from all parts of the Notre Dame and South Bend communities and play 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

l' 
a critical role in establishing the realistic atmosphere of 
. the courtroom. If, for instance, medical testimony is called for during the trial, it will usually be given by a practicing physician or an intern from one of the local hospitals. When other. testimony requiring professional knowledge or experience is being given, Professor Bar­rett will call on Notre Dame faculty or on members of the local police force to participate. Many witnesses return to serve in the court year after year, as in the case of one witness who has participated in at least one trial every year since 1953. 
The twelve seats in the jury are filled on the same volunteer basis, with members comingfrommany vari~ ous sources, including undergraduates from both Notre Daine and St. Mary's, first-year law students and local community organizations. In view of the new amend­ment to the Constitution giving 18-year-olds greater rights, Professor Barrett will invite area high school seniors to sit on the jury as they are now eligible to do in a r~gular courtroom. 
· In the early years of the court Judge Swygert. pre­sided over all the cases heard by the court.. Today that chore is divided amorig ten or twelve judges who gra­ciously extend their work week to hear cases presented in the practice court. Among the assisting judges are three Notre Dame graduates: Hon. George N. Beamer, Sr.; Hon. Robert A. Grant and Hon. Norman Kopec. Visiting judges are also invited by Professor Barrett to The Glenmary Home Missioners are participate. Last year a criminal case was heard by· 
looking for a few good. men and 

Hon. William B. Jones, the U.S. District Court iudge 
women who believe in people.

from the District of Columbia. · •· · · · · · When the pre-trial preparations .are . complete; . tlie Share your life with the people of student counselors present their arguments in a court­
the South. and Appalachia as a 

room atmosphere that in every way possible reflects an actual courtroom situation. Standard courtroom pro­Priest; Brother or Sister. cedure is followed with each counselor fully aware that his or her performance will be. evaluated by the judge who presents his "critique" orally during a learning 
. Send free poster; · · 

session at the end of the trial. In addition to the judge's 
. Send information about

evaluation, Professor Barrett presents his own opinions the following Tuesday during a general discussion .held Glenmary Hom.e_Missioners., with the other members of the program. Mistakes made 
Room #5

by the counselors are brought out during the evalua­GLENMARY tions and impressed in such a manner that hopefully Box 46404 they will not be repeated again. 
Cincinnati, Ohio, 45246.

Once a · student has completed the Practice Court program, there is .no guarantee that he will pursue this .· 
Name_______________

aspect of law for his career. Trial work is only one of ·· . many avenues open to students of law and the practice court is only one aspect of their education. The prac­
Address---------------­

tice court does insure, however, that everyone partici­pating, whether as a counselor, juror, or witness, will gain a firsthand understanding and appreciation of the efforts involved in arguing a case before judge and jury.. 
-tom birsic 

Phone 

DECEMBER .7, 1973 
.Coming Distraetions 
DECEl\IBER 7 ... Madrigal Dinner, 7:00. p.m., Regina Hall (SMC). ••. Thieves' Carnival, ND/SMC Theater, 8:30 p.m., 
Washington _Hall; · · · 
•. • Lecture_ by Stephen· Korner (Dept. of Philosophy 
· Metaphysics Series),-3:30 p.m., Library.Aud . • • . Lady Sings the Blues, Engineering Auditorium. ..• A Christmas Carol, 8:15 p.m., IUSB Theater. 
DECEl\IBER 8 
••• Madrigal Dinner, 7:00-p.m., Regina Hall (SMC) . 
. . . Thieves' . Carnival, ND/SMC Theater, 8 :30 p.m., 
Washington Hall. . . . A Christmas Carol, IUSB Theater, 8:15 p.m. ... IDSB l\lusic Faculty Trio Recital, 8:15 p.m., Recital 
Hall (IUSB). 
DECEl\IBER 9 ... Elkhart Symphony Chamber Orchestra and Chorus, Memorial High School, Elkhart. • • . Electronic l\lusic Festival, 8:15 p.m., Recital Hall (IUSB) . . • • l\lusic of Advent and. Christmas, Univ. of Notre · Dame Choral Ensembles.-4 :00 p.m., Sacred Heart; free. 
.•• Christmas Choral Concert, Collegiate Choir of SMC and UND, .and the SMC Women's Choir. 8:15 p.m., · Church of .<?._ur Lady of Loretto (SMC). 
.DECEl\IBER ·10 . 
. . . l\lacbeth (Shakespeare Film Series; Roman Polan­ski, dir.), 7 & 10 · p.m.~ Engineering Auditorium, free..• 
DECEl\IBER 14 
.... A Christmas Carol, 8 :15 p.m., IUSB Theater. 

RUMOR: 
There is an unconfirmed rumor that Joni Mitchell 
· will grace the Notre Dame stage on January 21, 1974. Of course the rumor was mentioned by the head of Notre..Dame Concerts, Rich Donovan. 
DECEMBER 15 .•. Prokofiev's Cinderella, Elkha;t Symphony .Orchestra and Michiana Ballet, .. Memorial High . School, _Elk­
~~ -. . .. . . 
. . . A Christmas. Carol, 8 :15 p.rri., IUSB T}ieater . 
DECEl\IBER 16 . ; . Prokofiev's Cinderella, Elkhart Symph~riy Orchestr~ and Michiana. Ballet, Memorial High · School, Elk­
hart. • . . . . . ..•·· . 
... A Christmas Carol, 8:15 p.m., ~SB The~·_ 
OPENING: .· .. . . . DECEl\IBER 9 . ~ . Photographs ·by Loren Weaver, South Bend Art · Center through December 30. 
' ' ·. 
CONTINUING: ., l\liniature Paintings Throughout History, ·at Radecki Galleries all month . 
At O'Shaughnessy Gallery all month: 
Portraits from the Permanent Collection: a critical examination of the forgotten art of portraiture, featuring C works from the Italian Renaissance 
· through the 1950's. 

Italiaii•· Renaissance' Works ·from 'the Permanent'. COI-, 
iection. 
XIX Century Works from the Permanent Collection. 
'.'New Portfolio" of Josef Albers.> · 
:..:._rick g'ering 
· THE .SCHOLASTIC 


Can .you guess the real-Studen~ 

· -· · Center? · · · ·-· · 

DECEMBER. 7, 1973 
< < < 




Missill.gthe Cut 
One Monday af lunch somebody pared· to ·the ~est ·of , us, .but they · my arm as I released the ball. De-·1 glanced through a copy of the "Ob.:. · looked determined. All in all, fifty spite the foul, I looked up and saw server" and said, ·"Hey! Digger . is ·, . people . showed :for this spectacle, the ban ··.,swish" through the hoop; going to hold varsity tryouts this . some really desiring ·a varsity posi-. Everyorif wrui Jumping higher and Thursday." This little incident shows. tion; many there just for the ride. . . running faster than ever before due how, in an innocent way, the stage.. ·After a few minutes an assistanf · to the pressure, ·so that.shots were was set for my BIG CHANCE -a coach divided us into forwards and going all over the place. I got the ball crackat making the.varsity. team. ' ·guards,\ and•• Coach-Phelps gave· the ..once. more ort .the :left · side· and •. this 
< You see, I live in a triple in Zahm, entire group a short speech <before' :' time got to see the ballgo in without and my room had a tradition. One of we began. It seemed like one he had an arm in my line of sight. · · my roommates had tried to claim a . given ·many times before, all about ' I did get to see the all-state player spot on the tennis team and had re-the ·difficulty of choosing people for · from· Georgia perfonn; and though turned, doused with sweat, in defeat. varsity. . she was so small that it seemed she . My. other· roommate attempted· to With this he said, "Split up into ·would be crushed, she had one good get on the golf team, ·but he didn't .. guards and forwards and do layups." move. A guard was driving· up· the make it· past the first round due to . · Everyone eagerly· lined up and pro-court againsf her; and, tnie 'to good late night actiyities. The lot then·fell ceeded. to shoot layups and jump defensive tactics, she planted 'herself upon me to earn some athletic glory shots froni both•sides; I made all my squarely ~n front of him and let him for the room. . . layups and' four ouf"of five jump knock her down. The coach referee-
The next two days were filled with .shots,. so I began to feel a little more ing the game immediately called an anxiety. I had dreadful visions of confident. · · offensive foul on the guard, and a getting my shots stuffed back down "OK Line up along the _sidelines roar of approval \\Tent up from the my·throat by a 7.;,foot-2-inch ball-from the biggest· totlie smallest;''_ . spectators present.:· . ,' .... player who knew how to play basket-.... yelled one of· the assistant · coaches; -When all the games·• were ·over, ball before he had learned how to · Digger sat "across the court.behind a Digger gathered, us all. together to speak. Elbows in theface, bad passes,· ._ table and surveyed the _situation be-pick ten who would play_ an "all­"air ball" shots, and that worst of all fore speaking, then .the questions: . star" game, and from these he would fates, . tripping . over the mid-court < < began. .• . . ·. . < . . . < . . choose two or three. who would con-. line, all danced through. my ·mirid, "Anyone here fromTexas?'''A few .. tinue in.the program. He said again causing me to regret ever having people raised their hands.·:· . . . that he appreciated· our being there; thought about trying out. "How, many·here were all-state?" then he began ·1:o.find the faces of 
· The day of reckoning finally ar-One hand·shot up, and it .was girl.. .'people he _wanted fori:fue all-star 
rived, and it was with butterflies in ."~at state?n asked Digger. game. The choosing proceeded quick-
my stomach . that I collected rriy . ·':Georgia.'':· . .. ·. . .. ..· .ly and!, hoping_that_he wol!ld choose. 
basketball clothes and ambled over , '"How. many . were._ all-county?" · me, wasj;urprised· to:feer:relieved 
to the ACCi . r , · More· hands rose: · • . . : . that he had not;.:"-' : : ' . 
As I stepped out on the same floor ·· ·.·After this,-we·.were divided into~· .. ·_·I waiked back feeling·that I had 
that the Notre Dame varsity basket-. teri teams. I was or(one of the.sec-: tried my best, and though I did not ball team used, I could see around_ _ondteams tha_t played, ·and f~m the',/ .. achievE! what I wanted; I did achieve me many who had a feeling of awe ' . tip-off.the pace never let up for the: ..a sense of satisfaction that I had be.;. at. being on. this court, many· with· . five minutes of play.. The first _time;.:. con:i-e more familiar with the basket.: whom I had played basketball in the .· we went down the court, I went to> ball program. Above: all, though; I "Rock" or in the ACC before.Ieveii. : our corner:where otir center, caught ·. felt joy that the tradition of athletic . noticed something I had not expected: . iri the traffic, passed it to me.. I went mediocrity at 336 Zahm had not been ·at all~girls. They were. small· com-up·.to shoot, but somebody· hacked · broke~. ·~jorge ZcYpez. 
.THE SCHOLASTIC 


Bring on the -BruinS 
-.·.;. 
· -It came as no real surprise when freshman Adrian Dantley started for the Irish last Saturday afternoon in the N.D.-Valpo game, nor was it any more surprising when Bill Paterno and ·Ray Martin entered· the game after only six minutes of play•. Coach Digger Phelps -had· promised a · lib­eral substitution of players, and the Crusaders provided just the oppor­tunity to see the freshmen in action. However;' it. was a bit surprising when Dantley came away with Irish scoring honors (16 points),•jand;re­bounding honors (nine). Ray Mar­tin's fine job 'of playmaker (game high of seven assists) and Bill Drew's zone · breaking. ten · . points were equally, and pleasantly, surprising. 
It's no real surprise that these freshmen are so good,· for their high school records arid honors speak for them,· but it is surprising that· they have acclam.ated · themselves so quick­ly, and easily to college ball. But then; it.only appears quick and easy. ·· Actually,-Digger and his staff had been working--overtim_e .in -prepara­tion for the season _opener, mostly because in reality, they faced a diffi­cult, two-pro~ged problem;-Not only did they have to· acquaint the .fresh­men with the Notre Dame play book ·and p:r;epare them for· college level · _ competition, but they also had to. in­tegrate· the· freshmen -into a· team 
-that had played successfully as· a· unit· for over a season . . : Digger needs thefreshmen, though, because he needs the depth. And with six people like Daritley,: ·Paterno, ·Knight; Drew, Martin and Kuzmicz, there is no way he can keep them off the floor. · 
"Well, we had. to· try to blend the freshmen in," Digger explained. !!Normally, with freshmen, we would have a .year to work with them. I know when I was at·Penn working 


DECEMBER 7,:1973 
27 
with freshmen, we had many· who 
really didn't develop_ until the mid­
dle of their freshman year. But we're 
trying to take the freshmen and 
cram into one month what we would 
normally give them in one year. 
We've given them an overdose, may­
be, trying to supersaturate : them 
with our whole program. This is 
why I was .against freshman eligi­
bility; also, I thought that aca­
demically, kids in their freshman 
year have a new adjustment as far 
as study habits go. It's a new way 
of life academically. 
·"I agree that every student has to 
make that adjustment once he goes away to college for .the first time. But to make the. academic adjust­ments · as well as the social adjust­ments, and .then to throw on. top of that the athletic adjustments these . kids have to make ... here we are in December, and we're going to go out and play Ohio State, North­western, Indiana, .and Kentucky, · all 
on the road. 
"We're trying to get these kids 
ready, and· we realize to get them 
ready we're going to have to expose 
them to many pressure situations.. 
We're now in a position where we 
feel that three or-four of these guys 
can help us-right away. We're high 
on the' other two or three players 
who will come in as the year goes 
along.". 
Integrating the freshmen into the 
team presents some problems, though. . Not only are there difficulties in mas~ tering the plays, but there is also the age-old problem. of breaking up the synchronized, familiar five .. 
"Hopefully, our-goal is justtowin 
enough games to get an NCAA bid"; 
that's what Digger wants for Christ­
mas.. "-That's all • we're. concerned 
. . 
with right now, and whoever does it 
or how, we do it,. as far as players 
and personnel; doesn't matter as long 
as we reach our goal. That's· how 
everybody feels, and that's whysome 
guys are sacrificing as far as playing 
time, other guys are sacrificing as 
far as . not· even suiting· up, and· yet, 
every day out there, those guys are 
working hard.'~ 
Digger treats the freshmen exactly 
as he does the veterans. He believes 
that a team unity cannot exist where 
a double standard is in effect. '/You 
just can't keep the respect of the 
team," he commented. That means 
thatthe freshman who misses a play 
because he confused itwith another 

of the score he's had to memorize points in his last two seasons, and will get lambasted just as arduously it's not hard to understand why as his seasoned teammate. Digger is pleased. Not only was 
"The kids know me and respect Dantley the first player ever to start me, they know my honesty, they at DeMatha as a freshman, but he know I'm fair enough that, no mat­was also the first player ever to start ter who you are or what you're do­at Notre Dame as a freshman. ing, if you blow it, you deserve what-''It's not a question of why he's 
. ever criticism you g~t." . . starting," Digger commented of Dant­
Yet Digger knows his team as in--ley, "it's just obvious. He's every­dividuals, each with his own tem­thing he was written up to be, and perament. «You have to know how, hopefully he'll be that way for when, where and why to discipline. thirty-one college games this year. Some guys you can yell at out on the Adrian will give us a lot of strength floor and others you can't. Yet, there on the boards and possesses the isn't any player out there at any power to go to the basket." 
. :--.

time. that if he's really loafing, I'm At 6'9", and 198 lbs., Toby Knight 'going to let him know about it' in can easily ~hift from either forward front of the other people, because position to center. He:averaged 29.6 then, I think you're talking about points.· and 20 · rebounds per game . team unity." . with Port· Jefferson High School_ in So ·for Digger, it's a whole new New York last year. He was named all-county .and all-state both his . junior and senior years. Toby was also an All-Ametica. selection last 
· (( Our goal is just to wzn season. 
''Toby is a very deceptive player,'' enough games to get Digger-added.-_"He's got great ,Q.f­. fensive potential, with a fi3e---shot an NCAA bid.n · and.-the ability to go to the basket. He must build up his strength to take the physical game in order to play against many of our opponents. He. ball game, and he intends to prove does have the knack, though, of al­it's a whole new team. To the power-. ways being around the boards. Toby _ful veteran lineup of last year, he plays very well when his game i~ to­has added at least three of the fresh-gether. : He's unbelievable, yet de­men to create a constantly shifting -fensively he's got a lot to learn. This pool of eighf or nine players. The is his biggest hangup right now. We versatility of switching strengths -just can't afford to play certain peo­will give Phelps the ability to build pie and have them getting destroyed a team ideal for any situation. defensively, especially if we are do­
. ''We're -in a position where we ing that well offensively, but just have eight players that can play, trading points.with teams. Yet Toby and I'm not concerned about who's will come along;· I think he'sgoing to starting; I'm woi:Tied about what we play a lot for us; he's very, very have to do to win -a game, and U it wiry as an offensive player. He has takes eight or nine people to do it, greaL moves under the basket, he then, all those people a.re just as -gets the ball -to the boards, he gets imprir_tant." _ · · the outside jump shot. He's pretty· 
Adrian Dantley ·is certainly one of _ good at the running game, so I think those important people. At 6'5", 225 he'll be·an asset for us there." lbs., Adrian will-soon . be adding in-As far a.s the newness goes, many 
· timidation to his list of offensive and·_ of the· freshmen have been suc_cess-_ defensive weapons. Graduating from fully intimidated _by the veterans DeMatha High School in Maryland, -during the·· four weeks of practice he was considered one of the. top leading up to the season op~ner. senior prospects in the nation. Not -Digger believes,. though, . that· it's only was he named MVP in six tour-· just a matter of practice. These boys naments, but he made the All-Amer-· definitely have the.talent, they just ica first team both his junior and have to begin concentrating on the senior years. · team, and not on themselves. 
Add to this the fact that he was · Ray Martin has already proved a three-time all-metropolitan selec-· his ~wizardry at running. the team tion witha scoring mark of 1,511 and the game. He was ari all-city 
.'. THE SCHOLASTIC 

and All-America selection at Mater Christi High School in New York, where he holds the school records of · 1,094 points, career total. He averaged 18 points and 9 assists per game as the captain of his team during his senior year. Ray was also an honor student in a strong aca­demic program and he worked with slow and emotionally disturbed chii­dren in reading, writing and math 
programs. 
Digger explained; "Ray's not the greatest shooter in the world, but he makes up for what he can't do shooting-wise, as far as ball han­dling and defensive work. He has exceptionally quick hands and great speed. He has the potential to be­come our floor general and with his speed, he will fit into our pressing game well." ,-, 
. Billy Paterno was the only New Jersey player ever to be named all­state for two years. He is an excel­lent shooter who scored 1,464 points in three seasons with a 53 per cent shooting average. He received all­area, all-state and· All-America hon­ors as he led his· Christian Brothers Academy·• team •to three straight State Championships. His 1,464 points were the second most in the school's history. 
· "Paterno is a good player," Digger added, "and he's going to be one of our six or seven people who have to play for us. He's a great shooter, he hits the boards well, he runs well on the ·break, and defensively, he's catching on. We've got to go with these people, and just live with their mistakes until they build up· enough confidence, and develop habits that will . make them complete players. This is going to take time and pa­tience . 
. "Bill is a very physical player and he has good moves offensively. Hope­fully he will have the outside shot · that we lacked last year. His strength enables him to go to the boards very well." 
Bill -Drew captained his Center­each, New Jersey, squad during his junior and senior years, leading them to a League m title as a senior. He was named all-state and all-county, averaging 21 points and 11 rebounds per game. His outside shooting abili­ties riddled the desperate Valpo zone in the second half of last Saturday's 
i. rout. 
Digger explained that "Bill has the potential to be ·our best outside shooter. He could develop into our and Clay in there with Brokaw. Then second guard. Against a zone de­again, if you put Crotty in there fense he could prove to be very help­with a press team, you've got a good ful. But he still is a freshman who speed reaction team." needs more time to catch on and to Digger hopes that the student body concentrate working on the basics will not expect too much from the that we're doing. It's a whole new team this semester. He points to the game for Billy." road schedule of eleven games, the 
Dave Kuzmicz hails from South two games with UCLA, and the pres­Bend's St. Joseph's High School, sure of a season filled with excellent where he scored a career total of college teams. He defends his desire 995 points and netted 450 rebounds. to play UCLA twice, though, saying "Dave is an intelligent ball player, that if ND doesn't get an NCAA bid and a very consistent athlete with a · just because of those possible losses, great outside shot," explained Dig­people are not basing the team on its ger. "He'll surprise a lot of people ·schedule. before the year's end. I definitely feel "Believe me, we'll have to face he will be able to contribute signifi­some problems on the road, because cantly to our program." everybody wants to beat us now that 
And what can you do with this -we're one of the top ten teams in the wealth of talent, Mr. Phelps? country," philosophized Digger. "I 
"Well, there are certain things we just don't want people to get down can do; we can have a multiple of­on these kids if we lose a couple fense and defense, something we can of games, because it doesn't mean do that we couldn't do before. We'll anything; it's just part of the game be a very basic team when we want today. There're many schools that to run. If we can press, we'll press have great basketball programs this when and if the situation gives us year, and especially when you play the opportunity. Yet, I think basi­on the road, you can expect any­
thing."' .. . ,, -.

cally, we'll be playing a lot of man to man, pressure man to man, because Well, Mr. Phelps, Notre Dame ex­of the size and strength of some of pects nothing but the best this year. these players . After all, it was John Shumate who 
. "There are times when we' can ·go predicted the NIT for last year, and with a power team, Shumate and the NCAA for this year. Though' we Brokaw . running the team; with are just a bit off Shue's "schedule," Dantley, Paterno and Novak in the an eighteen to twenty win · season front -line. That gives us quite a bit should garner the Irish the at-large of board strength. Defensively, they berth they seek in the NCAA. Theri, can play a basic man·to inan; that if allgoes well, we have the potential is not a good press team, it's obvious to surpass even those standards, and because of their size and bulk:· They .with a bit of Irish luck,• put Shue just don't have the great team speed back on schedule: that you would have· with Martin -tom gora & .casey pocius 
.<., .. ---· 
-. -~­

DECEMBER 7, 1973 

I 
i 
I 
r 
I I 
! The .Last Word 
l 
: . 
I 
rt' was unseasonably warm 'today. A strangely .un~ characteristic, balminess made· it h~d for· one.to think:.,. that_ Advent had arrived. But the Jesse '.rree,_at the lJrchi11:'s_ Mass .and Jhe first sig~t of decorations in windows,served.as adequate.reminders that·somethirig special is in the air, thatJpis is _that certain_ season again. , -.•· , 
. Though our ·more immediate th,:mghts are towards the endless supplies of work to be fought through in the .coming weeks; there is a part of us-a very small niche in the back of our mind perhaps-:-where the most pre­cious _of memories linger, waiting to warm us. through the _bitter days which-are· now long overdue ... At the · · most .inopportune times, we find ourselves transported to Christmas. mornings in early.youth, waiting ever· so impatientiy at, the top of the. stairs for what :seemed .·· . an eternity, our eyes affixed.on the glow cast by the tall, 'dark colorful tree which waited below (without'a doubt :THE most beautiful tree of all)'.guarding. underneath 
:its branches the marvels we had been hoping for since .early fall-those vecy special things we had most polit~ : · C )y and meticulously · specified to Santa· in letters . whose· pleading sincerity was matched only. by their· . ·simple innocence; And finally, after rustling around for . 
endless minutes, convincing us all thatthey were hijack­ing the entire _sleighful.o.f gifts;-oursparents.spoke the magic words, and we scrambled down th·e stairs, breath­less and wide-eyed.-··•:.,· 
. ·_·If.we couid capture·that single.moment-when we reached the bottom of the stairs and beheld that room full of color, if we could capt'Ul,'e ,the sight of• the faces of children on Christmas morning and keep it in our pocket like a photograph for. handy reference, we would never forget the love,. the warmth .and the wonder which are the essence of the Christmas. season; But we too often forget that we were once children~nd we too often smother the simple; breathless ·.joy, the warmth, the wide-eyed wonder which make Christmas a special day. And we too often forget that we know how to·love. And we too often forget that the' sirriple joy of a: child is the greatest proof there is of the existence of Beauty. 
· My gift to all, then, as the Christmas season comes upon us, .are these memories:..._the memories of our youth, and of the warmth of many a Christmas morn­ing. May:the glow of such memories, and tlie hope that they may be relived, warni us all through the cold days 
thatapproach.  ' ·  
...;_kerry mcnamara  
··:.­:-­•'  .....  ·.  

: ... r·-, 
.. THE SCHOLASTIC
30 







turn.your·.books. 
·. into· dtristlDas. · presents 
lt's·eCJSy -whe~ you finish with your books, you trade them in for cash I The~ go out and blow it on your friends and family. , · :··-' . 
' ..· . ' 
·• Whether you end up ~ne fat Santa or a little short depends on how many books .. :.·, -... you've got to sell; what condition they're in, and whether or not there's a need for them nationwide~ -· · · 
Whatever you want.to use the money for it ·will sure beat just letting them lie around collecting dust. So ~ring your books over to the professional book~ buyers at the booksto~e now; while your book is worth the.most it will ever be. 
Wait too long and the chances are you may end up playing Scroog~I 
·. -sell. them· for ·cash at 
. . . . '• -. . . . . ' 
.HAMMES.·.· NOTRE DAME· BOOKSTORE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. 

·December 13-&14 



. . :' -;!;j[,_':: . . . j I . •.-• • , ll (< ~. . . J
.. ­
· ..·.·.·/~~ 
. -. . .
' 
i 
I 
-;(Jiu_>~) 
, 
&--'":~­
~' . -~ 
·-----....-~ 





