- Cbe -
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
:PISGS^QVASI-SSmP6R-VlCTVRVS- • VIV£ QUASI- CRASIMORITVRVS^
Vol. XLI. . . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 26, 1907. No. 7.
’	' ' ' The Call of Charity? ’
- - .	, PETER E. HEBERT, ’10.	.
AH, Christian soul! remember those in chains,
.	. For autumn winds proclaim their plaintive cries,
And brownish fields as well as cheerless sties Bespeak'their grief and sorrow in refrains;
The world/ alas, unconscious of their pains
• TIears not their pleadings; hence, to loose their ties . Demands' your charity,—for God e’er tries His. gold. of love until ’tis free from stains.
Some day! the winds, the fields, the skies, and- all Shall wail for you when celled in silent woe,— ' ;Your ransom to be had by charity. -
Ah, then shall -God thy grateful deeds recall, And that which thou hadst given here below
’ In due proportion He’ll return to ’ thee.
International' Arbitration.
FRANCIS T. COLLIER, ’07.
«N discussing such a problem as international arbitration we are sometimes wont to believe that . all efforts for.universal peace are held too near the clouds. But . '	when we are reminded of the
appalling waste of energy and talent which is. ..involved in the support of militarism, we all agree that a cure should be found for this terrible. evil. . :	.
Militarism; is an undying vampire that sucks one-half of the life blood of humanity. Erance has. more than 600,000 men in the flower of their age continually in arms; A vastly larger army is absorbed all life long in feeding, clothing, transporting and equipping her soldiers. The outbreak of war
would suck the blood from her heart. Look at bloodless, exhausted Greece. The last war cost. Japan and Russia $200,000,000. Translate these figures into human brain and muscle, and we have a picture of a war in comparison with which Milton’s picture of a war of supernatural powers is child’s play.
It is the awful havoc of the deadly bullet; it is a climate that breathes cholera and typhus and .death , into the-strongest and bravest ; it. is the solemn irony, more pitiful than an. Homeric picture, of contending nations imploring; the assistance of the same .God,, that adds to. its bloody awfulness. It is.every great religion of the world teaching the universal brotherhood of men, and- sending, its ministers to bless their efforts to’ slay one another with all the perfection and rapidity of modem machinery, . that must be considered. Here is the irony of its grewsomeness, and here, with religion as its foundation, lies the cure.
If this problem is confronted merely in a political or philanthropic mood, there seems to be no hope of surmounting the stubborn obstacles to its solution. The world a.t large realizes that it is heavily burdened and hampered in its’progress by its modem coat of mail. Yet it sees nothing but confusion, political and economic, if it disarms. Strong passions throb in the hearts of the nations. The preachers of the gospel of peace cast their seed on rocks and amidst thorns. Governments are, powerless to crash the passions of their subjects. . .
It . is often forgotten that governments; have, as a matter of fact, not a paternal but a purely political and external relation to .the nations they guide. When the stream of national life runs strong they only,
9S	HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
study the current and are guided by it. Then, too, there is another force to be reckoned with in a problem of this nature—the power of religion. Religion is a force that crosses the iron-bound frontiers of nations, links the most conflicting elements in some of their deepest feelings, and has had a profound influence on the course of European history. And I propose showing that if the power of religion were co-operating in a most intimate and effective form with the heads of states, Peace Congresses would be common and the sun would light a peaceful world.
The most remarkable event in the history of the last three hundred years has been the formation of nationalities, each distinguished by a peculiar language and character, by differences of habits and institutions. Upon this national basis there have been established strong monarchies; Europe has been broken up into disconnected bodies, and the cherished scheme of a united Christian state has never been realized. These countries have, as a result, been constantly involved in wars with one another; some have been torn by insurrection, others have been made desolate by long and bloody civil wars. They have grown stronger and _ stronger; they have grown more bold and determined in their aggressiveness. But it still appears possible to soften their antagonism, if not to overcome it. What might not be looked for from the erection of a presiding power, which, while it should oversee the internal concerns of each country, not dethroning the kings but treating them as hereditary envoys, should be more especially charged to prevent strife between kingdoms and to maintain the public order of Europe by being not only the fountain of international law, but also the judge in its causes and the enforcer of its sentences. In such a position would I place the Pope.
The Church of England and the Greek Church apparently have a political complexion. In reality they have no political force whatever. Like the innumerable minor and later branches of the Christian religion, they have power only In so far as they can' appeal to the religious sentiment of their members. The Papacy is a power of an entirely different kind—a unique institu- .
tion. It possesses an organization which surpasses in effectiveness even its ancient imperial model. It has a political and diplomatic machinery of a most elaborate character,* and at present it is ruled by one of the ablest diplomatists in Europe.
In England — owing to the trouble in France—the Church of Rome is rapidly assuming a tangible influence; its English authorities are becoming more capable of great political achievements. Hence Englishmen are learning to appreciate the action of the Vatican. In the United States the Catholic clergy enjoy the confidence of all. American diplomacy has triumphed on several occasions. Some of our greatest diplomatists belong to the Church,—and chief among them are Cardinal Gibbons o
and Archbishop Ireland.
Germany is becoming more . tolerant to Catholics.- The emperor has to listen to the voice of his Catholic subjects—a minority that is rapidly growing into a majority. It is only a question of time when poor, deluded France will be aroused from her stupor to seek forgiveness of the Church.
That the papal policy has undergone a. profound change in the last decade, has been apparent in several distinct manifestations: it has come into greater favor with the Italian government; it has acted openly in its dealings with France.
In order to illustrate the idea that disarmament will be more easily effected if papal diplomacy is involved in the movement, let us examine the question of the temporal power of the Pope. It is to be remembered that the temporal power is indispensable to the full development of the life of the Papacy. It is obvious, too, that the religious or ecclesiastical activity of the Vatican demands that the Eternal City, at least, should be at the Pope’s disposition. Let the nations of the earth return to Rome its full temporal power; let the Pope act as arbiter in all questions arising among nations; let the Vatican be the supreme court for all the world in temporal matters, just as it is the great ruler in the religious world. Do these things and disarmament is possible and probable.
Against this it might be said, however, that Italy would give every drop of blood upon the battlefield rather than return the
NOTRE DAME
states it snatched from the Pope. At first sight this might be true, but surely neither Italy nor any other nation, interested in universal peace, could rightfully object to the elevation of the Pope to the position of a temporal prince with all the nations of the world as his vast dominion.
Every religious order and congregation has its centre at Rome, and the different nations have colleges and institutions in constant touch with the Vatican. This dailv intercourse would tend to draw the Pope as a temporal prince and the nations of the earth closer and closer until they would eventually look to him for complete guidance. The restoration of at least a part of the temporal power would lead to an intense development of this feature of Catholic life in the great march toward universal peace. There could be no question of sentiment in the matter. No one would doubt for a moment the sincerity of its undertakings. The Vatican could not sympathize with France at the cost of the interest of its other children no more than it would sympathize with other countries to the detriment of Catholic France.
Now, the ulterior aim of this line of _con-duct is not difficult to conceive. The Vatican would have nothing to gain by a bloody conflict; its greatest interest lies in pacification. Universal disarmament must come gradually. With a change of conditions, a readjustment of political interests, partial disarmament seems feasible. In the general readjustment it is clear that the feelings of the Catholic ■ world on the powers would have to be consulted. Certain small states would have to be declared neutral. It is easy to see that so able a group of diplomatists, with so wide and substantial a base of operation, would entertain a hope of . securing and obtaining a guarantee of neutrality for some portion of temporal power,—for the Pope, at least, the Eternal City.
The world is apt to minimize the power of the Papacy. We forget that the Vatican cabinet is one of the ablest in Europe. Mr. Lecky indicated its great power when he said: “ In an age when the world is governed by mere numbers and therefore mainly by the most ignorant w ho are necessarily the most: numerous, any organization that , has
SCHOLASTIC.	99
the power of combining for its own purposes great masses of such voters acquires a formidable influence. The facilities that the Catholic Church possesses for this purpose ’ are great and manifest, and its interests may easily, in the minds of its devotees, not only dominate over but supersede the interest of the State.”
We have had illustrations of this in England in the time of Manning; we have had illustrations of it in Austria, and to-day we have a powerful illustration of it in France. At the beginning of the present French crisis certain priests and bishops of France were willing, even eager, to come to terms with the government. They thought it was best to accept the terms and have the method of exercising their religion defined by the government than to lose all. their property. These men were sincere, they firmly believed it .was the best course to follow. Rome took up the subject and decided in the negative. No; the clergy could not accept an indemnity, nor have the method of exercising their religion defined by the government. There was no questioning the decision of the Papacy. Every priest and bishop of France obeyed without a murmur. It was not fear that caused them to obey, it was discipline, discipline that exists all over the world wherever the 300,000,000 of loyal Catholics are scattered. It is discipline of such a .nature that, is needed among the nations that are desirous of disarmament. Let the nations of the earth become disciplined like the children of the Church and the day is won for international arbitration.
Love Versus Economy.
IF life means strife, and a girl means wife, And man must build a home for two; ;
Then party show and social life /
Must cease before the rent comes diie. ,	,
If the wife needs clothes and the man needs hose, .
And children these and more things, too, '	.
Then glittering show of flashy clothes	<	.
Must stop before the rent comes due. ' ' -
If the wife needs wiles and the man needs smiles,, .	,
And the children clamor for dresses new, "	! •:	_
Then visits and calls and worthless whiles j .	' '
- Must end before-the rent comes due. F.J. D. .	.
100	NOTRn DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Character 'Treatment in Stephen Philips.
BY ROBERT A. KASPER, ’07.
(CONCLUSION.)
In giving us “Ulysses,” the author has met with great difficulty, that of putting an epic into a drama. His play is based upon Homer’s Odyssey, and he takes the liberty of rearranging, re-imagining, and inverting the order of events. The student familiar with the “Odyssey” and “Ulysses” will readily see the wonderful selective process or poetic truth which Stephen Phillips displays.. -
The plot of the play is the releasing ot Ulysses from the charms of Calypso, the nymph of the Island Ogygia, and allowing him to return home to his wife, who is beset by suitors, on condition that he first pass through Hades. The play begins with a. prologue in which it is decided by the god Zeus that Ulysses shall be allowed to return home if he pass through Hades. The chief characters in the play are Ulysses, his son Telemachus, his wife Penelope and the suitors, nymphs, and gods.
Ulysses at the beginning shows a passionate desire to reach home, as he indicates in speaking to Calypso: “.... Ah, God ! that I might see gaunt Ithaca stand up out of the surge, yon lashed and streaming rocks and sobbing crags, .... We two have played and tossed each other’s words: goddess and mortal, we have met and kissed. Now am I mad. for silence and for tears, for earthly voice that breaks at earthly ills, the mortal hands that make and smooth the bed; I am an-hungered for that human breast, that bosom a sweet hive of memories... There, there to lay my head before I die, there, there to be, there only, there at last.” And when Calypso says: “And, mortal, I will breathe delicious, immortality on thee; stay, with me, and thou shalt not taste death,” he answers: “I would not take life but on terms of death, that sting in the wine of. being, salt of its feast. To me what rapture in the ocean path save in the white leap and the dance of doom? 0 Death, thou hast a beacon to the brave, thou last sea of. .the navigator, .last plunge of the diver, and last hunter’s leap.” These
passages not only show us the yearnings of Ulysses for his wife, but they are typical and have marked literary merit. They also show how the main action stands out.
The prologue and beginning of the first act prefigure the play. In them we learn that Ulysses is to be set free if he pass through Hades, and that Penelope is beset with suitors, whom Ulysses must drive away when he returns. Herein lies the issue involved. In passing through Hades, Ulysses is continually confronted with spirits, and being human naturally pours forth deep passion: “Over and over me! and round and round! They’ll search the guilt out in my secret soul; their eyes go through my body to my heart! They leave me, they.lift their faces to the wind ! Upward they rush! ” In this descent through Hades, the action of the play relative to the hero receives its first growth. Continually does Ulysses show by his utterances the reason for going through Hades, as, for instance, when he receives bad: news of his wife and says: “Are these the tidings for which I dared this darkness and the very river of hell? I’ll not believe it. I for some fresh voice! On, on! I can not hear worse words than these.” The passion of the hero is further roused when. Athene tells him that his wife is beset with suitors. He exclaims: “No, I’ll crouch before I spring, spy ere I leap.”
After passing the ordeal of Hades he returns. . home. -He appears at his. own banquet hall as a beggar, and the suitors are to receive their answer from Penelope that night. They spit upon Ulysses, and his passion becomes intense, but not until he receives a signal from the gods does he disclose his identity. The suitors are put to the test of stringing the bow; they fail, and Ulysses after a great effort strings it and appears in his own likeness, exclaiming: “Dogs, do ye know me now?” The suitors are driven , out and the. play ends, Ulysses , and Penelope slowly approaching each other across the hall, with rapt gaze. The fire in the hearth springs into sudden brightness.
There is unity, throughout the play as we have seen, and the actions follow each other, in natural order. There are no sudden changes, and everything fits nicely into its place. The hero is prominent throughout,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and we see how the other characters exist merely to bring out the passion of the hero and to cause his energy to become kinetic. Ulysses gives' expressions of the soul, as the passages I have quoted indicate. The author has preserved the type, while still ennobling it, and he has supplied the humor, the contrast, the emphasis -which life, and nature lack. Hence there is poetic truth in his play.
Cypros, the mother of Herod, gives the plot of the play “Herod:” in a nutshell when she says: “Remember Herod’s love— that madness easy to be worked upon—for Mariamne. Then her love/ how deep for young Aristobulus.” The principal characters of the tragedy are Herod, the King of the Jews, Mariamne, his queen and wife, Cypros and Salome, his mother and sister. Aristobulus figures only. at the beginning of the play; but his death, is the cause of intense dramatic action. . Herod is an historical hero; but the dramatist has again taken liberties with historv.
When we first see Herod he is a firm, brave ruler. He is not a war-loving man, as he shows when he asks: “To overcome by other ways than steel,” referring to war. That he is firm and brave he shows in his next speech, when he says: “Ah, no.... ’tis not for us. A momentary thought like a strange breeze in darkness on the cheek. Still must we trample, crush, corrupt and kill....” The chief interest of Herod is Mariamne, and second to her is the State. All that he accomplishes he offers his wife, saying that it is for her he has done it. The issue involved is the killing of Aristobulus, and when this is done the love of Mariamne for Herod turns cold. Then the chief • concern of Herod is to win back her. love. From this point real dramatic action begins.
The mother and sister of Herod hate • Mariamne, and they intensify the passion of the hero by continually setting him against his wife through tricks. When Herod returns with victory over Octavius Caesar at Rhodes, he offers all to Mariamne, relating to her what he has accomplished. She, however, merely answers: “Ah,” and . when he has finished speaking she confronts him with the murder of Aristobulus. He does not deny the murder, claiming it was
ioi
for her it was done. Herod pleads with her, but she leaves him, saying,-“Farewell.” When the Ministers of State confront Herod with the seriousness of the visits of Mariamne to the tomb of Aristobulus, he simply asks for ways to win back the love of his queen, thus showing his madness for her. Cypros indicates her part in the play when she enters and says: “Tie is now wrought to the very mood when we can use him to strike at Mariamne. We must not suffer him to cool.” When she and Salome intercept the cup-bearer, the action of the play rises, and Herod’s energy becomes kinetic. By a trick they have made him believe that Mariamne has attempted to poison him. He confronts Mariamne with the charge, threatens her; but she remains unaffected, and he is driven into a passionate frenzy. As she is about to drink the poison, he dashes the cup from her hand, exclaiming: “0 stay yet! I forgive the love denied: See—I forgive the poison. I but crawl here at your feet and kiss your garment’s hem, and I forgive this mutiny—all—all—but for one kiss from you, one touch, one word. 0 like a creature, I implore some look, some syllable, some sign, ere I go mad, Mariamne! Mariamne! Mariamne!” The author puts in a clever touch when Mariamne points to The wine upon the floor and says: “Between us a red stream.”
Mariamne leaves Herod without a word, and he throws himself upon the steps exclaiming: “I am denied her soul, and that which was a glow hath now become a wasting flame. I am a barren, solitary pyre.” The catastrophe, for which everything, has been so cleverly prepared, comes in the death of Mariamne, and when at last the dead queen is brought before Herod befalls into a cataleptic fit. The curtain descends, then rises, and it is night. It descends again and it is dawn, Herod remaining in a fixed position. This ending gives us finality. It is artificial to a certain extent; but it does not mar the play.
The unity of the play is very ‘good, as we have seen. Love for Mariamne, bang the chosen action, is alw’ays prominent and is set forth cleverly. It naturally centres about the hero, and we see hojw the subordinate ■ actions are also wrought about him, if not .
102
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
directly, then indirectly. The action has grown step by step, has finally arrived to its climax, and then gradually falls, until the catastrophe is reached. The story is complete, and the actions and events which we do not see, can be inferred from what we see. Thus there is much poetic truth in “Herod.” The nobility exists in treatment, and this is cleverly done, as the brief outline I have given will indicate.
The plot of “Nero” lies in the fact that Agrippina has placed her son, Nero, upon the throne, and must receive recognition for what she has done for him. He loves her intensely, and it is his desire that she rule with him. This, however, would be disastrous to the state, so his ministers urge him against her. Nero, his mother Agrippina, his Afinisters of State and Poppa^a, are the chief characters of the play. The purpose of Poppasa in the play is merely to win the love of Nero and then set him against his mother. Here we see how characters are used to create kinetic energy in the hero. Britannicus, the brother of Agrippina, and heir to the throne of Rome, is killed soon after the play begins.
Nero is a historical character; - but, Shakespeare-“like, the author has presented him to us in such a manner as would best bring out dramatic action. At the opening of the play, we find Nero vain and not at all bloodthirsty, as he shows by refusing to sign death warrants that are presented to him. Later on, however, he commits murder; but only when it is his duty to the state to do so.
Nero is a lover of peace, as his opening words indicate: “Behold this forest of uprisen spears, symbol of might!- But I upon that might would not rely. Vou hail
me as emperor—then , hail me as emperor was in my part to cling about her, I of* peace.” The chief interests of Nero are clung about her mad with memories. The love for mother and love for state. The water in my eyes rose from my soul, and issue involved is a choice between these two. flooding from the heart ran down my He loves both very much, and therefore a cheek. Did my voice tremble? Then it choice between them brings forth that trembled. true with human agony behind great stress of passion so vital to real the art. Gods! what a scene.” Here we dramatic action.	find true expressions of the < soul, intense
The prefigurative introduction prepares passion. f ...	.	.
us for the struggle that will take place. The Amid claps of thunder, Nero drinks until words of Agrippina indicate this: “My high intoxicated,exclaiming: “ Ah! thunder! son, this verynight it was foretold, ‘Nero thou art come at last, too late! What
• shall reign, but shalh kill his mother.’ Tell catches at my heart ? I—I—her boy, her baby
me the stars have lied.” And he answers her, smiling: “The stars have lied.” He is unconscious of the events that shall soon transpire. The first growth in the action is when the Ministers of State plan to have Popprea win her way into the heart of Nero in order to set him against his mother. Poppgea touches his vanity by telling him his mother has laughed at his verse in public. His passion is roused, and when he meets Agrippina he quarrels with her, finally commanding her to leave Rome. She thereupon becomes a lioness roused to action, and at once threatens to put her brother,' Britannicus, upon the throne. Thus the hero’s character is developed, — he becomes more active. He has made his choice and must defend it by having Britannicus killed. This he has done upon the advice of his Afinisters. Agrippina is incensed still more now because of her great love for her brother, and all is prepared for Poppasa to win Nero, and fan the flame that is already burning within him. Continuallv does Nero falter between state and mother. At last when he' has .been urged to a choice, he exclaims: “I can not do it: if she goes, she goes. I can not say - farewell, and kiss her lips ere I commit her body to the deep.”
When Agrippina, full of motherly love, enters and strokes his hair, his heart is indeed heavy. When she speaks of coming to him to-morrow, he answers: “I’ll come to you to-morrow! Ah! to-morrow! But to-night. Now let me have you once more in my arms.” He tries to speak of other things to her but fails. When she is gone he exclaims passionately:“ Was I all actor then ? That which I feigned I felt, and when it was my cue to kiss* her, the whole of childhood rushed into the kiss. When it
NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTJC.	io;
KJ
that was, even 1 have killed her: where I sucked there I have struck. Mother I mother!...” Here again do we find intense dramatic passion. There is also much nobility in these expressions, much literary merit.	.
Nero’s mother, however, did not die, and when Nero is told she lives he will not be persuaded to make a second attempt to take her life, exclaiming: “To Rome I go free-souled and guiltless of a mother’s blood; resume the accustomed feast, the race, the song, and I shall be received with public joy and clamors of congratulating Rome.” There is sublimity, greatness, in these words.
The Ministers, knowing that if Agrippina live, thev shall die, have her killed. The catastrophe of the play is brought about bv the burning of Rome. Nero refuses to extinguish the flames, thus hoping to atone for his mother’s death. Continually does he urge the flames to blaze, finally saying: “Blaze! rage! blaze!’For now am I free of thy blood. I have appeased and atoned; have atoned with cries, with crashings; I have given thee flaming Rome for the bed of' thy death! 0 Agrippina!” There is not only greatness in this passage which ends the play, but there is finality. <	'
From the foregoing analysis, we see that the unity of the action is good. It runs along smoothly and evenly, and neither begins nor ends at haphazard. The action chosen^ Love of Mother, with its subordinate action, Love of State, centres about the hero, as we have seen, and the other subordinate actions also centre about him, directly or indirectly. The poetic, truth of the plaj- is good, all the actions used being essential. The nobility in treatment is grand, and from the expressions of the very soul of the .hero that I have quoted we see that the dramatic action of the play is full of intense struggle.
To>Day.
To-Day is a fact, to-morrow a dream, . The past is a smile or tear; . Live well to-day, and to-morrow will seem As bright.as your brightest year.
/	— O.A.S.
Some Aspects of the Oxford Movement.
III.—Synthesis of the Movement.
PAUL J. FOIK, ’07.
The critical hour came in 1841 when “Tract Ninety” made its appearance. The question that was now’ vexing Newman’s mind was the proposition, that if the Church of Rome and the Church of England were both right, the Thirty-nine Articles must coincide with the teachings of the Council of Trent. Could the position "be consistently maintained that these doctrines were compatible with one another ? Mr. Wilfred Ward, commenting on the situation, says: “ Considering the marked line which the old-fashioned Tractarians had ever drawn between Catholicism and Romanism, considering, too, that a large and influential section among them still regarded the Reformation as a heaven-sent deliverance from the Roman outgrowths of Catholic doctrine, and that Trent was by many taken to be the embodiment Of those outgrowths, it seemed doubtful how such a view should be tolerated.”
But this was exactly the view that William Ward and some of the younger Tractarians held. Newman found himself in a miserable predicament. He hesitated for a while as to which course he should pursue. It soon became evident that he and Mr. Pusey held different views on the question contained in Tract Ninety, and this difference w’as very much accentuated by Mr. Ward, who made it generally known to everyone. Newman and Keble—had already stated their position quite strongly in the Preface to the second part of Froude’s “Remains,” where they spoke of “the right and duty of taking the Anglican formularies as we find them and interpreting them, as, God be thanked, they may always be interpreted in all essentials, conformably to the doctrine and ritual of the Church Universal.” Mr. Ward’s view as given by his son is almost the same. He said: “The Council of Trent did not necessarily embody Roman popular teaching with all its corruptions ; the articles might include a protest against such teaching, and yet in being
io4	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
consistent with the teaching of the Universal Church they might be consistent with that portion of the teaching of the Church of Rome to which Trent had irrevocably committed her.”
With opinions such as these for a basis, Tract Ninety was begun. We learn from the diary of Archbishop Tait that Ward worried Newman into writing it. The motive which induced Newman to write the Tract is best expressed in the author’s own words, in which he shows a keen insight into the prevailing tendencies of the age. He says: “There is at this moment a great progress of the religious mind of our Church to something deeper and truer than satisfied the last century.... The age is moving towards something, and most unhappily the religious communion among us which has of late years been practically in possession of that something is the Church of Rome. She alone amid all the errors and evils of her practical system has given free scope to the feeling of awe, mystery, tenderness, reverence, devotedness and other feelings which may especially be called Catholic.
“The question then is whether we shall give them up to the Roman Church, or claim them for ourselves, as we all may be reverting to the older system, which has of late years indeed been superseded, but which has been and is quite congenial (to say the least), I should rather say proper and natural, or even necessary, to the Church.”
To trace in detail the history of the events following the publication of Tract Ninety would carry us into a new epoch of the Movement, which is beyond the purpose of this paper. Suffice it to say that immediately. as the Tract appeared Newman was denounced on all. sides. The Movement which had hitherto been prosperous beyond hope was broken in two. Pusey and Keble kept their position within the Establishment. Ward, one of the most intellectual of Newman’s disciples, published his “Ideal of the Christian Church,” and “was degraded in solemn session, all Oxford looking on.” He brought to the Roman schools his rich power of philosophy by which he shattered Mill’s pet dogma, called (<the association of ideas.” :	.
Newman, seeing that public confidence in - him was shaken, retired to Littlemore, but
here he was to receive three further blows. He had set himself to a translation of . St. Athanasius, and was not engaged on this work very long when the ghost which had visited him in 1839 now appeared in bolder shape. The words that Cardinal Wiseman quoted from St. Augustine on that occasion were here again verified. The golden sentence of the great Father of Hippo, worthy indeed to be an axiom in theology, deeply smote upon Newman’s ears as he read it again and again. The Saint seemed to be continuailly whispering the same words to him: “Qua propter securus iudicat orbis terrarum bonos non esse qui dividunt ab orbe terrarum in quacumque parte orbis terrarum, ” as if to impress them yet more indelibly on his mind. It seemed that the divine call of “ Tolle, lege—toile lege” was here being repeated in Newman’s case.
Newman in later years speaks most eloquently of this trying ordeal: “What was the use,” he says, “of continuing the controversy or defending my position, ifr after all, I was forging arguments for Arius or Eutychius and turning devil’s advocate against the much enduring Athanasius and the majestic Leo? Be my soul with the saints 1 and shall I lift up my hand against them? Sooner may my right hand forget her cunning and wither outright, as his who once stretched it out against a Prophet of God. Anathema to a whole tribe of Cranmers, Ridleys, Latimers, and Jewels! perish the names of Bramhall, Ussher, Taylor, Stillingfleet, and Barrow from the face of the earth ere I should do aught but fall at their feet in love and in worship, whose image was continually before my eyes,, and whose musical words were ever in my ears and on my tongue.”	: ;
But a second and a third blow was to smite Newman before he gave himself entirely over to Catholicism. He was to receive the personal condemnation of many of the leading bishops in the Church of England. As if this were not enough for him to bear, there came now a sequel the affair of the Jerusalem Bishopric. Those very Anglican bishops who had heaped censure after censure upon him for approaching too close to the Catholic Church, were now seeking communion with Protestant Prussia. : As early as 1830 it had been the desire of the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Prussian court to introduce Episcopacy in connection with the Lutheran and Calvin-istic bodies of the realm. Almost coincident with the publication -of Tract Ninety M. Bunsen, the Prussian Minister, and the Archbishop of Canterbury were taking measures in this direction. As a first step towards a closer alliance between the newly manufactured State Church of Prussia and the Church of England, it was proposed to institute a Protestant bishopricat Jerusalem. This prelate was to be nominated alternately by England and Prussia, and was to exercise jurisdiction over the English and German Protestants in Palestine. The bishop was to be further confirmed in his position by an Act of Parliament under date of October 5, 1841. Here was the beginning of the end for Newman. That the Anglican Church should have permitted other Protestant bodies into communion with her and not ask them to abjure their i	errors, was more than his wavering faith
I	could stand. From this time forward there
was for him a gradual drifting away from _the Establishment, which continued until 1845, when the first great crisis in the life i of John Henry Newman was passed.
It may be said with certainty that with the departure of Newman, Ward, Oakley, Faber and others from the Anglican Church the most critical period of the Movement also was over. It is but necessary now - to mention a few of the results that these years of religious awakening brought to England. We note that one of the most prominent characteristics of all the Trac-tarian publications was that they were learned . They exhibited indeed great depth and originality of thought and an acute power of logic to which there was added the principle so well expressed in one of the first Tracts, namely, that “individual speculation is not to be substituted for solid learning.” Fidelity to this principle has placed English literature on a par with those monuments of labor and research which have been raised up in recent years i	in Germany. This great theological revival
has done much to rear a new generation great in depth and solidity of mind and eager for truth. With such an atmosphere philosophy, the necessary adjunct of theology, has received a fresh stimulus. Men

IO5
now use greater precaution and accustom themselves early to a more serious habit of philosophical inquiry. And this same care is exercised in the study of history. The more men have been brought into contact with past ages, and especially with the treasures of mind accumulated in ancient writings, the more modest, active, and firm, have become their opinions; modest from a reverential feeling towards their ancestors;-active from emulation; firm from being supported by authority.
What Mr. Copeland has said of Cardinal Newman’s Oxford sermons, may be said of the Tractarian Movement generally: “It acted like leaven on the mind and language and literature of the church in England.. It produced an intelligent and sympathetic study of the art, the institutions, the spiritual history of the past. It aroused a deep sense of the sanctity of common life.” We have further expression of the immense good resulting from the activities of the Tractarian in other branches of learning. “It cleansed,” says Lilly, “our ancient cathedrals and churches from the squalor of centuries, and clothed them in the semblance of their pristine magnificence; it has erected new religious edifices throughout the land some hardly inferior in beauty.of construction and splendor of decoration to the work of Medieval piety.” This development of architecture was accompanied by revival of art. There arose at this time the pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood who, strange to say, moved by the spirit of the . times unknowingly incorporated the same principles in their teachings of art as the Trac-tarians had done in theology and the Lake School in poetry, Like the writer of the “Tracts for the Times,” the contributors of the Germ sought to revive the spirit of the past by turning to pre-Raphaelite days. We read in the February number of the Germ : “ Truth in every particular ought to be the aim of the artist. Admit no untruth, let the priest’s garments be clean. Let. us return to the early Italian painters.” Here there was an unconscious conformity to the principles laid down by Scott and Wordsworth, energetically pursued by the Trac-tarians, and resulting in grand triumph of Truth in the decision of 1845.	.
(The End.)	.
!
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.	.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ‘
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, October 26, 1907.
Board of Editors.
EDWARD F. O’FLYNN, ’07 ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’OS FRANCIS T. MAHER, ’OS IGNATIUS E. MCNAMEE, ’09
ROBERT A. KASPER, ’07 WILLIAM LENNARTZ, ’OS JAMES J. QUINLAN, ’OS VARNUM A. PARISH, ’09
No
The Students’ Retreat
—On the evening of the 29 th of this month the Catholic students of the University will begin their annual retreat.
part of the program of the scholastic year is more important than this, and none should be looked to by
the student with more conscientious care. This year the exercises will be conducted by the Rev. P.'J. O’Callaghan, the distinguished Paulist, -who has done such splendid work in the missionary field, and has attained such eminent success as a pulpit orator.
—A little more than thirteen years ago there was assembled at Notre Dame the First American Eucharistic Convention, a gathering of clergymen
The Eucharistic greater in number than • League. any which had been , held since the time of the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore. The League has increased its membership very remarkably during those thirteen years of its existence. This year the meeting took place at Pittsburg. Next year there is to be an unusually large gathering, called a convention, in distinction from the ordinary meeting , called a congress, and the League has selected Notre Dame as the place at which the convention is to be held. The date, when definitely fixed, will be some time in the month of. August. -
Lecture and Concert Course.
As yet it is a little ’early to give a complete list of the features arranged for our Lecture and Concert Course. Last year the annonce-ment was made late in November when .the list was nearly completed. The lectures and entertainments, which constitute part of this year’s program, may be announced as follows:
Sept. 25, Wednesday—Dr. James C. Monaghan (lecture)
Sept. 26, Thursdajr—Reproduction of Parsifal (lecture and pictures)
Oct. 9, Wednesday—General N. M. Curtis (lecture)
Nov. 5, Tuesday—S. E. Doane	“
Nov. 6, Wednesday—Judge Ben Lindsey	“
Nov. 9, Saturday—Prof. Frederick Starr	“
Nov. 15, Friday—Edgar J. Banks	“
Nov. 16, Saturday—Edgar J. Banks •	“
Dec. 6, Friday—Victor’s Venetian Band (concert)
Jan. 15, Wednesday—Bertha K. Baker (readings) Jan. 24, Friday—Guy Carleton Lee	(lecture)
Feb. 18,'Tuesday—Opie Read	“
Mar. 14, Saturday—Prof. French	“
Mar. 2S, Saturday—Mary Flanner	(readings)
Date not fixed—Gilbert McClurg (lecture and pictures) Date not fixed—Emily Canfield	(two lectures)
Three of these numbers have been already presented. Dr. Monaghan, always a charming speaker, took for his theme the opportunities 'which the -world presents to the ambitious youth. Anna Delony Martin told the story of Parsifal in connection with the presentation of moving picture of the opera. “Restoration Days.in Virginia” was the subject of an entertaining talk by General Curtis. The number set for Nov. 5th is intended particularly for the members of the Engineering classes. Judge Ben Lindsey, who speaks on the following day, is an old student of Notre Dame'and a man of considerable distinction, owing to the part' he has had in the development of juvenile courts. Edgar Banks and Opie Read will be remembered for the pleasure they afforded us last year. Guy Carleton Lee is one of America’s best essayists, and is well known to all readers - of current magazines. Prof. French is Director of the Chicago Art Institute. Professor Frederick Starr is America’s greatest Ethnologist. The others whose names appear on the list are well known and singularly successful along the special lines to the study of which they devote their attention.
WIRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Io7
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 23; Franklin, 0.
Notre Dame defeated Franklin last Saturday by the score of 23 to 0. The all-around work of the Varsity showed much improvement over the first game, and football stock took another boom occasioned by the good showing of the team. Franklin put up a good defense at times, but on offense they could do but little with the Varsity, as the forwards broke through time and again, breaking up the visitors’.plays before they were started. , Munson continues to play star ball in the line, and “Red” Miller, making his debut as a lineman, played a great game at centre. “Possum” Paine broke into fast company Saturday and put up a splendid game at guard, giving good promise for the future. Capt. Callicrate and Ryan played an excellent field game, and both men tore off several long runs. Coach Barry, insisted that the team play nothing but straight football, as he wanted to see what the forwards could do, and hence the score was only about half as large as it should have been. Although the linemen showed improvement over the first game, there still remains a lot to be done before the Indiana game comes off. Hague, who played his first full game as a Varsity man, gave much promise and made several good gains on tackle-around bucks, picking his holes well and using judgment in running with the ball.
The Varsity was never in danger of being scored upon, as Franklin’s offense consisted mostly of track plays which failed. During the second half the visitors gave Notre Dame’s line a good work out, as they confined their attempts to gain at line-bucking, these attempts, however, were without result. Bryne, of the visiting team, played a star game in the backfield: his open field tackling saved his team several touchdowns.
	Line Up.	College (0)
Notre Dame (23)	' Franklin	
Wood, Diener	R. E.	Beam
Hague	R. T.	Boone
Mertes, Paine	R. G.	Thompson
Miller, Henning	C.	.	Byers
Dugan, Ditton '	L. G. .	Devore
Munson	L. T.	Van Riper
Burdick	L. E.	Graham
Ryan, Berteling Callicrate, Young	Q- B.	Bryne
	R. H.	Ditmars
Cripe, Duffy	L. H.	Duggan
McDonald, Miller	F. B.	Overstreet
Touchdowns—Cripe, Miller (2), McDonald. Goal— Ryan. Safety — Notre Dame. Referee — Bracken. Umpire—McHenry. Head linesman—Lantry. Timekeeper—Dwan. Time of halves—20 minutes.
' * . * *
Cripe, who has been putting up a star game at half-back broke his wrist during o	o
the second half, and will very likely be out of the game the rest of the season. His loss will ^weaken the team for a time, but there are several men in the squad who are likely candidates for half-back positions.
-x-~ *
Cripe’s injury will necessitate a shift in the backfield. Ryan may go to half, and Berteling or Dillon to quarter. Coach Barry may, however, decide to play Schmitt in the backfield, an arrangement which would give Burdick a regular berth on end, Ryan running at quarter.
* * * .
“Bill” Schmitt, who has been laid up with a bad knee, reported Monday and was used at end.
* .
* *
Olivet College, from Michigan, will play here this afternoon, and the game will be the best one played at Notre Dame this season. Last year Olivet beat Michigan “Aggies,” and the “Aggies” played the Varsity to a standstill, Notre Dame winning only after the hardest kind of a fight, by the score of 5 to 0.
* * *
From now on, the team -will be pointed for the Indiana game which comes one week from to-day. Early in the year the Varsity was not conceded a chance against the down-state school, but things have brightened up considerably during the past week, and Notre Dame may, be on the long end of the bet yet.	’
* * ' ■ * *
Night practice began this week, and from now the team will work at least three nights a we£k in the gym.
* ♦
Leroy Keach has been elected captain of the Varsity track team for the season of 1908. Keach was elected last Monday night, making Monday a banner day for him. In the morning he was elected Presi
io8	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
dent of the Senior law class and at night captain of the track team
* ' ■
* * -
“Mike” Moriarty, “some” pole vaulter, was elected captain of the Cross-Country Club, which will begin training at once for the meet on Thanksgiving Day.
* ♦ *
The following is a list of the winners of the events in the Fall Handicap Track and Field Meet: -
100-yard dash—O’Leary, 1 yard, 1st; Shafer, scratch, 2d; Hebenstreit, 2 yards, 3d. Time, :10 3-5.
120 yard high hurdles—Moriarty, scratch, 1st; McNally, 1 yard, 2d. Time, :1S. .
One-mile run—Roach, scratch, 1st; Gunster, 60 yards, 2d; Roth, 20 yards, 3d. Time, 5:14.	'
440 yard dash—Moriarty, scratch, 1st; O'Leary, 5 yards, 2d; Blackman, 8 yards, 3d. Time, :56 3-5.
220 yard dash—Shafer, scratch, 1st; Hebenstreit, 4 yards, 2d; O’Leary, 1 yard, 3d. Time, :24 1-5.
SSO yard run—Devine, scratch, 1st; Dean, 30 yards, 2d; Duffy, 20 yards, 3d. Time, 2:15 4-5.
Broad jump—Shafer, 6 inches, 1st; Cripe, scratch, 2d; McDonough, scratch, 3d. Distance, 20 feet ^2 inch.
16Tb. shot put—Murphy, 4 feet, 1st; Wood, scratch, 2d; O’Leary, 4 feet, 3d. Distance, 36 feet.
Pole vault—Moriarty, scratch, 1st; McNally, 1 foot, 2d. Height, 10 feet.
High jump—Miller, 3 inches 1st; Scales, scratch, 2d; O’Leaiy, 3 inches, 3d. Height, 5 feet 5 inches.
.	12 lb. Hammer Throw—Wood, scratch, 1st; O’Leary,
15 feet, 2d; Murphy, 20 feet, 3d. Distance, 108 feet.
Discus—Cripe, scratch, 1st; Wood, scratch, 2d; Murphy, 12 feet. 3d. Distance, 98 feet.
Quarter mile relay race 2 men—Shafer and Murphy, 1st; Duffy and Hebenstreit, 2d. Time, :50.	•
* * *
The Minims held a track meet on the 17th as reported in our last issue. The following is a summary of the events:
50-yard dash—1st grade, B. Wagner,1st; H. Ledford, 2d. 2d grade, C. Jennings, 1st; M. Lackman, 2d. 3d grade, W. Farrell, 1st; P. Beane, 2d. 4th grade, G. Sheaphard, 1st; J. Pope, 2d.
Sack race—1st grade, W. Martin, 1st; H. Larkin, 2d. 2d grade, M. O'Shea, 1st; W. Cooley, 2d. 3d grade, P. Armstrong, 1st; R. Brvson, 2d. 4th grade, W. Cagnefy;
1st; H. Call, 2d.	"	.
Three-legged Race—lst= grade; C. Paule and _R. Reed, 2d grade, J. Comerford and M. Mann; 3d grade, F. Sickler and D. Comerford. - •	;
Hurdles—1st grade, B. Bogy, 1st; M. Dillon, 2d. 2d grade, R. Brennan, 1st; T. Glynn, 2d. 3d grade, M. Coad, 1st; F. Powers, 2d.	.	* .
..	One-half mile race—rlst grade, M. Farrell," 1st;. L. Cox,
2d. 2d grade, C. Moran, 1st;-M Decker, 2d. 3d grade, ’ M. Ratcliff, 1st; F. VanCleve, 2d.	’
Bicycle race—1st grade, D. Sullivan, 1st; O. Schwalbe, 2d. 2d grade, J. W. Henty, lst; S: Vyzral, 2d. 3d grade, B. Railton, 1st; J. Follefty 2d. 4th grade, Ji Bowles, 1st;
- R. Mills, 2d.	' ;
College Notes.
The trustees of Swarthmore College are in a quandary because they are asked to accept a gift; they are in the meshes of a net, and they - are not likely to get out before December, when, at the latest, they must declare their intentions. The question worrying the fathers of the Quaker institution is whether or not to abandon inter-collegiate athletics. At the bottom, of course, is the same cause that created trouble in Eden,—a woman. When Miss Anna T. Jeanes, the late Philadelphia Quakeress, made a bequest of three millions to Swarthmore College, if was on condition that the school abandon . inter-collegiate athletics. No doubt, the glitter of gold dazzles the trustees; but against all the possible advantages to be gained from these millions, what of the supremacy, what of the garlands still green and as cherished as ever they were when the Quakers triumphed over Pennsylvania last year by the score of 4 to 0 ? It’s a juggle, but we have no doubt which ball the trustees will drop? ’	J"
* *
John D. Rockefeller’s donation of $600,000 assured Chicago University of a Memorial Library, and Chicago never accuses the old man of being monotonous,—which only goes to prove that one can not get too much of a good thing.
’ ■- ■ *
'■ S..	■ m'-1	* *	+
Santa Clara, St. Mary’s, and other California Catholic colleges have adopted Rugby in preference to the inter-collegiate, game.
- ■ - ♦ * . • •
President Thompson of Ohio State University has forbidden the annual cane rush. He says it violates the hazing law; but serious injuries to participants in a recent rush, are supposed to be the cause of the edict. - ' .
' - * ♦ . .
It is nearly time to begin registering the annual bit of advice concerning “the advantage of an exchange column.” The uplifters of college journalism should get busy and try; to impress on the prodigals: the benefit to be gotten from the bouquet column.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
109
A Page’s Notes.
We had a pretty cold day Wednesday; there was no Coffee at the clerk’s desk, so we had to be resigned to Shiver instead. Now that’s a joke, a good joke too, after you argue the matter out. The perpetration is not mine, unfortunately; I only wish it were. But honor to whom honor is. due— . it’s one of Philosophical Schmid’s effusions, and, like all his other humorous bursts, requires careful analysis, if we would get the delicate tang- which clings bubbling at . the brim. You see it’s this way: our idea of coffee brings up the picture of a steaming beverage, piping hot from the canister, something most agreeable on a cold day; again the word shiver calls to mind icicles, hoar - frost and ear - muffs,—not yet; that isn’t the good, part,—you see, our regular House Clerk, Coffee, was away, so “—at Valley Forge” McNally” was chosen to fill the place pro tern;—hold on! this aint the time to laugh; the best part of the analysis, the tang, aint, here yet.' A cold day was only the circumstance, but a most happy one, else this scintillating wit couldn’t have been perpetrated. Remember! lay the cold day aside, it hasn’t anything to do with the joke. But here comes the tang, watch it carefully. House Clerk Coffee is just what his namesake the beverage implies; red hair, blazing eyes and a fiery nature, all convey the idea of warmth; the Clerk is, in other words, a hot proposition. “Shiver-with-me,” on the other hand, is; now have you got the tang? Isn’t it great?
Goddeyne of Arkansas was first man on the floor and right off with the gun. Rollcall wasn’t quite finished when he jumped to his feet to voice an opinion,, regarding the official House printer that wouldn’t jibe with Job’s line of talk even in the prepdsi-tions.. That individual, it seems, for . the past four sessions has consistently balled up the worthy member’s name in the House record. “It has been variously spelled, G—o—d—y—n—e, G—o—d—d—a—n—e, and lastly G—o—d—d—a—n—n,” said. Goddeyne, “ and you can very readily see, Mr. Speaker, what would happen if the printer’s devil should make: another slip on one of those letters. Why! my name would be expunged
from the House roll on a statute of the federal code, and it has never yet been said in the history of the country that a member of this august assembly has ever been expelled for profanity. I move you, therefore, Mister Speaker, that the most powerful censure the sergeant-at-arms is capable of ministering, be ordered inflicted on the printer’s devil.” After this peroration the Arkansas Traveler gave the floor and the attention of the House to Ichabod Crane Fox, who seconded the
motion and carried it on a gale of unanimity.
We had an exciting few minutes after the day’s work was over, when Holleran
of Texas was found lying unconscious in his place. The floor was nearly empty before it was discovered that the little Texan was
lying prostrate over his desk. A hurried cry was raised for water, and not until a liberal supply had been dashed over his temples and wrists did the gentleman return to his senses. A dazed condition, however, held him for some time, and it was with difficulty he finally tottered to his carriage. The speaker sent me found to-night to inquire what the illness might be and if the patient is resting easier. I learned from the attending physician that the poor fellow had been attacked by an acute case of somnolentia Sorinensis, a disease quite prevalent in the hotel where Holleran is living. The doctor advised a course of treatment at the Olympic, a popular sanitarium in the neighboring city, and it is probable the sufferer will be removed there on Thurs
day if circumstances permit.
-	Obituary.
It is with special regret that we chronicle the death of Paul Murphy of Anniston, Ala. He passed to his eternal rest on the morning of Oct. 19. He was returning from the West, whither he had gone for relief from the disease which finally carried him off. He was on the train with his mother and a brother when the end came. Requiem Mass was celebrated Thursday morning in the presence of the students and faculty, who are all grieved to hear of Paul’s death. The memory of this splendid boy will live long at Notre Dame, and the stricken family has the heartfelt sympathy .of the University..
1 IO
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personals.
Examinations.
—Mr. William P. Galligan, student ’05-’07, is in the employ of Arnold Raines & Co., the largest general agency in Arkansas.
—N. H. Silver, E. E. ’06, is First Assistant to the Chief Electrical Engineer of the Warren. Electric Mfg. Co. of Sandusky, Ohio.
—George Ziegler, Law ’03, recently joined the Benedicks. He is connected with the Geo. Ziegler Co., Confectioners of Milwaukee, which is erecting the largest individual confectionery factory in the United States.
—Thomas King, who attended the University in ’06, came to visit his teachers and friends last Sunday. “Tom” fails to find the pleasure of life in Chicago quite complete without the sunshine of Notre Dame.
—T. Dart Walker has come back, to camp for a while with his friends at Notre Dame, and that means the whole University. T. Dart is kind enough to form a. strong affection for the “Dome” people, and he is here to assist them in preparing the ’OS volume.
—Mr. James Burns, student ’S3, of Lincoln, Illinois, and Mr. Patrick Ryan, now of Emden, also an old student, visited the University last week. They were accompanied by Mr. X. F. Beidley, County clerk of Logan County, Illinois, and by Mr. H. E. Ouisenberry, Supervisor of Logan County. Mr. Burns and Mr. Ryan are also members of the board of supervision, Mr. Ryan being the chairman. These gentlemen gave as much pleasure as they received from their visit.
—A letter from one of the old boys at Columbus, Ohio, tells of the good work done by the Newman Club of the Ohio State University. The Club had occasion to give a reception on the first of October in honor of Professor Jerome Green, our director of the electrical engineering department, who is now enjoying a year’s leave of absence. The Newman Club at O. S. U. has an enrollment of about 150 Catholic young men who study at the University. Professor Green was one of the organizers of . this club, which has now in its membership several who are well known at Notre Dame. Their names are: Messrs. Ponce, Roa, Garcia, Quevedo, Orosco; McGrath, Barry, and Miller.
. Monday, Oct. 2S, 1907.
Classes taught at 8 a. m. and 10 a. m. will be examined at 8 a. m. and 10:30 a. m. respectively.
Classes taught at 1:30 p. m. and 4:30 p. m. will be examined at 2 p. m. and 5 p. m. respectively.
Tuesday, Oct. 29.
Classes taught at 8:45 a. m. and 11 a. m. will be examined at 8 a. m. and 10:30 a. m. respectively.
Classes taught at 2:15 p. m. and 5:30 p. m. wall be examined at 2 p. m. and 5 p. m. respectively.
The Christian Doctrine Classes will be examined Saturday, Nov. 2, 7:45 a. m. to 9.
The regular examination paper must be used by all students.
Local Items.
—R. C. Peurrung has’been elected president of the St. Edward’s Hall bicycle club. .
—Cahill is contemplating an investment in artillery. We offer this as a word of warning to the musicians, orators and singers, who infest his neighborhood.
—The non-Catholic students who do not wish to attend the exercises of the Retreat on Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 30 and 31, will attend classes at the regular hours.
—Mr. Adler has the thanks of the athletic fraternity for his generosity in donating the prizes which were awarded the winners in the fall handicap track meet which was held October 17.
—The Wisconsin club held a special meeting Tuesday night. The purpose was to arrange a literary and musical program to be carried out at the next regular meeting in November.
—The work of cataloguing the books in the library has been assigned to a librarian of wide experience, Miss Florence E. Espy; considerable progress has been made already, the work having been begun last August.
—Preliminaries for the Varsity Oratorical Contest will take place on November 27. Those who intend to take part in the contest will register their names with the Director of Studies ten days in advance of the contest.
'—Candidates for the Master’s degree must present a formal statement to the committee
NOIRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
s on graduate work, specifying the major 1 and minor subjects selected. This applies to | students of all courses without exception. |	—Whistling in the corridors of the build-
ings is growing to be a sort of .nuisance. The thoughtful gentleman will not indulge ! in such an exhibition of coarse manners. I —The football game between the Brown-I	son and St. Joseph second teams, Oct. 20,
•	resulted in victory for the latter, the score
i being 10 to 0. The grounds were in poor ! condition, and very little clever playing was I exhibited by either side.
i	—The Minims played a rattling good game
s	of football with a team from St. Patrick’s
।	parish last Saturday. B. Wagner, W. Bens-
burg, M. Farrell, and H. Cagney were prominent among the eleven skilful players that upheld the honor of St. Edward’s Hall.
—The Corby Football team defeated the . Benton Harbor Business College in a fast game last, Saturday by a score of 17 to 5. Schroeder and Sours starred for Corby. The Corby team has been strengthened 100% by Hughes and Duffy who are now playing line positions.
—Very Rev. Father Morrissey, Brother Paul, Brother Aidan, and Prof. Edwards attended the Centennial Exercises of the Sisters of Providence at St. Mary’s of the Woods. The exercises took place last Wednesday, and were presided over by the Apostolic Delegate.
—Brownson Hall has organized a basketball team and has,begun practice for the coming inter-hall contest. Last Saturday the team played a game with the South Bend Commercial Athletic Club and sustained a defeat owing to a lack of preparation. Moloney, Boulton, Babbitt, Ely and Brislin took part in the contest.
—In each of the halls and at the entrance to the stationery department there are cards of announcement indicating the hours at which students may purchase books and ' transact other business connected with the University office. Those who look for courteous treatment will scrupulously observe the directions given -in these cards.
—The fence enclosing Cartier Field is* receiving a new coat of green paint. It is now nearly eight years since Mr. Warren Cartier generously donated the field to the University and thereby contributed largely to the convenience of the athletic teams. The grandstand is to be cared for by the painter when his work on the fence is finished.
—The Lem onnier Library has been remembered with characteristic generosity by Mr. W. J. Onahan of Chicago, the Laetare Medallist of 1890, who has presented a rare and
in
valuable volume entitled “Ramblings in the Elucidation of the Autograph of Milton,” by Samuel Leigh Sotheby. The work is a splendid specimen of the best bookmaking, was printed in 1861, is an imperial quarto, and is lavishly illustrated.
—George W. Sprenger, who attended the Spalding Institute at Peoria, Ill., prior to his coming to Notre Dame two. years ago, was brought into the limelight in the October number of the Purple and White;' his picture was presented in connection with an acknowledgment of his services as coach of the S. I. football team during September. George has returned to Notre Dame to continue his studies in law’.
—The first run of the Cross Country Club, in which some ten members took part, showed that this branch of athletics is going to prove very popular. It is certain that no branch will be more beneficial, both • for developing long-distance runners and giving backbone to sprinters. The short course was taken Tuesday, and the club will gradually work up to the long one which extends for about four miles.
—Freshmen and all other students in the gymnastic classes must keep in mind that they are not to appear in class except in gymnasium suit and special shoes which must be rubber-soled br, at least, tackless. It is also to be noted that the work of taking the physical measurements of each member of the class can not be completed expeditiously if the students do not respond promptly when notified of their turn.
—The Brownson Glee Club will co-operate with the Brownson Literary Society in furnishing an entertainment once a month for the students of Brownson Hall. Such programs were in previous years prepared at Christmas and Easter, and were thoroughly enjoyed by all who attended. The successes achieved in the past is a source of encouragement to those wffio are advocating the plan for increasing the number of these entertainments.
—The St. Joseph Hall Literary and Debating Society has already taken notice of the announcement of the inter-hall debate, and has begun preparations for the gathering of material to be used by the representatives of the Hall. The society’s program for last Wednesday evening included a reading by Roy Skelly, a recitation by T. Frechtl and a musical selection by Frank Doorley. This was followed by a general discussion of the question announced for the inter-hall debate.
—As soon as the work of installation has been completed, Notre Dame will be entirely dependent upon the electric current supplied by South Bend. For some years the University has been using outside power in
112	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
addition to that which our local plant produced, and as a result of the experience will make the transfer to the South Bend system complete as soon as the preparations have been finished. Carroll Hall and Brownson Hall are already supplied with a system of lamps that corresponds quite adequately to the needs of the students.
—The Corby Literary Society spent a pleasant hour on the 16th, listening to Father O’Neill tell the story of John Boyle O’Reilly. The adventurous life of the great Irish patriot was charmingly recounted in Father O’Neill’s own unique style, and the civic and literary eminence attained by the great Irishman after the storms of his early career, was portrayed by the eloquent speaker as a glowing incentive to ambition. Many of his auditors discovered that they are poets at heart, though the songs of the Muse flow not from their pens. Corbyites look forward pleasurably to another visit from Father O’Neill.	.
- —Dr. Monaghan manages to appear occasionally on the public platform in the intervals of rest from his class work at Notre Dame. On the 12th, 13th, and 14th he lectured at Emmetsburg, Iowa, meeting in succession the Palo Alto Teachers’ Association, the Knights of Columbus, the Ancient Order of Hibernians and the Board of Trade. At Buffalo, N. Y., on the 21st, he spoke before the Central High School, the College of Grey Nuns, and the Catholic Institute. He has been invited to return to Buffalo to speak at a mass meeting on the 11th of next month. His next engagement is for November 3d at Indianapolis, and on the following day he will speak at Sinsinawa, Wisconsin.
—The Corby Glee Club held its first social function of the school year on last Saturday night in the form of an elaborate banquet at the Oliver Hotel. About tv\ enty-five members of the organization were present. After partaking of a six-course dinner, interesting toasts were rendered by several of the members, G. Smith acting as toastmaster. L. Mullen made the hit of the evening by relating in a clever manner stories of his six years of experience on the road as a traveling salesman. The evening of pleasure was brought to a delightful close by the announcement of the victory of the Corby football team at Benton Harbor, and with nine rousing cheers for Corby, the first annual banquet of the Corby Glee Club was brought to a successful and memorable close.
—On Thursday evening, October 17, the Brownson Literary and Debating Society held its regular meeting. After the names of several applicants for membership had
been voted upon, a very interesting program was rendered as follows: “The Bridge,” by C. Murphy; “The Parks of Chicago,” by R. Wilson; “The Psalm of Life,” by F. Madden; “Customs in Kentucky,” bjr J. Coggeshall; “The Day is Done,” by P. Bar-saloux; “Facts about Oklahoma,” by J. Lenertz; “The Children’s Hour,” by C. Sorg; “The Value of the Study of Drawing,” by H. Garvey; “Ted” Carville, an ex-member, who represented Brownson in the inter-hall oratorical contest last year, pleasantly entertained the society by relating some of his experiences in California.
—The director of the botanical department wishes to make acknowledgment of the following additions to the botanical library: Dr. T. Holm, of Washington, D. C., presented five monographs of which he himself is the author and five others by V. B. Wittrock. Dr. E. L. Greene, of Washington, D. C., and N. Wille, of the University of Christiana, Norway, presented two volumes each, of which they are respectively the authors. Pliny’s Natural History, ed. Paris, 1532, was presented by Dr. J. A. Burns, C. S. C. The other volumes mentioned above are listed as follows: Claytonia Gronov.; Commelinacea?, Anatomical Studies; Etymology of Plant Names; Linnaeus, a Biographical Sketch,—all by Holm. Prod-romus Monographic CEdogoniorum, 1874; Development of the Pithophoracec, 1S77, Binuclearia, 1886; and Algolgiska Studier; 1867,—by Wittrock. Study of Rhus Glabra; and Linneus,—by Greene. Algolgische Stu-dien; and Algolgische Notizen,—by Wille.
—The regular weekly meeting of the Social Science Club which was held Saturday evening, October the fifth, was well attended. Many visitors were present and all were highly interested in the instructive talk that Dr. Monaghan delivered before the society. The subject of his lecture wTas “Education in the German Empire and How Students Study.” Dr. Monaghan spent a number of years in Germany both as a student arid a sightseer, and is well fitted to speak on this subject, since his material is drawn to a great extent from personal observation. He spoke of the instruction of the German boy from the kindergarten days until the time of graduation from one of those wonderful universities for which Germany is noted, pointing out the advantages in that style of education and the disadvantages of social life with which students have to contend. He dwelt for some time on dueling, and interestingly told experiences that had been vividly brought to his notice while he lived in that country. After the lecture a hurried business meeting was held, and several applications for membership into the society were received and acted upon.