




»  Smooth Sailing Ahead by Le'Tania Severe •  32  
.· ,· Great Expe~tations ·.· ·.  . . .  - 
From the Editor .  .. 2  Week in Distortion  33  .  by.. Megan Connelly and Ch·_.ris·t-opher.Meskill . Notre Dame's men's and wom~n's soccer  
ND Notebook ..  . . 4  Calendar ..  35  teams are on track for another great  
Campus Watch  21  Final Word  ....  36  .  Sf;lason.  .  ·  . .  ·  ·  
Out of Bounds  . 28  




Vol. 145, No. 02 • 11 SEPT 2003 
SCHOL8STIC 
Editor in Chief 
Matt Killen 
Managing Editor 
Annie Robinson 
Executive Editor 
Mike Borgia 
Executive Design Editor 
Ryan Greenberg 
News 
Christopher Kelly, editor 
Jim Ryan, assistant Eileen Varga, assistant 
Campus Life Jennifer Osterhage, editor 
Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
Sports 
Jimmy Atkinson, editor Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment Tracy Evans, editor Ryan Greene, assistant 
Le'Tania Severe, assistant 
Departments 
Meghan Gowan, editor 
Design Nick Abrams, cover 
David Redenbaugh 
Photography 
Mike McNary, editor Phil Hall, assistant 
Graphic Design Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Kelly M. Faehnle, chief 
Mo Ertel, assistant 
John Hadley, assistant Jennifer Wadkins 
Distribution 
Mike McNary, manager 
Business Jessie Potish, manager Mary Ursu, manager 
Online Jimmy Atkinson, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victun,s Vive Quasi Gras Mo1·it1m,s 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine ls copyright 
2003 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or In part, may 
be reproduced in any manner without written consent 
of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published In the next Issue, letters must be received by 
5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue.Talk about shooting yourself In the foot.All letters must Include the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed, Names will be withheld upon request In certain Instances. Scholascic reserves the right to edit letters for space, Requests for correccions made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year.Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request.The opinions ex­pressed In Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 


Top of the Heap
This summer was filled with news regarding homosexual issues. From Lawrence v. Texas to hair and fashion stylists sharing their queer eye, sexual orientation was a hot topic from cable news to the blogosphere. 
But there was another bit ofnews, too. The Princeton Review released its annual student survey results, and the University ofNotre Dame was ranked as the single most intolerant school in the nation regarding homosexuals. Many find it bizarre and counter-intuitive to see Notre Dame ranked so high on the list, and have raised valid questions about the survey's legitimacy. 
Not surprisingly, the issue is much more complicated than something that can be crunched into a simple numerical value on a survey. At the core of the issue ultimately may lie deep questions about the relationship between Notre Dame's Catholic identity and its commitment to diversity. Whatever the case, at the very least, the survey points to a perception issue that pervades this university about its treatment of gays, lesbians and bisexuals. This month, Annie Robinson investigates the perception and the real­
look for ity behind it all (p.8). There are no easy answers, and it turns out that the 
ISSUE 03 
on questions may not be easy, either. 

SEPT 25 
Remembering 9/ I I 
Two years has not made writing about the tragedy any easier, but we are glad to welcome Dr. Susan Ohmer to the pages of the magazine this month. Two years ago, Dr. Ohmer was kind enough to share her thoughts in Scholastic's tribute issue. In this issue's "Final Word" (p.36), she has returned ~th her thoughts on the anniversary and the idea of "moving on." 

Welcome Back 
Like so many students at the university, many a Scholastic staff member has taken a semester to spend time abroad, often coming back and regaling us with their tales offoreign lands. We're glad to have Carolyn LaFave and Jimmy Atkinson back. Welcome home, guys. Now get back to work. 

Matt Killen, Editor 
2 SCH0LASTICFROMTHE EDITOR 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 


RCA 13" Color T\fNCR 
HP OfficeJet 2110 3-ln-1 Machine •2-head VCR • Front/rear input jacks 
•Prits i.p to 14 ~per miute bllck, 10 cokr • Nightglow backlit remote · •Lpto 4800~inireddpi ai22-1109 • 8-event 1-momh timer 2039.s188 
Buy 2,fREEI Buy 2,fREE I
G~1 ¦ G~1 ¦ 
MEAD Five-Star 3-Subject Notebook 
• 10'/z' X8' • 150 sheets 
•Wide ruled 0612.03n 
$5.29 each 

• 2pockets •Assorted colors 
0402-87.lZ.()411-4363/0412-4290 
99hach Limit 1Offer. 
BELKIN Wireless Cable/DSL 
Gateway Router 2010-1019 
$79.99 -$20 instant rebate ­$20 mail-in rebate= $39.99 
Wireless Notebook Card 2010.s143 
$59.99 -$20 instant rebate ­
$10 mail-in rebate= $29.99 
Limit 1Rebate Ea:h. See mfr's rebate directory in store fir details. 



Buy 1'fREE1

Get 1 ¦ 
AVERY  .  ..  . .  
Retractable Hi-Liter  "'t f  .  
4-Pack  
• Dry-proof  
• Retractable tip  
•Assorted colors  2032.2955  
$3.99 each  Lim it 1Offer.  


Limited Time Only! 


s10 OFF 
Any Supply Purchase of $30 or More! 
Coupon I 122574429961 


s10 OFF 
Any Electronics Purchase of $50 or More! 
Coupon I 122574430417 

s30 OFF 
Any Furniture Purchase of $100 or More! 
Coupon #122574429978 

Valid in-sta-e only. Excludes gift cards, MaxAssuran:e an:I assembly.Limit one coupon per customer. No protocopies accepted. Not valid with arw other offer. Valid 8/28/03 thru 9/13103. ~ 
Two-Month Offer!


15%OFF 
Your CopyMax Order of $20 or More! 
Valid in-store only. limit one coupon per customer. No photocqiies accepted. Not valid with 'irlY other offer. Valid 8/28/03 ~ thru 10/25/03. Coupont122S74429985 ~ 

r----------------~-----...JI__ 
THE 
4 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 

I Tuition is Up, and Now This? 
I Rising cost of water has some Reckers patrons up in arms 
JIMRYAN 

Fo·r·· t•h.o___ se s.tudent.s:.alr.ead.y running low on FlexPoint,s, perhaps a friend­ly neighborhood water fountain is a more-cost-effective venue for your post-·· party hydration needs than everyone's favorite 24-hour eatery, Reckers. That's because Reckers now has raised the price oftap water from its normal paltry sum of 15 cents to a fairly substantial $1.27 after midnight on weekends. Many students are oblivious to the price change or simply do not care. "I just wouldn't get water on that night," says freshman Colleen O'Hagan. There is, however, a vocal minority of Reckers patro:ri.swhoaremorethanabitmiffedby the restaurant's pricing practice. "I think they're taking advantage of drunk kids," says sophomore Matt Walsh, referring to the cavalcade of re'­turning partygoers who frequent Reckers on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. "It's another example ofhow the school is trying to get the students' money." 

--.----------------------~ 
Ten Questions 
with a Legends bartender 

~--. .. -----·-·----·-,· ··:::::=::_. ___ .~ ·1 --·· . Joe McClyde 
Michael Davy, Food Services' opera­tions manager for Reckers, says that the 
restaurant is not trying to exploitits pa-trans; on the contrary, the price bump is intended to prevent patrons from exploit­ing the restaurant. He says, "On tradi-· tional party nights [ some students] would buy a cup of water and get a soda, so we decided that they would just have to buy a soda cup." He adds, "The point is not to make more money 1 or anything." 
Davy also says that the staff is instructed to post a sign on weekends informing patrons of the price change, though he admits that they oc­casionally forget. 
Some students still are skeptical about the effectiveness of the price change. "I think if [ the price] is 

supposed to be a deter-L&.iLi.i.s:.:.S:L.:.::;:.ibbcJi:£J.iiLl';; 1 
Want a burger and fries? Thirsty for a pint? Legends has taken Alu?nni-Senior Bar to a new level, and ifyou can ?nake it to DeBartolo for class, you can ?nake it to 
this place. The opening a week before the . 

rent they should have the same price all the time," says sophomore Joe Rehmann, "because [ cheating] could happen at any point in the day." . .. . 
Regardless of the· "cheating"• patrons and the price increase, both Reckers and the students should be able to survive financially; that is, unless students start trying to sneak extra ingredients into their artisan sandwiches. D 
ing to be an interview! 
Does management teach.you the ways of the bartender or is it up to you? 
For opening night, because there 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 



"Well, the b~er at the concert wasn't free, but the. pot was free! They put it in these things and passed it around!" -economics professor 

"If I could sample all the disabled Jewish lesbian midgets and I knew all of them, I'd get much more accurate results." · 
· -economics professor 
"I think the women behind the temperance movement didn't know what they were missing:' 
-political science professor 
"... and the Bible is just so much cooler than Gigli:' · -theology professor 
"Don't be jealous because I'm going to heaven and you're going to hell:' . 
-overheard student in the North Dining Hall 

I 93 Years Ago
I] Catholics and the Wolverines 
TheNotre Dame Catholics were victo­rious over the Michigan Wolverines, 11 to 3, for the first time in school history. Scholastic reflected on the phenomenal performance of the "Irishmen" and, to demonstrate the impact of the victory, printed the response of various news­papers. According to the Scholastic on November 13, 1909: 
''Any words we might say in praise of our men would be mere repetition. Their actions and the final score speak for them. From what the fellows say who went up to see the game, Michigan men, though some­what downcast, have shown themselves good sports and good losers . . . We slipped one over on them this time. Everybody has probably . 1"ead the detaz1ed accounts ofthe scrap. Hence we permit the great game to pass into history with a handshake to the warriors in Gold 
and Blue." 
-lvleghan Gowan 
a party except you're providing the alcohol. 
What is the most popular request so far? 
For drinks, Long Islands I would have to say. 
Why don't you serve shots? 
I think the reason for it is they want a place for you to come and get a drink, not necessarily get wasted. It's more of a fun place where everyone can go, and if you're legal, have a drink and just hang out. 
How many beers does Legends offer? 
There's a ton of beer. They have at least 64 different kinds of bottled beer, and anything from Kenyan beer and then there's the Legend's brew. They have four different kinds: blond, pale, mild, and rasp berry, which the girls seem kind of fond of. It's specially made for Legends. They hold 104 kegs in the refrigerator in the back, so you have a lot of choices. 

Can you, um, use your Flex Points at the bar? 
Domer Dollars, I do believe they take those or at least last Saturday. Not Flex Points. I think they would go way too fast. 
Are there drawbacks to the on-campus 
bar scene? The negative is that if you're 21, a lot ofunderagers take up a lot ofthe space. On the clubside, people 18 and up can go. But the pub side makes two tiines as much at the bar. 
Would you say the movie Cocktail was an inspiration to your career? 
It's not, but I've done a lot of jobs on campus and it is by far the easiest and most fun. So, it's on high demand. 
-Tracy Evans 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 
SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 5 


J 


IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 

DILLON PEP RALLY 
We've been bested in a battle of 
wits. They gone done zinged us 
good. Now we're never gonna tell 
you who the Gipper is ... 

THE NEW MATH 

First it was 3/4 = 28%. Now some campus newspapers seem to think that I RA + I RA = 3 RAs. When will the madness end? We're not sure, but in the meantime we'll just avoid the whole "math" thing in the first place. 


FOOTBALL 

There's nothing quite like a game that takes years off of your life just by watching it. Here's hoping those first-game jitters don't turn into second-game jitters ... and third­game ... and fourth-game ... 

LEGENDS 
Who would have thought that
0. 
. 
the administration could build something that would keep students on-campus at nightl Of course, the lack of a cover charge also helps. 

BUSINESS SCHOOL 


BASEMENT 

Sure it's nice, but when does O'Shag get its three-million dollar luxury expansion? We're guessing about as soon as they fix the clock. So,never. 
Number of NOMAD zones: 19 Number of students able to connect at single access point: 30 Average cost of wireless PC card: $50 Number of new laptops sold to freshman with built-in wireless: 670 
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 
I Summer of Pain 

The last few months displayed the bad and the worst when it comes to entertainment. 

IBYANGREENE 
orm. any ofyou, summer means three
F
months of fun in the sun. Here's hoping you opted to work on your tan, because many ofthis summer's entertain­ment offerings were more painful than a sunburn. 
Summer television may not be known for its stellar programming, but when re­ality shows like .TheAmazingRace and Big Brother 4 are among the most prominent alternatives to hours of reruns, there's something alarming 

about just how far lywood has never held
Here's hoping you opted to
television has sunk. the monopoly on colos­
work on your tan, because
Speaking ofwhich, sally bad ideas. "Molson many of this summer's enter­
FX's attempt to im­Canadian Rocks for To­press audiences with tainment offerings were more ronto," a SARS benefit their ultra-realistic painful than a sunburn. concert held in Toronto dark comedy about on July 30, featured such should have been a simple, slasher flick, but with more than half the film serving to set up the title confrontation, one can't es­cape the feeling that the film actually tries to convince audiences that these killers have a credible, plot-driven motivation for wanting to tear each other to pieces. Oh, and it seems everyone forgot that both villains are immortal killing machines. Immortal means they can't die. Do we see a problem here? 


Unfortunately, Hol­
plastic surgeons, Nip/Tuck, is quite possibly the worst show on television today. Rather than offering anything substantive, the bigwigs behind this latest disaster seem more intent. on 
disgusting audiences than anything else, with shockingly gory depictions ofplastic 
surgery, interspersed with fairly graphic 
sexual content and out-of-the-blue tor­ture and murder. 
Poorly written, uninteresting action films dominated the Cineplex with such 
nonsensical fair as LXG, and such bland tripe as SJV.A.T. Not even Samuel L. Jackson could possibly save a film featur­
ing a "master villain" who gets himself arrested not once, but three times, and 
street thugs who for some reason seem to be organized, tactical geniuses. · The highly anticipated Freddy vs. Jason 
bands as The Guess Who, Rush, The Flaming Lips, AC/DC, and The Rolling Stones. The nauseating part comes when The Stones invite Justin Timberlake to help perform one of their songs interspersed with pieces of the teen idol's own music. Thankfully the boywon­der was booed off the stage, but that such an egregious crime against the senses could . ever have occurred in the first place fosters no great hope for the future ofhumanity. ­
But, thankfully, the summer's over, and the fall season promises to breathe new life into theaters, televisions and stereos across the country.Just a word ofwarning: ifyou're looking for a high-end, artsy film to cleanse your palette, and your friend mentions WingedMigration, the acclaimed documentary involving bii:ds, run away. Run away and never look back. D 
IDomeLights COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN 

Thinking about adopting the nomadic lifestyle? "Nomadic" as in NOMAD, the wireless communication network that allows one to e-mail, Instant Message, or illegally download music without the bother of plugs and cords. Soon all areas in which a faculty member teaches or a student learns will be NOMAD land. This even includes that shady spot under a tree on North Quad. Some notable numbers: 
Source: DeWit Lattimore from Office of Information Technologies 
Hypothetical speed of wireless connection: 11 mbs · Realistic speed of wireless connection: Smbs Wireless card needed for connection: 802.11 compatible 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 

--------------------------------------' -----~ 




JOHN·T.. NOONAN, JR. 


The Honorable John T. Noonan, Jr., Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, distinguished historian of the law and Christianity 
Deepening the Doctrine 
Eight Lectures on the De_velopme-nt of Catholic Moral Teaching 
September 23  Father Newman Startles  
September 25  The Unknown Siri  
September 30  A Girl Named Zita and Other Commodities  
,  I  
October 2  The Obstinate Hill Climbed, with Eclat  
-.October 7  Folly, Championed  
October 9  Out of Deeds Comes Law  
October 14 Out of Difficulties Comes Development October 16-The Test of the Teaching 


All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the Law School Courtroom and begin at 5:00 p.m. 
If ERASMl]r~ST1T-.l)TE JI 
Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
N2003 

,.. ---------~.---­

Outsiders perceive Notre Dame as intolerant. Insiders examine the stereotvoe. 
ANNIEROBINSON

When the University ofNotre Dame grabs a No. 1 ranking, it is usually a cause for celebration. Not this time. The Princeton Review recently released The Best 351 Colleges, an annual compilation ofinformation about the nation's top schools and rankings based on student surveys. One particular survey placed Notre Dame above its peers. Notre Dame claimed the No. 1 spot in the "Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative" category, which polled respondents about discrimination against homosexuals on their college campuses (See sidebar). This ranking placed Notre Dame in the "Monochro­matic Institute" demographic category as opposed to the "Diversity University" category. Also in the top five with Notre Dame are Washington and Lee University, Grove City College, the United States Naval Academy, and Miami University (Ohio). Many Notre Dame students, alumni and administrators question the validity of the survey and its results. Others say that the ranking is an accurate portrayal of the current campus culture. Still others point to recent positive changes made by student 
8 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 11 SEPTEMBER 2003 

groups and administrators that indicate a steady improvement in resources for gay, lesbian, bisexual and questioning (GLBQ) students. 
Gay issues have do~inated the national media spotlight during much of the past year, and the Princeton Review rankings rekindled a controversial and complicated debate at Notre Dame. At the start of a new school year, everyone from professors to priests do their best to welcome incom­ing students -but a closer look shows that a particular segment of the student body does not always feel accepted. 
REVIEWING THE RANKING 
The university administration is aware of the survey results and is not proud, says Matt Starin, associate vice presi­dent of News & Information at Notre Dame. 
While pointing out that the results of the Princeton Review survey are not scientific, Starin says it is a perception of the university that can be harmful. "I have never taken [Princeton Review surveys] seriously as an indicator oflife at Notre Dame, but I do take it seriously as a matter ofpublic relations," Storin says. "I'm deeply disappointed," he adds. 
Notre Dame sophomore Tiffany Thompson, herself a lesbian, doesn't think that Notre Dame deserves the No. 1_ ranking, saying that significant improvements in recent years point to the contrary. "But," she says, "It defi­nitely points to the fact that our campus does continue to have a problem when it comes to being accepting of gay, lesbian and bisexual students." 
So what creates this public perception of homophobia at Notre Dame? Students and administrators generally come to a consensus on one point: There are sev­eral pieces to the puzzle. 


REACHING OUT 
Notre Dame's two most prominent re­sources for gay, bisexual and questioning students are similar in spirit but differ in direction. 
The Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs operates under the office of Student Affairs and the supervision of Sister Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C, assistant vice-president for Student Affairs. The Standing Commit­tee emphasizes campus-wide educational programming and works to maintain a dialogue betvv:een the administration and 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 
students. The committee takes applica­tions for membership and stipulates that at least halfofthe committee's members should be gay or lesbian. 

OutreachND, on the other hand, is run entirely by students, is unrecog­nized by the university and is geared towards building a social community for its members. 
There is no tension between Out­reachND and the Standing Committee, Gude says, but rather the two groups of­

[ ., ... ·...·•·· .. ,··•···,·1
~JESie>E"fl t-1E .. iri J986iSclio/astic first explored ~he ccintr<:>versy of homCJ~e>eua.litY ata.Catholic··•··.· • institution; In the three-part cover, Notre Dame students described a "homophobic'' Campus and the . fight for a school-recognized homosexual club. 
ten work in tandem coordinating activi­ties such as the Coffee and Conversation hour at CoMo. Several Standing Com­mittee members are also OutreachND officers. 
While understanding of Out­reachND's case for official recognition, Gude takes a different spin on their situ­ation. She says OutreachND has more freedom as an unrecognized student club, as they are not obliged to adhere to certain university regulations applied to most clubs. 
Not all members of OutreachND agree. "The fact that something as simple as a student-run organization still does not exist officially on campus is downright appalling," says senior Joe Pettibone, co-chair of OutreachND. Pettibone says OutreachND last ap­plied for recognized club status during the 2001-2002 school year but was re­jected. The group is applying for official recognition again. 
Standing Committee member and Notre Dame senior Liam Dacey views the administration's lack of support for OutreachND as a sign that the uni­ve\.sity does not trust its own students and is more concerned with maintaing financial support from alumni. "Deep in the administration there is a fear that they will lose donors if they recognize [OutreachND]," he says. 
The Standing Committee is making significant strides: This is the first year tha the Standing Committee hosted a table at Activities Night in the JACC. Meanwhile,. the member.s of Out­reachND walked around thefair in club T-shirts emblazoned with their Web site information and the slogan "There's No Alternative to Being Yourself," since un­official student clubs are not allowed a table. 
Although Gude says that the Standing Committee is not the perfect solution, she considers it a working compromise that simultaneously respects Catholic Church teachings and GLBQ students. "My job is to try to educate people to the fact that homosexuality is not cho­sen, and that sexualidentity is neutral and it's only-one part of a person," she says. 
The Standing Committee and Out­reachND attempt to educate through a variety of programs. After Freshman Orientation weekend, the Standing Committee held an informal reception for GLBQ first-year students. Resident assistant (RA) training now incorpo­rates a program called "NETWORK," which addresses common questions and concerns regarding sexual orientation. The program concentrates on ways to make residence halls welcoming, hospitable places for GLBQ students, says Liz Fallon, an RA in Pasquerilla East Hall. 
The Standing Committee will also conduct 10 in-hall educational sessions for freshman this fall, selecting dorms that either have an unusually large num­ber of first year students or have not had a similar program in recent years. Campus Ministry sponsors a retreat for GLBQ students and co-sponsors Soli­darity Sunday with the Standing Com­mittee. On this designated Sunday dur­ing the fall semester, all campus Masses include a prayer for increased inclusion and decreased violence towards GLBQ 
SCHOlASTICCOVER STORY 9 

people. tee express dismay that 
The intricacies of sexual orientation is the Catholic Church's not included in the teachings on homosexu­university's official ality are explained .on the non-discrimination Standing Committee's clause. The clause Web site (See sidebar) states that Notre by Standing Commit­Dame does not dis­tee member Rev. Father criminate on the basis David Burrell, C.S.C., a of race, color, national Notre Dame theology or ethnic origin, sex, and philosophy profes­veteran status, age in sor. Burrell's statement, the administration of based on information any of its educational found in "Always Our programs, admissions Children," a statement policies, scholarship of the Bishop's Com­and loan programs, mittee on Marriage and atheletic and other . I ; Family by the National school-administered Conference of Catholic programs or in em­Bishops in 1998, states ployment. Dacey says 

that "The Catechism 
of the Catholic Church 
takes pains to distinguish between 
homosexuality as an orientation, and 
homosexual acts. It treats homosexual 
acts parallel to sexual acts between un­
married people." 
Burrell's statement goes on to say that the Church encourages those with homosexual orientation "to foster relationships which can sustain them in their lives." Burrell writes that the "Always our Children" statement "calls 
.on families to draw on their untapped resources of faith, hope and love to ac­cept, love and walk together with their lesbian daughter and sister, or gay son and brother." 
Acting upon this reconciliation be­tween Catholic teaching and homosexu­ality, the university officially adopted a "Spirit oflnclusion" clause in 1997 that states the following: 
The University of Notre Dame strives for a spirit of inclusion among the mem­bers ofthis commzmity for distinct reasons articulated in our Christian tradition. We prize the uniqueness ofall persons as God's creatures. We welcome allpeople, regardless ofcolor, gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or economic class, and nationality, for example, precisely because ofChrist's calling to treat others as we de­sire to be treated. We value gay and lesbian members ofthis community as we value all members ofthis community. We condemn harassment of any kind, and University policies proscribe it. We consciously create an environment ofmutual respect, hospital­

10 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

ity and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish. 
The "Spirit of Inclusion" represents what many see as a compromise, not a clash, between Catholic teaching and GLBQ rights. "I think that most ND students are intelligent people, and re­alize that the Church teaches to accept the homosexual as a person, and not to discriminate," says a gay male junior, who asked not to be named. "I'm not sure if all truly realize, however, the positive nature of a number of Church 


REACHING OUT OutreachND, not an officially­recognized club, has been posting unauthorized posters to spread the word to GLBQ students. 
documents which emphasize that no type of discrimination is acceptable," he says. 
To some, the "Spirit of Inclusion" is not enough. Members of both Out­reachND and the Standing Commit-the present and past 
administrations have been unreceptive to calls for an offi­cial revision of the non-discrimination 

clause. 


BC:MODEL OR MIRROR? 
Many Notre Dame students look to Boston College as a case study and comparison. Earlier this year, BC's or-·· ganization for GLBQ students, Allies, gained official club status and stole na­tional headlines. Meanwhile, The Les­bian, Gay and Bisexual Commuriity at BC (LGBC), a student-run non-funded group, has applied unsuccessfully for official school recognition seven times since its inception in the 1970s. 
From the perspective of a BC gradu­ate, the rationale behind the Princ­eton Review ranking perhaps becomes clearer. "From what I understand about Notre Dame, the environment there is less than accepting," says Tim Carra­har, a BC senior and co-director of the LGBC. He says that while those inside Notre Dame are aware of the remark­able strides that the Standing Commit­tee and OutreachND have made, the lack of an officially recognized solely student-run group might give an im­pression of campus-wide intolerance. 
While many students say that BC is strides ahead ofNotre Dame, some stu­dents say the two schools' groups have striking similarities that bode well for .. both. "In looking at the structure and purpose of [Allies], it is functionally a student-run version of our Standing 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 
Committee," says OutreachND's Petti­
bone. Allies' club constitution outlined 
on its Web site stipulates that BC's Dean 
for Student DeveloEment, in ~onsulta­
tion with BC's vice president for Student 
Affairs, will assign a staff member to be. 
the advisor for Allies, a role similar to 
the Office ofStudent Affairs and Gude's 
on Notre Dame's Standing Committee. 
Similar to the cooperation between Out-· 
reachND and the Standing Committee, 
members of both groups say that the two 
often work in tandem while serving dif­
ferent purposes. 
Gil Forbes, the president of Allies, says that a Catholic university does not 
necessarily compromise its religious 
identity when it provides support for gay students. "In many respects, being gay or lesbian and Catholic presents a challenge," Forbes says. "Therefore, shouldn't Catholics and Catholic uni­versities reach out to support gays and lesbians, rather than continuing to treat them as second-class citizens?" 
Attempts to reach out to Notre Dame 
students might start after Frosh-0, but · they don't stop at commencement cer­emonies. Notre Dame and St. Mary's graduates united in 1993 to form one of the nation's largest gay and lesbian university alumni networks, GALA­ND/SMC. GALA chair Gus Hinojosa '82 estimate~ there are more than 850 
1:riembers nationwide. GALAprovides 
funding for OutreachND's operat­
ing expen~es and also offers summer scholarships to GLBQ Notre Dame students pursuing internships related to gay issues. 
Hinojosa understands the struggles of a gay Notre Dame student: He was one himself. "I don't know whether you can imagine being part of something 
like Notre Dame and yet feeling dis­
tant from it because you are not like everyone else," says Hinojosa. And 
despite marked changes since he was 
a student, Hinojosa agrees with those 
who attest that Notre Dame still faces 
a long road ahead. 
On the other hand, Gude says the 
plethora of programs and resources 
are evidence that the university is 
progressing on the very issues the 
Princeton Review survey highlights. 
"We're trying to walk a fine line be­
cause Notre Dame is a Catholic Uni­
versity ... not everyone is going to be happy," she says. 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 

CLOSING THE DOOR? 
The question remains still as to why Notre Dame is perceived as oftentimes closing the door on GLBQ students. There are varying opinions as to what complicates GLBQ issues at Notre Dame, and some of the factors aren't likely to change in the near future. 
Perhaps the most important fac­tor is also the most obvious: Notre Dame is a Catholic university, and 
its religious affiliation is by no means hidden. "Each student knows that going in, and knows that the Catholic Church does not allow for homosexual relationships," says the g\ty male junior. "Do I agree with this teaching? No. Do I understand that the university has to follow Catholic teaching? Yes," he says. The student says he realizes the dilemma a Catholic university like Notre Dame faces as its leaders try to balance Cath-


1-·;
11\ . 
t ., 
'! 
!~.f' 
J;{ .. JfaYe #"fect~d the )f()mo~&im1tcoinlµ~if.yi]:>()ili,: 1h the,clJ\S.-~d ab~oad ill th~ i ..·; 
· 11 'pi-~tse_:.verafrrid111:gs.·; :-i:·:.· . ,· . -o;--,·;'_,,,_.,.,. -.,,. · · --· · -­
(?­
. ·. tt·..·April•·1: AVatican book ofs~,·~;,., is:~eas:t:c:l~,~~r.ho:~:exu.;:::~ hoIDosexual ~rriages .[&t· .~;::;:::~;!ireEp~~opalians clec::;:'~e:(&jieniRobinson bIBhop ~oadjutm of the Diocese of . 
. f.>, ·. _·N:ew Hampshire. Robinson is the.fii:st openly gay, noµ.:.celibate·Il_lan ~o be ele_cted bisp.op·in the Episcopal.Church..;_. · . r--.':. -. -. . . ·:::·' :-:-. ' .-~-.<·r.. ·,,:\..:. . .-, ' . . 




t···.. iftf·f~le~~!ilit]~'.!;~t~Wt!f~t6it~~t;;ti.~~······· 
··•.::June.:11: :k_OntJri6 ilp~·e~l~; cotrrt'ffaes :that s~riie~st&fuatri~~~{are bi11d1~g an,d permi~sible. Toronto ~nL : 
nounces that it will begin issuing marriage licenses to ·gay and lesbian couples. .. . 
sons on "enrollment day," the Monday"'' of its diverse community members. 
olic doctrine with the rights and needs 

after Frosh-0 weekend. But some features of Notre Dame 
Davidson believes that reside.nt present hurdles that are increas­
halls should allow residents to bring ingly difficult for GLBQ students to 
one guest to dances without regard to overcome. One of the largest areas of 
gender, emphasizing that the guest is contention is the structure of Frosh-
not necessarily a date. Davidson says 
0. The dances, mixers, late-night 
that the trend of women's residence dorm serenades are all "heterosexist 
halls initiating more Frosh-0 activi­traditions" that make up the hectic 
ti~s with other female halls is a positive Frosh-0 weekend, says Rebecca E. 
revision, and hopes male halls adopt Davidson, rector of Breen-Phillips 
the trend as well. Hall. Since most Frosh-0 activities 
"Male dorms are definitely more assume that all freshmen are straight, 
homophobic. An all-male environ­many GLBQ freshmen can feel over­
ment definitely breeds homophobia," whelmed and excluded. 
says Dacey, who lived on campus for Gay student and Standing Committee 
three years. To him, the single-sex member Liam Dacey agrees: "Basically, all 
dorm environment exacerbates prob­. the [Frosh-OJ events for guys are geared lems for GLBQ students. 

HELPING HAND Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., 
towards meeting girls." And it's only more While this environment often swirls 
chairs the Standing Committee on Gay and 

challenging for a freshman who has yet to with insensitive speech, Dacey says, it
Lesbian Student Needs. 

come out, Dacey says. "The major problem doesn't necessarily invite violence.
But Gude points out staging a

on this campus is not those who are out, it's "WJ,iile t_he religious nature of the 
program during the weekend might · 

those who are closeted," he says. Although school ni.ay attract conservative minds, 
only .complicate an issue that can be

open and coi:nfortable now, Dacey says at­I feel it also attracts good, kind people 
extremely sensitive between par~nts

tending his :first OutreachND meeting as who wouldn't physically threatensome-: .
and stude~ts. She says most students

a freshman was a difficult barrier and that one for a different lifestyle choice/' . · 
would be reluctant to attend an event

he· saw room for improvement in Frosh--says the gay male junior. .
while parents·are still around. The first

0 activities to offere guidance for GLBQ "We don't have in-your-face dis­
Standing Committee event for fresh­

freshmen. cri:i,nination, but still, from the outside, 
men was held for these and other rea­
12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 


;i,,t•~,,1:1~tuii~~tfi~lii[i1;m~~tt 


:/J.1.1ly 7-8.·: -T~;~fiv.-Yorlefa.ostni~~,;~ eJ(~l~~ve~-fr~hi;pag~_$t9ry-anno~~~~:•••--_ 
_ing~e est;abli~h111~nf pfthe:Haryey¥iikSch9olrilie wotld'sfiistphhlic: high ·-•.' 
·sch&ol for gay and l~sbian St11ge11ts: Tlje sclio9}.~~s ac:ttfaUy eJi'.i~tedsirice)985 ­as a-program for th~ New Yor~ Board ofEdw;:ation; ~tit will e:qJancl fr()J;D._ 70 : to-i5,0 students andApen as a stand-alone higlischoolthis_Septeµiber. ·: :,-,,-. 
• I •• ' •• 
. ,·-·.-·..·•·· 



, , ,give dom~_s,tg: partner$ _ma1~ybf t}le 5-ame rig~t~/as legf!HY married pary1e!S,. .. •d.11l1tss;t~i:itt~M~J~~~!~t~:1:1:attr;aitt~~r:~j;!#d~a;~_-•-•· 
will:sign tlie,billi11to la:w: .. 


the university looks bad," says Dacey. 
(While none of the interviewed stu­dents had been physica1ly t~reatened 
during their time at Notre Dame, a few 

knew ofpeers-who had scarring experi-. erices while attending Notre Dame.) 
THE ROAD AHEAD 
To some,' the answer is as simple as a math equation: Increase exposure, education and awareness, and accep­tance of GLBQ students will increase accordingly. "A lot ofit is just plain ig­norance, it's not malice," says Gude of the Standing Committee. The phrase "that's so gay" and the terms "fag" and "faggot" should be eradicated from stu­dents' speech, Gude says. 
Both Gude and the anonymous stu­dent quoted above believe that a little contact and int_eraction goes a long way to change someone's perspective on homosexuality. "It happens in a natural kind of way," says Gude. The male junior has witnessed the change firsthand: "There are many students who are, for the first time, meeting a gay person in college, and when the issue becomes more personal, and you know someone, it is easier to under­stand," he says. 

As Notre Dame progresses forward, the voices of many OutreachND and Standing Committee members caution the student body to appreciate and guard what has already been achieved. The advancements carefully construct­ed by past students and administrations need to be built upon, says Dacey of the Standing Committee. "We could easily lose the steps we've gained," he says. "We don't want to push people back in the closet. 
"We are moving in the right direc­tion but it is really gradual and slow. My real fear is for the closeted kids who miss out on four years of col­lege. This is the ideal time to bond with other people and find out who you are. Sexual orientation is part of that," Dacey says. 
Even though Notre Dame's treat­ment of GLBQ issues might never ri­val New York University (ranked No.1 in the "Gay Community Accepted" category by the Princeton Review), OutreachND's Pettibone says that despite their differences in orienta­tion, all Notre Dame students share something in common: "We are no different from anyone else here -we aH must find our niche in the shadow of the Golden Dome." 0 
-With reporting by Meghan Gowan. 

11 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 

Some students returning from summer break have come  
l ! I i I i . '  back to fewer possessions and more hassles. EILEENVARGA they found the computer, and they left everything behind that." The surround­To bypass the headache ofpacking ing fence was not damaged, and the lock and shipping unneeded dorm and had not been broken. "I'm baffled as to apartment materials home for the how they got in," says Polley. They had summer months, many students choose left their unit in May properly locked, to store their belongings on or offcam­and had been in possession ofthe storage pus for safekeeping and easy return. key the entire summer. However, a few students have returned These circumstances are typical of to school this year to the biggest of the other break-ins. The stolen items headaches ­finding their off-campus tended to be electronics and appliances storage lockers burgled. such as printers, scanners, and alarm Scholastic has learned of numerous clocks. Also taken were bedding sup­thefts that occurred at the Mini Storage plies and posters. The storage spaces Depot chain, which has various locations were not cleaned out, but apparently throughout Indiana, including ones on were searched for these types of items. Brick Road in South Bend and Grape Usually, the owners of the items were Road in Mishawaka. (After referring not aware that some oftheir possessions Scholastic to their corporate offices, were missing until they started to check the chain did not respond to repeated individually for their belongings. The requests for an interview.) Promis.:. locks on the storage spaces did not ap­ing clean, easy storage on fenced-in, pear to have been tampered with. 24-hour-surveillanced property, the Storage burglars tend to break locks Depots are a popular choice for bulk and completely replace them with locks summer storage of miscellaneous dorm identical or similar in appearance to items. In the eyes of many students, deflect suspicion of theft, and picking a they have maintained a good track re­lock takes a good deal of time and skill. cord-the facilities have been known to Those storing with the Mini Storage run regular safety checks ofthe property Depot are given access codes to enter and to call patrons to alert them to pos­the fenced-in property, so the Depots sible problems involving unsafe locks or informed the students that it was most equipment. Students regularly store at likely the break-ins were accomplished the Depots during summer break due to by someone with coded access to the their proximity to campus and low cost, storage facilities in lieu of a thief so returning customers were surprised at simply wandering onto the property the sudden increase in break-ins. and breaking in. "Since the store isn't Two of the burglary victims, seniors guarded the entire day, it does seem like Caitlyn Polley and Jennifer Gaissler­it would be easier to steal once you're in Saddler, returned to the Mini Storage the building," says Polley. It is possible, Depot's Grape Road site on August 24 ifequipped with the access code, to gain after storing their belongings in early access to the Depots 24 hours a day. May. With no problems unlocking Sharing her frustration is senior their allotted storage area, they found Marianne Sciarrillo, whose shared the majority of their possessions miss­storage locker was also looted. The ing. "It looked like they had to have had burglar(s) took a printer, scanner,· a truck with them," says Polley. "They and various kitchen and domestic ap­took two big boxes and seemed to be pliances -even a waffle-maker. H:er just going back in the storage unit until items were not covered by a personal  
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 

14 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

--··---·---·-···--··--··----i 
insurance policy, and the Mini Stor­age Depot does not provide any form of insurance on stored items, so all of her losses are out-of-pocket. "Our boxes were labeled, and they took everything that said "Fragile." They were obviously looking for computers and electronics," she says. The theft was completely un­expected; she and her friends have used the Mini Storage Depot for years, and they had not previously experienced any problems. 
Sciarrillo requested that the Depot look through their access code history to see if her own was used at any point to get into the facility, but received no assistance. She was told that her request would involve an extremely thorough day-by-day check, and the business was under no obligation to take responsibil­ity for the theft. She says that when she inquired about possible identities of the robbers, the Depot told her that they had been experiencing a handful of incidents in which items were missing from the lockers, but there appeared to have been no forced entry. One student, upset from a recent break-in ofher stor­age locker, theorized that the burglars were intending to sell the stolen items to students or wer.e students. "Who steals posters and Notre Dame signs unless he wants to decorate a dorm room?" she asks. 
Sciarrillo says that there is not much to be done legally after storage theft. While it is possible to file a report with the police confirming that their belong­ings were stolen, she says it is unlikely that the actual thief will ever be found, so she has not bothered to do so. 

Captain John Williams, public infor­mation officer for the South Bend Police Department, says storage areas have al­ways been a hot spot for crime. "We've had several problems over the years with storage theft," he says, but adds that the majority of storage areas in South Bend are safe. "It's tough to go over or under a good fence," he says. Phil­lip Johnson, assistant director of Notre 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 
r-·------·---·--::::; 
One student, upset from a recent break-in of her stor­age locker, theorized that the burglars were intending to sell the stolen items to students or were students. "Who steals posters and Notre Dame signs unless he wants to decorate a dorm 
room?" 

~C-··-·~·-_.-_·-----====.-_-_~_-·_--_·_..:...J 
Dame Security/Police, cautions that those storing off campus should abvays be careful to examine. the storage area before leaving anything for the summer or break. "Make an inspection of the fa­cility, look at what kind of construction separates one area from another, and see if there is any kind of physical secu­rity available." He says common sense should also play a role: "Never store things you can't live without -family heirlooms, musical instruments -all that should go home with you," says Johnson. But, he adds, "You might get homeowner's insurance to cover some of your belongings." He recommends that on-campus students should use the storage program run through Student Activities. "All things being equal, it is much easier to store at Notre Dame. We haven't had any problems with the storage program here, and it will save you multiple car trips," he says. 
Polley and Sciarrillo are now in the process of replacing their lost objects. While upset at the major inconvenience, they are annoyed mostly at what they perceive to be a lack offoresight on their part, and by their inability to replace some of their more personal effects. They will be more careful housing their valuables in the future,. and hope that others can avoid the enormous nuisance and hassle of stolen storage. D 

SCHOLASTICNEWS 15 



For the Children 
Students work to raise thousands for St. Jude Children's Resea'rch Hospital 
CAROLYN LAFAVE 
Expectations are high for Irish Fight­ing for St. Jude Kids, a student organization that hopes to raise thousands of dollars this year for seri­ously ill children. The club began last year after alumna Mary Virnich's summer service project at St.Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tenn. inspired her to bring St.Jude's to the university. Vernich grad­uated last spring and has since passed her travel through the hospital on tricycles and in wagons," Simko says. "Before a patient comes, [hospital staff will] find out what the kid likes, what their favorite food is. If there is a little girl that likes Winnie the Pooh, she'll have a Winnie the Pooh bedspread, Winnie the Pooh drapes, everything." 

"The hospital is just such a mind­blowing place," Carrell says. "Walking through the doors at Memphis, you're just uplifted by the doctors and researchers and the kids themselves." 

common system used by other Up 'til Dawn orga­nizations. 
"It sounds like a lot 'of money, but in real­ity, it's really easy," says Simko. "Say your team of six sends out 50 letters each, and given our aver­
-age return rate from last year was 24% and the $45 average gift, that's over $3,000." Simko says they would like to have 50 teams and 50 letters for 

sum of $10,000 for St. A HELPING HAND Students sign up for Irish Fighting for St.Jude Kids at Activities Night. each team member. That 
Inspired by last year's success, club members got an early start on this year. Simko says that all 14 members of the executive board wrote 50 letters over the summer, which is only a few less than the total number ofletters they sent last year. But that's not enough. 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids wants to get bigger and do more. At Student Activities Night this year, Simko and her board members tried to recruit students to be part of six-member teams. The board sets forth a $750 goal for each team 
to raise during the year, a 
Jude's. This year, Simko. 
is one of a 14-member executive board 
and hopes to ~aise more than $100,000 
for the hospital. 
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital is world-renowned for its treatment of children with life-threatening diseases. Patients are children under the age of 18 who are fighting cancer, AIDS, genetic disorders, immunodeficiency diseases and other severe ailments. St. Jude's mission is "to find cures for children with catastrophic illnesses through re­search and treatment," as stated on the St. Jude's Web site. Doctors see 4,300 patients a year, mo,stly as outpatieJ?.tS. .They have had.· patients from over 60 
countries worldwide. 
Simko and another board member, 
sophomore Jordan Carrell, attended an 
Up 'til Dawn conference at St. Jude's 
last summer and were impressed by the 
hospital's unique atmosphere. "The kids 

The club uses the Up 'til Dawn let­ter-writing process in order to raise money from donations. "We're given these designated letterheads that St. Jude's sends to us, already written out," Simko says. "You fill out a person's ad­dress ... that you personally know. [The letter] explains a little about the hospital, a little of Up 'til Dawn and it says 'I'm participating in this, could you help me out?' St. Jude's keeps track ofwho sends out these letters and basically it just asks for donations to the hospital." 
Last year's campaign was quite suc­cessful, though the group had only about eight members. "Our return rate for the amount ofletters we got was 24% ... and our average monetary donation of those letters was $45, so that's how we raised the money we did," Simko says. The club had letter-writing parties for its members in order to send as many letters as possible. 
would raise approximately $106,000 -over ten times the amount the club raised last year. 
Activities throughout the year will include a Halloween Costume Contest, where members will write most of their letters, and a Finale Event in February. At that point, the club will have received all their donations, and will celebrate its success with an all-night party. 
"We are extremely excited to be a part ofso many college campus families," says St. Jude's manager of collegiate market­ing,Jeff Gardino. He says that in the five years of the Up 'til Dawn program, col­lege organizations have raised over $3.5 million. "It's been a great relationship for St. Jude's and for college campuses." 
So Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids will keep on fighting, just like the children ies . trying to help. As Carrell says, "The best part is knowing that you're doing some­thing that's helping children." D 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 

ANEW EVENING DESTINATION IS GIVING NOTRE DAME STUDENTS A REASONTO STAY ON CAMPUSAT NIGHT. 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
' 
A 

Legendary 
JENN IFEROSTERHAG E 
The 2002 alcohol policy changes and last year's bar busts have left many students clamoring for late­night entertainment on the weekends. On-campus parties are increasingly rare and underage drinking is increasingly dangerous, both on campus and off. But since the Aug. 30 opening ofLegends, an on-campus, all-ages club and restaurant, students now have a new option. Aimed at improving campus life, the concept for Legends originated approxi­mately-twoyears ago when the university; loo.ked at Alumni-Senior Club and de~ termined that it was not meeting student! 
. . I 
needs or expectations, said General Man~ ager ofthe Facility and Programming for Legends Belinda Deeds: A focus· group consisting ofstudents and administrator~ formed the idea ofa club that all students could enjoy. ! 
"We wanted to make sure that students had a place on campus where they could go that was safe and close by," Deeds says. She also cites a student demand for more late-night programming, which Legends accommodates with its 4 a.m. closing time on weekends. 
Students have been involved in the plan­ning process from the start. The 2002-03 student body president, Libby Bishop, and current Student Body President Pat Hal­lahan created the name for Legends. Once the planning began,Legends held a student contest that resulted in the club's watermark logo. ''Almost every turn thatyou make, you; see something that's student-driven in here, whichis, I think, a really great thing," Deeds. says. "Who knows better about what to dq with thisfacility ~han a student?''. 
J 
Sophomore Tiffany Mullenmexagree~ with the inclusion ofstudent participatioli in the planning process. "I thinkitwiU b¢ pretty popular because [administrators]' had the student body in mind when theJi made_Legends,".she.says. · ___ l 

Achievement 
And so far it has been. 
The success of the facility's grand opening surprised and pleased Legends management, Deeds says. Nearly 2,000 students attended the open house dur­ing the day and over 2,100 came for the concert and dancing at night. For over three hours that evening, Legends had a line that stretched halfway across the parking lot with students standing three or four abreast. 
Despite the large crowd, Deeds says there were minimal problems during the grand opening. Most of those were due to students' lack of familiarity with the building set-up and in part, to curiosity. 
Like any new establishment, Legends faces a variety of challenges, perhaps the most difficult ofwhich is careful control of alcohol dispensation. 
Legends has several procedures in place to prevent underage drinking. When stu­dents enter, they must present a school ID. Ifthey plan to consume alcohol, they also need a form ofID that proves they are 
21. Each guest of drinking age receives a wristband at the entrance, which allows them access to the two areas restricted to guests under 21, the restaurant-side pub and the club-side pub. 
Students expressed mixed opinions about the effectiveness of the wristband procedure. "[The alcohol]'s really under control," freshman Larissa Zavala says. "I heard of underage people attempting to pass for being of-age, but they couldn't get away with it because they weren't wearing a wristband." Sophomore Anne Edelbrock is also confident in the system. "I think the way Legends is handling the alcohol between of-age and underage students will work because other cities have 18 and over clubs and encounter little problems with underage drinking," she says. She thinks the procedure will be reliable as long as Legends remains vigilant of who has wristbands. 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 


sure only those with FOOD, FOLKS AND FUN Legends combines a variety of activities into a single location. 
wristbands have colored  
cups. Additional staff members monitor  smoking on the dance floor during the  to the variety of people to which it appeals.  
the entrances to the bar areas.  night of the grand opening. "There are a  The facility can accommodate those who  
Staff training will be an ongoing pro­ lot of checkpoints," he says. "I think the  want to dance, those who want to drink  
cess. The bartenders and front desk staff  amount ofunderage drinking will be very  and those who want to spend time with  
have been trained to recognize fake IDs  minimal. Our goal is to have none."  members ofthe opposite sex after parietals.  
and in how to approach underage drink­ The grand opening allowed managers to .  "I think it's cool that the administration is  
ers. The facility has reference books  test the logistics of the facility and locate  trying to bring together underage and of­ 
containing samples of driver's licenses  areas where additional staff could be used  age students in one hangout," Jill Filipovitz,  
for each state and several countries.  to make the process more efficient. Man­ senior, says.  
Procedure for approaching an underage  agement is in the process of hiring more  The free entertainment makes Legends  
student with alcohol involves asking for  employees now that students have returned  even more attractive to students, Deeds  
identification, getting the student's name  to campus to ensure that everyone is safe and  says. Mendoza predicts the club will be  
and information, turning them over to se­ following rules.  popular because ofits late hours and con­ 
curity, writing, up a report, and notifying  "[Legends management seems] pretty  venient location. "After dorm parties and  
the Office of Residence Life and Housing.  dedicated to making sure there is noun­ SYRs, it's something to do," he says.  
FreshmanJuanMendoza, a general staff  derage drinking," sophomore Kelly Snyder,  Other students echo the enthusiasm ex­ 
member at Legends, kept students off the  a server at Legends, says. "They are doing  pressed by Deeds, Mendoza and Filipovitz.  
stage, watched fire exits, monitored cups  everything they can to prevent it."  "I thinkit will give underage students a good  
and made sure people refrained from  Deeds attributes the success of Legends  place to go on campus while giving students  
of age a good alternative to other places,"  
Elizabeth Lee, senior, says.  
Still others think the club will flop. "It's  
too expensive and looks like a hotel restau­ 
rant," freshman Matt Cahillsays. "It's admi­ 
rable that they are trying to do something to  
stop underage drinking but I think people  
can find a way to get around it."  
Will Legends become one of the hal­ 
lowed traditions of Notre Dame? Only  
time will tell. But for now, Notre Dame  
students have the option to dance, drink  
and socialize until 4 a.m. without stepping  
THE WRITING ON THE WALL Legends is adorne d with several small touches that refer to some of  off campus. .  
Notre Dame's most popular figures.  -With reporting by Lauren Wilcox  
I I SEPTEMBER 2003  SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19  




I , : 
Something on your mind? Got an opinion? Write a ... 

Letter
-----' --.· . ·j 
~----------~~~~-~~ 

to the 

... and see your name in print. scholast@nd.edu 


University Resources for Gay,---Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/--scglsn/ 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Sign Up on the Internet NOW @ www. LaurenStudios.com 
to ensure your place in your 2004 Dome Yearbook! 

WHO: WHEN: 

WHERE: WHY: 
Class of 2004 Pictures taken until Sept. 26 -Lafortune 108 To be in the 2004 Dome 

-Remember to Sign Up Today! 
WWW. 

LaurenStudios.com 

Welcome back, friends and lov­ers. Another autumn is upon us, and 01' Gipp is cracking his knuckles in preparation for yet an­other year of spilling the campus' beans. All transfers who are presently unaware of the Gipper and his greatness are ad­vised to start asking around as soon as possible. 
Before we begin this new, beautiful year of embarrassing students, Gipp would like to tie up some loose ends and unveil some tips that rolled_ in after the Gipp's last pub­lication in the spring. First, however, the Gipper has one question to ask those Big Reds who thought they could win Gipp's favor by giving him some publicity in the midst of jokes about this great magazine: Did the check clear yet, boys? 

Through the Looking Shelf 

An interesting tip was submitted by an employee ofone ofour campus' most no­table facilities. Supposedly, whole shelves of books are being removed in areas near study carrels on the Hesburgh Library's upper floors. Since the removal ofthese books makes for a straight view ofthe stu­dents studying, our amateur sleuth rea­soned that a "peeping Tom" was making rounds in the academic skyscraper. Well, I guess it's time for the Gipp to 'fess up: After years of wasting time putting his ear to the ground at parties and social gather­ings, the Gipp er realized that most ofthe action on campus happens on weekend nights in the Nerd Castle. That's right, crazy Gipp, meagerly equipped with a pair of binoculars and a writing pad, perches behind a row of shelves and· witnesses the ongoings of late night studiers. The logic here is that after decades of calm and mature behavior, library-goers are really overdue to do sumpin' crazy. Until then, the lookout continues ... (Readers Note: That was the only time the words "mea­gerly equipped" will be used to describe the Gipper.) 
The Classics 

Late night drunken behavior is the fuel that drives the Gipp's tank, but most read­ers pro baby don't enjoy every other tip be­ing about something funny that happened upon an inebriated freshman's return to his or her dormitory. So, for the sake of brevity, the Gipp will kill the following two tips with one stone. 
Tip One: After a long night at a local pub, and a kicking back of a few more in the dorm, a young Irishman made the old mistake of climbing into someone else's bed. Usually not a big deal, but this hap­pened to be the bed ofhis residence's As­sistant Rector. And our friend happened to strip down to his underwear before crawling in. And the AR happened to already be asleep in the bed. The polite AR simply hopped on over to his couch, and waited until the morning to start the standard inquiries. 
Gipp Grade: B+ 
Tip Two: Two Southies, most likely after striking out a few times that night with the local skirts, took up the mature activity of a hallway water gun fight. An innocent bystander took in some splashes, and, unable to pull the stick out, was not too pleased. So, says our source, he "placed a note on the perpetrator's door saying that ifhe shot him again he would be dead. The perpetrator never saw it." Instead, the note was found by another uninvolved party, who misinterpreted the note as a jab against our military, and pro­ceeded to hunt down the author and let loose, if you will, on the note in front of his door. The author had no idea who the kid was, or why he was relieving himself in the middle of the hallway. Of greater surprise was the author's lady friend, who apparently wasn't too impressed with her new friend's proportions. 
Gipp Grade:_:A-
Can'tYou SmellThat Smell? 
Before we wrap up this week's edition, Gipp would like to share with our com::­munity a perplexing message he receivea"'··--.... last spring. Apparently, in that modern 
--...._ edifice know as O'Shag, it's raining men­-little men, that is. As our tipster noted, "It's dripping from the ceiling, smelling up the gorgeous carpets and disgusting all." No word on whether this problem still is an issue. And to all those who moaned that their having to put up with this situation was "bull crap," the Gipper says, "Nope, that's your crap." 
Ahh, it felt good to get those tips out of our system (intended). As always, keep on tippin' -especially you freshmen. vVe'II probably find your roommate's random hook-up story as funny as you do. D 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 21 

I_ 
: i 
For most young boys, Saturday morning cartoons are an integral part ofweekend life. I, however, from a very young age, was attracted to a different type ofprogram­ming. Ever since my family got cable TV; I have loved getting up early to watch ESPN~ "College GameDay." And I live on the West Coast, so by early I mean 7:30 a.m. That's devotion. Unless I am en route to a football game, I never miss the show. And thousands of college football fans across the country treat this show with similar reverence, always keeping tabs on where hosts Chris Fowler, Lee Corso and KirkHerbstreitwill be next. The cult-like following of the show seems to grow larger each year as the hosts travel to different campuses across the country almost everyweek. Last season, the show even offered its viewers a chance to make a live appearance on the set alongside Fowler, Corso, and Herbstreit by sending in a videotape audi­tion. This doesn't happen anywhere else except in the crazy world ofcollege football fanatics. These sports nuts have most likely been around since Rutgers and Princeton played the very first intercollegiate foot­ball game back in 1869. ESPN's "College GameDay," however, has finally given these people a chance to showcase their madness onliveTv. Viewers of the show have seen huge som­breros, KirkHerbstreit masks, a sign reading "All I want for Christmas is for Corso NOT to pick us," gallons ofbody paint, inflatable alligators, and so on. Even Corso himselfgets into the fanatic mood, putting on numerous 
·mascotheadsthroughoutthelastseveralsea­
sons, from Joe Bruin to Brutus Buckeye. 
This is the tenth year that "College 
GameDay" has taken their show on the road. 
Incidentally, the show's first live broadcast 
from a game site was September 10, 1994 in 
South Bend when third-ranked Notre Dame 
hosted sixth-ranked Michigan. The Irish lost 
26-24. This Saturday will mark the fourth 
time that the Michigan-Notre Dame game 
has been the site of "College GameDay's" 
show, with Michigan holding a 2-1 record 

Don't have tickets for the game? That's okay, College GameDay is an event in itself, complete with marching band, cheerleading, booing, and celebrating. 
in those games (1994, 1998, 1999). In the 10-year history of ESPN's traveling circus, Notre Dame is 5-6 in games where the show was broadcast on location after winning both games last season against Air Force and Florida State. 
And love 'em or hate 'em, Chris, Kirk 


GAMEDAY CREW Chris Fowler, Lee Corso and Kirk Herbstreit on location. 
and the Coach are broadcasting live in Ann Arbor this Saturday with Notre Dame -Michiganasthefeaturedgameoftheweek. Former Notre Dame All-American Raghib "Rocket" Ismail will be there too, now a permanent member of the reporting team for the show. 
For those of you who were unable to make the trips to Colorado Springs or Tallahassee last season, I urge you to make the trip up to Ann Arbor this weekend and 
strengthen the number of 
greenshirtsin the crowd ofmaize and blue Wolverine faithful. The set w i 11 be located on the seventh tee ofthe Ann Ar­bor Golfand Outing Course across from the south end zone. Don't have tickets for the game? That's okay, "College GameDay'' is an event in itself, complete with marching band, cheerleading and booing. 
I know many of you were denied raffle tickets last week in the Michigan Game Tickets Lottery debacle, but there is some­thing you can do: go to AnnArbor bright and early Saturday morning and rockthatESPN set. Show Corso what a college football fan and a Fighting Irish fan is all about. Welcome the Rocket backto the "BigHouse"wherehe devastatedMichiganin 1989with his two kick returns for touchdowns_. And would someone please show up dressed.as a leprechaun? . 
ALL THE STATS 

you need to know 
22 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 

Football ( 1-0): The football team came on strong in the second half beating Washington State ( 1-1) in only the third overtime ever played in Notre Dame Stadium. In the fourth quarter, the Irish gained 181 yards of total offense and scored 20 straight points. The Irish travel to Michigan this weekend where they will be greeted by Lee Corso, Kirk Herbstreit, and Chris Fowler and the rest of the "College Gameday" crew for the 12th time in Notre Dame history. 
Men's Soccer ( 1-1-1): Lost its first BIG EAST matchup of the season against St. John's (1-2-0) 3-0 on Saturday evening. The Irish will be led 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 
GLENN EARL 
Fifth-year senior free safety Glenn Earl returns to the secondary after finishing second on the team in tackles last season. In the opener against Washington State, Earl finished with three tackles, one pass breakup, and a fumble recovery that led to the first Irish touchdown en route to a 29-26 overtime win. Often regarded as one of the fiercest hitters in the nation, the reserved Earl does his talking with the hits he lays on his opponents. 

Are you truly one of the fiercest hitters in college football? That's a matter of opinion. I don't think I'm any bigger of a hitter than anyone else on the team. It's all about opportunity. I'm just trying to win, trying to make plays. · 
What motivates you to lead the secondary now that Shane Walton is gone? Just lmowing that I need to up my game and be better than I was last year. I just have to try to be the best I can be. Ifwe wantto be better than last year, we have to step it up. As a free safety, what is your primary responsibility? Guard the goal line. I'm the last guy back there. Make sure each play comes to an end on a positive note. What do you enjoy most about playing free safety? I like when I'm in a position where I'm able to come up in the box and hit people. I kind of see myself as primarily a run-stopper. That's my calling. But I like it all. If I'm sitting back in cover two and get an interception, that's great; if I'm in the box and tackle someone for a loss, that's great. I'm ecstatic about every opportunity I geton the field. Who is your favorite teammate? J rilius Jones. He's one of my favorite guys just to pick on and go at in practice. He'll never give me a clean shot at him. He's always duclting and diving, but I'll get him sooner or later. What has been-your most memorable moment? The Florida State game last year. We got on such a roll and that was my best success to this point. 
-Ji111111y Atkinson 


OPPONENT: MICHIGAN WHERE:ANN ARBOR, Ml WHEN: SATURDAY, 2:30 P.M. EST 
Defense and big special teams plays should 
make the difference in this game. Don't expe 
>the Irish to roll up 20 fourth-quarter points against theWolverines like they were able to against Washington State last week. Still, with an improving offensive line and senior middle linebacker Courtney Watson back in the lineup, Notre Dame shuts down Michigan 18-17. JIMMYATKINSON 
SPORTS EDITOR 

The Irish go into Ann Arbor, Michigan and 
) silence a crowd of over I I 0,000. The defense keeps doing what it has done for the past 14 games and the offense feeds o 
the momentum from last week's incredible win. ESPN's College GameDay picked a great venue this week as they will witness the upset of the 7th-ranked Wolverines at the hands of the Fighting Irish, 24-17. 
MIKEISELIN 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 

KEYTOTHE GAME: 
> 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSIVE LINE 
The young offensive line will be tested early and offen, as they were against 
Washington State. Being able to adjust 
and pick up blitzes will make all the 
difference. 
team started the season with five consecutive away matches posting a notable 4-1 record. In their first home match Tuesday night the Irish swept Valparaiso (8-0) in three straight games. Senior Jessica Kinder set a school record with 28 digs. The Irish are currently ranked 15th in the nation, their highest ranking since 1996. 
into their next match against Fresno State Friday night at Alumni Field by Greg Martin, the only three-time captain in Notre Dame history. Prior to the loss Notre Dame was ranked fourth in the nation by Soccer America. 
Women's Soccer (4-0-0): Are now the second-ranked team in the nation with the help of Jen Buczkowski who was named BIG EAST rookie of the week. The last win for the Irish came over Oklahoma, 5-1. Next on the schedule is a visit to Jamaica, New York where the Irish will take on St. John's tonight (Thursday). 

Women!s Volleyball (5-1 ): The 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 




After sitting out a season due to academic ineligibility, senior running back Julius Jones has returned to the Fighting Irish and is making an immediate"impact. 
JIMMYATKINSON 

Long before suiting up and setting foot on the field against Wash­ington State last Saturday, before 
returning kickoffs, before fumbling, before scoring the go-ahead touchdown in the fourth quarter, before any ofhis 11 rushes for 72 yards, Julius Jones was on a mission to get himself back on the Notre Dame football team. 
"Disappointment," Jones says was his first emotional response to being told he would be unable to play football with the Fighting Irish in 2002. Being declared academically ineligible forced him to take a journey that may prove to be the best thing that could have happened. 
OnJune 11, 2002, it was reported that Jones, who had gained 1,750 rushing yards in his first three seasons, leading the team in the category in 2000 and 2001, had been notified by university officials that he was academically ineli­gible. So Jones packed his bags and left the Golden Dome for the desert. 
Jones headed to Phoenix to live and work out with his older brother Thomas, who at the time was playing tailback for the Arizona Cardinals. The Jones brothers did everything together. They practiced together, lifted weights together, even went on the same high protein diet. Sometimes, the two would get up as early as 4: 00 a.m. to start their workout for the day. 
"I learned from him by just watching what he did," Jones says. "I was moti­vated because I wanted to come back [to Notre Dame] and I knew I had things to take care of. I wanted to graduate and I wanted to finish here [at Notre Dame]. I didn't really feel comfortable going somewhere else and leaving something that I had started." 
Jones enrolled at Arizona State Uni­versity, keeping a low profile and taking classes that would allow him to eventu­ally be readmitted to Notre Dame. And in the meantime, Jones was by no means oblivious to the success that the 2002 Irish experienced. 
"I watched every game [on TV]," 

24 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 11 SEPTEMBER 2003 
-~--•~--"'-~ -=---••---.-• ~.-~ • l
--i ------~---_...._ __ --------------~ ·---~--~ ______::.., __ 
Jones says. "I was in town for some wanted to redeem myself and I thought Dame's special teams. Currently, Jones of them, but I could never come over the only way I could do that was score," is second on Notre Dame's all-time ca­[to the stadium]. I just wanted to lay he says. reer kick-return yards list with 1,893 low. They were winning and everyone "[His performance] really speaks yards, only 196 yards shy of Reisman looked happy. And that was the hard for itself," Willingham says. "A couple Trophy winner Tim Brown's record part, not being able to be a part of plays in there he just ran on sheer de-of 2\089 yards. Having both senior that." termination. It's what we've hoped and cornerback Vontez Duff and Jones 
Endurance, commitment, and desire anticipated that he might add to our returning kicks makes kicking off a continually motivated Jones during football team, and I think that one-formidable task for the Irish opponent his hiatus. His goals were clear: Re-two combo ofJulius and [junior] Ryan on any given Saturday. turn to Notre Dame to play football Grant really gives us something to be "With Julius back there [with me], and graduate. After two semesters at proud of." that's a double threat," Duff says. "It's Arizona State and a summer session at Indeed, Jones has become the type of going to be really hard for people to Notre Dame, Jones was readmitted to back thatNotre Dame needs to improve figure out who to kick it to or who not the university and Head coach Tyrone their offense. Last season, almost all to kick it to." Willingham allowed him to return to the rushing burden was placed on the While suiting up in the locker room the team. · ,......,,~~ ~l(:;\;:~t; ,...,...,=~_.,.._., before the opening 
All the hard work in kickoff against Wash-Phoenixwith his brother ington State, Jones is now paying off. Jones t:, . recalled his troubles has reinvented himself, • ~• ~ in the past year. "I just now a different person . , ":' -----imagined all the things with a new finish-the-~ •id,\~ that I went through, be-job attitude. The new ,~· .·.
..· -., ·~ ing out in Phoenix with Jones has not only a ·~ ·· ~, lilllli1 my brother, working out 
''<z~~ g,..;~
better attitude and work · , ·~-. ~ at four in the morning ethic, but also a more , :·'\,., ... with him. All those able body. He has lost ~ ''}it> ·· things wen_t throug~ my a lot of fat, put on some '·:<'.) head, and 1t was a little muscle, and improved his "'~: emotional for me. But speed and acceleration. .like I said, it's good to 
"I feel faster and be back." stronger," Jones says, "\Valking down the "and I· think I have a tunnel and waiting to little more burst than I run out onto the field had in the last few years· for the first time in 
Jere." Nowhere was iJUBH.A,NT]ULIUSJonesdivesacrossthegoallirieforhisfirstt:ouchdownoftheseas6n; I almoSt two years was ones' physical improve-[giyingthe Irish a 23_19 fourth-quarter lead. · · ·.· ·.· ... ·. . . . ..·.· i . · · . . J certainly a memorable ment more obvious than i.i... ::.· ··· · · __c_·-·•--·~-··---·---·-":-._·___ ~..-:..-. experience for Jones. 
at Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday shoulders ofGrant. WithJones back in "It was a little emotional, but it felt against Wash"ington State. Jones' the lineup, the two running backs form like I imagined it would, kind oflike I impressive speed around the corner, a seamless tag team. was a freshman again. I was excited to shiftiness and sheer physical strength "Having the two guys back there, get out there and play .... This ranks made him difficult to tackle. The one it just shows what you can do," senior up there [with my best moments in play that stands out as the defining mo-quarterback Carlyle Holiday says. football], just being able to be back ment of his comeback was his 19-yard "When one gets a little tired, you just here and be a part of Notre Dame 
touchdown run during which he broke throw another one in there and you football again." 
through three defenders and even ran don't miss a beat." vVith game one of the season under through teammate Maurice Stovall en But questions of any animosity or his belt, Jones is now focused on the route to his triumphant dive across the competition between 2000-2001 starter task ahead ofhim -Michigan. In their goal line. Jones and Grant, who is starting for a first two games, the Wolverines al-
That score gave the Irish their first second straight season, have been dis-lowed only 146 rushing yards per game. lead of the day and sparked chants of missed by Jones. "I think we have one of But Jones remains optimistic about the "Julius! Julius!" in the Notre Dame the best backfields in the nation," Jones Irish ground attack: "I feel great about student section. The team was finally says. "Ryan and I push each other and going in there," he says. "It's a great back i:ri the game· after having once complement each other. That's what we opportunity for us to get a wwin against trailed by 19 points and Jones was do. We're teammates." a great team. As far as us running the finally back making an impact on the Besides adding another dimension to ball, ifwe go out there and play like we team, after suffering through over a the offensive backfield, Jones has also did second half [last Saturday against year of·adversity. "[After fumbling] I come back to make an impact on Notre Washington State], we'll be all right." D 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 25 




The men's soccer squad, led by three-time captain Greg Martin 
r;-1
looks to earn unprecedented third 

i l_]
reat E
consecutive NCAA berth. I . 
' i 
-I, 

l 
MEGANCONNELLY more Dale Rellas. . ' The Irish will once again 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team have 2003 Preseason BIG is learning that the successes of EAST Goalkeeper of the seasons past are leading to great ex-Year Chris Sawyer in the 

pectations now. With a talented returning net. Sawyer has played in 31 squad and an excitement about its incom-games in two seasons on the ing class, the Irish are a target this season Irish roster and has allowed in the BIG EAST conference. only 24 goals while making 
This season Notre Dame returns nine 97 saves. He has posted an starters fromlastyear's team that reached overall record of 18-8-3 the second round of the NCAA tourna-and last year was named ment. The Irish are looking to qualify third-team all-BIG EAST. again this year, which would mark a Playing behind Sawyer this program first: Notre Dame has never season will be sophomore achieved three-straight NCAA tourna-Justin Michaud and fresh­ment appearances. A promising 2002-03 man Chris Cahill. season that ended in disappointment In addition to returning leaves the Notre Dame's men soccer team starters, some new faces are seeking a more successful end this year. looking to make an impact 
The Irish place a great deal of confi-for the Irish in 2003. This dence in the corps of players returning year's freshman class is one this season. Senior Captain Greg Mar-of the most highly touted tin is the first three-time captain in the in the nation. Chris Cahill, history of the program. A Plano, Texas Greg Dalby, Ian Ethering­native, Martin signed on to be a part of ton, Nate Norman, Ryan 
11----.-:;_:_:_~__I_~iiE~i;.~fi~Eb;.; ~~:t~;::~~,;fE:~: ; ;\~itti 
he said,. "l have been able to pickup a .line-up options. · .BRICKWALL 2003 Preseason BIG EAST Goalkeeper.of the Year lot .of things in terms of leadership and· __ Dalby is one of the Chris Sawyer returns for his junior season. , I· ··-------orgamzation.''·--------·-----· . -top recrmts m the nat10n. Calif6rnia2::rcinth:e secona oveffiine, __ J 1 Martin and fellow senior Chad Riley He was captain ofthe Under-18 National courtesy of Prescod's second goal of the 
1
· will anchor the Irish midfield this season. Team and garnered such honors as the game. Also on the schedule this season They will be joined by seniors Filippo Gatorade Player of the Year and the are No. 5 St. John's, No. 8 Connecticut Chillemi and Roger Klauer, junior Luke Parade Magazine Defender of the Year. and No. 10 Indiana. Boughen, and sophomores John Stephens Dalby graduated a year early from high In what was billed as a clash between and Jon Mark Thompson. school to begin his soccer career at Notre the two top teams in the BIG EAST, the 

Senior forwards Justin Detter and Dame. Irish lost a 3-0 decision to St.John's last Devon Prescod will be responsible for a "I came to Notre Dame obviously be-Saturday in front of a hometown crowd great deal of the Irish offense. From the cause of the academics and also because at Alumni Field, dropping their record to midfield last year, Detter had six goals and of the guys on the team. I felt this was a 1-1-1. "We can't dwell on this loss," Dalby seven assists while Prescod scored three place that I could excel as a person. The said. "To accomplish our goals this season goals and assisted twice. Sophomore Tony goal here is to win a national champion-itis going to take a lot ofhard work. We've Megna will join the duo on the attack. ship," Dalby said. learned from this game and now have to 
The defense this season is led by senior The Irish have a formidable task bounce back." Kevin Richards and junior Kevin Goldth-ahead of them in their third straight bid Despite this loss, the Irish, currently waite. They will be joined by sophomores to qualify for the NCAA tournament. A ranked 16th in SoccerAmerica, still have Ben Crouse and Nick Tarnay and junior number oflrish opponents appear in the a good part of their conference ~chedule Christopher High. Junior defender Jack Soccer America rankings. In the season ahead of them and are looking to prove Stewart made the switch to midfield in opener the Irish played to a scoreless in the coming months that they are one the spring but has seen action so far on tie with No. 20 Alabama-Birmingham. of the elite soccer programs in the coun­defense because of the injury to sopho-In the next game, they defeated No. 11 try. . 
'.l 
26 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 

-----------. . --·------~-. ---~---. -­

Women's soccer, battling a roster rife with injury, has received unexpected goal-scoring from midfielder Mary Boland to open the season strong. 
---c------------------. -1 
":f'.l:•;,::tt.;,~·.w,~
~i~11~~~~I5?§Jtti~Itt~~?1Jf;i~,:ttf""""""""'""""... 
~Etf:G{l1EAST offensive player of¥fi~if~}:il the week. ._ 1?;~~-rcl_'·-_:_._,_"'_,:,_-~-i
________ The defense has also 
. · '.!,•.,>,;:'. performed strongly, al­
;t~f lowing less than one goal .ttr¥f per game. Sophomore":~& goalkeeper Erika Bohn 
....,. has been a brick wall, making several crucial saves already. She blocked potential game-tying shots against Wake For­est and Arizona State. 
The defense also re­ceived a boost early in the ___ ! season from sophomore 

\ 
scoring chance. Twenty minutes into the second half, Boland scored and distanced 
the Irish from Wake Forest, 2-0. Both the 
Irish and Wake Forest continued to play stingy defense until the end, when senior offensive captain Amy Warner punctuated the victory with a time-expiring goal to fi­
nalize the game at 3-0. This victory earned Notre Dame a No. 5 ranking. 
A week later, the Irish returned to South Bend to host the UniversityofNotreDame Classic. In the team's home opener, theIrish squad had to face its toughest opponent thus far in the season, Arizona State. 
After an early battle for field position, the Sun Devils' Stephanie Peel was the first 
_ \rm_midfielderAnnieSGhefter, --to-strike,-putting-the-Irish behind-for the------1 ¦ BALL RUSH N~tre Dame a~d ~klahoma rush toward open field last who is returning from an first time all season. Nonetheless this did , Sunday afternoon m the 5-1 Irish victory. . . . . ' . .
L _________ --___ _ ________mJury.Jast..year._Schefter___not_shake_the..NotreDame_spmt._W1t:bin__c_ 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
"Injury" -it's the last word that a coach 
wants to hear when opening a season. 
Unfortunately, fifth-year Head Coach 
Randy Waldrum is dealing with the issue for the second year in a row. Last year, he deakwith injuries to many ofhis key play­ers, including his defensive captain,-senior Vanessa Pruzinsky. 
The 2003 season has begun with the same gloom. With Pruzinsky still recov­ering and All-American junior defender Candace Chapman out for the season 
/_ 
with a torn ACL, the Irish started with­out the experienced defense that they had expected. The situation worsened when senior midfielder Randi Scheller under­went hip surgery and junior defender Gudrun Gunnarsdottir broke her arm. Injuries posed a familiar challenge for the Fighting Irish, who were left to suc­ceed with whomever available. In just one week, they have proved that this mission is not impossible. 
In their first four matches, the Irish have kept the ball mainly in the opposition's end of the field, averaging five goals per game. The most notable improvement has come from junior midfielder Mary Boland. Boland had a total ofseven goals inher first two years. In the first week ofthis season, she has already scored six and was deservingly named BIG 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 

was switched to defense in necessary situa­tions to supply extra protection around the net. The Irish faithful also saw the return ofPruzinsky, who rebounded back intoher full-time position by the third game. 
In the opener, Boland made quick work of Hartford, scoring two goals in the first fifteen minutes. But the Irish did not show any mercy as they continued to control the ball throughout the game. In addition to Boland's opening two goals, the Irish tal­lied three more in the first half, eventually winning the game 9-1. 
This dominating victory included a hat trickbyBoland, two goals byseniorforward Amanda Guertin, and another two goals by sophomore forward Maggie Manning. 
TheIrish competed two days later against Wake Forest University. Just like Notre Dame, Wake Forest entered this game off a strong season opener, tying eighth-ranked Connecticut, 1-1.However,initsownopen­er, the Irish had trouble converting scoring opportunities against Wake Forest. The game was scoreless throughout the first 44 minutes, until freshman midfielder Jill Krivacek put a late shot into the net with only 26 seconds remaining to give Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. 
Both the Irish and Demon Deacons came out aggressively in the second hal[ The Deacons would have tied it up early in the second half ifnot for the superb playing of Bohn in goal, stopping an almost sure fifteen minutes ofthe Sun Devils' goal, Bo­land responded with two goals. The2-1 lead carriedoverintothesecondhalf, whenitwas tested by the Arizona State offense. Withless than thirty minutes left in the game, Bohn deflected a penalty kick to her left side. Ten minutes later, Warner shut the door with a goal to make the score 3-1. 
Two days after rallying against the Sun Devils, the Irish faced the Oklahoma Soon­ers with another opportunity to win an early season tournament. Getting out to a strong first half, the Irish built up a 4-1 lead, with two goals by freshman midfielder Jen Buc­zkowski. After half time, the midfield battle for the ball was fruitless, yielding no goals for either side until freshman forward Molly Iarocci scored her first collegiate goal with five minutes remaining in the game to make the finalscore5-l.Thiswinsolidifiedthetourna­ment victory for the Irish and earned them a No. 2 ranking bySoccerAme,icaand a No. 3 ranking in the NSCAA coaches poll. 
As proven in these first four games, the Irish have a will to win, taking the first two tournaments of the season. Notre Dame's next matches are at St. John's and home against Western Kentucky. If Boland continues her offensive barrage along with the experienced offensive strategy ofvVarner and Guertin, the Irish can anticipate an exciting Santa Clara Classic later in the season, facing Stanford and the second-ranked Santa Clara. D 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 27 




Letting the Air Out of the Vents 
Joe Muto speaks out on ... just about everything. 
0 h, ifonly I'd had just one more chance to climb upon 
my Observer-provided soapbox at the end oflastyear. 
There were just too many things that begged to be commented on. And as bitingly satirical as the comic strip School Daze is, I don't think it's adequately ruminating on all these campus events. 
Actually, that's a good starting point for us. Major props to the c¥toonist. She's a brave woman to continue doing her comic strip, even in the face of an increasingly vociferous and confused student body that doesn't seem to get her "jokes." Her days may be numbered, however, as I hear that there's a large contingent of alumni who are actually withholding donations until School Daze is relieved of its spot in the Observer. 
Speaking ofbeing relieved ofone's 

Speaking of unorthodox counseling methods, I'm no expert in crisis management, but since when is it standard practice to suggest specifically that a rape victim specifically not go to the police? This is what the alleged victim of four Notre Dame football players' aggressive dating techniques claimed under oath that a certain Residence Life official told her. The official, for his part, denies saying such a thing, but with _one caveat: he admits that he p~ssibly suggested that it would be easier to go solely through tl1e University's disciplinary process. I'll give him the benefit ofthe doubt here, but let me add that one man's "suggestion" is another man's "threat of expulsion," and I'll leave it at that. 
And can we take a moment to dis­
sect the sheer ludicrosity of ResLife 
handling this thing instead of the 

I 
,I 
I
' 
I 
duty, we had a couple ofprominent police? Because if there's anyone in firings last year. First off, Father this world qualified to handle all the Timothy Scully, beloved Fischer subtleties, gray areas and emotional Hall resident and all-around goof, trauma stemming from any given rape was relieved of his vice-presidential case, it's a panel of knee-jerk college duties by the powers that be. Ac­administrators bent on eradicating the cording to the South Bend Tribune, mere thought offornication from their this reportedly followed an "it's him complacent herd of students. or me" moment by our own presi­Sadly, this is indicative of the way dent Monk "hold a mirror in front that the whole Office of Residence ofhis mouth to see ifhe's breathing" Life thinks and acts, as we can see in 


Malloy. The Big Dogs must have decided that Monk was the better fundraiser, because Scully was soon out on his keester. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this country corning to when a man can't enjoy his liba?ons and pimp-slap a female TV reporter without losing his job? I blame George 
W. Bush. 

Also in the realm ofthings that the school would rather never hear spoken of again, the rector of Sorin Hall was removed from his post after it was revealed that he was having an "in­appropriate sexual relationship." People, we've got to cut our losses on this one. Ifyou were on campus last spring, and you heard a loud "whooshing" sound, it was the entire population of the 465 5 6 zip code breathing a collective sigh of relief that the "victim" in this case was an of-age female and not an eight­year-old boy. Recent troubles have made us Catholics a little jumpy like that. Either way, the transgressor was removed, and I'm sure was taken to task for his unique interpretation on "spiritual counseling." 
,--another incident. As if Sorin Hall did 
not have enough problems, they now 
have a little issue with uncommitted 

RA's. Instead ofsdntillating training sessions dealing with how to get your freshmen to conform unquestioningly, some RA.'s insisted on pursuing frivolous academic pursuits like interview­ing for a scholarship and taking the MCATs. The selfish RA's were shown the door, and good riddance, I say. vVhat do they think this is, an institution oflearning or something? 
I've got to give ResLife credit. They stuck to their guns and enforced a zero-tolerance policy for missing RA training. They then proceeded to hire two new RA.'s who had missed all the previous RA training. I'd like to take this opportunity to formally thank the Office ofResidence Life for rendering satire obsolete, and thus putting me out of a job. ­
They wish. D 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofScholastic or its staff. 

28 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 11 SEPTEMBER 2003 
. r~ . -~...... _~. -, . ,_ . i • 
······-·•·~------·-'··•-··· 

Out of the Closet, Onto the Screen 
Homosexuality has had a turbulent history in film, television an~ music 
RYANGREENE 
Homosexuals have had a difficut time in America, and their rep­resentation in popular culture has been no exception. But as the wheels ofprogress turn faster, perceptions begin to change. Here is a brieflook at the past and present of gay culture in popular entertainment. 
That Was Then 
Homosexuality began appearing in film over ninety years ago. As early as the silent films of the 1910s and 1920s, homosexuals have been treated as a source of humor, though often more through implication than anything else. The cliche of the elaborately effeminate man, or the sissy, was always sure to drum up laughs. 
Due largely to the efforts ofsuch censor­ship-minded groups as the Catholic Legion of Decency, homosexualitywas among many topics to be actively removed from film for decades, only appearing very subliminally, and in small doses. Remember Joel Cairo, that mysterious villain in The Maltese Fal­con?. Among other subtle hints at his sexual orientation, the character is introduced as wearing gardenia-scented perfume. 
As time wore on and censorship relaxed, homosexuality became synonymous with perversion, depravity and even mental ill­ness. Only rarely, ~in 1972's Cabaret, was homosexuality treated as acceptable. 
Television handled the subject in much the same way. Prior to the 1990s, few shows even approached the issue, though accord­ing to Christine Becker, Assistant Profes­sor of Film, Television and Theatre at the University ofNotre Dame, homosexuality was not ignored completely. 
"It was kind of piecemeal throughout the 60s, 70s and 80s," she says. "All in the Family," no stranger to controversy, dealt explicitlywith bigotry towards homosexuals as early as 1971, and Billy Crystal played a gay man in the series "Soap," which pre­miered in 1977. 
However progressive television may have seemed, from EltonJohn to Liberace, decades' worth of musicians have boldly gone where television and film feared to go. David Bowie never hesitated to explore sexuality and androgyny for the sake ofart and spectacle, and there are practically as many songs from the 70s about transvesti­tism as there are about heartbreakers. 

This Is Now 

It wasn't until very recently that the rest ofpopular culture caught up with rock and roll's willingness to address homosexuality openly. 
Movies like Philadelphia (1993) and shows like "Will & Grace" (1998) and Ellen Dege­neres' "Ellen" (1994) gave America its first real taste of sustained portrayals of well­adjusted, homosexual characters. 
The appearance of positive homosexual characters in popular American film and television, Becker says, "has really been a 90s phenomenon." 
The major reason for this drastic change is twofold. Becker explains: "The cultural answer is that gay culture is more visible ... in everyday lives, and television often responds to those trends." 
"The other aspect," Becker says, "is an economic reason. Especially across the 90s, the gay audience has been deemed to be a desirable niche audience. And most ofthis is 9ased,on stereotypes;· butheck, that's what advertising's all about really." 
Whatever the reasoning behind it, film and music became more than willing to explore homosexuality in various forms. Recent films like American Beauty and mu­sicians like Melissa Etheridge prominently and unabashedly explore homosexual-re­lated issues. 
Showtime arguably began cable's sexual revolution in 2000 with "Queer As Folk." Often controversial, at times soap operatic, "Queer As Folk" unflinchingly follows the exploits ofseveral gay characters. 
Shows like Bravo's "Boy Meets Boy," a reality dating show involving gay men, and "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy," a sort of makeover show featuring five gay men with expertise in grooming, cooking, culture, interior design and fashion, carry this new trend to unprecedented heights of popularity. "Queer Eye" regularly draws as many as 3 million viewers per episode, and the stars have appeared on virtually every entertainment and talk show on earth. 
While this seeming acceptance and celebration ofhomosexuality may all be a flash in the pan and possibly reinforce certain stereotypes, Becker remains opti­mistic. "It's better than being invisible and having it swept under the table. Having the presence of--these issues is progres­sive.'' . 

11 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 




onkey Business 
•; The Potawatomi zoo brings art to downtown South Bend 
I: 
TRACYEVANS 

His name is Stud Monkey. In his overalls and hardhat, he offers a whimsical greeting to those who 
pass by South Bend's Century Center. Another friendly simian is perched outside the College Football Hall of Fame: aptly named Go Irish, he sports a full leprechaun suit. Since July 2002, 
36 primate statues such as these have popped up around local businesses and landmarks in the Michiana area, and are causing quite a rumble in the jungle. 
The exhibit, entitled Celebrate Chimps, is a fundraising effort by the Potawatomi Zoological Society, and not only

:'Ii 
reflects the popularity of 
South Bend's own Po­tawatomi Zoo, but also has ignited a lightheart-' ed, creative movement in the community. Large corporations and family businesses alike have co­operated with local artists to design unique primate statues, each with a dis­tinct message. 


"We created the proj­ect based on something very close to the heart of the city, something the people can relate to," says Lisa Franzke, the zoo's director of events. The chimpanzee design was modeled after one of the zoo's most popu­lar residents, Sammy the Chimp. At over 20 years of age, he is the oldest of three chimpanzees at the -zoo and continues to draw crowds with his playful 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

--,-----~,::
i -. ---­

r-·---,,,--. 
AS IRISH AS ANYONE ELSEThis chimp's waiting at the end of the the _rainbow. 
nature and unusual talent for painting Zoological Board and co-chair of the and producing abstract art. His work, Celebrate Chimps Committee. Her which is for sale at the zoo's gift shop, is idea, inspired by Chicago's "Cows on the true inspiration for the project. Parade" display that peppered the city 
"We thought that a chimp best em­five years ago, was an instant success bodied what we are here at the zoo. And with both the South Bend mayor and we wanted [the zoo] to be represented superintendent of parks. The true leg­by something the kids love," says Julie work for the project, however, involved Shadinger, a member of the Powatomi finding local businesses to support the 
fundraiser. In Shadinger's mind, it was to be an en­tirely Hoosier effort. 
The hollow fiberglass chimpanzee molds, pro­duced by Muncie, Ind.­based Arrowhead Plastic Engineering, were de­signed in two poses: one squatting and one with an outstretched arm. A 'nec­essary consideration was the ample body mass of the mold to be used as the artist's palette. Among the participants is local Nancy Drew, who offered her talent for a chimp called Shiney, located by Drive and Shine Carwash on Main Street. 
"There is a huge heart in the cente~ and her -idea was to have the spirit shine out," Shadinger says, describing Drew's chimp. The remainder of the chimp's body is covered with splashes of color used to invoke a sense ofinspi­ration, hope, intensity and fire. Shiney is just one of the chimps whose message is far more provocative than the simple sponsor advertisement. 
While the chimps' names, written on a plaque at the base of each statue, often reflect the business 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 


that has donated money toward the cause, the artist works in tandem to cre­ate a striking visual image. Dean Porter, head ofNotre Dameis Snite Museum of Art, created three chimps, among them the spirited Go Irish chimp. 
Some artists have come from sur­prising backgrounds. For example, Dr. Alissa Shulman, a plastic surgeon, created a statue in scrubs on behalf of Memorial Hospital. Sammy himself contributed the smock on Victor Reil­ly's artist-themed chimp, a dedication to both Sammy and his trainer Danny Powell. Northwestern Mutual Financial Network, Shadinger's employer and one of the gold member contributors to the cause, culled the collective efforts of a local Girl Scout troop. The girls even added the finishing touches to be sealed onto the statue, including a patch­adorned sash, beanie, and cut-outs of their classic cookie boxes. 
"It's been great to see and meet people that have totally different careers, and through this, they've been able to do something to give back to the commu­nity," says Franzke, who jokingly refers to the chimps as rented billboards where artists and business can have their say in selecting the presentation. 
Perhaps most rewarding for Shad­inger and her seven committee mem ­bers is the reaction that the project has 

DR ZAIUS, DR ZAIUS Could this statue diagnose your problems? 
11 SEPTEMBER 2003 
received from the community. Leav­ing Houlihan's restaurant recently, she paused by the Potawatomi Zoo's own colorful donation, Spot. The zoo direc­tor chose to decorate her chimp with a tropical array of color splashes, each with contrasting spots and speckles. Shadinger's gaze was not set upon the chimp, however. Instead she watched a mother and her baby who were drawn to the surprising presence ofthe statue. The baby's hand softly brushed the apes face, she recalled, as the mother whis­pered soothing words. 
The wonderment is gratifying to Shadinger, who sees the project as gen­erating a large following, "We had a lady that called and got so excited about it­she's been around to photograph all the chimps," she beams. "Overall, I'm just amazed at how people will say, 'I can't wait until the new one comes out."' 
While the chimp statues may seem like merely an effort to add a bit of humor in unexpected areas, or even a playful scavenger hunt to seek out the diverse collection, the Zoological Society is dedicated in its fundraising to improving and maintaining the zoo, which is the oldest zoo in Indiana, as a local family attraction. The funds that are collected by business dona­tions (a chimp statue can cost as much as $5,000) and small in-kind financial contributions will go to the zoo's de­manding daily needs. 
"There's always work to be done at the zoo and the park," says Shadinger, "There are a lot of fun facts about the zoo, but did you know it takes almost $80,000 worth of food to feed those animals?" She adds that educational programming like library lectures and school field trips are a crucial interest for the zoo as well. Boasting such rarities as red pandas and a white tiger, the zoo at­tracts patrons from all over the state. 
Come mid-October, the zoo also will be drawing a new set of patrons to the Studebaker Mansion, when it holds its culminating event there. The chimp statues will be taken from their Michi­ana habitations and set up in scenes with the already-displayed cars. The exhibit will remain until October 25, when a $100-per-seat gala and auction will take place at the mansion. The Potawatomi Zoological Society plans a pre-bidding Web site that will open bidding to a 
Other Cities and their Animals 
Fiberglass animals aren't invading only South Bend. Here's a look at the projects celebrating beasts and reptiles that are taking over other cit­ies across the nation: 
New Orleans: Festival of Fish Rochester, NY: Herd about Buffalo Toledo, Ohio: It's Raining Frogs Salt Lake City: Utah Buffalo Round-up Seattle: Pigs on Parade Raleigh, N.C.: The Raleigh Red Wolf Ramble Sun Valley, Ida.: Running ofthe Labs 
Lindsb(?rg, Kan.: 
Swedish Dala Horses 
-Tracy Evans 


potentially worldwide audience. The collection, already reported on by USA Today and even some European papers, is already drawing interest from all over the world. 
Shadinger, who lives in close proxim­ity to the zoo, can hear the ever-inspir­ing laughter of the children watching Sammy and his friends, and now that laughter is spreading all over Michiana, thanks to the likes ofStud Monkey, Go Irish, Shiney, and the rest of Celebrate Chimps. So on your way to Heartland, Target or LaSalle Grille, be on the look­out for one of the chimps. But please, don't drive off the road. D 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 



Smooth Sailing Ahead 
All's well as a national c::hain brings quality seafood to the area 



LE'TANIA SEVERE 

Boston. The Jersey Shore. Maine. Seattle. These are the places· re­nowned for their great seafood. Who would have thought South Bend could compete with the likes of those. Those yearning for quality seafood and fine dining with a Floridian atmosphere and affordable prices should steer their sails towards the local Bonefish Grill. With a menu that offers a wide array of dishes including weekly specials, Bonefish guarantees to satisfy any desire for some­thing revitalizing and new, without the expense of a plane ticket or boat trip. Like most ofthe fish they serve, Bone­fish Grill is not native to the region. It is a nationwide chain owned by Outback Steakhouse, Inc. with 28 restaurants op­erating nationwide and several opening up in the near future. Thatincludes three new restaurants in Chicago and one in Indianapolis, according to Bern Rahberg, a joint venture partner for the chain who 
Bonefish GrHI . is in charge of 
the restaurants 
• , -of 5 • · · · in this region. 
With few
Location 

seafood res­
620 W. Edison Ave. · 

taurants here 
Prices 

m South 
Dinner with appetizer 

Bend, it seems
. · ranges from $20 to $30 

wise that this Hours growing chain 
Sun. 4-10 p,m. 

would make its 
Mon.-Thurs. 4-10:30 p.m. ' 

way to north­
Fri./Sat. 4-11.:30 p:m. 
' . . ' . . ' 
. . 

ern Indiana. 
"The Bonefish Grill is a · 

Tim Zentz,
nice· change .of pace from 

the manag­
the typicalchain fare in the 

ing partner at
region. Thevarietyensures : . that almost everyone will Bonefish, pre­
• walk away pleased:' viously worked at Outback Steakhouse in 
Mishawaka and knew that there was a demand for seafood. "We sold a ton of fish at that Outback, so we knew the market was open. There's no seafood restaurants other than Red Lobster," Zentz says. This explains the great business Bonefish has gotten since it's opened its doors. 
On busy nights like Wednesday, r;__~.L~ ~: ::,< S.:...:.~i ;,_ .· · · ,,:.L_:_~ --:'] Friday and Saturday, the Grill typi­cally has waits of an hour or more. 
However, Bonefish goes the extra mile to ensure that the wait is a pleasant I ?'>t;,;,li){\:/'.t'. experience. The restaurant has serv­
ers take drink and appetizer orders from waiting customers, Zentz says. "We also pass out samples of our food. We do the little things to keep people coming." It's service like this 

that Scholastic found when we recently h',,''"r·•·,,,r, stopped by for dinner. Entering through the fish-handle doors, the first thing to catch the eye is the vibrant atmosphere. "We're trying to bring Florida to South Bend with the palm trees outside and the mangroves and the art work," says Zentz. By of­fering a fresh, new look, the restaurant hopes to captivate its customers. "We want to attract all types of people, bringing them an upscale, casual set­ting that offers the value ofan upscale ,-,-·:.c:.cc,..,,cc·-, restaurant with the pleasure of being casual/ Rahberg says, 
Along with its Floridian decor and soothing jazz tunes, Bonefish offers fresh fish_ daily. With a menu that GONE FISHIN' Bonefish Grill offers great food and a 
boasts eight different starters, nine fun, casual. atmosphere, right down to its fish-handle doors griJled fish en trees, along with other and unique• sign. 
non-seafood, grilled specialties and pasta dishes, Bonefish promises to cater to all of its customers. Specials like the Spinach, Bacon and Gorgonzola Swordfish with garlic mashed potatoes rotate each week. This weekly rotation includes several fresh catches that are not available year round. 
The meal itself began with warm, crusty bread and olive oil with a touch of pesto mixed in by our waitress right there at the table. The bread was fol­lowed up by the house salad that was tossed with pine nuts, hearts of palm and citrus herb vinaigrette. However, all this was merely a sample of the deli­cious food to come. · 
What makes Bonefish so unique is the versatility of its menu; not only does it boast numerous options, it also allows for mixing and matching different sauces, sides and drinks. The different grilled fish entrees offer the freedom to spice up your meal with your choice ofLemon Butter Sauce, Lime Tomato Garlic Sauce or a Warm Mango Salsa. We opted for the Lemon Butter Sauce to complement the spinach, bacon and gorgonzola that topped the swordfish. 
For sides, Bonefish offers delicious garlic mashed potatoes, potatoes au gratin, island rice and angel hair with marinara. With its variety of sauces and side dishes, Bone:l:ish guarantees a new experience during each visit. And equipped with a full bar that offers over 60 varieties of drinks, Bonefish is sure to meet everyone's needs. · 
Despite only being in business for a couple of months, the new restaurant is already becoming a favorite· spot for seafood lovers. Scholastic recommends Bonefish to all who crave a tropical din­ing experience. D 
32 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
I I SEPTEMBER 2003 



" 

Out of MyWay! 
There is a new horror on the American highway 
COLLEEN OLSEN 
Idrive a '94 Chevy Lumina. Its rightside­view mirror has "fallen off." By "fallen off'' I mean that my younger brother hit a parked landscaping truck as to avoid the woman driving head-on toward him. The air conditioning does not function and nei­ther does the interior light. My car has a radio and working windows, though, which are all a future trucker/bus-driver and her friends need during the warm Chicagoland summers. This reflection is not meant to detail my pitifullot in transportation. Well, I guess on some levelit is, in order to form some context to present the main issue at hand: I can no longer drive down Lake 

But maybe I underestimate the perils of paved roads during light thunderstorms. I still assert that small puddles, even the muddy ones, can be traversed by a smaller car (Chevy Lumina) that requires less fuel carnage. Is the Hummer necessary to its city-dwelling drivers because it can climb 22-inch vertical walls? Are these drivers interested in mounting highway divid­ers to take on oncoming traffic without fear? Off-ramps and exits are incredibly inconvenient these days. Really, why does anyone actually need to drive a Hummer? Are you off-roading to Starbucks? 
The first time I heard that civilians drove Hummers was when I watched Dennis Rodman's entourage near Grant pleasure in the appearance ofa BMW or even the gas-guzzling Jaguars, at least moreso than the imposing luxury SUVs that waste space and gas that should help farmers or other people who give some­thing back by growing lettuce. I may have almost participated in such activities this summer when my Lumina drove past no less than four HZs in five blocks. Almost. I took small solace in witnessing a hip­pie-man, traveling by bicycle through this bar-infested area rather late at night, scream at a Hummer and driver while using uncouth hand gestures. Keep on truckin', hippie-man. 
Maybe the Hummer-driver just wants other people to know he drives a Hum­
Shore Drive or down Clark 
, mer. Ahhh, a "status" Street in Chicago without symbol. They can afford spotting the most hideous, to pay more than $50,000 demoralizing, and pointless for an HZ or $100,000 for vehicle ever used by civil­a "real" Hummer. They ians: the Hummer. Nick­need to assert their place name your "cheap" luxury in society by HAVING brand the H2, whatever. tank replicas. Many even 
First off, and probably add vanity license plates most important to the en­to make you aware that vironmentally conscious, this military vehicle is 
the Hummer -consumes -not government owned. gasoline faste:r: than it takes "Hum Hum" has to be for that owl to get to the the greatest, most in­center of a Tootsie-Roll ventive license plate on pop. Drivers of th~§e sick a Hummer. "I drive a 
highway blemishes get vir­Hummer. I have proof. tually no gas mileage (eight My license plate says miles per gallon), and to go 'Hum Hum."' 
along with their militaris­tic image, the gas they need can be found in places like the oil wells in Iraq, that country now owned by America. 
How can anyone "need" to drive an automobile like the Hummer around an urban/suburban area? Is it because of the excellent features not provided in the next-best SUV? For example, the Hum­mer can ford up to 30 inches of standing or running water. Perhaps that would have been helpful if you were traveling west on the Oregon Trail in the 1830s. 

Park in Chicago for one of the champi­onship celebration pep rallies. I'd always thought that famous people drove expen­sive European cars that seem to call up notions of "class" and "respectability" to disguise their sometimes question­able backgrounds. I will grant that the Hummer is an improvement over clas­sists' past attempts to gloat and bask in their frivolous car choices: The Hummer, wretched and box-like, does not make me think ofstylish people. Butl honestly take 
Before the HZ came out, I can't imagine what Hummer drivers did in order to express themselves. There are pink Hummers. Until I saw the pink Hummer, I thought I had a grasp on what the actual purpose ofHummers were, on what the relationship between Hummer­driver and Hummer was. Now I am just confused. Seriously, the pink hummer is a lame attempt at "feminizing" a vehicle that's only purpose, as far as I can see, is for men to play G.I.Joe on a more "adult level." 0 

Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. I I SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 33 

f 

Want to write for us? 

Make us sound better. 
Want to be a photographer or designer? 
Make us look bettere 
Come to our ... 


OPEN HOUSE 
-· 
Sunday, Sept. 14,2003 1:00-5:00
-

In our offices in the basement of South Dining Hall 

See what we're an about. 
• ..,, --• •_, • /-~--•----I • • , • • 


Still have some free time after signing up for the rodeo club, chess club and the young Republicans? These calendar activities will have you blinking, paddling and driving joyously through your remaining free moments. Don't forget to submit your events 
Instead of admiring your British automobile in the privacy ofyour dorm room, try: 
What? The Michiana Brits September meeting 
Where? according to the Brits' Web site, the meeting is at Stacy's house (east ofEdwardsburd, MI, west of Adamsville, MI) When? Thursday, September 18 at 6:30pm Why? The Michiana Brits is the only British Car Club in the Michiana 
area. Most of the hundreds of members own a British car that they have restored or are in the process of restoring. You do not have to own a Brit­ish car to belong to the club, you only have to be a "British Enthusiast." According to their mission statement, "Being a Michiana Brits member is being with an extended family. We take care of each other and our cars." 
How much? Cost of a British car plus cost of restoration. Or free. 

to scholast@nd.edu 
Instead of flag football, try: 
What? Co-Rec Innertube Water Polo 
Where? Rolfs 

When? Sign-ups are Thursday, September 25 
Why? Are you looking for a productive way to combine a childhood affection for inflatable floaties and water polo without substantial physi­cal exertion? Find a group of friends and form an Innertube Water Polo team. You will almost forget that it's fall in South Bend and not spring in Miami Beach. 
How much? $35.00 

Instead of Legends, try: 
What? Fleetwood Mac 
Where? United Center in Chicago 

When? Saturday, Septem_ber 13 at 8 p.m. 
Why? Like so many ofthe bands that you and your parents share an affection for, Fleetwood Mac won't be around for (too) much longer. Every time they do come around again, their voices will be raspier (think Bob Dylan) and the tickets will be more expen­sive (think Paul McCartney). So hop on the South Shore, drain · your still-plump bank account, and witness "Landslide," altered only by the· effects of Stevie Nicks's self-imposed, decade-long 
degradation.. 
How much? $49.50 to $125.00 
Instead of illegally tailgating, 
try: 
What? Saturday Scholar Series 2003: From Page to Stage: An Inter­active Audience Performance Experi­ence, with Actors from the London Stage 
Where? Hesburgh Center for In­ternational Studies When? Saturday, September 20 at l0a.m. 
Why? vyhy would you bong beers in the JACC parking lot when you could learn the craft of acting from the very same five actors putting on Measure for Measure September 17-19 at Washington Hall? According to the Notre Dame Web site, the actors will discuss how "five actors with no direc­tor or scene designer create a full text production of a Shakespearean play in five weeks, h_ow they interpret the text, and how Shakespeare directs them." 
How much? Free. 

11 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 


I 
I 

Moving On After 9/11 

Shortly before the first anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, I was talking with some friends about the various television spe­cials that were going to be broadcast to com­memorate the events of that day. "Enough already," one usually compassionate person told me. "What happened was awful, but it's time to move on, to put all of that behind us. I've had enough." Her words have come back to me often dur­ing the past year, as I think about why I, like many others, find it hard to leave 9/11 behind and move on. The idea of "moving on" is, af­ter all, deeply embedded in U.S. culture. The Europeans who founded the Massachusetts Bay Colony were moving on to what they believed would be a more promising environment. In the 20th century, Americans moved on from farms to cities, and from cities to suburbs, in search of more comfortable living condi­tions and greater economic opportunities. A distinguishing characteristic ofU.S. history is the notion of a frontier that beckoned many to move on, and to keep .moving. To move on
Sometimes it seems. that we 
·-is to push towards the are all too eager to move on, t9 future, to be progres­sive, dynamic, and
shove the past behind us as if it 
forward-looking. 

were something to ,be forgotten Sometimes it seems that we are all too
as quickly as possible. 
eager to move on, to 
Dr. Susan Ohmer is an assistant professor 
zn the Department ofAmerican Studies. Her essay, "the world trade center: part of the neighborhood" appeared in Scholastic~ 9111 memorial issue in 2001. 

shove the past behind us as if it were some­thing to be forgotten as quickly as possible. Moving on can be a form of evasion, a way of running away from things we don't want to acknowledge, even of deliberately covering up the past. This summer many Wall Street firms had barely settled the charges brought against them by New York's Attorney General before they began urging the very customers they had cheated to move on and continue doing busi­ness. Politicians are especially eager to move on from whatever difficulties they've created. Who can forget President Clinton, on the_ eve of his i:µipeachment, begging the country to move past the Monica Lewinksy scandal? In the 2000 presidential election, the Supreme Court had only just ruled on the legitimacy of 
by Dr. Susan Ohmef 

Florida's polling methods before Republican pundits began exhorting us to move on and forget about the shocking ineptitude the elec­tion had revealed. Moving on can be an excuse not to look too closely at what has happened, at the continuing implications of our choices, our behavior, our history. 
Few people would argue that we:: have left 9/11 behind us entirely. One week before the anniversary, newspapers have begun to publish special sections analyzing its signifi­cance. Several documentaries are scheduled for broadcast, showing how families are coping with the loss of loved ones, the latest theories ofwhy the towers fell, and the competition to design buildings to replace the ones that were destroyed. In our day-to-day lives, we recog­nize how 9/11 altered the way we travel and our sense ofsecurity. Yet, other aspects ofthis anniversary indicate that we are indeed m'oving on. The networks will not broadcast memorial services all morning, and there will be no.crawl across the bottom ofthe screen with the names of the more than 3,000 men and women who died. The stark horror of that unforgettable day has turned into the ongoing drama of the hunt for Osama and Saddam, replacing tragedy with soap opera. 
U.S. history changed forever two years ago, when the message was brought home that many people do not hold our culture in the same high esteem that we do. Yet we have only begun to understand the deeper significance of that day. Whether we see the cause as a failure in engineering, a lapse in security, or the result oflong-standing foreign policies, the events of 9/11 deserve our continuing attention. Being at Notre Dame gives us many opportunities for reflection: in the classroom, in lectures and dis­cussions outside of class, in the library, oi: in our own private thoughts. Whether we light a candle at the Grotto, join in the memorial Mass at the Basilica, learn more about the world oflslam for Freshman Convocation, or take a moment to ask someone from New York or Washington, D.C. how he or she is feeling, I hope we will take the time to think about what happened arid honor those who died -before we move on to the-next commitment on our schedules. . 
I I SEPTEMBER 200336 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 


-----~-----/-,-.-----I ' • 
MEMORY _ MATT KILLEN 







