
t 
f 
I I 

SCHOLaSTIC. 
understand campus events even when you're not on campus 
ISSUES  DOLLARS  
I--------------------------;  --­ I  
j  PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOURil~f:;::.--(c';l~_m'irl(ji,< LIST.  SEND.THIS FORM AND-· $35.00 PAYMENTTO: ··  I  
I 1. I  NAME: ------,-----------­ADDRESS:-----------­ SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE . ~~T~~g:~~~I~ ~;~ffNT CENTER  I ,. I  
I ___J  ------"----'----­ I  




p 
R L 
~ 
. . . . ­
-~-·-_ ~ tableofcontents · 
. . ., , ­
· ..( ,/ Building Tradition 
I. 
\ by Jeffrey Newcamp 8 
~-··-. ____ .:__ ·-----------·-·------··· ·-.·· -·----·-----~-·=---=--~-== i Notre Dame's architecture has come ·i 
a long way since the log-cabin days 
of Father Sorin. I 
j ·.1 

{ Beyond the. Bubble Sheet .1 
10 
\ "··.-··-·-······.-·-·.-·-•·.byJemarTisby· j 
It's that time of year again, but how much do TCEs matter in the end ­and how mucb .should they? . i I 
! 
·--· .,______, ..__ . 
·---------.-­
]
Open Access · : 14 -by Paul Gibson & Matt Ziegler
. -j 'i _COVER: Lack offunding leaves th_e ' -computer _network vulnerable to in­filtration by hackers. 
Virtual Darners 
byJessie· Potish 
Million-Dollar Man 25 
byDavid Murray 
Coming of Age 26 
by Gerard Meskill 
A Fresh Act 
30 
byLie's/ Marx 
. Ghost Stories . 
•· -byKath/een Corte 
thedepartments 
From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 32 
>>
,ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 34 Cover Design Campus Watch 21 Calendar 35 byMike Griffin . ~ Cover Photo 
by Emily Gerow 


Vol. 142, No. 13 • 26 APRIL 2001 
---/.--~ / .. !'.1.,~·-....··:·· .. --. ' ··----~-­
scholastic;'._/LJ} C) 'staff 
~--~···---l...' , ·•• --·' ·---------. • .• •-~----·-~----­
Editor in Chief 
Michael P. Griffin 
Executive Editor Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Sarah Childress Matthew Barr Jessica L. Daues 
News Matthew C. Ziegler, editor Jeffrey Drocco, assistant Katie Freddoso, assistant 
Campus Life Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor David Murray, assistant Entertainment Kathleen Corte, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor Design Crissy Manary, editor 
Katie Browning, assistant Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Brendan Condon, Katie Wales, Jennifer Banday 
Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor Graphic Arts Michael M. delaRosa, editor Katherine Szewczyk Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant Distribution Felisia Johns, manager Advertising Jessica B. Polish, manager 
Kyle Zuaro, assistant Online F. Brian Scofield, manager Jamie L. Moran, assistant Marketing Kristen D'Arcy, manager Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright© 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Kristin Kramer= man-shirt. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 p'er copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Disce Quasi SemperVicturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
It took my brother only four strides to ascend to the second floor of our 
New Jersey home. I know because I heard the resounding thuds against 
the hollow stairs. Such unexpected haste at one a.m. was frightening to 
a 10-year-old. 
I grasped the sheets and held them tight against my body as I listened 
to the muffled conversation coming from the next room. My brother, 
frantic and loud, was talking to my parents. 
About a minute later, my father entered the hallway and quickly picked 
up the phone. He dialed three digits: 9-1-1. After finishing the conversa­
tion, he caine to my room and found me awake, staring right back at him. 
He explained the situation: There had been an intruder in the house, and he 
might have still been there. My father told me to stay in my room and closed 
the door as he left. I cowered in my room for 15 minutes, clutching a glass 
Coke bottle in case I needed defense. 
As I later learned, my brother had left the house to pick up a friend. When 
the two of them returned, they found an unexpected guest in his basement 
room. The visitor had entered through the unlocked window and was 
loading my brother's stereo, camera and other electronics into a large duffel 
bag. When they walked in the room, the shock left them speechless. The 
intruder threatened them, telling them to back off, and fled. 
The police later found the man, armed with a knife, loitering downtown 
and arrested him. In the end, my brother got all of his belongings back, but 
it was distressing to know how easily our. family's security had been 
compromised. 
. The feeling of security we sometimes take for granted here as members 
of the Notre Dame family may be just as unrealistic. Hackers, the terrorists 
of the computer world, have broken into our network, stolen information, 
destroyed personal data, corrupted computers and used our system to attack 
others. 
The risk t9 students is real: intruders have obtained AFS passwords, 
which could be used to obtain students' information such as Social Security 
numbers and personal documents. These network attacks will continue to 
be a threat until Notre Dame invests the money artd time to rectify the 
problem. 
Matthew Ziegler and Paul Gibson report on the current status of the 
situation on page 14. 
.So long! 
This issue is Scholastic' s last ofthe year. I know, I know-there are tears welling up in your eyes. But think of it this way: Summer will be soon be over and then in the fall, Scholastic will return to begin its 135th year. In· the meantime, have a great summer everyone. 




· IYYkfJra 
Michael P. Griffin Editor in Chief 

2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


There's one great thing about going fishing here. 
There's no limit. 
<;_-:-­
..... 
,...."\ 

Qot the urge?'" 

·. The delicious BKBIG FISH®Value Meal. 
After one bite, you'll be .hooked on our:iasty fishfiUe~ topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and an. ice-cold drink . 
• _:,-• • ::_ < ·-­
And best of all, this is one fishing spot that never runs out.. . 
. --.-:_.. _·, :_. . 
· The Huddle LaFortune Student Center 
I 
I 
! 
I 
' 



Attention Huddle-Mart Shoppers 
Story by Katie Freddoso 

Been caught stealing Art by Mike DelaRosa 
As spring semester draws to a close, a cloud of anxiety looms over the campus. Angst-ridden students ask themselves: Will I manage a 'B' in orgo? What if I sleep through my exam? And, most important of all: Do I have enough Flex Points to get through finals? While a few students are spending like fiends to get rid of their Flex Points, most are down to their last dollar. Steep prices at the Huddle Mart and other campus establishments are a frequent complaint among Flex-deficient students. As one student says, "The Huddle-Mart puts the 'con' back in convenience store." But before you start ranting and raving about greedy administrators squeezing your wallet dry, consider this: During this semester alone, Huddle-Mart employees have caught five shoplifters, four of whom are students. Jim LaBella; general manager of food services at the Huddle, estimates 

.. 
[ ..· 


I,'­
f ~-~-~ 
Scholastic was recently granted the highly coveted opportunity to sit down with Notre Dame's very own boy band, J?MG, whom you may have caught at Party in the Park earlier this month. Seniors Andy (the jock), Greg (the songwriter), John (the preppy one), Todd (the tough one), and Mike (the one that's not that good looking but is a goodsinger-excepthe'sreally not) quickly showed us-what being in a boy bandis really all about . . 
can you tellhus how you got y ~r sdt~rt?th.
0 8 11o1

reg: op omore year we a 1ve m e samehallwayinDillon,alsoknownas"The Ghetto." [The group's name is rumored to stand for "Dunken Men in the G~etto," but that the Huddle-Mart loses between $1500 to $2000 per month due to shoplifting ­and not just a few pieces of candy from the bins. According to LaBella, students steal everything from cough medicine to chips to school supplies. 
"We've caught kids sneaking pop under their coats, and we lose a lot of those breakfast bars, packs ofgum ... the kinds of things that are easy to stick in your pocket." 
Apprehended students are sent to the Office of Residence Life, where cases 
are dealt with on an individual basis. 
Depending on a student's disciplinary history, punishment ranges from a written warning to permanent dismissal. 
In an effort to stop the problem, security cameras have been installed in the Huddle-Mart. "Students should know that they're being watched," LaBella says. "Hopefully that will discourage them from shoplifting." 
Food Services is also hoping to hire off­duty security officers to keep an eye on the Huddle-Mart next year. 
But of course, cameras and security guards cost money, which means -you guessed it -higher prices for Huddle-Mart shoppers. . 
the boys wouldn't comment on it.] We've been working and writing ever since then. We actually started out as a rap group, but realized we had no rhythm, so our next alternative was a boy band. 
We hear you've got some original songs. Is this true? 
Andy: All ofoursongs are original. There's "www.imissu.com,""Inthe Afternoon," "Gin­gerbread Grrl," "The Perfect Night," "Full of Hope," "Understanding Me," "I'm Not Ready," "Untitle.d" and "Dear God." 
Name some of your musical influences. 
. Todd: We all have our different influences that we bring to the group. Boy George really 


...c~-?-·h_E: String Cheese Incident •·  
Outside Inside  
label: SCI Fidelity  
release date: 5 May 2001  Story by Joanne Davidson  
.,  ,•  .  '  .  .  '  '  .,  .  '•,_  '  -.  ·­ .  

. 1fyou1ike JflJM&itv ·. you'n tove il!liJ@,~r({dJr)@ ©h@@ri@/lfffJ@!@fw[{l)(f ·.· 
Every now and again weNotreDame students need a little bit ofareminder that euphoria through music is still attainable. The String Cheese Incident's new album, to be released May 5th, looks to satisfy any Domer's search for the elusive musical ecstasy. Indeed, it has been three long years since The String Cheese Incident has released a studio album, but Outside Inside is well worth the wait. Their music is as diverse as the landscape from which they come,, Beginning in mountainous Colorado, The String Cheese Incident dedicated its time off the slopes to writing a variety of music, from drawn-out jams to Latin-influenced grooves. The band's shows have always been its main appeal, but with the new album, Outsidelnside, there is a noticeable move toward somewhat more-lyrical songs. This evolution can especially be seen in the feel-good song titled "Joyful Sound." Asking listeners, "Can I lay down at night without feeling regret?" String Cheese 
Incident experiments with an essentially lyric-based song. The band expands its musical abilities without compromising any of its past brilliance throughout the whole album. Relics of the band's jam/ bluegrassrootscanbe 

seen in "Up the Canyon" and "Rollover." The song "Latissimo," as the name illustrates, allows the Incident to 

tap into the Latin fever that has struck the music industry. Incident has already proven to its loyal fans its strength in providing long, fun­filledfrenzies of music that are guaranteed to be danceable, but with Outside Inside The String Cheese Incident proves that it is equally talented in narrating and philosophizing in a melodic manner. 
-Check out the summer tour dates at http://www.stringcheeseincident.com/ splash.htm. · . 

judgmentcalls 
CD·-··•-···._·.·•.·_._st___:u_d_y_D_cca_ys__,···I 
Yeah, four days to go to Chicago and Cedar Point. 




·. I
Coleman-Morse
0 

~·~•~-Center j 
Free drinks, free popcorn -it's the best thing to happen to ND since women. 
0 .·._.~-N_e_w_chicken ~ ~atties·· 
, The dining hall finally figured out what we all already know: chicken doesn't come in circles. 

Floweting trees_] 
· Some smell OK, but some smell like rotting, dead fish. 
>> 
did a lot for my confidence, but Mike's got Neil Young, Greg likes Wu Tang Clan, Andy is into Britney Spears and John likes Motley Crue. 
Describe a typical performance for you. 
Andy: We're a really good live act ­
we're all about crowd interaction. 
Mike: Yeah, 1knew that we really knew 
how to work a crowd when that guy flipped 
us off and yelled at us during the College 
Park show. 
Is being in a boy band as easy as it looks? 
(Unanimous): Yes. " Todd: We got free beer at College Park. You can't argue with that. 

What is the secret to your appeal? 
John: Good looks, good voices, good songs and hot bodies. 
Mike: Men want to be us, and women want to be with us. I think the thing is, we're bigger than the Beatles. The Beatles claimed they were bigger than Jesus, so by the tran­siti,ve property ... 
, 

•Are you guys close outside of the group? · 
Mike: We do plenty of things-together. Putt-putt, the cinema, pillow/tickle fights. You know, things that friends do together. 
Which song would your group do a better cover of: "I Touch Myself," or "Beat It"? 
Greg: I'd rather cover "Beat It" because Michael Jackson has the same interests as us. 
What do you say to those celebrities who don't think they have a responsi­bility to be good role models for the kids? 
John: We have a social and moral responsi­bility to uphold the image that we give to kids. We like showing young girls a good time. 
Why do you perform? 
Andy: It's our calling. We do itjustto see the smile on the young girl's face. 
John:We're just five everyday college kids trying to get laid-and it's not work­ing. -Kristin Kramer 



55Years Ago 

I Wish I Was in Dixie 

The following description of a rather  
peculiar campus club appeared in the  
November 8, 1946 issue of Notre Dame  
Scholastic:  
There are four men on campus whom you  
couldn't pay to see the Army-Notre Dame  
football battle fn New York ... Why? Be­ 
cause these four men are dyed-in-the-cot­ 
ton Southerners who would sooner do an­ 
other hitch in the Army than go near YAN­ 
KEE stadium. [The men in question are] all  
membersofthe Chattanooga club and overly  
proud ofit.  
The Chattanoogans refuse to heed Fa­ 
ther Kehoe' s official manifestos ... because  
they  emanate from  the disciplinarians  
stronghold on the NORTH end ofthe cam­ 
pus. Only after the Southerners had been  
convinced that Notre Dame was located in  
SOUTH Bend did they consent to attend  
college in the North. And, needless to say,  
i l ·i i  they spend most oftheir spare time across the Dixie highway at St. Mary's.  
l  
I '  Next thing you know, everybody y.,ho  
lives on West Quad will be donning spurs  
and riding to class on horseback ...  
-Cristin Fenzel  



domelights 
'COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 
It's that time of the year again, when young students' minds turn to making the grade. Here are some of the grade statistics for undergraduates from the · Spring 2000 semester: 


"Do you know why it's raining? Because God's crying. Do you know why God's crying? Because He knows '· what's on the MCAT." 
-overheard Saturday during thunderstorm 
"You're the most serious bunch I've had, but I guess that's better than having a bunch of drunks who just show up at 2:00 and giggle." 
-American studies professor 
Median Student Term GPA 
Freshman 3.333 Sophomore 3.400 Junior 3.467 Senior 3.529 5th Year · 3.207 

Average Grade Given by Cours(:! ~evel 
100 level 3.341 200 level 3.358 300 level 3.423 400 level 3.505 500 level 3.522 
Avera·ge Grade Given by 
Instructor Type  
Full Professor ·  3.408  
Associate  3.389  
Assistant  3'.398  
Instructor  3.337  
Special  
Professional  3.476  

Source: Institutional Research 



Virtual Domers 
Long-distance learning comes to life in the Executive MBA program 
JESSIEPOTISH 
Cameras and monitors are mounted all 
around the room, and several projec­
tors, computers, VCRs and other 
pieces of electronic equipment blink and hum, 
ready for action on a Saturday afternoon. Is 
this the local Best Buy? Actually, all of this 
high-tech, state-of-the-art equipment can be 
found in a classroom in the Mendoza College 
of Business, where it is used to produce a 
unique educational program-the Executive 
MBA 
This program, designed for practicing ex­
ecutives, allows them to earn an MBA in two 
yearswhilemaintainingfull-time employment. 
Though the program was founded in 1982,_, 
advances in distance-learning technology over· 
the past few years have made it possible for 
students to attend Notre Dame classes in Chi­
cago, Indianapolis and Toledo, Ohio. 
The program generally has 34 to 40 on­
campus students and 10 to 12 students peroff­
campus location. But these are no ordinary 
students. With 10 to 15 years of work experi­
ence under their belts, many seeking their 
EMBA degree are well-informed about class 
information and ask demanding questions. 
"On any given day, someonein that classroom 
knows as much or more than the faculty do 
about that particular subject," says Barry Van 
Dyck, directorofDegreePrograms for Execu­
tive Education. 
John Weber, a marketing professor who has 
been with the program sine~ its inception, 
enjoys the more-intense class environment. 
''We are dealing with mature, experienced ex-· 
ecutives who can and do contribute signifi­
cantly and regularly in the classroom," he says. 
Notre Dame professors teach the class, 
though they may be required to have more experience in the business world due to the e~tensive background a typical EMBA stu­dent has in comparison to an undergraduate or a typical MBA student. Classes are usually · taught from the Notre Dame site, but profes­sors have been able to travel to the remote sites in recent months to teach. "It's ·good for them 0to see it from both sides," Van Dyck says. Thoughfacultymembers cannot always make it to the off-campus locations, each site has a facilitator to handle handouts, assignments 
and the technology. · 

Technology plays a large part in the EMBA program -and Notre Dame stays on the cutting edge. "It's not as simple as it used to be," says Franklin Mark, the program's sys­tems engineer. "It's not video-conferencing anymore.lt'sourtechnology."Mark,together with his colleague Bill Brewster, the college's director of technology, designed much of the equipmentand the equipment structure. Tech­nicians stay in the room during each class, helping things run smoothly. "[Other long­distance programs] have downtimes as high as 20 percent during class time," Mark says. "Ours are not even one percent." 
The technological components for the dis­tance-learning system employ top-of-the-line equipment. The sites are connected via Tl lines, which have roughly the same capacity as 24 traditional phone lines. The audio and video components are completely interactive -professors even wear an infrared sensor so that the camera can follow them around the room. Not to be left out, students are equipped with pressure-sensitive microphones, which allow the camera to focus on them when they speak. 
The program's technology, designed with theprofessors in m,ind, has made the transition from a regular classroom to the epicenter of a technological learning web relatively easy for instructors. Weber enjoys working with the latest technology. "It's fun to see what's new -and to get to use it," he says. 
But even considering all the technology, top-quality professors and experienced stu­dents, is it still possible to get an excellent education from a location -not to mention a professor -100 miles away from campus? Van Dyck thinks so. "They [the students] get justas good of an education at the remote sites, and they don'thave to drive the four hours," he says. 
Brian Niswander, a Toledo student and the consumer-and-market-knowledgemanagerat Proctor & Gamble, feels that there is no disad­vantage to being at a remote location. In fact, because the remote students are often muted and have time to talk about topics amongst themselves, he finds the experience to be even more rewarding. "It allows us time to collect our thoughts," Niswander says. ''We can dive into the topic a little deeper." 
While EMBA students may not have the opportunity to walk Notre Dame's tree-lined quads and avenues on their way to class, Sharon· Keane, the director of marketing for executive education, says the .students are Domers nonetheless. "They still feel a con­nection with Notre Dame ... and have a Notre Dame experience," she says. "We have ex­tended Notre Dame education beyond cam­pus boundaries." 0 






Building 

I I 

From three log cabins to the Coleman-Morse Center, Notre Dame architecture continues to evolve 
JEFFREYNEWCAMP 

In 1842, Father Edward Sorin looked over a swampy vista dot­ted with rustic log cabins. Father Theodore Hes burgh oversaw the construction ofthe Mod Quad dorms, Stepan Center and the library. Today, Father Edward Malloy can see the Coleman-Morse Center, the West Quad dorms and the bookstore from his office in the Main Building. For better or worse, campus architecture is the key to revealing much of Notre Dame's storied history. Both the economy and the needs of the university have deter­mined the character of buildings students see today as they stroll across the various quads. Sorin founded Notre Dame with three humble log buildings and about $300. Two years later, the campus comprised 524 acres, five buildings, eight faculty members and 25 students. That dramatic growth has continued -Notre Dame currently spans 1,250 acres, with more than 100 buildings insured for over $1.4 billion. But it was along road to today's campus. Two ofSorin's earliest construction projects were Old College and the Administration Building-both built with yellow clay from the lakes. Old College was simple and built to a specific function, whereas the Adminis­tration Building served as both a landmark and the center for most university operations. After the second Administration Building bur:ned to the ground in April 1879, Sorin commissioned the construction of the current Main Building. Within a moiith of the fire, Chicago architect W. J. Edbrooke submitted plans for a new building he described as "modem Gothic." The structure also carries the mark of Classical architecture: ·a symmetrical design, elaborate paintings, detailed tile floors _:_ and a large dome. · · According to architecture professor Richard Bullene, both Clas­sical and Gothic architecture influenced the early quad buildings. Classical buildings such as Sorin, Walsh, Crowley and Washington Halls surround the Main Building to form God Quad. Many buildings on South Quad, including Howard, Lyons and Morrissey Halls, were built in the 1920s in the G~thic design. These buildings stand out with their asymmetry, vertical rises and skeletal quality, which emphasize the Gothic form. "We have slanted ceilings and an entranceway arch," says Howard Hall sophomore Katherine Karrat. "The architecture gives depth and definition to Howard." The Basilica of the Sacred Heart, though completed much earlier, in 1888, is also in the Gothic style. 
Though not wholly Gothic, buildings built in the 1930s were just as ornate as earlier structures. The university used its money during 
· the Great Depression to erect labor~intensive buildings, which provided much-needed jobs for the South Bend community. Cushing Hall is a perfect example of the detail that went into the buildings of the '30s: Its exterior boasts such _masonry detail as intricate corner and window facets and custom-made gutter pipes with the interlocking ND logo. At the end of World War II, however, Notre Dame encountered a swell in enrollment and a lack of space. Enter the ''form-versus­function" debate. "Vetville" married housing was one answer to overcrowding. A complex that once stood on the area now occupied by Mod Quad and Hesburgh Library, Vetville was a grouping ofmeager dwellings forpostwarmarriedstudents. There was nothing architectur­ally pleasing about Vetville, but as the university continued to grow, function dominated form in design. Father Hesburgh was named University President in 1952, and he was charged with expanding the physical resources of the univer­sity to accommodate the increasing student population. He says that by the end ofhis tenure, Notre Dame had quadrupled the number of buildings on-its campus. Under Hesburgh's leadership, enrollment had risen to 8,750 by 1976. Such buildings as North Dining Hall (1957), the Computing Center/Mathematics Building (1962) and the Joyce Athletic and . Convocation Center (1968) provided much-needed extra space for the 

. . 
. '


--·-1 


growing student body. Buildings went up quickly and cheaply. Money was tight, so buildings were constructed with an eye towards economy rather than beauty. 
Grace and Flanner Halls resulted from a similar attitude. If you think these towers were a mistake, imagine what would have happened if the plans in the late 1960s for five I I-story skyscraper dormitories had gone through. These buildings were to surround a freestanding chapel ( with an appearance similar to that ofthe Space Mountain of today's Disneyland) in dedication to Rev. John Cardi­nal O'Hara. The plans were scrapped, however, and only Grace and Flanner were built. "It was a very ambitious project," says Execu­tive Vice President Emeritus Father Edmund Joyce, who adds that "we weren't sure we really needed" five buildings. 
The university soon learned that problems are inherent in such large dormitories. The dorms consisted of three pods: one in the center, containing the elevator, and one on each side. Sections were smaller as a result, and students knew virtually no one on other floors because they would take the elevators directly up to their Levels. In this case, the form ofGrace and Flanner Halls impeded upon their function -not to mention that, by th!s time, the buildings weren't among those being singled out for praise. In the mid-1990s, after an in<:.rease in all­floor parties, elevator mishaps and objects being thrown from win­dows, Grace and Flanner residents were relocated to Knott, Siegfried, O'Neill and Keough Halls. Joyce says, "We weren't getting any accolades for the high rises -nothing but criticism." 
Stepan Center is not much better off, although it was progressive when assembled in 1962. Intended as an athletic and gathering location, its geodesic dome was invented by Buckminster Fuller and boasts energy efficiency and a spacious interior. It is economi­cally sensible and environmentally friendly. "Buildings can't be ugly if they weren't intended to be beautiful," Bullene says in response to those who think Stepan Center is an eyesore. In the end, Stepan Center an,swered a need, and despite its looks, it-continues 
OLD SCHOOL 
Buildings like . the Rock (left) and McGlinn Hall (right) exemplify Notre Dame's modern Gotliic flavor. 
All photos by Nicole Kenney 

to be a valuable sporting and test-taking location to this day. 
Shifts in design paradigms have come slowly at Notre Dame, but some progress has been made. Bullene says that the design of the JACC responded to architectural criticisms. The building sports two domes instead ofa single larger dome, enabling both to remain lower to the ground and to draw less attention. The design is clearly modest, so as not to compete with Notre Dame Stadium and Hes burgh Library. "It was a goal to spend less money on the JACC than on the library," Joyce says. "We didn't want people wondering why we spent more on an athletic complex." 
Wealthy alumni from the 1940s and '50s eased the money pinch -and the architectural shortcomings -by donating large sums in exchange for naming rights to buildings. "Our alumni total contribution in 1939 was something like $5,000," Hesburgh says. "Last year, it was near $160 million." With funding no longer a problem, buildings are now becoming more elaborate and impressive. "As Notre Dame grows in prestige, so does its architecture. The university will not make do with second best anymore," Bullene says. 
The evolution ofthe university is shown in its architecture: Many think that Notre Dame's buildings should be commensurate with its international recognition. In the past, Bullene says, the university built more pragmatic structures that stressed function before form. Finally, though, it seems that building trends have drifted back to beauty as well. He believes campus architecture will continue to trade aggressiveness in favor of a refined look. Such recent addi­tions as the Eck Center, West Quad and the Coleman-Morse Center evidence Bullene's criteria exactly. 
The story of Notre Dame is told through its buildings and monuments. Even as architecture styles progress over time, some buildings will remain as reminders of the past. So, even if Stepan Center may not be something you' 11 want to show your children, at least you don't have to attend concerts in a log cabin. . 

··coRNERSTONE Over 100 buildings now adorn Notre Dame's 1 ,250 acres of land. · 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 


Beyond the 
BUBBLE SHEET 
Teacher Course Evaluation ratings really do make a difference 
JEMARTISBY 
Senior Michelle Roeser' s biochem-· 
· istry class wasn't happy. One of the 
questions on their last 'test just did not seem right. But when they chalJenged the professor, he scolded them for asking about it. "He said something like, 'Well, you can bash me in the TCE, but it won't matter anyway,"' she says. · 
What role do those end-of-semester ques­tionnaires actually play in evaluating pro­fessors and courses? Does student opinion instructors improve their teaching skills ­not to measure a professors' worth. Dr. Mike Gunty, assistant director of Informa­tional Research says the reports are intended as a device to improve instruction, not as an instrument of retribution. "TCEs are not designed to get people fired," he says. 
But what about tenured professors like Roeser's who just don't care? Should stu­dents even bother? "It's fun to write good things if the teacher is really great, but if they stinkand then you see them again the next year, you know something' snotright," 
Roger Skurski, professor and chair of the economics department, disagrees. He says that students' responses do indeed have an effect-even on tenured professors. "First, if and when they want to be considered for promotion from associate to full professor, teaching still counts," he says. "Second, consistently good orweak teaching can have an effect on raises in salary recommended by the department chair;" 
The data from the evaluations is used in. several ways. After the information has been collect~d and tallied, it is sent to professors as part of the criteria used in deciding a professor's career advancement at the university. 

really make a difference?  says Roeser. "It really opens your eyes  · a tool to increase their effectiveness as an  
TCEs were originally developed to allow  because if they have tenure, it doesn'tmat­ instructor. It is also compiled into individual  
students to express their opinions and help  ter what you write."  rep.ort~ used by the Office of the Provost as  
10  SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE  





The information from the TCE is made into a report that is sent to the professor and department chairperson. The professor can compare his or her average score with oth­ers in the department, college and all other classes on the same level as theirs, such as 200 or 300. This is intended to let professors know how they measure up to traditional standards and to gauge whether they are evaluated as well or poorly as other profes­sors. 
Some professors disagree with the ways that departments use TCEs. For example one concern is using TCEs to determine salary increases, as this application may hurt rather than help the faculty and student body. "Ifyou weren't in the top 50 percent of the professors rated, you get less of a raise," says Jacqueline Brogan, a full pro­fessor in the English department. "No mat-~ ter how good you are, by definition, half the faculty has to be beneath the line and as a consequence . . . It definitely impacts the freedom of grading; it's like the professors are pandering for good evaluations. This also effectively puts us in competition with each other," she says. 
Sandra Gustafson, an associate professor in the English department agrees. "Like any teacher, I want to get feedback on my classes. I care about what my students have to say, but [TCEs] should ·not be the only factor. Peer evaluations and looking at the product -papers, exams -should all be consid­ered," she says. "That triad of factors adds up to something that gives a better indica­tion of a professor's worth." 
Brogan also sees potential negative ef­ogy department. "We really only find out if students are happy or not." 

But Brogan still thinks that the TCEs are useful to her to improve her teaching. "My first year here I kept getting high marks in every category, but there was one category I kept bombing out on, which was patience. I quickly came to discover that my teaching style was too impatient for the students here, so I changed my teaching style," she says. 
History professor Thomas Kidd uses the evaluations to enhance his teaching as well. "TCEs are quite important to me as a younger professor because they provide valuable feedback that helps me to know what is 'clicking' with the students and what I need to improve," he says. 
TCEs are quite important to me as a younger professor because they provide valuble feedback that helps me know what is "clicking" with the students and what I need to improve. 
-. Professor Thomas Kidd 

but none more so than the professor's orga­nization and attitude toward the students. 
But of course, each student's response is merely subjective -based on personal ex­perience and circumstances. According to an informational sheet published by the Undergraduate Studies Committee in 1998, "Results suggest that 7 4 percent ofthe varia­tion among [student response to] individual instructors...about the quality ofteaching is due to [the teachers' individual] teaching practices (e.g. providing intellectual stimu­lation, being clear, being responsive toques~ tions, being well prepared and well orga­nized)." 
But Gustafson wonders whether ques­tion 17 is truly useful as an overall assessment. "I don't think we all mean the same thing when we say 'good teach­ing,"' she says. 
Biology professor Martin Tenniswood says, "The question that most people focus on -the old question 17 -is relatively meaningl~ss, since it represents little more than a popularity contest." 
But while the meaning ofthe responses to question 17 remains ambiguous, other data is consistently clearer. For example, re­search shows that 100 and 200 level courses tend to receive lower ratings than 300 and 400 level courses. There is also a strong, positive correlation between a student's expected grade and the overall evaluation. Students expecting to get higher grades usually perceive themselves to be receiving better instruction. 
Despite the relative importance that the university places on TCEs, professors are not necessruily required to administer the TCE. At the start ofeach semester, IR sends a list of 
fects of the evaluations. "We used to get regular and healthy raises, around four per­cent, and if you had a great year, like you published a book or something, then you'd get a merit-based raise," she says. In recent years, however, regular raises have been reduced to two percent, with merit-based raises averaging about 2.6 percent. "A merit­based raise for me works out to about $15 a 
_week," says Brogan. "So why would any­one spend more time away from their family at the office, researching and doing scholar­ship just to get a raise like that?" " There is also debate amongst professors as to how useful they personally find TCEs. "As a· mechanism to help us teach better, TCEs are not very helpful," says Kevin Vaughan, an assistant professor in the biol-

Subjectivity is impossible to avoid when it comes to TCEs, as it is difficult to judge exactly what a student means when he or she marks an answer on the Scantron sheet. "The weakness is that each student has a different motivation, goal and· agenda," Vaughan says. "Some students use them as an opport~nity to vent frustration and anger. Students who are content with the course often ignore the TCEs as a waste of time." 
The most crucial question in determining what "clicks" with the students is question 17, which asks for an evaluation of the qual­ity of the instructor's teaching in general, independent of course content. The response to this question -from "very poor" to "ex~ cellent" ~ is detennined by many factors, the department courses to the department chair, which then chooses the professors who must distribute evaluations. The other courses are not required to conduct the evaluations, although professors are strongly encouraged by the dean and the provost to do so. 
When TCEs ru·e completed, the two por­tions of the evaluation -Scantron sheets and free-response essays -are handled separately by the IR. The Scantron sheets are sent to the Optical Scanning department that handles many other projects for the. university, including test forms for depart­mental exams and rector evaluations. This semester, approximately 50,000 Scantron sheets will be processed by the department. The free-response sheets are not processed . any further once they ru·e turned into the of-
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 




Deciding Factors 
What elements affect student's evaluations? 
ICORRELATION 
... 
:. .. ,'·•· 

qr•s·Exp~r effect· Major .·· . ktte6{ 
.~..... .

r'sPosi · 
Class Size No effect Instructor's Gender No effect Student's Level No effect Time of Day No effect 
fice; they are put into envelopes and sent directly to the professors. But the forms are not sent to professors until after grades have been posted to ensure that students' handwriting will not be recognized and affect their grades. "We have to keep confidentiality so students feel comfortable giving an honest evaluation of the professor," says Belmarez. 
But Professor Jack Powers of the Ameri­can Studies department complains that the free-response portions of the TCE are not received early enough for him to adjust his teaching for the next semester. He says that sometimes he doesn't even receive a student's free-response portion until a few weeks before the start of the next semester. "They're noto­rious. Weeks roll by and they don't even unpack the envelopes," he says. 
Still, Powers places more importance on the free-response section than the Scantron · portion ofthe evaluation. "They [Scantrons] don't mean as much to me ·as what the students write," he says. 
A perennial topic of concern amongst the student body is their lack of access to these official evaluations. "I believe that students could-really appreciate it if they were able to make use of the results, or at least a general sampling of the free responses," says Student Body President Brooke Norton. "It could cre­ate problems, but it could lead professors to care a lot more about the classroom." 
Professors themselves are split over these 

. . ,. 
StronglyPositive effect•i·.· 
·.. StronglyPo~itiye effe¢t i•.. <'•·•-•·· ·_Kl1oderateiyPo~itive.effecf · Moderately:positiye/effect··• ... 
issues. Many public univers1t1es publish their TCEs. Tennis wood said that at the last university he was at, the student govern­ment actually published a list of the top and bottom five professors in each col­lege. "It is interesting that professors very seldom stayed on the bottom five for more than one semester, since the embarrass­ment, coupled with the accompanying drop in enrollment, was enough to get them to improve," he says. 
But as long as salary and tenure are at least partially dependent on TCEs at Notre Dame, making such information public could pressure professors into compromis­ing their teaching standards for a higher evaluation. "I strongly believ_e that TCEs should not be available to students," says Kidd. "I have taught enough classes now to know how one could manipulate the course structure and students to get generally high evaluations -low_ expectations and high grades would probably do the trick. From what I have seen, the grapevine method among students lets students know who the best professors are anyway," he says. 
Other professors have ambiguous feel­ings toward the issue. "There are confidenti­ality issues one must consider," says Vaughn. "It might be possible to rank professors within a department without providing the· actual TCE score. How would students use this-info? Would they decide to take a particular class because ofTCE info? Would they avoid cer­tain disciplines?" 
In the meantime, students have devised another method for evaluating teachers. NDtoday .com has an informal, student­based survey system ofprofessors. It allows students to submit candid comments about their instructors and view other students' comments about the professor. Although Tenniswood believes that TCE information 

· should be made available, he has concerns about NDtoday's evaluations. "I think the students need to be aware that the comments are not a scientific survey ofopinion," he says. "The reviews are usually polarized because people who log on to the site to make com­ments usually really like or hate the prof in question. Middle of the road reviews usually don't land up on these kind of sites." 
But the lack of access to TCE results and the questions surrounding them do not di­minish a student's responsibility to answer candidly. "We assume [the students' an­swers] have someamountofvalidity," Gunty says. He sees the TCE as a staid and reliable source ofinformation about instructors and their students and anticipates that the future will bring even better results. "I expect that student evaluation ofteaching will continue to evolve;" he says. D 
-:--Jacklyn Kiefer, Katie Freddoso and KristilJ, Kramer contributed to this article. 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 





all new ... 


dtod version 3.0 

Bigger, Faster, Stronger 
• 
movie listings 

• 
picture galleries 

• 
new message boards 

• 
dining with Molly Kinder 

• 
and much, much, more ... 


ndtoday.com: More radical than Vatican II 
.:. 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

j. 

WITHOUT THE NECESSARY FUNDS, THE OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES STRUGGLES TO KEEP NOTRE DAME'S· NETWORK SAFE 
.. M:-_-~ ·:illions are. spen.t a_n__n_ua~ly ·s-~curing t_h?c~1!1P_:us to_. ~~eate­ ..  
·.  .  .. _·.  !3-comfortable envrronment. But the ,adiru,mstrat10n has  
_;: · ·  ,_ _·_ : ri~glected 11nareajn which students:sp¢nd an increasing amount ofthne: our rietw.6:rk space.-' . . . . .  .  

_ 

. >' Recentnetwork outages have had both students ahdfaculty accuse: _... ingthe Office oflnforrnation Technologies·(OIT)<;>r grossincompe.: tenc,¢. The now-familiar 11.asal voice of the campus a1:mouncement · 
· <: declaring•·yet another,::Jnteniet cut-off appear inJtudents' voice-" . · · . : ·mailbox:es.·. ¢v~ry few weeks. Many stiid¢nts ji~r~~ive. this :_a:S,-tp.~ . 
·.­

. ·-· greatesfpii:,blemfacirigour network.··· ;. .. ':· ". · <. · . .> : · · . :, ~~~t~i~l). greater threat has go~e, vi1tuaUy u~nqticed as the ·. .numb~r;R_f;QnSampu~.: c9~puters__ ~r~-w,s ~~ch r\:l~>N"otre pan1e's> 
. SUSS,~~~b'wtto hacking IS staggenng ~~~d.lIS-:IlOt entirely the 
.··
: ·1-J.-­

:::~~t,:,.•: · .:· ' . C' _-"+:•__ 
~--· '• ... . 
' --------~. -----------. . . ·.. ) ; .. ·.. . ' .-.: . 

,,> , ,!'..I Ci 
(i(•.1

, : u,.; . .. t•,,
·,; r-*.,.,:. rs··t-.,~,t,,)', •.Y!,. -----­
: ~-.!,j ... •_,,: ,',·..;_J H,I'.,.,,,.,., 1·1t•·..:1,1t, f·,'(•I
My .. Documents 

it{,9j -~•h:-1 "."·,•)t•·,-, /1',.)ql;,_o,,> 

I,{.{ f,,"11,,~... : I'!~.. .,, ._..t.-":' •:,t..::,-,<c.f,,• ·:'!l,JA:Jt~ ~-4::•,¥..J. 
\jj til 
l:'(,t,h, f.t;:efo•~lo't) --~!.Q~,., • •. 



PHOTOS BY EMILY GEROW 
SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 15 
i 
I 
~ 
L

, -<.:<:content~t-y p e:cou e r;-s-tory-1-t-eHt/-plain;::>,---------­


Most ofthe outages that have swept across campus in this academic year were the re­sult of a failure in the fiber-optic cable connecting the campus to the Ameritech offices in Chicago. A backup cable, which would usually be inactive, would cost the university more than $100,000 per year to maintain. Notre Dame's Internet connection is already extremely potent: 45 megabits per second compared to, for instance, 1.5 mega­bits at St. Mary's. But all this power comes at a cost: The network is a desirable tool for hackers to exploit. 
The term hacker, according to Sara Exum, the public relations director at the OIT, refers to "individuals who attempt to gain or actually gain unauthorized access to computer systems for the purpose ofstealing or corrupt­ing data." Notre Dame's complete lack of network safeguards leaves it open to hackers who could steal Social Security numbers, grade history and any other personal informa­tion stored on university computers. 
Hackers have also taken advantage of the network's formidable computing power and Internet connection to overload other sys­tems by sending enormous amounts of in­formation to their servers, causing them to crash. In October 1999, a computer on the Notre Dame network was hacked and used in such an attack on the University of California-San Diego and again in De­cember 1999 to disrupt the computing wing of France Telecom. 
Networks can be attacked from systems that are not on campus (outside) and by computers that are already on the network (inside). Two of the most common meth­ods of protection from outside attacks are firewalls and intrusion-detection systems. Firewalls are systems that prevent outside users from accessing the network, and block inside users from reaching restricted, poten­tially problematic sites outside the network. Although a complete firewall would virtually seal off the network from outside tampering, Curt Freeland, assistant professional special­ist and security consultant for several corpora­tions says that Notre Dame has no such sys­tem. 
Why doesn't the university install a 
firewall? One reason is the prohibitive cost 
-such a system would cost hundreds of 
thousands of dollars. Secondly, according 
to Freeland, a firewall restricts inside users' 
freedoms by blocking their access to certain 
sites outside the network, and off-campus 
users would face hassles every time they 
wished to connect. 
An Intrusion Detection System, or IDS, is 
another method of protection from external 
tampering. An IDS detects and records each 
event in which an outside user attempts to 
connect to the system to view or execute files. 
Although they cannot prevent break-ins, these 
systems log attackers' identities and loca­
tions, which would greatly improve Notre 
Dame's response time for network-security 
breaches. Some departments have such pro­
tection, but there are no tools for the campus­
wide network. 
The reason the university lacks an IDS 
is twofold. Again, the cost would be astro­
nomical, although not as great as that of a 
firewall. Secondly, the throughput of the 
network could be slowed to a snail's pace. It 
would take a full-time analyst hours to sift 
through all the logs generated in just one 
day. St. Mary's network has an IDS in place, 
but because its network traffic is so limited, 
it does not require nearly the same attention · as one at Notre Dame would. 
A third method of protecting the system 
from external hacking is encryption. "Using 
encryption is the safest way to ensure your 
session is secure," Exum says. Encryption 
Thousands of students, 
faculty and staff connect to 
the university's network 
everyday, but so do many 
uninvited guests. Without 
the proper safeg ..u.ara~.,,if.is
/5,/ //
especially vulnerable,to 
·~~'~ 
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 


<<Timeline of Terror>> 
may help provide security, but it isn't fool­

· Feb/1996 ---Mar/1_996>> 60 million attempts made by 
proof. The problem with encryption codes 

outsiders to use ND computers for rrialic~<>US :purposes
is that they can be easily decoded with a powerful computer. "Encryption can usu­

Sept/1998>> Secret information is stolen from ND network 
ally be broken if someone wants to [break it]," Freeland says. Notre Dame uses a form 

Jan/1999>> · Thousands of megabytes in DeBartolo are
of encryption on some systems, such as lrishLink, but the time and effort required to 

used to store hack~i's' information, clogging th~ system 
set up an encryption strategy on all pages wouldbeburdensome. Only sites that handle 

Spring/1999>> 160+ computers were attack~.d with the .. 
confidential information on the network are 

Chernobyl virus and :hundreds of files destroyE!d 
currently encrypted by the OIT. Partly because of these deficiencies, Notre 

Summer/_1999>> 3 European Web servers attacked 
Dame's network has fallen victim to a star­

using the ND network resources 
tling amount of external tampering. "Dar­win," one of Notre Dame's central host com­

Nou/ 1999>> U.S. Dept. of the Interior ordered Notre 
puters, has been compromised at least five 

Dame to investigate a mainframe computer that was being
times in the last six years, and the network has 
used in numerous attacks
been used just as often to attack other major systems. ·, 

Rpril/2001>> -OITofficials tracked hundreds of hacking 
For example, in the 30 days between Febru­

attempts from ,Chinese computers ·.:._ • -· 
ary 1 andMarch2, 1996,morethan60rnillion attempts were made by outside computers to use the campus network for malicious pur­poses. 
On August 31, 1998, four student and 
faculty computers were exploited to find 
campus passwords and attack other com­
puters. Less than a month later, hundreds of 
user passwords and other items were col­
lected off the network. On November 2 of 
the same year, two more computers were 
infiltrated from outside sources and left inop­
erable; one faculty member lost several 
months' worth ofresearch and personal files. 
In January of 1999, several computers in 
DeBartolo Hall were corrupted and used to 
store hacking tools. 
During the spring of 1999, more than 160 
computers were. attacked by the Chernobyl 
virus, which destroyed hundreds ofthousands 
ofpersonal and university files. That summer, 
the network was used to attack three European 
web servers: EuroNet, "NV/SA, and France 
Telecom.InNovemberl999, the United States 
Departmentofthe;rnteriororderedNotreDame · to investigate a mainframe computer that was 
generating attacks 011 an outside network. The machine had to be rebuilt as a result. 

This pattern has intensified, particularly in the last few weeks as tension mounted between the United States and China. "Last week, we received hundreds of attempts from Chinese computers trying to break into our network.... We often have prob­lems with China and [North] Korea," Freelanch says. The same happened with Iraqi servers during the Gulf War. "But you never know -it could be some kid in California working through foreign com­puters," he says. At the beginning of April, Notre Dame's network was again success­fully infiltrated. Administrators suspect the attack to have originated from Italy. Freeland sends. more than 24 e-mails each day to outsiders whom he cat~hes trying to hack the network. Still, without proper security devices, he can do little more than ask them to desist and, ifnecessary, place filters on all traffic from their servers. 
Although maintaining external network security is difficult, problems that originate on campus are much harder to detect. "Once they get inside, they're under our radar," Freeland says. When a hacker logs onto the network from an on-campus terminal, he or she has already circumnavigated most pro­tection methods. Notre Dame has no inter­nal security, and any problems that arise on campus computers are referred to the OIT or handled within the department. A voiding · individual problems is each department's own responsibility, as the university has no official policy regarding Internet integrity. 
In 1999, an on-campus user broke into a. computerin the Fitzpatrick engineering build­ing and _corrupted 60 percent of the machines there. Paul Oo, the director of engineering computer facilities, called this a "major secu­rity breach." "Fortunately, because of the present file system, even though these ma­chines were broken into, [the hack-


SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 





,l 
1'd!\ 
I• 
I'
,! 
I·. 
!1 • 
-ers] could not do much damage," he says. 
To combat internal security problems, system administrators have disabled many programs that are notoriously easy to infil­trate. But this has not been enough: Three outofthe 200 computers in Fitzpatrick have been hacked since the beginning of the academic year. 
In fact, Notre Dame's network has seen widespread internal manipulation in the past three years. In January 2000, three on-cam­pus computers were used to scan the engi­neering department's systems, looking for inroads to the server. These three terminals were subsequently taken offline, causing a loss of productivity.The perpetrators were never apprehended. 
A senior administrator's Web site was recently hacked and tampered with. Fearing theft of personal information, he has taken to changing his password daily and has closed his site to the public. "It's nerve­wracking," he says. 


Students caught attempting to break into others' AFS space or com.promise the net­work are disciplined by Student Affairs under the 'Responsible Use' policy. But internal hackers ·are rarely caught, because the OIT lacks a staff to constantly monitor security breaches. 
The e-mail system at Notre Dame is an­other important security issue. The current setup allows anyone with enough time to 
With frequent 
'" 
security breaches 
and system 
crashes, signing 
on is not ~w~s7 
,::' j an easy<t~~ 
.,).:'.<?Ma:,s:et1,'''i'.S{c>/•>:8?,•,,.. ~,::,'il!' ' 
capture and read private e-mails sent over the network. Furthermore, any number of viruses circulates through attachments ev­eryday, posing a significant danger to indi­vidual users. Norton and McAfee, two ma­
jor virus-fighting software companies, dis­
cover more than 100 new viruses each day. So, what is Notre Dame doing to protect students from harmful files? 
Notre Dame's e-mail system has no built­in encryption. If a student uses Netscape, Eudora, Webmail, PINE with IMAP, Out­look Express, Outlook or other mail agents, · by default his or her password is sent in plain text to the mail server in order to retrieve the mail. This means that hackers monitoring network usage can easily steal passwords whenever a student logs in. Once 
the password is stolen, all e-mail and AFS 
systems are at the hacker's disposal. If this 
information were encrypted, the system 
would be·much safer because a key would be needed to decipher the password. 
. Webmail is nominally safer, since the encryption system is already set up in com­
mon Web browsers like Netscape and 
Internet Explorer. But the password is still 
converted to plain text once it reaches the 
central Webmailcomputer and is circulated 
around the network in this format, which 
effectively reduces the security afforded by 
a so-called "secure session." Although the 
Notre Dame mail server has the capacity for encryption, it does not use it. The reason is that setting up the system in such a way that passwords were encrypted would take many man-hours, and each user's mail-reader pro­gram would have to be reconfigured. 
Combating viruses is a user's responsi­bility. A campus-wide virus check would take an enormous amount ofthe university's computer time. Such a scan would also require each user's participation in permit­ting the network server to access all of their files. This would open personal computers to hackers, as their systems would be com­pletely exposed to the network. And, after it was all said and done, new viruses would still be able to enter the network from the outside 20 seconds later. Running an anti­virus program on your computer on a regu­lar basis and keeping the virus definitions up-to-date are the best ways to ensure safety. "People need to be very careful when open­ing attachments," Go warns. Users should never open an attachment unless they are fully aware of its contents. 
Notre Dame has the ability to scan all incoming mail for possible problems, but this is too close to censorship. "The sheer volume of the mail and respect to privacy prevent us from reading [students'] mail," Freeland says. In the five years that Freeland has been working at the university, Notre Dame has rejected campus-wide e-mails that contained subject lines that suggested a virus only a few times. For example, the "Melissa" virus that broke out in 2000 was barred by the servers -Notre Dame re­jected all incoming e-mails with the identi­fiable subject line. Rather than delete the e­mails, which-is against federal law, Notre Dame simply does not deliver the messages. 
One way that the university does attempt to protect its network users is the installa­tion of filters. The· filter stops an assigned server from sending information to any user on Notre Dame's network. These are set up on the network's routers, and slow the sys­tem significantly without affording the level 


18 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

----,-~~..,.........-----~---,-----,---~---
~<:<ico11tent-type:couer;story-/-teH-t-/-plain.;r>--·-j 
.. . . ·~ ::•. . . . -. . . -·. 

stalled until a problem has been identified and are very easily circumvented -by modifying basic computer settings, one can route information around these blocks. Gen­erally, they are only employed to prevent lawsuits from outside organizations, such as with the Napster block. 
Network administrators have set up a few filters on computers within their depart­ments, but the university has no campus­wide blocks. The existing filters can be side­steppedjustas easily as the N apster filter and add little firmness to our shaky network. 
Universities across the nation face simi­lar problems, but many have taken action to create an adequate defense system. For ex­ample, both Stanford and Vanderbilt uni­versities have IDS. Neither institution will publicly comment on the topic offirewalls, most likely to avoid tempting challenge­hungry hackers. Nevertheless, these uni­versities and dozens of others operate rela­tively safe from malicious mischief caused by hackers. 
The University Committee on Computing and Information Services (UCCIS), a fac­ulty-led group founded by the university in 1997 to examine computing issues, has rec­ommended several ideas that would improve security. These include a network scan con­ducted by a third party, a deeper level of education for all network users and the hiring of a dedicated network-security force. 
UCCIS recommended that the university hire three professionals whose sole job would be to safeguard the network, in imitation of the Computer Intrusion Response Teams, or CIRTs, found at other schools. Accord­ing to Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost and director of the OIT, Carnegie Mellon University initiated a similar measure in the mid-1990s to guard its network and inform other institutions if a widespread attack on higher-education systems was at hand. Now, he says, "Most of what we would consider our 'peer institutions' have a similar com­mittee in place." At Notre Dame, this staff would watch for intrusions, patch programs and fix security breaches. At the moment, repairing and patching the damage caused to personal and departmental computers by hackers is the duty of the affected party. With a CIRT in place, students and faculty would have someone to contact in the event of destructive tampering. 

In June 2000, the university contracted IBM to scan the network for potential weak­nesses. Only four people were informed that the scan was taking place, so when Freeland and other security-conscious us­ers observed that someone was probing the system, they notified IBM's Internet-con­nection provider; who stopped the scan. 
In August 2000 the scan was resumed. Butdue to the pause in the scanning process, which gave any potential hackers time to 

Unfortunately, the only university policy that even remotely addresses [network] security is the 'Responsible Use of Information Technologies at Notre Dame' document adopted by the university in 1996. We say 'unfortunately' because this is a nearly invisible accep~able-use document that requires no mandatory training of incoming students, faculty or staff, nor a mandatory signature acknowledging understanding and acceptance.­'Responsible Use' explains the internal consequences for an ND student or employee misusing ND IT resources, but does not appear to protect ND in any way from external attacks . 
. . ~S~entfrom Security an[} Risk: Information and ~e?:nation Technology at the University of Notre Dame 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 19 
· 

<<!!WARNING!!>> 
The following e-mail was received by system 
administrators two years ago: · 
----F.orwarded messag·~·____..;.___ 
Date: Tue, 18 May 199916:28:17 PDT 
From: xxxx <xxxxx@hotmail.com> 
To: root@nd.edu root@nd.edu 
Subject: troubles in the library .... 
Hi, my name is xxxxxxx, i'm a junior at John Adams high school (south bend) 
rwas in the library, playing on the computers, (bomb 
threat at school, so everyone left, and i came here) 
installed stuff, and achieved admin access:) (i'm proud) 
talked to some people, and they recomended that i e-mail root@nd.edu and inform you that your system is vulnerable 
also, if you goto 1 Opht.com, there is an Adv;sors seciton (on the left hand side) if you click it it will show you a list ofproblems, and most of, if not all of the security problems/loopholes they find they have fixes for (including the one i used, wich ishackdll.exe) 
so you may want to fix it. .Also, can i have a job?:-) 
woohoo go irish! 

---EndMessag·e------­
clear out, and the fact that none of the stu­dents' computers, which comprise a huge part of the network, were online at the time, the results may not be accurate. Mike Langthorne, an OIT systems coordinator, says thatthe purpose ofthe scan was not only to identify problems but also to show the administration that there is a real security threat. The scan supported Langthorne' s as­sessment, but it caused tension between the network-security personnel for different de­partments and the OIT since they ordered the scan without informing the users. 
IBM's probe ofthe networkrevealed fright­ening news. According to Rapagnani, the scan "pointed out vulnerabilities which I don't want to go into for reasons of security ... and recommended areas that needed to be exam­ined in greater detail." Essentially, Freeland notes that the scan revealed a highly vulner­
\ able network. "We have no security. The 
'·· 
::::!_/ 
i i 
r 
I 
} 
i 
potential for catastrophe at Notre Dame is pretty large," he says. For students, such a catastrophe could involve the theft of Social Security numbers and permanent records. For the university, the consequence is much worse. For example, the Hammes Bookstore site or the Notre Dame Athletics site could be hacked into, and millions of dollars in tickets and merchandise could be lost. Go's evaluation of the network is chilling: "Overall, wemightnot even be fairly safe." 
But the university ignored this conclusion, and these problems were never dealt with. The university considered founding a CIRT and increasing the OIT budget for IDS's, firewalls and other security measures. But the Board of Trustees did not view these as primary c;oncerns, and cut them from the final budget. Even if the OIT successfully 

money will not arrive until July 2002. 

The university has no official explanation for why it decided against increasing network protection. Langthorne, who spends 20 to 30 percent of his time on security issues for the network, says that if the university merely held an official opinion concerning this issue, a more effective budget could be drawn up. 
The question remains: can the OIT be held responsible for this lack of defense? Rapagnani insists that his staff is doing ev­erything in its power to protect the students. But, he adds, "Ifyou don't do something on your computer to protect yourself, you are at risk." Most of the employees in his depart­ment work 65 to 80 hours per week keeping up with the rigorous pace of the computing world. "There are 6,200 student computers on the network .... Next semester, there will be 2,000 new ones we've never seen before. That always poses inherent problems." As for the failed budget proposal, Rapagnani says, "Why it was not funded I cannot com­ment on. I have no idea." 
Currently, the OIT's budget is $15.2 mil­lion per year. Ninety-six percent, however, is spent immediately when it is received each July on overhead costs -salaries, hardware and software upgrades and print­ing. This leaves roughly $600,000 in the operating budget, which also must cover any incidents that arise during the school year. 
Rapagnani is confident in his department's 
abilities to make the most out of what they are given, although he says, "[The OIT] could do many more things for students and faculty with additional resources." He adds, "We know exactly what needs to be done­we' re not stupid ... it's a resource allocation issue." But unless more funding arrives, each student and faculty member will have to protect him-or herself. "The network is not a friendly place," Rapagnani warns. "At some point in time, your machine will be used as an accomplice in a crime, and you will be in bigtrouble." 
The "Responsible Use Policy" is Notre Dame's only shield against malicious net­work intrusion. Unfortunately, most hack­ers have not read it. Until the university takes a stance on the growing security risks 
of paper. D 


<<co ntenl-t-ype~co uer;s to ry-/-end-form at;>>, 

20 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

TIP THE GIPP. OIPPER.l@ND.EDU 
(}JffiPUs 
4.~~ 
!Pa,c\' 
"So when can you tell me who the Gipp 
.
lS.?" 
All in good time, all in good time. But first, one last hurrah. 
Dribble These Balls 
The Gipp knows that lately he's re­ported on the foibles of administrators, and he's heard the students respond'. Mostly, they say, "Hey, Gipp! Whatever happened to cheap sex jokes and toilet humor?" The Gipp has heard your cries. He starts with stories from a grotesque spectacle -one that is more revolting than the pictures posted on uglypeople.com and that displays less ath­letic talent than the XFL. 
It happens because each year, Notre Dame students drink too much. And each spring, Notre Dame students drink too much and then play basketball. From the corrupted courts of Bookstore Basketball, the Gipp offers the following two tidbits: 
First up, one team decided that it lacked the requisite skill needed to succeed at Book­store. Rather than going out there, giving it their best and going home losers anyway, the players came up with a plan to disgust -if not defeat -their opponents. Each player chose a spreadable food product and covered himself with a generous help­ing of it. The menu apparently included mayonnaise, nacho cheese and peanut but­~er among other things. To add a little twist to this dish, many of the guys were clad in Speedos. The edible contenders' opponents were not well-pleased with the prospect of playing man-to-man d, and they were even less pleased when the food-covered players proved they were more interested in sharing their bounty thari playing basketball. The game quickly degenerated into a disgusting mess that left the courts smelling rancid for days. 

The spreadable edibles were, of course, 
disqualified for their antics. But who re­
ally came away the victors in that match­
up? 
Now, while many Bookstore teams pre­

game by taking on extra fluids, most players 
manage to relieve themselves of the ex­
cess before the game. But when Mother 
Nature calls, you can't always find a bath­
room. Of course, most guys just step off 
the court, find a garbage can or two cars to 
stand between and discreetly take care of 
business. One guy, however, had imbibed 
so much that he had few of the usual 

inhibitions about going in public. Dis­
playing a total lack of stagefright, he 
moved to the corner of the court and emp­
tied his bladder. You want 
cheese on that? 
Ore.at Balls of Fire 
Continuing with the 

theme of toilet humor and bod_y parts, the Gipp relays this next tip. It appears one campus group has an annual tra­. dition of competing to see which member has 
the nicest legs. The 
catch is that they're all 
male, and the competi­
tion involvesmore than just 
shaved legs. Conte-stants 
must perform stunts in order 
to win .the coveted bragging 
rights that come with the. 
crown. This year, one member 
performed a stunt that took 
some serious preparation and a 
lot of balls: He took a pyrotech­
nics course that gave him the proper certi­
fication to purchase special pyrotechnic sup­
plies. O?ce he completed the course and got the supplies, he lit his member on fire. The Gipp's advice: Don't try this at home, but if you do -make sure you shave more than your legs. 
Mis Huevos 

While lighting your manhood on fire is a good way to win some contests, it probably isn't the best way to celebrate Easter (al­though it would eliminate the need for candles at the vigil). Some students in Stanford came up with a creative, non­flammable way to celebrate the holiday. Instead ofEaster eggs, they painted and hid beer cans for participants to find. The win­ners got the Stanford Cup, a trophy com­prised of beer cans topped by a bowl. The Gipp especially enjoyed the motto for this year's contest: "It's for the kids." Appar­ently, the organizers hope to make the event an annual tradition, expanding it to include four-person teams and a registra­tion fee that would be donated to charity. Beer: "It's for the kids." 
How Revealing 

Well, how it's time for the Gipp to reveal a bit of himself. He took over the Gipp because writing just one column every issue wasn't enough for him. He won­ders if his asso­ciation with this column will somehow jeopar­dize his career · and if it will be held against him in a court of law. More than likely it won't, because the stuff he reported was true. And although he knows he ruffled some feathers, he did it because we all need to laugh at ourselves sometimes. This year, the Gipp has been none other than the former editor of this rag called Scholas­tic. That's right: Although he denied it mightily, Jim Pastore penned this drivel on a biweekly ba­sis. He hopes you en­joyed it but doesn't want to hear from you if you didn't. Good luck next year, and thanks to all the students and, especially, to all the administrators who make this column possible. D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 21 



lf,. Cl{_,,;,.,,,;{!/ o{ C){oln, (j)wnc ClJ,pa,lmenl o{ C)J{,tsic and ffre CJ(niocrsily C'J3cmcls J>re.<e11l 
how can you 


dprinfJ eoneeri eele&raiion 
9f.otre CJJwne Bmcert 03ands 9l.otre (j)wne Ptee e1u6 
The truth is, a little of your time can make a lifetime of 
Dr. Kenneth Dye, director Daniel Stowe, &Tc::ror 
difference. Because kids with something to do are less likely to do drugs. You can help. For more information on drug prevention programs in your community, call or visit: 
t;c&Is ,.,,,,,inxf,
1877 KIDS 313 
$2 student/senior citizen 
$5 general admission

www~youcanhelpkids.org 
Tickets arc available at the Lafortune Box Office, (219)" 631-8128 
& at the Morris Box Office, (219) 235-9190 

Proceeds to benefit the South Bend Community School Corporation's summer production for the FircRy Festival ! 
Office of National Dru}.: Control Policy :or more information, plca.w call (219) 631-6201 or (2191 631-7136, email con&'(>Ct'S@nd.edu, or visit \V'MY.nd.edu/-congocrs! l 




Scholastic is looking for No business 
advertisers to join its background is required. 
staff for the fall If interested, contact 
semester. It's great Advertising Manager 
experience, easy Jessie Potish at 
money, and lots of fun. jpotish@nd.edu.
¦ 


C!JJJ llI!J 
I 
. 
. 
. 



SCHOL8STIC 
UlllYEASITY OF fl0Tf1E DAME 3 I 5 LA FORT U ti E S r.u OEN T CENT Ell tl0Tf1E DAME, llf·,-411556•5635 



_,. • • r ~ • • • ..,. : • ~ • 
. ­
-. ' , --.,. -: ' 
~ I ~
r 
-. . ( ­
IRISH 
EYES 

ON 
DANNY. 

'TAMAYO 
Senior right-handed pitcher Danny Tamayo is 
the second starter on the No. 1-ranked Irish base­ball team. Tamayo has pitched exceptionally this year after recovering from "Tommy John" recon­structive elbow surgery, which sidelined him for much of th~ last two seasons. Tamayo has five swins in nine starts with a 1.65 ERA this year for the Irish, whose team ERA is the best in the nation. 

The highlight of my Notre Dame career was: shutting out Mississippi State in last year's regional with my parents there to see it. It was also nice to hear 14,000 fans go silent. 
The toughest things about coming back from Tommy John surgery were: not being able to play baseball for the first time since I can remember and not being part of the team. I was always there to cheer our team on, but it was really hard to watch when I knew I could help the team if I were healthy. 
If I wasn't playing baseball, I would be playing: football. I played in high school, and I still miss it. You just don't get to hit people in baseball like you do in football. It was a nice release from the rest of your life. 
My favorite athlete growing up was: 
Nolan Ryan. He Iives out every pitcher's-· dream-rearing back and just throwing fastballs by major leaguers. His work ethic surpassed his talent, however, which made me respect him as well. 
I started playing baseball when: I was four. I played on a tee-ball team with five-and six-year-olds. My dad wanted me to play against better competition from the beginning. 
The strangest thing I've seen in an Irish baseball game was: Seton Hall pitchers this year and Rutgers pitchers last year urinating in our bullpen. We have a lot of respect for the teams [from New Jersey]. 
My favorite hobby outside ofbaseball is: playing cards. A bunch of guys on the team play on all of the road trips. I usually do pretty well. 
To relax and focus myself before_ a start: I throw a towel over my head about an hour before game time. I close my eyes and picture the way the game will go. I get my different grips and simulate throwing, just to get my mind ready to throw a good game. I do th~t for about a half-hour until I warm up. 
-David Murray 
Jerry's Jabber 
On Saturday, junior forward Troy Murphy announced that he is leaving Notre Dame in favor of the NBA .... The Irish baseball team rose to the No. 1 ranking in 
Collegiate Baseball 
magazine for the first time in the program's 109-year history on Monday .... The Irish softball team won its 22nd straight contest, sweeping Virginia Tech in a doubleheader Saturday. Shortstop Melanie Alkire went 3-for-4 in the first game with two singles and her third home run of the year .... Nine starters for the 2000 Irish football squad have signed with NFL clubs. Mike Gandy, Brock Williams, Jabari Holloway, Tony Driver, Dan O'Leary and Anthony Denman were selected last weekend in the NFL draft, while Joey Getherall, Lance Legree and Jim Jones signed free-agent contracts on Monday .... The Irish women's lacrosse team earned its first national ranking when the latest Intercollegiate Women's 
Lacrosse Coaches Association placed them at No. 18 on Tuesday .... 
Notre Dame women's tennis defeated Miami on Saturday to capture its fourth consecutive Big East Championship. All-American Michelle 
Dasso won in both singles and doubles against the Hurricanes in the Big East Championship .... The 
Irish men's tennis team fell to Miami in the Big East Championship on Sunday, 4-2. Luis Haddock-Morales, Aaron Talarico and Matt Daly won singles matches and the Javier Taborga/Aaron Talarico tandem won in 
doubles for Notre Dame: O 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 
-. 
--------~\. ----~--. ~ " 
-' . . , . -­
. . 
. -~ ~ 
1946 ,· -. ·_ 
. . . 
BY JESSICA DAUES 
FROZEN 
MOMENTS 

In front of a packed crowd at Yankee Stadium, Notre Dame destroys Army's winning streak and sets the stage for its fifth national championship. 
NOTRE DAME: 0 ARMY: 0 

'O'n the lime-striped turf at Yankee Stadium, New York on Satur­day, November 9, 1946, will be fought the greatest battle since the invad­ing Goths smashed the Roman myth at Adrianople in 378 A.D. For sheer color, it willrank with the Franco-British clash at Agincourt; for world-shattering impor­tance it will replace Sobieski' s gallant stand against the. Turks. It will bring to­gether the nation's football champions, 
the Black Knights of West Point on the Hudson, and the invading challenger, the University of Notre Dame." 
-John A. O'Connor, The Notre Dame Scholastic 
Billed by many sportswriters as the "game ofthe century," overzealous Scholastic writ­ers weren't the only ones who saw the coming match with Army as something more than just another football game. Un­defeated in its last 25 games, Army had spanked Notre Dame in the team's past two meetings, 59-0 and 48-0. With Army on top at No. 1 and the Irish ranked just below, Irish fans were well aware that the outcome of the game could determine this year's national champion. More than 1,500 stu­dents made the 17-hour train ride from South Bend to Grand Central Station to cheer on the Irish. The game even inspired the forma­tion ofa new student organization, SPA TNC -the Society for the Prevention of Army's Third National Championship. 
Irish fans rested their hopes for victory in 21-year-old quarterback Johnny Lujack. Lujack made his first appearance for the Irish against Army in 1943 after then­quarterback Angelo Bertelli was called to serve in the Marines. Lujack finished out the Irish season as starting quarterback but was drafted by the Navy before he could start the 1944 season. Lujack re­joined the team in 1946 and showed no signs of rustiness, leading the team to wins over Illinois, Pittsburgh, Purdue, Iowa and Navy, while completing 25 passes in 46 attempts. 
Army, however, wielded many weapons themselves, including fullback Felix "Doc" Blanchard and left halfback Glenn Davis. The "scythe-legged, bull-charging, ram­shouldered" Blanchard and the "gazelle­swift, cut-and-sprint artist" Davis were con­sidered, according to O'Connor, the most feared men in football. 
The Irish entered Saturday's game fo­cused on defense. They knew that if they could manage to do what no team had done before for the past 25 games -contain Blanchard and Davis-the game was theirs. And so they marched into Yankee Stadium, ready to claim the title of the No. 1 team in the nation as their own. 

Although many expected the game to be a defensive battle, few could have predicted the game that ensued.Notre Dame achieved the most significant offensive action in an 85­yard run, but was stopped by Army at the three-yard line. This was the closest any team came to scoring. Notre Dame and Army each gained only 219 and 224 yards respectively, and the Irish only managed to make 10 first downs and held Army to nine. The game featured few highlights and ended in a 0-0 tie. 
The Irish dressing room was quiet after the game except for Coach Frank Leahy's comments to reporters. "I suppose I should be elated over the tie. After all, we didn't lose. But I'm not .'.. Five minutes after the game had started, after we stopped Army in the first period, I had a feeling we might win," said a downcast Leahy. 
The Irish took out their frustration on 
theirnext three opponents, pounding North­
western 27-0, Tulane 41-0 and USC 26-6. 
Army, however, failed to impress many 
with its final games and narrowly defeated 
Navy -a team the Irish had demolished 
earlier in the season 28-0 -to round out its 
season. Notre Dame looked to be the clear 
favorite for the national championship. 

''Any resemblance of this Notre Dame team to any other college team is purely · coincidental," wrote Edgar Hayes of the 
Detroit Times. "The Irish have proved them­
selves the best of this great postwar year 
with spectacular victories over . . . good 
teams from every sections, in addition to 
being the only club to hold Blanchard and 
Davis scoreless in three years." Taking this 
into consideration, sportswriters awarded 
Notre Dame the No. 1 ranking in the AP_poll 
and the national championship. D 



SPORT: BASEBALL OPPONENT: ST. JOHN'S WHERE: JAMAICA, NY WHEN: SATURDAY 11:00AM 
Eager to defend their.No. 1 ranking, the Irish head to New York to take on the Red Storm in a double-header. The nation's best rotation continues to roll, shutting down St. John's offense for another Irish sweep. 
-Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor Though St. John's is tied for second in the Big East, the team can't compete with the top-ranked Irish. Danny Tamayo and Aaron Heilman, arguably the best 1-2 pitching combo in the nation, shut down the Red Storm, 8-1 and 11-3. 

-David Murray 
Assistant Sports Editor In recent weeks, Notre Dame has proven that the lofty preseason projectings were justified. The winning ways continue as the Irish beat the Red Storm in both games of the double­header. 
-Mike Griffin 
Editor in Chief 
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


COMMENTARY 

Million-Dollar Man 
Murphy is offto fortune and fame in the NBA -but is it too soon? 
DAVIDMURRAY 
Troy Murphy confirmed Irish bas­ketball fans' deepest fears last weekend when he decided to leave the Notre Dame family in search of a new home· in the NBA. Doing so, Murphy became only the third player in Irish history to declare himself eligible for the NBA draft before his senior year. Undoubtedly, this was one of the most difficult decisions of Murphy's life, and it is nearly im­possible to understand every factor affecting his decision. But, consid­ering the pros and cons of the di­lemma, Murphy should have cho­sen a different path. Few people question Murphy's readiness for the NBA. Head coach Mike Brey expressed his confidence in a bright NBA future for Murphy at a press conference last weekend. "I know this wasn't an easy deci­sion for him," Brey said, "but I am certain that he will enjoy as much success playing in the NBA as he did while at Notre Dame." The list of Murphy's accolades is long and includes being named Big East Player of the Year and a consensus first-team All-American for two consecutive seasons. He was also one of the top three finalists for the Naismith trophy for men's college player of the year. His career statis­tics tell a similar story of three years of greatness. But there is one notable accolade missiirn from his list: a national championship. It was certainly an 
.
extraordinary achievement for the ba~ketball team to simply play in the NCAA Tournament after a 10-year drought. In just three years, Murphy and his teammates were able to accomplish so much together. But the fact remains that the Irish went down quickly in the tourna­1!1-ent, falling il'l ~ second-round nail-biter against. Ole Miss. Could Troy and the gang have accomplished the same feat as their female counterparts in one more year? Wasn't that an intriguing enough reason to stay? 

Understandably, Murphy wanted to jump to the NBA because it was his dream. However, many signs point to a dream lifestyle that he enjoys at Notre Dame. Several different sports magazines ex­plored his personality and life on campus, 

-.. 

essentially comparing him to a kid in a candy store. In the December 25, 2000 issue of Sports Illustrated, writer Grant Wahl described Murphy as "acollege kid, with an emphasis on kid." He was consis­tently portrayed as a person who found stardom to be less important than having fun. Wahl goes on to describe Murphy's friends' impressions of him, as "a laid-_ back kid who retains a child-like wonder about the world." These observations paint a picture of a guy who would extend his college experience as far as possible be­fore leaving it behind for good. His wacky personality and zest for the college life make his decision puzzling. 
Of course, there is plenty of money wait­ing for him in the NBA. There is also the temporary glory of being a first­round, possibly even a lottery, pick. But then comes the grueling sched­ule of 82 games and the long road trips all over the country. And every night, he will have to play defense against the likes ofRasheed Wallace, Chris Webber and Kevin Garnett. Murphy will be a rookie once again, with his work cut out for him. Al­though he has proven that he has the work ethic to succeed at a higher level, wouldn't it be fun to be the college superstar and the big man on campus for just one more year? It's not necessary to rush to the next level. The NBA would have waited for Troy to finish his work at Notre Dame. In fact, Murphy probably would have developed into an even better player over one more season, likely increasing his value in the NBA. Why not wait and let the next phase of his career occur in due time? 
Nobody can see the entire pic­turefromMurphy's big, ink-riddled shoes. Maybe there were other in­fluential factors or concerns which he did not disclose to the public. Maybe he was worried about the possibility.ofinjuring himself while playing one more year in college. Maybe he was swayed by the rule changes in the NBA that favor his 

-style of play that take effect next year. Whatever the case, the bottom line is that by leaving early, Murphy is waiving his right to one more round of good times under the Golden Dome -one that he can never have back. How can he turn that down? D 
The opinions expressed in this article are not necessarily those ofScholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 


f Age 

After five years of varsity status, 
women's lacrosse emerges as a 
Big East powerhouse 

.-GERALDMESKILL 
The women's lacrosse team entered the 2001 season on a low note, coming off a 5-10 record in 2000 ­
-the worst in the program's history since becoming a varsity sport in 1997. Despite the poor record in 2000, head coach Tracy Coyne had much to look forward to with this year's squad. For one thing, the Irish did not lose any players from 2000 to graduation. Notably, all-region selections Lael O'Shaughnessy and Kathryn Lam returned for the 2001 campaign as the team's two captains. 
"This is the first year where we have key players returning in every position and have depth and experience," says Coyne. "There is more competition at every position and more talented players overall." · The team's depth is largely due to re­cruiting. Since converting from a club sport in 1997, the Irish have fielded a mix ofrecruits and walk-ons -until this year. 
"This is the final transition from our club team to our varsity program," says seriior goalkeeper Carrie Marshall. "All of the players here have been recruited and are top quality. This is our year to make an impact and put Notre Dame la­crosse on the map." 

Aiding the effort to gain national recog­nition for the Irish lacrosse team was the decision to begin Big East conference play in the sport. The decision was par­ticularly special for Coyne, since she played a major role in convincing the Big East to incl~de women's lacrosse in con­ference competition. However, she also realized the challenge that conference competition would bring. 
"There are a lot of great teams in the conference," Coyne says. "This will give our teams n_ational recognition. The Big East could be one of the dominant confer­ences in the country." 

tON THE MOVE Junior defender Tina [ Fedarcyk rushes downfield. The tough [ defense of Rlc:1yers like Fedarcyk has helped !the Iris~ to an 8~4 record so far this season. 

The timing could not have been better for the Irish. In addition to 2001 being the first year that Notre Dame fielded an en­tirely recruited team, the Irish added Danielle Gallagher as an assistant coach. Gallagher, a two-time member ofthe U.S. World Cup, is currently in training for a third appearance in 2001. Coyne is ex­cited by the potential that Gallagher's lacrosse experience brings to the Irish pro­gram. 
"Danielle has fabulous lacrosse creden­tials · and has experienced the game on so many levels," said Coyne at the beginning of the season. "She is going to bring new ideas and a fresh perspective and will be a tremendous influence on our team." 
These positives did not immediately pay off for Notre Dame, as it opened the season at No. 8 James Madison. The Irish fell behind 7-1 after just 14 minutes ofplay and dropped the game, 15-4. Beaten but not broken, Notre Dame shrugged offthe defeat and headed to Blacksburg, Va. to play their first-ever conference game. 
The Irish opened Big East conference play in grand style, pounding Virginia Tech 19-8. Senior Lael O'Shaughnessy had a major impact on the outcome, scoring one goal and assisting five others. Her unselfish play made her a role model for the rest ofthe team. 
. "Lael really leads by example on the field," Marshall says. "Everybody knows when they go out on the field what they have to do and that we ha:ve to work together." 
The team's cooperative maturity con­tinued to show on the field as the Irish closed out their four-gam~ road trip which included contests against Boston College and Harvard. The Irish opened a 6-2 half­time lead against Boston College, but struggled in the second half. The Eagles scored three goals in the final 90 seconds, but the Irish held out for an 8-7 win, their second straight in conference play. The next day, the Irish easily defeated Harvard by an 8~3 margin.. 
After a 3-1 start, Notre Dame returned home on March 25 to make history in their first contest of the year at Notre Dame. The Irish sprang out to an 18-0 lead against Denver, shutting out the Pioneers for over 47 minutes, a truly i:are feat in lacrosse. The game ended 20,.2, setting the school record for most goals in a game and tying the record for fewest goals allowed in a contest.· 
Notre Dame left their home field as quickly as they ha~ arrived and began a three-game road stand against Ohio, Dela­ware and Vanderbilt. In the first game, the unranked Irish mauled Ohio for an 18-9 victory. In the second contest of the road trip, they faced No. 17 Delaware, their first real test since the opener against James Madison. In five years of varsity lacrosse, Notre Dame had never defeated a ranked opponent. Delaware mounted a 6-4 lead in the first half, but sophomores Danielle Shearer and Anne Riley each posted four goals to lead the Irish to a 13­11 comeback win. The victory extended 

the school-record winning streak to six games. 
Vanderbilt, however, ensured that the streak would not grow any longer. The Commodores held the lead for most of the game, claiming an 11-9 victory over the Irish. The Irish had to wait a week for a chance at redemption. Unfortunately for Connecticut, they were up next on the Irish warpath. Notre Dame exploded to a 10-2 lead early in their first-ever Big East home ::-contest. The Irish did not let up in the second half, notching nine more goals to secure an easy 19-5 victory over the Huskies. The game marked the fourth time the Irish amassed 19 goals in a contest in 2001, a feat that had only been accomplished six times in the program's first four years of varsity 
play. 
The Irish tried to use the momentum 

from that victory again!'lt No. 4 Duke in the first of two contests in New Haven, Conn. on April 13, but to no avail. The Jrish trailed 5-4 at halftime before completely collapsing. The Blue Devils buried Notre Dame in the second halt, walking away with a 16­4 victory. ­
"We just played a 30-minute 

.This is our yearto make an impact 
andputNotre Dame lacrosse on 

the· map. . . ~ Carrie-Marshall· 
game," says junior defender Tina Fedarcyk. "We were 5-4 at halftime. We played·a really good first half. We were solid, we had a good attack and good defense. After halftimewe kind ofgot behind by a couple goals, and I guess it kind of flipped out of our controt and they just got up on us." 
· The Irish took the loss as a lesson, knowing that they would face top-10 teams in their next two contests against Yale and Georgetown. Notre Dame fell behind 4-0 early against No. 7 Yale, but rallied to score nine straight goals for the program's first victory over a top-10 team, which 
Coyne called a "monumental" win. "Com­
ing off the di.sappointing loss to Duke, to beat our first top-10 opponent on the road is a great accomplishment," she said after the game. 
"We played our best game," Fedarcyk adds. "We definitely played 60 minutes. Wejustbeatthem because I think we were the better team." 
The Irish tried to carry the momentum into Sunday's match-up with Big East rival No. 5 Georgetown, but were sub­dued by an 8-0 run that carried the Hoyas to a convincing 17-7 victory. The defeat dropped the Irish to 8-4 but didn't drop the team's spirits. 
"We're moving in the right direction," says sophomore defender Eleanor Weille. "We've been improving since we've had a recruited class." 
TheIrish are a work inprogress-but, then again, this is just the beginning. Now that the Irish have a fully recruited squad and a couple of major wins under their belts, the sky is the limit for this team's potential. D 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 27 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

2 -2001 Honorif18 

a 

The Women's Resource Center is pleased to honor these women for their outstanding coutributions to the Notre Dame Community and inspiration with which they enhance so many lives. Here are their stories ... 
~~m~ 
.~4. 
~~'P~ 


Dr. Dian Murray is a Professorof Chinese History and Associate Dean in the College ofArts and Letters atthe University of Notre Dame. She is fluent in Chinese and has traveled to both Taiwan and the People's Republic of China many times. During the summers of 1986,'87 and '88, she served as the on-site director of Notre Dame's Summer Program in Tianjin, where she accompanied Notre Dame undergraduates to study and travel in China. During the Spring semester of 1990 she served as the On-site Faculty member of the Univrsity's London Program, and in October, 1994 she served as the lecturer for Notre Dame's Alumni Trip to China. Professor Murray is the author of two books. Her first book Pirates of the South China Coast, 1790-1810, brought to light information on a previously unknown confederation of Sino­Vietnamese pirates who sailed the South China Sea during the late-18th and early-19th centuries. This book has been translated into Chinese as Hua Nan Hai Dao by Liu Ping and published by the Press of the Chinese Academy of the Social Sciences. Her second book The Origin of the Tiandihui: The Chinese Triads in Legend and History, was written in collaboration with Professor Qin Baoqi of the Institute of Qing History, People's University, Beijing. It brings to light new archival information regarding the origins of the Chinese organized crime syndicates known as the Triads. During her ten years as Associate Dean, Professor Murray has remained active in scholarship by publishing 16 articles and reviews and by giving 36 invited lectures, conference papers or other oral presentations both at home and abroad in such places as the Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan; the Chinese University of Hong Kong; the National University of Singapore; the Singapore History Museum; the Amsterdam Summer University; the Sinologisch lnstituut, Rijksuniversiteit de Leiden, Leiden, Netherlands; and the lnstituto Universitario Orientale, Dipartimento de Studi Asiatici, Naples, Italy. 
"She has exhibited excellent organizational skills in juggling her many obligations, and, more importantly, she has earned the trust offaculty throughout the College andadministrators throughout the University, who often comment on Dian,s excellent interpersonal skills andhercreative suggestions forsolving complex problems. With a ratio ofstudents to advisors that overwhelms the ratios ofthe othercolleges, Dian, along with Ava PreacherandJennifer Nemecek, has worked wonders with ourstudents. In addition, Dian has been ve,y supportive of the development of faculty andstaff in the Office ofUndergraduate Studies, andshe hasprovidedme with excellent counselthroughout the pastfouryears." · -Diane Pribbernow 
Regina Coll, C.S.J. is the Director of Field Education in the Theology Department at the University of Notre Dame. She has previously taught at Catholic University of America. Summer courses include Loyola University, New Orleans, University of St. Michael's College, Toronto, and Santa Clara University. She has written on ministerial issues and on the concerns of women in the Church. She has lectured in Canada, India, Scotland and across the United States. Her writings include: Death and Dying: the Night Between Two Day (Sadlier), Women and Religion, A Reader for the Clergy (Paulist), Supervision of Ministry Students (Liturgical Press), Christianity and Feminism.in Conversation, (Twenty Third Pub.) which was awarded the 1995 Catholic Press Award for Gender Issues, and The Church and Ministry in the United States (Crossroad). Dr. Coll is an Associate Editor of the HarperCollins Encyclopedia of Catholicism. She contributed many articles to that volume including a feature article on Women in the Church. 
"She is naturally maternal in the bestsense ofthe word; her warmth and concern for others draws people to her, and they find there anempowering respect andencouragement. She is anaccomplished teacher andscholar who has made significant contributions to the development of a feminist theology of minist,y. I cannot think of anyone who better represents the women of Notre Dame." 
-Maura A. Ryan 

"Regina was one of the first women to serve in the Theology Department, and through herscholarship, teaching, and adminstrative leadership she has had an incalculable effect on the study of theology at university. She is a nationally know feminist theologian who has brought distinction to Notre Dame through her writings. -1 can think ofno one who d_eserves more to be nominated as a Distinguished Woman of Notre Dame." 
-Jean Porter 

...........•...•..............•·• ........................•...•..•......... 
The Women's Resource Center would like to extend our greatest appreciation to the following: Our outstanding Juding Panel. Their time and efforts are greatly appreciated and respected, for it is most difficult to choose only four out of so many special women: Mary Sarotte, Dan Lindley, Diana Simpson and Brian 
Moscona 
All those who helped make this project possible: Esther­Mirjam Sent, Nancy Cook, Terry Bays, Mark Kirzeder 
and Scholastic 
The Women's Resource Center would like to express our gratitude to the following women who were nominated for this honor. They have contributed so much to all our lives and to our university-we hold them as great examples for our ambitions and for our place in this community. Harriet Baldwin..•Nominated by Hilary Radner Gail Bederman•..Nominated by Jennifer Randazzo Doris Bergen...Nominated by Char Prieto • Eleanor Bemstein...Nominated by Mary Catherine· Hilkert Patricia Blanchette...Nominated by Michael Detlefsen Ann Bonneville.'..Nominated by Miriam Rainbird and Kelly Ann Fitzpatrick Jacque Brogan Sonia.Gernes...Nominated by Jacque Brogan Dolores Frese.: .Nominated by Jacque Brogan Anne Cooper...Nominated by Phillip R. Sloan and Kristin King . Martine Def\idder ... Nominated by Annlse Maguire Julia Dikinson...Nominated by Jennifer Betz 

. Julia Douthwaite...Nominated by Margaret Ann Doody . Teresa Ghilarducci.. .No~inated by Naomi Cassirer 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Women ofNotre Dame 

I was born in Ottumwa, Iowa-the fourth of seven children to David and Darlene Payne. Dad farmed some land, raised beef and worked at the local meat packing plant to get us all through Outtumwa High School. After high school, I was married and gave birth to my first child, April. In 1977 my second child, Steve, was born.In 19881 was hired to work in the Oak Room at Notre Dame. Soon after, I was given the job of opening and operating Waddick's Coffee shop in O'Shaughnessy Hall. While working here, I began to develop many friendships with faculty, staff, students and off campus workers. One of these off campus workers, Jim Patterson, became the love of my life. We were married at the Ottumwa Hospital while my mother was a patient there. We wanted her to see me happy before liver cancer took her life. This marriage gave me two more children, Dan and Kelly. Now we have eight grandchildren. About four years ago, I accepted my present job at the Decio coffee shop. I enjoy all phases of my job: computer ordering, baking, preparing meals and sandwiches per the customer's requests. I especially enjoy creating an atmosphere in Decio that tries to raise my customers' spirits. This includes decorating for the holidays, fresh flowers on all the tables and pleasant conversations. Here I have continued to strengthen my friendships with faculty, students, staff or any person that enters my establishment. It is a great feeling when people know they can stop in anytime, and I'll be there if they need someone to laugh or even cry with. Around the same time I accepted my present job, I was diagnosed with throat cancer. Of course, we were all devastated by the diagnosis. But, by the grace of God; prayers from all our friends, the support of my Notre Dame family, and patience from everyone, we are finally approaching the conclusion to this crisis. I am currently a volunteer in the Relay for Life Walk-a-then to raise money for cancer victims. I feel so honored to think someone thought enough of me to nominate me as one of Notre Dame's women of the year. 
"I would like to nominate one ofthegreatstalwarts ofDecio Hallandthe College ofArtsandLetters, a woman who serves us all daily in the mostdirectandgenerous mannerandhas done so in a fashion that defies the usual accolades. I speak of Deb, who for years has run-the food services facility known as Decio Commons. I press her case because she has been so consistently solicitous andengaging on so manylevels in the conduct ofherwork, carrying on with remarkable efficiency and cheer amid season after season of routine performance." 
-Patrick Gaffney 

Mary Margaret Cecilia Nussbaum ("Mia" ) is the third of five children and the daughter of Martin and Melissa. She grew up in a creaky house in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Mia is a senior and a student in the Program of Liberal Studies. She spentthe fall of hersophomore yearstudying in Namibia, where she interned two days a week at a center forwomen and children in a former township. The following summer herservice project led herto CASA (Court Appointed Special Advocates) where she worked with survivors of divorce and domestic violence. The summer after junior year she was able to travel with three othe~ Notre Dame students through the CSC to St. Mary's School for the Handicapped, Deaf and Blind in Southern India where she learned to savor cool breezes, hail rickshaws and breathe in the abundant joy in the air. She was a columnist and editor for The Observer, has read twice in the Sophomore Literary Festival, once in the Vagina Monologues and acted the part of drunken Trinculo in The Tempest. This spring she led a seminar at the YWCA in American women's writing, with several women who know much more about much more than she does. She lives on St. Peter's St. and looks forward to Poetry Night on Thursday's where people have been known to drum and learn to "live the questions now." Next year she will be a few blocks from the last home of Dorothy Day and teaching ,at an all-girls middle school.-She is_ so grateful to her grandmothers and their grandmothers who discovered "books I 
Desks / A place for us" who knew "what we / Must know / Without knowing a page I Of it / Themselves." 
"Mia is the mostremarkable young person, woman orman, I have encountered since arriving at Notre Dame, a school with a wealth ofremarkable students, sixteen years ago. She is stunningly intelligent, perceptive, andsubtle. Hermind is both deep and quick. It is always a greatjoy when one can see a student who will suipass oneself, and a rarerjoy to see a student almost there already, as Mia is. She is a woman ofdeep and not showy spirituality. She is drawn to Dorothy Day's Catholic Worker Movement, and next year she will likely be involved with the Catholic Workers while teaching in an inner-city school either in Chicago and New York. She is firmly c_ommitted to social justice and to the preferential option for the poor, and she puts her time, her resources, and herself on the line for her convictions". 
-Stephen M. Fallon 

1 •••• ~ •••••••• ~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Kathy Haas... Nominateil by Katie Wood  Four Librarians•••Nominated by Jan Hagens  Ava Preacher ... Nominated by Mary Rose .'Angelo  
·Kate Halischak...Nominated by Tom Merluzzi  April Lidinsky••.Nominated by Katie Wood  Katie Rak...Nominated by Sarah Miller  
Jennifer Hickman•..Nominated by Sarah Ryan, Sarah  Martina Lopez•••Nominated by Jennifer Lewis  Sandi Rhoades••.Nominated by Ben Peters  
Polito and Cynthia Turski  - Cynthia Mahmood•••Nominated by Jennifer Betz  Ruth Riley...Nominated by Shane Kirkpatrick and Ken  
Catherine Hilkert ..• Nominated by Sheila Provencher  Lori Maurer...Nominated by Anthony Wagner  Dye  
and Erik Goldschmidt  Hannah McDonald...Nominated by Patrick J. McDonald  Maura Ryan.••Nominated by Emily Arndt and Maria A.  
Coleen Hoover...Nominated by Char Prieto  Mullet McGraw•..Nominated by Jan Hagens  Malkiewicz  
Cecilia Jaworski...Nominated by William Jaworski  In Memory of Anna Minnis...Nominated by Elizabeth  -Gail Waiton...Nominated by Allison Heuring, Maren  
Felicia LeClere...Nominated by Elizabeth De Weese  Coggeshall  Diamante, ND Choir Members  
Tucker and Anthony Perez  Rene Mulligan•..Nomi_nated by Sara Campney  Margaret Baptist-Wan...Nominated by Joyce De Leon  
Jean Lenz...Nominated by Mark R. Holloway  Iris Outlaw...Nominated by Vanessa Assad Canavati  Maria Olivera-Williams...Nominated by Maria Alveraz  





AFRESH ACT 
First-year students are given a renewed opportunity to take the stage 
LIESLMARX Megan Ryan, Mark Scheibmeir and Justin acted before," he says. 
Williams -all have had theater experi­Biology major Dustin Beauchamp is a
As a freshman, Dave Kuennen audi­ence, although not all as directors. "It has prime example of such a cast member. "My tioned for four or five different been a little challenging to relate my past friend Justin [Williams] encouraged me to plays. "I couldn't get cast in a show expeliences as an actor to those who are new try out because he said it would be fun," 
on the Mainstage," he says. Disappointed to acting," says Williams, a philosophy major Beauchamp says. "I had never done any 
but not heartbroken, this Japanese and phi­who appeared in Love's Fire and All in the theater before, but I decided it was some­
losophy major understood that there are a Timing earlier this year. "As a director, I have thing I should try." He ended up cast as Bob, 
lot of politics involved in theater. Even to translate what I have in my mind as the final a character in Williams' play Hard Candy. 
talented freshmen have difficulty getting picture, explain to the actors what I want and While he is glad that he tried out for the 
parts in a Mainstage production at Notre to combine the two in a process to produce freshmen plays, Beauchamp does not think 
Dame. Then Kuennen found out about the theater." he would have tried out for any other pro­
First Year Plays. The directors chose their own plays, the ductions. "I would have been too nervous," 
The one-act plays, directed and performed only restriction being that he says. "With these I was 
wholly by freshmen, are sponsored by the each play had to be a one­more relaxed and had a
"My friend ...
First Year of Studies, and they provided act. Ryan, a business major friend to help me." Kuennen the opportunity to join the theater who has worked with the encouraged me to The next night, one scene at Notre Dame and direct his first Student Players before, month before the actual
try out because he 
show. chose Oedi for its humor. performances, rehearsals
said it would be
Brett Ruiz, aFirst-Yearadviser, had been "I thought that the timing started. "Once we started in charge of the plays, but after he left last was very appropriate be­fun. I had never we had to do it fast," says year, the plays were cancelled. This year, cause Oedipus Rex is the .Scheibmeir. "On the
done any theater
Kuennen, now a junior, took it upon himself spring Mainstage produc­director's side there is so to bring the plays back. "It was a great tion," she says. "If you before, but I much that you don't think opportunity for me, and I wanted [the fresh­laugh out loud .when you about -play rights,
decided it was 
men] to have it, too," he says. are reading a play for the props, costumes." 
something I should
Kuennen saw enormous potential for re­first time, that is always a The cast members prac­new_ing the First Year Plays this year in good sign." try.,, tice separately five or six particular. "There are so many talented fresh­Auditions for the three times a week, for about
-Dustin 

men this year," he says. "I think this is the plays were held on April 2 three hours at a time. While ¦
Beauchamp
first year that I have seen freshman act on in O' Shaughnessy Hall. this is a very demanding 
the Mainstage." Both Williams and Ryan 
schedule, the directors are 
With this in mind, Kuennen started mak­were a little worried about understanding and usually 
ing some phone calls in March. "I talked to the possible turnout -or · avoid practicing on the 
the First Year Co~ncil, and they liked the lack thereof. But with only weekends.Ryan says: "Our 
idea, but it was too late in the year for them to ·. a hundred flyers and word rehearsals are verylaid back 
sponsor it," he says. Next, Kuennen took the of mouth, they had an im­and fun." 
idea to a student theater group he is involved pressive crowd of around While Williams still 
with, the Student Players. The group agreed 60 aspiring actors for fewer than 20 parts. enjoys being onstage himself, he would 
to sponsor the First Year Plays, with Kuennen Williams was looking for people who were relish the opportunity to direct another play. 
acting as a producer and organizer. not afraid to try something a little crazy or "It is really rewarding to work with other 
In past years, all students interested in different. "I w.anted someone who could go actors and have them appreciate it," he says. 
directing would interview for the positions: out on a limb and let go and just have fun," "There is ,something special about helping 
But because of the time constraint this year, he says. others understand and build a character.". 
Kuennen had to pick the directors himself. Auditions were open to all freshmen. Beauchamp also feels rewarded by the 
"I knew some freshman with talent and "Many people who are not in the 'theater' experience. · "This is something I never 
asked them if they'd be interested in direct­crowd came out," says Ryan. "It is a really thought I'd ever do," he says. "But I have 
ing," he says. good way to help the freshman getinvoived." been having a really good time with it and 
The directors of this year's shows -Williams agrees. "Half my cast never even have· surprised myself because I have been 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 



doing okay." 
Kuennen believes that the First Year of Studies department will have to run the plays next year if they are to continue. Like Kuennen, this year's freshmen actors rec­ognize the importance of the plays. "Usu-·i ally upperclassmen get cast in the Mainstage productions," says Scheibmeir. "Now the freshmen get an opportunity to act and will have experience when trying out in the future." 
In the meantime, the directors encourage everyone to come and see their plays. "Every­one should come and see it," says Williams. "I have sat in on other rehearsals and they are hilarious. People will laugh so much." 
In the end, Ryan sums up the whole expe­rience saying, "Ifyou're looking for a good time where you can justlaugh for two hours straight, these plays are definitely some­thing you will want to see!" D 
The First Year Plays will be pe1formed on Wednesday, May 2 at 7:00 p.m. at the Hesburgh Centerfor International Studies. Tickets cost $4. 
STICKING TO IT Stanford resident Sean Nelson gives it his all on the stage. The first-year actors rehearse for up to three hours at a time. 
' 
FEATURED PLAYS 

OEDI THE BIBLE: THE COMPLETE HARD CANDY Written by Rich Orloff WORD OF GOD, ABRIDGED Written by Jonathan Rand Directed by Megan Ryan .Written by Adam Long, Reed Martin and Directed by Justin· Williams 
Austin Tichenor This comedy parodies the intense Directed by Mark Scheibmeir This comedy has 10 scenes and 10 drama of Oedipus Rex. The shortest characters. Each scene shows a boss of the three plays, it lasts about 25 "It's the Bible abridged, basically," interviewing a person for a job, and minutes and has-orily four characters: Scheibmeir says. This comedy puts a spin although none of the interviewees deserve Oedipus, Creon, Teiresias and on well-known Bible stories. The s_cript the position, the boss hires them anyway. Jocasta. This. spoof of the Greek was originally. a two-act play lasting more For example, the first interviewee gets the tragedy has.Joc;asta knowing all along · than two hours, but Scheibmeir cut the job because he and the boss went to the tqat Oedipus is her son and Tiresias work to 45 minutes. The three actors act same college. In each scene, the previous making wrong predictions -for out stories such as Cain and Abel, David interviewee becomes the new boss, example,_he prophesies that the and Goliath, Jacob and Esau, the Three presenting a comical look at the working Olympics will never catch on. Wise Men and The Last Supper. -world. 

1­
. 
. BARBARA THE CRAYWITCH 

What ALong, Strange Trip It's Been 
00B. is the key to the future 
ormylastOOBcolumn,Ithoughtlwouldleavemyreaderswith
F

a prophecy of what's to come. But since I can't even see far 
. enough into the future to tell you what I'm going to wear tonight, 
I decided to call a psychic to help me out with this div_ination. 
I stayed up late at night with my fuzzy TV screen and tried to 
channel Cleo, that Janmican lady with the 800-number, but I fell 
asleep before she appeared. Fortunately, the Ameritech directory 
has a listing of Psychic Mediums. Unfortunately, the adve1tise­
ments for free readings are all a hoax. The first number I called was 
a recording from Laura Bryan Biro, a.k.a. Lynne Bassett from The 
Young and the Restless, explaining why her own personal psychic 
network is worth paying for. Apparently soap stars can afford to pay 
three bucks per minute for spiritual guidance. With my B.A. .in 
English and film, I'll be lucky to make that much in an hour. Maybe 
I should just become a psychic reader myself. 
I looked back at the phone book and found an ad I'd missed for a South Bend psychic I could visit in person, named Barbara the Gray Witch. (I'm not kidding -check out your directory if you don't believe me.) She offers crystal ball readings, seances, hypno­,sis, telepathy and more, but she doesn't answer her phone. I called a few times, and I kept getting the answering machine message, saying that the Gray Witch is only available by appointment, and you have to leave your name ahd number to get a rendezvous with Barb. I hate leaving my number with anyone, since I already get too many early-morning phone calls from telemarketers. So I just hung 
up. The future was looking grim, folks. 

Finally, after sulking for a while, I followed my intuition to my 
computer and went to www.tarot.com. They have free tarot read­ing with a lap-top touch pad. No matter, though, I managed to choosetheThreeofCoinsintheChallenges/Opportunitiesposition, The Lovers as my Situation Card (ooh!) and theTen of Cups as my Self Card . 
TheThreeofCoinssoundedtomelikeaforecastforpovertywith a chance of destitution, but according to tarot.com, "The card that lands in the Challenges/Opportunities position refers to ways that you can tum obstacles into stepping-stones. The Three of Coins in this position reveals an opportunity to find a way to showcase your unique talents and gifts." Well, praise the pagan spirits, there might be a job waiting for me yet. 
For my Situation, I scored The Lovers card, which seemed pretty auspicious to me as the final wild days of senior year approach. (A note to all fortune hunters: Ifyou get The Lovers card in the Cosmic deck, you'll get to see some sexy new-age people making out!) 
The Lovers aren't all fun and frolic, though. This card means that I have to make a big decision, and, according to my free reading, "There are no outer references that can be relied upon. You'll .have to use your intuition. Ifyou go within and are honest with yourself, you could make the appropriate choice. However, if you are just fooling around, it could tum out to be a costly decision." That sounds pretty ominous, if you ask me. 
But don't worry because I got the Ten of Cups as my Self Card, meaning that "Your psychic life is in order. Likewise, your inner family___,. the inner child, parent~self, co!liused adolescent, sharp and capable professional -are working together." Wow, who knew? Thank you, tarot.com. 
I still don't know exactly what's in store for me next year, but 
ings -absolutely free! I chose the Celtic Three-Card reading and OOB will forge ahead, with Cristin Penzel at the helm, and I hope thanked heaven for my zippy Ethernet connection. The that some ofyou readers, will keep the OOB spirit 
Tarot set-up kind of looks like the solitaire game .~~1 EW alive in .y.our futu.·r.. es as well. Sometime, wh.en 
that used to torture me on my Commodore 64 back in the day. Like computer solitaire, you can pick out what you want the designs on ­your cards to look like, but the choices at tarot.com kick solitaire's butt. You can choose "Cat People," which is a little creepy if you're not into kitties, the trippy "Moon Garden" variety or my personal favorite, "Cosmic." 
I tried to concentrate really bard as I chose my three cards from the virtual deck, but you can't really close your eyes .when you 're work­
~· b. 
, NOW!. --. -.­
..-•··•·•D>. 
,_--,..,...._ -~--­

the team is up against it and the breaks are beating the boys, I »'an.t you to go out there with all you've got and win just one for OOB. Give somebody your phone number written on a paper craneoracanofCampbell'sSoup.Hangoutwith the Ultimate Team until you are one with the aroma of grass stains and sweaty boys. Pretend you're a reporter so that you can stalk the Humor Artists or a campus bandyou fancy. Heck, go on eight blind dates in oneweek. It's been done before, anditcould happen again. Idon'tknowwherel'll b.e then, but 
_,---'---I'll know about it, and I'll be happy. 0 

by Kara Zuaro 

32  SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT  
'_  • •  ~  ~  • ....._  •  ;  ~,1:.  /  - • ­' •  '  •  • •  •  ~  ·­ \  •~  '  •  ,  ~. , •  •r ,  
.  .,  .  -.  .  '  

Ghost Stories 
Award-winning author writes chilling tale ofwar-torn Sri Lanka 
KATHLEENCORTE 
The words appear on a sign posted in a Sri Lankan hospital: "Let conver­sations cease. / Let laughter flee. / This is the place where Death/ Delights to help the living." For Anil Tissera, the protagonist of Michael Ondaatje's new novel Anil's Ghost, these words are a reminder of what she has only just begun to face in her new job as a forensic anthro­pologist in Sri Lanka. For readers of the novel, the verses provide a sobering intro­duction to a horrifying and unfamiliar war. Ondaatje, best known for his Booker Prize­winning novel The English Patient, has turned to his homeland of Sri Lanka for the setting of his most recent novel. A national best seller since its publication last spring, Anil's Ghost has just appeared in paper­back. Ondaatje has embarked on a national tour to promote his novel, including a stop at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, where he will read from Anil's Ghost and sign books. · Born in Sri Lanka, raised in London and a long-time resident of Canada, Ondaatje chose his exotic homeland as the backdrop for his most recent novel. But instead of the lush tropical romance one might expect, Anil 's Ghost thrusts the reader into a war­torn society. Ondaatje explains in a note at the beginning of the novel: "From the mid­1980s to the early J990s, Sri Lanka was in a crisis that involved three essential groups: the government, the antigovernment insur­gents in the south and the separatist guerril­las in the north. Both the insurgents and the separatists had declared war on the govern­ment." The s~tting comes as an abrupt departure from the deserted Italian villa ofThe English Patient, immortalized for so many Americans in the 1996 Academy Award­winning film version ,of the novel, which starred Ralph Fiennes and Kristin Scoff ; Thomas. Ondaatje introduces the reader to a new arena with the SriLankan villages and ho~pitals ofAnil 's Ghost, but similar themes run through both novels. Once again, Ondaatje focuses on war and its effects on ordinary people -the people that history books often forget. "I love the sense that 

# ' l ' l ~ 
'-----~ ____ ... 

history is not just one opinion," Ondaatje 
said in a 1992 interview with Publishers 
Weekly. "I prefer a complicated history 
where an event is seen through many eyes or 
emotions, and the writer doesn't try to control 
the viewpoint." 
In the novel, Anil, a native Sri Lankan, 

returns to her country as a worker for a 
human-rights group. Upon the discovery of 
a skeleton that she believes to be the re­
mains of a victim of political murder, Anil 
quickly becomes embroiled in the violence 
of the times. 
Ondaatje' s familiar lyrical style marks Anil's Ghost and belies the author's roots as a poet with eleven books of poetry to _ his name. "Because he is a poet and a ,,_novelist, each word has a place in his writing," says Victoria Sanford, a Notre Dame anthropology professor who as­sisted Ondaatje in researching the book. "No word is unnecessary. He writes about the experiences, witnessing and truth-tell­ing that take place when lives and memo­
ries intersect." 
Interspersed with Ondaatje' s poetic prose 

are horrific images of war, such as the man 
that Anil finds stretched out on the side of 
the road late one night, nails driven through 
his palms into the tarmac of the road. The 
civil war iri Sri Lanka was not widely pub­
licized in the United States, butAnil 's Ghost 
graphically and indelibly brings the issue to the attention of the American public. 
"Anil 's Ghost captures the essence of what it means to live in a society torn apart by political violence," says Sanford. "But it also captures what it means to work for truth in repressive societies held up by lies." 
Sanford believes that Notre Dame stu­dents and faculty will be particularly recep­tive to the themes and issues of Ondaatje' s latest novel. "Notre Dame is a great place for Michael to read from Anil's Ghost be­cause of the university's commitment to human rights and social justice," she says. 
Students will have an opportunity to speak with Ondaatje during a question-and-an­swer session that will follow the reading and _ will also be able to speak with him during and after the book signing. 
In a review ofAnil 's Ghost that appeared in the New York Times Book Review last year, critic Richard Eder wrote, "It is Ondaatje's extraordinary achievement to use magic in order to make the blood of his own country real." For both old fans and new readers ofOndaatje' s work, his appear­ance on campus will be an opportunity to experience the magic of Ondaatje's words coming from his own mouth. D 
Michael Ondaatje will be reading from Anil's Ghost and signing books at the Hammes Bookstore on Friday, May 4 at 
7:00 p.m. 

A Star Is Born 
Never before has one-third ofa face been so famous 
GREGRUEHLMANN 
It' s hard to believe that freshman year is nearly over. But even though the year has gone so fast, I have some great memories. I can't help but reflect fondly upon the opportunity I had as the starting quarterback to lead the Fighting Irish foot­ball team to a BCS bowl. Wait a minute ­those are Matt LoVecchio's memories of freshman year. I guess my memories aren't so bad either, though. I achieved all of my goals -I made new friends, survived my classes and I wasn't killed by the squirrels near the Basilica. I would say that overall this has been a wonderful year. But not everything about life at ND has been perfect. For one thing, I still miss my family very much. And no matter how many times I call home, things 
. just aren't the same anymore. "I love you" doesn't have much effect when it's said after shamelessly begging for money and awkwardly explaining that you ruined five pairs of your underwear in Dillon Hall's dishwasher trying to save some money on laundry. 
Though I sometimes complain, fresh­man year has been great. The most exciting thing to happen has been my transformation into a genuine celebrity. This did not hap­pen overnight. I had to wait patiently to become a red-hot megastar. And it has defi­nitely paid off. 
I started noticing changes when Scholas­tic published my first column in November. Fewer and fewer people referred to me as "That big nerd over there." I was now "That big nerd over there who desperately wants to autograph your copy of Scholastic." Also, I became absolutely irresistible to women. You know what they say about guys who write for Scholastic -they get all the chicks. OK, no one has ever said that. I'm an idiot. Truthfully though, I did hear from some female fans. I got six e-mails in all, and I swear only five of them were from my mom. The sixth was from three really cool Farley girls who said they liked my column. The day we met will stay with me for­ever. I'11 never forget the super­cool strut I used when I said, in _ 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
my most super-smooth voice, "Nice to meet you fine, fine ladies." And I'll never forget the bitter tears I shed when they responded, "Wait a minute! You're not the Gipper." 
I thought I had made it big when I wrote that article last fall -but the best was yet to come. In February, someone told me they'd seen me in Sports Illustrated. At first I didn't believe them, but all my doubts faded away when I got my hands on a copy. On page 74 of the February 12th issue, in a shot of ND' s student section at the JACC, was the coolest thing I'd ever seen -one-third of my face, fairly vis­ible, to the left of the basketball net. It was every man's dream come true. I couldn't help but think of the song "One Moment in Time." I also thought about the song "Holy Crap, I'm in Sports Illustrated," which I will have to write someday if it is not a real song already. 
Life is very different for me now that one third of my face is known to the whole world. Just to give you an idea, I offer some stunning statistics. I've kept a tab on my growing fame by occasionally typing my name into Internet search engines to see how many Web sites come up (as a celeb­rity, let me say that I enthusiastically en­dorse the Google.com search engine. It's Google-riffic). I'm proud to report that, in the last two months, the number has ex­ploded to 7 4, at least three ofwhich actually reference me in passing. 
The benefits of being a ce­lebrity are endless. For ex­ample, because ofmy . · ~ \ fame, I expect my ,.. d1"e B o o ks tore 
r• 
Basketball 
1 
team to reach new heights. How many teams 
can say that they have a player who's been 
in SI? Now, you might say to me, "But 
Greg, you are a horrible basketball player 
and the whitest man on the planet. I would 
rather die than put you on my team." Well 
I'd respond by saying that you have a valid 
point, but you should shut up anyway. Then 
I'd show you my picture in Sports Illus­
trated. I bet you'd be pretty impressed. 
Yep, let me tell you -international 
stardom has been all it's cracked up to be 
and more. Everything has been perfect 
with one exception -my SI follow-up 
fell through. The magazine, for some 
bizarre reason, decided·11ot to ·publish my 
"Speedo Pictorial" in this year's Swim­
suit Issue. I've never felt so devastated in 
my life. That's a $40 bikini wax down the 
drain. I spent two weeks drowning my 
sorrows in Haagen-Das . 
Even though I'm disappointed, I am still very, very famous, and that consoles me. Increasingly, my celebrity is all that really matters. Sure, I told you about friendships and personal growth here at Notre Dame, but forget all that garbage. There's no greater feeling than getting recognized when I walk around campus. People will yell to me, · "Hey, aren't you that face guy?" Yes, my friend, yes I am. And loving every minute of it. Would you like an autograph? 0 


.-Jiditor'schoice .· . · . ' . · · .. <· 


• 
Sat 28 Track and Field: ND men and women at Purdue Invitational, 9:00 AM, West Lafayette. 

• 
Sat 28 Softball: ND vs. Boston College, 11 :00 AM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Sat 28 Lacrosse: ND men vs. Harvard, 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Stadium. 

• 
Sat 28 Football: Blue and Gold Game, 1 :30 PM, Stadium. 

• 
Sun 29 Softball: ND vs. Providence, 11:00 AM, Ivy Field. 


.• . :,.··-; .. :..·, .. sports 
~ 
' --.. ., 

. • Sun 29 Lacrosse: ND women vs. Rutgers, 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Stadium. 
• 
Wed 02 Baseball: ND vs. Western Michigan, 5:05 PM, Eck Stadium. 

• 
Sat 05 Baseball: ND vs. Connecticut, 12:05 and 2:05 PM, Eck Stadium. 


t

• Sun 06 Baseball: ND vs. Connecticut, 12:05 PM, Eck i . 
Stadium. I 
/ 


You defied every oracle and soothsayer that told you to start studying early. But finals, like all great tragedies, are bound to catch up with those who so foolishly attempt to escape them. Before you gouge out your eyes, go see Oedipus Rex and get some perspective -at least you weren't fated to kill your father and marry your mother. Or de-stress to the soothing sounds of one of the campus musical groups. The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra's spring.concert will feature works by Beethoven, Shostakovich and Brahms. And the Notre Dame Concert Band andGlee Club performance is even off campus, so you can put some physical as well as mental distance between you and that ~nd-of-semester frenzy. 
-Cristin Fenzel 
lectures 

• 
Thu 26 "Dante: Time and Eternity," 4:45 PM, Hesburgh Library, Room 102, Special Collections. 

• 
Fri 27 Korean Panel Discussion: "The Political Economy of Korea in the 21st Century," 1 :30 PM, 140 DeBartolo. 

• 
Mon 30 "The Problem of the Satanic Verses and the Formation of Islamic Orthodoxy," 4:30 PM, Hesburgh Library, Room 715, Medieval Institute Reading Room. 


movies 

• Thurs 26 Billy Elliot and ProofofLife, 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 
• Fri 27 and Sat 28 A Summer's Tale, 7:30 PM and 
9:30 PM, Snite. 
• Fri 27 and Sat 28 Billy Elliot and ProofofLife, 
8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 
• Thurs 3 Pay it Forward and Family Man, 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 
• Fri 4 and Sat 5 Pay it Forward and Family Man, 
8:00 PM and 10:30 PM, 155 and 101 DeBartolo. 
the arts 

• 
Thurs 26 through Sun 29 Oedipus Rex, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Thurs 26 Notre Dame Creative Writing presents MFA Thesis Readings, 7:00 PM, Lafortune Ballroom. 

• 
Sun 29 Notre Dame Concert Band and Glee Club, 4:00 PM, Morris Performing Arts Center. 

• 
Mon 30 Notre Dame Brass Ensemble, 7:30 PM, Band Building. 

• 
Thurs 03 Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 


SCHOLASTICCALENDAR . 35 
by Jim Pastore 

Untouchable Essence 
Ileft for Notre Dame on my 18th birthday. As we drove across the bridge from Queens into Brooklyn, I looked downatmy neighborhood 
-the houses clustered against the shoreline, the bend in the bay that marks the entrance to the harbor, and ahead, the magnificent Manhattan skyline. Tears blurred the majestic outlines of buildings reaching for anuntouchable sky. Deaned my head against the car window and wept. 
A tremor of excitement in the car carried us for 13 hours. Roused from sleep, I found that my birthday had passed in the night, and we had arrived. "Onelookatthe cam pus," I said, "because Idon'tknowifIwanttogo here." And the disbelief of tired parents, tired after 700 miles of driving and 18 years of worrying. Driving along Juniper, there it was. Its perfect outline against the late summer sky was marred only by the scaffolding -new beginnings even for old buildings. 
"Okay," I said. "IthinkI'll go here." That settled it-of course, it had been settled long before, at a time that none of us knew or fully understood. A rededication ushered in a new era during my first year. High hopes, disappointing realities, but I learned-quickly. Cheer now, stand now, sit now -allinunison. Perhaps it's fitting that at a
The spirit is not subject to the 
Catholic university, the 

confines ofa campus. It is contained football game, like the Mass, is a sacred ritual. 
by nothing -not even the buildings 
But football season
whose creation it prompted. 
faded and took the sun 
Jim Pastore is a senior English and computer applica­tions double. major and plans to attend Stanford Law School. He has been the editor in chief of Scholasticfor the past year, and we will miss him next year. 

with it. The dull-gray, bone-chilling winter rolled across the plains and settledinSouth Bend. Despite the weather, I found ways to keep warm. Duringone of manysleepless nights, I left off paper-writing to cram into a phone 
··· booth with two of my friends -no reason other than to escape work. I learned a lot that night, but Ican'tremember a single word thatI wrote. Infact, I can't quite recall mostof the wordsthatI struggled to craft into papers inthe wee hours of the morning. But I can recall, vividly, the long walks home through the pale gray o( the early dawn. The aching for bed, the stiff cold and how my breath hung in white plumes. As I hurried past the darkened and temporarily silenced dorms, I sometimeswonderedabout the people sleeping in the beds,their heads resting comfortably on soft pillows and bodies warmed by thickblankets. I realized then how little I knew about my classmates, but how closely we ai-e all connected .. 
In the future, we will leave here and become 
doctors and lawyers, senators, congressmen and 
women, writers or poets and a disproportionate 
number of us, consultants. The ironyis how little 
we know and how much we expect: that a family 
canbeforgedfromadisparategroupofindividuals 
from across the country and across the oceans, 
that somehow we will all be united in a spirit that 
none of us understand, that none of us can name 
or identify, but to whose existence every Domer 
can testify. Itmakes sense. 
People have been expecting too much at this 
university for yeru;s -even since its founding. A 
priestwithanotionthatthe frozen landofnorthem 
Indiana would be an excellent place to start a 
university, and that even after it burned to the 
ground, it could still smvive. That from the ashes 
would come something golden, built from the 
rich mud molded into bricks by students as 
dedicated then as they are now. These are the 
ghosts that haw1t this campus, that inhabit its 
rooms and that demand from us everything that 
we have to offer. A storied past and an uncertain 
future, guided by a rp.ission and a will that we all 
know exists but struggle to understand. An 
obscured spirit, revealed briefly inits glory during 
stolen moments. 
I can remember seeingiton those early mornings 
walking back to Keenan Hall. AndI can remember 
seeing it -feeling it, anyway -as the darkness 
gathered around the stadium after the last home 
game of the seas~:m. The band marched out, the 
music faded and the lights winked out. "Move 
along, move along," the ushers prompted. "It's 
time to go." Andfrom the silence, the strains of the 
victory march. I glanced at a cluster of students 
above me and watched as they linked arms. The 
Alma Mater, sungwithout the band, without the 
music ... just the spirit.· 
In under a month, I will graduate. I will leave 
herewitha degree andsomething too big to fit into any classroom or even into any university: the knowledge that the spirit is not subject to the confines of a campus. Itis contained bynothing­noteventhe buildings whose creationitprompted. I imagine that I will never fully understand it. I imagine that, in the future, it will show itself in unexpected glimpses at unforeseen times. And I imagine that I will leave this university the same . way I arrived .;_ with tears in my eyes and a blurre·d vision of a magnificent Dome reaching for 
an untouchable heaven. 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 



· ANTOSTAL:THURS,APRIL26 · ROCKMUSICATTHE AELDHOUSE IVIALl.., 4-7pm . KARAOKE NORlH DINING HALL5-7pmLASERTAG ON SOUTHQUAD
SUP & SLIDE ON NORTH QUAD 
ANTOSTAL: FRI APRIL Zl 

INFLATABLE MOOMNALK& OBSTACLE COURSE, NORTH QUAD 4-7pm 
.·•~Eiwg~~~v'l~~~°o1l~~~}i~~H~§¾r&1=tmwroDESK 
' ROCKSTARSKGB PERFORMING, NOtun QUAD, 9PM
~~~iYfi:J '<\ ..··z,,,.r:,;If 
.... APRIL2&28:1PROOE{ , . 
..... · . MAY3-5::FAMll'.r · ' . 1 • 
~.·:=...,,,.l;'.¦... :·.:1·'..
· ·.,.

~ . ,. -~ .·;•:, ,: . ! : 
" 

~,,·.·~,~i:if,~:;;;.~~1,::,-~,,i:~;::J·:~:.~~:·~.,·:'"":. 
~-..~" • • { ·:::.~: ? ' '' ':_~..~/,: ., :--:-. ---:-. . '( ..~.-..,;._~ ·: < .J'_,.:-:-, .,•,.:-::;-,, -­
. -"~":.... ~~ ~~~-:,; -:---.. ~;;~ ___ ..,. --~ :-~ -~ ~~ 
.. _,.,.'., 







