
SCHOLaSTIC 
CHECK LIST 


EDITOR IN CHIEF 
SARAH CHILDRESS 

MANAGING EDITOR 
JESSICA DAUES 
0  Assistant Managing Editor  0  Design Editor  
0  Assistant Design Editor  
0  News Editor  
0  Assistant News Editor  0  Photography Editor  
0  Assistant Photography Editor  
0  Campus Life Editor  
0  Assistant Campus Life Editor  0  Graphic Arts Editor  
0  Assistant Graphic Arts Editor  
0  Sports Editor  
0  Assistant Sports Editor  0  Copy Editor  
0  Assistant Copy Editor  
0  Entertainment Editor  
0  Assistant Entertainment Editor  0  Distribution Manager  
0  Departments Editor  0  Online Manager  
0  Assistant Departments Editor  0  Assistant Online Manager  
0  Business Manager  0  Advertising Manager  
0  Assistant Business Manager  0  Marketing Manager  

[ 
For applications or more information, call Sarah Childress at 1-5029 or ] swing by our office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Applications 
are due March 7. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO PAGE 
MIKE MCNARY 

, THE TWENTY-EIG. F EBA RY ~ · · · . .·­TABLE OF CONTENTS. . . . -. » Not Just the Practice by Kristin Kramer  10  .  . ·1Risky Business ·_ _ _ _. · -. . _by Jeff Drocco & SeanDudley A look atthe consequencesof being •involvec:Hn thef~ke ID sc.ene at Notre 1 · Dame. · _  
» Comic Relief by Mary Fay » Securing a Slot by Gerard Meskill » Cravin' Something Unusual by Shaun Harris » Italian Immersion by Sheila Flynn » Life Through Motion Pictures by Aaron Van Oosterhout The Rest Splinters From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds Letters to the Editor 3 Week in Distortion ND Notebook 4 Calendar Campus Watch 20 Final Word  13 26 28 30 33 21 29 34 35 36  [ ~ The Best of Both Worlds? by Kimberly Blackwell · · COVER: Scholastic investigates theI· administration's re~entdemand for more faculty research. Is it coming at the cost of u~dergra,duate teach_lng? _,,1 . -.--.-. i­:, :~:(_/'. ! IGreat Expectations·· -i by Jessica Daues , ·· · · Find out' what's behind the hype of _ baseball's freshmen pitchers.  

. ' 

~~~-;~:c:~---~~-~~J 
Which way are we going?
Kindergarten recess at Walter Stillman elementary school meant one thing to me: playing Thundercats with my best friend. In order not to stifle h_is creative genius, I gave in to his demands and let him play Lion-O. I was rel­egated to the role of Panthro, but I was happy. Life was good. About halfway through first grade, I decided I wanted to be one of those cool kids playing sports. Suddenly I had become too hip for role-playing games; I envisioned the new Michael, the star soccer player. I could see myself sprinting the length of the field, the ball barely grazing the grass as my feet gracefully tapped it along. As I approach the goal, I fake to the right, the goalie jumps and I slyly slip the ball to the left. I score and the team carries me on dirty shoulders back to spelling class with hip-hip-hoorays all around. Well, that's not precisely how it turned out. Instead, I only played defense. And "play" is a strong word in this case. Actually, I just stood there. One day my best friend came over and asked, "Which way are you going?" I didn't know. I couldn't quite figure out which team I was on. So much for sports. I wasn't ready to play soccer; it wasn't for me. I tried to be what I wasn't, and not only did I fail to touch the ball, I also messed up our Thundercats game. I lost on both accounts. In the spirit of confused elementary-school kids, our university recklessly has· decided to improve its national reputation for research. A promise to maintain the Notre Dame emphasis on teaching sounds like mere rhetoric. Professors only have a certain amount of time, and they must allocate it carefully. If the university too strongly stresses the importance of research -and uses research quality as the major criteria for hiring -the scale of teaching and research will tip toward research, leaving teaching as a second prioirity and the academic life un­balanced. In its attempts to improve the university, the administration is forgetting why we' re here and where our talents lie. While Harvard, Princeto_n and Yale are among the best research universities in the country, they fall short in their facility to edu­cate undergraduates. What advantage is it for students to have a Nobel laureate locked up in his office or lab, who never steps foot in a classroom? The cause of knowledge may be furthered, but there is little benefit to undergraduate students. Ifproficient researchers also are talented educators, students can learn from professors who have a thorough understanding of the material and have a dem­onstrated desire to teach. Over the years, Notre Dame has earned respect as a teaching university and currently is one of the best in the country. But our administration isn't satisfied with being the best at just one thing. Instead, we must have Nobel laureates like Harvard, huge TA-taught classes like Princeton and an impersonal teaching en-
jAI' (J/ /J

vironment like Yale. Ivy League, here we come.  ~ / fl~!,  ,)fl,-,/J(,­ 
Michael P. Griffin  
Editor in Chief  

Vol. 143, No. 09 • 28 FEB 2002 


SCHOLaSTIC 
Editor in Chief 
Michael P. Griffin 
Managing Editor 
Matthew Barr 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor 
Sarah Childress 
News 
Katie Freddoso, editor Jeffrey Drocco, assistant 
Campus Life 
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 
Sports 
Gerard J. Meskill, editor David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment 
Kathleen Corte, editor Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments 
Jennifer M. Osterhage, edi~or 
Design 
Crissy Manary, editor Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Brendan Condon Nick Dailey Greg Ellis Ryan Greenberg 
Photography 
Mike McNary, editor Liesl Marx, assistant Beth Murphy 
Graphic Arts Michael M. delaRosa, editor 
Copy 
Adam M. Aroian, editor Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant Sequel Harding 
Distribution 
Felisia Johns, manager 
Advertising 
Jessica B. Polish, manager Kyle Zuaro, assistant 
Online 
Jamie L. Moran, mana_ger 
Advisor 
Robert Franken, '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Vicll,rus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
nPublished biweekly at the University of Notre Dame . and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, i 146556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is ! . Copyright© 2002. All rights reserved. No contents of i .! this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be I jreproduced in any manner without written consent of i i the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume 
·.·: liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All ; correspondence should be sent to Scholastic ·! magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN f 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must i be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. j Congrats, M-Ba, on your new RA position. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Back Issues of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 

2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


Words can hurt 
To the editor of "Listening In": 
Ordinarily, I really enjoy reading this 
column. I was disappointed, however, to 
see the quote, "I feel like we're living like 
the Indians because I can't toast my Pop­
tart" included in this week's column. I 
know that it was supposed to be funny. I 
know that the student was not disparaging 
Native Americans but rather venting 
frustrations about the power outage. 
Nevertheless, it was an unbelievably poor 
editorial choice to run the quote in 
Scholastic.Yours is an influential 
publication which helps to shape the 
attitudes of students on~campus, and by 
running this quote you unwittingly 
condoned an attitude of condescenscion 
and superiority toward an ethnic group 
which is grossly underrepresented both on 
this campus and in American society at 
•large. The truth is, a lot of Native American households on reservations don't have access to electricity, even in 2002. They also don't have access to things like hospitals, libraries and Notre Dame educations, in many cases. For the few Native Americans who do attend this school, however, your decision to print this quote was one more stinging reminder of the prejudicial attitudes they struggle with every day. The poverty and isolation that Native Americans experience is a grave social injustice, not material for a snappy one-liner by a person so blinded by their own glittering good fortune that they don't realize their own cruelty. This person ought to be ashamed of what they said, and ought to be even more ashamed for having printed it. 
-Kelly C. Kingsbury 
off-campus 
Notre Dame 


St. Mary's pride 
To the staff of Scholastic: This afternoon a friend of mine showed me a page in your magazine. As a proud 

senior at Saint Mary's College, I am not only offended but also disgusted by a comment contained in it. 
On pg. 7, you published the statement, "Sex at St. Mary's is a constant." If a statistics professor truly stated this, as you claim, it was still inappropriate of you to publish it. On the other hand, if it was concocted by your staff in a lame attempt at humor, it was even more ridiculous that you should feel you have the right or ability to comment on sexual actions on this campus. A campus I am sure few of you have taken the time to visit or appreciate. 
I am wondering why you feel you have to degrade another school just to make yourselves feel superior? 
-Sara Price 
Saint Mary's College 

Editor's note: Scholastic does not fabricate quotes for "Listening In." All quotes are either overheard by staff members or submitted by readers. · 

Senior Thank You Picture Frame 

Don't miss this unique opportunity to give something back to those who have made your ND education possible! 
4x6 frame includes a picture of the Dome, a quote, a brief thank-you message, and one line of name personalization. Cost: $25. · 
The 4x6 album is navy with a gold ND emblem on the cover. Great gift for friends and even yourself! Cost: $7. 
Buy the frame and the aibum together for only $30! 
Name (first and last only, please): 

School Address: 

Did the Panini quesadilla work out for you? Did the Shalaffle save your dinner? 
Maybe you didn't see our article last year, but you can make a tasty treat out of the so-called food in the Dining Halls. 
If so, share your secrets with the rest of 
the student body! 
:. 

Just send them to scholast@nd.edu or drop them by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. The best recipes will be featured in the March 21 issue.. 
Phone: ___________________ 
E-mail: ___________________ 
Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club. You can print an order form at www.nd.edu/~mgtclub or send in this advertisement with your order information to: 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
SCHOLASTICLETTERS TO THE EDITOR 3 


·, 
i 
I 
I'
j' 



. . 
''Fdon'tknow if the Bible's ever met a prostitute it didn't 


1106 Years Ago
like.". 
-theology professor 

Thin Ice 

It seems that ND students always have been creative in finding ways to entertain 
themselves in South Bend's polar climate of
"SUffering is apimple on]he ass Orhappiness.'' 
northern Indiana. In the March 7, 1896 issue 
-philosophy professor 

> 
of the Notre Dame Scholastic, two such 
pyromaniacs' -er, students' -attempt at amusement had them skating on thin ice. 
Their mission: to resurrect a sunken craft 
> 
"You can do Kegal exercises to strengthen your muscles, which will provide more pleasure during sex.... You can do them anytime you want, no one will ever know.... In fact, I'm doing them right now!" -psychology professor 
"You never knowwhat the future holds -hopefully, a full­time job." 
> 
-overheard Arts and Letters student 
"If they had the chance, people would satisfy their most base 
desires: food, possessions, orgies." 
> 


What do you think about Notre Dame? 
I've always been amazed at the national and global following of ND football and their tradition. The only time I've been to ND was last spring with the women's bas­ketball trophy for their celebration. The only thing I remember is that the Linebacker makes the strongest drinks in the country. 
Explain the purpose of shopping the tro­phies all around the country. 
In order to gain exposure for Sears and their commitment to college athletics ... and so I can relive my college days every weekend. 
What's the best thing about your job? What's the worst? 
-philosophy professor 
The best thing about my job is being able to watch some of the best football and bas­ketball games for free on a weekly basis. Probably the worst part of the job is not being able to enjoy the games and just be a fan. Essentially, I'd rather be tailgating. 
What's the best game you've ever been to? 
Nebraska versus Oklahoma 2000 in Norman, Okla. Basically, it's two states where fans have nothing else to do besides follow college football, so it creates a great envi­ronment. 


What do you think of the BCS? 
The BCS does provide relatively good results for a computer ranking systerri, but called The Bismarck from the bottom of St. Mary's Lake. One ofthe students-called Das -creptontotheice-coveredlakeonallfours,his hands loaded with dynamite bombs.His goal was to cut a hole in the ice, cast the bundle of bombs through the opening and then rush to the shore to enjoy the spectacular event. 

ButDas made a larger hole, cutmore ice than, he had bargained for.:. Das went through with the result that his person, his bombs, and his ardor were very much dampened. He is not discourageci though Withastick-at-itnessthatis beautifitl, he has purchased another barrel of dynamite and a dozen lengths ofstovepipe, and has gone into the bomb business once more. 
Well, at least one thing hasn't changed i.n 106 years:NotreDamestudentsstillareasdetermined as ever, no matter what the goal may be. 
-Jennifer O~terhage 

personally I think that a playoff format would be much more exciting and provide a clear national champion. 

How did you get your job? 
I would like to have a great story, how I was groomed through years of specialized trophy training. Actually, though, I moved internally to this position within the company. 
If all the states got into a war and were fighting each other, which state would win and why? 
I would have to go with Texas. They think they're still fighting for their inde­pendence anyways. Plus, loose gun laws and low liquor prices make for a winning combination. -Kristin Kramer 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 

NOTEBOOK 
I Judgment Calls Opinions and observations 
t 
SNOW Finally, winter as it should be. Maybe we'll change our tune later, but right now snow ball 


· fights are a great distraction. 
t 
THE OLYMPICS 
It let us avoid work every day of the week. Thank you, NBC. 
... PROTESTERS ON SOUTH QUAD Good cause, but maybe they should have checked the weather forecast. 
t 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Beating people up for charity ­who needs Christmas in April? 
t 
SPRING BREAK 
If only it weren't preceded by 
midterms. 



COLD SEASON 
Well, it's good business for Health Services -there appears to be an outbreak of mono on campus. 

0 n March 24, the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences will hold its annual coronation to honor the year's best actors and filmmakers. Although recent years have seen some dubious choices by the Academy, this year the king of awards shows seems to have made some particularly glaring omissions. The year 2001 offered some of the best independent and Hollywood productions in years, and the lack of recognition for this work places the Academy's legitimacy in doubt. Take the Best Actor category. The Academy overlooked two ofthe best three performances of the year. Gene Hackman's inspired portrayal as a not­quite-dying patriarch in The Royal Tenenbaums and Billy Bob Thornton's work in both The Man Who Wasn't There and Monster's Ball all deserved nods. Though Tom Wilkinson got recognized for his role in In The Bedroom, he'll be up· against powerhouses like Sean Penn (I Am Sam) and Denzel Washington (Training Day), who received nominations despite their overblown performances. The Best Picture category is no better. In The Bedroom got a nod, but work like Tenenbaums, Ball, Muholland Drive, Ghost World and Memento all were snubbed in favor of decent yet inferior work like A Beautiful Mind, The Fellowship of the-Ring and Moulin Rouge. One of the rare glimmers of hope comes in the Best Director category, where the academy recognizes real talent with nominations for Ridley Scott (Black Hawk Down), Robert Altman (Gosford Park) and David Lynch (Muholland Drive). But this is little consolation when Black Hawk Down and Muholland Drive were ignored in almost every other category. 
The issue isn't so much independent versus studio work as it is quality and innovation versus bland and traditional fare. It should be ,no surprise to anyone that the academy historically favors traditional movies, even if these films are sometimes inferior to ignored competitors. 
This year is a clear example of how the Academy ignores quality films -both large and small -in favor of tailor-made Hollywood Oscar fare. And w'ith smaller films reaching a wider audience then ever before, the Academy has no excuse for ignoring quality work. 
If the Academy continues to snub these movies, it may find itself faced with direct competition from other legitimate film societies. January's broadcast of the inaugural American Film Institute awards, although considered a resounding failure in the ratings, serves as an example of the alternative televised awards shows that the Academy will have to deal with in the future. 
The academy simply cannot ignore quality films in favor of safe choices, or it will feel its tight grip on American cinema begin to loosen. The king of awards shows just might see itself stripped of its crown. . 

IDomelights COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE Sources: WNDU, National Weather Service 
Where has the snow been all this time? It seems like everybody was complaining about the noticeable lack of the white stuff this winter -and then we get four inches overnight. Here's how this year's South Bend weather measures up to winters past. 
Warmest winter ­ 1982-83 (33.8° average temp.)  Snowiest winter-1977-78 (136.3")  
Coolest winter ­ 1962-63 (18.4° average temp.)  Least snowy winter ­ 1982-83 (20.1 ")  
Average temperature for February ­ 26.8°  Average snowfall ­ 71.3"  
Average temperature for February 2002 ­ 34.0°  Snow so far this season ­ 31.6"  
Average wind speed for February ­ 11 .2 mph  Average wind speed for February 2002 ­ 12.5 mph  

All tempertures in degrees Fahrenheit. 
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 







Risky Business 
>> The manufacture and ownership of fake IDs has become a high-stakes gamble for students over the past year 
JEFFDROCCO & SEANDUDLEY 

• Andrew Murren, a Knott Hall sophomore from Camp Hill, Penn., began the fall semester like the nearly 2,000 other members of · the class of 2004. Around the same time, similar to so many other members of the Notre Dame community, a female student was in Michigan trying to buy alcohol using her fake ID. After being caught by police, she agreed to cooperate with an investigation into the source of her ID in exchange for a clean record. Several oth­ers who had obtained IDs from the same 
person eventually led police to Murren, who was arrested in early November, fac­ing not only disciplinary action from the university but also charges in S~. Joseph County Superior Court. -­
But Murren certainly is not the only stu­dent at Notre Dame accused of making or just using a fake ID. Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police Director Rex Rakow sees false identification as a widespread problem at university. "I woud venture to say, with­out any numbers, that most of the students have fake IDs, and certainly most students ... drink," he says. Director of Residence Life and Housing Jeff Shoup agrees, not­ing that the number of cases tends to fluc­tuate, but says this year in particular has been "a bad year." 
Fake identification cases· can carry varying degrees of punishment from the county court system, depending on whether the prosecutor chooses to file charges as felony counts or misdemenors. In the three years since the election of St. 

_Joseph County Prosecutor Christoper Toth, a 1993 Notre Dame Law School aiumnus, the most serious possible charges against manufacturing fake IDs have been pursued in the county court system. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 


A forgery charge carries incarceration and fine penalties which are potentially much higher than those for the misde­meanor. "There are statutes which are fairly identical" with the exception of their classification as either felonies or misdemeanors, explain_s attorney Laura Curliss of the felony division in the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. Ac­cording to Indiana Code 35-43-5-2, the forgery statute applies to any person who, "with intent to defraud, makes or utters a written instrument in such a manner that it purports to have been made," among other possible cases, "by authority of one who did not give authority." 
Prosecutors "can make all kinds of weird things fit" the wording of the harsher statutes, Curliss says. The judge then decides whether to approve the charges. The forgery statute technically could be stretched to apply to presenting a fake ID to enter a bar, she says. Most cases of presenting fake IDs fall under the category of infractions, but manufactur­ing false identification is more likely to incur the more severe penalty. 
In Murren's case, he was faced with not only eight misdemeanor counts of furnish­ing false identification, but also one felony forgery charge. When Murren's 
' 1
I I 
: •:~a-1 

charges initially were submitted to St. Jo­afterwards in the bar's wastebaskets. "I seph County Superior Court, Judge John think there were some people around the Marnocha rejected the felony charge. county, in law enforcement, that were sur­
Prosecutors, however, successfully resub­prised [by the raid]," he says. mitted the full slate of charges to Judge But the university has not let the bur­William Means, though not without the den of enforcement fall entirely on local Marnocha's rebuke for "judge-shopping," authorities. When students are caught us­which violates a lo-
ing fakes off cam-
cal procedural rule. -_-_________ ~ pus, Notre Dame At this point, the Security/Police case is "[Rhetorically speaking,] why acts as a middle­still pending, but man between local Murren has been police and univer­
go to the trouble of making a 
suspended from the sity administration. university for this "We receive out­
high-quality fake when you can
semester. In such side agency reports cases, the univer­every week, and all sity gives no guar­go to Boat Club?" we do is gather the antee on whether names and compile 
-Jeff Shoup, Director of 
the student will be • reports to send to
Residence Life and Housing
able to re-enroll, al­Student Affairs or though most are al­[·-----------------------------.-----: Residence Life,"
-

-· ·-· ---·-. -•--~---';· --,-·...._, ..•· ··------------'
'.

lowed to return. says Rakow. 
The county prosecutor's strict enforce­Over the past few ment is not likely to stop any time soon. years, the Office of Residence Life and Shoup says attention to the larger prob­Housing has cooperated mor~ closely with lem of falsified driver's licenses from local businesses to confiscate fake IDs. state and county law enforcement has Shoup and Assistant Vice President for stepped up in recent years. He cites the Residence Life Bill Kirk have spoken at raid of Bridget McGuire's in 1998, where a meeting of the St. Joseph County Tav­numerous fake IDs were found by police ern Owners' Association in response to lo­
cal concerns about under­age customers. "We told them, 'Well, if you confis­cate someone's identifica­tion t~en send it to us,"' he says. Shoup notes that there are certain telltale signs of fake IDs which tavern and liquor store owners should easily be able to identify. "Lots of people mess up ... on the back and with the hologram," he says. 
The most confiscated IDs, according to Shoup, come from Belmont Bever­age and Heartland. Not all businesses are so diligent, though. "[Rhetorically speaking,] why go to the trouble of making a high­quality fake when you can go to Boat Club?" says Shoup. "We're tired otstu-
WALL OF SHAME 
Confiscated IDs adorn a police station bulletin board. 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 


dents coming back from there intoxi~ 
cated." 
But outside of working with local busi­
nesses, the university administration finds 
itself in the position of enforcing a policy 
that is not directly relate~ to on-campus 
regulations and establishments when it 
comes to fake IDs. Only the Morris Inn, 
the University Club and the Alumni-Se­
nior Club sell alcohol on Notre Dame's 
campus. Since underage students seldom 
patronize these establishments, NDSP 
does not have to deal frequently with stu­
dents trying to purchase alcohol with 
fakes on campus. More often, Assistant 
pirector of NDSP Phil Johnson says, "It 
happens that we ... interact with people 
who have been drinking and who may 
offer false identification .cards, trying to 
assert their age is 21 or older." 
The· university has had a fairly consis~ 
tent policy:\egarding false identification 
in recent years~ In its section on identifi­
cation cards, du Lac reads: "Students may 
not purchase, carry or present any identi­
fication which contains false informa­
tion." Although this policy concerns all 
forms of identification, state ID cards are 
the real issue; Notre Dame ID cards are 
rarely falsified as they don't have _birth­
date information. 
Simple possession of a fake ID is not 
likely to incur considerable repercussion 
from the university. "We'll still talk to you 
about having one,'' Shoup says, though 
further action is rare. "How we find 
most fake IDs is through lost wallets," 
he adds. It's standard for NDSP to use 
the university database to "check birth­
date information" when multiple identi­
fication cards are found in a person's wal­
let. 
The main focus of university disciplin­ary efforts with regard to false identifica­tion involves their production. "Technol­ogy has made it more convenient for stu­dents ... making IDs, and they can make them good,''. says Johnson. "But over the years, students have used whatever re­sources they can to make false IDs." . Shoup recalls a case some years ago of a student who had a picture of a state seal on his dorm room wall and used it as a photo background. This method is labor­intensive compared with what is typical today, given the widespread availability of driver's license templates on the Internet, he says. Though the severity of disciplinary action varies in cases brought 
to ResLife, he adds, most people would consider it "a pretty significant outcome." 
This year's crack­down on underage al­cohol consumption at pre-football game tail­gates led to several confiscated IDs. The police effort included Indiana State Excise Police along with of­ficers from NDSP. Shoup remembers some students who were "rather unintelli­gent" in presenting their fakes to police whose main task in­

.. volves preventing ille­gal alcohol trade and consumption. But alcohol aside, Johnson says that car­rying a fake can be problematic for other >­
:c 
a.
reasons. Johnson ex­a: plains, "It isn't all just ::, :a: putting your name and ~ a new date of birth. In w some cases people will use other people's ID cards, or a differ­ent name and different 

CHECK IT OUT Many community liquor stores, like Belmont Beverage, are checking IDs more diligently, making it more difficult for students to purchase alcohol with false identification. 
state. Imagine if you were involved in a serious traffic crash with injuries, and we were trying to de­termine who to contact, and we find the fake ID, and we contact your friend from home's parents because you had his ID, or you had your picture taken with his driver's license. Those are all things that have happened." 
Johnson also objects to the production and possession of false identification on 

· a deeper level. "I think that purporting to be something you're not, misrepresenting your identity, is a serious matter,''.:.he says. 
."It speaks to the integrity of who you are as a person in the community." Rakow agrees: "I don't think giving false identi­fication fits well with what this place is about." 
Given the prevalence of fake IDs around campus, most students don't seem to view the risks as very serious, although it seems that many simply haven't con­sidered the consequences. One Notre 

Dame student, who admits to owning a fake ID, says, "It's so common; I've had mine since I was a freshman. I only use it once every few weeks." He thinks that most people know how to take re­sponsibility for their habits of going out and drinking, though it can become a i :·. problem for some. 

When it comes to making fakes, how­ever, students tend to be a bit more cau­tious. The same student recalls that one of his ~cquaintances is serving time for stealing a driver's license printer from a Department of Motor Vehicies office and using it to manufacture fake IDs. Another student, who currently has a fake ID, says that he thinks it's too risky for people to get into the business of manufacturing 
. IDs, despite whatever chance it offers to make money. "There are other,ways to get IDs. I{ you are making them: or selling them, especially with sophisticated equip­ment, you have to know the risks." . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 


.,____N_OT_R_E_DA_M_E'_S_MO_C_K_TR_IA_L_TE_AM_S_P_RE_P_AR_E~ST_U_DE_N_TS_F_O_R_MO_R_E_TH_A_NJ_U_ST_L_AW_S_C_HO_O_L__[­
not just the 
rac 
[­
I 





Senior Jim Rockney pushes back his chair and walks to the front of the bench. "May it please the court?" he asks. Court is in session, and with the courtesy to the judges taken care of, Rockney begins to question his witness, police detective Terry Gerch in the murder trial of Wendall Tucker. Weekends find most Notre Dame students studying or re­laxing, but this past weekend Rockney and the 23 other members of Notre Dame's Mock Trial Association were in court. True, their courtroom for the weekend was none other than DeBartolo Hall, but don't be fooled: Two of Notre Dame's teams argued their cases so persuasively at the re­gional tournament that they'll be heading to nationals in March to do it again. "I think our Notre Dame teams really prepared themselves well and were pretty' much ready for anything the other teams could throw at us," says Rockney, one of the presidents of the club. The regional tournament, held at Notre Dame, hosted 20 teams from schools such as the University of Chicago, Uni­versity of Michigan and Northwestern. Two of Notre Dame's three teams placed in the top six, ensuring them a trip to Min­nesota for the national tournament in March. For those not familiar with the process, the American Mock Trial Association sponsors national trial simulations every year 
Kristin Kramer 

that require a team to learn how to go to court and present a case to the best of their ability. Teams are required to prepare both the prosecution's and defense's cases and then present one side to two judges in competition against another team at the regional tournament. 
How much are these simulations like a real courtroom? 
"The rules are simpler," says Notre Dame coach Bill Dwyer '69. "There's a limit on how many witnesses you can have, there's a time limit for examining, and they have the luxury of preparing for six months for a three hour case. They don't need to know substantive law for their type of case." 
However, in terms of the actual technique for cross-ex­amining, Dwyer says, "There's no difference." 
This past weekend was the culmination of almost five months of work for mock trial participants, work that jun­ior Clayton Swope says "exponentially increases in the weeks leading up to the competition." 
Back in October, the teams were given this year's assign­ment, a criminal case centering around a murder. trial: A business executive has been murdered in an office build­ing, and someone whose ambitions were stifled by the ex­ecutive is on trial for the murder. There are no eyewitnesses nor any physical evidence. 
"The evidence was a challenge for the prosecution ... be­cause a lot ofit was hearsay," says freshman Christina Aune. 
"They've been learning much more about substantive laws of evidence and applying those rules to the case," says Dwyer. "It's a tremendous amount of material in a short amount of time." 
Once a trial begins, the set-up is fairly standard across the board. Teams are limited to eight members who play different roles depending on what side of the case the team presents. For example, sophomore Cyndi Adimari won a tournament attorney award for her role as the D.A., and then played witness Sammy Lyons, a janitor, for the pros­ecution. "I really enjoyed the variety ofroles I got to play," 
SHOW AND TELL An attorney from Western Michigan shows sophomore Cyndi Adimari a piece of evidence prior to admitting it to the bench. 
LIFE 

Adimari says. "Being a witness is always fun and a lot less stressful than being an attorney, but there's a certain kind of power and fulfillment you feel when you're directing, crossing and objecting in trial that makes you want to go 
again." · Mock trial members usually meet about once a week~ith Dwyer for two hours during the fall semester and then sub­stantially increase their preparation time beginning in Janu­ary, meeting two to three times each week. The final week before the tournament found some teams meeting five hours every day. 
It was the amount of time that mock trial participants put in that led Dwyer to ask the registrar to make the club an accredited course last spring. "They told me I'd need to write up a syllabus, so I submitted one," says Dwyer, who works with the club on a pro bono basis. "The class was approved for two credits, and I was ap­pointed an adjunct assistant professor." 
The result was that the teams spent even more time with each other this year than they had in the past, but team members says this was for the best. "Ifyou have a better bond with your team, you do better in competi­tion," says Adimari. 
"I think [team dynamic] is critical," agrees Aune. "We spent so much time together last week that if we didn't like each other it'd be like, 'Ahhhh!"' 
So what drives these students to spend their nights scouring law texts to learn how to admit or strike a single piece of evidence? Many do want to become lawyers, and others simply have an interest in the American legal system. "We all grew up watching the 
0.J. trial," says Swope. "That introduced us to the court system and the drama that's involved. It's fun to be able t6 present an argument, to persuade people 
LAW AND ORDER 

(above) Prosecution
that you're right.'' 
attorney Jim Rockney 

"I don't know if I want to be a lawyer," says Aune, 
hands defense witness, 

who also is a coxswain on the men's crew team, "but 
Drew Mercer, her I think [mock trial] is a different kind of activity. It's affidavit for 
challenging in a different way." impeachment. (left) 
For those going to law school, mock trial can be a Sophomore Brian Frey and senior Cristin 
valuable asset. "Friends in their first year of law school 
Manary prepare to offer

have told me that their evidence classes have been a 
the State's case against

breeze," says Rockney, who is awaiting word from 
Ashley Thornhill. 

several law schools for next year. "[Mock trial] de­velops your own capacity for thought, and it's defi­nitely come into play in my schoolwork and the three not only think quickly, but internships I've had at law firms," he says. to be composed under 
The skills that mock trial fosters apply equally well pressure," says Aune. outside of the legal environment, however. Swope, With such honed ana­an engineering major, reports that his friends some­lytical, organizational and times question the utility of all his hours spent with speaking skills, perhaps his team but says, "I think it's important to be able to it's not surprise that present your ideas, as well as know how to do math Swope says, "There's al­
and science." 

Courtroom simulations also help develop poise. A good "attorney" must constantly look for holes or weaknesses from the other side to object to and then must be able to assert why they are objecting, as well as respond to the other side's defense of their line of questioning. "It requires you to 
ways room for more law­yers." For now, however, the two teams moving on to nation­
i:' 
als will take a brief break and then resume their harrowing practice schedule for the March 15 tournament. "I've done it one week, hopefully I can do it another!" says Aune. 0 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Unplanned· Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance 

Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 



South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
·women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 






Comic Relief 

ND grad and cartoonist aims for national exposure with Sheldon 
MARYFAY 
What do a 10-year-old billionaire and a sarcastic talking duck have in common? Probably very little, but for Dave Kellett '96, creator of the recently syndicated comic strip, Sheldon, the unlikely pair seems the per­fect combination. Kellett, a Southern-Cali­fornia resident, is a mild-mannered copy­writer for Mattel Toys during the day and a creative cartoonist by night, drawing six Sheldon cartoons a week for United Media, the largest syndicate in the country. "Basically, in America, all comics are dis­tributed by one of the major syndicate com­panies, and in order to make it in cartooning you have to be accepted by one," Kellett says. Companies like United Media ­which distributes such cartoons as For Bet­ter Or For Worse and Dilbert -receive about 3,000 to 5,000 new cartoons a year. From this huge pool, only two or three are even selected for trial runs. United Media currently runs Sheldon ex­clusively online. But if the cartoon earns high readership, the company could decide to publish the cartoon in papers across the country. "You're so close, you can taste it,"­Kellett says enthusiastically. The Internet has provided a unique testing ground for new cartoons by providing a broad reader­ship base while eliminating the risky costs of releasing them to individual newspapers. The premise for Sheldon was born during the early '90s, when the great boom in the computer industry created so many young millionaires. Sheldon's title character is a 10­year-old genius· who invents a new way to speed up the Internet and founds his own soft­ware company, Sheldonsoft. The average American schoolboy suddenly becomes the second-richest man in the world. This presents opportunities for Kellett to toy with different aspects of Sheldon's character. "Sometimes he is just the typical kid who goes to school and plays at the old watering hole with his friends," Kellett says. Others, he's the head of a booming business. Sheldon lives with his technology-chal­lenged grandfather who is frightened and confused by anything more complex than a toaster, poking fun at the generation gap. Al­though Sheldon's family life may have started out as mundane, the situation strays from nor­malcy when the "typical" 10-year-old CEO downloads speech-recognition software into the head of his pet duck and created his own sarcastic webbed-footed sidekick. 
Kellett always dreamed of being a car­toonist, but says: "It was at Notre Dame that I learned what it really takes to be a car­toonist and that I could keep up with it five 
days a week." He started by drawing single­panel cartoons for the back page of Scho­lastic during the 1992-93 academic year. Later in 1993, he began drawing the very popular Four Food Groups of the Apoca­lypse for The Observe,: Working for The Observe,; Kellett gained the unique experi­ence of viewing reader reaction everyday. He recalls that by the time he was a senior, people all over campus were talking about the strip. Professors interrupted class to comment on the day's cartoon. Random people stopped him in the dining hall ~o say, "Hey, good one today," or, less-encourag­ingly, "Dave, that was the most un-funniest thing I've ever read." In addition to discov­ering the kind of effort it takes to draw a daily strip, Kellett also reaffirmed his love for cartooning while at Notre Dame. "It was fun; it was just fun," he recalls. 
Taking advantage of the readership he had with The Observe,; "I used my life-savings at the time -about $1,000 -to publish a book of Four Food Groups." The book sold more than 4,000 copies around campus, which was enough to pay for his graduate school. In addition to his campus-wide popularity, the strip also went on to place second in the Scripps Howard National Journalism Awards. 

After graduation, Kellett studied 18th­century English cartoons at the University of California in San Diego. "I know 18th­century cartooning sounds really useful, you can definitely make a lot of money with that," Kellett jokes. While working on his 
Master's, Kellett interned for the San Diego Union Tribune, which gave him the opportu­nity to produce two cartoons a week, expos­ing his work to its more than 500,000 read­ers. After gaining this experience, Kellett won a Rotary Scholarship to study World War II propaganda cartoons at the University ofKent in England. Now Kellett works for Mattel, naming toys. Kellett loves his job, which also includes writing the poems that appear on Barbie Doll packages. At night, Kellett uses his creativity to draw six cartoons of Sheldon a week for United Media. 
Kellett may not have made billions in the computer boom of the '90s like the boy ge­nius Sheldon, and although he names toys, he has yet to create a talking duck of his own. But this Notre Dame graduate has fo_und success by using his greatest asset­his sense of humor. . 
Read Sheldon, Kellett's comic strip, at http:/lwww.comics.com/comics/she!don/ index.lu,nl 
FUNNY PAGES Though not the Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse of Notre Dame fame, cartoonist Dave Kellet writes the strip Sheldon for the syndicate United Media. If the strip does well on the Web, w~ere it is currently published, it will make its way into newspapers all over the country. 
SCHOLASTICCA!I/IPUS LIFE 13 



,__-------------------------i¦ 
I 
_; (· ( · \ by Kimberly Blackwell I' 


>> In its push to become a great research institution, can thEr·university keep teaching a priority? 
If you think professors tiave cushy jobs -teaching a few classes, tinkering with a research project and taking the summers off -think again. "It's much, much more than a full-time job," says philosophy Professor Don Howard. In fact, the hours often can rival those of new lawyers who work busily to rack up billable time in 70-hour work weeks. These long hours are a reality for professors at universities throughout the country. But perhaps uniquely at Notre Dame, which is historically known as a great teaching college, the recent drive to become a top-flight research university has meant that professors have even greater -a!']d sometimes conflicting -demands on their time. Scholastic looks at the university's commitment -ideal and real -to both teaching and research, and what it means for professors, students and the university's future. 
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY professo 


Mission: Impossible? 
Over the past 10 or 15 years, Notre Dame has undergone what Mark Roche, dean of the College ofArts and Letters, describes as "an unusually quick transfonnation into a · research university." The shift was made mainly by throwing more money and re­sources behind·faculty research, as well as reducing professors' class loads to allow 
more time for research. 
Some suspect that the shift toward stron­
ger research may be driven by a desire to 
improve the university's national rankings. 
In the 2002 US News & World Report 
rankings, for example, Notre Dame placed 
19th, a position which has not varied much 
over the past few years. Of course, many 
schools dismiss such popular rankings as 
meaningless, but other, more thoroughly 
considered rankings also exist. In an assess­
ment ofAmerican research universities pro­

duced annually by The Center at the Uni­
versity of Florida, Notre Dame ranks in the 
top 25. In this case, however, the university 
earned its top-25 overall ranking solely be­
cause its endowment -only one of nine 
criteria -is in the top 25. Only two of the 
remaining factors would even place the uni­
versity in the second tier ofresearch univer­
sities, and the other six would have dragged 
Notre Dame down even further in the · rankings. 
Provost Nathan Hatch is reluctant to at­

tach significance to any of these numbers. 
"As we hire strong professors in research 
and teaching, we may rise in the rankings, 
but they're artificial," says Hatch. He does 
not deny that one eye is turned towards the 
annual rankings, but insists, "Our goals are 
more substantive than that." 
The university's trend toward research is 

merely a means to achieve its ambitious vi­sion of a top-ranked institution. It's neither aspiring to be a researched-based Harvard nor establish a reputation as the teaching university: It wants to create its own iden~ tity. 
"Notre Dame wants to be the preeminent Catholic university in the world, but not re­strictive -they simply want to be a really great university," says government Profes­sor Catherine Zuckert. "How can you argue with that?" 
Most Iikely;Iew would want to. But can the university dominate in both fields? Notre Dame is more committed to quality under­graduate teaching than most comparable universities, which commonly have large . graduate schools and focus more on re­search. ~ order to become a distinguished research ins~tution, however, the university must measure itself against the standards of these major research universities that do not 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 


. . . . 
LISTEN UP Professors hours for one lecture .as their own research: For 

require their faculty to meet Notre Dame's high teaching standards. "Our departments are reviewed by outside experts, and the one thing they regularly note is our core commit­ment to undergraduates," says Hatch. "Our concern for quality teaching is very much present." 
That commitment to undergraduate teach­ing has lured some professors away from other, more prestigious universities. "Harvard has a strong research trajectory, but teaching doesn't matter at all there," says government Assistant Professor Alvin Tillery, who re­ceived his doctorate from Harvard. "That's why I came to Notre Dame." 
Students appreciate the university's atten­tion to teaching, as well. Senior Andrew Nerlinger is perfectly willing to accept that the university may not be as highly regarded in research as long as it keeps its focus on teaching. "Research simply isn't that strong here," says Nerlinger, a math and philosophy major who chose Notre Dame over Harvard and Princeton. "Is that_ a bad thing, though? From a science perspective, I don't really think so. The professors at ND in math are never too busy to help out -they do research, but they really believe tha~_J~aching is their fore­most responsibility." N"erlinger adds that the focus on teaching, especially in math, has meant that he has had "a phenomenal experi­ence" at Notre Dame. As for research, he has sought opportunities elsewhere: "People are thrilled to have ND students in research labs, and I never had any trouble finding an intern­ship." 
Other students and faculty are more guarded in their analysis of the university's balance of research and teaching. "I think both are im­portant," says junior Ken Herner, a physics major. He nevertheless was concerned before coming to Notre Dame that there might be too much of an emphasis on undergraduate teaching at the expense of research. "To get 



"-') 
' 
into a good graduate· school nowadays you have to have research experience," he says. 
Similarly, the Rev. John Jenkins, vice presi­dent and associate provost, believes that stu­dents should not only want but even expect their professors to be active researchers. "If you take a chemistry class or a business class, you want to learn from the guy who wrote the book, literally," Jenkins says. But does writ­ing the book necessarily mean that a profes­sor can communicate the material in the class­room? 
Administrators believe that no distinction need be rriade between researchers and teach­ers. Instead, the university hopes to develop professors who are both. "We seek to enrich the university's mission by truly making this a teaching and research university," says Roche. ''That's extremely rare -only about a dozen or so universities, like Dartmouth, value both equally." How the university con­cretely plans to devote equal attention to each, 
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
however, remains unclear. 
Professors seem to agree that teaching and research are at least compatible concepts. Computer science and engineering Assistant Professor Matthias Scheutz, whose research areas include robotics and artificial intelli­gence, teaches a class on those subjects en­titled "Behavior-Based Robotics." "There can be a potential conflict if what you are teach­ing is not in your field, butit's good ifit over­laps with your field of expertise," Scheutz says. 
David O'Connor, an associate professor of philosophy and classics, sees tension not be­tween teaching and research, but rather be­tween the kind of research done for teaching and that done for publication. O'Connor, who teaches "Ancient Wisdom and Modem Love," arguably the most popular class at Notre Dame, says that the research he pursues in preparation for his class is "visible to the stu­dents," but is not easily written up for publi­cation. The reason for this is that his course draws upon inany different fields of study, · such as English, film and government, and cannot conveniently be condensed into a co­hesive book. 
Others, however, claim that research anq teaching are so closely related that they rein­force each other. Chemistry Professor Den­nis Jacobs says of laboratory research: "Re­search is very much a 

trick to excel in both fields, especially at the 
beginning oftheir careers. With little teach­ing experience to look at, departments usu­
ally judge younger professors more heavily 
on the basis of research when they are hir­ing. A skilled researcher doesn't necessar­ily translate into a poor teacher, though ­
the two fields can complement each other. 
"When we bring teachers to Notre Dame, we focus on individuals who are deeply en­gaged in advancing their field of study ­and that's good for teaching, too," says Jacobs. 
New teachers usually teach two classes per semester, a course load consistent with a high-level research university, which is down from past years. This schedule is sup­posed to allow new professors to devote time to their research and to prepare for their classes. "In chemistry, at least, assistant pro­fessors actually teach fewer classes than ten­ured professors, because they have a steeper hill to climb," Jacobs says. 
But as Roche noted in a 1997 address to faculty, the change in course loads had not been accompanied by an increase in hiring to compensate for the smaller number of professors available to teach classes. "We have far too many classes with more than 50 students," Roche said in his speech. This questions whether research quality is being numbers may not necessarily address the shortage offull-time faculty and allow ample time for both branches of the profession, especially in light ofan ever-increasing stu­dent enrollment. 
The tension between teaching and re­search also becomes a problem in tenure decisions. After three years on the faculty, professors undergo reviews to determine whether they will continue at the university. After six years, the tenure process, which involve deans of the colleges and the provost's office, begins. Both of these deci­sions are supposed to consider equally as­pects ofresearch and teaching, such as work with the administration, undergraduate re­search supervision, in-class evaluations of the professor's teaching and publication in professional journals. 
A professor's research paper or project is reviewed independently by a university peer and scholars from other institutions. Teach­ing reviews factor in teacher-course evalua­tions, student comments and course obser­vations. The entire review process can take up to a year. 
It can be difficult to treat research and teaching as equally as the administration or professors might like, though. Research can easily take center stage. In part, this is sim­ply a function of how the two qualities are 
teaching experience, be­cause students participate 

"We seek to enrich the university's 
in·· the entire process." Howard says the same 

mission by truly making this a teaching 
principle applies in the 


and research university."
humanities. "You never understand something so 

-Mark Roche, dean of t~e College 9f
well as when you have to 
teach it," he says. "The 


Arts and Letters 
structure and clarity you have to find when you're teacfilng pays divi­dends when you write an article for publi­cation." 
Climbing the ladder · Everyone seems to agree that both are im­portant. But for some professors, it can be a 

sought at tne expense of teachmg quality. But Hatch points out that the university has hired 150 new faculty over the past decade. "We're starting our next long-range plan, which will include a modest expansion [in numbers of faculty]," he says, "but the size is approaching what it should be." But these assessed:~esearch naturally1en more easily to objective measurement than does teaching. Itis easy to look at a stack of journal articles or studies, grants awarded and portfolios of independent analyses .and make an objective assessment of research quality. TCEs and syllabi present a much 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 


Zuckert thinks that, at least in the Department of Government and International Relations, the department-clearly communicates its research expectations to its pro­fessors, and those expectations tend to be higher than those for teaching. "There's definitely more pressure to publish than to teach," she says. "It may be extremely dif­ficult to get tenure without a rea­sonable teaching record, but there's a certain tradeoff. If your scholar­ship is very strong, that might out­weigh a lesser teaching record." 
O'Connor goes even further, as­serting that research in fact counts for much more in the tenure pro­cess. "You really don't have to have any impact on the under­graduates [to get promoted]," he says. "You just need [to have writ­ten] a book." 
One major reason for this em­phasis is that the university stands to gain more financially from re­search than from quality teaching. (See sidebar, right) Nevertheless, 

faculty who can do both. We want faculty 
who are actively engaged in the life of the 
mind." 
Says O'Connor, "If my interests were 

more narrowly focused on a single area 
of philosophy, I'd probably be a full pro­
fessor by now." But while a more narrow 
focus would have made the completion of 
a book project easier, he believes that it 
would have detracted from his teaching
' 

quality, since a major part of what makes him a great teacher is his own intellectual development of a variety of interests. He finds it frustrating that although his "devel­opment as a professional intellectual is con­gruent with development that makes people a full professor," he publishes articles in journals regularly and his teaching is among the best at the university, he has not been promoted simply because he has not yet . completed a book project. To him, this in­dicates that the university is not as commit­ted to undergraduate teaching as it is to re­search. "As a professional in this field, you · have to teach undergraduates. You can't commit felonies while you're doing it, but that's about it," he says. Adds Howard: "All rhetoric notwithstanding, good re­
BOTS FOR ALL Matthias Sheutz teaches what he  the university insists that the two  search probably trumps teaching."  
earns. Pictured with some of his robots, the engineering  factors of research and teaching  
professor instructs a class on artificial intelligence.  are given equal weight in the ten- Balancing act  
ure  process.  "We  are  asking  Even if the university treats research and  
more subjective gauge of teaching quality.  people to develop na!Jgnal reputations in  teaching as equally as it claims, profes­ 
"TCEs get more at student satisfaction  research," Hatch sayL_"But we look at  sors must decide for themselves how to  
levels than actual learning," Jacobs says.  both carefully. If someone is an outstand:  find balance in their own careers. After  
"The gauges to measure quality of teach­ ing teacher but does no research, they may  his interview, for example, Scheutz im­ 
ing are just not up to snuff.... It's almost a  not be as good a fit for Notre Dame as for  mediately has to rush back to his lab to  
default ­ you go with the measures you  a purely teaching college. And it's the  set up newly arrived robots. Howard lists  
have. So some things get rewarded, and  same the other way, because teaching  at least six conferences he will attend just  
others go unrewarded."  quality is important. We want a unified  between the end of the semester and June.  


Tillery laments that his research has suffered as
"You really don't have to have any impact on· 
he has worked hard to set up and teach his

the undergraduates [to get promoteo]," he 
classes, but st.i_ll holds out hope: "I'm sure I'll

says. "You just need [to have written] a 
catch up this spring!" "The perception

book." 
might be that it's a zero-

David O' Connor, philosophy professor 
18 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 


sum game, but it's not," says Howard. 
Rather than research getting more atten­
tion at the expense of teaching, or vice­
versa, he suggests, in reality they both re­
quire more time. That means vacations 
and breaks often serve as "free" time to 
focus in on research. "Holidays are actu­
ally the times we get things done," 
Scheutz says. 
Tillery says that it can:be difficult, es­
pecially for younger professors, to bal­
ance their time -especially because, as 
he sees it, assistance for younger profes­
sors as teachers is not quite as readily avail­
able as funding for research. Also, fewer 
teaching assistants per student are available 
at Notre Dame than at other schools. "We 
spend all of our time grading papers, when 
TAs could help free up our time for re­
search," Tillery says, citing a common prac­
tice at major research institutions like 
Harvard. "There are definitely things that 
can be done without another billion dol­
lars being raised for the endowment." 
But Roche says there are resources for 
young or inexperienced faculty. The Kaneb 
Center for Teaching and Leaming, for ex­
ample, offers workshops and individual 
consultations for professors. Departments 
also keep syllabi on file for professors to 
use as a reference. 
Howard says that mentoring programs are in place to provide professors with observa­tions and feedback on teaching styles and · tex-tbook selections. In any event, professors must still arrive at their own conclusions on how best to divide their resources. "Academ­ics value time almost as much as money," says Tillery with a rueful smile. "Time man­
agement is absolutely essential." 
In spite of the nay-sayers, the university 
plans to press forward with its goal ofbeing 
a top-ranked research institution while it 
continue to support teaching goals. "Teach­
'ing is our raison d'etre," Roche says. "And 
we don't want to relinquish that." 
Neither do most professors -but there 
are only 24 hours in a day. D 

Show Me The Money? 
Aprofessor's research isn't. cheap -in dollars or hours. According to philosophy Professor Don Howard, "[You're expected to] generate a steady flow of grant money. On the humanities side, it's 'publish or perish.' " 
Students always are hearing about grants awarded to further cancer research or that Professor X has received an endowed chair. But what makes one different from the other? 
• Fellowships and Grants Especiallyin the sciences, professors rely heavily upon grants to fund theirresearch. 
. These grants generally are provided by the government, corporations or private phil­anthropic organizations. One such grant allowed professors at the Hessert Center to work on projects for the US government, including designingturbo-jet engines for NASA. The cost of research, however, is not just monetary. Professors must do a lot of work to obtain grants, and this can take many hours -hours not spentpreparing for a lecture or meeting with students. "You can spend more time writing grant pro~ posals than doing actual research," Howard says. Once the money is obtained, it is _ used to buy equipment, hire research assistants and do the work. The research projects are then supervised by conimittees set up by their fund-providers and are re-evalti­. ated from time to tirrie just to make sure that the research is proceeding according to 
plan. 
•Endowei{Chair 

Endowed chairs, deanships orprofessorships, most often awarded for research -all come from the endowment, which is the university's rnoneypooLThe funds covera year's salary, benefits and research costs. The endowmentitself gets its cash from . university fund~raising, often gifted by alumni and other big donors. The university pays its. bms with the accrued interest, including professors' salaries_ and benefits .. With a $3.5 biUion dollar pool, the university has plenty offunds tcr live off, even if not all of the money can be used· at once,. . .. 
· Mostmonetary donations are appropriated·by.the provost's office, as some gifts a:re earrnarkedfofa specific department orresearch field: For example, a donor may contribute $1 million to be usedfor psychology research, The provost may award the endowed position to a prnfessor deemed to becoriduc6ng excepfionalresearch in the specified field. However, the universityalsomay choose to use themoney as a tecruiting tool for the department, in which case they could offer the endowed posi­tion toarenowned psychologist who.is considering1eaving his position at another ' university orJure a talented professor from another institution.The recent Genera­
tions campaign, which rnised more than one billion dollars, has provided even more 
fondirigforendowed posltions. . _ . . _ < · ·_· _.. _ _-· _ · 

• Like all universities, Notre Dame aspires to have endowed chairs for each posi~ tion. Thc1twould mean salaries _wo_uld not have to be paidoutofthe operating bu_dget andmore money would befreedto fund the day-to-day maintenance or other projects, providing a serious· financiatincentive for the uriiversity to bring in and keep re­searchers. 
_._ Jacklyn Kiefer 

SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 19 


Good evening, Gipplings. Between chaperoning parents at JPW and following every scintillating tract in the debate over The Vagina Monologues, the Gipper has been a busy man lately. So it came as a bit of welcome solitude this week when the Gipp locked himself away in the Scholastic office to read his latest batch oftips. Before getting started on those, however, the Gipper would like to offer his apology to the residents of South Quad. According to a helpful young Pangbornite, the two trouser­wetting filmmakers of last issue's column were in fact Stanford residents, not Fisher. The two fellows were merely too embarrassed, she claims, to film on their own premises. The Gipper has received neither confirmation nor rebuttal of this tip, but he invites you to con­sider the Stanford residents you know in de­termining its validity. And now for some tips. 

EnFuego 
One of the great pleasures of being the Gipper is trying to decipher the convoluted tips that people send in about their drunken exploits while they're still drunk. This next one meanders pretty badly, but the Gipp thinks it goes something like this: 
A young dude gets drunk ( oh my!) at Heart~ land last weekend and somehow finds his way into the establishment's kitchen, where all the liquor is stored. He resolves to leave before he is caught, but on his way out he begins fumbling around with a cash register. As ex­pected, a bouncer shows up and promptly ejects him. 
Undeterred, the dopey fellow finds a friend and returns, hoping to snag some ofthe booze. He grabs _a box of wine and sets back out for the door, but once again his impaired atten­tion span gets the best of him, and he starts playing with a stove burner. Can yo_u see where tbis is going? The event culminated in a blazing kitchen rag, a poorly controlled fire extinguisher and-you guessed it -the an­gry bouncer. How did our compadre extract himself from this mess? 
A $200 bribe, of course. 

In and Out 
Over JPW, a Zahm resident was ambling back to his dorm at about 1:30 a.m. when he noticed a girl trying to hoist herself into a first­floor window. When questioned, she ex­plained that the doorknob ofthe room she was trying to enter had broken, and that this was her only possible means of entry. (These tips get weirder every week.) So the young Zahmbie helped her up, and went in to tell some of his RA buddies about the peculiar situation. 
So the RAs investigated, and sure enough, the handle had 
come off the young gent's door. "Can you get out?" they called in. The fellow an­swered no, so they began prying the door open. 
Then it dawned on the RAs that the door was dead­bolted from the in­side. They per­sisted, and the cap­tive young man fi­nally opened up, his face flushed invited him to a party the next weekend. Un­fortunately, this isn't a tip. 

After the party, the Gipp received another update, labeled "Hot Tip ... Part 2." Hoping for something better, the Gipper dove right in; but he was again disappointed. The tipster reported: "Gipper, the party which I alluded to in my last email took place last evening and can be described in one word: comedy. Our friend ... showed up after midnight and seemed ill-at-ease at first. When asked which he preferred, China-or America, he said 'America ... freedom.' My friend whispered 

and his drapes flapping in the wind. The RAs were confused. "You know that parietals aren't until two this morning, don't you?" they asked him. 
At this, the lad cursed loudly, and the RAs ran to his window and called out, "Come back! You still have ten minutes!" 
Those kidders. 


Tipping 101 
Now the Gipper would like to share a bit of advice with future tipsters. Over the last couple of weeks, a young woman has been keeping the Gipp posted on the budding romance be­tween her friend and a Golden Dragon deliv­ery boy. The story started out all right: Fol­lowing a February 14 delivery he received a big red Valentine from his admirer, and she in my ear 'Freedom? He works 12 hours a day, 7 days a week ...what kind offreedom is that?' He failed to get jiggy, because he was driving later, and confessed that this was his first Notre Dame party. (Imagine that!) The cops broke up the gathering at 2:00 a.m. We assume he believes that this is how a normal party ends ... Again, this stuff is too good to keep in the dark." 

Sorry, ladies. Still not a tip. 

Well tipsters,.the Gipp is looking forward to hearing some superior scandal from you all after Spring Break. Be sure andtake plenty of photos -the Gipper's editors have prom­ised him two pages next issue if he can fill · them up with your sordid affairs. So enjoy the beach -and watch out for crabs. D 
20 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 



Danielle Shearer is a junior midfielder from Hampstead, Md. She led the 2001 Irish in goals 
(35) and was second in points (41). She is efficient with the ball, scoring on 85 percent of her shots last year. In her senior year of high school, Shearer was selected for the South III region team at the 1998 United States Women's Lacrosse Association national tournament. 

I started playing lacrosse when I was: in eighth grade, for my Rec Council team. 
If I could play any other sport at Notre Dame, it would be: women's basketball, so I could win a national championship. 
My most memorable lacrosse expe­rience at Notre Dame is: beating Yale during last season when they were ranked, and we were not. It was a huge turning point for us. 
This year's Irish team is: the best team Notre Dame has had. We're com­ing off a 10-5 season, and our goal is to make the NCAA tournament. 
My favorite class at Notre Dame is: Muslim Christianity Encounters, because it was interesting, and I had an amazing teacher. 
My hardest class at Notre Dame is: accounting. There are three types of people in this world: Those who can count, and those who can't. 
The team I am looking most for­ward to playing this year is: Syracuse. They were our last game of the season last year, and we lost in a heartbreaker that cost us an NCAA-tournament bid. 
Which would make a better pet, a kangaroo or a koala? A koala, because they don't take a lot of energy to take care of. They only eat one kind of leaf, which is made up of 99 percent water, which creates energy for digestive pur­poses. So they don't have energy for anything else. They just sit there. 
Should lacrosse be an Olympic sport? Definitely. How can curling be an Olympic sport and not lacrosse? 
Other than lacrosse, I most enjoy: watching The Sopranos with my brother. 
I came to Notre Dame because: of the great tradition here and because of the girls on the lacrosse team, who made me feel at home. 
-Gerard Meskill 


Jerry's Jabber 
On Tuesday, the women's basketball team's home­winning streak was snapped at 51 games, as Villanova defeated the Irish 48-45. G Alicia Ratay led Notre Dame with 22 points and six rebounds. The Irish open up Big East Tourna­ment play on Saturday.... The hockey team swept Lake Superior State last Friday and Saturday, outscoring the Lakers 9-1 in the two-game series. The sweep gives the Irish a three-game winning streak, their longest of the season. C Yan Stastny scored twice in the second game. ND faces off against Bowling Green this Friday and Saturday to close the season.... The top-ranked men's fencing team extended its unbeaten streak to 59 games, defeating Michigan State, Detroit-Mercy, Lawrence and Michigan on Sunday at the Wayne State Duals. Epeist Jan Viviani finished the season 42-3, which ranks third all-time in Irish season-winning per­centage. The third-ranked women's squad defeated the same four schools as the men to finish the season 20-2. ND hosts the Midwest Fencing Con­ference Championships on Saturday in the Joyce Center.... The baseball team opened the 2002 campaign with three games last weekend in New Orleans. The Irish defeated Missouri 7-6 in 10 innings before falling to New Orleans and Southern Illinois, and suffering injuries to four of their starters. Freshman RHP Chris Niesel had a strong debut, recording 1O strikeouts, no walks, five hits and one earned run. The Irish travel to Homestead, Fla. on Friday for a four-game stand. O 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 



narrowly winning gold over Canada's Jamie Sale and David Pelletier, despite what the media constantly has labeled "an obvious technical error" on the part of the Russians . Theresult was a media circus that putpressure on the IOC to break down and award both pairs gold medals. 
The Russians whined that the decision was forced by the Western media's "American propaganda." The Olympics always have been corrupt, and that tl1e Russians got caught cheatingisn'tthe greatest travesty in the world. However, to have the audacity to complain that you are being treated unfairly after being caught cheating is a cut above. 
Even though the pairs skating controversy alone was enough to lock up Olympic gold, the Russians decided they weren't done stir­ring up controversy. Just a few days after the pairs incident, America's Sarah Hughes rose from fourth place after the short program to upset Russia's Irina Slutskaya and fellow American Michelle Kwan, who took second and third respectively. The Russian Olympic Committee wasted little time petitioning the IOC to award Slutskaya a gold medal as well, claiming the American judges cheated the Russian skater. The petition promptly was deniedby the IOC, and for good reason. There was absolutely no merit to the claims; Russia . was just looking for an excuse to whine. 
After the petition was rejected by the IOC, the Russians made their most ludicrous move ofall, threatening to pull out ofthe Olympics altogether because the NHL hockey referees employed by the Olympics were favoring Western countries. Hopefully those referees won'thavethat comment in mind when all but a halfdozen ofRussia's players return to their respective NHL clubs. 
Finishing a distant second to the Russians is ourfriendlyneighbort,0Jhe north, whose gold medal in hockey was engineered almost solely byWayneGretzky.AftertheCanadianmen's hockey team finished the preliminary round a dismal 1-1-1, capped by a near-defeat to a severely outmatched Germany, Gretzky de-



Coming off a slow start and injuries to the 2-3-4 hitters in the lineup, the Irish will be looking to regroup when they face Duquesne Friday. Despite the depleted offense, ND squeaks past on the strength of their pitching, winning 3-2. 
-Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor 

cided he needed to fire his team up. 
His rant began innocently enough, com­plaining about a crosscheck by Czech Republic's Roman Hamrlik on Canada's Theoren Fleury. (Both are NHL players for the New York Islanders and New York Rang­ersrespectively.) However, his comments soon escalated from a passionate yet legitimate complaint into little more than idiotic banter. 
"Payback' s going to be awful tough," he said. "Believe me, it's not going to be pretty. I wouldn't want to be in that Rangers-Island­ers game next week." 
After Gretzky laid out the groundwork for more violence between the New York rivals, he took it upon himself to tum Hamrlik' s crosscheck into an international affair. 
"I don't think we dislike those countries as much as they hate.us," he said. "That's a fact. They don't like us. They want to see us fail." 
He capped it all by echoing the Russians, referring to the United States' coverage of Canadian hockey as "American propaganda." Itis in these last two statements that he's gone too far. First of all, who hates Canada? The answer is nobody. Everybody is too busy hating the United States. Second, Gretzky forgot a couple of things when he accused the American media of propaganda: The Ameri­can hockey media is largely Canadian, and the general American media almost was entirely responsible for the IOC awarding the Cana­dian figure skating doubles' pair their gold medals. If American propaganda existed in these games, it certainly wasn' thurting Canada. 
Gretzky's comments were nothing more than a ruse to inspire his hockey team to play better. While he attained his goal, he gave his nation and himself a.black eye, taking home the silver medal for Canada. 
Finally, the bronze goes to the United States. Almost all of the incidents listed above were blown out ofproportionby our media, causing controversy to overshadow the individual achievements of the 2002 Olympians. Once again, the Winter Olympics will be remem­bered for scandal, not excellence. D 
Coming off a rough opening-weekend, the highly-ranked Irish squad will bounce back against Duquesne. The young pitching staff will shine and the reserves will produce at the plate as the Irish win, 7-3. 
-David Murray 
Assistant Sports Editor Let's be honest. We're 
.playing Duquesne. Can you even pronounce that? Notre Dame can't lose to a team with sucll'a ridiculous name. My prediction: Notre Dame 11, Duquesne 2. 
-Matthew Barr Managing Editor 
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
. JESSICADAUES 
Last preseason, the future of Notre Dame baseball looked bright. The Irish received their highest-ever pre­season national ranking at No. 9. Aaron Heilman, arguably the best pitcher in ND history, had turned down a million-dollar signing bonus with the Minnesota Twins to return for his senior season. Danny Tamayo, the team's No. 2 pitcher, finally had recov­ered from elbow surgery. Riding on the anns of Heilman and Tamayo, the Irish lived up to their preseason clamor, ascending as high as No. 1 in the rankings and getting within one run of a spot in the College World Se­ries. Fast forward to the present. Gone are Heilman -drafted in the first round by the New York Mets -and Tamayo -drafted in the 10th round by the Kansas City Roy­als. Each started 15 games last season and led the team in wins with 15 and eight, re­spectively. Despite such huge losses in the pitching staff this season, the Irish received an even higher preseason ranking this year than last: No. 5. 

Huh? 

"I'm as amazed as anyone at the high rank­ing," says coach Paul Mainieri. "When you lose a guy like Aaron Heilman, who's the greatest player we've ever had here, and Danny Tamayo, who was as good as most people's No. 1 pitchers in the country .. : and still have a higher preseason ranking this year than last, it is quite a phenomenon." 
Here's part ofthe answer: This year's team is returning nine of its 10 starting players, graduating only shortstop Alec Porzel. While the loss of Porzel is a great one (.295 bat­ting average, 59 RBIs and 8 home runs), the loss of only a single starting position player leaves the team's defense-perhaps the best in the nation -generally intact, as well as its offense. And Porzel's replacement at shortstop, freshman Matt Macri, is good enough that he had to turn down a million­dollar signing bonus with the Minnesota Twins to play at Notre Dame. Baseball America listed Macri as the No. 2 college prospect among current freshmen and also forecasted him to be the No. 4 college pros­pect for the 2003 draft. He looks more than capable of putting up numbers similar to Porzel's, and the defense at shortstop won't suffer either. 
Still, without good pitching, good offense and defense are almost worthless. The Irish return many dependable relievers, including seniors Drew Duff and Matt Buchmeier and juniors Matt Laird and Brandon Viloria. Two key starting pitchers are back as well: jun­iors J.P. Gagne, who started 13 games last year, and Peter Ogilvie, who had an impres­sive sophomore season (5-1, 1.90 ERA) af­ter sitting out most of his freshman season because of an elbow injury. Gagne logged 
70.2 innings last season, third on the team only to Heilman and Tamayo. Both pitch­
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 23 


·_JOH.N AXFORD -·. 
·Port Dover; Ontario 
. GRANT JOHNSON·. 

. ~urcRidge, Illinois . 
. . . . 
MARTINVERGARA 
. Paterson, New Jersey . 


CHRIS NIESEL' 
· PlantaLion, Florid.a 
ers, Mainieri says, have proven they can handle the big games. 
Still, Ogilvie and Gagne are not expected to be the dominant duo that Heilman and Tamayo were last season. So the question remains unanswered: Why the higher rank­ing? Perhaps, Mainieri hints, the secret lies with the freshmen pitchers. 
This year's freshmen pitchers, part of a freshman class that Baseball America ranked No. 1 in the country, includes right­handers Chris Niesel, John Axford, Grant Johnson, Martin Vergara, Tyler Jones and lefty Scott Bickford. The talent level ofthese freshmen makes the class unique. Of the six freshmen pitchers, four were drafted by ma­jor-league baseball teams (Niesel, Axford, Vergara and Jones). Johnson was passed up in the draft simply because his commitment to Notre Dame was so strong. 
Currently, the brightest stars among the freshmen are pitchers Axford, Johnson, Vergara and Niesel-a group which Mainieri calls his "Fab Four." 
Tall, lanky Axford is 6-foot-5 and 175 pounds, and his fastball reaches 93 mph. He has an overhand curveball similar to St. Louis Cardinals' pitcher Matt Morris. He still is perfecting his changeup, and since the fall he has been working to add weight. "If Axford continues with what he is doing, adding more strength and weight, then the sky's t~e limit for him," pitching coach Brian O'Connor says. Axford pitched in the team's second game of the season, a loss to the University of New Orleans, relieving Gagn~ and allowing three hits and two runs in four innings. 
Johnson resembles a young Heilman, with Heilman's hard fastball, nasty slider and even nastier disposition on the mound. He even inherited Heil man's number 22 jer­
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
sey, given to him by Mainieri. "Grant is a real competitor," O'Connor says. "When he pitches, you know he's going to give it his all. He's going to walk off the mound ex­hausted." Last year Johnson was one of only 22 high-school players selected for the U.S. Junior National team and he went 2-0 for the team with a 0.93 ERA. He threw six in­nings in relief of Ogilvie and allowed only 2 hits in Notre Dame's win against the Uni­versity of Missouri. 
Martin Vergara is a shorter version of Johnson. A New Jersey all-state quart~r­back in high school, Vergara is a natural athlete. He has great control of his 88-92 mph fastball and two outstanding breaking pitches: a curveball and a slider. After a rocky start pitching an inning of relief in the team's 6-2 loss to Southern Illinois on Sunday, Vergara looks to rebound in this weekend's games in Homestead, Fla. 
Niesel, who was one of only five high­school pitchers to be named a first-teamAll­American, is the most polished of the fresh­men pitchers, and he started the third game of the season on ·s~nday against Southern Illinois. His five-inning outing included 10 strikeouts, no walks, five hits and only one run allowed. He sports an 88-92 mph fastball and has a lethal curveball. "His curveball is what makes him," says O'Connor. His change-up is almost as domi­nating as his other two pitches. 
Throwing a freshman like Niesel into starting roles isn't common. The last time a freshman pitcher started an opening week­end for Notre Dame was in 1995. His name was Christian Parker, and he made his major­league debut last year with the New York Yan­kees. But, then again, finding such talented, polished freshmen isn't common either. And there's no reason to keep exceptional pitchers out ofa game just because they are freshmen. 

"It's amazing how ability can overcome inexperience," Mainieri says. "Once we give a player the ball and he goes out there to stand in the middle of the diamond on the mound, we could care less if he's a freshman or a se­nior.... The guy who gets the job done best is the guy who gets to pitch most often." 
But don't look for the freshmen to be throw­ing 100-plus strikeouts per season quite yet. " I think people across the country feel that [ Axford, Johnson, Vergara and Niesel] are go­ing to be the heirs apparent to Heilman and Tamayo," Mainieri says. "But certainly it takes time to achieve that kind of status. Those kids won't do it right away-they'll have some inconsistency, but they have potential." 
Tyler Jones, though recruited with as many of the same expectations as the "Fab Four," doesn't figure to be as large ofa factor this season as some of the other pitchers in his class, although he's no less talented. He spent most of the fall injured and didn't re­ceive many chances to prove his stuff. Jones is a strong, physical pitcher who can throw the ball lip to 90 mph, and O'Connor likens Jones's ability and mechanics to former Irish pitcher Brad Lidge. Lidge logged only about 20 innings as a freshman, but he de­veloped his pitches as his career went on, He pitched 80 innings as a senior and went as a first-round pick in the 1998 draft. O'Connor tentatively predicts that Jones's career might follow the same path. 
"Brad had the same kind of body and arm strength [as Jones has], but he needed to re­fine his mechanics and loSation and gain more consistency with his breaking ball," O'Connor says. ''The best is yet come with Tyler Jones. The other [four freshmen] are more polished. But Tyler, he could just explode." 

.•··• <Roµndi11g 6ut.theclass'9fJreshman pitch-(is6;.'vlefre not\vorri~.cl,;'he says:i''.Y'fedupk: ;• e'rs is Scott Bickfo~d, a6-:fobt-4 lefty who_:: it's good that~we have ·a:good gro~p ~d . weighs 160 poun1~: He ha'sgreat off-speec( thaq~eopler~spectus.'" ' ·:. • , ..•.... 
\!llii!ii~lif'.~f~\~ll~'{i~\ftfl1~i~~~~~!1tC 

(/>,ffllflqs~es, 9f•.lieilll}ani and Tamayo lef(~·•• .•l1oiise;'\j11niqrpit9be1;Bf aIId6n)/ilqi:i\l'.i, 
'j!ifJji~fiiis:~~~li,ll~}~i1fiiJliirfJ(;
·.··•.·pit~ll~j-s:'.likeH~il111.an}i~cUramayo can't b,e{··••'f#triAJI.oftbefreshmeripitc11ersh~yeex-:; . (easy:t'o(?ny~cidy;t ·?~i?~cidlly;{r~shmen/ ·.( ~,p¢ri,ent.~jr{big;g~ipe §lt#ti9111. For ex~•· ·, .-~:and si1ch expect~tions can be dau~~ng. But ·:·ample, Nie~ei pitche'dat the highest ievel• · the freshriien see111 to betaking)Iie.'p1:6s~ure · of highocsthci61 basebail in his horhe state< in stride and using.it (o/ii~i(icly~ntcii~i of Florida ·and pitched in. the state-cham­
•· "There's ,alwa)'s'press11i'I;:~wh,~lyo~r·are pionship game.Johnson, in his time with ranked so high,1'}011es,says,:'~utwhenyou .· the Junior National team, started two have a group ofgood'playtirsiikewe do, . games in international competition in you live for the pressure and want to live lip Cuba. Likewise, Axford pitched for Team 
· · · ·· · · ·


ROOKIE OF THE YEAR? Right-hander Chris Niesel leads the pack of Notre Dame's much­coveted freshman pitchers, part of a freshmen class ranked No. 1 in the country. 
Still, the freshmen aren't fooling them­selves into thinking they know it all. "Mak­ing the transition into college is huge," says Jones. "A good pitcher can just blow by bat­ters with fastballs in high school. But in col­lege a pitcher really needs to learn how to pitch. He has to be smart, because the batter he faces is going to be good." 
To learn the finer points of college ball, the freshmen have been looking to upper­classmen pitchers such as Buchmeier, Ogilvie, Gagne, Viloria and Laird for guid­ance. According to Buchmeier, the freshmen have been eager to watch how the upper­classmen condition themselves and handle batters, so the freshmen can learn what they must do in tum to be successful. 
"The freshmen show a lot of talent," says Buchmeier, "but they are willing to work hard, put in as much effort and learn just as . much as everyone." 
Only time will tell whether these fresh­men can truly become the field presence that Heilman was for the past four years. "Abil­ity-wise, it's without a doubt they could be as good as Heilman," O'Connor says. But what separated Aaron Heilman from most pitchers in college baseball, O'Connor says, was his ability to raise his game to a higher level when his team needed him the most ­"That's what we don't know about these guys. . .. You just don't know until you get out there playing." 
This team's goal is nothing less than the top: the College World Series. The team also is hungry to win the Big East -ND hasn't won for the past three years, so none of the current players ever have played on a Big East championship team. This season, the Irish have the offense and the defense to do it. 
But to have the pitching, some ofthe fresh­men will have to step up. "The freshmen, numbers-wise, are such a big part ofour team that they're going to be counted on heavily," O'Connor says. "In order for us to reach our goals, they are going to have to pitch and play to the level they can." 
No problem, says Niese!. "We have an experienced lineup, and people keep saying the pitching is young," Niesel says. "But the team can rely on the freshmen, and the team has confidence we can get the job done." D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 













securing a SI C I 
GERARDMESKILL
"
Ith.ink it's hard to keep us out of the tour­nament with our resume right now," says coach Mike Brey. "But you can never say never. Until March 10, I'll be un­easy." There's a reason for Brey's anxiety. With collegiate athletics' biggest tournament fast approaching, the Irish are once again sitting squarely on the bubble. With a record of 19-8 prior to Wednesday's game against Saint John's, Notre Dame ordinarily would have little to worry about. In the history of the NCAA tournament, no Big East team with 20 wins ever has been denied an at-large berth. However, the Big East is having a rare year, with eight teams at 18 wins or more. It is im­possible for all eight teams to make the tour­nament, but is possible for all eight to win 20 games. Some teams will have to go. Of course, Notre Dame made things easy by locking up its spot in the NCAA Tourna­ment when it beat Providence and proceeded to the Big East tournament final. "I think we just need to win our last two games, and then have a better showing in the Big East tournament than we've had for our past couple oftimes getting there," says sopho­
26 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
more guard Torrian Jones. 
If Notre Dame can accomplish that goal, then it will be a lock for its second-straight NCAA tournament appearance. But in per­haps the most balanced Big East in confer­ence history, Notre Dame faces the threat of a first-round departure from the Big East tour­nament and compulsive nail biting until Se­lection Sunday. If that does occur, the selec­tion committee will be forced to make some tough decisions. Here are the arguments why they should choose-Notre Dame, even if the Irish don't advance in the Big East tourna­ment. 

Schedule Strength 
Notre Dame's schedule ranks as the 43rd most difficult in the nation as ofESPN's Feb­ruary 23 RPI index. The Irish have played eight ranked teams this season. Five of those contests have been away from the Joyce Cen­ter, and Notre Dame's record against those teams is 3-5. While this record is not great, it is respectable for two reasons: First, two of those three wins came on the road. Second, Notre Dame's margin ofdefeat averaged just 
3.6 points per game in the five losses, while their margin ofvictory in the three wins was a healthy 9.7 points per game. 

What these stats don't tell you, though, is that two of the three victories came against the same team: Pittsburgh. The third game came against a Miami team which has won just two ofits last five games. IfMiami goes out early in the Big East tournament, Notre Dame's win over the 'Canes may lose some ofits luster in the eyes of the selection com­mittee. Nevertheless, Notre Dame has shown their ability to contend with the league's tougher teams, and this will be noticed. 
Road Record 

"We've played [on the road] as good as anybody. We're very comfortable away from home, and we're a veteran group that has played a lot of games together," says senior forward David Graves. 
Indeed, the Irish have been road warriors this year, posting a better record away from the Joyce Center (11-4) than at it (8-4). This bodes welHor Notre Dame's chances, since one of the biggest criteria examined by the selection committee is a team's away record. What looks even better is that three out of the four road losses came against ranked teams (Indiana, Alabama and Syracuse), and the to­tal loss margin for those four games was a paltry 12 points, or a three-point basket per 
AIM HIGH This season the Irish have been on fire at venues all over the country, compiling a record of 11-4 on the road. This stat should help the Irish come Selection Sunday. 


As March Madness draws near, the Irish faithful wonder if the men's basketball team will be selected to play in the NCAA tournament. Scholastic explains why they should be. 
game. If the Irish make the NCAA tourna­ment, it will be on the strength of their road record. 

Conference Play 
Notre Dame is 9-5 in Big East conference play, tying them with Syracuse for second in the West division and third overall in the con­ference. While this position seems favorable, it is not guaranteed, since three teams are within a game of the Irish in the standings. Miami is 9-6 in the conference, while Saint John's and Rutgers stand at 8-6. Behind them are Boston College and Georgetown, who could both still pull even with Notre Dame. Of course, not all of these teams can pass the Irish, since some of them are playing each other to finish the season. Nevertheless, Notre Dame's chances ofmaking the tournament are much higher if they remain in the top four places in the conference. 
One important difference in Notre Dame's conference record from previous years is that the Irish have not taken many bad losses. In fact, Notre Dame has dropped only one con­ference game this year that they were heavily favored to win, a two-point loss to Villanova to open Big East play. Other than the Villanova loss and another 10-point defeat at home against Georgetown, the Irish have been strong in conference play. Their Big East record should not hurt them on March 10. 


Momentum 

Along with road wins and victories against ranked opponents, the selection committee pays close attention to a team's momentum heading into its conference tournament. Notre Dame is 7-3 in its last 10, a stretch that has pitted them against three ranked opponents. 
While Notre Dame's momentum clearly is strong, it might actually be the momentum of the teams competing with the Irish for at-large bids that will prove the deciding factor. Of the eight schools competing for what prob­ably will amount to six Big East at-large bids, three of them can be considered locks at this point: No. 10 Pittsburgh, No. 22 Miami and No. 23 Connecticut. Here are the remaining five teams with their records in their last 10 games: NotreDame(7-3),Rutgers (7-3), Saint John's (5-5), Boston College (4-6) and Syra­cuse (4-6). Only Rutgers can match Notre Dame's momentum, posting a 3-1 record against top-25 teams over that 10-game span. 

Summary 
Notre Dame has played well against tough 

competition, posted one ofthe league's best records on the road, placed in the top third of a major conference and won down the stretch. All Big East teams that would hope to rob the Irish of a bid have all failed on one or more of these criteria. Based on these facts, Notre Dame deserves an at-large se­lection to the NCAA tournament, along with conference foes Pittsburgh, Connecticut, Miami, Syracuse and Boston College -un­less Rutgers has a strong Big East tourna­ment and supplants the Eagles. 
The berth would make two straight for the Irish, who were denied 11 consecutive years prior to coach Brey's arrival last year. 
"It would be a huge success for this group to get back into the NCAA tournament for a second time after having an 11-year drought and losing a guy like Troy Murphy and your starting point guard, Martin Ingelsby," says Brey. "[The team] will be hungry to advance in the tournament, but I'll make sure they know that it is a suc­cessful thing to get us to that point." 
Coach Brey can consider this season a success then, because the Irish are a lock. . 
Note: All evaluations omit Wednesday's games. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27 




Cravin' Something Unusual 
Senior FTT major brings the cutting edge to Notre Dame 
SHAUNHARRIS 
Not many directors set out to exhaust their audiences or advertise the dif­ficulty of their plays, but senior FIT major Beth Hoffmann doesn't worry about scaring away her audience. "I want them to leave the theater tired," Hoffmann says. "I want to bombard them with some­thing that is beautiful but not standard.' A fan of the avant-garde, Hoffmann has taken it upon herself to infuse Notre Dame with the edgy, barrier-breaking theater that usually is reserved for more accommodating venues. For her senior FIT directing final, Hoffmann has chosen to direct Sarah Kane's one-act play, Crave. She has definite ideas of what she wants from her audience, and Crave certainly will accomplish those goals. The play is a stark and daunting look into the mind of Sarah Kane, a British playwright whose work Hoffmann first encountered while studying in London last spring. Kane, who taught at Bristol University in England and was a member of the Royal Crown Theatre, committed suicide in 1999. In her short ca­reer, Kane quickly earned both praise and criti­cism for her controversial plays. She suffered from great bouts of depression, and the ef­fects of that depression show up in the pain and tragedy ofher works, especially in Crave. Hoffmann describes the play as "a quartet written for four voices, delving into the soul­shattering pain and ecstasy that exists beneath the surface of everyday existence." The four characters -M (Kelly Hart), C (Kat Walsh), B (Tom Conner) and A (Matt Holmes)-have letters instead ofnames and represent moods, memories and conjectures. Together, they present the internal story of a woman's mind, with their dialogue conveying the woman's thought processes to the audience. "In the end, it becomes a decision about whether she wants to go on living," Hoffmann says. "It's a challenging moral piece in some respects, almost a trial-by-jury of the very concept oflife." Watching the play is like wandering into a Virginia Woolf novel. The dialogue is filled with non-sequiturs coupled with echoes of emotion. In one scene, a character says, "Your hair is an act of God." The other character responds, "A Vietnamese girl, her entire ex­istence is given meaning permanently in the 30 seconds in which she fled from her vil­lage." The dialogue seems nonsensical, but the characters are written to mimic the spo­radic interaction of these thoughts within the mind. They don't follow a narrative, but rather express vestiges of memories and thoughts. 
The play has been performed only a few times in the United States, and never with great success. According to Hoffmann, the shows were lacking in their presentations ofthe char­acters. "Most of the productions have them just stand in a row and talk," she says. Hoffmann has chosen to present the charac­ters in a new way, by pushing the perform­ers practically into the theater space, away from the stage and closer to the audi­ence. One scene, for example, shows three of the actors scream­ing and cursing at each other as the fourth ambles deject­edly around the audi­ence. According to Hoffmann, the con­fined space of the lab theatre at Washington Hall helps rather than hinders this interac-


tion between actors__ -­and audience. "It needed a small space," she says. 
The production also relies on lighting to show the interaction between the different thoughts. "It's the brightest in the center and lighter at the edges," Hoffmann says, explain­ing that the characters at the center ofthe stage represent the thoughts that are currently at the front of the woman's mind. 
You likely won't be able to follow any rec­ognizable plot in Crave, but don't worry. Even the actors find it difficult to pin down the play's plot. "It hits a lot of hard issues: sex, suicide, rape," Conner says. "It's a lot of dark stuff." 
More importantly, Crave is a test of wills between the audience and the performers, both in form and in content. "It will certainly be very different from almost anything that's been done on campus before in terms of the­atre," Hoffmann says. ''That's what makes it exciting, but that's also what makes it diffi­cult to accept at certain points." 

Sitting through Crave certainly can be an endurance test for the mind. The play is not user-friendly, but Hoffmann and the cast feel there is something for the audience to take away with it. "The reason to see this play is because it shows the inner turmoil of things we never say that.we thought," Holmes says. "I think the audience will be sitting there think­
ing, 'I can't believe somebody said that ­even though that's what I was thinking.'" 
Sentiments like these are music to Hoffmann's ears. "One of my foremost goals as a director is to cultivate a knowl­edgeable audience who, by being more at­tuned to the stylistic conventions of the piece, may be more open to its content and message," she says. For theater-goers will­ing to worl{ for their entertainment, Crave will not disappoint. D 
Crave will be pe1formed at the Lab The­atre in Washington Hall on February 28 and March I at 7:30 p.111. There is no charge for the pe1formance. 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 


Bikin' Irish 

008 learns there's a reason they call it the off-season 
This week on OOB, the next gripping episode in the saga 
that is my semester abroad: The First Break. 
My friend Carrie and I decided to spend it in Ireland. We started off in Dublin and made the obligatory stop at the Guinness Brewery. There we learned the Guinness Book of World Records was indeed created by the nice folks at Guinness. Once upon a time there were disputes popping up in pubs over random facts, like what the fastest bird in Europe was, and Guinness's managing director thought it would be helpful for bartenders to have a resource for settling them. He did a bit of research, and in 1951 the book was born. 
It became the best-selling book of all time -excluding the Bible. Of course, now it lists much more than just birdie sta­tistics. It lists lots ofstrange things done by nutty people, which is, conveniently, perfect fodder for filling column space when you've just come back from a Dublin pub crawl. For example, a man named Michael Lotito of Grenoble, France holds the world record for most metal consumed. He eats two pounds per day. Since 1966, he has con-
Of course, just like any other great achievers-to-be, we en­countered nay-sayers, like my theology professor. "Biking in the west coast oflreland?" he said when I mentioned our plans. "That reminds me of some kids last semester who thought it would be fun to go to Iceland on their first break. They won­dered why the fares were so low. Heh heh heh." 
But we were determined all the same. We were just like Kurt Osborn, who rode his bike on a wheelie from Hollywood to Orlando, setting the world record for coast-to-coast biking on one wheel. Only we had two wheels each. Oh, and we were in hell. When we started out, it was drizzling. By the time it was too late to tum back, however, the wind had reached gale force and turned the pouring rain into thousands of tiny, stinging needles. At one point Carrie held her bike up in the air and it flapped in the wind like the flimsiest of flags. 
About halfway through we stopped to ask some locals what the quickest way to get out was. They told us the road leading back to Killamey was only 11 miles down the "trail ... heh 
heh heh." The thing is that in the 

sumed 18 bicycles, 15 shopping 
spring, when sane people travel carriages, seven TV sets, six in Ireland, there really is a trail chandeliers, two beds, a pair of that leads to the main road. In skis, a computer and a Cessna . February, however, this area light aircraft. After a few years might be more accurately de­of finding this sort of thing in the scribed as a "swamp." We ar­Guinness book, undoubtedly pub rived back at the bike shop five discussions have turned from hours later covered in mud with simple trivia to deeper questions, near hypothermia. such as, "What on earth would Still, we had the satisfaction possess someone to do some­of finishing the ride. We may thing so absurd?" be lunatics, but at least we're There are a variety of reasons, accomplished lunatics. Thus, 
I should think. The desire to achieve the exceptional, for one. And then there's boredom, stupidity and mental imbalance. I should know, because soon after we left Dublin, Carrie and I set out for Killamey, where we must have set the world record for Stupidest Bike Trip Ever Attempted. 
See, when we planned our trip, we thought it might be fun to take a 30-mile bike ride around Killarney National Park. It's supposed to one of the most beautiful places in the coun­try, so it's always packed with tourists in the spring. We thought we'd seize the opportunity to bike it without the on-season hubbub, even if we had to deal with some winter wind and rain. 
the moral of this episode, my friends: When even the sheep are laughing at you, glare at the steep trail ahead, give it the finger -if you can still move it -and scream (I've cleaned this up for you consid­erably) "I'm beating this if I die trying, because I've got no other choice!" Of course then the wind will sock you again and blow your bike out from under you. But for one bright, shining moment, you'll almost hear the theme from Rudy wafting up from the valley below. It's enough to make you tear up a little, except you won't, because the wind has perma­nently parched your eyes and your tear ducts are frozen shut. 
At the very least, it's slightly more heroic than eating a Cessna. 0 

SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 29 



ND senior blends double major in 

SHEILAFLYNN 
Since the beginning of the semes­ter, a small group of students has met four times each week in 
buildings across campus to prepare for a 
performance. Moving from 0'Shaughnessy to Washington Hall to any other available space, they have memorized scripts, practiced lines and 
designed sets. And they haven't spoken a single word of English. 
Led by senior theater and Ital­---~ ian major Laura Colangelo, the students are the cast and 
crew of La Marcolfa, a comedy by Italian play­wright Dario Fo. With six actors, three scene designers and three i1 stage. managers, the play will be per­formed entirely in 1~ ,; Italian. Armed with ,~"'·'t~~..;Y,e;,._ ... \~ It 1· E 1· h 
1.,,,,-. . aian-ng1s
/;-_.11 ,.-·1 . d" . .
;,,drv/·.··· j,;./,~ 0~:::r~:'.ii'i~ltf · t,~13r 1') !:~e,.~i:~ '~tr -UJJ~t .··• ;I~i~:~~:j only Italian. Despite the enormity 
of the task, Colangelo, who plans to teach high-school Italian and hopes to incorpo­rate theater into her classes, decided to direct the play as an experiment. "I think theater is really an excellent tool to teach language," Colangelo says. "Through rep­etition you begin to pick up phrases, vo­cabulary and grammatical subtleties that you wouldn't normally learn." 
Acting on this belief, Colangelo ap­proached Professor Colleen Ryan­Scheutz, director of the Italian Language Program about working on a project. To­gether, they dreamed up the idea for the play. With a grant from the Undergradu­ate Research Opportunities Program, they began reading scripts to select just the right show. 
Although she is strongly interested in improvisational theater, Colangelo chose a more traditional, easy-to-follow script with which the audience could more eas­
. ily identify. The one-act play, by Nobel­prize winner Dario Fo,.introduces the au­dience to an unusual love triangle that centers around an undesirable and unat­tractive servant woman, the title charac­ter Marcolfa. After Marcolfa supposedly wins the lottery, she. is pursued by nobil­ity and servants alike. The situation turns into a hilarious patchwork of mismatched love as the suitors woo Marcolfa for her money and simultaneously grapple with their true loves. · 
Fo is famous for his radical satires at­tacking conservative institutions in Italy and around the world, such as the Catho­lic Church and the Italian government, but La Marcolfa is not one of Fo's biting sat­ires. It does contain the humor for which he is world-
CIAO A play and its rehearsals entirely in Italian? This 
• ,could seem daunting, but the actors and crew of La Marco/fa have stepped up to the challenge. 
ar 
reno fare phyi by r stud 
01 Coh late visit and ber. cho: star1 shm 
"~ 
thro ian · prof inte1 says 
Ci 
tere1 
und1 
vari, 
con: 
com 
aske 
duel 
Sch1 
prm 
defi 
den< 
Ryai 
Tl 
noti1 
as a 
lot o 
ence 
righ 
men 
Lam 
us i1 
ing 
0 wor: thro new Paul ofth Lani COUI 


1 experiment with language, learning and the stage 
1wned. "I picked this because it's a e," Colangelo says. "There's very ;ical humor, and it's easy to pick up ion-Italian speakers and early-level ents." nee the script choice was finalized, mgelo began work on production. In October, she publicized the show by :ing Italian classes and posting flyers, auditions were held in early Novem­Once the cast and crew members were sen, Colangelo and Ryan-Scheutz ted work on another aspect of the 1-1: educational experimentation. Nhat we hypothesized was that, ugh the experience of an intense Ital­workshop, undergraduates' language 'iciency would improve through the nse 10-week project," Ryan-Scheutz 
:>langelo and Ryan-Scheutz adminis­d a language test to the participating ergraduates, whose language skills ed, before practices began. The exam sisted of :reading, writing and oral 
ponents. The cast and crew will be :d to take a similar test after the pro­:ion, but both Colangelo and Ryan­c:utz already have seen a notable im­rement in students' abilities. "I've nitely seen an increase in self-confi­:e, which affects fluency and ease," n-Scheutz says. 1e participants, themselves, also have :ed a difference in their language skills 
result of the experiment. "There are a if words that I learned from this experi­: that I've been using in Italian [class] t now," says Vanessa Arita, a first-year 1ber of the scene-design team. "Since ra has made a point about speaking to 1 Italian we're more free about speak­in Italian." 
:>langelo and Ryan-Scheutz also began k on an article on teaching language ugh theater -a philosophy that is not to the Notre Dame campus. Professor . McDowell, lecturer and assistant chair 1e Notre Dame Department ofRomance guages and Literatures, teaches a French ·se which culminates with the ·produc­
. . -,. 
~-------­

tion of the French play Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme. Colangelo and Ryan-Scheutz often consulted McDowell and participants in his class about production methods and techniques. 
Although the production of La Marcolfa will not count as a three-credit course as did McDowell's class, Italian students will earn one credit for their work. In the future, Ryan-Scheutz hopes to initiate the incorporation of an Italian theater work­shop into the curricu­lum. She envisions the course as a three-credit survey of Italian the­ater, with historical, theoretical and literary components. Halfway through the semester, the class will work with the professor to choose a play for the fi­nal performance. 
Such a class seems highly probable given the existence of McDowell's already­established course in the French department, and it is possible that the trend oftheater-lan­pressive skills." 
Junior Luke McLaurin agrees. "In a play, not only do you have to speak lines, but you have to speak them in an appropriate con­text," he says. "It challenges you to think about speaking Italian the way an Italian would think about speaking it." 
And the cast and crew are not the only beneficiaries of the workshop project and experiment; its initiator, too, described La Marcolfa as an invaluable learning experi-

guage workshops will continue to spread to other language depart­ments. Ryan-Scheutz is hopeful for such a movement but makes no guarantees. "I can't predict," she says. "It takes someone who wants to pioneer and take on the extra hours. It would be lovely to see it happen." 
The play's participants also seem to fa­vor the creation of an Italian theatre-lan­guage class. After attending two-hour practices four or five times a week throughout the semester, speaking and hearing only Italian, they all expressed great satisfaction at the improvement in their language skills. 
"The main thing is that we're interacting in Italian the entire time," says sophomore Amanda Holland, the female lead of the play. "Ifthey made it a class, I think it would improve students' listening skills and ex­
-. ·-~--~~~-~ 
ence. "Not only are you immersed in the language at discussions during rehearsals or at design meetings, but you are also absorb­ing -not just hearing in passing -genu­ine expressions ofspeech, vocabulary words and uses ofgrammar in the target language." 
The self-explanatory plot and the per­formers' acting skills combine to make the humor and story easily understandable. Ev­ery performance of the French production was sold out and, based on these turnouts, Colangelo expects an enthusiastic audi­ence of both Italian-speakers and non-Ital­ian-speakers alike. 
"It has been a joy to work on this pro­duction," Colangelo says. "Lots of laugh­ter is definitely a part of every rehearsal." And, they hope, a part of every perfor­mance. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 
~---~-------~ 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



See life as 
we see it. 
A ;lifetime opportunity FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/,__vocatio-n-· .. ~-., 


Life through Motion Pictures 
Notre Dame Film Society explores the far reaches of the movie world 
AARONVAN OOSTERHOUT 
In the 1950s, a clique of French film crit­ics met regularly to discuss the latest trend in cinema. These young men ­part of the "French New Wave" -criticized the filmmakers of their own country and em­braced the commercial cinema of the United States. Today, a similar phenomenon is tak­ing shape at Notre Dame. But unlike the French New Wavers, the Notre Dame Film Society concentrates on the unknowns; the independent and the foreign films of today 
Contemporary Hollywood also might dictate the film choices for the club. For example, when Wes Anderson co-directed and released The Royal Tenenbaums in January of 2002, the society screened Bottle Rocket, an earlier Anderson film. The society also viewed Hearts of Dark­ness: A Filmmaker 's Apocalypse, the con­troversial documentary on the making of Apocalypse Now, when the director's cut was released earlier this fall. 
The society also selects a seemingly ran­dom assortment of past, foreign and inde­works simply because she enjoyed it. 

"It's funky and colorful and tends to provoke responses from each end of the spectrum," Moran says of the film. "I was hoping for some disagreement among the troops because that's what makes for a good conversation .... Learning through conversation beats all." 
The society originally was founded in the late 1990s by a group of film majors. Then-freshman Brian Scofield and then­sophomore Moran heard of the society through the department and attended a 
rather than on mainstream 
few meetings. But the Hollywood. society dissolved when 
"We want to watch films the executive officers we wouldn't otherwise see graduated. in South Bend," says Chris­In fall of 2001, both tine Becker, a professor in Brian and Maggie de­the Film, Television and cided to revive the so­Theater Department and co­ciety after taking founder of the society. En­Becker's "Film History tirely student-led, the soci­II" class. With the en­ety meets every Sunday couragement of Becker, night in a state-of-the-art the Notre Dame Film screening room. Society was reborn this 
The society is open to any­fall. one, not just FTT majors. "I The society not only know there are a lot of stu­seeks to provide a dents in other majors who re­venue for a wide range ally love film, but don't think of films, but to discover they can make a career of it what film can truly be. -which isn't true, of "On the screen, it is course," Becker says. "So the possible to experience Film Society gives them a emotions that some­chance to go ahead and get times may be impos­their business degrees while sible to feel in real still exploring their love of life," says Liam Dacey, film." the society's new vice 
Each week, a "host" stu­dent chooses the movie for the club's meeting and is responsible for leading the discussion that follows the movie. Any interested student can host the club, and there are no guidelines for choosing a particular film-the host's personal taste dictates what the club will be watching that week. "We could have a theology major bring in Last Temptation of Christ or have a sociology major present In the Company ofMen," Becker says. 
pendent films. Such films as September (Woody Allen, 1987), Mother and Son (Alexsandr Sokurov, 1997) and The Loss of Sexual Innocence (Mike Figgis, 1999) were shown last semester. 
Senior Maggie Moran, the club's interim president, chose to show Neil Jordan's The Butcher when she hosted the club. Jordan has directed more famous films ­Michael Collins and The Crying Game ­but Moran chose one of his lesser-known 

president. "Good mov­ies will work both feeling and intellect -and then stay with you afterwards." 
. 
The Notre Dame Film Society meets at 

6:30 p.m. on Sundays in 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall. For more informa­tion, e-mail becker.34@nd.edu or scofield. l @nd.edu. To subscribe to the Society's . listserv, e-mail NDFS­subscribe@topica.com. 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 33 



The Boy of Choice 
Ruehlmann for SMC Student-Body President 
GREGRUEHLMANN 

There comes a time for every sophomore when he or she has to choose a major and get involved. The general advice to second-year students is: "Study what you love." That's why I decided to declare a double major in English and theology. Un­fortunately, I did so without hearing the advice in its entirety, which is: "Study what you love -unless you declare majors. in English and theology, in which case you are a moron." It's easy for the administration to say, "Study what you love," when they can dive into the secret money bin for the university's $30 billion endow­ment and swim around like Uncle Scrooge on Duck Tales. The rest of us have to worry about cash flow when we leave the shadow ofthe Dome. I chose English cuz I always done that book-larnin' stuff real good. And I picked Theo because he was by far my favorite character on The Cosby Show. But these aren't the only rea­sons. With my degree, I'll have the opportunity to be turned down by not just one but two separate job markets. I'll be the most eloquent hobo you ever met. Plus, let's not forget the ap­peal of slaving over papers and read-· ing book after grueling book, even on the weekends. To give you an idea of my typical Saturday, I'vejotted down my schedule for you: 9:30 a.m. -4:00 p.m.: Homework time 4:00 p.m. -6:30 p.m.: More homework time 6:30 p.m. -7: 15 p.m.: Dinner time 7:15 p.m. -7:20 a.m.: Stop! Ham­mer time 7:20 p.m. -9:30 a.m.: Homework time As this schedule indicates, I have lots ofhomework. And it goes with the territory that some people tease me for being a "dork" because I have to read so much. This is ridiculous, ofcourse. I am the farthest thing from a dork and don't take such comments lightly. Here's how I _defend my coolness when someone calls it into_ques­tion: 1) When the person turns his back, hit him in the head with my pocket protector; 2) Run away, shrieking like a little girl; 3) Totally badmouth him on my Dungeons.and Dragons message­board. Score_! one·for Ruehlmann! Despite my busyness, I still saw the need to take on an extracur­ricular for balance. I wasn't exactly sure what to get involved in until I saw a few weeks ago that, once again, a single ticket was on the ballot for student-body president at Saint Mary's. Nearly 1,500 fine students call SMC home, and I believe they deserve better. That is why I am taking this opportunity to launch my campaign for Student Body President next year at Saint Mary's. 
Now I am no fool. I understand the potential for controversy here. Apparently, I violate some sort of time-honored tradition by "not being a woman." Critics will say that I can't really appreciate the woman's viewpoint. Nonsense! Do you have any idea how many times I've watched The Oprah Winfrey Show over the years? At least five. 
Another objection is that I don't actually attend SMC and can't run 
student government effectively from across the strel;lt. I intend to deal with these difficulties by bringing the school to me, That is why I am per­sonally inviting the entire student body of SMC to my room, 241 Dillon Hall -my office hours are 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
I'm also prep~ed for the intense scrutiny that comes along with a presidential campaign. Doubtless, The Observer will dig through my background for potential dirt-any­thing questionable I might have done at any crazy co~lege parties in the past two years. Well, my friends, the joke is on them. I have not even been invited to a party in the past two years. Ha ha ha ha ha (sob). 
A,s president ofthe student body, I promise to make SMC the best col­lege of all time anywhere. I will 
-lower yearly tuition by $15,000, eliminate the common cold and per­sonally preside over open forums on various important issues such as di­versity, multi-cultural awareness and diverse awareness of multi­

culturality. I'll use my leadership to heal the rift between ND and SMC girls, created by embarrassing controversies like the SMC shirt last year that read "The Girl of Choice." We'll develop more positive spirit-wear. The best way to do this, I believe, is to make some changes for next year's shirt. It shall simply read "The Boy of Choice," and above it shall be a large picture ofme, Student,-Body President Greg Ruehlmann. If this is not something the ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can agree upon, then truly itll_is lost. 
In closing, I believe St. MarY'.s is one of the finest women's colleges in America. The student body deserves~for its leader a young woman committed to making SMC better than ever before. And I am just the man for the job. 
Now if you'll excuse me, I have some book-larnin' to do. . 


34 SCHOLASTICWEEKIN DISTORTION 


~~'---'-~~~···~t..J COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 
EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Lecture Mania! 

This week's calendar is full of interesting lectures. I know, I know: With all the midterm papers and exams, you're probably sick of academia by now, but you really should try to attend at least one of these before you take off for some fun in the sun. Learn about the unprecedented number of women who entered the production industry on the homefront during World War II in "The Life and Times of Rosie the Riveter." Look at Archbishop Romero's mission for social justice in El Salvador from another South American bishop's perspective. Check out independent filmmaker Nancy Savoca's 1993 film Household Saints and hear a panel discussion about the place of ethnicity and Catholicism in her work. If you're just too "lectured out," check out the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company's perfor­mance of The Hist01y of Hemy the Fourth. Who can resist good ol' Shakespeare? 
-Jennifer Osterhage 
SPORTS 

• 
Fri 01 Tennis: ND Women vs. Wiscon­6:00 PM, Joyce Center Fieldhouse. sin, 4:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. • Sun 03 Lacrosse: ND Women vs. Ohio 

• 
Fri 01 and Sat 02 Track and Field: Alex University, 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Field, Wilson Invitational, Fri 6:00 PM and Sat Loftus Sports Center. 


10:30 AM, Loftus Sports Center. • Sat 09 Lacrosse: ND Men vs. Rutgers, 
• Fri 01 and Sat 02 Hockey: ND Men vs. 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Field, Loftus Bowling Green, 7:05 PM, Joyce Center Sports Center. Fieldhouse. • Sat 16 Lacrosse: ND Men vs. Loyola, 
· • Sat 02 Tennis: ND Women vs. Ohio St., 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Field, Loftus 
1:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. Sports Center. 
• 
Sat 02 Basketball: ND Men vs. Provi­• Sun 17 Lacrosse: ND Women vs. Bos­dence, 4:00 PM, Joyce Center. ton College, 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Field, 

• 
Sat 02 and Sun 03 Swimming: Sham­Loftus Sports Center. rock Classic, 11 :00 AM to 7:00 PM, Rolfs • Tue 19 Lacrosse: ND Women vs. Cornell, Aquatic Center. 4:00 PM, Moose Krause Field, L·oftus 

• 
Sat 02 and Sun 03 Midwest Fencing Sports Center. Conference Championships, 8:00 AM to 


LECTURES 
• Thu 28 and Fri 01 Nancy Savoca, "Household Saints," film screening Thu 
7:30 PM, panel discussion Fri 4:00 PM, 129 Debartolo. 
• 
Mon 04 "The Life and Times of Rosie the Riveter," 4:00 PM, C-100 Hesburgh Center. 

• 
Tue 05 Tristan Borer, "When Victims Are Heroes and Heroes are Pepetrators: Human Rights and Reconciliation in South Africa," 4:15 PM, C-103 Hesburgh Center. 

• 
Tue 19 Cardinal Oscar Andres Rodrigues Maradiaga, S.D.B., Arch­bishop ofTegucigalpa, Honduras, "Arch­bishop Romero: As Seen By Another Bishop," 7:00 PM, C-100 Hesburgh Cen­ter. 


CINEMA 
• 
Thu 28 ND Cinema: Wing Chun, 7:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Thu 28 ND Cinema: Gen-X Cops, 9:30 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Tue 05 International Film Series: Si­lences of the Palace (Tunisia), 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune Student Center. 


• Thu 07 Behind Closed Eyes (Dutch), 
7:00 PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
STUDENT LIFE 
• Wed 06 Farley Feis, 9:00 PM, Ball­room, LaFortune Student Center. 
THE ARTS 
• 
Thu 28 ND Symphony Orchestra Win­ter Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Fri 01, Sat 02 and Sun 03 Not-So­Royal Shakespeare Company, The His­tory ofHenry the Fourth, Fri and Sat 7:30 PM, Sun 2:30 PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 

• 
Wed 05 Georgine Resick, soprano, and Andrew Willis, fortepiano, The Early German Song Cycle, 7:30 PM, Snite Mu­seum, 18th/19th century gallery. 



THE WEEKENDER  Post your event in Scho/astic's  
What: Broadway Theatre League: Copenhagen  Coming Distractions.  
When: Friday, March 1 at 8:00 PM, Saturday, March 2 at 2:00 PM and 8:00 PM and Sunday, March 3 at 2:00 PM Where: Morris Performing Arts Center  Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail your submissions to Jennifer Osterhage atjosterha@nd.edu.  
Cheapest Seats: $20 For tickets and information, call the Broadway Theatre League at (219) 234-4044.  • All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval.  
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR  35  

by Tim Ferrell 

Some Guy's Perspective 
Ireceived an e-mail a while back from a friend I met in the Angers program last spring. Tums out she was planning on bringing The Vagina Mono­logues to campus this year. (I never thought then that by now everybody would be sick to death of hearing
i 
I. 
about the play and the debate surrounding it.) All I knew at the time was that the play existed and was supposed to be controversial, but I had no idea what it was about. So I asked Kerry to let me borrow the book. 
It's an interesting book, that's for sure. 
I had no idea what I was getting into. I mean, I'm a reasonably open-minded person (in between bouts of stupidity), but this was definitely not my world. It's rare for me to get to hear a woman's description of even one personal experience that has had a profound impact on her life. I can count on one hand the number of women who hav_e trusted me enough to recount any such story to my face (always negative stories, which says a lot). What this amounts to is that by and large; I don't get it. I don't have the slightest idea what women are going through. I don't have a clue what it's like to grow up in an environment where the oppo­
my body, my sexual nature and desires. I somehow unlearned all of that crap (that's exactly what it is, too). So how come I think I'm all right and many women have so much baggage? 
That's why I told Kerry I'd do what I could to help her put on The Vagina Monologues here on campus. It's the most self-serving reason I can think of. I read something that instantly made me feel like a moron. It showed me very quickly through real, honest, personal reflections just how ignorant I am of how the other half lives. Since I'm the type of person who hates being wrong or feeling like he doesn't know as much as he thinks he does, I felt it'd be a mistake not to get involved. At the same time I couldn't help but feel that if I'm try­ing to improve the relationships I have with women -friends and whatever else -it just seems ri-
Tim Ferrell is a senior majoring in marketing and entrepreneurship. He is from Glendale, Mo. and was a volunteer with The Vagina Monologues, performed on Feb. 25 and 26. 

diculous not to take advantage of an opportunity like this. 
Granted, I felt kind of weird getting involved. (I still feel weird, and I feel weirder writing about it.) After all, this play isn't about me. It's about women, by women and for women, so where do I get off thinking I have anything to add to the pro­duction? Hopefully, the answer to that is obvious. I wasn't worried so much as hoping one of the women involved would tell me that it was OK for me to be a part of it so I didn't feel stupid. They told me exactly what I wanted to hear. This play has to be important for men. If we're going to in­teract in any meaningful way (basically, any way other than what you see most of the time out at the bars, parties, etc.), then I want to know what's going on in your head. The best way to get me to understand is to strip away everything and just smack me with the blunt, simple truth. 
Well, that's what The Vagina Monologues is do­ing -at least for me. It leaves nothing out. Each monologue tells the story in one woman's words, and you're forced to deal with her way of seeing things. I helped walk around and film tiny blurbs of Kerry asking students of both sexes around cam­pus what their vaginas do/would wear, say, smell like, etc. Everybody's answer was brilliant. I knew some of the people she talked to, and when they gave their answers, I was amazed at how perfectly the answers fit their personalities (even some of the guys'). Many of the answers were followed with a pained sigh and a look as if to say, "Wow, I'm glad I finally got that out in the open." That kind of energy is contagious. 
On Monday and Tuesday nights, DeBartolo Hall was bursting with that kind of energy. The women in the performance that I've talked to felt the same way. I feel so proud of them for having the courage to stand up in front of strangers and scream just how proud they are just to be themselves. They're telling everyone in no uncertain terms that through the good and the bad, they love and respect themselves, and everyone else is just going to have to deal with it. I think everybody needs an injection of that energy. 
It doesn't matter whether I like the words or analo­gies they use. (Hey, I have a mouth like a sailor, so my ears aren't as sensitive as other people pretend theirs are.) What matters is whether I understand what's being said to the greatest degree possible. I just .went along to try and get a glimpse of that. I just went to learn. 
If we're going to interact in any meaningful way ... then I want to know what's going on in your head. The best way ... is to strip away everything and just smack me with the blunt, simple truth. 
site sex walks around making jokes about their genitals while I'm practically taught to act like I don't have any. I can't imagine anymore what it's like to walk around feeling ashamed of myself, 
· 36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 



"Betty, were you listening to WVFI last night?" "Fo shizza! That freestylin' was wiggity-wack!" 

Hear LIVE in-studio sessions beginning Tuesdays this spring! 






