The Notre Dame Scholastic
939
*
B
a
NOTES ON LIVING
. . . Over fifty years ago a man wrote a story of four brothers. He called them Alyosha, Mitya, Ivan and Smerdyakov. Alyosha was an idealistic young fellow who, on one occasion, fell on the earth and embraced it because to him everything was beautiful, everything, even trees and weeds, cried out the word Love. Mitya was an earthy, passionate, sensual man who liked things he could get with his hands; yet he had fits of . terrible melancholy, and during them he saw every thing as useless and futile. Ivan was- a cold, intellectual young gentleman, who finally broke down undei- the strain of trying to rule Love out of his life. And the fourth brother, the one with the almost unpronounceable name of Smerdyakov, was a crafty, sly fellow, ignorant and yet clever. . . .
And as we thought of those four men we saw that the writer of the book had trapped all life in. them. They were nets that enmeshed humanity. And we opened our window and looked at the graduation crowd below us.
The croivd was Alyosha, simple, loving, trusting others because others were human like itself. And the crowd was Mitya, earthy, coarse, loving the things that it could see, yet struck dumb at times by despair. And the crowd was Ivan, cold, distant, unapproachable, trying to reason out of its life the things that are Life. And the crowd was Smerdyakov, clever, crafty, skillful, often winning over, its superior by sheer cleverness.
But we saiv that in the end the crowd was Alyosha-, more than any other one of the three. And in spite of ivhat we knew was coming, we felt good.
•* In a play we read recently, an .	elderly, rich gentleman asks a poor,
young man where he is going. “To F give humanity the highest happiness, '	to place truth where all can see it,”
;	was the reply. “You expect to get
i there?” the old man said. -
K	- -
And because we knew that the [j crowd could be Alyosha, the younger man’s reply is our reply:
I shall get there. I shall get there ' or I shall show others the ivay to get f there!	—M. H. L.
~ GRe
No^re Dame -Scholas^ ic
Disee- Qua5i - 3 ermper -Vieturus-Vive’-Quasi-Cras-Moriturns Founded in 1872	•
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Editor-in^Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T- Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Joseph B. Reedy..... J. Archer Hurley. .. Walter Langford.... William Knapp....... Ramon G. Smith......
Paul J. Edward
Hallinan. .. E. Brennan
..........Managing	Editor
Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor .The	Week .......The College Parade .......Music	and Drama .......-.Campus Clubs ............Features Editor.Script Editor
James Collins , Howard Webster Austin Boyle John Motz
William J. Magarral
Harry A. Sylvester.
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Neil Hurley
George Allan
Richard J. O’Donnell John Pick „
James Kearney
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
Jr.
Cleve Carey • Henry B. Asman
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon
Lawrence Dunda William Karl James Carmody
Leslie Raddatz
F. Granger Weil James E. McFeely, Jr.
Local Circulation Manager
z
Chester M. Ashman.________Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick N. Davis James L. Rizer....
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
Vol. LXIII
z
.. .Local Advertising Manager Foreign Advertising Manager
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
z
MAY 31, 1930
No. 30
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Eighty-Sixth Annual Commencement--------- The Week—Thomas A. Keegan---------------- Prizes and Awards------------------------ Father Burke and Claude Bowers to Give Addresses. A Man About the Campus—Emil L. Telfel_________ A Man You Know—John Pick----------------- Music and Drama—William Knapp------------ “Journey’s End” Scores Big Hit—James J. Kearney. Corbett, Stettler, and Sullivan to Speak- Class Oration—Louis Stettler------------- Class Poem—Richard Sullivan--------------_____
The Valedictory—Francis Corbett----- The Singing Tower of Notre Dame—Joel Egerer--- Editor’s Page----------------------- A Glance at the Year’s Work-------------------
Trackmen Victorious in Conference Meet-------- On Down the Line------------------------------
940
941
942
943
943
944
945
946
947
948
950
951
952
953
954
957
968
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office. Main Building. .
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
940
The Notre Dame Scholastic
~ - ' - - = ■	-	V
■ £> § $ j Eighty-Sixth Annual Commencement .
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	i;
(Central Standard Time)
Saturday, May 31
9:30—Senior Class Last Visit, Sacred Heart Church. '
9:30—5-Year Reunion Golf Tournament, Class of 1925, University Golf Course.
10:00—Senior Day Exercises, Awarding of Honors, Washington Hall.
12:00—Luncheon and First Annual Meeting of the Local Clubs Council, Lay Faculty Dining Room, University Dining Halls. .
2:00—Inter-Club Golf Tournament, sponsored by the N. D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley.
3:00—Golf Match, Notre Dame Varsity Team vs. the University of Detroit.
6:00—Annual Alumni Banquet, East Hall, University Dining Halls.
6:30—Concert, Main Quadrangle, Band of the Studebaker Corporation.
8:00—Concert, Washington Hall, University Glee Club.
Golf for Alumni all day, University Golf Course.
y

Sunday, June 1
8:00—5-Year Reunion Memorial Mass, Class of 1925, Sorin Chapel— Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C., Celebrant.
8:30—Academic Procession, Administration Building to Sacred Heart Church.
9:00—Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church—
Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, Celebrant.
Rev. John J. Burke, C. S. P., Baccalaureate.
Moreau Seminary Choir, Music.
Mass will be followed by the Blessing of the Senior Flag.
11:00—Senior Flag Raising, Main Quadrangle.
12:00—Monogram Luncheon, Lay Faculty Dining Room, University Dining Halls.
2:00—Annual Alumni Meeting, Washington Hall. Induction of the Class of 1930. 4:30—Awarding of Degrees, University Gymnasium—
-	Commencement Address, Hon. Claude G. Bowers.
Golf for Alumni every day, University Golf Course.
An Official Association Film will be made of the Commencement.
Golden Jubilee Reunion, Class of 1880
Silver Jubilee Reunion, Class of 1905
Five Year Reunion, Class of 1925
Dix Reunions, Classes of 1878, 79, 80, 81 Dix Reunions, Classes of 1897, 98, 99,1900
Dix Reunions, Classes of 1916, 17, 18, 19
£
University Dining Halls Cafeteria open to the public, 6:30 a. m. to 9:30 p. m. daily. Rooms are available on the Campus for Alumni, without charge.
The University Golf Course is for the use of Men Only.
• • .----------------- -----------------------------------------------------
(
The Notre Dame Scholastic
941
| ATHER EMIEL DeWULF, the Director of Studies, a £ thorough scholar, a tireless worker, a true priest of God, died last week. In his contacts with the students he was ever kindly, considerate, and gentlemanly. He managed the office with a discerning efficiency found in few executives, 4_ but despite the tedium of the daily round of duties (and Father DeWulf was always working), he never offended another with harsh language nor gave evidence of his Promethean suffering. No individual difficulty was too trivial for his attention; time, however pressing, not too dear to be shared with a student. He brought the faculty to the student, and inspired the one because it came to understand the other. Father Carroll justly called him “beautifully human.” The students offer up their prayers for the repose - of his soul, and say, like the psalm, Ecce sacerdos magnus qui in diebus dulce Domino.
| AMED Dr. Perry of Harvard in concluding his course “English 41”—authors since Elizabethan era—a few days ago said, “Gentlemen, these rambling talks have come to an ' end. I am going to read the authors.” A lot of seniors are like Dr. Perry. They’ve had the books for four years, and have now resolved to read them. Of course that’s better than letting them go altogether. Others with greater business acumen, if less cultural taste, are selling them to un-' derclassmen with, perhaps, a Morris chair or a reading lamp P thrown in to make the “bargain” attractive.
^^ENIORS after exams, though still under the strain of uncertainty, were observed to slip out for home and other ' places of interest. But they are back now for the works.
Many stayed to make a round of their professors in a “quest ' for certainty.” Most seniors are muscle-bound from ad-dressing invitations. This is the first time since their high school graduation that they have engaged in any intensive and extensive correspondence. Its"a long time between jobs, you know, and Aunt Hettie’s five and Uncle Abner’s ten, when added to the contributions of countless cousins, will mean three squares for a while, at least. Relatives, ? hitherto unrecognized, are coming to light. The present senior class, so I am informed, is unusually talented and eloquent. There are many who testify that its members can make the most touching appeals.
| CAN’T understand the apprehension of many seniors about the future. I think they are being deceived by those in the world who fear their competition. These individuals are trying all over the nation to give graduating college men an inferiority complex. They’re trying to keep us down. They tell us that we are worth nothing; that a period of apprenticeship is permitted by their firm at a substantial loss; that youth is inexperienced and hence incapable. But let seniors be nerved by facts that contradict these oldsters. William Pitt was Prime Minister of England at twenty-five. Merry del Vai was cardinal at thirty-eight; Hutchins is president of the University of Chicago at thirty, and at the same age LaFollette was a United States senator. Saronoff, president of the Radio Corporation of America, is only thirty-eight, and he was born abroad. The world demands youth. All we have to do is make some new kind of mouse trap or the like and the world will beat a path to our door. A shorter way would be to marry the boss’s daughter.
| HE week. Commencement week. No days more significant, no time more exhausted from the rush of events. Commencement—the object of years of study, the subject of extended discourse, the source of parental pride, student’s satisfaction, the start of a new life in an unfamiliar field. The graduate looks hopefully to the future. He is equipped and ready. Careful years have prepared him, ambition prods him. He embraces his new life. But whatever his joy, there must be some regret in departing from the friendly fellowship of Notre Dame. Classmates, priests, and faculty must be left behind. No more will he mutter against the rector’s early call. No longer will he embark upon some nocturnal escapade by means secretive. Not for him the dining hall’s din nor the campus’ cinder paths.. He leaves Dr. Hines to charm new minds and Mr. Phillips to inspire new hearts. His “moments of bliss” will be unfettered from bi-monthly Victorian formality and from Wednesday’s hurried tryst. His greatest regret is that he must depart the religious atmosphere, the saintly protection of Notre Dame. The years of life under* the mantle of the Blessed Virgin will sustain him in the world. He leaves Notre Dame tutored in the Church of Christ and strengthened in his Faith.
942
The Notre Dame Scholastic
McDevitt reappointed
GRADUATE PUBLICATIONS MANAGER
The Board of Publications recently announced the reappointment of Harley L. McDevitt as graduate manager of the major campus publications. In
Harley L. McDevitt
that capacity he will take care of the business and financial administration of the Scholastic, Juggler, Dome, and Scrip.
When Mr. McDevitt was an undergraduate he served as the business manager of the Scholastic for two years; he has been on the various business staffs of the Juggler and Dome. At present he is pursuing post-graduate work at the University.
Though the position which he fills was created only a year ago, all the publications under his guidance have had marked success and noticeable growth. For instance, the Scholas-■ Tic now contains a third .more advertising than it previously did, and compares favorably with any similar college publication. Several innovations have been inaugurated during his management. Under the concentrated manager jilan Notre Dame’s publications have experienced unprecedented prosperity throughout the year.	’
NEW ALUMNI OFFICERS TO TAKE OFFICE
Ballots for the election of the officers for the Alumni Association were sent out the first of this month. The elected candidates will take over their offices on Sunday, June 1.	.
Prizes and Awards for Grad-nates Announced by Registrar
The Reverend William Molony, C. S. C., announces the award of the following prizes and awards:
The Breen Medal for excellence in Oratory, presented by the Honorable William P. Breen, of the Class of 1877, is awarded to Mr. Frank E. Corbett, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
The Meehan Gold Medal, the gift of the late Mrs. Eleanore Meehan, of Covington. Kentucky, for the Senior who writes the best essay in English, is awarded to Mr. Robert Austin Mulhall. Wyoming, Pennsylvania.
The Martin McCue Medal, presented by Warren Antoine Cartier, C.E., of the Class of 1887, for the best record in all subjects prescribed in the Civil Engineering program is awarded to Mr. Arthur Stanley Burkert, Indianapolis. Indiana.
The Electrical Engineering Medal, presented by Doctor Jose A. Caparo, Sc. D.. of the Class of 1908, in memory of his deceased father, for the best record in all the courses prescribed in the four-year Electrical Engineering program, is awarded to Mr. Karl Russell Weigand. Barberton. Ohio.
The Dockwcilcr Gold Medal foi- Philosophy, founded in memory of his deceased father, by Mr. Isidore Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, California. for the best essay on some philosophical subject, senior year, is awarded to Mr. Charles Augustine Lee, C.S.C.,' Holy Cross Seminary. Dissertation: “The Dilemna of Educational Psychology.”
The Lehn and Eink Medal for Pharmacy, for the Senior in Pharmacy having the highest general average in his work is awarded to Mr. Harley R. Truitt, Park Ridge, Illinois.
The Megers Burse, for best thesis in Journalism. thirty dollars in gold, founded in 1920 by a gift of five hundred dollars from Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Meyers, of Paducah. Kentuc'-’y, as a memorial to their deceased son, J. Sinnot Meyers, of the class of 1920, is awarded to Mr-James D. Bresnahan. West Springfield, Massachusetts.
The William Mitchell Memorial Award for Playwriting, fifty dollars, founded in May. 1928, by Mr. Joseph V. Mitchell in honor of his son, is awarded to Mr. Richard Sullivan. Kenosha, Wisconsin. Play: "The Ghost of Thomas Sloop.”
The South Bend Watch Company has made permanent arrangements to offer annually a full jeweled, fourteen carat gold watch to the senior student in each of the five colleges who has made the best academic record for four years in the college from which he graduates. These watches are awarded as follows:
In the College of Aids and Letters, to Mr. Robert Miller Dinkel, Lakewood, Ohio.
In the College of Science, to Mr. Thomas Joseph Donovan, St. Paul, Minnesota.
In the College of Engineering, to Mr. Arthur S. Burkert, Indianapolis, Indiana.
In the College of Commerce, to Mr. Vernon James Slack, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
In the College of Law, to Mr. Marshall Force Kizer, Plymouth, Indiana.
Two money prizes have been offered for distribution among the monogram men who have achieved the highest academic excellence. The first is a prize of one hundred and twenty-five dollars, given by Mr. Francis Earl Hering, of South Bend, Indiana. The second is a prize
of one hundred dollars, donated by Mr. Leroy Joseph Keach, of Indianapolis, Indiana. These prizes have been combined and are awarded as follows:
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the Sopho-moie Monogram man wtih the best class average for the freshman and. sophomore years, to Mr. Regis Charles McNamara, Binghamton, New York.
A p*ize of seventy-five dollars’to the Junior Monogram man with the best class average for the freshman, sophomore and junior years, to Mr. Frank Fred Carideo, Mt. Vernon. New York.
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the Senior Monogram man with the best class average for the freshman, sophomore, junior and senior years, to Mr. Thomas Francis Kenneally, Waterbury, Connecticut.
A number of public-spirited citizens of the city of South Bend have co-operated in the establishment of money prizes of fifty dollars each and twenty-five dollars each. These prizes are for members of the Senior class and are awarded as follows:
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corpora- ’ tion, for excellence in Machine Design, to Mr. Arthur Thomas Kirke, B.S. in M.E., Rushville, Indiana.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Miles W. O’Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works, South Bend, Indiana, for excellence in Mechanical Drawing, to Mr. Donald Lester Norton, B.S. in M.E., Hutchinson, Kansas.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. John J. O’Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works, South Bend, for excellence in Shopwork, to Mr. Paul Edward Rist, B.S. in M.E., Three Oaks, Mich.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. William A. Mc-Inerny, attorney-at-law, for excellence in Public Speaking in the College of Law, to Mr. William Lee O’Malley, Chicago, Illinois.
Fifty dollars, offered by the South Bend Tribune, for highest general excellence in Journalism, to Mr. Marion Joseph Frontczak, Dowagiac, Michigan.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. George L. O’Brien and Mr. William D. O’Brien of the O’Brien Varnish Company, South Bend, for excellence in Chemistry, to Mr. Merritt Otto, South Bend, Indiana.
Twenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Arthur Hubbard, attorney-at-law, for High Legal Accomplishment in the College of Law, to Mr. Raymond Bernard Young, Hammond, Indiana.
Twenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Edmund Wills, attorney-at-law, for High Legal Scholastic Achievement in the College of Law, to Mr. Thomas Joseph O’Neil. South Bend, Ind.
Twenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Gallitzin Farabaugh, attorney-at-law, for High Legal Scholastic Achievement in the College of Law, to Mr. Walter Richard O’Malley, Aurora, Ill.
The Hoyncs Award was established in January, 1926, by a gift from William James Hoynes, LL.D., Dean Emeritus of the College of Law. The income from this fund, amounting to one hundred dollars, is awarded to the member of the graduating class in the program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws, who has the highest average in scholastic grades, application, deportment and achievement, together with fitting qualifications for admission to the bar, and to the practice of law. This prize is awarded to Mr. William Henry Konop, South Bend, Indiana.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
943
Father Burke to Give Baccalaureate;
' Claude Bowers, Commencement Address
itiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiintii1111111111111111111 unit mu i until n m iitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiinii mi.m limit tiiiiiiiiiiiin
A Man About the Campus I
- «------------------—---------------
.	We protest. We protest loudly and
bitterly. Here we thought that Jim r Walsh was going to write this column this week. But did he? Well----------!! Jim, being Arch Hurley’s room-mate,
,	J. Archer Hurley
assured us that we could forget about the column and worry about our exams instead, but what does he do? When we went over to the room that he shares with Hurley we found a half-page of profuse apologies tacked on h/s door, said apologies saying that he regretted exceedingly, etc., that he had to go to Chicago, so therefore he could not write this column. Once more we say, we protest.
We had to stay up until three in the morning to write what he promised to write. Nice fella, Jim Walsh.
' And we thought he was our pal!
Of course we’ll admit that Jim also had a few facts about Arch Hurley (and himself) mixed in with his apologies, but if he think# that squared him with us he’s mistaken. Even if he is from Dallas, Texas; even if he is the former president of the Texas Club; even if he is an English major
.....................................................................mini..........Hill!.......Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll..........1111111111111111111
COOK AND COTTER HON-
ORED FOR DESIGNS
In the Class A Fifth Project of the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, the subject being a design for a zoological laboratory, two Notre Dame students of the Department of Architecture, received mentions. The two students thus honored were C. C. Cook and L. P. Cotter.
and scholastically right there—we’ll always remember that he failed us in a pinch.
And now for Arch Hurley. Arch is as good as Jim is, maybe better, even if he did work his way through Notre Dame . Jim says that for two years Arch taught domestic science at St. Mary’s. We refuse to believe that. He did work at St. Mary’s, but we’ll bet that he was a janitor. He, himself, admitted that he used to walk around the corridors picking up hairpins.
Since Arch, like his renegade roommate (i. e., Jim Walsh), is also an English major, the University thought that he was qualified to be co-director of publicity with Art West. To be perfectly candid about it, he wasn’t a bad one. At present he is trying to get a job in Chicago. We wish him luck, but anyone who hails from a town like Friendship, New York might possibly be lost in a big city like Chicago.
Well, there seems to be nothing else to say, except that Hurley lived (past tense used purposely) in Sorin during the past year. However, since everyone else has been doing it for the past week or so, we’ll say goodbye, good luck, and God bless you to Arch, Murray Ley (our good and brilliant friend), Harry Sylvester, Wally Langford, Bill Knapp, Howard Webster (good old “Webby”), John Motz, Joe Reedy, Vince McIntire, and yes— - even Jim Walsh. And, lest he think I slighted him, goodbye to the other Jim Walsh—he of the brilliant oratorical powers, and also one of our best friends.
Goodbye—we’ll miss you, and we’ll not forget you. The best of luck to you all!
O’BRIEN APPOINTED ART EDITOR OF “JUGGLER”
William A. O’Brien, known to Juggler readers as Edmund O’Brien, has been appointed by Editor Jack Dempsey to edit the art contributions of next year’s Juggler. O’Brien’s work has appeared in the Juggler for the past two years.
Right Reverend John F. Noll to Celebrate Mass Sunday Morning.
The Very Reverend John J. Burke, C. S. P., will preach the baccalaureate sermon at the solemn pontifical Mass this Sunday. From 1904 to 1922 Father Burke was editor of the Catholic World. At one time he was chairman of the executive board of the Catholic Press Association. He is the general secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference in Washington. He has already written many books. In 1919 he received the Distinguished Service Medal in return for his valuable services during the war.
Claude G. Bowers, famous author, editor, and orator, will deliver the Commencement address on the afternoon of Sunday, June the first, in the University Gymnasium. He is an Indiana man, and he has long been prominent in this state in both politics and journalism. At present Vie is with the New York World. For a time he was editor of the Fort Wayne Journal Gazette. Some of his books are: “The Party Battles of the Jackson Period,” “Jefferson and Hamilton,” “Struggle for Democracy,” and “The Tragic Era.” The last-named book has been a recent best-seller. Mr. Bowers attained country - wide fame in 1928 when he gave the keynote speech of the Democratic national convention in Houston which nominated Al Smith for the Presidency.
The Right Reverend John F. Noll, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, Indiana, will be celebrant of the. solemn pontifical Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sunday morning. Bishop Noll is the founder of Our Sunday Visitor, an outstanding Catholic paper. He is himself an alumnus of Notre Dame, for he received the degree of LL. D. in 1915. Since his appointment to the diocese of Fort Wayne in 1925 he has repeatedly shown himself to be an outstanding churchman and a sincere friend of Notre Dame.
944
The Notre Dame Scholastic
| A Man You Know
-------------------:------------
Because English is of the greatest importance not only in itself but also as the basis and component of all other subjects, a college is often rated according to its work in that department; proper self-expression is essential to success in the world. Notre Dame is especially fortunate in having a man who has helped in raising the standard of her English Department, Professor Henry C. F. Staunton.
Henry C. Staunton
He was born in Skaneateles of the Finger' Lake District of New York; his early environment has made him like the water so that even now he keeps a summer camp in his native state. Successively attending two of the foremost preparatory schools of the east, the Polytechnic Institute at Brooklyn, and St. Paul’s at Concord, he made evident his diversified interests, for at St. Paul’s he was on a crew and also was the winner' of two English medals. That partiality toward English continued and to this day he has retained the vigor of that enthusiasm.
From Columbia he obtained an A.B. degree in 1899 and then an M.A., both of them for English. While he' was working for his doctor’s degree he became suddenly interested in the study of the functions of the human mind; finally he accepted a fellowship in psychology from Columbia in 1902.
From 1904 to 1910 he instructed young New Yorkers in Trinity Chapel High School; during his last year there he served in the capacity of acting principal. At the time that he left Trinity Chapel in 1911 he was a Protestant and in central New York he took up his favorite hobby, Episcopal church work. He has since been converted to the Catholic Church.
COMMERCE FORUM ELECTS LEE PRESIDENT
Edward F. Lee, a junior in the College of Commerce, was elected president of the Commerce Forum for next year, and Mr. Anthony R. Schreiner of Hammond, Indiana, was elected vice-president at a meeting held last week. Mr. Lee, who succeeds William N. Sherman of Louisville, Kentucky, first president and founder of the organization, is a resident of Altoona, Pennsylvania. He has been an active and outstanding member during the past year, and this popularity is well indicated by the fact that the majority by which he was elected exceeded the combined votes polled by the other contestants for the office. It might also be said that Mr. Lee was held in high esteem by the present senior members of the Forum as is evidenced by their satisfaction with his election to office.
Mr. Sherman, in a short farewell talk, stated his opinions as follows: “The Commerce Forum has accomplished as much as could reasonably be expected in the first yeai’ of its existence. It has substantially reinsured its continued existence and has greatly enhanced the high esteem with which it is regarded by the students of the College of Commerce. Its fundamental problems have been solved, and I believe that the unobstructed road which now lies before it will lead
tiitiinitiiiiiiiMniiiiiinttttiiitiiitHiitiii
Always he has successfully carried on a number of activities. From 1911 to 1920 he tutored English, Latin, German, and philosophy—indeed a very diversified range of subjects; still more notable than this is the fact that once he has interested himself in a thing, he retains that interest: at Columbia he had been an Alpha Chi Rho; successively he became National Secretary, then for a period of fourteen years he was Editor of Laboruni and of The Garnet and White, Alpha Chi Rho’s official publications; finally during the difficult years of the World War he was twice elected the National President of that organization.
In 1926 Notre Dame secured his services as a member of its English Department. The authorities of the University recently announced that he has been made Associate Professor of English. At present he is the chairman of the Sophomore English teachers and is also teaching American Literature both at Notre Dame and at St. Mary’s College.
When called on for an interview
to more efficient operation and greater attainments than have heretofore been realized.
“I wish to express my gratitude and my indebtedness to Dean McCarthy for the aid and support which he gave us this year, and I wish to express my thanks to the underclassmen for their splendid co-operation, by which they have aided in proving the worth of the organization.”
A complete program for the next school year has already been formulated, consisting, in part, of discussions and speakers on every phase of the field of commerce. Through this medium it is intended to keep the work of the organization on the same high plane as has been followed in the past, and it is expected that the incentive thus furnished will increase to a large extent the applications for membership next year.
Membership in the organization is open to students in the College of Commerce who have attained a scholastic average of eighty percent, and whose personal attributes are such as would make them desirable members. A key of unique and attractive design is awarded to members whose service in the Forum for a period of three semesters has been satisfactory with regard to attendance and scholastic average.
tlllllllltHilllllllHtttltlllllllllOllllinitllHillllllllllllllltlllllllltllltlllllitltlllllltllllllllltllllllll
Mr. Staunton was correcting examination papers, and spoke whimsically of the handicaps of the teacher:
“Even a sieve,” said Mr. Staunton, ' “will hold water if you butter the holes, but some of the Sophomores use too much butter. It seems impossible to convince some men that Milton, and not Swinburne, wrote Paradise Lost.
“I have done much tutoring of older men, and they took to literature like a duck to water. But the ducks’ eggs can’t swim, and the college man isn’t always hatched yet. In the Utopian State a man would return to / college for three years in his thirties, to take his literature, his philosophy, : and his cultural studies generally, i The trouble, of course, in teaching! literature to college men is that we; are trying to interest them in Life in j symbol, when they have not yet' known life in reality. We are really | planting seeds, and after they have { passed out of our lives the men reap I the harvest which we shall never see. Nevertheless, it is fascinating work for an optimist.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
945
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS CONCLUDE BIG YEAR
With the installation of the new officers for next year, Monday evening in Walsh Hall council chambers, the local council, Knights of Columbus, closed a most successful fraternal and social year.
Though activities and initiations of new members were limited this year, every meeting held under the regime of Grand Knight Chevigny was an interesting one. Lecturer Francis B. McGreal did yeoman’s work in arranging the entertainment for the meetings held throughout the year. The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of the council, was always present at the meetings to give friendly advice. Vern Knox and Tommy Kenneally, financial secretary and treasurer respectively, were always on hand to do their work. Bourke Mot-sett, recording secretary, kept a good record of the meetings. Tom Cunningham, advocate, also did good work, as did Jack Cannon, faithful warden of the council. When refreshments were needed at the meetings, Danny Cannon and Marty Travers saw that they were there.
Among the activities sponsored by the council this year were, the Christmas charity drive for clothing and food for the poor- and needy of South Bend, an open house meeting, held for the entertainment of the student body, the annual Spring Formal, one of the outstanding social functions of the school year, and the picnic which was held under the direction of Walt Scholand, two weeks ago.
.The Santa Maria, official council publication, though limited in number of issues, made a very auspicious bow under the editorship of John Ber-gan. The merit and caliber of the magazine as a campus publication was high.
The council loses some very good men this yeai- through graduation, among them some outstanding officers and members of the past four years, Deputy Grand Knight Joseph Scales, Warden Jack Cannon, Advocate Tom Cunningham, Treasurer Tom Kenneally, Chancellor Francis B. Ready, Inside Guard Conners, and Frank McAdams, chairman of the membership committee.
To the newly installed officers every hope and assurance is given that the work of Council 1477 will be carried on in a most crediitable manner.
MUSIC AND DRAMA ♦--------------------
Having been successively Advertising Manager, Editor of The Wink and Drama Editor for the Scholastic, I can, with no quaver in my voice, no wynsumnesse (as we have it in Old English) in my heart, say farewell without saying hello to anyone.
Someone suggested that “Journey’s End” is being given as a gesture. Where is the mentality of the average college man? The man with one tear in his eye, and the man with one in each eye should endow themselves with a drama school. There were only a couple of names in the cast of “Journey’s End” that were new to me.
Of course, I am no sort of critic because I attend no dress ’ rehearsals. And Joel Egerer, gay organist with his Beethoven and Bach and his Wagner, insists that since he left the Music and Drama column up to me, the standard of purity maintained by said column has dropped. The best part of this job, however, has been the privilege of hearing all new Victor records two weeks in advance at Elbel’s.
iillllltlttttliilllttillitiitiililllllillittiitilliitllilllitttlliiiitiiiiiiiii
“SCHOLASTIC” STAFF FOR
1930-31 ANNOUNCED
Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic for 1930-31, has announced the names of the men who will be on the editorial, news, and sports staffs of the Scholastic for 1930-31. The personnel of all three staffs will be almost entirely new, as nine members of the present staff are graduating.
The men who will graduate are: Murray Hickey Ley, the present editor-in-chief; T. Vincent McIntire, managing editor; Joseph B. Reedy, assistant managing editor; J. Archer Hurley, the conductor of the Week; Walter Langford, who conducts the College Parade page; William Knapp, music and drama editor; Harry A. Sylvester, who wrote Splinters From the Press Box, and Howard Webster and John Motz, members of the news staff.
The men who will succeed to the positions left open by the graduating members are nearly all veterans of from one to three years of service. They represent the pick of the staff.
John Bergan of South Bend, news editor for two years, will succeed McIntire as managing editor. The as-
The music this week-end should be good. Especially if the seniors and alumni can be counted on to give the Maine “Stein Song.” And if I must, the Bach festival at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, was a howling sucess with the Mass in B-Minor and what-not, and the Musical Spring Gadget at Northwestern has been going or rather went over with a whoop and bang (Shumann Heink, you understand).
Ah ha, I knew it! The time is up and we must bid you that tender farewell which we have been waiting for, not just this year, but four (and we lived in Freshman during our debut). . To the future editor of this grand little thought-child, I leave best wishes for a glorious Yom Kippur, and to the future readers—well! We haven’t decided whether to call down curses or blessings on the Editor; final word will trickle in around the middle of August. Every time you hear the notes of the new carillon, think of one that gave his life and eye-teeth for the Scholastic—good-bye.
sistant managing editors will be Edward E. Brennan, former script editor, and James Kearney. Richard J. O’Donnell, formerly of the news staff, will write the Week. The College Parade page will be under the guidance of Ramon G. Smith, this year’s club editor. Neil Hurley of the news staff is promoted to the position of news editor, vacated by Bergan. William Karl will be assistant news editor. James Collins of the news staff takes over the post of features editor, left vacant by the promotion of Paul Hallinan to the editorship of the Dome. The position of campus clubs editor is given to Leslie Raddatz, who will succeed Ramon Smith. Frank Seward, a new man, will edit the music and drama column, while Austin Boyle of the news staff succeeds Brennan as script editor. He will also conduct The Wink.
John Kiener, capable and efficient sports editor, will resume his position for the coming year. The men of the sports staff who will be back ~ are: William J. Magarral, Cleve Carey, Henry B. Asman, F. Granger Weil, and James E. McFeely.
George Allan, John Pick, Lawrence Dunda, and James Carmody are. the members of the news staff to return.
946
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“Journey’s End” Scores a Big Hit
Large Audiences Greet Great War Play With Thunderous	*
Applause at Both Sunday and Friday
Evening Performances
R. C. Sheriff’s famous war play, “Journey’s End,” which has just closed down after a very successful run of seventy weeks in New York, was presented by the University Players to a student audience last Sunday evening in Washington Hall. This makes the first time that a contemporary Broadway favorite has been enacted by the students at Notre Dame, and by the evident approval of the audience Sunday night we judge that it was well received. It was so successful from every angle that it bids well for the future of the Notre Dame theatre. Now that it has made a start in producing a current play there is no reason why it should not continue enacting the best contemporary drama that can be secured.
Al Doyle playing the part of Cap-’ tain Stanhope, and Walter Stanton as Lieutenant Osborne, were the leading actors in last Sunday’s production. Mr. Stanton, acting the part of a genial old schoolmaster, was continuously on the verge of surpassing Mr. Doyle’s acting in the leading’ part; however, in many of the New York performances of the play Osborne’s ' role often overshadowed that of the leading actor, as it is a part calling for the actor’s presence on the stage almost continuously. In Sunday’s per:	formance, however, we would judge
;	that the acting honors were shared
equally between Mr. Doyle and Mr.
i	Stanton, with the former having the
slight edge; for sober Al Doyle gave forth the impression so decidedly that
:	he was reeling drunk that many of
i	those occupying the front seats still
i	swear that they could smell the liquor
j	on his breath. We’ll leave it to these
{	same people who sat in the front rows
I	to judge whether Mr. Doyle fittingly
■	portrayed the part of a dashing, dari	ing soldier renowned for his drinking
i	prowess.
S	Before the first act had got well
|	under way it was easy to see that
j	John Nowery and Roger Beirne were
the popular actors with the Notre Dame audience. Possibly it was not only due to their splendid acting but also due to the fact that they played the parts which introduced the ele. ment of humor for the play itself '
Professor Frank Kelly Director of “Journey’s End”
is tragic in theme, and the relief that these two gentlemen afforded the audience by their funny lines was well appreciated, especially when the two spoke together in the dinner scenes. Mr. Beirne, who played the part of the cook, Private Mason, was the sole one in the cast who had the noticeable accent which is quite desirable for giving atmosphere to this English play. Mason’s part called for a decided Cockney accent, and the result' was such as to supply the necessary color and tone. Indeed, we are thankful that Mr. Beirne did not have sufficient time in which to acquire the proper accent, for who but a Cockney is able to understand the true Cockney dialect?
William Sherman, cast in the role of the frightened soldier, came very near stealing the show from those cast in the “lead” parts. His task as Hibbert was indeed a difficult one to portray, for it was perhaps the one large piece of drama in the whole play, and it took an ingenious and well trained person to take the part. • Mr. Sherman, we believe, played his part well, for he had a difficult audience before which to enact a “sob scene,” and besides this difficulty he had to overcome the natural impulse to overdue the dramatic in his part. He seemed to cojnbine a sufficient amount of the hysterical with the dramatic to satisfy
the audience who received his act with much applause.
“Journey’s End” is produced with an entire male cast, but although this is the case there was the female figure of Madge Raleigh ever in the mind of the audience. She, in many respects, dominated the entire play,, as her presence was constantly felt, and so well'did the the male characters play their parts that she was just as much a figure in the drama, by suggestion, as were the players acting in the production.
There was another unseen figure whose presence was felt last Sunday evening, and that was none other than Professor Frank Kelly, production director of the entire play. It was he who was greatly instrumental in obtaining “Journey’s End” for our use; it was he also who made special trips to New York in order that he might acquaint himself with the production of it by first hand information; likewise it was he who cast and directed the entire company so well that they gave an excellent performance within the very few weeks that they had in which to work; also it was he who stayed back-stage while those he trained went forward at the end to take the bows and receive the glory.
The following is the cast of characters for Sunday night’s performance, and for the performance last night which was enacted by the same cast in Washington Hall:
Captain Hardy__________Robert Haire
Lieutenant Osborne___Walter Stanon Private Mason________Roger Beirne
2nd Lieut. Raleigh_Norman Hartzer Captain Stanhope___Prof. A. L. Doyle 2nd Lieut. Trotter_John Nowery 2nd Lieut. Hibbert_William Sherman Co. Sergt. Major___Carl Christiansen The Colonel________Virgilius Phillips Signaler___________Frank Walker.
Runner________________Thomas	Blisard
-Corporal_____________Edward Phelan
Stage Manager, John Manning.
Properties and Costumes—Edward Phelan.
Electrical Equipment — Edward Dempsey.


J
‘"‘i
J
The Notre Dame Scholastic
947
Corbett, Stettler and Sullivan Speak
FRANCIS E. CORBETT, VALEDICTORIAN
' STETTLER, DISTINGUISHED CLASS ORATOR
RICHARD SULLIVAN IS CLASS POET
Francis E. Corbett
Louis H. Stettler
The valedictorian of the Class of 1930 is Mr. Francis Edward Corbett, a student in the College of Arts and Letters. Born at Decatur, Illinois on November 6, 1906, Mr. Corbett has lived in Fort Wayne, Indiana, most of his life. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Timothy C. Corbett, and he attended Central Catholic High School in Fort Wayne before coming to Notre Dame.
Originally Mr. Corbett was coming to Notre Dame for the year only. After his first -year was over he decided to come back again, and, after that, he gave up any intention of leaving.
Mr. Corbett has been an outstanding orator at Notre Dame. Last year he was awarded the Mclnerny Award for oratory and this year he received the Breen Medal. Recently he won the Indiana State Oratorical Contest, the Interstate Contest at Ripon, Wisconsin, and received a third in the National Contest at Northwestern.
- H..........""..............................  nmnigj
1 GUADNOLA NAMED j ! “LAWYER” EDITOR f j Announcement has just been E = made of the appointment of Jo- =
5 seph Guadnola, a junior in the 5 = College of Law, to the editorship = E of the Notre Dame Lawyer for j
1 the year 1930-31.	E
Qntiit.titniMiMunHtiiniinitiHitiiiiuitttitttttitiitHQ
Mr. Louis Harry Stettler, the orator for the class of 1930, is a graduate of the College of Commerce and will receive his Ph.B. His ability was considered on the basis of general merit and his consistently good work since his enrollment at Notre Dame. He has long been known by the students for his original ideas and his forceful method of presenting them.
He has distinguished himself as an active member of the Spanish Club, the Commerce Forum, and the Pittsburgh Club. The honor bestowed on him is indicative of his ability as a speaker of substance and worth.
VILLAGERS CLUB HOLDS ANNUAL SPRING PARTY
The annual Spring party of the Villagers Club of Notre Dame was held Wednesday evening in the Spanish Terrace pavilion at Christiana Lake. Fifty couples enjoyed the six-course dinner and the program of dances played by Charlie Herbert and his Club Mildorf orchestra of the Cooper-Carlton Hotel in Chicago.
The new officers for next year were announced and introduced at the party. Favors were given to both the Villagers and their guests. Jack C. Shively, retiring president of the club, was presented with a gift for his work during the year.
This affair marked the last formal gathering of the club for the year, which was one of the most successful financially and socially in the annals of the club.
Richard Sullivan, of Kenosha, Wis., in the Arts and Letters C 01 -lege, is the class poet for the Class of 1930. Mr. Sullivan's poem, “Quest,” a p -pears in another part of the Scholastic.
Mr. Sullivan has been a frequent contributor to Scrip and was liter
Richard Sullivan
ary editor of
the Scholastic when it was a literary as well as a news magazine. He has been a member of the Scribblers and the Spectator’s Club for the past two years. His poem, “Caedmon,” won high rating in the recent Scrib-ler’s poetry contest.
K. OF C. OFFICERS INSTALLED MONDAY
The new officers of the Knights of Columbus, Council 1477, were installed at a special meeting held Monday evening in the council chambers of Walsh Hall. District .Deputy Otto Dorsey of Laporte, conducted the installation ceremony.
Louis Buckley of Galesburg, Ill., was formally inducted as Grand Knight, succeeding John Chevigny. Vincent Ponic assumed the chair as Deputy Grand Knight. Other officers installed were: Malcolm McVean, warden; Jack Keefe, advocate; Neil Hurley, chancellor; Francis Flannery, treasurer; William O’Malley, lecturer, and Nicholas Bohling, financial secretary. The Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and the Reverend John Kelly, C.S.C., assumed the offices of trustees. Mr. Raymond Hoyer, head of the department of Boy Guidance at the University, continues as lay trustee.
The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S. C.., professor of history, will continue in the capacity of chaplain for the council for next year. Father Reynolds has served very diligently in the order, both as trustee and chaplain.
948	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Since the great war of a few years ago the most serious concern of the peoples of the world has been the maintenance of peace among nations. For- several decades _ in fact, • the statesmen of the more important countries have met from time to time in an endeavor to perfect some scheme whereby war may be prevented. The result has been the mere ’ formulation of treaties, which have not been lived up to by the nations involved. The pages of modern history are crowded with the violations of international pacts. The most carefully worded agreements have revealed themselves, in operation, as mere scraps of paper. These efforts toward peace have accomplished little. The nations continue to maintain large armies and navies, to enter* secret alliances, to protect at ruinous cost their foreign industries, to seek additional territory by conquest, and to promote the very evils of which they have, ostensibly, been trying to rid themselves. In short—international distrust still prevails among the nations of the world.
The causes of international strife, which treaties have failed to prevent, are manifold. Pride of empire, national lust for territory, and greed for commercial supremacy, are sources of international enmity. Racial prejudices and traditional hatreds, disseminated and intensified by far-reaching propaganda, possess the very soul of mankind. International rivalry still looms large. Competition in armaments has, it is true, been slightly curbed, but the rivalry among, the nations has not been shackled. This fundamentally vicious condition breeds fear and hasty action in the case of dispute and it occasions the unjust extension of political and economic empire. Economic antagonism established by tariff and trade barriers, problems of reparations, quarrels arising from attempts to settle conflicting war debts, the universal worship of power, and the prevalence of the destructive forces of materialism, wherein money is the . great god—all these give rise to differences between nations.
In vain will the nations seek to establish a lasting peace unless they first lay a firm foundation on which their treaties may. be based and made
effective. Love of peace must be instilled in the minds and hearts of the peoples. Treaties can be effective only when support of them is maintained by the nations involved. In their effort at world security our diplomats continue to achieve a mere paper peace, a peace embarrassed by all the imperfections of human nature, a peace that cannot endure. The nations are being urged, through the forces of propaganda, to accept treaties which are supposed to hinder at least, if not prevent, international warfare. But treaties are futile unless they be rigidly adhered to by the parties concerned, and because of the present lack of world support in their enforcement these agreements really will be an obstacle instead of a help to peace.
The practical uselessness of national honor that can command world support. National honor, as now conceived by the nations, is a very effective incentive to war. The reservations concerning this matter in the constitution of the League of Nations and the Kellogg Peace Pact provide that where there arises a dispute involving the honor of the nations in dispute, no arbitration or judicial decision need be sought, and that the mattei* of determining whether or not honor is jeopardized rests solely with the nations at variance. And so in the very terms of these treaties the nations have a mask for their manifold grievances and ulterior purposes. Under the legal cloak of the term, “An Affair of Honor,” a nation can make war at any time it pleases, for any purpose it pleases.
Whence comes national honor and the authority it should possess? National honor is the reflection of the state itself, embodying the policies, the ideals, the chief characters, the perfections and imperfections of the particular people, and the authority of-national honor is based upon the power proceeding from the State. Pope Leo XIII, in his encyclical letter entitled “The Christian Constitution of State,” sets forth concisely the ultimate source of all authority. “As
The Class Oratiol
no society,” he says, “can hold together unless someone be over all, directing. all to strive earnestly for the common good, every civilized community must have a ruling authority, and this authority, no less than society itself, has its source in nature, and has, consequently, God for its author. Hence it follows that all public power must proceed from God. For God, alone, is the true and supreme Lord of the world.” National honor, according to this true view of the great Pope, to possess real and binding authority, must be based upon God, because national honor derives its significance from the state, and the state in turn has God as its only source of authority, because all public power proceeds from God. This true national honor, coming as it does from God, will command the respect and support needed as sanction for just treaties, recognizing the rights and duties of separate nations. The false idea of national honor so prevalent today does not recognize God at all, but rests upon imperfect man for its authority and sanction, which means that it has no authority whatever and no sanction but brute force. Being a false honor, it is no wonder that it lends itself so readily and surely to national greed, unjust conquest, economic expansion, racial hatreds, and to everything else that incites to war.
The only hope for peace among the nations is in the possibility of planting the seeds of Christianity in the hearts of men, so that the authority of God may become the basis, the essence, the very soul of national honor.
In this matter* of national honor the individual citizen must be considered. He must be educated to true honor and to a love of peace. The honor of a nation can be nothing more than the honor of the individuals that compose it. National honor is primarily a manifestation of the character of the people, and the character of each individual should be a realization of the Christian principles and ideals opposed to war. Every citizen must
$
Ry Louis Stetler
be possessed of a real, Christian f honor, so that in the community of ' citizens constituting the nation there will be a genuine national honor upon which may be based international "agreements that will be of consequence in the maintenance of international peace.
The character of the individual and ' of a people is developed chiefly by education. But only one kind of education can give the individual, and the community, and the nation, that con-_ cept of national honor which makes for peace, among individuals and *'among nations, and that is Christian ' education. Until the world accepts a system of education informed by the principles of Christianity no real progress toward world peace is pos-* sible.
The University of Notre Dame in the eight-eight years of her progressive existence has given to her thou-“ sands of students an education com
prehending all the principles of Christianity. She has tempered the character of the graduate with those constructive Christian qualities which control greed, lust for power, and love of empire—which are in turn the seed of war. She insists upon the love of God as the fundamental motive in life and upon the love of neighbor for God’s sake as the solution of all social, national, and international problems. The real brotherhood of man is here taught and lived. In this education the particular obligations involved in the commandment, “Love Thy Neighbor -as Thyself,” and the great truth that every human being is in a most true sense brother to every other human being is here recognized in theory and in practice and is not, as in the world at large, just theoretically mouthed. The democratic spirit evident at this university shows clearly that its students understand that the oneness of men in essence is
much more important than the accidental differences of race or nationality. A man is of a nation, it is true, but he is always and pre-eminently a man and a brother before he is a Frenchman, or a German, or a Briton, or an American. Notre Dame men are or certainly should be characterized by their love of God, by charity to all men, and by love of peace. This Christian education of ours is, without doubt, the foundation, the only real foundation, for* true national honor, with God as its source and sanction, with the spirit of Christ as its soul and its inspiration to peace among men.
In this program of Christian education the promoters of world peace have a perfect plan whereby war may be abolished. Practical Christianity as taught by Christ is the only way to peace. When the peoples of the world are schooled in the knowledge, love, and service of God, and in the universality of the brotherhood of men, and when the Christian precept of charity becomes a part of the very souls of men, through right education, then we shall have a lasting peace— a peace that shall not perish.
■nit tun............ mi mt nt tiiitiiiiit mu mini iiiiiiiiiiiuiiiHHUiiiiiittiiiiiiiitiiHiiuiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiti *lllll■■ltllll■■t■lllllllltll!lllllllllllllllllllll■lll■■tlllli■lltllllllllllllllll■lllllll|l||||lullllltlll■lll■lllllil^■■I|lll|
" DEBATERS ATTAIN BRILLIANT RECORD -
- “Resolved, That the nations of the world should adopt a policy of complete disarmament, except such forces
* as are necessary for police protection.” This was the question for debate as announced last fall by the
’ Reverend Francis Boland, C. S. C. Some fifty or sixty Websters, Vi-vianis, or what you will, answered the ’ call for . candidates, and from these ambitious men Father Boland selected two teams which have added to Notre ’ Dame’s long record of victorious debates.
Notre Dame has truly a worthy debating record. We are often told how Notre Dame teams have won eighty. five per cent of their debates since ‘ 1899. This year, however, the teams’ fine record is especially outstanding because of the unusually strong teams on the schedules.
Several preliminary tryouts were held, consisting of ten-minute speeches by the various candidates; and the number of contestants was gradually reduced to those who showed some possibility of becoming varsity debaters. After more sleepless nights and more plying of tongues, six clever speakers were selected to comprise the teams for the season: On the Affirmative team, Walter Stanton, William O’Malley, and Thomas Keegan; on the Negative, James Walsh, William Kirby, and John Keefe,—all experienced speakers. Six alternates were chosen at the same time: Fred McGreal, Charles Hanna, Edward . Phelan, George Allan, Francis Baer, and Edward Connor.
Under the untiring effort of Father Boland, several weeks were spent in improving the logic and delivery of the speakers. On February 14 the two teams opened the season in a practice debate at St. Mary’s. The Negative won, thus establishing a slight technical superiority. On Feb
ruary 28, the first intercollegiate contest was held with the University of Detroit. There the Affirmative met with defeat. After this initial setback, however, both teams went through the entire season without another decisive defeat. A few days later the tables were turned on Detroit when a team from that university was defeated by the Negative in Washington Hall. From then on the Notre Dame speakers left behind them a consistent string of victories over Purdue, New York University, the University of Florida, Northwestern, Western Reserve, Princeton, Michigan and Harvard. ’
This brilliant record speaks highly for the debaters themselves and especially for the coaching ability of Father Boland. From the success of the teams this year, a new interest in debating at Notre Dame seems not only possible but probable. Several of the alternates from this year’s squad will return for the team next year, with higher hopes and broader experience.
950
The Notre Dame Scholastic

CLASS POEM—1930
Richard Sullivan
“Be quick in parting I” cries the beating heart, Astir with premonitions of a new
And piercing pain. “Be quick! Be quick in parting I No long farewells to break me with sad beauty!” Quick then, athrob, it sings low sobbing words: “I linger, thirsty for the taste of life— Bid me to fervent flight. Now let dry thirst Be slaked, as by gushing rivers. Let mine be eyes That penetrate with calm immediacy To simple truth behind its complex mask;
Then may I, seeing, fiercely love the sight.
But ah, I choke!—Let us be quick in parting!” And then in instant interruption beats
The answering voice: “Be strong, O heart, be hot In quest of wayward beauty, sky-blown far By secret reverent winds. Though knowing not The hidden place where beauty dwells eternal, You know already beauty’s challenge-call.
Be constant in your swift pursuit, and learn
This more in starting: Beauty is truth made shining And goodness glorified. It is the end Of life, the bright continuum of love.
So, to the quest—be quick—be quick in starting!” Then like a harp-string plucked to vibrant key
The urgent heart rejoins in quivering cries: “I strain—already brushed by beauty’s sad Sweet passing—strain to the quest! I will be off With no farewells to ache me long. Let us Be stern in parting—quick, oh quick, in starting!”


’	The Notre Dame Scholastic	951
^aledi&ory-Glass of 1930
r	FRANK E. CORBETT
Right Reverend Bishop, Gentlemen of the University, and Friends.
In the September of 1926, fresh confident, and callow, this class of 1930 enrolled here in the University of Notre Dame. Coming from every quarter of the country, we were a large and representative class. In the four years since then we have acquired some knowledge, a little wisdom, we hope, and much experience. We have planned our careers and formulated our ideals. Many of that class of eager freshmen are not with us today.- Various causes have intervened to thin our ranks to a little more than half the original number. Those of us here today as graduates have survived that which once seemed but a long, hard grind, but which to us now is a succession of happy memories. Throughout this brief span of college life we. have looked forward to the time when our University might see fit to honor us with a degree. That time has come.
As we look about us in some bewilderment, we are happy in being the fortunate survivors of the large number of hopeful aspirants. But our thoughts on this occasion are not all pleasant, as we had anticipated they would be. Sad is the fact that we must presently leave these familiar halls, that henceforth we can breathe only in spirit the wholesome atmosphere of Notre Dame. It would not be easy to analyze the mixed emotions that stir in us on this occasion. Only the members of the eighty-five classes that have gone before us can understand how our feeling of joy at reaching this goal of our ambition is mingled inexpressibly with the sorrow that is ours in saying farewell to the friends and the school to which we have become so much attached.
We have learned to love Notre Dame, and it is a comfortable paradox that, change though she must with the years, she will remain always essentially unchanged. In our own time we have seen new residence halls constructed to house the increased student body; we have seen the refectory of the old days succeeded by a new dining-hall, the largest of - its kind in the country; :we have seen adjacent farm-land con
verted into a beautiful golf-course, and the historic Cartier Field giving place to a magnificent new stadium. The President of our University has recently announced a building program which will meet the need for additional classrooms and will enhance still more the beauty of the campus. Yet Notre Dame remains the same. It is not a mere institution but a home of college men.
By the calendar, our time has been short, and our experience brief, but measured by the great lessons of life we have learned, these years have been for us most significant ones. Although supposedly schooled, in the main, by scheduled hours and books and teachers, we have mastered much more than mere lessons. Education in the true sense is not a cold, mechanical cramming of facts into the mind. It is one of the great traditions of Notre Dame that she does not believe in such education. By our associations in work and play, in the classroom and on the athletic field, and by the contacts of genuine friendship with fellow - student and professor, we have prepared ourselves to live in a world of men. Shoulder to shoulder, we have encountered problems, and solved them as men should. We have regarded the manly virtues as ideals to be realized, and we have gone some way in the realization of them. It is not required of us that we amass wealth or achieve fame in life. Notre Dame asks only that we be guided always by the Christian principles she has striven to inculcate in us. If our education does not enable us to rise above the low standards of a decadent world, if it does not inspire us to clean, upright lives, if we be not hereafter a real credit to our community, our nation, and our Church, then we have failed miserably. If we have not gained something of lasting value from these years at college, if we do not take with us into life from Notre Dame the Christian manhood for which she stands, we have betrayed the love and confidence of those who sent us here, and have been untrue to the ideals of our Alma Mater.
Tomorrow the. roll of this class of 1930 will be called, complete, for the last time. Never again shall we all
be togethei. A few of us may be closely associated in the years to come, and many of us will see one another more or less frequently, but some of us will never meet again after these last days at Notre Dame. Most of us can and will revisit the University which we are about to leave, but we shall then encounter new faces on every side. Even the old scenes will be changed or will have vanished altogether. In fond memory alone shall we be able to live over these happy years of our life. Then shall we watch again the athletic teams of our time, and thrill to the old shouts of victory, and hear the voices of friends that are gone, and walk the paths we have trod in our youth. Under the spell of reminiscence we shall recapture the ecstasy of happy hours in the classroom, in the dormitory, in the church, in the gymnasium. But stern reality tells us in harsh accents that all these things can be for us again only in memory. In the march of time, in the inevitable succession of things the old places will be filled by other and younger sons of Notre Dame. The saddest and most impressive part of graduation is the fact that our close, warm associations here must now come to an end, but there is for us the thought that no matter how far we may drift apart, no matter how diverse may be the routes we sail on the voyage of life, we shall always be inseparably united by the bonds of affection for our Alma Mater.
The time has come for the final adieu. Repeatedly in the past four years we have parted company, but it was always with the knowledge that we should soon be together again. The present leave-taking, with its note of finality, awakens emotions of a new and deeper sort. No amount of experience could ever make this parting painless, and no words of cheer could relieve the sadness of .this final farewell. Notre Dame, we bid you goodbye. Our hearts .are heavy and our eyes misty, but may our tears of sadness water the flower of our love for Our Lady, our Alma Mater. Fellow graduates, with the firm handclasp of men of Notre Dame let us say—farewell.
952
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Singing Tower of Notre Danie
•	By JOEL W. EGERER
We have all seen the church tower at least a hundred times; in fact, the first thing a new man at Notre Dame sees is the Dome and, immediately after, the spire of the Church of the Sacred Heart. Yet how many of us are aware of the fact that in this tower are twenty-nine bells’ which comprise the first carrillon in the United States. Let us look, for a moment, at the history of these bells.
It is not generally known that as early as 1856 Father Sorin had the idea of a Singing Tower at Notre Dame. This is not surprising, for in his early days he was often thrilled by the music of the bells in many a European tower, for which the low countrys of France, Belgium and Holland are so famous. His first duty, therefore, was to procure twenty-three bells with a large bell, or Bourdon, as a base. The large bell, not the present one, was cast in Cincinnati. The others were cast at Bollees, a famous foundry in France. The ceremony of installing and blessing the bells took place in November, 1856. Archbishop Purcell of Cincinnati solemnly consecrated six of the bells and blessed the seventeen others.
For nine years these bells were used, and in 1866, when the statue of Notre Dame was blessed by Archbishop Spalding, the bells were rung, for two hours in full peal, to the inspiration of all present.. A few days after this memorable event the large bell was discovered to have a crack in it about a foot long. The expense of procuring a new bell would have been too much. Someone suggested, however, that a much larger one be cast, saying this would prove an inspiration to many to contribute. When the plan was made known, money flowed in rapidly, and it was not long before enough funds were available to purchase a new bell.
The large bell was cast in the worthy establishment of Bollee, and, exclusive of the clapper, weighs a lit. tie less than six tons. As it passed, from east to west multitudes gathered to look at it wherever it stopped. It was solemnly blessed by Bishop M. F.' Burke of Wyoming on August 15, 1888. When it was first rung, all who heard it were deeply moved. The clearness of its marvelous sound was astonishing. With a favorable wind
The Singing Tower
it has been heard twenty-four miles south and twenty-seven miles west.
So inspired were many that the suggestion was made that the number of bells be increased to sixty-three, with the newly acquired bourdon as a base. Enthusiasm ran high and even M. Bollee himself urged that another set of bells be cast, “in keeping with the finest one,” he writes, “that ever left his foundry.” Unfortunately this beautiful project was never realized. We have, however, the “Big Bell” and the thrill of listening to its mighty voice is experienced by the students on feast-days. How appropriately can we not apply to it the words of the Royal Prophet: “The voice of the Lord is upon the waters; the God of majesty hath thundered.” •
Indeed our bells have a worthy history; let us now glance at the more technical side of their nature. There has been considerable dispute as to ' whether or not this group of bells is a • chime or a carillon. An explanation of both of these types would not be out of order. A chime of bells is one „ that is tuned to the diatonic scale; -that is to say, each bell is a whole tone different from the other. A chime corresponds to a scale on the piano, -* using in it only the white keys. A carillon, on the other hand, is made “ up of half-tones, having all the sharps and flats, and corresponding to the -chromatic scale on the piano, that is to say, using all of the sharps and flats (the black and white keys). The bells in the church were undoubtedly cast for a carillon. The four lower notes of the carillon are arranged -< peculiarly, being whole tones apart. -They correspond to the piano notes of G, A, B, and middle C. With C the chromatic scale begins. The first four bells may then be called a chime and the remaining nineteen a carillon. On a carillon it is possible to play almost any piece, even such involved works as preludes and fugues by Bach.
For years the Singing Tower beside the twin lakes has been silent, but, as part of the Church restorations , - program they are to be restored. This restoration has been made possible by . a generous donation from one who,
. for the present at least, wishes to be ‘r designated as a “dear- old friend of Notre Dame.” We of Notre Dame have much for which to thank this generous donor. It is hoped that by next September the voice of the smallest bell (weighing fifteen pounds) and of the others ranging up to the largest ' (weighing one thousand and ninety-four pounds) will be heard once more.
An arrangement is being made whereby the famous notes of the Westminister Chimes will be heard. Attached, -also, will be an electrically equipped keyboard, and, when no performer is present, player rolls can be used. At . stated times, especially during the month of May, the carillon will play hymns to the Blessed Virgin, and notable among these will be the famous . Lourdes “Ave Maria.” How gloriously appropriate and . how reminiscent . - J of the founding of the Order of Holy Cross! What an inspiration for the nightly singing at the Grotto! ’
>	The Notre Dame Scholastic	953
t	-
STOKMS, WCDDS, HAH. AND TDD
I	INCOME TAX
Graduation is at once an event of considerable significance in the lives of young men and women, and a subject of countless commonplaces and endless, facile eulogies. It is not our inten-■ tion to add to the literature on the subject; but, we are graduating and we are concerned with readers who are graduating, so it is only natural that what we write shall be of Commencement.
It is easy to say that one shall approach a subject along a new line of view; it is not so easy to actually do so, and, at the same time, have something to say of more than usually solid worth. So, while disclaiming any pretensions to something new, we do think that certain considerations, which we shall set down here, concerning the chances of the college graduate to utilize things he has become aware of while in college, may point to a way of living in a civilization that seems, in the main, to have forgot how to live and learned how to exist.
It seems to us that a successful adjustment to life in the world today lies in the ability of a ... person to rightly evaluate and form definite mental attitudes toward four things: Storms, Words, Foam, and the Income Tax. •r—
Storms is threefold in meaning. First, we mean the storms that shiver and rage through hu- man beings, that issue forth in human actions, that cause people to act, toward themselves and toward one another, as they do. Love and hate are the storms that clear and cloud the air more than any others; but the first is incalculable, and its beauty is in its terrific power. Second, we mean the storms that tremble and catapult through nature. There is a storm of energy * through the veins of the leaf, through the eyes of the hawk, as surely as there is a storm of rain and noise when lightning torches the sky and thunder breaks its own drums. And thirdly, we mean the storms that channel themselves in flutes and violins, the storms of beauty and power * that drench men’s ears and are called music.
-	By Words we understand all that men and women, confronted with the magnificence and the
pettiness of Life, have put down on paper, to relieve themselves and to offer to others a record of their experience. Words are like volcanos of wonder; if one gets too close he may be consumed in a possible eruption; but the true explorer loves a bursting volcano; the fires burn away dross .. and the gold implicit in every human life glows a little more brilliantly after each eruption.
When we say Foam, we understand the pictures and statues that the swollen waters of life carry at their crest. A person is swept by the tides of the beauty, by the current of the meaning k of something; at the height of the wave of feeling is a vivid likeness of that thing; the wave breaks and the foam is caught in a picture or in a statue. Salt is indeed a condiment of the.cultured person’s life!	"
But little explanation is needed when we mention the Income Tax.- In it we see a symbol of the practical life that must be met so many hours out of every day. But the encounter, it seems to . us, can take place with no appreciable sacrifice of one’s recognition and awareness of Storms, Words, and Foam. In fact, the encounter should only take place in order that these three be better known and loved. Even during the engagement, one has his memory to stand up beside him holding a cluster of three lights I
And so we say that an intelligent recognition and evaluation of these four factors is the secret of successful adjustment; adjustment may be made in a shack, in a cottage, or in a mansion; ' it may be made by anyone, but it strikes us that -a college graduate has had a better chance to learn of the beauties and rewards implicit in the first three, at least, than have his less fortunate companions. If these three are not forgot when the fourth is encountered, and an intelligent acceptance embraces all four, then we have one who can look on the world with a quiet smile and . face the eagles in the eyes of the Nazarene without shame!	—M. H. L.
954
The Notre Dame Scholastic
r
A GLANCE AT THE YEAR’S Mi l l
THE SCHOLASTIC
To paraphrase Tennyson, editors may come and editors may go, but the Scholastic goes on forever. Scholastic is not merely a magazine, but an institution as well. Naturally the task of publishing the
Murray Hickey Ley
magazine in accordance with the traditions of the past is by no means an easy one, and Murray Hickey Ley has completed a somewhat difficult task. His able staff of assistants has co-operated with him in making this year’s Scholastic one able to hold up its head in the presence of its predecessors.
One vital change has Scholastic undergone this year. The literary section in which appeared, as the General Catalogue remarks, “The literary efforts of the students” has been taken out of Scholastic and incorporated into “Scrip,” the new literary quarterly. The history of Scholastic previous to this year has been the record of the gradual encroachment of the news department upon the literary section, and the literary section has always had the worst of the combat. Filially, matters reached an impasse this year. The literary section was incorporated into the new “Scrip,” and Scholastic became a magazine devoted wholly to news, with the exception of the long feature articles which have appeared every week. Despite this change the popularity of Scholastic had decreased not a whit, because the editor can now devote more time and space to the news of the school, which is, after all, what the students are interested in primarily.
Among the members of this year’s staff who are graduating are: Murray Hickey Ley, editor-in-chief; T. Vincent McIntyre, managing editor; Joseph B. Reedy, assistant managing editor; Archer Hurley, the writer of “The Week”; W. H. Knapp, music and drama editor; Harry A. Sylvester, the writer of “Splinters from the Press Box”; Walter M. Langford, writer of the “College Parade”; and Howard Webster and .John Motz, members of the news staff. Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief for the next year, has already chosen his new staff. The list of appointments appears elsewhere in this issue.
For the last time the workers on the Scholastic this year smelled printers’ ink; for the last time they have tried in vain to make themselves heard above the din of the press-
Robert E. Pendergast
room at the time of the “deadline.” The graduating members of the staff bid farewell and good-luck to the members of the staff for next year. Sincerely do they hope that the workers on the Scholastic next year will encounter no more than the inevitable number of hardships, trials, and tribulations, which beset the path of those who are working on a college magazine.
THE DOME
The “staid, old Dome” so charac- -terized by Bob Pendergast, 1930 Editor, is dignified to a nice dgree. In May, the embryo editor is selected; for a week he interviews everybody connected with the , engraving and
photographic trade. Then after a summer of planning, the work begins and the Editor retires to his sanctum to edit the book. The following May it appears and another volume is added to Notre Dame’s Library shelves.

John L. Nanovic

If the book were only a pictorial review subject to the standardizing influence of these decades, it would soon become as defunct as the Boat Races or the Vengeance Tree. But because in the past the selections of editors have resulted in uncovering men of fertile imagination and at least a sympathy for art, as well as athletics and activities, the Dome has breathed fresh air from year to year and thrived thereon.
Reviews of this year’s contribution to the shelf have been heard and read from Lyons to Sophomore all this past week. It is an excellent book, bright with the lure of a Spanish-Gypsy theme and it splendidly records a fruitful year. Bob Pendergast, listening with a sickening sensation to the radioed news of the Russell Studios’ Fire one March morning, did not spend time wringing his hands and gnashing his teeth. Fighting—no other word does this gentleman justice — to produce his book by the scheduled date, he handled editorial and business affairs with an able hand and a clear, foresighted, managerial mind. The book arrived very close to the promised date, and was eminently successful. Under, the stairs in the second row of stacks, north side of the Library are
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
955
ft
two shelves of catalogued Domes. The first dates back to 1906, a period when Rockne and Gold Coast and Juggler were words unknown. It is a slender volume bound in gold and blue and develops in a business-like style the story of the year.
Others follow, 1907-08-09-10- and so on, each book increasing just a little in size and quality over its forerunner. A few of the volumes are missing: the graduate of 1921 or 1926 may be offended to learn his photograph is not treasured in the quiet recesses of the Library.
Since 1920, the Dome has had a rapid growth and has at the same time attained a greater prominence in collegiate circles. In 1924, the Junior Class produced the book for the first time, and it has continued to do so, with marked success.
-	miie
i_	A history of “Scrip” during the
first year of its existence is a record -	of constant improvement, in the main.
Every one of the four numbers of the year has shown decided change for the better. The first number was an
*	immense improvement over the in-
adequate literary section of the Scholastic which it supplanted. Each of the three succeeding numbers have ’ been just a bit better than the one before. It is to be hoped that the -	editor for next yeai* will be able to
handle the task as expertly as L. C. Heitger has done this year. Of *"	course, the editor’s work next year
•	will be much simpler than the work
which Mr. Heitger had to do this ,	year. Mr. Heitger had to set the
standards of his magazine; he had to choose his staff from among men who . had had no previous experience with *	a literary magazine; and, finally, he
had to make “Scrip” realize the purpose of its origin: the furnishing of k	an outlet for the literary work of the
students at Notre Dame. The editor for next year will find his work made easier because of the organiza-'	tion which Mr. Heitger has made in
the magazine. Without a doubt, the first year of the life of a magazine is the hardest. Mr. Heitgei- has safe' ly piloted the magazine through the manifold trials and hardships of this first year, and he leaves his successor ’	a record of past achievement which
it will be hard to better.
THE JECELEK
To quote John Leonard Nanovic, the esteemed, honored, and honorable editor of the Juggler, “We consider the year a success because a traveling salesman picked up a copy of Juggler down at the La Salle magazine stand and did not return it in favor of the latest ‘Whiz-Bang.’ ” Without a doubt Juggler this year, under the experienced tutelage of Nanovic and his able staff of assistants, among whom Louis Leonard Hasley and Lionel George Theissen deserve special mention, has enjoyed one of the most successful and the most popular years of its existence.
“Much material was submitted to us by the students,” says Nanovic, Nanovic deserves praise for the way in which he has kept Juggler free from the demoralizing influences which beset college humorous publications. The purpose of the founders of Juggler was to show the students that one could be funny and still be clean. Nanovic has presided over the destinies of Juggler this year in a way which must be entirely in accord with the purpose of its founders. In return for his outstanding work in the field of college humorous college publications he has been offered a position with “College Humor,” and beyond that the mind of a college man dareth not aspire. “College Humor” has given the Juggler of Notre Dame recognition as one of the best college humorous publications of the country. This recognition is given because of the fine brand of humor which Nanovic and his assistants have served for our delectation this year. Every number of Juggler during the year has been a witty collection of jokes, sketches, and stories. The magazine has been very popular, and deservedly, this year. In fact, it is even rumored, although we cannot vouch for the credibility of the rumor, that the sale of Juggler in Sorin Hall reacher hitherto undreamed of numbers. Of course, if memory serves correctily, Nanovic was the originator of this rumor, so it might be mere propaganda.
A novel feature of the Juggler this year was the ‘Girl’s Number.’ One hundred and eight girls submitted material for this number, and two of them received Juggler Keys, which means that only one hundred and six young women thought that the contest was judged unfairly. Some of the girls included with their contributions bribes of fudge, cake, and the
like, to the delight of the editor and those who room in his vicinity. Although we do not know whether the women who won the keys sent the editor bribes or not, on the basis of his former integrity and sterling honesty we shall not charge Nanovic with the crime of accepting bribes.
It is to be hoped that John Edward Dempsey, the editor chosen for next year, will publish a Juggler as good as the numbers of this year. After all, Dempsey has all the primary requirements for the editorship of a college humorous publication, because he comes from Oshkosh, Wisconsin, and that is always good for at least a snicker.
SPECTATORS
A club must justify its existence. It must be up and coming. Its members must be doers. It must accomplish “big things” in a big way. It must pass resolutions, deplore situations, inaugurate reforms, feed its members — make things hum as a Babbit or a Smaltz would put i t. That club is mighty impotent and worthless which cannot claim the largest, membership drive, or the mos tsuccessful banquet, or the best attended dance. Clubs must have some tangible evidence as a monument to the energy, the ingenuity, the pep of its members.
If these be the proper standards by which to judge a club, if ceaseless activity be the mark of a worthwhile group, if the records must bulge with programs of improvement successfully, consummated, then the Spectator Club is unworthy of existence, for it resolves nothing, builds nothing, and feeds nobody. Its members must be dullards. But if progress is something more than motion; if education is something more than a series of classes made passively agreeable by good fellowship; and if life is something to be understood as well as endured, then the Spectators Club has much to justify its existence. Its founder, Robert Dinkle, and the charter members, Murray Hickey Ley, Louis Hasley, Thomas A. Keegan, John F. Dubuisson, Victor Martzel, and John Nanovic felt that there was a need for an exchange of ideas instead of the too wide spread practice of exchanging facts. They believed that modem thought merited the informal treatment which a class room could never give. They conceived and formed a club which meets weekly to discuss papers read by
956
The Notre Dame Scholastic
some members — necessity restricted the number of papers to two a week. —An informal discussion is held after-each paper so that the reader is driven to defend himself from the critical analysis of the other members. The subjects are as varied as the interests of the members. Mr. John Dubuisson may present the Austinian theory of the state the same evening that Mr. Martzel expounds Humanism. Mr. Sullivan may discuss the art of Whistler the same evening that Mr. Conroy examines a recent discovery of Milliken. Every matter of current interest in the fields of arts, letters, economics, government, and mathematics is discussed. Hence, the club is not unlike the coffee house group of Addison and Steele, for the topics are as wide, the discussion as informal.
Mr. Louis Hasley, the President, deserves more than the usual farewell praise, because his has been no ordinary task. To keep order and preserve decorum amongst a group of young men keenly alive to the issues of the day demands a high measure of patience, respect, and leadership — qualities which he possesses. Mr. Murray Hickey Ley, Secretary, was unusually prompt, efficient and secretarial. During the coming year, Mr. Alfred Stepan will guide the group as President, having as his aid Mr. Timothy Benitz, the Secretary. Graduating members are: Louis Hasley, Murray Hickey Ley, Cy Mullen, John Dubuisson, Ed Conroy, Richard Sullivan, Robert Dinkle, John Nanovic, Thomas A. Keegan. Among other members are: Thaddeus Zelow-ski, Joel Eggerer, Ed Connors, William Karl, John Pick, Dan Williams, and Emil L. Telfel.
WRANGLERS
A club should serve the University as well as itself, for if it does not, it becomes self centered, purposeless, and critical of the very body which gives it existence. The Wranglers Club serves the University well—has ever since its inception some years ago and continues to do so down to the present. Each year the Wranglers Club organizes an inter-hall debating league for the Freshmen in order that the new men may participate in some forensic activity and that material for the varsity may be uncovered. Practically every member of the Club has been in inter-hall debating himself, and hence he is the better qualified to coach one of the hall teams. Howard Hall, under the. able direction of Frank Noll and Tim Benitz, won
the Lemmer Interhall Trophy this year.
Moreover, the Wranglers Club engages in another activity which taxes the initiative of the members, for it conducts, in the Spring of each year, the Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest for high schools. The contestants can deliver any speech of their own composition, and the winning school is presented with the Wrangler Trophy, a silver cup. Medals donated by Mr. .McNamara of Indianapolis are given for other places. This year the South Bend High School representative won first place in a field of eight. In time, this contest will be expanded to include the entire state, and an Indiana high school debating league will be organized. The Wranglers under the patronage of the Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University deserve entire credit for the organization, management, and continuation of the Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest. Mr. John Houlihan acted as chairman this year.
The Wranglers more nearly approximates the Senate of the United States (if that be a virtue) than any other organization, for the discussion is lively, vituperative, and at times nonsensical. But the point is, there is discussion, and every member must talk under fire; no statement is permitted to slip off unchallenged. No member is excused from critical cross examination. The fiery, trenchant, but capable Mr. Walter Stanton, grand old man of the club, furnishes both sound sense and wit in his talks. There is not a member who has not at some time felt the censure of this Jim Reed. Mr. James Walsh, Jimmy Walkerish President of the Club, is one of the staunchest, hard working members, and one of the University’s leading debaters. He has able assistance from the Secretary, Mr. Edward Phelan, (newly elected president), whose speeches burdened with sesquipedal words are reminiscent of Mark Twain and Noah Webster. Mr. John Houlihan, Mr. Edward Connors, and Mr. William Kirby are the other more frequent contributors.
The meetings are conducted strictly under parliamentary procedure, though it is a task to keep everyone in order. A paper, usually concerned with some political or governmental question, is read at each meeting by a member. Informality is not allowed full sway. The rules of speaking are observed.
The club has passed another particularly successful year, and it re-
grets the loss of Mr. Thomas Keegan, Mr. James Walsh, Mi'. Walter Stanton,	and	Mr. John Houlihan.
The	other	members, in addition	*
to the new President, Mr. Phelan, and	the	Secretary, Mr. Neil	*
Hurley, are Mr. Tim Benitz, Mr. * William Kirby, Mr. Charles Hanna, Mr. Frank Noll, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Edward Connors, Mr. Fred Baer, Mr. -James Keating, and the four newly •	4
elected members, Mr. William O’Malley, Mr. Shaughnessy, Mr. Edward	’
Dailey, and Mr. Francis Cawley.	,<
SCRIEELERS
President Cyril Mullen has this year led the Scribblers through what might be called in Big Ten parlance a winning season. Meetings, as has been said before of Scribbler meetings, have been not only interesting but also entertaining as well. The year began with orphans-of-the-storm effects, with the Scribblers running in " and from Library to Guinea-pig Hall and thence back to Law Building in quest of a meeting place; finally they settled in Howard “Rec,” where, according to the Dome, “the room has become blue with smoke but never more than pleasantly vaporous with	*
thought.” It must be admitted that the Scribblers, led by Mr. Heitger, who feeds on Chesterfields, and’ by Mr. Ley, who is sustained by a curly-stemmed pipe, do consume tobacco in amazing quantities; and if one understood what was meant by pleasantly s vaporous' thought one might either acknowledge or deny the attribution.
High spots in Howard “Rec” during " the past year have been the visits of John Frederick, Charles Phillips, Father Ward, and Father Miltner.
Early in the year Ben Musser was	"
entertained and did himself entertain at the Oliver. When guests are about, Scribblers maintain high decorum; when unattended they snarl at one another across the table-top, and go home individually raging or rejoicing, according to whether they have lost	*
or won the battle that usually follows the reading of papers. This Spring the Scribblers sponsored two contests,	*
which, although the campus seemed very little interested, were considered by members as rather good fun. Mr.
De Roulet supervised the poetry con-t-sts and Mr. Brennan took charge of the short-stories. The results have already been published. At the re-	••
cent elections Mr. Telfel was chosen President for next year and Mr.
Brennan, Secretary.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
957
Trackmen Victorious In Conference Meet
RUNNING true to form, Notre Dame romped to an easy victory in the annual Central Intercollegiate Conference track and field championships at Milwaukee, last Friday night, and thereby retained their title for another year. The meet, which was held under flood-lights at the Marquette University Stadium, saw six conference marks fall before the onslaught of some two hundred athletes. New records were made in the discus throw, mile run, two-mile ■ run, half-mile, quarter-mile and low hurdles.
Bob Brand, of St. Xavier, Cincinnati, proved the sensation of the meet when he dashed to victory in both the 100 and 220-yard dashes. Bob McDonald tied for high-point honors with him, however, by taking firsts in the broad jump and the javelin throw to bring his total up to ten points.
Thompson, Marquette’s great hurdler, staved off Roy Bailie’s final burst of speed and won by inches in a record-breaking final of the low hurdles.
The most remarkable runs of the day were, perhaps, the mile and two-mile victories of Jack Walter, of Marquette, and Chamberlain, of Michigan State. Walter, a teammate of Wilson and Little on the Canadian Olympic team, clipped nearly four seconds off the existing mark in the mile to win in the exceptional time of 4:18.6. Chamberlain’s time of 9:32 is all the more remarkable when it is remembered that the mark is nearly two seconds better than that made by Orval Martin in his great victory on Cartier Field two weeks ago.
Brant Little chopped one and eighttenths seconds from the 880 record in an uninteresting half-mile race. Quigley gave Notre Dame another point in this event when he took fourth. Alex Wilson ran the 440 in 49.2 and Captain Joe Abbott finished close behind to give the Blue and Gold a one-two. Wilson’s time broke the old mark of 50 seconds flat made in 1926.
Nordy Hoffman tossed the discus to
a new record of 134 feet for Notre Dame’s only place in the event. Cronin placed second to McDonald in the javelin, and Brill took third in the shot. Coach Nicholson’s pole vaulters pulled the surprise of the evening when they annexed a first, second, and a tie for’ third. This is probably the best showing made by Notre Dame vaulters in recent years.
The Blue and Gold suffered from the loss of Boagni in the sprints. Ken is out for- the rest of the season and the best that could be done without him was a third in the 100 and a fourth in the 220 by McCormick, and a second in the 220 by Johnny Nichols.
The summary:
JAVELIN THROW—Won by McDonald (ND) ; second, Cronin (ND) ; third, Hanke (Marquette) : fourth, LacAsse (Marquette). Distance: 171 feet, 5 inches.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Hoffman (ND) ; second, Pflug (Michigan State) : third, Radick (Marquette) : fourth. Harper (Western State). Distance1 134 feet, 4 inches (new meet record: old record, 133 feet, 7 3-4 inches, made by Tillotson, Michigan State, 1926).
440-YARD DASH—Won by Wilson (ND) ; second, Abbott (ND) ; third, Morgan (Marquette) ; fourth, Salnion (Michigan State). Time, 0:49.2 (new meet record: old record, 0:50, made by Phillips of Butler, 1926).
MILE RUN—Won by J. Walter (Marquette) ; second, Chamberlain (Mich. State) : third, Fullerton (Mich. State) ; fourth, O’Neill (Loyola). Time, 4:18.6 (new record; old record, 4:22.2, made by Wylie of Michigan State, 1928).
SHOT PUT—Won by Harper (Western State) : second, Plug (Mich. State) : third. Brill (ND) : fourth, Weiss (Marquette). Distance: 42 feet, 10% inches.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Chamberlain (Mich. State) : second, Rohan (Marquette) : third, Brown (Mich. State) ; fourth, Pflieger • (Marquette. Time, 9:32 (new meet record: old record, 9:37.5, set by Brown of Michigan State in 1928).
880-YARD RUN—Won by Little (ND) ; second, Swanson (Mich. State) : third, Yeager (Detroit) ; fourth, Quigley (ND). Time, 1:57 (new meet record: old record 1:58.2, set by Ankeny, Lombard, 1927).
HIGH JUMP—Won by Abernathy (ND) ; second. Windaw (Marquette) ; third, Schultz (Marquette) : fourth, Gitter (Marquette). Height: 5 feet, 10 inches.
100-YARD DASH—Won by Brand (St. Xavier) : second, O’Neill (Detroit) ; third. McCormick (ND) ; fourth, Mahoney (St. Xavier). Time: 10 seconds.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Yar-ger (Mich. State) ; second, O’Brien (ND) : third. Thompson (Marquette) : fourth. Bailie (ND). Time. :15.5.
BROAD JUMP—Won by McDonald (ND) ; . second. Rigney (ND) ; third, Gibbs (Mich. State) ; fourth. Vincetti (Loyola). Distance: 21 feet, 5 1-4 inches.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Brand (St. Xavier) ; second, Nichols (ND) : third. Mahoney (St. Xavier) ; fourth. McCormick (ND). Time, :22.3.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES — Won by Thompson (Marquette) ; second, Bailie (ND) : third. Russow (Mich. State) : fourth, Russell (Mich. State). Time, :24.5 (new meet record ; old record, 24.8, set by Bailie. Notre Dame, 1929).
POLE VAULT—Won by Johnson (ND) : second. Fishleigh (ND) ; third, Nowak (Marquette), Slattery (ND), and Grove (Mich. State), tied. Height: 12 feet. 6 inches.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Kahn. Scanlan, Abbott and Wilson) : second. Michigan State: third. Marquette.. Time. 3:26.1.
BASEBALL TEAM TRIMS IOWA; LOSES EXCITING
BATTLE TO LUTHER
Notre Dame continued its unbroken string of wins over Big Ten foes last Saturday when they trounced the Iowa nine, 8 to 4 . It made the sixth victory over Western Conference teams and the second over the Hawkeyes this season. The hurling job fell to Lefty Lisicki, and he turned in a very creditable job. Although he allowed eleven hits, he held the lowans in check while his- mates were pounding out 13 safe blows.
Lefty Zifrin, Iowa pitcher, hurled excellent ball in the first four innings, allowing only three hits, but he developed a wild streak and was relieved at the end of the fourth by Carlson.
The Fighting Irish opened the scoring in the second inning when Mahoney singled, was sacrificed to second by Nolan, and scored on Palermo’s

958
The Notre Dame Scholastic
smashing double to left. Moran started the works in the fifth with a single over second, Feehery beat out a tantalizing slow roller and then both runners advanced a base on an overthrow of first, which found Sullivan also resting on the sacks. Mahoney lifted a sacrifice fly, scoring Moran, and Nolan poled a double down the left field foul line, scoring' Feehery and Sullivan.
In the seventh inning Sullivan tripled to left and scored on a passed ball. Mahoney walked, Nolan flied out to the shortstop, and Joe Lordi doubled, Mahoney scoring. Lisicki also got a two-bagger, scoring Lordi from second.
Iowa threatened in the ninth when with the score 4 to 2 in favor of Notre Dame and two out, Hildreth, Iowa shortstop, smashed a home run into far center in the Iowa half of the finale.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME B R H
Palermo, ss 5 0 1
O'Keefe. 2b 5 0 1
Moran, cf 5 12
Feehery, rf 312 Sullivan, lb 3 3 2
Mahoney, 3b 2 2 1 Nolan, If.	4	0 2
Lordi, c 4 11 Lisicki, 1>	4	0 1
IOWA B R H
Koser. rf 5 0 1
Hildreth, ss 4 1 1
Stebbins, lb 5 0 0
Mowry, cf 4 13
Rath. If 4 0 1
Nelson. 3c. c 3 1 1
Kenny, 2b 3 11
Chance, c 3 12
Porter, 3b 0 0 0
Ziffrin. p 10 0
Carlson, p 3 0 1
Totals 35 S 13 Totals 35 4 11
Score by innings:
Notre Dame ................010	030 301—S
Iowa ....................000	010 111—4 -
Two-base hits—Palermo, Nolan. Lordi, Lisicki, Mowry, Nelson. Three-base hits—Sullivan. Home ran—Hildreth. Double play— Nelson to Stebbins Struck out—by Ziffrin. 4 ; Carlson, 1 : Lisicki, 1. Bases on balls—off Ziffrin, 5: Carson, 2: Lisicki, 1. Stolen bases —Moran, Kenny. Passed balls—Chance 2. Umpires—Schuler and Campel.
Luther College took the first of the Notre Dame two-game series by a .brilliant ninth-inning rally which produced three runs for the lowans and won the game as a result, 3 to 2. The tilt played at Decorah, Iowa, drew abouth 3,000 fans, all of the college students and half of Decorah’s population.
Jim Dilley, Notre Dame pitcher, and Aase, Luther hurler, staged a real pitching duel for seven innings. In the eighth Aase walked Francis and Palermo and Feehery crashed a double to left center, the third hit off Aase in the game, scoring Francis and Palermo with the initial runs of the contest.	-	■	•'
In the last of the ninth Dilley weakened, issuing a base on balls. Nesseth singled, and Palermo picked up Olson’s grounder, tossed to O’Keefe for a force out at second, the runners then being on third and first with one out. Luther, left fielder for the lowans, doubled to left, scoring both runners and tying the score. Rog-stad, centerfielder, drove a single to right, scoring the winning run.
Feehery got a three-base blow in addition to his double, and Billy Sullivan continued his hitting spree with a two-base wallop.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME	LUTHER
B R It	B R II
Francis,		3	1	2	Brendal, rf	3 1	0
Palermo.	ss	2	1	0	Nesseth. 3b	4 0	2
Moran, cf		4	0	0	Olson, 2b	4 1	0
Feehery,	rf	4	0	2	Luther, If	4 1	1
Sullivan,	lb	4	0	1	Rogstad, cf	4 0	1
O’Keefe.	2b	4	0	0	Lande, ss	3 0	0
Mahoney,	. 3b	u	0	0	Watkins, lb	3 0	1
Lordi, c		4	0	0	Halvorson, c	3 0	1
Dilley, p				0	0	Aase, p	3 0	0
Totals		31	2	5	Totals	31 3	6
One out when winning ran scored.
Score by innings:
Notre Dame
Luther ....
000 000 020—2
000 000 003—3
Two-base hits—Sullivan, Feehery, Luther. Three-base hits—Feehery. Struck out—by Aase 12; by Dilley 4. Bases on balls—off Aase 2; off Dilley 1. Hit by pitcher—Mahoney. Errors—Olson, Nesseth. Umpires— Thompson and Campbell.
IN-AND-OUT BASEBALL SEASON DRAWS
TO CLOSE
Even as the Notre Dame baseball season rapidly draws to a close it is difficult to say just how good the season was. In the beginning chances for a winning team were hot as good as in former years. A new pitching staff, and, with the exception of one position, a new infield had to be developed—a difficult problem in a three month season. However, there is no doubt that the problem was solved by the staff composed of Mannix, Lisicki, Palt, and Dilley, and the infield of Palermo, Sullivan, O’Keefe, Askew, and Mahoney. The outfield played the efficient ball expected of them. Francis was an offensive star because of his ability to get on base. Moran, because he could catch them where no one else could, was a strong defensive cog. Feehery never failed to hit in the pinches and that is why Notre Dame won many close ball games. Nolan served well, especially at Iowa.
All of the men co-operated to the best of their ability with Coach G. Keogan. The team was remarkable in “zim and zigor,” which seems to be baseball parlance for pep and spirit. They were always battling to win. The four games lost to opposing college teams were all by a slim margin, a 5-3 loss to Michigan State being the largest score.
Armour Tech was the first team to face Notre Dame and the first to lose. Notre Dame went south and won from Florida, 5-4, but lost to them in the second game, 1-0. At Georgia Tech Notre Dame flashed fine form to win • two games, 3-1, 5-2. Our first game back in the north was a victory over Wisconsin, 5-3 (Big Ten champions). Michigan State slipped a 3-2 win over us just before we hit our stride to win home games from Iowa and Northwestern. On the next road trip Notre Dame approached the greatness of which it was capable by beating Illinois, 7-5, and Northwestern, 7-6, on successive days.
Bradley fell next, 13-6. Luther scored three runs in the ninth to beat Notre Dame, 3-2. The next day Notre Dame played safe and beat Iowa, 8-4. Michigan State came to Notre Dame a day early and found the Irish unprepared, winning 5-3.
It is difficult to pick any outstanding performers. Every man played hard, and every man had his star plays and his errors. Lisicki and Palt bore the greater part of the pitching. O’Keefe, Sullivan, and Palermo played consistently and hit hard. Francis, Moran, and Feehery were winning ball games from start to finish. We were considerably handicapped by the loss of. Askew, our regular second baseman, who injured his leg in the Bradley game.
It can only be said of Notre Dame’s 1930 baseball team that it was capable of greatness and several times approached it. A Western championship was within the team’s reach at one time and the unrecognized lead of the Big Ten within its grasp from start to finish. ‘
UNIVERSITY GOLF CHAM, PIONSHIP WON
Art Bradley, a senior from Montreal, Canada, won the first Individual championship of the varsity team, last Sunday, defeating Louis O’Shea, 2 up, at thirty-six holes.
Scholastic
The
TRACKMEN AND NAVY TO MEET TODAY
Coach John P. Nicholson and eighteen members of his track squad left Thursday for Baltimore, Maryland, where they meet the Midshipmen of the Naval Academy on Saturday afternoon. This is the final appearance of the team this year, but a few of the men will take part in the National Intercollegiate tests on June 6 and 7.
Coach Nicholson is anxious to close the season with a victory, and is especially desirous of seeing his charges beat the Navy squad, which has been scoring some overwhelming triumphs in eastern track circles.
Notre Dame will depend on Captain Abbott and Alex Wilson in the 440, Little and Joe Quigley in the half, Little and Howery in the mile, and Quigley and Howery in the two-mile. Bailie and O’Brien will, of course, take care of the hurdles, and in the absence of Boagni, the burden in the dashes will fall upon McCormick and Nichols. Hoffman is expected to keep up his great performances in the discus, while he and Marty Brill will join forces in the shot put. Bob Mc
Notre Dame
Donald should have little trouble winning the javelin and with Cronin also in the event, Notre Dame should be very strong. Johnson and either Fishleigh or- Slattery will get the call in the pole vault, while high jumping duties will belong to Abernathy and Darling. Bailie, McDonald, and possibly Rigney will enter the broad jump.
With these men performing up to the standard of which they are capable, Notre Dame should return victorious.
Captain Abbott, Quigley, Wilson, Little, Bailie, and O’Brien are among those expected to compete in the Nationals.
HOWARD HALL WINNER OF FIRST INTERHALL GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
Howard Hall won the first Interhall Golf Championship last Saturday afternoon when it tied Off-Campus, 314 to 314. The Howard mashie wielders were undefeated during the season. Off-Campus had previously lost one match to the strong Badin
959
team. Corby, Lyons, and Morrissey teams defaulted their matches, and in a special match Carroll defeated Sophomore by the score of 4 to 3. Joseph Switzer, captain of the Howard team, made Saturday’s match a clean sweep for the season in low scoring honors.
The results: Howard tied Off-Campus 314 to 314; Walsh defeated Badin, 4 to 3; Carroll defeated Morrissey, 1 to 0 (default) ; Freshman defeated Lyons, 1 to 0 (default); Sorin defeated St. Edward’s, 4 to 3; Carroll defeated Sophomore, 4 to 3; Sophomore defeated Corby, 1 to 0 (default).
Standings
WON LOST TIED PCT.
Howard			3	0	1	1.000
Carroll 			4	1	0	.800
Walsh 			3	1	0	.750
Off-Campus _		2	1	1	.667
Sophomore __		3	2	0	.600
Badin			_2	2	0	.500
Sorin			2	2	0	.500
Corby			2	2	0	.500
Morrissey —		1	3	0	.250
St. Edward’s		1	3	0	.250
Freshman			1	3	0	.250
Lyons 			0	3	0	.000
960
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A LACE
PARAMOUNT-PUBLIX THEATRE
’Till Next Year
ADIOS
We trust the hours we've spent with each other hring to you men the same pleasant memories they do to us.
Sunday Thru Tuesday
If you liked Gloria Swanson in “The Trespasser” ... if you liked Ruth Chatterton in “Sarah and Son” . . . You’ll RAVE About Nancy
CARROLL
In Paramounts love-drama
“THE DEVIL’S HOLIDAY”
With	’
PHILLIPS HOLMES
HOBART BOSWORTH
VITAPHONE SOUND VODVIL PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS
We’ve had a mighty pleasant year together
Wednesday Thru Saturday
“Mamba”
Throbbing romance, powerful drama and terrific thrills—in a white man’s story in a black man’s country. With
JEAN HERSHOLT ELEANOR BORDMAN RALPH FORBES --------Added N-----
VITAPHONE SOUND VODVIL PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS
C^X
HOME OF GOOD SOUND
The Notre Dame Scholastic
961
Trackensius Nic hols onia
When John P. Nicholson came here three years ago, he found a school ' with what is perhaps the strongest football tradition in the country. But strangely, it had no track tradition » worth the name, despite the fact that in the past Notre Dame had produced great track men, some of whom even made their mark in the Olympic ‘ Games.	.
He argued in his mind that if a school could produce such great foot-‘ ball teams, it could surely produce ' great track teams, natural ability being here in such great quantity and variety. But he saw that his main ’	task was to build a track tradition.
.	It was easier to build a track team
than a track tradition, but John * Nicholson set about building both.
. Today, the tree of his labor begins to bear fruit. Three years has John _, Nicholson labored earnestly and sincerely, combating not- only the lack - of material but the disinterestedness on the part of the students. There are few harder or more thankless jobs than that of track coach at a football school. But John Nicholson, ■with that same tenacity and spirit that carried him across the finish line in the 1912 Olympics, bleeding and
broken after taking the lead at the ninth hurdle in the final of the high hurdles only to trip and fall, carried on, and today sees his team as one of the strongest in the country, holder of three titles, defeated but twice in dual meets, and both times on truly bad breaks. He has done this thing almost alone, with practically no outside help; only a few of his men having come to him even approximately ready made. Bailie, O’Brien, Quigly, Boagni, and Hoffman are only a few of the products of his unqualified genius. It is doubtful that any coach ever accomplished as much in three years as has John Nicholson. And he has done it without the support of the whole student body. Some few profess to see the beginning of a track tradition, but it is going to be a slow and hard task to build it; Tradition of a lasting sort does not grow over night, especially on un-receptive ground, but if ever any one can build it, it will be John P. Nicholson.
The season as a whole has been about the best ever experienced by a Notre Dame track team. The high light of the indoor season was the defeat of Illinois. True, the Illini came back to win outdoors, but only on the break of Bailie’s falling over the last
hurdle in the lows just as he caught the great Sentman and was about to pass him. Wisconsin won indoors on a similar misfortune in the hurdles, and a mishap to Brant Little in the mile. Michigan State, Butler, Indiana and the various members of the C. I. C. and the State association all bowed to the Irish trackmen. With Navy the only dual meet left, and then the Nationals in Chicago, the Irish trackmen bid fair to turn in just about the best season they have evgr experienced.
Outside of Alex Wilson, there were few really outstanding performers on the track team this year; rather it was the symmetry of superb balance that characterized the group. The steadiness of Captain Abbott and Quigley, the fire of O’Bi’ien and Bailie, the unerring consistency of McDonald all went to make this year’s team a good, if not quite a great, track team.
It is not expecting too much to believe that Notre Dame will be a distinct threat in the Nationals next Saturday, and in the future will go on to make herself, under the firm hand of John Nicholson, as feared on the barred cinder paths as she has been and is on the football field.
—Harry. A. Sylvester, Jr.
...........................................................................................iiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinitttii iiriiniiitttiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiitiiiniiaitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitniiiu
News—
For a complete report of all games, at home or abroad, follow the sports section of
THE
NEWS - TIMES
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
962
The Notre Dame Scholastic
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
GOLF TOGS Half Price
TOM WYE SWEATERS, coat style or pull-over....  $2.95	to $4.85
KNICKERS, linen or wool_$1.95 to $4 ' MEN’S DRESS OXFORDS.____$2.95 to $6
TOWERS FISHBRAND SLICKERS Green-Yellow or Black
$7.50 values
Eyes Examined Without The Use of Drops
Anything and everything in the style of glasses
When we tell you that you need glasses, you may be sure that it is so. And on the other hand, if you do not need them we will be equally honest in our advise.
LEMCNTREE’S
OPTOMETRISTS
222^ S. Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
(.4 Quarter of a Century in the Same Location)
GEORGE L. MILLER 103 No. Main Street
South Bend, hid.
—o—
Suits of the finest Worsteds, Shetlands and Woolens, tailored in the custom manner
$48 and up
—0—
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear
tiMsannsaa
The Notre Dame Scholastic
963
NOTRE DAME GOLFERS
WIN STATE TEAM
HONORS
The Notre Dame golfers were victorious in their first major meet of the season when they walked away with team honors and the first three places for low individual scores at the annual Indiana Intercollegiate Golf tournament held at Greencastle Country Club in Greencastle, Indiana. A heavy rain fell during the afternoon rounds of the meet held last Friday, and as a result the second round cards were quite high.
The Blue and Gold foursome wound up with a total of 647 for the 36 holes of medal play. Other teams scored as follows: Indiana, 681; Purdue, 683; DePauw, 716; Wabash, 720; State Normal, 723; Valparaiso, 744, and Butler, 872.
Bill Redmond’s card of 70, two under par, for the 18 holes played in the morning, proved to be the outstanding performance of the day. The showers in the afternoon caused him to turn in an 89, which was still one stroke better than his nearest opponent in the total count. Larry Moller and Fran Beaupre, both of Notre Dame, were second and third with 159 and 160, respectively.
mmiiimiimmmmiimmiiimmmimimimtimmmimiim
FOOTBALL
iimtmiiiiimiimmtiiiiimimmtiitmmimtttiimmiimtmm
One seems foolish, and is perhaps, to attempt to review the past football season, with the hope that it will be news to someone that Notre Dame ' won the national football championship for the year 1929.
Coach Rockne’s teams have won 92 games played against the outstanding teams in the country’s football history. They have lost but 13 games during that period, and have tied six games. During the seasons 1919, 1920, 1924 and 1929, not a game was lost or tied. In 1917, 1918,1921, 1922, 1923 and 1927, only one game was lost during the season.
During the 1929 season Notre Dame scored 145 points as against its opponents’ 38. Jack Elder, of course, was the leading scorer, amassing a total of 42 points on seven touchdowns. Jumping Joe Savoldi was second with six touchdowns.
Notre Dame was the recipient of the Jack F. Rissman national intercollegiate football trophy, making the second time that the Fighting Irish have received this award in the past five years. Notre Dame received a total of 25.00 points for its nine straight victories.
iiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiitiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiittitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiHitnnniiiiiiinmmin
fO^NunnBush
KLIN GEL’S MEN’S SHOES
112 N. Main St. - Oliver Theatre
Fordham Law School
Wool worth Building, New York Co-Educational
Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission
Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar Room 2370
DR. J. M. SINGLER
DR. E. A. PROBST
Dentists
405 Associates Building Phone 3-1254
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
964
Dame Scholastic
Elder’s run of 97 yards against Army was easily the longest of the year. Jack’s dash was just several yards longer than Russ Saunders’ 95-yard run in the Southern California game. Other runs made by the Fighting Irish include two less lengthy ones by Elder, one of 53 yards in the Georgia Tech game and one for 60 yards in the Indiana game. Frank Carideo has to his credit dashes of 85 yards and 73 yards.
The most remarkable play of the season was perhaps the long 53-yard pass from Elder to Captain-elect Tom Conley in the Southern California game.
Notre Dame set two new attendance records this year, crowding 122,500 fans into Soldiers Field for the Southern California game, and securing during the season a total attendance of approximately 582,000 people.
All-American material was plentiful, with Jack Cannon and Frank
Carideo receiving the lion’s share of the honors. They not only received the award of the New York Sun and numerous other papers, but the certificates by the All-American Board of Football.
A few other salient facts of the season are as follows: 'Notre Dame gained 2,307 yards from scrimmage against her opponents’ 843 yards, 108 first downs as against 59, and the Fighting Irish passers completed 18 of 80 for 391 yards. Twenty-nine out
The pause that
gives poise
Delicious and Refreshing
Drink
Grantland Rice—■^Famous Sports Champions—»-Coca-Cola Orchestra Every Wednesday Kte30to 11 pm. EastemDaylight Saving Time —Coast to Coast NBC Network-»-*•”
lhe Pause
that refreshes
Comes a time (as they say) every day when it’s good to drop things—relax—and, calm, collected, cool, seek the hidden meaning of life.
Sign off for just a minute, now and then, and refresh yourself with an ice*cold Coca-Cola. Ready for you—anytime—around the corner from anywhere. Nine million times a day the Thinkers and Doers of the nation find the pause that refreshes is what keeps the world wagging.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
cw-e
9 million A Day^it had to be good to get where it is
The Notre Dame Scholastic
965
of 110 tries were completed by Notre Dame’s opponents for a total of 380 yards.	’
The scores of the nine straight victories, which everyone has committed to memory now, are as follows:
Notre Dame 14—Indiana 0.
Notre Dame 14—Navy 7.
Notre Dame, 7—Carnegie Tech 0.
Notre Dame, 26—Georgia Tech 6.
Notre Dame 19—Drake 7.
Notre Dame 13, So. California 12.
Notre Dame 26—Northwestern 6.
Notre Dame 7—Army 0.
BASKETBALL
iiiiiiiiiiHitiiiiniiiiiiiMtitiiiitiiiiiiititiimniitttiiiiitttiiiiiiiiiii
Coach George Keogan led his minions through a stiff card of twenty games, winning fourteen and dropping six. With Captain Ooney Donovan and Ed Smith, two of the finest back guards in the Middle West, as the nucleus of a green team, Keogan soon built up a formidable aggregation. Joey Gavin, the diminutive flash forward, paired with Jack McCarthy, made a smooth working combination.
A galaxy of sophomore material proved itself in the heat of the fire;
iitiitiiitiiiiiiiitiitiiitiiHitiiiiitiisiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiKiiimixoniitKiiin
Ray DeCook, center, and Norb Crowe and Bill Newbold, forwards, provided the extra needed punch to the Blue and Gold quintet.
The Notre Dame netters began the season with three easy victories, the first a 40 to 16 trouncing over Kalamazoo college, then a 49-21 slaughter of Lake Forest, and a 59-11 massacre of Albion.
Then followed the first of the two-game series with Northwestern, and the Wildcats took the initial game here by the close score of 30 to 28. Notre Dame took the measure of Iowa, 32 to 19, in the second game of the Christmas tour. Ohio State won out, 29 to 22, and Notre Dame then bumped off Northwestern in the second tilt, 22 to 19, on the loser’s floor.
Indiana and Marquette fives went down under scores of 30 to 29, and 44 to 29, respectively. Pittsburgh’s famed quintet, coached by Dr. Carlson and captained by Hyatt, came to Nctre Dame with victory marked in their hats. Not until the second half did they forge into the lead, however, and then only after the Keoganites tired fast did the Smoky City five run their score up to 33 to 13.
The Fais from Mexico were smothered by a second-team attack, 29 to 23. Michigan State cleaned up on
Notre Dame in a tight 28 to 21 game. Notre Dame beat Wabash, 26-10, and Marquette, 20-18, before the return game with Pittsburgh. Pitt again was victorious, this time 25 to 16, not without a fight, however, for the Blue and Gold five did not give up the game until the final whistle had blown.
Out of the final five tilts Notre Dame beat them earlier in the season by the tune of 26 to 10. Michigan State suffered a 29 to 17 lambasting to even up the home-and-home series between the two teams. Butler was downed twice, 28 to 20, and 29 to 16.
In the annual contest with the University of Pennsylvania at the Palestra in Philadelphia, Notre Dame took the Quakers into camp for the third successive time in as many years, the final score being 24-17. A crowd of 9,000 fans jammed its way into Palestra to watch the two teams. Pennsylvania has been Eastern collegiate league champs for the past two years.
This last game marked the final appearances of Captain Ooney Donovan, Ed Smith, Jack McCarthy, and Marshall Kizer. Looking ahead to next year, we find that Coach Keogan will have to construct his team from the present juniors and incoming members of the freshman varsity during the past season.


RANAD,
STARTS SATURDAY
Bert	Bob
Wheeler	Woolsey
The Mad-Cap Comedians of “Rio-Rita,”
In
“Cuckoos”
The Seasons Laugh Hit
- COMING ATTRACTIONS -“Song of the Flame” “So This Is London”
With Will Rogers
“Alias French Gertie"
With Bebe Daniels
The RKO Granada at this time thanks the Notre Dame students for their patronage during the past year, and wishes you an enjoyable vacation.
The Management
966
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The World Moves Fast!
Why Shouldn’t You?
LEARN TO FLY
Enjoy the thrill of whirling through space, see life from a different viewpoint. To keep ahead in this life, young moderns are going places and seeing things in a modern fashion. They own and fly theii-own planes. There is no reason why you cannot do the same.
There is no need for you to give up even part of your chosen career or profession. The Rainbow Flying Service is equipped with every modern and efficient means of teaching you. Fine, new training planes, expert ground instruction, and flying under veteran instructors. The personnel of the Rainbow organization includes graduates of M. I. T., Purdue and N. Y. U., who are authorities in aeronautics, their Chief Pilot having over 2,500 hours of actual flying to his credit.
You have your opportunity now to enroll with this organization and at the end of the summer you will have a pilot’s license. The training is complete, the cost is extraordinarily low, and you’ll agree with other Rainbow trained pilots that it was the greatest forward step of your life.
10-Hour Primary Flying Course $225
After the Commencement Exercises you will want to get home in a hurry. Travel by modern means. We operate radial powered cabin ships for aerial taxi service to any part of the country. You will find our rates reasonable and our service incomparable. Telephone or call personally at our office.
RAINBOW
Flying Service
Downtown Office: 323 South Main St., Phone 2-2285.
Field Office: Municipal Airport, Phone 3-9180.
CHARLES P. BOWERS, Manager
John F. Olson, Campus Rep., 401 Lyons Hall
Ride the
South Shore Line
to
Chicago
and
If you’re going beyond, see our campus agent about through tickets.
1
Note, Chicagoans! Baggage checked direct to your homes by Special Delivery.
Agent in Book Store CHARLES WOODS
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
St. Joseph County Savings Bank
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
122 W. Washington, J. M. S. Bldg.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
967
❖------------------------------❖
Splinters from the | Press Box I
♦-----------------------------4
The glory that was Cornells a generation ago, was resurrected again last Saturday, when the swingers of the crimson - tipped sweeps swept Lake Cayuga clear to win all three races in the triangular regatta with Syracuse and Harvard. Time was
when rowing was to Cornell what football is to Yale and Notre Dame, what baseball is to Holy Cross,, what track is to Illinois and the California schools. But time passed, and the glory of Cornell on the water waned, while Columbia, California, Navy, and Washington increased. But Cornell built wisely this year and last, and now promises to be one of the most feared shells at Poughkeepsie, despite a defeat by Yale earlier in the year.
For possibly the first time in history Notre Dame stands a real chance of getting some place in the Nationals next Saturday. John Nicholson has built wisely and well, and the eight or nine men he has entered in the N. C. A. A. all stand good chances of scoring points. With good chances for at least two firsts, assured, Notre Dame will be a real threat to Far Western supremacy at Soldier Field.
NSCN SEA -/H‘O/RSIES
Win Sweeping Victories in Intercollegiate Regattas
o
DUPLICATING their amazing supremacy of last year when Sea-Horses won 450 races, Johnson’s unbeatable outboards, again this season, are piling up victory after victory and breaking all speed records.
In the first big Eastern Intercollegiate Outboard Regatta at Lake Skaneateles, N. Y., May 16,17, Johnson Sea-Horses won for their owners First in all eight races. Second in seven and Third in five. Twenty-two entrants from thirteen colleges were represented. Colgate sponsored the meet.
College men driving Johnson Sea-Horses also won all First, Second and Third places with but one exception in the First Annual Southern California Intercollegiate Gold Cup Outboard races sponsored by College
Humor Magazine, May 3, under the auspices of Occidental College, Los Angeles.
Sea-Horses are not only consistent winners but they bring innovations like Electric-Starting in motors, with boats to match, which take motor boating this season to the highest peak of enjoyment ever known.
Mail coupon for new de luxe color-illustrated catalog and prices of all models.
Amazing New Opportunity for College Men Who Want to Make $1,000 to $10,000 This Summer
The Johnson Motor Co. is offering a special opportunity to individuals or organizations to enterSea-Horse Outboard Livery business similar to "drive yourself” automobile plan. Small down payment, real profit, pay only while earning, operation exclusive, national publicity. You can clear from $1,000 to $10,000 over investment this summer. Mail coupon for full confidentialplan.
JOHNSON MOTOR CO., Pershing Road, Waukegan, Illinois World’s Largest Manufacturer of Outboard Motors and Matched Units.
Colgate Results CLASS B. DIVISION I, won by Brown University with Sea-Horse" 16"; 2nd—Colgate, with SeaHorse "16”; 3rd—Cornell, with Sea-Horse "16.” CLASS B, DIVISION II. won by Colgate with SeaHorse "16”; 2nd—Dartmouth, with Sea-Horse "16”; 3rd—Syracuse with Competitor.
CLASS C. DIVISION I, won by Syracuse with Sea-Horse "24”; 2nd— Colgate, with Sea-Horse "24”; 3rd—Cornell with Competitor.
CLASS C, DIVISION II, won by Colgate with SeaHorse "24”; 2nd—Syracuse with Competitor. CLASS D, DIVISION I, won by Hobart with SeaHorse "32”; 2nd—St. Lawrence, wi th S ea-Horse "32”; 3rd—Syracuse, with Sea-Horse "32.”
CLASS D. DIVISION II, won by Dartmouth with Sea-Horse "32”; 2nd— Colgate, with Sea-Horse "32”; 3rd—Toledo, with Sea-Horse "32.” CLASS F, DIVISION I. won by Syracuse with Sea-Horse "32”(DClass); 2nd—St. Lawrence, with Sea-Horse "32” (D Class); 3rd—Hobart, with SeaHorse "32” (D Class). CLASS F. DIVISION II. won by Dartmouth with Sea-Horse"32”(D Class); 2nd—Colgate, with Sea-Horse"32”(D Class):3rd —Princeton, with SeaHorse "32” (D Class).
Southern California Results
CLASS B, won by U. C. L. A.with Sea-Horse; 2nd —Glendale J.C. with SeaHorse; 3rd—Caltech with Sea-Horse.
CLASS C, won by S. C. with competitor; 2nd— U.C.L.A.with Sea-Horse; 3rd—Glendale J.C. with Sea-Horse.
CLASS D, won by Ventura J.C.with Sea-Horse; 2nd—S.C. with competitor; 3rd—Caltech with Sea-Horse.
JOHNSON MOTOR CO.,	■
8055 Pershing Road, Waukegan, Ill.	।
Send me your new color-illustrated catalog and ■' prices of Sea-Horse Motors and Boats to match. I □ Check here if you want information on John- ।
son’s Motorized Boat Livery Plan.	f
I
Name_______________________________________ *
I ,	I
Address________________________________1___ |
1
City___________________State--------------- J
968
The Notre Dame Scholastic
* t they shall not have oiu*
Pipes!
PIPES and pants are masculine prerogatives that defend themselves and us. Where else could men find sanctuary?
Pipes, stout pipes, and packings of good old Edgeworth—what perfect expression of man’s inviolable right of refuge with other men behind barriers of redolent smoke!
Tobacco with the whiskers on, that’s what man wants—good old seasoned pipe-tobacco, the best of the leaf, all blended and flavored and mellowed . . . Edgeworth, in short.
You don’t know Edgeworth? Then no time must be lost. Buy Edgeworth or borrow it, or let us send you some. There below is even a coupon, a free ticket for your first few pipefuls of the genuine.
Send us the coupon and we’ll send you the Edgeworth.
f r r
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor neverchange. Buy Edgeworth anywhere—“Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”— 15e pocket package to pound humidor tin.
Edgeworth
SMOKINCr TOBACCO
1------------------------------1
LARUS & BRO. CO.	}
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.	।
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try ] it in a good pipe.	.
Name_________________________ 1
Street।
Town and State_______________ I
Now let the Edgeworth come! V •
| On Down the Line |
❖-----------------------------«
. . . Several weeks ago we said that to be sports editor was pretty nice . . . this week we are a bit dubious . . . especially after the following . . . reports of Western League games in the St. Joseph Gazette displeased LARRY FERGUSON, infielder of the St. Joseph Club ... he met RAYMOND OSBORN, sports editor of said paper, after one of the games . . . and expressed his dislike by hitting the writer over the head with a ball bat . . . BABE RUTH has been on ten pennant-winning baseball teams in sixteen seasons . . .
. . . The mast of the Enterprise, one of the American cup defenders, is 168 feet long . . . this is the largest ever built for a sailing vessel . . . the mast weighs approximately 5,000 pounds . . . Talking about weight and size . . . The biggest man in the minor leagues is JIM WEAVER, a pitcher, with the Baltimore Orioles this year . . . He stands six feet seven inches and tips the beams at
ItlllllllttUlltlttllHinillllUlttllllltltlttllllMHIIJSItnillllllttSItttllllllltlHlttlllillllitHlttttlinillllllilttilllllllllllltHSitttttlllHIIIIStttlllll
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Kris-pies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that let* you sleep.
230 pounds . . . MORRIS MEILER, 70-year old golfer, of Portland, Indiana, scored an amazing hole-in-one on the 106-yard first hole . . .
. . . All seven living former heavyweight champs will be invited to attend the SHARKEY - SCHMELING title match June 12 . . . they are GENE TUNNEY, JACK DEMPSEY, JIM JEFFRIES, JACK JOHNSON, JIM CORBETT, JESS WILLARD and TOMMY BURNS . . . HAROLD (Muddy) RUEL, Washington Senator catcher, is only five feet nine and one-fourth’inches tall and w’eighs but 160 pounds . . . it’s nothing unusual for him to lose 20 pounds during the hot months . . . JAMES J. JEFFRIES engaged in only ten bouts, which comprised a total of 93 rounds, before he won the world’s heavyweight title from BOB FITZSIMMONS . . .
.- . . GLENN HATCH, formerly of South Bend and an old Notre Dame student, recently became a member of the Hole-in-One club when one of his tee shots fokind a cup on a Mason City, la., course.
at night, why not eat one of the most delicious treats you ever tasted . . . and one which is so
easy to digest it lets you sleep like a baby.
Here it is: A bowl of crunchy-crisp Kellogg’s Corn Flakes with cool milk or cream. Now sweeten it with honey or add a bit of preserved fruit. Then watch your spoon get busy!