The Notre Dame Scholastic

15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
OCTOBER 21 1932
—and raw tobaccos
have no place in cigarettes
They are not present in Luckies ... the mildest cigarette you ever smoked
WE buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not
k\*n’0’s’/
where regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that '’Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—so
these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"It’s toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.
It’s toasted
That package of mild Luckies
a -
"If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, tho he build bis house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door. ’’—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
WRITE FOOTBALL FOR THE CHICAGO HERALD and EXAMINER
ALEXANDER
STAGG
• Never before has any newspaper been able to present the writings of all these noted experts.	.
Four members of the All-America Board of Football contribute regular articles for readers of this newspaper.
Robert C. Zuppke, football coach of the University of Illinois, writes on Monday, Wednesday and Saturday; "Pop" Warner, Stanford coach, contributes his article on Tuesday; "Bill" Alexander, head coach of Georgia Tech, on Wednesday; and Eddie Casey, head football coach at Harvard, writes on Thursday.
In addition to these four, Amos Alonzo Stagg, beloved "Grand Old Man" of the University of Chicago, gives his authoritative comments and opinions every Friday.
Be sure to read the EXCLUSIVE and timely articles of these FIVE FAMOUS COACHES.
THE CHICAGO
HERALD and EXAMINER
Two
The Scholastic

October 21, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
K ■	1 I	Entered as second-class
I he Notre Dame scholastic
.	#	#	’ ing at special rate of postage.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus section nos, October s, ion, authorized June 25, 1918.
FOUNDED 1867
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Edmund A. Stephan...............
James S. Kearns.................
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL	JOHN PICK
WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX LLOYD TESKE
News Staff MITGHELL TACKLEY........News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ......Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors BERNARD COUSINO WALTER KENNEDY PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
JOHN PICK ............. The	Week
ROGER MCGOVERN......College	Parade
ROGER BEIRNE........Music and Drama
RICHARD PREZEBEL.......Staff Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ.......Sports	Editor
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES PICK
Features Staff RAY WATERS................Features	Editor
LOUIS HRUBY HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
Business Staff JOHN F. STOECKLEY._____Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER_______Circulation Manager R. J. FITZSIMMONS .. Advertising Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
Volume LXVI.
OCTOBER 21, 1932
Number 5
COMING EVENTS
o o o
FRIDAY, Oct. 21—Scholastic staff meetings: Editorial board, Publications Office, 6:30 p. m.; News, sports, and Features staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main Building; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Sophomore Cotillion, 9:00 p. m., Palais Royale; rehearsal of N. D. Symphony Orchestra, Music Hall, 6:45 p. m.
SATURDAY, Oct. 22—Cross Country, Carnegie Tech vs. Notre Dame at 10:00 a. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church at 12:30 p. m.; Football Notre Dame vs. Carnegie Tech, Stadium at 2:00 p. m.; Movie, “The Doomed Batallion,” Washington Hall at 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.; Football dance sponsored by senior class at K. of C. Ballroom, 9:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, Oct. 23.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00, a. m., Sacred Heart Church; S. A. C. meeting, Library, 10:30 a. m.; Interhall football games at 9:00 a. m. and 2:00 p. m.; Rosary devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Irish Club meeting, Law Building, 10:30 a. m.
MONDAY, Oct. 24.—Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, Oct. 25.—Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Meeting of Patricians Club, Law Building at 8:00 p. m.; Italian Club meeting, Room 2, Main Building at 8:00 p. m.	,
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 26.—Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Wranglers meeting, Law Building at 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Oct. 27.—Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Spectators Meeting, Law Building at 8:00 p. m.
S UMM ARY
o o o
NEWS
Thirty-five thousand expected at Notre Dame-Carnegie classic tomorrow_____________________5
Loving cup to be presented to hall collecting most
Material for bonfire on eve of Northwestern game_5
Sophomores will frolic tonight at South Bend’s
Palais Royale in first formal of year 6 and 7
University and Kilty bands will participate in program to be given between halves of tomorrow’s game ________________________________________12
Department of Philosophy secures Professor
Etienne Gilson to speak in Washington Hall_11
Guest list of Cotillion includes names from all sections of the country_________________________14
FEATURES
Meet one of the most popular all-around men of the campus, Joe McCabe, in Man About this week------8
Some sincere sentiments are voiced in the Scholastic’s Voice of the Campus 9
Psychology, tastes, and impressions of the audience are discussed in Theater Talk______________________16
Father Carroll tells of fascinating experiences in .
Ireland during Eucharistic Congress this year------17
Introducing Joe Kurth________________________________26
SPORTS
Notre Dame defeats Drake in last game of series------20
Cross Country team third in quadrangular meet at Evanston________________________________________20
Alumni and Freshman look good as interhall season goes into third week 21
Basketball schedule looks tough to	Keogan----------22
Carnegie Tech here for. cross-country meet tomorrow __________________________________________22
Line-ups unchanged on eve of Tech game: Kurth--------23
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
X^ HE herding instinct reaches a climax Saturday evenings.
There are two possible ways of reaching Washington Hall. One along the ordered paths and roadways; the other in a mad rush as if to escape from a prairie fire.
V
A
21. LITTLE more animality—but of a different variety—might be injected into milk and water students at the football games. The cheering lassitude at the Drake exhibition reminded one of the timid handclaps of a convention of old maids at one of those “How To Bring Up Your Child” lectures. One would think that the team was playing pom-pom-pull-away. No ... we shouldn’t come away with blistered palms and raw voice boxes, but enthusiastic spirit is needed in the muddy cheers of those proud of their detachment.
The incident brings to memory a remark made recently by the Chairman of the South Bend Board of Aidermen at a discussion about airports and aviation: “Fifty years ago the city council was studying an ordinance prohibiting cows within the city limits.”
V
You, of course, admired the competency of the stadium guards (five of them, to be exact) in so efficiently seeing that six, and no more than six, spectators sat in a box. In not too gently extracting one student they received a greater ovation than did any player for a touchdown. Merely a matter of standards of value.
V
w
E hope that you were not in a mental
coma at Sunday Mass—at least not so much so as to fail to realize the finely organized system of sermons, one of which is offered each week. By the end of the semester they will have formed a
definite, closely organized, and correlated system of instruction.
If you are looking for a practical supplement to the above, we suggest that on Monday evenings you go to the philosophy seminar in the Law building to hear Father Miltner in his course “Foundation of Belief.” You’ll be doing yourself a favor.
V
X HERE is a distinctly new orderliness, blended with the old vigorous spontaneity, when the communicants surge to the rail Sunday mornings. Still tremble exultantly the tall green pillars at the Agnus Dei. Certain actions do have their proper places.
V
X N our meanderings we visited the much talked about, amber-lighted, lobby on the first floor of Morrissey tower. For completion the next step probably will be the addition of a barbecue in the hearth.
V
Q
CIENCE gained an entirely unexpected power over matter last Monday when an explosion in Chemistry hall scattered an assortment of instruments, doors and windows—but no students—in various directions. A five day investigation has led us to believe that the upheaval might have been accidental.
V
XHE Scholastic’s presidential poll was like all straw votes: It mirrored the general apathy of the students toward anything of more than comic strip importance. As the six hundred,
so go. . . .
<<
October 21, 1932
Five
SENIORS SPONSOR DANCE FOLLOWING TECH GAME
.	i
K, C; Ballroom to be Site of Informal Affair.
The Carnegie Tech football dance, the second of a series of informal Saturday dances, sponsored by Notre
Francis A. Werner
Appoints His First Committees
Dame student groups, will be held Saturday night at the Knights of Columbus ballroom. The senior class at the University will be in charge of the event.
President Francis A. Werner of the * class announced his committee for the dance early this week. Rolden A. Schefter, of Portland, Ore., will be general chairman of the dance.
Downs Heads Salesmen
Thomas Downs is chairman of the • ticket committee with Frank O’Keefe, Edward Roxas, Ed Siegfried, and John Galla assisting him. Arrangements are in charge of Tony Pugliese and Hugh Colopy.
Edmund A. Moriarty is chairman of the publicity committee which in*	eludes Leslie Raddatz and Edmund A.
Stephan.
The Notre Dame Jugglers will furnish the music for the dance from 9 till 12 o’clock.
Miss Janet Blanchard of St. Mary’s •	College will be the guest of Chair-
man Schefter.
Counting of time, I assume, is not so important as making time count— Jimmy Walker.
CARNEGIE CHALLENGES IRISH VICTORY MARCH TOMORROW IN FIRST BIG GAME
Bonfire Celebration Will Be Held for This Year’s
Northwestern Game
With the Northwestern game, the custom of having a “bonfire” celebration will be resumed here on the campus. This was decided at a meeting of the S. A. C. last Sunday morning. A silver loving cup is offered to the hall that collects the largest amount of wood, paper, and other inflammable material. Decoration of the halls will also be considered by the judges who will be appointed later.
The “bonfire spirit” reached its highest point in the past at the Southern California game here in 1929.
The council also discussed plans whereby students making the student trip to Cleveland this year will be enabled to attend Mass on Sunday morning in St. John’s Cathedral in Cleveland.
President Gerend is in correspondence with Mayor Ray Miller, ’14, relative to the arrangements of a suitable reception for the students’ special, but no definite plans have been made yet.
Irishmen Hold Their Initial Meet and do Business
A limited number of young men of Irish extraction held their first formal meeting Sunday morning and gave their organization the name of, “The Irish Club.” In the absence of James P. Danehy, the president, Joseph Davey acted as chairman. The set purpose of the group is the furtherance of Irish culture and learning.
Written applications for admission into the club received due consideration. Only seven applicants can possibly be accepted as the constitution calls for a limitation to twenty members and the membership now numbers thirteen men. Those who have made application verbally are requested to petition the secretary in writing.
EXPECT 35,000 AT FRAY
Tech Seeks Third Triumph In Ten Year Series; Anderson
Sees Game as Major Test.
The Notre Dame warriors under the tutelage of “Hunk” Anderson, will received their first real test of the season, tomorrow, when Wally Steffens brings his classy Carnegie Tech eleven to perform before the 35,000 expected fans. Coach Steffens, has high hopes of defeating Hunk’s entry in the 1932 national championship race.
. Will Show Strength
Against Drake and Haskell, the Blue and Gold gridmen found little, opposition but the tilt tomorrow will determine the strength of Coach Anderson’s charges, as the Tartans are truly of big league caliber. To date Carnegie has not lost a game in three starts, but were tied last week by the strong W. and J. eleven.
Statistics show that since the two teams opened hostilities back in 1922, Notre Dame has won seven and lost but two games. This will be the tenth meeting of the two schools on the gridiron. In 1926 when Rock’s team was headed for the national title, Carnegie won 19 to 0, and two years later, broke a Notre Dame tradition of twenty-three years by whipping the Irish 27-7 on old Cartier field.
Irish Backs Have Power
All who saw that latter game will remember how the crafty Howard Harpster, the Skibo quarterback, sent Ted Rozenzweig on the end around play for sixty yards and a touchdown. Harpster proved to the amazed crowd that he was deserving of the AllAmerican berth, as he passed, kicked and ran the surprised Notre Dame team to defeat.
The Notre Dame backfield of this year is truly a second edition of the famous Four Horsemen, Jaskwhich, Brancheau, Melinkovich and Lukats all have the power, color and speed of former great backfield quartets, in (Continued on Page 30)
Six
The Scholastic
Sophomore Cotillion at Nine Tonight
Three Hundred Couples Will Dance At Palais Royale Ballroom Until One O'clock
Cotillion Program
Friday
9:00 p.m.—Sophomore Cotillion of 1932. Dancing from 9 till 1 at Palais Royale Ball Room, South Bend.
Saturday
2:00 p. m. — Notre Dame vs. Carnegie Tech, Notre Dame Stadium.
9:00 p. m. — Senior Class Football dance, Knights of Columbus Ball Room,SouthBend.
Sunday
9:00 a. m.—Mass (Moreau Choir) Sacred Heart Church.
If any credence can be attached to campus rumor three hundred and fifty couples will dance around the Palais Royale ballroom tonight from nine to one o’clock when the class of 1935 stage their one and only extravaganza, the Sophomore Cotillion.
That the dance will be a financial success goes without saying. The sophomores are always open to juniors and seniors to insure stability of income if the response of their own class is not up to expectations. This year, naturally, has been no exception to the procedure.
General Chairman John McKean and Class President John Breen, from ■ the looks on their faces the past
John Breen
President, Sophomore Class
week, have worked as hard as dance officials ever do, and have undoubtedly got somewhere with the yawning, sprawling hall down town. Jimmy Garrigan and his band have been tuning up the past week over national hook-ups, the guest list is on page fourteen—everything in fact seems to be in readiness.
And The Decorations
Getting back to the decorations, they will be simple but consequently impressive. A large illuminated golden N. D. will hang over the orchestra, with the class numerals on a silver plate in the background. Colored lights will be focused on the floor, lounges in the ballroom will be edged with palms, even new furniture has been installed by the management.
There is a certain simplicity about the favors, too. The girls will be handed a blue, suede card cases for souvenirs. Guest of John Breen will be Miss Mary Lorraine Gallagher of Chicago. Betty Bronson of New
Miss Mary Lorraine Gallagher
Guest of President Breen
Orleans will accompany Chairman McKean.
In harmony with a recently inaugurated policy no complimentary tickets or honorary list of campus celebrities will be in evidence. That an abuse of such favors has been made in the past was given as a reason for the move.
Two O’Clock Permission
Permissions for all students attending the dance have been extended to two o’clock. All other students must be in their halls before the dance begins. Automobiles may be used by cotillioners over the weekend provided a student notifies his rector of his intention to have a car.
Special Football Seats
A special section has been reserved at the Carnegie Tech game tomorrow for those attending the Cotillion. It is on the Tech side of the field at approximately the fifyt yard line. Over 150 couples have taken advantage of the arrangement offered by the Athletic office.
The various committees in charge of the dance this year are small, and are as follows: Tickets: Healy, Ko-reneski, Carbine; Music, Keefe, Ne-son; Invitations, Weber, Martin; Reception, Raus, Coller; and Patrons, Brett, Tourney; Hall, Devine, Murtha; Publicity, Dillon, Doyle, Shields; Arrangements, Hoffer, Cronin; Program, Moore, Miller.
October 21, 1932
Seven
Music By Garrigan to Feature Dance
Miss Betty Bronson
Guest of Chairman McKean
Patrons and Patronesses for the formal are: Dean and Mrs. James ' McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Bocskei, Judge and Mrs. Albert Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. Louis Buckley, Mr. Thomas B. Campbell, Mr. Andrew Boyle, and Mr. Francis Moran.
GUEST LIST
Josephine Lorimer, Crystal Lake, Illinois Virginia Meis, Chicago, Illinois Mary Hunt, Notre Dame, Indiana Marion Reinke, Rosary College Geraldine Blaelock, Chicago, Illinois Marjorie Beal, Ann Arbor, Michigan Elizabeth George,. Dayton, Ohio Catherine Bochweg, Indianapolis, Ind. Dolores Sjoyd, Kokomo, Indiana Blanche McGovern, Pittsburgh, Pa. Ruby Middleton. LaPorte, Indiana Mary Dearlorff, Kokomo, Indiana Dora Matthew, Elkhart, Indiana Alice Pervey, Elkhart, Indiana Joan Joyce, St. Mary’s. Kay Lowery. Terre Haute, Indiana Nadine LeMontree, Dayton, Ohio Florence LeMontree, Dayton, Ohio Toddy .Sparling, St. Mary’s Joan Dolan, Peoria, Illinois Susan Pettingill. South Bend. Indiana Lorette Whitehead. St. Mary’s o’ the Woods Helen Mulfurum, St. Mary’s Flo Hanling, Gerard, Pennsylvania Alice Grogan, St. Mary’s Mary Harris. Southampton, England Margaret Corey, Kokomo, Indiana Estelle Smith, Carnegie, Pennsylvania Mirium Fulks, Carnegie, Pennsylvania Catherine Colygraff, Chicago, Illinois Mary Wenke, Cedar Rapids, Iowa Mary Swinsich, South Bend. Indiana Mary Ferris, Champaign, Illinois Elizabeth McGowan, Decatur, Illinois Katherine Nolan, St. Mary’s
Section Reserved For Cotillion Guests At Carnegie
Tech Game Tomorrow
John McKean
General Chairman, ’32 Cotillion
Felice Musil, South Bend, Indiana Theresa Doran, South Bend. Indiana Virginia Bohn, Fort Wayne, Indiana Beatrice Byrer, South Bend, Indiana Ruth Florence, South Bend, Indiana Alice Condon, Sheridan, Wyoming Patricia Mumsford, South Bend. Indiana Mary Besch, St. Mary’s F. Words, Chicago. Illinois R. Smith. St. Mary’s Dorothy Dugan, St. Mary’s Fean Villeneunc, Ottawa C. Gillespie, South Bend, Indiana Louise Borthmon. South Bend, Indiana Marion Alberts, South Bend, Indiana Alma Hords, Paducah, Kentucky Elmyra Wilcox, N. Platte. Nebraska Miss Sies. St. Mary’s Gena Forcier, Columbus, Ohio Helen Newman, St. Mary’s Isabelle Gedde, St. Mary’s Madge O’Connor, St. Mary’s Patricia O’Doffer, South Bend, Indiana Katherine Temple, Cleveland. Ohio Jane Fitzpatrick, St. Mary’s Betty Fox, St. Mary’s Mary Schonover, South Bend, Indiana Virginia Koppus, Elmhurst, Illinois Annette Frank, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Tuchscherr, Menasha, Wisconsin Elizabeth McCallen, Elkhart, Indiana Patricia Freiogen, South Bend, Indiana Jean Hess, South Bend, Indiana (Continued on Page 14)
REGULATIONS FOR THE 1932 COTILLION
Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline has released the following bulletin pertaining to the regulations in effect for the Sophomore Cotillion on Friday, Oct. 21.
“The Sophomore Cotillion takes place Friday, Oct. 21. The time limit authorized by the Faculty Dance Committee is from 9 to 1 o’clock. Those attending the Cotillion must be in their place of residence at 2 o’clock Saturday morning.
Sophomores who attend the Cotillion may use automobiles from Friday morning until Monday noon, provided they notify their rectors.
Attention is hereby also called to the Faculty Dance regulation that no student (graduate or undergraduate) may leave the dance hall before the end of the dance.
All students not attending the Cotillion must be in residence at 9 o’clock on Friday night, Oct. 21.
Failure to abide by these regulations shall result in the administration of the ordinary disciplinary penalties governing such matters.”
Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
FAMOUS BOY CHORUS TO SING AT NJ). ON NOV. 14
By Joseph Degnan
Last autumn when times were much as they are now and none of the sophomores cared, a few of the Cotillion committee-men, coffee sopped and all, drifted into the room of the general chairman for the usual postbreakfast chat. Things were, they thought, coming along pretty well.
But at that moment the young man who had been a successful politician his freshman year was just about chewing the blotter off his desk. Of all people to get a letter of criticism from—the Editor of Scrip! “Hey, who is this weazel anyway?” he snarled. He was becoming aggressive.
“Oh, just the B-team quarter back —you know McCabe don’t you?”
Radical In A Nice Way
Well, it would be all right after all, only he shouldn’t criticize the policies of the general chairman. But anyway he liked the guy’s style of writing. It was firm and brisk.
Commercially speaking, Scrip has always been a problem. McCabe, radical in a handy way, shocked the more sedate members of the campus literati last year by ripping out the rusty idea that Scrip should be drab, staid, and dead green in color. His release came out in bright orange. And though the tone was somewhat the same and appreciated only by a few, Joe, the practical, suggested that the cover would at least be nice for a scrap book.
Dabbles In Psychology
But the magazine, he decided, could also use a stronger, more personal bit of color. That bit of color was gentle Charley Bolger who, some of the boys had wagered, could even sell hairpins on the campus. Joe had seen the gentleman in action. He had been down in Bob Gorman’s room the night the elegant Mr. Bolger tried for a full half hour to sell the editor his own Juggler. Charles was called into action. Soon Scrip began to get around. A lecture that made the Elliot Five Foot book shelf line look cheap accompanied every sale.
Joe likes to fool around with practical psychology now and then. At times he’ll send a letter with a three cent stamp when a one cent stamp would suffice. Some girls, he says,
like that sort of thing. Two cents worth of charm is a lot to them.
From the state where the Cabots speak only to the Lowells and their wives speak only to facial cream ad-
Joseph McCabe
He has slept on some of the best door-steps in toivn.
vertisers, McCabe has, for the sake of convenience, the trick habit of adopting Chicago. He has slept on some of the best door steps in town. The Chicago club wouldn’t know what to do without him. He will speak at the drop of a chin and is a good man to have around. A natural wit, he gives their formals that sufficient something. Usually it’s a shock. Last year, all dressed up in that trenchcoat, he sneered his way right by the boys in full dress. It was only the Easter Formal.
Some call McCabe the man of a million color combinations. His moods may be responsible. Often of the Broadway type, then again with a trend towards the English side, his dress takes some individual turns. When he’s broke he wears the green hat.
“Juggler” Is Different
At home on the stage, McCabe is just as funny on as he is off. When assigned to act as a bowery guide in one of last seasons productions, he nearly walked out. But he stayed for rehearsals and avenged himself by stealing the show.
The Juggler this year, like the editor, is going to be a trifle different.
(Continued on Page 10)
“Choir of Vienna,” Nationally Known, to Give Concert.
On November 14, the Boys Choir of Vienna will give a concert at Washington Hall. This fine musical organization which has been in existence since the year 1498 is the most beloved musical group in Europe. It was in this choir that Mozart, Haydn, and Schubert received much of their early musical training.
Six Centuries Old
The choir in the six centuries of its existence has been heard by all the people of most every town and city of any size in Europe. They are so well liked that the organization has . been endowed by the state and sanctioned by it. They have been in every court in Europe; they have appeared before many of the Popes in the last six centuries.
Their repertoire includes many charming operas, church choruses, national songs and Christmas carols. They not only sing but act the song.
N. D? Hais Students of 16 Different Denominations
Robert B. Riordan, Registrar of the University, has released for publication, statistics pertaining to the religious denomination distribution among the students of the University. In an enrollment embracing 2,775 pupils all but 230 of these are Catholic. Sixteen different faiths are represented in these 230 non-Catho-lics with the Jewish and Methodist denominations predominating with 37 and 32 members respectively. The complete list follows:	’
Anglican 1; Baptist 3; Community Church 1; Christian 3; Church of Christ 1; Congregational 1; Episcopal 17; Greek Orthodox 3; Evangelical 2; Lutheran 15; Mennonite 2; Methodist Episcopal 3; Methodists 32; NonCatholic 10; No Religion 11; United Brethren 1; Jewish 37; Presbyterian 22; Protestant (denomination not stated) 65.
Life is too often confused with animalism, as though there were no zest outside of the zoo.—A. J. F. Stanton.
October 21, 1932
Nine
JUNIOR PICTURES FOR “DOME” BEING TAKEN
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Poor Response for Senior Pictures Causes Delay.
Senior photography has not progressed as well as was expected during the past week, the principle reason being the failure of the seniors to cooperate with those in charge. As a result it will be necessary to charge one dollar and a half for all cap and gown pictures taken after today, Oct. 21, for other work must go ahead as has been planned.
Junior sittings began yesterday and the charge for each is fifty cents. However, if the response among the third year men is no better than that of the seniors, the same proceedure will be followed in their case. This means that the duty on all junior sittings taken after Thursday, Oct. 27, will be raised to one dollar.
Club Schedule Announced
Activities men have been notified as to the time of their appointment. A purchase order must be presented upon applying for a sitting, and these may be procured at the Publications office.
Edward Raddatz, clubs editor of the Dome of 1933, has drawn up a schedule of appointments for the group pictures of the various organizations. Each president has been notified of the time designated for his club’s picture, and it is expected that he shall conform with the regulations. All pictures, except those of the Metropolitan, Chicago and Engineers clubs, which will be taken on the library steps, will be made in the basement of Walsh hall. Each member is to wear a coat, vest and tie in order to insure some regularity in the section devoted to clubs.
Harvard Man Returns From Researches in Ireland
Professor William Lloyd Warner has recently returned for a year’s survey made in Ireland for Harvard University and the Peabody Museum. His discoveries on the site of ancient abbey in Westmeath included an old lamp, several urns and numerous implements. These are expected to reveal new information concerning Ireland’s early culture, which antedates that of other countries, accord-, ing to Professor Warner. Ireland, he / says, was the last outpost of early I civilization.
All letters must be signed in full with address and mailed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall.
We Pass .
The Editor, Scholastic,
Dear Sir:
The round trip rate for the student trip is reasonable. But, don’t you think the time set for departure and arrival on the trip east is absurd? What would the fellows do for sleep ? What would they do at 4 a. m. in a strange city? Unless something is done to remedy this, it would seem that the trip to Cleveland is doomed to failure. Only several days have elapsed since the time allotted for the trip was made known, and already the campus seems bubbling with “I won’t go if that’s the case.”
The S. A. C., as representatives of the whole student body, should be able to secure much better facilities. Look at the Metropolitan club! If any help is needed, perhaps the Cleveland club would be willing to lend a hand. What do you say?
J. E. H.
Logician
Mr. Ed Stephan, Sorin Hall.
We have been so enlightened by The Scholastic of Oct. 14th, that we send you our hearty congratulation. We cannot pull the resined horsehair from the Restoration in telling you how pleased we are but shall have to hold to English that will court the King’s favor.
We absorbed a lot of good solid information which is featured in The Week. Among other things, we read with approval, the blow given our old friend Toscanini and it delighted us that he has a new rooter. Of course, Ed, we’ve been taking him in for some time but a new fan is always welcome. Again, I don’t ever remember doing much reveling when I was drowsy. I guess its just a new way of telling us something old.
Here is a little syllogism you may enjoy:
First Premise, Champagne is a cathartic; (Week).
Seecond Premise, Soda Water is a cathartic; (Experience).
Conclusion, If Champagne equals Toscanin and Soda Water equals pop
ular music, Toscanini and Irving Berlin are on a par.
We are always entertained by Walter and his Winchellisms but we can’t quite down “Symphomaniacs.” It gags us. We have, since our coming to college, looked up enough words to hold us over so that we don’t have to coin any to be understood.
We wouldn’t want to appear finicky but the title of the song mentioned in The Week is, “Is I in Love” instead of “Is You in Love.” Just what became of it on Saturday.
We may be a little old fashioned but we learned somewhere that a fellow ought to have something to say before he says it and plenty to say if he writes it. We will neither sneer nor will we open the padded cell. No good was ever accomplished by a smirk or by locking up an innocent party. We are happy in the realization that we can still live and learn while some folks just learn.
I look forward a week to the ‘Week’ and trust it will find us still smiling. See you around.
Sincerely,
S. Jerome Roach.
Check The Records
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
I don’t believe that a Notre Dame man has ever won a Rhodes Scholarship. Surely there are individuals on the campus who have the qualifications necessary for this award if they only choose to stir their stumps and get interested in the thing. How about some activity along this line from a few ambitious people ?
Sincerely,
J. F. L.
Professor W. A. Campbell of Wellesley College has described the remains of a fourth-century hippodrome closely resembling a modern football stadium, which he helped to excavate at Antioch, Syria.
Presentation to the University of Chicago of the S3,COO,000 international house, dormitory for foreign students, was made last week by John D. Rockefeller III., on behalf of his father, who provided the funds.
Ten
The Scholastic
JOHN CLANCY SPEAKS AT WRANGLERS MEET
“Excessive Expenditures I n Government” is Topic.
John Clancy, a member of the Wranglers, spoke before that body, last Wednesday evening, on “Excessive Expenditures in Government, and A Means, Whereby They May be Eliminated.”
He pointed out numerous examples of inefficient methods, citing bureaus, boards and commissions that might easily be done away with. “There are about nine thousand tax levying bodies in the United States, which have no relation to each other, whatso-
•ever,” he said.
His Remedy
In suggesting a remedy, he proposed that a non-partisan group be organized to examine and report just what economies could be effected. “Wisconsin has supported this idea,” he continued, “and the LaFollette tax dynasty has been destroyed.
“Thirty-three percent of our national income goes to the municipalities, states, and federal government!” he stated.
Upon conclusion of his speech, the Wranglers voted twelve to two, in favor of adopting Clancy’s plan to bring about a reorganization of government, to better control useless expenditures.
Previous to Clancy’s speech, Arthur Sandusky, chairman of the interhall debating committee, reported that every hall on the campus had responded to the call for debaters, and that he felt sure the outcome of the entire plan will be interesting.
Seven Pound Son is Born to Mr. and Mrs. John Turley
A seven pound son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John P. Turley at St. . Joseph’s Hospital at three o’clock last Saturday morning, October 15.
Mr. Turley, Instractor in Latin at Notre Dame, announced that his son will be christened Gerald Kerin Turley.
Mid-western states lead all others in the country in the percentage of honor students sent to Harvard, a survey of the freshman class at Harvard has revealed.
DRAMATIC CRITICISM IS POWERS* SUBJECT BEFORE BOOKMEN.
The technique of dramatic criticism was the subject of David Powers at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening.
Various aspects of the drama and their relation to life comprised the first part of Power’s talk. With this foundation he showed how a play should be criticized both from the point of view of drama itself and from the point of view of presentation.
He discussed the introduction of characters using several modern plays as examples. The thirteen basic passions, character development, the conflict, complication, and climax of the play were also considered at some length.
Powers related some of his own experiences while playing at the Paul Gilmore Theatre in Greenwich during the past summer, and with the South Bend Theatre Guild for the past two seasons. At present he is working on the lead in Sheridan’s Critic which the Theatre Guild will present in the near future.
A statement by Powers to the effect that closet drama is an illegitimate form of literature aroused considerable discussion among the Bookmen.
The resignation of Daniel Rolfs as secretary of the Bookmen necessitated the election of a new officer. Lloyd Teske was unanimously elected to the position.
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 8)
The humor won’t be of the rah-rah type. To many it may not even be humor. McCabe sincerely hopes the boys will like it but if they don’t— well, he’s just awfully sorry. He really is satisfied with the first issue though, as everybody else seems to be.
In his more serious moments, McCabe is usually alone. He sneers at boys who wear their pipes instead of smoking them and is unusually cruel to poets who wear their souls on the outside. What he thinks of life, love, and the boys who gather at the Palace of Sweets will never be known. Kitty Gorman and Maurie Lee like to call their friend “Scrip” but McCabe can take it. Other than as subjects for an occasional satire, politics and politicians hold no special interest for Joe. And now that he’s of age he’ll probably vote for Norman Thomas.
HERE ARE NJS SONGS AND YELLS; LEARN ’EM
S. A. C. Deplores Student Apathy at Football Games.
Believing that the lackadaisical attitude of the student body at football games is possibly attributable to an ignorance of the songs and yells, the Students Activities Council has requested The Scholastic to print the above. The complete list follows:
CARRY ON FOR ROCKNE
Carry on for Rockne, Men of monogram fame.	'
Fighting onward with his spirit. You’re bound to win for Notre Dame.
We’re here. Rock, Hear the loyal thousands Cheer the men in the game The wearers of gold and blue. Your warriors are going through And Notre Dame will carry on.
VICTORY MARCH
Cheer, cheer, for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunder from the sky. What tho’ the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all. While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory.
WHEN IRISH BACKS GO MARCHING BY And when the Irish backs go marching by The cheering thousands shout their battle cry:	.
For Notre Dame men are marching into the game,
Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame And when that Irish line goes smashing through,	'
They’s sweep the foeman’s ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Goldl and Bllue,
Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
HIKE SONG
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh it’s the hike of victory. The call, to rise and strike. For Notre Dame men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike,* hike. Hark to the cheering song rising high. Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by;
Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name.
Burn high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.
(Repeat.)	.
NOTRE DAME, OUR MOTHER (Alma Mater) ' Notre Dame, Our Mother, Tender, Strong and True Proudly in the Heavens Gleams Thy Gold and Blue Glory's mantle Cloaks Thee Golden is Thy Fame And Our Hearts Forever Praise Thee. Notre Dame And Our Hearts Forever Love Thee, Notre Dame.
(Continued on Page 15)	.

October 21, 1932
Eleven
PROF. ETIENNE GILSON TO GIVE TALKS HERE
FRANK WARD O’MALLEY, VETERAN REPORTER, DIES IN FRANCE
HON. LEN OARE SPEAKS TO LAW CLUB MEMBERS
Dept, of Philosophy Engages Sorbonne University Man.
Professor Etienne Gilson, noted lecturer and authority on the subject of medieval philosophy, has been engaged to deliver a series of two lectures at the University during the third week in November. The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, head of the department of philosophy at Notre Dame, made the announcement.
Was Here Last Year
. Professor Gilson is a member of the faculty of the internationally famous Sorbonne University in Paris. Last year Mr. Gilson was brought to Notre Dame through the efforts of the department of philosophy.
Two splendid lectures were delivered by the professor in Washington Hall at that time. The house was packed to capacity on both evenings. Those that heard him then will be most anxious to hear him again this year.
The department of philosophy is also trying to secure two additional speakers of national renown in the field of social philosophy. The names of these men and the dates of the lectures will be announced at a later date by Father Miltner.
Thirteen Rhode Islanders Meet and Organize Club
Thirteen representatives of the state of Rhode Island held a meeting Tuesday evening and organized a campus club to be known as the Rhode Island club. Henry E. Buckley, was elected president of the group.
The remaining officers elected were as follows: John F. Fitzgerald, vicepresident; Vincent G. McAloon, secretary and Thomas A. Sepe, treasurer. The other charter members are John Brady, Joseph A. McCabe, John J. McClurg, John F. McKiernan, John J. McLaughlin, Thomas J. Murphy, John B. Steel, Leo D. Sullivan and Andrew J. McMahon.
Other Rhode Islanders on the campus not already registered in the club are requested to make their presence known. Students from Fall River are invited to join. The club will hold its next meeting on Nov. 18.
Frank Ward O’Malley, internationally known writer and reporter, died in Tours France this week. Mr. O’Malley was 57 years old.
A student at Notre Dame from 1895 to 1898, he was graduated from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 1902. The greater part of his youth was spent in studying architecture, painting, and sketching.
O’Malley was a frequent contributor to various magazines of the day but he is principally remembered for his effective news stories. At the beginning of his newspaper career he served on several Metropolitan dailies. It was while working on the Sun that he was assigned to cover the shooting of a policeman. The story “Happy Sheehan” established him firmly in the top rank. It was reprinted widely and appears in many selections of / model reportorial writing.	'
Capitol District Club Elects Officers for Year
At a meeting of the Capitol District club of Notre Dame in the basement of Walsh hall last Friday night, Oct. 14, the officers of the club were elected. Succeeding Eddie Eckert, last year’s president, is Charlie Quinn. The vice-president’s chair went to Frank Mahar, with Jerry Molinari, secretary, and Jack Fitzpatrick, treasurer.
In his initial address, President Quinn said that although he had no definite plans for the future, he hoped to carry on as actively as the retiring president. In view of this fact he • announced that a meeting would be held next Wednesday, Oct. 26, to formulate plans for a Christmas dance.
Youngstowners May Feast
Plans for a banquet to be held in the near future were discussed at the regular meeting of the Youngstown Club, Tuesday evening in the Law building. The purpose of the banquet is to get the men of the Youngstown district better acquainted.
The next meeting will be held Tuesday, November 1.
It is blessed to give and always will be, but it is more blessed to use intelligence in reducing the necessity of giving. —Charles A. Beard.
Indiana Bar Examinations Are Discussed at Smoker.
One hundred and twenty-five members of the Law club and a number of the faculty of the Law School, attended a smoker in the faculty dining hall on Wednesday evening. The club was fortunate in obtaining for the principal speaker a member of the Indiana State Board of Bar Examiners, Honorable Len Oare.
Joe Deeb, the president of the club, presented Dean Konop who welcomed the judge to the gathering. The judge gave a lucid description of the type of questions asked of candidates for the Bar in Indiana, stressing the fact that “crammers” and “memor-izers” usually gave the least satisfactory answers to the examination questions. The student who analyzes his case and gives a direct answer is the one who makes the highest grade.
Exams Not Easy
Another interesting point brought out was the popular fallacy that Indiana has the easiest bar examinations. Judge Oare quoted statistics and records showing that Indiana now ranks as high in the quality of her examinations as any state in the Union. Formerly students without formal legal education passed the bar examinations but now not even a diploma from a prominent law school is a guarantee that the applicant will be successful.
N. D. Men Most Successful
Dean Konop was pleased to hear that Notre Dame Law students have been among the most successful in tests.
The lecture was followed by a discussion, during which Judge Oare answered questions and explained various matters concering technicalities of the examinations. After a quarter of an hour of this discussion, luncheon was served, and cigars were passed around.
Goethe Movie to be Shown
There will be a movie presented by the German Club Tuesday evening at eight o’clock in Washington Hall on the life of Goethe, eminent German scientist, philosopher, and novelist.
During the show, Professor Paul Menge, faculty adviser of the club, will lecture on the life of this great man.
Twelve
The Scholastic
MANION TO SPEAK AT K. OF C. OPEN MEETING
Knights Start New Series of Programs for Non-Members.
Professor Clarence Manion will be the principal speaker at the Knights of Columbus open meeting to be held next Monday evening, October 24, at 8:00 p. m. in the K. of C. clubrooms in Walsh hall.
Professor Manion’s address will be on some phase of Knights of Columbus work. Mr. Manion has a reputation as an orator that is state wide. He is active in state politics and at the recent Democratic State convention his keynote address was judged to have been one of the finest speeches in the history of Indiana politics. He has been connected with the University since 1924.
Everybody Welcome
This open meeting will inaugurate the first of a series of meetings sponsored by the Knights. The purpose of these open meetings is to acquaint the school in general with the work being done by this organization. Anyone connected with the University is eligible to attend. Freshmen are especially invited.
The Notre Dame Jugglers will be on hand to provide music. In addition, Lecturer Charles Fiss has arranged for several features to be presented. Refreshments will be served.
Adirondack Club is New Name of the N. N. Y. Club
Thirteen members of the Northern New York Club met Tuesday evening in the basement of Walsh Hall for :	their first get-together of the year.
President James C. Munn occupied the chair and took charge of the business at hand.
Legislation was passed whereby the name of the club was changed from its present one to the Adirondack Club. The territory taken in by the organization includes the foothills and mountain districts of the Northern New York chain.
h	Plans were discussed for a Christ-
mas dance to be held either in Malone or Saranac Lake. The club voted to have Masses said for the late Bishop Finnigan, honorary president S	of the Club.
DIRECTOR
Al Steivart, who heads the Notre Dame Jugglers as they furnish music for the Saturday evening football dances.
Campus Artist Draws Fine Portrait of Late Rockne
Another Notre Dame student promises to make a name for himself as an artist in the person of Sam Gibbons. Gibbons, who is a sophomore in the College of Fine Arts here, has recently received considerable recognition for his portrait of the late Knute Rockne. With his permission the Columbus Dispatch of Columbus, Ohio, first printed the likeness on Oct. 9.
The Louisville Courier followed suit on Oct. 16, after wiring for the artist’s sanction. Several other newspapers throughout the east have asked for permission to print it.
The Columbus Dispatch was enthusiastic in its praise of the drawing. They commented as follows: “Seldom does one see a reproduction of the late genius of our college’s greatest game that so wonderfully brings out those characteristics for which he was noted.”
Sam’s home is in Dayton, Ohio. During the past summer he studied under Dora Grube Antrim, widely known art teacher at Dayton. The young artist plans to enter the field of commercial art following the completion of his course at Notre Dame.
The vital man is he who moves at the dictates of the invisible. —A. J. F. Stanton.
BANDS TO PLAY DURING HALVES OF TECH GAME
Field Demonstration Planned For Tomorrow Afternoon.
The Notre Dame band, eighty-two strong, will take part in one of the year’s best field exhibitions tomorrow afternoon during the halves of the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech game. The Kilty Band from Carnegie will share honors with the local musicians.
“Onward Tech,” the official song of Carnegie written to the tune of “On Wisconsin,” will be featured by the members of the band. Coincidently, the fight song for the Haskeell Indians which was played by the band two weeks ago, is written to the same tune.
Bands To Share Time
Six and one half minutes of the period between the halves of the game have been allotted to each of the bands. The University band will present formations and maneuvering which will include the spelling out of TECH, IRISH, the N. D. monogram and the letters, N. D.
Selections which will be played by the musicians on the field are the “Hike Song,” “Irish Backs,” the “Victory March,” and the alma mater, “Notre Dame Our Mother.” The arrangement for the latter song was written by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta. The alma mater will be given in an arrangement of solid brass.
Louis Alaman has been selected by Prof. Casasanta as the official drummajor for this year. Alaman will swing the baton for tomorrow afternoon’s spectacle. His assistant is Tom Grady.
Glee Club to Participate In South Bend Charity Show
The Notre Dame. Glee club will participate in the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce charity show which will be held Wednesday evening, Nov. 9, in the auditorium of the Central High school.
The personnel of the organization to take part in this program as well as the list of selections to be sung will be announced at a later date by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the group.
1
October 21, 1932
Thirteen
ENGINEERS INITIATE
SIXTY FROSH MEMBERS
Penote and Lennartz Reign As Monarchs of Engineria.
On Monday evening freshmen members were formally welcomed into the Engineers Club at the annual initiation conducted in the gym.
While Johnny Penote and Frank Lennartz acted as King and Queen of “Engineeria,” the unfortunate ones underwent the customary servitude of the probationary period.
Incomplete details indicate that a “shocking” good time was had by all.
The initiation committee was headed by Charles Slatt. He was assisted by Pat McCaffery, Bill Hawkes, Barbazette, Kane, Troy, Bean, O’Keefe, Barbek, Poynton, Krause, Martin, Joseph, Alvino, Neal, Shean, and Haberkern.
Following the initiation refreshments were served. At the close of the evening President Marterstek addressed the members of the club, urging them to keep up the standard of the Engineers Club.
Voting Regulations Issued By County Clerk F. Nevins
Official regulation regarding voting on the campus at the 1932 Presidential election early in November were released recently by County Clerk Frank Nevins of South Bend.
Any student who has resided in Indiana for six months, in the county for sixty days, and in the local precinct for thirty days is eligible to vote. The six months residential period refers to students who attended the University last year from January to June.
Two voting machines will be placed in the gymnasium on election day. Students must, of course, be twenty-one years of age to vote legally.
Registrar Talks to Local Relief Group Last Week
Robert B. Riordan, Registrar of the University, addressed the Portage Avenue chapter of the Workers Relief Association last Friday evening in their clubrooms at 1507 Portage Ave. Mr. Riordan discussed the Rochdale system now being successfully used in England in connection with the English consumers cooperative movement.
SPEAKER
Francis O’Malley, ex-president of of the Patricians, instructor in history department, Patricians’ most recent speakers: “The Virtue of the Obsolete.”
Harry Stuhldreher Has Story
In “Saturday Evening Post’*
Harry Stuhldreher, probably Notre Dame’s greatest quarterback, this week joins Harry Sylvester and Francis Wallace in putting Notre Dame football experience into fiction. With W. Thornton Martin, Stuhldreher has written “Bench Warmer,” a short story in this week’s Saturday Evening Post.
The story itself, like all others of its type, simmers down to the hero’s making the winning touchdown in the last quarter of the big game, and winning the girl who has been urging him on. Stuhldreher’s knowledge of football and Martin’s excellent writing, however, give the story an interest and suspense that the average football story lacks.
Not At Notre Dame
“Bench Warmer” differs from most of the stories which Notre Dame men have written in that it apparently has nothing to do with Notre Dame. Midwestern, the school in the story, uses the Notre Dame system, but there the connection ends. Especially is this true of Midwestern’s coach. The story itself forced Stuhldreher to forego the use of a coach like Rockne and to use in his place the narrowminded “Foxy” who takes the hero out of the game after he has run over the winning touchdown.
O’MALLEY, EX-PRESIDENT, TALKS TO PATRICIANS
“The Virtue of the Obsolete” is Subject of Address.
Francis O’Malley, former president of the Patricians, addressed the members of that club Friday night on the subject, “The Virtue of .the Obsolete.”
The following are excerpts from the address: “Dead books produce greater works because of their influence on contemporary or following writers . . . The human body is a clumsy instrument ... It can not possibly collect all the experience necessary for our existence ... it is equipped with the faculty of assimilating knowledge . . . Reading is one of the fods of the mind . . . By indulging in this exercise, the individual becomes a citizen of the past and an architect of the future . . . Dead books of every period live and are tms-mitted in the great and little commemorated works of writers, especially in the poetic field of the period, and live on into the succeeding periods as well.”
The next meeting of the Patricians will be held Tuesday night, October 25, in the Law building. Although a fair number attended the meeting, all members are urged to attend the coming meeting as a prominent speaker is to address the meeting. Those interested in the activity of the club are invited to attend.
Italians in Session
At their weekly meeting in Room 2 of the Main Building last Tuesday evening, the Italian Club announced that high Mass and Communion would be offered for the repose of the souls of the recently deceased fathers of two club members.
As the scheduled guest speaker was unavoidably absent, papers on “Mussolini’s Ships” and “Italy’s Gain in Land Reclaiming” were delivered by Joseph and Samuel Costa.
At the next week’s meeting the committee in charge of the informal Roman dinners will submit a full report on the forthcoming initial dinner.
Instead of talking of the survival of the fittest let us make all humans fit to survive.—Rabbi I. Brill.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
COTILLION GUEST LIST
(Continued from Pace 7)
Bernice Rider, South Bend. Indiana
Catherine A. Cooney, St. Mary’s
Ruth Roach, Bushnell, Illinois
Margaret Jones, South Bend, Indiana
Delphine Murphy, St. Mary’s
Florence Tourney, St. Mary’s
Bernedette, McDonaghue, Chicago, Illinois Catherine Collins, Chicago, Illinois Betty Kehoe, Toledo, Ohio Norma Shearer, Dayton, Ohio Gertrude O’Neill, Mishawaka, Indiana Jeannette Proudfit, Osceola, Indiana Margaret Klein Aurora. Illinois Helen Border, South Bend, Indiana Anne Klimeck, South Bend, Indiana Eleanor Gartland, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Jean Whitaker, Glencoe Gene Bauman, Pinhook, Indiana Edith Wells, Aurora, Illinois Lorraine Gallagher, Chicago, Illinois Dorothy Weber, Aurora, Illinois Ann Irish, Decatur, Illinois M’Lisse Snyder, Champaiagn, Illlinois Noradell Bloomfield, Mishawaka, Indiana Margaret Dorschner, South Bend, Indiana Louise Argus, Indiana Jay Krusynski, South Bend, Indiana Katherine Sharpe, Pennsylvania Ernestine Chayie, South Bend, Indiana Arella St. John, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Helen Herr, St. Mary’s E. O'Shaughnessy, St. Mary’s of Woods Dorothy Platz, St. Mary’s of Woods Betty Jane Doe, Wichita, Kansas M. B. Genochio, Ottumwa, Iowa Francis Williams, South Bend, Indiana Alison Dunne, San Francisco, California Rosemary Lennon, Joliet, Illinois Violet Bradbek, South Bend, Indiana Florence Clark, River Forest, Illinois Dorothy Srvin. South Bend, Indiana Ruth Smith. Roselle. N. J Lois Gustafson, South Bend, Indiana Madeline Peacock, Evanston, Illinois Gracia Sherman. Peoria. Illinois Ella Jamieson, Chicago, Illinois' Matilda Robb, Peoria, Illinois Ruth M. Manix, Greenville, Ohio Margaret Ridgely, Gary, Indiana Lorraine Canley, Chicago, Illinois Constance McMillan, Fond du Lac, Wisconsin Kay Griffiths, Chicago, Hlinois
Virginia Richardson. South Bend, Indiana Dorothy O’Hern, South Bend. Indiana Francis McMillan, St. Mary’s Notre Dame Jean Murphy. Omaha, Nebraska Beatrice Cannon, Chicago, Illinois Mary Reilly, Tucson, Arizona Monica Byrne, Dayton, Ohio Charlotte Raven, St Marys of Woods Mary Louise Sheil, Indianapolis. Indiana Ann Mullarkey, Chicago, Illinois Alice Hein, St Mary’s, Notre Dame Margaret Wills, South Bend, Indiana Patricia Carr O’Cbnor Indianapolis, .Indiana Mary Grace Cawley, Ottumeva, Iowa Sheila Sullivan, Chicago. Hlinois W. G. Ryan, Oakland, California Mary McCartney, South Bend, Indiana Anne Plotz, Chicago, Hlinois Margaret Annos, Deetroit, Michigan Marjorp Meyer, Chicago, Illinois Isabelle Crumley, LaPorte. Indiana Irene Grimm, St Mary’s, Notre Dame
Vera Martin, Chicago, Illinois
Marion Erickson, South Bend, Indiana H. Haginski, South Bend, Indiana Pauline Baskins, Terre Haute, Indiana Bernette Tyle, South Bend, Indiana Margi Victsk, Joliet, Hlinois Rita Deering, Chicago, Illinois Louise Flaherty, St. Mary’s Mary Glass, Detroit .Michigan Jessie Marie Wood, River Forest. Illinois Marie F. O’Brien, River Forest, Hlinois Sally Ann Lord, Aurora, Hlinois Margaret Reavell, Aurora, Illinois Dophia Sillianek, Oak Park. Hlinois Dorothy West, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Anna M. Durkin, Indianapolis, Indiana Carolin O’Connor, Aurora, Hlinois Mary Lou Finan, St Mary’s, Notre Dame Mary Margaret Gentry, Chicago, Illinois Marian Fitzgerald, Chicago, Hlinois Mary Lou Tunuosls, Indianapolis, Indiana Elizabeth Medland, Logansport, Indiana Margaret Holt, Springfield, Ohio Dorothy Steinbienner, Cleveland, Ohio Mary Morrissey. South Bend, Indiana Eleanor Kirley, St Mary’s, Notre Dame Grace Pierce, South Bend, Indiana Martha Rush, South Bend, Indiana Maygaret Sinnott, South Bend, Indiana Anna Walker, Detroit, Michigan Elizabeth Crowley, Jackson, Michigan Maurine Hoke, South Bend, Indiana Mary H. Walter, South Bend, Indiana Marian Reinke, Rosary College Rita Cunnien, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Janet Blancharr, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Mary Fulhill, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Shirley Palmer, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Janet Warren. Joliet, Hlinois Dora Powers, Kankakee, Illinois Albert Marwitz, St.Mary’s, Notre Dame Peggy Burke, Milwaukee. Wisconsin Margaret Segor, South Bend, Indiana Elizabeth Silfoil, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Mary Louise Beilstein, St. Mary’s, N. D. Eileen McNamee, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Jeanne Devaney, Chicago, Hlinois Ann Thompson, Detroit, Michigan Mary Lou Savage, Chicago, Hlinois Dorothy Gustafson, South Bend, Indiana Mary McCluie, .St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Gerry Gage, St. Louis, Missouri
Betty Jane Hodges, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Marie Jarecki, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Eleanor Stoner, Sandwich, Hlinois Jean Harlow, LaPorte, Indiana Betty Barnes, South Bend, Indiana Betty Boop, South Bend, Indiana Virginia Jarecki. Chicago, Hlinois Connie Cremin, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Rose Loughmeyers, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Mary Rita Forbes, Chicago, Illinois Virginia Flynn, Chicago. Illinois Rachael Tittle. Boston, Massachusetts Sally Thompson, Detroit, Michigan Rita Moore, Evanston, Illinois Mary Agnes Bernbrock, Aurora, Illinois Jane Myers, Mishawaka, Indiana Suzanne Van Den, Mishawaka, Indiana - Martha Brewer, Mishawaka, Indiana
Mary Louise Seitz, Chicago, Illinois Louis Weeks, Chicago, Hlinois Janet Haverty, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Betty Naughton, Oak Park, Hlinois Virginia Rabout, Detroit, Michigan
SULLIVAN AND FLINT SPEAK TO SPECTATORS
Aristophanes* Morals, Freedom of Women, Are Topics.
By William Dreux
Speaking on “The Morals of Aristophanes” Eugene T. Sullivan, Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, sought to vindicate the Greek dramatist from the charges of obscenity frequently brought against him. Sullivan maintained that much of what is objectionable in Aristophanes is really read into the text when no such meaning was actually intended. “Admittedly Aristophanes catered somewhat to the tastes of his audience,” said Sullivan, “but on the other hand, give him credit for trying to correct by satire, the licentious manners of his period.”
Flint Speaks
The discussion which followed soon turned to the much abused subject of the relation between art and morality. No definite conclusions were reached, which, by the way, is no unusual thing at Spectator discussions.
The next talk, “The Emancipation of Women,” was given by Robert Flint, Senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Flint ridiculed the idea that women had freed themselves, and insisted that, on the contrary, women had only added to their own burdens by trying to leave their proper sphere. No chivalrous champion rose to defend modern women and their “emancipation,” on the contrary all members heartily agreed with Flint, vowed that they would keep their wives by the hearth.
Application Deadline
President John Pick announced that Wednesday Oct. 26th would be - the last day for applications to the Spectators. Said President Pick, “The Spectators Club, is really a discussion -club. At each meeting two members present talks on any phase of Literature, Science, Religion, Politics, Economics, etc. A general discussion of the matter brought up follows the talks. Those who wish to aply may obtain application blanks at 310 Sorin.”
The purpose of the Workers Relief Association is to form a cooperative commissary and to aid their members in obtaining employment.
October 21, 1932
Fifteen
N. D. CHEERS CONTINUED
Continued from Page 10)
DOWN THE LINE
Up! Up! Up! for Notre Dame, And let the skies above you know.
March! March! March! for Notre Dame, And let your rousing trumpets blow.
Drum! Drum! Drum! for Notre Dame,
Her cheering sons come row on row, • They’re crying Fight! Fight!
Fight, we’re crying Fight! Fight!
Fight! We want to go, We want to go!
Chorus:
On down the line! beside the glory of her name.
On down the line! beneath the colors of an ancient fame.
On down the line! another day for her proclaim;
Old Gold and Blue—you’re going through! Go down the line for Notre Dame!
B/G U. N. D.
U. N. D.—Rah-Rah.
U. N. D.—Rah-Rah. Hoo-Rah—Hoo-Rah.
U. N. D.—Rah-Rah. Team—Team—Team.
LOCOMOTIVE
(Slow) Rah-Rah-Rah-Rah.
(Slow) Notre-Dame-U.
(Faster) Rah-Rah-Rah-Rah. Notre-Dame-U.
(Faster) Rah-Rah-Rah-Rah.
Notre-Dame-U.
—Yay—
HE’S A MAN
He’s a man.
Who’s a man ?
He’s a Notre Dame man.
(Name)
A RESOLUTION
Resolutions of the Faculty of the University of Notre Dame in Memory of Professor Martin J. McCue,
Whereas: God in His infinite wisdom has deigned to recall the soul of His servant, Martin J. McCue, dean emeritus of the College of Engineering of the University of Notre Dame, and
Whereas: We feel that the University has lost a loyal and devoted member of her faculty whose beautiful Christian life and zeal in Catholic education, have been an inspiration to all who knew him.
Therefore be it Resolved: That we, the representatives of the lay faculty of the University of Notre Dame, who knew, admired and loved Professor McCue best in life, be not unmindful of him in death.
That we extend our sympathy to the grief-stricken niece, and to the University of Notre Dame.
That these Resolutions be printed in the Notre Dame Scholastic, and in the Notre Dame Alumnus.
Francis X. Ackermann.
William L. Benitz.
Edward J. Maurus.
Chicago Club Makes Plans To Hold Christmas Dance
COMMERCE SURVEY IS ON
Movie Questionnaire is Being Submitted to Students.
The members of the Commerce Forum, under the direction of their president, Francis J. Fogarty, have been working for the last few days on a motion picture survey among the students.
The main purpose of the survey is to determine what kinds of pictures, what stars, directors, types of theatre programs, etc., are best liked by Notre Dame men. Approximately 1500 of those • on the campus are to be approached and asked to fill in the questionnaire.
To date, only 60 of - the replies turned in have been tabulated because of the fact that this process is slow and laborious.
“One Show A Week” Leads
The leaders at the present time in the “types of feature motion pictures which I like best” are the farcical or so-called refined comedies and “stories based on various sports.” The favorite male and female stars seem to be George Arliss, Lionel and John Barrymore, Wallace Beery, Joan Crawfrod, Marlene Dietrich, Marie Dressier, and Constance Bennett.
Interesting items: one show a week is the leading quota, twenty-five cents the average price, Vodvil with the picture most popular, and the answer “No!” to the query “Do you read motion picture 'fan’ magazines ?”
SPELL IT
(Slow) N-O-T-R-E (Faster) D-A-M-E.
Notre Dame—Notre Dame—Notre Dame.
DRUM YELL
N-o-t—N-o-t—N-o-t-r-e D-a—D-a—D-a-m-e.
No-t-r-e—D-a-m-e—N-o-t-r-e—D-a-m-e.
Notre Dame—Notre Dame—Notre Dame.
(Repeat—Louder and Faster.)
NAME
(Fast) Rah-Rah!
(Name)
(Drawn out) Hoo-Rah!
DIRGE
Yay----drawn out.
Yay----louder.
Yay----louder.
Fight—Team—Fight.
If and when Argentine joins the League of Nations, she will specifically state that she does not recognize the Monroe Doctrine.
Final plans for the Chicago club’s Christmas dance were made last Wednesday evening at a meeting held in the auditorium of the Law Building.
President Thomas A. Gorman read the offer made by the Congress hotel, Chicago, which was so satisfactory to the members that it was accepted almost immediately. The Pompeian and the new Joseph Urban Rooms and Vincent Lopez’ orchestra, now playing at the hotel, are included in the offer at a very reasonable figure.
It was also decided that the club would sponsor a freshman banquet, or something of that nature, in order to make the yearlings in the club better acquainted and promote good fellowship.
Arrangements for the dance were then put into the hands of Tighe Woods who has been selected chairman.
Anthracite Members Have An Organization Meeting
At the organization meeting of the Anthracite club this week, Robert D. Devers was chosen vice-president. As secretary, the club selected Edmund A. Quinn, and Edmund P. Philbin, as treasurer.
The club has secured a charter and is officially recognized by the Presidents’ Council. The membership to date is nineteen.
All students whose homes are within fifty miles of Scranton, Pennsylvania, are eligible to membership and have been invited to attend the next meeting to be held in the Law building, Monday, at 7:30 p. m.
A submarine mountain a mile high has been discovered about 60 miles southwest-of San Francisco in the Pacific Ocean.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
THEATRE TALK
Ry Roger Reime
SO. BEND BANKER GIVES TALK TO COMMERCE MEN
There are many angles of approach to the theatre for the one who would know it well. The hobbyist may find great self-ovation in the making and painting of flat-pieces, or derive satisfaction by gaining depths of shadow and twists of color by manipulating a single spot-light. But back-stage intimacies are not usually allowed to us by time and circumstance. It is regrettable. The whack of the lash cord as it slips under its pin, the deftness with which the stage-hand adjusts the braces, the age old smell of grease paint, first-night distresses and other things unknown to the casual play goer are the potions which induce the spell of theatre hypnosis. What is seen between curtains by the audience is but the end of a long saga of theatrical love.
Audience Psychology
There is in an audience as great a variety of tastes, attitudes, group consciousness notwithstanding, as there is in back of foot-lights and background drops. And there is a great divergence and then again a striking parallel, if not identity, in the relationship between natural, untutored appreciation and the intelligent, technique-informed understanding on the part of observers. Audience reactions, the responses of the audience, is the latest field in theatrical developments. Heretofore a laugh or a tear has been an uncertainty. True, the very test of the play’s intelligibility depends on to what degree the audience grasps it. And the acid test of perfect acting is to get the same great hush on a same tragic line or the same prolonged belly-laugh on the same laugh line each night.
A Good Audience Forecasts
The last is an impossibility, but, in general, a good audience will forecast how a good play will be received by the next good audience. However, there must be an audience present to make the prophecy, to give the test. And to aggravate the innocence of the producers it so happens that this particular prophetic audience is traditionally the one present at the premiers. What would not only alleviate the terrific stress of the first night, but also the other and greater stress, anxiety over the play’s life beyond the two weeks would be the work of an audience reaction special
ist. Informed on group response, the psychology of mental tension and relief, the old-fashioned rules on periods allowed for the coughers to cough and the fidgety to fidget, this new expert would study the play in script, the acting, the setting with the purpose of foretelling the first-nighter’s responses, as it were.
Of Doubtful Values
The value of this study is highly problematic. One thing it would do: It would remove on the basis of new criteria much that seems obviously unappreciable by any audience. We shall talk next week of tastes that may be acquired as talents which the audience-man can never outguess or ever inculcate through the play’s production but out of which alone rises a thoroughbred theatre.
Hampden the Great
“Cyrano de Bergerac” has been played by Walter Hampden over 700 times, more than five hundred times in New York City. He took it on a short tour last spring; and from the packed houses he realized to his great delight that he was appreciated beyond what the exigencies of depression would otherwise allow. Walter Hampden returns to the stage, not the New York one, but to the unstable theatre of the road. He has maintained himself as the greatest romantic figure of the modem theatre even in the rather unfertile and un-monumental one week stay.
The opening this year may be on Sunday, October 23 as “Reunion In Vienna” is also stipulated for a Monday premiere. If it is possible, you must see Walter Hampden in this, the star vehicle of Richard Mansfield and Constant Coquelin and Walter Hampden, Edmund Rostand’s “Cyrano de Bergerac.”
Many universities this year are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the discovery of the Tubercle Bacci-lus, tuberculosis germ, by Dr. Robert Koch of Germany, “father of modern scientific bacteriology.”
For the first time in the history of the institution, Ohio State university is promising to cancel the registration of students who fail to pay their bills for board and room.
F. W. Van Antwerp Points Out Problems in Banking.
F. W. Van Antwerp, of the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend, appeared before the meeting of the Commerce Forum in the Law auditorium Tuesday evening and presented a paper discussing the history of banking in the United States.
Traces History of U. S. Banking
Mr. Van Antwerp began with the founding of the Bank of North America, and traced American banking through the various periods. He discussed State banks, Savings banks, Trush companies, the National Banking system and the Federal Reserve system. After a brief explanation of bank mergers and branch banking, Mr. Van Antwerp concluded his talk with a history of his own bank.
The latter part of the meeting was devoted to questions by the members present concerning various phases of the banking business. About one hundred members were present at the meeting.
Prior to Mr. Van Antwerp’s taik the meeting was called to order by Francis Fogarty, President of the Commerce Forum. A short business meeting was held at this time, and President Fogarty explained the requirements for admission to the Forum. He explained the Survey which is beirig carried on with various motion picture and clothing industries by means of questionnaires which are sent out from the University.
82 Average Necessary
After explaining that a scholastic average of 82 was necessary for admission to the Forum, application blanks were passed around after which Fogarty introduced Mr. Van Antwerp.
Plans are being made for a number, of speakers to appear before the Forum this year, but a complete list has not been made at this time.
Dr. Samuel Weiss, professor at the Polyclinic Medical School of New York, says that the principal reason for the steady growth of digestive diseases in the United States is “undoubtedly the national habit of abusing the use of ice.”
October 21, 1932
Seventeen
PLUNKETT ADDRESSES ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
Medical Profession is Subject of Interesting Talk.
Father Carroll, Home Again, Tells of Ireland’s Predicament
By Robert Dillon
In an interesting talk to the members of the Academy of Science, Mr. Donald J. Plunkett, instructor in Biology, outlined the work carried on in his courses, the methods of instruction and study in the medical schools.
Mr. Plunkett said in part, “The medical profession is one which requires constant study. Medicine moves so fast that any lagging on the part of the doctor or the student of medicine results in doom.” He then cited as an example of the rapid and constant advancement of medicine, the recent discovery that muscin, a glycoprotein present in the saliva, the bile, and in mucous secretions, can be used in the treatment of stomach ulcers.
Policy Brought Out
During the course of the address, the following three point policy for success in the medical school was presented.
(1)	“Guard health during and after medical school.
(2)	“Work earnestly and industriously.
(3)	“Use your head at all times.
The student, it was pointed out, branches into the various field of specialization during the third and fourth years at which time electives are offered.
Following the talk which presented the humorous as well as the practical side of the profession, the speaker answered questions.
A short business discussion followed the presentation of the address. A motion was made and adopted that the executive committee should appoint a sophomore member to give a criticism of each paper which is to be read before the Academy during the course of the year.
Sorry!
In response to numerous inquiries, the editors wish to credit James Porterfield and Edward J. O’Brien with the authorship of two feature articles which apepared in last week’s Scholastic.
Porterfield wrote the “Man About the Campus” column, and O’Brien wrote the story on the Moreau Choir. By-lines on the stories were accidentally omitted.
Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., of the editorial board of The Ave Maria, and member of the faculty, has just returned to Notre Dame after spending the summer in Ireland.
Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C.
His Impressions Were Varied.
Father Carroll is a native Irishman and he is thoroughly acquainted with the Irish people and their affairs.
The impressions of Father Carroll, as he related them to a Scholastic staff member, were varied and interesting.
The Eucharistic Congress was held in Dublin from the twenty-second to the twenty-sixth of June in miracle days of weather. There were about one million from all parts of the world in attendance; and the ready and unhurried way in which the Free State officials and Congress stewards handled this multitude was a surprise to the world.
Outdoor Services At Phoenix Park
All the outdoor services were held on the “18 acres” of Phoenix Park. A night was set aside for the men who assembled to the number of 150,-000; two women’s services followed and the number present reached a total of at least 100,000. Then the children had their Saturday morning Mass and some 150,000 of them were present.
The final Mass of the Congress was celebrated in the open air by Archbishop Curley of Baltimore, Sunday, June twenty-sixth at one in the afternoon. People started thronging inco Phoenix Park at eight o’clock in the morning, five hours before the appointed hour of the Mass. It is estimated that one million were present when the procession to the altar on O’Connell Street Bridge set out. You get an estimate of proportions of this
procession if you reflect that it took sixty minutes for one of four units, men marching sixteen abreast, to pass a point of review.
The Eucharistic Congress at Dublin was the greatest week in Ireland’s history,” said Father Carroll. “There was a minimum of oratory and a maximum of devotion; the daily communicants were beyond any actual counting. The number of people present went far above the attendance at all previous Congresses, even that of Chicago. Accommodations for visitors in hotels and private homes were looked to and well managed. Dublin was vigilant and un-forgetably gracious.”
Visits De Valera And Cosgrove
While in Ireland Father Carroll visited both President De Valera and former President Cosgrove. When questioned as to how conditions stood between these two men Father Carroll stated, “There is very little opposition between the two men except differences of a political character. Both very likely are a thousand times better than their political enemies are ready to believe. Mr. De Valera is not a wild dreamer supported by rough-and-tumble elements; and Mr. Cosgrove has not sold Ireland back again to Great Britain. Notre Dame students would be edified at the devotion shown at the religious services by President De Valera and former President Cosgrove and their respective cabinets. There was no apology in their attitude, and one’ could see from their religious exterior that thej' were Catholics without concession or apology.”
Kilmainhan Visited
Kilmainhan jail, where the sixteen men who took part in the Easter rebellion were executed, was also visited by Father Carroll. “Kilmainhan is the most depressing prison one will encounter in modern times. It is being dismantled, fortunately,” said Father Carroll. “The cells in which the sixteen Easter martyrs were imprisoned, and the wall in the courtyard before which they stood when they were shot can be seen. The whole place is filled with tragic memories. Kilmainhan was designed not only to wall in men’s bodies, but to crush hope out of their souls.” The
(Continued on Pase 2")
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
FROM STANFORD
The Four-Year Plan Defended
In a recent article in the Atlantic Monthly, President Lowell of Harvard, who is considered one of the most advanced educators in this country, defended the place of the four-year undergraduate school in American education. Dr. Lowell felt that the graduate school (of the type which has been contemplated for Stanford) fails to provide the proper environment because it has become filled with men seeking degrees merely as “passports" to advancement in teaching.
More stress, President Lowell believes, should be placed on the requirements and standards of the four-year course, so that our Bachelor’s degrees might be on a par with those of Europe. By sacrificing the four-year course, the student loses that intangible influence of culture, and experience of living with his fellow man, that is so essential to the development of his character. In other words, a university’s duty does not stop at merely turning out scholars.
For those who are distinctly fitted for the scholastic life, and have demonstrated outstanding ability, President Lowell suggests “Societies of Fellows” to be open to students after they have passed a certain period in college. These “Societies” would afford a congenial environment for the real scholar and would also restrict the number of those entering into the graduate fields.
There is a far too high percentage of inferior men cluttering up the graduate school today. The atmosphere of these present graduate groups is not one that fosters true scholarship. To assume that every college student is capable of advanced graduate work is absurd and false, unless the “advanced” work is made of an inferior brand.
PAGE MR. WEBSTER
Not that you should judge a freshman at Iowa State Teachers’ College by the answers he gives in an intelligence test, but then—here are some of the freshmen’s answers:
Prosecution—The killing of a large number of persons.
Adulteration — Growth from childhood to maturity.
Jamboree — Shallow one-headed drum with jingles at the side.
Atheist—A plant or animal that lives at the expense of others.
I

THE MILKY WAY AT WEATHERFORD
Weatherford, Texas—Willard Robertson, 17-year-old farm boy, came to Weatherford College here with a herd of milk cows. He put the cows in a yard behind the college dormitory and sold milk to students to pay for his education.
EDUCATION PAYS!
Peanertz! Peanertz! A member of the glorious peanut-vending profession was the great Johnny Rogers on Sunday night. But not by inclination. For Johnny was doing his best to get home from the Oregon-Washington game, and with no dough, the going was tough.
When the conductor came around and Johnny discovered that he had overlooked purchasing a ducat, things looked still darker. But not for long. The peanut purveyor at the lunch counter offered to cough up the price of a ride if he, Mr. Rogers, would assist him in selling peanuts and pop. And so far, far into the proverbial night rang the cry of “Peanertz, Peanertz,” as another Oregon student was on his way home.
BABOON TO BABOON
Competition, danger, and more insanity have been added to the Widow’s union situation in the form of a Widower’s association. The organizations are separate and were founded by sentimental love-sick souls with lovers out of town. The women wear yellow ribbons around their neck to signify their lack of interest in local men, while the men are wearing a piece of black ribbon attached to their vest by a safety pin to indicate their indifference to campus belles. The latest report from the Widow’s union reads: “We hope the big baboons on campus will take the union seriously and leave us alone.”
That was dumb, but not too dumb.
On Sunday, at the ungodly hour of 9 a. m., the Widow’s union held a beach breakfast on the shores of Lake Michigan, and with much sniffing, much sobbing, and much profusion of tears, ceremoniously laid to rest a coffin in honor of their previous dates. The ritual was solemn, for the little sisters of the constant heart realized that precious dates were non-existent for them as long as they were parted from their dearly beloveds.
And now the Widower’s are planning to erect a monument in Wilmette harbor.—Northwestern.
October 21, 1932
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
DISILLUSIONMENT
GIVING
The college degree is “on the spot.” Perhaps at on time in the history of American education has its value been more questioned or its practical worth more doubted. Phi Betta Kappas are sitting home playing games with their children; university valedictorians are working for ten dollars a week; law school honor students are delighted with a clerkship. Thousands of men who were told upon being graduated from highschool that a college education should be had at any cost would like to have their money back and their advisers by the neck. Disillusionment has seized so many collegians that it will be a long time before they are convinced that they did the right thing when they turned down a position after prep school and set out for a university.
It is an easy matter for us who are still in college to criticize the attitude of these individuals and to tell them to stand by their guns.
We “go to college” when anybody asks us what we are doing. They have gone and have not very much to show for it in terms of dollars and cents.
Granted that the picture is dark, one might ask if it is really as black as university men see it. If our country ever does return to prosperity they surely will be the first to profit, the first to jump in, the first to seize opportunity.
They have the satisfaction of knowing that their minds have been trained and that no university professes to do more. They have a college education, something which Edsel Ford “would give millions for.” And whereas they may be competing now with men of a lower level their time is not far distant.
When Professor Martin McCue died last week, men who had known him at the University had a difficult time with their emotions. The dean emeritus of the engineering school was typical of that kind of lay professor whose name is never flashed around the world in headlines but who seem to possess something that transcends panegyrics and renders them helpless. Patient, retiring, but inspiringly able, Dean McCue lived the better part of his life at Notre Dame, teaching in his own little world and imprinting his personality upon people like those who trayelled across the country a few days ago to pay their respects.
The thought of Professor McCue brings a point to mind that is constantly overlooked. How many people have ever taken time to analyze the life of the lay teacher? His post in this world seems to be one of those things that is simply taken for granted. Somebody has to do the work. God, therefore, drew lots and handed them to these men. But it can’t be as simple as all that. Men of recognized talent who have taught and who are still teaching at Notre Dame, in many cases, could have received more remuneration in another field of endeavor. If money were their all in all they would start for some other place. If they are looking for world applause they won’t find it here.
They are inspired by something that is very much wound up with sacrifice and appreciation of a fellow being. Personal pleasure is overlooked for a pleasure that has few equals—the realization of a life well spent, the satisfaction that goes with giving.
Twenty
The Scholastic
Irish Toy With Drake Eleven 62-0
Second “Warm-up” Game Is Romp
Led By Banas, Melinkovich, Lukats
NOTRE DAME IS THIRD IN QUADRANGULAR MEET
Notre Dame Linemen Smother Bulldog Plays; First Team Plays Less Than Quarter.

By Fred MacBeth
Notre Dame defeated Drake last Saturday by the one-sided score of 62-0, bringing their total up to 135 points for two games. The courageous Bulldogs looked vastly superior to Haskell, but were unable to threaten the Irish goal line at any time throughout the game.
Solve Drake Attack
A powerful offense and rugged defense overshadowed the “Minnesota Shift,” as demonstrated by the Drake team. This peculiar formation, which has succeeded the Notre Dame system at Drake, failed to baffle the alert Notre Dame defense.
It is impossible to pick an individual star. Banas led the scoring with two touchdowns, but Nick Lukats, Ray Brancheau, George Melinkovich, Ed Kosky, Mike Koken, Frank La-borne and Al Costello were right on Steve’s heels with one apiece. Chuck Jaskwhich played a fine game at quarterback for the first team, while Laurie Vejar of the shock troops ran back punts in the Orv Mohler fashion. His change of pace and general elusiveness made a big hit with the crowd.
There was little to choose between the first and second string lines. Kurth, Krause, Greeney, Harris, Roach and Gorman were especially impressive on the defense. Pfefferle at tackle will bear watching in future games. He was in there breaking up plays and giving the Drake punters a busy afternoon.
At the ends Captain Paul Host and Ed Kosky showed to advantage.
Kosky gave a great display of defensive work, blocking a kick to score a touchdown. Among the newcomers, Schiralli and Mahaffey at guard and
Laurie Vejar The Crowd Liked Him,
Caldwell at quarterback gave a good account of themselves.
Drake plays were smothered so often that few of the Bulldogs had a -chance to star. Thompson and Wieland were probably the outstanding men, with Blanck in line for a great deal of credit for his work at left tackle. Blanck was by far the best man on the Drake line, but a leg injury forced him to leave the game in the last quarter.
Outstanding Plays
Notre Dame’s domination of the play made the game rather dull. It was brightened by a few brilliant plays. Lukats’ beautiful pass to Brancheau, which Ray leaped into the air to catch; Laborne’s work of intercepting a Drake pass on the run to carry it over for a touchdown; Kosky’s drive through the Drake line to block a punt behind the goal line for a
(Continued on Page 30)
Wisconsin and Illinois Beat Fair Cross Country Team.
Predictions of a Badger victory in the quadrangular cross-country meet in Evanston last Saturday were verified by the Wisconsin harriers when for the fifth consecutive year the Cardinal squad outran its three competitors, Illinois, Notre Dame, and Northwestern.
Three Wisconsin cinder stars led the field of 29 runners to the tape. They were Swaback, Crumby and Lashive. The winner’s time for the jaunt over an extended three mile course was 16:50. The team scoring placed Wisconsin far out in front with 27 points, Illinois second with 38, Notre Dame third with 65 and Northwestern last with 95.
Young Leads Irish
Joe Young, who finished first among the Irish runners, placed seventh in the race. His time was 17:33. Ralph Bowers finished twelfth in 17:45, followed immediately by Clyde Roberts. Other Notre Dame runners were O’Reilly who ran in sixteenth place; Duke, seventeenth; Grimes, nineteenth; Hoyt, twentieth; Moran, twenty-first; Troy, twenty-fourth; and Sluska, twenty-fifth.
The Notre Dame squad finished exactly as Coach Nicholson had predicted. No truly promising stars were uncovered in the meet, but worthwhile experience was earned.
Woolsey of Illinois finished fifth. This man is the same Woolsey who was slated to run an exceptionally fast mile in a dual track meet here last winter, but Eddie King upset his hopes and out-legged the Orange and Blue ace to the tape. Wright of Wisconsin, who has run a number of great two mile races on the track finished poorly in eighteenth position.
October 21, 1932
Twenty-one
CHREIST BEATS STALEY IN TENNIS TOURNAMENT
Alumni And Freshman Look Powerful In Interhall Games
Favorite Defeats Teammate to Win for Second Time.
Playing true to form, Louis Chreist, the favorite, won for the second time the fall tennis tournament of the University by defeating his teammate Seton Staley in three straight sets. The scores were 6-1; 6-2; 7-5. Chreist, a top-heavy favorite, successfully defended a title gained last year and proved his right to captain the 1933 net team.
Chreist encountered little opposition in winning the first two sets, but was forced to extend himself to capture the third. Except for the third set, the plucky Staley, who played number three on last year’s squad, was no match for the far superior champion.
Doubles Play Begins
With Indian summer weather breaking the inclement spell of the past few days, Manager Baker was enabled to start his much deferred doubles tournament. Only one of the two favored teams, that of Staley and Powers, played.
Hackenbrook and Morrison defeated Bintz and Christensen 6-3; 6-2.
Staley and Powers defeated Cashman and Puterbaugh 8-6;6-l.
Shapiro and Daly defeated Faras-tiere and Dugan 6-3; 6-2.
Valdes and Margrett defeated Weldon and Fallon 7-5; 6-4.
BANKS EQUALS COURSE RECORD WITH 72 ON REVAMPED LINKS.
John Banks, outstanding sophomore golfer, tied the Burke Memorial course record last Sunday with a parequalling 72. The score equals the best card turned in since the links were altered last spring.
Playing with John Montedonico, Bill Veeneman, and Vince Fehlig, all of the varsity golf team, Banks was out in 38, one over par, and back in 34, one under perfect figures.
His card:
Out
Par	444	453	445....37
Banks	444	544	345....38
In
Par	443	443	535....35....72
Banks , 443 443 534....34....72
NET WINNER
Louis Chreist
Interhall Standings GROUP I.				
St. Edward’s .....	W 	 1	L 0	T 0	Pct. 1.000
Badin 			 1	0	0	1.000
Corby 			 1	0	1	1.000
Morrissey 			 1	1	0	.500
Dillon 				0	1	1	.000
Lyons 		GROUP II. W	2 L	0 T	.000 Pct.
Freshman 			 2	0	0	1.000
Walsh 				 1	0	0	1.000
Alumni 				 1	0	0	1.000
Howard 			 0	1	0	.000
Brownson 				 0	1	0	.000
Carroll 	 0 Results of October 16: Alumni 21; Carroll 0. Corby 25; Lyons 0. Freshman 13; Brownson Morrissey 7 ; Dillon 0. Games Sunday:		2 2.	0	.000
GROUP I.
Lyons vs. Badin, Carier field No. 1, 9:00.
Morrissey vs. St. Edward’s, Minims field, 9:00.
GROUP II.
Brownson vs. Alumni, Cartier field No. 2, 9:00.
Howard vs. Freshman, Cartier field, No. 1, 2:00.
Brownson vs. Carroll, Brownson field, 2:00.
FROSH WIN SECOND
High Class Football Displayed In Second Round of League; Four Games Next Sunday.
By Edward Van Huisseling Interhall Sports Editor
Football of varsity caliber characterized the second round of interhall play Sunday. There were noticeable traces of stubborn defense, efficient blocking, accurate passing, and flashy running. All these qualities were packed into four contests.
Alumni playing its first game of the season, showed as brilliant a running attack as has been uncovered this fall in the league. The juniors amassed a grand total of 21 points in the first half to smother Carroll, 21 to 0. The game was halted at the end of the half because Carroll had no substitute to take the place of Kearns, their injured guard. Thirty-five juniors participated in the onslaught. It is only reasonable to predict that Alumni would have scored as much in the second half had Carroll been able to continue play. Hughes, Carroll back, again stood out as the best man on his team.
Morrissey’s Defense Strong
With Walsh idle, Freshman took the lead in Group II by its impressive victory over Brownson, 13 to 2. This game strengthens the belief that the first year men will be right up there when the smoke clears away in December. However, Freshman has not played any of the upperclass crews yet. If they triumph over any of them, they will be “in.”
Brownson made a whitewashing impossible by means of a safety midway in the third quarter. Cheviny, Brownson halfback, reeled off a 40 yard run along the sideline but fumbled as he crossed the goal and McFarland recovered in the end zone for Freshman.
Morrissey continued to display an uncertain offense but a near air-tight defense. The Sophomores held Badin for downs within the five yard line (Continued on Page 24)
Tiventy-two
The Scholastic
“All Tough,” Says Keogan Of This Year’s Schedule
CROSS COUNTRY TEAM FACES CARNEGIE TECH
TEAM WILL BE FAIR
Capt Baldwin, Krause, Voegle, Are Nucleus of New Squad Practice Next Week.
“They’re all tough.” Thus spoke Coach George Keogan when a Scholastic reporter asked him what games on this year’s basketball schedule would be the toughest. “We have lost six veterans,” stated the Notre Dame mentor, “and we have one of the toughest schedules in the country.” Whether the material may be fair, mediocre, or good, we play a tough schedule and take them as they come.”
Sophomores Look Good
The prospects point to a fair team. Whether or not the eagers of 1933 will measure up to last year’s schedule is a matter for conjecture. If they do fall short, however, of the 1932 record of the Keoganites, there will be nothing to be ashamed of. Few teams can maintain a nine hundred average over a two-year period. The team will be built around a nucleus of veterans.
Prominent among these is Captain Johnny Baldwin who was out with pneumonia most of last year, but from whom Coach Keogan expects great things this year. Also returning to the fold are Big Ed “Moose” Krause, Joe Voegole, Ed Alberts, Leo Crowe, Leo Keating, Gene Holland, and “Butch” O’Neil. Among those coming up from last year’s freshmen are Jim Newbold, Al McGuff, Ray Boland and Al Jordan.
Northwestern On Dec. 19
After two games with Albion and Illinois Wesleyan which must be considered, more or less, as warm up games, the Keoganites swing into real competition against Northwestern on December 19. The football activities of Messrs. Krause, Boland, and McGuff will require their presence in California on the tenth of December.
They will not return to Notre Dame until the fifteenth and, therefore, they will have but four or five days of practice before the North
western game. This will certainly be a factor in the Wildcats’ favor.
The eagers will then run into the Purdue outfit. The big ten champions of last year have every man
Coach Keogan
His troubles begin soon
back with the exception of Johnny Wooden, the stellar All-American guard. Purdue is one of the teams which marred Keogan’s almost perfect record of last year, and the Irish will be out for revenge.
Coach Harold Olson of Ohio State has one of the best teams that the Buckeyes have had in years, and Coach Keogan. looks for plenty of trouble from Olson’s eagers.
The two Pitt games will probably be hard fought battles. All reports state that the Pitt team of this year will come up to the high standard of Panther teams of the past. The Butler series, the Indiana classics, represent the gallant efforts of a smaller school to take the measure of a larger one.
For the first time in many years the Irish eagers journey to the Chicago Midway where they will encounter the strongest array of hoop-
Squad in Good Shape After Evanston Meet Last Week.
Tomorrow morning at 11 o’clock the Irish round-the-lake crew will compete with the Skibos of Carnegie Tech. The potentiality of the Carnegie team is unknown to Coach Nicholson, but there seems to be a most enthusiastic hope for a victory in the Notre Dame camp.
With the experience of the quadrangular meet of last Saturday tucked away in their shoes, the Blue and Gold thinlies have proved themselves to be a good fair team. If the Tech outfit is mediocre, Notre Dame will lead the Pittsburghers around the course. If Tech is good, there will be a fight, and Notre Dame can only hope that the Skibos become lost on the trail.
This meet will be the first contest on the local course this season. The race will be run over a three and one-half mile route around the twin lakes. Students can see the home team in action by turning out at 11 o’clock Saturday morning.
Coach Nicholson expects to pitch his entire cross-country squad against Carnegie.
sters that the Maroons have boasted of in many a day.
On the first of February, Carnegie Tech invades the Notre Dame gym. Tech’s team of last year was weak in the early part of the season, but came back to win its final ten games. Last year’s entire team has returned to school and, if appearances mean anything at all, this contest should be one of the best of the year.
For six straight years, the Irish of Notre Dame, and the Quakers of Pennsylvania have encountered each other on the basketball court. For six straight years, the Irish of Notre Dame have won. But each year they have won either by a single point or by a single basket.
Wabash and Toledo are of unknown quality, but may prove troublesome. Western Reserve and Michigan State always put out strong teams which never fail to fight the Irish until the final gun.
Laborers are now putting the court into condition, and practice will start early next week.
October 21, 1932
Twenty-three
OBSERVER DESCRIBES BILL MUNDY IN ACTION
Lineups Unchanged As Irish Mark Time For Tech Game
N. B. C. Grid Expert Handled Notre Dame-Drake Game.
By George R. Belting
“The genial gentleman from Georgia,” is the epithet used to introduce Bill Mundy famous sports announcer of the Notional Broadcasting Co. And when that native southerner takes the “mike” one is sure of being entertained throughout the entire contest, be it football, baseball or what have you.
Came Into Prominence Two Years Ago
Mr. Mundy came into prominence about two years ago. The exact time was the day he handled the broadcasting of the Notre Dame-Southern California game on that memorable December 6, when the Fighting Irish crowned a successful season with a 27-0 rout of the mighty Trojans, thereby annexing their second consecutive National Championship.
His Georgia drawl is most pleasant and not once during the entire game is he lost for words. Many students have been wondering why the N.B.C. decided to air the Drake game. Mr Mundy solved theis perplexing situation for us by stating that he will undoubtedly cover the Notre Dame games this year, and that this broadcast enabled him to become familiar with the Notre Dame plays and players.
Here’s How It Is Done
Our position in the broadcasting booth was that of observer. That is, no more than informing the announcer when a Notre Dame man is carrying the ball, and when the Fighting Irish are on the defensive which man made the tackle, if it is possible to pick him out. We were standing to the right of the “genial gentleman” during the broadcast of the play by play description. To his left was the Drake representative.
Each observer had a card on which was written the lineup of his team. When the play started the observer pointed to the name of the man carrying the ball. The observer of the defensive team would designate the man making the tackle. How-
(Continued on Paste 31)
By Joe Kurth
Drake, with their football ensemble of blue, wore the niftiest outfits thus far displayed to the football fans in the Notre Dame stadium.
It was a surprise to all of the Notre Dame eleven to notice how much Captain Bowers, the Drake left guard, resembled Max Schmeling.
Vejar again showed his versatility in last Saturday’s game. His return of two punts was very good. Laurie has an ideal change of pace in running.
Six punts were blocked in the Drake game which might be a record for the number of punts blocked in one game.	.
Ray Brancheau carried out his plan of scoring his first touchdown in two seasons by taking the ball away from one of the Drake backfield men who was trying to intercept it and scoring with it.
The question might be raised at this point: Is the student body really suporting the team? Two reasons for the question are: Twenty-seven hundred tickets were “on the block,” but only twenty-one hundred were sold. Then, too, the attempts at cheering Saturday were not reminiscent of the days when Notre Dame students got up at five o’clock in the morning to greet the team.
Our secret operative Z 67 informs me that he definitely knows who “Bearskin” is. He adds, too, that “Bearskin” does not sit in the dollarseat section, but is given a seat gratis.
(Continued on Page 30)
IN GOOD CONDITION
Same Men Listed on First Two Elevens; Plaid Team Will
Offer Stiff Opposition.
By Joe Kurth
In Carnegie Tech next Saturday, Notre Dame will have its first test against a major eleven. Close upon the heels of the game with the Skibos will follow more tests, Saturday after’ Saturday, for the Irish eleven.
On the eve of the game with Carnegie, we find that the first team has the same personnel that played the second quarter of the Drake game. No injuries were sustained by any of the first team members, other than those that are usual to a football skirmish. The first team lines up as follows: Kosky, 1. e.; Krause, 1.1.; Harris, 1. g.; Alexander, c.; Greeney, r. g.; Kurth, r. t.; Capt. Host, r. e.; Jaskwhich, q. b.; Brancheau, r. h.; Melinkovich, f. b.; Lukats, l.h.
First String Shows Power
In the scrimmage that was scheduled last Wednesday, the first team showed signs of latent power. At no time during the season has the varsity shown more smoothness and coherence of team play. Every player sensed the fact that the remaining games on the schedule will adequately test the sustaining power of the. team, and settled down to giving an exhibition of football. Play after play clicked with perfection.
Not to be outshone in the way of displaying adaptability to football maneuvers the second squad performed notably in their regular scrimmage last Wednesday against the freshman second team. The shock troops warmed up to their duties in a hurry and pounded the freshman line with telling effect, giving them rest periods only when the ball was brought back five times after that many touchdowns.
The line-up of the second team remains the same as it was for the Drake game. It follows:
Vairo, 1.e.; Pfefferle, Lt.; Wunsch, 1. g.; Gorman, c.; Flynn, r. g.; Roach, r. t.; De Vore, r. e.; Vejar, q. b.; Koken, l.h.; Banas, f.b.; Sheeket-ski, r. h.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 21)
two weeks ago and they turned the trick again Sunday when they stopped Dillon cold on the two yard stripe. Dillon came out on the short end of the score, 7 to 0.
By their victory over Lyons, Corby went into a three way tie for the lead in Group I. St. Edward’s and Badin were not active Sunday so their status remains at one game won and none lost. Corby has also won one ■while not suffering defeat, but their record is marred by a scoreless tie with Dillon. Morrissey trails the three leaders by a game, with Dillon and Lyons winding up the group with three losses between them and no victories.
119 WEST COLFAX, WEST OF PALAIS ROYALE
''The Mary-Ann Welcomes Notre Dame Men"
LEMONTREES
Optometrists 222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES ...
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
Freshman’s victory put them a stride ahead of everyone in Group IP with two wins and no defeats. Walsh and Alumni are close behind with a victory apiece and nothing registered in the lost column. Howard, Carroll, and Brownson bring up the rear.
Alumni 21; Carroll 0.
Alumni Hall opened its football season Sunday with a crushing victory over Carroll, 21 to 0. The power of this aggregation should make it one of the leading teams in the section.
The game was called to a halt at the conclusion of the first half because there was no substitute available to take the place of the injured Kearns, Carroll guard.
SPECIAL LUNCHES △ Dinners
V
Twenty-one points in a game that was stopped at the half shows the scoring ability of the junior hall.
The first score was made only a few minutes after the game began when Blosma accounted for the first touchdown. A drop kick was good for the extra point.
Alumni made victory inevitable with 14 points in the second quarter. The first score came when Conley circled end for a touchdown. Mc-Keernan brought the score to its final height with his plunge for a score. Passes accounted for the two extra points following the last two touchdowns.
Alumni’s ability to convert the points after touchdown marks them as a finished team with the fine points especially well taken care of.
Wibby Hughes again stood out in the Carroll attack with his brilliant returning of kickoffs.
Coach Addonizio called on about thirty-five men to carry on in the Alumni cause.
Finkle, Conley, and Blosma were outstanding for the juniors.
Corby 25; Lyons 0.
The same Corby team that only succeeded in holding the Dillon team to a scoreless tie last Sunday, in the same maroon colored jerseys, crushed an inferior team from Lyons Hall > Sunday morning by an overwhelming score of 25 to 0. The Gold Coast team put up a game fight, but Corby was a far superior eleven.
The morale of the Lyons team was broken by a Corby touchdown, scored during the first few minutes of play. The try for the point failed. After this, the Gold Coasters tightened up a bit, but not enough to stop the Corby men from scoring another touchdown before the end of the first half. Again the seniors failed to convert the extra point.
Brady of Corby was responsible for the first score when he’intercepted a pass and reeled off a long run down the sidelines. In the second quarter, after a march from midfield to the Lyons goal line, Bherman crashed through center for the second tally.
In the third and fourth quarters, Behermen again romped for touchdowns. Finally, after three futile attempts at points after scores, Corby succeeded in converting after the last touchdown.
The Corby interference throughout the entire game was beautiful to
October 21, 1932
Tzventy-five
watch. During the last five minutes of play, Brady made a long run for a touchdown but the play was called back and Corby penalized. The game ended with a short kick by Lyons.
The Lyons team 'is to be lauded for the game fight they put up, in spite of the fact that it was a losing one. Devlin of Corby deserves special mention for his good work in running back Lyons punts.
Morrissey 7; Dillon 0.
After four quarters of heated battle, the Morrissey Hall gridders defeated the Dillon Hall aggregation, 7 to 0.
Morrissey scored early in the second period on a blocked punt by Blake, Sophomore center. With the ball deep in their own territory the freshmen elected to kick, but the fast charging center broke through and blocked the punt. The ball bounced toward the goal and Blake fell upon it on the Dillon three yard line. Palmisani, the Morrissey fullback, (Continued on Page 28)
When you’ve slept through breakfast
AND you want something quick and nourishing—try a bowl of Kellogg’s Rice
Krispies with milk or cream and sliced bananas. These toasted rice bubbles are so
STRATIGON “South. Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD" 114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
crisp they crackle. And they are rich in energy that’s quickly digested!
Enjoy Rice Krispies for lunch and feel fitter. Fine for a late snack around bedtime. So much better than heavy, hot dishes. All restaurants have Rice Krispies. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
•
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Corn Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg's WHOLE wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee that lets you sleep.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
ITS GREAT
CRIED THE CRITICS at the World Premier
“An outstanding production of the new cinema season.”—N. Y. Evening Journal.
“Builds to its smashing conclusion ... no finer acting has been seen on the screen this season.”—N. Y. Daily Mirror.
“One of the most effective dramas to reach film form.”—N. Y. American.
“Admirably acted by Barrymore, Miss Hepburn and Billie Burke.”—N. Y. Herald-Tribune.
“We wish to go on record here and now that we have personally seen nothing finer on the screen.”—The Film Daily.
John Barrymore in
CLEMENCE DANE’S
Magnificent Play
BILL OF
DIVORCEMENT
RKO Radio Picture, of Course with
BILLIE EURKE
KATHARINE HEPBURN
DAVID MANNERS
□
There is a BETTER show at the RKO
PALACE
INTRODUCING Joe Kurth
By William Flynn
“Now, what is it you want,” said Joe Kurth as he folded his arms and leaned back in the “beer parlor” chair in his room, 105 Sorin. This followed the writer’s introduction to his roommate, Bill Pierce.
“I’d like to get an interview for The Scholastic.”
“0. K., shoot.”
“What’s your middle name?”
“James, Joseph James Kurth.”
“How old are you, how much do you weigh, and how tall are you?”
“I’m twenty-one, weigh two hundred and four, am six feet one and one-half inches tall.”
“Where did you go to high school and what sports did you take part in?”
“I went to Madison East Central High. (Madison is in Wis.) Spent three years on the football team, one as guard and two at tackle; was guard on the basketball team one year, and put the shot during track season.”
“Journalism is your major, isn’t it, Joe? After you get out in June, what do you intend to do?”
“Yes, I’m a Journalism major. I’d like to coach and then get in the journalistic field and do sports writing. I’ve had some experience in newspaper work. This is my third year on The Scholastic sports staff.” (His stories are signed: By Joseph
Kurth, All American Tackle, 1931.)
“How’d you happen to come to Notre Dame?”
“I spent one year on the Wisconsin squad under Tom Lieb. Tom induced me to come to Notre Dame.”
“You’ve played in quite a few games since then, haven’t you?”
“With the Carnegie game tomorrow it will be twenty-two straight.” •
“You’ve never been hurt?”
“No, but I cut my eye playing handball in Madison during Christmas vacation last year.”
“What clubs are you a member of here, and have you held any student offices?”
Knight of Columbus
“I belong to the Monogram club and the local Knights of Columbus council. I’ve never held any student offices here, but was president of my high school executive council for three years.”
“What has football competition given you?”
“Well, you might say that difficulties of football are indicative of life after we get out of school, and by getting these knocks and bruises and hurts you’re getting help or stepping stones in preparing for a career. One who has participated in football is more prepared for life after getting out than any one else. I treasure my two years under Rock as the two greatest years of my life.”
“You made your debut in a varsity suit in the Southern Methodist game in 1930, didn’t you, when you threw Mason for a big loss?”
Regular As Sophomore
“Yes, I made the team as a Sophomore and was the only second year man to play on the National Championship team. My first year I played 530 minutes out of a possible 600. There were ten games that season.
“My greatest thrill was when I tackled Mason. On that play, the whistle had blown for a penalty and the N. D. players seemed to relax. Mason cut back and I thought he might get away for a touchdown.
“If the penalty was on us, they’d take the score and not the penalty. So I tackled him and knocked him out. I believe it was my quick thinking that impressed Rock so he put me on the first team.”
“You’ve done some flying, haven’t you, Joe?”
(Continued on Page 31.'
October 21, 1932
Father Carroll, Returning from Ireland, / Gives His Impressions of The Irish People
Twenty-seven
Joe Kurth’s Engagement Is Announced This Week
(Continued from Page 17)
graves of the sixteen are pointed out on Arbor Hill, where they were buried after being stolen to the Hill at night by the British. At present the spot is transformed into a shrine.
Father Carroll was fortunate in seeing some of the relatives of the sixteen men who gave up their lives the May following Easter week. He visited St. Edna!s School at Rath-farnum where Pearse’s sister carries on his work of teaching. Michael Mallon’s father lives shortly outside Kilmainhan jail. He is an old man of, perhaps, seventy years, and lives in a little house close to the street. The picture of his son Michael hangs from the wall just in front of where he sits. Michael was a workman and in his free time was a member of one of Dublin’s musical organizations.
“Mike,” Mr. Mallon said, “was not afraid to die for Ireland.” And he produced a letter to prove that Michael was not. “I am not afraid to go,” he wrote, just three hours before he was shot. “We have failed now,
but others will carry on and finish what we began.”
The authorities at Kilmainhan jail sent a lorry to take Michael’s mother to the jail to see him before he was shot. “I will walk to see him, as I walked the other days I went,” she said to the lorry captain. And she walked, and bade him good-bye, a short time before the boy was led out to be executed.
^“My wife was a Presbyterian,” Mr. Mallon said quietly, “but she came into the Faith before she died. Mick got that for her when he wrent to Heaven.”
I asked Father Carroll if he had anything else to tell. “Oh yes, of course,” he replied, “I could tell you of the young wife of Joseph Mary Plunkett, who married the night he was shot, and lives with her memories; Kevin Barry’s mother and two sisters, (Kevin Barry was hanged in the twenties after he had been captured in ambush) who are very proud of young Kevin who still lies buried in Mount Joy Prison yard, with a crucifix placed upon his grave; and
Joe Kurth, right tackle on the Notre varsity for the past year, AllAmerican last year, and sports writer for The Scholastic, this week announced his engagement to Miss Virginia Ortlieb of Chilton, Wisconsin. According to the papers the engagement is the culmination of a high school romance. In addition to doingschool work,, playing football and writing for The Scholastic, Kurth is supposed to write to Miss Ortlieb twice a day.
many others who remain in Dublin. They are a tradition coming out of the days when Dublin was in the throes of a war against the ancient foe to win the ancient national right of self-expression. By contrast the Dublin following the great ceremonies of the Congress w-as exceedingly peaceful and restful.”
“But w-e had better stop here. Perhaps some of our friends will say we should not have begun at all. Ah, well.”
Norma Shearer
WEDNESDAY
Frederic March - Leslie Howard
In Metro’s De Luxe Roadshow production of
SMILIN’ THROUGH
The picture that has captured the heart of the world—with your favorite star.
P U B L I X THEATRE
STARTS TODAY
Special 5-Day Engagement
You’ll smile through your tears at this great romance!
Robert Montgomery And Tallulah Bankhead
IN
“FAITHLESS”
Two great stars in one fascinating picture!
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 25)
carried it over in two line smashes, for the winning score. A pass, Pal-misani to Felts, was good for the extra point.
The Dillonites, however, came back ' strong in the second half and kept Morrissey on the defensive, driving hard down to the two yard line only to lose the ball on downs when the
Gold Coast boys, fighting with their backs to the wall, stopped the determined Dillon drive. Morrissey fought Dillon on even terms throughout the game and took advantages of the breaks to win.
The game was rather raggedly played but packed with thrills. Sho-van’s beautiful sprint around left end for thirty yards in the last quarter almost equalled Shultz’s spectacular forty-yard run in the third frame.
Palmisani and Shovan performed well in the backfield for the victors, while Blake shone at center for the same club. Shultz, Dillon halfback, contributed in a large measure to his team’s offense with brilliant ball carrying.
Freshman 13; Brownson 2.
A fighting Freshman Hall team, that shows possibilities of developing into a contender fpr the Inter-Hall title, turned back Brownson Hall by the score of 13 to 2 Sunday afternoon.

NOTRE DAME

See Every Big Game... You can .•.with Greyhound, Fares Now So Low...
*DOLLING along golden highways to the ** year’s great football games—you have a foretaste of the zest, the thrill and color of the contest! The saving in fares runs into dollars. With more frequent daily schedules, you will be hours to the good. Lots of warmth and comfort — congenial fellow-travelers.
And listen! Why not get your own jolly crowd together and charter a special coach right to the stadium? Even greater savings, this way.
Don’t forget—this same splendid service for everyday trips to all parts of America.
vs.
PITTSBURGH at Pittsburgh Oct. 29th
NOTRE DAME vs. NAVY at Cleveland Nov. 19th
NOTRE DAME vs. ARMY at New York Nov. 26th
Special Charter
Rates Now
UNION BUS DEPOT 133 S. Lafayette Blvd.	Phone 3-8283
GREYHOUND
Outweighed considerably by Brownson, the Freshman line outplayed its rivals throughout the game. This, together with the fact that a pair of likely looking ball carriers in the persons of Joe Gleason and Pat Dizanza graced the Freshman backfield, put Brownson at a decided disadvantage from the start. This combination scored the first touchdown and Gleason was again on the passing end « that registered the second touchdown in the fourth quarter.
During most of the first quarter, play went back and forth, with both teams resorting to kicking. Near the end of the period, Gleason and Dizanza collaborated to put the ball in a scoring position. Gleason passed to Dizanza from midfield, the latter being forced out of bounds as the period ended.
Brownson held for three downs as the second quarter opened; but on last down Gleason passed to Dizanza who fell over the goal line for the touchdown. Brownson disputed the touchdown vehemently, arguing that Dizanza’s body had touched the ground before he scored. Gleason drop kicked for the extra point.
Midway in the third period Brownson seemed headed for a touchdown and a possible tie score as Cheviney ran 40 yards along the sideline to cross the goal; however, as he crossed the line and McFarland recovered for Freshman, giving Brownson a safety and their only points of the game.
In the. last quarter Gleason passed to Regan on a “sleeper” play for another touchdown. This time Gleason’s try for extra point was blocked.
In addition to Gleason and Dizanza, Mansfield played well for Freshman, while. Cheviney, Schmidt, and Gorman did the best work for Brownson.
October 21, 1932
Twenty-nine
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
THOSE TWO POINTS
Midway through the second quarter of the Drake game, Notre Dame picked up two points for their soaring total through a play that caused considerable confusion among both the spectators in the stands and the sports writers in the press box.
When Weiland’s punt was blocked and recovered by Captain Paul Host beyond the end zone, referee Ed Cochrane decided that a safety had been scored against Drake.
The problem involved was one of impetus. If the impetus had been furnished by the lineman blocking the kick, the play would have been recorded as a touch-back, not a safety. It was decided, however, that Weiland, the kicker, had supplied the impetus, thus making it a safety. The play could not be scored as a touchdown because the ball was downed beyond the limits of the playing field.
Sports writers had their greatest difficulty in deciding who scored the safety. Practically everyone recorded the play as “Safety by Host.” In reality, Weiland scored the safety, since such a play, involves the loss, not the gain, of two points. Host certainly did not lose points by the transaction. The stigma was hung on Weiland for he had supplied the w. k. impetus.
AFTER THREE WEEKS •
With the season nearing its height, sectional leaders are beginning to appear. Disappointments are many, exhibitions of unexpected strength are few.
In the east, N. Y. U.» Harvard, Colgate, and certainly Pittsburgh are well ahead of the pack. The Pitt eleven looms as one of the most powerful in the country and as one of the highest barriers in the path of our own Irish. Yale has been the cast’s biggest flop.
Moving back to the mid-west, we’d class Notre Dame with the best in sight. Purdue and Michigan look best in the Big Ten with Northwestern apparently recovering from their setback last week and gaining power right along.
Nebraska and Kansas State are the class of the other Mid-West circles. To the south-west, a group of Texas schools, including Texas U. and Rice Institute have come to the top. These two leaders clash .tomorrow.
Tennessee has whatever edge is to be had in the confusion down south. Tulane is going along in fair style but apparently far below their last season form.
Out among Graham McNamee’s mountains and Grantland Rice’s sun-kissed slopes, the Trojans of U. S. C. are holding a rather wavering upper hand. They will undoubtedly develop, though, as the weeks go by, into another great machine. Smaller schools including Santa Clara, Loyola, and U. C. L. A. are forging up steadily into the spotlight that their bigger neighbors have been monopolizing.
(Continued on Page 31)
O. A. CLARK’S RESTAURANT 104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
;! Catering to J;
NOTRE DAME MEN j
for over thirty years <;
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Mans Meal Drop in Any Time.
ARE you LOSING YOUR HAIR?
If you are, don’t worry about it. It is now possible to have your hair restored by a tested and approved method of
HAIR
REGROWING
Our method is absolutely guaranteed or your money refunded.
WE ALSO SPECIALIZE IN
Dandruff and Falling Hair Cure
Manicures Facials
Permanents Hair Tinting
All Work Guaranteed.
Men Only	Private Entrance
Reliance Hair Growing Shop
230% W. Washington	Phone 4-6771
Thirty
The Scholastic
NORTE DAME 62, DRAKE 0.
(Continued from Page 30)
touchdown, and Vejar’s great work in handling punts were enough to keep the crowd on edge.
Notre Dame made eight first downs to three for Drake and gained 396 yards from scrimmage to their oppon
ents 61.
Summary: NOTRE DAME (62)	DRAKE (0)
Vairo _____________LE____________ Deskin
Pfefferle ---------LT____________ Blanck
Wunsch ------------LG____________ Bowers
Gorman ____________C____________ McClure
Flynn _____________RG_____________ Baker
Roach _____________RT___________ Kokjohn
Rascher ___________RE__________ Brechler
Vejar -------------QB___________ F. Smith
Koken LH_______________________ Thompson
Sheeketski --------RH.__________ Wieland
Banas -------------FB__________ Scharlin
Touchdowns—Banas (2), Lukats, Brancheau. Melinkovich, Kosky, Koken, Costello, La-borne. Points after touchdowns—Koken (2), Jaskwhich (2), Laborne (3), all placements.
Safety—Host.
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Fosky, Canale, left ends; Krause. Leding. left tackles; Harris, Schiralli, Mahaffey, left guards; Alexander, Gorman, centers; Greeney, Pierce, Pi-vamik, right guards; Kurth, Barstow, right tackles; Host, Gildea. right ends; Jaskwhich, Murphy, Caldwell, Boland, quarterbacks; Lukats, McGuff, Laborne, left half backs; Brancheau, Tobin Costello, right half backs; Melinkovich, Leonard, Hagen, full backs.
SCRIMMAGE UNE
(Continued from Page 23)
fact there are two or three other sets of Irish hacks that will keep some of the best lines in the country guessing.
Some of the Carnegie luminaries who will see action in tomorrow’s game will be co-Captains Bill Sample and George Kavel, both are ranked with the best in the country in their department of the game. Sample is a guard and Kavel is a half-back. Colin Stewart, Joe Mihm, Bill Spisak and Clyde Heinzer are other veterans who will be in the game upholding the honor of the Pittsburgh school. Joe Mihjn, 196 pound fullback, who has not yet carried the ball in a game this year, is expected to give Joe Kurth and Ed Krause plenty of worry.
The first shrill blast of the referee’s whistle will be at 2 o’clock.
Drake—Piersal, left tackle; C’anakes, right guard; Hunt, right end; B. Eells, quarter back; Potts, J. Eells, left half backs; Gaer; full back.
Referee—Ed Cochrane (Kalamazoo). Umpire—H. L. Ray (Illinois) Feld judge—M. P. Ghee (Dartmouth). Head linesman—See Tay-lar (Wichita).
Coaches—Heartley Anderson, Notre Dame; Evan O. Williams, Drake.
TECH HERE TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 5)
A murmur of dissent ran through the stands upon the decision that was made following the recovery of the blocked punt outside of the end zone. The ruling was a safety which was correct. Rule nine, article two, page forty-three of the rule book, says: “It is a safety if the ball, before becoming, dead, goes out of bounds behind the goal line, provided the impetus which sent it across the goal line, was given by the team defending that goal.”
Nick Lukats made a very nice tackle of the ball carrier on one of the kick-offs.
Tobin’s ball carrying was of a nice variety Saturday and harkened of the days when he was “king of the hill” in the Big Eight conference of Southern Wisconsin.
Kitty Gorman “chucked” the ball to the backfield for three quarters in the game against Drake.
The Notre Dame first team scored two touchdowns in three minutes against Drake.
BEWARE...
Carnegie Tech!
The PAUL O. KUEHN Shoe Store will give a pair of BOSTONIAN SHOES to THE MAN who plays the best GAME against CARNEGIE TECH.
Let’s Go Team!
Some man on the team will earn a pair of Bostonians Saturday. (To be approved by COACH “HUNK” ANDERSON.)
« Master Fitted »
120 South	Street
Every Hour on the Hour
to
DOWNTOWN CHICAGO
Every hour on the hour a fast train leaves the South Shore station, Michigan St., at LaSalle, South Bend, for downtown Chicago, making the trip in a little more than two hours. This is the quick, convenient way to the city. Equally fast trains also leave Chicago every hour on the hour for South Bend.
For complete information on South Shore Line service, see Jimmy McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall.
SOUTH SHORE UNES
October 21, 1932
Thirty-one
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 29)
THE LOCAL SITUATION
Hunk’s prospects aren’t too bad. A year ago this time the Irish were at their peak for the Drake and Pitt games. After that, the course led downhill.
This. season things are different. The Irish have come along more slowly. They should reach their best form later in the season; they should be able to hold it through the final drive against the more formidable opponents.
SCORECASTS
Last week’s results: 18 winners, 5 losers, and 4 tie games. The season’s record: 52 winners, 9 losers, and 10 no-decision affairs.
For tomorrow’s games, the hardest we’ve had to pick thus far, we offer the following:
NOTRE DAME 27, CARNEGIE TECH 0.
Army 14, Yale 0.
Bucknell 7, Lafayette 0
Wisconsin 33, Coe 0.
New York University 7, Colgate 0.
Columbia 20, Williams 6.
Harvard 20, Dartmouth 6.
Michigan State 13, Fordham 7.
North Carolina 7, Georgia Tech 0.
Iowa State 13, Mossouri 6.
Kansas State 14, Oklahoma University 7.
Pennsylvania 20, Lehigh 0.
Marquette 13, Boston College 0.
Navy 7, Princeton 0.
Northwestern 13, Purdue 7.
Pittsburgh 20, Ohio State 12.
Oregon State 12, Washington State 6.
Syracuse 14, Penn State 6.
Texas University 20, Rice Institute 13.
Southern California 20, Stanford 7.
Alabama 26, Mississippi 0.
California 14, Washington 0.
Indiana 14, Chicago 6.
Vanderbilt 14, Georgia 6.
Michigan 21, Illinois 0.
Minnesota 13, Iowa 0.
Nebraska 14, Kansas 0.
WELCOME
Notre Dame Men To Our SODA FOUNTAIN
AND
LUNCH ROOM
Platter Lunches Complete Dinners Special Sunday Dinners.
“Service with a Smile”
THE PHILADELPHIA
116 N. Michigan
INTRODUCING KURTH
(Continued from Page 26)
“Yes, I hold a limited commercial license with 110 hours of solo. During the summer of 1927 I ferried planes from Wichita, Kansas to Madison. But I shall go back to it only as a sport, never as a career.”
“Well, thanks a lot, Joe; this’ll make a pretty good story.”
“That’s all right. If there is anything we can do for you, just drop around.”
“Well, you might lend me a couple of bucks.”
The interview ended.
• Here’s a shoe with the swagger of the custom last — sharp toe sweeping hack in a stream line, neatly tucked up under the arch, and firmly supporting the instep like a thoroughbred.
The foot has a
Baldwin Shoe Company
110 IV. Wayne Street
BILL MUNDY IN ACTION
(Continued from Page 23)
ever, by the time the third quarter had begun, we had to whisper the name of the ball carrier and the tackler, for there was no more room on our card.
Mr. Al Feeney, a Notre Dame alumnus and All-American center in 1913, handled the “mike” during the first quarter. He also gave the resume at the half and at the end of the game. Mr. Gene Rause was the descriptive artist before the game and introduced both Mr. Feeney and Mr. Mundy.
shorter, smarter appearance in this shoe.
The high military heel comfortably lifts the rear lines of the shoe up to the drop of the trouser cuff, an essential requirement for $ metropolitan wear.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
ALLERTON HOTEL.
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in.
Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.30 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.00 to 12.50 weekly, per person Transient—$1.50 to $4.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL
&
Chicago 701 North Michigan Avenue
On Down The Line
Ry Fred MurTtpUi
“CHUCK” JASKWHICH thinks “BEARSKIN” should know better . . . or at least that he (Chuck) doesn’t weigh 190 pounds and that he can’t dance either . . . TOM LIEB has three sets of brothers on his LOYOLA team . . . and it was almost a family affair against SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA last Saturday ... a new captain is chosen for each game at WEST VIRGINIA this year . . . LEFTY GOMEZ of the YANKEES is superstitious ... he always steps over the foul line—never on it—on his way to and from the mound.
A WOODEN TEE was driven into a GOLF BALL when DALE WHISLER drove for the sixth hole at an INDIANAPOLIS club . . . UMPIRES CLARENCE WILSON and MAYOR TAD ROGERS of ARCHER CITY (Tex.) took no chances at the annual SHRINE PICNIC ball game . . . they wore suits of MEDIEVAL ARMOR ... the INDIANA BACKFIELD averages 200 pounds . . . there are 14 college men on the NEWARK BALL TEAM . . . they led the INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE ... and won the LITTLE SERIES with MINNE-APOIS.
MRS. GLENNA COLLET VARE, five times U. S. champion, scored her first HOLE IN ONE as she won the BERTHELLYN CUP at the HUNTINGTON (Pa.) COUNTRY CLUB . . . headline in a PITTSBURGH paper, “BRITISH BANTAMWEIGHT TITLE WON BY KING” in a grudge fight at HOULTON (Me.) the other night, YOUNG JACK DEMPSEY and BABE CARON charged from their corners at the beginning of the second round . . . they connected simultaneously, Dempsey scoring a right to the jaw and taking a right to the solar plexus . . . both men fell and were carried from the ring .
LOU GEHRIG also played football . . .in high school he drop-kicked a 30-YARD Field goal and later threw a pass that scored a touchdown . . . his team beat the undefeated COMMERCIAL HIGH team, 9-6 ... a golf tournament for ONE-ARMED players will be held in OKLAHOMA CITY ... at least 275 golfers will be eligible, of whom 100 are good golfers and 10 are par shooters . . . SUN BEAU is the leading money winner in the racing world ... he has won $376,774, a world record . . . no manager in the AMERICAN LEAGUE has ever won four pennants in a row ...
FA Y S Jewelry Co.
COME HERE FOR FINE JEWEWLRY
“We Sell for Less”
Expert Watch Repairing
We Guarantee Our Work at Very Reasonable Prices.
FA Y’S Jewelry Co.
137% S. Michigan St.
OTTO INVITES YOU
NICKLE LUNCH 114 E. Jefferson St.
Wholesome Delicious Food
’ Any Dish, Sc Sandwiches, Sc
T-Bone Steaks ......35c
Pork Chops .......... 30c
Fried Chicken ......30c
Hamburger Steak______25c
Above orders include
French Fried Potatoes, Bread and Butter, or Toast; Coffee.
RADIO CLINIC
R W ZELLERS MGR
SERVICE OUR SPECIALTY
PHONE 4-2343
116 WEST COLFAX AVE
Across from Palais Royale
Your Set and Tubes tested FREE!
New guaranteed
Radio Tubes____
New Philco-Siiperheterodyne Radios, 18.75 Complete
STUDENT Newest $12.95 cppriAi n j* Complete SPECIAL Radios with tubes
9
After College WHAT?
LAW?
Former Federal Judge Edwin L. Garvin says: "A keen mind, sound judgment and unflagging industry are required to digest the volumes of laws and decisions facing -the practitioner today. The young lawyer can no longer practice by ear and intuition. The science of the law is exacting and difficult.”
ONLY "a keen mind” can absorb the volumes of information which must be at the finger tips of the young lawyer today. Perhaps that’s why in this profession, as in our leading colleges, a pipe is the favorite smoke. You see, it helps a man concentrate . . . clears cobwebs from his brain.
Try a pipeful of Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco—the favorite smoke among college men. *Notice how that blend of fine old hurleys really helps you think out a difficult problem.
Edgeworth is distinctive . . . that’s why you’ll like it. You’ll know — after your first puff. Want to try it before you buy? Just write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Virginia.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes — 15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
Desert air is wet
... by comparison!
Making telephone equipment presents many an interesting problem to the engineers of Western Electric—manufacturer for the Bell System.
A case in point is the drying of telephone cable before putting on the protective lead sheath. This step is of utmost importance, for the tiny copper wires cannot carry your voice properly unless their	,
paper insulation is thoroughly dried. To this end, Western Electric engineers devised special drying ovens in which the air is thirty times drier than desert air!
The same ingenuity and thoroughness go into every step of making cable, telephones, switchboards and many other kinds of telephone equipment. The dependable apparatus that results is one reason why Bell System service is dependable.
BELL SYSTEM
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
H E ST E R FI E LD
RESENTS
Around the corner and down your way he comes with his mellow accordion .. . a song on his lips and the love of song in his heart, like a wandering troubadour of old. Light up your Chesterfield, fling wide your radio window and listen .. . for he has many tales to tell you!
Chesterfield Radio Program—Mondays and Thursdays, Boswell Sisters; Tuesdays and Fridays, Arthur Tracy; Wednesdays and Saturdays, Ruth Etting. Shilkret’s Orchestra and Norman Brokenshire 10 p. m. (E. S. T.) Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays; and 9 p. m. Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays. Columbia Network.

THE CIGARETTE THAT'S .
THE CIGARETTE THAT