Dotre Dame Scholastic
•QVASI-SeniPGR-.VICTVRVS’ VI\/£ -QVASI- CRAS-MOI2ITVR\^
--------:---:------------------------------------------:—— . J
Vol. L.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, September 23, 1916.-
No. i
Memory.

'y'HE hand that smoothed my hair back from my brow Is death-still now; >
The voice that called me to each brimful day
x Has died away;
Yet still when I am sad, I feel the press	—
Of that caress,
And, echoing in niy heart’s 'deserted hall,
I hear that call.
0. P.
The Catholicism of Chesterton. *
BY TIMOTHY P. GALVIN,’'l6.
IN 1905 Gilbert Keith Chesterton wrote a book called “Heretics.” In it he attacked the'philosophical and religious beliefs of a number of his most popular contemporaries. The book proved a Triumph; its criticisms were pointed; its indictment-was damning. But one thing was lacking:- Chesterton had shown ' the fallacies in the philosophies of others, but he ■ had not given his own philosophy. The weakness vas pointed out; critics demanded that Chesterton should be. a builder as well as a burner, that in addition to telling the world what not to believe he should tell the world what to . believe. Chesterton accepted the -.challenge; the result was - his most/famous . work, “Orthodoxy,”-published in 190S.
Wilfrid Ward did not exaggerate when he pronounced “Orthodox}^” a “book giving us _ as a permanent legacy more oforginal and practically helpful suggestions than perhaps any-
thing which has appeared: in our own day oh

Chateaubriand’s’theme ‘The Genius of Chris-‘5
tianity’”. Thebook presented the religious’ beliefs of-a; man who stands out unique among the men-of-his. time.:',.Chesterton is-:at once
; C brilliant-/and Tearless.: - His ability-no one - can doubt; h his ' independence is y apparent in^ his -every Word-. He flies.-in the teeth - of. popular,
opinion with the most reckless abandon; he seems to enjoy a fight. His own confession of the beliefs of his early life is most startling,—’ ’ “I was a pagan at the age of twelve, and. a complete agnostic by the age of sixteen; .	. I ;
read all the scientific and sceptical literature
, of my time. ... I never read a line of Christian apologetics.” What such a .man would < have to say after he had groped his way through all the mazes of .modern thought, back to old-fashioned Christianity, naturally ’
. excited widespread interest. “Orthodoxy” has
. exerted a profound influence oh modern thought. / Chesterton was not, at the . time when, he .
wrote “Orthodoxy,” and very probablyyis
not now, a Catholic. Yet it has long been.realized that his creed tends strongly in the direction of Catholicism. Tb show-how-essentially Catholic is the position Chesterton-upholds is the purpose / of this - essay. The high, regard in which Ches- . terton . is held throughout the English-speaking . world and the important position which : his “Orthodoxy” occupies-among recent contributions to religious thought constitute'amply sufficient justifications for this effort.
From, beginning to end Chesterton’s philos- V ophy is.. thoroughly Christian. He is . “ con-. i cemed ’only to discuss the actual fact that the . central . Christian theology (sufficiently summarized in the Apostle’s Creed)-is the .best / root of energy and sound ethics.” But Chesterton is not satisfied with the platitudinous ...y statements of Christianity, that’ characterize , the work of most Protestant * writers. y He,; boldly takes a stand on all important disputed questions.' He takes the stand which reason y - dictates, and the result-, is a book that might: : have been written by a. Catholic’theologian
- First of all. Chesterton recognizes , the valueY . of tradition .as an authoritative source - of ? doctrine. -He not only admits that the Catholic;.*.3 view of tradition is.right: he is an. enthusiastic/ defender.: of . that view.: Belief in tradition-is/jF.
Prize Essay for the Meehan Gold Medal, y ' 7
A#



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC -
to • him essentially democratic. It was only the few and the exceptional men who could write books; what the ordinary common people thought and said and did was naturally transmitted. by word of mouth in story and in , legend. If we recognize the value of democratic opinion we cannot disregard tradition. Therefore the democrats who oppose tradition are altogether inconsistent. Is not^this a-new and ' a cogent manner of presenting the argument
for belief in tradition? .	'
“The man who begins to think without the proper first principles goes mad,” declares Chesterton; “he begins to think at the wrong end.” And not only are proper first principles necessary in . his estimation, . but religious authority is also necessary. He points out the perils to which freethinking is bound to lead; he does, not fail to see the maelstrom into which
one is certain to be drawn when he sets sail - after clock strikes noon.” He considers that, upon a sea of doubt. He gives, a.splendid basis he has found the key to all his former difficulties' for an argument establishing the necessity of- and he rejoices in the fact that-this key fits ' the Papacy; but he fails to..follow this argu- somany locks.. Let us watch him as he opens
ment to its logical conclusion, and it may be just here that he falls short of being ■ Catholic.
Indeed -he Hints that this is his difficulty when * paganism.
, he says, “Once I saw suddenly the meaning • of the shape of the cross; some day I . may suddenly see the meaning of the shape of the mitre.” But whatever'may be Mr. Chesterton’s unrevealed attitude toward -the Catholic faith in the Pope as a guide in matters of religion, he does not fail to see that -some guide is necessary.
Nor does Chesterton fail to grasp the importance of the fact that certain fundamental principles' of philosophy are unchangeable. His contempt for the fickle philosophers, who ; ' have never found a lasting basis to which they . . could. - anchor their' beliefs, is well expressed. , /‘An imbecile habit has arisen in modern con-
. trover sy of saying that such and such a creed can . be held in. one age but cannot be held in
another.. Some dogma,: we are told, was credible _ any inconsistency in the. Catholic . emphasis both of the family and of celibacy. .The reasoning of the Church on this , matter he, accepts and makes his own. Home: andx woman are. alike
.. in the-twelfth century, but is not credible in / . the twentieth. /You might as well say that a certain philosophy can be-believed on Mondays, but cannot be believed«on Tuesdays.”, That
’ ' '-z ' - ' sacred;\/marriage/is a Sacrament, and -hence monogamy .must be upheld. .	-j’-:
is an/assumption of- every.true theory of progress, - .. . In-discussing evolution Chesterton lays down for there; can be no improvement unless there / the limits which all Catholics recognize. Evo-beastandardby. which tomeasure thatiinprove- liition may be accepted as arneans.of. accounting ment. If " What is rightin-one-ageis wrong in for certain. phenomena,ybut-^	.account
another// how. can we say that we are either for too much. s. God-..may. fhave/created man’s better/	than .four' /forefathers? ? At ; body / bjy/aysySteni - of//eyolutiori,/-this-?much
there are certain absolute, unchanging standards
heart all-.men know that there are absolute criterions of right and .wrong; to deny this -fact is futile folly.. -
On basic principles we see that Chesterton is essentially Catholic. He affirms his faith in a personal God, the Creator of the Universe. He accepts tradition as a source of doctrine; he declares the necessity of first principles in ■reasoning and of an authoritative guide in religion; he scorns the idea that - fundamental philosophical principles change from time to time. His fundamentals are not more Catholic than are his beliefs on. particular problems He tells how after accepting Christian principles, he “could, hear bolt after bolt all over the machinery” (of his system of thought)" falling into its place with a kind of click of relief. Having got one part right, all the other parts were repeating, the same rectitude, as clock
lock after lock and thus allows the Light of Christianity to pierce the: darknesses of modern
Chesterton is a firm believer in the Catholic type df family. He refuses to join in the modernrevolt against monogamy. Indeed this is one of the movements at which he. hurls the most bitter invective. The sacredness of marriage and.parenthood and home-building strikes him ~ so 'forcibly that he is - militantly. Catholic in his opposition to those who would attack the home and the. wedlock. He has written a book ("What’s Wrong with the World”) in which ■ he holds up as his ideal “the -happy family, the holy, family of history;” In this book he asserts his belief in. “that mystical view, of marriage. . . , .:the great European tradition
which has madfe marriage a Sacrament.” Nor does he profess to see, as do many Protestants,

I HU NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and no more will he grant to the evolutionist. The creation of man’s'soul by God directly and the recognition of God as the ultimate cause of all things, even of evolution,—these are the points upon which he insists in his consideration of the evolutionary teaching. They are likewise^rthe points upon which all Catholic teachers insist.	.
The comparison of Christian and of materialistic philosophy makes evident to Chesterton the narrowness of the latter. “If the cosmos of the materialist,” he says, “is the real cosmos, it is not much of a cosmos. The thing-has. shrunk.” The limitations and shortcomings of materialism as compared with the freedom and the beauties of Christianity are the more evident to him because of the materialistic tendencies of his youth.
Chesterton plants himself with his back against the rock of Christianity and he refuses to yield a single inch to modern innovators in the field of mcrality.» “What on the earth is the current morality,” he asks, “except in its literal sense—the morality that is always running awav?” He hurls the thunderbolt of truth against those who claim that Catholic » principks have outlived their usefulness/ that Catho i ity was triad in the Middle Ages and fourd wanting, and that, therefore, we must secure new principles and new ideals. “Mankind,” he protests, “has not passed through the Middle Ages. Rather mankind has re-treatcd from the Middle Ages in reaction and , rout. The Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting. It has been found difficult; and left untried.”	■	'	.
Nowhere is. Chesterton, more brilliant than in those pages in which he tells how in his own life the critics of Christianity defeated their own ends by their own contradictions.- The thing which first made Chesterton suspicious of the opponents of Christianity and thus started the movement that finally resulted in his removing himself from the. mire, of paganism, was the fact that Christianity was attacked for “contradictory reasons. He was unable to reconcile the ' accusation that . Christianity was over-optimistic with the accusation that Christianity was over-pessimistic. . Nor could he understand how the-same men could say. that the-Church -was too meek because she fostered monasteries and • with ■ the next ^breath that -the Church was too' violent- because.she inspired Crusades. z He proceeds thus throughout , the
whole-category of pagan inconsistencies, leaving , y the anti-Christian forces in a state of .ridiculous '	-
confusion.	■	‘	...
Hence ■ we see that Chesterton not onlv • - - - -accepts Catholic principles but he applies those principles also just as a Catholic would apply . them. Wilfrid Ward (if I may quote such an able critic again) has characterized “Ortho- . doxy” as “an attempt in the English literature ,	.
of the hour at .'. . bringing to bear all avail-, able" guns against a- perverse philosophy of life, which-is being preached in the name ofl progress.” The simile is a good one, but the -'fact should not be lost sight of that Chesterton -.	-
has gone gunning with Catholic ammunition.
The fact .that he is. not himself, a Catholic * . should not prevent anyone from giving him due credit for shooting down a goodly number .of ■' the enemies of Catholicism. Indeed, if. any ’	.
reproach is due on account of Chesterton’s . * ^work, it is due not to the great Englishman
himself but to the Catholic leaders who have . left so much for him . to do. Chesterton, has said many things that some Catholic should . * have said before him; he has applied Catholic principles where their application is so obvious that no Catholic should have overlooked ; it: Chesterton, the Protestant; has erected.' defenses for the Catholic Church which Cath- /	’ ;
olics themselves have., neglected Catholics . . should give him full credit and thanks for what . he has done, and they should, not -fail to learn .	?
the lesson he is teaching,—-the value: of preach-J ... ing and applying Catholic principles in? these . times of heresy and paganism.' Catholics have ; done much to check the wave of- unbelief? but C •'/; a score of Catholics who will fight like Chester- Hy ton can do much more than has been done.	' '/?
The very fact, that, Ches terton is a Protestant . y makes his work. a source - of great satisfaction to' the Catholic reader. Catholic philosophy is founded upon the most - enduring principles ; and the /most' logical reasoning; hence .the -student of-this, philosophy often wonders why non-Catholic" thinkers do not accept a large: ' part of' scholastic , teaching even though they. . are unwilling to accept the Catholic, religion?: . To find that .such an able man as Chesterton- . has done this .very thing is naturally gratifying . to the Catholic mind', not because any 'Catholic -worth the name needs the word of any Protes- - ; tant to convince him of vthe soundness of his	..
own philosophy, .but because Chesterton’s con-?5 I.-LH version to - Catholic principles -bears out : the ?	- -Aj
- " - - * ’ ' - . ' :1
-. -'	. _	. c ' ~	:y



4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
k claim that the scholastic system is in itself, and apart from the Catholic religion, sound.
.	It is somewhat difficult to understand how
a man of Chesterton’s ability and frankness can come so close to being a Catholic and yet not become one., It should be remembered, however, that he. was once a pagan and that the gap between paganism and Catholicism is no small one. The Catholic religion is the most ; uncompromising of all religions. Its followers - give up more for it than do those who profess
. other creeds. Of course the Catholic faith gives more in return for the sacrifices of its adherents than other religions give, but this is very seldom evident to the non-Catholic. Hence we need not be surprised if the process of Chesterton’s conversion is somewhat tedious. We can be ' sure that the process is going on and that it is ■ almost certain to be completed.
’ Nothing could better show with what enthusiasm Chesterton already regards the Catholic . Church and nothing could. be a more fitting close for this essay than that splendid passage in ■ which he figuratively -describes the course \ of the Church through the ages of her existence. “The Church in its early days,” he „ writes, “went fierce and fast _with any warhorse. . . .'. She swerved to left and right, so
. exactly as to avoid enormous obstacles.. She f . left on one hand the diuge bulk of Arianifm, buttressed by-all the worldly powers to' make Christianity too worldly. The next instant she was swerving to .avoid an orientalism, .which would^make it_too unworldly. The orthodox Church never, took the tame course or accepted the conventions; the orthodox Church was never .’./ respectable. It would have been easier'to. have
- , : accepted the earthly power'of the Arians. It _ . would-have been, easy, in the Calvinistic seven-
. . . Teenth. century, .to fall, into the “bottomless pit : of predestination. ... It is always easy to be a modernist; as it is easy to be-a snob. To have . fallen into any ofi those open traps of error and
■< exaggeration which fashion after 'fashion and ? sect after sect set along; the 'historic .path of
' Christendom—?thaty would indeed have been y •. simple. .by.. . To have fallen into any. one of :	/the fads from Gnosticism to Christian Science
// v y . would indeedihave been obvious and tamef . But;
to. have'Avoided them all has been one whirling bb b adre^^
charidt/ffiesbtliun^^	theyagesb.the
TN ' truth reeling but erect? ’/ '.j.y	NiTTN;N
NT TN;NNtNNNN -b ? TNTTNT.
Varsity Verse.
If Yoo’re a Hoosier, There’s no Place L ke Home.
A Hoosier went d stant Spain,	-
' To Cairo, on the Nile;
A month or two did he remain	•	3
On Britain’ m sty Is’e. . •	'	.
He clambered up Mount Etna’s sideIn Slc ly by the,sea;	'
- He gazed upon the waters wide, . ’ Then murmured, ‘ Home for me!"	~
. . Chorus.
"I care not or London, or for Paris so gay, z Nor long for the bright lights of New York’s ‘white way.’	-
I have seen all of Venice, of Cork, and Berlin,	.
I’m,through with this traveldt’s making me thin.
Give me Indiana, ’tis there I was born, Until I get back; I’ll be sad and forlorn, From my.old Hoosier-State, no more will I roam, ’Cause if you’re a Hoosier, there’s no place like home.’’
When he reached his native land, .
The Hoosier did rejoice:
- “Of all the spots on earth so grand,
” Indiana is my choice. •	'	.
' I love its towns, however small,	"
, ; I love its cities, too; ....	~
My heart has.room for one and all, I I’m Hoosier through and through.” '	, Chorus.	,	.
, . .	.	. John Lemmer. •
.	. . Bashful Ballads. .	'
A bride and groom were seated in their newly-furnished .* -	. flat;	- T .
As at their :first real .home-cooked . meal this happy
..	- couple -sat?y .-	7 C .: .	. . . ,	. . ,	"
And bn thatbridal.table in;bright splfendor. there was:. ' ' ’ = laid., j N-’NT -	/ b-
A batch of. leaden , biscuits which dear wifey /just had
: ■-	.... made:	. /• . ’
She said, “ My dear, dohaveoiie,” but the bridegroom
.. b >'shook : .his- head :/£- .-y b?bb yyb -x. .X,. by- -b.
He said; “Sweet wren, I’d like to, but I ain’t that fond :
V.7 of lead;” ; .y/-by N’TN-: tNN ’’ -b-'/
At.this, the*dame got spiffy and a/tearcanie: in her eye" /.And' as/shejyiewed i her biscuits^there, this ,‘here she . i yjdidb^piyyyyy• -■/ ’• T-- ■

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

■ CHORUS.
“You used to like my cooking once, before I wedded you;
But now you say it’s awful, and that makes me feel so ■blue:
You say my biscuits taste like soap, that all my meals are raw;
So since you’ve crabbed mjr cooking, I’m a-goin’ home to Maw.”
These words she said moved hubby dear, and so to keep his bride,	■ .
He sai'd he’d eat her biscuits if in doing it he died.
And so he et them bullets which his wife had gone and made,
And twenty minutes after in his grave the guy was laid, And now his wifey’s sad and lone and wishes she was dead	.	|	‘
For saying to her hubby dear them harsh words she
had said.
B. A nderson.
T e Clock.
For a year and a. day -
-Does the clock on the wall Beat away, beat away, For a year and a day.
And it seems e’er to say:
“Let us go from it all For a year and a day,"
Does the clock oh the wall.
Mary O!
' * I ken nae joy sae soothin’-sweet As ae sma hour wi’ Mary, O! Her bonnie een, her glances fleet, .Her c arms sae ligh and"airy O!
I guide my pleugh frae morn till eve, Na cafe if .storm-clouds .glower O;
Nae cloud nor storm can make me grieve , When thinking of my flower O.
Across the brae when day is gone, Amang the bonn’e heather O, We stray as free as woodland fawn My luve and. I thegither. O, J
O sweet.the words she spake to me,—T z s My heart skipped like a fairy, O ! , - "Nae ither bonnie lad but thee .>
Shall own the heart of Mary O!	*-
■ - ■ . ' • •• ■- - ? ' ...
P
Betty Will Stay.
BY EDWARD.-HO YTE-t
■ Betty stood impatiently at. the -window of . her cottage auaitr .g the arrival of MrTong. . the warden of the. poorhouse. The\terrible-• day had come at last; she had dreaded it as a -criminal dreads the hour of execution. But-now that it had arrived she was impatient; to be through .with the bitter hour of parting/ The little sitting room where Betty had worked . at her sewing when her man John was a strong -laborer in the mills, was neat and tidv. Her few/ possessions were packed in a trim paper bundle
. anti tied with a; white cotton band; and Betty", was dressed in her cnly and best gown ready for the ride to the'house on the Hill. ' ' : j ’
■ Betty had been without any source of income/ since her man John had died. She had mortgaged the little cottage, and now her small sum was gone and the cottage must pass intoV other hands. '	.	/--•?-/*
She stood'impatiently at the window toying nervously with the string that hung from the green window-shade. “The house on the hill is big and warm,” she thought, “and I will bez well cared- for; but this cottage was mine. ly cared for it ever}’- day; I kept this garden bright with flowers and tempted the birds to nest; here and the bees to draw the honey from these/ blossoms. I wonder, at all,” she mused, “will , the next good woman that hves here keep the/ garden trim and neat?”	'
She raised her.head at the sound of a trap
’V
rolling down the road. They are coining, she thought, and she must go. She picked tip her’ - little bundle, opened, the door aiidL stood;

“How'dull and monotonous the garden looks to-day,” she thought. “There is no glow in the hollyhocks and the bachelor- buttons seem drooped and. dry,. And are the bees' afraid to ; ' break my heart by humming about my± blossoms';: on the dayT’m going? There are only two or three about,, and they .used to be hefefin large: companies. The little- white road,; too, that seemed so blindingly bright, is dull and.
. The trap , was rounding the curve at Kenneys ■ corner. \ _ /- i -;s/	// //:///
- “Where .are the 'neighbors?”- she/said/tbrl

■<

UI
'4 £

X
V-.

6
THE NOTRE DA ME ■ SCHOLASTIC
. herself. “Aren’t they'going to say good-bye? Mrs. Connor was in last night but wouldn’t say good-bye. She said I .wasn’t going.away at all' but simply moving higher up on. the. hill and that she’d be over regular when I got
• settled; and of course she will; for didn’t I grow up with Maggie Quinn and wasn’t I- at her weddiny to Phil Connor, and didn’t I dance and dance until my feet ached?”
Mrs. Connor had heard the trap coming too, and she was at the window, but behind the curtain; for she wouldn’t make Betty feel the pain of parting, and she was. resolved to visit
. Remembrance.
BY SPEER STRAHAN.
Betty that? very evening in the house on hill. ■	.	‘	•
■ Big Tim Dennison was working in garden, in front of his home, and when ’ trap hurried by lie went into the house;
the
the the for
he didn’t want to be out when it returned, bringing a good'neighbor to the poorhouse. .
.. The trap drew up at Betty’s cottage. There was a girl in the seat, too. Betty saw her and recognized her at once. Sure it was Peg Daly; - could any other girl in the village leap so lightly ’ from the seat, and fairly fl); up . the white gravel walk? '	, '	.
. :	“You’re not going away, Betty,” she cried,
kissing the old woman and untying tlie strings . of . Betty’s bonnet .with such speed that, it quite upset the neatly combed gray hair. “Bather ' wouldn’t hear of it at all; and he’s fixed it up, and'this cottage will be yours always ,	. and Mrs. Meaney, is going to. live here, with
." vou.”	‘	•
- That night the tides came tremulous Beneath the August moon;-	,
■And across the waves there came from Lord’s The lilt of a dancing tune.
Yet even when. by candlelight • I sought my chamber’s gloom,
Those silly notes kept in my head Nor gave thoughts of you room.
Late at the window watch I kept,
I, with deep skies alone, ,
But neither those night skies nor stars
Would give me back mine own. ‘ •
Then sudden turning I chose a book • That we had read an hour, ■
And dose between its yellow leaves Found me the purple flower •
That you had put the e that blest day, AYhen spring winds wildly sweet, .
Had blown to bud the April sky . .Above our city strget. .
In that blue flower I saw your eyes " And heard your voice apa^t,
And oh, I felt- love’s trembling tides .
. Move strong within my heart.
A Catholic Uni versify.*
’ Betty’s joy made her dumb, and she stared . : at Peg with an expression of incredulity that . Air. Tong" relieved when he said: ”
About eighty miles southeast of : Chicago, in . the State of'Indiana, the traveller is greeted by / “Peg is right, you’re going to.stay; it’s all a golden dome/ silhouetted ugainst the.s^ fixed up.” ; He tipped his hat and went out to crowned with a beautiful" statue of .the. Virgin .
: the trap again;' Peg remained, with Betty. 1	' Immaculate. This dome, and statue are the .
'■	ty- ’crowning-glory, of.the great American Univer- '
How pretty the garden looks, said Betty.	° t	,
H.-LLO	;- '	■ - sity. of/Notre- Dame.This, school' is justly
• “See the glow-on that big hollyhock, and them	a.i. ■, - e /-v	J ■
v,- IL - , :	-jj- > a. regarded^ as .the type of- Catholic- institutions •' ?
. bachelors oven.there, /Peg/-they.re noddm at. r	A-.-’'Vr •; t	T " -
/ • •	. of-higher, education nn-’the'.United States. Its
' ye aren t they- /	- n. ■ .	; n- . _ . -	\ . ...
' .7. ’•..■■ .■ L.tymty'A	situation js a charmings one. Located nil the ''On- trap rolled along the while road stopping . ,.ui(lsl of	.
. every little while. long enough for T< mg to bring- x„t._	. !he -abundanLfoiiage of ’ .
the news to a neighbor:. “Betty is going to ils ^^
some score of edifices, devoted some to lodging, ' others, to instruction,. others still' to the admin-.. ?

stay
Tim Denison canie out to work iij: his garden
hgmhy?a.nd;'^^styCdnn^
■dobrydf/BgHy^
^du’re/not gqin^
/istratiphj^t$^^^
Y ^Nptre/Danieyd^	and- owes
itsfpund^idty^



THE NOTRE DAME-SCHOLASTIC,
/
Congregation, of Holy Cross, Rev. . Father " Edward Sorin. The .first college building that he constructed out of his poverty is reverently preserved, and as a consequence, one is permitted to appreciate better by contrast with the present magnificent pile, the benedictions and . future promises that this* foundation contained. The tiny seed, sowed seventy-four years "ago, has grown and flowers to-day in the garden of Notre Dame.	.
. Picture to yourself on the bank of a little lake of tranquil waters, an -immense central pavilion, cruciform and crowned with a-cupola two hundred feet.in height, whose main corridor is decorated with frescoes and which contains.an . historical museum, an art gallery, a library of sixty thousand volumes, the offices of .the
eleven hundred students and . the sixty pro- -fessors, admire the. amiable courtesy of the? ; whole community, the deference of the student .• to the priest, the patemaL cordiality of the ; priest to the student, see the study-halls, silent yet teeming with intellectual life, . the ;
Campus so full -of animation, admire the .' intelligent discipline, the' esprit'de corps of this . < truly American organization where everything . -tends towards the economizing of every moment and towards doing only that which ‘will be of some use. ’	.	‘ _
Say to yourself that these young men are- all . working for some diploma, in.letters, in the sciences, in philosophy, in law, in engineering, even in journalism, and in many other special- — ties unknown among us. . •	.	~
Administration, and dining-rooms for the whole " Realize; finally, that the oil students, the . personel. . Imagine, nearby a gothic chapel, Alumni, profess, a real devotion to their Alma, ; completely decorated with Italian frescoes, and.	J
Mater, that they are there received as around a measuring 275 by 120 feet. The tower of the paternal hearth, and that often their attach-
chapel contains a six-ton bell and chimes of' ment is translated into fine subscriptions which , :
thirty-two bells. •	'
Imagine, at a little 'distance and opposite
- singularly promote the equipment of Museums.
the chapel, air edifice called Washington Hall, comprising the halls of the faculty of- Music .
the beautifying of buildings and the procuring of expensive apparatus.	'
You have now an idea, sufficiently exact, . and an. Auditorium capable of. seating 1200 though somewhat superficial, of how-the;Uni-persons. A little farther on rises Science Hall,
consecrated to physics, geology, mineralogy, zoology and botany; beyond, Chemistry Hall, the home of the chemists and pharmacists; next Engineering Hall with its Mechanical ' Shops, its forge, foundry/: laboratory, and .< electrical apparatus; the Meteorological Observatory; the six great dormitory buildings, the infirmary, "the gymnasium, not -to mention
versity of Notre Dame appears to the eyes, of the visitor. ,	.	; 7
' When leaving this beautiful home of Catholic education, after having compared it at every. point with the limitations of our; own Laval University, we are consoled, and that in a practical manner, in telling our hosts what Laval contains, the many masterpieces ' of., art, the;
. .	treasures that are there; in abundance, the
the kitchens, ratatorium, stores, printing offices,. collections, geological,.mineralogical and zoologbaker shops, etc. '	. .	.	.
Represent to. yourself this beautiful group of - .university buildings, ‘ and add to it'in clqse
. gical, the hundreds of thousands of volumes of
. its . library, and the inestimable riches of its
,	, archives; we are consoled in thinking/without
proximity the other houses of the Congregation emphasizing it .too strongly/, of the remarkable of- Holy /Cross, the Provincial /house, the •
Novitiate, the. Seminary or Juni orate, the Mission House,<the: Juniorate for the Brothers
results that it accomplishes with such/modest resources. . / ; .- .
*Translation of an article' by Monsieur l’Abbe Germain,' assistant editor of ~L’Action CatHo^
and still others-and. you have ah idea; of the	. ,
vast extent of Notre Dame. All these buildings ' Quebec- Canada, which appeared ..in the Semaine are of-white brick,’and ?in the June, sun, framed Religieuse of Quebec for July 6, 1916.. .
.	,	- .	*A.learned Jew cf Chicago, Mr. Max Pam, founded
as they are'm-verdure, surrounded by lawns, •	-.. -	.	* v/■ w-y
.	J	. ’ - •	’ three years ago a chair of Journalism at Notre Dame,
bushes and-flowers, trees.and beautiful walks,., having realized -that Catholic ' education was- most .they offer to the .astonished visitor the. most efficient.for. remedying the evils of American society.
■	.	- r	-	-	- '	.	- j- -	i - -	-	-	-	-	~ ,
‘ enchanting of pictures;-.;;.	?? y	- .y-;/
Turn now from?the buildings and landscape ? . CANDOR>prevails. more surely than?cunning/ of Notre Dame to the life that animates her-. ' The'one is a virtue of the strong; the other, 'a ” Fbll6w?the comings and goings oFthe more than ; vice' of the.'.weak.^-AS/JaZdfng.; .	/

8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Bag and Baggage.
BY JOSEPH WEISS.
“Wake up, Jack,” said Lottie Swink, as they ' sat oh a park bench. “AVhat are you thinking about? We have hibernated long enough. Why! you don’t appear natural unless your throat is reverberating with snores. We have reached the crisis of our financial disease. We must have money or else drink water. What plan have you to offer? Speak quick,-lest I. arouse you with a blow on your nose.”
“Louie-darling,” sarcastically answered-the ■- apparently sleeping Jack, “don’t talk so loud.
You will put your vocal cords out of tune, and they will not harmonize with my mouth ' organ. I have been thinking hard for the last ten minutes and I have decided on a plan that will make the charitable organizations send us requests for donations; it is net digging gold from a hillside at an angle that would endanger the equilibrium of a mountain goat; it is simply this—there are human beings in every- city that decorate their homes with dishes and table ware that are superfluous.' Why! I knew a woman who had a gold dish made for her false teeth. Now! my plan is apparent. I will enter the home of one of these goldsmith customers and remove the valuable metal. You remain outside and whistle according to our code. You act as watchman* while I go inside to find the gold'tooth-pick holders and ' similar objects. Do you comprehend?” _
“Yes. Do we begin immediately?” .	'
“The sooner the better. We will look over _ the domiciles around -these squirrel,- bird, and tennis grounds. - Perhaps we may see a door open with.a “Welcome” on the mat.”
.. "Haveyou a sack?” asked Louie.
- < “Yes.”,	’	■	'	' '
. They ' walked along in silence examining the, houses, as a housewife‘at the market purchasing fish. At a palatial residence, both men : stopped, "and Jack, with a gesture of a tragedian, remarked:	'	.	■	.	.
< “Louie here is our place of business. I will ..enter and fill' up my-sack with the trinkets.
. Wdu are,too/ciumsy with your hands and feet. : . The noise your movements produce would
wake.a victim of the sleeping sickness.” - .
\ Jack entered the house through-a bathroom
window. He felt along the walls carefully, and soon found himself- in the dining-room. He stopped a moment to listen. The cuckoo clock. announced the hour of three. When the noise died way, he began exploring by the light of his flash light. Knives, forks, cups and trays fell one by one, into the bag. Having completed the despoliation of the dining-room, ' he searched the bedrooms. All he left in these places was a collar button and a button hook. Next he turned his attention to the pantry. He placed his bag on the floor and searched the shelves but there he was unsuccessful. All he could find was a silver-plated nut-cracker. He lifted the bag to his shoulder and awaited the signal of safety from his outside sentinel. The whistle sounded and Jack rejoined his partner.
“Good haul?” interrogated Louie.
“Yes,” was. the answer. '
Well! d_n’t get surly about it. Let me see what you have in the bag.”	*
Jack handed over the burden and hummed a popular song. When he was in the middle of the chorus, he felt something strike his eye. He saw many curious lights and stars, but he enjoyed the funny things ’that appeared. Park benches played baseball with a button hook. A cuckoo clock ate a collar button. The air became darker and darker until he could see no more.	.
When he awoke, one eye seemed to be lying under a mattress. He rolled over aiid saw out. of his other optic a bag beside him. He turned'his flash light on it and read the words, “Pillsbury’s Best Flour.” He turned the strange sack over, and to his surprise, there rolled out, a potatoe masher, a rolling pin, a flour sifter, and many other' kitchen machines unknown , to man.	-	-	.	_
He stood up saying to the kitchen utensils, “Ah! I see the connection -now. I left my sack down in the pantry. In the dark I picked up this sack,”, and. he walked away to buy a steak to cover his swollen orb. •	-	.
L Fireworks.,
Fade now these gaudy-showers of light
' That smote on heaven’s dar e bars, - '
. Mocking the silent deeps of night-	-J
'.Where tremble rows of stars. .	. -
- R. B. _ '
ssssg?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC-
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $2:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indian^
L.	' SEPTEMBER 23, 1916 No. 1.
—The consecration, on last Thursday of the Right Reverend Philip ?R. - ^McDevitt, raised to the Episcopate a-scholar whose labors x ~	have enriched' the Catholic
Bishop McDevitt. •' school system in the United
States. As superintendent of schools in the archdiocese of Philadelphia, Monsignor McDevitt brought' the parochial school system in that city to such perfection of organisation as to make it a model and guide for other dioceses. Under his direction too, and largely as the-result of his persevering labors, .there have been built two central high schools in Philadelphia, one for boys and one for girls, that have been the models of similar institutions throughout the United States. Catholics throughout the z country share with the people of Philadelphia a feeling of grateful pleasure at this new dignity conferred on Monsignor McDevitt, and pray for the continued success of his noble < work. His many friends at the University of Notre Dame offer him warm congratulation'.' " ' * ■ — e ----------------------------- —
—7In a brilliant address delivered at the public mass meeting of the Supreme Convention of the. Knights of Columbus at Davenport,
.	Iowa, August 2nd, the Hon-
Fellow-Amcricans. orable Joseph Scott of Los
, Angeles, California, made this interesting suggestion: -•	'
Don’t- you think all of us need .to take stock and recast our lives- into broader and ’deeper channels?. We must learn' that- irrespective of where we were -born, or what blood courses through our veins, whether we came from the P Igrim Fathers, or sprang from the descendants of the' Spanish pioneers of the. Southwest, when,we meet each other now we must look into each other’s faces, and. grip each other’s hands, and salute ; each other simply as fellow-Americans. When the _ Anglo-Saxon has qu t liis notion of -his superiority over other racial1 stocks, then there will be a truce on . the hyphenated. American. ’
As has been well said by a distinguished scholar-and teacher, Father Cavanaugh, the P-resident of
Notre Dame University: “The hyphen is not a"badge of separation, but a bond, of union, linking the Irish, and Germans, and other immigrants from Europe with indissoluble bonds to America.”
It would be well for us to remember what the obligation of allegianc^.- means. O.n my part, I would like to see, every box- and girl, when they reach legal majority,, be required to raise their hands and take the obligation of allegiance = before they are admitted to full citizenship. •	.
—Graduation has taken from Notre Dame this year a number of the Scholastic Board of Editors. The vacancies are to be filled by •	. .	undergraduates who can
The Board of	write . accurately and in-
. Editors'. > terestingly. It is to be . expected that, naturally, such men will be found among the higher classmen, but a place on the Scholastic Staff is open to any man who can. demonstrate his ability to do creditable work in verse or prose. Every, student ought to take pride in making the University weekly a literary paper of high order. It offers an opportunity to the young writer for practical work that will prepare him for something better when he has graduated. The quality of the work handed into the professors of the English classes will largely determine who 'will constitute the new editors' this year. ——- — I ' ■" —	I. . ■ ■ —
—Any student who has leaped from his . seat in the gymnasium at the crack of the gun, and has felt his blood and nerves tingle.for a brief four'seconds or more while They’re Off. the Notre Dame sprinters raced to a successful finish, knows the importance of the start. The intellectual contestant who has achieved w’ell-merited success will assure one also of the value of beginning the college year well and strongly. These first days and -weeks of, class when elements and principles are explained upon an understanding of- which will depend the easy and regular acquirement'of further knowledge, ought to be grappled'with hoops of steel. The good times of the summer that gave a needed relaxation and rest to the student of last year, should not be allowed to intrude now and draw him . into pleasant dream-wanderings when there is real wurk to be done. These days of beginning are pregnant with the success that makes' the close of the..year a'time of congratulation, and vacation a well-earned reward instead of a new idle hour. On'your marks I •	'
IO
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Archbishop Spalding.
Obituaries.
Rev. John O’Keffe, C. S. C. '
The Rev. John O’Keefe, C. S. C., a former prefect of discipline at the University, died at Notre Dame on Thursday, September 7. Father O’Keefe had been the pastor of Saint Mary’s Church, Austin, Texas, for the last sixteen years, but resigned from active work a year ago on account of illness. May he rest in peace!
'	Judge Howard.
During the summer vacation death called , four distinguished Laetare Medalists to their reward. The- Honorable Timothy' Howard, dean of the Law department of the University died on July 9. In the death of Judge Howard there -passed away the oldest living 'Student of Notre Dame, and one to whom she has
The death of the Most Reverend John Lancaster Spalding, D. D., Titular Archbishop of Scitopolis, on August 25, removed one of the great lights of the American hierarchy. From his ordination in 1863 until 1905, when he was stricken with paralysis, the great archbishop labored untiringly with voice and pen in the interests of the Catholic Church in America. An inspiring orator, he lent the power of his eloquence to bring home to men’s bosomsrthe beauty and glory of Catholic ideals. Students who attended the University before the Archbishop’s illness of 1905 will remember him as the first speaker to address the students each year in the course of public lectures. He was a frequent visitor at Notre Dame in those days and his words always struck fire in the hearts and minds of his hearers. A deep student himself with the most exalted ideals, an American whose passionate love of country was second only to his love of God, his visits here always stirred fresh ambition in growing minds and gave the students a new sense of pride in Catholic principles and true A American ideals. ’His.writings have enriched our American.Catholic literature, and have made a multitude of readers his debtors. Every student of Notre Dame owes him, as a friend and well-wisher of the University, the gratitude of earnest prayer. In a future issue bf the' Schoeastic there will ' appear an appreciation of Archbishop Spalding arid his writings by a member of the Senior class.
always pointed with singular pride. As addicted to virtue as a bird to song, Judge Howard’s life was an inspiring lesson to his fellowmen. He has left behind him a long list of distinguished services rendered to his State as a lawyer and a judge. The University of Notre Dame, in recognition of his noble work as a Catholic lawyer and judge conferred upon him the Laetare Medal in 1898. The faculty and students of the University wdll be generously mindful of him in their prayers.
OREBR
THE NOTRE DA
Doctor Murphy.
The whole country, through the press, " seemed to give expression to a feeling of great loss at the death of Doctor John B. Murphy. A genius in the medical profession, Dr. Murphy ■ was indefatigable in his labors to relieve the sufferings of humanity. In the midst of a busy practical life, he found time for a deal of study and research, and gave to the members of his I	profession the results of his vast knowledge
j	and experience in a number of brochures. His
( generous charity toward the poor, to whom he ministered daily, marked the truly Christian character of the man; and our Holy Father on two occasions honored him: he made him.a Knight of Saint Gregory,' and later a commander in the same order with the privilege of the Star. - The University of Notre Dame in recognition of his distinguished services to humanity conferred upon him in 1902 the Laetare Medal. May he rest in peace!
J7 Richard C. Kerens.
Richard C. Kerens of St. Louis who died on September 4 was the Laetare Medalist of 1904. This distinguished Catholic layman was a prominent citizen in his own city and a national figure in Republican politics. He was appointed by President Taft as Ambassador to Austria-Hungary in 1907 and remained in the diplomatic service until Mr. Wilson’s inauguration in 1913. His charity extended to. various Catholic religious and educational undertakings. He was one of the founders of the Catholic Church Extension Society. Two churches which he built, one in Gassaway, West Virginia, in memory of his father, and one in Eureka Springs, Arkansas, in memory of his mother, attest the generous Catholic spirit of Mr. Kerens. He shall have a full share in the prayers of the University.	•	' '	’
Doctor Charles Herbermann.
On August 24 Dr. Charles G. Herbermann died at his home in New York City. He-was. the recipient of the Laetare Medal in.. 1912. - A distinguished scholar and.litterateur, his life was spent in unceasing labor, as a teacher of Latin language, and literature,'as an author, and as editor of -numerous .historical _ and classical works. His labors as editor-in-chief of the
ME SCHOLASTIC '	-	11
Catholic Encyclopedia will stand as lasting proof of his .vast learning and his ardent.
Catholic faith. He was twice honored by the . Holy See. In 1910 he was made a Knight of Ssi?.t Gregory by-Pius X.and two years later received the med.il “Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice” . from the Holy Father. He will be remembered in the, prayers of the students of Notre Dame. ‘
Mr. James J. Monighan..
Air. James J. Monighar> died on July 8 at his home in Oil City, Penn. Mr. Moniglian is the father of Frank, our genial master , of ceremonies. ’ We. assure his bereaved family of the . sympathy and prayers, of" the Faculty and Students*.of the University-. -• TA’ •
- * . • Mr. John .Waring. -	'
' Students of the University will be sorry to learn of the death of Air. John Waring of Rochester, N. Y., who was' drowned during the summer. John was a member of the Engineer-, ing classes and a popular student at Notre Dame. He will be remembered in the prayers of his fellow-students at the University.
Personals.
—The Right Rev. Edward J. McLaughlin	.
(Av B., ’75; A. M., ’95) recently named by " Pope Benedict XV. Prqtonotary Apostolic ad	.
Instar Participantium, will be invested with	-
the purple in his parish church, Clinton, Iowa, .	-
Sunday, October 15. Bishop Davis of Daven- ' port w-ill pontificate and Bishop Carroll of : -Helena will preach.
—Paul R. Byrne (Ph. B., ’13) is now reference	. :
assistant in the library of the. Ohio State Uni-	- -
versity at Columbus. Paul visited Notre Dame '	1
last week.	*	-	* y
—Carmo del Dixon (Student ’12) paid his " . Alma Mater a visit last Sunday. Carmo is -connected wuth the R, T. Radcliffe,Co.-, artistic	:
decorators, of Toledo, Ohio.	,
—Antonio Aldrete and ’Senoiita Asuncion	'
de la Pena y Lla;a were united in holy' matri-	\
mony in the church o'f St. Brigida, Mexico .City, August 25 th'. ’We extend congratulations . - • and good wishes!	1	i
—Ala joujoseph E.. Cusack (B. S., ’89) has .. :3 been, temporarily relieved from services on the ,	• 4
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC _
1
Mexican border and is now in charge of the recruiting station in Toledo, Ohio. His address
• is 416 Adams Street. ■
—Mike Carmody, ’ 15 has been about the Cam-' pus shaking hands with former cronies. He has not come to stay, but merely to bring a younger brother here to uphold the family name in these parts.	-
—Clarence “Doc” Williamson, for the last two years an able assistant to Coaches Harper and, Rockne has left to complete his medical, studies at Ohio State University. He has been succeeded at the -local gymnasium by T. Jefferson Hoban.
.—We announce with pleasure the marriage of Miss Marion Mehlem of Chicago to Mr. Keene Fitzpatrick (cld student). The ceremony
'took place in the city of Chicago September - 2nd. Mr. and Mrs. Fitzpatrick will' be at home after October ist at 1314 Albion Ave..
—Mr. Arthur James Hayes, teacher of English at the University, had a series of short . stories in the Sunday Magazine of the Chicago . Record-Herald during 'the summer.. Art’s stories had all the old thrills that made his Scholastic work so popular in his college days. The stories are all well" illustrated, too, with pen drawings.
—Again the library is indebted to the Honorable William J. Onahan for valuable addi-. tions. These include letters from Father James Dillon, C. S. C., written from army headquarters during the war, and a valuable letter by General Thomas Francis Meagher; also some rare plates of curious interest. We thank . Doctor Onahan for this fresh evidence of his unfailing interest and sympathy. ; ;
- , —We observe-with pride and? pleasure that

- , the Rev: Michael Lee Moriarty (Litt. B., ’10) lias, been appointed Vice-President of the new ' 'Catholic High- School.for boys established by . . the Right Rev. Bishop Farrelly of .Cleveland.	...
. Lee will not only be. able, to teach the young Bend were united ; in 'marriage by the Rev. idea how to shoot,;but will be especially cbmpe- John Cavariaugh; ; - the ' marriage of Prof, tent to .teach the young idea how to.jump and\ Vincent : Louis (O’Connor;- and Miss Nellie. < rum He was a famous track man in hi§ day;. ~ Barton; of Tralee, Ireland, occurred Jiffy 22, -' ’ " ty-The -Nevada ^News-Letter, of • August - ’tM Rew yjohm?, C? McGinn performing the contains a full-j?age portrait of M. A. -Diskin ' ■ceremony , and Mr. Edward Mann J and Miss N,(LL? B., 1’07),- District..Attorney .of Esmeralda Anna Monahan, of Galwty	united
V	call^hifii jJac^ ’ ou^
; ~; -J there; evidently,, but There, is no other change ( ty HnKbiwsMichaetyM^	191T.
ty . L .Diskimwhs umted in w^
5 Vtyteacn^mniGb^
To the Couple one child—a daughter—has been born.”	'
—Hugh A. O’Donnell (Litt. B., ’94) is the editor of the New Orleans American, a newspaper founded in the great southern city a little more than a year ago. Hugh is known to the outer world as the founder and distributor of the “ O’Donnellogue,” or perhaps as adver- ■ tising manager for the Philadelphia Press, the Chicago Herald, dr the Minneapolis Journal. To some of us Hugh is known just as a. representative alumnus and devoted friend of Notre Dame. We wish him good luck.
—The marriage is announced of Mr. William Edward Cotter (LL. B., ’13) and Miss Evarista Brady, St. Mary’s. The ceremony took place at the home of the bride in Pittsburgh, Pa., on -Wednesday, June 7 th. President Cavanaugh officiated and the Reverend John Talbot Smith of New York was among the guests, many, of whom were from out of town.
The bride is a member' of a family famous in the annals of St^Mary’s and the groom is one of Notre Dame’s best-known arid best-loved alumni. -
—We have special pleasure in announcing the ordination on Septeriiber 9th of the Rev.
John F. O’Hara, C. S. C. (Ph. B., ’11). The sacrament of Holy Orders was conferred by the Right.. Rev. Joseph Chartrand, D. D., Coadjutor Bishop of Indianapolis, in the Cathedral of that city. Father O'Hara’s first Solemn Mass was celebrated Sunday, September 10th, in the same Cathedral. The new priest is not only an alumnus of the University, but, was for some, years a popular and efficient member of the faculty. ' Ad mulios annos!
—Dan Cupid as a harbinger, of happiness was_ busy about the University during the summer mbnths.;,?On June 30, Prof. Robert Lee Grreen and Miss Josephine Vennett of . South
MaguiretytyVtyty^V^	,V.y' -/ ?
- \ * *, Ns	J-' —v iN ’ 7 ~ J’7-- -'-N -r ' "C"■ - -	7- s ; " * ‘ 7-’
ty —FrancisJC. ? OttJpf Eos t Angelesj two years ago a member offJhm^ptyydas^	.
im'Sorin	? Patrick’s .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Seminary at Menlo Park, California. The past year he spent in recovering from a siege of typhoid fever. The Menlo Park Seminary
was established and fostered by the late Arch-; <scene showing the eruption of the voracious bishop Riordan, who was one of Notre Dame’s ' volcano. This film is on eight reels and is a first graduates. -	■	''	’ massive production. ■	'
The State Convention of the Hibernians.
The Ancient Order of Hibernians met in state convention in South Bend, August 29, 30 and 31. The attendance was large and the proceedings serious and enthusiastic. It would have made a son of the Green Isle proud to note the stalwart sons and the fair daughters of the Old Land that attended this meeting of the Ancient Order and the Ladies Auxiliary.
A feature especially 'gratifying to the University was the visit of the convention on Wednesday. The President of the University entertained the delegates with a cordial speech of welcome, and at its close the convention voted spontaneously to contribute a Hibernian library to the collection of books soon to be stored in. the beautiful new library near Old College. This gracious offer was promptly accepted by the President and the details of it are to be worked out by state officials.
Afterwards the ladies were. entertained in the college parlor with tea and the gentlemen enjoyed a smoke in the President’s office.
Washington Hall Movies.
Notre Dame's home industry moving picture ' season has started off with a rush. '.Already ■ three shows have been clicked off the calendar by Father Maguire and his assistant Dick Tyner. . Denman Thompson’s Shore Acres” was the first offering to the more or less homesick “preps” and the few college men.who were , here oh the night of the 13th. The excitement
occasioned by the. double-barreled conflagration bn that day. did not prevent the. audience, from enjoying the program, which. began, with one of Ring Lardner’s English^slaughtering baseball
. yams cinematized. In this picture by; the way.. .employments abo t the -theatres there. At'this point and in the second part which followed. Saturday _ the author turns, back for a moment, and considers .
, night, we‘ recognized our old alumnus’ Cy. the development of the pre-Elizabethan drama, taking.
•. -Williams among the honest-td-goodness Chicago ,UP a brief and masterly handling, the work of.
, Cubs who supplied the ‘cc lor’ forthepicture. . Udall,- Sackville, Norton, Sin-Philip Sidney, John,
„ ,	.	.Lyly, Greene, and Christopher Marlowe. From;the
‘ r Saturday evemng A splmffi'd version of . Rip ;achiev^^ of these men, his predecessors in things
Van Winkle was projected, -with . Joseph literary, from Holinshed's “Chronicles,” and French: ; • Jefferson in .the name paiiL..	“ '	' <	“ and Italian translations, Shakespeare drew copiously.:
Coming close on the heels of last Wednesday , afternoon’s fire, “The Last Days of Pompeii” proved a delectable offering, particularly the
; Twice-a-week movies are to hold the screen in Washington Hall until the opening. of the concert and lecture course.

Book Review.
A Life of William Shakespeare. By Sidney ' Lee. The Macmillan Company.	.
It is indeed strange that we know so little about.the personal history of William Shakespeare, certainly our greatest writer in English, and possibly in all literature. Yet this lack is not so great as it was formerly, because a painstaking .student and thorough scholar has spent his lifetime in gathering up the elusive threads of which Shakespeare’s life consists. To this student and scholar, this lover of things literary—Sidney Lee—we owe the authoritative . " work, “A.Life of William Shakespeare.” '	.
The book first appeared in 1898, and at once received its merited place among the great contributions to our biographical literature. Not satisfied, however, with the result of his, labors, the author continued his researches, and was richly rewarded by the discovery of much'valuable material; this he published in the latter part of 1915 in a second edition of his work. Lee discovered in Stratford-on-Avon, for. example, several wills made by Shakespeare’s friends, by means . of which he'was able to correct many errors regarding the early life of the great author. No one was more 'willing to place a moderate valuation upon his work -than was he himself. Thus he modestly says in his preface: “I-cannot promise' my readers any startling > revelations. But my researches .have enabled me to * remove some ambiguities which puzzled my prede- -cessors, and to throw light on one or two topics that* _ have hitherto obscured the course of Shakespeare’s '. career.” Other critics, however, have seen the merit . of the. work which its urtassuming creator thought ordinary; with one. accord they have placed it far above other Shakespearean biographies, pronouncing it the noblest of them all.	.	.	..
‘‘A Life of William Shakespeare,” as might welLbe.';
expected from its thorough and authoritative nature,-' . i begins with a treatment of Shakespeare’s parentage .
and birth, taking up in detail the distribution of his ;	'
surname, his ancestry, his unfortunate marriage when only eighteen, his migration to London, and his first
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
for. the material of his plots. He brought to bear ’upon the diverse elements thus-collected the constructive ability of his own mind, giving to the world a- hew and refined product for its amusement and edification.
In treating these years of growing power and .popularity, Lee's “Life of William Shakespeare” becomes exceedingly explicit,, and with care and insight develops the meagre details into a copious history. It discusses Shakespeare’s progress as an author both of plays and of sonnets, and shows him to us steadily-approaching the heights of popular favor and literary ability. It turns then to the practical affairs of his life, when we see him as a man rather than as an author; we learn of his several abodes in~London, his debts, his hankering after a coat of arms, and his purchase of a well-appointed house in his native town of Stratford. The “Life” has now. reached the^period when -Shakespeare flourished in his mature genius, when London was never.weary of applauding his “Julius Caesar,” his “Hamlet,” his “Mabeth,” and- his
-“King Lear.” In rapid succession h,e offered to. the .world '/Othello,” “Antony and Cleopatra,” “ Coriolanus,” “Pericles,” and “Timon of Athens.” Then followed the later plays, which exhibit a return to the' romance, type of Shakespeare’s earlier composi-
.lions, and include among others “The Winter’s Tale.” “The Tempest,” and “The Two Noble Kinsmen.” L.eaving London, th’e “Life” takes us back to Stratford, where Shakespeare. returned to spend the few years left _to him. There he lived in comparative obscurity for the^rest of his life, still maintaining a partial interest in his London theatres.
- Lee does not give up his subject at this point, but pushes on to a discussion of Shakespeare’s survivors and ' descendants, his autographs, memorials, and portraits, the editions of his works and their editors, and finally to the question of his general worth and .reputation. The author then gives a resume''of his research work, discusses the Bacon-Shakespeare controversy, the patronage of the Earl of Southampton, the problem as to the identity of Mr. W. H., the “Will -Sonnets,” noted chiefly for -their-puns, and finally discusses the vogue of the Elizabethan sonnet, together with its forerunners in Italy , and France.
Such is the comprehensive nature of Sidney Lee’s “A. Life-of William Shakespeare.” It embraces the. whole field of Shakespearean biography, takes up the . sources of research work, and treats mooted questions in the life of the great author. It well merits high ... praise for delving into a problem fraught .with obscuri- ’ . ties, and even higher praise for its.masterly presentation of material so! carefully and painfully gathered • from so many diverse and scattered sbufces.
Local News.
‘ —The. Right Rev. .Peter J, Hurth,/C. S. C. will sing Pontifical ‘Mass to-morrow- and preach. , , '/—-Non.-prizepuzzle: when' is-a. phosphorous-
u fife’ "out? ; A	-'.T -- --
; v7_;^The. cross; country. squad,.’report’ed -for duty
' on Thurdsay inornirig in'the gymnasium. ;
—Cheer up! Only thirty-five weeks of schoO until'June.
—The Natatorium is being improved by the placing of a.new roof upon it.
—During the summer, Frank Goodall and John Reynolds entered Holy Cross Seminary to . _ continue their studies.
' —-Judged by the number of notices of textbooks ‘ wanted the student body is really a student body.
' —Friends will be . gratified to know that Kerndt Healy, ’15, has entered the Novitiate at Notre Dame.
—The.first meeting of the University band has been scheduled for 10:00 o’clock to-morrow morning in Washington Hall. The leader invites 'candidates to bring instruments.
—For the first time in- many years the beautiful chimes in’ the Sacred Heart Church are being corrected. The work is'being done by one of the few experts in the country.
—Notre’ Dame’s fine new Library is being pushed to completion in excellent shape. Father Foik'hopes to be. able to start moving into the new building during the Christmas holidays. "
—News , comes from Valparaiso, Indiana, to the effect that Timothy P. Galvin, the valedictorian of the Class of 1916, is already making good with a vengeance in the practice of law.
.—St. Joseph.lake, which, seemed a year ago to be disappearing, is rapidly rising and will in a short time be its old self again. This lake with its .surroundings is one of the prettiest spots- at 'Notre Dame.
—Father Leonard Carrico is now engaged in revising his “Book of Lines.” A number of ' . modern poems will- be included in the new edition. The. work , will be off the University Press early in the fall.	'
—The building of the new . library is progressing rapidly,, the roof being almost completed. It will be the finest building at’Notre Dame when finished and will add greatly to the appearance'of the campus.
The .Law School of-the University is'growing rapidly. .Several new, classes in procedure'are offered to the students this year, and the. law men,, both old; and; hew; are already swinging into the heavy grind for the year. .	.' .
- —TheHom Charles Evans Hughes; Repdbli- : .can 7 candidate; for President of -the United States, spoke on the issues of., the campaign
L -- •	. •	.'

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC /	15 ;
■to a large crowd in South Bend last evening. Several students from Notre Dame attended the meeting. ■
- —Father Oswald thoroughly enjoyed his six-weeks’ outing during the summer. He was located on the Gulf at Waveland, Mississippi. His party succeeded in capturing two sharks, three saw-fish and one large gar in addition to hundreds of edible fish. He brought back photos to substantiate his fish stories.
—The 1916 Dome Board sincerely regrets that, owing to a mistake on the part of the printer, the pictures of “Jake^’ Kline, Charles Corcoran, and Michael Carmody were omitted from the baseball section of- the Dome. The cuts for the pictures were made but in the rush of final composition they were overlooked. .
—Students desiring a pleasant and quiet home in Paris may. com municate with the President of the University. The atmosphere is sympathetic and spiritual as well as refined. . French conversation may be enjoyed if desired during meals. Lessons in preparation for the ' Sorbonne examinations are available, and the total cost of board, Jodging, light and heat is seven francs ($1.40) a day.	-
—The Notre Dame Glee Club was one of the most successful organizations that the University could ’ boast of last year. Under the masterful direction of Mr. Ward Perrot the choristers developed with great success and entertained numerous audiences with concerts of the first order. There will be a meeting of the Glee Club on next Sunday morning and every student who has musical ability or a fair voice will have an opportunity of conferring with the director and finding, a place in this society. Students who have ability with stringed instruments can be of big assistance to the Club also. Let us make the Glee 'Club a big thing this year again. Give your voice and good will; the rest will be ably cared for.
It is planned this year to "carry the University v orchestra on severaLof the-Glee Club trips. The orchestra will be called together for its initial rehearsal sometime next week at which time the director hopes to meet every .man who. has had experience in either, string, . wood, or brass instruments. Through frequent rehearsals the- student orchestra should become -this year one of the leading institutions of,the campus. . .	.	■
. —A. large number of changes in the adminis
trative department of the University is noted by the returning upper-classmen this fall. Even Brother Leopold is not in his old accustomed place. Brother Marelius is now serving “lemonade and fours” to the bays. Father Joseph Burke has been appointed assistant director of studies and has charge of the preparatory students in his new work. Succeeding Father Burke, in the prefect of discipline’s office is Father Finnegan. Succeeding Father Finnegan as rector of Corby Hall is Father Patrick Haggerty. Father Thomas Burke is now registrar in the students’ office. His brother. Father Eugene Burke, will succeed him as editor-in-chief of the Scholastic. Father Lavin having been transferred to Washington, Father McManus is now7 rector of Sorin Hall. Father Bernard Ill is the new prefect on the fourth floor of ' Walsh Hall, while Father Wenninger has been appointed prefect of the second floor of Sorin and Father James McElhone has been appointed prefect of the third floor of Corby. New prefects in Carroll study-hall are: Father Lahey, who is also a new instructor in the College of Journalism; Father L. Heiser who is a. new instructor in biology; Vincent Mooney, ’16, who is directing the “preps” in military science; and Hugh O’Donnell, ’16, who is taking a special post-graduate course.
Chemistry Hall. •
Fire broke out in Chemistry Hall on Wednesday, September 13, and before the fire companies could bring it under control had quite destroyed the roof and the third story of the building. The fire was caused by phosphorus. The water which had poured into the building while the fire companies were fighting the blaze, carried the phosphorus to many parts of the building, and this drying after a week ignited again, and in a few7 minutes Chemistry Hall was ablaze.
A strong wind was blowing and carried the sparks dangerously near the other buildings of the University. At one time fire threatened the play hall of the Minim department, but prompt action by the fire company removed this danger. The blaze in Chemistry Hall resisted the efforts-of the fire companies until it had eaten up almost everything that was flammable in the building. A number of explosions of chemicals, occurring in. quick succession, struck fear into the crowds that were watching the flames.
n
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
l *
Plans "had already been completed for the remodelling of the hall after the first fire and the contractors were about to begin work when the new conflagration' practically' destroyed the'whole building.'	' .
The Chemistrv 'classes will continue to be
taught however. Science Hall Will be class work and part of the shops will a temporary laboratory.
Football.
With the opening of' the school
t
rl j
used for serve as
A
year in
‘ September, the eyes of all students are turned toward Cartier Field where the candidates for football honors are working out. The older men. prompted by'. experience have already picked the team but with less certainty than heretofore, as the 'positions made vacant in ■ June .through graduation are . numerous. ~ The old line which represented a miniature stone
r
wall at West Point and Nebraska has at last been shattered.. Fitzgerald, last year’s captain and “All Western Guard,” is with iis again but as the coach of the Freshman team and not in the capacity of a player. “Crusher” Keefe, all Indiana, guard for two years has left us,, as have also, Hugh Q’Donnell, center, King and Stephan, tackles, and Elward, end. These men formed the bulwark of Notre Dame’s defense in the past two years and their loss will be keenly felt. . But the enthusiasm and . ability which the candidates have thus far displayed, and the large number in the squad indicates plainly that; Notre' Dame is. this year, to have a football team which will easily take .rank with‘ the winning teams of the past. . :. .
making the team. Ronchetti, although new at. the .game, has already shown, wonderful possibility and may succeed in'replacing some of the older men. “Gillie” Ward, Andrews, and Ward'Miller are promising guards. The latter is also being.given a chance at full-back. DeGree was' going well prior to the injury which he sustained a few days ago. This year, for the first time, he was getting long distance . punts away under fire. Good work -in this respect would certainly make him a valuable man to the ‘ team. _ Mclnerny, Philbin and Coughlin, are striving hard for the tackle positions a's are also Witteried, and Holmes. “Ducky”- has fully recovered from last year’s accident and is expected to give a good account of himself. One end position, will be held down by Baujan while Whipple, Tom King, Morales, Yeager, Meagher, and Davis are the men most likely to fill the other jobs.	•
Phelan has returned but' owing to an injury received this summer will be out of the game a month. During his absence Dorias is running .
£
I r.
-Such ay.showing was 4 especially y encouraging to Coaches Harper. and Rockne, ■ who with their usual vigor/ have -begun molding " a strong team to represent the University. on . the gridiron this season, r : J . .. '	; ..
the team. O’Neil and Grant are the other quarter-backs. The latter-because of his speed ’ has' wonderful possibility. John Miller will in all probability be given the fullback position with Slackford, Ward Miller, and Andres as substitutes: Cofall will direct the team from _ left half, with Fitzpatrick, O’Hara, and-Walter ■Miller fighting for the. substitute position. Malone and Bergman are showing about equal ability .at'right half, while McDermot’s work at the same: position has been a pleasant surprise. With-such men as. these to represent us, Notre Dame should, emerge from its heavy schedule without meeting defeat. The schedule:
_ -Thirty men responded to the call for early	Sept.<50.......A.at Notre Dame '
; season practice.- This being the largest squad. - Oct. 7...........J. Western Re’serve at Cleveland-.^ ■ in the history of the school to report on the ' Oct. 14:........-------------...........Haskell Indians at Notre Dame
first day.- - .Such ay.showing was..especially - Oct‘ 28----—:----------------------.Wabash at Notre Damy.
'	Nov. 4....._.„.4--..—.'..-......;-.2.-....-..:Arihy at West Point .
Nov; 11—::.l.—...yUniv.of So. Dakota at.Sioux Falls
■’ Nov. i8.....„...y„.......;../.........-...;.„_„-..M: A. C. at Lansing ‘ Nov.'25_..l...i.'..~	at Notre Dame .
Nov.-30..-......;.—....._;:.v„..._:—^..-.Nebraska at Lincoln
; <Maddigah,A T	ones/. and Dixon are
working hard'-for the center, position, with The . football work ! this year for interhall .
;the probabiiitjy;that Frank Rydzwski may be . games;must depend;upomthe-students who are: . ' shifted from tackle if .the competition for that . nbt. members Jpf-the ’freshman'teaim. An earlv .
vpositiim^	Bachman/ former . start of the. practice of hall'T.earns 'will harden -
Mufl^badc^^	his old 'position; at ' thejhewywam^and assure? a-series. * of well- - ’
? ^hrd jnt order To-sriepgtfe the line;? :Frg.nzy a pldy ed yinter^	that the <
Tubstitirfey p^	upj well; at - freshmah teamis* debarred frpminterhall contests-''
■^hfdyan^	wjll;Tpromisfikmore? 'evenly/'.matched elevens