
Ever wonder what's happening back home? Well, 
believe it or not, there are people back home who 
would like to know how life is treating you. Let them 
· in on the ideas, events, and people that are Notre Dame. Give them a subscription to Scholastic and (. they can see for themselves what is at the heart of Notre Dame life. · 
r --------·. . -----, I Scholastic ) · .·. ; I·· 11 LaFortune Student Center · \ · I 
I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 ,-, I 
. I
I Please send .............. years of Scholastic , . I at $7:00 per year to: I
I I
1 Name .......................................................-.
I --­I 
Address ..; ......... : ..................... -:·................ . 
I 
I I City ................::............................~···· ....:.;... I
I 
I I State· .................................... Zip ....... :.·..... I
I 
I 
L 
--' 

 HEY HOMBRES!· We've got a rough and tumble gang at "the hole in the wall." But we need a few more riders to pull off a couple of big jobs; Interested? Come up to "the hole in the wall" (Scholastic office, 3rd floor . Lafortune Center) on Wednesday; September 19. Help Butch and Sundance and the rest of us plan our next move. Bring some ammo. Guns and horses. provided.  ~~mff[JW ALIVE sc·HOLASffc . STAFF . $10,GOORtwARb  


Letters to the editor are welcomed by Scholastic. If something is on your mind concerning any aspect.·· of Notre Dame, let us know, and we will· let the
LETTERS: 
commun\ty know. 
..f 
i. 2 
SCHOLASTIC 
Editor Dave Satterfield 
Managing Editor Bob Southard 
Art Director Jim Hofman 
Production Manager 
Theresa Rebeck 

News Editor 
· Lisa Hartenberger 

Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 

Copy Editor 
Anthony Walton 

Culture Editor 
Greg Solman 

Sports Editor 
Tom Westphal 

St. Mary's Editor 
Kari Meyer · 
Layout Editor Clay Malaker 

Photography Editor. 
Ken McAlpine 

Business Manager 
Paul Davis 
Advertisement Manager · Kevin Murphy 
Undergraduate ·Advisor Bernie Valenti 

Staff 
John Mad~og Muldoon, Don Schmid, Chris Stewart, Mary Leavitt, Donna Teevan, Cathy Wisniewski, Pat Worklan, Jim Sommers,. Michael Diaz, Ken Scarbrough, Maryellen Bradley, Chuck Wood,. David 
N. Randall, Keith Caughlin,· Steve Burkart,•• Tom Orode, · Rick Keppe·I, Brendan Brown, Dodee Carney,·. Michael . Meisch, Ed· Wimmer, Rich Marcello, _Tim Tedrick, Lee Smolen, Tom Krueger, Ann Bridget Clarke, Cecelia Mitchell. 

Credits 
Photographs: Ken McAlpine, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12, 28, 31; Archives, 9; 14, 15, 18 Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports-Information Illustrations: Cecilia M.itchell, 6, 25; Ann Bridget Clarke, 19, 21 · · Front Cover:_ Jim Hofman . Back Cover: Ken McAlpine · 

Advisory Board · 
Elizabeth Christman, Mario Pedi, · Edward Fischer. 



SCHOL/\STC
Vol. 121, No. 1, September 14, 1979 
Notre Dame, Indiana · 
FEATURES  
4  Crossing the Road  Kari Meyer  
6  Dr. Joseph Evans Memories of a True Philosopher  Gus Zuehlke  
9 .. Dr. Joseph Evans: Scholar  Don Schmid  

13 .College Football Review Scholastic Top Ten Anthony Walton 18 Conversation with the Coach Tom Westphal 24 A Playboy's View on Sexual Taboo Christopher Stewart 

REGULARS 
4 In Retrospect 5 Perspective Theresa Rebeck 10 Books· Tim Tedrick Rich Marcello 
Greg Solman 16 Gallery Ken McA!pin~ 20 Fiction John Maddog Muldoon 28 Albums Tom Balcerek 
Tom Krueger 31 Last Word Dave Satterfield 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic arid do. not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. · 
. . . 

The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre• Dame, Ind'. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and. back issues. are available.from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. · copyright© 1979 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 



Crossing the Road 
. St. Mary's, a Catholic liberal arts college for women. A unique enroll­ment of some 1,820 women from the top 15% of their high school grad­uating . classes. Women from 46 states· and· 18 foreign countries. Women with different backgrounds and multitalents. Women who come to St. Mary's to learn, grow and un­derstand in a warm family atmo­sphere. St. Mary's offers an oppor­tunity for women to govern them­selves and perfect their athletic, mu­sical, dramatic and artistic talents. 
St. Mary's is also often referred to 
as "the girls' school across the road 
from Notre Dame." True, St. Mary's 
is a girls' school and is located across 
the road from Notre Dame, but the 
two schools are more closely related 
than. that. Since 1965, St. Mary's 
and Notre Dame have enjoyed a co­
exchange program which allows the 
students of both campuses to par­
ticipate in classes being offered on 
either campus. This opportunity has 
drawn the two schools and the stu­
dents much closer. Besides the aca­
demic • coexchange, St. Mary's and 
Notre Dame also work :together on 
various athletic clubs, the Observer, 
WSND and many other social and 
fund-raising activities. Cooperation 
between the campuses is increasingly ·becoming more evident. 
Another opportunity for the ·:two 
campuses has come about this year. 
The Notre Dame Scholastic is now 
officially opening. its doors to St. 

Mary's participation.. St. Mary's . · 
women have subscribed to the Notre 
Dame Scholastic for years, yet they 
have refrained .from submitting ar­
ticles, art andadvice. The Scholastic 
welcomes and needs the talents of : 
the St. Mary's students.. St. ·Mary's · 
is asked to become involved in a bi­
weekly magazine that prints culture, 
fiction, sports, art, current events, 
reviews and opinions. A magazine 
for both campuses needs both cam­
. . 
puses. · ·. 
For more information call: 
·Kari Meyer 
SMC Editor 
Ph. 284-4686 
· by Kari Meyer 


Reprinted from a'1921Scholastic Magazine: ;.:, : ..•. .'. '. •.. "One often reads that the absence·of:.co-edu_cation .· : at Notre ;Dame is supplied• by the co-existence. <>f an . 
institution a half~mile away that affords ample·oppor: . tunity. for romance..The fact that five hundred of "the winsome daughters of Eve". go bHthely-•about their 
. workwithno visible connection.with the two.thousand men but a stone's throw away is, in our opinion, the heighfof irrationality .. • . • · . . . . . ·· . . ·• . · 
,-'~Mixed marriages have been repeatedly condemned by the Church; CathoUc youngmen are urged to maz:ry .. • Catholic young women. Why, then, do the authorities. . permit Notre Dame mento.go down to South Bend a~d pickup any sort of riff-raff from the streets ,and forbid therriunder pain of expulsion to become acquainted with 
group of CathoHc girls that _are the cream;of, the.· earth? · .. . ' ......•. ·. ;.·· .... "Itisa well-known truth that the girls themselves chafe' under the stringent regulations now-in vogue and thatenrollment is nofas great as it would beund_er .... 

..more liberal ntles.·... When .these•. girls .are .· no Jonger · 
amenable to the iron discipline of .their. school, they 
. are}wilder' than ever before. This vis inertiae isJike a 
"•· rubber bandin,which>the recoil is almost as great as 
th · · · · 1·tens1·on "' •. · · · 
e ongma . . . -~i :: .. 
SCHOLASTIC 
. 1 
i 
l 
! 
1 
I 
I 
j 
I
; l 
l ' 


Perspective 
I have always found the tale of 

Pandora' and her mysterious box to 
be an enticing one; one which has 
had a tendency to stick with me since 
the first time I heard it as a child. 
Long ·after the · details concerning 
Rumpelstiltskin and Sleeping Beauty 
have folded into· an ambiguous blur, 
I can still picture a Httle blonde girl 
incessantly returning to· peer· at a 
huge; ominous chest, constantly won~ 
dering ·about it;'and finally allowing 
her curiosity_ to get the better of her. 
She hesitantly approaches it and, 
apprehensive but determined, yanks 
open the lid.All hell breaks loose'. 
I used to take great pleasure in 

conjuring up: images ·oF.the gro­
tesquely evil things which flew out 
of Pandora's · box, · but recently a 
friend. informed me that somewhere 
along the line I hadn't gotten the 
facts concerning Pandora.quite right. 
In theoriginal version of the.story, 
set down by the Greeks . centuries 
ago, the box did not contain the evil 
spirits· of the world, but rather,.· the 
good spirits. When Pandora opens · the box;all ·the good spirits are re­leased; they are dispersed into the air, diluted, fragmented, lost to, man­kind. At .the last moment,. Pandora· realizes what is happening and_ she . slams .the lid shut, but the only vir~ 
tue she can . save for mankind io 
draw upon is ~ope_. · · 
· · My newly acquired knowledge con­cerning what actually happened to Pandora had only ·strengthened· a long-held conviction that the Greeks were really on the ball. The story of Pandora reflects the belief that hu­manity may always have· to· fook at itself with dismay, :wondering at the absence of kindness, wisdom, or com­passion, but that man can also have hope. In the face of an · awareness that he has thrown.his virtues to the wind, man· retains the capacity•·· to hope for a'. better·day and a more just society; So said the Greeks. 
: r would like tc/ b·elieve '. that the Greeks'• allegorical account of· mari's fate still holds some truth ·for tis. · Certainly we can admitto the effects 
SEPTEMBER 14, 1979 
of a·· lost goodness; not . a day · goes by that ·some new injustice, some new example of man's inhumanity to man, comes to our attention. Chil­dren ·taunt each other, · friends be­tray each other, man acts out of greed, lust, and a thirst for power, disregarding the· effects· his actions might have on his fellow man. There is scattered· goodness-occasionally, one may meet a friend who shines with an• unselfish concern for others, a person who has-apparently had one of. Pandora's loosened• spirits settle itself quite comfortably with­in.:.._but it is obvious that most of these spirits are much more content to wander the realms of the upper stratosphere, ·never coming in . con­tact with the miserable creatures below.· But · we ·· still cling to Hope; 
don't we? Or has someone crept back to that carefully guarded chest and loosed the one virtue that Pandora managed to preserve for us? 
Every day it seems more and more like this last · treasured -· virtue has become one of the others, lost to mankind, appearing only in the form of an occasional movement for so­cial justice or an attemptto establish peace between warring nations. Hope is seen when the student body of a large university . votes to boycott a company which is engaged in im­moral business practices, or. when the president of .an Arabian nation · tries· to establish peace between his country and Israel. But somehow, it looks like these few instances are not ·examples• of a•worldwide-senti-. ment; rather, they are the exceptions to the rule.• : ' · . 
-This' summer, a friend who had recently graduated stopped · by to · visit and tell me, "No. one's inter­ested in anything but niaking money and survival." President Carter calls for national unity:and.people sneer,. insisting that his· plea · is just an­other campaign ·ploy. Students and· children· are· slaughtered in Uganda, and no one says much.· more than, "That's terrible, but .what do you expect?"•. Anyone· who . has the strength to hope for a better world 
by Theresa Rebeck 

is stupid, and anyone who desires to act on that hope is worse than stupid; that person is just plain foolish. 
Hope has become an increasingly rare phenomenon. Many people sim­ply do not know what hope is; their lives have never offered them room for hope. But many people purpose­ly let it slip from their lives. I sup­pose I am most dismayed by the lack of hope I see in my fellow students. It has become stylish to be a cynic, a pessimist. It is socially unacceptable to express radical or idealistic views. Why? It's going to be our world in ten or fifteen years, so why shouldn't we believe we can make it over? 
· Being hopeful doesn't mean sitting back and thinking that things might be different "someday," it means 
· looking at a situation, knowing it can be changed, and accepting part of the responsibility for changing it. That is not an easy or a popular thing to do, but hope demands such things. I'm not saying that every person who hopes for peace in the Middle East has to fly over to Israel and introduce himself to Menachem Begin as the second Henry Kis­singer. That situation was Anwar Sadat's, not yours, not mine. I, for one, -don't quite know what life is going to demand of me yet, but I hope I can face it the way he did, with hope and strength. An old cUche tells us that where there's life, there's hope. Hope for what; I don't·. know. Hope that life is worth living, maybe. Hope may sometimes be futile, but it is necessary. It may be distorted -driving a man or woman to greed­ily strive for wealth or fame in. the quest, the hope for "happiness"­but it is still necessary. Hope enables us to look at our failures and de­ficiencies and retain dignity; per­haps we will be better people tomor­row. When we have hope we have the beginnings of strength and courage, so if hope does . make us 
· foolish, perhaps it doesn't· matter. I think I'd rather be a fool than a quitter. · O 

Walking past the statue of Moses 

· one Sunday, I found myself involved in a deeply painful reminiscence of Notre Dame. There was a certain teacher that had passed over from this world-to the next. His name was Joe Evans. He had the classic ap­pearance of a true philosopher. He was a tall man who wore a slightly baggy suit, had a head of gray friz­zing hair, and a gait slightly impaired by a limb characteristically his own. He was most renowned for his won­derful gift of remembering persons' names. Indeed this ability was phe­nomenal, perhaps (if you will allow me this possibility) supernatural­
a. special grace. 
. There may be a more philosophical reason, theological as well, for Joe's remarkable memory. He was a per­sonalist-a follower of Catholic thought that centers around the in­finite worth of the human person, including the eternal soul. In. the biblical mode, this eternal aspect of the soul is in some way contained in the name of the person addressed. Therefore, every time Joe addressed a person· by his name he was mak­ing a reference which he desired to "open out into eternity." He wanted to address , our souls as eternal beings. 
Why take an .entire paragraph· over a gift of remembering names? I want to give a personal glimpse. Maybe if you look and "see" you will understand. It could begin an eter­nity of "seeing . ., Why is this man's approach to eternity important? Whatever,college we come from in this University, we share one ex­perience in common-the experience of death. The following is my own experience of Joe Evans' death. 
It was Friday shortly after noon. I phoned a friend. "Tom? What is new recently on campus?" 
. ''Well, they took the Maritain Cen­ter away from Joe Evans . ., 
"What?!!! You're kidding." I sat stunned. "That is ridiculous. He built that place. Why?" .. 
"Well, they say he was not keeping· the files in very good shape, and also the . access· to materials was being limited." · 
Not good· enough reasons, thought 

I. That was his _whole life. · Why would they do that to him? Hang­ing up the phone, I was in a state of bewilderment. Why do .that? I had to see him. They probably thought he was getting too old. My thoughts ran for a moment or two.. I wonder how he feels? I must see him some­time soon. All day on Friday Joe Evans popped into my thoughts. My mind was filled with mixed emotions of anger, frustration and ._sadness. Why fire such a wise man from his pqsition? I was angry and sad for Joe, yet I heard nothing about his death. When school began I thought it would be on my list of things to do-talk to Joe. 
· The next day I was up very early when I received a phone call from 
. another friend. In the midst• of our conversation he was interrupted by a voice speaking across the room, "Dan, tell Gus that Joe Evans died." Dan relayed the sad news. : . 
. I blurted out, ''Yes. Yes, I heard." "Oh you have?" . 
"Well, no I haven't but I heard it just now across the room. I was thinking· about Joe yesterday." My speech .was choked with emotion. I 
sighed, "Why?" . . .. . 
: "Oh Gus, he was an old man. You know ,we all have to go sometime." "I wanted to talk to him." 
· Laughing at the · other end my friend said, "·Well it's too late for that." We spoke for a few inore min­utes as I remained dazed. Joe dead. It had been just over twenty-four hours since I had heard'that he had lost his position as head of the Mari­tain Center. Hanging up .the phone I paced through the house; deeply grieved. Why now? How . could. it be? Only yesterday, thoughts of him had crossed my mind a few times. Poor .. Joe. I wept for Joe Evans' death. IJoved him very much. With anger, grief, and love, I reminisced about the. last .time that I had seen 
Joe. • · 
It was a beautiful day in June and 
. I was showing my sister the campus. There in the distance was the un­mistakable form of Joe Evaris~ "Hol­ly," 1 said proudly, "no one_ should come to Notre Dame without meet­ing this man." 
· ''Who is he?" 
SCHOLASTIC

I 6 
Memories of .a True Philosopher 
"His name is Joe Evans and he is a very holy philosopher here ·on campus." . 
Stopping Joe, I introduced him to my sister. "Professor Evans, this is Holly who is taking summer school here." He conversed with her. I had forgotten to tell him that she was my sister. He noted the resem­blance; he noticed many things others did not. I said to him that I needed a book on the philosophy of social action. · When he suggested two books by Maritain, The Person and the Common. Good and The Peasant of the Garonne. I knew these suggestions 'would be helpful, yet my sister .was being left out of the conversation. I even went so far as to apologize to Joe for my sister's lack of knowledge of Roman Cath­olic philosophy. 
Joe smiled back at her and said in his typical fashion, "But Gus, she studies· other things." 
After exchanging pleasantries and talking about what a beautiful day it was, Joe excused himself and limped back to the library. As he started back I said to my sister, ·"Isn't he something?" · 
"Yes," she agreed. "What an amaz­ing Christian man." 
We silently walked 6n to the book­store. And· that· was the last time that I saw Joe Evans. He greeted my sister three times after that meeting-of course remembering her name. 
Filled with these reminiscences about Joe I wept. Quickly I sat down at the kitchen table and scrawled out a note that read: "Holly, please pray for Joe Evans. I just heard about his death." I then took a walk. That night I prayed for Joe Evans.. 
The next morning I walked down 

· toward the library after saying my morning prayers, and looked·at the statue of Moses where· oftentimes 
:·Joe Evans sat enjoying the campus. Seeing the statue, I recalled a story he told me. One day before Farley was a women's dorm, Joe and a friend were walking across the quads between the library ·and the tower dorms. He observed some Far­leyites as they played Frisbee in the sun, and said: "See the Farleyites play on the field." His colleague 

-,· ··~s---~-·--··. 
:</; : 

·•)·1 !.' '. 
. ·:;--•; 
,. ·<·.-.. -.:~ -:;:--.: ;-.----:; 
·t 
.J• --:



·•·.. :1.Jv· 
t;. -~ 
-{
. 

~~.i.?i,.-::.:·~ .
.....-­

~"' •· ·~~-.. ,.it~'j 1·. 

. ' •• , . . -' . . ·-,-:: f /...... -;~ t .t: .
,J . ·-~:.:.:.:.. , ~..·,C Pd'?.l: ..-J".; _ .. . ,4 . \ ~; ··• .. 
SEPTEMBER 14, 1979 
watched for a moment and then one was discussing the weather or turned inquiringly to his professor. some deep philosophical principle. Joe continued, "In the same way the Each word had infinite value, each Holy Spirit plays on the world." statement had eternal significance. 
This contemplation on the love of He lived every moment in the light God and His playfulness, often so of that eternity which we have lacking in our modern age, brimmed spoken of before, the eternity he over in Joe's spirit, to reflect in the entered into some ·days ago. words he spoke and deeds he did. The manner in . which he passed To me this is true Christianity; the into eternity is significant. Joe died very act of being and celebrating in and about ten days later his body the presence of God enlightened his was found.· For ten days no one relationships and strengthened his knew that Joe Evans had died. His resolve to know, to do and to grow quiet, unassuming way of life had into the Good. Philosophy for Joe become a quiet, unassuming way of was more than a one-dimensional death. People's · initial reaction to reality of making syllogisms on Joe's death was "and they didn't find paper, and it was not the two-dimen-him for ten days?!,,, But if one re­sional reality it is for some who: fleets on his way of life, even upon write philosophy, think philosophy the playfulness of his spirit, he sees and write more philosophy. For Joe • a gentle irony in the fact that Joe Evans, philosophy was a three-left for heaven ten days before any­dimensional life. All dimensions had one knew he had died. He was child­to be brought into his being. Not sat-like and playful even to the end of isfied with the life of paper and his earthly life. mind, Joe Evans lived those things Just before his death, he had gone he knew to be good and true. · to Montreal to visit his sister. Taking 
That Sunday, my family and· I a tour of a famous monastery out­went to Mass. The homilist spoke of side the city, he came upon a monk's the struggle between institutional bare. room which had only a small realities and the realities of our per-· bed and a place to i,ray. Looking sonal conversion to faith. The priest . around the room, Joe acted as if he mentioned how he left the academic; were in a palace and said to his sis-· world and went to parish work be-. ter, "This would do just fine, this is cause of the superficialities of aca-everything I need. · It is actually demic life, because publish or perish ·. · · very nice." Life in a monastery may had become a model of the academic well have suited Joe fine. Yet he world in which he was living. He brought those aspects of monasticism spoke of the institution grinding on1 into his teaching. Itseems.to me that and grinding on. He said that this many persons of our age, including grinding of the institution had the certain.philosophers when they walk capacity to debilitate and dehuman-into a poor place where a mcnk lives, ize men. The only man I could think would either be shocked, scandalized, of as he spoke was Joe Evans. How put off or even say something to the utterly opposite most institutional effect of, "Well, this is sure a waste men he was, though he himself was of time." But when Joe, approxi­an institution. He had none of those · mately a week before his death,· saw qualities which corrupt institutions. the place where a monk lived, ·he He was not inflamed by desire for treated it as his own home. power or prestige or fame. Rather he Just before his funeral, I went enjoyed spending as much of his time · through· my· notes from his · class, as he could with students; whether and found his often-used quote from it be explaining philosophy to them St. John of the Cross:· "In the eve­or sharing .in poetic, .· theological, nirig of this Ufe;-we · will not be philosophical or religious acts with : judged on how much we know but them. To him it did not matter if rather how. niuch· we have loved." 
Then 1 remembered the time Joe came into our class the day after Pope John Paul I died; Joe had some thoughts on man's mortality, three small' sayings. He carefully wrote them out on the blackboard and slowly read them to the class.-· 
1. 
Ask not. for. whom the bell tolls, it tolls for all of us. 

2. 
Remember man that you are dust and unto dust you shall return. 


3. Vita -mutatur non tollitur ­Life is changed, it is not taken away. 
He smiled, his eyes gleaming in the sun of the day as well as the en­lightenment of his insight. Walking across the. room· he · quietly said, "Three very basic thoughts." Look­ing up at them one last time, he erased them·. and continued teaching his class, Basic Concepts of Political . Philosophy. . . . . 
I stood near the. place where his vault lay in the cemetery, not yet covered with earth, two hours after the funeral was over. I considered death whole and came away from that place with a peace which I had never experienced in a cemetery be­fore. The peace in that place did not come from Joe and it did not come from. me. It was the assurance of Hope, that same Christian· Hope founded upon the Resurrection of Christ which had united Joe's vision of life and philosophy, : and which 
-even the strong shocks of death, love, 'grief, anger,. and weariness· could 
not quench in me. 
Gus Zuehlke is a senior theo'logy major .from Appleton/ · Wisconsin. This is · his first . contribution to 
Scholastic. · · · 

Dr. Joseph W. -.Evans_.:was bom::_>.Chtireh's \foremost -thinker at. :the: 
,fn ·-Dublin, Canada, on '·December::·.-time:·of his ·death in 1973. Evans.· 19, 192L .He received his ·bach-: :served-as-the director of :the center ·elor's degree'in ·philosophy from the· )until August 1, ·1979. and .was to r~ ·university of_ Western-Ontario ·in·.,. main:on 'the faculty to:do.research 1942 and·received ·a··master's-degree : on Maritain. : ·. · . . ·._ · ·in,philosophy in 1947 froniAssump-: Evans edited _and contributed Jo tion College: in :Windsor; Ontario: -. • . ~:';Jacques :Marita.in, ·The ·Man and His ._. :Evans, ;an ·,associ~te ,professorc·~~ ·: •:~chieven,ients,·:/•all_ .evaluation_ <by ... :philosophy; ·join·ed •,the :facwty •at -··thirteer(scholars ·.published -in ·1959; :Notre Dame in·1950. ·He•received:a ·· In 1972/Evans:edited a ·special ·edi­:doctoral degree :for ··his thesis en:.·_. ition of· New _·Scholasticism .devoted .titled ~•Tlie .Development_ ot Thorn!,s• .·:·;to ~~n on :his ·90tk,:birthday. as 
tic Principles ·-in ·Jacques ;Maritain's ..·we1r·as ·-translating '.other --Maritain Notion· of Society." -In 1953-54, . works. . . · ·.. · . _· . ··· . . . . Evans held a Ford·Foundation Fae-.. Also ·in 1969, ·Evans was the Uni~ iulty Fellowship ,at.Yale.University. · -~-versity's '-first .:recipient·. ·of.:the·. Rev~ ­' ....In,:1958, :Evans ,fo~ded Notr~/ ·.:Charles E; Sh~dy Award·for•e~~: Dame's Jacques. Mantain,-Center.· lence_ in:teachmg.,The.award's pur-. The Maritain Center was established. pose :was to encoui-age'.the explora~. to'.eiicoiirage stud)'and researcii.~on: tion_ ·of humanistic values~-in ,the. 'Maritain ·::manuscripts _--donated .iri. classroom. . . . : : . ... . 
'1961. Marltain,.a French neo·-Thom:'. , Evans died of natural. causes on ist.philosopher,_,\\'as_ considered_ thf •August 24. .. ..;_:·' ,::;,i---·_;0
· ·, :_ :i ,:;.\:;:>·.,;; ·.. ·· · .· ---· · · · · · · ~99'! $chmid 
I 

I 
.. 
l 
.i i i 


93ooks: Of Bogies~ ·Birds, and Big Choice.s 


Fungus The Bogeyman 
by Raymond Briggs 
Random House I 41 pages/ $4,95 

Reviewed by Tim Tedrick 

Have you ever noticed that when someone comes up with a good orig­-inal story or idea, there are immedi­ately nine orlten lesser imitators that pop up? Such is the case -with Rob­ert Briggs' Fungus the Bogeyman, 
10 

· (Random House, $4.95) a book that starts with a basically good idea and 
• then botches it. _ 
Fungus takes its cue from Toi­kien's trilogy and B. Kliban's (Whack Your 'Porcupine) bizarre illustra­tions; it is a case study of everyone's 
· favorite creepie, the bogeyman. The book chronicles a day in the life of your "average" bogeyman; it starts with his rising from bed and ends with his return. We are told about all his activities for that day, the animals he encounters, -and any other possible event that could hap­pen · in a•: basic ·bogeyday-Briggs leaves no· area overlooked. 
The problem with Fungus isn't the idea;___it's really quite origi:naF--the problem is that it never catches fire· and takes off (though in Great Brit­ain it's selling amazingly well). Jusf when something hysterical is being set up, the idea falls flat. -It's as if Briggs is afraid to carry Fungus to its logical (or illogical) extreme. By keeping the character restrained, Briggs cuts Fungus short, and it ends up being like Mad magazine for mid­dlebrows. · 
ScHOLASTIC­




·Jailbird 

· by.Kurt Vonnegut, Jr./ Delaconte Press I 246 pages I $9.95 
Reviewed by.Rich Marcello 
Kilgore Trout is back. Yes, the hero of Breakfast of Champions. is once again under the protection of Kurt Vonnegut's pen; Mr. Trout sim­ply could' not make it on the outside. It seems that very few good people can these days. . 
· And so with this in mind, Mr. Von­negut begins his ninth novel, Jail-: bird. In a time when ·it seems as if our culttire • is being dominated by aspirationg,,of wealth and. success, Kurt. Vonnegut· has slapped us in the face with a novel that is just plain humanizing. In fact, it is so full of genuine compassion for mankind; that many might dismiss it as being• corny .. I hope not~it may well be worth the time of even the most de­vout nihilist. 
: It is the story of Walter F. Star'." buck, career public servant and old man,· who has led a life of . positive adjustment .to continually • lowering expectations. These adjustments started · when he was a .'.'young communist at Harvard" and ended with his living a "quiet. life of des~ peration." In between, he serves time for his involvement in the Watergate conspiracy, loses a wife, loses a for­mer lover, produces an ungrateful son, ruins a. man's· life, obtains a "doctor of mixology" degree in order to tend bar,· and becomes a corporate head in the RAMJAC corporation. All ofthese are concrete events in his life and are typically. Vonnegutish. Whether or not he can• justify or be proud of them is of no consequence to him-they are history. But by his own , admission, he most · dislikes his own utter lack of commitment: 
The book· does have its moments, however, such as when· Fungus 'has his daily contact with humans (the encounter with the vicar in the ceme­tery is really funny)and the scene in which Fungus goes to drown his sor­rows in a local bogey-bar is crazy in its own grotesque sort·'of way. Both of these scenes are written· at full tnt and come off quite well. 
' The rest of the book does not do as well. Where it should be raucous, Fungus is merely sophomoric, and possible bellylaughs are reduced to infrequent snickers. Perhaps Briggs 
SEPTEMBER 14, 1979 
The most embarrassing thing ·to me about this autobiography, surely, is its unbroken chain of proofs that I was never a serious . man. I have been in a lot of trou-· ble over the years, but that was all accidental. Never have I risked my life, or even my com­
. fort, in the service of mankind. Shame on me. 
Reflected in our shame-filled hero is an image that strikes us as .being brilliantly perceptive and • sadly; perhaps, true. For there are indeed many today who are not willing. to give up an ounce of their comfort to serve mankind. This seems to be the thesis statement upon which.Von­negut's .jail is built. Vonnegut, ap­
. pears to recognize a common denom­inator in human behavior; Starbuck is much like you and me. He has gone the route of obtaining as much as he . could for comfort's sake, and of learning exactly enough to make his life bearable-no more, no less. He knows right and wrong, but he hasn't the courage or desire. to act upon his· convictions. Upon closer in­spection, it is evident that Starbuck is not happy. In fact, he is miser­able. 
Vonnegut is too fresh a writer to intone the tired mantra, "riches do not make you happy." His is an urgent plea for people to inspect their own life-styles -and examine the impact that they are having upon their owri lives. Vonnegut, as idealis­tic as it may sound, implies that there is nothing worth living for but a loving understanding between people. Obviously, we have a long way to go before we can live up to. his expectations. 
Late in the novel we are intro­duced to Mary · Kathleen O'Loony ( a Domish name if ever there was one). She too has convictions. But unlike Walter Starbuck, she has led a life of commitment to what she believes-:-basically, "The Sermon: on 
was afriid he would offend (some ethnicbogey group .and get a ·nasty letter from the Bogey Anti-Defama­tion. League, or something. , 
When: Briggs finishes. his ,next book, maybe the text . will be up to the .marvelous illustrations found in Fungus. Briggs would like to think that there is more to his work than meets the eye. Unfortunately, there really isn't. . 
.. . . . . . . , . . .. . 
Tim-Tedrick is a regular contributor to Scholastic. . . " . 

the Mount." Her ideas also : weigh heavy with idealism: the masses should own everything equally, share the wealth and'thus eliminate poverty, greed. and destruction. Her valiant attempt to attain this high degree of humanity is well planned, but ultimately fails-the point being that no· one can do it on his own. 
As a matter of style: yes, there is the much-savored prologue that Von-: negut lovers all know and love. Just a sampling of the contents: · 
John· Figler is a law-abiding, high-school student.. He says in , his letter that he has read al­most everything of mine and is .: now prepared to state the single idea that lies at the core of my · work so far. The words are this: "Love may fail, but. courtesy
will prevail.'' · · ·.. · · . 
This seems true to me-and complete. So . I am now in . the. abashed condition, five. days · after my sixty-sixth birthday, o~ realizing that. I . needn't have bothered to write several books. A seven-word telegram would have done the job. 
Seriously. 
Vonnegut·. could not be more ' wrong.,, His is a witty, 'perceptive and much needed novel. I ask you to read it. And so on. D 
Rich Marcello, a fifth-year student 
. from Uniondale, New York, This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
11 I 


Sophie's Choice. 
by William Styron 
Random House I $·12.95 I 515 
pages 
Reviewed by Gregory Solman 
William Styron's novels, need .it even be said, have not received their critical acclaim merely because of Styron's penchant for what some have called "Southern Gothic ver­bosity." In fact, in Styron's latest, SO'phie's Choice, he may indeed be cutting larger social swaths. than he . did ·in his previous . best-sellers­which weren't exactly benign in their own right.. 
But that doesn't _and shouldn't preclude you from enjoying the novel just for language's sake. If ever there has been an author who so aptly presents the case against Evelyn Wood and her speed-reading demons, it is undoubtedly Styron, who has once again shown that prolix · prose is alive ·and well and living within his sex-starved body. 
· _ It often takes Styron·a good day to pen a page; but such attention to one's.trade is not without its reward, 

. for it is through this strenuous and · meticulous attention to form and content ·that Styron won the Pulit­zer prize for The Confessions of Nat Turner,· and the Prix de Rome. for · Lie Down in Darkness. ,More im­portantly, it allows Styron to tran­scend his counterparts in writing ._ decidedly poetic novels. For Styron, a mere suntanisdescribed like.this: .. "Sharecropper white; .with pink elbows and chaffed knees,! felt wan and desiccated. amid these bodies so richly and sleekly dark, so Mediter­ranean, glistening like dolphins ·. be­neath their Coppertone. How I envied the pigmentation that could cause one's torso to develop this mellow hue of stained walnut." Simple admiration of a -woman's upper torso suddenly becomes sensu­ally drenched: ·· · "Truly she was my childhood love, Miriam Bookbinder come to fruition with all adult hormones in perfect orchestration. Her breasts were made for. banquet. The cleavage between them, . a mythical fissure which I had never-seen before at-·such close range, gave forth a faint film of dew. 
I. wanted_ to .. bury my nose in that damp Jewish bosom and make stran~ gled sounds of discovery and joy." 

It is Sophie Zawistowski, how­ever, that is the lady with "all the right prominences, curves, continui­ties and symmetries." And, of course, she makes the choice (upon which I will not elaborate, not wanting to . spoil the surprise). It, the choice, is revealed painstakingly to the nar­rator. What you should know about Sophie is that she is a sufferer of Auschwitz, where she was impris­oned for twenty months during World War II. She desperately clings to a man, Nathan, -who regularly treats her as if she is, in his own words, ' "carcinoma of the fucking brain." And, due to insecurities-and . neuroses brought about by the war, she unremittingly loves him despite this. Sophie was...:..:..as much as anyone upon whose buried bodies Sandburg's 

grass · now grows~a· victim · of Naziism. 
Nathan Landau.· pretends to be a biocheniical re.searcher for a. drug.. company . .A supposed Harvard alum-mis,·· he is always on the verge of soine great breakthrough·which in­evitably doesn'tpan out. Later in the novel, we find that Nathan is a "duke of deception," that he is indeed a chimera. Nathan is in fact a man from a wealthy family with a history of mental problems who now, 
through a drug-induced' murkiness lapses iri ·a.nd out of paranoid:schizo~ phrenia. On · the one hand,· he· is capable. of exuding enough com pas­sion to save Sophie's life (which he does, and for which Sophie is until her death· ingratiating herself) and, 
on the other hand, capable of spew­
ing forth a kind of demoniac pos­
session that would suitably shock 
Linda Blair. · 
The narrator, Stingo-derivative 
of the original Stinky ("Among. my 
other disheveled qualities was ·ap­
parently an inattention to personal 
hygiene")-is, as it· becomes pain­
fully obvious, · none other than 
Styron himself, in his younger. and 
poorer days of being "exiled to Flat.; 
bush." Styron in no way tries to 
hide· this; he even concretizes what 
you suspect all along through fleet­
ing references to his •narrator's 
"budding novel" regarding Nat 
Turner, who will later, of course, 
become Styron's most famous ·sub­
ject. 
Stingo is a tremendously sensitive 
and sensual person; a virgin at 22, 
he is preoccupied with relievirig him­
self of that label. Styron is very 
explicit-almost to the point of 
being obscene.;..._; in his description 
of Stingo's sexual genesis .. · Stingo is 
also .filled·. with idealism and pride 
in the South from ·which he came. 
More than anything else, he is in love 
with Sophie, and she, in love with 
Nathan. 
Sophie's Choice revolves around 
the love triangle of these three mis­
begotten souls and the slow unveiling 
of Sophie's gruesome odyssey. The 
issues are many, the answers, few; 
the novel itself, fascinating .. · . 
In his use of the narrative form, 
Styron is superlaUve; he is as apt 
at evoking a sense of, Brooklyn and 
Coney Island-as he is 'the utter hor­
ror that was Auschwitz. But in other 
places,. Styron's·. verbosity does not 
work . . . it is too perfect. In some 
of. the heated dialogues betweeri 
Nathan and Stingo, one wonders if 
it would be possible to prepare such 
perfect ·parries ·and barbs if given 
a half hour to contemplate. re­
plies. Yet, we · are ·. expected to believe that .everyone in the novel .has the spontaneous ·gift of ·gab of, say, an Oxford-educated Don Rickles. ·· ·· Whether or not SO'phie's Choice win.. gather· another Pulitzer. or a ·Prix. de. Rome is ,unimportant.· In•an era of "literary hypell where. too. many _artists reap. commercial sue~ cess through sweat and blood only to rest upon their laurels in following years, .Styron has disappointed few of his many·.fans ,with his latest 
novel. · · · · 0 
· ·· · · · ·· 
-Gr~g S~lman .is this ye~r's ·auztiire Editor.· · · · · 

.1979 COLLEGE FOOTBALL PREVIEW 




Scholastic's Top Ten 
It's that time of year again. Time for all of the expert and not-so-ex­pert pigskin prognosticators to niake their predictions about the upcoming college football season. Here . is the 1979 edition , of the Scholastic Top Ten. There are some familiar teams, and there are some teams which may come as a surprise to many college football fans. This is due to the level­ing off in collegiate sports that has occurred since . the -NCAA imposed the 30/95 scholarship rule. More good ·players _are· avaHable ·since the top powerhouses can't stockpile'. A Mark Herrmann who . might. have gone to Notre Dame and sat on the bench· for a yVhile, _now goes to Pur­due and plays immediately. This has occurred across the country and will be even more evident in future years. Teams that could make major break. throughs are Purdue, Florida State, Missouri, and Southern Methodist. 
·-_. Withouf~y further ~do, the i979 ScholastilTop Ten: · 
·1. Southern California 

The Trojans are ready to defend their national championship. USC has only .to fill a few spots and start rolling. 
On offense, the· Trojans feature QB Paul McDonald (115 of 203, 19 TD's), RB Charles · White (1859 yards, 15 TD's), WR Kevin Williams (17 catches, 10 TD's), and OL's Brad Budde (6-5, 260) · and Anthony Munoz (6-7, 280). Budde and Munoz are virtually . certain All-Americas, and White . figures heavily in the Reisman chase. 
Defensively,_the Trojans don't have as many names, but the LB's, featur­ing Dennis Johnson, are especially strong, and there _is ·the best frosh class in the country to provide depth. 
USC should erid up national. champs, but it will not be easy. Road games at Texas · Tech and Notre Dame could be rough. But .there is not much beyond that to keep USC from another Rose Bowl date, prob­ably with Purdue. 
..·.·.··· 

Q:S:.::-.Mark Herrmann/Purclue· . RB2charles White, Use 0'-',t?> RB\ ·. Billy,•Sims,· Oklahoma/.. •;, . . ::F'LSJohriny '.'Lam'' Jones, Texas .WR-Emanuel Tolbert ·sMU··­
'¥ ' 
. '· O~Anthony_Munoz;-use. · .. 
: Ofr:-Tim Foley, Notre Dame:-",.\.> ·'~ e7 Jim Richter, _North.Caroliiia'St. :; '. OL+Ray·Sriell,·Wisoonsiri ", >'·:::< .. :-.>: 
OL-2-Brad)3udde, use< ·· · · '< >.:,,,, 
, .. ,. .•,,. '., _,\_ . --..-. ,' :·,,·.· ,-'' <. 
~-,.-·.;-;_·:~~~---i:·,_.<"__ 


by Anthony Walton 
2. Texas . 

The Longhorns are , loaded. They are deeper than Southern Cal (39 of first 44 return) but have a very tough schedule and a large question mark at QB. 
The offense has possibly the best all-around performer in the country, 
· in FL Johnny "Lam" Jones, and he is ably supported by RB AJ. "Jam" Jones, and a strong offensive line. Donnie Little looks like the QB, and while he is a good runner, he is un­proven as a passer. 
The defense could be impenetrable. LB Lance Taylor, DT Steve McMi..; chael, and DB Johnnie Johnson 'are just a few of the many stars. The defense only allowed 11 points per game last year, and the word is that they will be even better. · 
Texas has a killer schedule (Okla­homa, SWC), but if they stay healthy · and a QB is found, the Longhorns . could be waiting if USC falters. 
.:Aif.;;MIERICA 
• ;Offense'·< -:· 
SEPTEMBER 14, 1979 

··· and Ohio State in the Big Ten. The schedule is rugged (UCLA, Notre Dame, Big Ten), but the Boilermak­ers should be· ready. Look for one 
• ..,.::· · heck of a· Rose Bowl when they ~:-: play use. 
5. Oklahoma. 

The Sooners are no strangers to the Top Ten. No team has a better­record over the last ten years. This year should be no different. _ 
Offensively, the man is Billy Sims. Returning Reisman Trophy Winner, Sims will be bidding to become only the second player ever to repeat. Last year he rushed for 1,762 yards, 20 TD's, and had:an incredible 7.6 yards per carry· average.' Only four other starters are back, but there are qua!~ ity replacements ·on harid.' RB· David · Overstreet .and -C Paul Tabor are standouts. J: C. Watts shapes up as 
the· QB. --__ ---­·-· Defensively~ DE; Bruce-Taton, -LB George Cumby,· and FS·Darrol Ray will bolster another strong Oklahoma defense. As with the· ·offense, the names won't be ·familiar, but the quality will' be high: · Oklahoma _will-have -another good team.-Several stars have. to be re­placed, but that -has· riever been a problem for the Sooners in the' past and shouldn't be one now. -The sched~ ule is favorable, with 'only Texas looming as a -threat · early. •By the time Nebraska visits Norman, this will be-another tough So_orier outfit. 
. 6. . Penn State . 

3. · Alabama. 4. -Purdue Another mainstay of the Top Ten, Roll, Tide! Has it ever been any .Purdue? Aren't they in the· Big Penn State had the national cham-: different? Alabama has ·the players, Ten? What about Michigan and Ohio pionship \\Tl"a.pped up last year, only __ the coaching, and most importantly, State? Well, Michigan and Ohio State to falter in the Sugar Bowl. The Nit­the schedule to make-a serious run are still around, but they are going tany µons·.will be in the thick of the at the national. title. ' -. to -have to make room for the new -chase.again this year. . 
Back on offense are RB's Major ; kid ori the block. Offensively, 5 starters return, with Ogilvie (580 yds.), Steve Whitman, Purdue is simply loaded. On of-QB being the only area of major con-. and Billy Jackson. The QB will be fense there is Mark Herrmann, All-cern. RB.is strong, with Matt Suhey Steadman Shealy, who played a lot America QB. Herrmann passed for and Booker Moore, and deep threat last year. _The OL returns everyone. 1,904 yds. and 14 TD's on 152 of 274 Tom Donovan returns at FL. Three ! 
1

Defensively, E. J. Junior, Gary De-completions: The other ten starters OL positions must be filled, but that 
I

Niro and Wayne Hamilton are all are back also, most notably RB John should be no problem. excellent DE's, and the rest of the -Macon and OL Steve . McKenzie. The defense features DT's Bruce ,\ line is experienced. LB and DB could Added to this cast is·Jim Smith, gen-Clark and Matt Millen, as good a pair 
' 

be problems, but with the players erally considered the best high school . as there is anywhere. The secondary: that the Tide have_ on reserve,, re-'· RB in·the country. : .. ·· was ·weakened·-greatly when AU.:i placements should be. found .. Sugar , . For all of the offense, however, it .. America Pete Harris flunked out of Bowlhero, Don McNeal, is back at. is the defense which really sparkles. school. Buti ·like:inost perennial Top_ CB, and he should-provide. the· co-DE_ Keena Turner, MG Ken Loushin, Ten -. powers, adequate· replacements hesive force needed'. . , · .. -• .· · · . DT Marcus Jackson, LB Kevin Motts, are available. :--> . · · · ; Alabama has the best schedule and DB Wayne Smith are the stand-· Penn State has a relatively soft · (best meaning softest), of any o(the outs. on a unit that allowed only 2.8 schedule, with only Texas A&M, NeJ Top Ten teams. In all-likelihood, .the_ •· · yards per rush and 11 points per. braska, and Pittsburgh posing any Tide will not be tested_ until -New game~ . . ·. ,. serious.. threats. Look for another. . 
. Year's Day, when they could be in a Purdue appears to be finally ready ·. 9-2 year with a.major bowi apP.eari. position .to .win it all. --:-to end _the_ dominance of Michigan ·· ance. . _. .... .. .. .. .. __ 
14 --, SCHOLASTIC 
Purdue is led by QB Mark Herrmann_ 
7. Notre Dame 

The Fighting Irish are this year's mystery team. They don't have as many big names as usual, but the talent is there, and the players should be hungry. 
They face a killer . schedule (Michigan, Purdue, Michigan State, USC, and Tennessee), and early iosses could hurt. If, however, the team jells early and wins at least 2. out of the first three, •the Irish could challenge for the national title and give Southern Cal its stiffest test. 
For more on Notre Dame, see page 18. 
8. Michigan State 
The Spartans suffered heavily 

from graduation, but many fine play­
ers remain, and there are good re-.. 
placements for those departed. 
Offensively, QB Eddie Smith and FL Kirk Gibson are gone, but virtu­ally everyone else returns. WR Eugene Byrd and TE Mark Bram­mer are stars, and RB's Steve Smith, Derek Hughes, and Bruce Reeves all can move. Together last year -they gained 1519 yards at the TB spot. FB's Lonnie Middleton and Andy Schramm are strong also. Four starters return on the OL. QB is the only · question mark, with Bert Vaughn looking most likely. Another possibility is freshman Jon English. 
Defensively, MSU returns 8 start­

ers, most notably LB Dan Bass and MG Bernard Hay. The few .open spots will be ably filled. Punter Ray _Stachowicz is a big plus as his 43.1­
yard average attests. 
Michigan State will challenge se~ riously: for · the Big Ten title. In many other years, they would be the favorite. MSU faces Purdue Oct. 20 · in a game which ·should decide the Big Ten title~ Look for a bowl ap­pearance and. a possible champion­ship, should Purdue falter. 
9. Florida State 

Coach Bobby Bowden has rescu·ed this program from the junk pile. Just five years ago the Seminoles were the laughingstock of the collegiate ranks. Now they are ready to chal­lenge for national recognition and honors. · 
Offensively, the Seminoles are led by their one-two QB punch of Jimmy Jordan and Wally :Woodham. The two are virtually interchangeable, and over tlle last three years have passed for . nearly 6DOO combined yards. Last year Jordan was 108 for 199, 1,427 'yds., and Woodham was . 98 for 169, ·1,322 yds. RBs . Homes -­Johnson and Mark Lyles gained 817 and 641 yards, respectively. The top 
SEPTEMBER 14, 1979 
seven receivers return, as do four of the five offensive linemen. 
Defensively 10 starters return, most notably MG Ron Simmons. There is good depth and much ex­perience. 
Obviously FSU has a lot of fire­power. This may be the best offense in the country. The defense, while not containing as many stars, is more than adequate. The defense could conceivably give up 25 points a game, and the Seminoles would still win because of the offense. The "D" is better than that, however_:inuch better. What we have here is a dark horse, a team that could win it all if the others should fall. The schedule is favorable with Arizona State, Miaini, and Florida the major tests. Look for 11-0, 10~1, or 9-2 at the very worst. Bobby Bowden has brought the Seminoles all the way back. · 
10. Southern Methodist 

SMU is my surprise pick. The Mustangs raised a lot of eyebrows · last year with their high-powered of­fense, and have added a superb class of freshmen to the team. 
. Offensively, SMU is led by QB Mike Ford. Ford, who last year was 224 of 389 for 3,007 yards and 17 TD's, won't have to pass as ·much this year because of Freshman RBs Eric Dickerson and Craig James, Texas' best high schoolers last year. All-America WR Emanuel Tolbert (62 catches) returns, as does FL An­thony Smith. Mitchell Bennett, an­other heralded recruit, will also see time. The line returns 4 starters, and TE Robert Fisher is a vet. 
Defensively, ,things are not as bright. ·Five starters return, most notably DT Harvey Armstrong and LB Byron Hunt. LB and DB will be strong, and if the defensive line comes around, the unit will be solid. 
SMU is in a position to become a major power in college football. Coach Ron Meyer has done a fantas­tic job recruiting, and another out­standing frosh class will put the Mustangs over the hump. The sched­ule is rugged, but SMU should be · well-equipped, especially if Dicker­son and James live up to expecta­tions. Look for a 9-2 or 8-3 record with a bowl bid. This is the team of the future. . 



16. 
.· ·..· . 



ken 

rilcalpfne 
,·::,. ··.. 


SEPTEMBER 14, 1979 

I
,I 
! 
I 
i 

. . . . . . 
t

ConVers8.tion with. the" 

Coach, 

by Tom Westphal 
. . . 

. Can the Fighting Irish clinch a third National Championship befoi;-e the Seventies bid us fond farewell? The preseason pollsters certainly don't think so with the Irish rated anywhere from #9 to not at all, but nope still shines-bright -·under the Golden Dome as last'.'mim~te prepara­tions for the opener. at Michigan are under.way. 
Unfortunately, preseason practice . this fall has been severely hampered by injury and illness. Coach Dan Devine spoke ,of the trials and trib­ulations the team .has experienced: "We only had six days of two-a-day practices and only three with pads. That's the fewest number·any of tis coaches have ever experienced. Plus, we didn't have the recovery from in­juries that I had hoped. We've sim­
. ply had too many people missing ·· practice." · 
. Injuries to key performers such as Mark Czaja, · Scott Zettek, Dave Mitchell, and Ted Horansky prompt­ed Coach Devine to comment, ''We're going. to have to ·rely. agreat deal this year on. freshmen and soph­omores. Consequently, I have gone from being overly·optirnistic--which everybody accuses me of. this year.:..... to being cautiously optimistic." . 
Although mishaps have b¢allen · 
. -some of the Irish gridders, in scan­ning the probable offensive and de­fensive lineups, one cannot help but be impressed with the combination of proven talent arid untapped poten:.. tial on· the 1979 squad._ The offense returns-five starters from a 9-3 · 1978 season, with the remaining positions 
.Dave Waymer,AII-AmericarUn actidn ·au to be filled by past lettermen, so 
-. -.•· --·: . -. -. 
ScHOLASTIC 


inexperience should·riot significantly 'try to pick up the slack at wide re:. cornerstone of the '79 defense. "All;. affect the Green Machine. · ceiver caused by Kris Haines'· · d~-. American" . honors appear imminent 
Rusty Lisch presently leads in the parture to the pro ranks. Freshman. _for the. senior 1ri-:captain, who will running for the quarterback position , ·-Tony Hunter and returriing letter:.:. ·be joined at· corrierback by_ sopho:. but . talented tinderclassmen -Tim . man Ty Dickerson should. see con-. niore Joh1i"' Knmm.. Veteran .Tom Koegel;> Greg Knafelc and Mike · ·siderable action as well · · Gibbons~ who started most' of last Courey ·are· ready· to perform also. Preseason injuries have plagued year, ·returns to his free safety spot "In recent years a couple of good the defensive line, but as the season . alongside Cichy. Georgia and Texas teams used five or opener 'approaches, ·recoveries have' : Chuck ·Male and Joe Unis give six quarterbacks;'' noted Devine. speeded up and the Irish defense_ · Notre Danie ·a solid one-two punch in "We have four quarterbacks ·and _looks as formidable as· ever.. John·' the kicking .department. · · probably before the ·season's over, · Harikerd·'and Joe Gramke are the· .. September will be quite a test for we'll use all four of them!" only certain starters on the. front the Irish gridders. After tomorrow's 
. "All-American'' status is the next wall, with Jay Case's availability be-. opening· encounter-with the.Wolver~ goal for star · running back Vagas ing a big factor in the'. Michigan _· ines from Michigari, 'two more Big Ferguson, ·after.breaking the Notre.·. game; :according to Coach Devine. Ten powers loom on the :horizon. Dame single-season. rushing record · The·condition of defensive ends Mark "Michigan is the best defensive team last-year. "In the backfield, Vagas . Czaja and Scott_.Zettek is question-. in the nation .and Purdue second," has: looked real good," praised De-·: -able for the .'79. season. Vying for . noted Devine. "Michigan, Purdue and vine. "Tiie only disappointment there ,.starting slots 'ob the line are junior. Michigan State .were all in the.·Top is that David Mitchell, the forecasted · Don Kidd,· sophomore Pat Kramer Ten of both the AP and UPlpresea­
. fullback, will' miss· his· senior year . and Tom Bock and freshmen Jeff son polls." after his fourth operation;'' Valuable ·Lueken, ,Bob 'Clasby and Barry ...':Losses· to Missouri and Mich_igan backup help will be provided by Jim Young; · · . last September spoiled any National Stone -·and·· Bernie Adell,: both of· ·•. _'-'Bobby Leopold, Bob Crable, and . Championship hopes that: the Irish 
· whom, have excelled i in· presea-· Mike· Whittington are the probable· might have ·entertained. This year, son play;..··· · · · linebackers,". stated' Coach Devine.· though, things may well be different. -'.'Tri-captain Tim· Foley (another ·Leopold,· a · three-year· monogram "It's always important to get off to a All-'America candidate) ·and Rob · winner, · began · fall practice as the ·good start," insisted Devine. ''I think . Martinovich will start a_t tackles with · strong safety but with the return of . last year's start will serve as quite 
. John Scully:at center,".according to>Steve Cichy to.the lineup (after re-an incentive for our players.". the Irish mentor, '-'and Dan-·Masz-·. curring-back trouble), returns to his The three opening games against tak has the edge at tight end." The more ·familiar· linebacking position; Big . Ten · foes could. well -make or :guard position is _the only:_ question : Coach Devine commented on Cichy's break the Irish season. Student: sup­
. mark..with injuries to Tim Huffman, return: "It's a· pleasant surprise to port is vital at Ann Arbor. and La­:and Ted Horansky. Senior John have Steve back at strong safety. He fayette. With,some solid play and a Leon wm likely get the starting nod ··hasn't practiced much yet but he little Irish luck, Notre. Dame just along with Huffman; Third-year men·. looks good:'' .,.. .might· prove · all · the · experts 'Dave·condeni and Pete Holohan will Multitalented Dave Waymer is the wrong.,· O 
.. 

: SEPTE_MBER 14, _1979 


by John "Maddog" Muldoon 

The sun penetrated the foam of clouds that had * greyed the sky all day and said good-bye to him, for­-Fitz. What ya doing? · ever, from its 6:37 p.m. position. He pulled. the ther­_:_Hey Al. Not much. What's new? mometer out of his mouth. l00.3°F. He watched the -Not a thing. Terrible day, huh. sun set and sat thinking. Thinking of Death. Thinking -Ahhh May'll be nice though. of Chris. -Maybe. What's up. · 
-Well, last night went to bed early. Around 12:30.
* 

It was the kind of dreary, drizzly April day that· Got up. Went fo all my classes. Even took some notes in Steven's class. · 
everyone on the downtown campus says, Doesn't this -You're kidding. .
weather suck!, instead of, God, I've got three tests this 
week. He had said,. This means we'll have a terrific · :Well not many. Then went and declared my major, May, instead of, I'm done with tests 'til finals. got an advisor, made an appointment with him. Went · to the bookstore,· picked up a .Pre-Law Handbook and
* 

even leafed through it on the way back. Pretty mature
Chris had a pimple on the side of her face. She was huh? gorgeous. It was about halfway between her ear and -What's your major? her chin. It wasn't a big, red, pus-y one though, only -:-God, you want the whole freshman spiel too?-o.k.: small and pink and would go away in a day and a half, .Mike Fitzpatrick, Chicago, Gonzaga Hall, English..:.....it's 
if it didn't start to itch and she scratched it; But the the only thing I get A's in. . 
thing was she had all this make-up junk all over it, .·.. -Good choice ·then. Hey we're havin' a party tonight. not .Clearasil or anything, but like make-up is really --Yea! What for, you had one.last week. .. anti-Chris. Anyway the thing was kirid of cute. Made · -Yeah, well everyone lost their shit so bad, we figure her more human. Not a goddess. .if we·go for it again maybe we'll get some of. it back. 
* -'-Good idea. ·. • . . · · , . .. •. · "I cannot come. I cannot come to the banquet. Don't :-Hey, I gotta run. I've got the second of two tests 
. trouble me now. I have married ·a cow. I have •to·· day; · 
, . bought me a wife. I have fields and· commitments; -I'm done with tests 'til finals. that cost.a pretty.sum: So please excuse me now. -Figures. I'll see ya.tonight. o.k.?.· · · I· cannot come." . . -Great._ See ya then. Sorey. I'm dying of a. terrible fever. 100.7°F. Have 
* 

a· good time,though. Without me.. I cannot come. . . 
The sun was sinking forever.. ,The mercury was on 
·* 

an infinite-rise. 101.4°F. 6:58 p.m. "Danana, Danana,_:_Fitz; .... 
Danana nana riana nana na whoop boom."_ The. Dick -Hey Chris. What's·up?;· 
Van Dyke. Show. Two minutes early. No· wonder he · _:_Nothing: Temble.,day::isn't it? 
was always late for.class. Oh well, didn't matter now. 
..:..Oh; Fdon't; kriow.·''May oughta be real· nice. 
Oh,: this one's great. Rob and Laura are .throwing a..:.,.what have· you~ been up,to?. . . 
.. dinner. party for Rob's•. sponsor, the Brewsters,. and . .-Nothing. :Missing you;' . : 
Rob's old army buddy, Sol Pomeroy, comes to :visit for oh·yeah.:.. the weekend• and Sol's a: pretty regular guy, being a ; . . like the Plague mechanic and all and the Brewsters were .rear stuffy,
_..:._r hate you. · . . · . . .. 
· being sponsors and all and the Petries wanteverythingHe .lifted his finger to her cheek. 
to go all right so they tell Sol that they hadn't planned .-So what's the story.here Cheryl? 
on him and· he made the number of guests uneven, so . huh?· 
Sol misses the hint and invites his gum-chewing girl­-Tiegs. You know. This new, in-Vogue scene. I mean friend Sheila_ who wears this dress covered :with silver 
don't worry about it. We all go through puberty. 
spangles, and Sol and Henry, Rob's sponsor,· get in a 
:You're a jerk. I've had two tests this week and one . 
.. fight over Henry's car and they step outside:and Laura now. starts to whimper and Rob jumps around nervously and 
-I'm done with tests 'til finals..· 

Sol fixes Henry's car_and they all get along and every­
-Ihate you.. 

: body's happy and Rob and Laura sirig "You, Wonderful 
·-You-mad? 

You" at the end and.the Brewsters go home happy and 
-If I was mad I'd call you a creep. Connecticut be a
Sol Pomeroy goes. to to mechanic, ·· -Ilove you, too. 
creating one of the premier stock characters in-Ameri­
-I·gotta go. I'll talk.to ya. o.k. She smiled. m~re
can television. history, gaining immortality·in a 
-Just don't call me a creep. . . half,hour;· : . . _ 
SCHOLASTIC 

Chris was cool. They got along great, except that she still owes him 4½ orgasms. One night at a party, instead of playing bar dice for drinks they decided to throw dice for orgasms. Orgasm 98. It had been a long week. Anyways, he won and she lost and owed him 5 orgasms. He said he had a dream about her. She said it was worth an orgasm. He said it was only worth a half. She wasn't that good. 
* 

Oh, this is just great..They finally get a good movie on t.v. at.a good time and he had to be dying .. The luck of the Irish. What he really needed now •was some lemonade. and some oatmeal cookies. What could go better with "Bringing Up Baby" with Katharine Hep­burn and Cary Grant? Classic Movie. Classic Food. Him and Al used ,.to watch old movies all the time. "Planet Zero," "Attack of the Giant Leeches" and all the other greats produced by RKO Studios. Nick Adams was their favorite. star.. He was great. They tried to buy stock in RKO Pictures.. But it had died too. Lemonade, ·oatmeal . cookies and . Nick Adams-better than sex; Kate Hepburn was almost as good. In this one she seems to be your classic bitch personified, but she turns out_ to be ... "something dreams are made of ...".:._:_cod the fever must·have really affected his brain for 'frto come up with a line like that. 102.1°F. : 
, . : C C •, ·.; 
* 

. Cary· Grari was climbing a dinousaur as he rum­maged under his beef and through his drawers and put on his McCarthy's Kittens· hockey shirt; His Button 
', •;_·-:-· , . . -··_ . ,· -:-. ' 
* 

103°F. A bell was ringing somewhere. Was it the t.v.? No, Lynn Burton, for Bert Weinman, his t.v. Ford man was selling '62 chevys. The ringing must be real. At the end of the bed. The press had found out already. Rrriiiinn-Sorry, I'm dying. I have no further comment. -Hi Fitz. What's up. -Hello? Chris?? ... Is that you??? -No it's Cheryl Tiegs. What's the idea? -I'm dying -Yeah, I heard. So, you going to Al's party tonight? -Sorry. I cannot come. I'm dying. -Have a good time though. Without me. .:....:.c•mon, quit goofing· around. T gotta take a shower and stuff. · How 'bout pickin' me up in an hour? -Sorry, I might be dead by then. Have a good time by.-yourself though. -C'mon, I'm serious;_ I'm really rushin' around. I'll see ya in.an hour. o.k.? He knew she was smiling. -Sorry. Even the o.k... can't work tonight. I'm dying. Don't send any. flowers though, o.k.? / -You're a creep. O.k., have it your way. If I see you at the party I'll see ya, if I.don't I won't and I won't care.
-'-Sorry . . .. --. . .c_CLICK She was mad.-He was dying. She would stop~ being mad. He wouldn't stop dying. 
* 

. • Feed a cold, st~rve a fever. Starve a cold, feed a 

T-shirt >from ,Lauderdale, a· Chicago• Bears' football_ jersey _#51, Dick .Butkus, a red jersey with>#7 :and "Fitz" on the back, a grey sweatshirt. with. bloodstains, a·pair of long underwear, two pairs of unmatched sweat : socks, a pair of sweat pants with a hole in the crotch and his fake velvet robe, in a vain attempt to sweat out the fever, 102.7°F, and wrapped two blankets around fev~r. He w'as sta~ving. Never agai~ would he taste the intricacies of .Uncle Leroy's ribs or.tips, cooked in that famous secret sauce that he arid Al had been trying to figure out for the last three months by eating there every Tuesday.· One time there was the tiniest bit of an orange peel covered with sauce caked on to a tip and another time they both saw the tall, thin black guy 
his sleeping bag, grabbed his economics book and -carry two empty Open Pit boxes to the garbage. When climbed into bed. they thought -about it the sauce did taste kind of 
orangy and did taste like Open Pit with maybe some brown sugar and some Tabasco and a few other things mixed in. They were going to experiment over the summer and set up their own place across the street, because Uncle Leroy raised· the prices and him and Al were pissed. They were going to have fries and cole slaw and bread underneath the ribs and sell Nehi Orange soda, because it complements the sauce so well, and "If you want a lotta flavor. If you wanna lotta taste. It's Nehi Neeehhiii. ..", plus a bar to catch the happy hour crowd and it was going to be great and they were going to get some blacks to work in the kitchen to make it authentic and some whites to be busboys for socialconsciousness and they were going to get-rich and be international playboys. Were. 103.6°F. 
. ~­
,' 

Hold on. Hub? If the growth rate is lowered then ... we have to ... lower production, thus creating ... ah, who cares. He'd be dead in the morning anyway. He threw the book across the room. It bounced off the wall and a couple of pages ripped. Dwyer would be pissed. It was Dwyer's. book. He'd leave Dwyer $5.95 in his will, but there was · only three dollars and a quarter and a bunch of pennies, . plus an authentic Irish pound and a few 5p, lOp, and 50p coins from Ireland that he brought back from hi.s trip to Europe last summer, where he laid the groundwork for becoming an inter­national playboy, which he would never be since he was dying even though he-had an unrequited love in Dublin and the most beautiful girl he saw iri Paris on a bus, but didn't talk to her, because he couldn't speak French, but he loved her anyway, and also a girl he met in Arizona, that still sends him a birthday card, and a girl from high school that goes Jo .Boston College and a girl from Lake Geneva last summer that goes to school in Minnesota, and his almost cousin that he can still get­it on with .without fear of birth defects that goes to· Purdue. ·But there. was only one Chris and she made him almost forget the rest and she called him a creep. Oh well, that's pre.tty international for a guy who was dying and had never had a talk. 103.9°F. 
* 

When he first saw her around he thought she was 
the classic bitch personified,. you know, good-looking, but not that good-looking, pretty rich, got small law school guy on th_e line back home waiting for him to graduate into his old man's corrupt, corporate law firm and thinks the bars are disgusting and .that any girl that .would hang aroun'd in ~me must be· some kind of sl1:1,t: to • 1et herself be· ogled and pawed at by a bunch of. immature drunks arid the only reason she was out was to keep her friends from always bugging her to.come · out·and she was goirig to have a terrible tinie if it killed her: just •the kind of girl you love to abuse. ·So when , someone introduced her; he Just said nice to •meet you·,
,•: ... ' . 

will you marry me, just to show her she wasn't such hot stuff and started to walk away and almost missed her say o.k. and smile, and something kept him talking to her and doing "fun abuse" and jokes and he started telling everyone that she was his fiancee and then before he knew it he blew his cool and asked her if she had a fiance back home and she said she didn't· and then he said then how come you're never out and she said she was, but that he had never noticed her and then he said that was because he thought she ·was the classic bitch complete with a fiance in law school and ,thought that •the bars were disgusting and she said well I'm not and he said I know that now, I guess I'm not perfect after all and she said I guess not :the same way she said o.k. and then smiled and he knew he was hooked. ·* 
. , Him and Al just kind of ·went out and hung arolUld. He called him up and· said what do you want to do tonight and he.said I don't know what do'you want to do . and he said I don't know,. anything going on and he said _I don't know you know of anything and he·said no I don't know it's a nice ·night -though, .ya wanna do something and he said yeah, ya wanna go downtown · and hang around and he said sounds cool I'll pick you . up in a half hour and he did and they cruised down Lake Shore Drive checking out the 'condos and the "forever open, Clear, and free'' lakefront ·and parked along next to Ogden School near Rush St. in a record seventeen minutes . and twenty seconds and he said pretty good driving and he said yeah, hey, I. brought the basketball, maybe we'll play· later and he said yeah, good idea _and they just walked around Rush St; for a while, went into a couple oLplaces;· had a couple of drinks, joked around with some. of -the bouncers of the .:strip joints, especially Joey who they called Uncle Filth :_arid then they saw a couple of whores get busted and he · said ya wanna shoot a few hoops for a while and he said 
o.k. and they walked over to Ogden and got the ball out of the car and put moves on each other for a while and he said ya wanna play a little one-on-one at ,the seven­. footer and they started a game to twenty-one at the seven~foot basket and he beat him 22-20 have to win by two, with a. slam dunk at the buzzer and they . were both pretty tired and sat down against the fence until a wino started to take.a leak upstream from.them and he said why don;t you go over to.Burgerville and get a couple of double cheeseburgers and some fries and I'll get. the car and' we'll drive to North Av· beach arid 
'munch out for a while and he said _sounds cool and they got the burgers and :Parked. the car at the ·North Av beach parking lotand sat down on the bow of the build~ . 
ing that looks like a_' ship watching. the lights of t~e 
· ·· Lake Shore• Drive condos· flicker and· the long thin lights of the traffic a_nd the colored neon lights of the advertise; inents and '-the red arid green. lights. of· the boats and 
. . .. ~~· ·"; ~.-·. . . 
'I 
. SCHOLASTIC' 

lighthouses with a warm breeze in their face and the smell of dead alewives in their nose and the taste of double cheeseburgers in their mouth and he just turned to him and said "Babycakes!" 
* 

"Burn, Baby, Burn. . . . It's the Disco Inferno" Downstairs, the disco freaks were having another party. Disco. The fifties were cool. The sixties were revolu­tionary. But he had to live in the disco seventies. It was enough to make someone sick. He couldn't stand disco. He had enough trouble learning the Scarf dance and the Janitor without having to worry about being strangled in the Pretzel and wrapping his body up in polyester and shooting hair spray all over the ozone. It was tough living in a gay decade. "Burn that mother down..." 103.8°F. Friday Night Fever. 
* 

Wow. Wild movie. Nothing like zany, madcap humor when a guy is dying. 104.1°F. Rrriiinnnggg Bells again. His time was coming. -0.k. Grim Reaper I'm ready. pfffttt He had always wanted to spit in ,the· face of death. The receiver would have to do. -Hey Fitz, what's up? We're havin' a party, we're havin' a blast. "Come to me.... You look like Come to me..." -You always did have a good voice AI. Sorry. I cannot come. I'm dying of a terrible fever. Anyway you missed "Bringing up. Baby." -With Cary Grant and Kate Hepburn? Didja have lemonade and oatmeal cookies? -I am sure. When I'm on my deathbed? -Yeah, what's all this dying talk? Chris is · really pissed. Tom keeps feeding her beers waiting for the rebound. __ _ -Oh welI.·I'U be dead before she's drunk enough to go after him. Sorry. I'm too feverish to •talk. This'll be my last .lucid statement: Good-bye Al. 'You were a· good · friend. -Yeah, well hope· ·you're feeling better. See you tomorrow, o,k.? -Eep Op. Ork Ah-Ah -You are sick. Take care. click Wow. Wild conversation. Nothing like -losing .vocal control when ,a guy is dying. 104.5°F 
* 

He was five and · in kindergarten making turkeys and pilgrims ·. a really neat way, by taking the red crayon and coloring .a circle pressing really hard on a scrap and then rubbing that on the cheeks of the pil-. grims to make them rosy, for Thanksgiving, when the· principal, . Mrs. O'Reilly came on the P.A. and. told everyone to pray for the president who was shot in. Texas, probably by cowboys, and everyone went home early and at home his mother said that the President was dead and that's why. Garfield Goose wasn't on and he thought it was a gyp and just watched a lot of p...""Dple run around and he asked his mother what did dying mean and she told him something, but he never remem­bered it, but he did remember that it was cold and drizzly and grey outside as he watched John-John and Caroline crying. 
·* 

11:37 p.m. Even Johnny Carson was dying. 104.7°F. He turned off the light by his bed. The blue light of the 
t.v. mixed with the green light of the colored lamp and bathed him in an exotic euphoria. He was spinning. He was hot. Chris was mad. Tom was a douche. Al understood. Maybe. He closed his eyes. The light felt soft upon his lids. He would never see them again. He would never see anyone again. He thought of Chris. He could not see her, but it was nice to think about her._ He breathed easier. He spoke to himself. Chris, I love you. He never said that before. He had never died before. The thought of death sent a shiver through his body and hurt his heart. His body became rigid. His fists clenched. A vein stuck out of his neck. His· middle toe spasmed. His knee twitched. His conscious gave up. He was asleep. He held his breath. He died. He let it out. He curled up, tightly and began to sweat and sweat and sweat... · 
* * 
He awoke slowly, amid dream-like images of death. He was not sure if he was awake or dead. He knew he had been dying. His teeth were clenched, ·he breathed in through his nose. A slight wind blew in through the. window. The first breeze of spring burst inside his nose filling it with aromas: Mud oozing underfoot, grass awakening green, · rnacs bursting throughout backyards and alleys, squealing girls with squished worms in their ­hair playing jump rope "Ching Chong Chinaman sitting on a fence, ·try to make· a dollar· out of forty-nine cents . . . ,''. the boom of softballs, huge sixteen-inch Clinchers,· blistering the palms of boys running faster and jumping higher in brand-new P. F. Flyers, mothers drinking coffee, with thick, buttered toast on back porches.· watching Phil Donahue, the "el". riding into the brilliant morning sun which transforms the West Side into a paradise, Garfield Park; a Garden of Eden, men in shirt sleeves,jackets over their shoulders, flirting with women in sundresses, instead· of staring at the Tribune, on. their way to work; He opened his eyes. ·It 
, wasn't heaven. -He was alive, again., ,Chris walked through the door. · ---:-I heard you were sick. I'm sorry. o.k. > · She smiled -.· · ·He suppressed the-urge to say, '.'love. is never having to_ say ...." .. .· He. must have recovered. He wanted to say a lot. Instead _he just turned to her and said, "Babycakes!" yea! D 



by Christopher Ste~art 
,·-. . -• 

There_ are many subjects. in our -This article will deal -with the -· ·-. "It -is .finished," and he drinks a society which are categorized -as matter.. of sexual taboo as it has bottle of Woolite. ­taboo. -Things _like death, .financial :affected .the author's development. We know why Wilder killed him:. income, -personal --friendship with .. Although this topic is explored with self; He violated one of· society's Richard Nixon; .mental illness, si-amiable candor, the author _fore~ taboos; , bestiality. Taboos as ·behav­multaneous friendship with two or warns -all . pursey-lipped puritans, · · ioral prohibitions imposed as, social more redheads, suicide,. and belief in _pugnacious prima donnas, and other: custom, generally:for protective rea­the Cubs' capacity for winning the sexistential cripples to remember the sons. Matters taboo are rooted in the pennant-are just a.few. But there is historical time-setting of this artistic · / prevailing moral and social dictums a subjectso _obfuscated_ by taboo endeavor: -America, the late 20th of a -culture: · · · · · that~ : despite: its. so-called recent -century/and Notre Dame, that bas-, •-Sexual taboos are chock,fulL of "revolution," it remains 'arepository tion of Catholic liberalism. · · titillating falsies; errrr, . falsehoods. for antiquated.myths and pious in-Would you consider suicide over a· The myth-surroimding sexual taboos junctions of the most. disparaging :lost sheep? This i~ no ordinary is that we .need them for a moral, sort.I'mreferring,mhuiturel,to·sex...sheep. It is not similartothe.sheep: lawful,·and.:cohesive society. But I 
·. Before we begin,'. a bit of ·creden-· mentioned by Jesus, the one where-say, bah humbug. Foo On' taboo. tial flashing is in order. The author by he left the other 99 in search of is a renowned radical authority on the· 1ost one. No, this sheep drove . THE l\lETAPHYSICS OF SEX the sexual liberation. movement. He . Gene Wilder to the brink of suicide ,. Sex is sovereign to saint and sinner recently penned the hotly debated in Woody•· Allen's cfassic; ,;Every-. One's a loser, and the other..a underground treatise,· Sexual Self~·. thing You Ever Wanted to Koow · -•.winner; · Transcendence, a soon-to-be-above-About-Sex But Were Afraid to Ask., -· · 
. ground publication. Domers can pur-Wilder, a wealthy psychiatrist, fell .. Sex· has been .greatly debated.' by chase. their copies at Flanner Food in love with this sheep.· The feckless teacher . ..., Sales. · · sheep · eventually left him, and re-· · · As · outspoken -proponent of ere-. 'turned to its: original lover; a Yugo~ TEACHER .l\lAN ative · libidinal emancipation,· the slavian sheepherder who . initially Darwin said it-took some time' author is the founder of the Notre brought the sheep. to America for Before sex reached its evolutionary
prime · -· · · · · · · · ­
· Dame -chapter of SEX.:_Students for analysis under Wilder; . Experiential Xstasy. During _his At the end of the film, Wilder sat But since it's taken so very long tenure as president of the club, he on the stoop of an arsoned building We've forgotten if it's right or wrong has devised • many ingeniously inno-in Manhattan's dingy Bowery dis­vative techniques to deal with this --trict, a penultimate portrait of re-... And preacher. most insidious of taboos. signed desp1lir. The camera zooms in. 
SCHOLASTIC 

PREACHER MAN 
Preacher man says "Where's your 
shame? Sex will make you blind and lame Pray to God to make you pure And never knock on a har"lot's door." 
Sex refers to the division between living organisms, male and female. Technically, sex is the total of the functional, structural and behavioral characteristic of humans which often· results in the reproduction of the species. The highlight of the sex­ual encounter is the· orgasm. 
· Orgasm· is when· the world fades away. · Orgasm : is comparable to death. Sex· is a lot like death, only temporary. 'When I think of heaven, it's an eternal orgasm, ,endlessly ejaculating energy etched in ecstasy. 
Another significant aspect of sex 

. is pleasure (but don't tell your par­ish priest). When properly utilized, sex is the most delightful sensual ex­perience a human being may. enjay, this side of a win over USC. Being somewhat .experienced at the/ game ( sex, not football), methinks there is too much ado about sexual taboo. 
Sex is ·many . things to many people. It is war and .peace (piece). It is love and lust. It is performed for fun, frolic, friendship,. freedom, and fantasy. Sex is also fear, fag­gots, frenzied, fiendish, foolish and forced. ·.·· · 
It is great entertillinment (peep shows, theatre, bathroom wall,s), great exercise (heart, tummy, hips), and certifiably more gratifying than jogging. Sex is arruJZingly versatile. 
Sex: the portable pleasure palace,· performed ·in bathtubs, bobsleds, bedrooms ·and beaches;. backseats, bunga"lows, brothel,s, and ball parks, naturally. -Then what's all the fuss? 
If taboos were tr:ees, I'd say T-I-M-B-E-R! . 

ADOLESCENT BLUES 
So what's a poor bay to do When the thing he needs :is called taboo? "Why not. ask your poppa?" said Clyde "You CRAZY, turkey! He'll tan my hide." . 
My daddy never said much about sex. He was the strong, silent type. You know, the macho man; an Irish Catholic with godlike features who indubitably·-indulged in occasional surreptitious . verbal sessions of a prurient nature with his peers. But, when it came to his own children, he went· into the classic Helen Keller routine; deaf and dumb, with cat­aracts on the conscience. 
When I returned home from a summer .European tour.in '11, Dad noticed,my longer hair. I loved my locks. In his . characteristically brusque style, Dad said succinctly: 
' "Get a haircut. You look like a 
queer." 
That was the extent of our lifetime 
sexual communication. 
My mother "trusted" me. 
"My son, my son, be a.good bay. 
Always remember the girl you date has a momma like me (not true, ma, some were orphans) who "loves her little girl. Treat her with respect, the way you!d want someone to treat your sister." 
Jesus Christ,· ma. What a thing 
to say, especially to an aspiring 
semi-stud like me. 

HIGH SCHOOL LAMENT 
Here I am, 16 and sweaty 
17 and ready ­
-18 and yearnin' . 
.19 and learnin' · 

"Treat her like your sister." 
I wish I never had sisters. Like 
menopausal mothers and doting 
fathers, they made me feel guilty 
for being relentlessly randy and con­
stantly in need of cold showers.· Oh, 
Madonna! The chances and oppor­
tunities -I blew. Maria, Marcia and 
Mary Ann: come back! You won't 
get fooled again! ­
That was the extent ofmy formal sex education in the home. You might-deduce that sex was· vaguely taboo in my family. · , · · As a youngster, I never liked girl,s. I detested them~ Sports were my god. 

 -'.\-er it..,.s~ -..( ~ oJ'\I q \ . \0 1 . Y ,~~ oX\) . . \~ f\\l, -?> ,' 9 ii-t; • Jf~(A.  -,./} .·;-~-· '  

However, close encounters of the sexual kind gradually whittled away my .defenses, until -passion usurped the throne from sports on my devo­tional_ mantelpiece, thus becoming my new idol. Flesh, as the adage goes, conquered spirit. 
1st Encounter: Awareness Susan: 12 years old: 1967 
She cornered me in a ·garage, smiled .beguilingly, and -made· an• ob­scene puckering gesture with her lips. First she demanded, then asked, then pleaded. Exasperated, she begged .. Susan: ."Kiss me, kiss me.. Just once. Please?" 
Me: "Are you nuts? Let me outta here." Susan: "Oh, please. Just a quickie. It won't hurt.I promise." Me: "Get thee behind ·me, Susan!" 
2nd Encounter: Kissing. Alice_: 13 years old:.1968 ­
Alice was a 'ditty hoe,' the kind of girl many boys liked, for all the right reasons: she was very attrac­tive, very personable, very fast and 
_ven.J dumb. _She lived across the street from nearby. Franklin Park, which is where the boys congregated during summer evenings to play the nocturnal games that. bodacious boys play. . . 
During our : . evening : basketball games, -Alice would -often emerge from -her _boudoir. window with cer­tain promontory features of mes­merizing quality. When one of the more lascivious members of our un­holy coterie screamed "Take it off, Alice," :meaning her nightie, she proved to be extremely accomnwdat­ing. Thus, a merry time was guaran­·teed for all during the very hot sum,.;. mers of '67 and '68. 
Alice was the first girl I ever kissed. It was a clandestine affair, consummated behind her· garage on April 4, 1968. That same' night marked the assassination of Martin Luther King. I think that may've been an omen. My friend Peanuts, a tough-talking street kid, accompa­nied me. 

Peanuts: "Kiss her. Go .'wan, give her a _big one where it counts." 
Me: "On the (gulp) lips?" 

Peanuts: "Where else, ass/ace? On the .elbow? Don't worry, you won't get germs. Help him; Alice, he's Catholic and a little. shy." 
Alice:· "Come 'mere, big boy. ( Ac­tually, I was rather small) -You're in good hands with Alice." 
Me: (after a heart-palpitating, knee-weakening embrace -of 25-30 seconds) ''Thank you." 
Peanuts: (in his best Bogey) "See kid, stick close to me and you'll go far. Next time go for some tit." 
3rd Encounter: Dating · Debbie: 15 years old: 1970 
My first official date. She had the biggest breasts (38") in school. We called 'em "knockers'' in those pre­feminist days. -God, they were huge, practically a national resource in themselves. Most remarkable of all -she was only a freshman! · 
Our date consisted of a stroll to nearby Blue Mountain State Park. 1 was scared to death. We sat in the woods for 31/2 hours, babbling mo­ronically and getting devoured by what seemed like legions-of , mos­quitoes. I cUdn't come this -far to have the blood sucked out ofme. 
Me: "May I kiss you?'' · Debbie: "Please do. I've been wait­ing so long" (very. dramatic). 
Both: Sound of lips kissing, heavy breathing, random grunts of pleas­ure, interspersed by slaps on strate~ gic anatomical zones. 
Our second date_ ended ·the affair. On a dark beach in Rye, New York, I attempted to avail myself of one of her natural resources. She moved my hand.­
"Bye bye love, bye bye happiness 
Hello loneliness, Z-think I'm 
gonna cry 
Bye bye my love, goodbye." 
. (Everly Brothers) 

4th Encounter: Initiation Laurie: 16 years.old: 1971 
In a dorm at the 'University of London, I dispossessed myself of that weighty ·interior commodity called virginity. Larurie was my of­ficial Euro-pean hea71throb. · 
Laurie:. "Should we or shouldn't 
we?" 
Me: "But of course, ma chere. 
Queen Victoria wouldn't have it any 
other way." 
During our --subsequent engage-_ 
ment, -the dorm rector .knocked on 
my door, scaring us half to death. 
The door, fortuitously,. was ·locked. 
Paralyzed.with fear, we didn't make 
a sound. He never knew. Both of us 
dressed_ quickly. Minus the coup de 
grace, I wonder: .was that the. real 
thing? 
There have been ·others. Since 
taboo obviated any cogent dialogue 
from transpiring b_etween parents, 
teachers, religious personnel and my. 
self, I was·torced to create my oivn 
methodology on sexual behavior. It 
came in handy. I call it the "learn 
as you grow-pe'' technique.· (Kits 
and instruction ,_ booklets are avail­
able. for those interested in trans­
posing sexual awkwardness into sex­
ual prowess;) _ 
These experiences prove that any 
person can make it (figuratively and literally) . despite preponderant sex­ual taboos. Of --course, one pays a price for these amorous interludes. -I lost all reverence for sports, school, scouts (my scoutmaster warned me . I would), and the sacred. Sex does that to a guy. No wonder religious orders insist on vows of celibacy for their · -members . .Otherwise, , nobody would celebrate Sunday .morning 
Mass.. The priests would all be re­-,
cuperating from ·Saturday Night 
Fever. ' I 
There has been one sexual taboo ! that-underwent drastic revision over the past three decades. I'm speaking, of course, about premarital sex­fornication fo the prelates, promiscu7 ity to the prudes, paradisal, play to the_ participants.· · · · · 
· ScHOLASTIC 


Tracing the radical changes over the past quarter century, now it ap­pears that premarital. sex. is gettin' it on without pain of matrimony. 
The foolish fifties were fearful. 1954: The Candy Store Betty: "If you want 'that,' we have 

to get married." · · 
Bob: "Here's the ring. Can I get a sneak preview?" 
The frantic sixties were freer. 
1966: Berkeley 
Janis:. "I want you. Now." 

Jimi: "Hey, groove child, are you in S.D.S.?" Janis: "Naturally." Jimi: "Let's get it on." Janis: _"Far out, ·~n." 
The fragmented seventies are fast. 
1979: Cinnebar's Disco 

Mary: "Do you wanna get funkY with me, big boy?" 
Joseph: "Sho' 'nufj, you sexy thang. Let's boogie first, then I'll ring your bell." 
One obvious consequence of the demolition of premarital sex taboo is the decimation of the population of virgins. If the deflowering of 'cel1--' boes' continues at the alarming rate i,:,.dicated by present trends, virgins will ·join the· bald eagle as one of America's most endangered species. Within five years, celebrity status is assured ·for ·those who have forever held their· peace, intact. · 
1984: Notre Dame: CBS Special Report: Morals in Amerika 
Walter Cronkite: "Roxanne, out of an · · undergraduate .· population .of 7)500 you remain Notre Dame's lone celiboe. Where do you get your re­·inarkable fmdurance?" 
Roxanne: "Fr. Iceberg is my spir­itual director." WC: "That's the way it is." 
As I've grown and changed, 'I've realized that all taboos are poor sub­stitutes for intelligent discourse on whatever the forbidden topic hap­pens to be. If human beings are to achieve any level of authentic inti­macy, be it sexual, emotional, psy­chological, spiritual, intellectual, ra­cial, political, or cultural, then there must be an · open forum where dis­cussion, debate, and learning can originate in an atmosphere free of the stupendous provincialism, big­otry, ignorance and superstition that taboo engenders. 
I discovered myself by first con­fronting my own ignorance-of the world, of others, of my own soul. I've achieved a broader awareness of myself through education, human re­lationships, art, experience, faith, suffering, work, and now chiefly through maturity. 
That maturity makes clear the fact that I came into this world de­pendent upon· people in positions of authority to inform me of matters crucial to my sexual well-being. These people have failed. 
-What is it that we're all so ter­ribly frightened of? Our feelings? Our bodies? Ourselves? Didn't God, in his graciousness, give these to us; in addition to our minds, our dreams, and our holy books? · · 
Parents, priests, peers, professors, pimps and profiteers have altered me. They've forced me to redefine, recon­sider arid recreate my awareness of sexuality. Since no one ever at~ tempted to provide the necessary in­tegrating tools (facts, understand­ing, direction, method of implemen­tation) to translate my sexuality into a coherent, · meaningful reality, I have done_ it for myself. Although the path has been an arduous one, I have attained a level of rapport be­tween reason and passion. Now, I am free to broach the matter with anyone. 
Freedom means dialogue with en~ thusiasm instead of condescending self~righteousness; openness instead of duplicity. 
.· If families won't discuss it; if the church still squirms and pontificates · over it; ·if the schools are too in­competent or sterile to teach about it; if peers are too unconsciously re.; 
. . -. 
pressed or terrified of it; then where shall a healthy, virilie, single Irish/ Italian Catholic turn (in a school . with an appalling 3:1 ratio, men to women, in ·the best chauvinistic style) to satisfy the raging volcano within? 
.To Playboy, naturally. 

DIONYSIAN DENOUEMENT 
Like each day this story must end And so I declare sex is a friend Taboo! Taboo! Your song is a dirge Celebrate! Rejoice! When two · 
. ·people.merge. 
God above, tell us thy plan · For the act 'tween· woman and man If thou remain silent, my plan 
will be · To have fun now, not posthumously. 
. Christopher Antonio Stewart is a senior, majors in human existence, furtively resembles Bruce Spring­steen.· when he sweats, and has a penchant for nasal intonations, when ecstatic, a la Al Pacino. 
~. 



-Rock and Roll Politician 
Would you let this man kiss your baby? 
By process of elimination Neil Young has become the ambassador of rock and roll. As one of· the few surviving artists of the counter­culture Young can say, "The king is gone but he's not forgotten. This is the story of Johnny Rotten," and get away with it. . 
I'm imagining a bonfire in Mem­phis. No. harm. really, Neil's. only · here to remind us that Johnny Rot-ten's vomit _is just as disgusting as Elvis' pelvis _used to be. Besides, ,no one really cares. . 
Something's . wrong ·somewhere, btit NeH just can't seem to put his finger on it; that's what.the album is about. I guess the problem is death. :Young alludes to it enough in his new album, "Rust Never Sleeps," that it becomes a backdrop for the entire. album. Because there's not much to be said about death itself, Neil Y9ung sings about life in the context of death. His· metaphor for this relationship is the ever-present "rust" that corrodes us. as we get older. 
Specifically, Young is concerned with the rusty demise of old rock stars, · namely himself. When you're a star there's only two things you can do, burn out or fade away. · Young suggests that "It's better to burn out than to fade away" and the crowd cheers. The logic is simple: . it's better to go out in a flash of glory than. to· let the rust destroy you slowly. All the burn-outs agree that, ultimately, Neil Young is right. 
"Rust Never Sleeps" is a diverse album about life, death and· fighting · the rust. Side one, which ends with · a "Comes a. Time" leftover called "Sail· Away,". is entirely acoustic while side two . is entirely electric. In this way Neil Young's dual na­ture becomes manifest and reiterates what Young's fans have known for. years: that·Neil Young excels at both hard rock and folk music. The physi­cal separation of the two styles also gives "Rust Never Sleeps" a schizo­phrenic feelwhich serves the album well. 

In a conscious attempt to take us from a somewhat "down• home" ap-_ proach to the problem .of rust to the eventual dissipation of energy (the burning out) Young eases us into "Rust Never Sleeps" with the haunt• ing folk song '.'My My. Hey Hey" and boots us out with IIHey Hey My My" : . . a heavy-metal version of ''My My Hey Hey." The first son·g is subtitled "Out of the Blue" and the last song is subtitled . l'Into ._ the Black." Thus, . it. becomes · evident that "Rust Never Sleeps" is a· "state­ment" album.. . . . . . .. . .What Young is trying to say may be summed.up in the line«There's more to the picture than meets the· eye." This lineis found in b_oth "My My.. Hey Hey". and_ "Hey, Hey .My My." It also serves as the kicker in the advertisement of the. movie Rust. Never. Sleeps .. Neil Young's multimedia bombardment with this suggestion is, somehow, significant; significant, at least, to Young him­self. For many years Neil Young has been singing about the demise of man's sensitivity to the subtleties 
_of life and his lack of appreciation of nature.· With death impending 
by Tom Balcerek 

(into the black), the life of modern man is a joke, for in the words ·of Jackson Browne: "Nothing survives . .. but the way~ we live our lives." 
· On side two of "Rust Never Sleeps" Neil Young becomes a punk rocker. Blaring guita,rs and strained vocals characterize the frustration of what's left of primitive man in a technological · society. The aUusion to Johnny Rotten as heir apparent to the rock and roll world is both a comment on the,state of modern SO· ciety and a nod of approval fro~ the "old man." ·_Neil .Young sees punk rock as the best solution to the ·stag­nation that follows the ."revolution" of the late sixties and early seven~. ties. The "solution" this time implies destruction and NeilYoung is ready to accept the consequences (we all know what happened to Sid , Vi-. cious). No more· peace and love until we get things'straight. . . . 
So, from the same man who gave us "Heart of Gold" a while back, we get:. ;·_ 
Hard to believe that love is .fr~e 
now 

Welfare : mothers make better 
... lovers. .. . 
Out on the streetwith the whole 
. family now . 

Welfare . mothers make better 
·1overs ... 

DEE VORR CEEE! 
What is harder. to believe is that "Rust Never Sleeps" is doing well on the record charts. Last time checked it was number five right be-. hind Earth, Wind and Fire. This is. 
. ' ScHOLASTIC 

Neil Young's second album to break the top ten in the last two years, a feat he hasn't accomplished since "Harvest" in 1972. Obviously Neil Young has not burned out or faded away. In fact, he is "stayin' alive" surprisingly well. Who would think that the quintessential burn­out of the sixties would last long enough to give big brother advice to punk rockers? 
Besides all the hype. and faddish­ness of the rock· industry, Neil Young has survived because he is a true artist. His affinity for punk rock is an artistic statement. But where will it lead him now that Patti Smith has shaved her armpits and Sid Vicious is dead? Side one of "Rust Never Sleeps" makes it ob­vious that if Neil Young does burn out as a punker he can always go back to folk and do just as well. Side one is almost pretty with a touch of the bizarre. The lyrics are poetic and sometimes too dense with im­agery. · But all the cuts are clean musically· and distinct in feeling. 
"Ride My Llama'' is perhaps the best song on side one because it is the least serious (statement albums can become a bore). "Pocahontas" is also interesting. Imagine Neil Young, Marlon Brando and Poca­hontas sitting around the fire. Fur­thermore;· only Neil Young· could begin a song with the word (line) "Aurora borealis." 
"Sail Away" is the·prettiest song on the album with lilting harmonies by Nicolette·. Larson. In this song Neil wears hi~ heart on his shirt­sleeve by suggesting that none of his problems really matter as long as he can "sail away" with his lady.. On the other hand we have the epic "Thrasher" which speaks out against the comforts of conventional life. Young speaks of his friends becom­ing "poisoned with protection." Once again, death is the antagonist and rust is the poison. 
As a whole, the album amounts to nothing. The ·. numbers. cancel each other out and questions are left un­answered. We ·are left with "It's better to bwn out than to fade away.'; Only the sarcastic refrain "My my hey hey." offers hope. The album is null, nil .. ; Neil! 0 
-Torn Balcerek 


Agreed:•. "Knuke The· Knacktt 
What do you get when you mix a pinch of Beatles, a dash of childishly suggestive sexual allusions, a table­spoon of 60's·British pop, and two cups of media hype? Combine all of these ingredients, shake sloppily, and shazam!, you get The Knack (no pun intended).·· · · · 
The Knack. Album gold in four weeks. Firmly entrenched . No. 1 album and single ("My Sharona"). Upon first glance, the Knack appears to be heralding some new invasion of British pop (coupled' with other "New Wave" groups), but in reality The Knack is nothing more than four L.A. session musicians with a. very well orchestrated PR job be­hind them. 
Granted, "Get The Knack" has some catchy tunes, most notably the monster hit "My Sharona." Also "Frustrated," "She's So Selfish," and "Good Girls Don't" feature ''naughty" lyrics which will appeal to certain teen-age mentalities. But, like most other cheap imitations of good things,· this music does not hold up very long. · _ __ · 

"Get The Knack" is very Bea­tlesque. Starting with the visuals (album jacket, haircuts, white shirts, black slacks and. ties), . continuing into the songs, vocals, and instru­mentation, The Knack resembles quite closely the image of a 60's British pop group. Which would. be fine if it weren't about 15 years late for the British Invasion. 
Musically, the album has a high spot. "My .Sharona" has one of the 
· catchiest beats I have heard in a long time. If you listen to a lot of AM radio, you might find yourself drumming this out either . in your sleep or at other inopportune times .. 
But, it's downhill from there. "Maybe Tonight" alludes to some of the slower Beatles and Kinks songs. After several·· listenings, the songs begin to run together, .with the only distinguishing _ features· -being the "suggestive" catch· phrases..· "Good girls don't, b'ut I do," "She's a rich bitch ...", etc.. 
Really. -.. . . 
· The Knack has become the latest group to achieve astounding success . with· their debut album. This late 70's phenomenon has also given us Boston, Foreigner, and The Cars. The problem with The Knackis that they are essentially nothing more than rnid-60's British pop clones, and they don't play the music all that well. It will be interesting to watch the future of this group, but for now, if you want to hear the real Knack, listen to Herman's Hermits, early Kinks, Beatles, ·and Paul. Revere and the Raiders. It's always better the first time around. O 
Anthony Walton 

Stanley .Clarke and Jazz! "WhoIs Who11 
. . . 
· The world of jazz-rock fusion has produced some of the finest musi­cians in either jazz and rock· circles today. The fusion phenomenon has rejuvenated the world of jazz; and fusion, .or crossover, albums can now sell in the millions as evidenced by the recent efforts of (;eorge Benson, Chuck Mangione, and Weather Re­port. 
. Some of the finest talents from fusion_ as well as from more · tradi­tional jazz circles.come together and perform on Stanley Clarke's new album ,CI Wanna Play for You" 
(Nernporer). Considered by most to be the best bass player in the .world today, former. Return to Forever · co-founder Clarke gives the listener tasty live versions of some of his best songs as well as ten new studio-­releases. 

The studio recording's cast of per­formers reads like . a jazz-world "Who's Who." Playing on various cuts are artists such as George Duke on keyboards, Jeff Beck ori guitar, Torn Scott · and Stan Getz on sax, Freddie Hubbard on _trumpet, Steve Gadd on drums, and still others too numerous to mention. Add to this the excellent bass work of Clarke, be it ori the acoustic, electric, or. the piccolo bass, the synthesizer work and some excellent and rneilow jazz vocals by Clarke, and one has an irn~ pressive fusion album. . 
The· studio songs range from ,the acoustic, smoky bass sound of "Blues for Mingus," a tribute to. the late jazz band great, Charles Mingus, to the progressive, haunting sounds of "Strange Weather." The only disap­pointing _song on the album is·"Ja­rnaican Boy,'' a reggae-type· ·ja~ song featuring Jeff Beck on guitar. The song sounds. disturbingly· like "School Days" with a reggae beat. The musicians vary from song to song as Clarke, his own producer, picks the. musicians to flt the song . 
. Featured as live songs on this double album are "Rock 'N' Roll Jelly," "School Days,,,."Quiet After­noon," and "More Hot Fun." ·using his regular musicians, .Clarke's songs are well done and his superb bass works well with the sizzling guitar of Ray Gomez. 
"I Wanna Play for You" is defi­nitely a solid album from an impor­tant and talented musician in the jazz-rock fusion movement. It is recommended to rock and jazz lovers 
alike. · · 
Lee.Smolen 


We had talked on the matter for quite some time. 
He was my age, a fairly intel­ligent student who possessed an out­rageously silly sense of humor. Btit despite the childish restlessness that rains and shines in summer, he was occasionally serious. Dead serious. He. was a liberal~minded undergrad with an opportunity to make an enormous amount of money working at the construction site of a nuclear power plant. But he felt that big labor was the cause of many of our 
· nation's economic problems. And he knew that nukes possessed mas­sive quantities of potential danger. 
He took _the job. He said he needed ·the money. 
Over the course of the next twenty years, most of our generation will _lose its innocence. Some people will rid themselves of it while others will be forced to lose it. And once lost, it win be· extremely difficult to re­cover. This innocence has nothing to do with sex or first-degree mur­
.der or original sin. It' has to do with 
. attitudes, values and ethics..:.:...the things we are taught to cherish and obey for our common good. 
SEPTEMBER 14, 1979 
But soon, we may be corporate executives making decisions to max"'. imize profits while stepping on the toes of many "underprivileged" people. We may be politicians send­ing kids to Vietnams or '\Viretap­ping campaign headquarters. We may be allowing nuclear power-plant disasters to go foolishly unchecked. We may be allowing extravagant defense budgets for wasteful defense systems to be adopted. But we will be secure and we will be making our fifty or one hundred thousand dollars a year. 
And while we do this, there will be young people who will warn us that by our actions we will be ... accelerating entropy and committing mass suicide. For the most part, we will ignore them. 
Why? I'm not sure. I imagine money plays an important role in this transition. We will have families to clothe and feed and educate. And we will want a life of leisure: two cars, _air -conditioners, automatic 
· dishwashers and blow dryers. Money isnecessary for these things and > · the means by which we attain that · money may not concern us as much · as the actual attainment of it. 
The 
.Last Word 
by Dave Satterfield 

But at the moment, we are here,· at a Catholic institution of higher learning, reading Plato and Paul Samuelson and marvelirig at Ein­stein. And we have the leisure time to seriously question our nation's present and future. We have the op­portunity to be innocents. I think we should -utilize that opportunity. Some will call us foolish, some will call us worthless and some will say that we all smoke pot and sleep to~ gether. Regardless of what they 
. say, we are needed. Now, as always, we need the innocents to keep the others in check, to keep our nation aware of morality and ethics. And we must speakloudly to be heard. · 
He finished the summer job and· made enough money to .pay for his · schooling. He said that he had no regrets but he still held that . unions and nukes are dangerous. He wanted badly to retain his inno­cence; But he thought that maybe he had sold out. · · 
I told him, "Maybe it's inevit­able." · D 







