
1867 - 1992
A century ahead of the competition.
Parents - Alumni - Fans Subscribe to
Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Follow the Fighting Irish and keep up with campus events as
Scholastic celebrates our 125th anniversary!	J
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:	i
Name:	j
j
Address:______________________
City: -State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager	i
Scholastic Magazine	j
303 LaFortune Student Center	j
Notre Dame, IN 46556	■
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
3	How to Use This Issue COURSE EVALUATIONS
4	American Studies
5	Anthropology
6	Art, Art History, & Design; Classical & Oriental Languages
7	Communication & Theatre; Computer Applications;
Economics
8	Economics; English
9	English
11	Government; History
12	History
13	Music; Philosophy
14	Philosophy
16	PLS; Psychology; Romance Languages
17	Romance Languages; STV; Sociology; Theology
18	Theology; Biology
19	Chemistry; Physics; Math; Accounting
20	Finance; Business Ad; Management; Marketing; Peace Studies
Cover photo by Marl Okuda.
NOVEMBER 7, 1991
EDITOR'S NOTES
SCHOLASTIC
NOWDAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
> /? ?ypi._ 133, No.10 ./ > X... .X7 /November 7,1991: <7 '■; ■
7■ / ? ;. -D/sce Quasi Semper Victuals : \ > . .//•:/ Vive':Quasi Oras Moriturus " ■ T. • '
X?X 7. 7' 7 ’ /.Founded	:.
h EDITOR IN CHIEF !	;
7 Ian Mitchell /.. ; '.;;7 /7	'• 7?-’ / /■
7 MANAGING EDITOR ;■
7-Mari Okuda 77	7< ...7
//EXECUTIVE EDITOR C X X/X XJXX : 7 X7 7
Xnev^X ’■ XX’77V■: X? |/-.Editor?Margaret Kenny \ 77 7-? J7 ■ h Assistant: DehisseManon-Landais: 7-<
r/CAMPUS LIFE ;'X: • - 'X\:• 7 ?:Editor::Elizabeth;Baytion 777.77 ' X.
XSPORTS'//^^	7' ’• 7
h);Edit6X.4°H P	:7- 77-.'
; /Assistant: Jim kuser ,' ? '' 7.:7>/
Xentertai^ XX X:: - X'X ¥: Editor:;Elizabeth Graner 7 '■¥ ¥ .¥¥ / : 7;
;.X<X<X6X^ ’	7
7/DEPARTMENTS?	' 77/ .-7 7:
7 Editor: MichaelXweiv .7 7'' ¥,y''	. 7
XAssistant:’ Kirn; .Cenedella;X/<7' ■ /7 ■ -.’s 7:
7/PHOTOGRAPHY X ' X XXX7 ■ XEditorF^X^W
7 AssistantV-Nick Spangler	- ■ ;;77,r
:	; x; \ X; 7 X: x;'
:£Anrie-Mary;Klem77;./t-; / / •. 7777-/ 7:77777''./77';- ’■	7 "//7 : /--
7GHAPHic;ARTs MANAGER *:: y XzX H jeanne^Naylor X' 77 77XX/ < 7' - ■ 7	7^7 XXj
7Rebecca.Arnibuster7'7 ' 77 77; ¥;;¥f¥¥^^	7/7777 7777
|Wst^MS;M^^ER\;7XX7\ z:7 77 7 ^Kewn;flardijn^	7: /'
XA^VEOife/X-i XX/;:X7' -X xf 77 ¥ MahagefrD^	^777/7;.
7 Assistant? EsjJera'nza; Lopez”	7 ■■¥¥¥■
^BUSINESS;::??7XX XXX- 7/7 ./ ; ^'/Manager:-Scott'Ecker/-': -7X7 -77 ■• -X -7:
febjsWUTION MANAGER^ 7.XX: Xx 7Bill.0hdniberg7-	\
y *' ■/.'',	.'.tt, ■ >.. j'.'j	, ■ j •	'./■•■a', i
First Things First
This is the first course evaluation booklet that Scholastic has put out in over 15 years. Obviously, none of us have been here for quite that long, so it was, to say the least, a learning experience. I’d like to thank the entire staff for helping with this special project and for putting up with me during the last few weeks. Another special thank you to all the unnamed evaluators without whose help this issue could not have been put together.
Wait ‘Till Next Year
This semester’s course evaluation booklet isn’t perfect; for starters, it includes far too few courses. Since this was our first time, we had to limit our scope: No courses in the College of Engineering or at Saint Mary’s College were reviewed. The vast majority of the reviewed classes are in the College of Arts and Letters, and even there we know there are large gaps in how many courses in each department we reviewed.
Despite these problems, I think this issue is an important start to show what can be done with a course evaluation issue. Rather than random surveys, students were given writingassignments to review their own classes. All of the reviews in this book are written by actual students, based on the classes they took in Spring 1991.
We hope that this first book will renew the Scholastic tradition of publishing course evaluation guides every semester, as we did in the 1970s. In order to make future issues larger and more comprehensive, we’re asking for assistance from college academic
Scholasiic ispublished tuaHy throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Noire Dame, Noire Dame, fN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $25.00/ystrand back issues are available at $125 Icopy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Noire Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1931 Scholastic Magazine. AU rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
affairs councils, who provided reviewers in the past. With their help, hopefully we’ll be able to cover more courses and add Saint Mary’s and Engineering courses next semester. (Some past evaluation issues were over 100 pages!)
Ideally, of course, I’d like to be able to publish the results of the Teacher-Course Evaluations students fill out in class, but the administration won’t release that data.
In the meantime, some information is better than none at all. Check the page at right for tips on how to use this book when selecting classes. Look over the reviews. Keep in mind that they represent the opinions of only one or a few students; if you disagree with a review, feel free to write a letter to the editor; the policy is given below. Best of luck with DART!
Ian Mitchell
Editor in Chief
■ Correction:	- /y y /:y//J- '
In the. story on Gays and Lesbians at
: 'Notre': Dame/Saint yMary’s: College / . ? which appeared in last week’s issue, the middle initial : and: educational status of one/quoted individual was y
? ygiven incorrectly. /The correct; full- • -■ name, of thc quoted group mcmbcr of i /GLND^SMCyis Mike W. Miller,:;who-: works in thepfficeof University COm- : yputing, :’ having ygrdduatcd yi :^choldstic regrets the errori /. ■/.:/ ? ..
Leiters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer'sname, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. AU lettersmust be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelousor olscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitling, grammatical or spelling errorsand Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters receiz^d.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Not re Dame, IN 46556
2
SCHOLASTIC
How to Use This Issue
1)	First, another disclaimer: this issue does not include most courses; don’t be surprised if the classes you’re considering are not included. This issue is only a first try (see “Editor’s Notes” at left).	;
2)	The entries in this issue are not cross-referenced. Classes are listed only once, usually under the major-	I
offering department which comes first alphabetically. As a general rule, courses are not listed under department j headings which do not offer first majors. Check your DART book for a class’s cross-listings.
3)	Once you’ve found an evaluation for a course you’re interested in, check to see if there’s a symbol next to i the course’s title.	I
If there’s an asterisk (“*”), that means the review printed in the book is actually a composite of two or more . separate reviewers’opinons.	i
If there’s a number sign (“#”), that means the listed class was not actually reviewed, but either: a) another • J class offered by that professor is reviewed elsewhere in the book, or b) a different class taught by that professor	;
last semester was reviewed. Check the comment section at the end of the review to see which is the case. Other	I
information in reviews with a is taken from the departments’ course descriptions.	I
4)	The amount and type of information given in a review will vary widely from evaluator to evaluator. (If a review doesn’t say that attendance is taken, don’t assume that means that attendance is not taken.) Reviews are always divided into four sections:
Presentation: Was the class a lecture or discussion? Were there films or other outside classroom requirements?	'	.	.	•
Readings: How much reading was required and how difficult was it? Often book titles are given. ■	. • :
Organization: What kind of assignments were given? Were there quizzes or papers? What kind and how < . often? How many exams were there? What was their format? How was the grade calculated? Was attendance : •: required?	:; -
Comment: This is the heart of the review, and it’s where you’ll find most of the opinions. We asked re- . - • -: viewers to mention if their opinions differed radically from the opinions held by the rest of the class, and we < • i' told them not to write for revenge, but to tell other students the kind of information they would want to know	< <
when they were choosing courses. The printed reviews may be paraphrases of what the evaluator wrote, but	: ■:L
we’ve taken special care to see that they accurately reflect the reviewer’s opinion of the class.	:-; - ;i
5)	This issue isn’t (and isn’t meant to be) the final word on which classes to take. Check the DART book for '; < J information on class size and times (sometimes that information can be important). Read the department’s own	.	; -. ■
course description, if you can get a hold of it. Talk to other students who may have taken the class. Consult	:	< - •
with your advisor or talk to the course instructor for academic information. Remember that the published -: -:! review is only one opinion; get as many as you can in order to make the best decision possible.	:: z - i
6)	Lastly, if you disagree with the review, write a letter to the editor; we’ll publish all we can next week.	:	<
Remember that picking your own classes is your best chance to determine the course of your own education;	:	-: - *
make the most of it!	\ : J
NOVEMBER 7, 1991	3	;
AMERICAN STUDIES
j
i!
AMST 250 — American Thought and Culture: Everyday Life 1876-1915 —Schlereth,T.#
Presentation: Lecture format. Slides used daily. Department course description says that two classes will be held at area museums, but it said the same thing when I took the course and I don’t remember any field trips.
Readings: A moderate amount of reading, but none of it is too difficult. Books include: The Americans, The Democratic Experience, Mechanization Takes Command, Coney Island and City People.
Organization: According to the departmental course description: “Requirements include a research paper analyzing an American autobiography as a documentof American everyday life, a mid-term and a final exam.” .
Comment: I took this class two years ago. It’s not a bad AMST inside class if you’re a sophomore that plans to be an American Studies major, but it’s not too challenging, either. You will learn a lot about the history of Notre Dame as the semester progresses, but if you miss a few classes, you won’t be lost.
AMST 326 — The Sporting Life: Athletics in American Culture — Giamo, B.
Presentation: Lectured infrequently; most classes were classwide discussion sessions guided and spurred on by Giamo. Also, every student had to give one 3-man group presentation. Watched one film, read several books, went to a couple of campus lectures. A varied and interesting selection of resources, all relevant to tested material.
Reading: A lot of reading required, but it was books like Shoeless Joe, The Natural and End Zone by Dan Delillo that were easy and fun to read. Reading was definitely worthwhile.
Organization: Every Friday, students had to turn in a “reader response card,” which was a reflection on the previous week’s classes and/or readings. Noquizzes, nopapers; only amidterm, final and presentation. Attendance and participation worth 15 percent of the grade.
Comment: I thoroughly enjoyed class because I actively participated in the discussions and listened to what others had to say. Several people in the class think I’m crazy because they hated the class and refused to participate or accept Giamo’s theory of sports as a metaphor in American society. You have to enter the class with an open mind and realize that sports means more to America than box scores and touchdowns. Giamo’s the best professor I’ve had at Notre Dame.
AMST 334 — Poverty and Affluence in American Society — Giamo, B.#
Presentation: Lecture and discussion. Viewing of photographs of Walker Evans and Dorthea Lange as well as two films, Sullivan's Travels and Roger and Me.
Reading: Books include: The Grapes of Wrath, People of Plenty, The Other America, Children of Crisis: Privileged Ones and Philadelphia Fire.
Organization: Course evaluation based on participation, group
4
presentation, a research paper and exams.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department’s course description. For an evaluation of the professor’s teaching style, see AMST 326.
AMST 436 — Writing and Editing — Powers, J. *
Presentation: Lectures on writing skills and quality of journalism today, etc. Small class size means a lot of teacher-student interaction.	'
Reading: Occasional handouts; no text.
Organization: In class preliminary editing assignments, rewrites, feature story, 12-15 page final writing project which is then cut to a 5 page edited story. No exams.
Comment: Powers, the retired executive editor of the South Bend Tribune, can ramble, but the practice you get in his writing classes is invaluable. Reporting the News (offered fall semesters) offers more assignments—take it first. You don’t have to work incredibly hard in this class, but you will leam a lot about writing and the newspaper business.
AMST 450 — Writing for Publication — Collins, W.
Presentation: He’s an excellent, interesting and patient lecturer. Always answers students’ questions as well as he can and is patient with even the stupidest of questions. .
Reading: One book for class, Writing for Story.
Organization: Writing assignments were on varied subjects, Collins usually gave a general subject area and you chose one topic for your paper. About 8 or 9 papers plus one big one at the end. No tests or quizzes, no final. Professor did all grading (small class size), and attendance was important.
Comment: In general, I enjoyed the class. In the AMST series of writing courses this fits right in, and Collins provides a mellow but equally important perspective on your writing skills. I’d take it again and I’d recommend any class he teaches.
AMST 459 — American-European Literary Relations — Lanzinger, K.
Presentation: To-the-minute lectures, excellently organized. No discussion, no films. Lectures go over the readings (sometimes word-for-word), and the author’s lives are outlined on supplement sheets, handed out about every other class. All material essential for tests.
Reading: About nine books, one every two weeks. Not too difficult: The Sun Also Rises, Redburn, The Innocents Abroad — not especially stimulating either, unless the early 1900s are your thing.
Organization: Midterm, short essays. One 10 page paper and voluntary five-minute presentations.
Comment: Lanzinger invariably gives an A- if you show any intelligence whatsoever, and as far as attendance, he will ask you nicely to “try and come to class.” A good choice for second semester seniors; you have to listen or read, but notboth.
SCHOLASTIC
ANTHROPOLOGY
ANTH 109 — Introduction to Anthropology — Murphy, M.
Presentation: The lectures are done in an informal manner. They follow the readings in the text for the most part, but add more interesting practical applications of anthropology.
Reading: A lot—-but easy and interesting. Each test covers several chapters in the text and one or two additional readings. The suppementary readings are worth the effort to read, but you can pass the class without them.
Organization: No pop quizzes, writing assignments or homeowrk, but four 25-point tests (including the final) which were not cumulative. They were true/false and multiple choice. Attendance was not usually taken, but missing class will ruin your grade because it’s not all in the reading.
Comment: I highly recommend this class—it was easy for the most part, but I definitely learned new cultural perpectives and a lot of sociological trivia. The professor make the class: He puts in a good effort to be amusing, and if he sometimes fails at humor, at least he’s interesting.
ANTH 330 — Development of Anthropological Theory — Moore, K.
Presentation: Lectures began with background/general material on a theorist or theory, then looked at the text under discussion in an almost page-by-page manner. Frequent discussion. One two-day film at die beginning of the semester. Lectures very closely related to both readings and exams—intimate kno wlege of lecture material an essential for exams.
Reading: Highpoints in Anthropology. Waymarks', Local Knowlege.
Organization: Reading assignments for each class. No quizzes. There were three exams, one was a take-home exam that students had several weeks to work on and was not to exceed eight typed pages. The other two were in-class essay exams. The final grade was based on the three exams and participation/attendance. Attendance sometimes taken.
Comment: Class is a requirement for ANTH majors and is more helpful and less overwhelming than it first seems. Coursework is very general and very applicable to other classes; it answers a lot of questions which arise in other courses. Professor was a very fair grader — he expected you to know the main arguements of each theorist and devoted much class time to elucidating the required texts.
ANTH 365 — The Contemporary Middle East — Gaffney, P.
Presentation: Lectures are always interesting and informative. The lectures are very clear and reflect the professor’s extensive knowlege of his field. Occasional open discussions and quite a few films during class time.
Reading: The amount of reading required for the course was average, but a detailed knowlege or all reading is necessary for the exams. The required books were excellent: Veiled Sentiments; My Enemy, My Self, In the Name of God; The Land of Egypt; The M iddle East and The Arab World.
Organization: No attendance taken, no homework and one quiz. Papers: four short (2 page) and one term paper (10 page), all read and
graded by the professor. Two exams: a midterm and a final, each consisting of an essay and appoximately 20 questions to be answered in a paragraph. These exams are extremely difficult and require a very detailed knowlege of all of the course materials.
Comment: Gaffney’s Middle East course is one of the best classes offered at Notre Dame. It is demanding: the exams require extensive knowlege of both in-class material and current events, but the material is so interesting that learning what is necessary is actually enjoyable. It is obvious that the professor is excited about his class, and this carries over into discussion with him. He is also willing to help his students with assignments, research, etc. The one drawback is that he tends to be somewhat intolerant of opposing viewpoints — he will vehmently condemn them rather than calmly explain what he sees wrong with them.
ANTH 388 — Biological and Narrative Approaches to the Self — Manier, E.*
Presentation: Lecture with limited class discussion. The lectures were interesting at times but on the whole very slow. Manier would talk and give notes from a transparency for 75 minutes, then apologize for talking and promise we’d have discussion next time— . this happened all semester. However, friends of mine who have the class now say that the format has been drasically altered to allow class discussion, so don’t worry, I guess. The lectures were vital to the exams and papers.
Reading: Excellent, wide-ranging readings included: Walker Percy’s The Thanatos Synrome, Oliver Sacks’ The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat and Arnold Polkinghome’s Narrative Knowing and The Human Sciences. The readings thus included novels, case studies and scientific theories.
Organization: Loosely-structured class. No quizzes, one midterm and one final exam (open book/notes). One shorter (no more than 6 page) paper, one longer (8-12 page) paper due on last day of class. All grading done by Manier. (This semester’s class has a group project in place of the shorter paper.)
Comment: Although the readings were interesting, the hapazard lectures made the class boring. It was challenging, but if you keep up, it’s not overly difficult. If the changes made in the class format increasing discussion are permanent, then the course is recommended for all those who wonder what it means to live a human life;-the subject matter is very interesting. A real interest in philosophy and the mind could make taking the class very worthwhile.
ANTH 431 — Ethnic Groups and Politics — Murphy, M. # ‘
Presentation: This course presents a review and discussion of social and scientific reseach concerning the nature of ethnicity and its expression as a social and cultural force in the political organization of multiethnic societies.
Reading: The course focuses on literatures drawn from anthropology, political science and sociology.
Organization: No information available.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department’s course description. For an evaluation of the professor’s teaching style, see ANTH 109.
NOVEMBER 7, 1991	5
ARHI, ARST & DESN / CLAS & CLGR
ARHI 252 — Art Traditions II — Rosenberg, C.
Presentation: Lectures were well-organized, focusing mostly on material needed for tests with some interesting for-your-informa-tion stuff thrown in. Lectures covered some material not in book. Reading: Needed to read the the textbook for some additional information for tests not covered in class and helped study for tests. Organization: One short (approximately 5 page) paper analyzing a work in the Snite. Two exams and a non-cumulative final. Attendance occasionally taken and basically required.
Comment: Requires a lot of memorization for tests, but basically a good art elective for non-artistic people.
ARHI 496 — Art History Methods — Rosenberg, C. #
Presentation: Seminar on the research methods used in the discipline of art history.
Reading: Readings include works by Pliny, Vasari, Berenson, Panfosky, Baxandall and others.
Organization: Information not available.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department’s course description. For an evaluation of the professor’s teaching style, see ARHI 252.
ARST 285S — Beginning Photography — Gray, R.
Presentation: Showed lots of slides of other photographer’s work — sometimes too many at one time. Interesting critques of other students’ work. Good discussion of art shows in. the art building Reading: None.
Organization: Only photography assignments. Specific topics were given with an assignment for each. Usually plenty of time for individual assignments, but final portfolio was demanding.
Comment: Gave good critiques but grading was a little tough.
ARST 476S — Advanced Color Photography — Gray, R. #
Presentation: A course in color photography exploring advanced color printing materials and techniques.
/ Reading: No information available.
■ : Organization: Several assignments lead to a thematic projectof the student’s own selection. Cibachrome printing, Polaroid and work with a 4 X 5 camera using color materials will be covered.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was ' taken from the department’s course description. For an evaluation of the professor’s teaching style, see ARST 285S.
DESN 282S •— Computer Aided Design — Sherman, J.
Presentation: A few lectures were given on the basics of Macintosh computers and some of its design programs.
Reading: None.
. Organization: There was very little structure in the course. Most of the class time was used for self-instruction. We spent the first half of the semester working in small groups and communicating with a group at ASU. Then we worked individually on a poster project and a final project of our choice. No grades were given throughout the semester, and attendance was not taken.
6
Comment: First of all, a syllabus would be nice. I think the professor should have been there for more individual help, more Mac Il’s should have been made available, and more program manuals should have been available (manuals for only a couple of programs were kept in the professor’s office). I think a TA should be hired for this course and they should not overload it (not enough computers to go around).
DESN 320 — Typography II — Sherman, J. #
Presentation: This course covers type as a means of communication and as a graphic symbol. The student will explore the considerations involved in a number of typographic based design problems.
Reading, Organization: No information available.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department’s course description. For an evaluation of the professor’s teaching style, see DESN 282S.
CLAS 359 — Women’s Voices From the Greco-Roman Past — Forbis, E. #
Presentation: Lectures and discussions.
Readings: What can we learn about the Greco-Roman world from its women? Who were the women writing at that time, and what did they write? How do their depictions of life in ancient Greece and Rome compare with those of their male contemporaries? This course will address these questions through readings (in English translation) of works by Greek and Roman women authors, letters, tombstones and other inscriptions composed by women, and depictions of women writers and storytellers in texts authored by men.
Organization: No information available.
Comment:This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department’s course description. An evaluator did take a course offered by this professor last semester, and evaluated her teaching style: "The professor is fun and fair—she is well able to relate the course content to the abilities of each student. She is also approaching classics from a new perspective; unlike the chauvenis-tic perpective usually used."
CLGR 413 — The Greek Historians ■— Ladouceur, D. #
Presentation: Discussion of the origins of the literary form, techniques of charcterization, principles of causality.
Readings: The histories of Herodotus and Thucydides.
Organization: Translation, imitative composition and two papers required.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department’s course description. An evaluator did take a course offered by this professor last semester, and evaluated his teaching style: "The professor is a fairly easy, but fair, grader. His style of teaching is wonderfully easy to follow and got us thinking. He has a good sense of humor that came out at odd times and surprised the class."
SCHOLASTIC
COTH / CAPP / ECON
COTH 104/204 — Basics of Film Studies •— Peterson, J.
Presentation: The lectures follow the text for the most part and include video clips as examples. The class also requires seeing a movie every ..week in addition to class.
Reading: The reading is interesting if you are interested in the way :	movies are put together, and is essential for the. midterm.
i Organization:Twopapersarerequired,one2pg.andone5pg. The final grade is based on the final, the papers, the midterm and attendance, which is taken daily.
Comment: The professor is knowledgeable and loves what he does. While the class is great for a film major, I felt it was a bit in-depth for a fine arts requirement. Between class, the movies and the reading, it required a large time commitment.
i	■
j COTH 412 — History of the Avante-Garde Film — Peterson,
|	J.#
Presentation: This course will survey the American avante garde film's evolution in the context of a number of major art movements: Dada and Surrealism in the 1920s and '30s, Abstract Expressionism in the 1950s, Pop Art and Minimalism in the 1960s and Punk Artin the 1970s. A weekly evening screening is required.
Reading: No information available.
Organization: A midterm exam, a filmmaker dossier (a bibliography, a biographical sketch and survey of critical opinions about the filmmaker's work), a 10-page film analysis and a final essay exam. Attendance is taken and class participation is required.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department's course description. For an evaluation of the professor's teaching style, see COTH 104/204.
CAPP 253 — Mastering the Macintosh — Kennedy, J.
Presentation: Kennedy knows what he is talking about; the quality of the information in his lectures was excellent—he demonstrated the important aspects of the Mac, although when he was occasionally disorganized the lectures became confusing and hard to follow. The lectures were important to do well on the exams
Reading: Mastering the Macintosh did not have a text in Spring 1991.
Organization: Weekly assignments could be done during the help sessions and took about three hours to complete. No quizzes or papers, but two major exams done solely on the computer. A huge ■ final project bn a topic of choice counted a lot in the final grade.
Attendance wasn’t taken.
Comment: I loved this class and found it extremely worthwhile.
The grading wasn’t too hard and the professor looks more at , improvement, which is super for the beginner.
CAPP 385 — Artificial Intelligence — Pann, C.
Presentation: The class is lecture and one day a week of computer lab Work. Lecutre material made up about 99 percent of the exams. Reading: Artificial Intelligence. Quite honestly, the book was really non-essential, especially for $20. Occasionally, it did help to clarify some of the topics that were covered in class.
NOVEMBER 7,1991
Organization: We had about 3-4 homework assignments to prac- -: -ticelogiacalreasoningandtopracticeontheexpertsystemspackage ; weused, EXSYS. We also had two tests of about five questions each .; and one final ofabout seven questions. Two projects (one group, one : -: individual) rounded out the assignments.	: < :
Comment: This class should have been named “Expert Systems” < - ; because that was about the only artificial intelligence topic we -; - i covered. It was a general consensus of my classmates that the class < - i wasawasteoftuitionbecauseitprovidedminimalexperienceinthis < ; ; field. The computer program was an outdated program written in: <; : 1984 that gives some minute experience in expert system program-:; ' ; • ming. If you are looking for a computer class that will train you in : - ; ; usable skills, I would say this is not the class to take.	> : !
ECON 301 — Intermediate Micro Theory — Howes, C.
Presentation: Straight lecture format.	: -: -
Reading: There was not much reading, but it was difficult. Reading < ; in text was pure theory, whereas workbook assignments were purely < problems. There was no help to find a connection between the two. ; ■ ; Organization: There were difficult tests and many problem sets. : : Study sheets for tests were often very different from material taught < in class.
Comment: As Spring 1991 was the first lime Howes taught class, it was difficult to understand and bascially a new experience. Lectures were very confusing and I often relied only upon the book. I personally would not recommend taking this class.
ECON 301 — Intermediate Micro Theory — Rakowski, J. #
Presentation: An examination of the language and analytical tools of microeconomics emphasizing the functional relationship between the factor and product markets and resource allocation. Reading/Organization: No information available.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department's course description. An evaluator did take a different class taught by this professor last semester, and evaluated his teaching: "Rakowski’s class presentation was almost more thorough than the textbook itself; everything discussed in class helped clarify concepts in the text Rakowski’s grading philosophy is based on progress relative to the class, whch was taught in a rigorous manner."
ECON 486 — Ethics of Development — Goulet, D. #
Presentation: This interdisciplinary course examines critical normative questions posed by processes of development, in poor and rich countries alike. Four major questions arc raised in the course: the role of ethics and values in development, competing views of goals and human needs, opposing theories of development and the human costs of development processes.
Reading/Organization: No information available.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department's course description. An evaluator did take a different course offered by this professor last semester, and evaluated his teaching style: "Goulet is very experienced in his field and has many stories of his past activities, but his style of presentation is slow, with too many irrelevent or overdrawn examples."
7
fj !
h
ECON/ENGL
ECON 445 — The Economics of Industrial Organization — Howes, C. #
Presentation: An investigation into the structure of American industry and an analysis of the implications of corporate economic power for public welfare.
Reading/Organization: No information available.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department's course description. For an evaluation of the professor's teaching style, see ECON 301.
ENGL 310 — British Literary Traditions I — Jemielity, T.
Presentation: Jemielity knows the material very well andaugments lecture with his extensive knowlege of Catholic tradition and how Christianity pervades early English literature. Lectures are lengthy and not particularly engaging. In a hot room with closed windows a droning voice may induce sleep but try to be attentive; he’s knowlegdeable, his insights are valuable and his corny jokes are fun. Lectures are important for exams.
Reading: Extensive. Paradise Lost is hell (ha). Try reading Canterbury Tales in Middle English by reading it out loud with a partner.
Organization: Aboutthreeshortpapers.amidtermandafinal. The tests are multiple choice, fill in the blank and short answer. Lowest grade is dropped. Attendance is taken daily.
Comment: The first paper was pointless busy work: “write about the features of the Norton Anthology.” The intent is to gauge your writing ability but the exercise is not very helpful. Jemielity is a fine professor. All the required English courses are overcrowded, stuffy and there is always too much material to cover, but Jemielity manages to make it a bit less painful.
ENGL 317C — The Heroic Figure in World Literature — Duvick, B.
Presentation: The profeesor was knowledgable about the subject matter, but there was little to no discussion. We saw several videos which had very little pertinence to the course matter. The topics discussed in class were helpful, yet not necessary since there were no tests.
Reading: We were required to read The Odussey, the book of Genesis, Kazantzakis’ The Odyssey, A Modern Sequel, and the Gilagamesh Epic. The readings were quite effective in proving the course’s point, so they were worthwhile.
Organization: The only assignments were reading, but because of the nature of the course, you could get away without reading. There were two five to ten page papers. The final was one essay; the questions were handed out in advance and you are allowed to bring notes to the exam. The grade is based on two papers and the final. Attendance was not really mandatory as far as I remember, at least it didn’t affect the final grade to a large extent.
Comment: Personally, I wasn’t very pleased with the course. I felt that the material was dictated to the students, and I found it quite impersonal. After a few weeks, I stopped going to class on a regular basis because I couldn’t motivate myself to get up and walk across Campus to go to class. I also was intimidated by the course, being
8
a freshman in a sea of juniors and seniors. I think the grading was fair and carefully thought out.
ENGL 333 — Arthurian Legend — Frese, D. #
Presentation: Freselectures and encourages participation. Various themes are explored and class interest is kept.
Reading: Moderate amount of reading including Geoffrey of . Monmouth’s History of the Kings of Britain, Tennyson’s Idylls of the Kings and “Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.” Many other works exploring the great characters of Arthurian Legend are explored. All readings are in Modem English.
Organization: One term paper of 10-15 pages or an equivalent project.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department’s coursedescription. Foran evaluation of the professor’s teaching style, see ENGL 434.
ENGL 340 — Shakespeare — Rathburn, P.
Presentation: Lectures clearly presented material although often were quite lengthy. The professor is extremely informed about Shakespeare. Weekly films outside of class time.
Reading: We read a play a week (average 120-150 pg.), so it was easy to fall behind. A few plays were quite difficult if you were reading them for the first time. Book: The Riverside Shakespeare. Organization: Weekly quizzes. Three exams including a final (all essays). Extra credit was given for acting scenes or writing papers. Professor did all grading. Attendance was taken.
Comment: I highly receommend this class due to the professor’s experience and enthusiasm. He was also quite humorous, which kept the long class entertaining.
ENGL 415Z — Seminar: Religion and Literature— Werge, T.#
Presentation: A consideration of the relationships — conceptual, hisorical and practical—between religious faith and traditionsand their expression in literature.
Reading: Books include the Bible, Dante, Dostoevsky, Elie Wiesel, Kazantzakis and Flannery O’Connor, Outside reading includes ’’Religion and Literature,” a journal published by the University of Notre Dame English Department. Final reading is Christ and Apollo by William F. Lynch.
Organization: No information available.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department's course description. An evaluator did take a course offered by this professor last semester and evaluated the teaching style: "Werge is a great teacher. His paper questions usually seem too long to fit within the page limits, but they help one learn to intergrate the material and be creative. Fed up with teachers handing back pages that look as if they were never read? Werge takes you seriously.”
ENGL428B — Studies in Satire—Jemielity, T. #
Presentation: The class will involve lecture and readings. The course description book says that "a good deal of the material is R-
SCHOLASTIC
ENGLISH
rated.” The purpose of the course is to teach students the art of writing satire.
Reading: Readings will focus on the satire of Roman satirists Horace and Juvenal, the religious satire of Jonathon Swift, satire of Alexander Pope, and modem satire in Joseph Heller and Kurt Vonnegut
Organization: The course requires two or three longer essays of 1800 to 2400 words apiece and a final exam.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department’s course description. For an evaluation of the professor’s teaching style, see ENGL 310.
ENGL 432Z — Seminar: Chaucer on the Human Condition — Vasta,E.#
Presentation: Teacher manages the class through lecture for the first part of the class to direct the students through the language of Chaucer. Thereafter, the classroom direction is turned over to the students as much as possible.
Reading: The readings span throughout Chaucer’s works in thematic fashoin, not in chronological order. All the works will be read in the original Middle English, although no prior language experience is necessary.
Organization: Several short critical essays are required at the beginning of the semester. A final research paper is due in the latter half of the class.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department’s course description. For an evaluation of the professor’s teaching style, see ENGL 438.
ENGL 434 — Medieval Drama — Frese, D.
Presentation: The lectures encouraged participation. There is a focus on drama and presentation — films and videos visually expressed what we read. Another requirement was to present a medieval play to the class as an individual or as a group.
Reading: Therequired reading was about oheplay per class session. They were not difficult readings and you were required to keep journal entries for each play. One text was used throughout, David Bevington’s Medieval Drama.
Organization:. Two exams, one at midterm and a final which included short answers, identifications and an essay. Professor Frese graded the class.
Comment: (This course was reviewed as ENGL 336.) I liked the class even though I did not want to. Professor Frese is so enthusiastic about medieval drama that you cannot help but get caught up in the spirit. Also, the play production was fun. The way the class was structured helped me leam when I was not aware of it.
ENGL 438 — Medieval Ideas About Love — Vasta, E.
Presentation: Lectures were very interesting. Classroom discus
NOVEMBER 7,1991
sion was encouraged.
Reading: Although the quantity of reading was not great, we read a lot of poetry that required interpretation.
Organization: There were many difficult quizzes but they helped ' synthesize the material. Tests and especially quizzes were difficult -because specific facts, characters and textual references were ex- -pected to be known by the student. Still, the grading policy was fair. Attendance was required.	;
Comment: I really enjoyed this class. The subject matter and class ; discussion both stimulated thought.	;
ENGL 453 — Visits to Bedlam — Fox, C. #	-
Presentation: Straight lecture style. But Fox has interesting lecture -style. Class focuses on the eighteenth century’s fascination with: madness and the literature that came out of this interest.	;
Reading: There is a healthy amount of reading including works by ; John Locke, Jonathon Swift and others. The Swift readings include his poetry, Gulliver's Travels and A Tale of the Tub.
Organization: Expect at least two tests, including a final, and one : research paper.	:
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department’s course description. An evaluator did take a course offered by this professor last semester and evaluated the teaching style: ”1 enjoyed the class primarily because of Fox’s lectures. The subject matter was often depressing but usually interesting. His knowlege of 18th century literature allows him to tell fascinating, funny stories about that period.”
ENGL 473 — Comparative Studies: Modernism — Ziarek, E. #
Presentation: Lectures, accentuated by student presentations. The class aim, as presented in the Department course description, is “...to integrate the study of modem literature with its cultural contexts, in particular, with the discourses on gender and technology.” .
Reading: Class introduces students to several major modem writers in Woolf, Joyce, Conrad, Gilman, Faulkner, Kafka, Mann, Milosz and Witiewicz.
Organization: Students are required to work on a cumulative writing project, leading from a close reading of a text to a soph is i ti-catcd research essay. Class presentations, a midterm and a final arc also required.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department couse description. An evaluator did take a course offered by this professor last semester and evaluated her teaching style: “Ziarek is a fabulous professor. Her lectures elcui-dated otherwise difficult material. She stimulated interesting discussion and encourgaed new ideas.”
Scholastic
A CENTURY AHEAD OF THE COMPETITION.
9

Tentgating at
"The Italian Ristorante1
/Edi
UND Parking Lawn
• 0
1412 South Bond Ave., South Bend, In
(219)	232-4244



Friday from 4 Saturday from
Parisi's
p .m.
10 a.m.
UNTIL MIDNIGHT! ! !
NOTRE DAME vs. TENNESSEE
NOV. 8 - 9
In the open, under our tent, by the patios and Bocci Ball court- or for fine post game dining, make this FIGHTING
IRISH
FOOTBALL season one to remember!
Regular Hours: Tues - Sat 4-11
Sundays 4 - 9. Closed Mondays
GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a $1.00 discount off any footlong Subway sandwich.
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on days of home football games.
For the next football game or your next party, call Subway for a delicious Party Sub or Party Platter!
CALL 277-7744
.SUB WAV'*
State Road 23 and Ironwood
io
SCHOLASTIC
GOVT / HIST
GOVT 342 — Comparative Politics — Wozniak, L. *
Presentation: Highly structured lectures, minimal discussion. Discussions on Friday led by a TA.
Reading: Large amount of reading, but not essential for exams. The readings help, but they innundate you with facts that you’re not likely to remember, especially since you’re only getting a cursory glance at each country.
Organization: No quizzes, no homework; two exams worth 20 percent each of the final grade, one 10-12 page paper worth 30 percent and the final exam worth 30 percent. Exams made up of identifications and broad essay questions. Attendance is not taken. Comment: This class is one of four required for all government majors. As with most government classes, this course is too crowded. As a result, the class is conducted in a lecture format and grad students take care of most of the grading while also conducting the discussion sections. Wozniak’s lectures are extremely dry since they’re read to you. That means notes are easy to take so long as you write quickly, but that also means that everybody’s notes are the same and can easily be copied. The TAs are given very little guidance and it shows, since the discussions are worth very little. The exams tested only factual knowlege—this made it easy for the student to complete the course without ever really thinking. Instead, all that was required was the regurgitation of the lecture notes in the correct order on the exams;
GOVT 408— American Voting and Opinion — Leege, D. #
Presentation: This course examines voting, elections and the linkage between political leaders and the mass public.
Reading: About four books and a dozen reserved readings.
Organization: Research projects will focus on the 1990 congressional and senatorial elections, and campaign teams will address electoral strategy in presidential contests. Anticipate taking a couple of exams and completing active learning exercises such as interpreting data, forming a campaign team and writing an original research paper. .
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department's course description. An evaluator did take a different course offered by this professor last semester, and evaluated his teaching style: "Leege is thoroughy knowlegeable. Lectures were great but often long and boring (simply because 75 minutes is a long time to listen to someone talk). More discussion might have been nice."
GOVT 424 — U.S. Foreign Policy — Dowty, A. *
Presentation: Lecture format with occasional guest lecturers. Short videos sometimes shown in class. Lectures outline reading material.
Reading: A fair amount. U.S. Foreign Policy Since 1945 (Hartmann and Wendzel) is the main text; it provides an overview of the last 40 years.
Organization: Three exams (including the final) each counting for 25 percent of the final grade. One paper (approximately 10 page), graded by the TAs, is also worth 25 percent of the final grade. Exams are multiple choice and require a grasp of the historical facts. On the final Dowty offered an optional essay as a chance to boost your NOVEMBER 7, 1991
grade.	: -
Comment: Dowty is obviously knowledgeable and the subject can	'
be exciting, but the large class size slows down the class's pace and -: ; prevents discussion. His non-militaristic view on foreign policy < ; . could provoke interesting reactions from ROTC members. Still, the > i course offers an excellent background for government majors hop- < : ing to go into the foreign policy field.	- ; - :
GOVT 456 — Tradition and Modernization in China and
Japan — Moody, P.	>2
Presentation: Lecture format.	< ' >
Reading: The reading complimented the lectures pretty well. One - : - | book, The Rise of Modern Japan, is too detailed to be of much use, < - ; but the others are good.	' :
Organization: Grade comes from two 5-10 page papers, a midterm < ; ; and a final. The midterm and the final are comprehensive and : require thorough knowledge of the material. Papers require a good	' ;
deal of research.	- <
Comment: Grading is pretty fair. Most lectures are interesting, but - ; ■ ' it can be hard to figure out what exactly to take notes on. Since the ; exams are so wide open, though, as long as you gel something down - • you’ll be okay. The exams are hard to study for because there is so much material taht could be on them. In general, a very interesting class.
HIST 225 — Critical Issues in American History — Blantz, T. :
Presentation: The lectures expanded on the reading and made the material more interesting. Blantz told funny jokes, but you had to listen to catch them.
Reading: American Pageant was the textbook and was essential, as were the lectures, for the quizzes and tests.	;
Organization: Quizzes once a week. There were three tests (short answer/essay) and a paper, in addition to a final and the quizzes. Attendance was not required, but the notes from the lectures arc essential.	;
Comment: The class requires a lot of work, but is overall pretty good. Theprofessormakesthematerialintercsting.ashetalksabout thepeople and backgrounds and leaves the statistical information for the readings. He has a sense of humor and makes an otherwise boring class interesting.
— Middles Ages II — Dohar, W.
Presentation: Class was lecture-oriented with a great deal of ■ emphasis placed on group participation. The course was also । supplemented with occasional videos and slide presentations. The ' class discussions were completely based on readings. All readings i proved essential for exams — but nearly all relevant material from i the readings was covered in class discussion.	!
Reading: Most essential information for quizzes and exams was drawn from a single textbook. Two additional books focusing on the	||
lives of Peter Abelard and Margery Kempe: Memoirs ofa Medieval	|
Woman were provided as sources for papers. All reading was ij worthwhile, and none of it was very difficult.	J
11 J
HIST 309
HISTORY
Organization: The final grade for the course was based on 2 “quizzes” (30 short answer), 4 short papers (2 pg.), class participation, and a final exam (short answer/essay). All assignments were announced and some flexibility was given among paper topics. Attendance was not taken, but again class participation was factored into the final grade.
Comment: The class was really enjoyable, not so much because of the material covered, but primarily because of Fr. Dohar. His lectures were humorous and entertaining, yet very informative and worthwhile. He was a very fair grader, although his quizzes and exam did tend to emphasize often trivial material. The short papers were heavily weighted, but as long as they were clear and concise, he proved willing to give high grades. Fr. Dohar’s class is also very ■. popular as an elective class, and a large number of people in the class
are not history majors, so he’s abviously well recommended, iherelavantportions of the books. The readings were interesting and
: Undoubtedly, it is a class good enough to take again and highly recommended.
HIST 342 — Latin American History H — Shapiro, S.
> > Presentation: Lecture format, although not always relevant to tests ’ • or course material.
Reading: Excellent and interesting reading; a good introduction to the greatness of Latin-American literature. Some books listed on the ; : syllabus were never used my semester.
Organization: Material you are tested on is not always predictable. Mdterm, final, papers. Attendance is taken.
Comment: Classes proceed as follows: 1) Shapiro comes to class and laments how shallow-minded ND students are (he's right). He encourages the class to see a movie at the Snite. 2) He then hands out a faded sheet of some aspect of Latin America. The sheet is usually jam-packed w/relevant info, but it is often 25+ years old. 3) He intertwines the lecture with irrelavancies like South Bend, his travels throughout the world and very Politically Incorrect jokes. Big plus: He does invite the students over to his house for wine and homemade chili.
HIST 415 — Soviet History — Hamburg, G.
Presentation: Lectures were excellent — a great mixture of informationandanecdotes. Engaging and direct lecture style. Often brought in outside information, not concentrating solely on class material.
history class. Analytical and critical thinking required. NOT an easy class, but one well worth the effort
HIST 454 — Civil War Era 1844-1865 — Kerby, R. *
Presentation: This course was all lecture— but filled with music and “artifacts”. He has a very dramatic way of presenting the events of the Civil War, complete with detailed, multi-colored maps, show-and-tell relics, and tape-recorded songs. There were voluntary, outsuide discussion groups (I never made any due to scheduling) about once a month (3).
Reading: Six books were required for the course, however, you can choose the topic on which to write on the lest and can concentrate on
filled in detail from the lecture, but aside fom the essay question on the exams, they were of secondary importance.
Organization: Our grades were two midterms and a final. All exams are the same type and the same weight (10 ID’s and one essay). Essay topic can be any from specific time frame (e.g. you can prepare essay beforehand, but because of that, it is expected to be GOOD). The professor graded all the exams and did so fairly. Comment: I enjoyed this class for many reasons -1 found the subject matter very interesting, but I found Prof. Kerby’s lecturing particularly enjoyable. Regarding exams, I considered Prof. Kerby more than fair and I really liked the fact that students were given some flexiblity in their choice of essay topics. As long as the essays successfully argued a point and were supported by the readings, Prof. Kerby was willing to give good grades. I would definitely take this course again.
HIST 466 — U.S. Constitutional History II — Shapiro, S; #
Presentation: Lectures. A history of the Constitution from the end of Reconstruction to the present lime.
Reading: No information available.
Organization: Midterm, final, papers. Attendance is taken.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department's course description. For an evaluation of the professor's teaching style, see HIST 342.
HIST 473 — U.S. Foreign Policy After 1945 — Miscamble, W.*
Reading: Outstanding rcaadinf list. Definitely difficult, but gave great insight into the times being studied. Mix of literature and historiacal books: Stalin in Power; Master and Margarita; Red Star.
Organization: Stuck to the syllabus like glue. One long paper. Midterm and final (both long essay). Attendance not taken but encouraged. Class participation expected but not part of grade.
Comment: A great class for anybody interested in a challenging
Presentation: Class was lecture oriented, smaller discussion sections met about every other week. Occasional movies and videos were optional. Also outside “educational social gatherings” — films and “debates” with refreshments from University Club. Essential test material is presented during class and readings provide a filler and a fuller understanding of general themes.
Reading: Fivebooksrequircd(expecially for exams). Reading was great (as in a lot) but generally very good (Backfire, on Vietnam Era and Carter book by Gaddis Smith).
Organization: The final course grade was based on midterm and final exams, a term paper and participation in the small discussion groups (each student is required to lead a portion of one discussion
SCHOLASTIC
HIST / MUS / PHIL
at some point during the semester.) The exams were a combination of identification and essay. The term paper was 10-12 pages in length. Attendance was not taken.
Comment: Definitely one of the most rewarding courses I’ve taken at Notre Dame. The material covered was very interesting and Miscamble proved a fantastic lecturer. The reading was not difficult and was worthwhile, especially Backfire and a biography of Gen. George Marshall. This course was admittedly very demanding because of the substantial amount of material and since Miscamble can be a tough grader. However, I would certainly take the class again and would reccommend it.
MUS 220 — Introduction to Music — Plummer, C.
Presentation: Lecture format with listening portions and commentary on pieces. Four or five concerts required. Listening to tapes for lecture and tests is required.
Reading: Light reading with only one text required.
Organization: Attendance not taken each day, although she did notice who attended and who didn’t. There was no handed-in homework or quizzes besides listening to tapes. Four exams require identifying title, composer, genre, meter, texture, etc. All tests weighted equally with the opportunity to drop one test.
Comment: The class was thoroughly enjoyable even for the nonmusical person. The professor is a lover of music and performance and is also a wonder violinist. An easy class for the musical person, but with a little effort, it is manageable for the non-musical as well.
PHIL 201 — Introduction to Philosophy — Kremer, M.
Presentation: The lectures explain and expand on the reading. Participation is not mandatory, but it is recommended if you have questions or input.
Reading: The reading is not long, but it is necessary to understand the material. The reading is complicated, but it isn’t overbearing. Organization: Study guides were due about once every two weeks. The grade was also based on one 10-12 page paper and the final exam.
Comment: The professor does a great job of presenting material that has the potential to be complex and boring. His lectures were interesting and made this class, which counts as a university requirement, enjoyable.
PHIL 219 — Philosophy, in Art: East and West — Kennedy, J.
# -
Presentation: This is a historically-oriented introduction to aesthetics and the relation between philosophy and the visual arts. General philosophical theories will be tested in two case studies.
Reading: Books include: Plato's Symposium., Lao Tsu's Tau teh Ching and Rahula's short survey of Buddhism.
Organization: Students will learn some Chinesecharacters and will be helped to do some simple translations from ancient Chinese to English. This course is recommended by the department for philosopher concerned with the history of their discipline, for concentrators in Asian Studies and for art and design majors.
NOVEMBER 7,1991
Weekly short-answer homework. Two short papers on assigned topics will be follwed by an approved longer project.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department's course description. An evaluator did take a different course offered by this professor last semester and evaluated his teaching style: "Kennedy is a wonderful intellect and a fabulous teacher who emphasizes learning over concerns for grades. His clarity and organization were wonderful. I plan to take my second philo from him next semester because I enjoyed his class so much."
PHIL 222 — Existentialist Themes — Watson, S.
Presentation: Mostly lectures, very dense material.
Reading: Readings were not overwhelming—difficult at times but not too long. General samplings, mostly, of key texts for existentialism.
Organization: There was a midterm, final and a seven page paper. All exams are essay format, taken almost exclusively from lecture material, and are graded by the professor.
Comment: This course is a solid introduction to existentialism, which I think is an important philosophy to study. The lectures were a little hard to follow sometimes, but they were very rewarding if you understand and reflect on them.
PHIL 225 — Scientific Images of Humanity — Ramsey, W.
Presentation: This class was primarily lecture because of the class size (about 60 people). Occasionally, the professor opened the classes up to discussion if the topic warranted. The lectures gave a broad overview of topics.
Reading: The reading helped to clarify points from the lectures that were either skipped entirely or not explained in enough detail. There was a packet of readings and a paperback book. The text helped for clarification and in writing the term paper.
Organization: We had two exams, a final and a term paper. The tests were comprised 70 percent from lectures and 30 percent from the readings. The tests were easier to study for because we had study guides with about 30-50 terms and about seven essay topics. The tests had about 12 of those terms and three essay topics, of which you had to identify ten terms and write two essays.
Comment: The topics we covered in this class were fairly dry, especially in the beginning. Toward the end, the topics were more interesting subjects like genetic engineering, abortion debates, etc. The tests were pretty straightforward, and the professor graded quite fairly on them. The papers were graded more severly, but he gave the opportunity to turn in a rough draft for comments beforehand. The class wasn’t particularly exciting for me — many people said they took the class because it was a fairly survivable second philo.
PHIL 245 — Medical Ethics — Solomon, W.
Presentation: Lectures, group discussions on Friday. About 90 precent of the two exams were based on the readings.
Reading: There was a lot of reading; within my discussion group we
13
PHILOSOPHY
split up the readings and made summaries for each other. All of the readings were from a book of compiled articles, some of it was extremely difficult to get through. There was also an additional book of case studies that was interesting but not necessary to read. Organization: There were two tests (midterm and final, which was not cumulative) and two 5-8 page papers. The exams were short answer and essay. Papers were based on reading in the book. TAs did the grading. Attendance was not taken.
Comment: I thought that the class was interesting and would recommend it for people going to medical school because it is an eye-opener to real life ethical situations. I didn’t spend a great deal of time on this class except for the week and a half before the exams and on the papers, but this is not a “cake” class!
PHIL 264 — Faith and Reason — Freddoso, A.
Presentation: Very organized—outline form. No discussions, no films, no outside requirements from readings. The lectures and readings were directly related — and the exams followed this well enough. Yet he tends to go off on tangents that are vaguely related. Reading: Not an oppressive amount of reading. It was worthwhile to the extent that it was on the exam. G.K. Chesterton’s collected essays were difficult
Organ ization: There was a required journal for every class that was subject to random checking. He checked once and asked for them at the final. There was one paper of 10-15 pages, two exams, the journal and class attendance to create the final grade. The exams had two parts, short answer and one essay out of three. The professor graded the exams.
Comment: The professor was knowledgable on the topic but not too stimulating. The course was mainly factual—he did not inspire a great deal of personal interaction with the material and the exams reflect this — very specific questions. I might recommend it to someone who wants some exposure to more modem philosphical defenses of Christianity.
PHIL 265 — Philosophical Reflection and Christian Belief— Morris, T.
Presentation: Lectures every class, questions during lectures were welcome. Readings complemented and were coordinated with the lectures.
Reading: Not much reading required for the class. Reading was worthwhile.
Organization: Requirements were one midterm and a final, along with two short papers. There was one pop quiz early in the semester and many more were threatened over the course of the semester. A graduate student graded for the class. No attendance was taken.
Comment: The material was interesting and well presented. Was a very good class overall. Morris is one of the best teachers that I have ever been taught by here at Notre Dame.
PHIL 303 — 19th and 20th Century.Philosophy—Ameriks, K. #
14
Presentation: A history of philosophical recations to Kant from Fichte through logical positivism.
Readings: Main texts: 19th Century Philosophy, ed. M. Weitz; and The Essential Hegel, ed. F. Weiss.
Organization: No information available.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; information was taken from the department's course description. An evaluator did take a course offered by this professor last semester and evaluated his teaching style: "Ameriks can answer any questions without losing track in the lecture. For papers, he's available for help, but he's careful not to do the work for you. He's fair on the grading and help."
PHIL 305 — Thought of Aquinas — Mclnerny, R. *
Presentation: Standard lecture-style class.
Reading: Not much reading was required for the course. What reading there was did not go into much depth. Books were Mclnerny, A Guide for the Peeping Thomist, and Mclnerny, Ethica Thomisticas (selections).
Organization: Each week, take-home quizzes were collected which were really short essays. There was a midterm and a final, both essay format and both based on the quizzes. A graduate student did all the grading. Attendance was mandatory, but only a small percentage of the class attended regularly — it was easier to learn and get information from the quizzes..
Comment: Theclass was relatively easy, if you are already familiar with Aquinas, the class will be unoffensive and undemanding. The grading was average, neither tough or easy. However, McInerney isn’t very approachable and his lectures were dry and rambling, they almost seemed unorganized. I found it difficult to get any substance out of the lectures. I learned very little about Thomas Aquinas’ writings from the lectures or the readings.
PHIL 389 —■ Physics and Philosophy — Cushing, J.
Presentation: This class was a mixture of lectures, discussion and class presentations. Tests were based on readings and lectures. Reading: Readings were not too difficult or loo long, though sometimes they covered proofs that an average Arts & Letters student may find difficult to follow.
Organization: There was a midterm and a final which were both essay format. There was also a class presentation required and one long (10-12 pages) paper. All the grading was done by the professor. Comment: For the typical Arts & Letters student, this is an interesting look at modem physics and some of its implications. As far as philosophy goes, it was not very vigorous and it tended to require only a surface understanding of the major philospohical schools. For science and physics majors, itcan be a challenging look at the vary foundations of their field. I recommend this class.
PHIL 429 — Philosophy of the Mind — Ramsey, W.
Presentation: Prof. Ramsey wrote a brief outline on the board at the beginning of each class and then lectured from it. The readings and the lectures were related but you did not realize how much material was actually covered until the exams.
SCHOLASTIC
PHILOSOPHY
Reading: There was a lot of reading but it was difficult and hard to muddle through. Books included Explaining Behavior and a large Copy Shop packet.
Organization: The basis of the final grade included two tests, a 6-10 page paper and a final. The professor did all the grading. Attendance was riot taken.
Comment: I really did hot like the subject matter — it was very technical and based on cognitive science — and it did not appeal to me. The professor was a tough grader. He was very critical butl think that he taught us well. Most of the class enjoyed the course.
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
I 2Lg. j 1-Toppmg । Pizzas
I Additional Toppings $.95 each Not Valid With Any Other Coupon IB
One 14" Pizza	I
. One Topping
1 Additional Toppings 95( ea.	■
I 3XS
Not Valid With Any Other Coupon. Open for Lunch!
$10951
With All IO*’” B the Meats    g AdditionalToppings95tea.	■
Not Valid With Any Other Coupon. Open for Lunch!
$1Q95i
One	|
Topping	* v	|
Additional Toppings 95e ea.
Not Valid With Any Other Coupon. Open for Lunch!
HOURS:
Monday thru Thursday 11 AM -1 AM
Friday & Saturday 11 AM - 3AM
Sunday NOON-12AM
GO IRISH!
271-1177
a
PLS/PSY/ROFR
PLS 246 —• Fine Arts I — Austern, L.
Presentation: Lectures interspersed with class participation; discussion of slides of artworks and measures of music. Outside classroofti requirements included reading, listening to various types of “Western Art Music” and the viewing of two operas! There were no exams except for the final, and the class really served to educate, develop taste, and provide general knowledge. It was possible to get by by dbing few readings; it was also possible to read additional materials for edification and enjoyment.
Reading: A LOT of reading was required (sometimes a hundred or more pages at once), but not strongly required. It was sometimes difficult but almost always enjoyable. Books covered a wide variety of art and music books. Listening and looking at pictures was often assigned in addition to or in place of reading.
Organization: No quizzes, no tests, except the essay final, the questions on which were so amusingly put it hardly seemed like a final. It is open-notebook, more a test of broad concepts and ability to form and support an opinion than a test of factual knowledge. 3 papers, 3-5 pages, each 25%, final 15%, class participation and attendance 10%. The professor did the grading and although she stopped, taking attendance when she learned everyone’s name, she knew who was there because of the small class size.
Comm ent: This is one of the best classes I have ever taken. I learned a ton and had fun doing it. Professor Austem’s lectures were bright, interesting, humorous, a bit shocking at times, open, and altogether delightful. She is a tough grader but her comments helped us all to improve our writing and becausre she took improvement into account, I think in the end virtually everyone did fairly well. I’d take the class again in an instant. Some people thought it attempted to cover too much too quickly, which may be true and is unfortunate, but in spite of that we learned a lot and I know of no one who didn’t like the class.
PSY 354 — Abnormal Psychology — White, K.
Presentation: Because the class was fairly large (130 students), the class was predominantly in lecture format with very little discussion. Occasional films dealing with mental disorders were presented and made the class more interesting.
Reading: The reading was from one main text, Abnormal Psychology. It was one of the best texts that I’ve read in the Psychology department, and although there was a lot of reading, it was worthwhile.
Organization: The grade in the class was based on three exams of 50 multiple choice questions. No other requirements contributed to the final grade.
Comments: You must know both general and detailed information for the tests, especially from the lectures. Exam grading was sometimes very picky. Although some of the test questions were unfair, our final grades were pretty generous. Thebestpart of course was the reading. The lectures only reiterated the text with tiny details thrown in for interest sake.
PSY 462 — Dysfunctional Development — Schellenbach, C.
Presentation: The class is about 60 percent lecture and 40 percent discussion but discussion participation is not required for grading.
16
The lectures either gave a broad overview of the reading topics or focused on differentbutrelated topics. Shealso showed some videos and discussed them. The class size was small, 20 people, which was great for learning.
Reading: Our textbook was Developmental Psychology by Kessler. We also had four readings on reserve in the Psychology department The readings were understandable but they covered a lot of research findings which got really dry after you had read a bunch of them.
Organization: We had two 50-qucstion multiple choice and one 50-question cumulative/new material final which was also multiple choice. One research paper of 10-15 pages in length based on journal articles and a field interview. The paper assignment was pretty consuming, but it gave an in-depth feel for a related topic and was very worthwhile.
Comments: I enjoyed the class a lot. The small class size provided a great opportunity to actually get to know the psychology professor and to get involved in the discussion. The professor didn’t allow any extra credit points because it was a 400 level course and her lest questions covered a lot of material. Do not put off the readings until the last minute because it is too much to absorb. It is a very worthwhile course for a psychology major.
ROFR 102 — Beginning French II — Yin, X.
Presentation: We covered about ten chapters per semester; for each chapter of the text, we saw a video for two classes, then did grammar for one to two classes. The videos were enactments of the stories in the text
Reading: The only reading was of the boy-meets-girl story, in the text. They were rather short stories. .
Organization: For assignments we were to read the story and answer questions in the text before class. It was a minimal amount of work. We had tests every four to five classes over grammar, vocabulary, and oral dictation.
Comment: Our teacher (a graduate student) was very helpful and put a lot of effort into the course. However, the text was a bit disorganized, I thought, and was too oriented to learning how to speak colloquially and learning practical, everyday phrases in French rather than in learning vocabulary, verb tenses and grammar as a traditional text in a foreign language might.
ROFR 372 — Readings in French Literature II — MacKenzie, L.#
Presentation: This course is designed as an introduction to French Literature of the 18th, 19th and 20th Centuries. The course will be conducted in French.
Reading: The course will cover representative authors: Voltaire, Laclos, Lamartine, Baudelaire, Flaubert, Gidc, Sartre and others. Organization: A midterm, a final exam and a term paper will be required, as will active and assiduous class participation.
Comment: This class was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department's course description. An evaluator did take a different course taught by this professor last semester, and evaluated his teaching style: "MacKenzie's enthusiasm is con-tageous, andmakes a subject thatcould be potentially very dry quite interesting and enlightening."
SCHOLASTIC
*
ROIT / ROSP / STV / SOC / THEO
ROIT 102 — Beginning Italian II — Mangione, B.
Presentation: Lots of class participation with occasional films. On occasion we met ouside of classtime for a movie or dinner. Reading: Workbook supplemented lab assignments.
Organization: Many quizzes and oral presentations (one of each for every chapter). Midterm and final.
Comment: Mangione is fan to kid around with and has a terrific sense of humor. If you didn't study, though, you looked stupid — you have to do the homework before class or you were totally lost. Our class got to know each other on a personal level and became good friends outside of class; the way Mangione teaches promotes this.
ROIT 102 — Beginning Italian II — Bosco, P.
Presentation: Lots of teacher-student interaction. Films shown to help understanding.
Reading: Prego! text, workbook and lab manual.
Organization: Homework every class, quizzes about every 10-14 days (every chapter). A midterm and final. Attendance taken and required.
Comment: Teacher really cares about students and was more than willing to meet you out of class if he saw you having a problem. He was kind of a tough grader and emphasized oral proficiency.
ROSP 319 — Survey of Spanish Literature — Bauman, K. #
Presentation: This course is designed as an introduction to modem Spanish literture and to basic concepts of literacy analysis in Spanish. Lecture and class discussion. Course taught in Spanish. Reading: A selected group of 19th and 20th century Spanish plays, poetry and novels. The course will focus on the most representative works of the last two centuries' literary movements in Spain. Organization: Final grade will be determined by class attendance and participation, an oral presentation of approximately ten minutes, two term papers and a final exam.
Comment: This course was not reviewed; above information was taken from the department's course description. An evaluator did take a different course taught by this prfoessor last year, and evaluated his teaching style: "Bauman is a good teacher; he's very patient and helpful."
STV 400 - Contemporary Issues in Science, Technology and Values-V. McKim, C. Haklin
। Presentation: The class was a discussion format based on the
I readings.
! Reading: For each class, about 40 pages of reading were required, f	The reading was worthwhile—it directly related to the topic and the
selections were easy to read— most of the course readings came from More Work for Mother by Ruth Cowan.
Organization: The only requirement of the course was a five page i	paper on any topic related to the course.
j	Comment: I liked the Class. It was definitely worthwhile and I
i would take it again. STV 400 focuses on a different topic each semester and gives students a chance to voice their opinion on the :	topic.
SOC 102 — Understanding Societies — Christiano, K.
;	Presentation: Lecture format with Friday tutorials and a few films
; NOVEMBER 7,1991
fc——— ---------------------------------=^8;=^=
Reading: There were weekly readings to prepare for lectures, but you didn’t need to read them at all to do well.
Organization: No homework was given, but there were three tests (including midterm and final) and one paper approximately five pages in length. Exams were four questions where you had a choice, some matching involved.
Comment: I thought the classes were boring, but if you read before the test and practiced your essay topics you were set
SOC 122 — Social Psychology — Welch
Presentation: Straight lecture format
Reading: 3-4 chapters per test
Organization: Attendance not required or taken. Movies were shown during a class period once every other week or so. Four tests were required including a non-cumulative final.
Comment: Lectures are not particularly interesting. Copies of class notes are available at the Freshman Learning Resource Center. Tests cover major concepts and consist of true/false, multi-choice, matching, and fill in the blank. Movies are not on the tests.
THEO 200- Foundations of Theology -Miceli
Presentation: Most classes were just lectures of the readings with very little discussion. One or two days we watched slide shows. Taking notes is essential I
Reading: Various readings from the Old andNew Testaments, East of Eden, and a C.S. Lewis book. Although the biggest reading was East of Eden, the rest of the readings were not very long.
Organization: There were two papers, two tests, and a final. The papers were only 3-4 pages in length. Exams were completely multiple choice. Attendance was mandatory for a decent grade. Comment: Miceli is very chauvanistic, and for this reason there were only a few girls in the class, and his altitudes towards women are unnecessary in a classroom. The class was very straightforward, but didn’t have anything special to offer. I would not recommend it.
THEO 235 — The Sacramental Principle — Himes, M.
Presentation: The course is taught predominantly in lectures, although these are casual and conversational. Any questions are welcomed and discussed. Examination material comes largely from class notes, but an understanding of the texts is helpful.
Reading: The amount of reading is not overwhelming, and the selection is not too difficult. The assignments may enrich one’s knowledge, but they are not necessary to do well on the exams. Organization: There is a midterm (one essay question and several identifications), a ten page paper on a sacrament of your choice and a final oral exam. The oral examination is great for one-on-one discussion with Fr. Himes and a very rewarding experience. Attendance is not taken, but you’ll want to attend class anyway. I think a graduate student does help grade papers and midterms, but Fr. Himes grades everything over again, anyway.
Comment: This is definitely the best course I have taken at Notre Dame. Himes is the most brilliant teacher I’ve ever had. The lectures are energetic, enlightening, thorough and unified. It is not uncommon for students to leave class excitedly discussing theday’s lecture. This is a soul-searching class. It is not difficult, but if you take it with a grade-oriented mentality you have completely missed the point
17
THEO / BIOS
THEO 250 — Roads to God — Cavadini, J.
Presentation: Lectures were good. The professor presented one interpretation of the readings that could be used or not for papers. I enjoyed lectures. They were not so concentrated as some of my other class lectures, but they were comfortable.
Reading: Although the professor stressed that we would have a heavy reading load, it was not that bad. Readings were not necessary for class (although they were helpful in following the lecture), but they were necessary for papers and for the final.
Organization: Three papers and a comprehensive final. The professor graded everything, and was very thourough in his comments on the papers. He urges all students to come to talk about then-papers after they were graded, and although at first I was a bit intimidated, I found that experience to be very helpful and encouraging.
Comment: The professor was really nice. He made an effort to get to know each and every student. The readings I usually didn’t find so interesting when reading on my own, but I usually felt more positive about the views they were presenting and their historical significance after class.
THEO 251 — Vocation to be Human — O’Neill, M.
Presentation: Lectures very much discussion-oriented — The professor usually presented an initial point/topic and then encouraged discussion of our own opinions. We watched videos occasionally in class and the class was frequently broken up into smaller groups to facilitate more discussion. Also required to see the movie “Jesus of Montreal” and a video dealing with gender out of class. All reading and class discussion material proved to be very essential for quizzes and tests.
Reading: Required to read portions of five books. The reading was interesting and a knowledge of the reading was necessary for discussion. Readings varies from easy, “Man’s Search for Meaning,” to very difficult, “Images of Man.”
Organization: No homework, aside from outside reading and occasional movies or videos. Grades based on nine quizzes (announced / one could be dropped), four short papers (2-3 pages), a midterm and a final — each section counted for 25 percent of total grade. Midterm and final exams were a combination objective and essay. Portions of midterm were cumulative. Attendance was taken every class, but class participation was not factored into the grade. Comment: The class was interesting, but in my opinion, it was organized very much like a high school class. Often, instead of emphasizing theological discussion of broader topics, O’Neill only appeared interested in historical facts which really didn’t possess much significance—particularly evident on frequent quizzes. On the midterm and papers, O’Neill appeared to be a very fair grader. She was a critical evaluator of work but proved very open to individual opinions if you could back up what you said. Although O’Neill was a self-admitted feminist, she never came across as overbearing; nevertheless, mainly considering the organization of the course and lack of meaningful theological discussion, I would think twice before taking this course again. -
THEO 254 — Christian Spiritual Experience — Vidal, J.
Presentation: The lectures were interesting and very animated. Outside readings are not covered but are helpful.
18
Reading: This includes several texts in the Reserve Book room which aren’t required but are helpful. You have to do a book report on a non-required work chosen from a list: Confessions from St. Augustine and Dante’s Divine Comedy.
Organization: There is no homework or quizzes, but class participation is graded. Besides the book report, there arc two take-home exams. Your grade is based 50 percent on your exams and 50 percent on your paper.
Comment: Vidal is animated and interesting, and his class is easy and fun. I would take it again, and almost everyone in class felt the same way.
THEO 281 — War/Law/Ethics — Whitmore, T.*
Presentation: Lectures, based on readings; three guest lecturers, I and two videos, integrated challenging issues such as the Iraq — Kuwait War. Guest speakers offered a spectrum of opinions.
Quizzes drew directly from lectures and readings. He encourages and expects open comments to generate discussion (at least 15 minutes at end of class).
Reading: A few books, including The Challenge of Peace (Bishop’s Pastoral) and two “packets.” The readings were of various lengths (most 10-15 pages; longest was 30 pages), difficulty andinterest They wererequired(expectedtobedonebeforeclass), usually one per class period. They were occasionally tedious but often interesting and quite engaging with the lectures.
Organization: Readings were assigned according to lecture topic (followed syllabus). There were frequent quizzes on related units (50 percent of grade) and one final exam (50 percent of grade). The quizzes were six short answers (30 points total each quiz — with i lowest score dropped), the exam ten short-answer and two essays.
The TA and the professor both graded. Attendance was taken, and any class missed required a one-page summary of the reading.
Comment: It’s an excellent class because Whitmore is very approachable and eager to hear various opinions. He obviously wants to generate ethical thinking, not just for those on either end of	;
the war-peace spectrum, but for anyone interested in current political issues and past historical analysis. It’s engaging to ROTC and Peace Studies-types alike and highly recommended to all future officers who take their responsibilities and duties seriously. While this class is not difficult to do well in, it is very challenging to the conscience. This class is highly recommended!
BIOS 341 — Cell Biology — McAbee, D.
Presentation: The professor’s animated style kept this lecture- : formatted class interesting. He frequently brought in examples and visual aids.	j
Reading: Challenging, in-depth textbook was the only required reading. The text supplemented lecture material, providing good examples and more detailed notes.
Organization: Three tests and two quizzes. The tests were generally short answer, and grades were based on test scores only. The scores are adjusted to the highest score on the, exam. Attendence is not required, but it is a good idea in order to get anything out of the ‘ course.
Comment: Great class, great professor. Focus is on cell morphol-ogy and function (membranes, organelles, etc.) rather than on : chemical processes. There is no need for boring memorization of ■ ; photosynthetic cycles.
SCHOLASTIC
BIOS / CHEM / PHYS /MATH / ACCT
BIOS 412 — General Ecology — Lodge, D.
Presentation: Lectures often supplemented by slides. The small class size often allowed for question/answer sessions and discussion of problem solving.
Reading: Textbook readings sometimes supplemented by reserve readings.
Organization: There was a research paper of 10-15 pages, a long lab report (10-15 pages) and three tests including the final.
Comment: Great introduction to the true principles and methods of ecology. Lots of field trips for lab and a good grad student assistant. Highly recommended for its focus on thinking rather than memorizing.
BIOS 426:— Human Genetics — Bender, H.
Presentation: Classes are lecture format based on overheads, slides, and videos.
Reading: Biology textbook chapters.
Organization: There is a midterm, final, and a paper or project. Question sheets are provided to prepare for the midterm and groups usually split up the questions and exchange answers.
Comment: I liked this class for the most part. It does not require much work exceptfor the two exams and thepaper/project. Bender is very approachable as far as answering questions and providing help. Also, because he is a ‘genetics’ doctor, Bender provides many personal experiences in the hospital which is really added to the class.
CHEM 224 — Elem Organic Chemistry II — Freeman, J.
Presentation: Pure lecture that runs very far ahead of the students. Reading: Reading the text is essential.
Organization: Tests every 4-5 chapters.
Comment: Lectures very dry and unorganized; class moves really fast, and it’s difficult to survive. I would never suggest this class to anyone, but it's required for Bio majors, so just do your best. I was not terribly impressed with Dr. Freeman as a lecturer.
PHYS 222 — Physics H — Chagnon, P.
Presentation: Lecture format that includes some demonstrations, explanations of problems. Lab required.
Reading: Physics textbook chapters.
Organization: Four tests and a cumulative final are included. Lab section usually lasts for about two hours with required write-ups. Comment: Honestly, I did not like this class at all. I did better on exams when I did not attend class and I found the professor very patronizing at times. Preparing for tests consists of reading the chapters, doing all of the assigned problems, and going over old tests. This method was made easier by group study.
PHYS 229 — General Physics HI — Apprahaman, A.
Presentation: Most classes were just lectures, sometimes demonstrations or experiments, and usually part of the class was devoted to working problems. There was also a lab that met once every other week and write-ups were due for each lab.
Reading: Physics for Scientists and Engineers textbook. Fairly understandable with a good number of examples and lots and lots of
NOVEMBER 7, 1991
practice problems.
Organization: There are no homework assignments, but working the problems in the book is essential. There are three tests and a cummulative final. The tests are problems (4-5) and must be worked out for full credit.
Comment: This is the only Physics 229 class offered off-sequence so if you need to take it there aren’t any other options. The prof is very knowledgable, but goes too in derpth on topics, (i.e., spends time talking about things way over our heads) She is, however, very willing to help students on an individual basis.
MATH 222 — Algebraic Structures — Goetz, A.
Presentation: Lectures were thorough and prepared. Participation is not required but encouraged if something is not clear.
Reading: There is a text to aid in the homework.
Organization: There is homework every night but no quizzes. There are three exams, graded on a curve. Final grade was based on the exams and the homework.
Comment: The professor was good; he has an accent but is not very difficult to understand. He is quite knowledgable and answers questions in an understanding way. Though the class was difficult, I liked it
ACCT 232—Managerial Accounting — Pizarek, M.
Presentation: The information includes test and general knowledge. Lecture format.
Reading: One book, a chapter a week, maybe. The textbook is fairly basic. Students can safely choose to faithfully attend all classes and take good notes or to faithfully read and dissect all material in the book; each option satisfactorily prepares the student for each exam. Organization: Quizzes are announced, and there is homework and assignments once a week. Your grade is based on tests, extra credit, participation, and homework. The grading is done by the teacher and a grad student.
Comment: The lectures are a tad trite and boring. The professor is an easy grader. Lectures are dull. The professor seemed unprepared to answer questions. I do not recommend that you take the course. ACCT 372 — Quantitative Methods in Accounting — Tidrick
Presentation: Offers a lecture packet at the beginning of the semester for all the lectures; lectures 1-2 days about the material then goes over problems; makes readings clearer; only test on problems he goes over. You don’t really need to read, but it helps you understand it better if you do.
Reading: Quantitative Methods for Business (Sweeny) a great book, very clear, easy to understand. Cost Accounting don’t really need, borrow if you want it, not a whole lot of reading at all.
Organization: There is homework everyday, but not collected. He goes over most assignments and puts them on reserve. Seven quizzes (easy) and drops two -10 percent. Keeps you current. Announced quizzes. Three 100 point exams including final (noncumu-lative). Just problems like homework. Exams equal 30 percent, 10 percent quizzes. Attendence never taken, not sure who grades.
Comment: A great class. Very nice guy, jokes with you, relates well, pretty young. My first choice for Quant, fair grader, not difficult if you know how to do the problems. Most students liked
19
I
FIN / BA / MGT / MARK / UPS
him a lot. He will let you out early if he’s said what he needs to say.
FIN 361 — Business Conditions Analysis — Sheehan, R.
Presentation: The material followed the book. The overhead projector was used every class the entire class.
Reading: A lot.
Organization: There were three exams and three short papers. Exams were comprehensive and true-and-false, with explanations; problems; and multiple-choice with explanation. Attendence was required.
Comment: I hated the material and the teacher was very dry. I took the class because it was a requirement.	;
FIN 370 —Investments Theory — McDonald, B.
Presentation: Lecture style, with great deal covered in the lecture. Reading: No reading required; notes necessary to study for tests. Organization: Three tests and two major projects. The tests are mainly theoretical — 30 multiple choice and a few short answer. The projects are very time consuming. Attendance is mandatory; three or more absences hurt final grade.
Comment: A good class, but nost of it was also in Business Financial Management Not much new material. Wanted more on options and future markets. I enjoyed the material, so the class was worthwhile; otherwise, I don’t know if the teacher brought enough into the class.
BA 230 — Statistics — Chang, T.C.
Presentation: The lectures are surprisingly interesting. He gives you a choice to purchase a copy of class notes so you don’t need to take any yourself.
Reading: Do it before class.
Organization: There are 3 tests (non-cummulative final). You can use all your notes, equations, book, etc. on the test which is key. Partial credit tests taken primarily from homework.
Comment: He likes you if you go to class, so do it. One of the best Stats teachers. I highly recommend him, he’s cool.
MGT 231 — Intro to Management — Szwajkowski, E.
Presentation: Strictly lecture format.
Reading: Only one text was required, Management for Productivity. An extremely thorough reading of the text probably isn’t necessary, but the text was not difficult to read at all.
Organization: The course was almost solely based on combined grades of three exams, including the final exam. Quizzes and papers were not a part of the course, and once again the opportunity to earn extra credit was presented. All exams were multiple choice, though in fairness students were given the opportunity to question the professor’s answers or explain their own. Attendance, which was considered an opportunity to earn extra credit, was taken every class. Comment: I thought this class was a very worthwhile introductory business course for any student not in the College of Business. Most of the information was interesting, although much of the material could simply be classified as common sense. The only real drawback to this course was the lectures, which proved to be extremely boring. I would recommend MET 231 as a worthwhile elective course.
20
MGT 240 — Business Computers — Bualuan, R.
Presentation: Good lectures, straight from the book, but interesting lectures for exam and general knowledge..
Reading: One chapter a week, two books.
Organization: Ten homeworks, no quizzes, no papers, no attendance. Exams are multiple choice, short answer, and true/false. The final grade is made of exams and homework. Grading is by professor and students.
Comment: Fair class, I enjoyed the teacher a lot. A good teacher for any class. I would take the class, but only if he was teaching it. He’s a fair grader, doesn’t want you to do badly.
MARK 231 — Principles of Marketing — Etzel, M.
Presentation: Casual lectures incorporating text material into current examples and applications. Class attendence was not necessary toperform well on exams, however 99 percent of the class showed up everyday because it was so interesting.
Reading: Approximately one chapter covered each class day—20-30 pages. Text: Fundamentals of Marketing, written in part by Etzel — excellent.
Organization: Five short papers (two pages) on analysis of a marketing case. Exams: multiple choice, fill-in and short essay; requires COMPLETE knowledge of text.
Comment: Etzel is very congenial and interesting. Students will learn the fundamentals of marketing and enjoy it.
MARK 231 — Principles of Marketing — Root, A.
Presentation: Lectures, notes, films, computer simulation, discussions, presentations.
Reading: You usually have to read one to two chapters a week. There is only one book.
Organization: There is an assignment/homework once every week. Attendance is not taken. There are no quizzes or.papers, but you do have to do one presentation. There are four multiple-choice exams. The grading of the exams, assignments, and the presentation is done by the professor.
Comment: The teacher’s notes are somewhat hard to decipher. It’s a good class and it’s fun to do the simulation. Don’t expect to get over an A-in this class. Only a few people did. The average grade was B+ or B. It’s an easy class if you want a B, but a hard one if you want an A. The professor is a hard grader.
HPS 320 — Introduction to Peace Studies — Lopez, G.
Presentation: Lecture and discussion format.
Reading: A great deal of reading is required but it is not overwhelming. Examples of authors include Martin Luther King, Jr., Gandhi, Dorothy Day and Lao Tzu.
Organization: Two to three papers, seven to ten pages each, were required (your choice on weighting 50/50 or 33 percent each). Attendance is not taken and guest speakers were used. Professor Lopez did all of the grading.
Comment: Professor Lopez is a good teacher in that he wants his students to learn, read and think rather than simply memorize for tests. His lectures were fascinating and dynamic, and very thought-provoking. However, the class size was too large (o ver 100 people). This hindered fruitful class participation.
SCHOLASTIC
Distributed by Tribune Media Services
<'?S^T^F'TK7'^'-7!v -^v	-7^	-7T' -7F1 '/fv	;^;ij||£
STUDENT UNION BOARD present
STUDENT UNION BOARD
In Concert at Stepan Center
Tuesday Rovember 19, 6 pm
Tte&tfc® on sale at LaFortune Info Desk starting Thursday
Nov. 7	/
$6 WSMC students
$ 12 general public
Limit 4 ID's per person/ 1 ticket per ID
jJOTUOT MW»OT« miUMIlDAY 7
m ©AiLMA’irnANS
MM7 8 &
SATOIWAY 3)
Shown in Cushing Auditorium 8:00 p.m. & 10:30 p.m.
Admission is $2
4k 4k 4k- 4k- 4k-4k- 4k- 4k- 4k- 4k-4k- 4k- 4k- 4k- 410 4k 41/^ a!z. a1z. a1z. .U/. .viz. .u/. a1z. .viz. a1z. ^|v