Volume 73
February 23, 1940
Number 17
CAP AND GOWNED Seniors Honor in the best Bond Street Washington tradition and a bit skittish on the Main
Building steps, the class of ’40 inarched in double-file to Washington Hall yesterday morning to take part in the 96th annual Washington Day exercises.
(See page 5) ♦
PROFESSOR Henry Froning, Just B. Froning, head of Get New Posts the department of chemistry and chemical engineering, and Dr. Theodor K. Just, both of the University, have been named administrative director of the College of Science, and head of the department of biology, respectively. They succeed the late Rev. Francis T. Wenninger, C.S.C.	(See page 9)
THE SOPHOMORES FDR Pads Lead of Lyons and Morris-as Sophs Vote sey Halls gave Franklin Delano Roosevelt a decisive majority of votes as the Scholastic presidential poll enters its third successive week. Voting reached a new high as 204 Sophomores indicated their choices; 137 votes went Democratic while 67 were Republican. (See page 9)
❖
COACH Layden’s foot-It’s Work! Ask ball men go through a Bengal Boxers strenuous workout each fall; Coach Keog-an’s floor stars run, run, and run some more in the early practice sessions; Coach Nicholson’s track men bend and stretch for weeks before hitting the cinders. But the Bengal Boxers are the men who really sweat and strain for perfect condition.	(See page 12)
Speaker — the Rev. Jahn K. Ryan, of Catholic University, discussed “Religion and
Nationalism” at philosophical symposium. (See page 6)	'

Ben Ames Willi®"’in	garret, an ol^_deting
^stening ou^e	,	BEM AMES WILLIAMS
My Grandmother s Leg
NEVER HAVE A DAUGHTER ! You never know, when she leaves the house, whether she’ll come back with a horse, a set of paints, a trombone, or a husband. Push a daughter into this boy-girl business, and you’ll be sorry. Don't push her, and you’ll be sorry. Take the case of Mary, .'.in Gladys Taber’s new story, Letter to the Dean.
OUR NEXT PRESIDENT WILL BE .. . Garner? Joe Martin? McNutt? Taft? Wheeler? Dewey? New York’s Robert Moses dopes the chances of the current darkand light horses and gives his fellow Republicans an election tip in his Post article, The Political Olympics.
WHAT PILOTS NEVER TELL... and what passengers never hear—are the words that fly between pilot and co-pilot on a treacherous night when they’re trying to set a giant transport down in a tropical squall. Airline pilot Leland Jamieson cracks out an exciting story of airline flying, in this week’s Post, Co-Pilots Don't Talk Back.
THE BARBER WHO EARNED HIS FUNERAL.
Old William, for private reasons, decided to collect his buryin’ moneys before he died. And was double-crossed at his own funeral . A.short story, Mortgage on the Home, by Price Day.
DEATH OF A MOUNTAIN CLIMBER. Five people who read this story in manuscript asked. “When did this happen? I didn’t see it in the newspapers.” This story of a conflict between two men on an icy peak 28,000 feet up is fiction, but it’s so realistic you’ll swear it actually happened! Read Top Man, .by James Ramsey Ullman.
SCREWBALL BUSINESS, BUILDING BOMBERS! Do you know why it would be useless for foreign spies to steal the blueprints for a U. S. Army bomber? Why the “simple” business of building bombers drives sane production men mad ? Here’s what goes on in the factory from Zto A! Read Bombers by the Pound.
UNCLE SAM, KEEP HANDS OFF MEXICO! So you think Mexico would be all right if the Communists left it alone? Cross out Communists, says this author, and write in Uncle Sam, and you’re nearer right. An informed Mexican shows you hbw Uncle Sam has balled things up by meddling South of the Border.
AND... Another installment in Walter D. Edmonds' colorful circus novel, Red Wheels Rolling; more of Dime Store, the life of Frank Wr. Woolworth: editorials, Post Scripts, cartoons.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by Jack Wittmann
find some terpsichorean lady to gloat over it in the very warm for May season.
❖
It’s Sympathy—of a Sort
If we print jokes, people say we are silly.
If we don’t, they say we are too silly.
If we clip things from other papers, we are too lazy to write them ourselves.
If we don’t, we are too fond of our own stuff.
If we don’t print contributions, we don’t appreciate genius.
If we do print them the paper’s filled with junk.
If we make a change in other people’s write-ups, we are too critical.
If we don’t we are asleep.
Now, like as not someone will say we swiped this from some other paper.
Well, they are absolutely correct!
—The Springhillian.
Duck-soup for the Drakes
“Too many students think college is just a memory course,” says Prof. Herman Brandt. This is a faculty opinion given in the recent study investigation at Drake University. To seek for a panacea for the acquisition of knowledge is to waste time in obtaining the end. Procrastination—the mental bugaboo from Hamlet to the frosh who flunked Pearldiving 108b—is the greatest handicap to most students, and the best remedy is to make out a schedule and stick to it. If you can’t stick to the study schedule, make out a schedule to make you adhere to the original. And so—ad infinitum.
troversy resulted from Time’s description of the Buckeye school as a big, sprawling, ungainly institution—partly trade school, partly convention bureau, partly “service station but as a university, hardly.” State’s alumni secretary followed the Time - honored policy of writing a scourging letter demanding restitution to the alma mater’s honor. Time backtrod to the extent of denying any intention of “belittling Ohio State.”
❖
Seen in the Local Parade. . . .
Was a close follower of collegiate activities at a local educational plant.
Around the Campi
Morningside College does the stilted college which observe “Hello Day“ one better by calling it “Hi-yah Day.” . . . The prolific publicity given Gone With The Wind prompted a Canadian student to transfer to the U. of Georgia—something of the same sort rankled in Bill DeCorrevont’s mind.... The flags of seven nations have flown over the territory that is now Louisiana State University campus, but only one dictator reigned .... The U. of Oklahoma has rules which prohibit the playing of swing music on the campus—almost a voluntary surrender of the right to be called an American college.... Harvard has received a donation of 57,000 orchid specimens and $68,000 to care for them.... If some kind donor will ship 666 to the senior class at Notre Dame they will
We Were Surprised
They were sitting on the sofa, one evening, with' the usual half-hour between remarks.
“Isn’t it funny,” she said, “that the length of a man’s arm is the same as . the circumference of a girl’s waist?”
“Is that so?” said he mildly interested. “What do you say if we get a piece of string and see if it’s right?”
—Sour Old ♦
Ties that Blind
On a crowded street-car.
“Madam, would you like me to get you a strap?”
“No thank you, I have one.”
“Then would you mind letting go of my neck-tie?”—The Pointer.
❖
Professor Turns Pragmatist
So much student and lay criticism has been sniped at the nation’s faculty members that a savior has risen up to vindicate his fellows. To Time magazine from the headship of Drake’s department of journalism goes Emery H. Ruby who will be granted a six months leave of absence from the University. In his new position the erstwhile professor will do research work in the magazine’s New York office. This venture strikes a sound note in teaching policy in that practical work for the theories of the class-room would stimulate their professional interests and bridge the gap between campus and business life.
Gone Are the Good Old Days
When fraternity bothers bought cigarets.
When people ate things that came in cans.
When a babe meant a child.
When dancers moved their feet.
When co-eds came home with the same guy they started out with.
When students went to classes.
When map meant a geographical chart.
When neck, as a part of speech, was a noun.	—Awgivan.
“Time” Tramples On. . . .
Ohio State’s toes. The squabbles between college and magazine press started when Northwestern’s greek letter organizations were allegedly reamed by the conniving reporters and photographers of Look magazine. The latest con-
Far, Far above Cayuga’s Waters. ...
Lies Cornell where the Widow is printed to coax student guffaws, satirize campus life, and plague the Daily Sun. But this tale concerns a young professor who was trying to explain to his class where a certain famous predecessor had lived. The class was in its habitual state of pained nonchalance, somewhere between sleep and reverie. “You know Cascadil-la Hall?” He hesitated.... and then he went on confidently, “It’s right where the liquor store is now.” As a man the class nodded a sigh of instant recognition and the young pedant went on to less important things.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week By Frank Wemhoff
MY DEAR SIR:
Top of the Week
Confucius say: “In Dining Hall bum steer not always mean bad advice.”
Send in the stand-in
A group of engineers were toeing the mark for the ten-minute deadline hoping that their English professor had forgotten to set the alarm. Just before the exodus began in walked Mr. O’Malley who announced that he would conduct the class. The engineers were treated to a lecture that left them slightly weak, but gratified. At the next class the recalcitrant prof returned, unaware of his benefactor. After the faithful bell rang, one of the freshman engineers went up to his professor and said, “Say, that corrector you sent in yesterday was plenty* good.”
Here and there
It was a brainy idea to have the monogram men distribute and pick up, especially pick up, the little brown boxes.... Mize Morris, the man with the original nothing ball, had one of his Valentines from the “Rock” intercepted and substituted. ... result was that he sent a scorcher back to a very surprised miss .... Sammy Nield tells the story with a few more concrete details.... The Periscope soaks his raven tresses in the drinking fountain every night at 11.... The Milwaukee Journal reports that Notre Dame students consume 89,200 pieces of assorted pastry a month.... which means we are insulted 29731/3 times a day.... That young Mississippian who wheedled his prom date into a Book-of-The-Month club membership has just received his premium.... The Perennial Bachelor.
❖
Crack of the Week
When one of his students remarked
how he was effected by certain types of verse, Professor Nims remarked, “Let’s not discuss poetry in terms of thermodynamics.”
In the feedbag	.
Ed Huston, owner of the campus’ only registered ouija board, won a green buck at Rosie’s on a bet that he couldn’t sit under the table and down a whole plate of da spaghet.... probably Rosie’s can now claim that the place is so clean you can eat off the floor.... for two dollars Mr. Huston will eat in the dining hall on Friday night.... or noon.... or morning.... And while we are qn the subject of the dining hall two dating Juniors called up the dining hall Sunday afternoon and said that they wouldn’t be able to be back at school by 6 o’clock and would Tommy Owens please save them a slight snack.... reminded that it was contrary to dining hall policy, one of the pranksters assumed a lazy old Louisville twang and shouted, “This is John Hennessey and I demand my rights.”... and The Hen is expecting a white card any day now....
The prodigal
Prof. Engels established some sort of a record the other day.... He returned a book to the library that he had taken out in 1924.... Let’s see.... 16 years.... two cents a day.... time marches on.... That’s about 120 iron men.... or enough money to lay a concrete walk on that par 5 path from Sorin to the Main building .... incidentally Mr. Engels slid a trombone in Isham Jones’ band for 12 years .... which makes our Shakespeare profs quite famous men.... they even act and write books....
Bottom of The IFeck
Clearance Sale! Caps and Gowns $2.50.
Feb. 17, 1940 Dear Mr. Fay:
When I read “College Parade” in The Notre Dame Scholastic of Feb. 9,1 was rather amazed at Mr. Willmann’s glowing approval of Varsity. It is true that the magazine is “pictorially resplendent and typographically accurate,” but I question his statement that Varsity “does not throw its scope to the shoddy angle of the humorists....”
Some of us who read the comment wondered if Mr. Willmann endorsed Varsity as being representative of collegiate life. From what we have heard of Notre Dame, it would scarcely seem typical of Varsity’s representation of university life. Perhaps Mr. Willman judged the magazine rather hastily.
Alma Gallagher, Editor, Fagots Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College
Dear Miss Gallagher:
We did mean to deliver your letter and a sharp reprimand to Mr. Willman, but he sneaked by us again. You are familiar with the type of columnist who is always late, Miss Gallagher? Well, we haven’t seen Mr. Willman in almost four weeks now. He just slides his copy under the office door. We posted lookouts Wednesday night but still we couldn’t catch the sly rascal. So we are printing your letter where Mr. Willman can’t help seeing it — right alongside Mr. Wemhoff’s column. (Confidentially, Miss Gallagher, there is considerable rivalry between Mr. Willman and Mr. Wemhoff and each pretends not to read the other’s column. It all began when Mr. Willman stole one of Mr. Wemhoff’s original sources from the “Week” file.)
But, de justibus non est disputandum, Miss Gallagher. We shall have to let you and Mr. Willman thresh out your own problems.
However, we are concerned if Mr. Willman’s column has conveyed the idea to you that our life here is anything less than monastic.1 We really don’t have much fun, Miss Gallagher—just all boys together with our games and our books. There is talk, though, of organ recitals for Sunday afternoons; and, since radio has come in, we do get the Opera from the Met every Saturday.
We understand your point of view perfectly, Miss Gallagher, but we warn you that the diabolical Willman almost certainly will read into your second-from-last sentence a feeling of frustration.	—W. C. F.
1 We are sending under separate cover one (1) copy of the Student Manual. There is a small charge of 10 cents to cover cost of handling.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	'
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1919.
« IM
Volume 73
February 23, 1940.
No. 17.
Headin' For the Last Roundup—Seniors Don Cap and Gown for Washington Day Exercises—Next Stop Commencement.
Cap and gowned in the best Bond St. tradition and a bit skittish on the slippery Main Building steps, the class of ’40 marched in double-file to Washington Hall yesterday morning to take part in the 96th annual Washington Day exercises and to hear the address of the Honorable Samuel B. Pettengill, former congressman from Indiana.
Class president Harry V. Boisvert presented an American flag ■— traditional gift of the seniors — to the Rev. President J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. “ ‘No people can be bound to acknowledge and adore the Invisible Hand which conducts the affairs of men more than the people of the United States,’ ” said Boisvert, recalling the words of Washington’s First Inaugural Address. Boisvert concluded with the wish, “May God preserve the peace and liberty which is invisibly written in its folds.”
“The Farewell Address was not written for a moment, nor for a year, or a century but for all time,” declared Class Orator William V. McVay, in speaking of “Washington — His Problems and Ours.”
SENIORS HONOR WASHINGTON
McVay pointed out that Washington believed religion and morality were the indispensable supports of political prosperity; then cited the lack of these essentials in the modem world which is overrun with false political and religious philosophies. “Nor was religion lacking in the life of our First President,” added McVay. “He sought God in trials and thanked Him in victories. We know well of the legend of Washington as he prayed in the snow at Valley Forge.”
McVay quoted Washington’s warning of the dangers of party spirit — a timely reminder in an election year — “A fire not to be quenched, it demands a uniform vigilance to prevent its bursting into a flame, lest, instead of warming it should consume.”
“Is there anyone who is not aware of the present propaganda menace?” asked McVay. “Our newspapers are saturated with false reports . . . yet Wash
ington says: ‘Nothing is more essential than that permanent, inveterate antipathies against particular nations, and passionate attachments for others, should be excluded; and that, in place of them, just and amicable feelings toward all should be cultivated.’ ”
McVay said he himself would not discuss the turmoil that is modem Europe and the international position and obligations of the United States, but he recalled the words of Washington: “There can be no greater error than to expect or calculate upon real favors from nation to nation. It is an illusion, which experience must cure, which a just pride ought to discard.”
He concluded by saying: “This morning we give a flag as a two-fold pledge of allegiance — to country and to Notre Dame. . . , It is our hope that Notre Dame may in giving us to the nation give the type of man she desires to give; men whom Washington would have been proud to lead at Valley Forge; men in whom Washington would be proud to entrust the care of the nation he loved so well.”—Jim Brugger	.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Students Review Symposium
Noted Philosophers Discuss ‘Religion and Modern Society’
Commerce students moved by a curiosity of the Intellectual, professors by desire, and undergraduate philosophers by necessity thronged the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering last week end to attend the second annual philosophical symposium.
Noted philosophers—the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Daniel C. O’Grady and Francis J. O’Malley of the University faculty; A. C. Pegis and Robert Pollock of Fordham University; Bernard J. Mul-ler-Thym of St. Louis University, the Rev. John K. Ryan of Catholic University, Walter- M. Horton of Oberlin College, the Rev. Richard Gabel of DeSales College, the Rev. William H. Kane, O.P., of River Forest, and Samuel C. Kincheloe of the Chicago Theological Seminary — discussed “Religion and Modern Society.”
The addresses by Mr. O’Malley and Mr. Muller-Thym were reviewed in the last issue of the Scholastic. The following reviews have been prepared by Senior philosophy majors of the Seminar of the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., head of the undergraduate department of philosophy.
Position of Protestantism
Professor Walter M. Horton’s paper, “The Present Position of Protestantism,” was chiefly valuable for its scholarly objectivity. In clear outline, the lecture set forth an adequate interpretation of history, an analysis of the breakdown of modern Protestantism, and a discussion of the contemporary problem in sectarian religion. The following is a brief resume:
Christopher Dawson is undeniably correct when he postulates that Protestantism was at first indifferent to the rich heritage of Christian culture in Western Europe. In thb South, the Renaissance and the Reformation proceeded hand in hand, but in the North the Reformation was antagonistic to anything smacking of Catholic tradition or culture.. Protestantism is to be condemned for stifling much that was good and essential to European civilization.
With the coming of Calvin, however, Protestantism made its first great contribution to the Western World. It was the Calvinistic spirit which engendered
much of the industrial revolution; it was the New Protestantism which recognized and fostered the concept of applied science. The Calvinistic personality was particularly well suited for these things and it was this industrialists type of mind which laid the foundations for modern Capitalism and practical science.
Unfortunately, much of the present problem of Protestantism is due to this
Walter M. Horton
very contribution of the Calvinists. Their embryonic creation has become a monster; industrialism has passed beyond the control of its creators. Contemporary disorder and instability in the economic system are the only tanglible results of the Calvinistic effort. This phenomenon, however, is not new. There have been recurrent culture cycles all through history—cycles marked by a rich flowering of creative effort and a subsequent decline and corruption. As a matter of fact, the Catholic Church, itself, went through just such a cycle. The Church gave birth to a great artistic, cultural, and religious movement from the time of its founding up to the Middle Ages; but after the medieval period came decadence and corruption. It was the ren-novating spirit of the Reformation which lifted European civilization from the disintegration into which it had fallen. In a similar manner, Protestantism is faced today with the problem of rehabilitating the industrial order. The old
Reformation is dying and new rebirth is needed.
Protestantism today may be roughly - divided into three classes: the Conservative, which embraces traditional Lutheranism and Anglicanism; the Evangelical -which includes all the American sects from Lutheranism on the right, to various Unitarian groups on the left; and finally, Liberal or Neo - Protestantism which subscribes to no particular traditional heritage at all. By observing the break down of these three important Protestant groups an understanding of the contemporary problem may be achieved.
The greatest blow struck at modern Protestantism was the dissolution of the Lutheran Church in Germany. The German Lutherans were destroyed because of three fundamental errors: 1) they failed to accept, or even to recognize, new ideas and progressive intellectualism—they remained anti-intellectual in spirit; 2) they failed to recognize important industrial and social problems; and 3) they capitulated before the growing spirit of Nationalism in Germany prior to 1914. Because of their laxity, the Lutherans lost almost all of their followers in the intellectual and laboring classes. Ony the bourgeoisie remained faithful. And even this stout middleclass German group was swept away by the surrender of vital religious spirit to the new cult of Nationalism.
With religious conviction and traditional faith weakened, it was an easy step to the complete replacement of Lutheranism with some new doctrinaire Christianity. This new form of religion is Hitler’s so-called “Positive Christianity.” The new German religion is built on crude concepts of honor, pride, Nationalism, and jumbled Pantheism. Traditional Christianity is branded “Negative” by Hitler. According to Nazi dogma, traditional Christianity has made an obsession of sin; it is to be condemned for inhibition, humbling of pride, and supression of vital emotions in man. In this manner Lutheranism has been destroyed in Germany and replaced with a blind, naturalistic cult.
In England, Anglicanism is still fairly potent, but the laymen has lost the real Christian consciousness and tends to think more of his religion as a part of England than as a vital spiritual force.
At the present time the Scandinavian Protestants are the strongest and healthiest members of the Conservative group; In these countries, the Lutherans have healed the wounds which destroyed the church in Germany. They have eliminated a conflict between labor and re
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
ligions and have found compromise in the difference existing between scientific intellectualism and the traditional antiintellectual attitude of the Reformation.
Protestantism in the United States has been greatly weakened because both the Evangelical and Liberal groups have, to a great extent, lost their soul moving force. Thirty or forty years ago, the Methodists and other Wesleyan sects were strong in missionary spirit; lay evangelicism was a potent force in the United States, but today this firm religious conviction is gone.
The Liberals originally sought to bridge the gulf of anti-intellectualism and to bring a strong note of social reform into religion. They were greatly influenced by the deism and rationalism of the 18th century “enlightenment”; they subscribed to the Hegelian idealism of the 19th century and strongly supported Pragmatism when it appeared 40 years ago. But the Liberals were destroyed in America by two successive opponents: 1) the violent reactionary Fundamentalists; and 2) the American humanists who combined a rationalizing agnostic, pragmatic attitude to utterly destroy everything the Liberals erected.
At the present time, however, there is arising in the United States, and elsewhere in the world, a new Protestantism • which seeks to bring order out of tfte chaotic disintegration of sectarian religion. The new Protestantism studies the whole Christian tradition from the time of Christ to the present. It is formulating a new orthodoxy in theology and is abandoning the notion of inevitable progress and optimism. Some of the Neo-Protestants even given indication of returning to an Augustinian-Jansenism. It is hoped that this Neo-Ortho-doxy will perhaps bring Thomistic and Protestant theologians together—at least within “hailing distance” of each other.
The new Protestantism has fostered a monastic revival in Scotland and has adopted many current social reforms. It seeks, above all, to re-establish religion on a sound traditional basis, abolishing sectarianism and the destructive controversial issues which have torn Protestantism apart in the past.
The greatest objective of Neo-Ortho-doxy is to establish an Ecumenical order in Protestantism. By Ecumenical Congresses and by a general world consolidation, the new reformers seek to bring stability and vital religious conviction to a unified Protestant system.
—Albert P. Funk
Christian Cultural Dynamic
In his paper, “St. Thomas and the Christian Cultural Dynamic,” Robert Pollock, of Fordham University, emphasized a very important aspect of human life, which, unfortunately, does not always receive its rightful place in modern thought — the dynamic aspect of human affairs. Life is not static, but continuous and everchanging. A recognition of this fact is essential to the true thinker, whether he be a man of science or a man of religion.
Mr. Pollock criticized the almost universal tendency toward a compartmental view of history. This view makes arbitrary divisions of history into the ancient, medieval, and modem periods, but neglects to make a proper evaluation of the dynamic aspect of history.
With most historians the term “medieval” carries a derogatory connotation. For them the Renaissance was a liberation from the shackles of Medievalism. Whereas the Middle Ages were characterized as ecclesiastical, supernatural, and theological, the Renaissance was secular, empirical, and rational.
However, according to Mr. Pollock, such a conception of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance is a false one. The
Bernard J. Muller-Thym
faith of the Middle Ages and the reason of the Renaissance are dynamically interrelated. In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries we find the highest expressi« of the themes, both theological and secular, of the Middle Ages. Whereas the Greek had viewed nature with a cold intellectual eye, the Christian saw in nature the ever-present hand of God. Christianity elevated the contemplation of nature to a supernatural plane.
St. Thomas holds the secret to the in
fluence of Christianity on the pattern of human experience. Christians saw that to deny the autonomy of His handiwork would be to detract from God. Their very love for God propelled them to the affirmation of His numberless works, and in St. Thomas we find the culmination of that Christian movement. The study of St. Thomas is especially valuable for obtaining a thoroughly synoptic view of the Christian cultural dynamic.
In conclusion, Mr. Pollock pointed out the importance of the Thomistic view of Christian culture for the future, which is a dynamic and natural growth toward perfection. The two ideals of the progressive control of the natural environment and the progressive freedom and self-determination of man, which have dominated modern thought and endeavor, are not opposed to the medi-. eval spirit but rather have their very roots in Christianity. Today it is necessary to create a whole ahd integrated Catholic life if we are ever to achieve these two ideals.
—Robert J. Shea e
Nominalism
A. C. Pegis, of Fordham University, pointed out in his address, “Nominalism and the Educational Ideals of a Catholic College,” that John Dewey, the founder of the philosophy of instrumentalism, is likewise the father of modern American education. It is Dewey’s contention that the whole history of Western thought has been the tale of an abject enslavement to past philosophical traditions until he himself arrived upon the intellectual scene to free Western thought from its fetters. Aristotle and Plato, in the eyes of Dewey, were the ultimate causes for this cultural lag. Medieval thought was quite obviously in bondage to the two great Greeks, and the revolt of the sixteenth century was partial only. John Dewey, however, strove to make this liberation complete. His philosophical works have been a progressive statement of that liberation. .
Dewey believed that man to be truly emancipated must be free from obligation to Christianity, idealism, Greece and metaphysics. He held only one faith —the pragmatism of William James. This faith plus the scientific method issued in Instrumentalism. Dewey looked to the future and saw there alone hopes for human intellectual and cultural achievement. As far as he was concerned the great accomplishments of all Western thought in the past were merely a provincial incident. Instrumentalism was the tool with which to destroy the past and make the future yield its promises. To be modern one must translate
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Round Table—Daniel C. O’Grady, Samuel Kincheloe, Father Gabel, Father Kane
instrumentalism into living action. The modem man is the secularized man. Dewey makes a religion and a philosophy out of revolution. He consecrates error and naturalizes disorder, while inveighing against nature and law as tyrannical.
It is our duty to do more than deny the validity of Dewey’s position; it is also necessary to understand his position by investigating the history of the rise of modem thought and the decline of medieval thought. In such an investigation we find William of Ockam looming midway between the rise and fall. While it is true that there may be no direct connection between Dewey and Ockam, yet because of their connection in the order of ideas, Dewey’s revolt can only be intelligible if we grant the assumptions of Ockam as the true- explanation of philosophy.
Ockam’s modified nominalism destroyed and made a contradiction of metaphysics and speculative knowledge. In the doctrines of Ockam can be found the seeds of Dewey’s indignation with the order of the past. Dewey denies the absolute character of truth and holds forth for the naturalistic philosophy of the skeptic. He seeks only operational security—elimination of man’s servitude to nature by placing in man’s hands the means to acquire control over it. By translating these means into a religious faith will be attained the security of society and the establishment of the modern world. As a consequence meta
physics, theology and the supernatural must be crusaded against.
Catholic educators look out upon a system of education erected upon the teachings of John Dewey. It is the duty of the Catholic educator to be as enthusiastic and diligent in the thorough establishment of order as Dewey is in disorder. Unless the decline of intellectual thought is to continue, order and the integral unity of the Christian man must be restored. The educator who ignores the metaphysical nature of man and the metaphysical basis of man’s educatability is working in rational darkness.—Raymond Allen
Religion and Nationalism
In “Religion and Nationalism,” the Rev. John K. Ryan, of Catholic University, discussed the relationship between religion and by the different kinds of nationalism. By religion Father Ryan meant not a universal term that can be applied to any form of worship but rather the religion professed by the Church, One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic.
Nationalism is of two kinds: a moderate or true nationalism and an exaggerated or extreme nationalism. The first might be called the healthy nationalism of the Swiss, Irish and Americans. It is based on a community of interests centered about a single place or region; it is the character of a population which gives unique loyalty to the state. Loyalty is neither supreme nor exclusive.
Father Ryan named five great contrasts between Nationalism and Religion:
1.	Religion is relatively ancient and everlasting; whereas nationalism is the product of time and change, growing and dying in a comparatively short time, a modern phenomena.
2.	Religion in itself is immutable. Its doctrines can neither change nor fail. When one enters or leaves the Church he undergoes a real change within himself. But nationalism is temporal and local, changeable in itself and in its subjects. One can change loyalties without undergoing a change within himself. Nationalism is a matter of circumstance, experience and advantage.
3.	Religion is universal, for the whole man and for all men, whereas nationalism is for segments of the human race and at best merely asserts the superiority of the rights of one part of the human race over another part.
4.	Religion is concerned with absolute eternal truth. The Church is and of necessity ought to be infallible, concerned only with the True and the Good. But nationalism is concerned with what is expedient more than with what is true or good. It seeks the welfare of a particular group, at a particular time and under particular circumstances.
5.	Religion is supernatural, in its organization, construction, guidance, doctrine, means and end, has complete Theology and Philosophy; whereas nationalism cannot give a full comprehension of things being concerned only with the practical deed of the group, and benefiting only part of the people but part of the time.
Religion and nationalism can aid each other greatly if they work together. Unity is necessary for nationalism. If all the citizens of a state were united in religion the national unity would be strongest. Father Ryan cited Italy as an example of a state having nationalism and religion together. Religion can offer sanctions for the commands which nationalism puts forth.
To nationals and to individuals which are both governed by the natural law religion gives recognization of the dignity of the person. Self respect leads to respect of others. To make a nationalism truly great a strong family life is needed. The Church because of its position regarding the sanctity and the indissolubility of marriage is a valuable asset to nationalism.
Only in countries which have religion do we find truly great art. Through religious forms and terms the national spirit forms its best aesthetic expression
(Continued on page 16)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Appoint Froning, Just to Science Headships
Prof. Henry B. Froning, head of the department of chemistry and chemical engineering, and Dr. Theodor K. Just, both of the University, have been named administrative director of the University’s college of science, and head of the department of biology, respectively. The appointments were necessitated by the sudden death last week of Rev. Francis T. Wenninger, C.S.C., who was at the head of both departments.
Eulogizing the late dean, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, said that out of deference to his memory no permanent successor had been named. Both Prof. Froning and Dr. Just consented to serve during the interim.
Prof. Froning has been in the Notre Dame faculty since 1920. Prior to his advent at the University, Prof. Froning received a bachelor’s degree from St. Joseph college, Rensselaer, Ind., and then pursued graduate studies at Ohio State university, Columbus, and Johns Hopkins university, Baltimore, Md. From 1914 to 1919 he was on the Ohio State university faculty and spent a year with the Nizer laboratories in Cleveland, Ohio, and Detroit, Mich.
Dr. Just came to the University in 1929, a year after receiving his doctor of philosophy degree from the University of Vienna. During the interim he served as assistant curator of the herbarium of the National Museum at Vienna. Recently Dr. Just was named librarian and editor of the Lloyd Library of Botany, Pharmacy, Materia Medica’ & Chemistry in Cincinnati, Ohio.
A Little Green “Scrip”
Will Be Born March 1
In creased manuscripts under the doors, under pencils of the editors, and at last under the dirty thumbs of the typesetters, Scrip is again fomenting. It will appear in a bright green cover on March 1.
Among the essays of this issue, Robert Kennedy will examine the ethical system of Thoreau, his idea of man, and his ideas for reform. A second essay, by John W. Meaney, will be entitled “The Psychology of Aristotle.”
Chief among the poetry will be a Spanish poem “Invierno,” by Clarence Finlayson, translated into English by John Frederick Nims.
John Broderick has written a short story called “The Gamblers,” and Robert Schorsch presents one called “A Vest Button.”
In cowardly couplets. . . .
From towering peak and shore of lake Comes valorous mountain climber Blake.
From Halls of Montezuma — shores of
Tripoli
Stride the leathernecks — yea and verily 1
Somewhere in the vanguard rides the gallant Blake,
Shouting to the heavens that everything is jake!
For a winsome wench in windswept Chi, Blake the Conqueror rides on high!
In truth, this Blake is much a rake, And fair maids ’neath his spell do quake.
Ne’er has he cantered at the “palais
Troc,”
But has often been known to truck at the “rock.”
Bengaleering poet, scaler of Vulcan’s Peaks,
He roams the world in search of nature’s mighty freaks;
A philosopher of no little repute, With stark reality he would dispute;
Recently, Jeffers’ poetry did Bobby unfold;
Result: Scrip Meaney had a bag to hold.
An accounting major thought the review not minor,
Proving that Commerce could think of things finer.
So — a warning to all damsels in urgency;
Robert the Rake excels in emergency.
Roosevelt Leads Dewey
90-44 in Soph Halls
The Sophomores of Lyons and Morrissey Halls gave Franklin Delano Roosevelt a decisive majority of votes as the Scholastic presidential poll enters its third successive week. Voting reached a new high as 204 sophomores indicated their choices, party affiliation and candidate; 137 votes went Democratic while 67 were Republican.
President Roosevelt received 90.votes; Vice President John Nance Garner was second with 29 votes; Paul V. McNutt, social security administrator was third with 11 votes. The few remaining votes went to James Farley, postmaster general; Cordell Hull, secretary of state; Alfred E. Smith, former presidential nominee; Joseph E. Kennedy, ambassador to England, and Burton K. Wheeler, senator from Montana.
Thomas E. Dewey, district attorney of New York City, remained the leading G. O. P. presidential candidate. Dewey amassed 44 of the 67 Republican votes cast. The senator from Michigan, Arthur E. Vandenburg, was again second with 14 votes. Robert Taft, senator from Ohio, held third place with nine votes. John M. Hamilton, national G. O. P. chairman, received one consolation vote
in the poll. A tabulation of the votes according to first, second, and third follows:				
Democrats	1st	2nd	3rd	Total
Roosevelt 			90	10	10	100
	.. 29	48	21	98
McNutt 			11	26	22	59
Farley 			3	14	20	37
Hull 			4	7	8	19
Smith 			1	5	2	8
Kennedy				 2	1	....	3
Barkley —J:			—	1	2	3
Wheeler 			1	-	1	2
Republicans				
Dewey			44	14	7	65
	14	25	13	52
Taft 					9	17	20	46
Hoover 			—	1	3	■ 4
La Guardia .		2		2
Bricker _____________	2	_	2
Hamilton -----------1	_	_	1
Summary. Roosevelt aggregated 3 times as many votes as Garner, and twice as many as the leading Republican candidate, Dewey. This week the Democrats increased their percentage majority of the votes from 61 to 67. Dewey’s lead over his nearest Republican rival was increased by ten votes. Total returns including previous votes from Freshman and Senior halls follow:
Democrat	Republican
Roosevelt 335 Dewey -----------------J 81
Garner__________273	Vandenburg  ----163
McNutt__________218	Taft --------—143
—John Powers and Robert LeMense
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Vic turns Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 18 6 7
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
Wtuujm C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
VJU2AA3& Kelleher, Art Editor
Member ot Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC Is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Fry Day
WE SURRENDER to inadequacy.
The syndicate writers have had a two-week start on the American Youth Congress, and we can think of nothing to say which is sufficiently astringent and still original. It was quite a show —the demands upon the president—the rebuff—and the booing of Mrs. Roosevelt, which really was only practicebooing for the demonstration in the Senate Chambers.
Not that we sympathize with Mrs. Roosevelt because her precocious luncheon guests began to break up the furniture. Rather there is the trite phrase “poetic justice.” You have to expect some gesture of appreciation when you entertain Communists — and the Congress is Communistic. Say what you will, any organization which has condemned Mussolini’s Italians and Franco’s Spaniards and—until the embarrassing alliance— Hitler’s Germans, and yet will not condemn Stalin’s Russians is Communistic.
Mrs. Roosevelt said to the Congress: “.... I agree with you that a stand should have been taken when Ethiopia was attacked. I agree with you in sympathy for Spain. I agree with you in sympathy for China and Czechoslovakia, but I also have sympathy for Finland. ..”
“I agree with you in sympathy for Spain.” Evidently Mrs. Roosevelt sympathizes with a Communistic organiza-
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
tion because Communism was driven from Spain. Now it is one thing to misjudge a situation at first hand—need we mention Iowa, again?—and quite another to continue to misjudge it long after authoritative counter - evidence is public knowledge. If Mrs. Roosevelt is still mislead by the inaccurate treatment which Dorothy Thompson and other professional liberals gave to the Spanish Civil War, we would suggest acquaintance with Arnold Lunn’s Spanish Rehearsal.
Mr. Lunn points out that Communism in Spain dates back to 1869; he enumerates the Communistic uprisings which culminated, in 1934, in the revolutions of Madrid and Asturias when rebel currency was stamped with the sickle and hammer; he quotes the Communist International, “The workers of Asturias fought for Soviet power under the leadership of the Communists”; he describes the electioneering methods by which the Popular Front came to power .... and the consequent days of terror, the- slayings and the burning of churches, which raised up Franco in counterrevolt. He proves that Russian intervention in Spain antedated by many years the German and Italian intervention which the Youth Congress has condemned. And Mrs. Roosevelt sympathizes with that condemnation. We believe a reading of Spanish Rehearsal might alleviate that sympathy—a good book to have at hand, for instance, the next time Mrs. Roosevelt flies through her
cloud-world to a Girl Scout convention. It is just knitting-bag size.
A study in contrast. Two weeks ago leaders of the Youth Congress told President Roosevelt what their country owed to them; yesterday, leaders of the Senior class presented an American flag to the University to acknowledge what they owed to their country.
The occasion was the annual observance of the birthday of George Washington, President. Some would write George Washington, Capitalist. But the Seniors were honoring the man largely responsible for the phrase, “God-Country-Notre Dame.” They were honoring one of the few men to whom this country really owes something—existence. And that debt was not contracted at the nebulous moment when Washington passed from boyhood into youth, but only after he had given the gifts of his mature years to the service of his country. There was a giving, then a receiving.
And within the week of the Youth Congress’ demands this campus celebrated the birthday of another of the nation’s creditors, Lincoln. If we can trust to history and M-G-M, Lincoln did not waste his youth in framing resolutions to the President, nor did he believe the Springfield prairies owed him a living.
Rather he read and worked and added to his talents.... and finally, when Wisdom came, he was ready. In Washington Hall, yesterday, there were many talents and potentialities, but there were no lawgivers, no philosophers, no scientists, no business magnates, no youthful genius capable of guiding the hand of the President.
A dismal picture, really, these Seniors devoid of the vision and wisdom of the Youth Congress. They may even have to work for a living.—William C. Fay.
ONE OF the decadent downtown theater houses with an artistic penchant for French celluloid did it again this week by advertising an innocuous movie as “Love Mad Youth on a Wild Spree at Dartmouth’s Famed Winter Carnival.”
We once knew a fellow who knew a debutante who was invited to a Winter Carnival, so we believe some local advertising genius has been guilty of wishful thinking as well as bad taste and rotten copy-writing.
Blatancy and low-grade pictures are invariably the last resort of failing picture palaces—the final bad judgment. If recent bookings and ad blurbs are any indication, one of the local shoot-em-downs is out of ammunition.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
Varsity Men Debate In Manchester Tournament
Professor William Coyne left this morning with eight varsity debaters, to test their forensic abilities at the Man-
A1 Funk
Chester Tournament in North Manchester, Ind. The eight men are divided into four teams. The “A” team affirmative is composed of Daniel Sullivan and Milton
Williams, and the “B” team affirmative, John O’Loughlin and Bernard Lienhard. Th o m a s Grady and William Meier will alternate on the “A and “B”
M. Williams
negative teams in the second position. Al Funk is the remaining man on the negative “A” team, and John Burke on the negative “B” team.
The Manchester Tournament starts today and will continue until tomorrow, the final debate scheduled for late in the afternoon. The “A” team will meet six times in the course of duty while the “B” team will take on five opponents.
Professor William Farrell accompanied the teams and will act as judge.
Next week end the debaters will journey to the Iowa Tournament, probably with the same men.—Don Heltzel
Professor Gilson Will
Lecture at Indiana U.
The appointment of Professor Etienne Gilson as visiting professor of philosophy on the Mahlon Powell foundation, has been announced by Dr. Herman B. Wells, president of Indiana university, Bloomington, Ind.
Professor Gilson will deliver a series of four lectures at Bloomington, Ind., during the week of March 3. These lectures are open to the public. The program follows:
The aim of the lectures will be to show the fundamental philosophical reasons why philosophers as such have resorted to the notion of God as an ultimate cause and end of the natural order; that is, to make clear the rational meaning of the notion of God and its
lasting philosophical value. The lectures are open to the public. The schedule:
1.	“God and Greek Philosophy.” Sunday, March 3, 4 p.m.
2.	“God and Christian Philosophy.” Tuesday, March 5, 4 p.m.
3.	“God and Modem Philosophy.” Wednesday, March 6 4 p.m.
4.	“The Contemporary Problem of God.” Thursday, March 7, 4 p.m.
Third Haas Talk Will
Discuss Electricity
On Monday evening at 8 o’clock in the Engineering building auditorium, Professor Haas will lecture on “Electricity, Light, and Heat.” This lecture and demonstrated explanation will be the third in a series of five talks on “The Modem Conception of the Physical World.” In this third lecture will be included an explanation of electric phenomena, light rays beyond the range of the human eye, and cosmic rays.
In last Monday’s lecture on “The Structure of Matter,” Professor Haas explained that the atom, which was at one time thought to be the smallest indivisible particle of matter, as the Greek derivation of the word implies, is formed from a nucleus and its electrons. This nucleus has a diameter about ten thousand times smaller than the diameter of the atom, of which it is a part, and yet it contains 99.9 per cent of the weight of the atom.
The nucleus is made up of two kinds of particles, protons, which balance the opposite electric charge of the surrounding electrons, and neutrons with no charge at all. Of the 50 kinds of nuclei known at the present time 350 are unstable, and manifest the phenomenon of spontaneous disintegration, called radio activity. Professor Haas and his assistants made a piece of silver foil radio active, and on bringing it near a machine built in the Engineering Shop only a few days before for the purpose of the lecture, the radio activity was demonstrated audibly.
When Professor Haas had finished, Professor Collins exhibited his atomsmashing laboratory, and the high-voltage, static electricity machine that fills a room two stories tall. The potential is a million and a half volts, and when a grounded metal ball was brought within the electric field of the huge hulk on its tripod, a spark about a yard and a half long was produced. Perhaps from the spectator’s point of view, the light purple line that always proceeded and outlined the path of the spark, was the most interesting phenomenon. It was caused by the ionization of the air.
—Bill Keenan
Symphony Gives Concert
With Gaska As Soloist
The University Symphony Orchestra, featuring Mr. George Gaska as soloist, was well received after its concert last Sunday night in Washington Hall. Under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, the 22-piece orchestra is regarded as one of the best ever organized at Notre Dame.
The concert included works by Richard Wagner, Henry Hadley, Amaddeus Mozait, Joseph Haydn, and Ippolitow Ivanow. Mr. George Gaska, the soloist, gave a musical interpretation of Mozart’s Concerto No. 5, A Major, and of his First Movement from “Allegro Ap-perto.”
Academy of Politics to
Discuss Student Union
The Academy of Politics will discuss the pros and cons of the American Student Union (American Youth Congress), in their broadcast from the campus studios next Tuesday afternoon at four o’clock. Tom Carty, Hal Bowler, Ted Kmiecik, and Lou Meconi will be the students participating.
The American Student Union has long been heralded, by many competent observers, as an organization dominated by members of the Communist party and fellow-travelers. Although defended by many people, including Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, it has nonetheless been a storm-center of American colleges.
Bookmen Meet
The Bookmen announced at their meet
ing held last Thursday evening that several memberships in the organization are open to students interested in contemporary literature. Candidates will be interviewed on Monday evening at 8 o’clock in the Seminar Room of the Law Building.
Ray Allen Membership is open to all students of the University. Applicants are asked to leave their names at 258 Alum
ni Hall before Feb. 25.
Raymond Allen reviewed Romain’s novel, Verdun, pointing out that the book contains a wealth of material relative to modem warfare — much of the book being an analysis of battle strategy and troop movements.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ACTION ™
—that has
been the theme of ten years of Bengal Bouts. Flying fists, dancing feet and two slick bodies, weaving and dodging. A sudden smashing blow — and another Bengal Champion is crowned!
A Jolting Hook. . . .
The Deadly Folloiv Through. . . .
And He's Down for the Count!
Bengal Aspirants Train on Rigorous Weekly Schedule
Rynikus and Dowd Show Power In Heavy Division
Coach Layden’s football men go through a strenuous' workout each fall; Coach Keogan’s floor stars run, run, and run some more in the early practice sessions; Coach Nicholson’s track men bend and stretch for weeks before hitting the cinders. But the Bengal boxers are the men who really sweat and strain for perfect condition.
On Monday the fighters start limbering up by going through a few mat exercises, shadow boxing, and rope skipping. This is followed by sessions with the pulleys, and the punching bags. Then each man steps into the ring for two rounds of boxing with an opponent of the same weight class.
On Tuesday the same schedule is in effect. Wednesday finds the boxers scrambling around St. Mary’s lake, pumping the legs that will be holding them up for three rounds on March 15. The instructions on the wall read: run (sprint) 100 yards, walk 100 yards, jog 100 yards. After a few of these journeys, legs will become pillars.
Thursday the fighters are back in the gym doing apparatus work, and getting experience in the ring again. Friday means more leg work on the paths outdoors.
Every day, after the workouts, the fighters take a four-minute shower. This time limit insures exhaustion, overheating, and tightening of the muscles. All fighters wait five or ten minutes after the shower before going outside. The pores are then closed, and there is no danger of colds.
Probably the hardest working fighter of the 100 or more boys who work out daily is Louis Rymkus, 215 pound heavyweight contender from Chicago and Brownson Hall. Rymkus started • to prepare for the bouts more than a month ago, and has developed into a fast, hard punching heavyweight.
Outstanding as a smooth boxer in the division el ponderoso is Dillon Hall’s Bob Dowd. Rymkus and Dowd have sparred three or four times in the practice ring, and, should they meet in the bouts, will be well worth watching. Two other promising heavyweights are
Ed Duquette and Harry Florence of Brownson Hall.
Jerry Ryan is still the standout in the 175 pound division. His hard work of last year gave him a title, and this year he is training with characteristic vim and vigor. Ryan must watch for an explosion that may come from the fists of Bruce Hebenstreit, Dillonite, who was 175 pound champion two years ago. Hebenstreit retired last year in favor of the South Bend Golden Gloves, but is back with the desire to regain his title.
Another boy to remember is Joe Semenczuk of the St. Ed’s A.C. Two springs ago, Joe stepped into the ring as a Phy .Ed. student winning his spurs for Mr. Scannell. He met Hebenstreit and stood up against a steady barrage of haymakers without taking a backward step or falling. This year Joe is going to walk in there with some boxing knowledge under his skull-cap. He can take it; if he has learned to dish it out, 175 pounders beware.
The boys are faster and trickier this year. Past Bengal Bouts have been notorious for the bulk and lack of speed in the heavyweight division. This year the heavies are gazelles; the 175 pound boys are even faster.—John Patterson
Cage Team Faces Butler
and Marquette Next Week
Turning into the home stretch of the 1940 season, George Keogan’s Irish basketbailers braced themselves this week for two of the hardest games on a very hard schedule. On Monday evening they will be in Indianapolis to attempt a clean sweep of this year’s series with Butler, one of the better teams the Irish trimmed earlier in the season. Then, on the following Saturday they will travel north to Milwaukee where a pretty irate basketball team, known in its better moments as the Golden Avalanche, will be waiting for a chance to get even for the drubbing handed them in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse last Tuesday evening.
Coach Keogan is no doubt a little skeptical of his chances at Indianapolis Monday, for he knows as well as any basketball coach what a difficult task it is to trim a Butler team on its own floor. This year the task will be doubly hard, for Coach Tony Hinkle has one of his best fives in recent years. Playing a formidable schedule, the Blue Bull-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
' dogs have enjoyed a fine season, even though sickness took almost the entire first team from the floor at the most critical stage of the season. Notre Dame, however, can be expected to give Butler a difficult time of it, for the Irish net-men gave the Bulldogs a sound beating here a few weeks ago when every member of Hinkle’s team was available.
Milwaukee and Marquette won’t go out of their way to help Mark Ertel and his boys to a win, either. One of the oldest opponents on the Notre Dame schedule, the Hilltoppers are undoubtedly, year after year, one of the toughest. Last year they humiliated our Mr. Keo-gan no end by trimming his team twice in the same season, an unheard of event in these parts. More than that they beat the Irish 47-22 in one of those contests, thus giving Keogan his worst defeat in 17 years. Well, when Marquette does a thing like that to an Irish basketball team it isn’t forgotten in a hurry. This was evident Tuesday night as Notre Dame played fast and furious basketball to smother the so-called Avalanche 56-39. Aside from the marvelous work of Eddie Riska, who tossed in 17 points for the Irish, the amazing play of Red Oberbruner was probably the feature of the game. Placed in the lineup to fill the vacancy caused by George Sobek’s knee injury, the Ashland Redhead came through in grand style with 12 points and a great game of basketball. No less impressive were the senior members of the squad, who played their last home game: Captain Mark Ertel, Rex Ellis, Don Smith, and Gene Klier.
Basketball Banquet Slated
For March 11 at Oliver
Coach George Keogan and his 1940 basketball Fighting Irish will be honored at a testimonial banquet sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Villagers club, in the Rotary room of the Oliver hotel, March 11.
James Meehan has been named general chairman of the event. Invitations have been sent to several outstanding basketball coaches and newspapermen throughout the country, and several are expected to be present.
Wilfred Smith, sports writer of the Chicago Tribune, will serve as toastmaster. Coach Keogan and Director of Athletics Elmer Layden and members of the basketball team will be called upon to speak. .
The St. Joseph Valley Alumni club of the University is cooperating with Villagers’ Chairman Warren Deahl and Ticket Head John Lane, to make the banquet one of the most successful ever held.
Splinters From The Pressbox by Frank Aubrey
The team seemed to have everything last week against John Carroll. But a look at our fellow-spectators convinced us that most of the boys .were hampered by a lack of binoculars. Along with the peanuts and ice-cream concessions why not a booth for the dispensation of ‘opera glasses’ at a nominal sum, say a deposit of $1.00 as guarantee, and $.25 for use of said glasses before and after the game and during time-outs. . . . Bob Osterman performed nobly in the role so capably filled by Red Allen during the 1936-1937 court season. The gals may use a layer of rouge, lipstick, or what-have-you to exhibit glamour, but Bob has his own individual way. The crowd worried more than Bob — but nevertheless, they didn’t slip. . . . Two ‘blind-Toms’ held a field day up at Evanston last week in the Northwestern-Indiana battle. It was neck-and-neck for awhile, but the refs really spread themselves in the second half — called 44 fouls, sent seven men from the game, and marched with magnificent form to the foul-line during the remainder of the game.
* * *
Another week and the ball teams will join the vacationists in the south-land, there to enjoy the bathing, the golf, the deep-sea fishing, and, if the spirit moves them — to play a little baseball. Most fortunate of all these young men is the emancipated Benny McCoy, late of the Tigers, who has condescended to accept $40,000 from the Shibe coffers to play some second base for Connie Mack. On the other hand, most unfortunate young man is second baseman Gerald Priddy of the Kansas City Blues, a Yankee farm, who must remain where he is since the Yankees absolutely refuse to touch $150,000 worth of gum dividends offered for him by Mr. Wrigley. The word has it that Mr. Priddy is being groomed to replace Joe Gordon. He should live so long! . . . Meantime, handsome Wes Ferrell is demonstrating that he is still the best golfer of all the ballplayers even if he is a Brooklyn prospect. Wes is following tradition by signing with the Dodgers, as all the old ball players generally end their playing days with Brooklyn — usually in the outfield or on the pitching rubber.
* * *
Light-heavyweight Dave Clark of Detroit has fought his last fight the papers say. Dave, one of Joe Louis’ stable, is suffering from a detached retina as a result of a fight last summer. This accident is as unusual to boxing as the Don
Herring tragedy was to football. But it doesn’t touch the calamity which befell our Mr. Dolce at the South Bend Golden Gloves bouts. A dark-skinned lad named Sam Ivory bit out a piece of Dolce’s forehead to win a one-round technical K.O. Had Ivory sheathed his ivories in a ‘wubber mouf-piece,’ according to onlookers, he’d have been a sorry colored-boy, for Dolce was giving him a hammering up until the chawing incident.	* * *
The weekly meeting of Greg Rice and Don Lash took place according to schedule last Saturday at the New York Athletic Club games in the Garden. However, it was not in the schedule for Mr. Lash to run fifth, as he did, while Greg was chopping down to his size the efforts of Tommy Deckard and the others. This win for Rice evens up the two boys’ - duel at three victories apiece this winter — with Deckard taking the remaining race in which all three competed. To engage in these eastern' meets Greg must take a train from South Bend every Friday night reaching the eastern city in time for the Saturday race, then returning to his South Bend job on the Sunday night train. Judging from our experience with trains Greg could do ■without the stimulation of a night’s train-ride. Still if he can keep his time down between :9.08 and :9.00 where it’s been this winter, riding the rods isn’t bothering him much. . . . And don’t get the impression that the great Cunningham is slowing up. In case you haven’t noticed the figures, Glenn’s run the mile in 4:08 and a fraction twice in the last two weeks, and hasn’t done better than a second and a fifth because Chuck Fenske has been running in unbelievably fast time. Aye, Glenn is far from through when he can crack 4:09 weekly. . . .
* ♦ ♦
Iowa’s swimming team visited the local pool a week ago on their way to a swimming lesson at the Ann Arbor pool. The Hawkeyes looked remarkably fast and well-conditioned to the few who saw their work-out in the Memorial pool, and undoubtedly they have more than we Irish could whip together in one short year. But their 63 to 21 shellacking by the powerful Michigan natators is not to be considered a fair test of their class, as Michigan is the swimming team of the nation, having outclassed Yale, their only rival, a few weeks ago. All of which impresses one with the thought of how fine it would be if we, too, could foster a swimming team.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing By Pete Sheehan
Batterymen Inaugurate
N. D. Baseball Practice
If you would like to learn about the Notre Dame of fifteen years ago it is not necessary for you to search through the library stacks or consult one of the veteran professors. Just drop over to Sorin Hall and visit John Dean who is, in reality, the dean of our present day athletes.
Jack entered the third grade of Notre Dame’s elementary school in 1925. All of the grade school boys were known as minims and resided in St.
Edward’s Hall and were taught by the Sisters of Holy Cross.
He and his pals used to watch the various athletic teams practice in the gymnasium and on Cartier Field. Clem Crowe, Clipper Smith, and Joe Boland were among their heroes and they used to dream of the day when they would be wearing a monogram — just like the ones these big fellows were sporting.
The grammar school was abandoned in 1928 and Dean returned to his home in Milwaukee, finished the lower grades and entered Marquette Prep. It was there that his visions of athletic stardom began to materialize and he graduated with the distinction of having won eight letters. He also captained his football and basketball teams.
Ray Sonnenburg and Dick
Baada were gridiron teammates of Dean’s when he played varsity center for three years. He was named on the Wisconsin Catholic Conference team in ’35. He also won two letters as a guard on the cage squad, and he made the conference team in ’36.
John won three more letters as a pole vaulter and broad jumper. His school record of 12 feet 3 inches is still tops at Marquette, and he cleared 6 feet as a prep school high jumper.
Since he came to Notre Dame he has concentrated on track, and at present he is training for his third year as one of Coach Nicholson’s better point getters.
Last year he took second place in the Central Collegiate Conference Indoor Meet and won the show position in the outdoor event before the hometown Mil
waukee fans. He also captured third place in the Illinois Relays and won first in the Indiana State Meet with a vault of 13 feet 6 inches. He attained his greatest height against Ohio State at Columbus last May when he cleared the cross bar at 13 feet 7 inches just two inches short of Dan Gibbs’ record.
The name Dean has won him several nicknames. He has been called “Dizzy” and “Daffy,” after his famous name
sakes in the baseball world. However, Notre Dame’s Dean is one of the quietest men on the campus.
Since “Diz” wants to leave Notre Dame with a record in his name we can be sure that he will be trying to do better than 13 feet 9 inches every time he vaults this spring. Another ambition of our Mr. Dean is to annex the National Intercollegiate Pole Vaulting Championship.
When the Irish engage Marquette’s thinlies soon at Milwaukee, we imagine a certain comely lass will be cheering him to victory — in a very special way.
Statistics : Full name — John Patrick Dean. Born Feb. 12, 1917, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He is studying Business Administration and expects to become a businessman after his graduation.
Without a Monogram winner as catcher, Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline inaugurated battery drills this week in preparation for the 1940 Notre Dame baseball season. Monogram men will return for the eight remaining posts in the lineup. Seeking the spot held last season behind the platter by Art Verhoes-tra are: Tom Brennan, Bernie Crimmins, Mike Kelly, and Paul Karis, among others.
Veteran Norv Hunthausen has reported for the pitching staff, and Rex Ellis, who doubles as center on Coach George Keogan’s basketball squad, will be out at the end of the cage season. Chuck Farrell, first base; Hymie Crane, second base; Ray Pinelli, shortstop; and Captain Chet Sullivan, third base, make up an experienced infield of monogram men.
In the outfield Coach Kline’s squad will be paced by Roy Pinelli, Jim Behe, and Ken Oberbruner, the latter also a member of the basketball team.
One of the highlights of the schedule is a trip to the Anny and Navy on May 10-11 — the first Eastern jaunt for the Irish since 1929. The schedule, including games with most of the Big Ten teams, includes 22 contests.
Fencers Battle Spartans
In Home Final Tomorrow
Coach Walter Langford’s Notre Dame fencing team, victorious over Ohio State last Saturday, 15 to 12, will match swords with Michigan State in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse at 2 o’clock tomorrow. The local squad will travel to Wisconsin on March 1 to tangle with Marquette’s fencers and on the following day will be guests of the University of Wisconsin team at Madison.
Joe Smalley, Notre Dame epee and sabre star, met defeat for the first time this season last week at the hands of Coleman Richards of Ohio State, 5 to 3, in the sabre. Smalley retaliated, however, with four consecutive victories in other bouts.
Bill Chaiken was outstanding for the Buckeyes with three, triumphs in the foils. The visitors jumped to a 5 to 4 lead in the foils, but the Irish captured the epee, 6 to 3, and clinched the match by taking the sabre, 5 to 4.
After the trip to Wisconsin, the local team will complete its nine-match season at St. Louis against Washington University.—Bill Scanlan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Track Team Faces Indiana
and Michigan Next Week
At the Illinois Relays last week Notre Dame’s belittled thinlies watched two great teams in a dazzling display of power sweep the field of events to roll up a staggering total of wins over the best competition in the Midwest. Next Monday, they will meet the first of that ruthless duet when they invade Bloomington to brave the devastating thrusts of Indiana. Six days later, in the local fieldhouse, they face an annihilating crew of Michigan Wolverines.
Taking Indiana into observation first, we find the Hoosier’s boasting their strongest track squad in years. They feature Archie Harris, colored shotputter, who last year set an unofficial world’s record in the discus throw. In the Illinois Relays, Harris’ heave was good for second place and was only inches better than that of Cliff Brosey of the Irish.
Another individual star on Indiana’s trim team is Campbell Kane, last year’s national indoor 880 champion. Kane is a member of the mile-relay team which won the University Medley Relay event in the Illinois Relays. Another member of the relay team is Roy Cochrane, a record-holder in the 400 meter hurdles.
Failing to qualify in more than three events in the Illinois Relays against these Hoosier stars, Coach Nicholson’s men can only hope for a win against them Monday.
Against Michigan, it’s much the same story, with perhaps a little more emphasis upon the power of the Wolverines. Seeded to sweep the majority of the wins in the recent relays at Champaign, Michigan found Indiana and Illinois the only serious threats to their Western Conference supremacy. Their 4 mile relay team of Wisner, Dolson, Barrett, and Schwarzkopf set a new record of 17:39.4 in recent competition. Dan Canham carried Michigan’s honors in the high jump by leaping 6 feet 6^ inches for a new meet record.
In the 75 yard dash, Michigan’s Smith outdistanced speedy Bob Saggau to take second. And besides these impressive victories, the Wolverines managed to obtain a second-place win in the Mile University Relay, a third in the Medley Relay, and fourth-place wins in the 75-yard low hurdles and the 300-yard dash. Dave Reidy, however, should give the Michigan hurdlers plenty to worry about next week.
Sharing as much of this pessimism as is proper to his position as Coach, John
Nicholson prefers to remain noncom-mital on the coming encounters. But the tall, wiry mentor did venture to observe: “Our squad is still in the process of developing. We have a few individual stars who are doing their best, but as a whole, our squad lacks strength.”
Coach Nicholson may have had reference to Joe Olbry’s brilliant running in the 1,000 meters where Notre Dame received its only second place. Also impressive in the Illinois meet were Bob Saggau in the 75-yard dash and Cliff Brosey in the shot-put with a heave of 48-feet 3% inches, and the mile-relay team of Schiewe, Roy, Halpin, and Collins.—Tom Powers
Rice Slated to Run in
Indiana A. A. U. Meet
The first Indiana A. A. U. Indoor track meet ever conducted by the South Bend Athletic Club will be held at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse Saturday night, March 2, it was announced today by Greg Rice, secretary of the club. The purpose of the meet will be to give the working athletes of Indiana who have finished school, a chance to display their track talent in competitive events.
In an effort to provide the stiffest
Dave Reidy
competition, freshman tracksters from Butler, Indiana, Purdue, Notre Dame, and other colleges and universities throughout the state, have been invited to participate in the meet. Representatives of these schools will take part in the track and field events unattached,. as Big Ten and Notre Dame track rules prevent frosh thinlies from competing as a group.
Tommy Deckard, of Indiana, one of the outstanding distance runners in the country, has been invited to participate in a special race against Rice, of Notre Dame, and recent victor over Deckard and his teammate, Don Lash, at New York. It is highly probable that the Hoosier star will accept the invitation.
The events will be conducted as Indiana Championship contests, and winners will be awarded medals. There will be ten events. They are: 60-yd. high hurdles, 60-yd. dash, 880-yd. run, 440-yd. run, mile, three-mile, broad jump, high jump, pole vault, and shot put. '
The meet will start at 8 o’clock. There will be no charge.—James. G. Newland
Brownson Wins Interhall
Track and Field Title
Brownson Hall tracksters emerged victorious in the finals of the annual interhall Indoor Track and Field Meet held last Thursday in the Fieldhouse. They amassed a total of 34 points. The real battle of the evening took place in the fight for runner-up honors between Cavanaugh and Breen - Phillips Halls, which finally went to the former by a score of 20 to 17.
Owen “Dip” Evans started Brownson on the road to victory, when he led Bill Johnson of Breen-Phillips, to the tape in the 60-yard dash, in :06.5, this was perhaps the best performance of the evening. John Henry, another Brownsonite, led his teammate Don Miller, to the finish line, in the 440 yd. run with a stirring wind-up that' had the fans on their feet, just nipping him at the tape in :54.2. Two Off-Campus runners, Brehmer and Russell, captured honors in the two-mile and 880-yard run respectively, Brehmer running away with his event in the good time of 10:35, while Russell battled Marks of Zahm all’ the way, in a 2:04.5 half-mile.
Hank Priester, of Breen-Phillips, took the measure of Jim Treacy of Lyons in the mile-run, traveling the distance in 5:11. In the 60-yard high hurdles Day-(Continued on Page 19)
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
in literature, painting, music, architecture. Nationalism lacks unity, truth and goodness. Since it cannot get them from itself it must get them from something which possesses them in abundance. Therefore, it must get them from the Church.
Extreme nationalism demands that its adherents give to the state a loyalty complete and exclusive of every other loyalty. In itself extreme nationalism is directly opposed to religion. Between religion and extreme nationalism there is contradiction, not contrast. Extreme nationalism denies Christ, denies the rights and duties which flow from the very nature of man, repudiates the unity of the race and the dignity of man, attacks the family, marriage and the authority of parents over their offspring. “It substitutes the relative for the absolute, the finite for the infinite and the creature for the Creator.” It gives rise to tyranny which St. Thomas says is the worst form of government.
From this resume it can be seen that religion and nationalism can work hand in hand for the betterment of humanity but only if nationalism is of the right kind, i.e., moderate nationalism.
—Joint Crane •
Secularization of Person
That it is an evil which we should remedy was the general conclusion reached at the round table discussion Saturday afternoon on the question of “The Secularization of the Human Person.”
Chairman Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, of the department of philosophy, pointed out that there is a great tradition in philosophy, characterized by a continued belief in an intelligible, spiritual world beyond the world of sense experience. Man is in some way related to this “other world,” and as a result possesses a peculiar dignity. Today, however, man is gradually losing this dignified uniqueness. The disintegrating force of secularization is pulling him down. '
Samuel C. Kincheloe, of the Chicago Theological Seminary, presented both the historical and what he believes to be the essential definition of the word secularization. He indicated that, in general, it means the removal of certain practical functions from the sphere of Church activities to the sphere of the profane or secular. Education, and the care of the poor are some of the functions which exemplify this transfer.
This process has increased more and more, especially in the United States, until today there is but a small core of life left in the field of Church activity. The state, for the most part, has taken
over the functions which had previously been handled by the Churches. We must not, however, Mr. Kincheloe stated, confuse the term secularization with the term secularism. The latter signifies a definite opposition to religion, while the former signifies a purely passive, restive state of indifference. Secularization is not opposed to religion—it merely ignores it.
The Rev. William H. Kane, O.P., of River Forest, accepted Mr. Kincheloe’s definition of secularization, but added what he believed to be another essential note, — the attitude of man toward man and toward the things of the world. Man, by his nature, should see all things as they are related to God, for God, as the First Cause of things, is far greater than the objects of ordinary experience. If man sees things only as they appear, he becomes secularized, but if he perceives a deeper, more profound reality behind them, he is spiritual and sacred. When man is studied today, our philosophers refuse to study his own inner-consciousness. They confine themselves merely to a study of his external behavior and environmental reactions. This is the philosophical sin of our age. To redeem this transgression, man must be conceived from the Catholic point of view, and his enormous capacity for perfection recognized. From this should proceed a rational study of his nature, and as objects of this study, his own self-consciousness and inner-experience should not be overlooked.
The discussion concluded with a paper by the Rev. Richard Gabel, of De Sales College, who traced the educational aspect of secularization. Before 1900, he said, most colleges in the United States were controlled by religious bodies, although such was not the case of primary and under-schools, for these already had been taken over by state and secular authority. After this date, however, secularization crept into the sphere of higher education. As a result, we find our country today heavily spotted with state - controlled institutions of higher learning. This was the result of an anti-authoritarian spirit in the United States, characterized by a liberalistic idealism, and a hatred of all things which smacked of supernaturalism. Horace Mann was one of the foremost leaders in this secularistic movement. He tried to establish non-sectarian schools, but Father Gabel indicated that there could be no such reality. He pointed out the interesting fact that while the religious schools had formerly supported themselves, these new liberators did not place the burden of education upon their own shoulders, but relegated it to civil authority. In solving the present
difficulty Father Gabel recommends that we investigate both the rights of parents in regard to the education of their children, as well as the fact of justice. Secularization destroys the doctrinal basis of education, and this basis is absolutely necessary.—Alfred John Callan
Thomistic Concept of Religion
“Justice to nature and to human nature is justice to God,” said the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., in discussing “The Relevance of the Thomistic • Conception of Religion.” Man must have an understanding of what he is, his rationality, his freedom, his limits. In an epistemological and psychological sense man knows himself and is interested in himself when he is presented to himself. In an ontological sense God is prior to man, and man’s nature is derived from God. No complete justice can be given to knowledge, to art, and to science unless man is in his proper relation to God.
The acceptance by the will of a being superior to man is religion. The inner experience of and external worship to a superior being is merely doing justice to this being because man naturally feels
At Max Adler’s
GORDON
ARROW OXFORD SHIRTS
$2
Cool, sporty, and good-looking for the outdoors . . . trim, smart for indoors.
M*X ADLER MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON

The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
his inferiority and thus gives honor to something that he feels is superior. Whether this superior being actually is St. Thomas’s Pure Act does not matter.
Though all men have a desire for absolute happiness, many have different ideas concerning what fulfills this desire. The relation between absolute happiness and an infinitely perfect being (God) is not grasped by many.	•
Ideally, religion should have something to do with solving conflicts. Since men are of the same nature and are totally subordinated to God. God the integrating and uniting force of the universe should be called in because of the relationship of all men to God. However in practice we never have settled many major conflicts.
Gordon Dover Gets Around A Lot!
“t’m Arrow’s famous oxford shirt with the 1 button-down roll collar. My good looks and fine behavior have made me the most ubiquitous college shirt in the world.
I never get hot under my fine fitting collar, and never in my long life will I shrink out of fit because I’m Sanforized-Shrunk and can’t shrink more than a wee 1%. My buttons are genuine ocean pearl and anchored fast.
In return for my liberal college education I spend most of my time fishing for compliments . . . and boy, you should hear the girls rave! For $2 you can get one of my brothers in white or blue. We’re a handsome tribe of Arrow Gordons... we are!”
ARROW SHIRTS
The depersonalization of man is a more serious problem than that of conflict. Such statements as: Man is a machine, man is an accidental product of a mechanistic process, man is a tool-using animal slights man’s nature and thus does away with his proper relationship to God. The sacredness of the human person must be understood and safeguarded. Man is much more than a complicated formula.
Philosophy is a living and growing thing and it is vitally concerned with the problems of the present. Philosophical problems raised by science and by social progress are the questions of the day. The teachings of the ancients can train us, but we must use the fruits of their thought and instruction in solving
our own difficulties. The guiding principle, justice to nature and to human nature is justice to God, is fundamental. If we misconceive things or ourselves then our whole system is thrown out of order.—John C. Dillan
Dome Pictures
Group pictures of various city and state clubs will be taken Monday and Tuesday evenings on the stage of Washington Hall. As the photographer must adhere to a strict schedule in order to complete the work, promptness is essential. Coats and ties must be worn.
Monday: 7:00, Pittsburgh Club; 7:10, Old Dominion Club; 7:20, Erie Club; 7:30, Akron-Canton Club; 7:40, Detroit Club; 7:50, Saginavr-Bay City Club; 8:00, Montana Club; 8:10, ClubTGaRaza; 8:20, Washington-Maryland Club; 8:30, Kansas - Oklahoma Club; 8:40, Upper Michigan Club.
Tuesday: 7:00, Anthracite Club; 7:10, Triple Cities Club; 7:20, Boston Club, 7:30, Iowa Club; 7:40, New Jersey Club; 7:50, Florida-Georgia Club; 8:00, Kansas-City Club; 8:10, Minnesota Club; 8:20, Cincinnati Club; 8:30, St. Louis Club; 8:40, Rochester Club.
laundress...
... to rub die buttons off an Arrow shirt. Arrow has a patented button stay that anchors buttons on. Records show that Arrow buttons come off l/10th as often as other shirt buttons. Besides which Arrow is a wonderful shirt. Get some today.
$2, up.
WTW5
■	i
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Mechanical Engineers
Invite Sophs to Join
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers has adopted a resolution to the effect that sophomores will be allowed to attend the club meetings and participate in the activities of the local chapter. This resolution was designed to keep the club organization running smoothly from year to year. Heretofore the club membership has been restricted to juniors and seniors resulting in some confusion in club organization each year because experienced members were lacking. Sophomores, however, will not be allowed to participate in the national activities of the chapter. Letters of invitation will be sent out to interested sophomores before the next meeting which is to be held on Tuesday.
The local chapter will join in an open meeting with the St. Joseph Valley S.M.E. on March 5. A representative of the Lunkenheimer Co. will be present to speak on high pressure valves, their application and their troubles.
The Midwest Student Branch of the A. S.M.E. will have a convention in Chicago sometime in the spring, conducted by the Armour Institute. Local junior and senior members are eligible to attend the convention.
—Robert LeMense
O’Dowd and Kenedy Will
Speak at Cincinnati
Jerry O’Dowd, a senior, and Tom Kenedy, a sophomore, will represent Notre Dame at the regional conference of the Catholic School Press Association being held in Cincinnati tomorrow. They will conduct a special session to consider the promotion of decent literature. Notre Dame has been allotted a period of an hour and a half in which to discuss its views. Kenedy, who is chairman of the Student Commission for Decent Literature, will give an analysis of the pamphlet No Smut, now in its sixth reprinting. Kenedy’s remarks will be expanded by Jerry O’Dowd, a member of the Wranglers and president of the Fort Wayne Club.—Jim Donahoe
St. Elizabeth Singers
Display Unusual Talent
Demonstrating its musical versatility with a program of negro spirituals, popular songs, and swing music, the St. Elizabeth Glee Club of Chicago, colored, under the direction of Garfield Henry, presented a thoroughly enjoyed program in Washington Hall last Friday night.
An unusually wide selection of numbers permitted the individual members of the organization to demonstrate their
talent in a series of solos, duets, and quartets which drew spontaneous applause from a large Washington Hall audience.
The three outstanding presentations of the performance were soloist Juanita Caruthers’ interpretation of “One Kiss,” Edward Brown’s rendition of “The Donkey Serenade,” and Percy Faison’s “OF Man River.”
Comedy was brought in by an adaptation of the negro spiritual, “Do You Call That Religion?” and swing was taken care of by the male chorus in “Dinah” and “The St. Louis Blues.”
Other enjoyable numbers were “Three Little Maids from School” by the Girl’s Quartet, and “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes” by the entire Glee Club.
—Bob Fitzpatrick
Billiards Expert Has
Local Champs Wide-Eyed
Cecil Jordan, senior in charge of the Brownson recreation hall, is rubbing his hands gleefully these days in anticipation of increased revenue following the exhibition last Friday afternoon of Charlie (Show me a shot I can’t make) Peterson, world famous billiards expert and trick-shot artist. Mr. Peterson, who is currently on a 50,000 mile tour of the schools and colleges of the country, set the local so-called billiards sharks back on their heels with as fancy an exhibition of shooting as has ever been seen in these parts.
Mr. Peterson opened the exhibition with a variety of trick shots, following with a short talk on fundamentals,
Learn AVIATION at an AVIATION School
U. S. Civil Aeronautical Authority's approved methods used.
COMPLETE FLIGHT AND GROUND SCHOOL COURSES FOR ALL LICENSES.
See your Hall representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni Hall.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Phone 3-2455	(Incorporated)	Bendix Field
Skate for health ... it’s goad exercise ...
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK (Melody Gardens Ballroom)	.
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every night except Monday — Matinee Sunday, 1:30-4:30 p. m. Students always 25c “A Good Way to Make Money for Your Club"
and ending with more “fancy-Dans.” Throughout the demonstration he maintained a line of chatter which was replete with stories of the old champions and their feats. Toward the end of the program, Mr. Peterson spoke of his pet scheme — a Catholic College Billiards Association, with an annual tournament; and promised that if the dream ever materialized, he would see that the necessary cups and medals were furnished without cost to the schools. In the evening Mr. Peterson repeated his exhibition in Corby Hall.—Bill Welch
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books Stationery Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
Commerce Forum Makes
Chicago Tour Thursday
The Commerce Forum is making its annual all-day trip to Chicago next Thursday. While the entire program has not been definitely arranged, the Forum plans to visit such points as the Chicago Board of Trade, the Chicago Clearinghouse, the Federal Reserve Bank, and the Continental Illinois Bank. All class cuts that day by those taking the trip will be completely excused.
Just between YOU and ME I'D RATHER TRAVEL VIA SOUTH SHORE
rpHE desire for travel variety is natural. But where else can you find South Shore’s hourly service, speedy schedules, relaxed comfort, complete safety, reasonable fares?
Interhall Track
(Continued from Page 15) ton Kort squeezed out a victory over John Bozak of Freshman, and Bill Baader of Badin, in the time of :08.6. In the 65-yard low hurdles, Tom Miller of Cavanaugh bested Baader and Kort, skimming the distance in :07.8.
In the field events, Wally Ziemba and Joe Spina collected points for Brownson by annexing firsts in the shot-put and high-jump respectively, Ziemba hurling the iron ball 44 ft. 9 in., while teammate Spina was sailing over the bamboo pole, to the tune of 5 feet 8% inches. Bill Johnson, denied a victory in the 60-yard dash by inches, showed his versatility, by coming back to win a one inch victory over Paul Corgan, of Cavanaugh, in the broad j'ump, leaping 20 ft. 1 in. Wietoff, of Cavanaugh, had an easy time in the pole-vault, winning this event with a leap of 11 ft. 6 in.
Gold medals will be awarded to those lads who finished in the first three positions of their events, while the team trophy goes to Brownson, winner of the meet. Brownson made a clean sweep of things by also winning the trophy that went to the team winning the 880-yard relay. Their quartet of Girard, Miller, Henry, and Evans, circled the oval ahead of Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh in 1:37.8.—Jim Clemens
Rockne Memorial News
The regular schedule of the Interhall basketball league will be completed next week, to be followed by round-robin tournaments to determine the champions. Teams finishing first, second, third, and fourth in each of the four leagues of both the heavyweight and the lightweight divisions will engage in tournament play.
Next week’s schedule: Heavyweight
Leap Year Dance
Thursday evening, February 29th (9 to 12)
Dick Derf and his Orchestra
KISSES TO ALL!
PALAIS ROXALE
ADVANCE TICKETS—40c per couple.
DOOR—10c per person ; 60c per couple.
Tickets on Sale at Palais Royale
New Souvenir Items...
•
Religious articles Desk equipment Pennants
Blankets Lamps
WE ANNOUNCE ... a change in hours:
From Monday, Feb. 19, we will not close at noon — open continuously — from 7:30 a. m. to 4:15 p. m. every day but Sunday.
Notre Dome Bookstore
Badin Hall
C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
Genuine Italian SPAGHETTI and RAVIOLI ❖
FRESH COLD WATER SMELTS (Fried Brown)
SEA FOODS — STEAKS CHOPS — CHICKENS ❖ All Kinds of SANDWICHES ❖
Visit Our Soda Bar
Howel's Cafe
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
division — Monday: Howard vs. Zahm; Cavanaugh vs. Sorin; Walsh vs. Cavanaugh; Dillon vs. St. Ed’s. Tuesday: Lyons vs. Off-Campus; Breen-Phillips vs. Brownson; Alumni vs. Freshman; Morrissey vs. Badin.
Competition in the lightweight division follows: Thursday — Carroll vs. Badin; St. Ed’s vs. Brownson; Howard vs. Off-Campus; Cavanaugh vs. Freshman.
Two games were decided last week by one point: Lyons beating Breen-Phillips, 34 to 33, in the heavyweight division, and Badin edging out St. Ed’s, 24 to 23.
Last week’s results: Heavyweight division — Carroll 27, Howard 20; Sorin 26, Zahm 23; Dillon 33, Walsh 17; Cavanaugh 35, St. Ed’s 31; Lyons 34, Breen-Phillips 33; Alumni 30, Morrissey 23. Brownson beat Off-Campus, and Badin downed Freshman by default.
Lightweight division
Carroll 33,
Brownson 17; Badin 24, St. Ed’s 23; Howard 30, Freshman 23; Cavanaugh defeated Off-Campus by forfeit.
A basketball tournament was started last week by the Knights of Columbus. Eight' teams are entered in this tournament.
Life Saving
Eighty students are enrolled in the senior life saving course, which is being given by Gil Burdick and assistant life guards Donohue and Hoyer. This course will be followed later by an examination for senior life guards who wish to become instructors.
Squash and Handball
Dan Canale, the Memphis, Tenn., tennis player, who two years ago, won the University championship, also knows how to swing a squash racquet. Last Tuesday he proved this by winning the squash championship.
The talented southerner defeated John Dillon in the finals. His other opponents were Bob Rohl, of Howard, in the semi-finals, George Alfs, defending champion, in the quarter-finals, and Tommy Liston in the first round.
Dillon defeated Joe O’Dea, Burt, Kelly, and Ed Repetto.
The semi-finals in the doubles handball tournament has been reached. The tourney will probably be concluded next week.
Three more tournaments have been scheduled after the completion of the • doubles handball match. Included in these tournaments will be a priests’ doubles handball, and novice meets in squash and handball.—John E. Lewis
MUSIC NOTES
Alec Templeton is indeed a remarkable fellow. He began composing at the age of four, and earned money by playing the piano at the age of five. Now, at the age of thirty, he is an internationally famous entertainer. He is a good pianist, but his greatest talents are directed towards “those of us who don’t take our music so seriously,” to use his own words. His concert in LaPorte, Friday night was the same as all of his other conceits — something from Bach, Beethoven, Debussey, and Chopin, and a great deal of Templeton. He had one new thing on the program, however. This year, instead of “Bach Goes to Town,” he is playing “Mendelssohn Mows Them Down.”
He opened the recital with two Bach selections, the very uninteresting “Chromatic Fantasy in Fugue,” and “Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring.” The latter composition is a transcription of an old German choral written for piano by Myra Hess. It was beautifully played.
The second part of the program was devoted to Beethoven’s “Sonata Pathetic.” After a powerful opening, the composition rests quietly for a while and then races to\the conclusion. Mr. Templeton avoids great display of technique and concentrates on neatness and
THE HUDDLE
Headquarters for Coca-Cola, Pipe Tobacco and Candy
[leak Pvt Wdk HENRY PICARD
YOU, TOO, WUX "GO FOR" THE ONE AND : ONLY
PIPE
Dr.GRAB0W| I------»
•i
3
NO tUMUIK M-NO MIE NO BiTTEK TASTE
MTunacuMa
■L UNUUUIA CO, CMCAM
tone. In this respect, he succeeds admirably.
Then came the compositions and impressions by Templeton. As usual he asked the audience for any five notes and then used them in the style of Bach, Liszt, and George Gershwin. The next novelty combined “In the Mood,” “Celeste Aida,” “Oh! Johnny Oh!,” and the “Prayer” from “Hansel and Gretel.” Then he mixed up Strauss and Sousa, impersonated Walter Damrosch, and sang all four voice parts in that famous Mexican opera, “South of the Border.”—William Mooney
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted
the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
Optometrists and Opticians 314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
A Sweeter Smoke because a Miracle Machine Pre-Smokes every DR. GRABOW Pipe with Fine Tobacco (Edgeworth).

The Notre Dame Scholastic
NOTICE
Will the presidents of all campus clubs which have not as yet had pictures taken for the 1940 Dome, please get in touch with Tom Carty, in 132 Howard Hall, within the next week so a picture can be arranged.
VINCENTIANS
After last Friday’s luncheon in the comfortable English-style lounge of the faculty dining hall, President Joseph Mulqueen of the Notre Dame Vincentians acted for the last time in his official capacity. When he had read a report to Mr. George Gillespie, president of the Society in the United States, on Conference activity during this school year, Mr. Mulqueen called upon ‘the distinguished visitors to induct the new officers of the Conference. This he did and had a word of greeting and congratulations for Robert J. Marbach, president; Richard Leo Fallon, jr., vicepresident; Edgar A. Corey, vice-president; James A. White, secretary; Eugene J. Ryan, treasurer; John M. Hennessy, keeper of the wardrobe; and Paul W. Hackman, librarian. For the Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., Mr. Gillespie had the warmest praise, and expressed the belief that only in the days after college will the members appreciate fully what this true spiritual advisor has done for each man.
Mr. Gillespie spoke of his hope of having many college conferences throughout the country exchange views by means of regular correspondence and bring Newman Clubs into the work, which would increase interest in the Society. Leaders will come from the colleges, and it is of tremendous importance that they be trained to serve
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TC
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
as “the right arm” of the pastor in the home parish.
The genial guest met each man at the meeting and was impressed by the number of New Yorkers in the work. Most satisfying answer to his question, “why this should be,” was that New York is “tops” in everything.
Nearly 50 years of service in the Society has meant more to Mr. Gillespie than anything else. It has shown him that young men are received well into the parish conferences composed usually
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue

of older men; that the older men, for their experience alone, are invaluable in the work; and that it suffices to mention “there is a distinct difference between social work and charity.”	•
“Into the exchequer go the little things done by Vincentians; from it flow graces to all the peoples of the world,” Mr. Gillespie said. A Vincentian may go into almost any community in the world and there receive the sincere welcome of any one of some 250,000 brothers.
—Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
An ice-cold Coca-Cola is a thing by itself,—the familiar bottle of goodness that represents four generations of experience in refreshing millions. Its clean, tingling taste brings a delightfol after-sense of real refreshment.
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The vogue for cross-word puzzles goes on apace. We have heard that it helps increase one’s vocabulary. St. Paul himself was an expert in cross-wording. He had an all consuming passion to tell how Christ is in us and we in Him. This suggests a Lenten exercise, profitable in patience and instruction. Read the Epistles and note the number and variety of expressions he uses to drive home this truth. An instance: “For as many of you as have been baptised in Christ, have put on Christ.” (Galatians 3;27)
St. Paul was only trying to say in different circumstances what he himself had learned from the revelation of Christ. And the Church does just the same thing every day in her official prayer, often using the very words of St. Paul. The Masses for Lent are notable examples of the fact that the Prayer of the Church is pure Doctrine. The instructional part, or the Mass of the Catechumens, relates especially to Baptism and Penance in preparation for the Eucharist.	.
In Lent the Catechumens were prepared for Baptism, public sinners for reconciliation. Easter was their Communion Day. These masses are lessons not only in doctrine but also in history, and the development of the Liturgy. “Walk then as children of the light. For the fruit of the light is in all goodness, and justice and truth.” (Ephesians 5; 8-9)
Mass Calendar: Feb. 25-March 2
Sunday, 25—Third of Lent. 2d prayer, the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, the Living and the Dead (Omnipotens).
Monday, 26—St. Matthias, Apostle (from yesterday). 2d prayer and last Gospel of the Ferial. Credo.
Tuesday, 27—Ferial. 2d and 3d prayers from Sunday, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 28—St. Gabriel of the Sorrowful Virgin. 2d prayer and last Gospel of the Ferial, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Thursday, 2.9—Feria. Prayers as on Tuesday.
Friday, March 1—Feria. Prayers as on Tuesday.
Saturday, 2—Ferial. 2d and 3d prayers as on Sunday, 4th, the Pope. (Anniversary of his election).
SHIRTS and PAJAMAS
Fellows, get acquainted with the clean-cut flattery of Manhattan Shirts and Pajamas. They’re suavely streamlined, quietly handsome—and fit with a well-tailored ease. Trek in and see the new 1940 Manhattans.
s2
They’re exclusively in South Bend, at
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
MEN WHO GO PLACES
Successful men don't take a chance, they take Manhattan. They like that mark of quality... so self-evident in every detail of fine tailoring.. .that marks them as men of good judgment and discriminating taste. They like that custom-made look that's stitched-in to every one of these perfectly fitting, advanced-style shirts.
Get Manhattan-wise to yourself, today... the first affordable step up the ladder.
If any Manhattan Shirt ever shrinks Mow the indicated size, we will give you a new shirt. Tested and approved by the American Institute of Laundering.
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT CO, N. Y.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
M. S. BUILDING
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-0989 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
ff|iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiuuiinf»] OFFICE 4-5661	RES. 3-4080
{Dr. {R. & £ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS 702 J. M.S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
Bl.........................
xjtjcjcacjaoaeacjcjcjejcjcjcjcacjcjucacjcjcjcjcxx: {Drs. Probst and Sing ter
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
|	SOUTH BEND	I
I X-RAY LABORATORY J
I	825 SHERLAND	BUILDING	!
I	L. E.	FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.	I
|	M.D.	M.D.	|
*-------------------------------------------4
CDrs. {Rose and {Rose DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOG.. SOUTH BENO
DISC - CUSSION
Only Cole Porter could take such unmusical titles as “I’ve Got You Under My Skin” or “I Concentrate on You” and make unusually good songs of them. He does such perfect work that after you hear the finished product you think of the ideas themselves as melodic. Listen to Tommy Dorsey’s “I Concentrate on You” and “I’ve Got My Eyes on You” and see if you don’t agree. Tommy utilizes his trombone nicely and Anita Boyer puts over the distinctly Porter lyrics on A side. Allen De Witt, on B side, is improving but still “ain’t no Leonard.”
The “Low down rhythm in a top hat” of Al Donahue is neither too low down nor too formal on “With the Wind and the Rain in Your Hair” and “Between 18th and 19fh on Chestnut St.” Phil Brito satisfies on the one that sounds like a South Bend date. Paula Kelly sings “Chestnut St.” but the vocal isn’t the best thing in the record.
Helen O’Connell is a lovely girl with dimples and different voice; Bob Eberle is a handsome young man with a baritone voice and an Irish bride; Jimmy Dorsey is a young man with a saxaphone and an orchestra. All except Eberle’s bride get together on “Do It Again” and “Now You Know.” I can’t find much wrong with any of them but sometimes Miss O’Connell does sound like an alto sax. Still she’s good and so is this disc.
Tschaikowski is again commercialized in “On the Isle of May,” based on his D major Quartet; Andante Cantabile movement. Andre Kostelanetz has done a nice job of adaptation and Dick Jurgens, with Eddie Howard, has done an equally nice job of recording. They’re also fine on another Cole Porter number: “I Happen to Be in Love.” Jurgens is one of the few bandleaders that doesn’t lose sight of either the tempo or the mood in styling his arrangements — for which I am thankful. And Eddie Howard is the probable reason why your girl loves to dance Dick Jurgens.
“Wouldst That I Could Kiss Thy Hand, Oh Babe!” is the brainchild of Will Osborne and “Stinky” Rogers, who, aided by the rest of the band, have recorded it. “Dog House” Dale Jones sings (?) the lyrics (?). “The Man Who Comes Around,” its mate, has everyone singing the again questionable lyrics. Together the two make a good novelty record.—Bill Geddes
Fordham University next year will celebrate the centenary of its founding.
Detroit Club
The Detroit Club held its first meeting since the holidays Thursday evening, Feb. 15, in Carroll rec. President Jim Moore gave a report on the Christmas dance. Bob Cronin was appointed to take charge of arranging for a special train to Detroit for the Notre Dame-U. of Detroit basketball game. A rollerskating party was planned for March 7. With Larry Burn as chairman. After the business meeting, refreshments were served and the facilities of the rec-hall were turned over to the members of the club.
“People still have faith in education, but now they want it rationalized, and they ask why should education keep on with a rising curve of expenditures.” Dr. C. S. Boucher, University of Nebraska president, believes that “easy money” is no longer available for educational institutions. '
—Associated Collegiate Press.
Largest Record Department in Michiana
Musical Masterpieces
“DREAM ALBUM"—three famous scenes from Wagner—with Kirsten Flagstad and Lauritz Melchior and the San Francisco Opera Orchestra.
“Love Duet’’ and “Liebestad" from “Tristan and Isolde" and “Brunnhilde's Immolation” from “Die Gotterdammerung"
$10.00
VICTOR RECORDS — 75c
26480 J Just a Dream of You, Dear Wayne King (A Little Cafe Down the Street
26481	JStudy in Surrealism
Larry Clinton (Sunday
26482	1 Let’s All Sing Together
Sammy Kaye (On the Isle of May
Bluebird Records—35c (3 for $1.00)
SPECIAL RELEASE
By Glenn Miller
By Glenn Miller
(Tuxedo Junction
(Danny Boy
(The Woodpecker Song
(Let’s AU Sing Together
RODINS, Inc.
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184
Needles and Record Accessories Open Saturday Evenings
Chesterfield’s Twin Pleasures are
Real Mildness “^Better Taste
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
steriield
DEFINITELY MILDER Ci^urctH
You can’t mistake the extra pleasure you get from Chesterfields.
Because of their right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos, Chesterfields give you a cooler, bettertasting and definitely milder smoke.
You cant buy a better cigarette
'ack and <^ok
When the WEASLEY TWINS, stage and screen skating stars, perform for your pleasure, it's almost impossible to tell which is which.. but you can’t mistake the twin pleasures you get in Chesterfield’s REAL MILDNESS and SETTER TASTE