a
? !
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
c r
The Lesson:—Class' Poem.
1
THOMAS F. O’NEIL, LL. B-, ’13.
/JHROUGH all the long years till the end of time Old world cathedrals lift their towering spires
Crowned with the cross, of conquering. Faith the sign.
Men viewed and.in their souls love’s smouldering fires Blazed into deeds for. fatherland and God.
Wives, children, homes, wide acres they possessed Crusaders left to .win. the hallowed sod
Our Saviour’s sacred feet had touched and blessed. Inspired of Faith no pain they counted aught While blazed above the cross for which they fought.
*.
J .F
F
I
I
So, too, ideals are guides to lead men on, By showing far beyond earth’s toil and care The beauty of some matchless paragon.
More real than filmy castles of the air,— Offsprings of reason, not of fancy’s flight,—
Worthy "the highest reaches of our thought; Ever they stand to point the ways of right-, To bid men act the noble lessons taught, To seek high truth and shun all meaner strife: Ideals are real when woven into life.
Within this place which memory now makes dear, ’ The passing years have watched our minds evolve;
Have seen us, step by step, approaching near
The grave and vexing problems men must solve.
Our first and hard-won boundary is past;
We see the world, which to the youthful eye Was ever , dim, now grown complex and vast—
We meet Time’s Wherefore, Life’s eternal Oy. Here have we learned to pray for larger light, To do what conscience tells us is the right. .
ft
l-
y.
4'.
To serve our God, our country, and our home Has been thy guiding precept, Notre Dame. ; '
Bright be it ever as thy golden dome, •
This' grand ideal- to which thy sons .must aim: _
Sun-like "through mists to guide us day by day, Star-like in darkest night'to cheer us on, •	*
That we may tread the high and righteous.:way.
Where sage and saint with eager steps have. gone.
O may we keep thy lesson .early, late, - ,
i And trust in . God—because there is no Fate.

Life’s Dangers.*
THE REV. WILLIAM .. J. KERBY, LL. D.
Recognition of dangier of sin is therefore fiin-
HE one supreme danger in life, is sin: J repudiation of the explicit law of God* damental in right and noble living, .and disorganization of life which results.
The danger of sin is found everywhere: in
Now sin as we define it in. books rarely eating, drinking, studying, chatting, thinking; presents itself to us in everyday life. We . .even in a glance or a thought. This too must must learn its tricks, its processes and, bear- be realized if we will achieve a safe attitude, ings in order to anticipate it and insure K Sin approaches us;in many disguises; rarely

protection against it. ■: \ ’sin its own figure. When we are admonished We must live in presence of the fact that against apparently innocent actions which
. there is always some danger of sin. At. no may lead , us into sin, we protest too often, time may we say or believe that wTe are safe ^nd claim the right to do thus and so in the against its attacks. This truth stands out in name of learning, personal liberty, of practical .the- teaching of Chnst, in .the .convictions of Summary of the Baccalaureate sermon delivered ' the saints, in the experience of the world, in Sacred HeartChurch, Sunday, June 15, 1913.	-
J
&
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
587
wisdom, of personal right or dignity. Many of the grossest sins today, from slumming to actual murder, are defended because, itis claimed, quest for knowledge, right to happiness, dr independence, justifies them. This is only the cheap,, horrible, but effective modern disguise of old-fashioned sin and degradation. *
Even when sin is recognized and deliberately embraced, its trickery continues. We- tell ourselves that we may as well go on—we can reform when we wish. Then when the chains are fastened and we wish to reform, the tempter tells us that it is too late—all is lost, there is no hope. Thus presumption and despair, sins themselves, accompany us within calling distance, to help all other sins to conquer us.
The sinner forgets too often that the deepest grief' caused by his sins fall on the innocent and not on the sinner. Homes desolate, hearts broken, hopes crushed, sacrifices scorned—all of these experiences gather their heavy and agonizing weight on the innocent hearts of those who loved the sinner, and themselves lived lives that would honor the archangels.
The young man who faces life must study sin; must learn its tricks and defeat them, must keep life lighted by the ideals that give him wisdom and strength. Once sin is understood, the lessons of our teachers are ^confirmed, the beautiful and wonderful law of God takes on new attraction, and Christ stands out supremely loved, bravely served' nobly glorified. This is the wisdom that we ask of our graduates; this, the mission that we set for them. This mission is worthy of the best in you. It remains, for you to be worthy^of it.
Whither Are We Drifting.*
THE HON. JULIUS CAESAR BURROWS.
V
J. k \
Thomas f, O’Neil? LL. B.—Class Poet 1913. .
CONGRATULATE the management of this great University upon the evidence of prosperity mani- ' ' fested upon every hand, and the assurance it gives of continued advancement in the field of moral
and scholastic undertakings.
In complying with the request to address especially the law class, let me congratulate, you, gentlemen, upon the plan of the prescribed . course of law in this great University, and the • equipment you have acquired'.for the performance of the varied and responsible duties of life. Whether in the chosen line of your profession at the bar or on the bench or in the field of national activities, the acquirements you have made will be of service to -you. In the communities in which you will dwell you will be men of mental and moral fibre who will impart to others the spirit of betterment and a wholesome regard for government, the Constitution, and the law.
A- spirit of lawlessness is abroad in the land, and unless arrested,—and arrested at once— -the end can be seen. A chafige in our government—the government of the United States— is sought, , and the young men of this law class can be of great service in arresting the consternation. There never was a time when men were so needed as now,—men of judgment, men of caution, men of wisdom—and I often \ recall the words of Holmes: “God, give us in times like this men such as the times demand,— brave hearts, shrewd thinkers, and willing •	-
hands; men whom the lust of office does not	-
kill; men whom; the spoils of office can not <. budge; tall men, sun-crowned, who live above greed- in: public duty and .in private' life < ./* <. 7-
I think that in the little sphere of our.ac- 7L-7S7; tivities we forget what is .going on in yqur< government - and in mine, ' In the busy mart ;; of trade we forget the dangers which threaten. J L. the republic. I am not _a< pessimist. I am any- /I; optimist; and .1 am called to speak to yotmg men who go out - trained in the law; I am, ' called' to speak of some of the , dangers j^aV ^ beset ’us. ’	’	•	: .
* Opening Address of Commencement; dehvered; in; .7.^ Washington Hall, Saturday evening? June .14, 1913: .7 '
t
THE NOTRE DAME- SCHOLASTIC
588
The framing of the Constitution by our fathers was a splendid and herculean task; it was no light job, no light undertaking, to unite the thirteen separate colonies into one government,—into one government1 of distinct states. It is now proposed to amend the Constitution of the United States, the fundamental law of the republic. To bring these colonies into one government it was necessary to make concessions here and there. There was the problem of electing the Senate of the United States and determining whether there were to be two bodies in the Congress, and you, as well as I, know that two were decided upon. There at once arose a contest between the small states and the large states as to the measures of the quality of representation, and it was compromised at last by creating two houses, one of which should represent the people—the House of Representatives—and the other, the Senate, should represent the State.
Three propositions were proposed in the convention v. hich drafted the Constitution— the choice of the senators by the people, by the State, and by the House of Representatives; or in other words, by the Federal House of Representatives, the state legislatures, and the people, -by direct vote. It is needless to say that the scheme of electing by the people directly was abandoned, and election by the House of Representatives was also abandoned, and it was finally determined by unanimous vote that election of senators should be by the legislatures of the states.
This matter has already been settled by an amendment to the Constitution which imposes upon the body of the people of the United States the election of senators, and hereafter no senator will be chosen by his state legislature but by the' people by direct ballot. But, it will be observed, you have now two bodies with the same constituency. The man voting. for a representative in the national House of Representatives also votes for the senator, and you have the same people, the same constituency, back of both. Now the question arises: Why have we two bodies just alike? Wherein do they differ? Judge Story well says, “The people of the state directly chose the representative; the legislature, whose votes are counted and whose mode of election is different in different states.
directly choose the senators, so that it is impossible that the same influences, interests,	v
and feelings should prevail in the same - proportion in each branch.” But when you	r
destroy the theory of the fathers as to the r election of the Senate and have the two bodies elected by the same constituency, you destroy the necessity for two bodies, and none have -seen that sooner than public men. I hold in my hand a proposition to abolish the Senate—	r
abolish it entirely and have a single body,	A
the House of Representatives. I hold in my hand a bill pending in the Congress of the United States. May I read a passage » from it?
“All legislative powers shall be vested in ‘ a House of Representatives. Its enactments, v subject to referendum hereinafter provided for, shall be the supreme law of the land, and the President of these United States shall	*
have no power to veto, nor shall any court have the power to invalidate.” That, in	’
other words, eliminates the Senate and puts „ all legislative power in the hands of one body. All provision in the Constitution relative to the Senate are hereby annulled, and their ) rights, duties and privileges imposed on the . House of Representatives.	1
There are other propositions in that bill as startling as this; propositions which propose	'
to take us back to old features—features that .	-
existed under the old Confederation when there was but one branch of Congress. But # this is too late to talk about it, except to call your attention to the way we are drifting—	j
unconsciously, perhaps, but drifting, nevertheless. Destruction of the system of government which the fathers founded seems to be the prevalent tendency.
But it does not end here, for here is another proposition pending in Congress: “The Presi- . dent and vice-President shall be elected by . the people of the several states by direct vote.” ‘ The fathers provided the electoral system by which each state should send so many electors and no more, and these electors were measured	'
by the respective state representation in Con-	$
gress. That system was adopted and has for over a hundred years, proven valuable and ; satisfactory. But now it is proposed to elect t the President and vice-President by direct | vote.	|
My fellow citizens, a direct popular elec- I tion of President and vice-President is an in- I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Senior Ceass of 1913.
590	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
vitation to fraud in this country. Under the . electoral system where the state has a right to elect so many electors and no more, there can bejlittle, if any, possibility of fraud. But when the election depends on the popular vote, then it is important to make' the vote as large as possible over the state; so that while there was no larger vote than necessary to elect the President, under this system there will be no limit or restraint on the voter. The only thing that he will have in’ mind will be to make the vote as large as possible arid so secure the election of his candidate. I maintain that the abolition of the electoral college and the substitution of the direct vote of the people means disaster, and nothing but disaster. And I want the young men of this law class to understand whither we are drifting, and lend us your influence in arresting the step.
What does all this mean? Why, I can name states—and not confined to one .section of the country alone—I can name states which,' under such a system, will elect your President and vice-President every four years, for they have simply to stuff the ballot box with votes until they have enough. There is but one remedy, and that is for you young men of this class to lend your influence to check the insidious move. Having destroyed the Senate,' it is very natural to have an election to the Presidency by the people.
These are some of the questions that confront you young men today. Trained as you are in the law, reverencing as you do the principles of law and the Constitution, I beg of you to devote your -attention somewhat to these great national ;questions. It is interestirig, of course, to administer .the law, it is interestirig.. to the bar to settle and try great questions,' but these questions sink into • insignificance:' compared with the question of preserving fthe government itself.	.	..	'
But these tendencies I have just called' ybur ' atterition to, bad as they are, are not the worst features of the proposed changes. Do you know, young men, that there is a scheme on foot to destroy the judiciary of this country? By a system that is insidious but which nevertheless will be effectual unless intercepted, it is sought to undermine our great -tribunals;. and the first step is in this bill from which I have read. You know that judges hold their office during good behavior. It is proposed now to limit
the term, so that a judge can hold his office for a limited term and must then go before political conventions to obtain a nomination to be voted on by the people. If there is anything that would destroy the judiciary, it is that principle. Just a few words from this bill, if you will permit me:
“The judicial powers of the United States shall be vested' in one Supreme Court and such inferior courts as Congress may from time to time ordain to establish. The judges of both the Supreme and inferior courts shall hold their office for a term of twelve years each, and the successors of all judges now in office, both in the Supreme and inferior courts, shall be voted upon at the first general election • following, and all judges of both the Supreme and inferior courts shall be subject to recall at any general election.”	'
If there is any one thing more pernicious than another, it is this proposition. President Harrison, speaking of this proposition very well said: “Limited terms, if they are long, may be supported by many considerations; but short terms, combined with popular election, will not afford the people the security of judicial standard that has prevailed before. The judge who must go before a political convention for nomination can not have the same security as when his term is long or during good behavior. The judicial offices should be composed of men who will give the people justice for the sole purpose of serving -the nation, and not seek the office for personal and private ambition, as would be the case in the- election of judges.”	.
Such was the view of' President Harrison. The judiciary is. .the- good, conscience of our governriient, and upon it rests the very foundation of'the great structure. '' One word more, /and I want to quote from another great jurist' so'in point and so important: “Destroy our republic if you will, but leave -our judiciary unsullied, for the Supreme Court and supreme judiciary are the last safeguard of human liberty.”	.
’ Whatever assault is made upon the liberties of mankind, the only refuge is in the fortifications of our courts. Let me read to you from Justice Story, the great jurist and teacher of law in the. universities.. He. says:
“The tenure of office1 of judges-both in the Supreme and inferior courts is during good behavior.' This tenure of office seems indis-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
pensable to the due regard of independence and firmness, and due security to the people in administering private laws and preserving public principles.” Such was the opinion of the framers of the Constitution who voted unanimously to limit the terms of judges during good behavior.
Laws, however wholesome, are sometimes the objects of temporary criticism, of popular odium, and even of popular resistance. Nothing is more easy and repelling than for a demagogue to stir up confusion in the regular exercise of authority in order to advance his own. .interests. The independence and impartiality of upright magistrates often interpose barriers to his schemes. If under such circumstances the
I can conceive of nothing so insidious as the recall of judges. It would destroy the independence of the judiciary, who under this system would be anxious to hold office and anxious to please all, and not so anxious to administer the law; and the nullifying of judicial decisions is equally as menacing and disastrous.	'
I believe that about 1800 years ago a decision was nullified. When the Christ of mankind was on trial and the judge declared: “I find no fault in Him,” an appeal was taken to the mob and He was driven to His crucifixion. That was a recall of the judicial decision. But that is not all.^ Other amendments are suggested that arc equally startling. Measures
LAW 1913.
tenure of judges is for short periods, they would be easily intimidated, and thus the people whom the judiciary should fairly serve, would be deprived of their rights—rights to a fair and impartial judiciary.
The judiciary under such circumstances will seek little but success in office. It will forget the past and chime with the opinions of the day. It will forget that the principles of law rest on firm foundation and the Constitution. The people will not stand on equal ground. Such is the opinion of all the jurists,— even of .men who have sat on the supreme bench, and of those who are legislators of laws. To hold to this doctrine of election of judges, I tell you, means disaster.
are now pending in Congress^to repeal the Thirteenth and Fourteenth amendments, amendments which are the fruitage of the great Civil War struggle, and it is proposed that these shall now be wiped out.
Neither is that all. Here is a proposition in these times of general reform: “Whenever any law of the United States shall become invalid through the ruling, judgment, or decree of any court in the United States to the effect that said law is not conformative to the Constitution, then the validity of such law shall be submitted to the secretary of state, to the several governors of the several states, and by them to the legislatures of their respective states for consideration, and if disapproved
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
by said legislatures, it shall be repealed as unconstitutional.”
“Watchman, what of the night, and whith&r - are we going?” And you, young men, what say you to this proposition? Ah, there never was a time when men in the legal profession, grounded as you are in the great principles of law, were needed as today! Think of nullifying decisions of courts by the actions of governors of the various states—submitting various propositions to the legislatures!
Now, it may be unpopular—I think it is— but he who lives simply for popularity -had better not live at all. He who courts merely favor is not to be trusted.
I say to you frankly, gentlemen, that I have a profound admiration for the sixty-five men- who composed that great constitutional convention of 17S7, and formulated and immortalized the Constitution; they were men of principle, the foremost men of that timet The immortal TA'ashington presided over the constitutional convention. There were also Franklin, Madison, and the Pinckneys. I have confidence in the judgment of these men and their work; and I confess to a feeling of aversion and dismay when I consider the drift of public sentiment and the- very change in . the character of this government. I can not ^forbear to give you the words of Washington on this very subject in his farewell address to the American people, whose judgment no one will question. “This government,” Washington said,- “ is the offspring of our own choice, uninfluenced and unaltered, adopted upon full investigation and mature reflection... .and containing within itself' provision for its oven amendments.”
And I can not refrain from quoting the' immortal Blackstone, comparing the Constitution. of England with that of the United States—the one unwritten, the other written: “The American Constitution is, as far as I can see, the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the mind of man. It has felt the pressure of fire and it has held secure.”
I leave this thought with you, and I want to- say, as I have said before, that . there never was a time that, the republic was itself in so much danger as today, brought about simply by neglect of the people, and I leave these problems of state with you for reflection and solution.
The Living Wage—Historical Aspect.
ALLAN J. HEISER, A. B., ’13.
of
history of labor is a story development. From the be-
ginning of industrial activity the toilers have striven to improve their condition.	True reforms,
however, are achieved but slowly. Men are prone	to undervalue
reform	movements, because	“ they imagine
they	can	put their finger on	some illustrious
movement in history and say: ‘here commenced the great change which has come over the nation.’” It is not so. The in-
auguration of a great reform movement is o	o
like the source of a river—“You must stoop and gather away the pebbles to find it.” From small beginnings in centuries past the reform of labor has, during the. course of the ages, broadened into a mighty stream. Advance has followed advance, yet the labor problem of today is one of the greatest that has ever confronted humanity.
Less than six hundred years have passed since the great pestilence—the black death,— swept,over England leaving half that nation’s population behind it. That such a calamity should bring with it great economic changes does not surprise us. The status of the laborer was completely changed. His service in 1349 was eagerly sought for by the employer. Perceiving their advantage resulting from the smallness of their number, the laborers refused to work at the old wage rates. And thus
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	593
■ the employer had to choose between the alternatives of allowing his crop to rot in the field or paying the wages demanded. The king : forbade the laborer to demand more than cus-ternary wage, but the toiler refused to comply. Parliament, through the Statutes of Laborers, fixed' the rates of wages to be paid certain classes of laborers. The toiler might accept no more, the employer pay no less than the prescribed rate. The refusal of the toiler to work at these rates resulted in his being punished in the stocks. Thus the minds of. the workers were embittered and opposition to government and to the upper classes was engendered.	,
Scant progress had been’ made in industrial ’ pursuits before the eighteenth century. Goods were made by - the same methods, with the same kind of instruments, and under the same form of organization as had been the ■ • custom ■ for ages. Cotton and woollen goods . were carded, spun, and woven in the scattered i - cottages of domestic weavers by hand cards, the spinning-wheel, and the cumbrous, old-fashioned loom". Capitalism -was unknown. The cottager was owner and toiler. The finished product was moved from the hamlet to the town, from the town to the .seaport - by the most primitive conveyances. The ••• entire system was at variance with the needs ■ ■ and possibilities of the times. Hand machines were inadequate to supply the demand for goods. Necessity mothered the invention of power machinery. So many and so important were the mechanical inventions from 1740 • to 1S60 that the period is called the Industrial . Revolution. The “spinning-jenny” of Har-‘ greave revolutionized the industry and paved - ; the "way for Cartwright's power loom. It ’ remained for Watt’s steam engine to complete • the- revolution. In its capability to furnish a blast for smelting iron ore by means of bi ■ ’ tuminous coal the steam engine cheapened ■ machinery; in its power to keep coal mines free from water it cheapened fuel; finally, in its ability to propel cheap machinery by the use of cheap cbal it enabled English manu-■ . facturers to undersell all competitors in foreign markets. . With the advent of power machinery • came the need of larger buildings to house it. And thus the instruments of the poorer classes were, no longer useful. A new class, a class of capitalists, which was to own and control the machinery and its output, developed.
Bodies of laborers working regular hours and employed in buildings provided for purposes of industry now appeared. Thus arose a new world phenomenon—the factory system.
This industrial revolution effected a second great economic change. The old government regulations ceased to be effectual, the specifications in regard to the qualities and the prices of goods became obsolete when the methods and cost of production changed. Equally futile were the statutes of apprentices . and the effort to fix all wages by law. The factory system involved many changes. In the new system a greater amount of capital was utilized, while the laborers worked in factories under conditions fixed by their employers. The old hand-workers w’ere powerless to compete with machine work. No amount of skill, industry, or determination could enable them to make their living in the same way as they had of old. Their struggle was long and bitter; their failure was inevitable.
Scarcely had the factory system been established when there ensued a change of popular ideas concerning the regulation of labor. Men had long believed that it was a natural function of government to regulate the economic life of the people; now arose a prevailing desire for greater liberty, a desire to let the economic life regulate itself on the principle of competition. This disposition grew, and the first half of the nineteenth century saw its influence dominant.
As a result of the natural change of conditions, and the general acceptance of the new policy of laissez-faire, the system of government regulation was abandoned. Companies arose without regulation, the Hand of government rested but lightly on industry, while the vast majority of the laborers lacked the qualifications required by the statutes of apprentices. The movement toward freedom-from government control continued, and eventually the statutes of apprentices and the combination acts "were removed from the statute books. The practice of making men conduct their economic life according to law, namely, to buy and sell, labor and hire, manufacture and cultivate, export and import, in such ways as were thought to be best for the nation, was entirely abandoned. The new tendency of thought and economic teaching was not, however, merely negative and opposed to government control. It contained a dis-
594	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tinct positive element. Free and all - sided competition under the stimulus of self-interest became the economic ideal of the age. Adam Smith had written in his “Wealth of Nations”:. “Every Individual is continually striving to . find out the most advantageous employment for • whatever capital he can command. It - is his own advantage, indeed, and not that of the society, which he has in Anew. But the study of his own advantage, naturally, or rather necessarily, leads him to prefer that employment which is most advantageous to society.... What is the species of domestic industry which his capital can employ, and of which the produce is likely to be of the greatest value, every individual, it is evident, can, in his local situation, judge much better than any statesman or lawgiver can for him.”
Not all the results of the new system, however, were satisfactory. More and better, goods were produced - arid sold, and at much lower prices. But in spite of this the period of transition from , the domestic to the factory system was one of almost unmitigated distress to the great mass of those who, wedded to the old ways, had not the means or the ability to adapt themselves to the new. The handloom weavers kept up a losing fight in- the garrets and cellars of the factory towns, till finally. the whole class died out. And still the conditions of the laborer grew steadily worse.'. The. mills were small, hot, dusty, and unhealthy; the hours of-labor-were long. ■ Men . arid -women, driven by sheer necessity, _ worked for a mere pittance. Children lived, slaved, and died in the mines to fill the coffers of the capitalists. Girls and women, but partly clad, worked alongside naked men, and their virtue was the price of the masters’ gain. For children in the dewy morn of their existence “the bud of youth faded and fell ere it was unfolded for men and women there was left but the hell of industrial slavery! These results prove to a demonstration the inadequacy of unrestricted competition and the necessity . of government regulation.	.
A reaction was inevitable. The toilers, clamoring for redress, assailed Parliament, Some restrictive legislation was the result. The first of a series of factory; acts was passed in 1802, which pertained solely to children, and it was riot until. 1819 that factory legislation „ became a reality. Hours of employment, buildings and their sanitation were regulated
and controlled. By an act of 1S40 women ' were prohibited from any work in the mines. The law went further in the interest of the toiler and decreed that the employer was liable for any injury that the laborer might sustain. But legislation was not the only avenue of relief left to the laborer. The marked distinction between the employer and laborer was one of the very manifest effects of the introduction of the factory system. When a large number of laborers were gathered together in one-establishment, all in a similar position, and with common interests as to wages, hours of labor, and other conditions of their work, the fact that they were one homogeneous class could hardly escape their recognition. Since their interests were so opposed to those of the capitalists, the advantages of combination for the. sake of cooperative strength became equally evident. Absolute freedom of contract was ' the prevailing idea. A dispute between an employer and a workman would result in the workman’s discharge. If the dispute were to be between the employer and his whole body of organized workmen, each of the latter would be in a vastly stronger position, and there would be something like equality on the two sides of the contract. For the purpose of equalizing the bargaining power of employer and em-pjoyee trade unions were formed, which from that day until now have done much to improve the condition of the members.
While the rise of the trade unions adds to the glory of industrial progress, the growth of the “sweated classes” brings dishonor. Legislation and organization have done much for the betterment of the wage-earners as a whole, yet there is a large group of depressed workers who have not been able and are not yet able to better their condition by organization. “To live industrially under the new order the lbw-skilled workman must organize,” says Johri A. Hobsori. “He can not organize because he is sb poor, so ignorant, so weak. Because he is riot organized he continues to be poor, ignorant, and weak.” Five million such workers in our own country are. trying to live as men,—and not as beasts, —on less than a . Jiving wage, - As sweated workers they labor excessively long hours for excessively low pay, and usually, under unsanitary conditions. \\: ? /	! "	\	"■
The majority of them are'.without- friends,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
. 595
organization, or the means of obtaining help, while some are in extreme need. Avaricious arid inhuman, the sweater works them or long hours and for whatever wages he may determine: Opposition is useless, for the ranks are continually swelled by an influx of immigrants: Hundreds of thousands of such toilers in the “sweated” trades, do not earn enough, even when they have fairly regular work, to provide their families with the food, shelter, and clothing required to maintain mere physical efficiency. In these sweat shops squalor, want, intemperance, moral depravity, pauperism, crime, disease, and death are bred and spread. The very moral laws of nature and nations rise in protest against it. It is for this body of underpaid, depressed, and enslaved workers that some of the ablest economists and states- • men’ ask a minimum wage, making it a penal offense to hire labor at a lower price than that fixed by law.
Thus the forces of capital and the forces of labor stand arrayed against each other. If this nation is to endure, the bitter conflict between these forces must end. This is not to be accomplished by the greed of capitalism, nor by the syndicalism of labor. It is to be accomplished by the unimpassioned intervention of a third force—state legislation— by the enactment of a minimum wage.
■’ *--------------------'
Alumni Song.
^EVER forgotten, dear old college home, Thy sons are loyal even though they roam
Through passing years swiftly unrolled
. Brighter still brighter gleam the days of old.
.The days of old, the days of old, Brighter, still brighter, gleam the days of old.
Fairer than springtime' overrun with flowers, Seat of true wisdom, nature’s choicest bowers. Peace in our hearts from life’s cares manifold Comes with the thought of those bright days of old.
The days of old, the days of old,
Brighter, still brighter, gleam the days of old.
Spring calls the birds to their fair northern home, Spring brings us back torrejoice ’neath thy Dome. Time finds us faithful to thy Blue and Gold, Treading the-paths lit by the days of bld.
. The days of. old, the days of old, Brighter, still brighter, gleam- the days'of old.
-	. A	■	W. H..	'
The Living Wage—Ethical Aspect. ,
W. J. MILROY, LL. B., ’13.	: . .
fHERE is no liberty withouthonesty and justice. There is no divinity : shining on a nation where man . is less sacred than the -prod- . nets of his hands, and where human slavery meets no statutory .
“Thou Shalt Not.”	-	...
Let no false sentiment delude us. Though: Congress echo daily with the . eloquence . of patriots, though we preserve, as we have preserved, in bronze tablets or on mighty.: monuments . the mighty Declaration of Independence; though the Gettysburg Address... run through the lips of the school children- cf
this nation, yet we are not a free people unless the people everywhere are really free to live; .
Within the last century conditions of living \ . .. have changed. We can not close our eyes , to r, the new situation and pretend to be satisfied' E with ancient, policies. To-day under so-called “free” contracts, thousands of men are paid ' less than will keep-them in decency. There’ -has grown up an industrial tyranny And the -workers, goaded by terrible oppression,’have . -rebelled. It is true that, socialism and anarchy . are begging to give them the demanded-relief ; it is true that demagogues’ inflame desperate . workers to lawless-deeds; it is true that labor leaders, when their peaceable demands are disregarded, turn to destroy property and life. But still the cause, is holy, for it is the cause of human.liberty; and it is waged on American . soil doubly .consecrated-to the high ideal—-	;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
596
for above the toilers flies the flag which still, we hope, stands for the principles that gave it birth.
If living is a brute struggle for existence and nothing else, men have no right to the living ‘ wage. But human life is sacred; and behind its keeping stands a right of nature mightier than the ambitions of capitalists and anteceding all objections of expediency.
Labor was divinely commanded; therefore it is noble, and it is a strange torture of language by which we speak of the working class. Our wonderful complex, system of industry has produced classes, but it must not attempt to subtract from rights. The worker’s natural right to live from the bounty of the earth becomes the right to a living wage because there is this working class. Employment is the only ordinary means he has of earning his livelihood. He increases the world’s wealth, and that is his right to a living reward. He asks not to equalize the lots of men. But as he is obliged by divinely imposed duty to preserve his life, he claims as an inviolable right, food, shelter, and clothing, the means to life. When, at the end of the day, he has done a man’s work the laborer has earned a living wage; and any contract for less is contrary-to justice.
The great Pope Leo XIII., contemplating man in his fulness, taught us “ there is a dictate of nature more imperious and more ancient than any bargain between man and man, that the reward must be enough to support the wage-earner- in reasonable and frugal comfort. If through necessity or fear of a worse evil the workman accepts harder conditions because an employer or contractor will give him no better, he is the victim of fraud and injustice.” Mighty words from a mighty man, and so true that, they might have issued ex cathedra!
Not man singly, however, but the family is the basis of the State. Marriage is a natural right,”coming neither from the State nor society. Marriage'is the ordinary lot of men.
husband is the natural provider of the family. Hence in the best wisdom and justice of the State, the right to a living wage becomes the right to a family living wage. The construction of our society necessitates this admission. Nor is the right limited to married men, but in its nature belongs to every- man because he is the potential head of a family, because he represents the home-founder of the future. .
If the laborer has the right to. a living that
Now the are no more.
is decent, someone owes him the duty of providing such a living. Our enforcer of justice is the State, and to it we look for protection. “The establishment of a living wage is quite as much a proper function of the State as the safeguarding of life, limb, or property. To protect the health, morals, and mind of the citizen against the injury caused by an. insufficient wage is quite as important, both individually and socially, as to protect his life against the assassin, his body against the bully, or his money against the thief.” Such legislation is not based upon the ground of sentiment but of reason. It is more than a humanitarian wish that all men may share in economic progress. It is the high and inexorable command of justice.
■ But the duty rests most personally on the employer of labor. He who hires labor must be taught that he shall not issue dividends on human life, nor selfishly corrupt the hopeful blood of the nation’s coming citizenship. When an employer is able to pay and does not pay a decent wage, he is doing illegitimate business; he is trafficking in humanity; and his commerce is the sacrilegious cheating of the human race. He increases his income at the cost of the nation’s manhood; he swells his treasury by capitalizing the hopes and prayers and sufferings of his brothers.' Every employer must in conscience pay the toiler the worth of his hire. He need not ask his heart if this is right; his intellect will tell him it is. Though the walls of many industries should quake and totter, right must prevail. Ours is the government and the age of the individual’s rights. Kingcraft has perished, and the will of the people is becoming the law that governs the people. Scientists call this the age of invention, but the seers on the mountain tops call it the age of a more perfect; brotherhood.
Today oppression is fleeing before the white light of education and honesty. Temporizings The universal demand is “Give
every man what is-right.” Disciples of scepticism call it dangerous social unrest; but we know it is only the American idea of democracy now .coming into its own. It is the new free- • dom circling toward a. full noon which will, know no decline. It is again the' breath of God inspiring in our government a love for all . the struggling and hoping masses of. humanity.
Reason convinces us we: are. in the: right.
The heart whispers, “Do, not delay.” Over
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
597
all parts of this land are toiling men whose lives are almost untouched by sunshine, who are denied the many comforts of an age of comforts, shut out from all the relieving delights of art and science, living always in the shadows,—the great despairing army of cheated manhood. They it is who are the builders of our boastings—and we blindly forget to care for their rights. Why should we wonder when they rise in frenzy to strike for freedom? To them society is merely legalized oppression; they see only that their rights are denied, and some anc:ent-fire in their American blood— born perhaps of Bunker Hill or the Emancipation Message—tells them it is wrong and thrills them with rebellion. We, not they, are at fault; we who have begun to despise work, and to scorn the humble toilers of the land as vulgar, low, and unrefined. We term it mobocracy when defrauded .workers rise in anger and demand justice.
Not theirs, but ours is the wrong and blame. Ours is the forsaken charge. We do not wish to commend or even excuse violence and anarchy. We know that law and authority must be respected and obeyed to grant us law in liberty and liberty in law. But we have at hand at least a partial remedy, the Living Wage. Let us stand forth to right the wrong. Let us spread the light where night is thickest. What mean the sacrifices of the ancient patriots, what sigiiify our fathers’ heroic deeds in peace and war, unless they all end in wise laws and national happiness? But we must feel the workers’ position. We who deny-them their rights can not expect them to listen when we
preach obedience to law. They tell us: “You preach the gospel of humanity. Go write that gospel on the statute books of this country.” We shall send our law-makers into the crowded stores, into the whirring mills and shops; into the nightly blazing furnaces and see that the manhood of this nation is repaid, not degraded. Hard enough at best is the pitiful upward struggle of the human race without impeding the way. Let us cease insulting the toilers with legislative schemes of charity and give them justice. We are a great people because we hold to the principle of Liberty and Justice.-. ' But let us not forget that there is no progress which neglects the toiling masses. They conjure us in the name of simple Justice to do what is right. Justice, august and- pure! the abstract idea of all that would be perfect in the spirits and the aspirings of men! Where the mind rises, where the heart expands, where the countenance is ever placid and benign, where her favorite attitude is to stoop to the unfortunate, to hear their cry, and to help them, to rescue and relieve, to succor and save; majestic from its mercy, venerable from its utility, uplifted without pride, firm without obduracy, beneficent in each preferment, lovely though in her frown.
“We can compromise war. We can compromise glory. We can compromise everything at that point where hate comes in, where miser}’’ comes in, where love ceases to be love, and life begins its descent into the valley of the shadows of death. But we can not compromise Truth. We can not compromise Right.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Living Wage—Economic Aspect.
SIMON E. TWINING, PH. B., ’13. -------------------
HE indestructible right of - the laborer to a living wage is axio-' matic upon acceptance.of the Chris-f	tian dogma of the inherent dignity
J&,	human personality. A right,
however, may justly be withheld if there is grave danger that serious wrong will follow its enforcement. Even the question of a living wage, therefore, resolves itself eventually into the consideration of economic practicability.
The policy of Laissez-faire, exalted by the political economists of the industrial revolution, has long since been discarded. The unbridled play of economic forces wrought evils that
j	could not be	disregarded, and soon no man
’.	could fail to	understand that the State does
i	not fulfil its	duty to its citizens by simply
I	keeping hands off. A government exists to
■ '	preserve the	natural rights of its citizens,
I and because of sacred duty to generations yet i	unborn it, is bound by equal obligation to
|	preserve itself. ' But 'men whose- wages will
t . not permit them. to . live as men should live are J dangerous both to themselves and > to the f State; and therefore, whether we reason from 1 the principle of individual right or from the | principle of. social welfare, we must .inevitably | arrive . at the f Conclusion that no government 1 dare long permit.- a greatbody of its citizens^ to ;live unhealthy and . abnormal lives. Pre
cisely that, however, is the - condition con- ■ fronting even the United States today. .
Investigations by Streightoff, by Chapin, j and by Father Ryan establish beyond doubt > that a wage -short of S750 a year is not sufficient in any city of the United States to maintain the average family of five in the . physical, , mental, and moral efficiency of .health. Yet, on the basis, of all authoritative statistics, , Professor Nearing of the University • of Penn- -sylvania estimates that three-fourths of the adult male wage earners of this nation receive less than this family living wage of S750, and that . of the adult females in industrial occupations . three-fifths receive less than the weekly wage of eight dollars which is declared essential to decent living. Robert Hunter, then, can not be overstating the seriousness of the problem engendered by low wages when he tells us, in his book on Poverty, that ten millions of our . fellow-countrymen are underfed, underclothed, and poorly housed. Life under such con- -> ditions brims with bitterness, and its injustice breeds the evil growths of class hatred and socialism that sap the strength of individual and of State. When, theiefore, you see that in . this land of limitless abundance and prosperity seventy-five per cent of the male workers receive less than a living wage in compensation for their toil; when you behold their misery, and the pitiable struggles of their, wives and -of the million seven-hundred thousand-children hurled into the maelstrom of industry to eke . out existence for the family by their scanty earnings; when you see the heap of wrecked .• and ruined bodies and souls that stream of industry every year piles up at its mouth -or belches forth into society;—then you will . not wonder at the anxious words of Leo XIII, when he urged us that “a remedy must be .	‘
found, and found quickly, for the .misery and wretchedness pressing so heavily and so un- ’ justly at this moment upon the vast, majority - ‘ of the working-classes. ?	.	. •
Trades-unionism is not that remedy,—-for	'
the great. majority of the submerged workers are too poor and weak to- organize effectively. , Economic forces/offer them no hope,—for it is the grinding >force of. bargain -wages and •• relentless-competition .that has been the means of their oppression. -The.grasping	will
not help, them, for he fattens on their wretchedness. . And thet> j can: not<save|themAfpf^	gripped
S.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and held powerless in the same vise of competition. The State alone holds the key to labor’s shackles; and if democracy, doubly pledged to hold sacred the rights of its citizens, is to be absolved from charge of failure, it must release the toiling millions of this nation from the economic hell in which they are now plunged. The parasitic forces which compel the worker to sell his labor for a wage on which he can not lead a normal life must be restrained by law. The living wage must-be made the . legal minimum wage. That law alone can vindicate the State and save it from dismemberment. The remedy is radical, but only in the sense that it goes to the root of the labor problem, and meets a threatening issue at its source.
The State today prescribes a- minimum of sanitation and a minimum of leisure for employees; and there is no ground for a priori argument that it should not, where necessary; advance a further step and regulate the wages contract. The state is fronted by an evil it is bound to remedy. The means proposed is suited to the end, and there is in it nothing ominous of danger.
The economic consequences of establishing a minimum wage by law can not be different from those resultant upon the fixing of a minimum w'age by labor unions, or by voluntary agreement of employers. What is immediately demanded is not a flat minimum applying to all employments, but provision for the creation of wages boards in the sweated industries; which shall determine upon the basis of investigated facts the minimum wage necessary and just in each trade, and enforce it by law. This plan was adopted in Victoria in 1896, applying to five trades. So satisfactory were its' results that skilled trades as well as unskilled, men as well as women, employers as well as employees, demanded the application of the law, until it now embraces the great majority of industrial’ workers in the State. Similar laws, moreover, have been enacted in the neighboring States of West and South Australia; and even England, profiting by the experience of her colonies, has applied the principle to five selected groups of depressed workers.
In New Zealand and New South Wales the ‘ legal' regulation of wages is accomplished by means of compulsory arbitration laws. The ultimate effect of compulsory arbitration, however, is to fix not a minimum, but a standard
599
wage for each industry. Under the wages-board plan, on the other hand, it is only the plane of competition which is fixed by law. The boards are made up of an equal number of employers and employees, with- a representative of the State as chairman. As the latter does not vote except in case of tie, the practical effect is simply to put the underpaid workers in position to bargain collectively on terms of equality with their employers, and to make their agreement binding by . State enforcement. The old theory of bargain wages assumed equality of bargaining power between employer and employed, and the establishment of wages-boards to fix a minimum wage as a plane of bargaining in each employment is but a necessary means of making that assumption square with the facts- of modern industry’’.	•
Objection to the legal minimum wage on constitutional grounds' evades the merits of the question, but in the light of recent decisions of the Supreme Court, the case for constitutionality seems clear. In the case of the Noble State Bank vs. Haskell, of Allgeyer vs. Louisiana, of Lockner vs. New York, of Holden vs. Hardy, and of the Knoxville Iron Company vs; Harbison, the United States Supreme Court has laid down explicitly the doctrine that “the police power may be exercised not only in behalf of the general health, safety, ' and morals, but in the ’ interest of any particular class of employees, who are in a position of economic disadvantage as compared with their employers.” '
Recent ’ widespread investigations in this country have established the fact that higher . wages will not work hardship to employers, and that unrestrained competition alone pre-
_ vents the rise of wages to a healthy level. The establishment of this level as a legal minimum will therefore simply force the exploiter of labor to dispense with gain that is the price of sweat and blood, and free the conscientious employer from competition which forbids him to be just. Here and there may be employers , who can not afford to. pay the . living wage and stay in business. Let them go!. Parasites of industry, already too long have they been . . feeding on the' blood of: labor. The industry whichL does not afford; its 4 workers a ■ living wage is .a-menace to the. State, and can not too soon be Tooted out? f L.
More serious is the fact; that a great body
6oo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of workers who can not earn a living wage will be ejected automatically fiom industry. And yet this is to the ultimate advantage oi woikers and of State. The unemployed will always be the least efficient; and this should increase the national productivity. And it is far better that those who have been called the “industrial invalids” should be brought to the attention of the State and cared for than that they should be permitted • as now to corrupt the labor market and pull down the normal wages standards of whole groups by parasitic competition. Moreover, it is not expected that the minimum wage laws will stand alone. But when such laws have marked off the workers from the drones and the incapacitated, then the nation may face squarely the problems of degeneracy and inefficiency, and apply suitable remedies to those affected by each disease, instead of the weak palliatives now administered indiscriminately to all.
The failure of State regulation in the middle ages does not concern us now. Such legislation fixed an absolute wage from which there could be no appeal. It is today proposed . but to enable employees to be represented equally with their employers on trades boards which shall fix a minimum wage for each industry. Already in this county, Oregon has initiated the movement with a minimum wage law applying to women workers; and provision is made in the new constitution of Ohio for the enactment of minimum wage legislation of universal application.
. In the black sky of industrial oppression is therefore, rising now the clear, bright morning star of hope, presaging the dawn of a new day, when democracy shall take its stand on principles of Christian justice and fight a bloodless battle for the right.
Valedictory.
• WILLIAM E. COTTER, LL. B., ’13.
We have reached the parting of the ways. The school made dear to us by a thousand tender associations will soon be only a memory. The class-rooms, the corridors, the campus,
all the dear old haunts will pass out of our lives. The care-free days of youth, the young men with whom we have associated like brothers in one household, the teachers who have mingled with us and helped us, will all fade out of our existence like a dream.
Now the sunny morning of our life deepens into the blaze of noon. Columbus himself saw no greater mystery ahead of him across . the blue Atlantic, the day he sailed from Palos, than we do in gazing into the future which we are about to enter. In great part life means ' toil, weariness, heartache, with here and there success and rest, the joys of hope, and the | inspirations of memory. Service and patient watching, heavy7 heart for failure and quickened J pulse for triumph are to be our portion in the long watches of the day. Struggle always,	;
disappointment often, and the lure of pleasure	j
and of sin are awaiting us. But we go forth	<
with the blessing and the training of our Alma	j
Mater, the one to enrich us, the other to sustain.
Notre Dame lives close to the hearts of her -sons. Perhaps this is because there is so much of the old-fashioned mother about her, a mother ’ who knows no joy but the welfare of her children. All her thought, her labor, her prayer, and her	]
pleasure, sleeping or awake, is centered in	I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
our happiness and wellbeing. Through every mood we see her love leaping from a heart full to overflowing, and we know that it is a mother’s love,—the one love in the world that will neither change nor perish.
No doubt, the feelings which are so vivid this Commencement day may grow dim with time. Sentiment often lies on the surface of our nature and dies like a ripple with the breeze which started it. But the thought of what our school has done for us, quickens in us a jealous regard for her good and great name, an unfaltering belief in what she has taught us, and a conviction that she is the first school in the world.
Perhaps we do not now fully appreciate the work which she has accomplished in forming our character. Only when we learn what life really means, when we have fought and won in the struggle, shall we be able to appreciate that patient, beautiful labor which this University has expended on her children.
But there are some things we do understand and appreciate even now. She has taught us the high and holy doctrines of our Faith and made us understand that for no fair prospect of wealth or honor, of fame or love, are we ever to sacrifice one solitary jot of that teaching. She has bade us suffer for the things we believe even.as the founders of this University suffered. She has sounded for us high notes of patriotism,—the patriotism of the soldier in war and of the upright citizen in peace. She has. given us wisdom and tried . us with discipline,—the wisdom of schools and philosophers, the discipline that radiates from the Cross. With the help of God we will be true to her lessons,. and by no act ever reflect dishonor upon her teaching.
But in the days to come we will do more than this. Small will be our credit if we follow the lessons and forget the teacher. He would be a poor son, indeed, who would win the world's respect for the virtues which his mother taught him, and forget the mother herself. How can we repay what our Alma Mater has done for us? By a noble life. That will always be her joy. By praising her wherever men will listen; and this to us will be the easiest and most pleasant task in the world. But better than this wall be a living interest which will make her a sharer in our success.
- When we see the millions spent upon other colleges by grateful sons, surely we should be moved to dp something for the sweetest
601
mother that ever lived. So let our remembrances be not merely the word of praise and the kindly feeling, but an effort to help her in extending the great work carried on for nearly a century.
W ith this thought I say farewell in the name of the men of 1913 to the great old school. What a privilege to have been trained in this lovely shrine of youth and learning! Farewell to the great church and the great dome. How often in our dreams we shall see the spire and golden statue. Farewell to the old roads across the country and down to the town, to the old haunts where friendship wove her garlands. -	’ ’
Farewell to you, teachers of the golden word. Farewell to you, comrades of the class, and comrades of every class. We go now by different ways into the world. We shall meet rarely. But we will carry with us to the end of the world the memory of our too brief association, of all the things it will be pleasant to recall. And when we do meet, the sure tie to bind us, to make our greetings joyful and sweet, will be that we drew our first inspirations of life from the ever-flowing, ever-beautiful, clear, crystal spring of Notre Dame.
Be an Optimist.
WILLIAM J. BURKE, ’13.
If you’ve a wife and find your life is not a dream of ease,
If mother-’n-law says she .will run your home “ Just as I please;”
If smoking ruins the furniture, she’ll have no more of that;
If clubs and smokers cause late hours, “Stay home and clean the flat!”
If wifey needs a new fall dress, “Your clothes are good enough;”
Don’t flare and swear and tear your hair—submit to each rebuff, . ‘
Thank God you’re not a bigamist,—’twould be just twice as tough.
If you’ve been candidate for mayor and suffered a defeat,	-
Don’t quit the game, remember that you may again compete;
And if the storm should leave you on a single lonely .raft	‘
Why, wear a smile, and thank the Lord you weren’t pinched for graft..	.
Don’t think because the sea is rough the fish don’t want your bait;
Stay on the pier and be sincere, like Billy B. the Great—
He fished’until he caught the Secretaryship of State.'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLVI.	JUNE 1913. No. 37.
C. S. C., assumes his old place of honor as a member of the Faculty.
Among the lay teachers, Mr. Joseph Callahan, Mr. Henry Kuhle, and Mr. Arthur Hughes,	$
instructors in the preparatory department,	*
retire from the University, while Mr. F. Alonzo, of Madrid, will have charge of the Spanish classes,	f
and Mr. Benedetto Pasquini will have charge	«
of the Italian classes. Mr. Frederick Binder will preside over the department of voice culture • and glee work.	-
Statement of the Ownership, Management, etc., of the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Published weekly.
Place of publication, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Editor, Frank T. Maher.
Business Manager, William A. Moloney.
Publisher, University Press.
Owners, University of Notre Dame.
Bondholders, None.
Frank T. Maher.
Sworn to and subscribed before me this 19th day of July, 1913.	Brother Alban.
Notary Public. ■
Changes in the Faculty.
As a result of the Provincial Chapter certain changes have been made in the personnel of the Faculty.
The Reverend Francis T. Maher, C. S. C., of Walsh Hall has been made Dean of the English Faculty in Columbia University, Portland, Oregon: The Reverend Paul Miller, C. S. C., also of Walsh Hall, has been transferred to St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas. Father Carroll, C. S. C., has been appointed pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend, but fortunately retains his old position as Professor of English/ Brother Just, C. S. C., for many years Rector of Carroll' Hall, has been made Assistant Superior of the important Postulate of the Brothers of the Holy Cross at Watertown, Wisconsin. He will be greatly missed, but he leaves behind him fragrant memories and he has inspired life-long gratitude in the hearts of those whom he guided. Brother
Raymond, C. S. C., has been appointed professor in St. Joseph’s College,. Cicncinnati, Ohio.
. On the other hand, Father Crumley returns as
Professor of .Philosophy and English. Reverend who had successfully passed their mmi-John McGinn, C. S. C., of Columbia University, nations awaited admission to membership. Reverend John Ryan, C; S. C., of St. Edward’s, On motion they were admitted to the Asso-are new additions, and Father James .Quinlan, ciation. It was then moved that the bath of C. S. C., replaces Brother just in Carroll Hall . fidelity be. administered to the newly elected under happy. auspices: /Brother .Marcellinus, members apd the chair appointed the Honorable
Notre Dame’s Sixty-Ninth Commencement.
The Commencement was most auspiciously inaugurated on Saturday evening, June 14, when the Honorable Julius Caesar Burrows, former United States Senator from Michigan, addressed. the graduating class and student body assembled in Washington hall.. While Mr. Burrows’ address was particularly directed to the members of the law class, his broad views on questions of extreme public interest rendered ' his words of value. and interest to all. He decried the attempt at wholesale reform, so apt to be. the fault of the ambitious young barrister, and. counselled honest individual effort on the part of all servants of the public. The direct election of United States senators by popular vote was another public question treated by Mr. Burrows. Clear and forcible,, the Honorable Mr. Burrows’ address to the graduates of 1913 was one of general excellence, and worth.	.	.. ..
Business Meeting of the Aeumni.
The sixth regular meeting of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame was called to order in Brownson study hall by William P. Higgins, ’03, president of the Association, at five o’clock on Sunday after-: noon, June sixteenth. After the meeting had been called to order the minutes of the previous meeting were read arid adopted. Announcement-was then made by the president of the Association that he had been informed by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, President of the University, that the members, of the class of 1913
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
William P. O’Neill (Billy O’Neill of ’06), the lieutenant .Governor of Indiana: to administer the. oath. He pledged the new alumni to fidelity to the Constitution of the United States, the principles of the .Alumni Association, ' regularity, in payment of annual dues, and frequent attendance at annual meetings. On ' various motions, the following students who did not remain to complete their courses but . who had pursued collegiate studies over an extended period were admitted to membership: James T. Foley of Chicago; Paul R. Martin .	of Indianapolis, and Angus B. McDonald
:	of San Francisco. The report of the Treasurer
showed a balance of cash on hand amounting to- $911.21 deposited in the Ludington State Savings Bank and two thousand dollars invested in real estate mortgages. The treasurer suggested that a printed copy of receipts and ; disbursements and money invested be made i	. annually and that copies be sent to all the
:	members of the Association. This suggestion
5 was later adopted by motion as a rule of the 1 Association. ’	•
1 The names of members who had died since | the last meeting were then announced. Two ( .were reported,—(General Robert Wallace Healy, ; A. B., ’59, A. M. ’65, who died at Chattanooga, | , Tennessee, November 2, 1912; and James L McBride, B. S., ’68, M. S., ’71, who died at /	Grand Rapxds, Michigan, December 1, 1912.
|	The secretary then requested the members
f ; to notify him as soon as they learned of the 1/ death of members in order that masses might f	be celebrated at Notre Dame and prayers
P	offered for the repose of their souls. A com-
| mittee, composed of Colonel William Hoynes, ’77,
Judge Timothy E. Howard, ’62, and William I	Mclnerny ’01, was appointed to draft resolutions
|	of condolence.
.	■ Resolutions of Condolence.
| Whereas, The Alumni Association, in its regular annual meeting assembled, has learned of the death, during the past year, of the fol* lowing members: General Robert Wallace . Healy, A. B., ’59, A. M., ’65; James McBride,
B. S., ’68, M. S., ’71,	-
Therefore, Be it resolved that. we, the . members of the Alumni. Association, extend to the mourning relatives of these our departed brothers sincere and abiding sympathy, adding thereunto the hope and prayer that our dead . are even now. enjoying the blessed vision
603
promised to those who serve. God and persevere’ in their service to the end.	,
Timothy. E. Howard,
William Hoynes, .
William Mclnerny.-
Officers were then elected for the following year: Honorary President, the Rev. John J. Burke ’83, Peoria, Illinois; President, Honorable Charles M. Bryan ’97, Memphis, Tenm essee; Vice-Presidents, Honorable J. Joseph Cooke, ’94, Beardstown, Illinois; Honorable John Eggeman, ’00, Fort Wayne, Indiana; ■ William Mclnerny, ’01, South Bend, Indiana; Honorable Peter P. McElligott, ’02, New York City; William E. Cotter, ’13, Chicago, Illinois; Secretary, Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C., ’90, Notre Dame, Indiana; Treasurer. Honorable Warren A. Cartier, ’87, Ludington, Michigan; Trustees to serve two years, 1913-1915, Thomas Hoban, ’99, South Bend, Indiana; Clement C. Mitchell, ’02, Chicago, Illinois; Rev. Michael Shea, ’04, Rome, Italy. . The greater part of^ the remainder of the meeting was consumed in discussing the. advisability of .joining with the local council of the Knights of Columbus who have in view the erection of a building on the University campus. The sentiment of the members present seemed to be against affiliation • with any exclusive society or., organization in.any project whatever. The.erection of a building in which members might stay when they visit the University was then discussed . and a resolution was adopted declaring that it seemed to be the sentiment of the meeting . that the Association should use its funds and. that the members should otherwise contribute . to the erection of a hall or building to be known as the Old Students Hall or Alumni Hall or be designated by some other appropriate name. It was further moved and seconded that notice of the feeling of the members present at the meeting be sent to all the members of the Association for expression of opinion; The treasurer was instructed to send out copies . of the resolution with, his annual report. -A settled plan for the admission of old. students k . who have not been graduated and who seek admission to the Association was then adopted. Under the newly adopted rule a committee to be known as the Committee for the Admission of Non-Alumni will decide on the eligibility of old students whose names are presented for membership. On suspension of the rules Marshall Howell of Cassopolis/Mich-
604
lHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
igan, and Martin O’Shaughnessy of Chicago were elected to membership. Complimentary references to the Alumni Number of the Notre Dame Scholastic were then made and the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell was again selected as editor of the Alumni Number for the coming year. Dinner was then announced. and the meeting adjourned.
The Banquet.
Immediately after the adjournment of the business meeting at seven o’clock came the annual Alumni banquet. The large senior refectory had been tastefully decorated for the occasion with the gold and blue, and the University orchestra was there to cheer the feast with its most convivial strains. After all appetites had been duly appeased came the rounds of speech and song. Judge Francis J. Vurpillat of Winamac, Indiana, graduate in the class of 1891 reviewed some of the incidents and characters that made life interesting at Notre Dame a score of years ago. The newly elected president of the Association, Charles M. Bryan, ’97, now city attorney of the city of Memphis, Tennessee, spoke most entertainingly in his warm southern manner ol the difficulties and achievements in the Varsity athletics of his day. . All the alumni are rejoicing that “ Bryan Boru,” as he is known by his class, is now their leader and that he, as toastmaster, is to supply the inspiration at the banquet next year. Henry Wurzer of ’98 spoke of the tie which binds the Notre Dame man to his Alma Mater, citing his own ' inability- to get any farther away from her than South Bend. Then followed the Lieutenant Governor oi Indiana, William P. O’Neill of the class of ’96, with words all too few on the . achievements of Notre Dame men in public sendee. The University’s work in debate in the past and at present was the topic of an enthusiastic speech by Congressman George Sands,' Ti. The concluding address was ' by the newest- member of the Association, Paul R. Martin, ’13, who urged the duty, of-practical loyalty on the part of. all the alumni in promoting the interests of .the old school by making her merits known. , .
Congressman William P. Higgins, ’03, the retiring president, made his clever introductions of the several speakers a proper climax to his year of service as head of the Alumni Asso- -ciation. “Bill” is the kind of man the’ office
needs, and it is sure to find him again within a few years. The old Notre Dame songs sung
in chorus and the Varsity yell added spirit and . vim to the program. The occasion was thoroughly | enjoyed by everyone present, and has doubtless done much in binding the old “grads” to one’ another and all of them to Alma Mater.	J
Alumni present at Commencement:	• |
Warren Cartier, ’87; Edward Cleary, .’09; Rev. ?
Joseph Burke, ’04; Rev. Ernest Davis, ’04; Rev. I George McNamara, ’04; Rev. Matthew Walsh, ’03;	<
Jose Caparo, ’08; William Higgins, ’03; Daniel Dillon, ’04; C. M. Bryan, ’97- John Kanaley, ’09; Rev. . John Cavanaugh, ’90; Max St. George, ’08; Rev.
Joseph Maguire, ’96; Eustaqui Vera, ’10; Rev. Mat- .• thew Schumacher, ’99; Edward Maurus, ’93; Frank	|
Ackerman, ’04; Rev. Hugh McCauley, ’06; Rev.	I
Walter Lavin, ’10; Rev. William Bolger, ’07; Rev. I Thomas Burke, ’07; Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, ’06; I Rev. Frank Maher, ’oS; Rev. Patrick Carroll, ’04;	।
James Hines, ’09; Thomas Steiner, ’99.; Frank Me- • Bride, ’12; Judge T. E. Howard, ’62; Henry Dock-weiler, ’12; Hugh Daly,’ ’12; Robert Milroy, ’12; - -Rupert Donovan, ’08; Paul Donovan, ’10; Justin T
Molony, ’11; James Cunningham, ’07; John Worden, ’05; Rev. Paul Foik,’07; Joseph Sullivan,’01; Harold Fisher, ’06; Henry Kuhle, ’12; Patrick Cunning, .’12;	•
Stephen Herr, ’10; Henry Wurzer, ’98; Rev. Daniel Spillard, ’64; Col. William Hoyncs, ’77; Rev. Leonard Carrico, ’03; Rev. Michael Quinlan, ’93; Rev. Charles i O’Donnell, ’06; Rev. Charles Doremus, ’06; Edmond
Savord, ’12; John Costello, ’12; John C. Tully, ’n; Robert Shenk, ’11; Rev. Wendell Corcoran, ’07; Rev. Wesley Donahue, ’07; Rev. James J. French, ’90; Edward K. Delana, ’11; Herbert R. Keeffe, ’n; Chester McGrath, ’12; Rev. William Moloney, ’90; Harry M. Miller, ’10; Rt. Rev. Frank O’Brien, ’05; Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey,-’78; Michael Hannin, ’93; Frank Vurpillat, ’91; Joseph Cooke, ’94; Clement Mitchell, ’02; Edward Figel,’ ’11; • Leroy Keach, ’08; Jesse Roth,'’10; Rudolph Probst, ’11; Gallitzin Farabaugh,’04; Thomas Hoban,’99; Thomas Swantz, ’04: AVilliam O’Neill, ’06; Paul McGannon, ’07; Frank Hollaren,’10; Leo Buckley, ’ 11; William Mclnemy, ’01; Dr. Frank T. Powers, ’94; E. R.Adel-spergcr, ’90; George E- Attley, ’10; Dr. John B.' Berte-ling, ’So;- Walter Mclnerny, ’06; George Sands, ’10;. Francis Derrick, ’oS; Clement Ulatowski, ’ 11; Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’65; Paul Donovan, ’10; Arthur Hughes, ’ 11; Vitus G. Jones, ’02; Martin J. McCue, ’Si; Lawrence McNcrny, ’06; Frank O’Brien, ’02; Rev. John-T. O’Connell, ’06; Rev. A. B. O’Neill, ’91; Frank O’Shaughnessy, ’00; Rev. Michael Oswald,’98; Rev. J. B. Scheier,.’97; Rev. M. Szalewski, ’01; Fremont Arnfield, ’12; John F. Devine, ’12; Fabian Johnston, ’12; Jay Lee, ’12; Frank McBride, ’12; Robert McGill, ’12; James Nolan, ’12; Rev. Julius Nieuwland, ’99; Thomas Quigley, ’12'; Robert Proctor, ’04.	.	"
Junior and Freshman Crews Triumph.
The regatta and swimming races held Commencement Monday • drew a large crowd of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Varsity Baseball Team.
..	tt	------- — --••• — -
6o6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
students, alumni, and their families and friends to Saint Joseph Lake as these interesting events have always done in years past. The races were scheduled to begin at one-thirty Monday afternoon, June 16, but long before that hour the summer-clad crowd had gathered around the boat-house and along the shores of the lake to await the aquatic games.
The day proved a red-letter one for the class of ’14, for not only did their boat crew win over the graduating class of this year, but they also beat the ’13 swimming quartet. The Junior-Senior boat race, however, was marred by the breaking of an oar-lock by one of the Senior six, which prevented a showing of the full strength by the ’13 men. The Juniors, seeing their advantage, loafed on the return, because of the intense heat, coming back with long easy strokes, 28 to the minute.
The crew of ’16 proved the surprise of the day. It was matched against the strong Sophomore six, most of whom were experienced men. Constant training, however, had put the heavy Freshmen into trim, and good coaching gave them the fine points of the work. The Freshmen used a slightly longer stroke than their opponents, taking 32 strokes to their opponents’ 36. The home stretch was the most exciting, incident of the day’s sports, the T6 crew finishing a length ahead of their higher: classmen.	■
The Juniors easily outclassed their Senior opponents in the swimming relay event, but the Freshman-Sophomore race ended in a dead heat which, was not broken.
Summary of aquatic events:-
1,000-yard rowing races—Freshman - §ophomore. Won by the Freshmen. (Prolatowski, coxswain; Cook, stroke;, Keefe, 5; Sharp, 4; Costello, 3;. Savage, 2; O’Donnell, captain, bow). Time, 2:38 4-5. .
Junior-Senior. Won by the Juniors. ' (Hynes, coxswain; Fordyce, stroke;' King, 5; Pepin, 4; Jones, 3; Rockne, (captain),*2; Sotomayor, bow. Time, 3:02 1-5.
550-yard relay swimming races. Junior-Senior— Won by the Juniors (Pepin, Fordyce,-Rockne, Dundon.
Freshman-Sophomore—Dead heat. Freshman— (Kinsella, Purcell, Downey, Welsh); Sophomores, (Byrne, Sheehan, Nowers, Henehan). *
* Alumni, 5; Varsity, i.	■
The contest between the Varsity and the “old guard” this year did not. furnish the good article of baseball that the' annual’ clash o usually brings forth.	’
The teams were well matched and evenly balanced, with Kelly,—one of this year’s star
twirlers—doing honors on the Varsity mound, and Lathrop—the other pitching phenomenon of the 1913 team who is now with the New York Giants—working., for the Alumni. .
The initial inning looked bad for Lathrop. Newning, the first Varsity man at bat, drove out a -long hit to left field, but was caught in trying to lengthen it into a home-run. Nevertheless Regan and Farrell connected for singles, but Farrell was caught off first. Mills walked and Gray singled, scoring Regan with the only Varsity run of the day, and leaving two men- on bases. Then Kenny grounded and was called out at first on a theory of probability or a mental reservation or, some other philosophical doctrine, the force of which did not fully strike the spectators. After that inning “Rusty” was never in danger, the Varsity boys deliberately striking out to hurry the end of the game.	.
Kelly, who has the enviable record of never having lost a game for Notre Dame—and he has . pitched ; some few—began well, but was soon convinced that real tossing would never do, and began to groove the ball. These straight ones were placed for a half dozen hits, and these, coupled with a trio of errors, gave the “old guard” five runs. .	•
All in all a poor game of baseball was offered and the large crowd of alumni, students, and visitors were disappointed. This should not have been, for either of the two! teams that m'et on Cartier 'field Commencement Monday could have made a very fine pennant race in any number of our minor leagues—life size leagues at that; It is to be hoped that in future years the game may be taken more seriously. Let us go-intqj jhe game with the spirit of “let the best team win.” When we do so, we shall see more of the Alumni, 2, Varsity, 1, scores that marked the pitcher’s duel between Kelly for the Varsity and “Jean” Dubuc of the Detroit Tigers for the Alumni in 1912.
Alumni ...	R H P A F
O’Connell, ss......................... o 1	1 o o
Lee, If...............’................ o 2 o o o
Williams, cf.	......;... 10000
Granfield," 3b.	............... o	o	o	1	o
Quigley, rf........................... o	1	o	o	o
Bjoin, ib.........'...........'........o o 2 o o
- Arnfield,- . 2 b.. ................... 1	1	2	1	o
Ulatowski, c........................... 2	1	13	1	o
Lathrop, p............................ 1	1	o	1	o
Totals ............................  5	7 18 4 o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
607
Varsity	R
Newning, 2b......................... o
Regan, If............................ 1
Farrell, ss.........................o
Mills, 1 b.......................... o
Gray, c............................. o
Kenny, 3 b.......................... o
Duggan, cf..........................o
Carmody, rf.........................o
Kelly, p............................ o
H P A E 1012 2000
2221 0800
2 8 o o 0010 0000 0000
0020
Totals ............................ 1	I 18 6 3
Home run—Arnficld. Three-base hits—Newning, Lathrop. Stolen bases—Quigley, Lee, Regan, Mills-Sacrifice hits—Lathrop, Quigley. Struck out—By Kelly, 7; by Lathrop, 12. Ba'ses on balls—Off Kelly, 4; off Lathrop, 1. Time of game—1:45. Umpire— B.- Kanalcy.
Alumni........................... 1	1 o 1 o 2—5
Varsity.......................... 1	ovo o o o—1
Corby Team—In terhall Champions.
After the Alumni-Varsity game, monograms were awarded to all Varsity men on the baseball, football, basketball, and track teams who had played in the required number of games or won the required number of points. ‘
Kelly Will Lead 1914 Baseball Team.
Herbert Kelly, ’14, of Mobile, Alabama, better known as “Speed,” is the choice of the baseball team for captain next year. The
election was held immediately before the Alumni-Varsity game Commencement Monday afternoon. We are • pleased to chronicle. the fact because “Speed” was the logical man for the honor. Quiet and unassuming in manner and a prime favorite with every man on the squad, he can not but make an excellent leader. Besides his pleasing personality, he knows the game from beginning to end. His power and fame as a pitcher is too well known to need mention. For two years he has regularly pitched for the Gold and Blue, and during all that time he has never dropped a collegiate game. And others have seen and heard of him too. In fact for a while this spring Notr.e Dame looked like a health resort for big league scouts, so many of them were here hunting
Kelly, and “Rusty ” Lathrop, and “Peaches” Granfield, and others. But “Speed” elected to finish his course in Electrical Engineering before breaking into the big show. Hence Notre Dame has the good fortune to have for a leader in 1914 one of the best pitchers she ever had. “Speed” is also there writh the stick, rarely failing during the past two years to get at least a pair of hits during the course of a game. But why paint the lily? He will., be with us again. That is enough. We are glad.	.	.	' ■
608	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Max Pam Prize Awarded.
In January, 1910, Dr. Max Pam entrusted to the University of Notre Dame the sum of one thousand dollars to be offered as a prize for the best manuscript dealing practically with the vital question of religion in education. Nineteen manuscripts were submitted, but none of them, in the judgment of the Preliminary Committee, exactly met the conditions of the contest. Accordingly a new contest was called for under the following conditions:
The contest for this prize was open to all persons in all countries of the world and without regard to age, sex, or creed.
O	O 7	3
The manuscript must contain not fewer than fifteen thousand words.
The theme was—How May the Religious Element in the General Education of Children and Youths be Most Effectively Promoted? The term “religious” in .this thesis was understood to involve a code of - morals having a ' divine sanction.	.	•
Each contestant signed his manuscript with a pen-name, and enclosed within the manuscript was. an envelope containing his correct name and address in full, together with his pen-name^. The envelope was for the identification of the contestant and was opened only after the prize was awarded.
The decision was made after the following manner: A committee of seven members of the Faculty of the University of Notre Dame examined and excluded from the contest all manuscripts that were obviously unfit 'by reason of irrelevance,- logical feebleness, or defective style. The University reserved the right of serial publication of • the successful manuscript. The book rights remain with the author.
The Committee of the Faculty was composed of the following members: John Cavanaugh, D. D., President of the University; William Hoynes, LL. D., Dean of the Law School; Matthew A. Schumacher, Ph. D., Director of Studies; Matthew A. Walsh, Ph. D., Vice-President of the University; Michael A. Quinlan, Ph. D., Professor of English; Thomas P. Irving., Ph. D., Professor of Physics.
The Committee of Award who rendered the final decision was composed of the following members: .Thomas Crumley, C. S. ,C., Professor of Philosophy; Nicholas Murray Butler, LL. D.,
President of Columbia University; James Aloysius . Burns, D. D., President of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.; John Ireland, D. D., Archbishop of St. Paul; John Talbot Smith, LL. D., Rector of Dobbs Ferry, New York; Timothy E. Howard, LL. D., Former Chief Justice of the State of Indiana; Francis Clement Kelley, LL. D., President of the Church Extension Society.
The judges ol final, award rendered their decision which resulted in a tie for first place. The prize was accordingly divided between the authors of the best two manuscripts. These authors are the Rev. Dr. John T. Roche, VicePresident of the Church Extension Society of Canada, and Mr. P. J. Coleman of Somerset, Ohio.
Dr. Pam not Present for Award. .
Dr. Max Pam, unfortunately, was prevented by important business engagements from being present for the awarding of the prize in the contest of which he is the generous creator. ■ The following telegram of regrets was received from him on the evening when the award was made public:	,
“Regret engagement prevents my returning to Notre Dame tonight. Be assured that my interest in religion and education is increased by the valuable manuscripts submitted.”
. Max Pam.
After making known the board of judges of the' contest and reading their report, Father Cavanaugh read Dr. Pam’s telegram and made the following acknowledgment of his generosity in a worthy cause:
“ It is a pleasure to acknowledge in this special manner the gratitude of the University to Dr. Pam for this signal proof of his favor, -and particularly of his interest in religious. education. His singular breadth of view and his large outlook on the world, as well as his sincere interest in the welfare of humanity, are all reflected in this princely gift. So long as citizens like Dr. Pam show this high and disinterested zeal for civic virtue and religious education, no friend of America and no friend of religion may despair of the future.”
The Minims’ Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament.
When the President blessed the chapel of the. Blessed Sacrament on the second floor of St. Edward’s hall the morning of the Minim’s closing day, what is without question the. most
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
609
artistic private chapel in all Notre Dame was formally opened. The subdued effects of color on walls and ceiling, the graceful, emblematic tracings over the main and side altars, the rich sanctuary carpet, the brass electric chandeliers, the heavy brass candlesticks, the marble vases, the carved stations of the Cross,—everything, in fact, from the sacristy vestment-case to the front door, points to—as Father Cavanaugh said in his sermon after the blessing—“zeal for the house of the Lord, for the place where His glory dwells.” It is a holy place in which to pray—this chapel of the Blessed Sacrament; so still, so dim,—and the white flame keeps its endless watch within the red lamp. The flowers from the park send their fragrance through the open stained - glass windows,
Bishop Alerding of Fort Wayne. Rev. Fathers Scheier and Thomas Burke assisted, as deacon and subdeacon. Fathers Irving and Foik were honorary deacons, and the Rev. Provincial Morrissey acted as archpriest.
The newly ordained priests pursued their theological studies at Holy Cross College, Washington, where they resided for the last four years. They returned to Notre Dame on June 23 for their ordination, in company with Father Eugene Burke, C. S. C. Both priests were students at the University in former years; Father Hosinski from 1902 to 1909, Father Hentges from 1907 to 1909.
Father Hosinski sang his first mass Sunday, June 29, at St. Hedwige’s Church, South Bend, Indiana. The Rev. Father Stuszcko, C. S. C.,
The Minims’ Chapel.
which commingles with the fragrance from the flowers on the altar. Nature and art give of their riches to the glory of the place. Those who dreamed and planned and labored for the completion of the chapel have dreamed and planned and labored well. Those whose benefactions helped to make possible the dream and to make fruitful the labor will not be forgotten on the day of accounting. Surely all -feel the chapel is a work well done,—a place to rest the soul, a place to pray.
Ordinations.
On Wednesday, June 25th, the Rev. Sylvester Hosinski and the Rev. Oscar Hentges were ordained to the holy priesthood by the Rt. Rev,
of Chicago preached the sermon.
Father Hentges celebrated his first mass on the same date. x The service took place at St. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka, Indiana. The Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, C. S. C., professor of Philosophy at the University, delivered the sermon.	.	.
--------------------
Obituary.
We regret to announce that a few days after his graduation this year, Mr. Clyde J. Dennis died suddenly at the home of his parents in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Heart failure was the cause of death. The Scholastic extends sympathy to the bereaved wife, father and mother,
6io
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Of Importance to Graduates.
The President of the University has received the following requests for “the right man”:
From a town in Illinois: “Will you kindly put me in communication with a graduate of the law department of your University. The young man must have force, be a practical Catholic, a Democrat in politics, with qualifications likely to develop a good jury trial lawyer. Ours is a city of about three thousand. If the right man is found I promise him a favorable introduction, that he will be city attorney within two years, possibly State’s Attorney later, and a chance for the legislature in time.”
From a town in Iowa: “We want a man not less than twenty-five years old, with a good personality, high school education or its equivalent, plus two years of college work, and competent to act as principal of school. Salary seventy-five dollars to begin with, and will advance if he proves efficient. We go to twelfth grade, which means four years of Latin.”
From a teachers’ agency: “We have a call from ----- College for a man with a degree
from some good school of engineering. It is a good position and will pay about a thousand dollars to the right man. A Catholic is preferred.”	’
Any graduate either desiring one of these appointments or knowing of anyone desiring such appointment is requested to communicate with the President.	.
Personals.
—Word has been, received that Charles Reagan of Walsh Hall met with an accident which resulted in* the amputation of his right leg. Mr. Reagan has the profound sympathy of the University in this great misfortune.
—It gives us great pleasure to announce the happy wedding of one who has been connected with the Scholastic for a number of years—Rimer J. Hickey of South Bend, to Miss Lillian Peck of South Bend. The wedding took place on Monday, June 23, at St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend, with the Rev. Peter Lauth, C. S. C., off dating. Needless to say the Scholastic force attended in a body. The young couple will be at home after July nth at 505 Fast Corby Street, South Bend. All of Rimer's friends, and the Scholastic
in a very special way, extend felicitations and wishes for many years of happiness.
—The marriage of Miss Mary Louise Beyrer of South Bend, Indiana, to Mr. Frank B. Thompson (student a few years ago) took place in our neighboring town on June 28th. The address of Mr. and Mrs. Thompson will be Oregon Yacht Club, Portland, Oregon. Congratulations.
—On June 18th occurred the marriage of Carroll J. Schmidt, and Miss Agnes O’Connor at St. Mary’s Church, Tiffin, Ohio. The groom will be remembered by students of three or four years ago. His record at the University and his character as revealed from day to day promise a successful career.
Heroism of Father Corby Recalled. '
The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg gave occasion for retelling countless tales .of the bravery and devotion to duty displayed by representatives of both the. armies engaged on that bloody field. No incident, perhaps, was more frequently recalled or more highly praised than 'Father Corby’s giving general absolution to the soldiers of the Irish Brigade just before they entered the battle. Two years ago a statue was erected on the field of Gettysburg to commemorate this act of heroic devotion, and a replica of this statue now adorns the campus of Notre Dame. University, of which Father Corby, in former days, was President.
Local News.
—The athletic . store very kindly donated the University seal fobs which were awarded the successful class swimmers after the swimming races. Thanks, gentlemen.	.
—The faculty of the University and the students who know of the matter are much concerned about the serious illness of. Professor Petersen. A too ardent devotion to his professorial duties and an unwillingness to. abandon them before the end of the term is responsible for his serious condition. All his many friends, especially those at the University, pray for his speedy recovery.
—The boatmen who won their anchors at the regatta on Commencement day. should not forget the kindness of Messrs. Petersen and Max Adler who generously donated the awards.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
6n
Book Reviews.
“Self-knowledge and Christian Perfection,” by Rev. John Henry, C. SS. R..
In this practical little manual the author treats clearly of the different temperaments and the method to be employed in making them assist the soul to attain its true end—
Christian perfection. The book is especially suited for beginners in the work of perfection. Benziger Brothers. Paper, 20 cts.; cloth, 40 cts.
Degrees and Awards.
The degree of Doctor of Laws has been conferred: On a distinguished statesman who served his country brilliantly for thirty-two years in the National Con-
The Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Course was conferred on Jose Angel Caparo, C. E., M. C. E-, E. E., M. S. in Math., Sc. D., of Peru, South America. Thesis: “The Theory of the Geometry of Hyperspace as Applied to a Space of- Four Dimensions and the Derivations of the Fundamental Magnitudes of a Quadruply Orthogonol System.”
The Degree of Master of Science in Course is conferred on Regidius Marion Kaczmarek, Laporte, Ind. Thesis: “A System of Plant Morphology.”
The Degree of Master of Mechanical Engineering is conferred on William Logan Benitz, M. E-, E. E.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on Patrick Henry Cunning, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. Thesis: “Patents.”
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on: Richard Vincent Blake, Hartford, Connecticut; William Joseph Burke, Chicago, Illinois; Walter -Henry Coffeen, South Bend, Indiana; Bernard Jacob Durch, Chippewa Falls. Wisconsin; Francis Joseph Dillon, Butler, Pennsylvania; Erich Hans de Fries,
Commissioned Officers.
gress, whose public record has been as free from taint as it is rich in great accomplishment, the Honorable Julius Caesar Burrows, of Kalamazoo, Michigan.
On an educator whose high faculty it is to win hearts as well as to train minds, who unites the severely scientific spirit with the most Christ-like compassion and sympathy, whose devotion to Christian education is as unwavering as his achievements are honorable, the Rev. AVilliam Joseph Kerby of Washington, D. C.
On the Chief Executive of a great State whose career has brought as much honor to himself as it has worked advantage to the nation, the Honorable James M. Cox, Governor of the State of Ohio.
Davenport, Iowa; John- Charles Kelley, Anderson, ~7 Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on: John Thomas Burns, Kalamazoo, Michigan; Francis Jerome Breslin, Los Angeles, California; Joseph Allan Heiser, South Bend, Indiana; Edward Andrew Roach, Muscatine, Iowa; Raymond Joseph Sieber, Racine, Wisconsin; Francis Curtis Stanford, Independence, Kansas; James Joseph Stack, Springfield, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was con- ' ferred on: Paul Ryan Byrne, Chittenango, New York;
Jesse James Herr, Chatsworth, Illinois; Louis John Kiley, Rochester, New York; Thomas Francis O’Neil
612	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Akron, Ohio; Simon Ercile Twining, Bowling Green, Ohio.	,	■	/ -	' f.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was J conferred oh: William Joseph Corcoran, Portland, -Oregon. -	’	.	.	\
The Degree of Bachelor. of Science, in Chemistry I was conferred; on: August -Herbert Boldt; Elgin, Illinois. \	’	'	'
The-Degree of-Bachelor, of Science in Architecture was conferred on: William Reuben. Tipton, East . Las Vegas, New Mexico; Frederick Williams, Wadena, Indiana. ......	> .
. The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering was conferred'on: Ernest John-Baader, ’ Chillicothe,.. Ohio..	. /■,. /
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred bn:1 Harry John /Kirk, Defiance, Ohio; Charles William Lahey, Mattoon, Illinois; James Francis O’Brien, y . Fairbury, Illinois; Augustin Gonzalez Saravia, Durango: b Mexico; Leo Alfred Sturn, Monroe, Michigan; James.
Wasson, Chicago, Illinois.	. . "	;	*	•
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on: ; Manuel Fernando Arias, Havana, Cuba; Clyde Elbi . Broussard, Beaumont; Texas; Jose Angel Caparo, Cusco, Peru; Warren Ray Cartier, Ludington, Michigan; . Antonio Lequerica, Cartagena,. Colombia, S. America; Thomas Francis Maguire, Fowler, Indiana; Alvaro Rodriguez San Pedro, Consolacion del Sur, Cuba.•
The Degree of’Chemical Engineer was.conferred on Manuel Lequerica, Cartagena, Colombia, S. America..
The Degree of Electrical Engineer was conferred bn: Manuel . Fernando Arias, .Havana, Cuba; - Janies. Ryan. Devitt,- 'Cleveland, Ohio; - Thomas Aloysius Furlong, Chicago, Illinois; William Neil Hogan, Q Crafton, Pennsylvania; . John William' O’Connell, u Elgin/ Illinois; Antonio Aldrete 'Rivas,. Jalisco,1 Mexico;-John Alfred Sawkins, Toledo, Ohio; Frederick Louis Truscott, = Glasgow, Montana!	.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was,conferred on: •_ Jacob Vivian Birder, Park River. North Dakota; Aristo Comelius Brizzolara, Little Rock, Arkansas: Charles .Francis Crowley, Cambridge, Massachussets; ' Edward Patrick Cleary, Momence, Ill.; William Edward... Cotter, .Chicago, Illinois;... Francis William Durbin,.Kenton, Ohio; Michael Augustine Dougherty, Lancaster, Ohio; Clyde J. Dennis, Kalamazoo, Michigan; William Joseph Granfield, Springfield, - Massachussets; -Frederick Matthew Gilbough, Gal. veston, Texas; William Joseph Hicks, Spring Valley, Illinois; LeGrande Anderson Hammond,' Decatur, Michigan; Cornelius .Byron. Hayes, .Fort; Wayne, .	' Indiana; Floyd Ottowell Jellison, South Bend, Indi- .
5^ ana;’ Henry John: Kuhle, Salem,. South Dakota;
. Stephen John .Morgan,/ Chicago,-. Illinois;, .' William . /- Joseph- Milroy,- Chatsworth, IIlinois; Peter John '	. Meersman, -Moline,^ lilinois;i ;Thomas Aloysius/Me//
- .Govern, - Whittemore, .Iowa;!. Daniel .Vincent Me-/ Ginnis. Slater, Missouri; _ Reuben. Patrick . Noud, ’ /Manistee, Michigan;r James .-William O’Hara, Cincin-. . •/ nati,- Ohio;/..-‘Terence; James, / O’Neill, Waterbury, .;// Connecticut; John-Erancis.Q’Connell,.Chicago/Illinois’;/ Francis/Maurice/O’Heam,Slater,/Missouri;/;Vincent;
/ ; - DePaul Ryan,- :Bay ;City, Michigan;Clarence Charles
Stueckle; South Bend, Indiana; Basil Joseph Soisson, , Connellsville,- Pennsylvania';’■ Leo Albert Schumacher, South Bend, Indiana; Samuel Paul Schwartz, Mishawaka, -Indiana;: .Fernando Hector .Usera,. Ponce, Porto Rico. . =	. .,. :;	. : . . . :
The Degree of Pharmaceutical. Chemist was conferred on: .Bronislaus Joseph Janowski, South Bend, Indiana; -Regidius Marion Kaczmarek, Laporte, Ind.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on: ' Edward John . Fasenmeyer, New, Bethlehem,1 • Pennsylvania; . John Orley Foote, /Salem, South | Dakota; Harry./ Bernard -Tierney, Borken Bow,	I
Nebraska; Carl Edward Wilmes, \ Grand Rapids,	P
Michiganj James Michael Ware, Kewani, Indiana.	।
- Certificates for the Short. Program. in Electrical Engineering were conferred dh: Manuel Gurza, Jr., ' Guadalajara, Mexico; Joseph Redmond O’Hanlon, I Sherman, Texas'; Francis Louis Wentland, South Bend, | Indiana; Walter Sydney Yund/ Helena, Montana; i Ramon . Garcia Rubio,'Santi Spiritus, Cuba. .	. "	{
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechanical	|
Engineering were conferred on; Edwin Joseph Harvat,	;
Livingston,/Montana; Leon Joseph Soisson, Norwalk, . J Ohio;/ Walter Sydney; Yund,\ Helena, Montana;
Luis Fernando Sotomayor, .Cuahutemos, Pochuca, Mexico'; Charles Amandor Gonzalez, Huanuco, Peru, : South America. .	.	t
.The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best record in the Classical Program, Senior year, and a	/
money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of Mr. Henry	/
Quan in memory of his deceased father, was awarded I to William Joseph Burke, ’ Chicago, Illinois. ■ ’
The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by .
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the class of ’77, for the best record for four years in the Civil Engineering program, was awarded to . Augustin Gonzalez Saravia, Durango, Mexico.	•	.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by the Honorable William P. Breen, of the class.of;-.77, was awarded to Simon Ercile Twining, Bowling Green, , Ohio. =.	‘ .	' .	• .	’
'. The/Barry Elocution Gold . Medal, presented by Honorable'P. T. Barry; of Chicago,..was awarded to .
- John Felix-Hynes, Albia/Iowa:	-	,
The .Meehan. Gold Medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of. Covington, Kentucky# for the best essay in .
- English (Senior) , was awarded to Simon Ercile Twining, Bowling -Green,--Ohio. -	/-• ' ; / .	.
. Seventy-five Dollars for Debating work was awarded as follows: Thirty-dollars to William Joseph Milroy, : Chatsworth, Illinois. : Twenty-five dollars -.to- Simon _ Ercile! J?wining, Bowling Green.Ohio.1 Ten< dollars , - to Peter John Meersman, Moline, Illinois. -Ten dollars	, / <
to James/Joseph Stack, Springfield, Illinois. / ■
.Ten/Dollars in Gold .for. Junior Oratory/ presented -	‘
by Mr. James V. O’Donnell, of the. class of/’.89,/was	...
awarded 'to Alfred John Brown, Portland, Oregon. .	/ .
' .Ten/Dollars. in Golchfof* Sophomore/Oratdry,/pre-/ / \ -sented by--Mr. John S. Hummer/ oL the class of. ’91, / /
was awarded to.George Peter. Schuster, Lancaster, Wis. .. /•;
Ten Dollarsfiri Gold/for. Freshman/Oratory,, pre-, .
sented .by: Mr. fHugh/O’Neill,/.oi/the class of’91,. was/.. ../// awarded, jb Jeremiah Patrick/Hagerty, Boston; Mass; 1 // </ =