m rora rem
SCHOLASTIC
uxchlu (wus nous mom
PRESIDENT ACCEPTING 1936 FLAG
Fortieth Presentation Monday Morning
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
WASHINGTON DAY SCHEDULE FIGHTERS IN TRAINING GRIND PRESS CLUB DINNER SET
BENGAL BOUTS PROGRESS PANTHERS SET TO ATTACK
FENCERS BREAK EVEN
THE WEEK
COLLEGE PARADE
SPLINTERS FROM PRESS BOX
FEBRUARY 19. 1937
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
IME FLIES, and trains on the railroad fly with it. It is a frequent compliment for watches and clocks to be set according to the. passage of the trains.
Yet the years are constantly requiring new schedules to meet the accelerated tempo of modern business. Passengers today must measure their miles by their minutes, and freight must travel at what used to be good passenger-train speed.
527 miles in 830 minutes. Other trains are proportionately speeded.
The Illinois Central's streamline Green Diamond, for example, makes its daily 588-mile round-trip between St. Louis and Chicago in 590 minutes, including stops. The MS-1 (Merchandise Special, a freight) reaches Memphis overnight from Chicago, after several stops, covering the
To maintain schedules under present demands is a challenge to railway stamina and resourcefulness. It is heartening to observe how capably that challenge is being met.
REMINDER . . .
To meet new needs in new ways, but with never a sacrifice of ancient virtues—that, I believe, is the greatest achievement to which the railroads can today lay claim. Speed is fine, but it is at its best when backed by the safety, comfort and dependability of railway experience.
President
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
------AN INDIANA RAILROAD---
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Vo!. 70
February 19, 1937
No. 16
ST. PATRICK DINNER
FOR KNIGHTS SET
ON MARCH 14
•
Timothy R. King, senior Arts and Letters student from Niles, Ohio, was appointed chairman of the formal banquet to be given by the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, March 14.
District Deputy Eli Abraham Still he likes St. Patrick.
The banquet, in honor of St. Patrick, will be attended by the Notre Dame, Mishawaka, South Bend, and other neighboring councils. Assisting King in plans for the occasion will be Luke F. Kelly, James R. Foley, Robert Lemire, John W. Scotts and others to be named at a later date. Reports of the committee will be given at the next meeting and submitted to the council for approval.
Formal initiation into the Knights was held in South Bend at the Knights of Columbus chambers, Sunday, Feb. 14. Seventy-three applicants were inducted into the Third Degree, and of this number 52 were from the Notre Dame Council. The second degree rites were conducted by the officers of the Notre Dame council, and the Third Degree by Harry G. Kitchin, the Indiana state deputy of the Knights. After the degree, a buffet luncheon was served, to old and new members. The councils participating in the initiation besides Notre Dame and South Bend were Mishawaka, Laporte, and Elkhart.
At the Monday night meeting in the Notre Dame council chambers, the new members were introduced to the Brothers.
FORTIETH SENIOR FLAG CEREMONIES MONDAY: ORATOR AND POET CHOSEN TO HONOR WASHINGTON; USHERS NAMED
By Frank Larwood
The 40th commemoration at Notre Dame of Washington’s birthday will begin at 10:00 a.m. next Monday, February 22, when the faculty and members of the senior class wearing caps and gowns march into Washington hall for the flag presentation ceremonies.
Prof. Francis O'Malley To Talk fa Bookmen Next Wednesday
Plans for the annual Communion breakfast held by the Bookmen, were discussed at the last meeting of the organization, February 10, in the former library of the Commerce building. A tentative date, February 28, was set for the event.
The plan of faculty speakers at the meetings, which proved successful last semester, will be continued for the rest of the year, according to Bob McGrath, president of the club. The speaker at the next meeting, to be held February 24, will be Mr. Francis O’Malley of the English department.
As announced in The Scholastic, the applications of new members were considered by the group. From ten applicants four were picked to fill the roster of the club. The four men selected are: John Walsh, Lyons; Robert Heywood and Frank O’Laughlin, Morrissey; and John Shaw, Alumni.
Father Hoff Talks On Social Encyclicals
“The Social Justice Encyclicals and Immediate Recovery” was the subject upon which the Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, professor of religion and philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, spoke last Wednesday night at the SS. Peter and Paul Cathedral in Indianapolis.
Father Hoff will deliver the Lenten sermons at the Cathedral. Before coming to Notre Dame Father Hoff was once president of Carroll college, at Helena, Montana. He preached the baccalaureate sermon at Notre Dame in 1929 and was awarded the honorary title LL.D.
Singing of the “Star-Spangled Banner” by the audience will open the program. Following this an address, “Washington’s Ideals in Present Day America,” will be delivered by Charles F. Meyers, senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Elgin, Illinois.
Chairmax Joyce & Pres. Suluvax They lead Monday marchers.
Joseph Philip O’Brien, C.S.C., senior in the College of Arts and Letters, will recite a “Washington Day Ode.” In keeping with a tradition begun in 1897 at the first Washington’s Birthday exercises a large American flag, a gift of the senioi* class, will be presented to the University by R. Parker Sullivan of Lexinxton, Kentucky, president of the class of 1937.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will make the speech of acceptance. Music for the program will be furnished by the University Band under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music.
Ned Joyce, chairman of the program committee, has appointed the following seniors as ushers: Cyril F. Stroker of Waterbury, Conn.; Peter J. Johnen of Chicago, Ill.; Lawrence F. Burnett of Newark, N. J.; Roderick J. Gillis of Camp Hill, Pa.; Joseph J. Welch of Weedsport, N. Y.; and Joseph S. Moore of Bloomfield, N. J.
“Seniors are asked to watch for a (Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
INTENSIVE PREPARATION FOR STATE TOURNEY TOPS DEBATE SQUAD PRACTICE SESSION;
"B" TEAM NAMED TO MAKE TRIP
The “B” debating team, which will represent the University at the state tournament at Manchester College, North Manchester, Indiana, on Feb. 26 and 27, terminated another week of intensive practice for their encounter with 15 Indiana college debating teams.
Professor William J. Coyne, varsity debate coach and associate professor of speech in the College of Arts and Letters, has named Frank Brame and Redman Duggan as the affirmative team and Charles Osborn and Frank Fitch, the negative team. The varsity question at the state tournament is: “Resolved that the extension of consumer cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.”
Last year the varsity team placed second as a team. The affirmative team of John Marbach, Robert Burke, and John Heywood administered defeats in their five contests to Loyola university, Indiana Law school of Indianapolis, Indiana University, University of Chicago and Rose Polytechnic.
David Flynn, Robert Schmelzle, and Richard Meier, representing the negative team defeated Indiana Law school, Loyola university, and Wabash college. The University of Chicago and Bowling Green college won their respective debates from the negative team.
The varsity debate team will argue the question: “Resolved: Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry,” with St. Xavier’s college of Louisville, Ky., on Sunday evening, Feb. 28. The debate will be held in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. This will be a non-decision debate.
On March 4 and 5, the varsity will participate in the Midwest Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City. Last year, the team placed second. Following the Midwest Invitational tournament, the debaters will meet the University of Alabama here, March 17. The following day, the varsity wTill journey to the campus of the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis., to participate in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament, March 18 and 19.
Dual debates have been scheduled with Michigan State college in the latter part of March. One debate will be held here and one there. Last year, the two teams split in their dual debate. A tentative debate has been scheduled with the University of Florida here, the latter part of next month.
Name Committees For Press Club Dinner; Cackley to Speak
Definite plans for the annual Press Club banquet, Thursday, March 4, were promulgated at the regular biweekly meeting of this organization Monday evening in the north basement of the library.
John Gillespie and Edward Fisher,
Pressmen Fisher and McHugh Hungry reporters will eat.
seniors in the department of 'Journalism, were appointed co-chairmen of the program committee. The ticket sale will be conducted under the supervision of James McHugh and Richard Riley.
Tickets for this event are available in the Publications Office in the Main Building and at the cigar counter in the Cafeteria. Members of the club will canvass the halls during the next two weeks.
James Weber Linn, associate professor of English at the University of Chicago, will be the principal speaker of the evening. Mr. Linn, a membeer of the news staff of the Chicago Daily News, is the author of four novels and one text book on English composition.
Other speakers on the program will include John Cackley, president of Press club, and Paul Foley, editor of The Scholastic. Efforts are being made to obtain a soloist to add to the entertainment.
Students are invited to attend this dinner and hear a talk by a man of Mr. Linn’s ability. Mr. Linn has won an enviable reputation in the MidWest as a banquet speaker.
SERVERS VIEW RARE BOOKS ON VISIT
TO LIBRARY
•
A two volume first edition of Oliver Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield, valued at $6,600, was one of the interesting highlights seen by the Server’s club last Monday night on a visit to the University library. More than 50 members were present as Paul R. Byrne, university librarian, pointed out some old and rare books in the library collection.
After showing the members of the club through the Dante collection of more than 3,000 volumes, Mr. Byrne explained the history of the paintings in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, the tapestries of the Bendix foundation, and the Wickett collection.
Among the interesting books seen by the club was the Journal of the World, at one time the personal possession of Christopher Columbus. The book is especially interesting since it is bound in human skin. It bears the date 1504 on the cover although it was printed in 1634. Also of interest was a first edition copy of the Bible as printed by the English College of Douay.
Included in the display are copies of books bearing the autographs of famous men, namely: Charles L. Lindbergh, Charles Dickens, Alice (In Wonderland) Hargreaves, and Robert Louis Stevenson. Mr. Byrne also showed a book of engravings by the famous artist. Eric Gill, the designer of the Chesterton Medal for the University.
Lochner Upholds Proof Of God's Existence
The Chesterton Society held a highly controversial debate on the question “Is there a God” at its regular meeting, Monday evening, in the auditorium of the Law building.
Robert Lochner
Robert Lochner, a senior in the College o f Arts and Letters, upheld the existence of God appealing to the Thomistic argument from contingency.
Opposing Lochner were William A. Botzum, a junior in the College of Arts and Let
ters, and Vincent W. Hartnett, a senior in the same College. All the members of the society participated in a group discussion following the formal debate.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
FULL HOUSE CHEERS FIRST THEATER
PRODUCTION
•
By Richard Riley
“Whistling in the Dark,” a three act melodrama, lived up to advance reports, presenting a lively and entertaining evening to the large audience in Washington Hall Saturday
Director A. L. Doyle His “Whistlers” Clicked.
and Sunday nights. The play, with its ingenious scheme building up to a frantic scramble of action and dialogue, proved especially adaptable to amateur production.
' John Brassell, as Wallace Porter, gave a commendable performance in a role which required understanding and deftness. Brassell was especially effective in his interpretation of the change in Porter’s character produced by synthetic Scotch.
The entire cast demonstrated a smoothness and perfection of technique seldom seen in amateur productions. Frank Ciolino, as Toby Van Buren, was effective in his feminine role. Paul Lennihan, as Hilda, might well take the place of the Sea Hag in the “Pop-Eye” comics.
An interesting contrast in types of gangsters was presented with Slim Scanlon and Charlie Shaw, the suave, ruthless, dapper gunmen opposed to Joe Salvatore, played by Fructuoso Barreda, the ignorant, crude, unemotional killer. George McDermott gave an excellent interpretation of Jake Dillon, the domineering force uniting the various criminals into his well-defined organization. With a perfect accent, James Brown, who played the part of - Lefkowitz, should soon increase his string of drug stores or transfer his efforts to the clothing business.
Professor Frank Kelly and his assistants arranged good stage effects. Much favorable comment was made on the precision and rapidity with which the play was presented.
Professor A. L. Doyle, director of the play, deserves much praise for training of the players during the past six weeks. Everyone handled his lines smoothly, with no awkward intervals.
SEVENTY PROSPECTIVE CHAMPS IN TRAINING FOR BENGAL BOXING SHOW, LARGEST TURNOUT IN HISTORY OF BOUTS
By Harold A. Williams
With the largest number of boxers ever to enter training, the Shamrock Edition, sixth of the annual Bengal Bouts sponsored by The Scholastic for the Bengal Missions, will bring the finest boxers to the ring on the night of March 19. Twenty-five cents, the traditional price of the show, will prevail.
High Wage vs. Business Discussed in Faculty Radio Lecture
The relative value of high wages and their influence upon business was discussed Wednesday evening by Professor Gartland, instructor in Economics, in the second of a series of faculty radio broadcast.
“High wages,” Mr. Gartland said, “serve to strike a mean between the production and consumption problems of man. The real income produced by labor is hard to ascertain,” he proffered, “because of the many factors used in its production.”
Because of the increasing use of efficient machines, the crafts and guilds have disappeared. The replacement of these by machines, he added, will not benefit the manufacturer unless he provides a reasonably high wage with which these new products can be bought.
“The manufacturers themselves,” he pointed out, “must create a sufficient demand for their own products before they will be consumed. High wages do not only this but also serves as a means for more equitable distribution, and help prevent under consumption.”
They’ll be up and down on March 19.
Seventy-one boys are already working out under the direction of Frank Schiavone, instructor in the department of physical education and trainer for the past two years of the Bengal boxers. Schiavone reports that the boys are developing faster than is expected and will be in top form for the preliminaries. The preliminaries will take place on March 15 and 16. A charge of ten cents will be made for admission to the preliminaries.	.
Promoter Jim Waldron, of the sports staff, announced this week that possibly another feature angle might be added to the show if the services of the Notre Dame concert band can be secured.
Although Cy Conner and “Killer” Tancredi will not be back with us to amuse the crowd, Waldron says that a new sensational team has been discovered. James “Shadow” Hack, whose exhibition of last year was one of the high-lights of the show, is again training in Walgreen’s for his performance.
The Bengal Bouts have been under the direction of The Scholastic since 1932. Each year produces a larger show and a larger crowd. Promoters promise that the Shamrock Edition will top all of the previous shows.
Tickets will go on sale through Scholastic staff men and the Managers Organization under the direction of Paul Barker, commencing two weeks before the bouts.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
Lawyers Hit Roosevelt's Supreme Court Plan;
See "Packing" as Danger to Democracy
Disapproval of President Roosevelt’s plan to increase the membership of the Supreme Court is the general sentiment voiced by members of the Notre Dame Law Club in a partial survey taken early this week.
While agreeing that the adoption
Lawyers Pojman and Brown “Yes and No — Mostly No.”
of the retirement bill would be sensible, the members think that the rest of the President’s plan wiU place too much power in the hands of the Chief Executive.
The plan proposed by President Roosevelt calls for the voluntary retirement of the justices when they reach the age of 70 and an increase in membership to 15 in order to expedite the handling of cases.
Following are some of the opinions received:
Paul Ragan, f98f Noted Ohio Lawyer, Dies
Attorney Paul J. Ragan, 60, who was graduated from the Notre Dame College of Law in 1898 died in Mercy hospital, Maumee, Ohio, on Saturday, Feb. 6 from a relapse following an influenza attack.
While at Notre Dame Mr. Ragan was editor of The Scholastic and received awards for his oratorical and scholastic ability. Even as a student he served as part time instructor in English composition, Latin and Greek.
Athletics and music were his extracurricular activities. He was manager of the baseball team, had a place on the school track team, and was a member of the band.
During his more than 30 years of law practice Mr. Ragan became known as one of the most brilliant criminal attorneys in Maumee. He was regarded by his colleagues in the legal profession as among the best in'courtroom oratory.
The funeral services were held in Maumee Tuesday, Feb. 9, and burial was in St. Joseph’s cemetery.
Cliff Brown: “The increase to 15 justices won’t lead to any radical reforms or materially change the interpretation of the Constitution.”
John Lechner: “The voluntary retirement of the justices is O.K. But under President Roosevelt’s plan the Supreme Court would be under the almost direct control of the Chief Executive. I fear that periodic ‘packing’ would result from such a plan.”
Robert Schmelzle: “I don’t think that the court should be enlarged. This would make the President a dictator. Might work out all right with Roosevelt but what would happen after Roosevelt?”
Sanford Friedman: “I am not in favor of changing. I believe that the older justices get, the wiser they get.”
Hank Pojman: “I am for the retiring clause. But there is no need for enlargement. How can 15 agree if 9 can’t? I am for the retiring justices staying on in an advisory capacity.”
Guy McMichael: “It is an inopportune time to put through such legislation. I don’t like the political aspects of the situation.”
Art Graham: “I think the matter should be put up to a vote of the people.”
Engineers HearTaggart Discuss Varnishes
Mr. M. F. Taggart, director of the research department of the O’Brien Varnish Company of South Bend, addressed the members of the Engineers’ club on the subject, “Physics-and Chemistry of Varnishes” in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, Wednesday, Feb. 17.
Plans were discussed for. the next project of the club, the Engineers’ Formal, to be held April 9. Thomas Carney, president of the club, this week will name committees to handle the details. Selection will be announced shortly.
Pictures of the club for the 1937 Dome were taken Thursday, Feb. 18, in Washington Hall.
Check the Date Carefully — Bengal Bouts — Friday, March 19
"NO IMMORTALITY IN WORDSWORTH ODE" WRITES RAUCH
“Intimations of Mortality,” a critical article written by Rufus W. Rauch, associate professor of English, and published in the January issue of the American Review, gives a new approach to the philosophy underlying modern poetry on childhood.
Following a discussion of such medieval writers as Chaucer, Villon and Dante, Mr. Rauch turns to a
Professor Rufus Rauch-Peers at Wordszvorth.
consideration of William Wordsworth’s “Intimations of Immortality” and other modern works.
The tendency of modem poetry to emphasize the innocence of childhood as positive and praiseworthy is, according to Prof. Rauch, contrary to the medieval and Christian attitude. He points out that unconscious innocence is really valueless, in the sense of earning merit, as unconscious guilt is blameless.
Wordsworth ode, Mr. Rauch concludes, contains no real immortality except in the title. He attributes the materialistic treatment of the significance of childhood to the refusal of the modem mind “to admit the radical imperfection of human nature, and its imperfectibility.”
Among the first rank poets of today, in the opinion of . Prof. Rauch, T. S. Eliot stands out as one who has returned to the traditional Christian concept of human nature.
The American Review, a monthly magazine of critical thought on literature, philosophy and the arts, succeeded the Bookman, a discontinued publication. Many of the contributors are member of the humanistic school of thought in’ this country which centers around Prof. Babbitt of Harvard university.'
Instructor F. F. Smith, at the the Northeast Center of Louisiana State University, believes in expanding students’ vocabularies. Each week he requires his English classes to learn 18 new words.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
7
ROBERT KELLY OPENS PATRICIAN RADIO TALK SERIES
Inaugurating the Patrician Broadcast series Monday evening, Robert Kelly, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, read a paper on the “Confessions of St. Augustine.”
Robert Kelly
interpretation of Scripture.
The subject of his discourse was a summary of the last three books of the “Confessions.” Kelly pointed out that St. Augustine wanted to understand heaven and the creation as a philosopher. It was Augustine’s p u r-pose, Kelly said, to obtain a correct these truths from
“St. Augustine’s notion of the eternity of God is complete and concise,” the speaker added, “but in endeavoring to explain time, both past and future, Saint Augustine encounters much difficulty.”
At the regular meeting Tuesday evening, Professor John P. Turley, adviser to the club, was present. In commenting on classical languages, Professor Turley remarked that Greek is a metaphysical language while Latin is a language of law, both demanding and exacting. John Kohn will offer the next in the series
of papers.
Hear Braddock Report On Maryland Club
The Maryland-District of Columbia club began activities for the second semester at their meeting held last Wednesday night in the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
A report was made by the secretary, John Braddock, of Washington, D.C., on the club dance held in the Wardman Park Hotel in Washington on December 28. Reports were also made on the financial standing of the club.
_ Charles Brosius, president, from Frederick, Md., led discussions in plans for the coming semester. No definite action was taken, but members seemed to be in favor of a Communion breakfast to be held within the next few weeks.
Enough etiquette to start students out on a concrete road to socialsmoothness is being offered in weekly lessons at the University of Minnesota.
Set Tentative Date For Commerce Smoker
Under the direction of Al Smith, president, tentative plans have been made by the Commerce Forum to hold a smoker in the Faculty dining hall, Friday evening, Feb. 26. President Smith will definitely announce the plans early next week.
Tentative plans have been arranged for the club to visit the Chicago Stock Market Exchange the first of next month. Plans for the proposed trip will be,announced later.
Under the jurisdiction of the Commerce Forum, several prominent men in the advertising field have been scheduled to address the club in March. Plans have been completed for a tour through the Wilson Brothers and Bendix plants, but no definite date has been set for the tours.
Cracow Club Plans For All-Polish Banquet
Plans for an All-Polish banquet and the prospective visit of Dr. Wac-law Gavronski, of Chicago, enlivened discussions at the meeting of the Cracow club, Feb. 12.
The club also plans to prepare and deliver a broadcast on one of the Polish programs over WSBT or WFAM sometime in the near future. Definite dates will be announced at the next meeting. A new membership drive is planned to augment the present enrollment. Plans for the group Dome picture were also made.
Monogrammed Muscle-Men Map Maneuvers;
Mention Much Music, Mimicry, and Mirth
By Frank Reilly
“Dance conscious and music crazy” will be the keynotes of the Notre Dame Monogram club’s hilarious “Absurdities,” for this spring. No definite date has been set for the
Charles Jordan
show as yet, according to Charles “Bucky” Jordan, secretary, but it is expected t o take place early i n May. (
This year’s “Absurdities,” under the direction o f impresarios John Paul Lautar, Ste
phen Christi an Miller, and Laur
ence Edwin Danbom, will introduce
some startling changes. In order to stage one of the best “Absurdities”
in the past few years, there will be
fewer skits, more musical numbers,
and outside talent will be invited to
STUDENTS DON'T SEEK TRUTH EARNESTLY
ALUMNUS SAYS
•
“My aim is to point out the things of interest in your present studies that will be of benefit to you in your future careers.” This was the message of Dr. J. J. O’Keefe in his talk at an open meeting of the Academy of Science Monday night.
A member of the class of 1922 and a graduate student of Harvard, Dr. O’Keefe is now an outstanding physician and surgeon of northern Indiana.
Dr. O’Keefe said that he hoped by relating his own experiences in college he might be able to point out many important facts that the average student overlooks and does not realize his oversight until he has left college. “The tragedy of college,” he said, “is that students are content with a lack of knowledge. In later years when they realize their error they are able to do nothing but regret. The harder students are driven in their studies while in college, the better they will be in the future.”
“Bull sessions are seldom as educational as the student claims. They could be very profitable if they were directed toward lines in which the participants were well informed and if they were substantiated by proof. I am sad to say that I found that this was seldom the case.”
participate.
Joseph Hubert Ruetz has been working out some delicate steps for his specialty dance numbers, the “Suzy Q,” and an invigorating interpretative rhumba.
Laydenmen choral boys, Joseph Lawrence Kuharich, Nevin Francis McCormick, James Richard Martin, Patrick Francis McCarty, Joseph Edward - Beinor, Edward Francis Simonich, Joseph Thomas Gleason, Walter Michael Marshall, Larry Danbom, and Steve Miller, will choose a Mexican dance number and a whirligig ballet, a la Ben Blue.
Miss Marie Bucykowski will be in charge of this year’s dance routines, as in former productions. She has already begun rehearsals with the choral group.
As yet, there has been no master of ceremonies chosen, but this may be decided upon at the meeting of the Monogram club Thursday evening.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
HEIDELBERG SINGERS CAPTIVATE HUGE
AUDIENCE
•
Generally acclaimed by the huge audience that filled Washington Hall last Wednesday evening, the Heidelberg Singers proved to be the most popular and entertaining organization to appeal- in Washington Hall this year.
Under the direction of Mr. Frank Bennett and Mrs. Cathryne Bennett as accompanist at the piano, the ensemble of eight male voices sang a variety of songs, both the popular and classic.
The program of the Heidelberg Singers was composed of two parts. During the first part, such songs as “Old Man Noah,” “Eight Bells,” and “Oh Hail Us Ye Free” were included besides two especially good solos, “Neapolitan Nights” sung by Mr. Paul Mallory, and another, “Valentine’s Prayer,” rendered by Mr. Edward Stack.
In the second half of the program the singers appeared in gaily attired uniforms, which made one feel and imagine the color to be found in Heidelberg. It was in this part of the program that German songs were featured, including: “Old Heidelberg,” “Auf Wiedersehen,” and “The Marching Song” from the "Student Prince.”
Bank Night Comes Here As Chicagoans Meet
Plans for an Easter dance were discussed last Wednesday evening at a smoker held by the Chicago Club. According to the announcement made at the meeting, the date has been definitely set for Easter Monday.
The place of the dance, however, has not yet been decided upon. At the present time, tentative plans call for the dance to be held either at the Lake Shore Athletic Club or at the Congress Hotel.
Resorting to theater antics, the club announced a new feature called “Bank Night,” whereby a certain sum of money is given out according to the same methods as is followed by downtown theaters in conducting their “Bank Nights,” except, of course, that the Chicago Club members are only eligible for participation.
Members of two Santa Ana Junior College English classes voted that they would rather meet Cleopatra than any other famous woman in history. Queen Elizabeth polled the next most votes.
A southerner, suh; but no accent— and no mint juleps. Edmund Patrick Joyce, the world’s greatest booster. Boosts home town Spartanburg, S.C., the South in general, the K. of C., the Religious Bulletin, the University. At present is boosting the Washington Day exercises of which he is chairman.
A cosmopolite. Born in Spanish Honduras. . . has lived in New Orleans, St. Louis, Washington... Feels a filial obligation to argue hotly the Civil War, but can’t get angry enough.
A politician. Handled the campaign of former roomate Hal Miller for sophomore presidency. Threw a scare into established campus politics last year by organizing the Bull Moose party and losing in the primaries by only six votes. Elected chairman of the board, Commerce Forum; vice-president of Accountants’ club, holds innumerable offices in the Servers’ club, of which he is not a member.
A sportsman. Went out for Freshman basketball team but didn’t like the set up. . . At least, that’s his story. . . Plays tennis with perfect form but imperfect accuracy. Learned handball from Stroker and now beats him regularly. His golf is terrible. Sportsman enough to share his girl’s affections with 20 other fellows.
A student. The plugging type. A magna cum laude, a C.P.A., an accountant’s office and 16 harassed professors await his graduation day.
RESUME SAINT MARTS MUSICAL GROUP AIR PROGRAMS
The second in a series of popular Sunday morning radio programs featuring the St. Mary’s College musical group will be inaugurated next week from the campus studio in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Selection of a cast of eight for the dramatization of the “Notre Dame Playhouse of the Air” play, “The Last Dinner,” written by Norbert Aleksis, student director of radio activities, continues to be the main work of the group.
A group of aspirants for a position as staff announcer will be auditioned at the regular Monday night meeting in the campus studio, according to Aleksis.
Henry C. Staunton, professor of English, will be heard next Wednesday evening, February 24, in the third of the faculty talks. As yet, the topic is not known.
Radio programs for the week of the 21st over Station WSBT.
Monday: 7:00 p.m.—Jack Collins, singer; 7:15 p.m.—Patricians Club.
Tuesday: 7:00 p.m.—Chemists Club Forum.
Wednesday: 7:00 p.m. — Faculty Talk, Mr. Gartland.
Thursday: 7:00 p.m.—“Music of the Masters,” William Mooney; 7:15 p.m.—Lawyers Club Forum.
Friday: 4:00 p.m.—“Scholastic of the Air”; 4:15 p.m.—Interesting Questions and Answers.
Movies, Music Features On Month's Schedule
Beginning with the “Return of Sophie Lang” on Saturday, the movie and lecture schedule up to the Easter vacation is featured by outstanding cinema and musical entertainments to be held in Washington Hall.
“Picadilly Jim,” with Robert Montgomery and Madge Evans, will be presented on February 27, and on the following Saturday, the picture will be “Walking on Air.” "China Clipper,” starring Pat O’Brien, will be shown on March 13, while “Meet Nero Wolfe,” with Edwin Arnold, will finish the pre-Easter movie schedule on March 20.
The White Hussars, a novelty musical group, will present their program on Wednesday evening, March 10. On Tuesday evening, March 16, the Siberian Singers will show at Washington Hall.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
9
THE WEEK
Prom—Weak
It has just hit us that we had absolutely nothing to say about the Junior Prom. Searching for a reason for the deficiency of material, we came, inevitably, to the conclusion that the fault was in the dance and not in our decrepit imagination. There is an infallible test of the success of a school dance. If it is at all notable, there are whimsical and hilarious gossip notes, telling of the embarrassment of Joe Junior, or of the incredible luck of Henry Hoehandle, or of how Larry Lateper almost got himself released from these walls. But there was no gossip, there was no jokes, no scandal. So we had only one road to walk; the Prom was anemic.
Change of Venue
We have missed, since the end of the semester, the happy faces of some of our Sorin friends. Not being up on the latest dining hall developments, it was three weeks before we were informed that the Sorinites were being forcibly fed in the faculty dining hall. At first we envied them their seclusion; we thought that the arrangement was just too cozy. Now we know better. They have to eat the same food.
* * *
Don’t Bet On Fights
As a member of the Scholastic (hats off!) and a peachy dancer, it is about time that we began plugging the Bengal Bouts, although, on looking over the past three issues, there doesn’t seem to be any real need for publicity. We like to proceed cautiously, so first, let it be known that the bouts will be held in the gym on March 19. No chance of going wrong on those statements. And there will be a lot of boys in short pants doing their utmost to draw blood. Peanuts and apples will be consumed in great quantities, and if you were to line up all the ice cream bricks that will be sold, you’d probably freeze your hands. Try it.
* * *
Wonderful Wintertime Dreams
Quite the most astonishing twist of the winter is the novel plan of Elmer Layden to promote winter sports activities. Yet there is a slight error in his argument. He claims that there is a lethargy hanging over the campus during the winter months. Granting that a lethargy can hang, we take exception to the plan. When the ice skating starts and the ski
By John A. Gillespie
jump and toboggan slide are erected, what will happen to the cutthroat bridge games that enthrall large chunks of the student body now? What of that fascinating hobby of breaking the posts that line the walks in front of Alumni, Dillon and points east ? After all, some things are sacred.
- *
Price of Seniority
Now about that Senior Flag that the graduates will present to the University on Washington’s Birthday. Who’s paying for it? Even in the most accurate and detailed prewrite of the ceremonies nothing was said about standing the cost of the banner. Bunting doesn’t just grow on trees. Assuming that the finances are aboveboard, we hope fervently that the oration will be daringly different. Something like this: “Although I realize that most of you would be on week-ends if you didn’t have to attend this morning’s exercises, bear with me while I speak my piece. I don’t like it any more than you do, but if you’ll all be quiet, it’ll be over in no time. One, two, three —go.” Wouldn’t it be horrible to be a senior year after year?
$ # #
On The Aisle
Guns popped and Hilda the hophead spoke not a line at the premiere of “Whistling in the Dark” Saturday night. Along with a packed house of first-nighters we liked it. As a vehicle it moved smoothly and quickly to a punch-line ending. Every actor remembered his lines and the scenes were changed with remarkable rapidity. Without fear of dispute, we call it the best play produced in our quiet career. With all due honors to the female impersonator, who labored under a handicap, the emoting would have been immeasurably improved by the substitution of a girl in the part of Toby Van Buren. Undoubtedly there is a good reason why no girls are allowed, but it’s too bad. And it was the first time we ever saw purple colored Scotch whisky, but, of course, we shouldn’t know about things like that. Except for a few huzzahs from the Detroiters when that city was mentioned, the audience was attentive and courteous. Perhaps some day a performance may be given or a movie shown or a basketball game played during which the assemblage will emit only the normal responses, such as laughing when something funny happens, or applauding meritorious effort; only a confirmed optimist could hope for that.
SPECIAL FEATURES, NEWS, VIEWS IN NEW 'ALUMNUS1
•
The Notre Dame Alumnus, monthly magazine published by the Alumni association of the University of Notre Dame, made its fifth appearance early this week. •
The first article featured in this edition concerned the key meeting of the nation-wide local Alumni .club observance on Monday night, Jan. 25, of the launching of an anti-Commun-istic program.
A special article treated the tribute paid to the memory of Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C., on Sunday Jan. 10. The entire program of the day was outlined, including the guest speakers and the varied functions in honor of this great priest-scientist.
Another article reviewed the address of John Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the United States department of justice, given here in the gym.
Joseph S. Petritz, director of athletic publicity, reviewed the progress of the basketball, track and tennis teams this year in his column.
A monthly review, Campus Notes, written by John J. Lechner, ’37, covered the campus happenings completely. The remainder of the issue treated of the happenings of the alumni clubs and the alumni scattered over the land.
Mock "March of Time" At Law Club's Revel
More than 60 members of the Notre Dame Law Club were present last week at an entertainment given in honor of the club in the Faculty Dining Room. Members of the law school faculty, Mr. Homer Q. Earle, Mr. John H. A. Whitman, and Clarence Manion, were also present at the banquet.
Maurice Tulchinsky was the master of ceremonies. Music was furnished by the “Demurrers,” a six-piece band, composed of members of the law school.
Other numbers on the program were a song by Tom Shea, a radio monologue by Mitchell Tackley, and a burlesque of the “March of Time” by Paul Larmer, Lee Moorman, and Robert Szizek.
Put chickens on a twelve-hour working day by means of an alarmclock attachment, is the recommendation of Prof. C. G. Card, head of Michigan State College’s poultry husbandry department. By getting them up two hours earlier, they will eat more food and lay more eggs, he says.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, February 19
Organized adoration, Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 pan., general staff, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, February 20
Movies, Washington hall, “The Return of Sophie Lang,” 1:30 and 3:30 p.m.; Catholic Press Congress convenes, Milwaukee, Wis.; Basketball game, Varsity vs. University of Pittsburgh, University Gym, 8:00 p.m.; Concert, University Band, previous to basketball game and during intermission.
Sunday, February 21
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers in Walsh hall.
Monday, February 22
Washington’s Birthday, no classes; Annual Senior Class Flag Presentation Exercises, Washington Hall, 10 a.m.; Organized adoration, Benediction, 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, February 23
’ Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Basketball game, Varsity vs. Marquette University, University gym, 8:00 p.m.; Concert, University Band, previous to game and during intermission, 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, Chesterton Society, Law building, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, February 2k
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Organized adoration, Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Benediction and sermon, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, Bookmen, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.; Radio lecture, Prof. Henry C. Staunton, from campus studio in John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, 7:00 p.m.
Thursday, February 25
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Organized adoration, Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Fencing, Varsity vs. Purdue, Lafayette, Ind.
A. A. Given Ice Boat
Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics, announced this week that the Athletic Association is the grateful recipient of an ice boat for use of the students on St. Mary’s lake. The boat was donated by Mr. S. R. Dun-nuck of South Bend, and is in the care of Mr. Cerney who will take care of arrangements for instructing those who wish to use the boat in its operation and use.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Laughing At College
Students at the University of Florida may now enroll in a course designed chiefly for the development of the individual appreciation of the comedy in life. It is the first time in the history of American education that a specific course has been to improve a sense of humor.
Special tests, which will be given at the beginning and the end of each term, have been devised to test the humorous perception ability of each student.
Ten Tough ’Uns
According to the National Association of Teachers of Speech the ten most unpleasant words in the English language are: flatulent, phlegmatic, cacophony, gripe, plutocrat, jazz, sap, crunch, plump, and treachery. ... If we had typed this item three weeks ago we would have probably added the word “flunk” to the list.
A Movement in Six Words
“Communism is Socialism in a hurry.” (Prof. P. W. Slosson, U. of Michigan)
Briefly Noting
During a “class rush” at the University of Glasgow in Scotland 20,000 eggs, a ton of flour, pounds of soot and countless dozens of fish heads were hurled by the opposing factions. And there were plenty of girls on hand who eagerly engaged in the rush. . . . Dr. James A. Naismith of Kansas University who is generally considered the originator of modern basketball has played only two games of the hardwood sport twice in his life. . . . An alumnus of Northwestern University has bequeathed $30,-000 to that school to be used solely for the appointing of scholarships in the study of classical languages. . . . It seems to be the opinion of senior year women at the University of Pennsylavnia, if we interpret the results of a recent poll on the Red and Blue campus correctly, that women should not attempt to combine a career with marriage. The main reason for the negative attitude is that it is unfair to the men and secondly it deprives single women of employment that they really need.
A handmade microscope worth $1,500, probably the only one of its kind in the United States, is owned by Dr. W. N. Christopher, assistant professor of bacteriology at Louisiana State University.
Myrna Loy is the favorite movie actress at Colgate University and Carleton College.
AIR SHOW PRODUCER ARRIVES HERE
NEXT WEEK
e
Albert G. Miller, a prominent radio figure and member of the staff of Henry Souvaine, Inc., program producers and arrangers who are handling the Pontiac Varsity Show, will arrive here next week to select the cast and to make up the show for Notre Dame Night.
To be broadcast directly from the University gym over the coast-to-coast Red network of the National Broadcasting Company, Friday night, March 5, the show will feature the varsity band and glee club, various singers and instrumentalists in the student body, and members of the Monogram club.
The show will be built around John Held, Jr., well-known cartoonist and writer of college humor, who conducts every broadcast as master of ceremonies. Held is expected to arrive here within ten days and during his week on the campus will reside in Dillon Hall.
Miller, as Pontiac Motors’ professional producer of the Varsity Show, will meet with the campus show committee as soon as possible to discuss the intricate details for the broadcast.
It is expected that alumni clubs in many cities will gather that evening at dinner and smokers to hear the Notre Dame edition of the Varsity Show, which is the seventh of a series of broadcasts emanating from the country’s great colleges or universities.
Listeners of 69 network . stations will hear the familiar Fighting Irish college songs as played and sung by the varsity band and glee club, which has just returned from an eastern tour. Joseph Zwers, captain-elect of the 1937 varsity football squad, is scheduled to make a short air appearance.
Foley Leaves to Attend Catholic Press Meet
Paul Foley, editor of The Scholastic, left this afternoon to attend the opening of the National Catholic Press Educational Congress which convenes tomorrow morning at Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Among the distinguished speakers to address the Congress are Dr. Paul Hanley Furfey, acting head of the department of sociology at the Catholic University of America; Dr. Ross Hoffman, professor of history at New York University; and the Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., national director of the Sodality of Our Lady.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE ...
Two weeks ago the examinations ceased and is tempus really fugiting right along! And only 316 days left in which to do your Xmas shopping . . . Prediction: That the annual Monogram Absurdities scheduled to happen in the early part of May will be the funniest show ever staged in Washington Hall. And that counts the humdinger of 1933 when Nick Lukats stole the show and walked right into a movie contract. . .
Those afternoon bridge games are clicking again -with John Monteverde (Dillon) leading the pack home most of the time. Who wouldn’t, with his own deck?. . . Bob Seco (Sorin) while at Columbus, Ohio, with the fencing team, made a couple of faux pas. One while fencing, another with one of the spectators. Should we say Touche, Bob? Joe Pawlowski (Off campus) the mad Russian is tuning his tonsils to become a famous concert singer, when he grows up. Already he can spill out seven languages.
The Chicago club is beginning its presidential campaign, two Dillonites, John Buckley and “Babe” Kelly are leading the best of candidates. We don’t care who becomes president but ■whoever it is, let’s hope he doesn’t get Washingtonitis. . . . Phil Walker (Walsh) has ambitions of becoming a fireman, judging from his actions on the third floor of his hall, he’s getting a swell start. . . Pepper Martin (Walsh) was bom on St. Valentine’s Day and he is now busy trying to figure out if the card he received . was a birthday greeting or a valentine. That might be called the Penalty of Valentines. . . Joe Battaglia (Alumni) since receiving his B team letter has become the only man in school who can strut sitting down. . . For reservations at the downtown coffee shop, see Jack Broderick (Alumni) ....
The Lawyers Smoker (minus the smokes) of last Thursday night brought forth’two budding Thespians in the versatile Moorman - Czizek (Sorin Combination) as amply demonstrated in the “March of Time” skit. The author of the skit prefers to remain incognito, for he still has two years in the law school
To W. C. a junior in Dillon, we send this admonition, from his conduct at the recent Illinois-Notre Dame basketball game he would be wiser to remain quiet, his yells are a bit out of color and not in fitting with the Notre Dame spirit, catch it W.C.?...
Matt Mclnerny (Off campus) goes
to Elkhart every week end, he says he goes to see the local high school basketball games, but we know better, don’t ask us how we found out; she is the pride of Elkhart. . . Then there was the freshman who thought a Prom was something to push a baby around in.
AD MUSAS
I’d like to write some poetry The trouble’s with the rhyme,
I try so hard to do it right
But miss it every thyme.
The Monte Carlo boys are vacationing at Hot Springs. . . For peculiar gaits we give you John Fara-baugh and Jerry Davey (Alumnites) . . . Red McAlpin’s toy plane went into a tailspin and that eliminates his plane from the contest sponsored by
“Punchy?? — They Hadda take the bell off his typewriter!”
■the' boys of Alumni. Speaking of " planes, a vote of thanks to Leo Simpson (Dillon) for his fine gesture in flying to the flooded area with food for the refugees. . . Howard Cusack is back with brand new hairs and a new pair of shoes. . . .
A FEW MORE BONERS
A mountain range is a cooking stove used at high altitudes.
A goblet is a male turkey.
An invoice is another name for the conscience.
To keep milk from turning sour you should keep it in the cow.
A magnet is a thing you find in a bad apple.
An alien becomes a citizen by the process of fertilization.
The artichoke was an ancient instrument of torture.
.12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Morifurus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame. Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C..........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY....................  ..Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie	 Anthony F. O'Boyle					The Wecfe 	College Parade
Joseph Rotondo			In The Juggler l^ein
News Staff	
Louis DaPra					News Editor
Harold A. Williams			Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven			Frank Reilly
Richard Riley			Robert McClain
George Haithcock			Vincent de Coursey
Frederick Sisk			John Callaghan
Thomas Marker- _	_	_	James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes _	_	_	.	._ _ _ Graham Starr
Vincent W. Hartnett}			_ —Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams j	
Sports Staff	
Eugene Vaslett			Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe	_	_ _	-Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley	_			Mark Mitchfii.
Allan Bride			Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby			John Clifford
Charles Callahan			William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott			Jamf.s A Wat dron
Francis Kroeger				Art Editor
William R. Dooley, '26			Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70 • February 19, 1937	No. 16
POWER OF THE PRESS ...
FEBRUARY has been declared Catholic Press Month.
In a welter of other Months, Weeks, and Days, all set aside for some specific purpose, the tendency is to overlook the significance of any such movement. It is regrettably true that in many cases, this negligent “overlooking” has been carried further with regard to the Catholic press.
Within the past five years there has been a changing attitude of Catholics toward the Catholic press. In times of flush prosperity the Catholic press was another of the many things taken for granted—even in the early pinching of a depression Catholics were busy with personal scrambles. It then became increasingly apparent that more than a mere “depression” was occurring. Catholics began questioning the vast and intricate social forces that were at play—it is regrettable that one of the last places they looked for explanation was to the Catholic Press.
During the past three years, however, there has been a new life injected into Catholic publications of general circulation. This new life has been a reawakened reader interest. America, Commonweal, The Catholic World, The Catholic Worker and our own Ave Maria have seen the change. In the first two publications mentioned the new vitality has been particularly apparent. The Catholic world has been seeking information and the Catholic press is well able to give it—and give it well and authentically.
Many Catholics have cherished an ancient idea that subscribing to a Catholic periodical was something of a charity—a bit of assistance handed to a deserving but not particular interesting waif. They have been amazed to find*what a healthy, robust and muscular adult the Catholic press really is.
As long as Catholic periodicals labored under the handicap of “charity” their mission was frustrated. Now that a growing interest has recognized real merit, Catholic papers and Catholic editors are making startling strides.
From every point of view a robust, intelligent and well supported Catholic press is desirable. Not alone for “mission” work, not alone as an incentive to piety—but as a vigorous medium for wielding Catholic truth in new and pressing problems.
There is no bigger “story” in the history and scope of journalism than the Eternal Truths possessed by Catholics—the Catholic press should be a priceless medium for expressing these truths.
▼
ADVANCE BILLING ...
FROM its opening scene to the last curtain, “Whistling in the Dark” proved a popular, well presented, and highly appreciated performance. The University Theater is to be at once commended and questioned on its very fine production.
Praise is certainly due the actors, directors and assistants for producing a smoothly handled, swift moving show. It is difficult to realize why more shows are not staged.
It is true that rehearsals are tedious, time is consumed that might be whiled away in other pursuits—but with such a genuine interest in dramatics, these things should weigh but lightly.
Student support is certainly not lacking. Saturday’s performance was jammed. Sunday’s was equally well attended, although students were forced to see outsiders take many seats. In any event, from the actors’ point of view, the support was certainly far from feeble.
It should not be too difficult to produce at least five plays a year on the campus. With the available talent these five could be excellent productions—not simply jerky, throw-together performances. Schools with far less advantage in this regard successfully sponsor far more ambitious programs.
▼
PROGRESS...
LONG entry lists, crowded schedules and harried managers tell the story of success in the initial Winter Sports program. On three fronts, billiards, hand-ball and bowling, the plans have progressed with enthusiasm and genuine interest.
Phil Bondi, S. A. C. president, and Paul Barker, head of the managers’ organization, this week said they were swamped, with requests for even more and bigger tournaments.
This first effort has proved the necessity of a planned program of winter activity—it has further proved that the only thing needed is a genuine spark of incentive. Interest is present, ability is not lacking—the only thing needed was the punch furnished by Athletic Director Elmer Layden.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
13
On Down the Rhine »
By Robert Mullen
Upon docking at Coblenz I found out that my hotel was located on the opposite side of the town. That meant a taxi. Taxi! 1!—And what should come bearing down on me but a venerable “old plug” drawing an equally venerable old carriage. The temptation was too great to resist. I hopped in. Would I have something to write home about! And, boy, I had something to write home about when I paid my fare. I could have bought a used car!
Coblenz is the town of contrasts. The new section is as modern as any city in America, and yet the old quarters remain absolutely the same as they were centuries ago. The market places were ever an object of interest to me. Once or twice during the week th farmers come into town and market their wares here. What makes these spots even more interesting is the fact that the towns of old were for the most part built around the market place. This was the “heart” of almost every old town.
The history of Coblenz is also quite fascinating. The town was founded by the Romans. The numerous Roman tombstones found here would seem to indicate that the population was more civil than military. Coblenz did not become a town of importance until 1254 when the League of Rhenish Towns was established. In the Thirty Years war it was besieged and garrisoned by the Swedish, French and Imperial troops. In 1688 the French nearly destroyed the town by cannonade, but nevertheless they were forced to retreat. In 1786 Coblenz became the residence of the Elector of Treves. The lattei- built a beautiful castle here, but a few years later it was taken by the French (1794). In 1815 it became Prussian and was converted into one of the strongest fortresses on the Rhine. Today only the fortification on the surrounding heights remain. In 1890 the demolition of the town wall was begun, and the new town sprung up outside the old gates.
4:
Once more I was aboard the river boat enjoying one of the most beautiful views to be seen in this country. Castles, ruined and whole, crowned the top of almost every hill. We drifted by approximately twenty of these fairly-like pictures. Many of them are rich in lore. The most famous, perhaps, are the twin castles of Starrenberg and Liebenstein, commonly known as The Brothers. Two brothers, Conrad and Heinrich, were enamoured of their foster-sister, the beautiful Hildegard. Heinrich with
real nobility tore himself away and joined the Crusades. Conrad and Hildegard were soon engaged, and Conrad’s father built the castle of Sterrenberg for their reception. The nuptials were postponed, however, on the death of the old knight. Conrad’s heart grew cold, and upon hearing of his brother’s successes in the crusades decided to join him and earn a name for himself. Suddenly Conrad returned to Sterrenberg with a lovely Grecian bride, and the outraged Hildegard, stunned by the blow, shut herself up in the loneliest part of the castle and saw no one but her attendant. Quite as unexpectedly did Heinrich return. Upon learning of the conditions he challenged Conrad to single combat. Hildegard interposed, however, and insisted on a reconciliation to which they reluctantly consented. Hildegard then retired to the convent at the base of the rock on which the castle stands. Conrad’s Grecian bride soon proved to be faithless, and in despair he flung himself upon his brother’s mercy. Thus their estrangement was ended, and while the brothers lived together in retirement at Leibenstein, the castle Sterrenberg was forever deserted.
At one point along the Rhine is the castle, Mouse, derisively called so by the Counts of Katzenelenbogen whose castle, the Cat, lies directly opposite that of the Mouse.
Castles were not the only things to be seen on this trip. There is the famous “Koenigsstuhl” (King’s seat) ■which was erected in 1376. Many emperors were elected here, decrees issued and treaties concluded. Upon reaching St. Goar I was reminded of an interesting old custom, the Haen-seln or Initiation, which prevailed here till about 1827. It is said to have dated from the time of Charlemagne. Every traveller who visited the town for the first time was attached to the ring in the wall of the Custom-house, and obliged to submit to the water or wine ordeal. If the former was elected, a good ducking was the result; the more pleasant alternative consisted in drinking a goblet of wine to the memory of Charlemagne, the Queen of England, the reigning prince, and the members of the society who enforced obedience to this custom. The traveller was then invested with the rights of a member of the society, was compelled to give a donation to the poor, and finally his name was entered in the “Haenselnbuch.”
It would be a crime not to mention the famous Pfalz near Caub (131447). This hexagonal building rises from a ledge of rock in the middle
of the Rhine. It has a pentagonal tower, numerous turrets, and jutting corners. There is but one entrance situated about six feet above the rock and reached by means of a wooden staircase.	•
The Mouse Tower, also located in the middle of the Rhine, derives its name from a well known legend. The cruel bishop Hatto of Mayence (914) caused a number of poor people who had petitioned him for help during a famine to be burned in a farm. That evening he was attacked by mice and, endeavoring to flee from them, shut himself up in this tower. The mice worked their way in, however, and devoured him alive. As the imposing rocks of Lorelei towered over us I could not help think of the famous story in connection with this spot. But there is no need of my saying anything more about them for its history and legend is well known to everyone.
And everyhere vineyards I The source of that world famous Rhine wine! (You don’t know what you’re missing!)
The city of the rose and sparkling wines — Mainz. My brief stay was marked by a most unique experience — a trip through the Kupferberg Wine Cellars. The sixty individual cellars of this plant descends six floors underground, and hold several million bottles of Sparkling Wine. '(The expression “champagne,” generally used for sparkling wines of all kinds, has been reserved by the French Government, under the Versailles Treaty, for French products only.) Each “stack” of wine bottles contains approximately 250,000 bottles. Giant old casks, some almost two hundred years of age, are famous for their elaborate and beautiful carvings. The entire process of making these Sparkling Wines take from three to five years. As a fitting climax to this delightful excursion, I was cordially invited to sample some of their Sparkling Wine. Needless to say, no second invitation was required.	,
Mainz is one of the oldest cities of Germany, being founded by the Romans. At one time it was the seat of the primate of Germany, an archbishopric, the home of the League of Rhenish Towns, and known as “Golden Mainz” because of its prosperity. Later it lost most of its privileges and was subjected to many attacks and ravages by the Swedes, Imperialists, and French. Many interesting sights and architectural treasures from the golden past are preserved here. The outstanding landmark of Mainz is the (Continued on Page 22)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
ATHLETICS
TOTAL OF BENGAL ASPIRANTS BREAKS RECORD SEVENTY MEN PRACTICE DAILY FOR BOUTS EVENING CLASSES NOW BEING HELD
NOTRE DAME GOLFERS MEET ELEVEN TEAMS IN SPRING SESSION
By Mark J. Mitchell
With the conclusion of another week of preparations for The Scholastic’s Sixth Annual Bengal Bouts, it was found that all records for practice turnouts have been broken. Trainer Frank Schiavone is handling
Between Rounds Last Year Wayne Millner doing the honors.
a total of about 70 men in his various classes, and indications are that competition for the eight University championships will reach an unprecedented height.
This is Schiavone’s second year in the capacity of trainer. Previously he had won the University lightweight championship himself. Frank has known personally many of the country’s top-notch fighters whose homes were in and about Buffalo, N. Y., where he came from. Consequently, he is in a position to give championship aspirants many valuable tips on training, as well as to instruct beginners thoroughly, in the fundamentals of the sport.
The past two weeks have been devoted to general conditioning, but Schiavone plans to start actual sparring this week. The progress of several of the potential contestants up to this point shows clearly what may be expected in the fights this year.
For instance, at the time of this writing, Ollie Halland, last year’s junior welterweight champion, has fought his way to the semi-final round of the South Bend Golden Gloves tournament. Says Halland: “Those Bengal Bouts are all right! Downtown, you fight and fight, and what do you get? A lot of aches and sore spots. Out here they appreciate what you do!” Halland this year is fighting in the 147 pound class.
Irish Fencing Team Beats Cincinnati
Loses to Ohio
•
The Irish fencing team lost a hard-fought match last Friday to Ohio State, 7% -9%, while the following night they emerged victorious over Cincinnati by a 14% to 2% score. Although the Buckeyes managed to defeat Coach Pedro de Landero’s proteges, nevertheless the final tally does not indicate the closeness of the bouts. It was not until the final match was settled that the decision favored the Ohioans.
In the foils McAuliffe defeated Noble 6-5, and Fickell 5-3, while losing out to Arnster 4-6. Seco came through to score a 6-4 victory at the expense of Fickell, but lost to Noble and Arnster. Captain Telmo de Lan-dero performed brilliantly against Robinson in emerging with a 5-1 victory. The Irish leader met stubborn resistance in tangling with Arnster and Noble, losing both bouts by small margins.
Ohio captured a majority of the points in the epee event, 2% to 1%. Arnster beat Seco and McAuliffe, but de Landero earned a draw with Fickell after a tough battle. Sal Scarlata gave a beautiful exhibition against Captain Schwab before the former was defeated by a 5-6 count in the sabre event. Zerbst put the Irish back in the running with a stellar 5-1 victory over Horvison. The match was not decided until the final bout between Zerbst and Schwab. Fighting one of the outstanding sabre exhibitions of the season, Zerbst was defeated by the margin of one point, 5-6.
After losing the decision to Ohio State, Notre Dame moved down to Cincinnati the next night where they scored an impressive triumph over the Bears, 14% to 2%. Seco and de Landero chalked up three points apiece, in scoring decisive wins over their opponents. Notre Dame won the foils events, 8 to 1.
In the epee McAuliffe beat Statt 2-0, while Colgan, substituting' for Seco and McAuliffe, gave the Irish a pair of victories. Zerbst and Scar-(Continued on Page 19)
The Notre Dame Golf team will compete in 11 matches during the spring season, according to the schedule as announced yesterday by the Athletic department, including the Indiana State meet to be held at Notre Dame about May 24. The list of opponents includes seven Big Ten teams exclusive of Indiana which the team will meet in the state tournament.
Washington University opens the schedule at Notre Dame on April 10 and is followed by Purdue at Lafayette on the 17th. The second appearance of the Irish on the home course will occur on April 19 when the Chicago team comes down to try its skill. On April 26 the Irish journey to Columbus where they will encounter the Ohio State team and five days later will meet the Minnesota outfit in Minneapolis.
On May 6 the team will meet the representatives of the University of Detroit on the local links and two days later will tackle the Northwestern team at Evanston. The regular schedule is concluded with two meets in the latter part of May with Michigan State at East Lansing, May 17 and Illinois at Champaign, May 22.
Prospects for the Irish team, which ranked third in the National Intercollegiate tournament and was state champion last year, appear to be excellent again this year according to the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the team. While many stars of the last two years, including Win Day, Pat Malloy, Herman Green, and Bill Taylor, have been lost by graduation, the team will make a well bal-
(Continued on Page 20)
Captain Fehug On The Left
Action in last year's state meet.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937	15
DORMS. HOWARD TOP INTERHALL LEAGUE IN BOTH WEIGHTS
IRISH BASKETBALL TEAM MEETS PITTSBURGH HERE TOMORROW NIGHT; IRISH SEEK REVENGE FOR EARLIER DEFEAT
By John F. Clifford
Team Standings
' HEAVYWEIGHTS
Group 1	W	L	Group 2	W	L
Brownson -----6	0	Howard --------5	0
Carroll ______5	1	Morrissey _____3	2
St. Ed’s -----3	2	Lyons _________2	2
Badin --------2	3	Alumni ________2	3
Cavanaugh ----2	3	Dillon ________2	3
Old Infirmary 2	3	Sorin _________2	3
Freshman -----1	4	Walsh _________2	3
Off Campus .... 0	5
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Group 1	W	L	Group 2	W	L
Carroll ------6	0	Howard ________5	0
Cavanaugh ____5	1	Dillon ________4	1
Old Infirmary	3	2	Morrissey _____4	2
Brownson _____3	3	Lyons _________3	2
St Ed’s ------3	3	Walsh _________1	4
Freshman -----1	4	Alumni ________0	4
Off Campus	.... 1	4	Sorin .........0	4
Badin ________0	5
Looking down the back stretch of the Interhall Basketball Stakes, the “Preakness” of the Notre Dame indoor sport carnival, it appears to be a neck-and-neck race, though odds are especially favorable on Howard and Carroll. At the outset these two jumped to a comfortable lead and have held their own in spite of the jostling and crowding on the turns.
Last week Brownson pulled a fast one in defeating a fine Carroll Hall team 25-21 and, in so doing, advanced to the first position in Group 1 of the Heavyweight division and a tie with Howard for leading honors in that division. This was a see-saw of a game with Brownson obtaining a commanding lead of 17 points during the first half and holding their coinhabitants of the Dome to two field goals and one gift throw. Then, in the second half the Carrollites reversed the order of the preceding period, as they checked the Brownson onslaught and added 16 points to their own score. This valiant attempt, however, was not sufficient to stop the ace-scorers of Brownson, Mooner and Lawrence.
A peculiar game was the Badin-Off Campus fracas. The day students were limited to but one field goal in the whole game, while Badin, sparked by the Burnell-Shantz combination, amassed the humiliating total of. 29 points. Morrissey was another team which benefitted greatly by an early lead in Sunday’s games, as it trounced Dillon in a mediocre game.
The lightweights from Carroll avenged the defeat of their more corpulent brethren in a very close game with Brownson, and remained at the top of the heap in Group 1. Kelly paced Cavanaugh Hall to a 20-17 win over their back-door neighbor, St. Ed’s, though Beaumert’s eagle-eye was threatening at all times.
Next Sunday’s games will bring to (Continued on Page 22)
With basketballs in their hands, and vengeance in their hearts, Notre Dame’s Blue and Gold five will meet the Panthers of Pittsburgh tomorrow night in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. The Irish will be seeking their fifteenth win of the season, and their eighth straight. Both teams have been victorious in eleven
CAGE CREW CURBS CANISIUS COLLEGE;
CONTEST CLOSE
•
Returning from their Violet-picking picnic in Madison Square Garden, the Notre Dame basketball team dropped off at Buffalo last Monday and squeezed out an unexpectedly tight 40-36 victory over a fighting Canisius college team.
Johnny Moir, who was probably inspired by the presence of a delegation from his near-by home town of Niagara Falls, not only scored more than half of the Irish points, but led two Notre Dame rallies and also iced the game with three points in the last few seconds of play. He slipped in nine of Notre Dame’s 15 field goals and flipped in three foul shot for a total of 21 points. The two Canisius guards starred for the losers with Cavanaugh scoring 14 and Raiman ten for their points.
Canisius startled the Irish by mov-immediately into an 8-2 lead, but Johnny Moir, scoring 14 of his points in the first half, was well-fed by his team mates and led the Irish attack to tie the score at 10-10 and pile it up to 26-16 at the half.
The Griffins started the second half with another surge of scoring that didn’t end until they had thrown in 13 consecutive points to lead 29-26. Wukovits and Nowak each popped one, however, and in a few minutes Notre Dame was ahead by a 37-31 score. Canisius threatened once more with five points in a row, but Johnny Moire disappointed them again with his final three points of the evening.
Although Canisius must be credited with excellent, heads-up basketball during the whole game, the narrowness of the victory margin was partly caused by the natural reaction of a Notre Dame team that had run up 52 points against N. Y. IT. two nights before. The Irish were also hampered slightly by the slippery concrete floor on which the game was played.
of their last twelve starts.
The contest assumes Gargantuan proportions to Coach Keogan and his eagers, when they stop to think that Pitt is the only team which has beat them this year without bowing to them later in the season.
The Panthers come west this time with an enviable record. However, like the Irish, they had tough luck as the season was getting under way. They dropped their first two games
Ray Meyer Wants more revenge.
to De Paul and Northwestern. Since then, they have topped an imposing array of teams such as Navy, Penn State, Duquesne, Temple, and Notre Dame.
Pittsburgh’s floormen will present a typically eastern offensive with short, fast passes and quick breaks. At center Paul Nowak will have no opportunity for napping, with the wily “Pepper” Garcia to take care of. Captain Jesko and Zeleznick dump them in from the forward posts, and the Johnson-Fabel guard combination furnish the wherewithal to score.
It will be remembered that Johnny Moir set his 25 point scoring record against Pitt last year, and many people are pulling for him to break it tomorrow night. However, Moir says that he doesn’t care who gets the points just so it’s Notre Dame, and besides he’s so nearsighted that he can’t see the scoreboard, and consequently never knows how many markers he has.
Any way you look at it, it will be a terrific struggle. Coach Carlson’s (Continued on Page 22)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
It is a matter of local pride in South Bend this year that so many of her sons have achieved athletic prominence at this neighboring institution. It’s also a matter of pride that South Bend is such an institution on our basketball team. In fact, in the persons of Tom Wukovits and Paul Nowak, the neighboring village has its best representation since the days of Nyikos.
We have previously disposed of Paul Nowak. Now to the other local boy who has made good in a quiet but rather effective way. He’s Tommy Wukovits, and trying to find him is like searching for the proverbial needle in the legendary hay - stack. If you’re lucky you’ll find him in Tom Jordan’s room in Dillon, if you’re unlucky you’ll hear that he just left for his home in town. We were unlucky, he had left for town and there was no basketball practice that day. However, Paul Nowak, Tommy Jordan, and Joe Kuharich, combined to give us enough information about the boy to fill a book,. let alone a colunm. .
Contrary to popular belief, there is another
high school in South Bend besides Central, and Tommy went to that “other” school, Riley. Football and basketball teams had Tommy on them for the years he was there and it seems, for a comparatively light and little fellow, he did
all right.
He won his monogram for two years in basketball and was captain of the team in his senior year, besides winning All-Sectional and All-Regional honors. He was a guard of great potentialities in his Junior year, but in his Senior year he turned out to be a high scorer so they shifted him to forward. He’s back at guard on the Irish team but he’s still scoring them high, are you listening N. Y. IL?
In football he won his monogram in his Senior year and played side by side with Joe Kuharich, whom you probably have heard of before. Incidentally Kuharich lives but two block from Tommy and Tommy’s brother Frank being a member of the baseball team assures us that interest in Notre Dame isn’t seasonal in that neighborhood.	.
HILLTOPPERS HERE TUESDAY FOR
CAGE FIGHT
•
By Fred Digby
Coach William S. Chandler will bring his sophomore quintet from Marquette to the Notre Dame field house Tuesday night and try to do what more experienced teams have failed to accomplish—stop the Fighting Irish.
This will be the twenty-third meeting of the two teams. Marquette licked the Irish in the- first game of the series, played in 1919-1920 season, 23 to 22. Since then, however, Notre Dame has won seventeen games and lost four. Last year the Irish defeated the Hilltoppers twice, 37 to 22, in the first game and then 37 to 34.
Contrary to ordinary method, Coach Chandler has built his team up chiefly around sophomores. z Having lost his best players and most of his lettermen last year through graduation, he turned to the freshman team for new talent. This team had won the state A.A.U. title and had defeated a number of more experienced teams.
From this squad he drew out three sophomores, Adams, Hesik, and Quab-ius, and these three soon earned a berth on the first team. Glenn Adams operates at forward, aided by Sokody, a junior, who is one of the best shots on the team and one of the leading scorers. Hesik may play center against All American Paul Nowak or he may be shifted to guard in an effort to stop the unstoppable Johnny Moir. In the latter case, Captain Bob O’Keefe, one of the few returning lettermen, will take over the jumping position.
Quahius, the remaining sophomore star, plays guard and may be assigned to either Moir or Meyer. In either case his inexperience will be a severe handicap, though he has proven himself quite capable of handling himself in previous games. Quabius is an excellent shot from the - floor.
Coming to Notre Dame seemed to be the natural thing for Tommy to do. It was convenient and had a reputation for turning out good basketball players so September, 1934 found Tommy here and reporting for Freshman basketball along with Moir, Nowak, Meyer, and Jordan.
In his Sophomore year Tommy didn’t break into the headlines in the manner his two teammates Moir and Nowak did as he had to understudy George Ireland. However, regardless of George, he played a lot of basketball. He and Jordan formed a pair of guards that year that rivalled the more experienced Wade and Ireland combination and often supplanted them to win ball games.
This year he’s been playing first string guard consistently and just last week blossomed out as another scoring ace on the order of Moir when he tallied ■ (Continued on Page 22)
From the Files of
"The Scholastic"
February 17, 1876
There are only two more paintings necessary to finish the series of panel paintings representing the Stations of the Cross. Prof. Gregori will have the complete series finished in a short time.
March 17, 1876
The mammoth snow hall in the centre of the Junior campus is immense. We saw over forty boys tugging at it and could not move it an inch.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
17
ON DOWN THE UNE •
Marquette’s court squad tries always to be on time for practice, games, trains, taxicabs and meals. Tardy athletes are fined ten cents on each occasion with the money going to a fund that will pay for a squad buffet supper at the end of the season.
BABE SEIBERT and EDDIE SHORE played side by side in the BOSTON BRUINS’ lineup all last season without speaking to each other.
Cleveland is building a new 16,000 seat indoor arena, and plans to be represented in a big time hockey league next year. <.
THURMAN B. RICE, director of health education in Indiana high schools, says that basketball is being overemphasized in the Hoosier state.
Pennsylvania and Cornell have played each other 43 times in football but have never had a contract.
The longest steady “sewing job” in hockey history was the night HELGE BOSTROM, a Blackhawk, had 126' stitches taken in his instep. The job took three hours.
Although the purse was $1,000, HARRY LEVINE, manager of DAVE CROWLEY, who challenged MIKE BELLOISE for the world’s featherweight championship, claims that CROWLEY only received $3.00 for himself. Levine has promised to never return to the United States.
A winning athletic team isn’t of most importance to an educational institution. So believes ROBERT MAYNARD HUTCHINS, president of the University of Chicago. “I haven’t any objection to a winning team,” he says. “If such a team should trot out on the field some fall day, I’d probably yell as lustily as students.”
MURRAY MURDOCH of the New York Rangers is hockey’s iron man. The flying forward has played in 563 consecutive games. In point of service, his 16 years is the National League record. His performance surpasses that of Lou Gehrig of baseball.
PAUL SOKODY, Marquette forward, is on probation because of poor classroom work.
America has some outstanding runners and field men who are also musicians. SAM ROMANI has mastered the comet. JIMMY 'HERBERT can play both the cornet and trumpet. CHUCK FENSKE is accomplished at the clarinet and saxaphone. SAM ALLEN is a trombone artist. GEORGE VAROFF’S ambition is to play the bass viol someday in a symphony orchestra.
Purdue recently defeated Chicago in an indoor track meet for the first time in 20 years.
IRISH TRACK SQUAD DEFEATS MARQUETTE U. IN SECOND MEET OF INDOOR SEASON; NICKMEN AVENGE INDIANA LOSS
Tournaments Start Out On Three Fronts Entries Heavy
•
With the weather so erratic the past few weeks, the outdoor section of the University winter sports program has been hampered, but in the meanwhile preparations have been progressing with the indoor division. Competition in bowling began last Wednesday with handball, and billiards starting yesterday. The play in these sports should be finished in another week, and plans are considered for further competition in ping-pong, chess, and checkers.
Should King Winter* decide to visit the campus for awhile, the ice-skating addicts might get a chance for some racing as well as some hockey. The rink has been set up again, but no definite program is scheduled yet. Another possibility is speed skating races but the warm sun has made the lake more suited to swimming. An iceboat has been given to the University. However, it is doubtful whether the campus lakes offer wide enough areas for such use.
There were1 156 entered in the bowling singles along with 64 two-man teams in the doubles. None of the doubles will be held until all the singles have been completed. Each entry is to bowl three rounds in the preliminaries, and the field will be cut into 32 ball-rollers who will begin match-play on Tuesday. Entrants are urged to complete their early rounds by Sunday noon so that the pairings can be made and the finals started Tuesday. All the bowling will take place on the Walsh Hall alleys and it is to be understood that tournament players will have precedence at all times during the contests. This also will prevail on the billiard tables in Brownson and Walsh “Rec” Halls and in the handball court in the gym. All pairings will be posted on boards in Walsh Hall “Rec” for the bowlers, Brownson “Rec” for the billiard players, and in the gym for the handball men. The day-by-day results will be listed on these boards.
Billiards entrants have reached 74 and there should be plenty of hot competition in the sport of the little ivory pills. Three-cushion billiards will be played exclusively all through the tourney. Handball drew a crowd of contestants almost 100 strong and (Continued on Page 22)
By Al Bride
Coach Nicholson’s thin men turned in their first victory of the present indoor season when they edged out the Marquette aggregation 54 - 41. The Irish total swelled to a commanding margin by sweeps in the two mile run and the shot put.
Running times were slightly lower than the average because of a small track, but in the field events three new records were set. John Levicki established a new record for the second time this season by tossing the 16-pound iron shot 46 feet 314 inches. The high jump record established three years ago by Vince Murphy, former Irish captain, was shattered when Eddie Burke cleared the bar at six feet six inches. Narewski of Marquette claimed the third record by vaulting 12 feet 4% inches in the pole vault.
•	Bill Clifford
An ace out of the hole.
One of the outstanding features of the meet was the performance of diminutive Greg Rice, sophomore Irish star. Campeting in his second collegiate meet this plucky thinly man outdistanced the field for an easy victory in the mile event and then returned to carry out first place honors in the half mile.
Rice and other second yearmen added valuable points for the Irish. In the two mile Szumachowski romped home ahead of the field. Morgan captured third place in both the low and high hurdles while in the shot put Fay-monville and Beinor took second and third.
Mahoney’s knee has healed sufficiently to bolster the Nicholsonmen in the hurdles. In returning to duty Mahoney placed first in both hurdle events.
Gibbs sustained an injury to his knee while competing in the pole
. (Continued on Page 22)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
BY cy STROKER	.
If you are looking at this column to be amused, you will be disappointed. We are definitely not in an amusing mood and we have our reasons. Instead of being elated over the victory of the basketball team in the N.Y.U. game, we are wallowing in a sea of despondency (phrase quoted from an 1893 issue of the New Haven Register). If you must have the truth we are furious because we are a thousand miles away from the people to whom we should like to show the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. score and sneer, “Yah, yah!”
If there is one basketball game we are anxious to have the Irish win, it is the Pitt game tomorrow night. If there ever was such a thing as a jinx, Pittsburgh certainly has it on Notre Dame. When it comes to breaks, the Panthers are right in there pitching every time. Biggest of all time is that famous game in which Pitt was given a fifteen-minute overtime period in which to change an Irish lead into a Panther victory, simply because the time-clock stopped. The first battle between the two teams this year saw a recurrence of the Smoky City luck, when two of Notre Dame’s stars were in the infirmary. If Pittsburgh wins tomorrow night it will be Notre Dame’s cue to contact a few medicine men to break the vodoo spell.
As things stand at the present time, there is little possibility of anything but an Irish victory. Since the first Pitt game this season, Notre Dame has progressed steadily by defeating the best basketball material the country has to offer: Purdue, Illinois, Northwestern, Pennsylvania, and N.Y.U. It is true that Keogan’s men had trouble with Canisius but our reporter-at-large, Mike Crowe, tells us that the Buffalo team had more than its share of rabbit’s feet. The six-foot nine Canisius center had trouble coming within two feet of the backboard on foul shots, but every time he made a hurried shot from the middle of the floor—swish—the ball went through the basket without even touching the rim.
Item number one in our Opportunity Knocks department: if you want to get yourself on the track team, win monogram, trips, fame, and fortune, read attentively. Ever since the graduation of Captain Vince Murphy of the 1935 track team, Coach Nicholson has been finding it difficult to get someone who can represent the Irish in the high jump. This year especially, the lack of material in this event has been causing Nick’s fair brow to furrow. Without a doubt, there are many men on the campus who have the ability to make a fair showing in this sport, but modesty or fear that the competition is too strong keeps them away. This column suggests that those of you who think you might possibly have some talent along this line, whether you have had experience or not, go over to the gym one of these days and try your luck. If you find that with practice you can get over five and a half feet, report at once for track. You will be welcomed by a coach who has a reputation for developing men.
The response to the call for indoor sports tournament entries has been very encouraging to those who are running the tournies. The list of entrants in the handball contest is especially remarkable and everything points to a successful tournament. As far as the outdoor part of the program is concerned, however, the prospects are not so good. Not that there is a lack of interest on the part of students, but that the weather is up to its old tricks again. If it doesn’t become consistently colder within the next two weeks, we are afraid that another attempt to build up outdoor winter sports at Notre Dame will have failed.
THINLIES HAVE WEEK OF REST BEFORE
DRAKE MEET
•
It was a blister-worn track team that resumed practice in the field house on Monday after defeating the Marquette team on their home track last Saturday night. Running under unfamiliar track conditions, the Notre Dame middle distance and distance runners found the circular cork track of the Marquette gym quite difficult to circumvent in comparison to the clay oval on which they have been training during the past months.
. As a result'Coach John Nicholson, whose squad has been continually oppressed by injuries this season, found his injured list somewhat augmented when he set about to get his team in shape for the Drake meet on Feb. 20.
The sprinters came out of the meet in comparativly fine shape. This week Captain Bucky Jordan and Bill Clifford have been “trying the gun” in preparation for a snappy Saturday evening a week hence. Pete “Powah” Sheehan, a strong quarter miler and anchor man on the relay, has been taking it easy all week, but will settle down to the pre-meet work next week.
Half miler John Cavanaugh is another man who has temporarily laid aside his spikes favoring a severely injured tendon in his leg. With Cavanaugh on the shelf Nick has converted John Francis, one of the best milers on last year’s team, into a half miler, and so far he has shown promise of developing fast.
The mile and two mile presents a more favorable picture to the Notre Dame track enthusiast: Greg Rice, a miniature dynamo when he runs, has . veritably turned up the track in set-ing a characteristically heart-breaking pace for the milers in their over-and under-distance running this past week. In lapping the field at Marquette, the Notre Dame two-mile trio of Szumachowski, Gott, and Gormley have proved sufficiently to Nick that the yare now in fine form for a race with Drake.
Bill Mahoney is definitely back in form for the hurdles ,though the possibilities of his running in the relay are as yet questionable. Since the graduation of Vince Murphy in 1935 the Irish have been perennially weak in the high jump and this year is no exception. However, the points lost in that event will be made up by the fine array of shot putters with John " Levicki leading the group. .
Pole vaulters Gibbs and Langton found much difficulty in coping with the take-off in the Marquette gym last week. Consequently, much emphasis will be placed on this part of their work in the next few days.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
19
NICHOLSON TO HOLD INTERHALL TRACK
MEET IN GYM
By Ed Hoyt
Track Coach John Nicholson has announced that the date for the annual interhall track meet has been set for March 3rd, 5th and 7th. The meet will be held on Wednesday and Friday evening at 8:00 o’clock and at 10:00 o’clock Sunday morning.
Coach Nicholson will divide the campus halls up into two groups. The first group will run on Wednesday evening, the second on Friday, and the finals will be held on Sunday morning. The first three men will qualify for the finals. Those who gain first, second or third place in the finals will be given medals. The two ‘ groups have not been divided up as yet, but as soon as they are, they will be printed in The Scholastic.
The interhall track meet is an annual occurrence here at Notre Dame. It is conducted by Coach Nicholson with the hope of stimulating interest in track and to discover prospective varsity material. Many of the varsity men in the past have had their first experience in running in these interhall meets. In the past, these interhall meets have been very well run, and have been vry close. It is hoped that each hall will organize a team and have the men ready on the appointed night. It is necessary that there be six men from each hall desiring to enter the six-man relay.
The events that have been scheduled by Nick include the pole vault, the shot put, 60 yard dash, mile run, 60 yard high hurdles, 440 yard run, two mile run, 880 yard run, high jump, broad jump, and the six-man relay team, with each man running 220 yards.
As an added attraction at the Drake Track Meet and at the Central Intercollegiate Track Meet, Coach Nicholson plans to run the six-man team that wins the finals in the meet. The meet has always attracted the attention of the halls in the past, and it is hoped that this year will not be en exception. Coach Nicholsin suggests that those who are interested form a team in the hall and start to practise now so that they will be prepared when the meet comes.
Fencing Meets
(Continued from Page 14) lata were the only Notre Dame participants in the sabre. Grifiin bowed to Zerbst, 5-2, while Scarlata fought the best match of the evening in losing to Richtenwold. For the second time in the history of fencing at Notre Dame, the Irish won the epee event, and it marked the initial time that the fencers forged ahead in all three events.
17,000 Watch Keoganmen Pluck Violets of N.Y.U. in Rout on Madison Square Court
Notre Dame’s high-scoring basketball team started their second eastern invasion of the season in high gear last Saturday night by routing the shrinking Violets from New York University at Madison Square Garden by the top-heay score of 52-26.
Although the Fighting Irish dominated the play throughout the game,
Paul Nowak
Now—a ping pong player they held only a slim 16-10 adavntage at half time. The capacity crowd of 17,000 saw them suddenly come to life in the second half with a flashy passing attack that dazzled the Violets and netted 36 points while the Violets scored 16.
The victory was the thirteenth of the season for the Irish, against three losses. It also marked the second victory in three attempts against New York University. Notre Dame lost the first game with the Violets on New Year’s Eve in 1934, but emerged victorious last year and again this year.
Paul Nowak, the big All-American
Fencers Meet Purdue and Chicago U., Next Week
After splitting two meets over the last week-end, the Notre Dame fencers returned to their home gymnasium Sunday for a week and a half of strenuous practice. On Thursday, February 25, they begin the last and most difficult part of their already severe schedule by travelling to Lafayette for a second stab-and-parry match with Purdue. The Boilermaker steel-wielders have lost to Notre Dame already this season, but were without their Captain Latter, who was too ill to make the trip north. He is in shape now, but should not swing enough bouts to win for Purdue, if the Irish fencers remain as steadily skillful as they have been.
The Notre Darners meet their top opponent of the year when they return home again. The undefeated leaders of the Big Ten, the well-trained and well-balanced men of
center, led the Irish attack with 14 points on six field goals and two charity tosses. Johnny Moir was right behind Nowak with 13 points on four field goals and five free throws. His nine points in the first half gave the Irish a lead which they never relinquished.
Tommy Wukovits, besides playing an air-tight defensive game, placed third high in scoring with 11 points on five field goals and one free throw. He also held the distinction of being the only Notre Dame player to play through the entire game.
Moir opened the socring with a long shot. Boardman tied the score, but Moir’s two free throws gave the Irish a 4-2 lead. Schulman’s free throw and Carnevale’s field goal placed New York in the lead for the first and only time in the game, 5-4. Nowak caem through with a fielder to put the Irish again in the lead. From then on Notre Dame steadily drew away, and they led at the half, 16-10.
Sadowski opened the second half with a field goal. Boardman of NYU matched the effort, and Nowak slipped in two free throws. Then the Irish attack speeded up, and the New Yorkers, hopelessly bewildered by this whirlwind style of play, folded up completely. Moir, Nowak, Wukovits, and Jordan all contributed to this rally and soon had a 28-14 lead.
New York revived slightly and brought the score up to 30-20, Notre Dame’s favor. The Irish reserves began to come into the game at this point. Not to be outdone by the regulars, the reserves ketp up the torrid pace and had the score doubled, 5226, at closing time. Boardman led
Chicago University, will ride out to Notre Dame for the biggest match on the Irish schedule. The closest match the Chicagoans have fought was an 8% to 8% tie with Ohio State. They defeated Northwestern, 10-7, and Michigan State and Wisconsin by large scores. Notre Dame lost by a margin of one or two bouts to both Ohio State and Northwestern, and will be expected to lose to the Maroons. But the Irish, steadily gaining experience and sureness, will show such Chicago stars as the Cocaptains Walters and Lemon, and Sabre-men Fritz some deft lunges and match-turning ripostes.
Since there is no Varsity meet this week-end, Coach de Landero is planning a round-robin in foil and sabre for the freshman squad, to prepare the “youngsters” for their annual tournament and the sectional tournament in April at Chicago.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
From Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks . . . we're headquarters for Arrow merchandise.
Ellswnrth’a
Pitt Prewrite
(Continued from Page 15)
quintet has earned for itself the epithet of being great second half team. Against Duquesne, they trailed 30-15 at the half. In the last seconds Garcia tied the score at 47-all with a prodigious long shot. Then Pitt went on to win 51-50 in overtime.
Even against Notre Dame, Pitt was losing by nine points at the intermission, a handicap which didn’t stop them from licking the Irish to the tune of three points, 34-31.
Golf Season
(Continued from Page 14)
Fancy yourself owning a handsome assortment of Arrows as pictured below. New colors — new collars — each shirt carefully tailored to Arrow standards. Mitoga-shaped and Sanforized-Shrunk.
ARROW
anced appearance. Returning lettermen include Captain Lou Fehlig, Bill Castleman, Bob Wilke, and Harry Baldwin. The team also has an ample supply of new material to draw upon, in the persons of Bud Donovan, Al Mailhes, Gene Milboum, Charles Bennett, John Marbach, and Frank Lesselyong.
During its comparatively short existence the Notre Dame golf team has. made a remarkable record. Last year was the seventh year that the sport has had official recognition at Notre Dame. In those seven years the team has won 49 of its matches and lost only four.
MAX ADLER
“The Big Store
on the Corner'
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
21
New Beauty, Hazards Added to Golf Course
•
During the fall and winter the Notre Dame golf course has undergone several improvements in layout. The work, under the direction of the course’s professional Chet Keeley, includes the installation of a new watering system on four fairways to supplement the former arrangement which took care of the tees and greens. Plans are being made to extend the watering system to all of the fairways on the course. Approximately 150 new trees have been planted on the course while about 200 new shrubs have been added to further the beauty of the course.
A large shelter house, similar to the ones near the ninth and sixteenth tees has been erected over the water pump at the Number 7 green, thus providing a stopping off spot for players on the first nine. Several new traps have been added to the course and the old ones have been rearranged to make playing on the course more difficult and interesting.
Heavies. The meeting of Carroll and Cavanaugh next Sunday morning will definitely settle the outcome of the Lightweights in Group 1. A tie is imminent in Group II also. Dillon plays Sorin, which so far this year has failed to impress observers with its strength as a basketball team. Dillon, on the other hand, has had a consistently fine club and bids well to cop the title. If Howard can stop Lyons, the finish will be in the same order as indicated above.
Results:
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Group 1: Off Campus 2. Badin 29: Cavanaugh 13, St. Ed’s 20 ; Carroll 21. Brownson 25: Freshman-Old Infirmary (no game).
Group 2: Dillon 13, Morrissey 17: Howard 17. Alumni 13 : Walsh 12, Lyons 22: Sorin— bye.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Gioup 1: Off Campus-Badin, (no game) : Cavanaugh 20. St. Ed’s 17 : Carroll 16. Brownson 15; Freshman-Old Infirmary, (no game).
Group 2: Dillon 24, Morrissey 9 : Howard 9. Alumni 8 : Walsh 0. Lyons 2 : Sorin—-bye.
A University of Iowa professor who planned to go on a bobsleighing party with students had to stay home because his mother wouldn’t let him go. She claimed “such a party is not dignified enough for a college teacher.”

s
8
s' S
is
ri’ U	8

YOU MEAN THIS NEW PIPE?
SAY JACK, I THOUGHT CHRISTMAS WAS IN DECEMBER.
right! HOWD
SAVED ENOUGH
YOU GET IT? SErSEMS? _______ LJ EDGEWORTH JR?
Interhall Basketball
(Continued from Page 15)
TO BUY IT
8
Si
HOW COME?
CAUSE THERES NO ■ WASTE. SMOKES SWEET Q AND MILD DOWN TO Q THE HEEL. IT'S GREAT. ■
* w
a close the regularly scheduled games between the various halls, and will be followed by the championship playoffs on Feb. 28. Howard is certain to be in the Heavyweghit finals. Should St. Ed’s defeat Brownson next Sunday and Carroll win over Cavanaugh, there would result a .deadlock for top honors in Group 1 and a play-off between Brownson and Carroll would be necessary. If this case were to occur, then such a game between the two teams would be equalled in thrills only by the final one between Howard and the winner of Group 1.
Carroll’s position in the Lightweight division is precariously similar to that of Brownson in the
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
"Cellophane” Wrapped
MANS SMOKE
S
THE COLLEGE 3
15?





GLASSES Properly FITTED
AMAZING VALUE!
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
IN YOUR COLLEGE COLORS We make this amazing offer of a $1.00 English Type Folding Pouch in Rep Cloth with Rubberized Liner for only 10^ and one wrapper to persuade you to try Edgeworth Jr. Buy a tin today. Send the inside white paraffin wrapper and your dime together with this coupon (or print your name, college and address on the wrapper)—and we will semi your pouch i in mediately. Only one to a customer.
SPECIAL OFFER
POUCH FOR
10?
Larus & Bro. Co.. Richmond. Va.	.	|
Enclosed find 10c and one inside white a paraffin wrapper from a tin of Edgeworth Jr.. | for which send me $1.00 value silk tobacco * pouch in my college colors- (.Please print.) w
Address.
.State.
COLLEGE.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 19, 1937
Flag Ceremonies
(Continued from Page 3)
Introducing—(Continued from Page 16)
bulletin announcing where they are to assemble for their march into Washington hall,” stated Chairman Joyce.
The cap and gown committee, headed by Lloyd Stolich, will distribute caps and gowns from the Walsh hall Dome offices beginning at 9:00 a.m. Sunday, Feb. 21. Those yet uncalled for will be given out starting at 7:00 a.m. Monday.
"We Cannot Tell a Lie"
SOUTH SHORE LINE does have the MOST FREQUENT Service To Chicago!
In memory of famous little George we dedicate the above statement of indelible truth! Fast Electric trains leave South Bend every hour bound for Chicago. You’re always safe in the South Shore Line all-steel cars, and you’ll be sure to make your appointment on time if you depend on this speedy service.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

11 points to help shrink the Violets in the Garden last Saturday night. That wasn’t just a mistake either, for the following Monday he hit for seven more against Canisius.
Is about the quietest fellow on the squad. Was so flustered in his Sophomore year when told that he was to make the trip with the team to Minnesota he forgot his basketball shoes in South Bend and had to borrow a pair in Minneapolis. Was superintendent of South Bend’s playgrounds two summers ago. Last summer, he, “Red” Ruetz, and Joe Kuharich labored on the Biology building and laid all the concrete on the bottom of the building. The Palais Royale misses him during basketball season but otherwise he’s a regular customer, at Melody Gardens too in the summertime.
In our opinion was directly responsible for the defeat of Syracuse. Turned in the sweetest job of guarding 6 ft. 7 in. Ed Sonderman, star center, ever seen in South Bend. Made a fool of the big boy and demoralized the whole Syracuse team. That’s a basketball player for you.
On Down the Rhine
(Continued from Page 13)
thousand - year - old cathedral. The church possesses great value in the history of architecture, for, as a result of the many renovations and rebuildings, the style of almost every period in architectural history is represented here.
Thus came to an end the most delightful trip I had ever experienced. I sincerely hope to see all of these beautiful spots again. Then I will be able to appreciate their beauty and significance more than I did during my first visit. That night in Mainz I was wondering just how my home for the next nine months would really be like. Would it be as I had always heard it to be? The morrow would bring me there, to the most known and beloved spot in Germany — at least for foreigners — Heidelberg!!
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
University Tourney
(Continued from Page 17)
this was no doubt stimulated by the recent success of the newly organized handball team. Courts, tables, and alleys will be open from 1 to 6 on week-days, 1 to 9 on Saturday, and 9 to 12 on Sunday morning.
It is planned to have doubles and singles in all the sports. Trophies will be furnished by the Athletic Department to be awarded the winners and runners-up in both the singles and doubles. The Athletic Department has full charge of all the activities and is being assisted by the S.A.C., the Managers organization, the Knights of Columbus, and The Scholastic. The success of the tournament depends on the ready cooperation of all the entrants who are urged to be prompt for all the contests.
Track Meet
(Continued from Page 17) vault and may be kept on the sidelines for a month or more.
Summary:
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Rice. (ND) ; Sterbenk (M), second: McKenna (ND), third. Time, 4:32.9.
40-YARD DASH—Won by Sengpiel (M) ; Jordan (ND), second ; Clifford (ND), third. Time, :04.6.
440-YARD RUN—Won by O'Shea (M) : Doherty (M), second: Sheehan (ND), third. Time, 54.4.
45-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Mahoney (ND) ; Pandjiris (M), second ; Morgan (ND), third. Time, :06.2.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Szumachowski (ND) ; Gott (ND), second: Gormley (ND), third. Time, 10:05.5.
POLE VAULT—Won by Narewski (M) ; Kime (M), second;. Gibbs (ND), third. Height, 12 feet 4% inches.
45-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Mahoney (ND) ; Pandjiris (M), second; Morgan (ND), third. Time. :05.9.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Rice (ND) ; Horn (M), second; Francis (ND), third. Time. 2:03.9.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Burke (M) ; Cuff (M), second; English (M), third. Height 6ft. 6 inches.
SHOT-PUT—Won by Levicki (ND) : Fay-monville (ND), second; Beinor (ND), third. Distance 46 feet 3% inches.
12-LAP RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Clifford, Meesick, Parsons, Sheehan). Time, 2:58.3.
LI S< Senator Gerald B Nye says 'I enjoy the comfort a light smoke gives my throat’
THE FINEST TOBACCOS— "THE CREAM OF THE CROP”
n a recent independent survey, an overwhelming majority of lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc., who said they smoked cigarettes, ex-
"I have smoked Luckies off and on ever since my first term in the Senate 11 years ago, and I have always enjoyed their taste and the feeling of comfort and safety a light smoke gives my throat. I have done a great deal ofpttblic speaking, on the floor of the Senate, over the radio and at conferences. Necessarily this results in a strain on the voice. So naturally, in smoking, I have to think of my throat—and I have found that a light smoke is suitable to my throat.”
HON. GERALD P. NYE U. S. SENATOR FROM NORTH DAKOTA
Senator Nye’s statement verifies the wisdorr of this preference and so do leading artists of radio, stage, screen and opera, whose voices are their fortunes, and who choose Luckies, a light smoke. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process "It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on your throat.
A Light Smoke
It’s Toasted”-Your Throat Protection
AGAINST IRRITATION-AGAINST COUGH
Copyright 1937. The American Tobacco Company
'eres aroma
or you
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,
... a picture of Chesterfield tobacco just as it comes out of the 1000-pound wooden hogsheads after ageing for three years.
If you could be there when these hundreds of hogsheads are opened up
... if you could see this mild ripe tobacco, prime and ready to be made into Chesterfield Cigarettes . . . see the golden color of the leaf . . . and get a whiff of that delightfill aroma ... you’d say . . .
” Delicious . . . makes me think of fruit cake.”
Mild, ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish tobaccos .. . aged three years ... make Chesterfield an outstanding cigarette . . . give them a more pleasing taste and aroma.