i
DISCE-QUASI:SEMPER-VICTURUS--VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS
Vol. LIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 26, 1921.
No. 21.
THIS YEAR’S EDITORS.
(Then said Zarathusa: ‘I,’s not every goose that has 'a respectable quill.’
Between the bearded author of Beowulf and that ultra-modern Broadway sensation, Clare Kummer, there is no relation except the business of making words. Between the Scholastic of today and its venerable ancestor of fifty years ago, there exists, however, the friendly companionship of father and son. Both have understood that the matter of
that the gods could give us some of that same affection for the best that has been said and thought during the ages, for lofty standards of mind and, heart, for intellectual industry. In addition to student, contributions the early Scholastics are gay with the humour of Stace, that genial forerunner of Walt Mason, Stoddard the spiritual; Egan, the gai sabreur of literature, and the stately productions of Judge Howard, Father Zahm and Austin O’Malley. Through them the little magazine acquired an atmosphere of
conducting a University is not independent of news. Despite the most pessimistic utter-a n c e s of per-less Walshites, things have happened in this vicinity and people have always been interested in hearing a b’o u t them.
Now one of the: most important
BOARD OF EDITORS
Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Walter M. O’Keefe, ’21 Henry Stevenson ’21 Aaron H.Huguenard, ’22 Edward B. Degree, .’23 Leo R. Ward, C. S. C., ’23 R M. Murch, C. S. C., ’23 Charles P.
M. Joseph- Tierney, ’21
Edwin W. Murphy, ’23
.Vincent Engels, Harold E. McKee, J. W. Hogan, C. S. C. Frank Wallace, H. W. Flannery,
Mooney, ’21	_
23
23
belles lettres which the more raucous years have not succeeded in removing.. It would be an evil day upon -which the flavor of the Scholastic were to be lost, like the odour of. an aging rose: we must do our. best, striving to be worthy both of our fathers and of ourselves.
matters that can occur to any school is the
This year’s editors need offer no apology
mental development of its men. Not every-' one will agree with this statement: its acceptance depends somewhat upon one’s state of mind. But for the long file of arii-bitious lads who have: successively conducted the Scholastic there has been no doubt about it. They have set to work ;resolutely, at their literary tasks; conscious that although Shakespeare might not suffer any eclipse of fame because of them, the effort to write is fascinating and worth while.’ Their readers have, in general smiled indulgently.
The old Scholastic was a stately little magazine devoted to literattire, fine arts and' the honor roll. It is^rather easy for us.to smile at these things now,, but. . . . would
for their endeavor. It has been consistent and not always easy. Several of them have applied every laudatory. adjective in the dictionary. Some have even been obliged to write love poetry while other, lads were poetically loving. If they have not always succeeded in saying the proper thing just when somebody wanted it, the lapse has not. been intentional. No other Notre Dame men have been more eager to serve the general welfare of the student body or to do their work silently that others might be mentioned publicly. They deserve the testimony that has been set to honor them—this, present permission to appear in public.
'	—THE DIRECTOR. '
Norre dame Schdasdc
RESURRECTION DAY.
ALFRED N. SLAGGERT, ’21.
THE divinity of Christ is indisputably manifested by His miracles. Throughout the Bible are found recorded the works of wonder that were performed by Christ during His brief span of years on earth the very nature of which distinguish their Author as exalted, transcendent, di-vine. Apologists have proved beyond the possibility of a doubt that the Bible as an historic chronicle is authentic, truthful and intact. Reasonable men accept the testimonies of this Book; rejection brands the unbeliever none
other than a positive skeptic.
Miracle and prophecy have always been placed first by the Fathers of the Church in writing of the signs of true revelation. “Miracle,” says the eminent Cardinal Pie, “is the veritable pivot of the Christian religion. Neither through His prophets nor through His Son did God endeavor to demonstrate by any process of reasoning the possibility of the truths which He taught, or the fitness of the precepts which He imposed upon the world. He spoke, He commanded ; and as a guarantee of His doctrines, as a justification of His authority, He worked miracles.” From all parts of the Holy Land came the ill and the deformed to seek the Galilean who cured by word or touch. At the. marriage feast of Cana He changed water into wine; thousands were fed in the desert with a few loaves and a few fishes; the words, “Young man, I say to these arise!” brought Lazarus forth from his tomb. Miracle followed miracle and through the land there spread a murmur of wonder and amazement at this demonstration of ineffable power. Then, as if to grant to men a most significant sign of His divinity, He returned resplendently to life after an ignominious death on the barren summit of Calvary. The glorious mystery of Christ’s Resurrection is the preeminent,
irrefragable event that marks its Author as God and His mission, sacred.
The hour of intense agony in Gethsemane had passed and into that Garden of Sorrows rushed a riotous rabble that would have the life of a pretender, a blasphemer, Who had declared Himself the Son, of God and the Kings of Kings. What claim could this simple Man have to an empire of unsurpassed grandeur? Preposterous! It was an imposition that they would not tolerate. Off to the Sanhedrin they violently rushed Him, and there before the hypocritical body of sages the Man-God stood in mild, sweet resignation, a compassionate Figure, for well He knew the treachery, the perfidy, the loathing that lurked within the hearts of His interrogators. Then spoke Caiphas, the high-priest; “I adjure Thee by the Living God that Thou tell us whether Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God!” Knowing that He was-signing His death warrant, Jesus answered gently; “Thou hast said it.” Plunged into frenzy by His firm reply, the Judges clambered to their feet, and down through the corridors echoed their shriek, “He is‘worthy of death!” To the court of Pontius Pilate, the Roman procurator of Judea, they hurried the Pathetic Figure. In Him Pilate saw no harm but they pleaded, they implored, that He be delivered into their hands for execution. Louder and louder, like the dull rumble of an approaching tempest came the outcry; “Let Him be crucified: Let Him be crucified!” and Pilate, succumbing to the supplications and the threats of the canaille, yielded, for it was prophesied that by death would the Son of God expiate the iniquity of the world.
The death march began. Jesus shouldered the heavy cross and, followed by the executioners and the taunting mob, He started on His arduous journey over the stony road to Calvary Hill where workmen were already busy preparing for .a speedy execution. He was stripped of His garments and wrenched into the prpper position on the prostrate cross. Heavy nails pierced His sacred hands and feet; the cross dropped with a dull thud into the deep trench and there for three hours, meekly suffering the most inhuman torture, He hung between Heaven and earth in the sight of His Blessed Mother, Mag
^fie Noure Same Scholastic
347
dalene, John and the morbid populace. Then death came to still His-patient Heart and the lacerated body , was consigned to Joseph of Arimathea for burial. •
The Jews, remembering that Jesus said He would arise again, caused the sepulchre to be securely sealed and stationed around it a heavily armed guard. But how futile their precautions! For the anointers, going to the tomb on the third day, found the Roman guard in a deep sleep and the heavy stone rolled away from the entrance to the sepul-’ chre. Stricken with fear they were about to flee when an angel, seated within the tomb, addressed them. “Be not affrighted; ye seek . Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He is risen; He is not here; behold the place where they laid Him.” Christ is risen! The most exalted proof of His divinity is consummated.	.
Numerous- bitter attempts to brand the miracle of the Resurrection. as false, as a mere myth, have been made by the enemies who assail the splendour of Christ’s Church. But how futile their efforts! The very failure of the virulent attacks only tends ’ to more firmly establish the truth. Witness the logic of Strauss who, after much hypothesizing, gratuitously affirms that Christ never left the tomb. As if the enemies of Christianity, were such a contention true, would not have seized upon it as a means of furthering their malicious activity against Christ and his' Church. Strauss,' skeptic that he was, could not explain away the zealous faith of- the Twelve that sent them throughout the world preaching the word of the Risen Master—a faith that death could not quell. Even Strauss cannot force himself to play the^ intellectual fool consistently for he writes: “If we do not find a means of explaining, without a miracle, the origin of faith in the Resurrection of Jesus, we are obliged to . deny all that we have said, and to renounce our enterprise.” Consider the contentions of Renan who proffers many humorously illogical solutions and finally attributes the entire matter to chance; and this to reasonable men!	.
The Resurrection was no trick of the imagination; hundreds of witnesses could scarcely be considered the victims of hal
lucination. The words of Christ, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will build it up again,” constituted no. mere allegory. Had not this prophecy been fulfilled, the very foundation of our faith would. have been found wanting. St. Paul succintly tells the Corinthians of the folly of - belief in Christ and His doctrines had not this significant event ocurred; “And if Christ be not risen, your faith is in vain, for you are yet in your sins.” (1 Cor. xv.)
Truly Christian people have more than sufficient cause for rejoicing during this Holy Season set aside for the fitting observation of Christ’s Passion, Death and Resurrection. That He is risen is an incontestable fact and by this marvelous event He has furnished us with the most weighty attestation of His divinityf -----------------------------
THE TURN IN THE ROAD. '
L.	R. WARD,. C. S. C., ’23.
Who of mortals is so very contented with his lot that he at no time wishes to take wings and be up and away from his daily environs and associations—his own very commonplace life? Neither you nor I nor any man upon earth is free from the need of variety. A thing may be good, but a little flavor rarely fails to make it better. You start out in the morning on a smooth straight road; you drive fast all day with not
a' halt, straight on and on: you go a. long way, but does such a day appeal to you? Of course it does not. At heart you are like your neighbors; you would feel strangely lonesome and dissatisfied if there were never a turn or an incline in your path, if for no other purpose than just to remind you that always you are on your way to something different and, presumably, better. It is a long, cheerless road that never turns nor promises to turn, and who wants to follow it?
Little surprises along our way, unpremeditated coincidences, little but unexpected
34$
Noure dame Scholastic
turns of fortune, make up the best in our daily journeyings. They are the “news” that we find worth going minutely over when we get home; and the folks at home, crestfallen because they could not experience the original, are in part recompensed by the reproduction. “What’s the news over your way?” is the commonest query in the chance meetings of husbandmen; “Sure ain’t there ever anything new anymore!” Anything, you see,—at first thought, even a calamity,—seems more tolerable than bare monotony. The voice of the newsmonger— there is always one—on the country telephoneline commands all ears. Shut men away from current fact, and they will live on hearsay; close up, if you can, the curious sources of hearsay, and give them all things else, and they pine away—they starve. We all run to a fire or a street-fight. That old house we have never particularly observed before, now it engages all our best energies. Those two ruffians were commonplace enough until they collided, now a world of interest centers about them. If I were always to have pie for dinner, and especially if I knew I always were to have pie, then the mere promise of dinner without pie would be welcome. Why, in boarding-schools, so they say, the students finally get tired of cantaloup,-1 prunes, and beans, and— think of it—even of the hourly peal of the bell I I once heard a student say, when a free-day was unexpectly declared: “We’d go to school forever, if there was a vacation promised at the end.”
The most hopelessly cold-natured individual you can conceive of is the fellow who insists upon laying out exasperatingly straight walks in his garden, who has everything, from morning till night, mapped out, who never misplaces anything, who day after day takes up his knife and fork or his morning paper with an evident stolidity, and without an air of relief lays by his ordinary routine for an hour’s spin. He may indeed attain to a machine-like efficiency, but you would not choose him for your partner in a game of five-hundred. Military corners, you know, are purely mechanical, aye, even artificial. There is nothing of art in them or of nature. Turn out your regiment for a plunge, and see whether anyone
will slight the corners. I once watched some school-boys going to their playground. There was a' choice of two paths—one way had three turns, the other a single turn. One of sixty boys took the path of one turn; and/divided between sympathy for the lad and despair of him, I have always cherished the fancy that his singularity was determined by some motive as urgent as a salutary fear of more than one of the solid fifty-nine. And who will say that those youths, without an exception, would not have abandoned paths altogether and taken the sward for it, if they had not felt the constraining force of some tutor’s eye? We extol Nature’s perfection, and, trying to imitate it, forget that Nature rounds her corners, and never gives us two successive days alike. And we, the most cut-and-dried of us, would not be loath in time to see even melliflous spring yield to scorching summer, and mellow autumn to stern winter. Men weary of sunshine as they do of rain. Your perfectly level garden of shubbery, your bedded flowers of one hue and kind—why, these things are ostensibly artificial, they do not square with Nature’s imperfection. Nature bestows upon fields or wood some redeeming undulation, and she calls her variegated array of flowers perfect, when .she has mixed rank weeds with them. The grainfields of Dakota are beautiful, when the wind makes a thousand waves of them; at • rest they are most ordinary. Even the stars of heaven, it would seem, were sown by a careless hand.
How are we to explain the institution of vagabondage? Men are not driven to it by love of ease, or by hope of big returns: in either case, they are deceived and would soon abandon it. But consider the illimitable possibilities! Your tramps sets off at his leisure, at eight or ten o’clock, or not till after noon—who cares when?—and, weight it well before condemning the profession, without any binding schedule for the season or for a single day of it! He takes his chance; his is not an easy life: there are rags, to be sure, and sore feet and empty stomach. These, however, are but incidental, and the one chance, lost in a thousand, that they will somehow lead to • gold and the gout, is the elusive recompense
Nocre Same Scholastic
349
for which he barters all that we consider essential to every day existence. The tramp may be an opportunist, but he is also an irrepressible optimist. He is a Micawber, .feeding- on those better things which are about to turn up. And you, overlooking the contingency that at heart you too are for tramping, do you, out for a recreating walk or on a forgotten errand, not desert the*
beaten asphalted highway,—that cold, dry, lifeless thoroughfare of commerce,—and without much hesitation allow your path to shape itself and to lead you, you know not where; are you not willing, provided, of course, that no one is looking, to chance your life on a “wire-bridge” or a crazy raft, when a hundred yards away is a quartermillion dollar Cantilever? The vague but engaging possibility of something unexpected behind every bush/—something new, perhaps terrifying,—makes' the walk through unfrequented ways inviting. Toward the unfamiliar our attitude, says some one, is “full of joyous possibilities.” Why, is not. the hope of things unseen .the very key of the best of all we try to do? The ancient travelling bard had, to be sure, the poetry of '.his song to urge him on; but another poetry as great and as'commanding, that old stinging and divine unrest for the new and unaccustomed in faces and places, went far to set all obstacles at naught Why do men in every age and clime love sea-faring, exploration, hunting and trapping; why, is no speculation in mining too wild? Perhaps motives are mixed, but one predominates—the charm of the unfamiliar. Great missionaries, as Father De Smet, have been most, rapacious of new lands, new people, new conquests. I knew a woman who, driven to desperation with dish-washing, used to say, “Give me the gypsy’s life— no dishes,—your whole day free as the birds of the air!”	'
We are so constituted that a very little . variety, range, freedom puts a wholly different face on everything about us. But what very foolish steps we sometimes take to secure that variety! How we do look forward to some empty this or that! We just live for some future event which perhaps will never come and certainly is unworthy of our so rosy anticipations. Any
thing can be overdone. You are promised a rare pudding; it is overdone and comes to you a nameless thing, charred and disfigured. So variety when overworked loses all its charm. For the monotony which of all monotonies is the least bearable is that of variety itself. A pinch of salt tends to -savor, but not everyone likes a hodge-podge. The rich man, after all, is he who can
build up for himself a little world out of everything he meets. For, says George Eliot, “What novelty is worth that sweet monotony where everything is known, and loved because it is -known?”	.
-------ft.
. EASTER JOY. .
J. W. HOGAN, C. S. C., ’22.
It is characteristic of Mother Church that she should lead her children on from joy to joy as they make their way over the weary stages of their journey. It is not enough that she should point the way to that celestial c o u n t*r y where happiness abounds; ever and anon she pauses a while and refreshes their spirits with the - delights and mysteries of that faith which is the pledge of their eternal recom
pense. It is Easter.
Then sing ye angels, sing a joyous song!
Loud let the heavenly accents ring In welcome to the risen King!
Come mortals all and join this’throng,.
Ye that laugh and ye that weep, .
Ye that travel o’re the deep, "	.-
Through vale or. over mountains steep, Lift up your hearts and let your lips proclaim
The victory of the Christ who came ' A legate to this world of sin, _ That He might win men back again, And lead them to the footstool of their God.
Thoughts are far better messengers to
Heaven than words.	-
Ambition is the spark in the engine of. success.
350
Nouye dame Scholastic
“LO! THE POOR CRITIC!”
good? Only a dear friend dare point out and ridicule our faults.' Even such a one
HENRY STEVENSON, ’21.
would hesitate to risk shattering the fragile
“The question before the house is not— ‘Who called this piccolo player a bigcheese?’; but, ‘TOo called this big cheese a piccolo player?’ ” Actors' and audience do not always make such fine distinctions in speaking of the Dramatic Critic; but, with magnificent disregard of the truth, they call him—anything. An adverse appraisal is wrath and condemnation : the audience is upset ,because they have been .convicted of bad
taste in liking something they should not have liked; frank avowal of all too obvious faults riles the disappointed performer. In both cases, wounded vanity spurs its victims to hysterical denunciation of the critic, thereby proving rather ironically that the critic was right, for only an intelligent man can gracefully accept honest criticism. Very often an audience only thinks it knows what it likes; for man is a gregarious, animal, approving where others approve, condemning where others condemn. Tradition is another regrettable element in the psychology of an audience. Because a thing is old, it must be good. Wine improves with age, but eggs do not. Before crying “iconoclast,” be sure your tradition is not an egg, but rare old wine: to spill the latter would be in the nature of a sacrilege; it is a matter of honest charity to destroy the former. -
An audience feels itself convicted of bad taste when the critic does not agree with it, and this feeling, of course, is not very -gratifying to any one’s habitual satisfaction with himself. Performers, on the other hand, naturally are not delighted to see their shortcomings, like the family wash, hung out to be laughed at by the passers-by. No doubt it is more pleasant to go our various ways, smug in complacent mediocrity, than to have our cherished personal illusions torn away and to see ourselves for the first time as others see us; but—is it as
casket of friendship and destroying its fragrant contents of sweet intimacy. Novy, the critic, by indicating to the actor wherein his performance is poor and telling the. audience when its taste is bad, proves himself a good friend to both. Adverse criticism is not always destructive, as the unthinking commonly believe; but is more often constructive, for criticism generally endeavors to show how a thing might be improved. Censure is good for bad acting, and bad taste is the unpardonable sin.
Though apt references to fugues and scherzoes are doubtlessly impressive after the manner of a prestidigitator drawing squirming rabbits from a dignified top-hat,
extensive technical knowledge is not essential to a good critic. What he must have is common sense; for this virtue is most often lacking in both performers and audience. A man of ordinary intelligence and of some familiarity with the arts knows why one thing is bad and why another is good. Certain standards of morals and good taste have been laboriously developed through the ages. In so far as a performance measures up to these standards—they are instinctive in everybody and respond generously to careful cultivation—it is good or bad. Honest criticism mirrors faults and virtues alike, yet an honest critic needs courage to criticise unfavorably even the most wretched performance. Though he knows from experience the hurricane of counter-criticism his review, will stir .up, he fearlessly pronounces judgment. In this he is reminiscent of a knight-errant, who went about dozing good without any hope of earthly reward and found his greatest glory in helping' people who not only did not appreciate such assistance but even resented Galahad’s well-meant interference. Then, as now, disinterested effort in another’s behalf was regarded with suspicion. The vulgar hind could see only that the gentle knight was'a disturbing element in his hum-drum existence, that the other’s noble ideals were a perpetual. reproach . to his own sordid standards. As a Launcelot faced danger unflinchingly in the cause: of truth—term
Noure Same Scholastic
35i
it quixotic if you will—the dramatic critic fights, with all odds against him, the bourgeois self-complacency . of hopeless mediocrity.
. Call him what you will—the actor and the audience have no truer, more courageous, disinterested friend than the honest dramatic critic.
-------—---------
“THE SHAGGY UPPER LIP.”
M.	JOSEPH TIERNEY, ’21.
In the life of every normal' young man there comes a time when the cultivation of hirsute adornment is looked upon as being both appropriate and desirable. Usually this harmless form of diver-.sion, comparable in its inevitability and evanescence to the croup, puppy-love and dimenovels, dies a natural death or wilts away through lack of encouragement on the part of parents or associates. Nevertheless the process,
however speedy and sudden its termination, affords a modicum of pride and pleasure to the individual engaged in cuddling and caressing the shoot in its embryonic stage and a surfeit of discomfort and annoyance to those who consider his ’ common sense otherwise a matter of gratification. The ultimate cause of this maculine pastime, especially obnoxious when engaged in by adolescents, is as yet undetermined and will in all probability remain so. As well may one seek to know why some people are short and others are tall. Hence any discussion of the point may well be left a matter for the speculation of others who are more patient in the task and more easily satisfied with the results of their labor.
The proximate steps through which the idea evolves are more easily known. On some dull day a chap stands before his mirror, shirtless and lathered, with an Ever-, ready poised for its diurnal duty. As often happens he hesitates to gaze at the unshorn visage and being in no great hurry he idly speculates on how thick or how thin, how
wiry or silky is this beard that demands such constant attention. He wonders how much form of grassy growth would add or detract from his facial beauty. He considers the various forms this herbage might take. Side-burns smack too much of domestics. Beards have been brought into disrepute by anarchists and bolshevists. There remains then only the mustache. Well,- why not a mustache? He rubs the lather agressively just beneath the proboscis debating as to just how long it would take. And then he falls. Many, many times common sense has won out in this mental battle but eventually Luna gets her laugh. Not that she has any monopoly on the mirth provoked by this blunder. It is . only a matter of one, two or three days at most, except in the case of blond infants, before confidence misplaced in hope of sympathy and cheer, or keenness of vision on the part of some malevolent fellow results in much undesirable attention being given this extremely personal enterprise. With a great amount of dogged humility and supernatural perseverance a man may be able to stand firm and unmoved by the torrent of unmerciful jibes, uncharitable guffaws and ill-natural threats of mayhem directed against his pet by strangers, acquaintances, friends and family. But when the time comes around for the little dance held under the auspices of the Pi Kappa girls which he has arranged to attend with Mary he wonders just how she’ll like it. He has stayed away from jthe fairest of the fair for over a week on the plea of illness and still mangecure, cocoanut-oil and herpicide have not accomplished all that might be wished or even expected in that length of time. He feels sure that even if all the rest of the' world is mean enough to laugh* there will always remain one person who will understand his laudable ambition and be pleased with its partial accomplishment.. He has probably never read Kipling.
A casual look commonly styled the “onceover” follows the ordinary salutation for you must remember they haven’t seen each other in a week. Mary’s eye catches—she looks again. Then, assured that her eyes have not deceived her, her lips slowly curling in bitter scorn she sweetly advises him to go up

352
Moure dame Scholastic
stairs and apply “Dad’s razor” if he hopes to dance with her that night. Utterly crestfallen he obeys and with regretful strokes he ends the career of a cherished idol.
This is the ordinary outcome of this line of endeavor. There are some exceptions to be sure just as there are some sensible women. For instance when the law of diminishing returns renders the cultivation of hair on the head an unprofitable task a license to till, the face or any portion of it is generally granted as compensation. Or, one sometimes finds a man possessed of the courage of his convictions whom nobody and nothing-can dissuade from driving on with the ruthlessness of a Napoleon until the labial shrub blossoms out in the fullness of its predestined maturity. Predestined in that it may be of the eye-brow variety common among • lounge-lizards and assistant purchasingagents. Again it may incline towards the picturesque type of handle-bars faintly suggestive of the Tiber, the Rhone or the Rhine. It may be converted into the weeping-willow that teams up with butcher’s aprons, tropical turbans and monocles. And finally it may even be the pseudo-military brush that labels a man a commercial by occupation and suburban by domain.
It is not too much to expect that the Blue Law Boys will give the shaggy upper lip their attention in the near future; to them if to no other these thoughts may be of value.	.	—M. J. T., ’21.
----------------------
An Omen.
I saw a star fall down the sky, , A pale green shaft of light;.
I watched until it disappeared, A silent message in the night.
The moon came up • behind a clump
Of trees beyond a shadowy maze
Of field; the sound of night hung on—, The air, intangible as haze. ...
A life has 'flickered out ’twixt last v ' The setting of the sun and this.
' . Moon-up. I .wonder if it shot	.
. , As true as did this star, or missed ' •
. The" mark, to fall astray—	- — • ,	.
. To fall astray along the 'way. .= y '	'
z	t. m. o.‘ :
THE CHARACTER OF PILATE.
RAYMOND M. MURCH, C. S. C., ’23.
“What is .truth?” The character of the man who asked this question is epitomized in these few words and in liis hasty de- • parture from the presence of Christ.* Pilate, however, did not wish to know the truth. Had he known it, he would have known himself also, and such knowledge was not compatible with his office as Procurator of Judaea. In addition to this, Pilate boasted that he was a skeptic. For him truth was a mere
word, empty of meaning. Yet, empty and weightless as it. was, it burdened his conscience. Little wonder then that his conscience cried out, “What is truth?” and a pity it is that his depraved nature forced him to leave the hall, ere the Christ could answer him.
In studying, the character of/Pilate, one of the first things to note is his pride. This vice, the root , of all others, was the mainspring of his dilatory mode of action. Philo, one ,of the historians of Pilate’s day, says that he was haughty and conceited. In the face of his conduct during the trial of Christ this cannot be denied. He absolutely disregarded the ecclesiastical trail of Jesus, brushing it aside'with a haughty “What accusation do you bring against this man?” and a disdainful “Take him yourselves and judge him according to your laws.” When dealing with. the. Jews, Pilate’s pride was overbearing. He had : gained his position over them partly because of his hatred for them and partly .because bf his skill as a politician.. Nothing delighted him 1 more than to humiliate Hebrews. How happy he must have been when he rescinded the judgement of the Sanhedrin, and wheir, his own decision was confirmed by Herod. What a feeling of delight must have vbeen his when he pointed tb the thorn-crowned Christ, saying, “Behold your King!” .'
Pride,.. however, was only the root of his './vices/ Pilate was cruel. In every action ; against the. Jews, he. employed the utmost
Moure ©ame Scholastic	353
severity. During the first few years of his life as Procurator, he had quenched every uprising in blood. Yet, Pilate was not cruel by nature, Josephus tells us. His cruelty seemed to be that of necessity. He was dealing with a “perverse generation of vipers,” and with them “action spoke louder than words.” Pilate’s cruelty towards Jesus, however, is the inexcusable because - it was wanton. He permitted the scourging, though he found “no fault in this just man,” and he condemned him to. death in answer to the caprice of the populace.
Doubly true in regard to Pilate is Shakespeare’s dictum: “Plenty and peace breed cowards.” Pilate was a coward, feasting in . peace on the abundant resources of Pome, and more than that, he was a slave of human respect. Instead of freeing the ManGod when he found Him innocent, he harkened to the loud clamor of the people. They were calling to him for the death of their Victim,' and he was about to snatch the ■ Christ from their hands. Unhappy was that moment when Pilate first listened. to the people. Plad he acted with his accustomed severity, he would have ordered his legion-aires to disperse the rabble. . But he heard the name of Caesar and faltered. Caesar1 was his master, as he was theirs. What did they have to say about Caesar? “You are no friend of Caesar,” they cried, .and that cry echoed in his vacillating heart. He placed justice in the balance with his earthly master and proved himself a coward. He feared to offend the people lest in doing so he should displease his prince. For Pilate the judge; self was all-important and justice was secondary. Very probably he would lose his position, if Caesarheard that he.had freed a rebel-king, against the desires of the people; and on the other hand, if he did consent to their wishes,;he would not. jeopardize. his own position. - Again, his sense of duty was all but dead, andxself-love was rapidly quenching the few sparks that remained. He was afraid of his own convic-.
. tions. He had openly declared that the accused was innocent, yet, he condemned Him to death, thereby branding himself a coward with the sign of the cross.	,
After he had proclaimed the innocence of Christ, he tried to free: Him on some
pretext rather than on the right of justice. He sought to calm his conscience by sending the Holy Victim to Herod, and when Herod refused a condemnation, Pilate was forced to resort to some other expedient. Therefore, he chastised the Prisoner in the hope that the sight of a bleeding fellow-countryman would melt the hearts of the Jews. But they remained cold. Another, means had to be contrived. Pilate, however, was equal to the task. . He could still free the Man-God without embittering the people. He sent to-the dungeons for the murderer Barabbas. This last compromise was fatal. Had Pilate, awaited an answer to his question, /‘What is truth?” all this would have beem unnecessary. But now he withdrew his decision of innocence and placed his prisoner on a level with Barabbas. He merely presented both of them to the people; the latter now assumed the role of judges.
Such was, in brief, one side of the character of Pilate. But there are a few good points in his character that are too frequently overlooked. Pilate was a.. clear-visioned magistrate. He perceived in a moment that Jesus was the victim of a conspiracy, and with all the power of his weak soul,, he sought to free Him. The only solace that Christ received during this part of His Passion was the sympathetic reiteration of His innocence from the lips of a Gentile. More than that, Pilate persevered in his desire to liberate his Prisoner, and he did . not yield to the Jews until they had. called 1 down upon themselves the Blood of their Victim. He was the only defender -that Christ had before that motley rabble. He was the only one of that vast throng who. understood even in a small degree the divine silence of Jesus,; and had he known what truth was, the civil trial of Christ Would very probably have ended in some other way..	.	.	' /	.
THE DISCOVERY OF “HONEST JACK”.
KARL M. ARNDT, ’22.	.
- “Wonder what time de tug’ll haul in from Sandy Point,. Jack?” spoke a newly hired deckhand - to his equally ..unsalted mate, as the. two sat on the end of a dock with faces to the brisk sea wind. „
Jack rubbed his eyes. “Don’t: get the idea
1
354	Moure' dame Scholastic'
that I’m running my head off to start work, boy. Anyhow, what made you look to the sea for your living?”	.
“It’s a long one, but I’ll spin it if you don’t mind. It’s some story.”
“Shoot.”
“Well, a week ago I wuz a night-guard in a Philadelphia bank in de center of town— de Second National, I tink it wuz called. I had a fine job dere for seven years, an’ den a wild bit of experience made me quit an’ turned me to the sea. Well, a week ago de president got a tip dat a bunch of crooks •wuz going to bust in on de place an’ swipe all de cash. De guy what ’phoned said he wuz de chief a’plice, and he wanted de president to keep de soft pedal on- it; see, he didn’t want de safe-blowers to know he had de dope on ’em. So he suggested dat he’d send a car-load of blue-coats down an’ stick ’em in a room near de safe, so dey could round de crooks up like a bunch o’ sheep, and he’d get all de publicity stuff.”
“Don’t get in a hurry. Where did he get the tip?”	.
“You’re some dummy. Wher’d he get de tip? Well, where dey always get it—from a dick. You see, dey had a whole army of plain-clothes cops out after ‘Honest Jack,’ who is de worst tool-handler east o’ Chicago when it comes to safes. He wuz de leader of de gang; dat is why dey had all de secret stuff.”	•	.
The ex-guard changed his position and continued." “Well, about five o’clock' along comes a black car all loaded wid husky bluecoats, armed like pirates. De president showed ’em in like gentlemen, aldough dey looked like plain, ordinary Micks, an’ he put ’em in his private office*wid his own Ban-• kers’ Club stogies, what are smoked only by de Four-Hundred an’—”
“Rats with that stuff 1 Do not forget you are telling a story. Go on!” growled the disturbed Jack. •? .
“Well, he told de president to keep his mouth shut—dat is whaf de chief copper said; so de president walks out laughin’ up his sleeve to tink of de good trick he wuz workin’ , on dem poor bums who wuz going to swipe his institution. : \	:
About six I . wuz relieved and goes Jhome for suppe r. _ I conies back at seven an’ starts
work, walkin’ round -wid my hands on de gats all de time. Den I hears a noise. Afore I kin draw on ’em I am bound and gagged on de floor. I looks up and sees nothing but cops: dey had done it" all. One guy stands -over nie an’ de rest go to de safe. Dey pull tools from dere pockets, fill de cracks of de safe wid juice—”
“Wait, did you not say that those fellows were policemen?”
“There you go—dumber than ever. That’s what the boss figured when he let ’em in, but I guess it wuz a sly frame-up. Anyhow, dey took off dere coats, put ’em up against de lock—I hears de click of coins and de rattle of paper—a few hot, quick words— an’ den I finds myself alone.”
Jack shifted himself to a more comfortable position and his head shook with a slow deep laugh. “Gad, wouldn’t I give anything for the loot those fellows had in their bags when they left the place. I suppose they had enough money to break Wall Street?”
“Did dey? Man, dey took every bit of metal money in the place,-but not a speck of paper was touched; that wuz all on de floor. Wise burglars, I say. I never heard de like But dey got one piece that is worth niore than all de money- in Philadelphia—that •wuz—” ■
“Say, boy, did they catch those fellows?”
“Can’t you -wait till I’m.through? Catch them? Yes, all but one, slick ‘Honest Jack,’ de leader of de bunch. When de president saw how dey had pulled de ole flannel shirt over his eyes he made such a rumpus dat even de police got busy, an’ one by one dey brought back de crooks an’ de lo.ot, except one guy wid de piece I wuz tellin’ you about ' when you interrupted me. It wuz de Blue Star Diamond, what, as I says, is worth more than all de money in Philadelphia. De fellow who has it is ‘Honest Jack.’ ”
Then the tug drew.alongside the dock and Jack arose, stretched himself, and walked-toward it. Then he stopped short and faced ex-bank guard. The latter was as pale and rigid as a corpse, for he saw in the hand of the ex-gard. The latter was as pale and glittering form of .the Blue Star. Diamond.,
Jack boarded the tug and was off before his late friend could, compose himself isuffic- . iently to call the police. ?	:

Noure ^ameScholascic
355
AN IDEA OF A UNIVERSITY.
CHARLES P. MOONEY, ’21.
Something is lacking in the American system of education. There are many problems' that the student is not sufficiently equipped to, cope with when he receives permission from a handful of professors to add a few letters after his name. This deficiency in his training is due to his instructors’ failure to. realize that culture connotes more than merely a knowledge of languages, science and philosophy. A familiarity
with these subjects, while adviseable, is the best essential of the things that go to make up - the well polished gentleman. Matters that the teachers regard as being of "only secondary importance are really very necessary to the young man’s development. Yet,.is is just this characteristic that results from what the savant fails to im
part to his charge that the average person looks for in the product of a university. That quality which is missing is refinement.
One fault, the greatest perhaps, in our scheme of education is a misconstrual of purpose. The faculty believes the end is reached when it turns out each year two or three geniuses. Now, the idea of a genius does not comport with that of ah individual of quality. The true definition of the former person is one who can pick his teeth at the dinner-table and escape censure. Externally, at least he is as innocent of polish as a bootlegger is a'charity. Therefore, it should be the end of college training to chip the rough edges off the raw student rather than to thrust upon the world a creature who at all social events is, to use a military term, forever stepping off on his right foot.
First of all, the student should be taught how to eat with ease and grace. This is an art of which we are all shamefully ignorant. One day the pupils instruction should consist of the manual of the salad fork, the next, the utility of the saucer that goes with his coffee cup, and so on until he has mas
tered the use of every instrument. When he can consume asparagus without imperiling his tie and partake of the watermelon without flooding his ears with the juice, he should be' passed in this subject. The candidate for a degree should be forced to consider it his major study.
Including in the training of the potential gentleman is just that amount of foreign language, necessary to read the programs and the menu cards. When he' can ask for pate de foie gras without in return being served with spinach, he should be^credited with having made sufficient progress. Particular stress in his literary training should be laid upon the wording of invitations and acceptances thereof.
Without a chair of small talk, or, as it sometimes called, “parlour tricks,” a college can hardly hope to succeed in its purpose. A proficiency in this art cannot be valued too highly. With most of us, this trait- is innate; with others, it must be acquired. We have, notwithstanding, a multitude of beings who have no other brand of speech. Given a theme that is not trivial, they, immediately grow dumb. However, even these people
who can talk of .things only of minor importance are indeed fortunate. To anyone contemplating a social career the ability tb render lengthy discourses without saying anything is indispensable. This subject should be taught by an ex-senator or a retired hostess from a metropolitan hotel, they having had peculiar training in the science. After the student has put -in the required. time, he should be tested by a . proceeding that is the next thing to. an ordeal. He is to locked in a parlour with females of different ages, ranging from seventeen to forty, and' of varying degrees of pulchritude, etc. he is a very, very nice young man, the scholar is given a passing mark. But if . one of. the sirens remains blushingly silent
*	- 9	.	-	- '
•while the others denounce, the lad, young Cyril must return for summer school. -
Athletics should not be neglected in considering this ideal curriculum. The student must .be made to apply himself diligently to those sports capable of developing the neck and calves so that he will not feel any humiliation while, attired in a polo shirt and, golfing breeches. Since horse-back riding,
356
’Sfie Nocre- dame ^chdascic
fencing, and archery all conduce to a graceful posture, he should be an active participation in these exercises.- In following-athletics, it would be advisable for him to eschew all violent exercises the nature of which is binding upon certain muscles. This condition would certainly aid the gentleman during the process of pouring tea. To excell in this last art, muscular freedom is essential, particularly in the case of those of the wrist.
The foregoing does not comprise all that must be added to the present educational system before it may pretend to produce the true gentleman of culture. Too ramified for these pages would be any attempt to consider all the means necessary to his development. The few, however that have been mentioned are most efficient. One,'by earn-
A COUNTRY’S GRATITUDE. HAROLD E. McKEE, ’22.
An armistice had been declared. The Great War was ended and everywhere the ■ people were celebrating the event. On a cot in a small army hospital in France a wounded soldier, a lad of seventeen, lay sleeping. At the foot of the cot stood a nurse and a French general. All was .quiet save for the s h a r p breathing of the sleeping soldier. The general was the first to speak.
“He is a brave young-man and will be' re
warded with a decoration.”
est application having such a course, would be powerless. to escape becoming an individual of quality. And this is true even though his ^progenitors were hotel detectives.
. Now, it might be asked what is the future of the student -who has no-fortune to rely on after he has completed such a course as is herein suggested? Many might say that he cannot work since his training has not fitted him for any commercial or industrial branch of the world. In this they are wrong for the ways of capitalizing his education are uncountable. Any mid-western hotel would pay him a fabulous salary just to grace its lobby and mezzanine with his distinct presence. He certainly would make a perfect floor-walker or captain of bell boys, since dignity and poise are their greatest requisites. Or if it comes to the worst he could realize a fairly comfortable living coaching families of the nouveaux riches for entrance into the. gilded circle.
----------— ------------ The Passing of Winter.
Although I clothe their sinful world inwhite, And bring them feasts of joy and cheer,; And bring them all the glad ■ New Year
- These thoughtless, thankless, thankless earth-folk ' - take delight
“ When I, the best of seasons, fade from sight.
I’ll shed a tear—just one, then cease to weep: \ It gathers more from . nioorland nooks,.
' .It swells the streamlets ..and the brooks - In sympathy; -and then-with angry sweep
- 1 The wrathful rivers my revenge will reap. ,
“Poor boy I he deserves much more than, a decoration,” softly replied the nurse.
“That may be so, but a decoration is the greatest honor that can come to any soldier. But look, he is awaking.” The officer placed a stool near the head of the cot and sat down. “How are you this morning, my boy?”
“Morning—morning?” exclaimed the wounded boy in a faint voice; “it isn’t morning yet. It’s still dark—everything’s dark— I can’t see a thing—it’s niglit. Who are you? Where am I?”
“You are in the hospital.”
“Hospital—hospital? what for? I’m not sick; I’m all right. Why am I in a hospital?” '
“You need a rest after your hard work. It was wonderful the way you—”
“Did I—did I get that nest cleaned out?
“It was wonderful—” ’
“Why am I here?”
“For a rest, my lad.”
“Arrest! I don’t need any rest. I’m not -tired. I’ve got to get up. There are some more of those skulking snipers.”
“Never, mind the snipers, my son; they have all been taken. The war is over.”
“Over!'the war over! Oh, I’ve just got to get up. I’m not tired. Why—what— what’s the matter ? I can’t move my arms!”
“You must be. still, very still,” urged the nurse, gently arranging the covers around the wounded boy’s shoulders. - ‘

Noure ^ameScholascie
“I don’t want to lie here; I want to get up.” ,	_
“You must wait until the doctor comes.”
“Doctor? I don’t need any doctor. I want to get up. Oh, why can’t I move my arms ?”
“You must not try to move your arms, my boy.” The stern military voice of- the general was tender now.
_ “Why? Are you a doctor?”
' “No, I am a (mere) general.”
“A general!—to see me?”
“Yes, I’ve come to.pay a visit to a brave and noble lad on the morning of the great victory.”
“Morning? Why do you say morning all the time? It’s dark; I can’t see a thing. General, would you please strike a light? I would do it myself, but I can’t move my arms.”	_
“I’m sorry, my lad, but a light would do no good.”	.
“Oh general I” whispered the nm*se, and a look of pain swept over her face.
“It would do no good? Why do you say that, general? If you would strike a light couldn’t* I see you—It would do no good? I wonder—can it be true? is it true? Oh, tell me, is it true?”	■	'
“What true, my lad?” ’
“Am I—-I—am I blind?”
“Yes, my lad you—”	...
“Oh, please don’t! Please don’t!” implored the nurse, and she. even presumed to put her hand over the general’s mouth. .
“It’s true then that I’m—I’m blind?” and the wounded boy struggled bravely to keep back the sobs.
“b{ow be quiet until the doctor comes, and everything will be all right.” There were tears in the girl’s eyes. -
“But I’m blind!” .
“Pluck up my boy! You are a soldier,”— but even the general’s voice was husky.
' “I was a soldier, general. I’m blind now.” ’ “Lad, you are still a soldier; and your country will honor and decorate you because you are a great hero.” z .
“I’m a hero! My country will honor me, decorate me—” .
“Yes, they will decorate you for your bravery.” '	.
“But what of my mother?”
“They will honor her also.” .
357
“Is that all?”	;
. “A decoration is the greatest honor that’ can come to a soldier.”
“I am all she has. I support her—ndw I am blind. Why can’t I move my arms, general?”
“Boy, they are—” .
“0 general! Don’t! Don’t!” ’
“Why do you always say that, nurse? Tell me why I can’t move my arms? Why are you crying, nurse?”	.
“You must not move. Lie very quiet,” she begged as she knelt beside the cot.
“Nurse, tell me—what will my poor mother do when I can’t take care of her. Will my country see that she is—?”
“I know they will, dear—but you must go -to sleep now and stop worrying. Just think how happy your mother will be to see you.”
“But I am blind.”	.
“But she is your mother, dear.”
“Will my country take care of her? Why are you crying, nurse?”
“Please don’t worry, little boy. Your country will take good care of you and your mother.”	.
“Will they buy her everything' that she wants? Will they make her happy—as happy as I would make her if I wasn’t—?” He broke into a sob.
“Yes, dear, they will buy her everything-.” ■
“Will they honor her ?”	-
“They will honor both of you for the rest of your lives.”	•	.
“I-have a wonderful country—haven’t I, nurse?”
Two years had elapsed since the signing of the armistice. People had quickly forgotten, the miseries and the frightfulness of war. Except the. parents whose sons lie beneath the little white crosses in France, all had forgotten that there had ever been a wai—the world was again fast becoming cold, mercenary, and heartless. .
It was late in a cold afternoon of winter. On the curb of a principal street in one of the world’s large cities stood a frail and ragged-boy. He was blind and two empty sleeves were tucked into the pockets of his tattered coat. The. sharp wind had cut-his face until it was,, cracked and bleeding. ' Beside him was a bare-headed, grey-haired '
358	Notre dame Scholascic
woman, with an old torn shawl drawn tightly about her shoulders. She coughed continually and trembled from the cold. She'had one arm around the waist of the blind man; in the other hand, the knuckles of which were blue and swollen, she clutched a bundle of cheap pencils, which she was trying to sell to the passers-by.
“Will you buy a pencil?” Her voice faltered and she coughed. “Please, mister, buy a pencil to help get something to eat for my son and me. He was—”
She was pleading with two men, one of whom roughly pushed her aside as they passed on.
“It’s a crime that such pests should be allowed on the streets,” declared one of them. “It’s a crime, a downright crime! It was insulting the way that old hag thrust her dirty old pencils in my face. Wasn’t that fellow in a horrible condition? Blind and both arms gone. Such repulsive creatures shouldn’t be allowed in public at all. What was that brass button or badge the fellow had on his coat?”
“I couldn’t see it very distinctly,” replied the other,” it was too dark. Probably a medal of some sort.”
“A medal! what-could that fellow be doing with a medal? Did you see what was on it?”
“All I could make out were the words, A country’s gratitude. The .night is certainly going to be cold.”
—------------------
DORMITORY DISMAY II.
My Morris Chair. ..
Before my matriculation into the hallowed halls of Notre Dame, I had thought that a Morris Chair came with your Athletic ticket or with the key to your room. But it was not long before I learned that the tickets cost ten dollars, the keys fifty cents, and that instead of the soft yielding cushions of an easy chair, which I expected to find in my room, there was a soft splintery pine relic of the BeesCees, with which the University thoughtfully supplied me.	.	/
. Prom just what part of ..the globe they 'managed to convey such a veritable antique that would stand the strain of N;- D. life has always been a mystery to nie. But 'after studying English History ; for a while, I
learned of the torture room in the Tower of London. Such an instrument of physical torture would have been in its prime in those days, but in modern civilization, kitchen chairs should stay in the cuisine, the seat of their family tree.
But experience is a good teacher and in my case, it was also a calloused one. Upon my return last year I decided to purchase a chair that had Morris, instead of Pine, for a given-name. The “Sign of the Three Balls” was the “Marshall Fields” where I passed my green rectangles over the counter, for the price of tapestry, to take the. place of splinters. True,, the Morris-Chair was not one that anyone would wish to borrow when (taking a picture of his room to send to The Girl, to show off the “Movie” bachelor apartments you reside in or one that would leave an .‘awful cloud of dust after it in a race for a Blue Ribbon in a Chippendale Exposition. The legs of this model were shapely, but unsteady, the arms unmatched, and neatly carved and scarred by forgotten cigarette butts. The back was tied in place with a few strands of steel cable. The cushions—those squares of rarest brocade, smooth as a piece of cutglass and as soft as an iceberg, with a color that rivaled that of a debutante of the Civil War—have been the seat , of all my knowledge. Still this old broken down and shakey bit of equipage is an . essential part of my room. Without it I would be at a loss to find some suitable place for Warren G. to sit when he holds his cabinet meetings in my humble rectangle.
After my heavy correspondence for the day is mailed and the cares of the world are shifted to those living in China, I am able to enjoy the comforts that this pile of junk can give me. With my battered lamp on the one varnished arm of the chair, “Sartor Rosartus” on my lap (just as a deviation from the heavy reading of the day), and with the room impregnated with the thick vapors, from “Samson,” my pipe, I • dream of the years to come and how much I can sell the chair for, to some Freshman next year. ;	.
■	. L ■'	—EMMETT F. J. BURKE, ’22
An inch of: ears makes a great difference.
Moure dame Scholastic
359
MADAME, A LETTER.
VINCENT ENGLES, ’23.
Resting in the darkest corner of my trunk and bound with an elastic band is a pile of letters, white yellow and pink, but mostly a dusty, grey. In various other places which I call mine, are other piles, and some contain only a few letters, and others are composed of a great many; but all are touching to the eyes, and all smell of incense. There is the fragrance of a' withered blossom long pressed between two sonnets in a volume of
Spenser. As one senses the subtle redolence, the dew of the soul slips to the trembling lash, and like the flower the letters seem freshened by the tear. The tear’ is justifiable, and does not connote sentimentality; for by ancient right old joys make new and sweet sadness, and old sorrows bring today _a smile. And here we have'old joys a-plenty for the scanning, and old sorrows, too. The initial thrill at sight of the envelope may be reproduced; a pretence made at slitting the sMe; the sheet withdrawn and read again, with just as many chuckles at the wit, with just as many frowns at the severe, with just as many sighs at the sad, as were experienced on the first impressive reading. They are perfect letters—every one of them. For as I read, I sense the author’s mood, and know that he was writing on a perfect letter day. Such days, though everyone has found them, are rare, and occur but once or twice a year. Even then, we are sure to miss them if not in the blessed .mood, and reject the opportunity in order to read the morning’s paper. Unhappy ignoramus, who let that day go by, unconscious of its value! Your whole life will witness but forty or fifty such, and may you suffer in Purgatory for neglecting them.
There is no forecasting the appearance of this rara avis; it has no periodic recurrence connected with the return of a comet, or the flight of birds, or the. ebb and flow of politics. The patient watcher is always disappointed; for he is always expecting its ■	f
arrival, and expectation prohibits - the descent of the gods to earth. For two thousand years, Jerusalem waited for the . Saviour; the Saviour came; but Jerusalem did not recognize him for expectation had painted a different Christ. So with the letter-writer. He cannot anticipate the day. He must be sitting in a leathered chair, or on a trunk in an attic, < and .thinking of absolutely nothing. Then, and under such conditions, the day may come to him, and half asleep, and all-dream, he will write to an old, old, friend.
But while the advent of “der tag” cannot be noted in an almanac, there are climes and times which are favorable to its appearance, and likewise conditions which forbid it. Thus in the soft haze of June, one is apt to write in very silly fashion, and murmur of everything from violets and daffodils to Psyche and Eden. The result is sure to be babble. Sweet rolling August generally inspires the scrawling of a freckled postcard, and the December endeavor may smack of hearty cheer and Christmas candles; that is, if one’s radiator is in radiating condition. Otherwise the note will be a short one to the folks, and the police will find it on the river bank.
The day is likely to come when clouds hang black above the church steeple,-and the rain hammers steadily .upon the tin roof. You drag yourself to the window, and press your nose against the glass. The trees outside are bowing, and sixty one muddy streamlets carve valleys on the proud , surface of your yard. A store-bound adventurer scoots by,, the tail of his oilskin flapping rebelliously as he waves a dripping hand to your nose at the window. All the world is wet, but you are safe, and can enjoy the beauty of the storm, without feeling the raindrops trickle down your spine. Your very security brings contentment. Then, happy is the man who finds himself at leisure on such a day, but happier he who is inspired in his leisure. "For, and his sleep be undisturbed the night before, the mood of the day will come upon him, and between the. thunderclaps he will communicate a blessedness to others, from the peace of his own heart.
5
360
Isfie Noire ^ame Scholastic
ON SMOKING.
h' W. FLANNERY, ’23.
At least once every month I am newly convinced that smoking is a very bad habit. I have read how the terrible weed “arrests oxidation of the livingtissues, and thus checks t h e i r disintegration,” how it impairs growth, causes physical degradation, a constriction and . dilatation of the blood vessels, and generally prepares a man for a rest in quiet cerements. And I have agreed with .it all. Once every little while, a professor in one
of my classes harangues on the evils of nicotiana tobacum and I agree with him, too, that tobacco is a horrible thing. I could even deliver a convincing lecture on the terribleness of it all myself, but, nevertheless, I like to smoke. I suppose I shall ruin my digestion, cause mystelf to breathe like an engine belching steam, and have my blood vessels so constricted and dilated that the blood will .believe itself on a roller coaster as it • travels the cycle from the left ventricle to the right auricle, but, as a little stanza I once heard ran: “I like it.” And I suppose I shall continue to smoke until I die at ninety-three. That stanza—of, perhaps it is worthy of being called a poem—was a pretty little effusion in its way. It began with the simple statement that “Tobacco is a dirty weed,” added “It satisfies no normal need,”
and so on until “It’s the worst darn stuff I ever seen,” with interjections after each line of the three words “I like it.”
Perhaps. I should -be of a different opinion anent tobacco if I had been careless and become sick during my first smoke. But I took only two or three puffs that first time—puffs from a cigar of my father which was lying on his cigar stand. I carefully replaced the thing immediately after the essay and waited several more days for several more puffs. \ ,
-Of course tobacco is an evil. <Even the most radical smoker must concede that. In addition to its oft-mentioned nefariousness I can add a new one; it is one in which the evil consequences ■ -	..'	-o'--? . _ . • -v......
are quicker than in any other and has to do with celluloid eyeshades, for, wearing one I
once tried to light. an obstinate cigar and vainly puffing, lit the shade instead of the recalcitrant cigar. The lazy shade rested on my nose as it shot tongues of fire to lap the ceiling. No doubt the blaze was very pretty and would have been .much admired on a Fourth of July, but since my eye lids, eye brows, and hair, were joining in the impetuous celebration, I could not well appreciate the beauty, and, cynic that I was, did my best to end it. For weeks my nose and forehead gave publicity to this - new-found viciousness of tobacco.
But I did not quit smoking. I resolved, instead, to always push the shade back where it could not flirt with the match. But I have quit smoking. I used to quit forever but lately I have quit but temporarily. The results are the same. Once I did not smoke for a month and a half. That was two years ago, and is my record so far.
I know tobacco is a pleasant thing. A big morris chair, a log fire, a cold winter evening outside where the winds blow blasts, a good book or a companion that is an interesting . conversationalist, and a cigar. -That is my picture of a terrestrial paradise. It is a thousand times better than the paradise of Omar Kayham; a book of verses underneath the bough, a loaf of bread—and Thou beside me singing in the wilderness. •
Tobacco has its mundane excellence, too. It, is a wonderful disperser of the toothache. Every now and then an overzealous cigar exchanges the pain of my molar for a new pain of the stomach because of some, peregrinating saliva, but such occasions are excusable, and applying the lines in Lancelot and Elaine,
that “he is all fault who has no fault at all; . . . the'low sun makes the color,” I must think the more of the weed because it is like it were human and is not “faultlessly, faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, dead perfection, no more.” If to have faults is a virtue, tobacco, then, is truly a worthy thing, a saintly, thing.
But of the'family of tobacco I could not sing, an all. embracing alleluia. I could not sincerely laud the cigarette, for to me it tastes as nothing : at all. It is as a sardine to a whale’s dinner, : if: whales eat fish’, as I suppose they do. A . pipe, too, is not to be much praised by me, for it is usually too strong and bitter. ’Tis rarely a pleasure to smoke one. It is therefore with
Now ^ame Scholastic	361
clamorously giving vent to howls that would ; cause the Baskerville hound to retreat to his kennel in consternation abashed at his ac-coustical presumptions; once a coal shoveller, never a violinist.	• *
Likewise a man who is not capable of ' speaking in that wonderful, sublime, god- ’ given means of expression, prose, can not expect to turn tail and manufacture yards and yards of verse and rely upon poetic . license and all the other execrable immunities that enshroud every aspect of poetry to ' protect and cover his base deficiencies from the -glaring scrutiny of literary criticism. This poetic faith is now developing into the later stages of an obsession and the prevalent opinion is that a mere man is not . capable of intelligently criticising poetry. It is true that the common trend of poetry is incapable of criticism, but that is not due to the commonsense critic; it is the imprad-ticable, two hundred horse power, hit and -	.
miss imagination of the imbecile dressed in poet’s clothing.' It is easy enough to scrawl off promiscuously lines and lines of verse which may mean something but which usually do not. In short, it is possible to '	.
clothe words with a mystic suggestiveness by the use of unprecedented ambiguity. The . poem itself is pure bunkum; it is an opiate to the brain and if administered regularly ' ' will in a short time have one’s thinking apparatus. on the run and functioning’ irregularly.	-	-
The only rear idea one gets out of poetry is that, of disgust for reading as much of it.	.
as he has. From the rock bound coasts of : ~ Maine to the golden gates of San Francisco, . from the bootlegging Canadian border on the north to the placid waters of the gulf . * . of Mexico, on the south, the employment of prose to express our thoughts and ideas has not been surpassed or equalled'by ipoetry or . • any of its inane ramifications, and gentle- „ ’ men, we have read them all.	.
Here at Notre Dame the average student has come to expose his hitherto invulnerable intellect to the persuasive rhetoric of the . multifarious professors with a view to ab- ’, sorbing a liberal education. vWe claim he should not be compelled to study poetry, .. : • r thereby converting a perfectly good head , into a stoi’ehouse for junk which will never ... ’
- i	-	-	- . -•
passionate eclat that I join hands with the bachelor soul of Kipling who sings to the cigar: “A. harem of dusky beauties fifty tied in a string!
Counsellors cunning and silent—comforters true and tried,
And never a one of the fifty to sneer at a rival bride.	'
Thought in the early morning, solace in time of woes,
. Peace in the hush of the twilight, balm ere my eyelids close—
This will the fifty give me, asking naught in return
With only a suttee’s passion—to do their duty and burn.”
And, as I usually do, I will smoke its sweet nicotine to the bitter end, bitter to think I can’t continue to- hold the ultimate half-inch stub between my caressing lips.- • —------------------------------
’	’ . AVAUNT, THOU POET!
.	EDWARD B. DeGREE, ’23.
It is our object to consider a most mo-nientous question: Should the college student be compelled to study poetry? First of all, before delving into the minute intricacies of this vast and ' awe inspiring subject, it would be-no more than propitious or fitting that we grasp, the true significance of that evasive, deceptive, abstruse and oft misleading term “poetry.” By the powers that were, ever since time immemorial, -poetry has been considered a pet literary-hobby.. 'It has been said time and time again with profound respect and reverence that rythmical discourse is the means used by the masters of our language to convey the highest thoughts and ideas to the common rabble, the hoi polloi, the heathen hordes, so to speak. •
We have accepted this delusion as it was handed down to us by our ancestors without even subjecting it to more than a superficial • investigation. The same holds -true of the other contemporary so-called fine arts; music for example. Because a man is said . to be extraordinarily proficient in one of the branches of music is no reason why we should- think the same When we see him fiddling away and pervading the profane, atmosphere with ungodly harmonics, or
362
Horre &ame Scholastic
avail him the opportunity of earning the proverbial bean sandwitch when he makes his debut in this cruel and heartless world.
-------Q >■	-
WHERE THERE’S HAIR THERE’S HOPE.
EDWIN W. MURPHY, ’23.
It is an odd thing3 that in all the dingy despond of character photography and biographical bombast tolerated in the name of Dante, nowhere, not even in the narrowest footnote, has anybody ever thought to mention what sort of hair-tonic he used. Which, with the fact that nobody has ever even mentioned what color his hair possessed, leads to the question of whether Dante had any hair at all worth mentioning. On the matter of the Poet’s baldness there is
much dispute but the astonishing thing is that such anv obvious discrepancy., should have gone down the centuries unoticed by all his interpreters. It is among the pro-foundest perplexities of the historian, and throws-suspicion on many events of Dante’s . lifetime. The popular notion which cannot comprehend how such an apparently in- significant circumstances can have any bearing on the complex issues of the period, would naturally deprecate the importance of so simple a matter as Dante’s hair. But there is just the fallacy, for a clear understanding of anything lies not in its complexity but in its simplicity. ; If the chroniclers of that day had not tile wit to remember so important and apparent a detail how are we to trust them in other more obscure matters? And it is important. Had . Catherine of Aragon been a blonde, possibly the Reformation might have been averted. And were Dante known for the . baldheaded bard, there might never have come into tradition that dog-eared legend about long-haired poets.
. The explanation of such 'a historical flaw is illogical; therefore it is : psychological. . Dante’s biographers omitted mention of his
hair probably because they did not think of it, or at least because they did not think of.it as worth while. Perhaps they did not even know whether he had any hair, for when a man writes a book about another it is not because he knows him but because he knows about him, and the nature of a man’s hair is the least the writer usually knows about a man. .Mere hair plays a very noticeable part in some phase of everyone’s life.
Most distinctly noticeable is the presence of mere hair in the soup plate; but quite as noticeable is its absence on the bald pate. For me there is more food for philosophy on the bald poll than there generally is to be found in it—particularly in the one I have in mind. Its possessor, oiie of my 67 roommates, showed up at the. supper-table one evening completely lacking his accustomed thatcli and naturally the sight of his bald expanse evoked many ribald remarks. After the. first high wave of wit subsided, everybody was seized with an" instinctive desire to fondle the barbed bumps of that nude cranium. Being of necessity philosophically inclined at meal-time, I pondered over the incident at leisure, throughout the repast. At length, an illustration resorted to in philosophy entered my thought. The concept of a baseball for a baby, I mused, suggests, something to ’bounce or roll. And it seems the idea of a bald head for collegians must also suggest something to bounce if
' not to roll.	.
The stark novelty of the roots of my room-mate’s hair for some reason fascinated me strangely. It is so seldom one sees a man who voluntarily has his head shaved, that the view of the glistening scalp rivetted my attention. But why the novelty? The style for wearing hair is the merest of conventions. But the merest of conventions (even the merest of political conventions) must be more powerful than the law. Were it not so men might be shaving their scalps as well as their chins. Not so long ago a bald face was quite as rare as a-bald head is now. Perhaps the advent of the safety razor has instituted the. change.
In the matter of customs in hair there is hardly to be found anything so exotic. A .century ago men used to wear powdered hair with -shiny, red noses.: Today they wear
Tsfie Noure &ame Scholastic
shiny hair - with. powdered (rarely red) noses. Long hair during the middle ages was the badge of birth and distinction, and while the distinction still remains there is in this age no more galling penance than for a man to let his hair grow long unless it be for a woman to cut her hair’short. There is however a certain group of political theorists and others known .by their short-haired women and long-haired men. But the kitten coquetry of the short-haired vamps of this day are not to be compared with the wildcats among Roman women.
Cicero relates how the ladies of his time followed the fad of raising beards. /Everything from cosmetics to snake-charmers was employed by the coy maidens and obese matrons of the Avantine to cultivate whiskers. Finally when the fad assumed the proportions of a horrible fact, the Senate was impelled to pass a law against hirsute appendage for females. But not before the pinkest complexions of the City were sprouting, and that rosy skin one loves to touch had commenced to grow thorns. It would appear, according to Suidas that the women of Athens originated the fashion by introducing the use of false beards. So widespread did this style become that even the Cyprian Venus on view at the British Museum is decked out in whiskers. .Fortunately in our day feminine side-burns are confined solely to side-shows and it is a distant decade when our women will contemplate abandoning the . lip-stick for the shaving-stick.	-
But while our own customs are hardly quite so insane, nevertheless, they by no means are not insane. As an instance, we furnish surgical attention at free clinics for the individual deformed by a .hair-lip, whereas the ultra youth defaced by a hairy lip is allowed to wander at large without a license. In the centuries to come it is not improbable that the museums of posterity ■will label these labial appendages under the ‘class of handy handkerchiefs, or ever-ready toothbrushes, never knowing the real purpose they serve in courtship.
In courtship many a man has lost a wife by a hair’s length, as in war many a man has lost his life by a hair’s breadth. But in poetry long hair is remarkably significant, especially if it be curly. But even with
363
such mental excelsior a man would be better qualified to style himself a poet if he possessed dark or black hair, and a wide poetic reputation. According to Juxley, red and yellow hair rarely accompanies genius. The light haired individual is doomed by the law of averages to be both harmless and hopeless. Not only can he have little hope of becoming famous, but he need have Tittle fear of becoming infamous. Havelock Ellis, an author and alleged authority, concludes: “the proportion of dark-haired persQps/is considerably. greater among criminals|thdn among ordinary populations.” But iffis a fact that light-haired individuals are not necessarily light-headed.
To give only a few of the aS^ brit'es and others with black hair punctuating the book of fame, there is John Paul .Jones, Sir Thomas Moore, Ibsen, Charles Lamb, Daniel Webster, and Pio Montenegro. Browning, Landor, Napoleon, R. Li-Stevenson, Grant, Tennyson, Keats, CrornT well and Washington all had dark hair, although Washington is generally portrayed with gray hair when he chopped down-The cheery tree. The few blond gemus£s:and gentry of blond persuasion are Thackeray, John Bunyon, Andrew Jackson, Swinburne, and Krippene. Among those suspected of being bald are Vincent Engels and Dante. But what is a man going to do about it?
.	FLUMINA VITAE.
UACH life is like a river:	' *
God is the source.	. ,
His grace, a heavenly charge, Is the rain that showers forever.
His law, the marge'	■	,
• That holds it in its course.
Some wind on tranquilly Through the busy vale;
Some in their fury leap .	.
Over the rocks on high;	.	•
And others sleep	.
In the stillness of the dale. .
Pure and limpid streams	’
With His sunlight play; .
’ And troubled waters flow	'
Reflecting all His beams; .	.	., f. -
While the murky go	.	/
Heavily on their way.	. <
And when man’s life is e’er .	'
Again he’ll be,	.
Like to the mighty river	. '
Passing the eternal shore,	j ' i
Lost there forever
In God’s immensity.—R. M. m.	. '
364
Noure Same Scholastic
grew rapidly. When I finished Maupassant’s ‘Le Horia,’ I decided that here was the supreme story. I was advised, however, to reserve my judgment until I had become acquainted with Fitzjames O’Brien and his story, -‘What Was It?’ Well,
Oh a night when
Horses did neigh, and dying men did .groan,
And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets,
I read ‘What Was It?’ It was an ideal time to read about ghosts. An early spring storm had hit Notre Dame. The 'winds, gathering high momentum off Lake Michigan, shrieked in the heavens like souls in distress. - Rain poured in sheets. The windows of Old Sorin rattled incessantly and the elements battled fiercely without.. I remember going to sleep in a study of the similarity between ‘Le Horia’ and ‘What Was It?’
“There was darkness, and a distant bell tolled twice! Then, a crash of thunder, a pouring of rain! Am I awake? That wind— whose sorrowful message is it carrying? An uprooted tree crushed to the ground. Another blast—0 Lord, what a pitiful moan! That tapping—what is it? Am I imagining things? Am I dreaming? No, these are certainly not the vagaries of a disordered mind. That tapping—there it is again! It’s the -wind,—it cannot be!
“I try to move—but my feet seem filled with lead; my legs are as big around as barrels. I try to raise my arm: there is no feeling in it—its life is gone. Again the tapping! My eyes grope through the darkness toward the window. What is that thing? That thing? A wraith! A ghost!— In the next flash of lightning a face appears above a shadow. Thoughts of the end of the world crowd my mind. I know I am not sleeping now. I hide my head beneath the covers.
“Those words of Shakespeare about ghosts gibbering and squawking in the streets of-Rome echo in my ears—‘The Ides of March are come but not yet gone!’ What holds me? A clammy sweat breaks out upon me as I think of ‘The Damned thing’ and ‘What Was It?’ Curse Bierce, and O’Brien, and Maupassant!—‘No, they. were, only pitiful fools, dope fiends, men with disorderly
SHADES OF NIGHT.
AAEON H. HUGNENARD, ’22.
A sleet storm of early March fiercely at- -tacked the pedestrian. The wind shrieked, and it was altogether a most wretched night.
At the Cowl Club the members were gathered snugly around the huge fireplace in the lounging room. A few dozed; others were reading. The storm grew in intensity, and then a sudden hurricane swept down the chimney. The fl a m e s ■leaped out of the fireplace like fiery tongues and shadows flickered on
the wall in grotesque forms.
“If Richard Harding Davis had witnessed this night, he wouldn’t have given his Tn The Fog’ an English setting,” observed one of the loungers, aroused by the violence of the storm. “Perhaps a London night furnishes a romantic background for a matter-of mystery, but a March storm in this temperate zone of ours is simply incomparable.” Thus the conversation which had subsided some time before, was revived. The few who had been reading laid aside their books. “It certainly would be an ideal night for some thunderin’ thrillers,” continued someone; “who’ll volunteer?”—It was then that Roy Morgan told this story.
“ ‘Twas back in ’20 when I was in my senior year at Notre Dame that I developed the craze for stories of mystery; I fairly lived on them. I read them before breakfast and after supper and between times; I read them in class and out of class and all the time. The fellows in Sorin Hall got to calling me, ‘Loupgarou.’ Ghosts, spectres, apparitions, wraiths, spooks—I had a mania for-them.
“I started in with Poe. Then somebody gave me Ambrose Bierce’s ‘The Damned Thing.’ From him I went to Mary E. Wilkins Freeman. Marion' Crawford was next. I must have read ‘Through The Porthole’ a dozen times, and the more l read it, the more it fixed its fascination upon me. .My acquaintance with authors of the inexplicable
Notre dame Scholastic
365
minds, who wrote down the fancies of crazy . men. There are no ghosts. That tapping was the wind beating on the window panes. That face was only an hallucination. I have been dreaming! Tomorrow, I’ll burn every cursed story that I have.’ And finally I slept, as the storm quieted down.
“The next day a classmate, Bob Owens, came dashing into my room, with hair disheveled and a murderous look on his face. ‘I’m suspended,” he yelled, ‘I’m suspended,—and all on your account. Why didn’t you leave your window open as you promised? I told you I was going to overstay my twelve-o’clock permission. I rapped on your window till my knuckles were blistered,, and then I had to sign up.’ ”
ON BEING AMBITIOUS.
■	FRANK WALLACE, ’23.
Caesar was ambitious and you know what he got:	.
Soothsayer • “ B e -ware the Ides of March, Csesar.”
Caesar : “Can that bunk; I guess I know, my stuff.”
—S 0 u n d of nl any rip-p-p-ps.—
And then a little later Mark Antony became
came the man of the half hour; because at 6.31 Cleopatra put on her little -act, the people’s candidate lost his ambition—and you know what he got.	■
And we all know what happens to the prophet in his own land; whether he claims to be a writer, essays the oration or even attempts musical criticism-^-you know what he gets.
-Well, its the old, old story: You are a nonentity among the home folks until you leave the home folks. But when flowering praise showers into the home town press, they knew you had it in you all the time. And little fairies speak to one another at the dances o fhaving heard from Harry or Vincent; and you begin to receive stationery of the passionate pink variety. And lo! The best girl writes you after a strange
silence of a year. Pictures of fair maidens drop from the . incoming mail even as they come to the editor of the Tribune beauty contest; and fearing complications you spend the Easter vacation in Chicago instead of going home.
And they tell you that they admire your ambition and want to read your stories; and hint at those mysterious things which they might «say if you were not so brilliant of mind.	.
And they think you fall for it—which you ; do!	'	'	*
And you sit down and write 2000 words of advice to the innocent young goslings—the sweet little things—they don’t dance or eat candy during Lent—the purest gift of heaven to man,—the most delectable bits of Tariffed femininity—lots of phrases like that which might mean anything, but sound good.
And you really mean it—and mean it for a different girl every night. And, 0 Boy! How many times have you written this:
“And I have a swell little canoe on the old Ohio; and this summer' we are going to use it. I have always longed for a wonderful-pal just like you—who loves to swim and to dance and all that sort of thing but who can still be impersonal—just good friends etc, etc, etc.”
And you know darned well you’ll be quarrelling before , you are home a week.
And then after having performed your evening rites at the shrine of the Kewpie and relieved yourself of all the bunk; after you have served your hours in the cafeteria-or prefecting in the library or chasing towels for Rockne in the gym or secretarying for a prof or manufacturing a sport story for the News-Times— after having done all of these things—you look at the Ontology, or the. math, or the accounting—and discover that your eyes hurt too much tonight, or that you need sleep worse than the study; then after having read the daily chapter of “This Side of Paradise” or the latest review of the Campus Critic, or the Juggler,—after having done all of these things and finding nothing else to do—you think.	*	■
And you think that if there is nothing to this education you are certainly getting fooled.
First Concept: “All is still tonight by the old library; and ’tis Sunday at the vesper hour. Will you go to town to-night? And the echo answers ‘No!’ There are the slight matters
366	elie Noure Same Scholastic
df prefects and demerits and discipline—and anyhow—the girl you did know in town is enamored of a Corby Haller who spent the summer vacation here; the one from ‘Misha-wak’ who promised so much—shucks! Wanted a ‘foursome’ to declare her girl friend in on the .party—old stuff.”	.
Second Concept: “Remember, 0 remember, the place where you were born? Where you knew all of the girls and considered the week as made up of six evenings to dance and one to call on the best girl. The days—I will not stop—those days when it was a new girl for every dance? When you never considered ‘Shall I go’ but simply ‘Am I on the day shift? ’ And those evenings beside the gas-log fire in the big house which resembled a high school building—when you had the little fairy gaping with open countenance—mostly around the. mouth—with tales about when you would go to college? Do you remember, 0 remember? Wel-1-1, Jack Dalton, you are here. You were ambitious—and see what you got. Ha, Ha, Ha,—see—I laugh, or possibly I should say, I lawf.”	’
Then you sit back and cuss awhile—unless, of course, you happen to be a prefect with authority to investigate the Yellow Peril. Then you may go to town, looking for skivers and forget to look in the mirror at the Oriental jazz parlor.	.
First Gloom: “How was the stew to-night? SIR! You forget I am a lady!”
Second Gloom: “Do you remember, 0. remember the place where you were born? The rich juicy steak and. the brown gravy, and the fresh bread, and the cream potatoes and the lima beans and the devil’s food, and the raspberry pie?' Those days when your mother said “Why don’t you eat some more?” And then after the evening meal when you would slip over to the corner drug store and get a quart of ice cream and a pocket of smokes —ah! How I love to see you suffer—and you curled up into the hammock or drifted down stream in a canoe? Well, do I make myself’ clear? You were ambitious you wanted college. College' speak up!	.
(A deep raucous voice off stage.) '“Lafayette I am here.” . ...
It is now.ah hour after the evening meal: ' so feeling hungry, you go over to the Caf, order toast, and buy an El Verso.. You
also thoughfully purchase a pack of Beeman’s pepsin gum because you know the cigar will make you sick. Then you come back to your room in Brownson for a wild evening.
FIRST PALLBEARER: . “Do you remember, 0 remember the place where you were bom or do the associations inspired by your latest introspection recall those times when you were the foreman of 23 of the best and noblest specimens of humanity who ever swung a pair of tongs or sunk a shovel? All! Verily, my dear Monte-spierre, them were those days. When Mike used to call you Mister Boss, and Tony removed his hat when he saw you on the street, and Sabo Gabo always remembered to bring an extra stogie to the mill But that was tame: there was no future to the work; while you worked hard through the long watches of the night trying to find the softest place to sleep, you dreamed, and talked and talked and talked of college. No! You didn’t' like the steel mill—so you came to college and washed dishes for Balenes Bros. You were ambitious; you wanted college; here is college; speak to her. No? College speak to your lover.	'
COLLEGE: (played by a co-ed) “Kiss me, kid.” . x	. .
Then you rise in your .wrath and cry:
“Imps of the devil, wdiy. do you pur-t sue me?”	.
IMPS: (played by Wop Berra, Stevenson and Wm. A. A. Castellini) “Heck! If you are going to get sore, .we won’t play no more.”	z'	'
Think I am crazy ? . Well, after considering some of the poems I have had to learn, and some of the lectures I have heard, and some of the things I have to eat, andzsome of the people I must put up with, I wouldn’t be surprised. But,anyhow,.! must be smart to get along-at all as dumb as I am; are you? Or don’t you think? ,	"	-
As for the rest—there isn’t any more. My 1200 words have dohe.	.
Merit is truest when it shuns praise. »
Judging from the newspapers, there is much more of loyalty between the dog and / his master, than between man and wife.. .
Noure Same Scholascfc?
Iptpejamej^
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER- VICTVRUS-vTvE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
. VOL. LIV.
MARCH 26, 1921.
NO. 21.
A man, emerging’ from childhood might be likened to a traveller on a highway who is confronted with three doors.
—to enter the door of pleasure,. we ought.
The door on the right—high Happiness, and narrow—admits one into the path of Pallas Athene, and there, at the very beginning of the journey, stand the talents, represented by goddesses or guides. ,
These guides step forward to meet the man who choses this path and accompany him on his journey through life, leading him to real happiness.
On the left is.the inviting door of Circe, the beginning of the path of wicked pleasure, but the end of .this way is unhappiness.
In the center is the broad, easily entered doorway, through which the prosaic, common place, ambitionless men travel.
Men who have neither the brains to select the right door, nor the courage—if I may call it courage
pass through the broad central door, and never find real, true happiness in the rest of their lives.	'
Excepted" from the mass of men who choose the commonplace, are the egotists and contented, but their self centered happiness can never be likened to the happiness found by men who are doing work that they like.	.
Thus it is necessary to choose the right door, to know one’s talents, and no work will be toil. s
Although one may never reach the heights to which ambition urges, life will be comparable to a party fishing for trout in a small lake.
They discover that the trout are to be found in the next lake and journey there only to find that the trout , are in still another lake.	<
■ Perhaps they will never find the lake with the trout in it„ but they will carry beautiful memories of the day in the woods and on the water.	'	.
Memories should be a source of happiness, and they are—if they are good memories.
.	—W. G. .
Once upon a time, a king became curious to hear the loudest noise imaginable. So, he called together all the people of his kingdom, and bade them, Campus Care, when he should- give a certain signal, to shout at the
top of their voices. He gave the sign, and lo! there was not so much as a single whisper. Everyone thought that surely his voice would not be missed in that vast assembly, and the result was there was no noise at all.
The conduct of those subjects towards their king might be analogously applied to the conduct of us, students of Notre Dame, towards our campus. That we have one of the most beautiful of college campuses is undeniably true; that we give it the care deserving of a beautiful campus is not so true.
By the old students, warnings to take care of the campus are regarded as a positive sign of spring; like a German band, or the song of the robin., But be that as it may, we do not regard the campus in the light It seems that we are pervaded
with the impression that was visited upon the people who gathered to shout for a king—that we are exceptions.
* Each one of us apparently thinks that the “short cut” he takes will have no injurious effect upon the green: That might be so if there was only one of us, but we must remember that there are about fifteen hundred who consider themselves the only ones who do such things. Perhaps, a piece of paper discarded on the campus by one student would, be unnoticed. However, let fifteen hundred use the quadrangle for a receptacle to hold waste-paper, and the place soon resembles an ideal rubbish-pile.
There is only one way to remedy these conditions. Let each one regard the campus as his own private property, and take care of it as such. Let him remember that no teacher has ever yet rebuked a man who
368
t
1sft& Norre &ame Scholastic
came tardy for class and offered the excuse for his lateness that he used the path instead of the “short cut.” Let him remember that the proceeds derived-from scrap-paper thrown into waste-baskets provided for that purpose go for the benefit of the Bengal Mission.	—A. E. H.
Endeavor and The Endowment.
The grant of two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars to the University for en-** only possible objection that can be raised
dowment purposes is a mighty aid at a mighty moment. It gives Notre Dame her rightful place in the educational sun and promises a vastly greater future for the old school whose past has been so very great. Now, of course, everything is contingent upon the raising of an additional seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and the big question is, Can it be done?
There are optimistic persons who, without giving the matter a moment’s thought, predict success with a confident certainty worthy of Don Quixote. There are pessimistic persons who shake their heads mournfully and proclaim that the only people that can raise money nowadays are the tax-collectors. Naturally we prefer the optimists, but we believe in facts. Are there any reasonable grounds for believing that money can be produced? What is the lay of the land?
We may assume ■without any hesitation that the University can raise an additional $250,000, either by large individual dona-• tions or in some other way. There remains, therefore, the sum of $500,000 to be raised generally throughout the country, and this sum is the rub.	.
Is there any hope that is will be forthcoming?
Take a look , at the map of .the United States, bearing in mind that the cosmopolitan character, of Notre Dame has given her hosts of. alumni,- students and. friends, scattered with surprising evenness over the country and even over foreign lands. There are resources in Canada, Mexico, South America and the-Phillipines which ought to ; assist in the great present task of Notre . Tame, but for the purposes of this discus-sion, ihey wdll be considered a reserve, a
power to fill the gaps in our national campaign.
Everyone knows that forty-eight states exist. Scattered throughout these are, from the Notre Dame, point of view, fifty regional cities of importance. Chicago is such a city, Cleveland another: Indiana has easily two, South Bend and Indianapolis. Now if each of these towns raised ten thousand dollars, the problem would be solved. They could easily do so, and perhaps they may. The
to this statement is, perhaps they may not.
Well, suppose they fail. For every one of these large cities there are nine smaller towns of some size and interest for Notre Dame. Look at the map of Illinois and number the important names from Rockford to Springfield. If the large city and the nine ’ smaller ones raised one thousand dollars each, and the same thing were done throughout the land, the problem would again be solved. This is surely not too much to ex-z pect and skepticism will probably grow less confident when considering the problem from this point of view.
We have, however, confined ourselves thus far purely to the. cities, and we must not forget that Notre Dame men of sterling-loyalty live^ in villages and upon farms. Suppose that round each of the ten cities mentioned above were grouped nine lesser localities, making a total for the United States, of five thousand active units: now if every one of these units raised one hundred dollars, the problem would be triumphantly solved. Perhaps some places would not be able to* produce the amount specified although,’surely, one hundred dollars is not an enormous sum. Still, the sums obtained in the larger places would compensate for the deficits in smaller ones.- The idea is, Very simply, that cooperation from everyone will divide a large.matter into many. small ones.	■	. • ' , ~
v It is a mistake to suppose that the money needed miist all be secured by,, direct subscription; there are innumerable, other ways. During a recent campaign for: a convent-school two girls, raised, in. a village of - three
. thousand people only .sixty of whom were Catholics, the- sum. of 250 dollars by means of socials.; Such expedients a<; recitals, .
w Moure Same Scholastic	369
motion-picture performances and even tak- ning next.September. In conclusion, plans were
ing subscriptions for magazines have worked successfully in the past and have by no means outlived their usefulness. For example we shall suppose that the student body at Notre Dame wished to raise a substantial sum for the endowment fund. There are forty full weeks in the school year, during every one of which fifteen hundred students attend daily' prayer at Notre Dame. If each of these voluntarily, contributed ten cents once a week for two years, the amount raised at the end of the period would be $12,400!	'
Enough has been said to suggest the. eminent practicability of the movement. Naturally it -will not take care of, itself, it ’demands the hearty and earnest effort of every friend of Notre Dame. Surely a school which has set its seal so strongly upon public opinion, which has earned the admiration of so many, will not speak with a voice crying in the wilderness- in this which is almost the day of its salvation.
—V. ENGELS.
THE ST. THOMAS AQUINAS BANQUET.
On Monday, March 7th, the members of the St. Thomas - Philosophical Society celebrated the feast of their patron. At nine o’clock-all heard Mass and went to Communion in Sorin chapel. Father Cornelius Haggerty talked on the religious aspects of the life of “The Philosopher” as the great champion of Scholasticism is called. At noon the students of “the ultimate causes” assembled in the University parlors to.be entertained by Edward Gottry, Walter O’Keefe, Lenihan Lally, Charlie Davis, Mr. Murch and Mr. Mathison and Harry Hoffman’s Orchestra. Thence the company repaired to the Carroll Hall Dining Room to attend to the wants of -the inner man under the kindly stewardship of Brother Florian, who for years has been the efficient purveyor on similar auspicious occasions. Joseph Tierney, acting as toast-master in the absence of Alfred Slag-gert, called on Fathers Cunningham, Garrigan, and Miltner and on Worth Clark and Mr. Hogan for remarks. All of the talks were brief but interesting and very much worth while. - After the banquet Carl Arndt was reelected president of the Society and Mr. Hogan was elected secretary for the scholastic year begin-
discussed for the cultivation of added interest in the work of the organization.	'
THE DEBATES.
“Resolved: That the Federal Government should own and operate all the coal mines in. the United States, (all questions as to transportation waived and constitutionality granted.”)	;
We are told in metaphysics that a thing cannot be and be at . the same time; in logic, that A and E propositions are contrary. In fact the grand generalization we unconsciously get from school life is that the truth alone is worth while. Now, honorable judges, how can you explain the action of Rev. Wm. Bolger,. C. S. C., who has deliberately trained eight of the brightest and most promising of our young men of Notre Dame into convincing one set of judges that the mines should be owned by the government; and on the same evening.in another city, proving to another group of intelligent college professors that the government should not own those mines?
The answer lies in the fact that it is the one weakness of Father Bolger to train debating teams which can go out and win on both sides of the question. There are many who. think, that if there were three or four sides, he would produce the teams. And the record of Notre Dame debating since 1899 until the present year, consisting of 30 victories of a possible 33 contests, seems to confirm the impression that the atmosphere of the school is as conducive to the production of mental as of physical • athletes. Call-it a stimulus' in the case of dedebaters or “the old pepper” on the football squad, term it what you will, it is a brand of enthusiasm which gets results. And that seems to be the big idea in contests of all sorts. -
When the Indiana Intercollegiate Debating League was formed from 12 Indiana colleges last November, Notre Dame swung into preparation for a defense of its long and honorable record in the art of rebuttal and plea. Handicaps threatened the long line of successes which had existed before the war; there were no experienced debaters left from the pre-war days and there was no ^evidence of the enthusi--asm which had existed in previous times when a place on the Notre Dame debating team was
Noure dame Scholastic
370
considered one of the real honors within the reach of a student.	'
Father Bolger began work with his characteristic aggressiveness and nursed the meagre 30 men who made a serious attempt for the team through the series of preliminaries from which emerged the following men in the order named: Raymond Gallagher, Leo Ward, Vincent Engels, Joseph Rhomberg, James Hogan, Frank Cavanaugh, Raymond Switalski and Worth Clark. With but two weeks to prepare for the first contests, Gallagher, Engels and Rhomberg, with Worth Clark as alternate, were chosen for the affirmative team; and Hogan, Ward, and Cavanaugh, with Switalski as alternate, formed the negative.
On the night of April 11 the twelve colleges forming the" league met in triangles. Notre Dame was aligned with Goshen and Valparaiso and very promptly and efficiently won from both schools by decisions of four to one in each case. Notre Dame, Wabash and Manchester were the only schools to win on both sides of the question; and according to the rules of the league were grouped in the top triangle for the final debates which were held Friday, March 18, too late to be included in this article. From a viewpoint not entirely that of pure optimism, the school has an excellent chance to win both debates and lead the league with a clear title— which however is merely a prediction, as it must be remembered that the Notre Dame affirmative team, handling the admittedly weaker side of the questiofi, must meet the Manchester representatives who have already won from Indiana Central. In the 12 contests of the first series but three affirmative teams won; and when Chicago, Northwestern and Michigan debated the same question last year, the affirmative was defeated in all instances.
The result of the first series, based on the number of judges’ decisions, the colleges ranking in the order named where the decisions are equal: Notre Dame, 8; Wabash 7; Manchester 6; Purdue 6; Valparaiso 6; Franklin. 5; Indiana Central 5; Indiana University 5; Depauw 4; Earlham 4; Butler 3 ; Goshen 1. Following the final debates of March 18 the teams will be given a permanent rating. Although no material plans have been made the League will probably function again next year ’ with.some possible changes. Notre Dame will debate the University of Detroit later in the
present year and may appear in another contest which is being tentatively considered.
In all contests the decision has been rendered upon delivery and thought rather than the merits of the question. Judges have been chosen always from the faculty of the neutral school in the particular triangle, and a novel plan in the second series has conducted the debates upon neutral grounds. In accordance with this arrangement the Notre Dame affirmative team met the Manchester negative at Wabash ; the local negative met Wabash affirmative at Manchester; and Wabash negative and Manchester affirmative appeared at Washington Hall before an audience which included many of their own alumni and students of South Bend and Mishawaka high schools.
In the Notre Dame-Goshen debate at Washington hall on March 11 the visitors were plainly handicapped by the lack of a working brief as they introduced a multitude of points and became lost in the maze of their own statistics. W. E. Oswalt was the most influential speaker of our neighbor school and his teammates Allen King and A. F. Grassmeyer showed the result of much hard work in collecting data.
Vincent Engels, Raymond Gallagher and Worth Clark, composing the Notre Dame team, were the more smoothly working group; and though slightly confused at times by the multiplicity of argument offered by the negative, piled up points in delivery and rebuttal which forecasted a certain decision in their favor. Both sides presented statistics which contradicted the other’s, claimed as conclusive, proofs which were not quite so strong as the govern--ment; and upon occasions, indulged in fiery pyrotechnics of oratory; but all things considered, the subject was well handled and its treatment revealed the effect of months of hard work and knowledge .of the subject.
Although no fair comparison of the present Notre Dame teams can be made with the experienced debaters of former years, it has been said on competent authority, that the eight. men representing the school this year compare most favorably with inexperienced men of other years; and that with equal opportunity, they bear promise of exceptionally strong men in coming seasons.
Timothy Galvin, a lawyer of Valparaiso, who; as the: best speaker in two counties is a living demonstration of the training which he received as^a Notre Dame debater, has the

Noure dame Scholastic
, following to say of the N D—Valpo meeting:
The debate between Notre Dame and Valparaiso, which was held in the University Auditorium at Valparaiso, marked the first meeting of the debating representatives of the two schools. The debate was attended by a large, enthusiastic crowd and it was in every respect, a very" fine demonstration of intercollegiate debating. The crowd, of course, favored Valparaiso, but all the Notre Dame speakers were courteously received and the announcement of Notre Dame’s victory was greeted with generous applause.
Guernsey J. Borst, Ph. D., a member of the faculty of Valparaiso University, presided at the debate; while Messrs. Blosser, Gerig, Witmer, Lehman and Fisher, all members of the faculty of Goshen College, served as Judges. The Valparaiso team, composed of Jack Pierce, Edwin Van Sickle and George W. Stimpson, espousing the affirmative of the question, ‘took the position that conditions in the coal industry are so bad, under present conditions, that it is necessary for the government to own and operate the coal mines. The Notre Dame team, composed of Francis Cavanaugh, James Hogan and Leo Ward, met the Valparaiso contention by pointing out the inefficiency of government management of great business enterprises as compared with the private management of the same enterprises.
• The constructive case of the Notre Dame team was far superior to that of the Valparaiso representatives. However, the Valparaiso men displayed considerable cleverness in a rebuttal, which kept the interest of the crowd at a high pitch throughout the debate'. Mr. Pierce was, by far, the strongest "speaker for the Valparaiso team, while it was the general consensus of opinion that Mr. Hogan carried off the honors for Notre Dame. However, all the Notre Dame speakers deserve the highest praise for their work. Mf. Cavanaugh opened the debate with a ‘well considered speech, which was delivered in a pleasing manner, while' Mr. Ward was particularly effective in argument. The decision of the Judges favored Notre Dame by a vore of four to one.
THE WEEK’S REVIEW.
Only those persons who can prove beyond .the question of a doubt that they do not sleep £ throughout one-half of an intellectual lecture can read this—the rest are troubled with in_
371
somnia. Heavy?—“Yea, verily!” as dear old .Mrs. Hardcastle would say in a lucid moment between sentiment and hysterics. Those who did not . sleep through the entire reading on Wednesday afternoon’became all but hysterical when it was discovered that the fourth act was not the last. Dr. Paulding says Goldsmith:—at any rate, that Goldsmith is something or other and much more respectable than “Heinrich”— Ibsen. Dr. Paulding does not like Henrik Ibsen, and the worthy gentleman took up the better part of both lectures telling us so. According to Goldsmith, -those fellows of the Restoration • * must have been .a queer lot. The way they carried on with serving maids and hootch was, well, positively scandalous. Peppery chaps, too, and what women! Dr. Paulding, without his -shawl and occasionally without his gloves, impersonated very naturally Goldsmith’s Lady Hardcastle and the difficult Aunt Lucy of Booth Tarkington’s novel, “The Magnificent Ambersons.” Dr. Paulding likes Tarkington, hates Ibsen, and compares the writings of the two. That is a bit too bad. Such statement weakens one’s faith in the infallibility of the lecturer.
Wednesday night Mr. Frederic Gorst’s de-lightful whistle on “Birds” lasted a scant forty-five minutes, yet the small number that made up the audience were pleasantly entertained. To know so many interesting facts about the domestic life of birds that use the campus as a sort of half-way house, opens up a field of absorbing interest to us all. Nowadays one gets a deal of personal satisfaction and amusement on a walk around the lake after breakfast, in. trying to distinguish among the bewildering variety of songsters, when our little sisters— as St. Francis of Assisi called the birds—are rejoicing in the glory of a new day.
Our second-hand tour, through Constantinople on Thursday evening, under the guidance . of Dr. Newman, was very interesting. It is still a question whether or not the “Climax” on Saturday aimed to be a comedy or a tragedy; it certainly was not drama. The cast was made up of four people, three of whom were wholly unnecessary.- The leading lady could sing, . and it was a pity she lost her voice at the end of the first act and did not find it until it was . -time to get married. She had a great line;
and personally we do not blame the doctor for. wanting her to lose her’voice before he . had ’ taken her for better or for worse. “The Song of the.Soul” was enough to drive anyoneinto celibacy.—Stevenson.	"	'	- .
372
^fieNozre $ame Scholastic
CAMPUS COMMENT. '
—Father Tim Maher, C. S. C., wishes to thank the student body for the floral offering given him on liis ninetieth birthday.
—The Minnesota Club will hold its banquet shortly after the Easter vacation is over, according to plans launched at a meeting Wednesday.
—Last Wednesday noon, Pio Montenegro, ’23, gave an address on America and her dangers in the Phillipine Islands before the Rotary Club of South Bend.
—Through the Students’Activity Committee, the students have pledged loyal support to the campaign for the $750,000 ‘fund which the University must raise to receive the recent award from the Rockefeller educational foundation.
—The Latin American Club and the Manila Club will be hosts to executives of South Bend companies whose factories have been visited by the foreign students during the past two months at a banquet to be held the second week in April. A committee is already making elaborate plans.
—The Students’ Activities Committee, which heretofore has been meeting every Thursday, has changed the time- of its weekly meeting to Monday in order that the student body may be informed of its activities in the Scholastic of the current week.
—The Manila Club and the Latin-American Club have united to give a banqet sometime during the second week after Easter in honor of the members of those respective clubs who are graduating this June. Several business and professional men of South Bend are to be invited. ,	■■
—Pio Montenegro, whose ability as a speaker is becoming known far and wide, will speak before the St. Thomas Benevolent Society of Indianapolis, March 28. His topic will be “America’s Opportunity in the Far East.”
is to be secured through contributions of the students and is to be exclusively a student tribute. The faculty has been petitioned to place this, tablet in a Hall of Fame, a corner to be set aside in the Old Students’ Hall where other Notre Dame heroes will also be remembered.	.
—The regular semi-monthy meeting of the Knights was held in Walsh Hall, last Tuesday. A report on the building fund was made: Father O’Hara was the speaker of . the evening, and gave on of the best talks of the year. Under the title, Amigo Americano, he related many of his interesting experiences in South America.
—’Tis rumored around the campus that workmen are busy in Chicago these days decorating and furbishing the Gold Room of the Congress Hotel. There’s a reason: the big doings of the Chicago Club are less than ten days away. Tuesday evening, March 29, is the time. The famous eight-piece Sunset orchestra of Chicago will furnish the music. If you haven’t bought your tickets yet, don’t wait any longer, say the committee.	.
—Following a suggestion of,the Juggler, the S._ A. C. petitioned the faculty for authority to see what could be done in the way of obtaining a waiting station at the end of the car-line. Permission was obtained and DistrictManager Watterson of the Indiana Electric Corporation was visited. He has promised to take the matter up -with the officials of the company and it is very probable that in the near future street-car patrons at N. D,- will not be forced to seek, the protection of Uncle Sam’s domocile dur-' ing the inclement weather.	'
' —The Utopian Committee closed shop Tuesday when the announcement was made that a
Notre Dame-St. Mary’s dance will probably be held about :the middle of April. This news-emanated from the. Students’ Activities Committee, . bearing all the ear-marks of truth. Members of . the Indianapolis -Chamber of Sister Claudia of St.^Mary’s;has approved the
Commerce will be guests of the society. - dance. • Final sanction awaits the return of
—The Gipp Memorial was the ^principal. Mother Pauline who is in the west. The affair question brought up at the S.- A. C. meeting will, in all probability, be givemfor the. benefit : last"Monday; After consulting the-facuity, of the new Holy Cross Foreign Mission Semi- -student opinion, and memorial experts, the nary at Detroit. . . i For all of which there is committee decided upon a. bronze tablet in joy. - 'ty . . - y- ' . .. j ..	■
memory of the great athlete. This tablet —Fourth degree members of the Knights
'She Nacre ©ame Scholastic	-	373
■	of Columbus from South. Bend, Elkhart, and
f	Niles, were guests of the Notre Dame Coun-
| cil at a banquet in Kable’s Dining Room last f Tuesday evening. Rev, James Burn’s C. S.
C., President of- the University was the I guest of honor. The dinner was given with :	the purpose of bringing the Knights of
”	, nearby cities into closer relations with the
; students' and from all reports the affair was a marked success. J	.
•	-	—The regular meeting of the Notre Dame
;	Branch of the A. I. E. E. was held Monday
•	night, March 7th. An outline of the hy-
draplic features of the Elkhart Power Station was read by F. Miles, and a paper on the electrical features of the Berrien Springs Station was presented by C. de-Tarnava. The principal items of both ’ papers were discussed by all the members.
It was decided at this meeting to invite the South Bend members of the A. I. E. E. to attend Notre Dame meetings. The Electrical Engineers wil visit the South Bend Power Plant on Monday afternoon March 14th. All are expected to be present for this trip.	’
—The Chamber of Commerce met in the library Monday evening to listen to a very interesting lecture by Dr. C. A. Lippincott, ‘ superintentent of the Welfare Work of the Studebaker plant, on the Co-operative Plans of the Studebaker Corporation. Dr. Lip. piiicott explained what measures had been adopted by his firm to. give aid to all its " needy employees. He denounced the term - ‘welfare’ saying that it casted a reflection ; upon his worker. Every man considers him, - self capable of looking after his own wel.
' fare. In the place of ‘welfare’ Dr. Lippincott advocated the substitution of the term ‘co-operative.’	■
।	—The robin is. considered by some, per-
, sons to be the only trustworthy and genuine ; harbinger of Spring. A few, who have little or no faith in the prophetic powers of the red-breasted feathered - specie declare -that ( only authentic tokens of the termination of Winter are the warm rains and thunder-
; showers. But often the first robin, frozen i to death and many supposedly spring rains, in the course of a few moments, have been
. transformed into a deluge of haiLand.sleet..
The best of signs have often failed. But when men of Notre Dame begin to spruce up, rid themselves of winter’s growth of hair and come out of the brush1, as it were, then and then only is the. time to resurrect the good old flimsy B. V. Ds., remove the odor of moth balls from the last summer’s Palm Beach, yes, and even send the straw hat to the cleaners for spring has really arrived. News has come from Notre Dame’s tonsorial parlor de luxe that during the past week 3000 students surrendered themselves to the charge of . Paul and his corps of immaculate white-coated knight’s of the steel. Of these 300 prophets of Spring 288 called for hair cuts; 4 prepared .themselves to cope on even terms with the hottest of weather had their hair, save for the roots, entirely removed; 28 parted with their much coveted side burns, chin whiskers and lip ticklers; 29 were toniced; 8 shampood; 9 massaged and 3 even found it necessary to undergo a singe. This, while conclusively proving the arrival of Spring also gives a fair idea of . the persuasive powers of Paul and his staff of proficient lather daubers . Huguenard -----------------------------
YESTERDAY’S SORINITES.
—Hugh (Fricky) Farrell, law student here during the years 1916-21, is now managing a prominent stock and bond corporation in Rochester, N. Y. • -
—Joseph Doran, a student of law here during the years 1918-19-20, who was obliged to discontinue his studies on account of the death of his father shortly before Christmas, is now. associated with Milton E. Gibbs, Counsellor and Attorney-at-Law in Rochester, N. Y., and will be eligible for the bar exams a year from this coming June.
—The specialization course which the General Electric Company offers to electrical engineers has attracted a number of .Notre Dame men since “Jim” Me Nulty E. E. ’19 took, advantage of it two years ago. Oscar Sidenfaden of Boise, Idaho and George L. Sullivan of Butte, Montana who received E. E. degrees last June are following the course at the Schnectady plant. William L. Wenzel and James L. Trente of the same class are-pursuing the work at the Fort Wayne Plant.	•	-	•
I
Tofts Norre,Same Scholastic
374
—Hugh S. Fullerton, the well-known sport writer, tells a little secret about “Big Ed” Ruelbach, once a Notre Dame Varsityman, who for three successive years led all baseball in number of games won was chiefly responsible for the many pennants''won by the Cubs. “Big Ed” was known to the ‘horse-hide fans’ as “the "wildest man out of captivity” and every possible explanation but the true one was advanced to explain his peculiar pitching at tunes. Fullerton says that Reulbach was blind in one eye to such an extent. that lie sometimes lost the use of both; yet, being a sensitive man he never divulged his secret till years after he had finished his career on the diamond. Players, managers and baseball devotees never suspected this weakness in their mighty idol but the player’s secrecy caused him considerable trouble after he had quit the game for good.
—TIERNEY.
WHAT’S WHAT IN ATHLETICS.
HOPEFUL HOCKEY
All the world loves a fighter; but better still, the fighter who wins. And the same old world loves the good sport who plays a hard game for the sake of the game; and finds him rather hard to find in these days of baseball scandal, the shadowy boxer and commercialized football. But when he does appear he is-all the more refreshing; and we hereby nominate for approval the Notre Dame Hockey squad.
Hockey prospects at the beginning of the year consisted of one lake, 15 men, Capt. Paul Cashier and the energy of Father Cunningham; and due to the accomplishments of these factors' in inverse order .the Pittsburgh Gazette-Times
. published * the following on March 10:
“It is doubtful if there is a better college player in hockey today than Castner; he is big and fast, takes the puck with ease and works his way through the opposing line. Any team with a man of the ability" of Castner will be heard from.”	. • •
In. addition to the above quotation, Pitts' burgh sport writers and the manager -of Duquesne garden stated that the Notre Dame . seven was the best college team to appear at ' tile Garden during the season; which gives 'the local boys a clear ranking over Yale and
Pennsylvania, both of which had won from Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh. Notre Dame alumni in the smoky city flocked to the Garden and saw real N. D. spirit in action; and a dead ember has become a smoldering fire in the breasts of the “Irish sympathizers” in the Ohio Valley.	*
Vhe local squad took the Carnegie Tech game 2-0; and on a previous trip to Houghton School of Mines, divided a brace of contests at Calumet and Houghton, winning 3-2 and losing 7-2. Proposed games with Culver and •the University of Michigan were called off because of the vagaries of the trick winter which we have had in our midst for some time back. Inquiries were received from St. Louis, Detroit and Wisconsin universities.
Such is the result of one lake, 15 men, Paul Castner, and Father Cunningham inversely. The lake did its best in the matter of furnishing ice; the men were on the job for practice which was pitifully scarce; Capt. Paul swung a pick and shovel in the completion of a rink on the Badin campus as efficiently as when performing the duties of “the best college hockey player in America”; but to the energy and determination of Rev. Wm. Cunningham, worthy priest, philosopher and a good sport, does Notre Dame hockey^ (and much else of Notre Dame) owe its greatest debt. •
The ice game . functioned throughout the year as an unofficial sport which meant that it was financed by its own returns: it faced the handicap of a warm winter which prevented its own practice work and interfered with games scheduled at other points; it fed upon prospects and faith—and blossomed forth as a hockey team recognized among the best squads in the country and in this respect relatively equal to the other branches of Notre Dame sport. It fought and won for the sake of the game alone; and we nominate, as good sports and Notre Dame men:	•
Rev. Wm. Cunningham, mgr; Paul Castner, . captain and rover; Neil Flynn, center; Eldridge, Gentles, McDonald, Gorman and Feltes, forwards;: Larson' and Wilcox, defense and’ Hunk Anderson and Dave Hayes, goal. -...	’ . ’	,	.	. —WALLLACE.
THE BADGER*TRACK-MEET. • ‘ Wisconsin 51; Notre Dame 35.
The story- of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin track: meet at Madison March 12 is a story
Noure©ame ^cholascia	’	375
similar to that of the Illinois affair. In the dashes, the shot put and the hurdles we were very much and entertainingly present; but in the mile, the two mile and pole vault, N. D., was simply N. E.—non est, non-existent— whatever you will. We scored one point of 27 in these events and outscored the Badgers 34-25 in the other seven contests.
‘ Al Ficks stepped out and took a monogram in the 440 and Johnny Murphy earned his first letter after serving the school nobly for two seasons at home and abroad. Buck Shaw repeated his splendid work by carrying away a first in the shot put and the relay quartet won its first victory of the year. Chet Wynne was even up at the finish with Knollin in the high hurdles but lost the decision of the judges; and Capt. Kasper, and Rockne’s trio of promising youngsters, McBarnes, Flynn and Baumer, broke into the scoring. Wilder and Merrick of Wisconsin vaulted 12 1-2 feet, a wonderful leap.	’
- Summary :	-
40 yard dash:
1.	Knollin W.; 2. Desch N. D.; 3. Ficks N. D.; Time 4.3 Shot Put	\	.
1.	Shaw N. D.; 2. Gude W; 3. Flynn, N. D.; Distance, 41 feet 5 inches.
Pole vault:	’
1.	Wilder and Merrick tied W; 3. Coxen W. Height 12 ft. 6 inches.	■
Mile run:
1.	Wall W; 2. Brothers W; 3. Wille W. Time 4.37. 40 yard high hurdles:
1.	Knpllins W; 2. Wynne N. D.; 3. Stolley W. and Newell W. tied. Time 5.3.
440 yard dash: ,
1.	Ficks N D; 2. Johnson W; 3. Kayser W. Time 55.4.
High jump:
1.	Murphy N D; 2. Mulcahy N D and Armstrong W tied. Height 6 feet.
•880 yard run:	,
1. Nash W; 2. Kasper N-. D.'; 3. McBarnes N. D.; Time 2.5-	'	.
Mile Relay:	•
Won by Notre Dame: Ficks, Colgan, Montague and Desch. Time 3.39 4-5.
--------— - •
THE INDOOR INTERHALL MEET:
'Brother Alan continued his habit of turning ' out winners- from Brownson Hall by. adding . the annual indoor Inter-hall track meet trophy to his rec room collection Thursday, March 10. The final scores follow: Brownson 42 1-3, Corby, 32, Carroll .27 1-5, Badin 10, Walsh 9 1-3 Off-Campus 5 1-3.
McGivern, from somewhere in the maze of Prof. Whitman’s and Father Kelly’s prep classes stepped away from the pack for the high in- dividual score of the day, 17 points, and looked the best all-round athlete in the meet. Lou Walsh, his teammate, has all the marks of a coming “wiz” in the 220, while Johnson, a pineapple of 16 is another prep comer.
Kohin of Brownson continued his improvement of the Freshmen meet and scored 13 1-3 points for second honors, leading the way to the Brownson victory. Kennedy and Bergman were next high point-getters and Walsh, Loesch, Cahill, Coughlin, Barber, Moes, Cameron, Lieb and Geegan were prominent performers.
Brownson cinched the meet by making a grand slam in the pole vault. Corby won the
Brown on cinched the meet by making a grand slam in the pole vault. Corby won the 2-3 mile relay after a thrilling contest with Brown on which required a judges’ consultation to decide.
Summary:	.
’ 40 yard low hurdles:
1. McGivern C. -2. Bergman K. 3. Kohin Br. 4.* Johnson C. Time .5.3.
40 yard high hurdles:	-
1. Kohin Br. 2. McGivern C. 3. Bergman K. 4. Lieb K.
Time 6 flat. .	<
40 yard dash:	.	'
1. McGivern C. 2. Bergman K.,3. Cahill Br. 4. Walsh C.
Time 4.4.	‘	„
220 yard dash:	' _
1. Walsh C. 2. Cahill Br. 3. Coughlin K. 4. Moore K. Time 24.4. ’•	-
440 yard run: -
1. Walsh W. 2. Geegan Br. 3. McGeath. D. 4. Avilez C. Time 54.2.
880 yard run:	J -	.
T Kennedy K. 2. Barber Br. 3. O’Hara Br. 4. Long W. -Time 2.8 1-5.	•	.
Mile run:	■	.	'	’
1. Kennedy K. 2. Barber Br. 3. Connel D. 4. Gould and Mann Wf Walsh. Time 4.42.	.
Shot put: .	•	.
1. Lieb K. 2. Moes. Br. 3. Brady Br. 4.
Distance 37 ..feet 3 ir2 inches.	'	,	.
Pole vault:	-
1. Cameron Br. 2. Hammil Br. 3. Hunger Br. Simon.Br. and Woodward D. Height 10 feet.	. ,
' Broad jump:	.	....
1. Kogin Br. 2. McGivern C. 3. Johnson C, 4. Cameron. Br. Distance 19 feet 6 in.
High jump:	-	■ ~
1. Loesch Br. 2. Brady Br. Kohin Br. Buehle W. Walsh C. Height 5 ft. 7 in.	.	; ’
2-3 inile relay:	’	...	. • .
Won by . Corby—Bergman, Moore, Lieb,. .Coughlin .
,	—WALLACE. .
3 7 6	Moure Same Scholastic
SAFETY VALVE.
“Darling,” said the young wife, as she rubbed her little face against his and purred gently, “do you like dumplings?” •
“No, I don’t like dumplings any ore than I like lead. Do you suppose I want to ruin my stomach? ”
“But I have them for §upper” she replied as the tears gathered in her eyes, “and I worked so hard on them.”
“I don’t see how you could have worked hard on those soft mushy things. They may be good things for drawing out boils but I wouldn’t eat one of them if I were on a desert island and had nothing but an ice cream cone.”
“But, dear,” she said, as she toyed with a button on .his coat, “won’t you please eat one for me.”
“Eat one for you!!! Why I wouldn’t even eat one for myself. You’ll have to eat your own. You made them and you ought not to be afraid of them.
. (quick curtain)
Yours Truly.
“True love is blind,” the lassie- shrieked, The callow youth looked glum, .
“You seem to think,” he said to her, “True love is deaf and dumb.” ■
The Clinch.'
. “It’s time that you were getting next,” Spoke forth the maiden fair, And then she quickly lost her breath For I was next to her.
■ Lip Lisps.
She talked right into his small mouth
He knew just what she said,
He must have read her lips, because I’m sure her lips were red.
• ***
. Pop vs. Slop.
“I see that beer is medicine,” ■
. Said Willie to his pop,	. -
“And yet when you drank grandpa’s brew. .
I think you called it slop.” •	_
- At The Basket-Ball Game.
Out to the College court he drove
The girlie in his Hup,	'
. And when the home team lost the ball
He shouted “Cover up.” •	■
She. listened to him for ^awhile : /. J .
.. And then said, full of gloom,. -“You..should have: told. them that; before;
: They left the dressing room.” .	•	"
’	/. Page;Milton. /’■'■'P' . .
-V “I’ll pay to get them back,” said he, , :
. Whatever be the cost, . - 7 . • . \:	:
And then, folks found to their surprise . . “
-	7 ;?Twas pairf’o . dice 7he; lost. . ;	7- . . /
Nor Roll Nor Pull a Bone.
A handsome boy with rosy cheeks, Stood by them as they played,
A friend looked up at him and said .
“I hope you never fade.” ■ -
And Then The House Was Pulled. ’
Folks used to talk of sweet sixteen.
But things have changed of late, The other night a' Corbyite
Kept saying “Come thweet eight.”
He who rolls must pay the Pfif er.
¥ ¥
As Catch Can.
“Please can that stuff,” the senior said, And try to be a man, .
“I’ll do my best replied the frosh
But I don’t think I can.”
■ ***
Even Hash? .
“Have you an appetite?” she said, • iThe tramp looked up and cursed,
“Why lady I’ll eat anything
That doesn’t bite, me 'first.” . -
Shoulder, Arms? No.
Her face is pock marked everywhere, . Shoulders and arms lack grace, -
“Am I not right?” I said, and he
- Replied “Right about face.”
•	At The Meet.
The student in his track suit stood
The maidens laugh was rippling, ’ And turning to her friend she said
“Thats what they call a stripling.” .
• *
, One Good Turn.
. She told him all about her folks
About the family wreck,
• Her ma divorced her pa, because
. He wouldn’t .wash his neck. - .
• “Please. keep' this quiet,” said his wife, Or Ma will raise, a riot, -	•
He passed the. bawling kid to her .
And said, “Please keep this quiet.” ..
•	Soft Pedal.
“You’ve helped me so much with my math,”
* The sweet girl said in glee, .	.
“I don’t know how to thank you, friend /
You’ve been so good to me.”
“Don’t mention. it” dear girl I sighed .	:
’ Her little face grew red, 7 .-
And as I pressed my lips to hers; 7'77
. “Don’t mention it,” she said. .. 1.7 :	- 7
I