
w 
z 
""""""" 
N 




Program Guide 
Request Line: 631 -6400 Mailing List:· 631 -4070 



\C 00 0\ 
,-4 ,-4 ,-4 
Special Shows 5-7, or 7-9 Monday: SKA/Ell,mic Tuesday: Syndic.11ed/Spoken\Vord Sports Talk Wednesday: Dl'ad i\ir Thursday: Disrn/lndust,ial Friday: Reggae Sawrday: llipllop Sunday: Me1al 
)f the Fighting Irish 
-'--'--­

Thursday Friday Saturday Sundqy 
eter McGarty 
Ted Liebler 
Coffeehouse "The eo,sement Now-
Jams"  Sound"  10:00 o.m. ­1:oo p.m. 
;oroh Douis ~ey Nineteen"  Jusfin Cole  
Jim McNamee "The Random Occurrence Show"  Chris Blanford & Shannon Neptune "BARF!"  
renzo Martinez Tales from the Edge"  Joe Murphy "Recrentlon, Twisty Gonts, nnd Such"  
Mike Seel  Chris Goodwin "Last Dance"  •Psst... the cookies are done. Yeoh, the ones with the raisins I"  Tracy Crinion "Friday Night is Killin Me"  
Iott Fischer "SODA" :lassie Cheese"  Andrew Ennis Reggae  Jeff Brody Jennifer Failla "Susie Chnpstlclc"  Christopher Concnnnon "15 Benn Nnsty" eann ne au er Kelly Snauelu •Potholders, licorice, and the Leprechaun Jun le of Deeth"  
Poul Rhee 1el's Industries  Kate Connell T.J. Bogdewic  Hip Hop Laura Stach & Nancy  Dan Guinn "Metnl Twisted So Just Listen" Michael l,armoyeuH "Fun with Dirt"  
Louis Smolenski  Jon Rodzik  usma 'And Whateuer Rhymes with Eloquent'  Bear Guerra • Countraculture R.K.A. The Sound of Young America·  


FROM THE EDITOR 
I remember the first time I heard the term politically correct. A friend who attendsa well­
respected university on the East Coast was talking about the culture shock he experienced 
upon entering college. One day, he was walking to class with a female acquaintance. When 
they reached the building, he reached around and opened the door for her. The woman 
lashed out, calling him sexist and several other unprintable names. She ripped apart their 
conversation, explaining to him in no uncertain terms that he was not politically correct 
Since political correctness had not yet invaded Notre Dame, I was confused. My friend 
enlightened me about a world where quotas and diversity were rapidly coming up for 
debate, and then he started telling me about the great controversy over language. I was 
astounded to hear that certain words in my vocabulary were no longer acceptable because 
they were not politically correct 

Over the next few months, political correctness hit Notre Dame. At the same time, 
lawsuits and hate-speech doctrines all related to political correctness started making the 
news. Managing Editor Katie Wiltrout looks at the trend toward racial and cultural diversity 
and the controversy over a politically correct curriculum and how it has affected Notre 
Dame in this week's cover story. 

Has political correctness gone too far? Have its advocates made a proverbial mountain 
out of a molehill? In a related story, Katie takes a look at Dinesh D'Souza's Illiberal 
Education and shows how political correctness has radically affected other universities 
around the nation. 

Saying Goodbye ... This is the last issue for this year's Scholastic staff, as well as my last as editor. After spring break, Katie Wiltrout will take over the helm with a new staff of writers and editors. She is a talented journalist, and I'm positive she will do a great job. When I first walked into this office as a freshman looking for a copy editing position, I never thought that one day, I'd become editorin chief of this magazine. Now, preparing to leave the office for the last time, I have finally realized what an integral part of my life Scholastic has been. I have spent the better part of four years interviewing, writing, editing, laying out stories, cropping photos, and making and (sometimes desperately) trying to meet deadlines. While I won't necessarily miss the hectic deadline nights or the stress that comes with the job, I would do it all again. Scholastic has widened my horizons and given me the opportunity to work with a group of extremely talented and dedicated writers and editors. Rising through the ranks from copy editor to news editor to managing editor to editor in chief, I have covered a wide variety of stories and tackled some pretty challenging issues. I owe a lot to the people with whom I have worked over the past four years, especially those on this year's staff. They deserve all the credit for our success this year; I thank them for all of their ideas, hard work and support. Without them, there would be no Scholastic. To allthe seniors on the staff-Amanda, Michelle, Jenny, Heidi, Sean and Eileen -Iwish you all the best ofluck in your future endeavors; To those we leave behind after graduation, keep the faith. I know you've all got what it takes to make Scholastic great. 
-Margaret S. Kenny 
Sclwlaslidspubllsludwttkly throughout t1u school!ftllrttapt 

utters to Sclwlastu: fflustbt typed llffd lftcbule tluwrittr's ffllffle,dlubtg ttllfflifflltim< llftd VQC..timr periods llt tlu lbciwrslty of 
llddrtss Hd plwffe ffUfflbtr, lbcirJerslty studtftts should illcludt · Notre Dllfflt, Notre Dllmt, IN, 46556 llftd pri1<ttd llt Tiu Pllptts, 
tluir 11'"' ill sclwol llffd colltgt, Fllculty ffltfflbtts should illcludt 
lffc• Milford, IN 46542. Tiu subscriptlaff rlltt Is $25.00/ytllr ,,,u1 
tluir d,pllrlffltfft, All letters fflUSt bt •igfftd, Nllfflts will be 
bll<k Issues llrt ,,.,,zJl,,blt llt $1.25 lcop!f, Tiu apillioffs erprtsstd 

withluld upoff rt'f"est lff ctrllliff illstllffcts, ill Sclwlll&tu: "" those of tlu m,tlwrs llffd editors "'"' do ffOt 
Sclwwtu: nseroes tlu right to njtct letters thllt "" libtlous or 
UUSSllrily r,prtstfft t1u apillioffS oftlu efttirtedltarilll bollrrl of 
obsc<fft by tlu laws oftlu lbcittd Stlltes. SclwlAstu: lllsowlll edit 
Sclwwtu: or oftlu lbciwrsity ofNatrt v,.,,.,, Its lldfflilllstrll• 
far cop!ffittillg, K"'"'"'"tu:lll or sptllillg errors llffd Sclwwtu: 
tlaff,fllculty or studeffts, Editorillls •igfftdSclwlll&tic r,prtstfft 
•1:!fIt. BtCllUstofspllCt, Sclwlastu: Cllffffotpri1<t llllletters receirJtd, 
t1u apillioff of t1u ffllljority of tlu tttcutiw editoriAI bollrd, Mllffuscripts llrewelcame. Alluffsolicitltdfflllttri,ds became t1u 
Addrtss 11U corrtspondtnct to : 
prop,rty ofScltolllStic, 
Tiu Editor 

Sclw/J,stu:Cop!fright 1993Sclw/J,stu:Mllg,uille, Allrights r~stroed, R,pro­
LIFortufft Ctffttr 
dw:tioff ill whole orlffpllrtwltlwutwritttffperm/ssioft ls prohib­
Notre Dllfflt, IN46556 

ited, 


EDITORIAL 


Will They Maintain Their Progressive Platform? 
Last month, a majority of the student body elected David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh to lead them over the next year as student body president and vice president. The results are a sign that the students at Notre Dame are calling for a change; they chose two relative outsiders on the Notre Dame political front over the conventional hall president and student senator candidates that run each year. But can they fulfill their campaign goals of abolishing student government and bringing the Grateful Dead to Notre Dame? Do they even intend to? Or will our progressive student leaders abandon their tie-dyed T-shirts and baseball caps and don the tried and true Rep ties and khaki pants of traditional student government representatives? Will those attempting to free the campus of politics be transformed into campus politi­cians after a few weeks in the bureaucracy that we call student government? The election of 1994 is not the first time that the students chose change. In 1972, R. Calhoun Kersten ran for student body president, with an unique running mate, a cat named Uncandidate. Students were fascinated by Kersten's radical platform: oligarchy, consistent drug quality and the distribu­tion of scholarships by lottery. Kersten opened his campaign by pulling a sword from a stone and orating from a burning bush. The student body, sparked by a wave ofreaction to their times and the widespread protests that had recently ended over the Vietnam war, elected Kersten. He was crowned king of Notre Dame on the steps of the· adminstration building. Highlighting his reign was an inaugural ball and a "King for a Day" contest After a short period of time, Kersten resigned, leaving the office to the Uncandidate.While Hungeling and Orsagh are not looking to tum "democracy" into oligarchy and neither the president­nor vice president-elect is a domesticated animal, this year's campaign was somewhat reminiscent of the 1972 election. It is reassuring to hear rumors that Hungeling and Orsagh will not be "abolishing" student government at the inception of their term on April 1 as promised during the campaign, since such a drastic action could only lead to strained ties between the students and the administration, a relationship that is often tense as it is. Antagonizing, or "harassing" the admin­istration, as Hungeling and Orsagh promised during their interview with Scholastic, may not be the best way to handle the adminstration, although Scholastic agrees that increased pressure on the adminsitration by the students is a must 
But the other rumors circulating about our leaders-to-be are just as frightening. Remember, Dave and Matt, you were elected because you promised to change the student govern­ment bureaucracy. As you seem to be finding out, fulfilling your campaign promises, especially bringing the Grateful Dead to Notre Dame, may be more difficult than it originally seemed. But maintaining your personalities is more impor~ tant than falling prey to the typical student government cookie cutter. Hopefully the student body has not been misled by the 
Hungeling and Orsagh campaign. The student body voted for the changes they promised; it seems as if that's what they should get. Scholastic hopes that the new leaders won't fall back on their promises and disappoint all those who suported them. 
They may have started out as a joke candidacy; if Hungeling and Orsagh really "ran only because we knew our friends would get a kick out of it," hopefully they will learn to take their responsibility seriously. All the national attention they are receiving won't get anything accom­plished at Notre Dame; it can only serve as a diversion. Hungeling and Orsagh need to stop posing for AP photos and start making plans to either scrap their campaign prom­ises and make a new agenda or start working to fulfill their go~s. It is true that Notre Dame needs more "fun," and Scholastic wishes David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh the best of luck in their endeavor. . 
-·Scholastic 


NEWS 


Correct Me 
If I'm 


Wrong 
Shut up, you water buffalo." With those words, Israeli-born freshman Eden Jacobowitz set off a political correctness controversy at the University of Pennsylva­nia. During finals week last spring, Jacobowitz was disturbed by the noise five African-Arrlerican sorority sisters were mak­ing outside his dorm He yelled out the window at them. The women charged him with racial harassment under the university's hate-speech policy. Jacobowitz explained that "water buffalo" was not a racial slur ­in Hebrew the term is slang for "fool" or "dummy." Although the charges were even­tually dropped, the incident called into ques­tion the existence of the hate-speech policy and showed the easily-crossed line between what one person may believe is freedom of expression and another may interpret as dis­criminatory. Penn is not alone in its problems dealing with the thorny idea of political correctness. Universities are supposed to be places of academic freedom and intellectual stimula­tion. Increasingly, however, the nation's campuses are becoming polarized into camps accusing each other ofpolitical incor­rectness. Notre Dame is not immune to the debate. The vague term "political correctness" translates into a few specific areas when it 
. ; ­
. . 
' • • 
Blurry are the lines betweenfree expression and hate speech, diversity and quotas, curriculum and ideology, and the modern university is the battle groundfor this on-going debate 
by Katie Wiltrout 
-. ---­
' • • • ,~• 
comes to universities. On one hand, politi­
cal correctness is a game of numbers.. The 
composition of the student body and the 
composition ofthe faculty becomes an issue 
-henceNotreDame'spresentdrivetoward 
a more culturally diverse population. There 
is also the issue of curriculum. On many 
college campuses there is a move toward 
including less traditional works and courses 
in curriculums. Another manifestation of 
political correctness on college campuses is 
the debate about free discussion· and when 
free discussion cros~s the. line into dis­
crimination, as the water buffalo incident at 
Penn showed. 
Harold Attridge, dean ofthe College of 
Arts and Letters, addressed some of these 
concerns. As for curriculum, Attridge said 
that there is no general consensus in the 
College about what should or should not be 
taught in reference.to multiculturalism, al­
though he admitted that "there is a certain 
degreeofa somewhat traditional curriculum 
approach -'-through· the core courses like 
western civ, etc." It is his opinion that 
cultural diversity should be a part ofliberal 
arts, but he feels that it is inappropriate to 
require students to take courses that are 
about ideology. ,_ Dr.FrederickWright,assistantdeaninthe 
College of Arts and Letters and the director 
SCHOLASTIC 

-~-. --­
.,, ' ­
l • • ' P,_ • ' 








course and curator of photography at the said, "We live in a world where men and 
of African and African-American studies, Snite, said that political correctness, how­
''We live in a world 

everitis defined, has made him more aware women, no matter what their racial origins, 
I 

about how he refers to men and women inmust be studied ... I am not in favor of 
where men and 

the classroom. "It's· a reminder that actions traditionally accepted as·exemplary in their 
throwing away the canon [a group of works 
do have an effect," he said. The negative field], but argue in favor of including 
women, no matter 

side comes in that the need to speak "cor­women, non-white Western and non~West­
what their racial 

rectly" has stifled a lot of discussion at em alike." 
times. "There has to be a place in the culture 
origins, must be 

for getting things out in the open," said _the curriculum debate in a different light. 
English professor Stephen Fredman sees Moriarty, who sees the classroom as one of
studied ... I am not in 

those places. ology is or has been against Catholicism, 
He pointed out that much of American ide­At Notre Dame in particular, he added,
favor of throwing 

"We're afraid often times to say things that Catholics. "To not know this," he said, "is 
particularly against Irish, Polish and Italian 
may be perceived as controversial because to have a debilitating blindness. Our stu­
away the canon, but 

we're a polite campus ... What I'm afraid of dents with those backgrounds often have 
argue in favor of 

is the political correctness movement will bought into a myth of consensus that does 
make people afraid to dig in and look at a
including women, 

subject. To me, there's too little discussion, Fredman calls for the recognition ofeach 
not recognize their own difference." 
not too much." 
non-white Western

individual's own history. "Everybody loses 
when you try to make everybody the same," Abig facet ofbeing a politically correct 
and non-Western 

university is the composition ofboth ing traditions that have been excluded, such 
he said. Seen from this perspective, study­
student body and faculty. Notre Dame's as the American Indian or African-Ameri­
alike." 

student body and faculty have been prima­can, is a reminder that many of the valid 
rily white and Catholic; the university is Western traditions have been excluded in 
trying to diversify the undergraduate popu­
-Frederick Wright, 

lation and hir_e more minority faculty. How­
the past 
ever, the situation at Notre Dame is uniqueInclusive curriculum leads into the topic 
Assistant Dean of the 

because as the administration sets goals for of open discussion because studying the 
College ofArts and 

more diversity, it holds on to the belief that issues often sparks debate about them. Ac­
Notre Dame must retain its Catholic charac­
Letters

cording to Fredman·, what is most necessary 
. ter. It seems as ifthese goals may contradict is not being afraid to talk 
each other. about sensitive topics. 
Not so, says Dean "America is a microcosm 
Attridge. The word ofthe world. IfAmericans 
"catholic" means univer­can figure out how to talk 
sal. Christianity and Ca­to one another, maybe we 
tholicism have a canfigureouthowtospeak 
multicultural record, and to the rest of the world." 
he points out that there is There are other profes­
nothing theoretically ir­sors who share Fredman's 
reconcilable between cul­view that political correct­
tural diversity and a ness, at hear-4 is about de­
Catholic university. bate and language and 
But others are not so breaking down barriers. 
quick to agree. For Assis­Political correctness goes 
tant Dean Wright, atNotre wrong when rules of cor­
Dame political correct­rectness paralyze debate. 
ness "means toeing, cer­

Professor Stephen Moriarty, a teacher of the Arts and Letters Core 
MARCH 3, 1994 
tainly where theology is concerned, the Catholic 


Professor Moriarty sees a lot of anti-Ca­tholicism on the faculty but notes that many are afraid to talk about it because they fear it would get them in trouble.· On the other hand, those with deeply religious beliefs are fearful to talk because they don't want to be -accused of injecting their own beliefs into the classroom. The result is self-censorship 
"We're afraid often times to say things that may be perceived as controversial 
Both sides of a debate can use the term to their own advantage. "There is an element of the faculty that, in terms of per­centage of faculty [ who are Catholic] would take us back to the 1950's," he said. To them; you are not politically correct unless youwant a faculty ofdedicated and commit­ted Catholics, he explained. 

on both sides. "People really aren't talking about the important things," he said. 
Regardless of ideology, the fact is Notre Dame's percentage of minority faculty I1i ,, ,.. is quite low. Wright pointed out that there are only nine African-American professors in the entire university, including the law school -a number that works out to less 
ii ,, ·­
r· 
than 2 percent of the faculty. ''There are so few black faculty here, the university cannot be said to be politically correct." 
r 
Professor Richaro Sheehan accepts that statistic but points out that Notre Dame is limited by practical factors. He said, "For Notre Daine to_ think that it can go out and recruit 5 to 10 percent of its faculty as minorities is unrealistic. . Good minority candidates are likely to have better job op­portunities than Notre Dam·e can provide." 
.ProfessotSheehan is the chair of the Fac­ulty Sen~te, a -body of ·53 -melllbers that formulates opinion on matters concerning the faculty and· passes· sentiments along to the administration.· In his time on the. Senate, the issue-: of political correctness been dis~ cussed in conjunction. with two different'top­
-ics .:_ the decision whether or. not to rec­ognize Gays and Les­.bians of.Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's and the debate on Catholic character and the fac­ulty. He said, "I have heard the notion ofpo­litical correctness used on both sides of the 
-spectrum, more usu­ally, the conservatives use the term to exclude change." 
"On the other hand, you have people that would argue any_ attempt to increase the percentage of Catholics on campus, in the 
because we're a polite 
campus ... What I'm ­
faculty at least, would be politically incor­rect and an abrogation ofacaderilic free­
afraid of is the 
dom." It is his view that "the term 'politi­cally incorrect' may be anice way of an
political correctness 
academic saying 'y9ur opinion is logically indefensible.' It's like calling someone a
movement will make 
scum bag, questioning their intellectual and 
academic capabilities, in a way that is par­
ticularly hostile, by questioning their open­
people afraid to dig in 
and look at a subject. 
ness to debate." · Although Sheehan has ·~een the political .
-To me, there's too 
correctness movement getting ,a lot ofpress· lately, he doesn 'tperceive any ·more or less 
little discussion, not 
antagonism than .10 years ago or 20 years. ago. It just seems that now, people are ·more
too much,." 

inclined to pick on particular incidents. · · · 
_Moriarty share_s h.is sentiment.. "People· get all excited about little _minor or tiny
~-?rofessor Stephen 
things, and theyldon't seelhebig issues." In the omnipresen_t quibbling about po:µ.tic;al
· Moriarty 
correctnes·s, bigger issues tend -to ·get shuffled aside, Moriarty quote4 Winston 

______..________· ":Churchill, who _said;. ''--The reason. aca--. demic politics get so dirty is that there's so little at stake." 
For · Professor Fredman, however, · the little_ things can add up to a lot. He 
··said ofthe current ex~ pansion of ideas and awareness~ "I think it'.s a positive trend in that the forces of in­tolerance seem· to be mounting a crunpaign and that anything we do for tolerance is a positive step." 
NEWS 



-VS.


Arts 
When political . correctness damages
. . . 


.
the 'educational 


Policy
. process 

are not protected under the First Amend-University of Wisconsin decided to hire byKatie Wiltroui merit because the school's intellectu~ com-. seventy minority professors in the next three munity shares values that "go beyond a mere years. .In ~is bqok_ !lliberal_ Educati.on, Dinesh . standardized commitment to open and re-The problem with the decision to hire a 
D'Souza examines political correctness strained debate." . .. more diverse faculty comes with a hurdle-. and its implication on learning at_Ainerican · SUNY Buffalo extends the resolution there are hot enough qualified candidates to universities. ·He comes• to the conclusion even further, however, in threatening to take go around. D' Souza points out that the rate thatthe current movement toward broaden~ the punishment of anyone found in violation at which blacks are going into postgraduate 
· ing curriculum !!fld diversifying the make-beyondthe'university. Thefacultyresolves · education is 11ctually dropping. In 1979, ·up of ·the student bqdy and f~culty hurts ·to· write _to any bar to which students in ~.056 Ph.D.'s were awar_ded to blacks, by 
•educatibnratherthanenhancesit. He writes, -vioJationapply, offering,,"where appropri-· 1987 the number dropped to just 780·doc­'\.. frbera1. arts students, IJicludfog those at-a~. our conclusion that the student should toraldegreesoutofthetota132,000thatwere tending.Ivy, League s~h()()ls; are very like~y not be admitt~ to practice law." . . . . awarded.' Because of the increasing demand to.be expose<,! to an attempted brainwashing •. o•s·ouza cites Duke Un.iversity _as an.ex:. · for a shrinking pool 'of applicants, universi­that deprecat~ Westerri learning and exalts ample of a school which implements affir-· ties arefaced withl,i choice:;Tlley can fulfill 
· ·neo-Marxist ideology promo~d in the name • mative action programs for the facttlty to the ·· quotas with less' qualified. minority candi­... of.multicult~alism." : : · . . detriment ofits students' education. Inl988, . dates, or.hire better qualified applicants who ·_ · ·What m·akes D'Souza's conclusion inter-the universify passed a·policy that required hurts their statistics. •.. D 
.....:· ~sting _is not neces_s'ari1y· ttie claim "itself bµt. ··.· ·:· the fact that he-places the blame on univer­sity administrators and professors. D' Squza ·sees thecurrentfrend of political correctness as "a revolution imposed upon the students· by· a university elite, not bne discussed by society at large." And presumably1 it is not_. one discussed by students either. The author cites -example's of the imposition ·of 'this · trickle-dow,n political correctness; Here are 
just a few . ' _· . . 
In 1-988, the law school faculty ofthe State University ofNew Y_ork at Buffalo passed a .. resolution intended to prevent hate speech and discrimmatory remarks. The resolution warnedstudents not to make "remarks di­rected at another's race, s_ex, religion, na~ tional origin, -age or sexual preference." Violations of the rule, the professors claim, 
,. 

eve1yprograin and department to hire at leas_t one new blackby 1993 orface penal-· ties.· A similar trend exists across the nation: . Purdue University promised extra funds for ·the first five departments to hire a black; the  @~··@ @ @ b= @ ~ @) {£ a::::, @) {£ @ cf£ «J @· cf£ e==,  ml " -91% ·of the .stude~t body is while.• ;. 70% ofthe studen.t body is male. -10% of the faculJy is female.· ·.' -9% ofth(!.faculty, are. minorities. 122.3.. -86% of the student body is while.* -62% of the student body is male. -16%_ ofthe faculJy is female. -9% ofthe faculJy are minorities.  
.ii'm1@ ~m)@lru@~l01@ ~lruil®u'~©@lru ~@~~®@®  
1960 1991 , .. 94% ofcollege . -80"/o ofcollege students are white. students are while. -63% ofcoilege -45% ofcollege students are male. students are male. -90% ofPh.D.'s ·-33% ofgraduate , are male. sludents arefemale. -80% ofcollege -31% ofcollege faculties are male. faculties are female.  
P-,gun:s taken from B<yond P.C.: Toward a Politics of UNkrstanding; Nouc Dame admissions office auo11mcm statistic., institutional rc.carcb''University Count:1:Tcnured and TclDUC•Track Faculty,'' and "Pall Enrollment by Gender and Ethnicity" •Represents undergraduate enrollment only.  



p; 
NEWS COMMENTARY 
SHARE YOUR PROBLEMS WITH THE GIPPER! Now easier than ever! 
Eudora: Gipper.l@nd.edu Internet: gipper@darwin.cc.nd.edu Mosaic: in the "Campus Dirt" 
Mere hours, faithful followers, until your weary watcher can enjoy his due rest. Whether it's a stay in the rust belt or on to Cancun, a break from the drudgery is always a boon. 

PASTARIA UNMASKED 
Although break has begun for some, the Gipper had to share this bulletin with his 

· loyal readers without another moment's wait. Some of the Gipper's friends who work at the dining halls passed on this dis­turbing fact about the "healthy" pasta bar. Before those filling, high-carbohydrate meals ever sit on your plate, the pasta is covered with oil. 
Because the nutrition manager could not be reached, the Gipper resorted to asking a · couple of folks working the pasta line at NDH. The pasta, which is packaged pre­cooked, is doused with oil, they said, but a lot of it comes off when it's boiled. This ··comes as quite a consolation. The Gipper cannot understand the need for non-sticky 
I 


GOSSIP, INNUENDO & GENERAL MISCHIEF 
noodles, especially during the peak dining hall hours. 
NOTRE DAME FAUNA 
One ofthe Gipper'sJ uniorCWs passed on a tidbit about some other animals with more than four legs living on campus. En route to his Management 231 exam, our tipster walked through Stepan Chemistry Hall to warm himself. 
Between the doors he encountered a young, bespectacled, scientifically gifted and fashion-challenged Domer transporting a very large cockroach from Nieuwland. The approach of our budding business stu­dent apparently distracted the roach bearer enough to cause him to drop his pet on the floor. The insect was recaptured and all parties went on their way. 
The Gipper, of course, is curious about a large cockroach near the RADIATION building. Now the Gipp may be unusual, but the idea of a building with frosted windows that no one enters or leaves (save workers 
bringing supplies) scares the Gipp. This also seems to be a plausible site for breeding roaches the size the Dungeons & Drag­ons folks never dreamed of. 
The same day the Gipperreceived this message, he was cutting through Fitzpatrick on his way to an all-night DeBartolo experi­ence. From a room on his right came a shriek. Along the wall, by the ugly gray computer race­ways, ran a· small mouse (not the 
wiches from the vending machine. Finally, why are there never any squirrel carcasses on campus? ­


THE BLUEGLASS CONUNDRUM 

The Gipp supports recycling. He carries the glass and polystyrene from the Scholas­tic office to the sorting bins on the first floor of LaFortune. Trouble is, he still doesn't know what to do with all the brown glass from Cappio bottles and such. Right now he puts it in the "Blue/Green Glass" basket The Gipp has never seen blue glass on cam­pus. Nothing is SQld 'at the ·Fast Break convenience-at-a-cost store packaged in blue glass. Unless one plans on recycling the Basilica's stained glass, the Gipp expects to see only 7-Up bottles in that bjn. 
HOW TO CONSOLE A CATHOLIC 

What can you, a non-Catholic, say to your 
Roman Catholic friends tomorrow and ev­

ery other Friday during Lent at Notre Dame 
while you chow on flame-broiled tasties and 
they return from eating a fish by-product at 
the dining hall? · 

"At least it's not the Gilligan's Island 
theme meal." The Gipper suggests smirk­
ing. 

Three weeks will pass until you hear from -your Uncle Gipper again, Campus Watch­ers. Notto fear, because good old Gippy will return with fresh thoughts and renewed bit­terness. For now, hit a snake with a rake, bake a fudge cake, @ce a sheik to the lake and have a great break. D 





CAMPUS LIFE 


The OtherGolden Lady 
On top ofWNDU's antenna,, 1000/eet in the air, ·another golden statue ofMary looks down over the campus 
by Brian Kickham 

Stranger things have been spotted in the skies above Notre Dame, but not by reliable witnesses. High above the trees and buildings of the u,,niversity~ not far from the golden dome, there is another, less famous, golden lady that graces the skyline here at Notre Dame. Residing ii;irelativeobscurity and peace, a. small Mary figurine stands atop the antenna at the WNDU t:elevision station. Erected in 1957, as WNDU (broadcasting on channel 46 at that point) was just coming on the air, the statue has st~ for nearly 40 years watching over the greater Mishiwaka area. Unlike the well-known image on the dome, this statue is just 18 inches tall. It is made of 100 percent authentic aluminum and coated with a substance that makes it weather and wear resisitant, according to Dave Layman, a local South Bend resident who recently refinished the statue. Looking for an extra something to embel­lish the statj.on, the school administration wanted some piece of artwork to represent the univ_ersityatWNDU,andsoin 1957, the university held a design contest for the stu­dent,s. Art student Bob Zale came up with the winning·design, and the statue was cre­ated from.his design. After it had ·been installed on the 500 foot antenna, the WNDU personnel .thought it would be nice ·if somebody blessed the statue, and Father"E,dmund Joyce was called in to do the job. · "I liked the climb," said Father Joyce. "And it was a great way to see the dome." Hand over hand, rung by rung; Father 
Joyce climbed to the statue in the midst of a thunderstorm and made it holy. Later, his name and the date were en­graved on the statue. For many years the statue remained un­touched and unmolested, but things were not as static on the ground. WNDU was expand­ing, and when it decided to switch to a bigger and better antenna (and change from · channel 46 to channel 16)' in 
1969, the statue had to be . 
moved. 
According to George 

Molnar, chief engineer at the 
station, Mary's new antenna 
was over 1000 feet tall and 
provided a much better view. 
Again Father Joyce did the 
honors of blessing the statue, 
but this time heblessed itfrom 
the ground. 
This past summer, in accor­

dance with safety regulations, the station added new aviation beacons to the antenna tower and, therefore, had to take 
. Mary down for the third time while work 
· went on. During her hiatus, much needed repairs were done on the statue to remedy the effects of the harsh South Bend weather; 
"The lightning made pimples and dimples, if you will," said Molnar. 
Local refinisher Dave Layman did most of the work, anodizing and plating the figu­rine. "You should see it before and after; he did a marvelous job," said Molnar of Layman's work. 
After restoration was completed, the statue lacked just one last touch, a blessing by Father Joyce. Once again, the blessing was made. As far as Molnar can recollect, the statue was blessed three times, "once in 1958, once in 1970 and once in 1993, al­though I don't know that a blessing wears off," he said. 

Perhaps it doesn't improve the stations broadcasting power nor ensure that every­thing WNDU broadcasts is family material, butitdoes look nice. And in the image-filled world oftelevision, it seems that images are all that matters. 0 

MARCH 3, 1994 



By Katie Redding 
Although students see them three times every day for four years, most students do not know much more about the dining hall checkers than their first names. Many of the checkers have worked here for a few years,but some have been here for more than 14 years. Before they were check­ers, they were employed as accountants, bookkeepers, nurse's aids and hospital workers. Mike Hardrick, a South Dining Hall checker, worked at a nursing home before he came to Notre Dame. "I got tired of seeing the suffering and pain," he said. "Notre Dame is a totally different atmosphere." North Dining Hall worker Mary Jane Szyarto worked in the bookkeeping depart­ment of the South Dining Hall for 14 years before she retired in 1980. She and her husband Jim came back to work as dining hall checkers six years ago. "We got bored," she said, "We aren't golfers, and we needed something to do. We wanted to be back with the students and to keep our affiliation with Notre Dame." Jim Szyarto also worked at Notre Dame before, although not in a full time position. In 1937, he worked at Notre Dame as a coffee boy and a bus boy in South Dining Hall. According to Szyarto, the dining hall has changed a loL Students dressed up to eat, and the dining hall was very quiet because 
there was a priest at each table. Moreover, 
the students were served by student waiters. 
The checkers have various reasons for 
choosing their work. Many simply liked the 
ideaofworkingforNotreDame. Some,like 
Anna Britt, a housewife and mother of three 
children, choose to work because it gets her 
"out of the house." 
Hardrick likes working in the dining hall because "every day is an adventure." 
Indeed it is. The checkers have seen some interesting things in the dining hall. Loretta Sanders, the head checker at North Dining Hall since 1989, said the worst practical joke she has seen was a deer foot on the salad bar. 
"We figured it wasascience student play­ing a joke," she said. "But we never did find out who did it." 
Hardrick remembers a time when a stu­dent jumped on the South Dining Hall con­veyor beltand surfed it all the way into the kitchen, then jumped off and ran. "The dining hall manager came running out of the kitchen yelling 'Who was that?!"' he re­called. "It was so funny." 
Many of the checkers also mentioned various food fights, including the one at North Dining Hall's pancake breakfast last year. 
According to the checkers, however, the students are usually polite, and they rarely have major problems. _ 
"Everybody's friendly," said Hardrick. "There's no snotty attitudes here, at least not the students." 
No matter how much· they like the stu­
dents, though, the workers m·ust occasion­ally enforce the rules. Ifa student is caught improperly using an 
I.D. card, the worker must call a supervisor, and the student is fined $25. · 
Monitoring the doors is the least-liked 
duty among the workers. "It's like guard 
duty. None of us like it," said Donna 
Antonides. .. 
In the past, students have tried to walk out 
with loaves of bread ·under each arm, con­
tainers filled with liquid, sal~ and pepper 
shakers, tuppeiwaretontairiers of cereal and 
drinking glasses. 
"Students will take four or five drinking glasses each to their dorm," said Antonides. "That's why we run short." 
"Ifwe see students stealing, we approach them, stop them, take the food and tell them that they can only take out one piece of 1:'ruit or.pastry, which they know anyway," said BritL 
She said that students are usually coopera­tive, but sometimes _they try to get away. "This one time I wanted to grab the guy, but hejust kept going," said Britt. 
"We have the ·same rules," noted Antonides. "We can't take food out with us either." 
One of the hardest parts of monitoring, 'said Antonides, is turning· students away who come in after hours. 
"We used to let some students in after7:00 
p.m. or 1:30 p.m.,'' said Antoi:iides. "But now we get 65 or 100 students. We would run out of food so we can't do it anymore, 


10 
SCHOLASTIC 

' ' ,/ , :-,. :· , •• ' '.' . •• •• , •• •• • ::_ • ' , • • • ' • , : C• -•• • , • • •--•• . • 
even though we hate io send them away." As favorite theme day, she said, because "itwas come in, and we call each other by name," a result, Antoni des said they "get cussed ~mt a refreshing change from a dreary winter for said Greg King. or [the students] beat on the door ... They both the students and the employees." Hardrick agreed: "You name them, and don't realize µtat if they all come in, we all Despite the fact that the checkers see thou-I've meant them." Hesaid that he has gotten have to work over." sands ofstudents a day, many have managed to know some of the students very well and 
Thejobofacheckerdoeshaveitsfun side, to get to know the students they see. has even gone out to eat with some students however. Antonides celebrated Christmas "I know many of the students when they on occasion. at the North Dining Hall by Certainly, the checkers are dressing as Mrs. Claus and not usually given the opportu­hearing Christmas wishes from nity to see much more of the the st4dents, other employees students lives than their eating and managers. habits. However, occasionally 
"Being a total stranger, I was there is an opportunity to learn really touched that they truly moreabout the students. gave heartfelt wishes to me -Antonides shared the story of and unselfish wishes too,"she a day she found a girl crying at said. She was also excited a table in the dining hall. "I when some of. the students went over to her, and she was came around.after Christmas to upset because her boyfriend tell "Mrs. Claus" that their had left her," she said. So wishes had been granted,-from Antoni des talked to the girl and Garth Brooks tickets to getting told her she could always talk dates. · to her ifshe needed somebody. 
Anton ides dressed up as ~~=~ 8 1r d She explained: "I want the 
· ren a sen 
Bob<;> the clown for Circus South Dining Hall checker Mike Hardrick said that "every day Is an students to feellike I'm a mom Lunch. qrcus Lunch was her adventure" on his job. away from home." D 

Bruno's North ·' Open for carry out and delivery only. ,_Order.a small pizza and receive Available for private parties and banquets. .~ another small pizza FREE! On Thursday March 3, 115 N. 31 (just North of campus) All you can eat pizza for $4.99. 2610 Prairie Avenue 
273-3890 288-3320 
Bruno's South 
Accepting reservations on weekends. 

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer free delivery of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
11



MARCH 3, 1994 . 

\I 
III [' ' 
i 

JI 
Send information/or your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distrac~ons, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. _ 

Thursday 3 
AcousUc Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., Lafortune. Basketball: Notre Dame women vs. Loyola, 7:30 p.m., JACC. Concert: Unive:sity Orchestra Winter Concert. 8:00 p.m., Washington Halt 

Friday 4 
Last Day or Classes Before Break 


Saturday 5 
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, 7:00 p.m., JACC. 
Mid Semester Break 

.For Mote Inforination daff£2 .. 
Lal'ortune Infonnlltioll.Desk: · 63f8128 
· Senior Class:631-5136 . Strident UnionBo~d:631-7757 
i -~. ·. ., '. . . . ., , ·, . ., . . , . . 
Junior Class: 631-5117: .. nite Filrn <. Hot 
,· . . . ~ 
31~7361 
Sophpmofe C!Js: 611-5225 ND News Line: 631:Siido'·~·· JACCTicket lnf()rmation!F 631-7.354 . NotreDame MenuEine: 
Weekend.·.·.· ·· · ··. · .· ·< .~-. · 

TouchFour -­
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6050 for news headlines x 6052 for_world news x 6121 for top pop albwns 
I x 6571 for prime time TV · x 6129 for video releases 


Sunday 6 
Mid Semester Bre~k 
x 1031 for local weather x 6736 for national weather x 6123 for movie reviews x 9463 for thought for the day x 6238 for TV sports events x 6230 for national sports report x 6263 for college basketball 

Monday 14 
Classes Resume Film: "The Story of Floating Weeds,'' 
7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. 
Tuesday 15 
Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. 

TOUCH 





FOUR 

Wednesday 16 
Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­Kecrum Chapel. 




SUBWAY Has A Sandwich:­For ANY Size Appetite!! l 

> • 


1

FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK MALE ATHLETE OF THEW.EEK 


Lisa Junck: JI\_Dck, a sophomore from Oregon.Wisconsin, Greg Louder: Louder, a senior from Acton, Massachusetts, ran a school-record at the Alex Wilson Invitational. In became the first Notre Dame player to be named CCHA doi!}g ·so she qualifi~d for the NCAA meet with her time Player of the Week after allowing only four-goals on 48 
of 7.93 in the 55-meter hurdles. shots against Michigan State and Ferris State. For _the week, Louder posted a 1.92 goals-against average and a .917 save percentage in 125 minutes of play. 
:i 
SPORTS 


r ·With a new on-campus stadium and an experienc~d program, II the Notre Dame baseball team looks forward / to increased support this year 
by Jeff Weghorst 

Three strikes and you 're out. That's how it works in baseball. But what if you lose three starting pitchers from last year's squad? Is the season over before it begins? Couple that with the loss oftwo ofthe top-10 hitters in the country. The writing's on the wall, isn't it? · Winning games this season? Mr. Spock would say it's an illogical thought. This team cannot duplicate its feats of 1993, go­ing 46-16 and falling one game short of the College World Series in Omaha. This team will have to settle for less, he would say. Head coach Pat Murphy ain't no vulcan though. Gone from the '93 J>itcliing staffaif start­ers Chris Michalak~ b~ve Sinnes and Alan Walania, taking with them 26 of Notre Dame's 46 victories. Gone are Eric Danapalis (.438, 13 HR, 85 RBI) and Edwin Hartwell (.447, 13 HR, 68 RBI), the team leaders in batting average and power hitting. 
Still, Murphy plots the course. Heplans to go boldly where he has not gone before. He's ready to make the plane reservations to Omaha. 
"I'm really excited about this club. Any­body who wants to call it a rebuilding year because of what's on paper should stick around in late May and see what this team's like because they're going to be a good ballclub," said Murphy. 
Don't think that a team can't replace su­perstars in a hurry and be ready to compete. It was not long ago that people were talking about a certain football team losing a certain quarterback and a certain running back and a certain fullback. That team was last seen staking its claim to the national champion­ship at the Cotton Bowl. 
The great programs don't need time to rebuild. 
"If I have to rebuild a program, then there's some major problems in it::This program is built. Now it's just a matter of reloading.We'realwaysgoingtobegood.If we're putting forth the principles and phi­
· · 
~ 
. 
losophies that we do year in and year out, peoplearegoingtostepup,"saidMurphy. 
"Last year we had guys step up, and this year I think we have guys that will step up again," said senior -third. baseman Matt Haas. 
It doesn't take long to realize that the 1994 team can do some stepping. · Returningtothesquadisjuniorshortstop Paul Failla, a top major league prospect who has now hung up his football shoulder pads to play baseball full-time. He solidi­fies an infield that los~ no returning starters. If there is an experienced unit on the team, it's the infield. 
Starting at first base will be either junior Craig DeSensi or sophomore Robbie Kent. If Kent starts, DeSensi will be the desig­nated hitter. . · 
At second will be senior Greg Layson whobatted.363lastseason,andseniorMatt Haaswhoplanstotieldballslikeavacuum at third. · · 
Splitting time ~hind the plate will be junior captain Bob Lisanti and freshman 
1.6 
•SCHOLASTIC 

Dennis Twombley. 
"The-one area where we'll definitely be better is defensively:we're just a year older in the infield," said Murphy. 
· The story is a bit different in the out­field. This · is where Hartwell and Danapalis once roan1ed. But Murphy doesn't foresee any problems. 
Sophomore Rowan Richards and sophomore Mark Mapes will both see time _in left field. Mapes will supply some of the. power hitting lost from last year's squad. 
"Mapes? You're going to be hearing · about Mark Mapes," said Murphy. . Freshman Scott Soilmann will chase 
' ' 

fly balls out in center field and sopho­more Ryan ·Topham, a member of the Freshmen All-Atnerica team last season, will be in right field. 
This brings us to the pitching staff, the big question mark and the primary rea­son behind a fall in the polls from last year's 11 to a preseason rank of 20 in 
Baseball America. 
. Returning as the number one starter will be senior Tom Price, coming off a record of 12-2 from last season.,He's the only starter with big game experience and the Irish will to do anything more than I have in the past," said Price. "We know what it takes to get there. As long as the new players believe we can accomplish what we set out to accomplish, we can do it as a team." 


"I want Tom Price to go out there and take his 15 starts and do what he can with them and not try to take the pressure upon himself and be perfect. Tom's not the type of kid who would do that any­way. He'll keep it under control," said Murphy. 
Freshman Larry Mohs has won the job as the number two starter and at number three will be either junior Craig Allen or freshman Darin Schmalz. The fourth spot is between Gregg Henebry and Garrett Carlson. 
· The Irish have few worries about the relief corps coming out of the bullpen, a unit which is improved. Sophomore AJ. Jones will be the set-up man for junior closer Tim Kraus. While Jones throws sidearm in the 70's, Kraus 
Sophomore Robbie Kent Is fighting for a starting spot at first base. 

be counting on his change-up, breaking ball and moving fastball. Does Price feel any extra pressure this year as the leader of the staff? . "Not really. I don't think I'll have 
brings theheatwithafastballin themid­80's. This variance makes them an ideal one-two combination. 
"We feel pretty good about our young pitching staff, I think. Youknow, they're not proven. They're going t6 take their lumps early, but I think we'll come out of it okay," said Murphy. 
Clearly, this team is ready to face the competition. 
The schedule challenging the Irish this season is no walk in the park. While the wind blows cold over the frozen tundra here on campus, the team must play its first month on the road, beginning with its series against Tulane, atop-20 squad. The Irish then move on to the Kingdome tournament in Seattle, where they'll be facing the top-10 ranked Tennessee Volunteers. 
The home opener will feature a battle against Indiana on March 30 and on April 2 the perennial powerhouse Miami Hurricanes come to town. 
The Indiana game will mark the official opening of Frank Eck Stadium, a 3,000 seat on-campus facility which will make students forget about driving down to Coveleski. The new ballpark should bring about a sizable boost in attendance figures. 
"I think it's a tremendous statement by the university, and I have tremendous thanks to both Frank Eck and the university for allowing it to be built It's a dream for me. I mean I'm talking about a real thing that I've dreamed of since the day I walked on this campus," said Murphy. "It is just a great statement to a hundred years of Notre Dame baseball tradition." 
"I think it'll be fun to get the students out there," said Price. Foropponents,Eck Stadium will become the graveyard of-dreams unfulfilled; But for now the Irish need to start realiz­ing their dreams. How far can they go? 
"I'd have to say the last, probably the last three teams we've had, have been more talented than this team," Murphy said. "But I think this team will gel with an attitude and I think that we can be knockin' on Omaha's door again." 
Maybe this isn't the logical analysis, but it might just be the right one. Let's play ball. D 


MARCH 3, 1994 . 
SPORTS 


Fearless Play 
,. 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team hopes to compete in: the NCAA tournament that it will be hosting this year 
by Jake Schaller 

We 're not afraid of anybody. We play 
the best schedule that we can play." 

This comment from Bob Bayliss, Notre Drune's men's tennis coach, shows the type ofconfidence his team has built over the past three years. Notre Dame Men's tennis has become a consistent top 20 team and has made three straight appearances in the NCM tournament, including their magical ride to the finals in 1992. 
One would think that this year's team would have an extremely tough task ahead ofthem. Consider this: The team graduated five seniors, including All-Americans Chuck Coleman and Will Forsyth, who is now trying his game in the professional ranks. 
"I'd like to think that we've reached a certain experience in play that we can expect to be competitive every year regardless of who we lose," said Coach Bayliss. But the team returns captain Andy Zurcher, who plays in the number one slot Last year, Zurcher was slated to be in the number one slot but fell victim to a wrist injury. 
This year, with his wrist fully healed, Zurcher has been phenomenal. After being ranked number 19 by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association in the preseason, he up­set the number one ranked player in the country, Texas' Chad Clark, 6-2, 3-6, 6-1. Zurcher, who is competing this year as a graduate student, brings more to the team than his outstanding ability. 
"Andy is a terrific leader and example for our team and young players. He is very focused. He wastes little time and he haSa professional attitude," Bayliss-said. 
This year the men's tennis team joined football and women's soccer in recruiting a blue chip freshman class, maybe the best in Bayliss' tenure as coach. The class starts with Ryan Simme, a native ofSpring, Texas. Simme, who won the gold medal in the United States Olympic Festival, was ranked 36th in the country at the beginning of the season, the highest of any freshman. Simme hasn't disappointed anyone. He is now ranked 32. He is playing well at number two on the team and even stepped up to win a match at the number one spot against Illi­nois. 
"He has shown a lot of poise for a fresh­man," said Bayliss. 
Mike Mather, from Louisville, KY, has also been an impact player, playing around the number four spot on the team. Joining this pair are Ron Mencias and Jamie Viqueira. 
Perhaps the most overlooked but possibly the most important part of the team· is its quality players in the middle of the ladder 
and those who give it .its depth. Seniors 
Todd Wilson and Tommy North and sopho­
mores Mike Sprouse and John Jay O'Brien 
all have made significant contributions this 
year. 
The Irish are off to a 7-1 start; their only 
loss was a 4-3 setback at the hands of Texas. 
The team, now ranked 14, has come back 
and recently had one of their best wins, a 7­
0 victory over a good Wisconsin squad. 
"It was our finest match of the season," 
said Bayliss. 

Although the road to the NCAA Tourna­ment will be as tough and bumpy as ever, it will not be long-one.' The 1994 NCAA Division l Men's Tennis Championship will be held at Notre Dame's Courtney Tennis Center and Eck Tennis Pavilion. The Courtney Tennis center ,will use 20 courts and add 2,300 pei:manent seats to the six varsity courts for tfie event The Eck Tennis · Pavilion's six courts will be used in case of 

inclement weather. Also the South Bend Racquet Club might make eight more courts available if necessary. 
The event, which will decide a team champion and finalists in singles and doubles, gives Notre Dame and the sur­rounding community a chance to view the pinnacle ofcollegiate tennis for the first time since Notre Dame hosted the event in 1971. In that year, then-freshman Jimmy Connors of UCLA won the men's singles title over Stanford's Roscoe Tanner. The. top 16 teams in the nation will vie for the team championship, in. addition to 64 singles players and 32 doubles teams who will com­

-pete for the singles and doubles champion­-ships. · If the Irish continue to improve on their already outstanding play, the outcome of their play will likely be a fourth straight trip to the NCAA Tournament and perhaps the finals, right here in South Bend. . 


SPORTS 

High Hopes 
With the leadership of a strong senior class, the Irish women's tennis team plans to crack the top 10 this· year 
Sophomore Holyn LQrd finished last season with a 22-match wlnn_lng streak. 
mores made an impact on arrival last season, well," said Crabtree. by Jake Scalier Holyn Lord and Sherri Vitale. Lord ended Junior Laura Schwab and sophomore last season with a mn of 22 straight victo­Meredith Siegfried have both played well The Notre Dame women's tennis team, 
ries, and by the end ofthe seasonwas playing this season. Schwab is coming off a year in 
coming off a season where they made fourth. which she won seven of her last eight 
their first appearance in the NCAA Champi­"She's also very good mentally, and she is matches, including a win in the first round of 
onship, is off to an impressive start this very good at mixing it up," said Louderback. the NCAA team event Siegfried was simi­
season. Sherri Vitale also came on toward the end larly impressive last year as she and partner 
Last year's' 18-8 squad finished 19th ln of last season, working h~r way up to the Eniko Bende won the MCC league title as the country and made it to the second round number two spot on the squad and winning the number three doubles. Another pleasant of the tournament. According to Coach Jay the number two singles title at the Midwest­surprise for the Irish has been freshman Erin Louderback and the players, the team is ern-Collegiate Conference Tournament Gowen. BothhercoachandFaustmann, her aiming to crack the top 10, to be ranked first The term "Senior Leadership," has been doubles partner, commented on how well in its region and .to do well at the NCAA used so much in discussions of high school · she has stepped into the line-up, fit in with championships. and collegiate sports that it has almost be­the team and played. 
These goals are by no means unattainable. come a cliche. But the leadership of the Though the Irish are 7-2, they are not The squad lost ohly one monogram winner, seniors on the Irish women's tennis team content to pat themselves on the back just Eniko Bende, and· has returned a talented cannot be trivialized or belittled. yet. The squad is coming off a grueling core of sophomores and an excellent senior "A key for us will be the continued lead­weekend where it played three matches. class. ership of our seniors," said Louderback. During that weekend they knocked off 16th­
Leatling that group·_ of sophomores is The senior tri-captains are Christy ranked Miami 5-2 and Kentucky 5-4, before WendyCrabtree. She will play number one Faustmann, Lisa Tholen and Terri Vitale. dropping a tough match to Northwestern. singles this _year after playing 22 of the 26 Midway through last season, Faustmann Wendy Crabtree led the Irish with victories matches in that position last year. As num­brokeintothelTArankingsforthefirsttime. in all of her singles and doubles matches of ber on~ last year, Crabtree recorded all of She has been contributing both in singles the weekend. Notre Dame's 14winsatthatspot,including . competition and in doubles with freshman "Northwestern was a really disappointing victories over seven ranked opponents. Erin Gowen this season. Her excellent loss for us, but we have to be able to learn Wendy herself finished the season tied for doubles ability allows the team to use her at from that loss, and turn things around," said number 46 spot nationally and was fifth in any position. Lisa Tholen is playing well in Crabtree. "Every season you'll have a the Midwest Region. She began this season singles this year and also is playing doubles match like that." ranked 29th in the country in singles and with Wendy Crabtree. Terri Vitale, set back Thescheduledoesn'tgetanyeasierforthe 11th in doubles with her partner Lisa with an injury most of last season, has also Irish who will compete in the National In­Tholen. , played in singles and doubles competition. door Tournament. Notre Dame will square 
CCWendy is very, very fast and has great While these players shine, they take noth­off against 17th ranked Brigham Young and 
quickness. Mentally she is also very tough. ing away from the other members of the number one ranked Stanford. She-will never take herself out of a match," squad who have surprised their teammates "We have a lot of tough matchesfrom now said Louderback. with their play and added depth to the team. on," said Crabtree. "We have a lot ofoppor­
Along with Crabtree, two other sopho-"Everyone on the team is playing really tunities to beat some top teams." 
REVIEW & PREVIEW 

by Miranda C. Sanford 

A "Choice" Concert On March 9, Pearl Jam, L7 and Follow For Now will perform at the Civic Center in Pensacola, Florida, at the "Rock For Choice" concert. Concert promoters said the aim of concert is to mark the anniversary of the "fatal shooting of a doctor outside a Pensacola abortion clinic." The fundraising concert is a part of the ''Rock For Choice" series sponsored by the Feminist Majority, an organization that "lobbies for abortion rights and for laws to protect abortion clinics from violence." The performance com­memorates the death of Dr. David Gunn, who was shot to death on March 10, 1993, outside the Pensacola· Women's Medical Services. The doctor's son is scheduled to speak at the concert. 
Leave the Man Alone! 

As if Michael Jordan had not already amazed people with his baseball career plans, now boxing?! Last Tuesday, boxing promoter Dan Duva offered Jordan a chance to fight the winner of the Evander Holyfield-Michael Moore heavyweight championship bout Jordan was also guar­anteed $15 million simply to fight Duva said, ''This offer is not a joke. We are 100 percent serious. It seems that Mr. Jordan loves the challenge of proving he is the best, regardless of the sport ... I would like to offer Michael the ultimate individual sport chal­lenge, an opportunity to fight for the heavy­weight championship of the world.". 
This is not the first time a match-up like this has been proposed. In the sixties, Wilt Chamberlain and Muhammad-Ali . were close to finalizing arrangements for Cham­berlain to challenge Ali for the heavyweight title. The deal fell through when Ali backed out Come on Mike, its $1S million more, just fall quiclcly! . 

Tackling the Crowd 

At a recent concert in the Houston Astro­dome, Wynonna Judd beckoned fans to come on stage and join her. Two fans responded eagerly and moved to get on the stage and dance with the singer. However, on the way they were tackled. 
One ofWynonna's major trademarks is to call on a "cowboy" to join her on stage to dance at the end of her concerts. She did just that, but a security guard "intercepted" .the fan. Wynonna, seeing the melee said, "Mr. Security Guard, you can let that man go." But the guards did not heed her call and held the men pinned to the ground. After the mistake was resolved, the rodeo officials apologized and offered the men a trip and tickets to another of Wynonna's shows. Great, they get the chance to be wrestled to the ground by over-zealous two security guards. 

No More B.O.! 

Everyone will eventually have to deal with company standards and requirements. Well, one former Calvin Klein perfume salesperson had a most embarassing experi­ence: she was fired for having body odor, otherwise denoted as an "unpleasant aroma." 
Sharon Bagnall, a Canadian resident, is suing the clothing and cosmetics maker for 150,000 Canadian dollars (US $112,000) under claims of wrongful dismissal. She stated, "I bathe everyday. I always wash my clothes. I never had a problem. It's just-not possible." She continued that she was the best demonstrator· with the highest sales records. She denied that she came to work covered in dog hair or that her family gave her deodorant as a gifr, _hinting that she smelled. All her boss could say was, "It's summer, it's hot, the airconditioner doesn't work. You have to be careful." Indeed you d0.i 

Guinness Under Attack 

A court in Calcutta ordered the "seizure of all copies of the 1994 _Guinness Book of Records sold in India because they fail to properly credit an Indian couple with setting a record driving around the world in 1989." Saloo and Neena Chaudhury were the first couple to !lrlve across six contintents. How­ever, the recent publication did not disclose this information. Therefore,.the books will be held in Calcutta, unsold, until the dispute between Guinness and the couple is re­solved. . 
The book, which is published in England, is very popularin India. After all,the record­holders are seen as heroes in t\leir native land . of India. 
Up & Coming Well, this will take little work as most of you all are heading to Cancun, South Padre, Key West or someother warm, exotic Notre Dame temporary relocation center. If not, and you are heading home like me, ton of new and interesting movies are out. A couple of "must sees" are In the Name ofthe Father and The Getaway. Both promise to be excellent. Also, the Annoyance Theater's "Real Live Brady Bunch" is re­turning to Chicago for a one week run at the :Park West in late March. This is where live re-enactments of Brady Bunch episodes are presented on stage. Othei:than that, have fun on break and get tan for me! 
ENTERTAINMENT 
In The Name 




of the 
by David Robinson 

Ask most people aboutJ ames Sheridan's new film In the Name of the Father, and they will pro~ably say something like, "Oh, that's that movie with the really great new U2 releases." They are correct about the movie's ·soundtrack, even though this opinion is misleading. Onthis evidence, I ,,.;ent into the theater feeling a bit skeptical. I expected it to be a picture in between Sleepless.in Seattle and Encino Man, with an appealing star (Daniel Day Lewis) and a soundtrack, haphazardly slapped together, that is supposed to make up for the weak plot. · I have spent. far too much time in movies that use snappy tunes to beg forgive­ness of an audience that might otherwise notice that they could be doing something worthwhile at the time. 


Father 

Happily, In the Name of the Father sus­tains no such illusion. The score, which includes such musical talents as Jimi Hendrix, Bob Marley, The Kinks, and, of course, Bono, blends in well with the action and the mood of the film itself. Familiar classics combine with new and original pieces by Bono and Sinead O'Connor to add to the intensity of the scenes, and also play on the picture's themes. -~ 
Daniel Day Lewis portrays Gerry Conlin, a young man living in Belfast, Northern 
. Ireland. Belfast is a place of political unrest in late 1974, and the Irish Nationalist move­ment is at a high fever there. . Seeing that Gerry is restless and constantly finds trouble with both the IRA and English troops, his father Guiseppe (Pete Postlethwaite) de­cides to send his son to London in search of a goodjob, opportunity and stability. After a few weeks there, Gerry wrongly becomes. 
a suspect in an IRA terrorist bombing, and eventuallyallofhisfriends-alongwithhis father and elderly aunt -become scape­goats for the London police. 
While in prison, Guiseppe tries to prove his innocence using a young lawyer (played by Emma Thompson) while Gerry, caught up in a crisis of his own identity, resigns to his fate of thirty years imprisonment. The story of Guiseppe's struggle to be free and Gerry's bitter mistrust provides only the backdrop for a poignant and moving story about father-son relationships. Tensions arise, during their time as cellmates, that are deeply rooted in the complex and difficult ordeal offatherhood. These are manifest in an eventual split between the two, as each approaches prison life on his own terms. 
In l:he end, Gerry finds the strength to fight for justicesees to clear his father's name. All aspects of the film, including casting, directing, sets and music, work to­gether perfectly to create a magnificent final product This movie is a profound commen­tary on the society in which we live, and a moving story about relationships, wisdom, and the nature of courage. D 

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities 

PAPA JOHN'S -NO LONGER THE CURE FOR A HANGOVER????? 
It's 3 am. on Saturday when that strange phenomenon strikes again-the beer munchies. At least, that's what the Daily Kansan at the University of Kansas calls the cravings most people get after a night of drinking. Local waitresses told the Kansan that students stumble into diners and fast food restaurants between 2 and 4 a.m. to eat and socialize and entertain the workers with drunken antics. What's their food of choice? Anything greasy, as long as it's accompanied by a big glass ofwater. Most kids think that food will ward off a hangover, but new information says it's all aLIE! A Kansas public health official said that certain foods can soothe a queasy stomach but unfortunately, there's still no cure for a hangover. So you can order Papa John's over and over again, but you'll still wake up with quite a headache. 



STUDENTS: BEWARE OF SNIPERS 
When was the last time you ran into a rifle-toting professor on campus? If you went to school in Oklahoma, it might be a regular thing. According to The Chronicle ofHigher Education, students at the University of Oklahoma expected a history professor to show them his 19th century musket, Iik~he does every year. Unfortunately, this year he must have looked a little shady-running across campus with his gun because another faculty member called the police. The caller reported that a sniper was on the loose and the SWAT team descended on to the campus in search of the criminal. Needless to say, the history class probably never gotta see the musket but they got quite a show by the police. Just in case Notre Dame ever gets that exciting, we shouldn't have to worry. After all, we can always depend on ROTC instead of SWAT! 

ENGLISHMAJORS... UH ... THERE'S STILL HOPE FOR YOU 
Humanities students have finally gotten their revenge against their fellow science counterparts. The Chronicle ofHigher Education reported that a study done by Stanley Schachter, a Columbia University psychologist shows that humanities professors tend to use the words "um," "uh" and "er" in speaking more than professors in science and mathematics. Although many believed that this was due to a lack of intelligence, the study supports the theory that these humanities professors merely have larger vocabularies. Their "filled pauses" are time-outs so that their brains can search for the right word. Actually, Schachter found that the more limited vocabularies belonged to the mathematicians. So everyone remem­ber this the next time you decide to harrass the students in the College of Arts and Leisure ... I mean Arts and Letters. 
edited by Jenny Tate 

WEEK IN DISTORTION 
De~iding 

Once and for All 
Who Re,ally 


Deserves 
the Gold 

An end to the controversy surrounq,ing Olympic Women's Figure Skating 
Watchiru~ the Olympic women• s figure skating last week I noticed that the judges ~ted.on two :categories: Technical Merit and Artistic Impression. I also noted 
by Steve Murphy 

that I know nothing about either category and consider them irrelevant It upset me that Scott Hamilton called Nancy Kerrigan a "lutz," but I deciqed to ignore the whole issue and come up with my own rating systt:m: In my more sophisticated system I 
judged the skaters by two criteria: Music 
and Outfit. I continue to use the six point 
rating system and subtract one tenth point 
for each compliment made by Scott 
Hamilton, whose annoying commentary 
reached Olympic proportions. 
Tonya Harding performed first to the music of Jurassic Park. The squeaking reptile noises complimented her outfit, a scaly red tu-tu. Thankfully, she performed her iguana dance with little interruption from Hamilton. Her scores: Music-1, Outfit-1. Total: 1. 
Josee Chouinard of Canada skated next. 

The music of "An American in Paris" 
scored big for her. Also, her outfit won lots 
of applause from the Murphy House of 
Style. She wore a red top with matching red 
gloves and a yellow skirt Her scores: Mu­
sic-6, Outfit-6. Total: 6. 
Japan• s Yuka Sato skated to some upbeat classical music, but nothing to move the spirit. She wore a blue outfit with silver trim. Whoopee. Solidoverall, butnottoodistinc­tive. Her scores: Music..:_ 3, Outfit-3. Total: 3. 
Our next Far Eastern skater was Chen Lu of China. She skated to a collection of funeral dirges. Lighten up, Chen. The front ofher black outfit had the hood design of the 1972 Trans Arn. Not allowed in the Murphy House of Style. Her scores: Music-1, Outfit-1. Total: 1. 
Our All-American Nancy Kerrigan stepped onto the ice to a medley of elevator music. Her tight peach get-up brought up the score, but the incessant jabber of Scott Hamilton killed her. He made approxi­mately 60 cheesy compliments, a six point reduction. Herscores: Music-2, Outfit­6. Total: 4-6= -2. 
Oksana Bayul of the Ukraine came next. No gold medals for this outfit She wentfor the poodle look with pink fluff galore. A fine choice of Broadway show tunes brought up the score. She had "My Fair Lady," "The Sou,nd of Music," "A Chorus Line" and "Cabaret" Boogie Bayul. Her scores: Mu­sic-5, Outfit-0. Total: 2.5. 
Surya Bonaly of France blew away the Music category with Vivaldi's "Four Sea­sons." Bravo Bonaly. The bright white outfit· also boosted her score. However, ScottHamilton calledher"agreatathlete" at least 10 times. One point reduction. Her scores: Music-6, Outfit-4. Total: 5-1= 4. 
Veteran Katarina.Witt represented Ger­many with a moving rendition of "Where Have All the Flowers Gone," a tribute to the people ofwar-wracked Sarajevo. The judge was touched. Her outfit consisted of a red top with sleeves and a flower pattern. She also wore a flowing red skirt The Hamilton factor hurt as he squawked about the emo­tional beauty ofthe moment. He brought out his inner child when it should have gone to bed without supper. One point reduction. Her scores: Music-6, Outfit-6.Total: 6­1= 5. 
· Aftera weekofwaitingandgnashingtheir teeth, the skaters can now rest easy that the scientific Murphy Rating System has given its final decision. Now Tonya keeps hernew shoelaces. and Nancy trots offto Disneyland, but the gold medal goes to Josee Chouinard of Canada. 0 


FINAL WORD 
by T. Ryan Kennedy


Welcome to the Real World 
and Brian J. Bender · 

The benefits of multiculturalism 
T. Ryan Kennedy is a Flanner Hall resident 
from Boston, Massachusetts 
Brian J. Bender is a Flanner Hall resident from San Jose, California. 

Scholastic is now accepting submissions for the Final Word. Call the office for details. 
So Notre Dame is a Catholic university. The last time we checked, part of being Catholic meant reaching out to any outsiders and including them in the community. However, at Notre Dame many ofus are too content with the way things are. Students would rather not accept "outsiders," non-Catholics and minorities (or more than the meager 15 percent that are already here). We ourselves are not sure what ideal diversity is (50 percent?), however, we are not idealists. We merely feel that this place could use a bit more cultural, racial and even religious diversity, a little spark, variety, flavor, different backgrounds and viewpoints. Why is everyone surprised and sarcastically bitter toward minority students who feel secluded at dances and social events? Although we are a little skeptical about such claims as music playing a role in feelings of isolation, these students definitely have a point. Only a handful of minority students participate in dances and social events at Notre Dame. How can we even have the right to be upset or shocked if a minority student does feel uncomfortable and expresses it publicly? All we hear is negative talk surrounding these students. People mock them and pretend as if they have no idea what they are talking about. Herein lies the problem, and in this way Notre Dame needs more diversity. Part of diversity is breakingdown color barriers that exist throughout the United States. Instead of saying a black kid cheated on my test today or a white kid stole from the bookstore, why can't this person simply be described as the kid who cheated or the kid who stole? It is due to lack of everyday exposure to those different from us. It is a result of a lack of diversity here and in different communities. Such separatism is most evident in the media, and the only way to prevent itis to implement some racial diversity at places like Notre Dame. Religion and culture play important roles at institu­tions of higher education as well. Mainly in the classroom do the ideas and dogmas of other religions become apparent. We find ourselves sitting in phi­losophy discussion classes, debating the existence of God, and all we hear from other students is that these philosophical atheists are surely mistaken. The Catholic mentality of most students here rests so strongly in their minds that they are reluctant even to consider the fact that God may not exist This clearly demonstrates the non-diversity of the student body and faculty with regard to religion. When do we get 
to le;µn of other religions and beliefs and perhaps 
incorporate them into ours? , 
California is a very diverse state where the benefits oflearning about other people's cultures and races are obvious and groups of friends' tend to be eclectic. Friends shape each other into seeing multiple sides of issues and as a result become gen~rally well-rounded individuals. The diversity of the thoughts of one's friends compared to the diversity of thought at Notre Dame is vast. Those who argue against multiculturalism at Notre Dame would seem to be somewhat misinformed or misled. 
However, we are not suggesting that some radical wind of change sweep the campus. Nor are we advocating the need to implement quotas. Some express concern that if we do as The Colloquy plans, namely increase diversity, that we will have to accept lower standards. Who is to say that the university wotild have to lower its standards in order to accept mo~e minorities? Are minority students not as aca­demically sound? Isn't this notion sorilewhat preju­diced? 
Perhaps a minority student never had the same advantages of other applicants. Suppose there exists an African-American student from the inner city who has overcome adversity, has 'had fewer advantages and really is not an academically strong student. But he possesses diligence and character and has no ben­efit· of a strong high school education. I{ he is accepted, does this mean the university is lowering its standards? No. Infact,suchastudentwouldbeagreat asset to the community. He would be able to offer a different viewpoint on life in the classroom and in the dorm. Why is everyone here so afraid of change? 
Notre Dame is a special place, no doubt. It is one of the prominent universities in the world, it prides itself · on its Irish-Catholic tradition,' and it is extraordinary that most students graduating are very successful. But does this mean we cannot do better? Is college life all about success? What about learning and growing? Will adding a bit more diversity here really damage the chemistry and the tradition and ruin people's lives? :Qoesn't it make sense that we would be enhancing the position of the university with these clear advantages and other intangible values of diver­sity? So Notre Dame is a Catholic university. So why can't it also be a more diverse university? . 
Grist For The Mill Rick Grey 
SOM°E.THING 
~ 
15 
~~ 
. ~~ 
LE.T'S CO'"\PARE. STUDOJT LIFE WITH A ).1Ai\)-{,UJKl:'.\N61 (.O~E'F:.NED, 155l>E.-01\Ef--)Tf._i) 
GO\JERNMENT -TO STU1)H.lT 
UFE WITHOUT ONE •• b 


VOTING THE "DEAD'' 
~ \ \ I DON'T THINK THEY'LL 
INTO OFFICE WAS FUN, BUT 
J_)) )) I GET ANYTHING QQ!jf I!
NOW THE PARTY'S OVER f 


TA<£S -fR!JM. 1fff 'loP tJf 1H€ /)t).A16 

f\l,ijhl !1::1-s litursdlJ, Who..\-J0 'P-{ i\-L sf\riS u\e-\JrA;"J Orie. ~Ol'E:'-J_ay ~;(( mea.ni"Uh o\·l' e,o.r l'f, 0,e-15::-~/ re,.~ 
~~! ( ik_r"tV'-l 1~ 1-\~w/~l
/ 0 
0 
, 


St«aea U,wm ~fUVZd U~.~£;(A,,,· &~: 
March 18-The Loft with Bughaus & Trash the Craven 
arch 24-Morrissey Film Fest @ Stepan. $2. Entries due by March 15. Call 4-3414 for info 
March 26-Gin Blossoms Concert. More details coming soon! ! 
March 29-William F. Buckley. 7:30PM@ Stepan. $3 
Have a safe andfun-filled Spring 












