Have Yourse
make it a merry Christmas

© Arrow Shirts S3.95 up • Sports Shirts S3.95 up
• Ties
.SI.50up • Handkerchiefs 35e up
• Underwear .. .SI .00 up
ARROW
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS

the slacks that have taken the campus by storm!
custom-styled
with "finga-tip" adjustment
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
exciting new idea in slacks, are built for comfort and tailored for superb good looks. The ingenious waistband adjusts instantly, fits perfectly, means feather-light comfort while studying or loafing. Once you've worn SLEEX, you'll never wear any other slacks. Relax and be smart in your first pair today.
Horixentot hip xipperx — which operate with magical fingertip eote—-"let out" er "take in" the waistline of your slack, enabling you to adjust your trouser instantly to conform to the shape and Xte of your existing waist -'line, thus assuring perfect fit and trimness at all time*.
Rubberized inner waistband keeps slacks snugly against body. Eliminate* ne-cessHy of belt. Prevents shirt from “hiking up." Gives you more than a full inch of extra stretch whenever you need it.
SLEEX $20.00
CHICO SLACKS $10.95 to $25.00
In a handsome selection of luxurious gabardines, flannels and fancy weaves.
* Trade-Mark
SLEEX' America's Most Modern Slack
A product of
ESQUIRE SPORTSWEAR CO.
GILBERT’S
South Bend
The Scholastic
Dec. 14, 1951
-Editor:
I have always felt that the Scholastic was a publication of the University of Notre Dame. This letter is a protest to the article “Notre Dame Confidential,” written by a student at another institution for the purpose of cluttering up your pages with a high-toned rebuttal to a series of earlier incidents..
There is another point I would like to bring out in connection with this article. It did not do what it purported to do. The writer began with a very pious statement about the objectives of the article and then she proceeded to neglect them entirely as she listed for the nth time what the girls think is wrong with the boys. And she added a little trimming to her list. An example in point: during the discourse on the gentle art of walking the writer went at great lengths to show just how wonderful a walk can be. However, if you will notice, there is a terminal point halfway along the walk. It occurs to me that the main objective of the refrain was not an enjoyable long walk, but rather “a whole afternoon at the Ramble Inn.”
For these specific reasons I feel that it -was not necessary to print the article.	Frank Ronnenberg
■
Editor:
After hearing much of and from the St. Mary’s girls during the Lambert War of 1951, and after having one of them tell me, in a recent Scholastic article, how to conduct myself if and when I dare venture westward, I began to wonder just what St. Mary’s girls were like.
Now I know. From the third row in Washington Hall, they looked fine and sounded great.
May I say, for myself and many other pleasantly delighted lads, “Thanks, SMC Glee Club, for the fine Christmas Concert that you presented Sunday night.”
Johnny Connaughton 143 Zahm
A hat with a snappy heading, is is this new snap-brim favorite.

. 4
Mass Schedule
Monday, Dec. 17—Of Advent; Colls. 2, BVM; 3, Faithful Departed; 4, Church of Pope.
Tuesday, Dec. 18—Of Advent; Colls. 2, BVM; 3, Church or Pope.
Wednesday, Dec. 19—Winter Ember Day; Colls. 2 and 3 as yesterday.
THE SPIRONIAN MASTERPIECE	a
Our Headliner... §7-50
. . ' -	££ .	ll
The Spironian Deluxe is the hat that all the Big
Men On Campus” are wearing these days. You	fi'
can get into the swing of things by dropping down	Sr
to Spiro’s today and seeing their great selection of shades and shapes, at the same popular price.
Another popular hat, the "Spironian Fiver," $5 sm spiro & co. S i
South Bend	g
The Scholastic 3
'I
Top of the Week
Notre Dame man: “Darling, will you marry me?”
J.
A
t
£

Christmas Capers
In just five days the exodus begins. Wednesday marks the day that has been circled in red on campus calendars ever since September thirteenth.
And it will be on that afternoon that the evacuating hordes will tote their karzinks and duffel, loaded with cut-rate gifts from the Bookstore and Ford Hopkins, down to the depot and the trip home.
Club car quarterbacks will, as usual, hold forth with behind the scenes accounts of the local football season and will all get together to rehearse their answers to the inevitable subway alumni question—“What happened to Notre Dame this year?”
We could never quite figure out why it is that ND is always considered to have a poor season unless they win all their games. It’s getting so that nothing short of the National Championship will quiet the baying wolves who follow the Irish in their Sunday morning sport sections.
When you come right down to it, a season record of seven out of ten isn’t
If he should quit before I wake Give me a poke for heaven’s sake!
St. Mary’s Confidential?
Two weeks ago, in this sterling publication, there appeared a feature article written by a Miss Valerie Faden of SMC entitled Notre Dame Confidential.
Much as we hate to admit it, Miss Faden, in her soothing, big-sisterish tone, racked up a nice set of bullseyes on her target, the ND man.
Although there were parts of her little analysis which caused us to suppress a snicker up our sleeve, our main criticism would be that St. Mary’s answer to Dorothy Thompson did not go far enough in dissecting her subject.
Oh, that some creative and observant soul on our side of the Dixie would take Smith-Corona in hand and bat out
the ND man’s girl.
Better that though ... a
impressions of the SMC
a freshman write it, senior would need three
installments to cover the subject adequately, and we can’t afford all that space.
Congratulations Department
Orchids from the Week’s hothouse . to: the Huddle for banning Tiny Hill records and satisfying the progressive
with Ventura and Lester
addicts
Young . . . the cast of Old Heidelberg for another excellent University Theatre production . . . Bob Tone# on being selected for the AP All-American team . . . and to the entire Irish squad on their win over the Trojans and an exemplary football season.
Bottom of the Week
St. Mary’s girl: “No. But I’ll always admire you for your choice.”
LOST — Wallet (ox blood color) containing important papers, no money. Reward for return. Call Ralph Holmes, Department of Physical Education.
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING ____________ GUARANTEED

>. Mani
12 6^ NO. MICHIGAN S’
>3
really anything to hang about. Oh, well, tell ’em next year.
Let’s Organize!
Well, the season is in again. Last weekend saw
our heads to wait till
full swing the first of
many panel-discussion clambakes as the annual convention of the NFCCS (it’s too long to write out) met here and at St. Mary’s.
Hundreds of organizers from a goodly variety of midwestern colleges dis-
cussed things like crazy and lighted their weekend with a dance at our sister* school apropos can you get?).
During our four-year tenure,
high-barn (how
more
giant organizational groups of like nature have held their conclaves here than you can tally up on a well-lubricated slide rule.
JERSEYITES!
NEW YORKERS!
GET THIS!
Notre Dame Night
with
RALPH FLANAGAN & HIS ORCHESTRA
at
Fank Dailey's Meadowbrook
Cedar Grove, New Jersey
OVER COAST TO COAST MUTUAL NETWORK ON
Sunday, December 30
7:30 - 12:30
Poem of the Week
Now I lay me down to sleep The lecture dry, the subject deep
RESERVATIONS AND INFORMATION — JOHN GELSON, 336 HOWARD HALL
Dec. 14, 1951
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
Calendar
DECEMBER 14
COLFAX (now playing)—The Tanks Are Coming (Legion of Decency Rating A-l). Steve Cochran is the hard-boiled sergeant in this one. You know, the one who is first hated and then loved by the men he commands. Story’s about the dash of the Third Armored Division across France and there are plenty of tanks and fighting and battle noises and all that stuff. Strictly a Hollywood war, although pix may prove to be of value to 1-S’s as sort of au indoctrination film.	'
PALACE—Silver City (A-2) is an adaptation of an old Luke Short story beyond recognition, and is so full of western cliches that Washington Hall ought to be virtually tomb-like during the shows tomorrow — all the juveniles will have hiked off to the city to catch this one. They’ll see all the action they’ll want, too, with chases aboard the top of a moving train, chases across logs on a river and chases through a lumber mill with whizzing blades and all. Rough, tough Edmond O’Brien, sweet, clean-cut city girl Yvonne DeCarlo (no veils in this one) and Barry Fitzgerald (why we don’t know) head the cast. Havana, Rose (A-2) is supposed to be comedy with music and if you like Abbott and Costello, you may be able to take it.
DECEMBER 16
WASHINGTON HALL—The Notre Dame Glee Club presents its annual Christmas concert at 8 p.m.
GRANADA—Unknown Man (B) has Walter Pidgeon trying to make an almost improbable plot believable but he only half succeeds. It’s the usual lawyer-defending-murderer story with a couple of innovations that fail to take the picture out of the so-so class. If you’re gullible you may not mind this one. Joseph Cotten and Barbara Stanwyck got sentenced to play the leads in the co-feature The Man With a Cloak (B), another murder job. Louis Calhern and Leslie Caron, who made such a hit in An American in Paris, also get lost in this one. The plot moves as fast as certain lines do and — well, if you fall asleep watching this one, it couldn’t happen during a better picture.
DECEMBER 17
FIELDHOUSE—ND vs. Loyola of Chicago. Tap-off at 8 p.m.
AVON—James Stewart and Marlene Dietrich are co-featured in No Highway in the Sky (A-2), which, from the scanty reports we have, is probably the best show in town this week. That isn’t saying much, though.
DECEMBER 18
DRILL HALL—Band presents its Christmas concert starting at 8:15 p.m.
DECEMBER 19
NOTRE DAME—Hegira.
JANUARY 3
NOTRE DAME—December 19 in reverse.
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bld?.
The Difference Between This
WALLFLOWER
And I This
POPULARITY
ADAIRE
SCHOOL OF DANCING 216 S. Lafayette
Enroll at Adaire’s for the best deal in town on dance lessons. Call 2-0166 for a free introductory lesson.
Some Pigeons are Inclined to Pout
OR
Did Garcia Really Care About Getting That Message?
This is the sad story of a. senior who was Serious about a Girl. In the straightforward manner of seniors, he invited her up for the Big Weekend.
He sat down and wrote her a nice letter a month ahead. Then he sat back and waited. And got no answer in three weeks. Finally, in desperation, he phoned Her.
Cost him S4.25 in quarters. When the Longing of the Coin Box stopped, all he could hear at the other end of the wire was a stutter of Sniffs. “Honey?” he asked. She sobbed more plainly.
“Harold,” she wailed, “You used to send telegrams to invite me to Big Weekends —This year, all I get is a little old Letter. You don’t love me.” And hung up.	:
Harold goes everywhere stag now. Says	$
he prefers it that way. But when he passes	|
a Western Union office, he sighs.
A telegram takes any message right out	|
of the casual class. It’s subtle—it flatters	|
the person who gets it.’ Next time you #	3
send an invitation, or a howl home for cash or a birthday greeting to Mother—	g
just call Western Union or head for your J Western Union office.	j
The Scholastic II
6
The Notre Dame

Vol. 93 December 14, 1951 No. 13
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY_________________Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO________Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER_______Photography LEON GARDNER____________Librarian
C. B. FARMER.........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER.......Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN............Circuiat-on
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
The Best Two Weeks of the Year
The best two weeks of the year, coming up! Up at the crack of midday, and n® limit on how late you can stay out at night. Sitting around the tree on Christmas Eve with an eggnog in one hand and that new Bulova in the other. The grand feast the next day, turkey and all the trimmings. Then turkey hash, turkey sandwiches, and turkey soup. The parties build up all week to the killer which says goodbye to the old year. Finally a few resolutions, a few more good meals, and it’s back to finish a semester.
We’re all for it, all the way. But we would like to insert a reminder to work in plenty of time on your knees into that busy holiday schedule of yours. We know that you don’t have to be told the true meaning of Christmas, or that Midnight Mass was here to stay long before anybody heard of giving gifts for Christmas, or that the universal joy resulting from commemoration of the Incarnation of our Saviour was experienced long before children beamed at the mention of Santa Claus. But in these days of ‘"Do your Christmas shopping early” and ‘"Jingle Bells” everybody can use a reminder that Christmas is a religious feast first, last, and always.
Nobody has to look far to find things to pray for. For the fifth time in the last ten years quite a few Americans are spending the holidays in foxholes, and everybody is worried about a big war starting. The Church is being persecuted in about half of the world, and is having its troubles in the rest. And nobody ever said too many prayers for his parents and his relatives.
So when you come back from this vacation have memories of a lot of serious prayer besides the great gifts and parties.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: “Christmas comes but once a year” the saying goes, and anyone who’s already begun his Christmas shopping will thank goodness for that. Tramping from store to store, being jostled and crushed by swarms of female shoppers and surveying an empty wallet at the conclusion of the operation all make this annual chore an unwelcome one. But it is the thing to do and chances are nobody would seriously consider not doing his best by those he really cares for. On the coyer we have one of the lads in the enviable position of having completed his mission. For a different picture of how a shopping trip might turn out though, look at our feature on page 17. And our thanks to Bob Butler of Walsh Hall for posing. And finally, a joyous Christmas to all.—Photo by Al Muth.
We Want Blood!
No matter how avidly you read the papers the war in Korea seems far away from Notre Dame. Unless you hear of a friend being wounded or a friend being drafted, you’re liable to forget there’s a war on. And it’s understandable, too. But the grim fact remains that there is a war on and there are those who can’t forget it.	.
o
Those who fight the war and die in the war don’t have to be reminded;. At times, though, we’d guess that they feel like doing a little reminding of their own. One of the most startling pieces of news we’ve read in the last few weeks is the fact that the nation is way behind in its blood donations and consequently there is a shortage of blood in Korea. Maybe we can’t do anything about this situation in the country as a whole, but we dam sure can do something about it here. .	■
Sometime right after Christmas vacation, the YCS will run a blood blank on Campus. As soon as a bloodmobile is available, the lads will canvass the halls and the actual donations will take place shortly after. Those of us who are interested in contributing blood can mail a card stating the fact right now, though, to YCS blood bank. Box 117, Notre Dame. Just give your name and address. This will make the canvassing job a little easier.
That’s it, lads. The war doesn’t impose many hardships on anyone here at Notre Dame. Not directly anyway. True, nobody is expected to drop what they’re doing to run down and enlist. But it’s still true that we have a good deal .and there aren’t many people in Korea, we’d bet, who wouldn’t trade places. Many of them will be wounded in the next few weeks and many of those wounded will be saved by somebody else’s blood. Why not make it yours.
Dec. 14, 1951
7
AT NO EXTRA CHARGE
SELECT YOUR FAVORITES FROM THESE RCA VICTOR “45” ALBUMS
Monte
Choose any ONE of these CLASSICAL albums
WDM262 Music of Johann Strauss (Eugene Ormandy) WDM920 Scheherazade—Symphonic Suite (Pierre Monteux) WDM1028 The Swan Lake (Vladimir Golschmann) WDM1075 Concerto No. 2 Rachmaninoff (Artur Rubinstein) WDM12S1 Symphony No. 6 (Pathetique) Tchaikovsky
(Toscanini)
WDM1473 Highlights from La Traviata (Famous Soloists) WCT11 Caruso—Treasury (Enrico Caruso)
OR choose any TWO of these HIT albums
WP70 Waltzes You Saved for Me (Wayne King)
WP85 Artie Shaw
WP148 Glenn Miller
WP142 On the Moonbeam (Vaughn Monroe)
WP143 Nutcracker Suite (Spike Jones)
WP158 A Cole Porter Review (David Rose)
WP185 The Three Suns Present
WP187 A Sentimental Date with Perry Como
WP203 You and the Night and the Music (Tony Martin) WPT3 Small Combo Hits
WP295 Hank Snow Favorites
WP168 Cowboy Classics (Sons of the Pioneers)
WP195 All-Time Hits from the Hills (Eddy Arnold)
*WY413 Roy Rogers' Rodeo
*	WY399 Cinderella (Original Cast)
*	WY386 Peter and the Wolf (Sterling Holloway)
*	WY384 The Little Engine that Could (Paul Wing)
*	WY385 Pinocchio (Cliff Edwards)
Children's Records
1
1
V
*
When you buy ibis
FAMOUS
RCA VICTOR 45J2

i

rca
•	Plug this RCA Victor “45" attachment into your radio or TV set and enjoy your favorite music whenever you wish.
•	Touch a button once . . . play up to 14 records.

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic
d
Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 13	DECEMBER 14, 1951
Holiday Concerts by Glee Club, Band
Warblers Feature Bit Of Everything Sunday
The Notre Dame Glee Club will make its fourth appearance this yeai- at 8 p.m. Sunday in Washington Hall, when led by Director Daniel Pedtke, they will present their Annual Christmas Concert to the student body.
Sharing the spotlight as soloists for this concert are baritone Gene Fanning singing The Holy City by Adams; James Ettling, with the piano solo Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2 by Liszt; and tenor John Noland singing Jesu Bambino by Yon.
There will be no admission charged and everyone is invited.
I
Ave Maria ..................da Vittoria
Angelus ad Pastores ..........Sweelinck Lacrymosa ....................  Mozart
Hallelujah Chorus from the Messiah ................................Handel
II Dedication ......................Franc
DIRECTOR PEDTKE
Christmas concerts . . .
In the Silence of Night__Rachmaninoff Soloist: Daniel Coleman
Believe Me if All Those Endearing
Young Charms .......Irish Folk Song
Soloist: John Noland .	■
The Green-Eyed Dragon .......Charles
INTERMISSION
III .
Rigoletto Quartette ...........Verdi
James Ettling, Accompanist
IV
Siving Low, Sweet Chariot ..........
.................... Negro Spiritual Soloist: Richard DeGraff
De Animals ...........Negro Spiritual
Pore Jud from Oklahoma........Rodgers
Soloist: Joseph Harrison
Carousel Medley .............Rodgers
1.	If I Loved You
2.	June Is Bustin’ Out All Over
3.	You’ll Never Walk Alone
College Songs ................Medley
V
Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming........
.......................Praetorius
Carol of the Bells ........Leontovitch ’Tzvas the Night Before Christmas....
.............................Darby
Oh Holy Night—soloist: Michael Kelly Carol selections: Silent Night, The First Noel, God Rest Ye Merry Gen-tletnen, Adeste Fideles
Detroiters Await Christmas Vacation for Dec. 29 Dance
On Saturday night, Dec. 29, the Detroit Club of Notre Dame, in conjunction with the Notre Dame Alumni group in Detroit, will present their annual Christmas Dance. This year’s affair, which is semi-formal, will take place at the Veteran’s Memorial Building in the Motor- City.
Dancing to the music of Bill Gail and his orchestra will be provided from 9:30 until 1:30. Tickets, selling at $3.60 per couple, can be purchased here on campus from Tom Verbiest, 130 Alumni.
Variety Spices Music In Tuesday Program
*
The Notre Dame Band, under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, will present its annual Christmas concert at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday in the Drill Hall. Combining both the football and the concert bands, a group of approximately 120 pieces will present the Christmas program.
Right in keeping with the season will be the presentation of Christmas Fantasy, composed by Clifford Lillya, a former instructor of Mr. Hope, while the latter was studying at the University of Michigan.
Other highlights of the program include a Spanish piece, Shaiul Dance, by Frank Skinner, and Atlantis Suite by Sofranic, a musical account of the rise and fall of the famous lost continent, Atlantis.
An assortment of several light numbers and marches will also be played, and a presentation of traditional Christmas carols will round out the program.
DIRECTOR HOPE
. . . in keeping with the season
9
Dec. 14, 1951
Cruise, State Dept. Briefing Session Included In Between-Semesters Washington Itinerary
The Department of Political Science-sponsored between-semesters trip, open to all students of the University, is scheduled to begin with departure from campus Jan. 24, and to end with the return of the students Jan. 30, in time to register for the second semester.
While in Washington, D. C-, they will attend a State Department briefing session, at which the department members gather to discuss the latest world affairs. This is the first time that the ND men have been invited to one of these sessions. Another highlight is the tour of the FBI building, where the tourists will meet J. Edgar Hoover.
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, who conducts the trip, has announced that the cost of the seven-day trip will be $115, including meal tips. He has also set up a definite schedule, although minor changes may be made shortly before the trip or after arrival in the nation’s capital.
The major activities are included in the following program, but other affairs of lesser importance will be undertaken to gain the most from the time free of any scheduled activity.
The tour will begin Jan. 24, when the students depart from the Circle by bus for LaPaz, where they will board the B. & 0. “Columbian.”
After arriving in Washington, D. C., the next day, the tourists will commence the round of activity by inspecting the Bureau of Engraving. Then they will go to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, where the students will be shown the Department museum, the various specialized divisions, and probably meet Mr. Hoover. Lunch will be eaten at the Supreme Court building. In the afternoon they will leave by train for Baltimore, Md., for a cruise down Chesapeake Bay. Dinner will be served on the boat.
Saturday will be spent sightseeing in Jamestown, Yorktown, and "Williamsburg, Va. This is the first year the tour has included Williamsburg, a town restored to its colonial appearance.
The men from ND will toui- Washington Sunday and journey to Mount Vernon, George Washington’s plantation. That evening they will visit the Library of Congress and the National Gallery of Art.
The following day’s agenda includes a trip to Washington Monument for a bird’s-eye view of Washington, a tour of the Smithsonian Museum, a visit to Golger Library, lunch in the Senate Restaurant, attendance at the State
Knights Begin Work On 1952 Bengal Bouts
It is with big ambitions and the desire to match these ambitions that the Knights of Columbus have started
PAUL RUPP
Promoting for charity
the ball rolling in preparation for the annual Bengal Bouts. Proceeds go to the Bengal Missions in India.
Under the chairmanship of Father
Department briefing session, and a reception at the Indian Embassy.
That evening the tourist will be entertained at the home of Walter Tro-han, chief of the Chicago Tribune’s Washington bureau and a Notre Dame alumnus.
Tuesday’s schedule calls for a tour of the Pentagon Building, a trip to the Capitol for a Congressional Committee hearing, and attendance at House, Senate, and Supreme Court sessions. That evening the students will leave the Capital on the “Columbian” and arrive the next morning at LaPaz, where they will board a special bus for the Circle.
The tour is intended to acquaint the participants with the functions of the government, and to enable them to take in the Capital’s points of interest.
All students who wish to make reservations for the trip or to inquire about it should contact Professor Bartholomew in his office on the second floor of the Social Science Building.
Thomas Brennan, and the promotion of Paul Rupp, dates of the fight nights, committee chairmen, and names of awards have been announced. The dates are March 10, 11, 12, 13, and 15 or 17. The night of the finals depends upon whether or not the Knights are able to arrange for the televising of the fights for that evening.
Another innovation is the sale of fight tickets at St. Mary’s College. Transportation will be provided to and from St. Mary’s for the bouts.
Rupp has selected his committee chairmen. Mark Tolle will head the concessions, and Pat Healy is in charge of tickets. Programs are under the direction of John Corrigan. Bill Riley and Frank Price are handling the publicity.
That the participants of this year’s bouts are eager to place them among the finest is evidenced by the fact that over two dozen of the pugilists are already working out. Too, smokers are being sponsored to agitate spectator interest and promote a more even matching of contestants for the preliminary fights. These are short bouts held in the boxing room of the Rockne Memorial to which students are encouraged to come. One of them has already been staged.
The fighters are training under the experienced eye of Mr. Dominic Napolitano, who both instructs them and supervises the ring during the bouts.
The Bengal Bouts were started by the Scholastic in 1932 after Knute Rockne had inaugurated intercollegiate boxing at the University in 1926. When Rockne’s un-coached innovation to the Notre Dame athletic scene lost all six of its matches, the program was discontinued until the Scholastic stepped in with the idea of boxing matches at Notre Dame, the proceeds from which would go to the missions in Bengal, India. This has been the purpose of the bouts ever since. The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus took over the matches in 1946.
The various geographical clubs on campus donate the trophies and awards. This year, in addition to trophies only to the finalists, a plaque will be awarded to every participant in the bouts. The clubs will also help to defray the expense of the sportsmanship award which goes annually to the person who has done the most outstanding work with the youth of the country.
There are eight classes of weights for the fights: 127, 137, 147, 157, 167, 177, and heavyweight. Rupp asks that anyone interested in entering the bouts contact Mr. Napolitano in his office at the Rockne Memorial.
The Scholastic
10
Grad School Sets Up Air Force and Navy Units Combine Tactics Program for Adults In Maneuvers for Joint Mid-Air Ball Jan. IT
4
In a new move to make her educational facilities available to qualified persons in the Michiana area, the University of Notre Dame will offer programs of graduate courses in the late afternoons, evenings, and on Saturday mornings, beginning with the second semester of the present school year.
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Notre Dame Graduate School, said that the University is inaugurating the new program in order to open Notre Dame’s educational facilities to teachers, engineering personnel of industry, and all other interested and qualified persons in the area.
Father Moore said that applications may be made for status as regular student, unclassified student or auditor. A regular student is defined by the University Graduate School as one working toward an advanced degree, an unclassified student as one not working for a degree but taking courses for which he is qualified and for which he receives credit. An auditor is a student who is permitted to take one or more courses for which no credit is given and of which no record is kept.
The programs of evening and Saturday courses will lead to the degrees of Master of Arts or Master of Science. These programs, and others to be added later, will be integrated with programs of the Notre Dame summer sessions.
Under the new programs, it will be possible for a student to complete the 24-hour course requirement for the research degree of Master of Arts or Master of Science in two summers and one school year, and the 30-hour course requirement for the non-research degree in two summers and three semesters.
Father Moore said that at the outset the programs will be limited to the Departments of English, History, Music, and Religion in the Division of Arts and Letters; Education and Political Science in the Division of Social Science; Biology in the Division of Science: and several combination programs in the Division of Engineering. Other departments will inaugurate programs in September, 1952.
Registration for courses in the new programs will be held Jan. 29 and 30. Additional information may be obtained by contacting the Graduate School at Notre Dame.—Mike Ward .
By MIKE DUCEY
For the first time in their respective histories, the NROTC Activities Committee and the Air Cadet Club have pooled their resources to present jointly the Mid-Air Ball.
Co-chairmen Sommers Brown (AROTC) and Clifford H o e n i e (NROTC) have acquired Gene Hull and his Lettermen for the night of Jan. 11, and the scene of their activities will be the Drill Hall. A good part of the dance budget is going towards the decorations, changing the Drill Hall to a Dance Hall.
This is the first military ball at Notre Dame which is the direct result of cooperation ^between two units. Members of all ROTC units and their instructors are invited, as well as all the reservists at Notre Dame.
It was brought to the attention of the Dance Committee that there are many who will not have their uniforms by the time of the dance. Therefore, uniforms are not compulsory, but all are encouraged to wear a uniform if they can possibly obtain one. Otherwise a tux will suffice.
All are urged to buy their bids before Christmas vacation begins, since the dance occurs a week after vacation
THE MINDS BEHIND THE MID-AIR BALL Unification Comes to Notre Dame
ends and only two days after the St. Mary’s girls return.
Car permission will be granted, with the usual registration with Father Leahy. The committee hopes to get 2 ' o’clock permission for all, and, in any case, the- Freshmen will' receive an extra midnight.
To make this the biggest social event of the winter season, an “All-Star” committee has been selected. Heading the list are Co-Chairmen Brown and Hoenie. The all-important job of check-signing and budget balancing goes to the finance chairmen, Jim Griffin (Navy) and Bill Vandeven (Air).
A four-man group has charge of converting the barnlike atmosphere of the Drill Hall to an environment more suitable for dancing. Paul Braunlich and Pat Riley of the AROTC and Dick Wollensak and Greg Shinskey of the Navy have made plans for closing in the ceiling and putting the band in an amphitheater-like structure.
Negotiations. with Gene Hull for the services of his Lettermen were taken care of by Don Marht (Air) and John Skudris (Navy).
Leo Brennan (Air) and Doug Legg (Navy) are handling the date and special transportation arrangements.
Dec. 14, 1951
11
ND Students Think Ike Will but Shouldn't Run, Feel Sure He Could Beat Taft and Truman
litical Science Academy, Student Council Masterplan Committee, and debate team; Jim Garvin, president of Student Council; Ed Noonan, Blue Circle Chair-
Uppermost in the minds of many Americans is the question mark surrounding the political future of Dwight D. Eisenhower. To learn what views Notre Dame men have toward the “Eisenhower for President” boom, Scholastic surveyed student opinion on five important questions.
IWill Eisenhower run for president?
• Of 157 men asked this question, 81 thought “Ike” would seek the presidency, three were undecided. Fred Turner of St. Ed’s felt that the general wouldn’t run “since he is satisfied with his job in Europe.”
If he does, on what ticket?
The answer to this represented a Republican landslide —106 to 29, with three others not sure yet. Said Jack Murray of Badin Hall: “I think Eisenhower could run on either ticket — nobody knows what he’s for.”
Can he beat Taft?
One hundred sixteen of 158 polled think he can; only two declined to comment.
4 Can he beat Truman?
• Here again the result was onesided as 134 of 178 voted yes. Six were not so sure.
Questions three and four not only showed the definite views of the majority of the students but evoked some candid comments as well. “Borrowing from Al Smith,” said Breen-Phillips’ Louis Centlivre, “Ike could run on a laundry ticket and beat those political bums.”
Anothei- B-P man, Dick Connelly, went even further: “Ike’s major opposition could come only from Dagmar.”
5 Do you think he should run?
• Opinions on this query, probably the most important one asked, . were considerably split yet were by far the most significant. The score, with eight undecided, was 68 pro and 87 con. Many were wary of a military man in the White House.. Others expressed more positive reasons against Eisenhower’s candidacy.
Two opinions, pro and con, seemed to sum up public opinion on this question.
“General Eisenhower’s job in Europe is of primary importance and is being well carried out,” said John Visitine of Morrissey. “He is better qualified for this mission and the Europeans have built a great deal of hope in this one man. Should he let them down,
12
GENERAL EISENHOWER
‘‘nobody knows what he's for”
our country’s esteem would probably suffer a serious blow.”
In the other camp was Clair Southgate of Lyons. “Eisenhower ought to run,” he stated. “Taft just doesn’t seem to have it and Truman has definitely shown his lack of ability. We need a man of unquestionable character who won’t be swayed by party politics, to guide us through this grave period of unrest. ‘Ike’ is that man.”
What do you think?
Council Names 30 ND Men to 'Who's Who"
The field of campus celebrities has been widened with the announcement of students who are to be included in the 1951-52 edition of Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.
A total of 30 students was picked by the Student Council on the basis of campus leadership and activity.
Among those listed were: Jack Hynes, Scholastic columnist and announcer for WND; Jim Mannion, Vice-• president of the Student Council; Hank McCormack, Senior representative to the Student Council and Chairman of the Charity Chest; Hugh Braun, YCS President, Blue Circle member, and debaters: K. of C. Chacko, Graduate Fellowship from the' Fulbright Travel Grant, Former principal of Maharaja’s Technological Institute, and author of numerous books; Floyd Blair, president of the Junior class, AROTC Scholastic Achievement Award; Bill Dempsey, Po-
man.
Others included were: Ed Goerner, Masterplan Committee, Economic Round Table, and president of the Wranglers; Jack Powers, Scholastic editor; Jack Ward, Juggler editor; Tom Reedy, Student Council Secretary; Bill Toohey, Chairman of last year’s Junior Prom; Bob Deline, Blue Circle, Engineering Advisory Board, Charity Chest vicechairman; John Minck, Engineering Advisory Board Chairman, Technical Review editor, American Institute of Electrical Engineers vice - chairman; Jim Mutscheller, captain, varsity football, vice-president of Senior class; Bob Stewart, Father Cavanaugh-Judge Kiley Great Books Seminar, student leader, editor of Notre Dame Lawyer.
Also named were: Joseph Spalding, Student Law Association, winner in Dean’s Award Competition of Moot Court, Case Editor of Notre Danie Laivyer; Jerry Kelley, chairman of 1950 Sophomore Cotillion, vice-president of YCS, headed planning committees for Mardi Gras; Al DeCrane, President of Debate Team, former NFCCS Senior Delegate, Blue Circle; Ray Earls, Dome Editor, WND; Dick Cotter, Football Coach, Heavyweight Bengal Champ, Blue Circle vice-chairman; Ed Vasta, Blue Circle, Dining Hall Investigation; Vic Kroeger, secretary-treasurer of Blue Circle; Wally. Purcell, Student Council off-campus representative, Blue Circle; Lou Garippo, dramatics, Student Council treasurer; George Sweet, Senior Class President, Student Council; Bill Fleming, ND Champion High Hurdler, Candidate for 1952 Olympics, ND Laivyer; John O’Connell,' President of NFCCS Fort Wayne Region, former Sophomore Class President.
Alumni Honor Fr. Cavanaugh f With Giant Spiritual Bouquet
The greatest spiritual bouquet in the history of the University was accomplished Dec. 9, the 14th Annual Universal Communion Sunday of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. The bou- fe quet was in honor of retiring president, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Sponsored by the Alumni Association, the alumni and their families offered a grand total of 9,237 Masses, 8,547 Communions, 14,567 Rosaries and (a special feature of the project) the prayers of the families of 51 non- /V Catholic alumni of the University. ffff.
The alumni, their families and friends, received Communion individ- J?? ually or with members. ■
The Scholastic^
3^?* ^>1
"Juggler"
If circulation is any sort of sign of the worth of a magazine, we expect to see a lot of Jugglers sold this year. The Fall issue of that publication came out this week and it’s a well-edited and well-written job.
Editor Jack Ward seems concerned with putting out a readable magazine and with this issue he’s done so successfully. Juggler is lively and interesting from cover to cover and remains remarkably well-balanced throughout.
Nothing seems lost in the process of giving Juggler more reader appeal, either.- Its contents indicate intellectual curiosity and stimulation so refreshingly handled that there is little of the literary affectedness that characterized past editions.
The best proof of this is Ed Goer-ner’s evaluation of Karl Marx, a good example of what can be done on an undergraduate level. Goerner’s point that nothing is all black or all white is well made and his subsequent look at Marx in this light is a fine picture of a man who was at once a thinker and a man of action.
The short stories are all good. An orchid goes to Hugh Schadle for his story “To the Town Below.” Schadle avoids sentimentality in a situation that might have dripped with it, given different treatment.
Joe Sunega’s sonnet “New England Trimmers” may rankle a few New Englanders but it too is good. Editor Ward’s spoof of Gentry is genuinely funny. The book reviews and essays are all at least competent.
Hank Cushing’s twin review of From Here to Eternity and The Caine Mutiny is the best of the lot. The Essay on Maritain’s Man and the State proceeds in good fashion in analyzing the book. The author’s application of it, though, is a little too pat and reads too much like a cure-all.
In general, the best description of the latest Juggler we can make is “readable and stimulating.” The future should definitely be brighter for ND’s literary magazine, if worth has anything to do with it.—J.J.P.
New Book Portrays Kormendi Art Work
Eugene Kormendi, sculptor in residence here at Notre Dame, and his wife have recently published a book which includes photos of a portion of their internationally known works in art.
The book, entitled The Art of Eugene and Elizabeth Kormendi with an appreciation written by Dudley' Crafts Watson, is published by the Interna
tional Press Associates Psychological Library, New York.
Included in this work are reproductions of sculptural art by Eugene Kormendi and ceramics by Elizabeth Kormendi.
Among the more famous in the United States are a 22-foot representation in bronze entitled “The. Light of the World” in Washington, D. C., “The Crucifixion” and others in aluminum and Indiana limestone at Father Flanagan’s Boys Town in Nebraska, and the “Our Lady of New Rochelle” in New York.
Here on the campus, Eugene Kor-mendi’s “St. Thomas More” in stone
adorns the facade of the Law Building.
KORMENDI AND FRIENDS sculptor writes a book
Eugene and Elizabeth Kormendi, both having studied in Hungary and Paris, came to the United States in 1939. Their return to Europe was blocked by the World War. In an attempt to find a position in an art or educational institution in the United States, they came to Notre Dame and have been here since.
Ladies of Notre Dame Invite Students to Christmas Dinner
Won’t you have Christmas dinner with a Notre Dame family?
The Ladies of Notre Dame (composed of wives of faculty members and administratvie employees) extend this invitation to all students, graduate and undergraduate, who are remaining here for the Christmas vacation.
If these students will leave their names, - addresses, and telephone numbers at the Placement Bureau, ground floor, Main Building, they will each be invited to have a real home-cooked Christmas dinner.
Mardi Gras Features Cars, TV as Prizes ~
This week,. the Notre Dame student body received notice that a traditional school event is drawing near. They received their Mardi Gras raffle books, two per student as in the past, and with these raffle tickets a letter requesting them to sell the books during the holidays.
The first prize for the lucky ticket holder will be a 1952 Buick Riviera; to the seller of the ticket will go a Nash Rambler. Prizes on a second drawing will be TV sets for both the ticket holder and seller. The third prizes are radio phonographs.
The carnival itself is scheduled for Feb. 25 and 26 and will include, as in the past, booths run by the various clubs. It will be expanded, though, to include a dance the weekend before and participation by St. Mary’s girls.
The students will have an added incentive this year to sell their books because of the $2.50 profit they make on each one. Though there are 30 tickets in a book, only $5.00 needs to be turned in to the Mardi Gras committee.
Bill Toohey, a Senior, was recently appointed general chairman of the gala affair. Assisting him are Raffle Chairman Ed Vasta, Business Manager Vic Kroeger, and Prize Chairman Frank Ronnenberg.	•
Publicity is being handled by Phil Toole, who is assisted by the Advertising Club, and Dick Rogers is taking care of distribution of the raffle books on campus. In the individual halls, the members of the hall councils are responsible for the returns on the books.
Prizes will also be awarded to the students who sell the greatest number of books. The first prize is $100; the second through fifth are $50, $30, $25, and $20. The St. Mary’s student and the resident of Vetville who sell the most books will also receive $50 each.
Another prize of $100 will be given to the hall which sells the largest number of books per student.
DELINQUENT CLUBS
The following organizations have failed to register with the Student Council:
Sailing Club, A.LCh.E.., Gymnastics Club, and Engineering Advisory Board.
Until the club president registers his club with the Student Council secretary and pays the $5 fine, the club will be suspended and forbidden to hold meetings or engage in any organized function or activity.
Dec. 14, 1951
13
Spokesman for Five of World's Non-Christian Religions Speak at Natural Law Institute Here
By CARL EIBERGER
old of Princeton'University; Dr. Maurice Le Bel of Laval University, Quebec; Dean Clarence E. Manion of the Notre Dame College of Law; Mr. Ben W. Palmer of Minneapolis; Dr. Heinrich W. Rommen of St. Thomas Col-
The fifth anniversary convocation of Notre Dame’s Natural Law Institute, this year devoted to the Natural Law philosophy in the non-Christian tradition, will continue its first day of formal sessions tonight at 8 in the Law auditorium.
Speeches will then he given on “The Natural Law in the Hindu Tradition” by Dr.- M. S. Sundaram, Educational liaison officer and cultural attache of the Embassy of India, Washington, D. C., and on “The Natural Law in the Moslem Tradition” by Dr. K. A. Hakim, director of the Institute of Islamic Culture in Lahore, Pakistan.
Tomorrow at 10 a.m. “The Natural Law in the Confucian Tradition” will be discussed by Dr. Hu Shih, former Chinese Ambassador to the United States now at Princeton, N. J.; and “The Natural Law in the Buddhist Tradition” will be treated by Dr. Daistez T. Suzuki, visiting Professor of Japanese Culture at Claremont College, Claremont, Calif.
This year’s Institute will be concluded at 2 p.m. tomorrow with a general panel discussion among the speakers on the topic “The Universality of the Natural Law Concept.”
Earlier parts of the Institute included a talk this afternoon on “The Natural Law in the Jewish Tradition” by Rabbi Solomon Freehof, nationally prominent Rabbi of the Rodef Shalom Temple in Pittsburgh, Pa.; and two days of informal panel discussions by speakers from previous institutes.
Authority on Buddhism
Dr. Suzuki, noted Japanese educator, was the fifth and final speaker to be announced for the Institute. He is professor emeritus at Otani University in Kyote, Japan. In 1949 he was a member of the faculty at the University of Hawaii, where he held the rank of Visiting Professor of Buddhist Philosophy. Dr. Suzuki holds the Cultural Medal of his native land, and is a member of the Japan Academy.
•The Institute is presided over by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University. Honorary chairman is the Most Rev. J. Francis A. McIntyre, D.D., Archbishop of Los Angeles, while Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, is chairman.
This University is host to the large number- of lawyers, judges, legal scholars and laymen who are attending the two-day affair.
This year’s sponsor will again be Mr. Alvin A. Gould, businessman of Cincinnati, and sponsor of the last three convocations.
This anniversary convocation is unique in two respects. Foremost is the fact that the principal speakers are all non-Christians. They are representatives of five of the world’s great non-Christian religions: Confucian, Buddhist, Hindu, Jewish, and Moslem.
They will discuss the place of the Natural Law concept in the age-old experiences of their peoples. This is done to highlight the general theme of the program, namely, the universality of the Natural Law, pointing out that the Natural Law is indeed the uni-
DR. SUZUKI
. . . In the Buddhist tradition
versal moral concept “written on the hearts of men” and which is the fundamental law of the whole world.
The other highlight of this year’s Institute is the return of the speakers of the four previous convocations, who participated in informal panel discussions with the public on Wednesday and Thursday of this week.
These panels and their nationally known speakers were: Hon. Richard O’Sullivan,. Kings Counsel, London, and Dr. Edward S.. Corwin of Princeton University on. the .Natural Law and the Common Law and on the Natural Law and Constitutional .Law.
■Dr. Mortimer J. Adler of the University of Chicago, Dr. Gordon H. Ger-
lege, and Hon. Robert N. Wilkin, U. S. District Court Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, on the Philosophic Background and Historical Development of Natural Law Doctrines.
Mr. George E. Sokolsky, author and journalist; Hon. Thomas J. Brogan, formerly chief justice of New Jersey; and Rev. John C. Ford, S.J., Weston College, on The Natural Law and the Right to Liberty and The Natural Law and the Right to Pursue Happiness.
Mr. Felix Morley, former president of Haverford College, and Hon. Joseph W. Hutcheson, Jr., Chief Judge, U. S. Court of Appeals, Houston, Tex., on The Natural Law and the Right to Freedom of Expression and The Natural Law and the Right to Property.
Mindful of Blackstone’s words, “This law of nature, being coeval with mankind and dictated by God Himself, is of course superior in obligation to any other,” Notre Dame’s College of Law from its founding has been an exponent of the Natural Law and has made it an integral part of the training of Notre Dame Lawyers.
To restore the Natural Law to its former position of eminence in American Jurisprudence and to restore the moral foundations of American Law, the College of Law founded the Natural Law Institute in 1947.
This extends the study of Natural Law philosophy beyond the limits of the classroom to provide a center where American lawyers, judges, jurists, and laymen might re-examine the history and development of Natural Law doctrines and their- practical applications to modern problems.
Another notable achievement of the
Institute was the establishment of the
Natural Law Library, dedicated in June 1951. This Library, a gift of Mr. Alvin Gould, is the first of its kind. Its purpose is to further advanced
study and research in the. field of Natural Law philosophy and jurisprudence.
All arrangements for this year’s con- I vocation were made under the direction | of the Notre Dame Student Law As- a sociation, with Senior R. Emmett Fitz- | gerald as student chairman. The pub- |
lie is invited to all proceedings, which will be held in the Law Auditorium.
A special coast-to-coast radio program, featuring a panel discussion among speakers at the Institute, will be broadcast’tomorrow from 3 to 3:30 p.m. over the Mutual network, and may be heard here over station WGN, Chicago. .	.	■
The Scholastic
14
NFCCS Stresses Importance of Lay Groups In Catholic Action and Recreation Workshops
By TOM GODFREY
Notre Dame and St. Mary’s were hosts last weekend to two NFCCS meetings, one a Catholic Action studysession and the other a Fort Wayne regional workshop. Attending the two meetings were approximately 140 delegates representing Catholic colleges as far distant as Davenport, Iowa, and Cincinnati, Ohio.
The keynote speaker for the work shops was Msgr. Reynold Hillenbrand of Chicago, who spoke on “Catholic Action — the 20th Century Apostolate.” He outlined in his talk the importance of an active laity in spreading Catholic influence, the function of the clergy as advisers, and the importance of the Mass as the center of Christian life.
The groups also met jointly for a panel review of “Christian Recreation,” led by Mr. Arch McAlpin, Jim Garvin of Notre Dame, and representatives of three other schools. Here the functions and problems of recreation were discussed and some methods proposed to encourage a more Christian form of diversion.
On Saturday and Sunday afternoons the CA workshop held in the Law Building conferences among small groups on the student, family, and worker movements. These discussions were held in an informal atmosphere to acquaint the students with each others’ problems and encourage greater participation. Led by Catholic Action workers in the various fields, they
dealt primarily with practical difficulties of the apostolate.
Square Dance Provides Respite
Meanwhile at St. Mary’s the regional workshop held panel meetings on spiritual formation and social problems. Notre Dame was represented at these panels by Dave Burrell, who spoke on the importance of the Mass in Christian formation.
' A square dance Saturday evening,
MSGR. HILLENBRAND “An Active Laity”
called by Mr. and Mrs. McAlpin, provided a pleasant break in the schedule for the workshop participants.
Meetings between the workshop sessions, the NFCCS regional Council, headed by President John" O’Connell, gave the chairmanship of a newly-formed Forensic Committee to Notre Dame. Here on campus the new committee will work on setting up a speakers’ bureau which will provide talks for South Bend organizations.
Also the Council heard reports by Paul Zalecki and Don Carbone of Notre Dame on a new regional constitution and the Overseas Service Program. Further actions of the Council were the placing on probation of St. Joseph’s College in Rensselaer, Ind., and the giving of the publication of Scoop, the regional paper, to St. Mary-of-the-Woods College.
Socialism in Britain Is Topic Of Jan. 8 Round Table Talks
The second in a series of monthly round table discussions, entitled “Socialism in Britain,” will be conducted by the NFCCS Jan. 8. Scheduled to originate from room 100, Law Building, the seminar will commence at 7:30 p.m.
As chairman for the forthcoming gathering, A.B. Senior Bill Dempsey will direct the proceedings of a panel consisting of four students and two members of the Notre Dame fatuity.
Representing the faculty will be Mr. John J. Hooker of the Department of History and Dr. Marcel P. Gaspar of the Department of Economics. Student speakers will include Leo Cahalan, Dick Wolfgram, John Comerford, and T--m Field.
THE WORKSHOP, BEFORE AND AFTER
Before, Registration . . . %	... Later, a Square Dance
Dec. 14, 1951
15
Unfortunate Prince Wins Crown, Loses Lady 'Midst Aged Courtiers of 'Old Heidelberg'
By JERRY COSTELLO
From Shakespeare and Moliere to William Mayer-Foerster is quite a switch. The University of Notre Dame Theatre went through the motions, but the whole thing didn’t come as smoothly as it might have. Old Heidelberg didn’t fall through completely, but it was a rather startling drop from the recently-seen and well-received “Faust.”
As far as I can see, the big reason for the disappointing performance was the play itself. Old Heidelberg is one of those gushy, romantic-style dramas which were in vogue several years ago — quite a few years ago, in fact. The story revolves around a young, handsome Prince Karl-Heinrich, who, it seems, is a sort of poor little rich boy ... all the old men bustling about the castle have kept him a virtual prisoner for lo, these many years. Apparently the only nice chap around the place is Doctor Juttner, kindly old tutor of the prince. (The prince’s uncle, who is the real ruler and big gun, takes no side on the matter. He is either too busy, too sick, or just plain doesn’t give a darn.)
Well, the prince is packed off to old Heidelberg, accompanied by his valet and kindly old Dr. Juttner, and here he gets his first taste of the good life. He even falls in love. His merrymaking is rapidly cut short, though, when his uncle is taken ill, and he has to go back to the palace and learn how to run a country and that sort of thing.
The final act takes place two years later. Uncle has died (as has Dr. Juttner), and Prince Karl-Heinrich is at the wheel. The palace is as stuffy as ever, • and young Karl-Heinrich’s onrushing marriage to some beautiful princess, a set-up he doesn’t go for, adds only more bad feeling.
He goes back to Heidelberg again, just to see how the old place looks — meets his old flame there, and they realize that the flame still has something more than just a glow. It’s too late to do anything, though (she’s being married off to somebody in Vienna), and in vain they proclaim their love for each other as the curtain falls.
It’s evident that unless you have lines by George S. Kaufman, this story could use some music here and there to brace things up. The late Sigmund Romberg had the same idea, and based The Student Prince on Old Heidelberg. This production was marred by an attempt to meet the situation half-way — using several chorus numbers from Romberg’s opus.
16
The chorus that was used did. I suppose, an adequate job, but they needed much more stage training. They clomped into and out of the garden as Prussian Guards marching off to battle; their laughter, “hoorays,” and swinging of beer mugs (too obviously empty) were forced and machine-like. The off stage piano was unreal and should have been dispensed with.
Why Old Heidelberg got the nod over The Student Prince is a logical query. Seems that royalty rates for the latter are of heroic proportions, . and the budget forced the selection of Old Heidelberg.
Several of the individual performances shone through . . . especially those of Jerry Godwin and Charles Schubert. Jerry, pleasantly remembered as the Pretzel Prince in last year’s student musical, demonstrated his versatility with a fine portrayal of Doctor Juttner. As you may have gathered from the story line, this part would have been disastrous in the wrong hands. Mr. Godwin read his lines with admirable restraint and a good, sound dramatic sense. Mr. Schubert, a pillar of the local entertainment industry and half of the Chas and Jack radio duo, gave a good reading as Lutz, the finicky and sensitive valet.
One of the neatest bits in the show came when Kathy, an innkeeper’s daughter, presented a welcome wreath to the prince, accompanied by a thoroughly-rehearsed speech. Kathy was well-played by Ann Duncan, and, in a much smaller role, Jack Corcoran did a good job as the fumbling but extremely likeable Kellerman.
Too often, though, the entire atmosphere was overly stiff. Of course, there were scenes where formality was the keynote, but it can be overdone. Occasionally a play can be read without too much emotion . . . when the lines can carry it through. But take a sample: “I am at my wit’s end. I do not know what will become of this court.” Read that one stiffly and unemotionally, and you’ve got nothing at all.
Once again, a low bow to the scenery department for two excellent realistic sets ... a complete switch from Fazist and equally enjoyable..
What with cleaning the theatre, the Catholic University players moving in, and that sort of thing, the stage wasn’t available to the ND theatre group for a full week before the first performance, last Sunday afternoon.
This was a pretty big obstacle to hurdle . . . equal, almost, to Mr. Mayer-Foerster’s dialogue.
What I’d like to emphasize is that the direction and acting shouldn’t come in for too much criticism ... a play like Old Heidelberg has too much to overcome.
From oui- experience, we know that the University Theatre potentially is far above Old Heidelberg. It’s rumored that Skin of Our Teeth will be the group’s next show, and I’m sure it will be a much more representative production.
County TB Seal Chairman Speaks at Marketing Party
Last night the Marketing Club held its second annual Christmas Party. In addition to a steak dinner, the evening featured several interesting talks with James J. Postma, manager of the local Sears, Roebuck and Co. outlet, ranking as the featured speaker. Mr. Postma’s topic was “Sears, the Retailer.”
He outlined briefly the' company’s origin and early history, covering the operations of both the mail order and retail divisions. After relating, in detail, some of the various problems that arise daily in the management of this, the' world’s largest retailer, Mr. Postma told of the company’s policy concerning customer and employee relations.
Mr. Postma is also general chairman of the St. Joseph County Tuberculosis Christmas Seal Sale'.
Also speaking were Dean McCarthy and assistant Dean Smith of the College of Commerce.
J. B. Searles is the faculty moderator of the club and Dennis Delaney arranged the program.
Chicago Club Attempts First Formal at Merchandise Mart
The Merchants’ and Men’s Club in the Merchandise Mart will be the site of the Chicago Club Christmas Dance this year on Dec. 27. Johnny Palmer will provide the music for the formal event which will start at 9 p.m. and end at 1 a.m.
Bids, priced at §5 at the door, may be obtained from any Chicago Club officer or hall representative', and in the lobby of the Dining Hall, for §4.50, which includes an engraved invitation. Included in the price of the bid also are gardenia corsages and carnation boutonnieres.
The co-chairmen for the dance are Bud O’Brien and Pat Dougherty.
This is the first attempt by the Chicago Club to hold a Christmas formal dance.
The Scholastic





®J?F- .®j.
presents of |Wnti
Photos by AL MUTH
1
MuSVCil^l
O*'*N **s^ "■>*' A
’*r
Been thinking about Christmas lately? ’Most everyone has. These last few days of school are days of anticipation. Two solid weeks home. Going to Midnight Mass. Listening to Lionel Barrymore play Scrooge on Christmas Eve. Loitering around the mistletoe. Comparing egg nogs. Decorating the tree. Can’t you just picture that tree, with the presents under it? Presents you’ll be getting, presents you’ll be giving. And it is precisely at this point that the reflective smile slowly fades from youx- face, fox- giving presents naturally makes you think of Christmas shopping.
Just what is it about Christmas shopping that brings the cold sweat to the average male brow? What causes the face to blanch, the collar- to tighten, the eyes to roll despairingly? Is it the thought of the expense? Ox- the mobs of shoppers to be faced, ox- the many packages to be carried? No, it is none of these. It is simply that each Christmas the male discovers in himself a dismaying ignorance of the people to whom he wishes to give
presents. Take the girl friends, for example. He knows she just adores kittens, hot fudge sundaes, and Montgomery Clift. He also knows that she detests jazz, red ties, and chugalugging. But what size glove she wears, what exact shade of blue she thinks, matches her eyes, whether she takes a 10, 12, or 14, remain in the obscure limbo of Vital Information I Never Bothered to Get. He must give hex- something. But she has a hot fudge sundae every Saturday night, the market is rather understocked with. Montgomery Clifts, and kittens exist solely to be entered in pet shows by aging spinsters. Oh, he always gives hex- something. And she always loves it. But before the giving and the loving is a slow process of sheer* torture unrivaled even in the days of the pit and the pendulum.	.
The smart lads try to do their- shopping in South Bend, but it still doesn’t work. The vital information is just as non-existent here as there. At home you can at least call her mother. For the sad tale of one such fellow, please turn the page.
Dec. 14, 1951
Window shopping is an important function of the Christmas gift-buyer: by it one gets a rough idea of a few things the recipient may like, but then again may not.
Once the buyer knows definitely that he has not the slightest idea of what he can get . r.
That’s right, an inch shorter than mine.
But they can’t do much about prices.
Time for Man-of-Discriminating-Taste-Who-Obviously-Knows-His-Perfume routine.
Council's Two Constitutional Amendments Provide New Disciplinary Code for Students
By JIM HARRINGTON
Two very important and far-reaching amendments to the Notre Dame Student Council Constitution, which were unanimously passed by the members of the Council at a meeting Nov. 26, have been approved by Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs.
The amended Constitution now provides for the establishment and enforcement of a list of rules and regulations, concerning disciplinary matters in reference to the student body, which list will bear the official title of the Student
The S.C.C.S.C. will not include certain violations which would be better handled by the Prefect of Discipline. Such cases as those pertaining to grave moral matters and violations requiring automatic penalty (e.g., coming in late) are to be considered in this category.
These are only tentative proposals, however, and none have yet been accepted or received formal approval.
Though the working machinery of the Code and its application are things of the future, the members of the Council feel that this is a long step forward
in the cause of student self-government and will serve to lift the Student Council from its present status of being just a social group to an organization with real meaning and potential.
At present, the task of developing the Code has been referred to Council members Tom Reedy and Lou Garippo, coauthors of the amendment, for further study and consideration to work out a practical plan of action.
Details Must Be Worked Out
Such things as the actual court procedure, the scope of the Code, the constitution of a violation, the penalties for offences, the opportunity to appeal by students convicted of violations, selection of judges, the method of apprehending violators, etc., are all factors
Council Code of Student Conduct.
The first amendment provides for the establishment of the Code, each item of which will be subject to the approval of the vice-president in charge of student affairs. The amendment further provides that each issue of the Code shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Student Council and, after being approved, shall be incorporated and take effect immediately.
Council Acts as Judges
The second amendment concerns the enforcement of the Code and states: "The Student Council shall act as a judicial body for any violator or group of violators of the S.C.C.S.C. They shall be empowered to hear and mete- out justice to any such students who come before the Student Council as violators of any rule or rules as stated in the S.C.C.S.C/’
As a guide to the general proposed scope of the S.C.C.S.C., the following suggested items were mentioned as violations of the Code:
1)	If a student or organization shall violate a legislative ruling of the Student Council.
2)	If a student shall become intoxicated.
3)	If a student shall steal funds from a campus club or organization’s treasury.
4)	If a student seeks to obtain or accepts for himself rebates while contracting with merchants while in connection with student functions.
5)	If a student in any way cause's a nuisance in South Bend, on busses, or on campus. (The nuisances in the hall could be sent to the Student Council through the rector or hall council.)
Fly Home jo* OltAiibnaA via Lake Central Airlines
Make your reservations today by calling 2-9597 or your travel agent.
DAILY CENTRALINER SCHEDULE
South Bend to Louisville
Leaving South Bend 7:07 a. m.
Arriving Louisville 9:34 a. m.
South Bend to Indianapolis
Leaving South Bend 7:07 a. m.	Arriving Indianapolis 8:23 a. m.
Leaving South Bend 6:07 p. m.	Arriving Indianapolis 7:28 p. m.
South Bend to Cincinnati
Leaving South Bend 6:07 p. m. Arriving Indianapolis 7:28 p. m.
Arriving Cincinnati 11:13 p. m. EST
21 Passenger DC-3 Service to Kalamazoo, Grand Rapids, Kokomo, Bloomington and Richmond.
Direct connections to all America
20
The Scholastic
I
j which must be given careful attention. * Seedy, secretary of the Council, *	stated: “The actual functioning of the
|	Student Council Code will be a thing
f.	of the future. No immediate results will
;	be forthcoming for some time because
J	of the complexity of its institution, the
•	time required for proper orientation of
।	the student body as a whole, and the
J	fact that something so new and unique
j	in Notre Dame’s history will of neces-
y-	sity need to feel its way along untried
;	paths.”
:	He went on to stress further that
programs of similar nature have proved । successful at other schools but that the r success of the Code depends largely on < the attitude of the student body towards jr it. A properly functioning Code will not result in relaxing of restrictions । but will primarily place the responsibility and authority of discipline in many matters of the student behavior upon '	the shoulders of the students them-
■	selves.
£
:	Because of this far-reaching signifi-
cance of the project, Father Carey, in
' approving the amendments, advised the Y Council to proceed slowly and with great caution.
Seniors Get OK to Spend $2,000 on Band for May Ball
May 9 was reserved as the date for the Senior Ball of 1952 at the last pre-Christmas meeting of the Student Council Monday Dec. 10. A ceiling of $2,000 was placed on the band pending the approval of the Office of Student Affairs in order' to enable the dance committeemen to reserve an orchestra.
Ray Anthony is the probable choice if the budget is approved by Father Carey’s office. The rest of the proposed $4,500 budget will be considered at the next Council meeting.
The Student Council is underwriting the first issue of a Commerce news letter sponsored by the Marketing Club. The Council obligates itself to the extent of $40. Subscriptions will be sold for the proposed paper at 50 cents per semester.
The budget for the Science Ball was put in the hands of the Auditing Committee to be approved if the figures on previous attendance justify it.
Phones for limited student use have again been installed on the second floors of the residence halls.
Council V-P Jim Mannion was commissioned to investigate possibilities of getting an office for the Student Council in the new Arts and Letters Building.
Vetville Moms Organize Tots In Nativity Play at Rec Hall
Although Christmas won’t be here for more than a week, the children of all the married students will get a preview of that joyous day at their Christmas party being held tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 p.m. in the Vet Rec Hall. The affair is in charge of the mothers of the children.
The children are going to participate in, and present, a play about the Nativity. This is an attempt to bring Christ back into Christmas in the lives of the children, a try to oust the material idea, which has come to represent Christmas, into a place of secondary importance to the main theme, which is the birth of Jesus Christ.
Since Christmas still would not be complete for any child without a visit from Santa Claus, he will be at the party to give out presents, but before he does, the children will be told that he really is a helper- of Jesus.
After St. Nick has performed his
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
WHENEVER SHEEDY gave a gal the glad ham she turned up her snoot. Poor Paul took pen and oink and wrote a litter home: “I’m sty-mied. All the gals think I’m a boar. To get a date is a pig’s feat!” His mother wrote back: "Even a dull-lard like you should know enough to borrow his roommate’s Wildroot Cream-Oil! It’s non-alcoholic. Contains soothinglanolin. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Makes your hair look neat and well-groomed.” That was the pig-me-up Sheedy needed. Now he’s imporkant... hogs and kisses all the girls. Better try Wildroot Cream-Oil yourself. Get it at your favorite drug or toilet goods counter—and ask for professional applications at your barber chop!
of 131 So. Harris HillRd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
well-known task, the children will be served refreshments.
Four ND Debaters Take On 13 Schools in Purdue Meet
Four ND debaters are in Lafayette today for the Purdue University. Forensics Conference, which annually brings together the nation’s top 14 schools in collegiate debating.
Sophomores Bill Hank, Don Dowden, and Bill Fagan and Freshman Charles Doherty began four rounds of debate yesterday and will wind up the three-day meet with conferences tomorrow.
To the best speaker and the best team will go the traditional Wachtel plaques.
PARTY TONIGHT AT SMC
St. Mary’s is throwing another informal get-together at the SMC Rectangle from 7:30 till 10 tonight. Any remaining tickets may be obtained—free —from the hall rectors.
Dec. 14, 1951
21
Coming home to New York on your Vacation? . . .
SAM GOODY
"PHONOGRAPH RECORDS"
VISIT OUR NEW STORE
Our ONLY Location
Give Christmas Gifts
From one of the world's largest collections of
LONG PLAYING RECORDS
Between 10 and 500 copies of every long-playing record always in stock.
i. j
30% Off on all LONG PLAYING RECORDS
Except Remington and Royale
Gift Certificates Available.
Free ... New 3 Speed Record Attachment
With the cash purchase of §25 at list price of any size or make Long-Playing Records. Reg. §20.50. Not applicable to 30% offer.
FREE 100-PAGE CATALOG!
Our complete long playing catalog is available to you free for the asking. Included is every selection of every manufacturer. We will mail this catalog anywhere in the world.
-----------------------OUR POLICY------------------------------
ALL MERCHANDISE IS GUARANTEED BRAND NEW ALL LONG PLAYING RECORDS PLAYED MORE THAN ONCE WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED FOR RETURN Every record manufacturer guarantees these records to us as perfect and accepts our return of defec ive records after the first play. We are passing that privilege on.
SAM GOODY, 235 W. 49th St., N. Y. 19, (Between Broadway & 8th Ave.) (No more than one block from any West Side subway)
»	' t
CIRCLE 6-1710. Business Hours: 9 a. m. to 7 p. m.
PARKING: Ask Astor Garage, next door, for Special to Goody Customers. 50c for one-half hour. We will pay 25c of this charge.
WND Leaves Air Tuesday For Holidays, Returns Jan. 3
WND station manager Bill Ryan announces that the station will remain on the air through Dec. 18, the day before school closes for Christmas vacation.
“We will have a full programming schedule until 10:30 on the evening of Tuesday, the 18th,” he announced, “and will return to the air after the holidays on Jan. 3, the day school reopens, at 11:30 in the morning.”
Tentative plans call for- the station to leave the air Jan. 12 for the semester examination period, to resume broadcasting on Jan. 29. At that time the schedule of programs will probably receive a thorough going-over, with changes where they would appear advantageous.
Wednesday’s interview of Rev. T. J. Brennan, C.S.C., ended the first section of “The Pressroom” shows, which have appeared for three weeks now over WND.
Bill Riley, Scholastic columnist and director of the program, announces that after the Christmas holidays, a new series of guests will be invited to speak to the panel members every Wednesday at 7 p.m.
Moot Court Team Reaches Finals in New York Today
Notre Dame’s champonship Moot Court team is in New York City today representing the Seventh Judicial Circuit in the finals of the National Moot Court Competition.
The three Senior Law students comprising the team are E. Milton Farley III, Joseph C. Spalding, and R. Emmett Fitzgerald, who aids as Counsel on the Brief.
They won the regional championship recently in two days of oral arguments in Chicago. Seven teams took part, with Notre Dame winning over the Chicago-Kent, University of Chicago, and University of Indiana Law Schools. This latter team was ND’s competitor in the finals, which were judged by justices from the Supreme Courts of Indiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin.
This is the second year in a row that Notre Dame has been in the finals in New York. Although last year’s team was the runner-up in the regional finals, two teams are sent from each circuit, making a total of 22 teams in the finals.
Meanwhile the campus Moot Court competition for the Dean’s Award goes into the quarterfinals Monday. Fcur courts will be in progress’starting at 7:30 p.m. in rooms 100, 161, 103, and 104 Law building.
22
The- Scholastic
Met Club Schedules Formal For Dec. 27 at the Waldorf
The Notre Dame Met Club will hold its annual Christmas Formal the evening of Dec. 27 on the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York, President Don Fager has announced.
The dance will last from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m., during which time the crowning of a queen will take place.
Tickets are priced at six dollars, and are available through the hall representatives. All men living off campus may obtain tickets from Steve Fracino in 230 Alumni.
Chairman Hank McCormack announces that Harry Arnold and his orchestra will be on hand to supply the music.
Inflation Hits P.O.; Campus Mail, Postcard Fee Doubled
The first general increase in postal rates in a number of years has been announced by the United States Post Office department.
However, the new rates do not go into effect until Jan. 1. Brother Mar-cellinus, C.S.C., postmaster at Notre Dame, has reported that some students have been paying the new rates unnecessarily, through misunderstanding of the time of change.
One of the new rates which the students will have to pay will be two cents on postcards and private cards (cards of the same size as government cards). Local mail will cost two cents. But since St. Mary’s is not local, the postal charge for mail across the Dixie will be three cents.
Special delivery mail will cost 20 cents, plus the usual three-cent stamp or six-cent air mail stamp. There will also be an increase in fees for registered mail and insurance.
It is specifically pointed out that the ordinary letter will still require only a three-cent stamp, while an air mail letter also remains at its old rate of six cents.
The local post office has had some difficulty in the handling of laundry cases due to the addresses falling out of the slots on the exterior of the cases. Brother Marcellinus suggests that students paste the address on the container or put a copy of it insider If the address becomes detached, the parcel may easily be lost.
During the Christmas vacation all first class mail will be forwarded to the students’ homes. Any students who will remain on the campus are requested to notify the post office so they will receive their mail without unnecessary delay.
You may not know it but. . . the best white dress shirt
you can buy is
ARDWIN SETLO
Super quality imported Egyptian 2x2 pima cotton broadcloth . . . made with all the famous Manhattan details, French cuffs, Man-formed for flattering, comfortable fit.
8.95

Men’s Shop — Street Floor — North
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP in the Rockne Memorial
Christmas Gift Box
SPALDING
of Golf Balls
U. S. ROYAL
ACUSHNET
DUNLOP
These four famous manufacturers offer you special gift boxes which can serve a double function.
You get both the balls and these special boxes at the regular prices. Packages of a dozen and half-dozen golf balls are available.
Hand Balls and Gloves
Rubber Shower Sandals
Golf Club Covers
While you’re down there, take a look at their supply of:
Ping Pong Balls
Tee Shirts and Sport Socks
Dec., 14, 1951
23
HOW MANY TIMES A DAY DO YOU INHALE? 50?) [ 100?s [200?]
IF YOU’RE AN AVERAGE SMOKER THE RIGHT AHSWER IS OVER 200!
Yes, 200 times every day your nose and throat are exposed to irritation...
200 GOOD REASONS WHY YOU’RE BETTER OFF SMOKING Philip Morris!


PROVED definitely milder . . .
PROVED definitely less irritating than any other leading brand ...	.
PROVED by outstanding nose and throat specialists.
YES, you’ll be glad tomorrow .. . you smoked PHILIP MORRIS today!
s PHIUP MORRIS
24
The Scholastic

Scholastic 5h oris
Irish Cagers
Battle Loyola Monday
JACK ALESSANDRINI
Was handed the shillelagh
Alessandrini Picked To Head '52 Gridders
Jack Alessandrini, who called the defensive signals for the 1951 Irish, has been elected captain of Frank Leahy’s 1952 grid squad. Retiring captain Jim Mutscheller handed Alessandrini the shillelagh, which signifies Irish football iL leadership, at the annual Testimonial Banquet Wednesday night.
The 20 year old native of Charleston, W. Va. thus steps into a line of great Notre Dame captains of the last decade —Pat Filly, George Connor, Bill Fischer, Jim Martin, Leon Hart, Jerry u Groom, and Mutscheller. Like those greats of the past “Drini” is a lineman, for it is a grid tradition that the top ND football honor go to a member of the unpublicized line.
L	Alessandrini saw little action in his
I
| sophomore year, but this season he blos-* somed into the outstanding member of the young Irish defensive platoon. Be-
1	sides shouldering the responsibility of
j. diagnosing the opponents’ attack and '	calling a suitable defensive setup, Ales-
sandrini handled the middle linebacking position with bone-crushing assurance.
Penn, Spartans Play Here During Holidays
By JACK SAND
Having passed their first severe test against Wisconsin’s rough ’n’ tough Badgers, Coach Johnny Jordan’s goodlooking Irish quintet will face nothing but trouble from here on in starting with Loyola of Chicago this Monday evening, and extending over the Christmas Holidays with such perennial powers as Pennsylvania, Indiana, and Purdue. Starting the New Year off in similar fashion the Irish will run into Michigan State on Jan. 2, Louisville’s powerful Colonels on the fifth, and Butler on the eighth.
In Monday night’s encounter with Loyola, Notre Dame fans should see a vastly improved Rambler squad invade the fieldhouse where they were soundly trounced last season, 78-67. Under its new coach, Georgie Ireland, a former’ All-American guard here at the University in the mid ’30’s, and the immediate successor to Jordan, Loyola has molded into a tall, high-scoring combination, which promises to better last season’s record of 15-14. It will be interesting to see how Jordan will handle the Ramblers’ offense, since this time he is on the opposite side of the fence.
Loyola Has Many Returnees
Among the seven lettermen back from the 1950-51 quintet is Captain Nick Kladis, an All-American forward candidate who ranked 57th nationally last year with 454 points. The 6’3” Kladis set a new all-time Loyola single game scoring record with 33 points and hit on 13 of 17 free throw attempts to eclipse another school mark.
Adding to the effectiveness of the Ramblers will be senior center Don Hanrahan, whose 6’7” frame dumped in a total of 385 points last season to place him second in that department. Against the rugged Irish last year Hanrahan had an off night, and was bottled up nicely by “Gootch” Lewinski who held him under* 10 points.
Rounding out the rest of the starting
Home Opener
LESLIE FOR A LAY-UP A bad night for Wabash
Dec. 14, 1951
25
five will be 6’5” forward Ellie Sigward, whose deft ball-handling and rebounding make him a good running mate for Kladis. The two guard slots will probably be manned by speedy Ed Maracick and either Joe Hutmaker or Bill Sullivan. This all-senior starting alignment has an average height of approximately 6’2” and should give Entee Shine, Dick Rosenthal, and Lewinski quite a battle under the backboards. So far this season, Loyola has trounced three weak opponents, but Coach Ireland’s squad promises to provide real opposition even on the Irish home court.
Irish Meet Penn
On Dec. 22, while all is quiet here on campus, the University of Pennsylvania engages the South Benders in what should provide quite a bit of fireworks for the home town rooters. Led by high-scoring Ernie Beck, the leading point-getter in the Ivy League last season, the Quakers will try and duplicate the victory they gained over ND last February when they won at Philadelphia Palestra. But this time the tables are reversed and the Irish are home, which means that Beck will have to be all of Beck to stop a very well-balanced Notre Dame Club.
After a brief vacation of five days, Coach Jordan’s eagers return to action on the 28th and 29th against Indiana and Purdue in the famous Hoosier Big Four classic held at Indianapolis.
Both teams lack experience, but the Cream and Crimson of Indiana have - enough height to match any team in the country. Hoosier Coach Branch McCracken has the tallest squad he has
NICK KLADIS Hit 13 out of 17
ever handled, but says it lacks the speed, polish, and savvy of last year’s club.
Graduated from the rip-snorting team of last season that chased Illinois down to the wire to be the runner-up in the Big Ten, were seven seniors,
BASKETBALL ADMISSIONS
Students will be admitted to varsity basketball games upon presentation of identification-athletic cards at the door.
Athletic cards issued to wives of students for football will not be honored for basketball and should be returned to the ticket Office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
All varsity games will begin at 8 p.m. All seats except those in the north balcony will be held for students unitl 7:30 p.m. Space not utilized by the student body by 7:30 will be sold as general admission at $1.00. No general admission tickets will be sold in advance.
There will be a preliminary game between the Freshmen and the Reserves before ■ all varsity contests at 6:40 p.m. The west entrance will be open at 6:30. Other doors will be open by 7 p.m. To facilitate admission, students from Farley, Breen-Phillips, and Vetville are asked to use the north door, while those from all other halls and off-campus are to use the west and south doors.
There are a few reserved seats available on a season-ticket basis, priced at $13.50, covering the nine-game home schedule. Season-ticket sale closes Dec. 1. Any reserved seats unsold at that time may be purchased for individual games while they last, for $1.50 each, at the Ticket Office.
most prominent among them being Indiana’s all-time scoring leader, Bill Garrett, along with Bill Tosheff, Jack Brown, and Gene Ring.
McCracken Has Some Vets
Despite these tremendous losses, Coach McCracken has on hand as a nucleus, veteran guard Bobby Masters and sharpshooting Sammy Miranda, plus ten newcomers including South Bend’s Don Schlundt, the famous Washington - Clay High basketeer. Against Xavier U. last Saturday, Schlundt tallied 16 points in eight minutes in leading the Hoosiers to a 92-69 rout over the Ohioans. Another court
monster, in the person of 6’10” Lou Scott scored 11 points, to back up the previous statement that Indiana will be. tough because of its towering height.
Not so highly rated as the Hoosiers but more than equal to them in speed, are Purdue’s young eagers who will tussle with the Irish on the 29th. This speed of the Boilermakers will be used as a means of counteracting a general lack of experience and height, and provides Purdue’s main hope of improving on last year’s seasonal mark of 8-14, and their eighth-place ranking in the Big Ten.
The Boilermakers, however, are not altogether without any height, due to the fact that a trio of untried freshmen, each ranging about 6’8” may come through for Coach Ray Eddy.
McNulty Chief Purdue Threat
The chief scoring threat for Purdue is All-American candidate Carl McNulty who rewrote the Boilermaker scoring record book last season with 376 points, for an average of 17 per game. The current roster has a definite Sophomore tinge to it, but was recently bolstered when Darrell Brewster of football fame, reported for duty.
In addition to McNulty and Brewster the holdover letterman contingent is composed of a trio of juniors, of whom only pop-shot artist John Dermody is a sure starter. In their opening game against Kansas State, the Boilermakers showed a definite weakness at their guard positions, as evidenced by the 67-51 thumping they received. But this by no means proves that they haven't improved since then.
DON HANRAHAN Dumped in 385 points
26
The Scholastic
Coach Johnny Jordan
By MICKEY CARROLL
For awhile last Spring, Moose Krause might have seriously doubted the wisdom of the Board of Athletic’s selecting Johnny Jordan to be his successor as coach of Notre Dame’s basketball team.
Rumor has it that the Moose, an avid amateur golfer, spent several late Spring afternoons rounding the campus golf course in the company of Jordan and assistant football coach John Druze.
Jordan shoots consistently in the 70s and Druze isn’t far behind him. The rumor continues that if Jordan has never collected a nickel of his salary, he could still leave the campus a rich man. And Krause is said to have paid out enough in bets to make Senator Kefauver’s eyebrows raise.
But if the Moose was dubious last Spring, his doubts had disappeared by the end of three basketball games this seascn.
Jordan’s team, a sophomore laden outfit whipped into shape by the first year coach, enjoyed a 3-0 mark and looked to be a top-flight cage team, destined for big things in 1951 and the years to come.
It’s easy to see why Jordan should be a success as a basketball coach. He loves basketball and he lives basketball.
At a game, he’s completely wrapped up in the activities on the court. He
THE PLAYER
No cage scandals
leans with every shot, his eyes dart from player to player, and during time out periods he fires directions to his squad in urgent stacatto, tones.
Talk to Jordan in the relaxed atmosphere of what he describes as his “spacious office quarters,” a desk in the waiting room of the athletic director’s office. He’ll freely admit, “Basketball is my life. I’ve been mixed up in it for over 16 years. My only ambition is to give Notre Dame a topflight team.”
Jordan attended Notre Dame from 1931 to 1935, played three years of varsity basketball, and captained the squad in his senior year. After his graduation he was signed as head coach at Chicago’s Mount Carmel high school. There he stayed for fourteen years, interrupted only by a three-year stint in the Navy.
He became head coach at Loyola University in Chicago for the 1950-51 season, his team posting a 15 and 14 record, and early last spring Jordan was signed to replace Krause as basketball coach at Notre Dame.
Krause and Jordan were far from strangers. They had played basketball together on the 1932 to 1935 Irish squads. Jordan succeeded Krause as captain, graduating one year behind the Moose.
A heavy-set handsome man, with silver streaks blazing through his hair, Jordan is affable and easy to talk with. He has the knack of making you feel instantly at home with him, and the 200 or more students who have become regular viewers of the eagers’ daily practice sessions, claim that Jordan has learned many of their names just from seeing them around the Fieldhouse.
He’s an easy going person. “You can put down in that story that I’m here in the office every morning promptly at 8 — except that I’m not easy going on subjects I feel strongly about.”
Notre Dame is one of those subjects. “When you put in that business about my being glad to coach here, underline it and add a few exclamation points.” He adds, “This cage scandal business would have a hard time getting a foothold at this school. The monogram and the honor of playing here mean far too much to the boys.”
His squad members have learned to like him, and, what’s more important, to respect and obey him. “My teams will not ever in any way bring adverse criticism down on this school. If I
a boy giving an argument to the
see
THE COACH winning teams

officials, he’ll sit on the bench and he’ll sit there for a long time.”
Jordan is firm in the belief that scoring is what makes basketball. “I’m not a hockey fan because those guys can skate around all night and wind up with the score 1-0. And if I knew in advance that a baseball game was going to be one of those 2-1 things, I wouldn’t go. I like to see home runs, not pitchers’ duels — that’s why I like basketball.”
The kind of guy who you immediately think should be a public relations man for someone or other, Jordan has the knack of coming up with just the right phrase to answer a question. Who do you think will be the number one team in the nation, he was asked. “Well, after us . . . ” he grinned. “Seriously, it looks like Kentucky to me.”
TILL JAN. 11
The next issue of the SCHOLASTIC will appear Jan. 11. Meetings of the news and sports staffs will be held Thursday, Jan. 3, at the usual time and place.
Meanwhile, SCHOLASTIC extends to the students and faculty its best wishes for a pleasant vacation.
Dec. 14, 1951
Splinters fromihpPressboX
By Jack Varley
The recently organized Bengal Bouters Club is the first step in the right direction that might eventually lead to a Notre Dame boxing team to participate in intercollegiate competition. As it is right now, the club will give exhibitions at weekly smokers (another good idea) and will attempt to get university approval to schedule bouts with other boxing clubs. Boxing, at least collegiate boxing, is a true sport and as yet is one of the few that doesn’t have the taints of professionalism. Notre Dame has some fine boxers as recent Bengal Bouts have demonstrated. ' They, under the fine coaching of Dominic Napolitano, would certainly be able to bring honor to their school.’ As far as injuries are concerned, there hasn’t been one serious mishap since 1931 when the Bengals were first inaugurated. Another thing in their favor . . . boxing is quite popular at Notre Dame. The Bengals have always been a top drawing card.
All-American
Congratulations to tackle Bob Toneff on his award by the Associated Press of All-American honors. Michigan State and Southern California agreed with the AP. They both named him on their all-opponent offensive team and the Trojans picked him on their defensive squad as well. SC also picked Johnny Lattner on their offensive and def<
BOB TONEFF
All-opponent, All-American
ive all-opponent teams.
Burns and Alessandrini
About this time it is interesting to speculate on the honors Paul Burns might have garnered had he not suffered a shoulder injury. With not quite three games played he received honorable mention on several of the All-Midwest teams and in our opinion would have stood a very good chance of copping some national laurels had he completed the session. Rumor has it that the selectors had a hard time picking the guards. There weren’t enough outstanding ones around. It is also interesting to note that the Notre Dame line was much more effective as a unit with Burns in there.
Congratulations to Jack Alessandrini, the 1952 Irish grid captain. His defensive signal calling duties this year should make him well qualified to follow in the footsteps of other great Irish captains — Jim Mutscheller, Jerry Groom, Leon Hart and Jim Martin.
Stowaways
As the team plane was about to take off from the Los Angeles airport following the Southern California game, there were two passengers noticeable that were definitely not Irish gridders. Finally, one of them asked, “This is the plane to Catalina, isn’t it?” The plane had to taxi back to the apron and allow the stow-aways to debark. Then in Chicago two persons thought that the team bus was the regular one between Chicago and South Bend and once more the team had two stow-aways. Said Charlie Callahan, sports publicity director, “We seem to attract ’em.”
The Mysterious Mr. C.
Mr. C. of Chicago . . . read a little deeper.
Boxers Prepare for March Bengal Bouts
By KEN MURPHY
A recent interview with Dominic Napolitano revealed that regular workouts for the annual Bengal Bouts are expected to get underway on Jan. 7, the first Monday after the Christmas recess. This will give his aspirants about two months to round into shape, since tentative plans call for the Ben- ' gal finals to be staged on Saturday night, Mai-ch 15, with a week-long slugfest of preliminaries preceding the main I go.
The bouts, the most popular winter * activity on campus, will once again be staged in the old gym, and will be sponsored by the K of C, with the proceeds going to charity.
Many Champs Return ■	4
Many of last year’s champions are back for a few more swings this year. They include Geary Becker, 127 pound champ; Bernard Baute, 147 pound * champ; Dick Windishar, 157 pound champ; Joe Brown, 167 pound champ; Dan Finn and Lee Getshaw, 177 pound junior and senior champs respectively; and heavyweight champion Dick Cotter. Among the returning finalists are Sal Fiorella, Tom Chisholm, Bob Bickert, Aaron Dyson, Frank Hamilton, and Bill Flynn.
This year’s winners will receive sweaters and trophies and the’ runnersup will also receive sweaters, but Na- ' politano hopes to be able to give awards to every one of the contestants. As in the past, these awards will be donated by the various campus clubs.
In the interview, the boxing coach pointed out that these bouts have been staged every year since 1931 and in all *•' these years there has never been a single serious injury and there have been very few minor injuries.
Capable Official
Napolitano attributes this to the fact -that the best protective devices possible are used. These include a 2-inch mat, helmets, 14 and 16 ounce golves, and— most important—very capable' officials. All of the officials are registered AAU offiicals who have no connection with the University, outside of the fact that most 4 of them have been with the bouts since they were started. The referees will once again be the efficient veterans George Van der Heyden and George Nate. Van der Heyden was Chicago 1 Golden Gloves 135-pound Champ, InterCity Champ, and International Champ k
28
The Scholastic
in 1933, while Nate was the fifth-rank-ing featherweight in the country in the ’30’s.
Besides directing and handling all the details of this huge operation, Napolitano also pitches in and supervises all of the workouts and does most of the instructing. Occasionally, if he runs across a pretty good lad, he will let him help out with the instructions.
The newly-organized Boxing Club has also been a valuable assistance in boxing instruction. This club, composed of all boys who have participated or plan to participate in the Bengal Bouts, holds daily workouts in the old gym and has been staging weekly “smokers” every Thursday night in the boxing room of the old gym. Although termed “smokers,” these gatherings are simply boxing cards planned to help the boys condition themselves and iron out their flaws.
w Ml^le Mb frejiven up mf^h Oh what ^un u fc to ride and ^^e Greyhound
Frosh Welcome
The club stresses the fact that all freshmen and any others who are interested in boxing are welcome. The officers of the club are all Bengal Boute'rs, 7 who have a personal interest in the success of the club, and long-range plans call for the formation of a boxing team.
At the close of the interview Napolitano was asked if any of his boys had ever followed up the boxing profession after their college days. His reply was an emphatic “no.” “It is not our idea that the kids go into professional boxing. In fact I discourage that thing all the way along. We want them to do what they came to the University for.” Nappy went on to state that there is nothing compulsory involved and the boys who give up their time to practice A and to participate in the bouts are doing a very charitable deed.



SAVE...Low one-way fares everywhere SAVE AGAIN...Return trip 20% Less
on round-trip tickets
u Spartans, SMU Dominate '51 Irish All-Opponent Team
Michigan State and Southern Methodist players dominated the Notre Dame all-opponent team for 1951, with the Spartans and the Mustangs each placing three men. Twelve were chosen altogether, with one of the guard positions tied. End Bob Carey, tackle , Don Coleman and quarterback Al Dorow were the MSC representatives, while SMU placed guard Herschel Forester, center Dick Hightower, and back > Freddie Benners. Southern California and Purdue each placed two men, the Trojans with guard Pat Canamella, j and back Frank Gifford, the Boilermakers with guard Clinton Skibinski j and Darrell Brewster. Tackle Fritz Davis of Navy and fullback Bill Reich-J ardt of Iowa rounded out the squad.
BIG SAVINGS on	HOLIDAY TRIPS HOME!		
From South Bend	One Way	Round Trip	Savings
PHILADELPHIA, PA.	$16.05	$28.90	$3.20
PITTSBURGH, PA.	8.65	15.60	1.70
CINCINNATI, O.	6.05	10.90	1.20
LOUISVILLE, KY.	6.20	11.20	1.20
AKRON. O.	6.50	11.70	1.30
TOLEDO. O.	3.30	5.95	0.65
MEMPHIS. TENN.	11.05	19.90	2.20
KNOXVILLE, TENN.	11.85	21.35	2.35
NEW ORLEANS, LA.	16.30	29.35	3.25
WASHINGTON, D. C.	14.35	25.85	2.85
NEW YORK, N. Y.	17.35	31.25	3.45
DETROIT, MICH.	4.45	8.05	0.85
CHICAGO. ILL.	2.00	3.60	0.40
MIAMI, FLA.	26.90	48.45	5.35
TAMPA, FLA.	24.25	43.65	4.85
CHARLESTON. W. VA.	9.90	17.85	1.95
RICHMOND. VA.	16.05	28.90	3.20
NORFOLK. VA.	18.95	34.15	3.75
NASHVILLE. TENN.	10.30	18.55	2.05
ATLANTA. GA.	14.75	26.55	2.95
		Plus Federal Tax	
UNION BUS TERMINAL
117 Western Avenue
Phone 3-8283
GREYHOUND
Dec. 14, 1951
29
In+erhall Basketball Gets Into Full Swing
By BOB FROLICHER
Basketball now dominates the interhall activities as the Christmas vacation draws near. For three weeks the various teams have been squaring off with each other, and now the top quintets are beginning to stand out.	J
The competition is built around forty- . f one teams. Nine brackets consist of four teams each, while the tenth is
... Your Kid Brother
ERNIE SZEKELY
All teams will be reseeded
Will Get
A Pile of Fun
If You
Get Him
made up of five teams. At the present time, all the club teams are in one bracket and all hall teams in another. However, Ernie Szekely, a member of the Physical Education Department, who is in charge of the basketball activities, has announced that all the teams will be reseeded next semester.
THE CATHOLIC BOY
(Edited by the Holy Cross Fathers here at Notre Dame)
The Ideal Christmas Gift — $2.50 a Year
THE CATHOLIC BOY
147 East 5th Street, St. Paul 1, Minn.
Kindly send the CATHOLIC BOY for one year
To.....................................................
Street...............................................................
City................................  Zone......State..................
I enclose $2.50.
Send Gift Card, to read FROM...........................................
Few Forfeits
Main emphasis is put on one point in particular. If any team forfeits twice, they are dropped out of the league and are automatically eliminated from competition next semester. A few teams have already failed to show up in the afternoon league, while only one for-
BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Dec. 17—Loyola at ND
22—Pennsylvania at ND
28—Indiana at Indianapolis
29—Purdue at Indianapolis
Jan. 2—Michigan State at ND
5—Louisville at Louisville
8—Butler at ND
30
The Scholastic
feit has been recorded in the evening group.
Szekely intends to spend some time over the holidays checking over the teams, studying the various scores, and through this method hopes to be able to ascertain the strongest teams in both leagues. After this work has been completed, he wants to split up the brackets so that there are no two outstanding teams in one group. By breaking up the various brackets, Szekely believes that it will promote better playing.
Difficulties Being Ironed Out
The games have been handicapped with various difficulties, but are being ironed out as time moves along. One of the biggest problems is the limitation of playing on only one court. Each game consists of four eight-minute quarters. However, this time is “running time” and does not stop for personal fouls, out of bounds or official times out. Because of needless arguments with the referees Szekely points out that both sides lose valuable playing time.
The teams will engage in approximately two more weeks of competition before the final exams. Next semester the teams will all be reseeded and will fight it out for three weeks before the beginning of the tournament. No two teams will appear in the same bracket as they did this semester, thus dividing the group into equal balance. Among the teams which Szekely considers as big threats are: Badin, Howard, Dillon, Alumni of the hall teams, and Cincinnati, Kentucky, Rochester and Knights of Columbus of the club teams.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL ACTION broken brackets and better playing
Just a little pot-luck,
And away you go!
Home for Christmas by GREYHOUND
One Way
Detroit, Mich. ___________S 4.45
Nashville, Tenn............. 10.30
Cincinnati, Ohio ...........  6.05
Louisville, Ky. ____________ 6.20
Toledo, Ohio ___________ 3.30
Washington, D.C. _____ 14.35
Plus U. S. Tax. Big Extra Savings on Round Trips.
117 Western Ave.
UNION BUS TERMINAL
greyhoun:
Phone 3-8283
One Way
New York, N. Y. _________ 17.35
Boston, Mass. _________ 19.40
Pittsburgh, Pa. _________ 8.65
Cleveland, Ohio _________ 5.40
St. Louis, Mo. __________ 6.50
Kansas City, Mo. ________ 9.75
Dec. 14, 1951
31
32
smartest at the shindig!...
Van Hensen
REG. T. M.
Van Tux and Van Dress
You don’t have to know how to rhumba to walk off with the prettiest gal at the ball. Wait’ll she gets a load of you in your Van Tux (attached regular collar)—or your Van Dress (neck band only). And you’ll be confident, too, because they’re so well-cut... so comfortable ... so smart with their snowy white pique fronts.
Its ADLER’S for
...VAN HEUSEN
On Michigan at the Bus Stop
Civil Engineers Take Lead in Kegler Action
By JACK SANDS
The only noticeable change in the standings of the Kampus Keglers after last week’s rolloffs was the replacement of the Irish Club by the Civil Engineers as the top team in the Blue loop. In grabbing four points from the A.LCh.E., the “Civics” increased their league leading total to 18 points, one more than the Irish.
Pacing the Engineers was then- ace pin-smasher Cy Brabenec, who pounded the hardwood for a 510 series with 212 being his high game. Tom Britt followed with a neat three-game set of 498. For the second-place Irishmen, who won two out of three from Milwaukee, it was Ernie Buckley’s 455 series that led the pack in a rather low scoring affair. A noteworthy feature in last week’s matches was the 567 series rolled by Buffalo’s George Klee to place him second in that department behind Ray Bara. Klee’s scores were 209, 192, and 166.
Over in the Gold circuit it looks like a battle royal between the A.I.E.E., A.S.M.E., and St. Louis Clubs, with the Electrcial Engineers retaining a one-point advantage over the latter two teams. Last Sunday they registered four points in downing the Met Club, with Joe Scherer’s 496 series, and 182 high, showing the way.
In a flatfooted tie for second place are the A.S.M.E. and St. Louis, due to the fact that the Saints copped four points from lowly Cleveland, while the Mechanical Engineers took only three out of foui‘ from the Syrian-Lebanese. High for the Engineers was Bob Rich, who bowled a sparkling 541 series, just 24 pins higher than Art Henken’s 517 for St. Louis.
The outstanding kegler of the day though, was Detroit’s Jerry Ledwidge, who took away the individual league leadership from Justine Perticone with a 557 series, by virtue of 203, 178, and 176 scores, and an overall average of 171. Perticone’s average dropped from 170 to a cool 168.
O'Donnell Trophy Awarded To Tennessee's Champions
The J. Hugh O’Donnell Memorial trophy, emblematic of the national college football championship, was presented to Tennessee’s unbeaten-untied gridiron team at a recent banquet in Knoxville. Bill Earley and J. Frank . (Rangy) Miles, representing the Notre Dame Monogram Club, which sponsors
The Scholastic
the award, turned the trophy over to the Vols for a year’s keeping.
Father O’Donnell, afteT whom the trophy was named, was the first president of the Notre Dame Monogram Club, a former Irish football player, and from 1940 to 1946 was President of Notre Dame.
The O’Donnell trophy is the fourth in a series awarded yearly to the nation’s grid champs, and as has been the custom in the past, will become the permanent possession of the school winning the national championship three times.
Notre Dame retired the Rissman trophy in 1930, the first in the series, and then sponsored the Rockne trophy which was retired by Minnesota in 1940. In 1947 the Irish retired the Williams trophy and perpetuated the series by sponsoring the O’Donnell trophy.
Tennessee becomes the fourth team to win a leg on the O’Donnell award, Michigan, Notre Dame, and Oklahoma, having been the recipients in ’48, ’49, and' ’50 respectively.
Elect Frank Walker to Head University Trustees Board
Frank C. Walker, of New York City, former Postmaster General of the United States, has been elected president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at the University of Notre Dame.
Mr. Walker, who currently is serving as national chairman of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, succeeds I. A. O’Shaughnessy, of St. Paul, Minn., president of the Globe Oil and Refining Company, as president of the board.
Newly-elected Vice-President of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame is C. Roy McCanna, chairman of the board of the Bank of Burlington, Wis. Mr. McCanna succeeds Mr. Walker as vice-president.
Thomas H. Beacom, Jr., vice-president of the First National Bank of Chicago, was reelected treasurer.
The Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame is charged with the responsibility of holding, investing and administering endowment funds of the University. The board also advises the University administration of other matters of policy.
Frosh Plan Dance, Chicago Trip for ND-Kentucky Game
The newly-elected Freshman class officers, in two recent meetings with the-Student Council, have set to work making plans for several Freshman class activities.
President Larry Mullins has announced that plans to obtain the ser-
vices of Rev. Daniel Curtin, C.S.C., as faculty advisor- have- been discussed, and under his direction, the Freshman Council hopes to organize a class trip to Chicago for the Notre Dame-Kentucky basketball game.

The annual Freshman dance, which will take place at some time during the next semester, has also been discussed, and a dance- chairman is expected to be named shortly after the resumption of classes in January. .

BROOKS BROTHERS' "346" CLOTHES designed for the college mon ...at generally lower prices
Undergraduates like the distinctive styling and workmanship, the wide choice of attractive patterns and materials, found in our "346” Clothes... appreciate, too, their generally lower prices. Our comprehensive selection includes worsted, flannel, or gabardine suits that reflect Brooks Brothers’ Quality and Good Taste...and a wide choice of furnishings that are colorful and correct.
”346” Suits,and ”3 46” Sport Jackets, $60 ”346” Chesterfields,
”346” Tuxedos, $91
ESTABLISHED ISIS
lien’s ^imishings. Bats ^Sboes
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Dec. 14, 1951

The Back Baqe
■------------------- By Bill Riley
365 Instead of One
And, to all men of good will, everywhere, why don’t we get together some time and figure out how this world could be made Christmas-like (that is, Christlike) 365 days instead of one. Until then, peace, Merry Christmas and a Happy and Blessed New Year.
In the great master plan, this column was going to be a bitter criticism of those who have turned the birth of Christ into an occasion for a gigantic trade fair. But, with Christmas so close, it’s hard to get very angry at anybody, even the charlatans who, under the mask of honest sentiment, have entirely changed the character of the day.
So, let this stand as a Merry Christmas column, with peace to men of good will.
That promise, by the way, “peace on earth to men of good will,” has always seemed to me to be one of the brightest that God has given to men. Not “peace on earth to men who always do right,” not "peace on earth to Christians,” but “peace on earth to men of good will.” That includes a lot of us, at one time or another.
The Warm Glow
I suppose that it wouldn't be right to write a column on Christmas without wondering, for a paragraph or two, why people are different on Christmas from the way they are the rest of the year. And why someone doesn’t wise up to the answer: that it’s the spirit of giving that gives you that warm glow on Christmas morning (aside from any Hot Toddies). This being the case, wonder why everybody doesn’t follow through all the year ’round, thus making themselves and everybody else much happier.
Also wonder if it might not be a good idea to abolish Santa Claus. The old geezer’s getting a little too merchandisable for my taste. When a store-owner starts calculating just how much more of the long green will flow across his counters with an old gent dressed in red around, it’s time for a re-evaluation. In a way, it seems a shame to abolish old Santy just like that, though. Maybe we should abolish the guys that use him. Or else make them sit alone in their stores all Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, counting their profits, and listening to the Christmas, Chopsticks, or whatever it is.
Can Ite Stick To The Carols
And speaking of Noel songs, doesn’t it seem to you that it would be just as well to stick to the Carols, with maybe something like White Christmas
thrown in for a balance. Just exactly what connection Rudolph, Two Front Teeth and a Swedish hodge-podge of bad puns has with Christmas has always been one of those eternal puzzlers to me. But, peace to them, the musicians and the lyricists, and even Spike Jones. We can still shut our radios off.
And, there is, I think, some cause for pride that Christmas is the American holiday. Not only that we can celebrate it as we wish, for that though taken for granted, is always worth thanking God for, but that a day which is dedicated to the spirit of unselfishness and of giving should be the most important in the lives of Americans. Perhaps the nickname “Uncle Sugar” is not so bad after all. While it includes foolish unthriftiness, it still means that the United States is generally willing to give, and still puts some faith in the old saw about it “is more blessed...”
Still, we seem to take Christmas, like a lot of other things, too much for granted. But I wonder if that isn’t always the way with those who possess goodness and truth and go unchallenged.
I remember up at Michigan State that the fervor of the Catholic students would put most of the troops here to shame. But, I have a feeling that if the positions of the individuals were reversed, the MSC Catholics would still be the stronger. It’s worth fighting for up there, and you’ve got to fight just to keep even. Maybe that’s why we relax a little bit too much around here. Still, we’re men of good will, most of us. So, peace to us, too.
Peace and Flags
And speaking of peace, wonder how long it will be before everybody looks at everybody else and decides that no war is inevitable, no matter how much it may seem so at the time of decision. Will there ever come a time when the men of good will get together, regardless of their national affiliations, and decide that peace is more important than which flag flies over Trieste. Or is it? We’ll have to hold off on our “peace to them,” until they decide.
Peace to the administration of the University of Notre Dame, too. Probably men of better will do not live. Despite the disagreements, and the hassles, no one can deny that. So, Fathers, peace to you, from us.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building South Beno By appointment Ph. 4-5661
I 	...—-
I
V7
The most suitable age for entrance to the postulate is from the sixteenth year upwards. A postulant is one who seeks admission to a religious order. During THE BROTHER’S \he time °f
VOCATION the postulate a candidate has an opportunity to study the life he seeks to embrace, and to determine whether he is fitted by nature and grace for such a form of life.
For free literature write, phone or visit: Brother Louis, OSF, Vocation Department, 41 Butlei Street, Brooklyn 2, New York. Telephone: MAin 4-2036.
--------EUROPE—
GO E9asjs-from $500
(inch steamer) Bicycle, Motor, Faitboat, Rail, Self-drive, Family living and Study Tours offered by America's largest organization for educational travel. Scholarships available.
See More—Spend Less Our 19th Year
See your local represent* alive or write to:
34P	STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL
W ■ ■	TRAVEL ASSOCIATION
----545 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 17 • MU 7-0264
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Wehlan, Mgr.
J
34
The Scholastic
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
F. E. SPELLMAN, JR., B.S.M.E., M.M.E., Ohio State ’51, and D. A. Smith, B.S.M.E., Purdue ’40, discuss a change in feed wheel design of nylon spinning machine.
M.E.’s AT DU PONT [3]
Plant engineering and production supervision offer interesting careers for science graduates
In the past two issues of the Digest you’ve read of the broad opportunities that are offered mechanical engineers in research and development work at Du Pont.
This month let’s look at opportunities for men interested in any of the branches of plant engineering —such as maintenance, power, design and construction—or in production supervision.
Efficient maintenance is an important cost factor in the continuous processes of a modem chemical industry. The M.E. is called upon to diagnose troubles, work out corrective measures, and supervise repairs.
Frequently he increases production by developing preventive maintenance measures. So vital is this work that in one division of the Company, 500 men of all crafts, along with a routine maintenance group, spend almost all their time on it.
One example of the problems facing Du Pont engineers is the main-

A FIREMAN adjusts louvers for the proper combustion of pulverized coal. Blown into furnace through pipes, it burns at 2500QF.
tenance of pumps made to tolerances of0.0001" and operating at pressures up to 6000 p.s.i.
In power work, also, problems requiring application of mechanical engineering principles arise. For instance, a metal required in one chemical process is melted at 800°F. by immersion heaters fired by butane, which is expensive. Conversion to fuel oil presented the problem of complete combustion in the immersion chamber. Du Pont M.E.’s redesigned the heaters so combustion
OVERHAUL on polythene area injection pump is six-hour job for three men. Work must be scheduled for minimum disruption of output.
could be complete and the hot gases recycled in water to use all the available heat.
In design and construction of chemical plants, mechanical engineering again is of major importance because of the wide variety of plants built and intricacy of their equipment. Engineers collect basic data, design and select equipment. They also supervise many steps of construction until the plant is operating.
Production supervision attracts many mechanical engineers. Men who have the ability and interest usually move into it by one or two routes: they acquire background on all stages of a plant’s operations by helping design the plant, or by operating on the job.
MAINTENANCE TEAM making a speedy change of a methanol valve to minimize production loss.
Sometimes studentsofmechanicalen-gineering feel that in a chemical company they will be overshadowed by chemical personnel. This is not the case at Du Pont. Here, hundreds of administrators and supervisors, up to the rank of vice-president, started as M.E.’s.
Opportunities for men and women with many types of training are described in the 40-page brochure "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate." For your free copy, address 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington, Del.
'ES. U.S. PAT.Or r
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative —Listen to "Cavalcade of America," Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Dec. 14, 1951
35
TH" ’J’.’I VERS ITY LIBRARY LEMM )N1ER LIBRARY
NOTRE DAM
LOCAL
Copj right 1951, Liggetts Milks Tobacco Co.
♦ FROM THE REFORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
dfa/M ChMma^
a/ruf'tinwke/v ca/n/ haM
Chesterfield milium

_ ^^ccoco
f

K