1V
THE NOTR^O^HE
SCHOLASTIC
"	V<?j
Volume 72, No. 25
May 12, 1939
RAINBOW ON THE RIVER
There’s a rainbow on the River Rouge by the Ford plant -—oil in a gleaming coating, washed from metals and parts by the w'ater used to cool or clean them.
To most folks that colorful coating spelled just oil; no more. To Ford men it spelled “waste.” They dipped their fingers in it . . . rubbed them
slowly together . . . reflected.
A few days later a strange device was installed where the stream flows through a narrow7 channel into the mooring slip. It was an oil skimmer.
Each month that skimmer reclaims thousands of gallons of oil. Reclaimed, it is used as fuel in the Ford openhearth building.
Poor Richard said straws show how the wind blows. That’s how the wind blows at the Rouge. Pennies saved where pennies can be saved safely are multiplied into millions by large-scale Ford operations.
At the end of that rainbow on the waters of the Rouge, Ford owners find extra value and lower price.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z 188______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Vol. 72	May 12, 1939	No. 25
HARRISON TO SPEAK AT COMMENCEMENT
•
Mr. William Henry Harrison vicepresident and chief engineer of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, New York City, will deliver the address at the ninety-fifth annual commencement, June 4. That morning, the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, will celebrate Solemn Pontifical Mass, and the Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, D.D., auxiliary bishop of Chicago, will delived the baccalaureate sermon.
That evening, Miss Josephine Brownson, of Detroit, will be awarded the Laetare Medal for 1939 in a special Washington Hall ceremony.
Class Day is June 3, and at 4:30 p.m. the Rockne Memorial will be dedicated—with the program broadcast nationally. The same evening, alumni banquet speakers will pay tribute to departing faculty members.
This is the reunion year of the Golden Jubilee Class of 1889, and the Silver Jubilee Cluss of 1914. Both classes will hold reunion dinners Friday, June 2.
Funk to Head Bookmen
Al Funk was unanimously elected president of the Bookmen at the meeting of the club held Wednesday evening in the Seminar room of the Law building.
This is the second election in one week which saw Funk obtaining a unanimous presidency, Monday night the Wranglers having set the precedent.
The books selected by the club for their library during the year were distributed, selection being by lots.
Plans for the annual banquet of the club are being made by the retiring president, John Walsh. A date has tentatively been set for May 17.
"Scrip" Next Week
The final issue of Scrip, campus literary quarterly, will appear next Friday afternoon, May 19, Editor Fred Digby announced today. The last number will contain three sketches by John-Broderick, and a short story by Charles B. Nelson. Freshman sketches will also be included.
S. A. C. REORGANIZED; HALLS, CLASSES AND COLLEGES SHARE 24 REPRESENTATIVES
By John J. Kohn
The Students Activities Council, in a joint meeting with the Prefect of Discipline last week, decided upon a reorganization of the present council and drew up a constitution for the newly created Student Council. This new
organization will take over the duties
Retiring President Donovan
Lays foundation for neiv council.
Becker Will Play For Engineer’s Ball
•
The general chairman has announced that the annual Engineers Ball will be held in the Columbia Athletic Club on Friday evening, May 19; dancing will be from 9 to 12. Howard Becker and his orchestra, from the Hotel Statler in Cleveland, will furnish the music.
Robert F. Schirf is in charge of music; Robert W. Huether of decorations; Joe Moorman of patrons; Robert V. Chamberlain of tickets; Robert H. Dieckelman of programs; Francis R. Pfaff of arrangements; and Emmett P. Barton is in charge of publicity.
Tickets may be bought Wednesday and Thursday evenings, May 17 and 18, in the lower lobby of the University Dining Hall.
NOTICE
Students who desire to join The Scholastic staff for next year, or who have manuscripts of stories, sketches etc. to submit, are invited to call at the editorial rooms, Ave Maria Building, between seven and eight o’clock, Sunday through Wednesday evenings.
and functions of the S.AC. and will provide a more comprehensive intramural sports program.
The new Student Council will be made up of twenty-four members, three of whom will act in an advisory capacity. The election of members to the Council will take place in the fall of the schoolyear. Four members will be elected from the freshmen and sophomore halls; five from the junior, and six from the senior halls. The remaining five men, to be elected next Tuesday, will be chosen, one from each of the colleges, and will act as the carry-over group each year. This group of five present juniors will, in the fall, start the machinery for the election of the other groups.
Unlike the present system of staggering the election of some of the members, the new plan calls for a one-year term for all members. Along with this plan, the innovation of election by halls w*ill provide for a more equitable representation of all classes on the Student Council.
Second in importance to the sports program will be the student Council disciplinary plan. Without being a kind of panacea for all student disciplinary troubles, the new Council will meet in a body to hear the case of any student who has been summoned before the Board of Discipline. If the Council, upon close examination of the facts, finds the case worthy of action, it will meet with the proper authorities, usually the Board of Discipline, and defend the student.
According to Dan Donovan, president of the Students Activities Council, the new Student Council will attempt to direct an orderly and complete intramural sports program both in the fall and spring of the year. Coupled with the present tournament in handball, swimming and squash, it is Donovan’s belief that every student will participate in at least one kind of athletic activity.
In the near future the junior class will find a bulletin posted regarding the election of the five representatives from the various colleges.
g
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i
4
NEW 'DOME BIGGER
AND BETTER
By Frank Wemhoff
A larger and snappier Dome is the forecast for the Junior class yearbook, according to Editor Paul Hellmuth. The Dome is specially dedicated to Pope Pius XII who received an honorary degree at Notre Dame in October, 1936.
This year there will not be a separate section for each school activity. Instead the activities will be placed in
Dome-Man Hellmuth
Reverts to chronology.
a single section entitled “A Year at Notre Dame.” They will be presented in chronological order according to the seasons, beginning with fall.
On each page of the activities section is an animated sketch of an impish figure performing some act pertinent to the material on the page.
The Dome will total 336 pages, or about 50 pages larger than last year’s edition. Space has been provided for the largest number of snapshots and club pictures to ever appear in the yearbook.
A main feature will be drawings of the principal campus buildings. Also the hall group pictures taken in the fall will appear opposite the hall drawings.
Doozan Wins Burkan Memorial Prize
Rev. John F. O’Hara announced Tuesday that Carl William Doozan of Saginaw, Mich., had won the Nathan Burkan Memorial Competition prize. The contest was open to senior members of the 1939 Law class and was held under the auspices of the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers.
The articles submitted dealt with some phase of copyright law, a field in which Nathan Burkan, in whose memory the contest is held, was particularly interested. The prize was $100. The prize winning article as well as the other articles submitted will be printed in the May issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, which issue will be confined to Copyright Law.
THE WEEK
By BILL DONNELLY
Top of the Week
The fellow whose girl friend thought the Ball was on Saturday and arrived in town on Saturday morning.
•
A is for Airplanes
“That eating goldfish stuff is too tame for us” say the seniors who have been eating the fish served in the Notre Dame dining hall for four years, and so they have started a new fad of their own—building model airplanes. Personally, we have an idea this group is composed of those fellows who flunked the physical exam to join the Army Air Corps. “We’ll show them,” they say, “if they won’t let us in their old army we can at least play we’re in it.” But the fad is constructive, however, and some day these enterprising fellows might grow up to be great big airplane manufacturers.
Or maybe they’ll even grow up to be inventors like that fellow we hear about who was hanging around the campus and especially around the engineering building about a week ago. He was a young fellow, they tell us, about 28 years old, and wearing white dungarees with an ND drawn on the front, and he was trying to get the University to back him financially on some ideas he had that would “revolutionize the airplane industry.” Somehow or other he had chanced on the fact that the hulls of speedboats are stepped up so that only a minimum part of the hull touches the water and consequently the drag is tremendously diminished. This set his mind gyrating at a great rate. “Why not,” he asked himself, “step up the wings of an airplane so that only a small part is riding (and dragging) on the air? This will increase the lift so much that.... 2 minus 7x equals y times 44 squared or something like that.... we’ll be able to get speeds of about 3,000 miles an hour.”
Incidentally we hear that some fellows were talking about how so many students were failing the tough physical exam for the Air Corps, and one of them remarked that he couldn’t understand why. “I’ll bet you couldn’t pass it,” another fellow said and the first fellow said he would take him up on it. He went through the examination with flying colors. “Oh boy, I win fifty cents,” he was gloating, when suddenly he realized he was in the army for three years.
B is for Ball
We arrived back from Columbus late last Saturday night and immediately the Ball stories began rolling in to us. They haven’t stopped rolling yet. There was the fellow who picked
the romantic waltz number when all the lights were out to dance with his mother (one of the chaperons), and , during the same number the frustrated Alumnite whose girl made it a , point to go off and powder her nose until that number was over and the warm security of bright light had been returned. Then there was Miss Anna Digby, a courageous redhead who came 1,000 miles from New Or- ) leans for a blind date with one Theodore P. Frericks, a philosophy major, 5 and we must mention the fellow who borrowed a Studebaker demonstrator’s car, got into trouble over returning it late, and startled his accusers with the statement, “All right, I’ll v buy the thing.” Strangest coincidence 1 was Wawasee where everyone went	j
Saturday night to get away from	1
everyone else and found every one ' else already there. The prize story from there concerns “Stoop” Ortale who couldn’t get waited on because of the mob, went to a nearby restaurant . to examine their steaks, found them I too thin, and went to a butcher shop j where he himself carved out a thick hunk of raw meat in the cold storage room, went back to the restaurant and borrowed their stove and paid for the gas while he cooked himself a meal.
The story that appealed to us most of all is about the senior who import- u ed his girl all the way from Colorado or some such place and kept her at ► the same tourist home where he had boarded other girls during such affairs as Cotillion or Junior Prom week-ends. He was standing there at the door one night saying good night to his girl (who happens to be the true light of his life or some such rating much higher than any of the other girls had) when the little boy of the house stuck his head out from somewhere within and said, “Aw, why don’t you kiss her good night like you did all those other girls!”
C is for Correction	j
The 14 pieces of chicken we re-
ported George “Red” Neumann as eating a week ago Friday were either 14 pieces of fish or Thursday.
•
D is for Dumbell
The fellow in question was participating in an after-lights bull session on the fourth floor of Walsh. The owner of the room, already lying in bed, fell asleep and after awhile the discussion ran out of material and everyone left. That is, all except the fellow in question who woke up sitting in a chair fully dressed at 4:30 the next morning and couldn’t for the life of him figure out where he was or ] how he got there.
May 12, 1939
5
ALUMNI BANQUET FOR SENIORS TUESDAY
Members of the Class of 1939 are to be the invited guests of the Alumni Association and the University at a banquet in the West Hall of the University Dining Halls at 7 o’clock, Tuesday, May 16.
For a number of years the graduates have joined the returning alumni at the annual alumni banquet held on the Saturday night of the Commencement week-end. With the expansion of the-series of meetings formerly held during the last week of school the program has become burdensome. The Alumni banquet at Commencement will be exclusively for returning alumni, and resident alumni who are members of the returning classes.
Mr. Joseph B. McGlynn, East St. Louis, Ill., vice president of the Alumni Association will be the principle speaker representing the Seniors will speaker representing the Senior will be Richard J. O’Melia, president of the class of 1939.
Officers of the administration and deans of the colleges of the University are also invited guests. The members of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association will be present.
Lay Cornerstone
University officials, members of the lay board of trustees— and a scattering of students were present last Friday afternoon at the laying of the cornerstone for Breen-Phillips Hall, latest addition to Freshman Quadrangle.
The hall has been named to com-memmorate the late Mr. and Mrs. William P. Breen and Frank Phillips, of Fort Wayne, Ind. The hall will cost more than $300,000, provision for which was made in a legacy to the University by Mr. Breen and Mr. Phillips, both alumni.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, blessed the cornerstone, in which are contained momentoes of the student days of Mr. Breen and Mr. Phillips.
Bangert New Met Head
Friday evening students from the big town chose Douglas Bangert as the Metropolitan club’s new president. Over 200 participated in the voting. Other officers elected were: Kenny Warburton, vice president; Larry Bracken, treasurer; and Tom Reilley, secretary. The Met club also voted to give a $100 scholarship to its most deserving member next year. Selection will be based on scholarship, extra curricular activities, and character. This year the club paid off debts of $150 and accumulated a surplus of $400 in its treasury.
NO WRANGLING OVER FUNK ELECTION
Albert Funk, junior* from La Crosse, Wis., was accorded the honor of unanimous election to the presidency of the Wranglers at the annual election meeting last Monday
President Funk They made it unanimous.
night. John O’Dea, sophomore, was elected secretary over Milton Williams, also a sophomore.
Funk has been a varsity debater for the past two years and this season paired with Frank Fitch to form one of the most effective teams that Coach William Coyne has presented on the platform in recent years. Besides membership in the Wranglers, which proves his ability to speak, Al demonstrated his ability to read last year when he was accepted by the Bookmen, devotees of contemporary literature.
Dave Withey delivered the speech of the evening, reveling in the chance to expound the educational plans of Rr. Robert M. Hutchins of Chicago. The speaker was met by a storm of reactionary criticism from Frank Fitch, William Mahoney, and Tom Grady
Final plans for the annual banquet were announced by Vincent DeCoursey, chairman. The affair will be held at the Oldenburg Inn on the evening of May 18.
Sociological Quote
“People are prone to look upon the children’s court as a cure-all for delinquency, which is an aim impossible of attainment,” said Prof. Frank T. Flynn of the University faculty at the sixth annual conference of the Central State Probation and Parole Association last week at the St. Louis’ Statler hotel.
BOISVERT WINS; NINE VOTES STOP COLEMAN
By Edmund Butler
The fateful name of his hometown has no effect on the battles (political anyway) of Harold V. Boisvert of Waterloo, N. Y. Last Tuesday Harry marched into the senior class presidency on the slim shoulders of a nine-vote margin. Bill Coleman was the losing candidate.
A clear bright election day blessed the campus politicians and enabled them to pull over five hundred seniors to the Dining Hall basement. All day long lobbyists slunk around the polls attempting to straighten out the undecided voters. “Runners” sifted the halls of prospects and, lacking limousines, walked their victims across the campus.
The polls closed at six o’clock and for the second time in a week Dan Donovan, S.A.C. president, stalked off with the answers. Counting was over in an hour and the grim-visaged Donovan announced his findings to The Scholastic and the world.
Besides Boisvert, other newly elected officers were: Norv Hunthausen, vice-president; Frank Biagi, secretary, and Jack Pindar, treasurer.
While the votes were being tabulated Norv Hunthausen disguised himself as a tramp and hid on the stage of Washington Hall. But it really wasn’t a new angle of indifference. While S.A.C. men piled up votes Norv piled up laughs in the Monogram Show’s “Absurdities of 1939.”
Political Pedagogues At Convention
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, assistant head of the department of politics, represented Notre Dame at the first annual convention of the mid-west sectional unit of the American Political Association held at Turkey Run State Park, Indiana, last week-end.
In an effort to spread its dominion, the national association has delegated an executive committee to solidify the political departments of the mid-west colleges and universities.
Dr. Bartholomew, ’29, has been a member of the faculty since his graduation. He is a member of Pi Sigma Alpha, national honorary fraternity in political science, and he was awarded his doctorate at the University of Kentucky last summer.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Boisvert Throws Jockey. Coleman Wins Going Away in Trial Run for Junior Presidency
Liturgy
A book on the Liturgy by a layman is too exciting to leave with last week’s brief note. One of the author’s pithy reflections thus sums up the bewilderment that has come upon the world: “Mankind is saddled with secularist leaders because mankind is mostly secularist.” In other words the world has come the full logical round from the whittling down of the supernatural in the sixteenth century to its complete denial in our own. Pius X insisted upon participation in the Liturgy as the only true source of the Christian life. In this regard “Come up closer, Mr. Layman” in Columbia for April is worth reading.
Mass Calendar: May 14 to 20
Sunday H — Fifth after Easter. Semi-double. 2d prayer St. Boniface. Martyr (D. 275). 3d Blessed Virgin (Concede). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday 15—St. John Baptist de la Salle. Confessor (D. 1719). Double. Mass proper. 2d prayer Rogation Day (in Proper after fifth Sunday after Easter.) 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Last Gospel of the Rogation. Alternate mass: Rogation Day. 2d prayer of the feast. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday 16—St. Ubaldus. Confessor (D. 1160). Double. Mass:• Statuit (Common). Prayer proper. 2d prayer Rogation Day (as on 15th). 3d Blessed Virgin (Concede).
Wednesday 17—Vigil of the Ascension. St. Paschal Bayion. Confessor (D. 1592). Double. Mass of the Ascension. 2d prayer St. Paschal. 3d Rogation Day (as of 15th). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate mass: St. Paschal. Statuit (Common). Prayer proper. 2d of the Vigil. 3d Rogation Day (as of 15th). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Last Gospel of the Vigil.
Thursday 18 — The Ascension of Our Lord. First class double. Holy Day of Obligation. Mass proper. Preface of the Ascension.
Friday 19 — St. Peter Celestine. Pope. Confessor (D. 1296). Double. 2d prayer St. Pudentiana. 3d Octave. Credo.
Saturday 20—St. Bernard of Siena. Confessor (D. 1444). Semi-double. 2d prayer Octave Ascension. 3d Blessed Virgin (Concede). Credo.
(Calendar for May 21 to 27 on p. 7)
By Ed Huston
Since the running of the Kentucky Derby our Mr. Huston has been staggering around, glassy-eyed, and murmuring, “El Chico.... El Chico... which may explain this story.
The campaign is over and this little fantasy will injure no one. All reference to persons living or dead is intentional and may be resented. Facts about the race:
Entries in the race:
Horse	Jockey	Odds
Harry-Kari Boisvert	Ducky Wuebbold	3 to 1
Dummy Charley McCarthy	Kev O’Gorman	4 to 1
Johnstown Bill Coleman	Paul Glass	7 to 5
Two-Bob Lambert	Chub Gilliland	6 to 1
Don Wahn Sackley	.	Chic Ciccolella	12 to 1
Two-Hundred Bowler	Ernie Timpani	15 to 1
The President’s Stake — added value, the Senior Ball. The track, slimy. Entry fees—guts and conceit. Standard equipment — back-slapping, posters, blotters. Special equipment: Coleman, rubber cap; Boisvert, puzzle; Sackley, gum. An elimination in which the two fastest horses will run for the Three Year Old Championship, and we do mean three year old.
Feed Box Chatter:
Ducky was too light for Boisvert, and was thrown off in the stretch. Long Pat Goff took over and was able to keep his legs on the ground. McCarthy, expected by many to win, was given a poor ride and finished fourth.
Marine Corps Exam
The Registrar has just been informed that the Marine Corps ofiicers who visited the University on April 27, will return here to examine those candidates who were unable to be present on the earlier date. Several applicants failed to present themselves for the final physical check-up and several former candidates scheduled to complete their training this coming summer have not yet been examined.	-
All candidates of whatever classification who wish to attend the training camp this summer and who haven’t received their final physical examinations, should report to the Registrar’s office as soon as possible.
Candidates receive transportation to and from camp, and the pay and allowances of privates first class while in camp.	.
Boss Tweed, Jerry Flynn, was not riding this year after winning three successive Derbies He stayed in the stables and groomed Coleman. Gilliland and eight other jockeys were too much weight for Lambert to carry, but he hung on to come in third. Sackley and Bowler were platers and had no business running against thoroughbreds. Ciccolella rode his usual steady race finishing so far behind
that most spectators thought he was in the next event, a potato race.
. The Race:
Lambert started fast and was off to a three length lead going into the Club House turn. Coleman was never far off the pace, took the lead at the half-mile post, and won going away. Boisvert came fast in the stretch to take second money. McCarthy was hustled into fourth position but was never a serious contender. Sacldey and Bowler finished with the speed of On Location, and wer still running when we went to press.
Air Corps Accepts Five
The Army Flying Cadet Examining Board, headed by Major Russell Williamson, A.C., visited the University the week of April 27 and interviewed about thirty students. Only five were definitely accepted, the Board advising all prospective cadets to continue in school until they had received their degrees. From among the cadets commissioned in the Reserve, a limited number may remain in the Regular Army; only those who have college degrees are considered for permanent commissions in the Regular service, although students who have completed half the academic work required for a degree may be commissioned in the Reserve.
Application for appointment as a flying cadet may be filed in the Registrar’s office at any time; the candidate will be examined at the nearest Army hospital.
May 12. 1939
BENDER TO SPEAK AT FORUM BANQUET
•
Wesley Bender, associate professor marketing at the University of Notre Dame will be principal speaker at the annual Commerce Forum banquet to be held Monday night at the Columbia Athletic Club. Matthew Merkle, Tacoma, Wash., is chairman of the affair.
Other speakers at the banquet to which Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., university president, has been invited will be Harold Eells, associate professor of finance; James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce; David Meskill, West Roxbury, Mass., retiring president, and Herbert Connelly, Oil City, Pa., president-elect.
There will be presentation of awards for the forum golf tournament. The Linnet’s “four horsemen of swing” will provide entertainment. One hundred and sixty members are expected to attend.
Mat Merkle, chairman, will be assisted by the incoming officers of the Commerce Forum: Herb Connelly, Phil Sandmaier, Jim Metzler, Jack Morgan, Tony Potenziani, and Bill Meyer.
Frosh to Orate Soon
The preliminaries of the annual Freshman Contest for Oratory will be held in the auditorium of the Law building on Monday and Tuesday, May 15 and 16.
Speakers will appear in the following order: Monday, 4:10 p.m., May 15. 1, Mendon Cunningham; 2, Liti-zetti; 3, McVay; 4, William Meier; 5, Thomas J. Zahm.
Monday, 7:40 p.m., May 15. 1, Brooks; 2, G. F. Feeney; 3, W. E. Scanlan; 4, T. W. Tearney; 5, Charles Waechter.
Tuesday, 4:10 p.m., May 16. 1, Harry Connors; 2, Jack Donovan; 3, John Mead; 3, D. M. Ryan; 5, Peter Scullion.
The final will be field on either Tuesday night, May 16 or on Wednesday, May 17.
Any entrant whose name has been omitted from this list should see Professor William J. Coyne of the department of speech immediately.
Servers Elect
Paul M. Morrison, of Lynchburg, Va., and St. Edward’s Hall, was elected president of the Server’s Club at a meeting Monday evening in the Sacred Heart Church. Frank McDonough of Badin hall became vice-president while Don Peterson was named secretary.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
He’s the rough-neck leader of Walsh Hall’s smart station-wagon set, is this week’s Man About the Campus — one Thomas McGee Reardon, pride of the now’ disgustingly virtuous hamlet of Kansas City. The “McGee” in the name is a frequent cause of embarrassment. It’s only a maternal carry-over, but try to ex-
plain that to waggish professors who insist on seating him between Mc-Enearney and McGinnis.
Exotic things have the habit of happening to this gentleman. Number one of his personal “Believe It or Not” series is the fact that he is brother to triplets. Number two is that he is a politician who has refused to run because he didn’t want to make any enemies. The fact that he is the sole power in the Kansas City Club, and is the chairman of the board of the Commerce Forum does not invalidate this—he was unopposed in both elections, the latter probably legitimately. Room-mate Dick Brown, who should know, having composed the ditty, claims that he was the inspiration for the Senior Ball song: “Lazy Summer Rhapsody.”
Autumnal wedding bells are the pleasant sound T. McGee (see above) has been listening to since the Easter vacation. Loss of eligibility at last report had broken no hearts.
Not a front page story this week, or any week for that matter, Tom (and really he’s not quite the pug that Neighbor Tom Powers, artist, would have him) is something that should have been featured long ago— a “real” Man About the Campus.
MONOGRAM CLUB HOLDS ABSURDITIES
The Monogram Club presented “The Absurdities of 1939” on Sunday through Wednesday nights. Ed Fulham wrote the show, Jim Quinn directed it, Orville Foster supervised the production, and members of the Monogram club saw it through. Miss Marie Buczkowski “created” the dances, and Mrs. “Johnny” Johnson designed the costumes.
Attendance was good on the first night, and the gist of post-curtain comment was that the boys performed with a great deal of courage. The hit of the show was Joe DeFranco, whose grace and charm as an esthetic danceuse were complemented by the expertness of his tango.
Breen-Phillips Data
The laborers on the building represent between 15 and 20 different crafts.... The excavation of the hall, unlike the wet, soggy one that caused some trouble on the Rockne Memorial, is as dry and solid as could be found anywhere.... The floors are all made on the slab construction principle which eliminates plastering the ceilings. ... Work was held up for a while when a shipment of granite from Massachusetts was shunted off on the wrong track and arrived in Vermont instead of Indiana—strange how such a little thing can be misplaced. — Same type of architecture as Zahm and Cavanaugh.
OUR DAILY BREAD (Continued from Page 6)
Mass Calendar: May 21 to 27
Sunday 21—Sunday within Octave. Semi-double. Mass proper. 2d prayer Octave. Preface of Ascension.
Monday 22 — Day within Octave. Semi-double. Mass of the feast. 2d prayer Blessed Virgin (Concede). 3d Church or Pope. Preface of Ascension.
Tuesday 23 — Same as yesterday. Semi-double.
Wednesday 24 — As of 22d. Semidouble.
Thursday 25—Octave of the Ascension. Greater double. Mass of the feast. 2d prayer St. Gregory VII. Pope. Confessor (D. 1085). 3d St. Urban I. Pope. Martyr (D. 230). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday 26 — St. Philip Neri. Confessor (D. 1595). Double. 2d St. Eleu-therius. Pope. Martyr (D. 192). 3d Ferial (preceding Sunday). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday 27 — Vigil of Pentecost. Semi-double. Mass proper.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
Cram Session
With the goldfish and phonograph record swallowing season now on the down grade, the Lehigh University Brown and White is the first to announce the next “novelty” on the college schedule. “10 DAY CRAM SESSION TO HIT THE CAMPUS” says one of the headlines of the Brown and White, and in another section of the paper the editor reminds the exam participants that there are 456 hours between now and then to eat, sleep, and go to classes. The cramming, of course, comes somewhere in between those 456 hours.
Aquin Butts
Up in St. Paul, Minnesota at St. Thomas college, a reporter working on the college newspaper, the Aquin, decided to make news within the newspaper office when he tacked a two-inch cigaret stub on the wall and a sign beneath which read: “The longest cigaret butt in Aquin history. Butted A. D., 1939, April 28.” A few days later the cigaret souvenir was gone, and the following inscription on the wall: “Smoked May 2 the same year by Roger Reilly. It was powerful!”
So You Want To Be a Lawyer
The story goes that the gate had broken down between heaven and hell. Since St. Peter had fixed the gate the last time, he called out to the devil, “Satan, it’s your turn to fix it this time.”
Satan replied that his men were too busy trying to put out a fire and could not worry about repairing the gate.
Somewhat fiercely St. Peter answered, “Well, then, I’ll sue you for breaking our agreement.”
“Oh yeah,” sang out the devil, “where are you going to get a lawyer?”
“Floats” in the Parade
At Notre Dame’s sister school, St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, a Grotto has recently been completed... Commenting upon its completion, the St. Ed’s Echo says, “The architect and engineer for the structure was the Rev. Bernard Lange, C.S.C., a graduate of the University of Notre Dame. At one time Father Lange was rated the fifth strongest man in the United States.... The University of Hawaii is in a class all its own.... It is the only university in the world not situated within 2,000 miles of another college or university.... The
Providence College Cotvl of Providence, R. I., announces a unique position open at their school — a night clerk for a new dormitory.... Besides the usual answering of telephone calls, meeting visitors, and checking rooms, the Cowl reports, “.... and occasionally, when a student comes in late, the duty of getting the student to bed with the least possible noise.”
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
Encouraged by the success of their first venture, Vern Schneider’s “Mr. Brown’s Valet,” the Radio Playmakers are producing another drama next Wednesday at 8:15, campus time. The play, entitled “The Case of the Walking Corpse,” was written by Robert Wurtzebach, the author of one of the prize-winning scripts in the recent contest conducted by the club. Weird music and eerie sound effects wall combine to add a delightfully blood-chilling atmosphere to the production, according to Vern Witkowski, the director of the Playmakers.
Tuesday evening at 8 o’clock, the Music Department will join forces with a group of Radio Club members to produce a musical drama, treating of the life and works of Franz Schubert. The octette and orchestra directed by Prof. Daniel Pedtke will furnish the musical portion of the program. The dramatic interludes were written by Edward Heinz who will act as announcer and director.
This same Ed Heinz is rather busy this week for, in addition to running the Schubert production, he is the Man behind the Voice. As the ‘snow’ clears on the television screen we can see this big man from Chicago and Dillon Hall, with a pipe clenched firmly in his teeth, reading over one of his own scripts. And he has a great many to choose from, for, since he broke into radio, announcing one of Jerry Hogan’s variety shows, he has written five complete dramatic productions, handled fifteen interviews with former Notre Dame students, the Men of Yesterday, as well as the script for this Schubebt show. Then too, those of us who sat in our rooms, alone and earless, Friday night, will remember the excellent bit of work Ed did in handling the broadcast from the Senior Ball.
The Log (Campus time)
6:45—Mon.: Faculty Talk
8:00—Tues.: Life of Schubert
8:15—Wed.: The Radio Playmakers 8:30—Thurs.: Music Appreciation 8:00—Fri.: Campus Quiz
7:45—Sat.: Our Economic Outlook
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
Whenever we hear something we like very much, we want to hear more. This is natural. In music, the basis of appreciation is the desire to hear as much of it as possible. For only by hearing great music can our appreciative powers be developed. Each time we hear a concert, we learn a little bit more about music, and as our knowledge grows, so does our ability to understand and appreciate. And the more we know, the more we want to know. Thus, the snowball begins to roll and grow, and music lovers are made.
Few Students Attend
This year two fine artists were presented on the campus, for which we are very thankful. But isn’t it possible to bring future concerts closer to the students? A very small percentage of students attended the Tib-bett concert. Can’t more attention be given to filling the gym with Notre Dame students rather than South Bend citizens who have an adequate concert season of their own? Here is a suggestion as to how this problem might be solved.
To each student’s entertainment fee add two or three dolars. The fund thus established would serve two purposes. Part of it would be used for the presentation of at least four noteworthy artists a year, and the rest could be used for the improvement of the Glee Club and the Band.
Choice of Artists Important
The larger portion could be set aside for the concerts. The choice of- artists is of the utmost importance. A baritone, for instance, would be better received than a soprano, and a pianist would interest a larger number of students than a violinist. It is impossible to engender a love of music which is hard to understand even for the initiated.
In order to attract the students, the artists must be world-famous. The concerts would be free, of course, and this fact, together with the name of the artists, would fill the gym every time—and fill it with students. In this way the educational process would be set in motion.
The remainder of the funds would be used to benefit the Band and the Glee Club. Activities could be planned which would make membership in these organizations more attractive.
What a return this would be on - such a slight investment!
■<
*
May 12, 1939
9
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
Many times we find ourselves in discussion about the relative entertainment value of different movies and plays. Unintentionally perhaps such arguments may lead us into various channels which are not distinctly foreseen. At times these discussions become quite heated even though they may arise from such insignificant remarks as, “I liked ‘Dark Victory,’ ” or “Why Luise Rainer stays on the screen is beyond me.” Someone may dispute a proffered opinion thus lighting the fuse of a discussion. Seldom do the debaters discover that their arguments are backed by anything but their own set convictions. No one arrives at any definite conclusion as a result, and the only benefit gained is perhaps the pleasure of mulling over an interesting topic.
Ultimately what is being argued, whether we realize it at the time or not, is the purpose of the theatre. Most of us concede of course that this purpose is to entertain. If such be the case, then what is entertainment? There is the core of the trouble. Since we are beings of likes and dislikes, since we all possess various degrees of imagination, and display different interests, we naturally require varied movie and stage entertainment.
One type of plot appeals to some; to others it is colorless. To some the theme transcends character portrayal, while other may demand clear-cut delineation of the acting roles rather a story entertaining in itself.
Recent movies that have received such argumentative play from local movie-goers are “Three Smart Girls Grow Up,” “Union Pacific,” and “Prison Without Bars.” The merry and buoyant mood of the Deanna Durbin film is capable of satisfying the desire of those who sought keying up in spirit. However, to a theatre patron anxious for a more meaty story of more subtlety in plot treatment the movie stands the danger of becoming a genuine bore. (Incidentally, a man to watch in coming productions is Deanna’s musician friend, Robert Cummings. “Three Smart Girls Grow Up” is his first and it reveals Mr. Cummings’ better-than-ordinary acting talent.)
“Union Pacific” of course is in the cycle groove of super-splendid western thrillers, which cycle we secretly hope will soon extinguish itself. “Prison Without Bars” seem to have borne most discussion, however. It was definitely liked or definitely disliked. Although there was an unac
countable lag in certain places, the Alexander Korda product proved quite interesting. It is, we believe, a case of entertainment for those who place straight acting before story value in importance.
We take the liberty, therefore, of setting down our own definition of stage and screen entertainment: One vehicle may be more entertaining than another when it is capable of satisfying more completely the thirst for diversion of a greater number of theatre-goers.
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
The schoolyear is ready for the final count! You who have followed the program of the N.D. Vincentians know something more of the work that a Conference must assume. But do you realize that the work at home is being done by men who perhaps have neither the time nor the energy to carry on all that could be done?
You may be one of those who knew the Society only through seeing a poor box painted “St. Vincent de Paul Society.” Now you see the Society as an international organization, an organization that must find life in young men. Your parish conference expects your cooperation this summer. The meetings may be unannounced, the members unheralded, but interest yourselves in the work.
The Notre Dame Conference has become known in various parts of the country. It is your job to live up to expectations at home. The principal thing is to take an interest in the home conference. If you can meet with the men, that will be excellent; with your stories of the N.D. work you may be the inspiration that the folks at home have been needing. Your very presence at the meetings means much.
Collect Old Clothes
Throughout the year — this Year for Others — you have shown a remarkable spirit of cooperation with the N.D. Conference. Round off the year by putting aside any old clothes that you have; a Vincentian will pick them up at your rooms on May 15, 16 and 17.
You realize that our old clothes collections are very important, not only to the N.D. Conference, but to the South Bend Conferences as well. They are necessarily limited in this work, but with such a group of students on the campus it is comparatively easy to gather a large supply of clothes. An added incentive to give is the fact that all the clothes col
lected will go to the central storeroom maintained by the Conferences.
You remember that formerly the Vincentians received credit on whatever clothes they collected. Now they themselves distribute the clothes. This collection will replace the annual one usually held during exam week. Success will follow Vincentian activity and student body cooperation. The Vincentians are ready . . . the dates, May 15,16 and 17. '
ART
By Dick Metzger
Theer is one phase of art that has become recognized as distinctly American In this country mural painting has received its greatest impetus and attained new heights as a decorative and educative art. Mural work presents many problems.. Since it is confined to one particular place, usually in a public building, its subject matter must be such that it is above all appropriate.
It must be in accord with the architectural structure of the room it decorates; it must be in harmony with its surroundings in color scheme and value; and it must be unobtrusive— it must fit. To quote Edwin Howland Biashfield, one of America’s strongest mural painters—“A decoration is not thoroughly good unless it would look well upside down, just as pattern, color, style.” And decorativeness is the foremost purpose of the mural.
Murals in Miniature
In the actual construction of a mural there are a number of definite stages. First there are the charcoal sketches by which the final composition is evolved. Then there is the testing of various color schemes, and the construction of the full mural in miniature. From this miniature the actual mural is enlarged, usually by the method of reducing squares. The final step is the actual painting of the enlarged mural.
The decorative purpose of the mural necessitates a rendering in broad, simple plains. Naturally such a rendering destroys much of the possibility of attaining depth and „ perspective, of achieving a photographic likeness. But this is neither here nor there. It does enable the artist to transmit his message with greater directness, simplicity, and consequently with a more commanding force. Therein lies its justification for; this latter is important. Mural painting is considered the most legitimate of the didactic painter. Indeed the educative and mural work is second only to the decorative.
10
The Noire Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell___________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey_________________Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney________________Literacy	Editor
William C. Fay________________________News	Editor
Donald Foskett._____________________Sports	Editor
Tom Powers...........................  Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C.......Faculty	Advisor
Member oY Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building: Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	May 12, 1939	No. 25
There is Light... and Hope
A LITTLE less than twenty-two years ago a young xx. ecclesiastical diplomat undertook his first important mission, the presentation of His Holiness Pope Benedict XV’s seven-point peace plan to the then world-conquering Kaiser Wilhelm II of the German Empire. On April 20, 1917, Most Rev. Eugenio Pacelli had been appointed Papal Nuncio to Munich. In July he had started for Berlin on his peace mission. On August 1, at the German field headquarters, he presented to the Kaiser the famous peace plan which was at the time rejected, although the substance of it was later to form the greater part of the accepted Wilson’s Fourteen Points.
The failure of his mission was not through any fault of the young Nuncio. He had done his work well, had even gained a favorable reception from the Kaiser, and had undeniably established himself as a promising diplomat.
Today the same man occupies the Chair of St. Peter. He is the newly-elected Pope Pius XII. In the intervening years he increased his diplomatic experience and ability. He spent nine yaers as Papal Nuncio to the German republic. In 1929, as Papal Secretary of State, he negotiated successfully the concordat between the Vatican and the State of Prussia, and in 1933 he achieved a similar treaty between the Vatican and Hitler’s newly-formed Third Reich.
This week, in the midst of unrest and strife which has spread throughout the world, the announcement came that the Pope was having the Papal Nuncios in Great Britain, France, Italy, Germany, and Poland sound out the sentiments of these countries toward a plan for peaceful arbitration. That Pius XII should initiate such a positive step at this crucial moment, brings to mind his own ability and experience as a diplomat as well as the time-honored supra-national position of the Papacy which enables it to assume the position of a strictly impartial arbiter.
As a result the future looks brighter than it has for many days. The crisis has not passed; the crucial problems have not been solved. But the positive action of our Holy Father brings shining hope to a situation which has long been characterized by dark despair.
It remains for us as members of the institution which Pius XII represents, members of Christ’s Mystical Body, to support the Church and her program wholeheartedly with our most fervent prayers for success in this vitally important peace mission.—Mark J. Mitchell
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
It Might Be Here
(Ed note: Because of the parallel significance which such a feeling should have locally, we reprint this excellent article by Royal F. Munger tvhich appeared in the Chicago “Daily News” for May 10, 1939.)
CHIMES or church bells over snow, their mellow modulations floating like a caress-on the winter air, have always seemed to us to have a quality of beauty going deeper than mere musical notes. This is particularly true when they emphasize, as does the carillon at the University of Chicago, words which are themselves mellow. As a green-capped freshman, we learned the Alma Mater in the first 24 hours, not under any compulsion, but that if one was going to belong to an organization, that seemed the normal and proper thing to do.
Amos Alonzo Stagg, the coach (who was more a faculty member than coach, and the first in the country to be so regarded), although a comparatively poor man, gave $1,000 toward the carillon, with the understanding that it was to play the Alma Mater every evening at 10 o’clock, a practice which is now long-standing campus tradition. Perhaps the “old man” wanted athletes to go to bed at that hour.
At all events, thousands of alumni remember, as much of an educational influence, in the spiritual sense, as anything in college, the clear winter nights of snow and stars, walking back from late study in the libraries, and the distant bells chanting—“Today we gladly sing the praise, of her who owns us as her sons. Our loyal voices let us raise, and bless her with our benisons.”
Many years ago we were closely associated with a brilliant young intellectual, of the “campus radical” type, whom we appreciated because of his ability as a student and who probably overestimated us because we met in economics class, which was one of the few places we were not dumb. Conversation happened to. turn on the Alma Mater one day, to elicit his bitter scorn of such childishness. “I suppose there are boobs who know more than the first two lines of that,” he commented. We laughed and forgot the matter; the world was full of interesting people, thieves, policemen, merchants, professors, prostitutes, whose views might not jibe with our own tradition. But in retrospect it is a little sad that he was missing so much.
“Her mighty learning we would tell Though life is something more than lore;
. She could not love her sons so well, Loved she not truth and honor more.”
The bells never said that to him, and what he gained or lost by that no others can judge. Gradually we drifted apart, and heard of him only once, when a brief newspaper item filtered to France in 1918, with the very minor information that he had been arrested at Orchestra Hall for refusing to stand during the national anthem. (Evidently tunes did mean something to him, if only in reverse.) Again we laughed heartily but without condemnation; the matter did not seem important compared with realities.
What are we trying to say, rather clumsily and inarticulately, is that beauty and sentiment, whether a college tradition, or a song, or merely the gothic spires of the campus, rising like stone lace or frozen music against the stars, count for a good deal more than the acquisition of facts. A powerful automobile is not much good if its steering gear happens to get out of order.
May 12, 1939
II
THE LAW
The Modernist Views
The modernist distrusts the approach to a problem from settled principles. This refusal to begin with what is settled and to fit the unsettled within settled borders is the dividing ground between the modernist and the traditionalist, or classicist. It is in the background of every scientific controversy waged today between the classicists, which include the Scholastics, and the modernists. And the controversies in the philosophy of law are no exception.
As much as the human mind would like to see laws categorized and arranged in a perfectly logical system, the impracticability of such a situation is becoming more apparent every day. In the first place, granted that law is a logically consistent system in itself, it is likewise true that this consistency is not carried into practice. The results achieved by invoking one and the same law in a number of situations are amazingly variable, and a set system of laws is not desirable, secondly, because every situation arising demands particular attention and peculiar application.
What a Law Means
Taking the first point, we find that laws are not genuine rules of conduct. They are mandatory in form but only directory in application. This is so in both of the two great divisions of human positive law, legislative enactments and court decisions. A legislative enactment, or statute, is at best a suggestion that an act should be done or avoided. On its face it appears to be a plain and forceful edict. But if it is an important law it will soon be called into question, for validity or for interpretation. Of course, the proper agency to interpret and apply the legislative enactment is the court. And it is on this chopping block that a judge, wielding the axe commonly known as Statutory Construction, pummels the enactment until it has not one-tenth the meaning it purports to have on its face.
The chopping process, however, is not aimless. For before the judge bears down he first decides upon the meaning the law should have. Upon reaching this conclusion, through a hunch, prejudice, or public policy, . he proceeds to what amounts to judicial legislation—a re-enactment of the law which was supposed to have been finally enacted by the legislature. Now what kind of philosophical consistency could come from such
practice? Seemingly little. For the human equation, found in the limits of the language, the premature notion of the judge as to how the law should read, and the pressure brought along the line all lead to render the legislative enactment at best a limping rule of conduct.
Common Law Case Stronger
The case against a logical legal system, a stable, universal system which can be clearly and inevitably applied, is stronger when it comes to that most important body of rules, the Common Law. All situations which are not governed by legislative enactments are supposed to be covered by the Common Law, which is composed of rules previously laid down by important courts in actual controversies. At the foundation of this law is the rule of Stare Decisis, to the effect that a rule of a high court on a certain situation should stand as a precedent, a rule, that governs and guides a lower court in laying down the law in cases coming before it.
In this field, the impossibility of a logically consistent set of rules of conduct is much greater, the feasibility further removed. To begin with, the judge of a lower court, faced with a clear rule, which to a normal mind would neatly fit the situation, may interpret the rule to mean almost anything he desires. Of course, the fact that he may stand the chance of later reversal by the upper appellate court provides some check.
On the other hand, he may juggle the facts around to escape the rule. Or he may distinguish the facts by emphasizing some and de-emphasizing others. An infinite variety of resultant decisions can be obtained from this process, this logical sorcery. Even greater are the number of possible results in an important case, which usually is close and may fall under any of two or more rules.
Since a complete system of laws, logical and universal as a moral system, is a pretty thing in the ideal order but unworkable in the practical order, and since law is eminently a practical science, the metaphysical approach to law should be done away with. Each law should not be tested according to its fitness in a philosophical order rather it should be judged in view of its effect upon society. After all, if philosophy provides no test of a law’s worth, then the next best testing ground is its function, its utility. Actuality should be the measuring stick and not some trans
cendental vacuity which is so remote from the actuality in controversy that it only obstructs the doing of justice.
It is therefore suggested that the “holier than thou” position which the law holds among the practical sciences be abondoned and that the individualistic, functional approach of the modernist be substituted in its place.—By William P. Mahoney.
The Classicist Views
The pessimistic view with which the modernist looks at the present-day legal system may be attributed to several causes, but I choose to sum it up in three words: Distrust of morality. Probably of greater practical importance is the minimum regard they give to human nature, which admittedly has its weak points, but not to the extent emphasized by the modernist. The modernist refuses to admit that laws, systematized and applicable to all cases, can exist in the world of today. They intimate that the present legal system is chaotic, and yet we find that at this time law is far more precise and accurate than at any time in history, and all because the courts have had some well-defined rule of conduct to follow, and deep-founded principles upon which to rely.
The classicist is the strongest proponent of the Natural Law—which is the expression of the Eternal Law, and is further evidenced to us by the positive law, divine and human. The rules of human justice are based on these according to the scholastics; and what could be more appropriate than law founded on the principles of the Great Lawgiver?
Ultimate and Ignored
As I see it, the chief difficulty of the modernist seems to be a tendency to regard the proximate end of law as all-important, without regard for the ultimate end. They merely desire a decision to be made which is, in the minds of the judge, probably just, with no regard for inalienable principles of right and wrong. The Natural Law bases its precepts on the natural qualities of man—and man cannot change nature.
The modernist also seems to forget that between God and man there is a creator-creature relationship, and-there are certain things or acts which perfect this relationship, and some (Continued on Page 20)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'BEYOND POLITICS'
CHRISTOPHER DAWSON
Reviewed by Joseph H. Harrington
This latest book of Dawson is a collection of five related essays which are very pertinent to the present scene. The troubled state of affairs on the political and economic planes have temporarily pushed things cultural into the background With a return to normalcy we may expect to see a world wide cultural revival, but in a form different from anything we have ever known.
The first essay, 'Beyond Politics’ is the nucleus for the other essays of the. book. It stresses the need for an organization of culture, voluntary and democratic, based upon common ideals to preesrve the form of thought and the spiritual values which are the bedrock of Western Civilization.
Dawson reminds the reader that culture belongs to neither the Church nor the State, but is rather an intermediate region, with its own features, laws, and purposes. In some past ages there was an overemphasis upon the points which culture had in common with religion, and there was a tendency on the part of many to disregard the distinction between the two. However, since the era of secularization the pendulum has swung in the other direction and not only have there been attempts to depreciate the influence of religion in culture, but things have reached their logical development in the totalitarian society which identifies national culture with the national state.
In the organisation and direction of the spiritual resources of the community toward this national cultural unity, Dawson warns against the futility of trying to use religion, philosophy, science, or letters as the sole field in which to search for a standard. The first two are impractical because of their lack of unity in the modem world, a condition which, though to be deplored, must none-the-less be recognised; the latter two, because in this modem age the whole realm of knowledge forbids the mastery of more than a small portion, and “a man may attain vast scientific knowledge without any corresponding breadth of culture.”
After this process of elimination it is hard to say exactly what is left as the source of a standard upon which to organise a national culture.
Dawson grants the totalitarian states their measure of cultural unity,
although they have made use of some sub-political means to achieve superpolitical ends. Whether the nations with democratic ideals can achieve cultural unity through means purely in accord with democratic ideals is the question raised by the author throughout the book.
Whenever the author becomes specific he uses British examples to illustrate his points. The American reader can transpose these to this country.
INDECISION. . . .
We are forever telling about
The dull dead wishes and might have beens
We call our dreams. . . .
We are forever dreaming about
The drear drab hashes and pale exploits
We call our life. . . .
We are forever looking about The next bright corner, v/here our ship Is always docked. . . .
We are forever visioning
Milord's fair maiden, through love's haze,
But she's Milord's. . . .
We weary with this sort of thing And meditate on actions dire But then reflect. . . .
We must forever keep our place. To cross the line is to lose face. And so to bed. . . .
—Steve Smith
— —	— --	- -	••	—t"-'-
The second essay on “Politics and National Culture” deals with the problems confronting England’s organization of her national culture. There is a treatment of the three Aquinian forms of government, monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy, which should be of interest to those who see in democracy the only sound form of government for a modern nation. Dawson’s patriotism comes to the front as he reminds the reader that the English state is the classic example embodying the better points of each system.
The author deplores the aimlessness of the present organisation of non-political features of national life and warns against its continuance
There is little treatment of the exact nature of this Culture Party which would parallel but transcend the present political parties in the democratic nations. Political parties have often tried to fulfill the need for organisation of non-political matters and the result has been confused legislation which places an ob- . jective rule upon the individual but doing little to develop his sense of personal obligation, which is the core of any real reform.
For a political party to become effective in its attempts to organise the national culture it would be necessary to remove the present restrictions which democratic countries place upon political parties. But these limitations are the safeguards of the personal rights of the individual in a democracy. Thus, in order to fulfill the need and yet avoid submission to a totalitarian political party, it is neecssary to form a culture party ‘beyond the political order’ in each country to preserve the free- , dom of the national culture.
Dawson cites the success of the totalitarian party in its organisation of the national culture. While he disagrees with the totalitarian methods he recognizes that the need for national cultural unity has been recog- • ognised by the totalitarian state and that the most remarkable successes of the totalitarian state has been in its achievement of cultural unity.
The third essay on ‘The Totalitarian State and The Christian Commun- -ity” is chiefly an historical survey of 4 the struggle of the individual to secure his personal liberties. Dawson analyses some of the misguided movements as well as the sounder ones and sets forth the better features of each.
The reader will perhaps be most interested in the parts dealing ■with Communism and Fascism the modern reaction to the abnormalities of Liberalism.
The author sees little in the future for neo-pagan Nazism in its attempts -to revive the old Nordic ideals of	■<
heroism and honor by the use of or-	.
ganised propaganda and the secret * police. This incongruity may survive ■
(Continued on Page 19)
May 12, 1939
13
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
TENNISTS DRILL FOR NET TITLE DEFENSE
DOUBLEHEADER WITH BADGERS, GAMES WITH PURDUE AND MICHIGAN FACE BUSY KLINEMEN
Notre Dame’s tennis team started strenuous practice sessions today in preparation for their entrance into the annual Indiana Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament to be held next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, May 18, 19 and 20, at Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana. The eyes
r I
Netman Fay Will he repeat?
of the tournament will be focused on the Irish, not merely because they are one of the favorites, but because the locals will be defending the title they won last year, in a tennis carnival which draws colleges and universities from every section of the state.
According to Coach Pedro de Lan-dero, Notre Dame has a fine chance of holding their title. If they do come through, it will be against probably the toughest competition they have seen all year—always excepting Chicago. Among other teams the Irish will bat balls with are: DePauw, Purdue, Indiana, Ball State, and Butler, who represent the cream of Indiana’s tennis crops.
The Irish will be led by Bill Fay (Continued on Page 19)
The Irish of Notre Dame and the Wisconsin Badgers will meet this afternoon in the first of a two-game series at Madison, Wis. Wisconsin has not shown a great deal of power against Conference opponents, still they have been improving steadily and expect to emerge victorious either today or tomorrow.
Cerney Grooms Frosh Nine For Varsity
•
The freshman baseball candidates have been going through stiff workouts in preparation for their forthcoming contests with the varsity. Since that afternoon of April 24, when Coach Bill Cerney first met his hopefuls, much progress has been made. If plans run true, the first game with the varsity will be played in the early part of the coming week.
Though no definite infield choices have been made, there are a few players that have stood head and shoulders above the others. Duggan, at first, Cahale, at second, Breska, at third, and Marshall, at short, seem at the present to comprise this fortunate group. Even among these four, however, there was one man who, by his fine offensive and defensive play seems destined for a higher place than the others. This man was Dan Canale. If Canale decides to give up tennis for the rest of this season, Coach Cerney can proceed right now to strike second base from his list of problems.
All of which brings us to the outfield. Of the one hundred and ten men that reported for practice, only 25 were outfielders. Nevertheless, what the outfielders lack in quantity is being well made up for in quality. Left field seemed at this writing to be dominated by Bud Shouvlin. Center field was the scene of a hard battle between Jack Loughran and Jess Deleis. But it was in right field that the pick of the outfielders was found. Big, red-headed Harry Erd has powdered the ball at a fast rate and brought more than one glance of approbation from Coach Cerney. His fielding too has been just a little above the quality shown by the others who are roaming the outer gardens.
Coach Kine will take his team down to Lafayette Tuesday to meet Purdue’s Boilermakers in a return engagement. Purdue at present is leading the parade in the Big Ten and would not care to have a successful season, as far as the Conference is concerned, marred by two defeats at the hands of the Irish. Norv Hunthausen whitewashed the Lafayette nine with three hits while his mates drove nine runs across the plate on April 26.
The parade of Western Conference competition will continue Saturday when University of Michigan’s second place nine invades the home of the Fighting Irish for a single encounter. The Irish lost to the Wolverines, 9 to 1, at Ann Arbor, April 29, and are anxious to repeat their performance of last year when they nosed out the Wolverines, 3 to 2, behind Norv Hunthausen’s regular brand of excellent pitching.
Fjelstad Strikeout Specialist
Coach “Fuzzy” Douglas, Wisconsin tutor, will probably send both of his aces in against the Irish. These boys, Henrichs and Fjelstad, struck out 15 Illinois State Normal batsmen last week. The former, a tall, rangy right hander fanned five during the first four innings but weakened and gave way to Fjelstad who whiffed ten men during the remaining innings. This hurler has a habit akin to Bob Feller, Cleveland’s ace fireballer — he frequently retires the side by way of the strikeout route.
The Bredewater twins—Arnold and Arthur—will probably form the Purdue battery next Tuesday. The Boilermakers hit their stride immediately after their setback on Cartier Field and have shown plenty of offensive power in every Conference game.
Danny Smick will probably get his second Chance of the season against the Blue and Gold a week from Saturday. Smick, who set the Irish down with two scratch singles, mixes an underhand delivery with a blazing fast ball. He developed this delivery
(Continued on Page 17)
14
TRACKMEN FAVORED TO TAKE MICHIGAN STATE ILLNESS MAY ELIMINATE REIDY AND LEONAS
By Robert B. Voelker
A Notre Dame track team which is rising steadily to top form, travels to
East Lansing for the Michigan State meet tomorrow, then returns home for the
Marquette meet May 20. “Barring casualties, we should have no trouble with Michigan State, though we’ll have to hustle to beat Marquette,” was Coach
Nicholson’s unusually optimistic forecast.
Coach Nicholson is justly fearful of Marquette, because last Saturday they won 11 of the 16 events to defeat Michigan State by a 91-45 score. They swept the 100 yard dash, the 880 yard run, and the 220 yard low hurdles, and set meet records in the 440 yard rim, high jump, and pole vault.
Marquette and Notre Dame are both well-balanced teams and so the meet should be close if the Irish can enter in full .power. Dave Reidy is still suffering from a bad cold which borders on “walking” pneumonia but is expected to be in form for the Marquette meet. If Reidy is not in shape there is danger of losing in the high hurdles. However, Don Morgan’s first place with a neat 0:15.3 against Ohio State, makes him an able second. Ted Leonas, who figured so brilliantly in the high jump at Penn, turned his trick ankle again. Nick my rest him at both meets.
On the less crippled side the Irish will do most of their scoring in both meets. In the mile and two mile runs, little Greg Rice will not be too pressed in either meet, since he has been running between 4:12 and 4:16 for the mile.
Bob Lawrence is improving in the 100 yard sprint, and Bob Saggau will defiinitely be a threat in the 220 since his stride has been close to perfection, as witnessed by his close seconds in the 100 and 220 yard runs against Ohio State.
Bill Faymonville, who broke the Penn Relay discus record for the second consecutive time this year, will undoubtedly toss over the 149 feet mark to win, and help Ed Beinor to victory in the shot put event.
Tennis Tourney Starts
The annual open-class tennis tournament which opened today will continue through next week until competitive play is finished, it was announced today by Pedro de Landero.
The tournament, held each year in an effort to uncover tennis talent for the varsity squad, will be open to every player with the exception of winners of the fall tournament, and varsity players who have taken part in tennis matches during the current season.
iiiiitHiiiiiiiiHiiiatiuiiiiiiiHiitsiiinintiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiamitaittiii
Hering to Give Spring Football Awards
• -
The Hering awards, medals given annually to those football players who show the most proficiency in spring practice, will be awarded at a banquet to be held in the near future, it was learned recently from the office of Coach Elmer Layden. No definite
Frank Hering, ’98 Rewards spring gridders.
date has been set for the banquet but it is believed that it will take place within the next two weeks.
The donor, Mr. Frank P. Hering, is a member of the University board of lay trustees. He was one of the first grid coaches ever to lead a Notre Dame team.
Medals will be given to those who have excelled in forward passing and in punting, and to those who have been best in the following fields: play of fullback on end, of quarterback blocking the secondary, and of the halfback on the ends. They will also be awarded to the lineman who has led in pass-receiving, to the one who has shown the best offensive charge, (Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSH GOLFERS FACE FOUR BIG MATCHES
By Frank Aubrey
Three Irish golfers shot 69’s last Monday! That is the tip-off on how this year’s golf team is coming along. Sheehan, Schaller, and Nield carefully moulded those big 69’s, but Bennett, Hagen, Donahue and Bertsch have been right down around par too —getting by with anywhere from 72 to 75. Right now the boys appear to have reached their best form—at least we assume that it’s their best form. If the scores get any lower, we’ll begin to suspect there are some young Hagens or Sarazens making our fairways hallowed and renowned.
Anyway, with scorers like this at his beck and call Father Holderith might appear to be sitting pretty. His boys have beaten Illinois, Ohio State, Chicago, and Michigan, and lost only once, to Purdue by a single point. But the test is yet to come. Four tough teams are coming up. They are Wisconsin, Northwestern, Detroit, and Minnesota. A year ago three of these . teams trimmed us, and if you don’t remember it, Father Holderith does. He can even quote the scores for you. “Well, we did beat Wisconsin 12% to 11%, but Northwestern licked the tar out of us—14% to 3%, Detroit trimmed us 16 to 11, and Minnesota beat us 10 to 8.”
Meet Detroit Here
In licking Michigan Monday, the Irish team featured doubles teams of Schaller and Nield, Sheehan and Donahue, and Hagen and Bertsch. With Bennett taking a hand in the singles —there’s your ball team for you. This is the gang that left here today for a tour that will take them up to Madison to revenge the Wisconsin loss, and thence to Evanston to revenge the Northwestern loss. They return home for. a Thursday meeting with Detroit on the 18th, and then hit the road again for Minneapolis to meet the Golden Gophers on the 22nd.
With so much traveling around, golfing here and golfing there, some of the “students” on the campus must wonder how they do it, and still manage to keep their metaphysics notes and English themes. Well, “students,” don’t worry about it, because the boys who have a fetish for fairways don’t. Who’s going to worry about minor things like philosophy when he can shoot in the low seventies? Besides when you play golf you eat, sleep, and talk golf. And if you have any doubts about it, look up one of Tom Sheehan’s cohorts.
May 12, 1939
15
RICE, FIELD WINNERS j STAR AT OHIO STATE
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
KELLEHER CAPTURES HANDBALL TITLE
Last Saturday the Notre Dame track team went to Columbus and came back with the first dual meet ' victory of the outdoor season. It was only after some unexpectedly close competition from the Ohio State team that the Irish managed to come out with a 69 to 62 victory. Ohio built up a sizeable score with plenty of winners in the sprints, and only strength in the field and the record breaking performances of “Ole Reliable” Captain Greg Rice pulled the Irish through.
Rice Sets New Mark
The meet got spectacularly under way as Rice lowered the meet record he had set last year in the mile, pumping out a 4:16. The Buckeyes, as expected, got under* power and swept the quarter. The Ohio State team slipped in another first as Lewis beat out Saggau and Marquardt in the century. Nick was given a pleasant surprise as Don Morgan led two other Blue and Gold wearers to a sweep in the hurdles. In a fast half, State’s Eisenhart strode in ahead of Hestor and Obrys. Lewis took second first of the.afternoon in the 220, standing off Saggau’s drive finish. Captain Rice again broke a meet record winning the two mile in 9:22. Sulzman, winner of the 440, came back to beat out Morgan in the “lows.” The Buckeye speedy mile quartet showed their performance at the Drake Relays wasn’t a mistake by running off with a very fast relay.
Irish Take Field Events
Having taken but three firsts in the running events, the Irish improved their lagging score and went on to win by taking four of the six field events Dean started the victory march, taking the vault with his best competitive pumping, 13' 6%". Bein-or and Faymonville picked up the shot where they left off in the indoor season, taking first and second. Stevenson ran up against some pretty fair javelin throwers in his debut and came out with a third. Without the services of then* ace broad jumper, Dougherty, the Irish had to be content with a second and third. Faymonville took a couple of twirls with the discus and came out an easy victor.
Coach Nicholson expressed his disappointment in the team’s performance as a whole but was very pleased with the performances of Dean and Saggau who seem to be reaching expectations.
Julius Frederick Simon, Waco High School, Arts and Letters senior, listed in the Notre Dame student directory, is nobody but Fred “Tex” Simon, varsity tennis captain.
When Tex first came to Notre Dame nearly four years ago, he brought with him the accoutrements of a Longhorn tennist, namely, a vicious backhand, a Lone Stai* drawl,
and a slight stoop in the shoulder. In these respects he is reminiscent of Allison and Bell, both of whom rank directly behind Sam Houston in Texas sport history.
Tex entered the freshman tournament that first year and he has yet to be eliminated, because the tourney was never finished. As a sophomore, the long Texan reported to Coach Pedro de Landero and succeeded in winning a team berth at No. 5. He paired with Whit Gregory in doubles, and the pair have been a winning combination for three years.
Whit has this to say about his captain: “Si plays a consistent doubles game and he manages to keep us both in the game with his steady play. While he never is brilliant, he is a persistent worker, and his dogged
William Kelleher, junior from St. Edward’s Hall and Lorain, Ohio, was declared the winner by default, this week, of the singles championship in the Rockne Memorial handball tournament. Kelleher’s opponent in the finals, Rev. Morris E. Powers, C.S.C., was forced to default because of absence from the University.
To gain the final round Kelleher defeated Cliff Phillips of Badin, 2 (games) to 1, Robert Asterman of Morrissey, 2-0, Tom Crumley of Dillon, 2-0, and William Hennessey of Morrissey, 2-0. Before his default Father Powers had beaten Charles Greene of Lyons, 2-0, Matt Merkle of Sorin by default, and Jack Cline of Lyons, 2-1. Thirty-five participated in the tourney which was limited to beginners.
George Alfs of Morrissey is already in the finals of the squash tournament. Opposing him sometime this week for the championship will be either* Duke Murphy of St. Edward’s or Prof. George Collins of the physics department both of whom are in the semifinals round.
Alfs has gained victories over Sanford Friedman, an off-campus student, Ed Repetto of Dillon, and Thomas Carroll of Morrissey He has not allowed an opponent, a single game as yet, all of his victories being 3-0. Murphy has beaten Charles Rodgers of Lyons by default, Paul Young of Howard, 3-1, and Tom Walker of Zahm, 3-2. Prof. Collins has defeated John Dillon of Dillon by default, George Miles of Lyons, 3-0, and Frank Byrne of Badin, 3-0.
efforts have won him rewards both in the classroom and at the net.”
“Down around home” Tex once won the junior singles, and he consistently reaches the quarter-final bracket in the heavy competition, but his has never been the success of a head-liner. This “minus-glory” has endeared Tex to lovers of sports. Match point and three-hours-credit never came readily to Tex Simon; he had to go out and battle for them— but he does both with a beautiful effort.
Even when he plays indoors Tex affects a white linen cap, but he explains his part of his wardrobe as being the corral for long raven-like hair. He and Whit just missed out on the Indiana State doubles title last spring, but you can bet that Notre Dame’s top tandem will be in the fight when the state intercollegiate matches get under way at Earlham College in Richmond this year.
16
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By ANDY WILSON
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
KLINEMEN SPLIT TWO ROAD GAMES
After four straight victories and thirty-one consecutive innings without allowing his opponents an earned run, Norvall Hunthausen, the best pitcher the Irish baseball. team has had since “Jake” Kline became coach, took his first thumping of the season last Saturday. The Spartans of Michigan State, Hunthausen’s personal jinx team for two seasons now, knocked him for 17 hits and 12 runs in six innings, finally winning the ball game, 14-9. ■ We were sorry to see his fine winning streak cut short, but that he should have had a bad day is quite understandable. For over the past week he was in the infirmary for three nights with an infection, and went into the Michigan State game ten pounds underweight. Consequently he had no reserve strength to bear down with when men got on bases, and had to be relieved for the first time this year.
Art Verhoestra, Norv’s catcher, tells us that Norv’s greatest assets seem to be a fine curve-ball, and excellent control. He is not particularly a fast-ball pitcher, though he has a fast pitch with a good hop on it. He has a -wobbling, deceptive knuck-ler that drops almost dead over the plate and is very hard to hit squarely, but he rarely uses it because of its uncertain controllability. But his curve is his finest pitch, a fast-moving, sharp-breaking ball that snaps abruptly down and sidewise over the plate. Most college pitchers are unable to master more than a long sliding curve that the batter can see starting to break when it is no more than halfway to the plate. To top all this off, Verhoestra tells us, Norv has good baseball intelligence and plenty of courage to keep bearing down in tough situations.
Of all the members of this year’s Irish baseball squad, Hunthausen seems to have the best prospect of reaching the big leagues. He likes the game, and would rather enjoy being a professional ball-player. Several big league clubs have had their scouts look him over, and though he has not committed himself to any-, one, his closest connection at present is with Mr. Joe Schultz, one of the directors of the Pittsburgh Pirates’ farm system. He and Joe Schultz, Jr., went to the same high school in St. Louis, Norv pitching and Joe catching for the baseball team. Mr. Schultz was connected with the Cardinals then, and used to have the boys up at Sportsman’s Park before the ball games to pitch in batting prac-
tice. This kind of pitching helped Norv perfect his control, and also gave him his present easy pitching motion, which never varies, enabling him to disguise his curve and change-of-pace very well. His control had to be near-perfect, for the majorleague hitters in practice insisted that every pitch be where they wanted it. And anyone who couldn’t get the ball over never had a chance to pitch to more than one or two batters. His motion had to be easy on the arm, for the batting-practice would continue for an hour or more, with the hitters coming up regularly and swiftly, giving the pitcher no time out for a rest.
We are expecting a new Hunthausen victory string to begin this weekend against Wisconsin.
Since Notre Dame plays so many games with Big Ten opponents— fourteen, no less, which is two more than Big Ten teams play with each other in their conference schedule— we have been keeping track of the Big Ten standings as they might be, if Notre Dame were a member of the conference. ... In such a case, counting Notre Dame games with leaguegames, the standings would read like this: 1. Michigan, won 4 and lost 1; 2. Iowa, won 5 and lost 2; then tied for third, Notre Dame and Purdue, won 4 and lost 2, with Indiana and Northwestern, Minnesota, Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio State, and- Chicago trailing in that order.
We did a little compiling of batting averages, and according to our figures, the team as a whole is hitting rather well. Including last Saturday’s Michigan State game, the team average for nine games was .284. Outside of men like Hoag and Brennan, batting 1.000 with 1 hit in one time at bat, Scovic batting .428 with 3 hits in 7 times at bat, and Farrell, batting .375 with three hits for 8 times at bat, the team leaders are:
	GP	AB	H	PCT.
Ray Pinelli	9	38	15	.394
Nardone	9	41	16	.390
Oberbrunner	9	35	13	.371
Sullivan	9	40	13	.325
Behe	4	13	4	.307
Kenn Oberbrunner and Frank Behe, a pair of Notre Dame outfielders, slugged four hits apiece to pace Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline’s charges to a 10-5 triumph over Western State in Kalamazoo, Mich., last Friday but the following day Notre Dame lost to Michigan State, 14-9.
Tony Celia started on the mound for Notre Dame in the tilt with Western State and hurled effectively for five innings. In the sixth, however, Snyder tripled and Cuckovich singled for the Broncos, and Coach Kline inserted Mike Mandjiak, southpaw, who gained credit for the win.
Three errors, a walk, and Crane’s single accounted for three Notre Dame runs in the seventh and they clinched the tilt in the eighth. Oberbrunner doubled, Behe singled, Verhoestra doubled, and Captain Joe Nardone singled in the melee. The final runs crossed the platter in the ninth when Ray Pinelli and Oberbrunner singled and Pinelli stole second and home with Behe doubling to count Oberbrunner.
Oberbrunner Hits Homer
Oberbrunner’s home run with the bases loaded put the Irish in front in the game with Michigan State but seven errors behind Pitcher Norvall Hunthausen and the fact that the Spartans collected 17 hits themselves accounted for Notre Dame’s third loss in nine games this season.
Farrell, a pinch-hitter for Notre Dame, cracked out a home run with one teammate aboard for two scores in the ninth. Captain Nardone, cen- . terfielder for the Irish, had three hits in five trips to the plate for batting honors. Dahlstrom, Klewicki, and Stark hammered out three apiece to pace the Spartans.
The two teams collected a total of 30 hits during the game, Michigan State getting credit for 18. Rex Ellis replaced Hunthausen as Notre Dame pitcher in the eighth. He allowed one hit and two runs during his session on the hill.
The two teams meet in a return engagement at Notre Dame during commencement week ceremonies on June 3.
Officials in charge of the Drake Relays made sure they had plenty of music. Fifty college, high school, and municipal bands were banded together to play at the Des Moines carnival this year.
May 12, 1939
17
TENNIS TEAM LOSES TWO. WINS ONE
•
Chicago holds no particular pleasure for the members of Coach Pedro de Landero’s netmen after two days they visited there, during the week past. For the Irish found, in Chicago University, and Northwestern University enough trouble to satisfy them for the rest of the season. The scores were Chicago 8, Notre Dame 1; Northwestern 7, Notre Dame 0.
The Irish did find the win column once, and pasted the tennis team of DePauw University to maintain a better than even average for the local court tests. DePauw was beaten 6-1.
Irish Trim DePauw
Wednesday afternoon of last week was the occasion of the first Chicago encounter, against the University of Chicago. In the first match of the day, Bill Fay lost one to C. Murphy 2-6, 1-6. Gregory followed the losing ways against W. Murphy 2-6, and 3-6. From there to the end of the single events the scores read this way: Simon was deefated by Chicago’s Shoostrom, 1-6, 1-6; Bowler of Notre Dame lost to Kristentein 0-6, 1-6; Fergensin defeated Lewis, of the Irish, 6-1, 6-1; and Chicago’s Atkins won from Walsh, 7-5, and 6-4. In the double-play, Fay and Gregory lost to Murphy and Murphy 1-6, 2-6; Simon and Lewis took defeat from Shoostrom and Kristentein 0-6, 2-6. In the last match Bowler and Walsh grabbed the lone Irish point, defeat-Atkins and Reynolds 6-3, and 6-4.
Saturday was a warm day at Notre Dame, and the Irish were as warm, as they pounced on the visitors from DePauw. Fay defeated Lindsay in a well fought match, 2-6, 6-3, and 6-3. Gregory was carried to three sets to conquer Sander of DePauw, 8-6, 4-6, 9-7 Simon won from Spear, 6-4, 6-4. Bowler of the Irish took March 6-4, 1-6, 7-5, and Walsh beat Hanna 6-3, and 6-4. The doubles went even,
• Need Any
Sports Equipment?
Get yours for the RIGHT PRICE at Sonneborn's Sport Shop Successor to Mike Kellys 121 W. COLFAX
Notre Dame’s Fay and Walsh defeating Lindsay and Sander, 6-2, 0-6, 6-2; Bowler and Gottschalk falling to March and Spear of the visitors, 4-6, and 2-6.
With a record of 4 games won, 3 lost, and 1 tied the Irish went back to Chicago, to Evanston, to be exact. The result was the seventh straight win for a strong Wildcat combination of netmen. Fay lost to Wachman, 6-1, 6-0. O’Neil defeated Irish Gregory 6-3, 6-4. Clifford of Chicago took Simon 6-0, 6-2. Froehling defeated Lewis 6-1, 6-2. Richards continued to shutout the Irish, winning from Bowler 6-1, 6-0, and Walsh lost to Milne 6-8, and 4-6. The doubles saw Wachman and Froehling win over Simon and Gregory, 6-0, and 6-2. The final score was 7-0, Northwestern.
Chi Golf Tournament
President Dan Ryan of the Chicago Club announced this week that the annual golf tournament for* club members will be held tomorrow and Sunday on the William J. Burke-University Golf Course. The tournament, as usual, will be open to all club members. Rounds may be played at any time on tomorrow and Sunday. Cards should be attested and then turned in to 229 Sorin or to any officer of the club Prizes, consisting of golf equipment,, will be given for both the low net and Blind Bogey.
Corsages, Spring Bouquets or Beautiful Plants.
❖
Williams, The Florist
291 West Washington Phone 3-5149

DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BENO
BASEBALL GAMES (Continued from Page 13) after he had injured his shoulder in a football game two years ago. He is now considered as the top pitcher in the Conference.
To an old baseball fan, a glance at the lineup will bring back memories of a pair of diamond greats—Roger Peckinpaugh and Babe Pinelli. Peck-inpaugh’s son, Walt, is captain and third sacker of the Michigan outfit while Ray Pinelli is the sophomore star of the Kline squad.
Home in a Hurry!
★ Wherever you live, American Airlines* service out of South Bend will land you there in a hurt}’! American’s Flagships serve 5 7 major cities of America! Complimentary meals. Stewardess service. Save 10% on round trips. See American Airlines representative, Frank Itzin, 23 Lyons Hall, for details.
AMEBIC
JIN
AIRLINES
ROUTE OF THE FLAGSHIPS
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
"Turtles Menace Ducks." Says Game Warden;
Queer Fungus Growth Attacks "Blue Gills"
■	By Thomas C. Ferneding
Brother Coleman, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s game -warden, said recently that the entire 1700 acres surrounding the University, particularly the ground near Lakes St. Joseph and St. Mary’s is a game preserve.
At the present time Brother Coleman makes liis headquarters in a little shack overlooking St. Joseph lake. He came to Notre Dame nine years ago and since then has been caring for the various kinds of wild life which periodically visit the campus.
Looking at the lake for a moment, he pointed out several ducks and two geese which could be seen through the trees from his cabin door.
“What kind of ducks are they?” we asked him.
“Those are mallards which flew in several weeks ago, but we’ll be having a few canvas backs here, as soon as the weather warms up. The geese were brought over from the Biology building and placed here with the hope of breeding them”
“But they can fly away any time, can’t they?”	.
“Well, not exactly. You see their wings are clipped and now they have become very tame. Possibly you have seen them walking around the campus.”
Gulls Like Cold Weather
Several hundred sea gulls circled overhead screaming in the sky, while some dived into the lake for small fish. Brother Coleman pointed out that the sea gulls are residents of early fall, staying throughout the winter and leaving when warm weather comes. In the summer they fly north.
“Turtles 1’ Brother Coleman snorted when asked as to what caused the greatest danger to young ducks. “Usually in every brood several ducks are seized by turtles while swimming and are dragged under water and eaten. Turtles are certainly the greatest menace ducks have to watch out for, and they are difficult to catch in traps or with hook and line,” he added. “There are several in this lake over three feet long, but they never come near shore.”
During the early spring and summer approximately 35 different types of birds visit Notre Dame. Excellent coverage is found about the lakes, and numerous bird houses are placed in the most convenient places. During the winter months feed boxes are put out in the fields back of St. Joseph lake for the quail and pheasants. The rabbits, chipmunks and
squirrels which are frequently seen scampering through the underbrush, make their homes here the year round. Several muskrats frequently swim near either of the small islands in the St. Joseph lake.
Muskrats Work Night Shift
Brother Coleman stated that in his frequent trips around the lake, he had located several of their dens. “The muskrat lives on the shores of lakes and rivers, swimming and diving with facility, feeding on the roots, stems and leaves of water-plants, or on fruits and vegetables which grow near the margin of the streams. They are most active at night, spending the day concealed in their burrows in the bank, which consists of a chamber* with many passages, all of which open under the water’s surface. In the winter they build an elaborate house with a dome-like form, composed of sedges, grasses and similar materials plastered together with mud.”
“What about the various kinds of fish in the lake?” we asked. “Did you ever have any unusual experiences with them?”
He struck a match and puffed three or four times on his pipe. “About three years ago the blue gills in this lake were afflicted with a peculiar
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot's license.
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo, $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
type of fungus growth. The fungus would spread until it had covered the fish’s body. Of course when the gills were covered it would die, and wash up on shore. Funny thing though, only the blue gills were killed and the other fish weren’t harmed.”
“Did you eventually stop this fungus growth?”
Chemicals Kill Fungus
“Oh yes,” he replied. “We put some kind of chemical into the water which stopped it. Took quite a while though.” “You know,” he began again, “there are many interesting wild things right around these two lakes, but most people never take the time to walk around and see them.”
The game warden wore a state conservation badge on the collar of his coat and carried a revolver in a rear pocket. “Ever have to use that gun on anybody?”
“Very seldom. It’s mostly for effect, but it shoots.”
I
I
I
LOOK
4
*
AHEAD
in planning your career
The science of the "new dentistry^' is still in its infancy. It is'a most promising field for constructive thought and work. It calls for the best minds interested in health service careers.
Because of advancing stand- . ards, enrollment in Dental > Schools in the United States , has been reduced during the ' past thirteen years. Today there is one practicing dentist to approximately each 2,400 of population.
The Marquette University Dental School is one of the 17 dental schools of the United States whose diplomas are recognized in all of the states. The close relationship of dental-medical study proves an advantage to students.
i
1
Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, organic chemistry, and physics.
For complete information concerning opportunities in' dentistry, write to the Secretary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY Milwaukee
May 12, 1939
19
BEYOND POLITICS
(Continued from Page 12) temporarily but the long run strain must tell on it. These artificial ideologies which are being used to serve as the spiritual foundation for the reconstruction of society, will find it difficult to survive normal times.
The fourth essay consists of “Considerations on the Coronation of an English King.” It is built around the author’s observation that the coronation is “a most solemn and definite consecration of the State to Religion that we can conceive. Does it mean what it says or is it a gigantic piece of bluff—the consecration of a power that no longer exists, to a faith in which we no longer believe?” He reiterates the impossibility of completely secularising the state and that there are more ties left between Church and state than we ordinarily realize.
In the final essay Dawson reminds us of the fact that the politician has more direct influence upon our daily lives than the philosopher and the theologian. Yet we have often been less discriminating in our choice of our political determinants than we should be in the case of such influential men If the situation in England astonishes the author, what observation could we expect of him after a visit to Capitol Hill in Washington ?
In this “Christianity and Politics” the reader is reminded that “Human nature needs a holy community, and though this need finds satisfaction in a true Christian order, it does not find
“Heads or Tails” . . .
With NOTRE DAME
MEN it’s always
HILL/*
for the Best
5c — HAMBURGERS — 5c PIES CHILE
317 North Michigan Street Just north of So. Shore Station
it in the sect and the chapel which was all the nineteenth century offered to fill the void left by the secular State. Hence, . . . it was inevitable that men should seek satisfaction elsewhere, in a community that was wider than that of the sect and deeper and richer than that of the secular State. If therefore Christians take up a negative attitude to this movement and repudiate it, they may find that they are fighting against God and standing in the path of the march of God through history.”
If this need is not recognized and filled by voluntary groups it may fall the lot of the totalitarian state to do so on a world wide scale.
TENNIS TEAM
(Continued from Page 13) who last year in this tournament was runner-up to Ed Lindsay of DePauw in the singles and, teaming with Charley Rogers, captured the doubles
%<aE
sc*
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
AM	--— ----- ■	KA
For MOTHER ...
(Sunday, May 14th)
STATUARY PLAQUES ROSARIES PRAYER BOOKS
25c to $2.25
♦j.
N. D. Plaques, 25c
N. D. MONOGRAM on Sheaffer Pens— at no extra cost.
Notre Dame Bookstore
Badin Hall
crown from a strong and well-balanced DePauw net squad. However, Fay defeated Lindsay last week 2-6, 6-3, 6-3 to revenge that defeat and will be ready to repeat next week.
Coach de Landero stated that Fay, Gregory, Simon, Joyce, Lewis, and Walsh will see action in the singles matches in that order. In the doubles Simon and Gregory will open hostilities, followed by Fay and Walsh, and Bowler and Gottschalk.
"ONE PACKAGE11
TICKETS
for your
Longer Trips, too
• Whether you’re heading North, South or West the South Shore Line ticket office can make your trip easier. Through railroad tickets are only part of it— we can arrange your pullman reservations, help you plan your schedule and give you information about routes and fares to anywhere.
CALL MR. C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan St. PHONE 3-3111 for more information about Fares and Service
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE « SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
MW
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE LAW
fContinued from Page 11)
which destroy it. Surely disregard of the dictates of the Natural Law would come under the latter.
The modernist fails to remember that morality is unchanging, that what was intrinsically wrong in the beginning is still wrong. Therefore, laws regulating human acts are still applicable, and always will be, where matters of right and wrong are con-
Your MOTHER
Will Enjoy a New Book
The latest and best in fiction, biography or non-fiction literature. A Gift sure to please her, and easy to mail.
Another gift suggestion—
FINE STATIONERY
•
“Mother’s Day” cards to accompany your gift.
•
The Book Shop
134 North Michigan Street
cerned. The modernist contention that laws are defeated by statutory construction, judicial hunches, or personal prejudice, may be true to some extent, but if the judge has founded his interpretation upon principles of the Natural Law, I see nothing wrong —and if he hasn’t, it merely shows that men are liable to error. Surely, if in the judge’s opinion the legislators have not founded the law upon a sound basis, he should be entitled to alter it, and censored if he does not. I fail to see where this is a perversion of the legal system.
Modernists Claim Too Much
The sweeping modernist assertion that laws are mandatory in form, but only directory in application, is too wide in its scope. True, some laws are only directory, but not the ma
HELP! S.O.S......-
The Riot Is On!
jority. An excellent example of the latter is seen in the field of criminal law. And what of the sanctions that are applied to violators of the law?
The fact-fetish of the modernist is also apt to stumble over itself. After diligently searching, and finally ascertaining the facts in a case, some norm or standard must be used in judging them; the answer to the question of law involved does not automatically arise from these facts. The facts are not always tangible, and no matter how hard he tries, the systematizing of the collected facts forces the modernist back into fundamental principles.
The case for the realist is strong, but the fatal defect in his argument is in the fact that “man” is the force necessary to carry the plan into execution.—By Robert Derengoski.
This is National Arrow Week... and our decks are packed to the gunnels with the complete line of new Arrow masterpieces—Arrow shirts in new Spring patterns . . . new collar styles . . . Arrow ties that sparkle . . . Arrow handkerchiefs that sizzle . . . noncreeping Arrow shorts . . . and Arrow’s famous sportswear . . . the best-looking collection of men’s wear this side of paradise.
Come in today and look over the marvels Arrow has wrought—and take home a year’s supply of ARROWS.
May 12, 1939
21

r
►
r
*
South Bend Deanery Meets Here, Sunday
The annual Eucharistic. day of the South Bend deanery, diocese of Fort Wayne, will take place next Sunday, May 14, at the gymnasium. The program will begin at 3 o’clock.
Chairman of the congress is Vincent Fagan. Noted speakers will be heard during the course of the program among whom will be United States Marchal A. W. Hosinski, who will discuss “The Eucharist and Citizenship”; Miss Josephine Gildea, of Elkhart, Indiana, “The Eucharist and Youth”; Walter L. Clements, attorney, “The Eucharist and Business”; Miss Anita Fisher, student of St. Mary’s college, and Jerome O’Dowd, Notre Dame student, will take part.
Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, will officiate at benediction of the Blessed Sacrament which will take place at the end of the Eucharistic program at the grotto, or in Sacred Heart church should weather be inclement.
F
I k
FORUM INVESTIGATES NEW STUDEBAKER
•
The new Studebaker Champion is in such demand that it is impossible to fill the present orders. Studebaker Corporation is considering the advisability of further stepping up production. This and other facts were disclosed to the members of the Commerce Forum when they toured the Studebaker plant last week.
Because of the interest displayed by members of the Forum in the au-• tomotive industry, a motion picture sponsored by the Chevrolet corporation will be presented for the students.
ARROW’S OPEN HOUSE
down to Arrow this noon
Welcome to
Tear your dealer
if you want to get the pick of this season’s crop of Arrow beauties. Be the first on the . campus to wear what everyone else will be wearing six months hence. New patterns, new colors, in Arrow shirts, ties, underwear, handkerchiefs, and sportswear. Huge assortments of crisp fresh Arrow merchandise just waiting to be ensnared...get yours now.
If it hasn’t an Arrow label, it isrft Arrow.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
Optometrists and Opticians Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Lecturer will Discuss Progress in Industry
•
On Tuesday evening, May 16, at 8:00 o’clock (Central Standard Time) the General Motors Corporation will present “A Parade of Progress” in the Engineering auditorium.
The lecturer, Harry Manning, of the research division of General Motors, will discuss and illustrate the possibilities of future industrial development in relation to the number of new industrial opportunities that will be opened through the development of such new discoveries as “woolen” yarn made from skim milk, lucite, a plastic material which conducts light, literally, around corners and may revolutionize all lighting; finely woven cloths made of glass; plastic glass which is unbreakable and more transparent than real glass and artificial rubber made from coal and water, plus such oddities as a talking flashlight.
The lecturer will show samples of these materials.
Your MOTHER
would enjoy a Musical Powder Box which plays the “Notre
Dame Victory March”—
and up
Other gifts from $1.00
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN WASHINGTON
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
. Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
Hutt Heads Pitt Club
The Pittsburgh club election results were announced this week, with the following men holding office for the 1939-40 schoolyear.
President, Edward G. Huff, A.B., ’40; vice president, Fred Robertshaw, Eng., ’40; treasurer, John O’Brien, A.B., ’41, a member of varsity football squad; secretary, Thomas O’Brien, A.B., ’40.
Activities to date under the new regime: Easter social, stag; softball game in which the Memphis club was defeated.
NOTRE DAME MEN
We invite you to enjoy GENUINE
ITALIAN SPAGHETTI
30c
Delicious Meat or Mushroom Sauce and Real Parmesan Cheese
“SINCE 1914 —FINE FOOD”
Stratigon Restaurant
114 N. Michigan Street
STOP BAGGAGE-ITIS!*
Technical name for “Baggage bother when vacation bound.”
Use this easy, economical RAILWAY EXPRESS cure — pre-tested by thousands of carefree collegians: (1) Pack everything carefully into your trunks, boxes and bags. (2) Lock, strap and label ’em deftly. (3) Phone or drop by the Railway Express office and tell them when to call and where to deliver. THAT’S ALL! Your
baggage is practically home. Charges include pick-up and delivery in all cities and principal towns. And you can send everything "express collect”—at low rates.
So when your holiday baggage is ready, just phone Railway Express to call.
Y>u can then board your train without a care in the'world!
1839—A Century of Service—1939
506 W. South St., South Bend, Ind.
’Phone 3-6121
-...... See the Railway Express Exhibits at the New York World’s Fair gg : - a°d the San Francisco Golden Gate International Exposition.
HERING AWARDS
(Continued from Page 14) to the guard who has been best at pulling out, to the center whose passing has been the best, to the end who has excelled in boxing the tackles, and, lastly, to the tackle who has looked best on defense.
Two medals will be given which will be open for both linemen and backs: for field goal kicking and for the greatest general improvement in spring practice.
LEARN TO FLY with JTCCKEKT FLYING SERVICE, Inc.
Bendix Field
STUDENT COURSE, £45.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in the United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL
114 Dillon Hall “Our business is in the air”
Senior Ball Thanks
The Senior class officers and the chairman of the Senior Ball wish to express their appreciation for all the facors done by administrative officials of the university and students to make the dance a success. Particular thanks are due the Vincentians who served as check-room and refreshment attendants, and those Juniors who worked in the parking lot.
i
Memphis Elections
Last Tuesday night the Memphis Club held its annual election to select the officers for next year.
The new president of the boys from Dixie will be Phil Canale of Dillon Hall. Other officers chosen are:
Jimmy Welsh, vice president; Jim Monteddnico, secretary; Dorsey Mathis, treasurer.
I
STARS OF SPORT
Feature The
NEW PALM BEACH SUITS
Let Spiro's help you to receive a reward of $10 up to $100.
Contest will end Wednesday, May 31st
SEE THE SUITS, SLACKS and FORMALS
SAM'L SPIRO a CO.
121 So. Michigan St.
in South Bend
The stars are out—in full array We mean the stars that shine by day (tbe Stars of Sport)
There’s Sammy Snead and Runyan (Paul) We can’t begin to name them all
(our time is short)
The stars are out—and every day
It’s Palm Beach Slacks that help their play (and keep them cool)
We’re showing them in Nassau Blue In Wicker Shade—some smart whites, too (for ’round the pool)
They’re cut for comfort—cut for style They’ll outwear others by a mile (no idle boast)
Now note the price—then come and see We promise you that you’ll agree
(they’re money’s most)
Palm Beach Slacks
Now showing... at your favorite clothier:
Palm Beach Suits, S15.5O • Palm Beach Evening Formal, S18.50
GOODALL COMPANY* CINCINNATI, OHIO
MR. PAUL BYRNE,
library, NOTRE DAME,
b
l JorMore ^Smoking
MISS DOROTHY QUACKENBUSH (Miss American Aviation 1938-1939) like all charmingT.W. A. hostesses is at your service clear across the country
Copyright 1939. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Dorothy Quackenbush, with her smile and her Chesterfields, keeps smokers happy from coast to coast.
c{
Chesterfield’s happy combination of the world’s best tobaccos gives smokers just what they want in a cigarette . refreshing mildness, better taste, more pleasing aroma.
When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure...why THEY SATISFY