WINSTON
TASTES GOOD!
LIKE A
Cigarette
SHOULD!
Now available
in crush-proof box, too!



j , srf, j

K1 K G
WINSTON is the big brand on this range,ma'am-for filter and for flavor!
Once folks discover Winston, they just can’t keep the news under their Stetsons! They go for the flavor because it’s so clean and fresh — from a bright, clear blend of superb tobaccos. They like Winston’s exclusive pure-white filter, with the smart cork-smooth tip. And, they like to share a good thing when they find it! You try ’em. Then you’ll know why
1 F1lTer.
52 ’
Winston is now way out ahead of the other filter cigarettes.
R.J.REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
Smoke WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
l
I s
a I.
J'


JOB FACTS FROM DUPONT
BETTER THINGS FOR" BETTER LIVING THROUGH CHEM/


^1
LIBERAL EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PROGRAM AT DU PONT
B
INCLUDES INSURANCE, SAVINGS AND STOCK PLANS
>1
WHAT’S YOUR LINE?
DU PONT NEEDS ALL
PERSONALIZED
TRAINING
Means More Security, Greater Real Income To Young Graduates

KINDS OF ENGINEERS
3
DuPont has always needed chemists and chemical engineers, and still does. But today, there’s critical need for engineers in almost every other field—civil, mechanical, electrical, instrumental and industrial engineering, to name a few.
Expansion is the major reason. In 1957, for example, sales at DuPont were nearly two billion dollars. Four new plants were being built. New research programs were being launched. New products were moving into the production and marketing stages. Engineers and scientists of all kinds work in 75 DuPont plants and 98 laboratories in 26 states. All of this tends to broaden opportunities for the young scientist and engineer at DuPont.
If you’re interested in finding full scope for your ability, and this includes a great many special fields, Du Pont offers you plenty of opportunity to move ahead.
SEND FOR INFORMATION BOOKLET ON JOB OPPORTUNITIES AT DUPONT Booklets on jobs at DuPont are yours for the asking. Subjects covered include: mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemical, electrical, instrumentation and industrial engineers; atomic energy, technical sales, business administration, research and development. Name the subject that interests you in a letter to DuPont, 2494-F Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
by
H. J. Hollberg (
Du Pont Representative
When you join DuPont as a scientist or engineer, you’re given an actual project assignment almost at once and begin to learn your job by doing it. That’s the essence of our training philosophy at Du Pont.
Our objective is to give you responsibility at the outset and qualify you quickly for more, because the more we grow, the more we need trained leaders.
Although there is no one training program at DuPont feach of our many departments runs its own), all have several basic features in common. All are personalized— tailored to the new man’s background and interests. All involve close supervision on an informal, day-to-day basis. And all permit periodic evaluation of the new man.
This flexible system helps the new man to move ahead according to his abilities. He gets to know Du Pont and his job quickly. He gets a headstart on future responsibility.
You probably have questions about this program and how ■ you’d fit into it. I’ll be glad to try to answer them tvhen I visit your campus. Why not sign up for a Du Pont interview at your placement office now?
Du Pont believes that the employee builds his own job security by the way he does his work, by his contributions to the progress of the Company and by his readiness to accept responsibility.
But Du Pont meets the employee more than halfway with a program of benefits designed to help him as he advances.
Your employee benefits go to work the day you join the Company. They grow and build equity for you as the years go by. Vacations, life insurance, group hospital and surgical coverage, accident and health insurance, pension and bonus plans are all part of the program.
Let's look at a special example, the Thrift Plan. You become eligible for it after one year with the Company. For each dollar you invest in U. S. Savings Bonds, the Company contributes twenty-five cents toward the-purchase of Du Pont common stock in your name. Roughly 65 per cent of the Company’s 90,000 employees are now participating in the plan.
When you’re deciding on a career, security is only one consideration. But it’s an important one to you and your family. At Du Pont, security is a bright part of the future awaiting the college graduate.
More than 700 of the some 1100 degree-granting colleges and universities in the U. S. are represented at Du Pont. Of these 700, more than half are the smaller liberal arts colleges.
March 7, 1958
^GILBERT'S
¥>
On the Campus—Notre Dame
THE FRESH APPROACH TO SPRING...
You’ll find the Campus Shop’s spring selections large and varied. Here you can choose from many famous makes: Hickey Freeman, Society Brand, GGG, Eagle, Alpagora, Burberry and others. Here you have the spring style interpretations of not one, but many famous designers of men’s fine clothes. Here you have the convenience of a Campus Charge account.
The Scholastic
4
>■
hrker-Winterrowd Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS IIS’A-Iizyj No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 99 March 7, 1958 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Wiiterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
IlS’/a-llT’A No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS .............News	Editor
HARRY McKEE __________________ Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY ................ Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ........... Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS ..................Photography
LORAN SHEFFER Business Manager MIKE KURAS..............Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN _________ Circulation	Manager
WALT RUDGE .............. Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH..............Assistant	Copy
BILL CONWAY...............Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS ........... Assistant	Features
TOM LAMONT ............ Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK ........... Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH ............. Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON ............ Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgai tner. Alan Bosch, Ken Brown, Jack Devncy. Bill Kelly. Bill Lehr. Bob Maruyama, Bernie McElroy. Gil Paprocki, Lyn Relph. Chas Rieck. Tom Romans. Roy Rubeli. Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstiom. Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs. Jim Brogan. Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Muiphy, Tim O'Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27: No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11; No. 4, Oct. 18; No. 5, Oct. 25; No. 6, Nov. 8; No. 7, Nov. 15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9, Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17; No 12, Feb. 7; No. 13, Feb. 14; No. 14, Feb. 21; No. 15, Feb. 28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17, March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
PICTURE YOUR
FUTURE
IN THIS
CROWING COMPANY ‘
45* 40 35 $ 30 O a 25 O z 20 o 15 S 10 5
0	f .
Looking for a solid, satisfying i career with a vigorous company in a growing industry? w American Air Filter Company, Louisville, Kentucky—world’s	‘
largest manufacturer of air z filters, dust control and heating and ventilating equipment —needs graduate engineers to „■ fill responsible jobs in sales, engineering and production in * its 125 field offices and nine manufacturing plants located in six cities.
In July of 1958, AAF will inaugurate its next five-month . technical training course for a select group of engineering > and commerce graduates. This full-time program combines classroom work, under the direction of competent instructors, with field trips to both company plants and large in- < dustrial users of AAF products.
A representative of American Air Filter will visit the campus to interview interested „ seniors on
Monday, March 10, 1958
Make an appointment, now, *” through your Placement Office.
American Air Filter Company, Inc.
Louisville, Kentucky
The Scholastic
in jest strikes
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
. We’re “In Jesting” again, after giving you a two-week breather, and us a chance to pay off our Mardi Gras debts.
‘ We’d like to take this opportunity to : thank our vacation replacement, Martin
T. Francis, for filling in while we spent p a charming two weeks sunning in that [ “Vacation Playland,” Goshen, Ind.
. NEED A DATE?
When in doubt of something to mock, I we have found a safe bet, with much potential, in good old SMC. At the risk * of sounding bitter (and we are) we have ( once again taken typewriter in hand, and before dropping it on our foot, de-'• cided to go “head-hunting.”
Successful dating here at Notre Dame has developed into a real problem due to the Victorian traditions which have been set up. Take us, for example . . . > two miserable failures. (And to think that it’s only taken us three and a half 4 years to gain that distinction!)
We asked one of the more successful dating men on the campus (he gets dates even in the middle of the week!) how he would handle the problem. He k claimed that the only solution was to get a blind date. So we did.
When we went to the parlor to pick , her up, we mentioned her name to a large group of our friends, and they fell on the floor in gales of laughter, knocking over two couples and tearing 7 down a drape. At this we were tempted to leave, but we figured our staying । would be the least we could do for Lent.
< She came down in one of those stylish I new creations, the chemise (sack or bag dress, whichever you choose). It was lovely, but we wondered if the three X’s and the words Pillsbury’s Best shouldn’t have been bleached out of the back.
Yes, she was really the type of girl - that they write songs about: “My Funny
Valentine.” “Boney Maronie,” and “I Told You I Love You, Now Get Out!”
THE WEATHER FOR . . .
It’s the season! Yes, it’s that time of year when the fluffy white stuff falls, and becomes dirty black when it hits. We’ve seen everyone frolicking in the slush, making snowmen, snow forts, planning assassinations of the street department officials, pushing cars out of drifts, falling down on unshoveled walks, and dropping dead of heart attacks while shoveling the lousy stuff.
Here in the “Trash Barrel of the Nation,” where it rains from December 1 until New Years, and snows ’till after Easter, their new and improved system of snow removal has to be admired . . . it’s called “Spring Thaw.” We can’t really blame the City Fathers though, because they did send all of their snow removal equipment to stricken Michigan City . . . both retired politicians with snow shovels.
ANNOUNCEMENT
All those interested in joining the Tom Sioift Book of the Month Club, please send §257.78 to Bob and Ger. Cash, check, or money orders will do (no old Mardi Gras money, please).
SENIORS
Just because there’s a mild recession, and jobs are as hard to find as a filet at the Dining Hall, don’t visualize yourself standing in a compensation line. Buck up classmates, for there’s fantastic opportunities awaiting all June grads at the Placement Bureau. There are many maintenance jobs for engineers, scientists are going to the government for peanuts, commerce men are selling door-to-door, and the AB men are being la::ghed at.
LENTEN MENU
Salad:
Dandelion stems; no dressing
Entree: Broiled sewer carp, au grautin Potatoes:
Lumpy and dry
Vegetable:
Boiled (and we mean BOILED) tomatoe vines
Dessert:
Nicotine flavored brownies
MEMORIES
It seems to us that a current trend in the music world these days, is to sing about those memories that mean so much to us. Here we offer the Notre Dame man’s version of “Moments to Remember.”
Those week ends that we did the town, The night we burned Le Mans Hall down. We’ll have these moments to remember.
The useless walks, the grade school fun The week’s suspension I almost won. We’ll have these moments to remember.
Though fall now turns to winter, And the snow won’t disappear, Those nasty mocks you used to hurl Will echo through the years.
Those water fights; the lousy chow, The “dog” that I’m pinned to now. Who needs such moments to remember?
DO IT YOURSELF
Because of the “campus” that some of the girls at St. Mary’s received the night of the Mardi Gras Ball,- all on account of the misplacement of a screw or two, we have decided to become Good Samaritans. We are sending at no cost, a 37-pound sack of assorted nuts and bolts to the fourth floor of La Mans Hall for any minor repairs that might arise in the future.
Well fellow inmates, that about does it until next week, when “In Jest” will be back, trying to help you Escape.
March 7, 1958
‘Jockey brand T-Shirts
helped me make varsityl”
“There were at least twenty of us unknown freshmen at basketball practice that day. Suddenly, the coach was pointing at me. ‘Hey you!’ he called. ‘You in the good looking T-shirt, get in there and show me what you can do!’ That’s how Jockey T-shirts opened my door to stardom.
“I’m sure that Jockey T-shirts are the big reason I’m such a big star today. The twin-stitch collar that lies flat and smooth, the body of the shirt that fits just right—not too tight or loose —these are the reasons I’m such a comfortable star.”
Jockey T-shirts are tailored extra long to stay tucked in. Free, comfortable arm movement guaranteed.
Jockeif T-shirt
BRAND W
Dear Editor:
Perhaps in the midst of so much academic and philosophical wisdom a poor student might be permitted to add a few rambling thoughts to the current Civil Rights controversy. Father Parry and Dr. Niemeyer have praised many objections to the Supreme Court decisions in the school segregation cases. Basically their position is that segregation is morally wrong, but that the gov-ernment cannot or should not stop the practice of segregation. They fear that too many evils will arise from federal interference in this area. Thus they seek out a middle ground between right and wrong.
Their two articles are most disturbing. .. For if, as Father Parry and Dr. Nie- f meyer agree, segregation is a social and moral evil, then we arrive at the absurd position of giving people a right to do * a wrong. There are, however, those propositions in politics as in all of life which do not allow an equivocal stand. x In a pluralistic society the state should not legislate against every evil, but segregation as practiced brands the Negro race inferior and the state should and * must not approve of this. We might do well in the heat of battle to pause and pay heed to few words of Abraham Lin-coin on the question of political compromise. In a speech in Cincinnati in 1859 Lincoln held that, “The good old maxims of the Bible are applicable, and truly applicable, to human affairs, and in this, as in other- things, we may say here that he who is not for us is against us; and he who gathereth not with us scattereth.” And again in his Cooper Union address .. he expressed opposition to compromise with an evil in these words: “Let us be diverted by none of these sophistical contrivances wherewith we are so industri- : ously plied and belabored, contrivances ( such as groping for some middle ground between the right and wrong.”
The real question is this: “What position should Father Hesburgh as a member of the Civil Rights Commission take on the problem of segregation?” As an r American and as a Catholic he has a twofold contribution to make. As an American he must insist that the Con- t stitution and Laws of the land be upheld. Certainly one of the most basic notions of American Constitutional theory is that every person has rights which are '
(Continued on page 23)
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR
Rasmussen Men’s Shop
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STS.
«
The Scholastic
personally
u
3
political clubs

*
The purpose of a university is to produce students who are capable of carrying on intelligent discussion on important issues. Critics have warned recently of the growing need for vigorous and intelligent leadership in the face of the crises which America now faces. Catholic colleges should be in the vanguard in producing these leaders for the values and goals of the Catholic college graduate are essential to the task at hand.
One of the ways of promoting intelligent discussion among the students is through campus political clubs (i.e., Young Democrats and Young Republicans). These clubs would serve as a place for healthy and intelligent discussion on the important problems which face this nation. They would fulfill the role of educator and might well also be a
stepping stone toward active political leadership.
i Unfortunately the University Council at Notre Dame I has recently rejected a petition to allow the formation of I such political clubs on campus. There was some reason for ls this action since the University is concerned lest the clubs
't
Mi
I
$
i
be used by the political parties to capitalize on the “name” of Notre Dame. However the University still insists that it wants its students to take an intelligent attitude toward political life. But when confronted with a tension between this desire and a fear, the Administration has once again “played it safe” — evidently less impressed by the possibility of a failure to educate than by the possibility of “bad publicity.”
T If the University really wants its students to take an intelligent attitude toward political problems, it quite obvi-j ously should be willing to run some calculated risk of
!•
4
occasional unintelligent discussion or “bad publicity.” It goes without saying that we all want a University of the highest academic reputation. But we should also want that reputation based on the foundation of vigorous intellectual discussion among undergraduates as well as the scholars of the faculty. High reputation is won only by the daring. If ours can be hurt by the exuberance of undergraduates it is hardly worth worrying about.	—J, S.
March 7, 1958
OUR SOCIETY is slowly being corrupted by mediocrity.
We sit back in our plush chairs and watch everything go by with a passive sigh. About two weeks ago the Scholastic editors took part in a panel discussion over WSND, and we talked about the lack of student reaction to pertinent issues on campus. Most people, we decided, throw curious glances at such happenings, and put them aside. They are afraid that their own little world will be disturbed. They are caught up in themselves and their own personal comforts, and really don’t care what goes on in society. Criticism becomes overruled, for this endangers their complacent opinions of themselves and their work The aim of criticism is perfection, but, after all, everything is much safer without it. Mr. Blue put this idea very well: “Let us all five snugly — and life will soon be little more than a thick, gelatinous stream of comfortability and ignorance.”
* * *
IT seems that a college student should have the right to decide his own personal habits — if they are within the bounds set by society. For instance, a freshman’s study habits should be guided from a distance, so that he learns the correct procedure in this new life. However, when it comes to the point where he is forced into a quasi-study hall atmosphere, the whole idea of free pursuit of knowledge is destroyed. If the student does not wish to study, this, in a way, remains his prerogative. If educators insist upon spoon-feeding a student or regarding him as a little boy, then he produces, rather ironically, a spoon-fed litde boy. The student who does not want to study does not belong in a university. So why take inordinate measures to keep him? There are too many people in college today anyway.
* * *
One of the most disgusting performances of the Notre Dame student was staged last Sunday afternoon at the faculty film showing of Hamlet. Some of the students, who are probably taking a Shakespeare course and were forced to go, insisted upon conduct that reflects their immature, uneducated, and shallow minds. First of all this project was undertaken by the faculty, and we were only their guests. The fact that a quarter was paid at the door * to cover the expenses does not give anyone the right to act as if he were in a side show. Respect must be shown to the film itself and, furthermore, and much more important, to the other people. There was absolutely no excuse for a mass exit just before the movie ended—which, by the way, destroyed one of the most beautiful scenes in the production. If this is the Notre Dame product, and it doesn’t seem that it can change in a matter of months, dien somebody is failing someplace.	—D. L. K.
9
DON’T STICK YOUR NECK OUT!
... until you see the AC-GENERAL MOTORS REPRESENTATIVE
on your campus
Monday, March 17 and Tuesday, March 18
Your Future depends upon Permanent Security. GM’s continuous, long-range Design and Development Program in all fields of engineering and manufacturing . . . GM’s policy of decentralization . . . GM’s facilities . . . GM’s working conditions . . . GM’s wage advantages . . . create individual opportunity for advancement and permanent security.
It is why we repeat "Don’t Stick Your Neck Out” until you see the AC representative.
CHALLENGING OPPORTUNITIES IN
•	Avionics	• Inertial Systems
•	Computers	• Missile Guidance
•	Jet Engine Fuel Controls
Please contact your Placement Director today to arrange '	for interviews with AC-General Motors recruiting representative
AC SPARK PLUG	THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION
GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
MILWAUKEE 2, WIS.	FLINT 2, MICH.
1G
The Scholastic
TEN-YEAR DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVEALED
> Fr. Hesburgh Outlines Foundation Goals
A $66,600,000 development program geared “to consolidate and further* its academic excellence” during the next ten years, was announced by the University this past week.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, disclosed that more than two-thirds of the projected goal will be devoted to the University’s “internal growth” while the balance has been earmarked for new buildings and additions to existing campus structures.
Notre Dame’s new ten-year program, as outlined by Father Hesburgh, includes $27,000,000 in endowment for increased faculty salaries, $18,600,000 for buildings, $11,000,000 for research, $5,000,000 for student aid, and $5,000,000 for administrative purposes.
“As in the past,” Father Hesburgh declared, “we look with confidence to our alumni and friends as well as to corporations and foundations whose growing generosity provides the means to realize Notre Dame’s hopes for tomorrow.” He reported that since the Notre Dame Foundation was organized in 1947, the University has received a total of $27,169,310 in gifts and grants, exceeding its ten-year goal of $25,000,000. Of this total, $4,210,928 was received during 1957, he said.
RAISE FACULTY SALARIES
Father Hesburgh described the need for faculty funds as “pre-eminent.” These funds will be used, he said, “to stabilize and strengthen the present faculty as well as to attract some of the world’s outstanding teachers to the campus.” Notre Dame, he continued, hopes to increase its faculty salary scale 75% by 1968.
While the current median salary for a Notre Dame faculty member is worth $6,400, “considerably higher than the national average,” Father Hesburgh pointed out that professors’ salaries have lagged behind those of other professions.
Research, Father Hesburgh emphasized, “constitutes an integral phase of Notre Dame’s program for the future.” In recent years, he disclosed, the University has received annual support of more than $1,000,000 from corporations,
foundations, and government agencies for research and fellowships in such vital areas as nuclear* physics, radiation chemistry, germfree life, and aeronautics. The University’s projected $11,000,000 research program, he said, will help “advance our technological know-how” as well as “educate imaginative, creative young men who are destined for leading'positions in the industrial world.” ,
CAMPUS BUILDING PROGRAM
Seven new buildings and additions to three buildings currently in use were listed as “essential” to accommodate the University’s present student body of 5,800.
Heading the list is a $5,000,000 library to replace the current library which was built in 1917 for an enrollment one-fourth the size of today’s student body.
Other structures included in Notre Dame’s ten-year development program are two graduate residence halls with a total estimated cost of $2,500,000, a $1,500,000 priests’ faculty hall, a $600,000 maintenance center, and new $500,000 wings for the commerce, engineering, and law buildings.
Also urgently needed, Father Hesburgh explained, are a $4,000,000 fieldhouse and a $3,500,000 auditorium. The present campus gymnasium and theater can accommodate “only a fraction of
$27,000,000 $11,000,000 $ 5,000JOO $5,000JOO $18,600JOO
t Stadeat Aid --------------------
4. Special Fads for Adaaaistrabve Farposes
5M— *	—
• NCW MMQMyS
10 years Total $66,600,000
our students, not to mention the University’s friends and visitors,” he said.
STUDENT AID INCREASE
Expansion of Notre Dame’s student aid program during the next decade is “of paramount importance”. in Father Hesburgh’s opinion. Funds totaling $5,000,000 are needed, he said, to provide scholarships, fellowships, and loans “to students with superior scholastic records, excellent character, and limited financial resources.”
A special fund of $5,000,000 for administrative purposes has been included in Notre Dame’s ten-year program to increase salaries of the University’s administrative staff and to establish a retirement plan for non-academic employees.
Since 1947, Father Hesburgh pointed out, Notre Dame has erected 16 new buildings at a total cost of $14,500,000. During the same period the University’s endowment has nearly quadrupled, rising from $5,102,850 ten years ago tc $19,037,589 today.	-
Since 1947 Notre Dame alumni have contributed $5,367,561 to their alma mater, he reported, and the gifts of honorary alumni totaled $2,874,354. Notre Dame has received a total of $11,287,764 from non-alumni sources since 1947, he continued. Included in this figure is $5,074,037 from 1,315 corporations and foundations.
March 7, 1958
Campus Theater Picks Cast for Spring Musical
Selection of the cast for the University Theater production of Oklahoma was announced last Monday by the director, The Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C.
In the leading roles of Laurey and Curly are Anne Rody and Dan Ferrone. Barbara Benford will play Ado Annie and Dave Shanahan will play Will Parker.
As Jud Fry will be George O’Donnell while Aunt Eller is to be played by Eleanor Murphy. Bruce Junius is to be seen as Ike Skidmore and Rudy Hornish will play Slim.
Others in the cast will be Jim Cooney as Ali Hakim and Pat Wilson as Gertie Cummings. Dave McDonald will play Andrew Carnes and Bill DeSeta will take the part of Cord Elam.
The play will be presented in Washington Hall from May 7 through 11.
JULLIARD STRING QUARTET
Perform at Washington Hall Thursday evening
Liberal Arts School Plans 'Choose Your Major' Talks
Chairman Joe Harrison announced that the annual Sophomore Arts and Letters “Choose Youi- Program” series will begin March 20 at 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. All AB sophomores are required to attend this program.
The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., will speak on the subject of majoring. All department heads or their representatives will attend and talk informally to anyone interested in their particular department. Brochures will be distributed to all sophomores in their English classes explaining the program of each department in detail.
Marriage Institute Gives Dr. Leone's 'Viewpoint*
Dr. Louis B. Leone, of Skokie, Ill., will give the fourth of six Marriage Institute lectures at 7:30 next Wednesday evening in Washington Hall. The title of his talk is “The Doctor’s Viewpoint.”
A graduate of the Illinois University Medical School, Dr. Leone is currently a member of the obstetrics department of the Skokie Medical Center. He has four children and is active in the Cana movement. This is his fourth year of participation in the Institute.
On March 19, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Schaefer will talk on “Love in Marriage.” The series will close on March 26 with a lecture “Success in Marriage” given by Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd.
Juilliard String Quartet to Nay on Campus; Concert Set for Washington Hall Thursday
The Juilliard String Quartet will perform Thursday at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall as the next presentation of the Concert and Lecture Series.
Tickets can be purchased in the Washington Hall Box Office Tuesday from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m. and on Thursday before the performance.
The quartet was organized in 1946 by William Schuman, president of the Juilliard School of Music, and has successfully toured the U.S. and Europe several times. Newspapers everywhere have acclaimed their chamber music, and their repertoire includes four centuries of music and 125 major works.
Robert Mann, first violinist, was born in Portland, Ore., and lived for a time on the West Coast. In 1938 he left for New York to study at the Juilliard School under Edouard Dethier. He began composing at age 14 and continues to devote much time to this.
He was a soloist and member of the Albuquerque Festival String Quartet, and after his stint in the Army helped to form the Juilliard String Quartet.
Second Violinist Robert Koff received his first music education in Los Angeles, and earned a scholarship at the Juilliard Graduate School after attending Oberlin Conservatory. Following three years in the Army he joined the faculty of the Juilliard School and participated in establishing the String Quartet. One of his hobbies is singing folk songs, accompanying himself on the guitar.
Raphael Hillyer, violinist, was born ' in Ithaca, N. Y., and studied violin at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. K
He graduated Phi Beta Kappa in mathematics from Dartmouth and did his graduate work at Harvard, continuing musical studies on his own.
Claus Adam was born in Sumatra and I was educated in Holland, Germany, Austria, and the U.S. His interest in the ' arts was stirred early by his mother and he studied the cello under Joseph Emonts and later Emanuel Feuermann. His interest in chamber music came after his three years in the Army, and he played r seven years with the New Music Quartet.	•
The quartet made a very successful tour through Europe in 1955 and appeared in ten countries before large audiences. The tour lasted five months and critics all over Europe lauded their f interpretations and insight.
Their tour was of great propaganda s' value and was the first by an American ensemble entirely without financial help from government or other sources.
NATIONAL SYMPHONY <
The National Symphony Orchestra will appear at the Notre Dame Drill Hall tonight at 8:15.
Tickets will be on sale at the Washington Hall box office this afternoon and also at the Drill Hall this evening until curtain time.
12
The Scholastic
Parliamentary Dispute Mars Senate Meeting; Sixteen Senators Absent During Quorum Call
.A
I
I '
$
i
Parliamentary procedure was the dominant note in the Student Senate meeting of Feb. 25.
Some business was conducted up until John Foley, senator from Fisher, moved to appropriate $200 under the heading of special projects from the Mardi Gras fund.
The money was to go to members of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine who, up to now, have been bearing many of the expenses out of their own pockets.
The number now present at the time of the motion did not constitute a quorum and if anyone called for one, business could no longer be conducted. At the beginning of the meeting 12 senators were absent and, during coffee break, four more absented themselves.
The chair urged that business proceed, but Harry Wasoff, vice-president, feeling that this was an important decision, one that would set precedent and one that should be carefully considered by the whole Senate, called for a quorum. This ended the meeting, with Foley’s motion still undecided.
Business that was yet to be considered was the proposed Student Government budget of $5,490, a motion to change the date of club registration and several proposed amendments.
Prior to adjournment, Denny Shaul of the Student Welfare committee read a motion to abolish the College balls and to have the Senate, instead, sponsor two University-wide dances. If held in the Student Center they would be limited to 550 couples. This limit was protested, but the possibility of using the new dining hall was to be looked into.
These dances would not be run like Victory dances, but would feature elaborate decoration and big-name entertainment.
John Kennedy of the Concessions Committee announced that bids would be accepted for running the various con-
CONCESSIONS
The Concessions Committee is now accepting applications for the following jobs: manager and assistant manager for the summer storage concession, photo concession, student insurance representative, John C. Morrissey Loan Fund administrator, and bakery concessions. Applications should be sent to John Kennedy, Concessions Committee Chairman, 337 Walsh before Friday, March 14.
cessions from Feb. 28 until March 14.
The President’s Report by Jerry Brady included a list of objections by the Committee on Discipline to the idea of remodeling the boat house for parties.
Those listed were: 1) Cost too great. The amount allocated is $5,000 from Mardi Gras funds, but actually no cost , figure has been set; 2) St. Mary’s might not allow their girls to go there; 3) It is too near the community infirmary. The distance is several hundred yards; and 4) It has been broken into before, and this could happen in the future.
—Roy Rubeli
Senate Plans to Charter Buses for NCAA Game
The bus committee of the Student Senate has announced plans to charter buses for the NCAA tournament basketball game in Evanston, Ill.
Tickets were sold yesterday at the Rockne Memorial. The buses will leave Tuesday at 6 p.m. and return shortly after 1 a.m. Dinner will be served at 5 p.m. for those planning to leave on the trip.
There is the possibility of a special bus for those with late labs, Tom Lamont, committee chairman, reported.
S’!?
ISnEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Communication Arts Group Announces
THE GRADUATE INSTITUTE OF BOOK PUBLISHING
•	Opens September, 1958
•	A full-year program designed to train men and women of exceptional promise for careers in the book industry.
•	Academic study with outstanding lecturers in literature, philosophy, and political science.
•	Workshop courses with experts from the industry.
•	Apprentice training in New York book publishing houses.
•	M.A. Degree
• Limited to thirty students.
For’information and application write: John Tebbel, Director Graduate Institute of Book Publishing New York University Washington Square New York 3, N. Y.
Freshman Hall Outsells Campus for Mardi Gras
Breen-Phillips, Badin, and Lyons were the three winners in the 1958 inter-hall Mardi Gras raffle competition. Their percentages were 92.4, 90.4 and 77.8 respectively.
The winning booths at the Carnival were divided into two divisions—the best looking and the highest money winners.
Capturing first place in the best looking division was the Toledo-Delaware club followed by the Kentucky club and the Texas club.
The highest money winner was the booth sponsored by the Washington-Maryland-Virginia club. In second place was the Texas club with the Detroit club following.
A special award went to the Architect’s booth which combined with the Italian club and Saint Mary’s to present a night club. The Villagers received the prize for the novel game idea.
The total gross figure to date of the Mardi Gras profits in $46,000. This is broken down into $37,500 for the raffle, $7,500 for the carnival, and $1,000 for the dance.
The winner of the Cadillac was Charles Picek of Lawton, Okla. Jack O’Brien, a freshman in Breen-Phillips, won the Thunderbird. Judy Solon of LeMans Hall at Saint Maly’s won the RCA hi-fi.
March 7, 1958
13
1899-1958
Sixty Years of Debating
by TOM EDWARDS
This morning, in the LaFortune Student Center, the sixth annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament began. The Rev. William A. Bolger Memorial Trophy will be awarded to the top team of the thirty which are competing. Whether the winner of this trophy be little Augustana College, 1957 National Champions, or the U. S. Military Academy, nationally ranked in second place last year, or Notre Dame, defending tournament champions, or any of the other schools, Notre Dame will have served as the two-day focal point for intercollegiate debating in the nation.
Debating has become a “really big”
debate the.team of that school on either the affirmative or the negative side of the question.
Contrast this with the situation today. Two debaters make up the modern team, and most of the debates take place in tournaments where numerous schools are present. And now, a team must be able to present both the affirmative and negative side of a question involved.
Notre Dame won that first debate with Butler and continued on until by 1912 they had won 19 matches and had lost only one. This was a rather formidable record for a small school in the Midwest
since the competition included such teams as Iowa, Ohio State, and Georgetown, the oldest debating group in the United States.
In 1912, Notre Dame entered into a triangular debating league with Indiana University and Wabash College. With these debates, Notre Dame often entered both a negative and an affirmative team of three men each. Another aspect of the change debating has undergone since then is that these men debated formally, that is, in tuxedos.
With the many variations throughout the years, one thing has not differed greatly and this, strangely enough, is the topics debated on. For. example, in 1905, the Notre Dame debate team, in a match against Oberlin College, upheld the affirmative side of the question: Resolved, that labor and capital be compelled to settle their disputes through legally constituted boards of arbitration. Today the debate topic is whether “the reqire-ments of membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment should be legal.”
It was in these early years of debate that The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., distinguished himself in the collegiate debating sphere. He served as debate coach from 1910 until 1928 and kept Notre Dame rising in the field of debate. Father Bolger also changed the idea of interhall debate teams and chose his men from a field of from 50 to 60 students

A
thing at Notre Dame since its inception in 1899. Even though certain rules of debate, methods of selection of team members and many other things have changed since then, one aspect has remained consistent — the Notre Dame habit of winning.
“Oratory and debating have always formed a part of the curriculum at Notre Dame,” is found in the 1906 copy of the Dome. Fifty-two years later this certainly seems to be still true.
It -was in Indianapolis that Notre Dame’s first debating team met Butler University in the first match in the history of the school. The men that debated that day in 1899 had been selected differently than the debaters in today’s tournament -would be chosen.
Each of the halls, Sorin, Brownson, Corby and Holy Cross, had debate teams in those days. These men would come together and have what amounted to an interhall tournament much as might be had today for basketball, handball, etc. From these teams came that which represented the University in the meets.
It is significant, too, that these were meets and not tournaments. Only two schools were involved in the debates, the hosts and the visitors. One team of three
Martzell, Bolger Trophy, and Whitney
men would travel to another school and
14
The Scholastic
who took part in elimination rounds of competitive debating. From these, he chose eight men for his varsity team. * • With Father Bolger at the helm of the debaters they began to widen the scope in many directions. The duration of the debate season up to that time lasted for only three to four weeks, but was now beginning to lengthen so that it now begins in early October and lasts through 1 “ April and the National Championships are at West Point.
‘• In 1925, another step was made that would be instrumental to the progress of debate at the University. The i„ Wranglers were formed as a supple-’ mentary organ of debate. Father Bolger k > was the first honorary president of the Wranglers. This group immediately re-‘ “ juvenated the traditional custom of inter-, hall debating among campus halls, and again revived campus oratory. This group, within two years, worked to such । an extent that, in 1927, the debate team * ► debated the University of Sydney, Australia to a capacity audience in ' Washington Hall. This interhall debat-ing, under the guidance of the Wranglers, increased the interest and importance of I Notre Dame debating.
J From 1928 to 1933, The Bev. Francis * J. Boland, C.S.C., a former outstanding debater, and professor of Economics as-h sumed the coaching position of the team.
Father Boland later became Dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University.
Succeeding Father Boland was a man who had distinguished himself at the . University as a student — Prof. William J. Coyne who held the position until 1942 j when intercollegiate debating at the University stopped for the duration of T World War II.
Prof. Coyne had been the first winner | of the Dome award (the highest rank-I ing student award given by the Uni-I versity) and had served as first president of the Wranglers.
With the end of the war came the - reorganization of the Notre Dame debate team and the resumption of inter-i collegiate debating under Prof. Leonard | F. Sommer.
"I Under Prof. Sommer, Notre Dame de-y bate teams had won 1801 debates and had lost only 394 prior to this year. In T this time they have also qualified for the national championships ten times.
During the current season, they have ; won 88 and lost 31, and that includes first places in the Butler University Tourna-* ment, the Pittsburgh University Tournament, the Miami University Tournament * (Fla.), and Azalea Tournament in Mobile, Ala.
With this background behind them and greater goals before them, then, the debate team will attempt to successfully
defend their own tournament championship today and tomorrow. These standards 'will be carried into the foray by Jack Martzell and John Whitney. Mart-zell is a senior accounting major and current president of the debate team and Whitney is a freshman engineering student.
Included in the field which they must face are some of the schools that Notre Dame began their debating against, such as Butler and Ohio State.
Behind the two standard bearers are approximately forty other members of the debate team whose efforts the past few months and especially this week are keeping oiled the machinery of a smoothly functioning tournament.
Bobert Dempsey is general chairman
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Quiet American: (March 7-13). Here is a tale of suspense, intrigue, murder and mystery, set in the Saigon of Indo-China, against a background of a nation at war within itself. Audie Murphy does the honors as a “quiet American” who bumbles his way into disaster for others.
GRANADA
Peyton Place: (March 7-20). If you haven’t seen it, do. It’s the best movie in town this week end.
PALACE
Szticide Battalion: (March 7-12). The Palace, running true to form, adds another to its impressive list of flops.
Co-Hit: Jet Attack. That list is growing more impressive by the minute.
Gift of Love: (March 13). Free-running account of events in the life of a small family. Features Lauren Bacall, Robert Stack and Evelyn Rudie. All three of these players improve on their respective previous bests in their performances here.
RIVER PARK
A Faretvell to Arms: (March 7-8). I liked it. My math teacher has informed me that he didn’t. A most unfortunate situation indeed . . . this conflict.
The Pajama Game: (March 9-11). A Technicolor production starring Doris Day and John Raitt. Legion of Decency Rating: B.
The Ten Commandments: (March 12). Stars Charlton Heston, Anne Baxter and other notables of the Old Testament.
STATE
Return to Warbow: (March 7-8). Beware of this one. The fact that it’s in Technicolor has led more than one poor soul astray.
Co-Hit: The Tiajuana Story. Another in Sam Katzman’s series of exposes of civic corruption, “The Tiajuana Story” is no better or worse than its predecessors. Which is to say it isn’t worth the powder- to blow it to hell.
Man from God’s Country: (March 9-12). George Montgomery - Randy Stuart. CinemaScope and Technicolor.
Co-Hit: High Terrace.
—Steve Sailer.
and William Barrett is co-chairman. Paul Manion is in charge of awards and John Sullivan is handling room reservations and tabulations. Gerry Goudreau and Tom Clusserath are responsible for registration and publicity, respectively. Tom Banchoff is chairman of the timekeeper committee which is composed of 26 debaters from Notre Dame.
Notre Dame could possibly win their own tournament tomorrow, and perhaps they will. But whether they do or not will not matter greatly. They vail show well, just as they did under Father Bolger, under Father Boland, under Prof. Coyne and as they have always done with Prof. Sommer. They have a great tradition behind them. And it grows in stature as time passes.
March 7, 1958
15
Wednesday’s
Child
by Jay Walton
Jay Walton from Chicago, III., is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters.
This story, his most recent in a series of articles for the Scholastic extending over a period of two years, is about a grade school lad and his experiences on the first day of school.
Now he was walking up the hill — past the dirty white houses and away from the railroad tracks — toward the school. He was bouncing a tennis ball even though he didn’t want to get his hands dirty and he could feel them getting dirty every time the ball hit his palm. But he kept bouncing it.
It must have been almost twelve o’clock, because he had to be there to register* at twelve and the sun was almost at the top of the sky. In Italy the sun is straight up at twelve o’clock. He knew that because in one of his first grade books the little Italian boy was pointing straight up to show where the sun was at noon.
He wondered if second grade would be better than first. He thought so — especially if he got Miss Berry. Most of the kids would be bringing their parents to school. He didn’t know why;
any kid going into the second grade was old enough to register on the first day by himself. If he had asked his mother, she would have gone with him and if • his father were there he would have gone and they would all have gone together. They would have driven right into the school parking lot and they would probably see the Stantons or the McKendricks and his mother and father would talk to the grownups while he < played with Bobby Stanton or Johnny McKendrick. And he would have brought his parents in to meet Miss Berry. (He hoped he wouldn’t get Miss | Furman. Nobody liked her.) And they ' would talk about how well he had done in first grade. That was embarrassing — with all those kids standing around — and you never know how to act when * you’re with your parents and other kids are there. They would have gone if he had asked them and his father was there.	i
i
But he remembered his mother ... •! early that morning . . . when it was still dark ... in the dining room . . . with 1 the table pad all turned around crazily . . . lying on the floor . . . sleeping.
A car went by and there was a girl in it that he knew. She looked at him but he pretended not to see her. And ” even after it had passed she kept look- ( ing at him through the back window. But he kept walking with his head down. 4. He wondered who would be his girl friend this year. Not Marylou because she liked Bobby Stanton and not that girl who just went by in the car.
He remembered his letter from school | and he reached into his pocket and touched it and he felt better. He crossed 1 the vacant lot by Dr. Green’s house where the seventh and eighth graders * used to play baseball. One time he had picked up a little pebble and had thrown it at a street light by that lot. He hadn’t r been trying to break it; he had just wanted to see if he could hit it. He < had missed, but Dr. Green’s son who was in college had seen him and had > smiled meanly and said, “So you’re the one who’s been breaking street lights around here.” He was lucky it hadn’t been Dr. Green, who would have yelled, but he felt very bad about it anyway. it
When he had crossed the vacant lot he was on Elm Street with its bright r new ranch houses and big lawns with the fences around them. And then there were the big red brick houses of Green- v wood Avenue.
Now he could see the school. A crowd ' of kids with their parents were walking across the playground toward the school building, but George and Tim Jonahs ( were alone and he was glad. When he reached the steps of the school he saw Bobby Stanton and his mother and
16
The Scholastic
| father and said hello. They said hello 4 and just for a moment he wished he
/ were Bobby Stanton, who lived in a big M, house on Greenwood Avenue and came ; to school on the first day with his it parents.
• When he got inside he decided to try Miss Berry’s room last because he didn't want to try her first and have her say no. So he went into Miss Furman’s room. Miss Furman was skinny and her | hair and face were the same pale color.
She was sitting very straight at her desk while most of her class was just i standing around talking.
“You’re Gerry Weber, aren’t you?” she said.
“Yes ma’m,” he said. “Am I in your room this year?”
“No, you’re not on my list. You must be with Miss Berry.”
“Thank you,” he said. That was good. He walked across the hall to Miss Berry’s room. Miss Berry looked very young and pretty. She was standing at her- desk talking to Judy Heintz and Johnny McKendrick and their parents.
“Hello Gerry,” said Mrs. Heintz. She looked down at him and smiled — they all did, even Johnny and Judy. Miss Berry was very nice. He gave her his letter and she gave him a list of books to buy.
“All right Gerry, we’ll see you at nine o’clock tomorrow morning,” she said.
He said good-bye to all of them and started to leave. It was just then that she said it. It was Mrs. Heintz and she sounded as if she were smiling and shaking her head. “Poor kid,” she said.
He walked down the dark hall and out into the bright sunshine. He had always been smai-ter in school than Judy Heintz. He walked across the playground, which was clear- now, to where George and Tim Jonahs were playing with a ball and bat. He wasn’t so sure he’d like Miss Berry. George had a White Sox cap on — the kind you buy at the ball park. The letter was partially peeled off so you could see the dried glue underneath. He asked if he could be official catcher and they said okay so he squatted down behind the chalked-in home plate. They were playing the Cubs against the White Sox. When the Sox were up he was Clyde McCullough and when the Cubs were up he was Mike Tresh. They played for a very long time — until his lungs felt dry and his face got hot even though it was getting cooler out. Sometimes the ball would sting his hands and sometimes he would miss it and have to chase it all the way back to the wall of the school. His hands got very dirty, but that was okay and he was disappointed when it started to get late and George and Tim Jonahs said they had to get home. They took their- ball and bat and started to walk slowly, throwing the ball back and forth.
He watched them until they disappeared around the corner of the building and then he stood alone for awhile on the asphalt playground. The sky was gray now and the ranch houses on Elm Street had their lights on. He started slowly down Elm, looking at the white picket fences and the green lawns and the bicycles and baby toys strewn around in some of the yards. He walked across the vacant lot, kicking a piece of clay along in front of him. Then he started slowly down the hill. He remembered his tennis ball and he pulled it out of his pocket and tossed it in the air a few times. Then he stopped and looked at the ball, turned and threw it up the hill as hard as he could. It sailed — dark gray against a light gray sky — into an alley and over a picket fence onto one of the lush green lawns. Then he turned again and began to skip down the hill. He wanted to get home because it was getting dark and cold.
And now the sun, setting over the railroad tracks, was all red and orange and gold. And a train went by, pouring black smoke over all the houses — the dirty white ones down by the tracks, the bright new ranch houses on Elm Street, and the big red brick ones on Greenwood Avenue. All of them. .
March 7, 1958
17
Scene
IRISH BATTLE TENNESSEE TECH IN NCAA TEST
Jordanmen Meet Golden Eagles Tuesday With Eye Towards National Championship
Nationally ranked Notre Dame will meet the winners of the Ohio Valley Conference, Tennessee Tech, in the subregional NCAA battle in Northwestern University’s McGraw Hall on next Tuesday, March 11. Game time is 9:30 C.S.T.
The Irish, finishing their regular season with a ten game winning streak and a 22-4 over-all record, will enter the game a ten to 15 point favorite.
Tech qualified for an NCAA berth by beating Morehead (Ky.) State in an overtime bout, 66-63, on the Morehead floor last week. It was Morehead’s first loss at home in 35 games, and was their first loss in their new gymnasium which was put into use at the beginning of the 1956-57 season.
The Morehead victory gave Tech an 8-2 conference record and their first undisputed title since the OVC did away with the post season tournament to decide the conference crown.
Tech will enter the Irish fray minus the services of three men who have played four years of varsity competition, and as a result are ineligible in NCAA tournament competition. Herbie Merritt and Kenny Sidwell, starters and the leading scorers of | the Golden Eagles, will be most missed by Tech. Sidwell was an all-conference selection last season and has averaged 14.3 points per game this year. Merritt was Tech’s leading rebounder and has averaged 14 points per game.
The Golden Eagles will start two big men, Hearon Puckett and Tony McDonald at forwards. Puckett (6-7^) has replaced the ineligible Merritt and McDonald (6-5) has played first team all season, averaging 9.6 points per game.
At center Tech will start a sophomore, Jim Hagan (6-9), who has done a fine job all season and has averaged 11 points a game.
At guards the Eagles will start Dale Phelps, a 6-2 junior, and Jerry Keller, a 5-11 senior. Phelps has been the playmaker of the Tech squad and has averaged almost 11 points a game while Keller has not been a starter all season but has maintained a respectable 5.9 points per game average.
This season Tech has been averaging 74.6 points per game while holding their opponents to an average of 68 points.
Tech coach, John Oldham and All-
• American at Western Kentucky in the late Forties, said that the Ohio Valley Championship was won because of a team effort. He also feels that his squad even minus its two leading scorers will give a good account of itself against the Irish. Coach Oldham said, “Since early in the season, I have felt that our success could be attributed largely to the fine team play on our squad.”
It was team play that helped Tech put together a 17-8 over-all record after a mediocre season last year when the Eagles chalked up nine wins and eleven losses, with only one win against nine losses in conference play.
Another major factor in the miraculous reverse this season was the added height in the Tech lineup. During the 1956-57 season the Eagles had to give way constantly to the opposition under the boards, but such was not the case in the campaign that just ended. . Tech finished the regular season with an advantage in rebounding, 1332 to 1222. The margin although not great was substantial enough in all of Tech’s 17 wins.
‘En Guarde’
Fencers Equal Record; 4 Beat Wisconsin, Illinois !
Notre Dame’s fencing team won its 13th and 14th victories of the season and equalled the longest winning streak ever compiled by an Irish fencing squad — 17 over a two-year span — by defeat- t ing Wisconsin and Illinois last Saturday I afternoon in the Fieldhouse.
In beating Wisconsin, 16-11, Notre ' Dame won over a team that had not lost ' j a fencing match in two seasons. By licking Illinois, 17-10, the Irish followed up a victory they gained earlier in the < season and won the unofficial Midwest fencing championship since both Wiscon- * sin and Illinois were rated with Notre Dame as the best teams in this area.
Against both the Badgers and the Illini, Notre Dame piled up large leads in the epee bouts. The Irish trounced •< Illinois by an 8-1 count and took Wisconsin, 7-2. Ron Farrow and Jim Jock ! were the individual Irish leaders, each winning five matches in the epee. Both posted two victories against Illinois and three against the Badgers. John Kearns
(Continued on page 20)
18
The Scholastic
r
>
■ ;
4
4
\
L
i
I i
4
i I
v'
Swimming Club Closes Successful Season By Competing In Midwest Invitational Saturday
The Notre Dame swim club goes to Naperville, Ill., tomorrow to compete against approximately 14 Midwestern teams in the Midwest Invitational meet. Among the competitors besides Notre Dame will be teams from Loyola, North Central and Bradley.
Last year at Naperville the swimmers finished second, and, in spite of stiffer opposition this year, Coach Gil Burdick feels the club stands a chance of making another good showing.
This meet will be the final of an already assured winning season for the club. Under the coaching of Burdick, with The Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., as moderator, the tankmen have compiled a season’s record of six wins as against five losses in eleven dual meets.
In addition to this they finished second in the Loyola Relays held in Chicago the first week of December.
Against Western Illinois on Feb. 11 at Notre Dame, the swim club made a fine showing as they overpowered their opponents, 59-29.
On Feb. 14 the tankers lost, 64-22, to a strong Bowling Green team, at Bowling Green. On the following day the Club journeyed to Kalamazoo, Mich., where they out-swam the Western Michigan swimmers, 53-33. Three days later, Feb. 18, the swim club went all out as they won a close decision over a strong Loyola University team, 47-39. Against North Central on Feb. 22 the score was identical, but this time the Irish were on the short end, losing 4739 in a meet that was lost by inches. And, in the final dual meet of the season, the club traveled to Indianapolis Feb. 28, where they lost a hard fought meet to the strong Indianapolis Athletic Club, 50-36.
In reviewing the past season, Coach Burdick stated that the swim club compiled their winning record against substantially tougher opposition than last year’s team. They made very good showings against Central Michigan, Loyola, and North Central, all topflight Midwestern competition.
The club was hurt by the absence of freshman Mike Mahaney, who was out for almost 65 days with pneumonia and a sprained ankle. Mahaney is a high school All-American 50-yd. freestyler from San Jose, Calif., and Burdick claims that he is potentially one of the fastest freestylers in the midwest.
Much of the success this year, Burdick said, has been due to the hard work of Gene Witchger, a freshman freestyle swimmer. In the 100-yd. event, Witchger has been making times of slightly
over 53 seconds consistently. Another valuable asset to the club has been Bill Cronin, a utility man who can swim the 50, 100, or 220 freestyle. Cronin, Burdick commented, has shown the most improvement of any one swimmer on the squad. Jim Hilliard, a junior who swims the 440 freestyle has also worked hard and has shown considerable improvement, Burdick added.
“Prospects look good for next year, if the boys stay in condition,” said Burdick. To see that they do stay in shape he is encouraging them to swim at least fifteen minutes a day from now until June. If this program is successful, next year’s club ought to make things tough for some of the stronger schools on their schedule. At present, the 1958-59 schedule includes the same opponents that the club met this year. With none of the front line swimmers lost through graduation, and the excellent freshman prospects, next year’s campaign looks to be a good one for the swim club.
Joe Boland to Receive Bengal Bouts Award
Joe Boland, popular sports announcer of WSBT and a former line star of the Knute Rockne era, has been named the recipient of the Bengal Mission Bouts award for 1958. Boland received the award for outstanding service to the Bengals over a long period of time.
Past recipients of this award include Carmen Basilio, world’s middleweight boxing champion, the 1957 winner, and Rocky Marciano, former heavyweight title holder.
Boland was born in Philadelphia, Pa., September 7, 1904, one of six children. He spent his prep school days at Roman Catholic high school in Philadelphia.
He entered Notre Dame in 1923. He earned his first varsity monogram as a sophomore, playing tackle for the shock troops.
It was this year that the Irish, coached by the greatest of all football coaches, Knute Rockne, first won the National Championship. This was the team that gained lasting fame as the Four Horsemen and the Seven Mules.
In the 1925 Rose Bowl game, Boland started at left tackle and played 50 minutes of the game, as the Irish beat Stanford, 27-10.
He won monograms in his two remaining seasons but was sidelined with an injury midway in his senior year that ended his playing days.
As a student, Boland also excelled.
He won the Frank E. Hering award for ! the monogram athlete with the highest I scholastic average in his sophomore and junior years. He graduated from the University “maxima cum laude” in the Spring of 1927.
In the Fall of that year he became line coach at Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, Calif., where he joined former teammate Head Coach Adam Walsh.
In 1929 he assumed the job of director of athletics at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn. Along with the job as athletic director went the job of head football and track coach.
Boland’s football squads won 27 games, lost 8, and tied two during his tenure as head coach at St. Thomas.
In the Spring of 1934 he returned to the campus of his alma mater, Notre Dame. Here he served as line coach under Elmer Layden. He remained at Notre Dame until 1941 as Layden’s right-hand man.
In that year he took the job of line coach at Purdue University in Lafay-' ette, Ind., under the late Mal Elward.
Boland remained at Purdue for only one season, then decided to leave the coaching ranks and enter the field of I radio as a full time activity.	j
He came back to South Bend and took I over his old job at WSBT which he had	j
held while he coached at Notre Dame.	!
He broadcasted play-by-play accounts of the local high school and Notre Dame athletic contests.	!
Except for a brief term at WGN in i Chicago, he has remained at WSBT I until the present time. In 1944 he was j named sports director- of the station, a j post he still holds today.
In 1950 Boland conceived and inaugurated the Notre Dame Football Net- i work. The network has increased to the i point where, now, many areas of the country can hear Irish football every Saturday during the season.
This past season the Mutual Broadcasting Network carried a play-by-play account of all the Irish games. Boland, along with veteran sportscaster Harry Wismer, handled the play-by-play which was sent to close to 450 MBS stations located around the country.
In 1943-44 he was elected president of the St. Joe Valley Notre Dame Alumni	i
Club. He held this office for an un-	।
precedented two consecutive terms.	!
Also, in that same year, he received ; his master’s degree in education.	!
In 1953 Boland was voted the Notre Dame Man of the Year award by the i St. Joe Alumni association. He received ; the award for “outstanding service in I keeping with the highest tradition and j spirit of Notre Dame.”	- i
Boland is also a past president of the Monogram Club.
19
March 7, 1958
Wrestlers at Wheaton;
Seek Eighth '57-58 Win
A strong Wheaton College team will provide the competition tomorrow for the Notre Dame wrestling team’s last dual meet of the 1957-58 season. The Irish will be revenge-minded when they face Wheaton in the afternoon at the Crusader’s Alumni Gym. Last year Wheaton trounced Notre Dame, 27-0.
Last Saturday at Milwaukee, the wrestlers picked up their seventh victory of the season against one loss as they overpowered Marquette, 23-3. The Irish won every weight class except the 167-pound division.
Next Saturday, Coach Fallon will enter several of his wrestlers who have consistently turned in the best performances for Notre Dame in the 4-1 tournament to be held in Cleveland. Case Tech of Cleveland will host the important meet.
TIME OUT
Fencers Equal Record (Continued from page 18)
posted a 4-4 record for the day in the epee while Pete Giaimo and Pete Smith each scored one victory against Illinois.
In the foil, the Irish lost to Illinois by a 6-3 count and also dropped the division to the Badgers by a 5-4 score. Jim Russomano posted a 4-1 slate with two victories against the Illini and a 2-1 count against Wisconsin. Jerry Johnson broke even against both opponents, with 1-1 slates against each.
The Irish won the sabre from Illinois by a 6-3 score and beat Wisconsin by a 5-4 count. Captain Dick Fagon and Tom Green had 4-2 records with 2-1 slates against both opponents. Tom Lee posted a 3-1 record.
Jock now has a 32-4 record for the season, and Farrow is 31-5. Fagon has a 27-11 record and Russomano has a 30-7 slate. Apparently Russomano and Fagon will be representing the Irish in their respective divisions in the NCAA Championships at Texas Tech on March 21-22. Johnson has a 26-11 record and Lauerman has a 16-18 slate. Green and Meyer have 18-14 and 21-10 records respectively while Lee has a 10-2 record. Kearns has a 12-9 slate and Dan Clancy has posted ten victories and dropped six bouts. Other Irish scorers have been Jim Brogan with a 5-4 record, Charlie Petrungaro at 5-1 and Giaimo with two victories as against no defeats. The Irish as a team are 83-43 in the sabre, 78-48 in the foil and 94-32 in the epee.
Tomorrow, the Irish will meet Case and Indiana Tech in the Fieldhouse in a triangular meet rescheduled from February 1.
At the outset I would like to correct an error which was reported in this space last week. The Swimming Club does not have more losses than wins this season. At last week’s writing the swimmers had a record of 6-4 but since that time they have dropped a meet. All in all this is a fine record for a very devoted bunch who receive nothing for their efforts than the proverbial pat on the back. As of now they are not a varsity sport on campus but hope to attain such status soon. They are certainly a deserving bunch, and we wish them nothing but luck.
THE JORDANMEN	'
We would like to wish Coach Johnny Jordan’s eagers luck also on their trek to the National Championship. This is the winningest team, regular seasonwise, in modern Notre Dame basketball history, and should give a fine account of themselves in post season tourney play.
The last few games have certainly proven that the Irish are deeper benchwise than many have suspected. Ed Gleason, Tom Reinhardt, Jim Williams and Mike Ireland have all played fine ball in the clutch. This fact is important because in tournament play that depth is needed and every moment is important.
It is also interesting to note how much more effective Tom Hawkins has become since Mike Graney has become a regular. With Graney at the high post the opposition finds it much tougher to block up the circle, around which Hawkins is so dangerous.
SUB-REGIONAL
In Tennessee Tech Notre Dame will meet a good substantial ball club. They are big and have rebounded well all season. In the NCAA every game has to be considered the toughest of the season, so although we don’t expect the Irish to be beaten, we think it will be a good ball game. With the Student Senate offering the trip for only $5.10 it is certainly worth the time and effort to go up to Northwestern for the ball game.
Don’t go up expecting the Irish to be beaten though. They have come too far to be knocked off without a real battle. It might be a fortunate thing that the DePaul game was so close as it should leave the team with a sharp edge. We look for a good game with the Irish winning going away.
THE BIG TEN
If we get past Evanston our first foe will be the winner of the Big Ten title, so it might be worthwhile to consider the two contenders, Michigan State and Indiana.
In their crucial one tomorrow it is quite difficult to make a choice. Both enter the game with identical conference records and both possess fine big men. Michigan State has the home court advantage, but Indiana has proven themselves capable of beating the Spartans by virtue of their rather- easy win earlier in the season.
If a choice is to be made I would have to select the Hoosiers who have come from nowhere to grab a share of the lead. My selection would be based on the fact that they have come a long way since the beginning of the year and may have enough inertia to push them to the top. While State is a fine club, I don’t believe that they have improved as Indiana has, so I look for an Indiana-Notre Dame regional battle in Lexington. But Tyler says it is going to be the Spartans.—M.F.
20
The Scholastic
ON THE AIR
Campus radio station WSND will broadcast the Tennessee Tech-Notre Dame NCAA sub-regional basketball game next Tuesday evening. Bruce Huot and Mike Ahern will be courtside to give the play-by-play and color directly from McGaw Hall in Evanston. Air time will be at 9:15 C.S.T., 15 minutes before the tipoff.
I,
In CCC's Tomorrow
Coach Alex Wilson will take 35 participants to Kalamazoo, Mich., tomorrow for the 31st annual Central Collegiate Conference Championships to be held this year at Western Michigan University. Notre Dame has won the CCC team title the past four years.
Ten teams including Marquette and the host school will be represented in the meet.
Last Saturday twelve members of the Irish indoor track team competed in the IC4A Championships in Madison Square Garden in New York. Notre Dame, participating in the meet for the first time, garnered six and one-half points to finish twelfth in the team standings.
The IC4A meet annually attracts the top performers from the Eastern schools. This year the team championship went to Villanova on the strength of Ron Delaney’s victories in the 1000-yard run and the 2-mile run. Manhattan was second and Pittsburgh third in the team totals.
Tom Sanfacon of the Irish tied for third in the high jump with a leap of six feet, four inches. In the broad jump, fast improving Don Faley captured fourth with a jump of 23 feet, 3 3/4 inches.
Steve Dornbach, a consistent winner for the Irish in the hurdles this year, came up with a fifth place finish in the 60-yard high hurdles with a time of :07.4.
Dick DiCamillo finished in fifth place in the mile run. The invitation mile was won by Hungary’s Istvan Rozsavolgyi in 4:04.7. DiCamillo’s time was 4:17.6.
Dale VandenBerg, the diminutive 880-yard specialist for the Wilsonmen, came in sixth in the finals of the 1000-yard run after turning in the fast qualifying time of 2:11.6.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
OnCaiqnsH&m
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! “and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek'*}
SCIENCE MADE SIMPLE: NO. 2
Though this column is intended solely as a vehicle for well-tempered drollery, the makers of Marlboro have agreed to let me use this space from time to time for a short lesson in science. They are the most decent and obliging of men, the makers of Marlboro, as anyone can tell from sampling their product. Only from bounteous hearts could come such a lot to like-such filter, such flavor, such flip-top box. The filter works; the flavor pleases; the box protects. Who can resist such a winning combination? Surely not I.
Today let us take up the science of medicine, which was invented in 1066 by a Greek named Hippocrates. He soon gathered around him a group of devoted disciples whom he called “doctors.” The reason he called them “doctors” was that they spent all' their time sitting around the dock and shooting the breeze. In truth, there was little else for them to do because disease was not invented until 1477.
After that, doctors became very busy, but it must be admitted that their knowledge of medicine was lamentably meagre. They knew only one treatment—a change of climate. For example, a French doctor would send all his patients to Switzerland. A Swiss doctor, on the other hand, would send all his patients to France. By 1789 the entire population of France was living in Switzerland, and vice versa. This later became known as the Black Tom Explosion.
Not until 1924 did medicine, as we know it, come into being. In that year in the little Bavarian village of Pago-Pago an elderly physician named Winko Siga-
foos discovered the hot water bottle. He was, of course, burned as a witch, but his son Lydia, disguised as a linotype, made his way to America where he invented the Mayo Brothers.
Medicine, as it is taught at your very own college, can be divided roughly into two classifications. There is internal medi
The makers of Marlboro cigarettes bring you filter, flavor, flip-top box, and ON CAMPUS WITH MAX SHULMAN throughout the school year.
cine, which is the treatment of interns, and external medicine, which is the treatment of externs.
Diseases also fall into two broad categories—chronic and acute. Chronic disease is, of course, inflammation of the chron, which can be mighty painful, believe you me! Last summer my cousin Haskell was stricken with a chron attack while he was out picking up tinfoil, and it was months before the wretched boy could straighten up. In fact, even after he was cured, Haskell continued to walk around bent over double. This went on for several years before Dr. Caligari, the lovable old country practitioner who treats Haskell, discovered that Haskell had his trousers buttoned to his vest.
Two years ago Haskell had Addison’s disease. (Addison, curiously enough, had Haskell’s.) Poor Haskell catches everything that comes along. Lovable old Dr. Caligari once said to him, “Son, I guess you are what they call a natural born catcher.”
“The joke is on you, Doc,” replied Haskell. “I am a third baseman.” He thereupon fell into such a fit of giggling that the doctor had to put him under
sedation, where he is to this day.
But I digress. We were discussing medicine. I have now told you all I can; the rest is up to you. Go over to your med school and poke around. Bring popcorn and watch an operation. X-ray each other. Contribute to the bone bank — And remember, medicine can be fun!
© 1958. Mas Shulman
March 7, 1958
21
STUDENTS ARE REQUESTED . . .
. . . not to coll St. Edward’s Hall between 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Sunday through Friday. This time has been set aside as “study hour” and the students are not to be disturbed.
STOP STEALING
For every ?*?* SCHOLASTIC some one steals from the halls before they are delivered to the rooms, some poor ?*?* on the top floor doesn’t get one. Be considerate.
FATHER PARRY
Leo XIII lecturer
during Spring vacation, plan to visit OUR NEW UNIVERSITY SHOP created for today's undergraduates
Our University Shop features exclusive styles at moderate prices, in sizes 35 to 42 ... including new items you’ll want for late Spring. And attractive furnishings, too.
lightweight D acron*-and- Wool Tropical Suits, $60
Washable Dacron-and-Cotton Cord Suits, $42
Washable Dacron-and-Cotton Poplin Suits, $42
Attractive Tweed Sport Jackets, $45 India Madras Odd Jackets, $35 And sport and polo shirts. Odd Trousers, etc,
•Du Pont’s fiber
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Leo XIII Series Plans < Lecture by Fr. Parry
The Rev. Stanley J. Parry, C.S.C., will deliver the third lecture in the Leo XIII Series Thursday evening at 8, in , the Law Auditorium. His topic will be “The Role of the Catholic in Political k Theory.” Admission is free and the lecture is open to the general public.
Father Parry’s address will deal with the relationship between Catholic teachings and American political theory. < Secularization of political thought in America will be examined. Father \ Parry will determine whether current Catholic theories on natural law lead to * a denial of the concept of the limited state, thereby bringing about a secularization of the state.	r,
Father Parry graduated from Notre Dame in 1941, receiving an A.B. degree. * After his ordination in 1945, he did graduate work leading to an M.A. de- " gree from Georgetown in 1947 and a Ph.D. from Yale in 1953. He has been a member of the Notre Dame’s Political i.
Til
Science Department since 1950, and has been its head since 1953.	<
The following Tuesday, March 18, at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, ' Thomas Stritch, head of the Communication Arts Department, will discuss the position of the Catholic in American culture.
EXCHANGE HOURS
The Notre Dame Book Exchange will be open this semester on Tuesdays from 2-4 p.m. and from 1:15 to 3:15 p.m. on Thursdays.
22
The Scholastic
Local Council Chooses
>
i
<
Loeffler as Top Knight
Robert A. Loeffler, a senior in business administration from Elmsford, N. Y., has been named recipient of “The Knight of the Semester” award by the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus.
The award is given each semester to the Knight who has done outstanding work in furthering Columbianism here on campus. Loeffler is also the chancellor of the local council.
First degree initiations were held by the Council last Monday evening and are also scheduled for Monday, April 21.
The membership program will remain open for the rest of this month. All those interested in joining the organization may inquire at the K. of C. offices in the basement of Walsh Hall any weekday from 3:30 to 5 p.m.
Mediaeval Institute to Offer Grant for Advanced Study
A $2,000 fellowship at Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute will be available to a qualified student for the 1958-59 school year, according to an announcement by The Rev. A. L. Gabriel, 0. Praem., institute director.
Students qualified to study for a master’s degree or doctorate in mediaeval studies may apply for the grant which provides a $1,100 stipend as well as $900 tuition at the University, Father Gabriel said.
Applicants must have a bachelor’s degree and be recommended for graduate work. They also must have a Specific interest in the Christian culture of the Middle Ages. A reading knowledge of Latin and either French or German is also required.
Application forms, available from the Dean of the Graduate School, must be completed and received no later than next Saturday.
Repercussions
(Continued from page 8) entitled to the equal protection of the > law. As a Christian one must not only believe in the inherent dignity of each i and every human being but he must also take effective action to help every segment of mankind to realize their Godgiven dignity. The Social Encyclicals most certainly point this out. The duty _ of the Christian is to strive to make the world correspond to the City of God, * of which St. Augustine spoke so eloquently. The fact that there are problems does not justify an equivocal stand on persecution.
Paul Titus Law School
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
mims
UBIAKYud INK SHF
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
rope you havefoUVt^ |
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Ireland, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, The Rivieras and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.
10 Special Tours ... 48 to 63 days ... via famous ships: United States, Liberte, Nieuw Amsterdam, Atlantic,
Italia, New York. $1,198 up.
Other tours available . . . from 35 days . . . $769 up.
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express!
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express \ Travel Service, member: Institute of International Education and Council ' on Student Travel
... or simply mail the handy coupon.
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a
American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. e/o Travel Sales Division
Yes! Please do send me complete information	c16
about 1958 Student Tours of Europe!
Name......................................
Address................................
City................Zone.....State........
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES —SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a
March 7, 1958
23
\MWVAZ
1236 Massachusetts Lawrence / Kansas
MAUPINTOURS/1958
ADVENTURE! EDUCATION!
Inclusive rate from $1369, from New York. Reservations limited, apply now for sufficient time to secure Russian visa. Write today for descriptive folder.
See your travel agent or
........Tom Maupin
■(■ (-)■-)] TOUR ASSOCIATES
tan
TRAVEL! SUMMER 1958!
Join b special American-directed, student/teacher tour through the Soviet Union. Choose from six departure dates ... travel to seldom-visited cities such os Kiev of the Ukraine, Stalingrad, Odessa, Yalta, Sochi. Tbilisi of Soviet Georgia, Kharkov . . . enjoy a Volga River or Black Sea cruise ... see Leningrad and Moscow. Visit Warsaw, Prague and Hie Brussels' World Fair... plus extensions to the European

HOTEL
Campus Team Places Third in Bridge Meet; Local Winners Earn Trophy, Masterpoints
A campus bridge team made up of Brian Moran, Louis Stettler, Bill Loet-scher, and Will Joncas captured third place in the Oberlin Invitational Bridge Tournament last Saturday.
Fourteen teams representing 11 different schools competed in the tournament. Capturing first place was one of the two teams representing Oberlin College and in second place was one of Carnegie Tech’s two units. All the schools participating were from Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Indiana.
The Notre Dame winners received a trophy and masterpoints for their efforts.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
_______________
sr. WEST OF aaOAOWAY
•a. "IJaJ
TIMESSQUARE

KERBOCKER
JU-2-4200
CMOOSt
M TELEVISION M AIK-CONDITIONED Es Other Harris Hotels
1000 rood* with radio and MUZAK frma
R	—-uyj 49* ST. EAST OF MOADWAY
333E3L 400 fine rooou with radio from
LA-4-6900
CINCINNATI, Matropolu Irtadraf Ktmpw Lan*
MIAMI BEACH, Sonni^
HOTEL METROPOLE, Cmcmeoff, Obi* obtroit Wnimr ALBERT HARRIS, PTmMmF	DETROIT, Fort Woyn* HONf
ARTHUR H. HtlEOAtAN, Mattawa Pindar COLUMBUS, Broarf-UncaL*
A Campus Pairs Tournament was held last Saturday and Sunday. First place winners were Bob Funderlic and Marthy McGinn for the second year. Ed Kennedy and Bill Moran took second place. Bryan Woods and Joe Graham captured third. Trophies were awarded to the first place winners and they also received masterpoints.
Next Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in room 1-D of the Student Center there will be the monthly master point tournament.
On March 23 and 30, there will be interhall team of foui- competition. Last year’s championship team, Lyons Hall, will represent Sorin Hall this year. The members of this team are Brian Moran, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, and Burke Carley.
On Feb. 23 the National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament was held. The judge of the tournament is Geoffrey Mott-Smith, an internationally known bridge authority. When the results are released in about a month, the winners will be divided into campus, regional, and national groupings. Twenty-eight Notre Dame students competed.
Prizes will include trophy cups for the colleges winning the national titles. One cup will be presented to the college for the pair scoring highest on the EastWest hands and one cup to the college of the North-South hand winners.
Each of the four individual national winners will receive a smaller cup for his permanent possession. Each college competing in the tournament for the first time in 1958 will be presented with a plaque designed to bear the names of the four individual campus champions.
Mexico City College
Spring Quarter ................ March	20 to June 5
Summer Session .............. June	23 to August 23
Short Summer Session ..... June	23 to August 1
Latin American Workshop.....July 1 to August 8 Anthropology Field Study:
Ancient Mexico........June	23 to August 23
Fall Quarter..............October	6 to December 19
Approved for Veterans
Information: Dean of Admissions Mexico City College Mexico 10, D. F.
Social Commission Sponsors 'Windy-Wing-Ding‘ Saturday
The Student Senate Social Commission will sponsor a party in the La Fortune Student Center this Saturday night from 8:30 to 11:30. It will be called the “Windy-Wing-Ding.”
Admission will be $1 per couple and refreshments will be served. The usual bus service will be provided.
On Sunday afternoon, the Sophomore class will sponsor a mixer from 2 to 5 in the Center. Class President Denny Shaul expects about 250 girls to attend.
The girls will be from Rosary College in Chicago, Saint Mary’s College, and Holy Cross Central School of Nursing.
Tickets are available from the presidents of each of the sophomore halls. The price is 50c. Refreshments will be served.
24
The Scholastic
WSND Plans to Change Sunday Night Program *
WSND’s Sunday night program, “Adventures in Sound,” has changed its format and now features folk music. * Concerning this change, Program Director Tom O’Regan said: “We have found this music to be a simple and , humble throbbing of the heart of man, and are sure that many of our listeners will be interested in hearing some of it.
“It is music that has evolved from the Scottish Highlands, from the depths of the Congo, from the Wild West. The interest in the recent concert and lec-> ture series appearance of Richard Dyer-Bennet substantiates our feeling that folk music is the coming thing.”
For the past three years “Adventures ’ in Sound” has featured a survey of the newest classical and jazz LP’s with the accent on high fidelity. But in the com-> ing weeks “Adventures” will spotlight everything from English madrigals to offbeat Broadway show tunes.
k	--------------
University Theater to Enter > Annual Whiting Play Festival
Members of the University Theater will journey to Whiting, Ind., next Sat-> urday to give a presentation of Twelve Angry Men.
This is the sixth year the group has participated in the annual one-act play festival which attracts Catholic college > and community theater groups from the state of Indiana.
The members of the cast include the foreman, Bruce Junius; and the members of the jury: Bobby Nowicki, George O’Donnell, Dan Ferrone, Jerry Sebold, Mike Koch, Bill DeSeta, Jim Cooney, r Jerry Dodge, Lee Lagessie, Jerry Broderick and Neil Ball. The group’s director is Gilbert Rathburn.
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with fITA
Unbelievable Lew Cost
9
E Europe
X. *•"» $585 Orient • ^.**■$998 r four* indudt Hf credit
ost trips to Mexico Hith America $699up, dy Tour $498 up and » World $1398 up. ask tour Travel Agent
JUNE GRADUATES!!
Reservations for on-campus accomodations for commencement week end will be taken this Monday from 7:45 to 9:30 p.m. in the Student Center Rathskeller. There will be one room allotted per student unless the size of the immediate family warrants more. Committee Chairman John Higgins announces that there will be a $5 deposit required at the time.
^kWTURBOW \pFTOMKTM«T
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
GUIDED MISSILE SCIENCE...
ELECTRONIC TECHNOLOGY!
The NAVAL AIR MISSILE TEST CENTER, Point Mugu, Calif, and NAVY ELECTRONICS LABORATORY, San Diego, Calif.
OFFER
• RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST and EVALUATION
• GRADUATE TRAINING	WORK
•	ULTRAMODERN FACIUTIES
•	RAPID ADVANCEMENT ON MERIT
•	PERMANENCY OF EMPLOYMENT
•	ASSISTANCE BY EMINENT SCIENTISTS
•	PUBUCATION OF PAPERS AND RB*ORTS
• COMPETITIVE CIVIL SERVICE APPOINTMENTS
• VARIETY IN TECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS • UBERAL FRINGE BENEFITS
Seniors and graduate students in mechanical, electrical, electronic, and aeronautical engineering and physics will be interviewed on MARCH 11, 1958. For further information see Rev. Louis J. Thornton, Administration Building.
far
IM. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
March 7, 1958
25
Back Pa^e by JOHN KEARNS
sport
The place of sport in the order of things is not clear. In our modern world, sport is both something to do and something to watch, but sport’s following appears to be a rather blind one, for it can offer no rational basis for sport’s existence. Sport would not continue in existence without some value, but what is this value?
One typical answer to this question would stress the recreational value of sport. In this view, sport is good as a means of escaping the cares and tensions of our worldly environment. It offers a refreshing diversion from the monotonous routine of life. Sport is also useful in achieving or maintaining a certain physical status — it is healthy.
The professional view would be that sport is an occupation, a way to earn a living. And complementing this is the spectator view that sport is an entertainment, or spectacle. For the spectator, sport is an easy way to accomplish something difficult, in a manner similar to that employed by a reader of adventures. Again from the spectator outlook, sport has a representative function. An athletic team represents either a school oi- a locality, and the spectator derives a certain enjoyment when his representatives triumph over those representing some other group.
We will do well to investigate some of the essential elements of sport before we try to establish its position. One of these, perhaps the most evident, is the physical nature of sport. Neither chess nor bridge deserves to be called sport; for sport involves a physical exertion. Thus sport is not to be equated with game — they are not the same thing.
Another element which seems necessary is that of competition. This competition may be offered by persons or things, or the two together. The majority of sports involve personal competition, but some such as fishing or mountain climbing may be devoid of this rivalry. Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that sport involves some difficulty to be overcome; but in sport this difficulty assumes the character of a competitor.
The notion of competition in sport raises some difficulties. Sport involves doing some difficult thing well, which difficult thing seems competitive. But certain individuals are so talented that they seem to transcend competition. They perform the activities with such skill that the competition offers them no competition. And these individuals are the heroes of sport, which they could not be were
26
competition the most important element of sport.
The solution to this difficulty retains the element of competition, but deposes it from a primary role. Competition is not the whole of sport; it cannot be used synonymously with sport. But competitive aspect of sport will provide a standard for judging sporting accomplishments. In this manner competition of a personal kind gives interest to sport, for it reveals whether or not one is playing well. Were it not for competition it would be impossible to say how well a difficult action were being performed.
Another essential character of sport is that of being performed for itself. If it is not done for its own sake, then it is not sport. It is possible to take up sport for one’s health, but in the actual playing one must strive to play well. If he does not, then he is merely exercising, not participating in sport.
In summing up what has been said, sport may be defined as a difficult physical activity, involving an element of competition, which is performed for its own sake. But this says nothing about any value that sport may have. There is a certain nobility in sport which we have not touched — to quote Karl Jaspers, “we discern, we feel, in the sport movement, something that is . . . great. Sport is not only play and the making of records; it is likewise a soaring and a refreshment.”
Sport possesses a certain similarity to art, for both are activities involving the whole man. Mind and body are indispensable in each activity. And both activities involve some creativity — an athlete makes a game and an artist makes a picture. In sport, however, there is much more emphasis on the physical than in art, but the physical alone is insufficient.
Sport is its own end, although from this it does not follow, as Thomas Aquinas thought, that man should be always playing. Sport is played for itself — the goal is not to be healthy or rich, but to play well. The notion of “a sound mind in a sound body” is foreign to true sport. Sport does develop the body, but it is essentially selfcontained — any utilitarian end is a secondary, or subsidiary one.
In this respect sport is similai* to knowledge, which is also its own end. Knowing, of course, is a higher type of activity, and hence more worthy of pursuit, than playing. But attempts to justify the
pursuit of knowledge often sound like those justifications of sport in terms of utility. Utility in both cases is an accidental, not an essential, end of the । activity.
As has already been indicated, the end of sport is itself — one’s goal is to 4 play well. Hence, the end cannot be to ■ win. Winning is involved in the competitive aspect of sport, which we relegated to a somewhat inferior position. If winning were the end, then it would have to be attributed some status independent of sport itself — it would not belong to sport. Winning, as contained within competition, serves as a standard for judging how well one plays. It is possible to play well and lose, but the loss indicates that there is room for im- i provement. If one does not win, he sees • the opportunity to play better. Since t winning is a standard, one plays to win, , for winning appears equivalent with playing well. But as winning is not the . end, one should not sacrifice sport to * j winning.
The end of sport cannot be to provide entertainment. This too is a secondary, 4 accidental end. When sport becomes more watched than played, then sport is perverted. This does not remove the representative function, which is valid, though only secondary. But sport is ( sport for spectators only to the extent to which they can identify themselves with the players. And this can never be the same as actually playing. Everyone * delights in an outstanding athlete, but this cannot substitute adequately for one’s own sporting experience — for one cannot understand the ciphei- of sport by watching; one must understand himself by playing.
In sport, man is glorified precisely as ! man. Sport is a hymn to man. Because of this, it is a great mistake to try to dehumanize sport. This is done by mak- 4 ing sport something mechanical — teach- ? ing a man to do some particular thing so well that it requires no thought. Sport is not for robots, but for men. r And men are not mechanical, they live and breathe.
Sport presents a certain greatness to *• be achieved. This has more of a physical t than a mental nature, but the whole person is involved. Sport’s value is not extrinsic to it, but resides within. Its goodness is derived from its own nature. Sport is the fulfillment of man in a certain order. Without it, man’s humanity would be incomplete.
The Scholastic
What's it like to
Product Development Engineer Robert Schopp, like many other engineers, mathematicians and physicists, came to IBM directly from college. Here he reviews his progress and tells how he translated his M.E. degree into a rewarding career.
TDlur ~
be with IXBJt* ?
“I guess everybody’s a little concerned about his first assignment on a new job,” Robert Schopp says. '‘I know I was. For one thing, I was worried about getting stuck in some work I didn’t like—and not being able to get into what I really wanted to do.”
Bob Schopp joined IBM in 1954. He already knew something about the company and electronic computers, having worked part time during college at the college IBM machine installation. “But I still didn’t know just how my M.E. degree from Kansas State would be put to use,” he recalls.
He started as a Machine Designer in Production Engineering, with cost reduction work as his primary responsibility. “But, like most M.E.’s,” Bob Schopp says, “I’m a ‘tinkerer’ by nature. I soon saw that Product Development was the place for me. So I received a transfer. You can do this at IBM because they believe that what’s best for you is best for the company.”
Promoted in six months
I Promoted six months I later to Associate I Engineer, he now works I as part of a small group I headed up by a Project I Engineer. This “team” consists of another M.E. and himself, an E.E. and a model-
: maker. Bob Schopp is । an “idea man”—that 1* is, his efforts are devoted to basic develop-
Bob works in a small team ments rather than spe
cific jobs. Right now. his project entails the creation of the “ultimate package in printed circuitry.” His group “brain storms” this project in continual sessions. The results are put in model form. Then the group tries to “tear the idea to shreds” in order to create something even better.
“I call this practical creativeness,” Bob Schopp says. “You create freely, yet you work toward a practical end. I guess maybe a quarter of my time goes into ‘dreaming.’ To me, this job is more creative than production, less creative than pure research.”
Many opportunities for the M.E.
While circuitry packaging is his present work area, there are many other challenging projects under way at IBM. All are handled by the same “small-team” approach. “There are many ways,” Bob Schopp says, “in which an M.E. can contribute to the development of computers or other IBM machines. You may work on either analog or digital computers, or on their com
ponents—memory cores or transistors. You may be
asked to design special
new field often calls for unique equipment. You may work with servomechanisms or automation setups.
“This computer field is so new, particularly in the component area,” he emphasizes, “that there’s always the chance you’ll come up with something really important. And believe me, if it’s good, IBM will use it.”
jigs and fixtures—for this
A problem in circuitry packaging
Asked about advancement opportunities at IBM, Bob Schopp reports, “At the rate IBM is expanding, any man who works and has a desire to get ahead can’t help but advance. The potential’s there, all right. Why, I’ve seen over 300 new management positions created in the time I’ve been at IBM. Jobwise, I can head either toward Project Engineer—that means management— KYJfci	or toward Staff Engi-
Checking a computer component	neer—the technical
side of the business. Both have equal advantages from a ‘get-ahead’ point of view.”
This profile is just one example of what it’s like to be with IBM. There are many other excellent opportunities for well-qualified college men in Research, Development, Manufacturing, Sales and Applied Science. Why not ask your College Placement Director when IBM will next interview on your campus? Or, for information about how your degree will fit you for an IBM career, just write to:	.
Mr. R. A. Whitehorne
IBM Corp., Dept. 828
590 Madison Avenue New York 22, N. Y.
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • MILITARY PRODUCTS SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS * SUPPLIES • TIME EQUIPMENT
Youll be sittin on top of the world when you change to UM
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO
Only bM gives you this filter fact—
ts'///rru/flttfwam ywA/y
the patent number on every pack... your guarantee of a more effective filter on today’s FM.
Free up... freshen up your taste! Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. Get the flavor, the full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. The patented Miracle Tip is pure white inside, pure white outside. L&M smokes cleaner. Tastes best. So Live Modern... change to L&M today!
© 1!I5S Liggett & Myeus Tobacco Co.

