

Scholastic is looking for students interested in the positions of 
News,. E.ditoiF'
. ' .;.¥ ,{ ,, .,;..,;/ -~--. ' -·~-"' .,,. .,. .. ... 

As·s'i.s'.t:a.nt B,usiines:s~ Ma.n.a.g:e:r· 
][f either of these are of ilDltereat to yo1U1~ plieaae atop by 01Ullr' office at 808 lLaFor'lt1l.11.lDle or can 289)~ 7569). 

1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 

272-9000 
*FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST *PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS *FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN *IN ROOM MOVIESNCR (over 50 titles) *FREE LOCAL CALLS 
*KITCHENEIT.ES 
*LAUNDRY 
*AAA AND MOBILE RATED 

FOR RESERVATIONS CALL TOLL FREE: 

1-800-347-8016 




COVER 
12 
Ms. Robinson's Neigborhood 

Senior guard Karen Robinson paces Irish women's basketball 
ENTERTAINMENT 
6 
Music 
Public Image Ltd. The Cure 
8 
Movies 
Jacob's Ladder 



NEWS 
9 
Is Campus Cable-Ready? 


CAMPUS LIFE 
10 
Ancient ·Manuscript and African Art Bring Diversity to Notre Dame 
SPORTS 
14 
Focused on March 
Women's Basketball Preview 
16 
High Hopes? 
Men's Basketball Preview 


WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS 
2 
Editorial 
3 
On Other Campuses 
4 
Week In Distortion 
5 
The Unexamined Life 
18 
Athletes of the Week 
19 
Week In Distortion 
20 
Final Word 







SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Vol. 132, No. 8 November 15, 1990 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michael C. Wieber 
MANAGING EDITOR Derik T. Weldon 
NEWS EDITOR Traci Taghon 
SPORTS EDITOR Brian McMahon 
SPORTS ASSISTANT Jon Paul Potts 
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR Kristine DeGange 
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR Tim Rogers 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Dave Holsinger 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR Mari Okuda 
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT Paul Webb 
COPY EDITOR Dave Raedy 
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER Patricia Doyle 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Tony Porcelli 
BUSINESS MANAGER Jim Fitzgerald 
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER 
Jeanne Naylor 
Scholllsllc is publishm TLU]dy lhroughauJ lkschool ya,,-txcepl during tx11mi>ullim11md=aiion veriodsai 1kUni=ityofNolreDu:m,,Nolre Dll11U!,IN,46556Rmlprin°led.tTh,.Pt,pers,Ine.,Milfotd,IN46542. Th,. SMbscriplion ride is $25.00/year Rm1 back iss11LS "'' tnJ•il,,bk id $1.25 / copy. Tiu: opinions aprtssed in Schol,,stic "':'!Jws, oflk •~Ihm~ ~ 
edilors ,mddi, no/ nutssllrilyrqm:sall lkopinwns oflkmhreeditorial roardofScholllslicoroflk UnirersilyofNolreDllm,,i/slldminislralion, f=llyor stiuknls. F.diloruussigntd Scholllslicrtpresenl lkopinion•of lk m,zjority oflk l!X!!culi"" editorial board. Mmuscripls "'' w,lcom,. All tmSDllcilied m.terims be= lk pruperty ofScholllslic. 
Copyriglrl 1990 ScholllslicMagazine. Allrighls r=n,ed. Rq,roduclion in w/Jok or in pllrl wilhaul wriltm pcmission is prohibited. 


Ldlers lo Schobzstic Jmtst b< typed Rm1 inclwk lk turiia's n11m,,l/ddr,so llnd phtme nlmlh,r. Uni'Oersity stwknls should indud.lkiry,,zrinschool•ndcolkg,. Fl=llymmtbasshouldindwk lhdrdq,,,,tmmt. All ldkrsm"51 b<signtd. Names will b<withkldupcm ,.,,"'51 in urlllin inslllnces. 
Scholllsllc rt.StTVtS lk righl lo rej<cl kttas lhlll ,rre lib<­lo.,,.,robscme by lk lmvs oflk United SIIZles. Schalllstlc •lso will ,d;I for copyfilling, grtl17t1nidiad or spelling arors ,ma Scholllslic slyk. &Clluse ofsp,u;,, Schobzstic Cllnnol print llll ldtas rtcrn>td. 
Address all correspondence lo : Tiu: F.dilor Schabzstlc Worlune Cenkr Noire Damt, IN 46SS6 
T he university is constantly trying to update the campus to keep up with the new developments of the "Data Age." In pursuit of this goal, the administration is supposedly organizing and implementing a campus computer link. The wiring will hopefully allow round the clock access to electronic data banks. The rumored fiber loop designed to link a computer system throughout the dorms and classroom buildings could serve the student body in many ways beyond 24-hour access to a computer network. In particular, the hookup could allow students to access cable T.V. Moreover, the demand already exists for such a service. With an ever-increasing amount of sports on cable channels, and the strong interest in athletics at Notre Dame, clearly many would benefit Also, several special interest stations such as Fox Network and CNN certainly must appeal to at least some students. 
The university stands to benefit from such an arrangement as well. Like any ordinary cable service, an extra fee could be charged to students for the optional hookup. The initial cost plus monthly payments could be surtaxed by the university to help cover any extra expenditures. 
Even if in-room service were not available, at the least, viewing of cable channels should be made possible in the public areas (the so-called "Party Rooms"). Surely, hall funds could cover the initial hookups and monthly charges. ­
In fact, no apparent obstacles to such a system exist. Why not make cable T.V. an option? If students want cable T.V., give them the chance or else a good reason why they shouldn't have the choice. 




A Little Off The Top, Please 
Proving tha't you can be too trusting, the Kansan ran a story about a Lawrence woman who paid the price for her faith in humanity. The woman received a phone call from a man who claimed that he worked at Lawrence Memorial Hospital. The man told the woman that her husband had been contaminated by toxic metal and that they needed her hair to save his life. Without asking for the connection between toxic metal and hair, the woman commenced to snipping for her hubby. She made it all the way to her scalp. Lawrence police reported almost a dozen similar calls to area residents -most without such smashing success: Most women only gave themselves 


For The Sake Of Tradition 
In an attempt to start a new tradition at Purdue University, students organized a "Senior Sleep" as part of their homecoming festivities. The College Press Service reported that the University gave its approval for the event after organizers agreed to leave their booze and tents at home. The event promised to be chock full of tradition. Two seniors showed· up. Demonstrating the the stuff that true tradition is made of, Purdue students annually participate in the mid­January "Nude Olympics." Contestants clad only in _socks and running shoes try to streak across campus before University officials can identify them and suspend their matching funds. Go South Quad! 
NOVEMBER 15, 1990 

Tonsil Hockey Galore 
Looking for a cheap excuse to kiss someone? The students at Mankato State University were. According to the College Press'. Service, 566 fearless students showed up on the University's rugby field to break the world record for having the most couples kissing i at one time. "Tongues were flyin' everywhere," said participant! John "Woody" Westrum. If verified by Guiness officials, the, Mankato students will steal the title from 400 students who set the'. previous record at Syracuse University. Another victory for T25. 

What Would H.L. Mencken Say? 
The trend toward androgyny in the English language continues. According to the Associated Press, the State University of New : York at Albany resolved recently to ban the word "women" from all 1 its Student Association literature. They will instead use the "non-. sexist" term "womyn." Their intent is to get the "men" out of; "women" and express the idea that women are not merely derived from or corollaries to men. Keeping abreast of national trends, our 1 administration is considering the more phonetic and gender neutral 1 "Year ofWimmin." 

Homecoming Rubbers 
According to the College Press Service, alumni visiting St. Olaf College's homecoming events were greeted with condoms. Stu-' dents chanted slogans and handed out prophylactics to protest the administration's refusal to install condom vending machines in the: student union and dorm rooms. Reports failed to mention if the new ·· Trojan™ Magnum size was available from the protesting students .. 

Word Choice 
A recent Stanford Daily healine read "SEXUAL ASSUALT SPE-1 CIALIST LEAVES." The following article stressed that a police ; captain ensured that the campus would remain safe. Apparently, the ; man filling the vacant position, while not qualifying as a specialist, } will sexually assualt people as best he can. a . 
edited by Tim Rogers 
3: 







On November 11, I sat down with a group of friends and watched a Notre Dame football game on T.V. 
If you can't actually be at the game, the next-best thing is to sit on a warm couch with a cold drink and and good friends. Well, I suppose that you could sit outside the sta­dium in the freezing cold, eating and drink­ing out ofa trunk, and watch the game on a Sony Watchman. Then again, ifyou did that, you'd probably look like a really big dork. 
As I watched the Tennessee game, I was joined by about ten friends-men and women ofall shapes and sizes. Even though it was a bit crowded with all of the scream­ing, sweating bodies crammed into a Mor­rissey Hall room, the game proved to be has SO MUCH EX­PERIENCE as a coach that he or she actually KNOWS MORE ABOUT THE GAME THAN LOU HOLTZ. However, Lou is too silly to follow The Coach's advice. The Coach, of course, reminds the rest of 

,..__________,--_____________, 
the watchers of this 
entertaining for more than one reason. 

There's the fact that we beat the Vols, a team that closely resembles the University of Miami in both talent and talk; But more importantly, I noticed the wide spectrum of personalities that surface within the game­watching crowd. 
First, there's The Gabber. This is the person who sits in the room and seems interested in everything that is going on in the room exceptfor the fact thafthere is a football game on the television. Gabbers talk all about what they did last night,. what homework they have to do, what courses they have chosen as DART alternates, or how many varsity letters they earned on their high school chess team. By the end of the game, The Gabber is generally bound, gagged and immersed in hydrochloric acid. 
Next is The Fanatic. The spirit-filled watchers are so intense in their viewing that they never take their eyes offthe T. V. set, re­fusing even to blink. The Fanatic's attention is so intense that he or she does not notice anything else going on in the room, includ­ing when their friends light their clothes on fire. The Fanatic screams a lot, swears a lot, says "Shh!" a lot and usually tries to kill The Gabber. 
Amidst this conflict sits The Coach. This is the person who knows SO MUCH about college football and 
fact at every opportunity: 
Culver plows up the middle but is stoppedfor no gain. 
The Coach: Real good, Lou! Run it up the middle! Gee, They weren't expecting THAT! 
Culver up the middle again and he's hit for a loss! 
The Coach: What the #*"@! Lou? Are you STUPID? Why don't we run it up the middle again? Huh? I'm sure we'll do real well. 
Mirer sneaks it up the middle and is gone! A 99-yard quarterback sneak up the middle and it's Mirer with the touchdown! 
The Coach: Um... pass me another beer. While we're on the subject of beer, a . watch party is not complete without Mr. Thirsty . ****GENDER EXCLUSIVE LANGUAGE ALERT-Whoop! Whoop! a-ROO-ga! a-ROO-ga! Mr. Thirsty can be . either male or female-Mr./Ms. Thirsty just 
· sounds too much like the name of a her­maphrodite porn star**** Mr. Thirsty at­tends watch parties simply for the "party" part of it. He is able to kill a six-pack per quarter. Mr. Thirsty, fueled both by team spirit and by Mad Dog 20(20, is almost as vocal as The Coach but generally not as articulate. 
FIRST QUARTER 
Mr. Thirsty: Throw the filthin' ball, Lou! What the farthin-filthin are you thinking­running it up the middle? <Burp> 
SECOND QUARTER 
Mr. Thirsty: Tear his filthin' head off Stony! Break the filthin-farther's legs · Zorro! Throw the filthin-farth-filthin ball, 
Lou! <belch> THIRD QUARTER Mr. Thirsty: @#$%" filthin'*&*)". 
Farthins goddam #%&%$*filkin. <brrip> FOURTH QUARTER Mr. Thirsty: zzzzzzzzz .... <burp> Mr. Thirsty is a staunch advocate of 
videotaping the games. He does this not out ofanurgetoreviewthesubtlenuancesofthe game the day after, but rather to find out what actually happened during the fourth quarter. 
In the end, what you get is a melting pot of the Notre Dame Community centered around support for its school. Their spirit and their will call them to unite as one mass and cheer on the team. They are shining examples of Notre Dame fans who support their heroes through good times and bad. 
· Oh, and there's beer, too. O 
by John O'Brien 
4 




Dear Dr. Head: The other day I read that the incompa­rable W. ~l Rose of Guns 'n' Roses underwent a bit of elective surgery. He had his nipple pierced. I just can't figure this. out. Ears, noses and even lips make sense, but why would a guy (or a girl for that matter) want to pierce his nipple? In grade school we guys used to give each other "purple nurples" by twisting each other's nipples. It hurt. I imagine that the piercing process would smart, too. Not only that, but I don't think it's sexy, either. I just can't picture a girl coming up to Axl at the beach and saying, ''Mmm, what a cute nipplering. Is that skull real gold?" Then I thought ofanother puzzling question: Why does Axl have nipples in the first place? Will Hernslinger, junior, Sorin. 

Will, I'm sorry grade school was so traumatic for you. 
lthink the answer to your first question is obvious. People pierce their nipples for attention. "Hey look at me," they are saying. "I paid money to have this piece of metal stuck through my breast." Some people climb observation towers and randomly shoot folks with high-powered rifles. Other people pierce their nipples. The moti­vation is the same, though. 
Your second question is a bit tougher. Ax.I, like most men, does own a set ofnipples, and, like Axl himself, they're useless. While Ax.I .has always been useless, male nipples have not. A group of anthropologists from Ivy Tech recently discovered some cave paintings in Osceola, IN that illustrate exactly how useful male and some didn't When left by themselves to care for infants, the nippleless men were at a distinct evolutionary disadvantage. They had no way to keep the tykes busy. The Cro-Magnon kids, having nothing better to do, would wail incessantly. So the nippleless men· would bludgeon them to death. The nippled men, on the other hand, would trick the infants into thinking that milk lie behind those nipples. The kids would quietly suck away, and the nippled men were happy. Their nippled kids grew up, spread their seed and multiplied, while the nippleless died out -natural selection at its best 
Dear Dr. Head: I recently did my semesterly teeth­cleaning -you know, toothpaste, tooth brush, the whole works. Anyway, it was during this ritual that I noticed something peculiar about my toothpaste. The Aqua­Fresh™ Iwasusinghad3stripes-red,whiteandblue. As I carefully squeezed from the bottom and flattened as I went up, the stripes emerged intact and orderly. Could you please tell me how they keep the colors separated in the tube? . 
Clean Teeth, senior, Siegfried. 
Ms. Teeth, I sincerely hope you floss during your ritual. You shouldn't neglect your gums. 
If you look closely at your tube of Aqua-Fresh™, you'll notice that Beechum manufactures that fine product You'll also notice that Beechum' s logo consists of a half moon encircled by 6 stars. This logo should tip you off as to how they keep the colors sorted in the tube. Beechum made a pact with Satan. That logo is a secret symbol of their deal. The power ofOld Scratch allows the paste technicians at Beechum to perform the otherwise impossible task of color separation. Without the help of Beelzebub, those patented color stripes would bleed together into an unmarketable toothpaste muddle. 
If there's one thing Dr. Head knows, it's everything. Ifyou have a question; ask him. Send your queries to Dr.Head, care ofScholas­tic, 303 LaFortune. Write legibly or type. Include your name,year and residence. Dr. Head reserves the right to edit and/or embellish 





Public Image Ltd. releases a retrospective of their intriguing musical experimentation 

Public Image Ltd. 
The Greatest Hits, So Far 
Amid the slew of new albums released this fall, you' II probably notice compilations from two of the greats of post­punk alternative rock on the shelves: Public Image Limited has released an album called The Greatest Hits, So Far, and the Cure has put out an album consisting of dance remixes of old tracks. Both groups, in a wise marketing move, have also included one new track to top off the old stuff. 
The inclusion of a new track on both albums is where the similarity ends, though. P .I.L.' s greatest hits compilation serves as an excellent retrospective of John Lydon (Johnny Rotten) and the band's musical experimentation throughout the 80's. Beginning with the blazing, bitter "Public Image," as many of P.I.L.'s live shows do, The Greatest Hits, So Far chronicles all of the phases of P.I.L.'s musical development, from the pissed-off,jaded punks newly emerged from the hype and mayhem that surrounded the Sex Pistols, through the pre­industrial synthesizer music of 

The Metal Box, Second Edition, and The Flowers of Romance. Tracks on this album included from this era are "Death Disco," "Memories," "Careering," and ''The Flowers of Romance." While these tracks detail P.I.L. 's pre-industrial phase rather well, nothing is included from their Live in Tokyo album, which might have livened up these otherwise monotonous tracks. The album peaks with a staggering remix of "Rise." This song came from the bands phase which produced Album and This is What You Want ... This is What You Get, 
which cover what is possible P.I.L.'s finest work. Don't be misled by the idea ofa remix ­
these aren't the type of dance remixes on the Cure's new effort The reworking of"Rise" {fromAlbum)remains true to the original song but augments the rougher sound of the original track by introducing details which make it far more forceful. It's a disappointment that there aren't more tracks included from This is What You Want ... This is What You Get, but their biggest single from that album, "This Is Not a Love Song," is inclu~ed. New remixes of "Seattle" and "The Body" follow, which reflect the slick-sounding P.IL. of recent times. The last track on the album, and the only new song on the compilation, "Don't Ask Me," continues P.I.L.'s progression into over-produced alternative dance music. Although "Don't Ask Me" has some greatlyrics, reminiscent of the Godfather of Punk's heyday ofpunk social critique, lines like "And is it really worth it/ choking on remote/I can see the red tidecoming/ButI don't even vote" don't make up for the godawful music that they are set to. Idon'tknowwhatP.I.L. was thinking, but this song sounds like the B-52' s waking up on the wrong side of bed. Something has to be done about this. I'll forgive P.I.L. this mistake, though. What I won't forgive is the Cure's systematic destruction ofwhatever shred of artistic respectability they might have had before they released an album of dance remixes. 

The Cure 
Mixed Up 
The Cure's new album, Mixed Up, consists of nothing more than remixes of old songs, with one new song thrown in (again, good marketing) to sell more copies of the album. It would be a little premature for the Cure to release another greatest hits albums (their last was only two albums ago), so they're not billing Mixed Up as such. Certainly, Mixed Up will sell well because of the Cure's near­fanatic following of loyal fans, and they are somehow .still 


The Cure are definitely Mixed Up in releasing an album of remixes 
running strong on their last album, Disintegration, even though it was released two years ago. Rumors of the band's breakup have certainly scared their fans, but rehashes of old material (the CDS collection marketed as Integration, and now Mixed Up) have kept them in the minds of the record buyer even though the band has been idle for so long. Supposedly, fans can look for a Robert Smith solo album in the future, but nothing substantial has been said to back up that rumor. 
After hearing Mixed Up, I came up with two theories of why the Cure might be doing something as inept as remixing a bunch of old songs and then passing them off as a new album. Theory number one: They have to fit in with all the other bands in England that are either from Manchester or trying to sound like they're from Manchester. Strong evidence of this theory is audible on their goofing around with older tracks like "Close To Me" and "The Walk," and also on their reworking of"Pictures ofYou," all of which have that characteristic acid house backbeat and bass line. "Close To Me" is so Manchester it sounds like it could have been recorded by the Happy Mondays, which is obviously due to the hand ofproducer Paul Oakenfold in the remixing. Really, I'd have thought the Cure would have enough guts to stand on their own in the face of the whole Manchester thing, but apparently they don't. 
Theory number two: this whole thing is being done to satisfy the teenybopper crowd that has increasingly become a larger portion ofthe Cure' s fans. These chowderhead kids (maybe they aren'tjustkids-I suppose clubgoers have some hand in this as well) insist on having eight minute long dance remixes of everything, whether it was meant to be danced to or not. I've never really understood the whole "it has a good beat and I can dance to it" thing, so I'll try not to editorialize too much, but there is a value to music outside of danceability. The songs· that lead me to follow this second theory about the concept behind Mixed Up are "Lullaby," "Fascination Street," "Lovesong," and "Hot Hot Hot!Jl," which, inter,estingly enough, are all from the more recent Cure albums, when they started to pick up on the teenybopper crowd. Hmmm. 
For a second, I thought that maybe I shouldn't be so critical of this album. Maybe the Cure were doing this because they felt an artistic need to keep their songs up to date and interesting, instead of letting them rot on vinyl (or anodized aluminum, as the case may be). In fact, I almost believed this when I heard the new version of "A Forest," which does provide an interesting twist on an old song. It's also interesting to note that the basic tracks for "A Forest" and "The Walk" had to be re­recorded -apparently the original masters were lost and those tracks had to be redone for this compilation. These tracks weren't really remixed, but nonetheless they aren't w.hat they used to be. Really, though, I can't take the Cure seriously after they've done this to so manyoftheirsongs. Thereisn't much artistic credibility in doing remixes of one's old songs to make them sound like something that they aren't. The old songs should be left as they were -if the Cure need to experiment with an old sound again, that's what new albums are for. 
The new track, "Never Enough," poses an interesting contradiction. It doesn't sound like the Cure's recent efforts, it doesn't sound Manchester (well, maybe a little bit), but it does sound good. For once, the Cure have done what we all knew they were capable of and ... well, they rocked! "Never Enough" has a gritty guitar groove, and the song progresses in the fashion of a typical 3­minute pop song, deviating slightly from the Cure's usual formula of driving the song's main hook into your head for a minute or two before getting around to the song. It's lively, and it's completely unexpected. I don 'tknow what happened, but there hasn't been this much energy in their music since "Jumping Someone Else's Train." I'mjust wondering what a good song which shows talent and creativity is doing atop this slag heap of trashy remixes .... . 
by Dave Holsinger 





JACOB ' s 
Jacob's Ladder is a visually and 
intellectually arresting movie that is often 
disturbing, although ultimately uplifting. 
The graphic nature of the film, with 
disgusting special effects in certain "dream" 
sequences, make it .well suited to peek­
between-the-fingers viewing. But pay close 
attention, because this storyline, billed as 
one of the most disturbing of the year, can 
also be one of the most confusing. 
Just when the real vs. unreal tension seems 
to be too much to bear, thefilmoffersasmall 
clue to keep astute viewers going, and then 
the movie's end proves to be both 
understandable and satisfying. The clue to 
the real plot of the movie comes from the 
philosophy of Meister Eckhardt as 
explained to protagonist Jacob Singer by his 
chiropractor and confidante, Louie. Jacob is 
beset by doubts about his sanity as he 
plunges from one sphere of reality to 
another, and Louie's presence serves as one 
of the few constants in his life. 
The audience easily empathizes with 
Jacob because it can't tell what's real ariy 
more than he can. Every time it seems like 
everything is back to normal, Jacob gets 
thrown once again into a terrifying alternate 
reality. Or is it only a bad dream? Or is it a 
good dream? Or is it a past life? Or what the 
hell is going on? 
Maybe it's just that -hell. Early in the 
film, an old buddy from Vietnam visits 
Jacob, insisting that he is being chased by 
demons who intend to drag him back down 
to hell with them. Jacob reveals that he had 
similar visions, but immediately after their 
conversation, Jacob's friend dies in a fiery · car explosion as he watches helplessly. 
·Now you start to think you know what's 
going on, and so does Jacob. After meeting 
with other 'Nam buddies and discovering 
that they are all having similar visions of hell 
and' demons, he decides to pressure the 
Army for information on just what could 
have happened to them while in the service. 
Perhaps some sort of clandestine drug testing? 
Of course, pressuring the Army only leads to another dead end that leaves Jacob grappling, literally, for his sanity with two thugs whom we assume are associated with the United States Government. He ends up in the hospital where viewers are treated to the most terrifying and hideous dream/ reality sequence to hit the big screen in quite some time. 
Now thaCsjust one plot line. You'll have to keep track of Jacob's life with lover Jezebel as well, and don't forget sometimes ex-wife Sarah, sons Eli and Jed, or son Gabe (killed at about age 6 in a car accident) who also plays a pivotal role. Jacob moves between these lives without a warning either to himself or the audience. Tim Robbins's characterization is excellent, and he shows himselfto beafine actor, capable ofextreme versatility -remember him as "Meat" LaLouche in Bull Durham? The audience· really gets a feel for Jacob's inner struggle for stability and his overwhelming fear of the unknown. 
"Unknown" is perhaps the one word that best characterizes this movie. Said to be one of the most famous unproduced scripts (along with Total Recall) to finally come out in recent months, it is easy to see why any director or producer would shy away from this project. It is confusing, and difficult to follow, but not to a fault. What it does require is a little thinking, which maybe not all moviegoers were prepared for. Most of the previews for this movie gave it a horror movie slant, but your typical slasher film it isn't. GoseeJacob' sLadder prepared to be caught in a struggle to discern the real from the unreal from the surreal, think a little, and chances still are that the movie will keep you guessing until the very end, when you'll say, "Oh, NOW I get itt" . 
by Traci Taghon 

L A D D E R 



UndertheshadowsoftheDome, under the leaf-strewn , walkways of the campus, lies a labyrinth of dark tunnels. It was here that a._ Cavanaugh student reportedly found the cable television hook­up which he subsequently rigged to his dorm room. For more than a semester last year, one room of students enjoyed the exploits of this student's engineering endeavors. , "The guy had keys to the steam tunnels," said one student, who prefers to remain unidentified. "He found the cable box under LaFortune and spliced the cables. Then he bought some cable and ran it to his room." The official line, however, is that there is no cable T.V. on campus, and never has been, according to Don Dedrick, director of the physical plant of the building maintenence department. There are only antennaes for local reception, he said. "The university found out that the cables had been spliced in the summer," the same student insisted. "They couldn't do anything about it because they couldn't figureouthow he got the cable to his room." "We do have master antcnnaes where you can get all of the Chicago UHF stations," said John Micalski, project coordin_ator of building maintenence. "Master antennaes are set up on a building and run to all lounges and rectors rooms." Ifstudents were to try to hook their T. V.' s up to the master antennaes and they made a mistake, it could throw the whole sy~tem off, Micalski said. The university does not, however, offer any professional hook-up service. Students have riever requested this, Micalski said. "They don't ask forit because they know they are not allowed ~ have it," he added. Besides, "their rectors would kill them." 
Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences, disagrees. Students have looked into the possibilities of receiving cable in their rooms, she said. The university has said "no," she added. . 
"There are a lot of T.V. stations in Chicago that we could get here," sophomore Archie Chaney said. ''The university thinks that it would distract from our studies," he hypothesized. 
" :::C WANT MY... 11 


Ifthe university would allow students the option of paying to be hooked up to the maintenance antennaes which are on each of the dorms, every student who paid could watch the T.V. channels that are offered in Chicago. This would mean that students would not be forced to venture off-campus to watch The Simpsons. 
"I think that this option should be open to students," said junior Jirh Joyce, a junior. "Some people aren't going to use it, but as long as it isn't obligatory to buy it, the option should be offered." 
In order to receive all of the cable channels there would have to be special cable lines running underground and every dorm would need to be equipped to receive these lines. Such cables already exist, according to the residents of Cavanaugh. 
University officials disagree, however. 

''The rectors do not have cable," said John Goldrick, vice president of residence life. 
The university is presently involved in a $20 million data project which includes laying a fiber loop around the campus, according to Goldrick. This should provide data capabilities in all areas of telecommunications, he predicted. 
"The university precludes individuals from having cable drops," Goldrick said. ''There is an organizational problem of having 6500 private requests -for cable drops, at least until this multi-million dollar project is finished." 
Flanner and Grace are two dorms which are already internally wired, said Goldrick. This means that the students in these dorms could hook up to a university cable system simply, he explained. However, there is no cable drop there, he insisted. 
· "What we have now is called the backbone of the new system," said Donald Spicer, assistant provost for university computing. "Running lines within the buildings is another matter." 
Much of the new system is already in place, Spicer said. It has been devised in cooperation with the Educational Media Center and WNDU. 
"We are putting in a common [campus] infrastructure," said Spicer. "The fiber optic cables are designed to carry cable 
T.V. and data or voice communications." 
Student interest in having the option of private cable T.V. hook-ups could play a part in whether or not the new telecommunications system utilizes its potential in this area, Spicer said. "How we build on this might go at a variable pace depending on interest and funding," he explained. . 
by Cathy Flynn 


:i 
:i 


· BY MARY SCHULTZE A part from being a place to study, learn, research, and sometimes so­cialize, the Notre Dame campus also serves as a source of cultural enrichment. In keeping with the "Irish" tradition of the University, the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library recently received a fac­simile copy of The Book of Kells. This famous book is a composition of the four Gospels. Written in Latin in the calligraphic style of Insular majuscule by Celtic monks 
10 
around the late 8th or early 9th century, this illuminated manuscript is truly a rare work ofart. Besides containing the four Gospels, all of its pages are lavishly decorated with ornately inscribed illustrations of men, women, and animals which enhance the beauty ofits religious message. The combi­nation ofthe intricacies ofancient Celtic art and the dyes ofred, yellow, green and ultra­marine blue imported from the Mediterra­nean areas pay tribute to the long standing cultural heritage of Ireland. 

Due to religious persecution and ·· · tribal rivalries, it was buried by the monks underneath a church in Kells in County Meath, Ireland. More than 600 years afterits discovery in 1006 AD., it was taken to its present residence in the Trinity College li­brary in Dublin. 
The facsimile; on display in the Rare Book Room, is incredibly similar to the original Book ofKells. The texture, uneven edges and even wormholes have been cop­ied successfully. Moreover, whereas at 
SCHOLASTIC 


Trinity College, the Book of Kells is sepa­rated into each of the four Gospels, the facsimile edition is sewn in the medieval style and bound into one volume to render a more authentic view of the original manu­script. 

One of five hundred copies, The BookofKells was donated to the University by The Wild Geese. This Connecticut based organization aims atpromoting the recogni­tion of the rich history and traditions of the Irish people. According to member Carl Shanahan, the group derives its name from "the great diaspora ofthe Irish nobility after the Seige ofLimerick in 1801." Composed of Irish-Americans, they hope to create a deeper understanding of the Irish contribu­tions to literature and arts worldwide. 
After a long selection process, The Wild Geese, as Mr. Shanahan states, "chose Notre Dame because of its unique relation­ship with the Irish ofAmerica." In addition, the organization claims that along with Fr. 
Sorin, four Irish Brothers helped start the University. "The book was written around 800 
A.D. presumably by monastic scribes, but it is uncertain whether they were located in Ireland, Northumbria or elsewhere," said Laura Funderer, a Rare Book librarian. She added, "The parts that are on display at Trinity College have their pages turned once a month." Along with regular page turnings, the Book of Kells is kept under glass where the moisture in the air and the air temperature are carefully controlled. The glass case also helps protect the precious book from dust and from human fingers. Be­cause the book is so old, the paper, the paints and the dyes used in the book are all very fragile. 
Notre Dame is on of five colleges in the United States to receive a copy of the Book of Kells. 
"Notre Dame is a university for the nations ... the world is partially reflected in our library collection," Father Malloy said at the reception of the book. "The University will benefit from this extrordinary gift and its accessibility." 
The Book of Kells will be of sepcial interest as a source for Humanities classes, along with Irish history, Irish literature and art history classes. 
In response to the gift of the facsim­ile, on behalfof the Notre Dame community, Fr. Malloy commented that "We are truly proud ofour Irish history and are pleased to receive this replica of The Book of Kells." This incredible facsimile of the illuminated manuscript of the four Gospels remains on display in the Rare Book Room of the Hesburgh Library and is open to anyone wishing to discover the timeless treasures of Ireland. 
After visiting The Book of Kells, one can stroll southwest from the library to the Snite Museum for a taste of the exotic cul­ture of Africa. 
Beginning November 18 and con­tinuing through December 30, the "African Art from the Rita and John Grunwald Col­lection" will be displayed in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery West of the Snite Museum. The artifacts represent mainly the western and Atlantic costal regions of Af­rica. 
The artworks are indicative of the variety of African ethnic groups as there are masks, figurines, staffs, and musical instru­ments. This collection even contains such rare pieces as a Pende face mask and an Eloyi headdress worn by tribesmen. Re­flecting the resources of the land, the art­worksarenotonly make from wood, butalso include a Kota reliquary figure plated in brass, and a terra cotta head dating back to the Akan people of the 17th Century. 
To facilitate a greater appreciation of this extraordinary African exhibit, There will be a series of five lectures given by members of the Notre Dame faculty and staff, and Diane Peirine, an authority on African culture, from Indiana University. 
On a more nationalistic note, the Notre Dame Archives and University Li­braries have been granted $48,706 to estab­lish machine readable bibliographic records of University collections dealing with pa­pers attributed to generals, scientists, and priests such as our very own Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
Some of these literary works contain much historical significance such as the Archives ofthe Diocese ofLouisiana and the Floridas from 1576-1897, and the personal papers of General William Sherman from the Civil War. Pertinent to the University 

are the works of philosopher Orestes Brownson, early scientists Julius Nieuwland and Albert Zahm, and the writ­ings of former Notre Dame president Fr. Hesburgh. 
These editions will be loaded into both the ONLOC and UNLOC programs in the library for aid in research. 
These developments, in bringing The Book of Kells to the Library, the African exhibit to the Snite, and the establishment of Un1.versity bibliographic records, help make different cultures and ideology more acces­sible to the Notre Dame community. Al­though this is a time ofmuch academic stress in preparation for final exams, these gifts give many the chance to take a break and expand one's cultural horizons. . 

By Jon Paul Potts 

S he has achieved just about all that could have been expected when she I, entered Notre Dameback in 1987. Among I' other awards, she has been named a Dis­trict IV All-American, Midwestern Colle­giate Conference Player of the Year for 
:i 1989-1990, MCC Tournament MVP for '89-90, captain of the 1990-91 Irish women's basketball team -she has dominated the MCC and made it her per­sonal playground as she enters her senior year. 
. But what is there to do for an ac­complished female athlete once her colle­giate career is over? 
For Notre Dame's senior guard Karen Robinson, the answer may lie over­seas. 
"I've thought about playing in Europe," says Robinson. "I know that there are_a lot of opportunities to play and almost every country over there has teams. I'm definitely interested in playing there; they make good money and to go over for a year would be a great experience." 
Robinson has been in contact with two players in particular who have tried their hand at basketball on the conti­nent and enjoyed success. Mary Gavin, who played for the Irish and graduated in 1988, played for a team in Germany in 1989 before becoming an assistant coach at Stetson University in Florida. And Dale Hodges, a former All-American from Robinson's neck of the woods, Philadel­phia, played and enjoyed herself in Eu­rope. 
''They say it's unbelievable," says Robinson. "There's great fan sup­port ... And it's really weird because they've tried pro leagues here(in the United States), and it's never taken off. But over there, it's really big." 
European roundball has become all the rage among the men who have ex­ploited the promise ofriches in Italy, Ger­many or Greece as a bargaining tool with National Basketball Association teams who've drafted them. But as basketball becomes more and more of an interna­tional sport, perhaps the idea of a woman heading to Europe to play hoops will not 


r j 
come as such a surprise in the future. 
Ifher plans for travel abroad do not work out, however, this native of Turn­ersville, NJ; may end up on the sidelines as a college coach. Irish coach MuffetMcGraw has many connections and former Notre Dame player Sandy Botham recently landed . a job as an assistant with the Marquette Warriors women's team. So the possibilities for a player of Robinson's talent and name recognition to coach a big-time program are out there. 
"At times, I say, 'Yeah, I'm defi­nitely coaching,"' says Robinson. "But at other times, I say 'Nahh.' The way you have 
Marl Okuda 
to travel on recruiting turns me off. I could see myself as a high school coach, though, teaching girls fundamentals ... Btit some­times I see myself as a big-time coach. I · don't know." 
And ifinternational opportunities and coaching both fall through, the Ameri­can Studies major is preparing for her fu­ture, interviewing for sales jobs. She's hoping to play in Europe, but that is a possibility which she is hoping for, not banking her future on right now. 
"You can't go through anything until after the season (as far as Europe and an agent is concerned)," she says. "I really 
SCHOLASTIC don't know what the procedure is for them seeing me play during the season. Coach McGraw knows people who have connec­tions, so I know that it's a possibility. IfI get a job offer, or a graduate assistant coaching position, those will be other options." 


Coming in to Notre Dame, Robin­son boasted some impressive credentials. She was invited to the 1987 Olympic Festi­val in the summer before she came to South Bend as a freshman. She was named South Jersey Player of the Year in 1987 and earned All-America honors from. USA Today. Heavily recruited coming out of high school, when it came right down to it she had to choose between Notre Dame and Duke. Her reasons for choosing to play under the shadow of the Golden Dome sound like many those form other people who feel the mystique of Notre Dame. 
"I don't know exactly why I came here," she says. "I was comfortable, and I thought that it was a great atmosphere. It had a good reputation, and it was a good basket­ball situation for me. I guess it was just a gut feeling." 
But, for a moment, let's return to the present and her senior campaign, which could prove quite notable. She will be the physical and spiritual leader for a team with their collective hearts set on an NCAA Tournament bid. 
Last year, Robinson paced the Irish in both scoring at 15.1 ppg, and assists with 
4.7 per game, and she chalked up 62 steals. She was the clutch player when coach McGraw needed it last year, hitting big baskets consistently, such as the game-win­ner against Old Dominion, or the buzzer­beater in the MCC Tournament champion­ship game with Butler. She will be depended upon again this year, despit~ the new-found depth of the squad, to be the go-to player down the stretch. 
But Robinson feels that there are definitely some areas of her game which need improvement 
"I have to improve on moving without the ball. When they play man-to­man, I have a tendency to stand, because I just want to stand and shoot," she says with a smile. "Also rebounding, because I get no 
rebounds." 


Robinson recorded 62 thefts on the defensive end last year. 

She will 
share the leadership 
of the team with the 
two other seniors on 
the squad, Sara 
Liebscher and Krissi 
Davis, and views 
leadership as a vital 
part of her job de­
scription. With five 
freshmen and three 
sophomores on the 
team, chemistry and 
concentration will be 
key and she feels that 
the seniors will be the 
stabilizing influence 
for all these younger 
players. 
"I will try to keep up the team play that we had last year," she says. ''Last year, with eight people, we had to to­tally support each other all through the -injuries and every­thing. But we had a 
Marl Okuda(2) 
The All-American candidate will be looked to for clutch shooting. 

great time, and it was teamwork all the way. And I think that a positive attitude and hard work will lead to success." 
An impressive showing in her final year will be important for her amateur inter­national aspirations. In thesummerof1987, she participated in the U.S. Olympic Festi­val and she hopes to compete for the United States after graduation before she heads to the arenas of Europe. 
"I've been to the Olympic Festival twice, and I would love to play in the Olym­pics," she says. "I tried out for the national team last year in Colorado Springs, and Igot cut like the third cut There were a lot of great players there, and I was just happy to be there. But the Olympics are definitely a dream." 
Robinson is a young woman with many dreams and many opportunities facing her as she winds down her record-setting NotreDamecareer. While her days ofhoops on the hardwood of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center may be numbered, bas­ketball will definitely be a part of her bright future. . 
13 



Focused on March 
After just missing the NCAA tournament last year, the women's basketball team is determined to impress the selection committee with their best season ever 
By Amanda Clinton 

F ormostpeople, thesoundofa blaring over, and go back to sleep. alarm clock at five in the morning However, for the 1990-1991 Notre means it is time to hit the snooze button, roll Dame women's basketball team, five o'clock Nowlin will provide Inside scoring punch, defense and rebounding. wake-up 
Marl Okuda 
was the norm for pre-sea­s o n 
work­
outs. 
Begin­
n i n g · 
Septem­
ber 17th, 
all mem­
bers of 
the team 
were ex­
pected to 
meet for 
morning 
work­
outs. Not 
only did 
the team 
commit 
them ­
selves to 
these 
practices 
but they 
also vol­
untarily 
met a 
week 
early to 
support a 


few players who had to get in shape. The 
women's basketball team committed itself 
to being in peak performance by the begin­
ning ofthe season, but they also are mentally 
preparing themselves by encouragipg each 
other and uniting for the crusade for an 
invitation to the NCAA tournament. 
This season, with the addition of 
five freshmen, the 1990-1991 women's 
basketball team has more depth at every 
position. Forward Andrea Alexander will 
help the team with her hustle, excellent 
rebounding and outside shooting. Katura 
"Tootie" Jones will contribute both scoring 
and a strong inside game. Kristin Knapp will 
assist the team with her aggressive attitude 
outside shot and rebounding. Sherri Orlosky 
is also an excellent outside shooter. Kara 
Leary begins this year as a walk-on. 
This added depth should help alle­
viate foul trouble, a real problem last year. 
All of the freshmen bring something differ­
ent to the team, and the sum of the parts 
equals a greater whole than that oflast year's 
squad. Despite the large number of fresh­
men, and a return of seven players from last 
year, all of the new faces will see some 
playing time. 
Another change in the team from 
last year is a change in attitude because the 
leaders of the team are seniors. "There is an 
attitude of do-or-die to the tournament," 
explains senior guard Sara Liebscher. 
Senior forward Krissi Davis and senior guard Karen Robinson are not only captains of the team, but also the key players to lead the Irish on the road to victory this . year. Davis is a relatively short player for the front court at 5-9; but regardless of her height, Davis averaged 11.9 points and 8.0 rebounds per game in her junior campaign. 
Robinson has a reputation for 
coming through in the clutch and scoring 
baskets in the final seconds of critical 
games, like Old Dominion and Butler last 
year. The District IV All-American also led 
the team in scoring with 15.1 points per 
game. Both players' enthusiasm and skill 
help to motivate the team. 
The other Irish players who will 
help carry the team to victory are Deb Fitz­
gerald, Comalita Haysbert, · Margaret 
Nowlin, MajenicaRupeandCoquese Wash­
ington. 
Fitzgerald, a junior at the forward position, improved tremendously over the summer, which came as no surprise to her teammates. Previously unsure about her shot, the improvement in her shooting abil­ity and confidence will help the team and catch the opposition off-guard. 



Junior forvyard Haysbert has the reputation as being one of the best defensive players on the team and the quickest of the Irish on the court. Nowlin, a junior at the center position has improved tremendously and will be both an intimidator on defense and dangerous for opposing teams with her scoring ability. Sophomore forward Rupe, at 6-5, will aid the team with height in the fron~ourt. And Washington, a sophomore guar~, will assist the team with her excellent passing abilities and talent for good deci-· sion-making. 
This season the women's basket­ball team will emphasize improvement on rebounding. Yet theplayers are more inter­ested in capitalizing on their strengths and improving in certain areas than thinking of their weaknesses. 
"It is hard to think of a weakness," says Liebscher. "We don't and, surprisingly, the freshman Knapp. dwell on our weaknesses." Both unify the team through encouraging 

The women will words and positive attitudes. They are able boast many strengths this sea­tocreateaclose-knitatmosphereandasup­son. All of the starters from portive attitude for a player who may be last year are returning. Be­struggling. cause of the increase in depth, ''The unity makes the team like a there will not be the need to family. They are a great bunch and fun to rely on any one player, as work with," says McGraw. coachMuffet McGraw had to For the Notre Dame women's rely on Robinson at times last basketball team, the definition for a suc­year. There is such an abun­cessful season will be an invitation to the dance of talent that any player NCAA tournament. Last season, despite a could step off the bench and 23-6 record and a perfect 16-0 slate in the provide a spark. Midwest Collegiate Conference, they were 
· With a challenging snubbed by the tournament selection com­schedule, including nation­mittee. ally respected programs such In order to reach their ultimate as UCLA, Stanford, Indiana, goal this year, the team is preparing for Delaware, Tennessee, Louisi­every game as if they were playing a top­ana, Marquette and notch team. It is easy to become compla­Miami(Ohio), all the games cent in a league that Notre Dame domi­will be important Because of nated ·1ast year, but focus will be key the difficult level of competi­against many of the national powers that tion the team will be required the Irish will play. With enthusiastic lead­to start out the season with a ers, intensity on the court, and concentra­bang. tion, the road to the top this season will 
"In order to be a suc­undoubtedly be a clear path. · . 
cess we can't 
lose more than 

Llebscher will team with Robinson to provide senior 
one or two games," empha­
leadership. Marl Okuda 
sizes McGraw. "And with the schedule we have, we must have a good December." 
"This year, I think that we'll be a lot stronger," says Robinson. "We have a full roster this year. Last year, we were down to about eight players a couple of times be­causcofinjuries,butsofar,ev-· eryone is healthy. I think that we have a lot to work on right now, as far as defense and getting our offense and chem­istry together, but we'll be all right." 
Although the players· are expected to motivate themselves mentally before games, it is essential in any sport to have emotional lead­ers in order to win consis­tently. In the case of the women's basketball · team, these players are Robinson 



High Hopes ?• 
Digger leads his troops into the fray for his 20th season as Notre Dame coach 
By Jim Kuser When he started, there was no three-point line,no shot clock, no women at  
Notre Dame, and Richard  
Nixon was president.  
The 1990-1991 season is  
coach Richard "Digger"  
Phelps' 20th at Notre Dame,  
but the anniversary will be no  
party given the graduation of  
five lettermen, the loss of re­ 
turning letterman Monty Wil­ 
liams, and a rigorous schedule.  
Phelps knows how to handle  
adversity, however, and the  
challenges that go hand-in­ 
hand with coaching college  
basketball in the national spot­ 
light.  
Allow these facts and fig­ 
ures as evidence ofPhelps suc­ 
cess: he is Notre Dame's all­ 
time winningest basketball  
coach with a 19-season record  
of387-177fora.683winning  
percentage,andhehascoached  
the Irish to 17 post-season appearances,  was expected to start this season after start- and trainer. Junior forward Daimon Sweet  
including 14 NCAA appearances. Last  ing in 18 of 29 games last season. But the  best summed up the sentiments of the Irish  
March,however,Phelpstookatalentedlrish  tragic death of Loyola Marymount forward  when he said, "Monty is our friend on and  
team with Final Four aspirations to the  Hank Gathers, the nation's leading scorer  off the court We dedicate this season to  
NCAA tournament but lost in the first round  last season, heightened the awareness of  him. We are on a ;.fission for Monty."  
to Virginia. This March, Phelps hopes to  heart disorders and compelled Williams to  
take his twentieth Irish team to a seventh  terminate his promising basketball career  While Williams will be a source of spiri­ 
straight NCAA tournament.  when he was diagnosed. Although he is not  tual inspiration, the Irish will need more than  
Several key players are gone from last  playing, Williams will be participating.  inspiration to achieve success amidst a  
season, however, leaving the Irish with only  "It would be ludicrous to say that Monty  schedule that features perennial power­ 
ten scholarship players. Graduated are  is no longer a member of the team," said  houses Indiana, Kentucky, UCLA, North  
guards Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson,  Phelps. "Monty's maturity in dealing with  Carolina, Duke, Syracuse, Louisville and  
forward Keith Robinson, and center Scott  the unexpected news of his heart has taught  Missouri. Traditional foes DePaul and  
Paddock. Also lost is forward Monty Wil­ us all a lesson: misfortunes meet the best of  Marquette are also challenging competitors.  
Iiams to a rare heart disorder.  us. We count on Monty to contribute none­ "It will be an exciting season," said  
Last season, Williams averaged 7.7  theless. He is a real role model."  Phelps. "As an independent, we have to go  
points and 3.7 rebounds as a freshman and  Williams will participate as motivator  for a high power-rating, and a rigorous  


SCHOLASTIC 

schedule helps us in that re­ is an unknown commodity to  
gard. The pre-season NIT is a  ouropponents. I know that he is  
good start for us. It will tell us  a strong rebounder, and he  
where we are and how we are  knows that he is a strong re­ 
before we get into the meat of  bounder. This season he will  
our schedule. If we stay fo­ show up any doubters by clean­ 
cused, we will acheive.  ing the glass."  
Stay focused: that is the  Finally, there are the four  
team motto for this season.  freshmen. Joe and Jon Ross, 6­ 
There are no thrills or frills  9 twins from Wabash, IN, will  
about it. The Irish are deter­ be effective rebounders;  
mined to erase the disappoint­ Brooks Boyer, a 6-3 guard from  
ment of last season's mediocre  Jackson, Mich., is a deft  
16-13 record.  ballhandler; and Carl Cozen, a  
The Irish backbone is com­ 6-6 forward from Chicago, Ill.,  
posed of two seniors and four  will provide backup to Sweet at  
juniors. Senior Tim Singleton,  the small forward spot. Of the  
a 6-1 guard from New Orleans,  four freshmen, Cozen appears  
La., is the team captain. He has  to be the most able to step in and  
led the Irish the last two sea­ provide a spark. He combines  
sons in assists and enters his  power with finesse and could  
final campaign with 380 career  see considerable playing time.  
assists and 95 career steals,  "Carl is a sleeper," warned  
both fifth best among the Irish  Phelps. "Remember me telling  
all-time records. A 54.3 per­ you not to count him out."  
cent career shooter, Singleton  Phelps rubbed his brow  
averaged 4.2 points per game  while watching his charges  
as a junior and 5.8 points per hgame as a sop omore.  Mari Okuda Junior forward LaPhonso Ellis will be an Inside force.  shoot around, and said, ''Three hundred schools compete for64  

Senior Kevin Ellery, a 6-5 forward from threat. Last season, Bennett reached double invitations to the big party in March. Sixteen Springfield, Ky., averaged 4.4 points and figures in scoring in 12 ofhis final 15 games schools make it to the dance, and one team 
2.3 rebounds per game as a junior. At 235 for an average of 10.9 points per game, finally becomes Cinderella at midnight." pounds, Ellery will be expected to provide including a team-high 17-point outburst Will the glass slipper fit the Irish when muscle and rebounds under the boards. Sin­against Virginia in the NCAA tournament. the clock strikes March Madness? . gleton and Ellery will provide senior leader­His abilities to drive to the basket, shoot the Junior guard Elmer Bennett Is a triple ship and experience for a very young team. three-pointer, and dish the ball offmake him 
The four juniors comprise the highly a triple threat with the ball. regarded blue-chip recruiting class of 1988. Bennett's partner in crime is Daimon The most dominant physical presence of the ·Sweet, a 6-5 junior forward from Beaumont, juniors is LaPhonso Ellis, a 6-9 forward TX. Together, the two are known as the from East St. Louis, Ill., whose control ofthe "Texas Express" -and for good reason. boards is essential to the success ofthe Irish. Sweet averaged 6.6 points per game last After missing the first seven games last season while shooting 60 percent. Combine season because ofacademic problems, Ellis this average with that ofBennett's and there finished with 14 points/game, and 12.6 re­is instant fire power. bounds percontest which placed him third in . Keith Tower, a 6-11 junior center form the nation. He recorded 15 double-d,oubles Pittsburgh, Pa., is key to the success of the in 22 games and became Notre Dame's all­Irish. Having graduated two big men in time leading shot-blocker with 37 to raise Keith Robinson and Scott Paddock, who his career total to 90. combined for 17.4 rebounds per game last 
"LaPhonso is one of the nation's premier season, Tower has big shoes to fill. Tower is impact players," said Phelps. "We need his up for the challenge, and his teammates and presence. He is a relentless rebounder, coaches have entrusted their confidence in scorer, and shot-blocker." him. 
Elmer Bennett, a 6-1 junior guard from "We all know that LaPhonso will be a Houston, TX, is a legitimate offensive strong rebounder," says Phelps. "But Keith 



MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

The 1990 Notre Dame Men's Cross Country Team: The men's cross country team won the District N Championship outright for the first time ever. They entered the meet ranked 10th in the Dis­trict and defeated Wisconsin and Michigan, ranked third and seventh, respectively. Next, they head to Knoxville for the NCAA Championships. 

FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Kristin Heath: Heath, a freshman from Ambler, PA, won three events for the Irish against Ball State. She took top honors in the 200-yard butterfly, 200­yard breaststroke, and the 200-yard individual medley. She and her teammates next compete in the National Catholic Collegiate Championships Nov. 
29-Dec.1 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS 
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a SO<t discount off any footlong Subway sandwich. 
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on days of home football games. 
1111 11111
~.....1..1..):.·1~1Jl..;"'V..i' 

State Road 23 and Ironwood 
18 


MOVIES 

S.U.B. MOVIES: Woody Allen's 
Everything You Ever Wanted To Know About Sex will be showing on Thursday, November 15 in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. Showtimes are 8 and 10: 15 p.m. The movie for Friday, November 16 and Saturday, November 17 will be Internal Affairs, showing at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. 
ATTHESNI1E: CamillleClaudel,ahighly acclaimed French film about the sculptress who inspired much of Auguste Rodin's work, will beshowing on Friday,November · 16 and Saturday, November 17 at 6:30 and 
9:30 p.m. On Tuesday, November 13, an Alfred Hitchcock double feature ofPsycho and Psycho II will show at 7 and 9 p.m., respectively. On Tuesday, November 27 (after break), Shane will be showing at 7 p.m., and The Birds will be showingat9:15 
p.m. On Wednesday, November 28 will be 
Yojimbo at 7 p.m. and Confidentially Yours at9:15p.m. 
SPORTS 

FOOTBALL vs. PENN STA TE: The Irish will face a tough Penn State team in their last homegameof1990. Kickoffwilbeat4p.m. 
HOCKEY will take on the University of Massachusetts/Boston on Friday, November16andSaturday,November17at 
7:30 p.m. at the J .A.C.C. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL will play Fordham at 7:30 pm. on Thursday, November 15 in the J.A.C.C. Arena. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL will play the Latvian National Team at 8 p.m. on Friday, November 16 at the J.A.C.C. Arena, and after break will take on Evansville at the 
J.A.C.C. on Monday, November 26. 
CONCERTS 

GLEE CLUB 75th REUNION CONCERT will be at Stepan Center on Friday, November 16 at 8: 15 p.m. 
MISCELLANEOUS 

PEP RALLY: at Gate 3 of the J.A.C.C. at 7 
p.m. on Friday, November 16. 
ART EXHIBITS: Three art exhibits will be (?pening on Firday, November 16 at St. Mary's: "Paintings" by Lisa Lockhart in the Little Theatre Gallery, ''Fiber Works" by Warren Seelig at the Hammes Gallery, and ''Photographs" by Bart Kasten in Moreau Gallery. 

My First Day 
These letters were written by fifth graders from Preston Hollow in Dallas, TX in response to the ques­tion: 
What would a day at Notre Dame be like? 

Iflwere to go to Notre Dame, this could possibly be what happens day afterday, year after long year while in college. I would be studying to be a teacher, so I know what a typical day might be like in the life of a pupil studying in that major. OK, here goes. 
I'll be living in a dorm with aroommate. My classes will be sociology, math and anything else you need to become a teacher. Math is probably first, so here goes. 
I get up and go to the restaurant where most people eat. I eat breakfast and enjoy it (My mom warned me about college food). After breakfast, I proceed in to my math room with tons and tons of books. We go over a little and then he assigns us enough homework for an army of students. I'll probably be thinking to myself, "My gosh, don't they think we have alifeatall. With all this homework, I'll be in for a month. The only problem is that it's due tomorrow!" 
Then I go on to my next class. I have no idea what it is about. They give me two times more homework than my math teacher and then I pass. 

I study until about 6:00 or 7:00, then go out with my friends. I have agood time until I have to get together with my study group of nerdy straight "A" students. 
by Leah Levine 

I am afraid to be away from my family when I go to college because I would not have anybody to kiss me good night and wash my clothes andplus, even though Ihate my sister, I'll still miss someone tearing up my homework. But I figure that I will have a lot of friends to help me out. 
I'm afraid the teachers would be strict if I was late. I'm also afraid thatifldon'tcome to class one day, the teacher will not give_me my assignments. 
I figure homework will be so hard it will take hours, and I would stay up til midnight doing it. 
All together, I think college will be fun, but hard, too. 
by Todd Tomlin 

Beeeeeep.... 
"Uhg. Not another day of college," I groaned. "Well, I better get dressed and 
have breakfast," I said to myself. Now time to leave to drive 60 miles to North Dallas to Notre Dame. 
My first class would be Honors Math. Then I do the homework for math class for 30 minutes. My next class would be a veterinary class. Fifteen minutes later I would attend a gym class for an hour. At 
I :30 I would go to Spanish class. Rightafter Spanish I would go to Geography class and study the world. 
byAlexAron 

Ifl was to be 18 and go to Notre Dame as a freshman tomorrow, this is what it would be like. I get up at 8:45, but barely open my . eyes. I feel my way and find my glasses, but almost knock over a glass of water Q had taken some aspirin lat.that night). As I put the glasses on, I walk over to my schedule and see my first class is at 10:00. The class is math. AfterI take my shower, getdressed, put on make-up and do my hair, it's 10:30. 
by Lisa Hughes 

Here is what my first day ~t the Univer­sity of Notre Dame would be like. All I know is thattheUniversityofNotre Dameis in Pennsylvania which is about 3,000 miles from my house in Dallas, TX. 
I would guess that the University would start the courses at 9 a.m. and end at 6 p.m. My major which is accounting.would startat 10 a.m. and end at 12 p.m. 
I would go to look for a fraternity that would accept me. When I found one, I said to myself, "Here is where I will spend the next4 years ofmy life." D 
.by Marcus Wunters 



=# 3 /,/ES73ue..(pJ./ 1S Uf S.l()N) NOTiZE i)A,YJc IN THc VcAil.. ZOlS-~ ~ 
<, 
-z -:,~
r-----;-------:-----------~~~~~~iiaii;~~~~---~4 
<t ,{ 

0J ~CT) ~: 
~ ~> ~ 
i. fAT\-\~R T~SON M~MCR.\A.L !)f'.\DWl5Al.L 
~r+.t-lGf:. 

2. DtGC:,E:R. Pl-lt..L.PS HorJORA"R.'( BA<SKE:T8ALL HOOP. 
3. t'\c 8,P.,N'i) B,U\LDtt-JG _ 
l.\. Dtv\Z. 

5. De.BARTOLO SKOPP!Nfu MAL.L. 
u. NB c A Fr tl. V-\-re. 

t, Rot-1 ., G.\f'Pf.~\' R.f:A~A~ PG/\c.E. :I:N$T\TL11'E... 
8. 
Goe.Po. C.ot..A Cf.!Sif.R FoR. \-\l)Mf\N RJ('::il-\TS. 

9. 
BuR\<E. M~MoR.tA.1... PA~\<!NG LOT C.Mall. Pa'l"l<in~ Or.I~). 


\O:-t5, ADrl\\~\$TRP.Ttv'G OF'F°tCe~. 
JG. "THE. GOLD~ N D6f'/\f. TM fOOTlSAL.i.,. $1"/l.t)lUIV\. 
l'l. MALI..O'I' MAN'$ l6N. l'8. SAMoA~ 6AK ROON\. IC\. '$1 . .JOE: HI<,~ :SC..KOOL.-No1nH 
CAtv\Pus. 

t.0~ COL\...€.~€. (.FORM€.~\.~ t\Ol.'1 <.RO$$ 
J'lJN\O'J!. C,~(...L.e.o~). '2. \. Hf\MN\f S 0'1€ R F \ ST BOO K'$iO~E... -')\( 10 fl~t> ~1uc:>ct--li Pf\~~lN<:,, 
R1:FcR. To c. l'r~ Of' E.L--iHl\~i MAP, 


SEE THEM DOING IT 
~..---=­HEA Rthe comedy 
of: BOB BATTLE (ND GRAD) 
& FELLOW NOTRE DAME STUDENTS: WILL CLARK CHRIS DELLICARPINI TIM FARISH 
at Theodore's, Weds. Nov. 28 from 9pm til... 
Bu V TICKETS 
at LaFortune Info Desk -$3.00 
EAT POPCORN !! 
DRINK 
BEVERAGES ll 
S 

T A N D 
I 
N G 
u 
p 

• • • comedy that is 
\"Tl'llfN'T l''IIION 61\iUn 
'~~---:4----~--.---. --:---------------. . ' . ' 





