.'<1 j.jgrapa by \Vally Kunkle


RASMUSSEN
MEN’S
THE SORIN HALL SET. In the spring, the world and the skirted-strollers always look a little better from the Sorin Hall porch. These three Detroiters have the post position for the passing parade of fashions and females. Left to right: John Kent Moore, George W. Weber, and William F. Anhut. Take a tip from this trio and get your summer wear now. Rasmussen’s have a fine selection of cool, comfortable tropical worsteds ($40 up). And, for those who like a suit of distinction, our patch-pocket gabardine fills the bill ($60 up). We have hundreds of light, cool slacks for you to choose from ($7.95 up). And here’s our spring special: the TANEY T-SHIRT, perfect for country club, beach, or ba . . . !
SHOP
“Campus Clothes
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
10 6 -10 8 MAIN	13 0 -13 2 WASHINGTON
2
The Scholastic
Letters
WND vs. Hot Water
Editor:
A friend of mine was telling me the other day about how station WND was beamed out through the water or steam pipes or something and I hardly believed such an explanation until I was told about their carrier current transmitter which does make it sound a bit more reasonable. I was wondering whether this might not explain the delay in getting hot water in the morning in some of the halls like Alumni.
I think it’s fine for WND to use the pipes if they have to, but I think they should use some insulator or something so we would have more hot water, after all, that’s what the steam pipes are really for — not radio programs.
Also; how does a fellow get one of these jobs on the weekends to travel for WND. I heard that a fellow was up in Connecticut last Sunday and although I don’t live in Connecticut I wouldn’t mind traveling up there to help run a broadcast from some theater.
I would prefer to go up to Canada or somewhere if WND is going to broadcast from there. Well, thank you very much for listening to my complaint. I guess you get a lot of these from the students, but I guess mine is justified since it’s real constructive criticism.
Thos. B. Grote 301 Alumni
Frank Cronan, WND’s general manager, says his broadcasts don’t interfere zvith the hot zvater supply.—Editor
Honor System
Editor:
An experiment was tried in one of my classes last week and was so successful it should be reported to the entire university. The professor gave the examination questions and then left the room, leaving the men on theii‘ honor. The result was highly successful; many students who had not opened their books all semester opened them during this class.	.
• Name Withheld
Campus Clowns Cut-Up
Editor:
This is to bring to the attention of the students another one of our so-called “brilliant” associates. This individual undoubtedly was under the influence of two beers and the heavy stench which is found in the pubs of lesser fame in South Bend. Two young ladies, who were here with the NFCCS, boarded
May 6, 1949
Young man with good connections
IN a Bell telephone central office, this Western
Electric installer is connecting thousands of wires to new equipment to provide more and better service.
He’s one of 18,000 trained Western Electric installers who do this job for Bell Telephone companies. Crews are working in some 1,600 central offices to connect new equipment which, like your telephone, is made by Western Electric.
• Western Electric is part of the Bell System—has been since 1882. This assures closest cooperation between people who design telephone equipment, people who make it and people who operate it. Their teamwork has given this country the best telephone service on earth. .
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL	SYSTEM SINCE 1882
3
downtown. Immediately there was a barrage of Arise cracks which, as such, were quite harmless and all in good fun, I’m sure. But as we approached the campus, this clown got bolder with his language and downright abusive as he departed for his cell behind Farley.
I don’t wish to appear as a prude, but it seems to me that when a fellow leaves high school, he should try to be a gentleman at all times, and not for the benefit of his parents or his date only. It is my opinion that the majority of men wouldn’t have tolerated this only that they knew he would soon be back in solitary where he surely belongs. I think that most of the gentlemen who read this will agree that a girl feels like a penny waiting for change when she is
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR'S BARBER SHOP "South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT	5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
the object of such rotten and disgusting talk. It’s not becoming of a gentleman . . . a Catholic and from Notre Dame to boot.
Norb Smith, Jr.
Letter From a Redcoat
Editor:
Probably it would be hard to find a more nationalistic coterie than the men of Notre Dame — they’re good Americans and every man, from Costoviski to Goldberg is as Irish as the Liffey. Consequently, when the Union Jack is shown in a film at Washington Hall it’s to be expected that these men display their patriotism with a chorus of hisses and catcalls — Colonel McCormick would no doubt be proud of them. But if the men
of this university appreciate nationalism so highly they’ll bear me no ill-will if, when they look about the stands at the next football game while the “Star-Spangled Banner” is being played, they see, sitting down, yours truly,
Bedcoat Dave Yerex 322 Morrissey
Indefinable Spirit
Editor:
As no one can define adequately the “Notre Dame Spirit,” neither* can any of us in the band who recently visited Warm Springs, Georgia, define the spirit we found theme among the patients. I am sure that none of us had ever before experienced such a feeling, likewise un-definable and inexpressible, as we did at Wann Springs. One might expect to find a great deal of sadness at such an institution, however we found more and greater happiness in Warm Springs than at any other place in the three thousand miles travelled.
As individuals and as a group we were humbled and at the same time inspired by the courageous spirit in Tommy Sexton and all of his fellow patients at the Warm Springs Foundation. . . .
Joe Lauber
463 Morrissey
Weather-perfect for Spring!
BATAMAC JACKETS
THE “CLASSIC” 12.30	THE “STRIDE” 0.05
“Classic” and “Stride” are just two of the several styles in our famous Bantamac Jackets. “Classic" comes in super weatherproofed gabardine and 5 popular colors. “Stride" is a smartly tailored coat-style jacket of 2-ply cotton poplin and remains showerproof ever after washing or dry cleaning. 4 colors. See them, and many others now.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: HENRY MADDEN -	408 LYONS HALL
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
The Once-Over
Here’s a tip to all of the aspiring young architects and industrial engineers at Notre Dame: best way to warm a house is to have the painter put on two coats.
Coach Leahy, in answer to a query on closed football practices, wrote that he was happy to learn that many students have expressed a desire to watch these practice sessions. He added that he had long been of the opinion that these sessions were uninteresting to any spectators. Could this be Mr. Leahy’s way of saying that he doesn’t find much time these days to read the Scholastic?
Bill Brown, the Catholic Comic contortionist, got quite a blow in this magazine last week. He was pictured in one of the panels saving the day once more for good old Notre Dame in a baseball game against Michigan. I noticed that the stadium was truly reminiscent of Cartier Field — permanent concrete stands, lights, electric scoreboard, and a shadowed figure vaguely recognizable as Jake Kline. What amazed me most was Bill’s immaculate dress. He was uniformed in a tailored Notre Dame baseball uniform, fitting perfectly at the arms, waist, and knees. Many of the athletes hereabouts have been asking what technique super-athlete Brown uses on super equipment-keeper Mac-Allister.
The Arrival of Olivier
Hamlet, the English-made film which bagged most of Hollywood’s Academy award silverware last March, comes to town May 11 for a 4-day stand. It features the hamleting of Laurence Olivier, the best actor to hit celluloid in many moons. It is not surprising, however, that the film arrives via South Bend’s back door, the Granada theater.
It is quite evident that the local booking agents are taking no chances on an item labeled as a “culture film.” To insure a good box office week-end, they are whetting the whistles of their hoot-and-holler patrons with a slam-bang western at the Colfax. It’s quietly called Whispering Smith and stars Alan Ladd and hundreds of snorting steers. It rates four bottles of Air Wick.
I save been unable to understand why
the Granada “took a chance” on Hamlet. They didn’t even protect themselves by adding a Laurel and Hardy re-issue.
Aaaand There They Go . . .
Tomorrow, come rain or suckers, will be Derby Day at Churchill Downs in Louisville. This year’s classic looks much closer than last year’s running when Citation nearly beat Matt Winn back to the clubhouse for mint juleps. Here, for the sake of those who want to make an easy kill at the winter-book line, are our Derby picks:
Olympia—once in love with Amy, but no more.
Capot—no jackpot.
Old Rockport—a good chaser.
John’s Joy—Sam’s sororw.
Kentucky Colonel—Sorry, suh, we don’t accept confederate currency.
Model Cadet-^-the war’s over. Wine List—make mine Schlitz. Provocative—yeah.
Where's the Rulebook?
Now that the Nurnberg war crimes trials are over, there has been considerable talk about the one-sidedness of sentencing civilian and military leaders for their war-time ruthlessness. Inasmuch as all of those men sentenced at the Tokyo and Nurnberg trials were losers in the last international skirmish, it is to be assumed that the victors were always good little boys. I wonder.
Buy the Large Bottle
For some time now I have been thinking about the fortune Ray Petrzelka, cocaptain of the Irish baseball team, is losing by not going into the drug business. The name Petrzelka, used as a brand name for any salve or pill, would be as valuable as a lease on Fort Knox. I can just hear some radio commentator reading this commercial:
“ ... Do you twist and turn at night? Are you troubled with gingivitis, cholera, bangs disease, and falling hair? Try a bottle of Petrzelka today. It’s a remarkable, new, mint-flavored anti-acid which quickly relieves sour stomach, gas, and heartburn. Don’t wait. Get yourself a large, economy-size bottle of Petrzelka today. That’s spelled P-E-T-R-Z-E-L-K-A! Doesn’t crystallize or dry out in the jar. Take only as prescribed. Petrzelka ...”
May 6, 1949
5
Entertainment
MAY 6
COLFAX (through May 11)—Whispering Smith. Alan Ladd, dressed up to kill in cowboy duds, takes over a town, as an incognito railroad dick, cleans it up and takes his best friend’s wife (Brenda Marshall) in the coup, after the unfortunate (Robert Preston) has hit the dust for the last time.
PALACE (through May 7)—Boy With Green Hair and Tucson. Talented Dean Stockwell, hiding under a techni-colored wig, appears in one of Dore Schary’s last messageladen films for pre-Howard Hughes’ RKO.
GRANADA (through May 7)—Lucky Stiff-and Will It Happen Again? Dorothy Lamour, Brian Donlevy and Claire Trevor get caught in this mediocre whodunit produced by moneybags Jack Benny.
STATE (through May 7)—One Sunday Afternoon and Flaxy Martin. Two reruns that are inching their respective ways toward Washington Hall.
ROCKNE MEMORIAL—Junior Prom. The Class of ’50 swing wide the doors of the transformed Rock to their guests and home town products. George Olsen brings the baton down on the first beat at 9 p.m. amid the Candy Carnival decor. The witching hour is 1 a.m. with hall gates being locked at 2:30 a.m.
-	MAY 7
DRILL HALL—NROTC Dance. The swabbies, for a change, take over their homestead for their spring shindig.
ROCKNE MEMORIAL—Monogram Dance. Campus athletes one-two step their way around the dance floor to the amusement and enjoyment of everyone. If they don’t forget themselves and start a pick-up game it ought to be an A-l party.
MAY 8
PALACE (through May 11)—The Bribe and Search for Danger. Robert Taylor, as a disguised beachcombing FBI man, tries to break up a Central American racket. John Hodiak, Charles Laughton and eyefilling Ava Gardner are also in the cast, but the melodramatic plot bogs them down like tropical heat victims. . .	•
STATE (through May 11)—Count of Monte Cristo and Son of Monte Cristo. A dual family saga bill in which neither the cast nor story have anything in common. The progenitor stars Robert Donat and is well worth the price of admission. The son is an afterthought that should have remained a gleam.
MAY 11
GRANADA (through May 14)—Hamlet, Sir Laurence Olivier’s masterpiece which accomplishes the impossible by equalling his previous Henry V. Wisely filmed in black and white, it graphically captures Elsinore’s sombre mood. The acting is superb and Shakespeare’s dialogue is spoken with pristine clarity. Olivier, as the immortal Dane, Jean Simmons, as Ophelia, and Eileen Herlihie, as Gertrude, are beyond superlatives, as is the remainder of the excellent cast. Everyone should see this film for it is the type that appears but once in a lifetime.
MAY 12
COLFAX (through May 18)—Knock on Any Door. A picturization of Willard Motley’s sociological novel dealing with the underprivileged in Chicago. Humphrey Bogart and newcomer John Derek are starred. The film’s approach (that of making the law appear all bad) ruins what might have been a fine documentary on juvenile delinquency.
“It’s almost human the way
Linkman’s Pipe-Smoking
spo. $2°° • 335°. $500 Fashioned by Linkman
Dr. Crabow Pipe Co. Inc, Chicago u, III.
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral 114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
Dr. Ralph A. Berman DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
The Scholastic
7<4e Nobe 2>a#te
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 May 6, 1949 No. 25
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
College man should know I
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK Associate Editors JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR News JOSEPH DUKERT __________ Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN _____________Features HARRY MONAHAN Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT.________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER ____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN ______________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising ROBERT J. VIERHILE __________Advertising JOHN T. CLARK Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL __________Circulation JOHN S. BRENNAN______________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	_
COVER: Spring at Notre Dame is beautiful if only by contrasts. After the
winter on the polar ice cap, the blos
soming of Indiana is, to reverse an old cliche, going from the ridiculous to the sublime. Spring is a time for sunbathing on the St. Joe pier, hymn singing at the grotto; a time of resolutions to study and the ever - hovering
Here the tranquility
• This is an electrical engineer.
Really a live-wire but frequently gets Ohm-sick. Knows what’s JFatt. Never goes sparking without a "Manhattan” tie.
3
This is a "Manhattan” tie.
Painstakingly engineered. Foulard pattern with contrasting stripe current favorite in college circuit.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1949, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
specter of exams.
of Dome and lake have been captured in the crisp interpretation of infra-red.
This most famous of all Notre Dame
scenes was recorded by the old master himself — Jim Ferstel.
May 6, 1949
7
8
The Scholastic
■ I	T ■	Volume 90 - Number 25
V II V L Zw I I C	may 6, 1949
Students Elect Class Officers Tuesday
Chuck Perrin emotes violently in "Shadow and Substance" rehearsal
'Shadow and Substance' Opens Wednesday; Free Student Tickets Will Be Distributed
With four solid weeks of intensive rehearsal behind them, members of the University Theater’s Shadow and Substance cast were polishing up the finer points of theii" play this week, in readiness for the opening night May 11. The play will continue through May 12 and 13. Frank J. Hanley, director of the four-act drama expressed high hopes for a successful three-night stand, and said, “I am highly pleased with the rehearsals . . . the play should be a fine success.”
William J. Eisen, director of the University Theater, released the schedule for ticket distribution earlier this week. The free tickets will be available to students on Monday and Tuesday, May 9 and 10 only. They will be distributed from a booth on the main floor of the Dining Hall from 11 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. on those days. The curtain rises on the first act at 8:15 p.m.
Mr. Eisen emphasized that all seats are reserved, but that they will be held open only up until 8:10 p.m. at each performance. After that time, he said,
if the seats aren’t filled, they will be offered to all late-comers who neglected to get tickets at the proper time.
Received Rave Notices
Shadow and Substance, Paul Vincent Carroll’s perennially popular Irish play, has received rave notices ever since it was first produced in 1937. With a competent cast headed by Stephen Hauser and June Anderson, the University Theater closes its year with this featured presentation.
Hauser plays the lead, the role of Canon Skerritt; Miss Anderson portrays Brigid, the Canon’s understanding housekeeper.
Other roles are assigned to Jack Powell, who will play O’Flingsley, the schoolmaster; Mary Jo Cowger, as Skerritt’s giggling niece, Thomasina; Leo Blaber and James Maher as the two curates, Fathers Corr and Kirwan; Charles Perrin as the jovial bartender, Martin Mul-lahone; and Mrs. Jean Richard as spin-
(Continued on Page 33)
45 Candidates Wage Lively Campaign
Climaxing four weeks of high-pressure election campaigning on the campus, Notre.Dame will go to the polls next week to name the sophomore, junior and senior class officers for 1949-50. One of the largest voting turnouts in. recent years is expected Tuesday as the students of three classes converge on the Dining Hall to name their leading men for another year.
The Student Council’s election committee, headed by Pete Brown, will open the polls officially at 11 a.m. The voting will continue throughout the day until 4:30 p.m., when the ballot boxes will be removed to Council chambers for tallying the votes. Aided by the Blue Circle, the election committee looks for a big day from the voters next Tuesday as some 45 hopeful candidates for offices will stand by to watch the fun.
Fourteen new men threw their hats in the ring this past week before the nominations for candidates closed. The seniors added another full ticket, “The Easy Aces” party, consisting of Bob Lichtenberger for president; Dick McGoldrick for vice-president; Don Hol-linghausen for secretary, and John Whalen for treasurer. For the sophomores, one more complete ticket was added also. Without a party name to date, this slate carries Jim Garvin, Dick Clancy, Sal Fiorella and Cliff Hoenie.
Candidates for the four senior representative-at-large posts on the Student Council are Art Frericks, Paul Leamy, Dick Cullen, Matthew Kehoe, Jim Se-bold, Jim Heaney, Jim Carberry, Russ Skall, and Anthony Alexander.
As time drew short before the voting day, more and more big posters popped up around the campus this week, indicative of the increasing interest in the class campaigns. To date most of the campaign promises are big and fat. The seniors’ “That Certain Party” has promised everything from dual Senior Balls to monthly class smokers and closer (Continued on Page ,29)
May 6, 1949
9
MISS JOANNE MEGAN Bonbons . . .
Candy Carnival Opens in Rockne Gym Tonight
Tonight high above the billows and white caps of the Rockne Memorial Pool, George Olsen with his “danceable” music makers will make with the music for the Juniors’ “Candy Carnival.” But the swell from the pool shouldn’t bother the Olsen troupe after their recently completed extended engagement at the Edgewater Beach overlooking Lake Michigan.
Since the days of the roaring twenties and his Victor interpretations of the Rodgers-Hart musical hits, Olsen’s music has been a must for the nation’s college dances. This evening from a bandstand shaped as a huge candy box, he will serenade the Juniors and their ladies as they dance or sit them out.
Though his troupe has played for royalty throughout the world, never for two lovelier members of the purple than the two beautiful queens of the evening, Theo Paltzer and Joanne Megan. Theo is a blue-eyed brunette in her earliest twenties from Appleton, Wis. According to her escort, Russ Skall, cochairman of the dance, she is a five foot
SUMMER STORAGE
Arrangements have been made through the Office of Student Welfare for summer storage. Articles for storage will be picked up at the various halls and delivered at the start of the fall semester. Students desiring this service should contact either Bill Simpson or Joe Burger, both of 207 Dillon, before May 15.
MISS THEO PALTZER . . . for the Juniors' candy box
six inch bit of loveliness whose principal interests are interior decorating, art, tennis, St. Joseph’s Mission Club, and the Co-Ed Club of Neenah-Menasha. Co-chairman Jim Holway’s date, Joanne Megan, is a pretty blue-eyed brunette stenographer from Roseland and a graduate of Washington-Clay.
Just in case Mr. Olsen’s musicians may feel the pangs of hunger during their 9 to 1 task, the situation is well taken care of. Through the generosity of the Curtiss, Whitman, and Johnson Candy Companies, many pounds of confectioneries have been donated.
Name New York U. Lecturer As Visiting Professor Here
Professor Marshall W. Baldwin, of New York University, has been named Visiting Professor in Mediaeval History here for the 1949-50 schoolyear. Professor Baldwin will fill the vacancy created by the recent appointment of Dr. G. B. Ladner to the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton.
Professor Baldwin is a former president of the American Catholic Historical Association and author of The Medi-. aeval Papacy in Action. He studied at Yale, Princeton and Cambridge universities and has been a lecturer at New York University for the past several years.
Professor Baldwin will lecture on twelfth and thirteenth century Europe during the first academic semester at Notre Dame and on the later Middle Ages in the second semester.
B. Altman President Is Graduation Speaker
One of the nation’s leading Catholic laymen, John S. Burke, president of New York City’s B. Altman & Co. department store, will deliver the principal address at Notre Dame’s June 5 commencement exercises, Father John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., announced yesterday.
At the same time Father Cavanaugh said that the Rev. Paul Bussard, editor of The Catholic Digest, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon on Commencement Sunday. The Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, will celebrate the Baccalaureate Mass.
Mr. Burke, who was graduated from Yale University in 1912, has been associated ever since his graduation with the B. Altman and Company which he now heads. Under his direction the New York store has developed into one of the leading businesses of its kind in the United States.
In addition to serving as president of the big New York store, Mr. Burke is also president of the Altman Foundation and the Friedsam Foundation. He is a director of the Fifth Avenue Association in New York City, and is a trustee of the Catholic Charities of the Archdioceses of New York, of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and of the Georgia Warm Springs Foundation. He has received papal recognition for his Catholic Lay Leadership and is a Papal Chamberlain of Cape and Sword. In 1941 he was awarded the Catholic Action Medal by St. Bonaventure College in New York.
Father Bussard, who has been editor of The Catholic Digest since 1936, attended St. Thomas College in St. Paul and the St. Paul Seminary. He received a doctorate of philosophy degree from the Catholic University of America, and later pursued advanced studies in Germany. He was ordained in St. Paul in 1928, and has had wide experience in the journalistic field, in addition to his editorship of The Catholic Digest. Formerly he had served as editor of the Leaflet Missal, and as associate editor of the Orate Fratres.	.
Father Bussard has also gained nationwide prominence as an author. He has written such books as If I Be Lifted Up, The Living Source, Staircase to a Star, The Sacrifice, and was co-author of The Meaning of the Mass.
Happy Birthday!
“The Week,” regular Scholastic feature now written by Bob Vierhile, celebrates its twenty-fifth anniversary this year. Its first author was James Arm.-strong, now national Secretary of the ND Alumni Association.
10
The Scholastic
Survey Shows Fewer Jobs for Engineers
Engineers, roll up your sleeves and start your job-hunting early! The plush days of the post-war boom are slipping rapidly out of the picture, and the number of inexperienced engineering graduates on U. S. payrolls is dropping.
A decrease of 26 per cent in the number of young engineer prospects hired was reported this year by industrial companies in a poll conducted by the General Survey Committee of the Engineers Joint Council. This group, composed of representatives of major engineering societies of the country, gleaned the figures from the reports of 155 companies and 27 governmental agencies.
One ray of hope was presented by agencies of state governments, who reported a probable substantial increase. Federal government agencies announced a decrease of only eight per cent.
On the basis of starting rates reported, 25 per cent of the engineers on the bachelor’s level hired this year will receive $275 or more a month; half will get at least $255; and 75 per cent will receive $250 or higher.
In a separate survey of salary trends from 1946.to 1948, the statistics compiled by the Council show that salaries of men with 10 years’ experience in engineering have risen 20 per cent, from a median of $375 to $450.
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT —Here Father Cavanaugh and two production men from Chicago's Mutual station WGN confer on aspects of the nation-wide program aired from Washington Hall last week. The spotlight was turned on Notre Dame's progress in science on the broadcast in the 26th annual observance of Universal ND Night.
May 6, 1949
THE FIFTH ANNUAL CONGRESS of the NFCCS Tri-Regional Commission for InterAmerican Action held sway on the campus last weekend as more than two hundred delegates — mostly girls — from twenty mid-western colleges convened at Notre Dame for the two-day conclave. Here seven delegates to the congress take a break in the Law Building lounge after a torrid round of lectures, panels, and meetings. Extracurricular business included a dance in the Drill Hall and a Washington Hall thriller.
Freshmen Ready for Spring Tonic May 14
The scent of “Spring Tonic” is daily becoming increasingly evident in the area about the freshman halls, as the date of the Freshman Spring Dance rapidly approaches. The dance is slated for May 14, from 8:30 to 12:00, at the Navy Drill Hall. Dance Chairman Ed Vasta has preliminary operations well under way and advance notices of the dance indicate that the “chief tonic doser” has spared no effort in preparation — including the arranging for pretty Western Michigan College co-ed Lola Gordon to reign as Queen for the occasion. Miss Gordon and Vasta were high school classmates at Benton Harbor (Michigan) High school.
Aside from the coronation of the Queen, there are several other “specials” in store for attending Freshmen and their dates. A musical salute for each freshman hall is foremost on the agenda of Tony Papa’s Orchestra; venerable St. Edward’s Hall will be honored to the strains of “Shanty Town.” Not least on the list of attractions are the clever leatherette favor-programs which Chairman Vasta terms “practical, yet attractive; novel, yet lasting.”
An attractive array of prospective dates has been made available through the Date Bureau. The best from St. Mary’s College, St. Mary’s of the Woods, St. Joseph’s Hospital, and local high
schools are procurable through the bureau.
An added enticement for those considering inviting girls from out-of-town is seen in the convenient time of the Old Timers’ Game scheduled to take place the afternoon of May 14.
The Freshman Dance defies convention in that it combines the more desirable points of an informal dance with the advantages of a formal. There are 1:00 permissions yet corsages are virtually banned.
Dance bids sell for $2.50 and are available through floor representatives.
LOST AND FOUND
A pair of brown moccasin-toe shoes were taken from the locker room of the Golf Shop on Tuesday, April 26. Owner requests their return to the management of the Golf Shop or to Room 256 Badin HalL
One dark blue high school monogram sweater was found on the campus last week. Owner may have same by identifying it in Room 436 Zahm HalL
A tennis racquet Wilson "Dictator" model, was lost at the Circle about two weeks ago. Will the finder please contact M. A. GabreskL Room 401, Cavanaugh Hall.
11
miss mary McDonough SMC queens to reign . . .
Special European Tour Offered U.S. Students
Sunny Italy, as remembered from the gay pre-war tourist posters, has lost none of its Latin charm in the intervening years and is once again giving the come-hither look to American travelers. This summer a special European summer tour for American students is being sponsored under the auspices of the A.N.S.I., an organization approved by His Holiness Pope Pius XII whose purpose is, among other things, to promote better understanding among people of other countries.
The 31-day tour will cost §695 including a round trip by plane. The itinerary starts in Rome. A week is spent there in which time the tourist visits all the historic and religious landmarks in and around the city. A special audi-•ence with the Holy Father and an extensive tour of Vatican City is included :as a highlight.
The party then moves on to Naples, •where Amalfi and Capri, among other spots of note, will be visited. A train will take the tourists to picturesque Florence for a three-day stop-over. Then a day’s train trip to Venice where a motorboat will transfer the visitors to their hotel. Three days in one of the world’s most beautiful cities and then on to Cortina d’Ampezzo. A short rest of two days there and then over the pass to Switzerland and St. Moritz. Como will welcome the group for two days and then a three-day visit in Nice.
A four-hour trip will bring the tourist to Lourdes. An extra day in which to visit the famous grotto and then a
12
NAOTO Spring Formal Slated for Tomorrow
It’s anchors away and full speed ahead tomorrow night when the Notre Dame NROTC holds its Spring Formal in the Navy Drill Hall. The prospective Navy officers will dance from 9 to 1 to the melodic starins of Myron Walz and his orchestra.
Mary Ann Holters and Mary McDonough, escorted by co-chairmen Jack Courtney and Andy Walsh respectively, will reign over the dance. They will be included in the reception line that will welcome the couples from 9 to 9:30 p.m.
Land-lubbers (civilians) are cordially invited to this navy dance. Those who are attending the Junior Prom tonight may find this ball just the thing to make the week-end complete. Bids for the dance are §2.40 and may be obtained at 323 Morrissey.
MISS MARY ANN HOLDERITH ... at ND swabbies' ball
northern trip to Paris. Three days there, packed with sight-seeing, special side trips of interest and many free hours for leisure. Then, on the tour’s 30th day, the group will board the plane for New York.
Three sections will leave New York on June 20, July 20 and August 20. The cost of the tour will include round trip by Douglas Skymaster, accommodations in good second-class hotels including taxes, transportation on the continent by motorcoach and second-class railway, sightseeing, as per program, entrance free to museums, and constant assistance of a Pier Busseti representative.
For further information interested parties should contact A.N.S.I., Na-. tional Association, of the Italian Schools, 46 East 57th Street, New York 22, N. Y.
Band Will Enfer+ain At Old Timers' Same
Next on the schedule for the Notre Dame Band is the Old Timers’ Game on May 14. In view of last year’s difficulties when the band was rained out while marching, plans for this event call for the band to play from the stands. Then, about the third week of May, the concert and varsity bands will present the annual outdoor concert in front of the Main Building and the activities for the year ■will be rounded out with a concert during the commencement week-end. The band ■will also play for the regular commencement ceremonies.
Music lovers in the student body were met with the strains of the Russian Easter Overture by Rimsky-Korsakov, the Chaconne March by Holst, Summer Day Suite by Prokofiev, Elsas' Procession to the Cathedral by Wagner, the Casey Jones Fantasy by Walters, and other tunes when they filled the Navy Drill Hall for an evening concert April 27, one of the band’s last performances of the present school year.
The Drill Hall concert was designed to give students an idea of the music that “thrilled the South” as the band members returned to the swing of campus activity after a two-week tour of the Southland. Highlights of their trip included a tour of the Kentucky capital at Frankfort, official welcome by the military aide to the governor of Georgia and a police escort into Atlanta, beach party and shore dinner at Pensacola, and a visit to Tommy Sexton at the Warm Springs Polio Foundation, including Tom’s reception as an honorary band member.
St. Mary's, ND Glee Clubs To Present Joint Concerts
Next Monday evening at 7:30, the Glee Clubs of St. Mary’s College and the University of Notre Dame will present a joint concert in St. Angela’s Hall on the St. Mary’s campus. Mrs. Dorothy Pate, director of the St. Mary’s club, will conduct the combined choruses in a performance of F. Melius Christiansen’s suite, From Grief to Glory. This four part work will share the spotlight on the evening’s entertainment program with J. S. Bach’s Sacred Cantata No. 106. The Bach number will also feature the two singing groups and will be under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, the Notre Dame Glee Club director.
In addition to these musical selections, each Glee Club will perform a number of their own selections during the concert. These-- singers- will also perform • at Washington Hall on May 16.
The Scholastic
Seniors Sign Band For Post-Ball Dance
(JUister Srern (Sues in (Dxfnrb
Herb Germann and his 10-piece supper club orchestra have been signed for the May 21 tea dance engagement at the Indiana Club, completing the arrangements for the Senior Ball week end.
“This is one of the finest dinner-dance orchestras in this area,” commented Committeeman Jim Clilford. “With Freddy Martin’s 18-piece aggregation playing in the drill hall on the 20th and Herb Germann’s 10-piece orchestra playing at the Indiana Club on the 21st, the seniors will be nostalgia-ized by a total of 28 pieces.”
Ticket sales for the two-day Senior Ball week-end have been brisk. Bill Powers, ticket chairman, reports that over 150 bids were sold the first two days. A limit of 500 tickets has been set for the dance to eliminate overcrowding of the Drill Hall and Indiana Club facilities.
Freddy Martin will bring his orchestra into an almost unrecognizable Navy Drill Hall. Lou Scibelli, John St. Germaine, and Bob Molnar, teaming up on the decorations, plan to change the halfmoon-shaped building into a rather classy cabaret.
Bids, selling for $9, are on sale daily from noon ’til 1 in the lobby of the dining hall. Included in the price are refreshments, a favor, and both dances.
Tickets may be obtained in the following senior residence halls: 212 Alumni—Bob Welch; 104 Dillon—John McMahon; 423 Cavanaugh—Bill Powers; 303 Walsh—Bill Bradley; 105 Sorin— Clarence Ushela; 239 Howard—Bernie Powers.
FOREIGN FILMS
Continuing the film program sponsored by the Department of Modem Languages. Mr. Walter M. Langford, head of the department, announces the following schedule for the remainder of the series. The program up to now has included a Russian film, a German film, a Spanish bonus film, and a French-produced polyglotal film which embraced French. Italian, Latin, Abyssinian and English dialogue. The following four films are yet to be shown, all at 7:30 pan.:
May 6—Engineering Auditorium, “Shubert’s
Serenade” (French)
May 10—Engineering Auditorium, “El Su-persabio” (Spanish)
May 20—Washington Hall, “Emil und die Detektive” (German)
May 24—Washington Hall, “Su Mejor Alum-no” (Spanish)
Honors Come Easy for ND s Rhodes Scholar
By AL LAPORTE
Jim Greene won the 1949 Rhodes Scholarship for Newfoundland. If Jim were a student at Cambridge or New Haven, the Harvards and the Yales would be making much ado about the honor he brought to the school. Dressed in their seersucker suits, the Crimsons and the Bulldogs would gather at the Harvard Union or Morrie’s to celebrate the occasion. It would be a glorious thing at Cambridge or New Haven.
But Jim doesn’t attend Harvard or Yale. He’s a grad student at the University of Notre Dame, working for his Master of Arts degree. He received his AB in 1948 from this University under the accelerated program in effect then, graduating Cum Laude in three years.
This business of graduating with honors is a habit with Jim; he was graduated from St. Bonaventure’s College, St. John’s, -with “honours in every grade in the C.H.E. Examinations.” But the highest honor the 20-year-old Canadian has received was the nomination by the selection committee for Newfoundland of the Rhodes Scholarship Trust.
$2000 Scholarship Grant
The scholarship — a two-year grant valued at approximately $2000 — means that Jim will be able to study for his Bachelor of Arts Degree in Law at Merton College, Oxford, and may have the opportunity to stay for a third year to obtain a Bachelor of Civil Law degree from the English university. The change from the Notre Dame and/or American system will mean, among other things, that Jim will be under the guidance of a tutor who serves as a glorified “house mother” to five or six men.
Newfoundland’s Mr. Greene achieved something of a record for versatility at Notre Dame. Jim was .the first nonAmerican to be elected president of the Wranglers Club; for two years he was Publicity Director of the Notre Dame Glee Club; he was a member of YCS and a delegate to the regional convention from this University; he was selected to serve as a representative to the NFCCS Conference, sitting on the Canadian panel; and, in his weaker moments, he wrote for this magazine.
His athletic accomplishments, while
not of varsity rank, were also unusual. In between his many scholastic and University activities, Jim found time to play tackle on the champion, unbeaten Lyons Hall football team of 1946, receiving a
JIM GREENE
The Colossus of Rhodes
gold medal for his play. ’Tis said that he’s pretty fair with a golf club and tennis racquet and that he swims whenever he gets a chance.
Hockey Lover
Characteristic of the men from north of the border, Jim loves hockey and, though he hasn’t played much during his stay at the University, he’s rated quite highly back in St. John’s, where he played regularly on a crack high school sextet. He still follows the lightning fast ice game, numbering among his friends Bill Gadsby and Jim Henry of the Blackhawks and the Bruins’ Pat Egan. Following the puck chasers once he’s in England may prove a little difficult, for the British rank the. bruising battles on the soccer field as the most popular national sport.
Jim hopes to receive his master’s in English at the August commencement, then head home to prepare for his September sailing date. It’s doubtful whether he’ll pack his hockey stick or American football — the Rhodes Scholarship is enough. The Harvards and the Yales have their seersucker suits_
May 6, 1949
13
Antidote for Comic Books
Bright Features Lift C.S.C./s "Catholic Boy"
While our grandpappies were weaned on a steady literary diet of dime thrillers, and our pappies on Nick Carter mysteries, and even some of our contemporaries on those all but forgotten biglittle books, the present generation has been exposed to an overstuffed diet of comic books. The juveniles of today are
FATHER GARTLAND
From Twyckenham park . . .
awash under the welter of crude, trite, and paradoxically unhumorous comic books.
The Congregation of Holy Cross stepped into this breach last fall when they bought the rights to the magazine, 7/ie Catholic Boy. They felt at that time that the minds of America’s young "boys were being fed cheap imitations of literature and believed that there was a definite need for some correction. The C.S.C.’s needed an editor to lead this reform and no better man for the job could have been chosen than the Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C.
Father Gartland, a young, diffident, but gregarious priest, and ND alumnus, has had much experience along journalistic lines. He has done an almost unbelievable job in reconverting the once stilted boys’ magazine into an attractive, pepped-up periodical whose circulation, in less than six months, has jumped to 55,000. Father Gartland envisions 100,000 subscribers within a year. The magazine’s editorial office is in Twyckenham Park on the Novitiate’s estate.
The contributing writers have been picked from some of the best sources in
the country. Jimmy Powers, sports editor of the New York Daily Neivs, writes a monthly column on advance dope on big-time sports and sports television. O. A. Battista, a Reader’s Digest and Sat-evepost contributor, handles a popular-science column, while Bob Coyne, one of the best-known, best-loved cartoonists in all New England, offers a back cover art spread, featuring sports stars. Mark Kearney, a member of Father Peyton’s staff, contributes a column on Hollywood. Jack Connor, outdoor editor of the Minneapolis Tribune, keeps the subscribers up on hiking, hunting, fishing and the secrets of wild life. Clem Lane, city editor of the Chicago Daily News, writes “Down the Lane,” described as “the kind of plain talk a son needs and can take.”
Peppered throughout the monthly are brief and readable short stories and many old-fashioned cartoons — old-fashioned in the sense that they carry a chuckle. The art work is professional and pleasurable. ND’s Gene Rossi, a senior architect student, has had several originals published in the magazine. Lyons Hall’s Father Bailey runs a column for the Knights of the Altar.
As Father Gartland said, “We realize that this is only the beginning, and that it’s not any easy job. We’re attempting to build a boy and make him happy at the same time.” If there’s any publication that can answer that prescription, then it is most certainly The Catholic Boy.—Ken Thoren
THE'CATHOLIC BOY' . . . to the kid down the street
Library Files Protest Against Postal Boost
The University of Notre Dame Library has added its voice to the cry going up from other libraries throughout the country over the proposed new postal rates for the United States Post Office. In a letter mailed April 21 to three of Indiana’s U. S. Congressmen, Senators Capehart and Jenner and Congressman Crook, the entire regular library staff protested the proposed bills which call for increased mailing rates throughout the nation.
The two bills, House Bill H.R. 2945 and Senate Bill S. 1103, would hike postal rates for the fourth time since 1942. In general, the bills provide for a rate of nine cents for the first pound and six cents each additional pound for general merchandise. This constitutes a jump of 500 per cent on the first pound and 300 per cent on additional poundage over the 1942 rates.
The bills would also eliminate the special mailing rates for books and class them as general merchandise. For this reason, libraries are complaining that the bills would cause a considerable cut on the number of books per year available to them under limited budgets.
The letter sent by the library staff to the Indiana Congressmen contained these five specific points:
1.	Before the introduction of Bill H.R. 2945 and Bill S. 1103, the book postal rates were already too high. All books should be classed with magazines as Second Class Matter, and not with merchandise as Fourth Class Matter.
2.	A flat nation-wide mailing rate for books should be established, so that the educational and cultural centers farthest from the point of supply ‘will not be penalized by the zoning rates. (This refers to a surcharge based on distance for fourth class merchandise which is included in the bills.)
3.	The book postage rate should be the same for the first pound as for each additional pound, so that the buyer" of a single book at any one time will not suffer a disadvantage as compared to the buyer of a larger order.
4.	A fair price for book postage to any address within the United States we consider to be not over FOUR CENTS PER POUND.
5.	Consideration should be given to the public welfare function of books and printed matter- and every effort aimed at wider dissemination of the printed word rather than at curtailment through prohibitive service charges.
The letter was signed by the entire library staff, headed by Paul R. Byrne, Library director.	,
14
The Scholastic
Stockyard Samaritan
Chicago Bishop Fights for Social Justice
Scholastic moves out of its usual feature-story field this tveek to bring its readers a story on the work and ideals of Chicago’s Bishop Bernard J. Sheil, written by its former feature editor and columnist, Joe Wilcox. Though it’s far removed from the customary Notre Dame-slanted story, we think this piece may be of considerable interest to many students.—Editor.
By JOE WILCOX
The area back of the stockyards in Chicago is not a pretty place. Stockyard workers are not notorious for their high standard of living.
But today, there is an organization that exists wholly for the purpose of providing education, recreation, fellowship and activity in citizenship for these people. It is called the Back-of-the-Yards Council, and one of its moving spirits is a Catholic Bishop — the Most Reverend Bishop Bernard J. Sheil, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago.
There are many busy men in this country. But for sheer volume of work and multitude of duties, Bishop Sheil carries off the prize. His ecclesiastical duties alone would lick many a lesser
Bishop Sheil with Phil Murray (center) and the late Sidney Hillman in 1944
man. Not Bishop Sheil, however. He finds time not only for church work but for almost innumerable activities — for youth and laboi- work, for education and charity. Most of it is done among the socially and economically underprivileged.
In 1930, Bishop Sheil, who was bom and brought up in Chicago himself, founded an organization that today provides recreation for thousands of boys who might otherwise be left to their own devices in metropolitan areas. In the CYO, boys — with no racial barriers — learn the principles of getting along together and the activities so vital to proper growth and development. This organization Bishop Sheil actively heads today; he appears at its functions, takes an active part in everything it does. This, too, would be a full time job. But Bishop Sheil finds time for even more.
Heads Study Institute
He has worked with the Lewis College of Science and Technology in Chicago. This institution provides technical and aeronautical training for the boys of the Chicago archdiocese. He is head of the Sheil School of Social Studies, which
BISHOP BERNARD J. SHEIL
Amon? other things, a seeing-eye dog
applies Christian principles to current social problems. For above all, Bishop Sheil is a Christian. It is not only his creed, it is his whole life.
Politically and economically, Bishop Sheil is what is loosely called a “liberal.” He has actively espoused the cause of labor unionism, even though it has made him unpopular with some influential people. He has publicly been called a Communist. His accuser, a radio commentator, used the facilities of a national radio network to call a Catholic Bishop a Communist. Bishop Sheil was not afraid to answer. He has never been afraid to answer anyone. Said he, on the same network, “I have never hesitated to condemn, with all the power at my command, every form of totalitarian government. . . As a Bishop of the Roman Catholic Church I have constantly tried to hasten the coming of that social reconstruction of the world which the Popes, particularly from Leo XIII to Pius XII, have labored so hard and so long ... I have taken my stand uncompromisingly at the side of the poor, the disinherited, and the dispossessed. I shall continue to do so.” The Communists, who have tried to put the Bishop’s name on the letterheads of Front organizations, have forthwith discovered that Bishop Sheil was no friend of theirs.
Fights Prejudice
Because all men have a common ground in the fatherhood of God, Bishop Sheil is unalterably opposed to any kind of racial or religious discrimination. His stand against anti-Semitism has been particularly outspoken. He (Continued on Page 29)
May 6, 1949
15
Names Make News
Professor ALFRED LONG SCANLAN, of the Notre Dame College of Law, has been named to serve on an arbiters’ panel by Governor Henry Schricker of Indiana. This panel was established under a public employees dispute act of 1947 which requires public employees to submit any dispute to arbitration. In his duties as a member of the panel, Prof. Scanlan may be called upon as an arbiter in the event of any labor dispute between the union and public utilities.
A new test for syphilis which would react positively only to that disease has been discovered by Dr. ROBERT A. NELSON, 1944 graduate of the Notre Dame College of Science. Although the new test is still in the experimental stage, Nelson and his associates at Johns Hopkins University hope that it will be ready for general use in a little over a year. Their findings also open up the possibility of vaccination against syphilis.
Dr. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, professor of political science, attended the annual convention of the Mid-West Political Science Association recently held on the campus of the University of Wisconsin at Madison. The convention adopted a new constitution and established a six-man executive council as the governing body of the association. Dr. Bartholomew was elected to one of the positions on this council.
H. LEE HOPE, director of the Notre Dame concert and marching bands and the man who recently conducted a 350-piece band at the Greene County, Ind., music festival, was named as one of three judges at the New Orleans Music Festival held Wednesday through Saturday of this week. The other judges are Mark Hindsley, director of the University of Illinois bands, and Dr. William D. Ravelli, University of Michigan director of bands.
Rev. ASZTRIK GABRIEL, O.praem., professor in the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, has published an article on the history of mediaeval universities in Analecta Praemonstratensia, a periodical review published at Antwerp, Belgium, by the Praemonstratensian Order of which he is a member.
Father Gabriel will also address the convention of the American Association of Teachers of French May 7 at the University of Indiana, Bloomington.
A still life painting of “Cho-Cho-San and Bittersweet” by Professor STANLEY S. SESSLER, head of the Department of Fine Arts at Notre Dame, was recently displayed at the first regional show of the Hoosier Salon at the Smithsonian Institute. The Salon was sponsored by the Indiana Society of Washington, D. C.
"CHO-CHO-SAN AND BITTERSWEET" Shown by Professor Sessler
St. Mary’s College has announced the selection of GEORGE N. SHUSTER, president of Hunter College in New York City and former head of the Department of English at Notre Dame, to address the 1949 graduating class at St. Mary’s at the commencement exercises on June 4. Mr. Shuster, a prominent Catholic author and educator, will speak on “Hopes and Halos.”
Formerly the editor of the Catholic weekly, Commonweal, he is at present a member of the national commission for the United Nations Educational, Social and Cultural organization and served as a member of the American delegation to UNESCO conference in 1945 and 1946.
Representing the Notre Dame Philosophy department at the recent annual convention of the American Catholical Philosophical Association in Boston were Rev. BERNARD MULLAHY, C.S.C., and Rev. ALBERT L. SCHLITZER, c.s.c. Father Mullahy was a member of a panel on Ethics and the Philosophy of Society and Father Schlitzer presented a paper on the Finality of Marriage.
Professor DONALD PLUNKETT, of the Department of Biology, discussed the scientific program of the University before members of the Western Michigan Alumni group at Grand Rapids as part of their observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Mr. Plunkett was one of about 20 faculty members who addressed local alumni groups all over the country.
FRANK C. VENNER, a January graduate who majored in speech, is now a staff announcer for station WSPD in Toledo, Ohio. Six nights a week he handles a disc jockey show in addition to daily news broadcasts. He also holds down a weekly television sports show over WSPD-TV.
Social Notes
Miss Mary Ann Doran and JOSEPH E. ROEMER were married in St. Joseph’s Church in South Bend last Saturday morning. The bride is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. M. E. Doran, of South Bend. Roemer, son of Professor and Mrs. WILLIAM ROEMER, will graduate from Notre Dame in June.
Scholastic congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN PAVELA, of Michigan City, Ind., on the birth April 9 of a son, Stephen Lawrence III. Pa-vela was captain of the 1948 ND baseball team.
Sociology Panel to Include Mundelein, St. Mary's Guests
Students of ND’s Department of Sociology will play hosts to guests from Mundelein College, Chicago, and St. Mary’s next Tuesday afternoon, May 10.
Two students from each of the three schools will participate in a panel discussion on “The Social Role of Women in Contemporary Life” to be held in the Law Auditorium from 4:15 to 5:30. Professor John J. Kane will preside as discussion moderator.
Approximately 50 girls from Mundelein, accompanied by Sister M. Liguori, B.V.M., head of that college’s Department of Sociology, will arrive at Notre Dame at 2:00 p.m. They will be escorted around the campus by sociology students. Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the ND Department of Sociology, will welcome all the guests in a brief talk prior to the panel discussion. All students and faculty members are invited.
Panel participants from Mundelein College will be the Misses Patricia Troy and Mary Threse Neville. The St. Mary’s representatives will be the Misses Jean Beck and Joan Midkiff. Pat O’Connor and Bernard J. Conboy will represent Notre Dame.
16
The Scholastic


The Bulletin Board
Next Week
Freshman Meeting
There will be a meeting of the entire freshman class next Monday at 7:15 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The candidates for sophomore class officer positions next year will present their platforms; and reports will be given on this year’s activities, including the “Spring Tonic” dance May 14.
Sport Films Resumed
The thundering herd of gridiron greats returns to the screen of the Engineering Auditorium next Thursday afternoon at 2:30 and 3:30 after a one-week time out. In the latest renewal of old sport films, the Green Giants of ’41 romp over Illinois, 49-14, to end an unbeaten season. ’Twas the last Irish team to use the Rockne system.
Mother's Day Tribute
Father Peyton’s Family Theater cast of Hollywood stars will present a special Mother’s Day broadcast Sunday at 8:30 p.m. over the Mutual Broadcasting Company hook-up. The program is dedicated to “the world’s greatest mother.”
Math Meeting Here
Mathematicians from every part of the Hoosier State will descend upon the University in a swarm tomorrow for the annual meeting of the Indiana Section of the Mathematical Association of America.
Principal addresses will be delivered at 11 a.m., by Dr. Mary L. Cartwright of Cambridge University, on “Non-Linear Differential Equations,” and at 2
ATTENTION, LAW STUDENTS
All students who entered the College of Law in the summer of 1948, in September, 1948. or in February, 1949, will be required to take a law aptitude test to be held in the Engineering Auditorium on Thursday, May 12, from 3 to 6 p.m. This test is for informational purposes. A restricted number of other law students will be permitted to take this test. Those who so desire must signify their intention by notifying Mr. Broderick, room 108 of the Law Building, or Mr. Edward Quinn, Director of Testing and Guidance, Main Building, on or before Monday, May 9. There will be no charge for the test.
p.m., by Professor Richard Brauer of the University of Michigan, on “The Teaching of Algebra.” All sessions will be held in the Engineering Auditorium.
Lecture on Glass
Alexander Silvermen, from the University of Pittsburgh, will discuss the subject of “Glass” next Thursday night at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The occasion is the monthly meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society.
Cavanaugh Concert
Because the days of reckoning and the week of final exams are drawing near, next week’s edition of the Cavanaugh record concerts will be the last of the year. The programs, Monday through Thursday at 12:30 p.m., will be by request of those present. Students and faculty members are invited.
This Week
Look! There's George!
Yeah, that’s your picture! An article in the May issue of Eagle magazine, entitled “The Other Notre Dame,” includes a spread of photographs snapped at random on the ND campus. The magazine is the official organ of the Fraternal Order of Eagles.
Philosophy and Science
“A Philosopher’s Concept of the Objectives of Science” is the topic of a Physics Colloquium slated for 4:30 this afternoon in Room 108 of Science Hall. Professor John J. Fitzgerald is the philosopher.
Rare Book Presented
Twenty-two volumes of rare Latin texts have been presented to the Mediaeval Institute by the St. Stephen Academy, of Budapest, Hungary. The books, which deal chiefly in historical links between Hungary and the mediaeval West, were sent as a token of respect and admiration for the Institute’s work, at the request of Joseph Cardinal Mindszenty.
Last Week
Prep for Parole Post
Grad students in Correctional Administration have taken the Wisconsin State Civil Service examination for positions as State parole and probation officers. The test was administered here by Professor Hugh P. O’Brien, who ob-

tained special permission to do so in order to relieve the students of the costs of travel.
Stunt Pilot Speaks
About 60 members of the ND student branch of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences attended the group’s annual Spring Banquet at the Club Normandy in Mishawaka. Major Al Williams, famous speed and aerobatic flier, and Professor W. C. Nelson, of the aeronautical engineering staff of the University of Michigan, were the principal speakers.
Aviation Insurance
A group of Commerce students gathered at the Law Auditorium to hear Mr. E. L. Stephenson discuss “Aviation Insurance.” Mr. Stephenson is the Middle West manager of Associated Aviation Underwriters and has been a pilot himself for 20 years.
Opportunity
French Among Frenchmen
Want to improve your French? Under the program offered at L’Universite Laval, in Quebec, you get a chance to live in a French household, take all your classes in French and enjoy various social activities, conducted completely in the native tongue of solidly French Old Quebec. The full six-week program, open to students with one year of college French or more, costs $75; and a three-week course is also available. For complete details call at Room 244 of the Main Building, write Box 85, or phone 4-3530.
Vet News
Bonus Payments
Application blanks for Indiana Veterans’ Bonuses will be available in the very near future, VA announced this week. Brief questionnnaires and original discharge papers will have to he sent to designated offices in order to obtain the government payments, which may be as high as $600 in some cases. Special applications must be used to secure bonuses for next of kin of deceased veterans.
May 6, 1949
17
since 1906...
Our Family Album
Story by AL LAPORTE, Photos by LEE RUMELY
Two men of letters were walking across campus from the Huddle, earnestly discussing different aspects of University publications. One of the word workers was the editor-in-chief of the 1949 Dome, Dick Cullen, and the other, a stooge from this magazine. The conversation was anything but intellectual.
“When’s the book coming out?”
“For you peons, next September.”
“What! This sounds like a departmental project. Are you guys waiting for Student Council to clear its desk?”
“No, nothing so drastic as that. Seniors get their books through the mail sometime in August. You underclassmen wait in line next September. You pays your eight bucks and you waits your turn.” Hide-bound tradition!
The two entered Walsh Hall, went downstairs, and threaded their way into
KEEPING THE DOME OUT OF THE BED — Business Manager Bob Surkamp (left) confers with Indiana Engraving Co. President B. L. Lehman. Pretty head in foreground belongs to Pat, Mr. Lehman's steno.
the one-room yearbook assembly plant. It was like a Hollywood movie, a mess. Dick felt at home. He sat down, put his feet on the one serviceable desk and picked up a copy of the Best Jokes of 1902. There wasn’t enough humor in the book. Here was material.
$40,000 Project
This year’s edition of the Dome — a forty thousand dollar baby — will wind up as a four-hundred-page volume, representing the nine months’ work of a thirty-three-man staff. Yearbook typewriters began clicking last September, when last year’s book was being passed out, and will continue to roll off the copy until five days after graduation. By that time everybody is about ready for the St. Joe River treatment, so Cullen ships the last pages out and releases his slaves, then numbering in the middle twenties. The more fortunate
had escaped to the Hearst or McCormick chains on graduation day.
The size of the Dome staff, though resembling a bureaucracy, is adequate for the project. There are men for layout work, men for copy writing and proof reading, men for pictures and art work, men for just about everything but putting out a Dome in June.
Each section editor has his own staff which does all its own work exclusive of photos and sketches. The layouts — mockups done on graph paper cut to 9” by 12” size — serve as the skeleton or blueprint of the book. The actual pasteups for the dummy are done by the printers who slap galley proofs and snaps in their numbered spots.
Idea of a University
The theme — for this year, Newman's Idea of a University — is followed by every section, be it Activities or Underclass. This central thought acts as the tie-in for the various parts, keeping them bound together by something more than glue.
Dick and his managing editor, Bob Savage, are quick to point out the vast improvements embodied in this year’s opus. Though the section previously devoted to geographic clubs has gone by the boards, the book has more appeal, say the boys. More football and basketball pictures, a greater spread for student activities and more pictures per section are guaranteed to increase general interest, if not friendship from various chambers of commerce.
Speaking of pictures, Dick Gorman’s flashy photogs have shuttered their way through 2300 accepted pictures (and dubbed through almost half again as many rejects). Included in this sizeable sum are the 1302 Senior shots.
Where's the Schedule?
The section schedule shows — where’s the schedule? Dick threw up his hands. There wasn’t any schedule, at least none that was adhered to. As soon as the copy and photos were ready, the section was shipped out, but as for a definite schedule, that was out of the question.
18
The Scholastic
The photographers saw to that by sending in their pictures whenever the mood struck them.
Could this be the style of past years, the heritage of former Dome staffs? Was it ever thus? . . .
Comparing the old yearbooks with those of recent issue is like comparing Leahy’s tricky T with Rockne’s blasting Box. Styles have changed with the times, but the old yearbooks in the Publications Office are eye-openers.
Past Domes contain pictures of handlebar mustaches and high-wheeler bikes, well dressed gentlemen and hungry looking students, the Hill Street Car and Sorin Hall. Lined up on the two shelves are annuals going back to 1906, annuals with unnumbered pages and numerous ads, annuals which were old when Joe Miller was a toddler; annuals which, though without 4-color pictures and Dome awards, depicted campus life in much the same way as their grandchildren do — annuals which are now collectors’ items.
1907 Preface Used
The Preface to the 1907 yearbook acts as an apologia for the whole series to the present day.
“It has been the ambition of the Class of ’07 to make the Dome a Yearbook of the University. We have done oui' utmost to record accurately and completely the variety of activities which filled the busy days at Notre Dame during the past year. Friends in then- estimate of our effort will bear in mind that, in spite of the generous hand from other classmen, there are many difficulties inseparable from Dome-building.”
There, in the 1907 Dome is an ad for Adler’s and another for St. Mary’s College, with a picture which makes the school look like a Utopian country club. There are the small Senior classes with more individual coverage per student. Athletics hadn’t as then developed to the extent of requiring additional pages. Game writeups were one to two paragraph affairs with an occasional picture. Some of the copy was intentionally humorous; some was serious to the point of solemnity.
The previous books engaged in the time honored practice of taking a shot at this magazine, saying: “During the past year the Scholastic developed dignity. Instead of showing up once a week like a landlady, it now appears once a month, like a landlord.”
Can You Top This?
And the jokes — can you top this?
Funk (in lab, sings): “Everybody works but father.”
out
DOME BRASS SCANS ENGRAVER'S PROOF—Managing Editor Bob Savage and Editor Dick Cullen check proof while Indiana Engraving's Mr. Miller rolls another off the proof press.
Rev. Prof.: “That will do, Mr. Funk; you attend to your work and don’t bother about me.”
The weather, variations on the theme —
Harris: “Isn’t this bum weather-”
Munson: “Yes. Let’s get up a com
RIDING HERD ON THE STAFF — Editor Cullen (center) reminds Activities Editor Ed
Cech (left) and staffman Bayou Bill Bell (right) that DOME must be before '49 date-line is ancient history.
mittee and complain to the faculty.” Even then student committees had little power, for we’ve had monsoons for over forty years.
Some of the former editors used their yearbook labors as springboards to success. ' The editor-in-chief of the ’26
Dome became Sports Columnist of the New York Herald Tribune, the famed Walter “Red” Smith.
The staffs and layouts have changed through the years, but the quality of the book has remained the same. The dusty pioneer copies tried out the presses and the modern offspring keep them rolling. If any change has been made it has been a gradual thing, not like the supplanting of Rockne’s Box by Leahy’s T . . .
The door of the little Walsh cubbyhole flew open and two haggard section editors stumbled in, holding battered papers in their paws. The editor jumped up, grabbed the sheets from failing hands and dismissed the bearers. Another section was completed. It was ever thus . . .

£

L
Journalism Students Get Annual Awards
Winners of five cash awards for outstanding work on this year’s six issues of The Journalist were announced by Edward Fischer, assistant professor of journalism, at a Press Club dinner last Monday at the Ramble-In. Two other senior ■winners of journalism awards were announced by Associate Professor Thomas Stritch, head of the department.
The twenty dollar awards, donated by F. A. Miller, publisher and editor of The South Bend Tribune, went to the following: makeup — Joseph Scheidler, Hartford City, Ind.; feature story — Raymond Fitzgerald, Westfield, Mass.; editing — Lawrence Flaherty, Maumee, O.; photography—Harry Monahan, San Diego, Calif., and news story—John McGoldrick, Forest Hills, N. Y.
Judges of the experimental journalism weekly who picked the winners were W. R. Walton, George Scheuer, and Thomas Philipson, all of the editorial staff of The South Bend Tribune.
The Hugh O’Donnell medal for the best average for seven semesters went to John C. Kreuger of Oak Harbor, 0., who graduated last January.
Joseph A. Doyle, formerly of Stockton, Hl., won the J. Sinnott Meyers prize, the cash income from $500 for outstanding work done as editor of the Scholastic last semester.
Guest speaker Herb Graffis, columnist for the Chicago Sun-Times, told the 67 students and guests that plenty of hard work, along with a good imagination, was the key to success in the field of journalism.

£
JUST RELEASED!
Claude Thornhill
&
Hear These New Records—You’ll marvel at their magnificent tone!
Harry James Frankie Carle Xavier Cugat Les Brown
(Fed. Tax fncl.)
Gene Krupa Duke Ellington Benny Goodman Woody Herman
All These Great “DANCE PARADE” Records! 6 to 8 full-length hits by the band that made them famous on each record—and only $2.85 each.
Give you all the greatest dance hits by famous and favorite bands!
Roll up the rugs! Nothing will interrupt your dancing pleasure. Up to 25 minutes of music on one record! Hours of continuous music on automatic changers!



(§) the ultimate in Recorded Music ... the finest phonograph record ever manufactured.
Trade Warts "Columbia" end Peg- U. S. Pal. Off.
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Handymen Host Pittsburgh Tracksters Saturday
ROOKIES ROUGH REGULARS — Gander clears path for Barrett
Regulars Come Roaring Back In Second Half To Down Frosh In Scrimmage Session, 28*21
By HARRY MONAHAN
Several hundred spectators, witnessing their first spring scrimmage last Saturday under the new “open door” policy for Cartier field, saw a Notre Dame team that looked as if it could lose seven games next fall.
Fortunately that team was around only for the first half of the practice game. After a 14-0 first half lumping, the regulars found the spirit they lacked and snapped back to edge the frosh squad, 28-21.
While the demonstration was exciting it was far from impressive — except to confirm reports that Coach Leahy has a loaded shillelagh up his sleeve in his frosh replacements. And it brought up the question of how long those rookies would be “replacements.” Another sluggish performance by the veterans might bring a few new names into the number one grid unit.
Howlin’ Billy Barrett was the rookie sparkplug and scored all three frosh touchdowns. Barrett scampered down under two passes from John Mazur —
out-wrestled safetyman George Dickson for one — to tally. He took a short romp around left end for the other TD.
The surprisingly poor first half performance of the regulars gave the Irish mentor a few more grey hairs. After taking a grim look at his trailing veterans, Leahy’s glance started down the sidelines trying to find some likely candidates to bolster his regulars. When Leahy’s eyes found Jack MacAllister, superintendent of equipment, sitting near one group of players they paused a second and in that instant the denizen of the fieldhouse supply rooms said with typical caustic MacAllister wit, “Don’t send me in, Frank, I’m too tired!”
Frank Spaniel led the regulars back into the ball game during their rejuvenated play in the second half. He made up for his two first-half fumbles, which gave the frosh their scores, by taking one of Sam Abbott’s towering punts, shaking free of tacklers aided by a key
(Continued on Page 25)
N.D. Favored To Win Only Local Dual Meet
By JIM HOWARD
Notre Dame’s only home dual track meet of the year will feature a clash, with a well-balanced, but inexperienced Pittsburgh squad on Cartier Field tomorrow at 1:30. The Pittsburgh group comes to the meet with one dual contest win over Western Reserve to its credit,, while the Irish have been defeated once this season by Michigan State’s crack cinder team.
Coach “Doc” Handy will utilize hi& full aggregation unless injuries prevent javelin thrower Jack Murphy and hurdler Bill Fleming from competition^ Handy believes this is the year to whip the predominantly sophomore eastern, team, as they will be tough when properly seasoned with a year’s experience..
Ten veterans form the nucleus of the-prowling Panthers. Al Henry is a fast man in the 440, as is John Wilson. The-half-mile and mile will see Jay Nielson and Ed Sudzina carrying the Pittsburgh, load. Old timers are plentiful in the-hurdles with Evans Kisick, Bob Mc-Kowen, and Bill Raney all rated as fine-timber performers. Dave Christopher-and Charlie Thomas are crack field event men in the shot, discus, and javelin. Pat Griffin will also operate in the javelin.
Challenging Bob Smith in the century-and furlong dashes, will be two sophomores, John Kountz and Ralph Stillwagon. The Stillwagon lad is from. Johnny Lujack’s home town of Connellsville, and is heralded as one of the best sprinters in Pitt history. Notre Dame? runners, Paul Schwetschenau, Pat Kenny, and Ray Sobota will encounter reat competition in the quarter-mile from Dick Hohan and Jim Banner. These latter two men team with Al Henry and Dick Firsching to form the mile combo-which will tangle with Kenny, Sobota, Captain Bill Leonard and Schwetsch— enau or Bob Smith.
Irish runners in the half-mile will be? Leonard, Jim Bollas, and Gerry Johnson or Kenny. They will run against. Panther lettermen Wilson and Nielson. Facing Notre Dame milers Jim Kittell,. Tony DaDamio, John Lyons and Leon
May 6, 1949
2L
a rd will be veteran distance men Sud-zina and Nielson.
John Helwig will be gunning for a 53’ outdoor toss to smash the attack of Christopher and Thomas. He will be aided by his brother, Joe, in this event and the discus throw. Notre Dame is deep in javelin men with Jack Murphy, Jim Miller and Bob Charters all capable of over 178 feet, but the Panthers have claws in their attack too with Griffin and Thomas.
Miller, the Irish pole vault ace, will have to match his best mark to defeat Al Yedlicka and Bill Valentine. Miller will be supported by Bob Wagner. In the high jump, Notre Dame’s Bill Fleming will meet hurdler rivals Raney and Kis-ick again, in addition to Al Morgan.
Replacing Pittsburgh’s Olympic broad jumper, Herbie Douglas, will be Yedlicka and Al Fleck. Ray Espenan and John Worthington will handle the Irish jumping chores. In the two-mile, Notre Dame is a favorite with Jim Murphy, Jim Kelly, and Lou Tracy running against Sudzina and Blair Thomas.
Next week, the Irish cindermen face the second most difficult test of the outdoor schedule when they meet Missouri, the defending Big Seven track champs, on the Columbia oval.
Navy Riflemen Receive Medals, ND Monograms
Notre Dame monograms have been awarded to the members of the Naval ROTC rifle team, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., announced during the ceremonies attending the presentation of the Hearst Naval ROTC Rifle Championship trophies at a review held in front of the Rockne Memorial last Saturday.
Members of Notre Dame’s national championship sharpshooting quintet are Donal J. Murphy, James W. Hartman, Frank G. Brickson, Edward J. Walsh and Frank 0. Beumel. Murphy also received a gold watch and gold belt buckle as individual champion in the tourney. All members of the squad received gold medals and a large trophy was presented to the campus middie unit.
Father Cavanaugh took the opportunity to bid an official farewell to Captain Anthony L. Danis, commandant of the University Naval ROTC unit, who will leave on June 1 to become commanding officer of the Receiving Station, Norfolk, Va.
Fifty-two universities and colleges participated in the Hearst competition. Notre Dame had a comfortable 20-point margin of victory.—Ted Prahinski
Irish Batsman Meet Chicago U. Tomorrow
By RAY FITZGERALD
Into the second half of their 28-game schedule go the baseball Irish, getting better all the time. They head for the University of Chicago tomorrow to play a team they have beaten in 18 of 24 previous meetings.
Midwestern sports fans have had a soft spot in their hearts for poor little Chicago for the last ten years, but they feel sorry for them no more. The reason—a baseball team which their coach
DICK GIEDLIN
Aimin? lor the Fence calls the strongest outfit he has had in the past fifteen years. They’ve won eight out of 11 so far this year. Chicago is led by a hard throwing lefty named Gene Barowitz, who, the papers say, tosses no-hit games every once in awhile. He’s chucked two this year, one against Northwestern. Notre Dame will have their hands full getting to this sometimes wild but always fast lefthander.
After the Irish take on the Maroons, they go to Kalamazoo to cross bats with Western Michigan’s Broncos. There are ten veterans from last year’s western association finalists on this year’s club. Three pitchers, Gordon Bowdell, Gene Schlukeber, and George Duditch, are back. This trio received credit for all of Western Michigan’s 16 wins last year. The hitting attack is led by returning first sacker Carl Coss, with a 1948 batting mark of .358. Regular catcher Dick Maher of the Irish will have a special reason for wanting to win this one. His father, Charlie Maher, coaches Western Michigan.
(Continued on Page 24)
Golfers Invade Evanston For Match With Wildcats
Tomorrow the University golf team under Rev. George Holderith, c.s.c., and Capt. George Stuhr will journey to Evanston, Ill., to take on the Northwestern University golf team. It will be the fifth match of the year for Capt. Stuhr and company. They swept the first three but lost a close one to Indiana University last Saturday at Bloomington. The score at the end of the day was 14% to 12% with Notre Dame on the short end.
The close shots told the tale in this match. Putting and chip shots were the deciding factors. Golf coach, Father Holderith, said: “In all my experience in golf I have never seen six boys who could chip and putt like those Indiana boys. They beat us on the greens.” Tommy Veech, sensational sophomore golfer, shot a low of 67 for eighteen holes.
The match took place at the Bloomington Country Club on a warm but cloudy day with a few drizzles.
Summaries:
Best Ball Match: Stuhr and Quinn (ND) beat Bob Cleveland and Jack Griffith (I) 2-1. Burian and Hudak (ND) tied Bob Cook and P. Hancock (I) 1%-1%. Veech and Arquilla (ND) tied Jim Cook and R. Pinnick (I) 1%-1%.
Singles: Stuhr (ND) 72 beat Cleveland (I) 72 2%-%. Veech (ND) 74 lost to Griffith (I) 71 %-2%. Burian (ND) 72 lost to Bob Cook (I) 68 0-3. Rolfs (ND) 72 lost to Hancock (I) 68 0-3. Hudak (ND) 73 beat Pinnick (I) 75 2-1. Quinn (ND) 74 beat Jim Cook (I) 76 2%-%.—Bill Delaney
GEORGE STUHR Leads linksmen
22
The Scholastic
Helwig Paces Thinclads In '49 Drake Relays
John Helwig’s second place in the shot put and third place wins by Bill Fleming, Jim Murphy and the mile relay quartet of Bob Smith, Captain Bill Leonard, Ray Sobota and Pat Kenny, were the net results of Notre Dame’s efforts in the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa, last week-end. Injuries again plagued “Doc” Handy’s cindermen and his ace pole vault performer, Jim Miller, may be lost for the season with a pulled muscle.
Helwig’s 50’5” toss was far short of Norm Wasser’s 52’9 7s” winning pitch for Illinois, but two 53’ tosses by Helwig were not allowed when the Californian fouled on the throws. Little Jim Murphy came out of the pack in the last two laps to grab a third place in the two-mile event. Irritations from an old leg injury slowed Notre Dame’s recordbreaking hurdler Bill Fleming so that third in the 120-yard high hurdles was the best he could do. Kenny’s brilliant anchor leg in the mile relay insured the Irish of third place honors in that event in the best time for the foursome this year.
Jim Kittell, Ray Sobota and Bob Smith also pulled up with injuries which hampered their running. Captain Bill Leonard got a first-hand glimpse of the famed Gehrmann “kick” as the Wisconsin ace quickly wiped out a slim Irish lead going into the last leg of the sprint medley.
Ironically two Irish speedsters who did not make the trip to Des Moines bettered the Drake winning times in two events during regular practice Saturday. Steve Provost in the century and Bob McDavid in the low hurdles turned this trick.—Ted Prahinski
OLD TIMERS GAME
Tickets to the Old Timers game. May 14, are now on sale at the athletic office window in Breen-Phillips hall. Special reduced tickets for students' wives are fifty cents. Regular tickets are $1.00. Tickets bought on the day of the game will be $1.25.
Students will be admitted to the game on their identification ecads. The regular tickets are also available at the usual South Bend ticket agencies, but the special tickets for the students' wives can only be bought at the Breen-Phillips office.
All tickets and student identification cards will be honored REGARDLESS OF WHERE THE GAME IS PLAYED.
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
Can They Do It Again?
If Leahy’s lads could beat the frosh by only one touchdown, how are they going to perform against the Old Timers?
On May 14 the 1949 Irish grid machine will get a stiff test to climax the spring drills. If current rumors materialize, the varsity will meet a
I । i
GEORGE STROHMEYER
Trouble for the Youngsters
stronger1 eleven a week from tomorrow than they will on any Saturday next fall.
George Connor, Bill Fischer, Marty Wendell and George Strohmeyer have tentatively agreed to play for the Old Timers. And there is a tough quartet of All-Americans for Jim Martin, Leon Hart and friends to worry about. If his boss, Terry Brennan, will give him time off, Ziggy Czarobski might be available for Coach Bill Earley’s oldster eleven. This would give the Old Timers a lineup of former All-Americans from tackle to tackle. Can Leahy find a combination to match that?
In the backfield the Old Timers will be knee-deep in quarterbacks, and every one of them good. Johnny Lu-jack has reportedly agreed to play, as has George Terlep. These two signalcallers engineered last year’s 20-14 Old Timer win — the second in the series.
George Ratterman has not yet signed a pro contract for 1949 and might give another performance on the Notre Dame turf. Last year he was prohibited from playing by fearful pro officials who are prone to get into fits every time the spring game is mentioned. Only Papa Bear George Halas looks with favor upon this spring “relaxation” for his gridders.
We still do not know whether Frank Tripucka will give his injured back a workout in this game, but he will probably be on hand for a few quick sleight-of-hand tricks unless Philadelphia officials have other ideas for their rookie quarterback. Halfback Bill Gompers and fullback “Pep” Panelli will give the varsity a bothersome afternoon. If he can be spared from the track team, Lank Smith may also put on his final performance in the local stadium.
Spring drills at Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago may save the varsity from trying to stop Terry Brennan, but it is hoped that both he and Ziggy can come down for the afternoon’s festivities.
Last year’s Old Timer victory prompted Coach Leahy’s dismal prediction that the 1948 team would lose five games. He has already predicted seven losses for 1949 — an Old Timer victory on May 14 would set new records for the tearful output of Leahy’s pessimism.
Musings at Halftime
Judging from the political posters we see on campus Kev O’Shea must be planning to come back next fall. There were doubts for awhile. . . . Some more pointers on cartoon character Bill Brown: He is probably the only catcher in intercollegiate baseball who catches without mask and shin-guards. Is he left or right-handed? More ambidextrous ND athletes!
Memo to Athletic Director Krause: Could minor monograms be awarded our bowling and sailing teams? They* have been doing a creditable job of representing Notre Dame in these sports — and at their own expense for the most part.... Ticket manager Bob Cahill has guaranteed us that students will not be seated in the “pits” for the North Carolina game at Yankee Stadium.
May 6, 1949
23
Baseball
(Continued from Page 22)
On May 11 Kline’s charges tangle ■with Northwestern on Cartier field. The Wildcats have played some close, low-scoring ball games, and lack of clutch hitting has hurt them. Their star center fielder and captain, Bob Wilson, was declared ineligible just after the finish of a southern trip in which he hit .500. Half of Northwestern’s regular lineup is composed of last year’s Rose Bowl champions. Don Burson is at shortstop, and the Day twins, Fatso and Peewee, roam the outfield, as does Ray Weitecha. Top Northwestern pitcher is Lanky Jack Ogle. Game time for this one is 3:30. If you can’t make it out to Cartier field, tune in to Greg Halpin and Joe Shelly with the play-by-play account over WND. * ’
Michigan Tops ND Crew; Irish Seek Sailing Crown
The Michigan sailors handed Notre Dame’s admirals a decisive 11-2 defeat in a dual drill meet last week-end. While Notre Dame’s top crewmen compared favorably with the Wolverines’ best, the lack of competent reserves plus greater Michigan experience handicapped the Irish. Tomorrow the Irish will participate in the Chicago regional eliminations of the Midwestern Collegiate conference championship tourney on Lake Michigan.
In last week’s competition each squad •entered four boats with a two-man crew in each race. Charlie Burke and Jim Crowe were the leading Irish skippers; Burke copped three firsts, three seconds and a fourth; Crowe accumulated two ■seconds, three thirds and a fourth.
The regional eliminations are sponsored by Northwestern with the Chicago Yacht club facilities being used. The Notre Dame sailors will depend upon a squad of six skippers: Fred •Joyce, Joe Caldwell, Joe Gargan, Dick Brutherson, Crowe and Burke. The Irish must finish at least third in the six-team regatta to be eligible to enter the M.C.C. finals on May 23 at Michigan.—Jack Economou
One, Two, Three ... ?
For years, moss-covered legends have been'passed along about one original lake on the Notre Dame campus, which was partially filled in to give the present twin lakes. But an undated South Bend News Times article recently came to light which refers to the three lakes •of Notre Dame. Gee, you’d better look again!
Spring Starts Bats Swinging
Line drives and pop flies opened interhall play in three softball leagues and two baseball circuits last week.
In the residence hall softball league Alumni’s Gold Coasters opened the season with a 9-4 win over the Bogmen from Badin and the Dillonites shut out Zahm, 7-0. The Morrissey Gold-Walsh game was rained out, but the Morrissey Blues took it on the chin, 14-7, from the experienced diamond squad from Vetville.
Sorin Blue shut out the Sorin Golds, 7-0, in a softball civil war. Alumni dropped a 10-2 decision to their neighbors in Dillon; Morrissey Gold edged past Badin, 13-9; Zahm dropped another shutout, 7-0, to the Morrissey • Blues; Walsh 7, Sorin Gold 0; Vetville made it two wins in a row by taking Sorin Blue, 6-1.
Club league play is split into two di-
Keglers' Tournament Puts Irish in Third Slot
The Loyola University bowling team paid a second visit to the Bowl-Mor this year and proved that it was no fluke when they won the regular Conference season with a .700 percentage. They beat the Notre Dame Keglers by 97 pins in their first match and beat Valparaiso University for the Invitational Championship. In this quest for the winners’ laurels they were led by Gene Zylestra with a 1311 series for six games.
After their defeat by Loyola in the first match, the Irish came to life in the consolation round and soundly trounced DePaul University to capture the third-place slot in the Tournament.
The day was capped by a banquet in the LaSalle Hotel at which all of the awards for the past year were distributed. Father Joseph Barry, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Student Welfare, presented the winners’ trophy to Loyola. Bob Bairley of the Irish walked off with two trophies, one for high series and the other for being fifth in the individual averages.
The final Sunday of regular season ended last Sunday with the Italian Club and Buffalo finishing in the top notch
visions. In the “A” division the Syrian-Lebanese nine edged Rochester, 17-15; Buffalo shut out Toledo, 7-0; Detroit swamped Erie, 19-5; Rochester snapped back to beat Toledo, 20-10.
The Knights of Columbus opened “B” league play with a slim 7-6 decision over Western Michigan. The Chemical Engineers and Kentucky were rained out; New Jersey, 13, Metallurgy 7; Minnesota became the second K of C victim in a 30-4 rout.
Cavanaugh and Sorin led off Eastern division play in interhall baseball with, wins over Walsh and Zahm respectively. Cavanaugh’s win was a slim 6-4 decision, but the Sorinites blasted out an 11-4 victory against Zahm.
Western division play was handicapped by rain and Dillon and Howard were not able to tangle as scheduled. Alumni took a 10-4 count on Morrissey when the weahter did clear.
of their respective leagues. These teams will square off for the championship on Sunday, May 15. Tom Simon of the Syrian Lebanese Club finished in the top-notch in both the High Individual Average and High Three-Game series.	_
In the Doubles Tournament sponsored by the Kampus Keglers for men of the league, Tony Carmola and Ray Zasada were able to hold onto their number one slot but it is still a close race. The star of the day was Bill Gorman, the Meadville lawyer, who rolled a sizzling 607 series and moved into third place along with his partner, Ernie Huffman, league prexy. The standings with one week more to roll, are:
1. Ray Zasada-Tony Carmola...... 2040 2. Tom Simon-Nick Ash........... 2005 3. Bill Gorman-Ernie Huffman.... 1998 4. Jim Jennewein-Jack Vitkusko.. 1996
In order that there be no conflict with the Junior Prom, there will be no bowling this Sunday afternoon. The playoffs of the League Championship in which all teams will participate will be held Sunday, May 15.
24
The Scholastic
Ne+men Edge Purdue, Lose to Northwestern
The Notre Dame tennis team edged out a 5-4 victory over Purdue last Friday and then went down to a 7-0 defeat at the hands of a powerful Northwestern aggregation Saturday. The shutout
JIM RODGERS No love sets
of an Irish tennis team by Northwestern was the second shutout in the last ten years. In the Purdue match, it was David, Biittner and Witucki in the singles, and a David-Biittner and Rodgers-O’Brien combination that came through to amass the winning points for the Irish.
Notre Dame will meet Detroit on the 7th in the ninth game of a Detroit-Notre Dame series which is yet to produce a Detroit winner. Walter Langford, Irish tennis coach, is a little more optimistic about this match than the one that follows on the 11th with Michigan. Against one of the best in this part of the country, Coach Langford thinks his team will be lucky to be on the short end of a 7-2 score.—Jack Varley
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 7—TRACK, Pittsburgh here BASEBALL at Chicago GOLF at Northwestern TENNIS, Detroit here SAILING, M.C.C. elimination at Michigan
10—BASEBALL at W. Michigan 11—BASEBALL, N'westem here TENNIS at Michigan
Football
(Continued from Page 21)
block by Bob Williams, and romping 80 yards to score. Emil Sitko helped the comeback with two touchdowns, one on a 55-yard gallop that announced that the “Tank” didn’t lose his punch •with his extracted tonsils. Jack Landry also scored at the end of a drive sparked by Spaniel’s running.
Steve Oracko had his “golden toe” on target for seven conversions. A bit of unusual Leahy strategy put Bob Williams in the veterans’ defensive unit as safetyman, which hints that Williams may be more than just an offensive player next fall.
Z- SPALDING
THE BEST IN THE GAME
2MKESAMINUTE/
JOHNSTONS FQRQMHD DRIVE VUSTIMED XT 184 FEET PER
I'LL DOME <T IZlGKTBACie
DOWNES thcoaT/
CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS TWINS
The Wright & Ditson and ha twin the Spalding Tennis Ball lead the field in official adop> tions .for Major Tournaments, including the U.S. Davis Cup and National Championships.
SPALDING® ^CHAMPIONSHIP'^
SPAWNS
SSTS THS PACS SPOPTS
No definite conclusions about Irish strength in the fall could be drawn from this scrimmage due to the jumbled combinations playing for each team. Such frosh as Bob Toneff and John Zancha should see traveling squad duty as well as Barrett and Del Gander. The regulars were missing Leon Hart, Bob Lally, Bill Wightkin and Jerry Groom — four names that would make a big difference in the state of any opponent’s health when they are available.
Leahy still has the best drilled team in the nation. One frosh defender was cut down three times trying to stop Spaniel’s touchdown run — the Irish block, and block, and block, and then get up and block again.
TIMING unuaa JOHNSTON
WEIGHED ONLY ISO LBS.
BOTflIS FOREHAND
■May 6, 1949
25
KUne9s Farm dub
Dave Langley PolishesjFrosh Canilidates for 1950 Varsity
By BILL RILEY
Photos by BRUCE HARLAN
Like the “Big Inch,” the Freshman baseball team supplies a steady flow of usable material to head man Jake Kline. In charge of the refinery this year is senior Dave Langley whose job is to take the crude material and evaluate its worth to the varsity engine.
When Foreman Langley began operations this year he was deluged with a gusher- of willing ball players, over 200 to be exact. In the preliminary refining process, he has weeded out 170 to leave a workable group of 30. The strongest points on this Frosh club are at short and on the mound.
To start off the list of outstanding pitchers, Kline will welcome the ability of Bill Froats and Jerry Ledwidge. Either one could be the answer to the gaping hole that graduation will tearin the varsity staff. Both have everything that a manager could want. Both are big with fast balls that jump like musclebound jackrabbits. Froats looks a little smoother right now, has a little more pitching know-how, and is further along in his development. Ledwidge, however, needs some more competition and smart coaching to wear off the rough edges.
These two superlative twirlers don’t even begin to exhaust the reservoir of ability that makes up the frosh mound corps. Southpaw Tom Kelly, an outstanding American Legion ballplayer
COACH LANGLEY'S CHARGES LOOK TO VARSITY BERTHS —Left to right, kneeling: R. Champiere, J. Ledwidge, T. Kielty, R. King, W. Balok, E. Mahoney, R. Schoenfeldner, R. Stefkovich; standing, J. Perticone, P. Tennone, J. Wenning, Bud O'Brien, H. Crone, T. Kelley, W. Froats, W. Donigan, M. Kerger, J. Manning, E. Foley, J. Brown, J. Moriarity, P. Mazza, J. Bates.	■
for three years in his home town, Beloit, Wis., is a little wild but has a nice assortment of bafflers. Another fine little hurler is Bill Nichol who has shown a nice curve ball. Jack Ruckels-haus, a lanky speed-baller from Indianapolis, Ind., has also had a little trouble with his control, but should settle down with more work.
To go from the excellent to the just-as-good, shortstop is another hunk of balm for Kline in case graduation losses should give him worries. There are enough yearlings available for this key spot to furnish a whole league.
Jim Manning is fast, a sharp-hitter, and a sharp infielder. He has an experience advantage on the rest of the boys with his play in the Northern league last summer under Kline’s watchful eye. Again, you might pick Perti-cone — a good man in a double-play combination. He hits a long ball from his stance at the right side of the plate, and rumor has it that Coach Kline is looking for some of those rare creatures who bat right handed.
If you like to watch a little guy cover his position like a carpet you might choose Eddie Mahoney. To recommend himself for further watching he has a rifle-arm and a base-hit swing that means runs. Another choice is classy Dan Nespo — currently one of the top candidates for the job. But the best of
BILL FROATS
Mound replacements . . .
the bunch is Bud O’Brien. Since returning to the diamond after an appendectomy, he has looked very good.
When you leave these two positions you run into spots that are not as fully protected. Behind the plate there are two candidates as close as the final exams. Joe Moriarity and Jack Manning both have powerful arms but neither seems capable of belting the ball consistently.
At first base the current choice is Big Ed Foley. Big is the name for this 200-pound long-ball hitter. Like many of the' rest of the squad, his fielding form can stand polishing; the raw material is there though.
The rest of the club is liberally sprinkled with potential varsity candidates. There’s Tom Kielty, smoothfielding second baseman; two outfielders, Kerger and Schoenfeldner are both long-ball hitters. Kerger looks a little more experienced. On the hot corner stands Joe Pfaff from Cleveland, Ohio.
The man that has made a smoothfunctioning machine out of these frosh ballplayers is Dave Langley, a senior phy ed major from Amsterdam, N. Y. Langley has never played for Notre Dame, but has put in time with the Chicago Cub farm clubs since his graduation from high school. Last year he was with Springfield, Mass. This summer he plans to play semi-pro ball in Stormlake, Iowa, and then try for a coaching job somewhere in the East. He looks qualified. The ball club that he has coached this year has met the varsity second string three times and the Knights of Columbus once — the scoreboard — four wins, no losses.
26
The Scholastic
JERRY LEDWIDGE
. . . for Kline's circus
ND's Win Streak Snapped At Six by Wolverine Nine
Michigan’s Wolverines snapped Notre Dame’s six-game winning streak against Big Nine opposition by handing the Irish a 10-inning, 9-8 defeat April 28 at Ann Arbor. With the Klinemen leading by a single marker going into the bottom of the eighth, Michigan tied it up by pushing across a run to send the game into extra innings. In the last of the tenth, Jerry Dorr, Wolverine second sacker, drove a Walt Mahannah serve to deep center field for a home run to give Michigan the victory.
Lefty Jack Campbell proved his recent three-hit shutout of Minnesota was no fluke as he turned back a strong Illinois nine, 6-1, at Champaign on April 30 before 3,000 fans. The Irish led all the way
WILDERNESS CO^
In Superior Wilderness Quetico Lake Region
Complete oatfitting service 83.50 a day with Grumman aluminum eanoes. Food, your ehoiee—extra.
Basswood Lake Lodge on Minn. - Canadian Border. Main Lo ’ and 20 log cabins. Modern bath room facilities. American Plan rates S8.00 and up.
WILDERNESS OlHf mhm H.Y. MINNESOTA HM
after punching across three runs in the top of the fourth on three singles, two walks and a miscue. Single markers were added in the fifth, seventh, and eighth to ice the verdict. Co-Captain Ben Kozlik led the 11-hit attack with a • pair* of triples and a single.
The Irish swept the two-game series with Illinois by taking a 5-1 decision behind the flossy five-hit flinging of southpaw Dick Smullen. Notre Dame made only three hits themselves but coupled with four free tickets and three Illinois errors they produced five runs. Trailing 1-0 in the top of the fifth, the Irish tied it up when Dick Giedlin tripled and rode home on Emil Garofalo’s sacrifice fly. Then in the eighth, pitcher Smullen struck a blow in his own behalf as he singled home Garofalo and Kozlik with the winning runs.—Jack Meaney
7:30 a. m.	7:30 p. m.
FOR RENT
White Formal Coats Formats Tuxedos
ALL Types of Costumes
WIGS, BEARDS, MUSTACHES and ACCESSORIES
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
Burns Costume Shop
608 Liberty Drive MISHAWAKA Phone 5-5237
Golf Driving Range
and Archery
FREE INSTRUCTION GIVEN ON THE TEE
Three blocks south of the State Line on U. S. 31
May 6, 1949
27
The 1949
SENIOR BALL
Freddy Martin
NAVY DRILL HALL
Dancing 10 ’til 2
INDIANA CLUB
Dancing 4 ’til 7
MAY 20
3:30 a. m. Permissions
MAY 21
1:00 a. m. Permissions
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY Lobby of Dining Hall (Price per bid: $9.00)
Open to June, August, and January Grads
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dam, Tradition
"Rosie's." Here You’ll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE $01 NORTH NILES
Radio
By BO CONNOR
The Case of the Seven-Ten Split
Dan Diamond, private eye, nurses a shot of whiskey as he leans hack exhausted in an old swivel chair in his unkempt office. His part-time secretary,. Georgia—a pretty thing—gazes admiringly at him and says, “Dan yo’all look tehrible. Weah have yuh behn fo a week? Ah’ve missed yoh somethin’ awful.’’
Dan: “Had a little business out on Highjack Road. A guy who calls himself Karachuki comes in here one night,, face all ripped open and a handful of tens in his hand. Said he was looking for a guy who cut him up with a pair of white-looking brass knuckles, just outside of Jack’s Bowling Palace. He gave me a description, a lead, and $100 in expenses, and I traced him out to this mansion on Highjack. The place was surrounded by water, so I phoned from the gate, saying I had an original El Greco, figuring like all private eyes that he would be interested in fine art. A drawbridge was lowered and I strolled in.”
Dan: “The butler, a gnome-like man of 82, who called himself Hugo, escorted me to a recreation room that had an 80-foot bar, 12 bowling alleys and the most gorgeous female pin setter I’ve ever seen: five foot seven and 115 pounds, all poured into a size nine playsuit. I spotted my man from Karachuki’s description immediately. He was five feet three and weighed 300 pounds, oily haired and had a pair of pink bowling shoes on the tiniest feet I’ve ever looked at. His delivery, as he just missed a 7-10 split, was flawless. As he glided toward me I mentioned something about the 7-10 being pretty tough to get, and ‘Thump’ I caught one on the skull from behind. It was Hugo!”
Georgia: “But Daan, what made hehm do that?”
Dan: “Later baby! I woke up in the pit of the number five alley with my feet jammed in the 7-10 slots in the rack, my face bleeding, and Miss Curves leaning over me.
“I said, ‘Hello, gorgeous, does your boss pay you the wages you deserve, or do you set by the line?’ She said, ‘Please, I don’t like working for Marcel Honray; I’m forced to stay here. He says I’m the best pin setter he’s ever had.’
“I leered and said it straight, ‘Maybe we can work this out together. Do you know any reason why he marked me up this way?’ She said, ‘Yes, ordinarily he
28
The Scholastic
imports diamonds, and has made a fortune at it, but one day he stepped into a bowling alley to pursue his favorite pastime. He used to average 200 but that day he had eight 7-10 splits and some spectator began to ride him. He tore him to pieces that afternoon and he hasn’t been the same since. Any time he has a 7-10 split he goes berserk. His latest fiendish stunt is to rip open people’s faces with a pair of knuckles made out of jaguar’s eye teeth. They were shipped in by mistake from Calcutta. You were lucky, he just scratched you.’
“ ‘Lucky,’ I said, as I yanked my feet out of the rack, ‘I’ve got a fine start on a couple of bone spurs.’
Georgia: Dan, honey, how did yo’all escape?”
Dan: “Curves hooked a brand new Brunswick into Hugo’s feet and he landed behind the bar, and I, well I took care of Marcel. Any calls while I was gone, Baby?”
Georgia: “Theah wuh a few, but Daan, yo’ll really should take cah of yoself.”
Dan: winks, grabs Georgia affectionately and says, “Baby, how would you like a nice pair of pink bowling shoes?”
Elections Tuesday
(Continued from Page 9)
unity of campus clubs. “The Junior Party,” KLKM, coined a neat little jingle to express their sentiments: “Work and Activities, . . . Plenty of them . . . Efficiently met... by KLKM.” The “Easy Aces” have a platform to
cover a multitude of weighty promises. They simply say “Our Platform Is Your Desire.”
“The Daily Double” soph ticket has promised class smokers, more monthly class meetings, student-teacher fellowship, and a name band for the Sophomore Cotillion. The “Four For You” party says they are “a representative group who will have the necessary time to do the necessary jobs competently, and who will place class interests above all others.”
Radio Station WND was aiding the campaigns last week as they devoted some of their broadcast time to members of several parties who would discuss their platforms on the air.
For Sale!
Automobile Cargo Trailer
Two-wheel, steel frame, wood box. 1948 model. Reasonable.
CALL 6-5191 or 2-9865 after six.
Going To The Dance
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the modern pipe, with brightly polished alumi< num shank and genuine imported briar bowl.;
$m Q NUUT ragm Get your DANA PIPE Send to
NUMT. iNt Cl, IMM<nnHa Offer Limited to USA—Expires Jone 30.1949
5O<
with inside wrappers from 12 pocket tins of HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTURE
&t. Joint's Wfoertfitp &djool of lato
Approved by the American Bar Association; Member of the Association of American Law Schools.
Three-year day and four-year evening courses leading to degree LL.B. (Summer Sessions conducted).
Students are admitted to the School of Law in September and February. Law School Admission Test dates for September, 1949 classes: February 19th, May 7th, August 6th.
Application to take examination must be filed ten days in advance with the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J.
BEGISTRAB: 96 Schermerhorn St
Brooklyn 2. New York
SPECIAL STUDENT BATES
LOGAN
107 North Main Street Oliver Hotel
South Bend, Indiana
Logans
INSIST ON FUSE WOOL GABABDHIE COATS IN WHITE OB FOWDEB BLUE
Ieoh Better—nt Better—Feel BeMm
May 6, 1949
29
Stockyard Samaritan — Bishop Sheil
(Continued from Page 15)
has fought against racial restrictive covenants, not only passively, but actively.
His stand received legal vindication in the Spring of 1948, when the United States Supreme Court, in the cases of Shelley v. Kraemer and Sipes v. McGhee, declared that judicial enforcement of the covenants was state action within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, and that the covenants were in controvention of federal civil rights legislation as far as covenants in federal territory were concerned.
None of his property in the archdiocese has ever been covenanted. Two years ago, he condemned the jim-crow-ism of the American Bowling Congress. Whenever prejudice exists, Bishop Sheil recognizes it for what it is—a menace to true Christianity. He knows that the concepts of Catholicity and prejudice are incompatible.
When the Marshall Plan was first pro
NATION-WIDE^F RAIL-AIR SERVICE
posed, Bishop Sheil was one of the first to espouse it. He has publicly stated his belief that the United States should offer a refuge to displaced persons. In 1944, speaking before the CIO convention, he proposed an annual wage for American workingmen; he supports the proposals for full employment. He believes that democracy is more than political; it is also economic. He believes that economics exist for people, not people for economics—that the function of government is not to sit idly by while unchangeable economic laws take their changeable courses, but to secure to the individual those rights, social, political, and economic, which he has a right to expect as a member of the human race.
In the Back-of-the-Yards Council, Bishop Sheil’s thesis that people—of all races, creeds and colors—can work together; that education destroys prejudice work out in practice. During the war, he established a Chicago center for
Nisei — the dispossessed American citizens of Japanese descent. He is head of a foundation which supplies seeing-eye dogs to the blind. This Spring, the Foundation and Bishop Sheil presented a puppy, later to be a seeing-eye dog, to a blind child in Grand Ledge, Mich. Grand Ledge townspeople, under the delusion that a nationally advertising cigarette company would furnish seeing-eye dogs in return for an astronomical number of cigarette coupons, had collected great numbers of the coupons only to be told by the company that their labor was based on an unfounded myth. Bishop Sheil immediately provided the puppy. Whenever people are underprivileged, or whenever prejudice works against them, Bishop Sheil is ready to help.
WANT TO EARN $9000 A TEAR?
Then here’s your chance to enter a business offering an opportunity for unlimited earnings . . . plus the satisfaction of rendering a worthwhile community service. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more! '
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, send for our free booklet, “The Career For Me?” which includes a preliminary test to help determine your aptitude. If your score is favorable, our Manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual LifetimeCompensationPlan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY off NEW YORK
34 Nassau Street
FIRST IN
NawYorkS.N.Y.
AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET—**THE CAREER FOR ME?”—ADDRESS DEPT. 7
wamr _
ADDRESS, rrrv —
AGE.
30
The Scholastic
Father of the Bride by Edward Streeter, illustrated by Gluyas Williams, Simon and Schuster, New York. 2.50.
If, some very pleasant afternoon this spring or coming summer, you want to spend some very pleasant hours by a very pleasant brook -with a book, may we suggest Father of the Bride. This is, you, see, a very pleasant book.
It is nothing more. But then again that’s hardly to its discredit because it doesn’t try to be anything more. It’s just an easy, amusing story of a confused father going through the harrowing experience of getting his daughter married.
If the book had nothing else it would have been successful for the Gluyas Williams drawings. You might not be familiar with the name but, if you saw the book cover, you would instantly recognize the products of this marvelously clever New Yorker cartoonist. Edward Streeter you might remember as the author of the “Dere Mabel” war letters which appeared in many papers throughout the country.
Together they turn out the story of Mr. Stanley Banks, an innocent middle class producer and provider of three offspring, one of whom is a daughter, Kay. Kay, as do many her sex, falls in love with a man, by name Buckley. This leads, as it does in all respectable societies, to marriage. Papa Banks’ struggles with the preparation intricacies of this function make for the fun.
Banks gets entangled with wedding lists, caterers, florists, church sextons and a fabulous number of old-fashions. He is lost in a woman’s world gone crazy and can but sign checks, retreat to his armchair and drink Old-Fashions.
Kay finally gets married, the old-fashions get consumed and we can suppose the bills get paid. Mr. Banks has lost twenty years of his life and a daughter.
As a result of all this we have, as we have said before, an amusing book. It is not really a funny book. It could be. We rather think Mr. Streeter dead weight. Williams’ cartoons could have done better on their own. Streeter has a nice, light touch but he doesn’t do much with it and situations which could have, with restraint, been hilarious, are only mildly funny.
But then again, that pleasant afternoon may soon come and that pleasant brook may call and you may want that pleasant book. Father of the Bride is just that. It’s too bad it isn’t a little bit more.—Greg Halpin.
TWICE DAILY at 2:30 and 8:30 p. m. Special Student Price $1.00 (tax paid) TICKETS NOW ON SALE*

Your Suit Photo-Fitted/
Let Parker-Winterrowd style your spring and summer suit with the newest in tailoring methods . . . Photofit. Your posture and proportions are recorded against an accurately calibrated background to insure perfect contour corrections. This completely eliminates guesswork,
saves time, and guarantees an absolutely perfect fit. Have '	'	*..........choose
your next suit — we have 750 beautiful fabrics to from — fitted by photography. Photo-Fitted suits yours for as little as §50. Come in today.
Tuxedos and Tails —Sold or
PARKER - WINTERROWD, 115% NORTH MAIN ST.
Second Floor — Upstairs
can be
Rented
Inc
South Bend’s Oldest Custom-Tailors
May 6, 1949
31
lightweight sport shirts
washable
wonders!
Clubs
Van Heusen sport shirts are washable wonders! They love water, and you know what that means—more service, better looks, no dry cleaning bills! Colors are fast—sizes stay right. Smart new models with short or long sleeves, in cottons, rayons and blends . . . sheers and breezeweights. Tailored with Van Heusen magic sewmanship to please you and your campus queen. Stock up now for summer. $3.25 and up.
0 Van Heusen’ i;.
the world’s smartest UlAU 10
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Look to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
Town Meeting Forum
The third in the current series of Town Meeting Forums sponsored by the Commerce Section, YCS, was held last Tuesday night on the topic, “Criteria for Setting Up a Wage Scale.”
Rev. Thomas McDonough, C.S.C., professor of Labor-Management Relations, was moderator of the program. Mr. Robert Mahoney, former president of the Bendix local No. 9, UAW-CIO and Mr. George Strong of the College of Commerce faculty and a representative of the Industrial Relations Department of the Studebaker Corporation shared the platform.
Financiers See Grain Pits
Members of the Finance Club toured Chicago’s Federal Reserve Bank, Grain Exchange, Chicago Title and Trust and the Chicago Clearing House recently. Arrangements were handled by Art Ar-quilla of Alumni Hall and Chicago. Moderator LeClair H. Eells accompanied the group on the one day excursion.
At the last meeting of the Club, plans for a job placement bureau were formulated. On April 25, Mr. Murray Trescott of the First Bank and Trust Co. spoke to the club and other commerce students in the Engineering auditorium on present-day practices in the investment field.
RO Communion Breakfast
Members of the Notre Dame NROTC unit attended a Communion Breakfast last Sunday. Mass was celebrated in Morrissey Hall by Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C. Breakfast was served in the West Dining Hall where Ed “Moose” Krause, Director of Athletics, addressed the boys in blue.
Six men of the First Platoon, Third Company basketball team were awarded silver basketballs for taking the top position in the inter-battalion basketball championship.
Naugatuck Breakfast
The Naugatuck Valley Club of Notre Dame recently held its first annual Communion Breakfast in the Blue Room of the Hotel Oliver. The Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., spoke on the University’s need for expansion in order to accommodate its overcrowded student body. Father Sweeney was introduced by club president Jack O’Rourke. Don Narducci and Frank Jacobs were co-chairmen of the breakfast.
32
The Scholastic
'Shadow and Substance'
(Continued from Page 9) ster Jemima Cooney.
William J. McShane will play the part of Francis O’Connor, Jemima’s nephew, and Hildegarde Vargyas will portray Rosey Violet, Mullahone’s fun-loving wife.
James Beymer, who has been working with University Theater stage management in several recent productions, will be Professor Hanley’s assistant director for Shadow and Substance. Pat McAteer will be stage manager for the play, and William Doyle will be house manager. The ushering will be done by members of the Blue Circle.
Following in the wake of the intensive
rehearsals during the past few weeks, other big plans were hatching for making the play’s scenery authentic and effective. In the play, the setting is a room in Canon Skerrit’s home in Ard-mahone, County Louth, Ireland. Director Hanley has used one setting — the Canon’s living room. A large French window in the background opens on the distant Mourne Hills of County Louth.
“In this way,” Hanley explained, “we
PHOTO CREDITS
Page 9, Rumely; IL Munger (top) and Rumely; 12, Hipp; 13, Rumely: 14, Kunkle; 15. Acme Newspictures; 21. Hipp; 22. Kunkle; 25. Murphy.
have created the illusion of distance and depth, and have at the same time emphasized the real surroundings of the countryside.” The effect seen through the over-sized French window is created by using cutouts for the hills and shrubbery in the distance.
Next Tuesday’s performance of Shadow and Substance shapes up as the best production by the University Theater for the current year. Where The Milky Way was only mildly received, the Theater’s second try, the three one-act plays, found a vastly more appreciative audience. Shadow and Substance then, according to Eisen, should be the next step in establishing a finer audience interest.
Near absolute zero, matter does strange things...
AT 455 degrees below zero
Zk Fahrenheit, liquid helium becomes a “superfluid.” That is, it loses its viscosity; if it were set in motion like coflee spinning in a cup, part of it would theoretically continue to spin forever.
It also becomes a “super-wetting” agent, meaning it will creep up a container’s sides, flow over the edge.
Other types of matter develop “super-conductivity.” If, for example, an electric current were set in motion in a closed loop of columbium-nitride below 15 degrees, it would in theory flow indefinitely.
These are some of the facts of cryogenics—the study of low-temperature phenomena—into which a group of
young General Electric scientists are directing their investigations.
Although their studies are in only the earliest stages, the facts of this nether world of temperature have aroused enough interest that with the building of a new Research Laboratory, a $250,000 unit has been especially constructed for their work.
Through its emphasis on research and creative thinking, through encouraging fertile minds to follow their own imaginative bent and by implementing their work with the best available facilities, General Electric remains a place “where interesting things are happening,'* and stays in the forefront of scientific end engineering development.
GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
May 6, 1949
33
RROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
Of Men and Things
We talked about campus politicians last week. Just for the sake of sequence, law, order and the American way, we thought we might take another campus character apart in this column and see what makes him vibrate.
Outside of the politician there is only one variety worth talking about. They are the so-called campus “leaders.” What is a campus leader?
According to the Browser' dictionary, revised edition, a campus leader is one who, by participation in campus activities, has gained a position of prominence or authority in student life. Now this definition is a broad thing: it doesn’t differentiate between the good and the bad. We null.
As with the campus politico, the campus leader can be classified. To wit:
1.	The phony: A popular type, a great handshaker, with a gift for some sort of gab, usually semi-foul and semi-accurate. How you can spot him: Has his fingers in many activities but does no good for any of them. May be minor officer in campus club, belongs to a dozen obscure organizations, tries to pad the Dome blurb under his picture. He is a plague, but he doesn’t have to be put up with. He can and should be silenced. Because of the loose entrance system in force at this institution he sneaked in the back door in the first place and should be booted out the same way.
2.	The specialist: This is the guy who belongs to the organization. It might be the band, the Scholastic, or a campus club, but whatever it is, he is in it over his head. He neither knows nor cares about anything else. His organization comes first and last. He has no sense of where it fits into the campus picture. His efforts are noble but blundering. He hurts as much as he helps. His eyes need opening.
3.	The jack-of-all-trades: An honest, sincere, hard working individual whose only fault is that he belongs to far too many organizations, does far too much. He can’t possibly do justice to everything. Again noble, but blundering.
4.	Then there is the real, well balanced leader. A conscientious leader within his prime organization, he belongs to a select number of other activities and knows what’s going on all around him. He started small and worked his way up through different levels. He has kept in contact with class officers, editors, etc. He is the kind of leader who should be running things and should be predominant.
For freshmen and sophomores this raises a suggestion. We suggest that they choose the type of campus activity they would like to work in. Then join — we don’t know of a big organization on campus that can afford not to accept them. Then work hard for that organ
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. AU clues are in ad.
2. Submit answer • on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers win one carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5- Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue's publication
6. AU answers become the property of Chesterfield.
7. Decision of judges will be final.
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS
PARIS, KY. (Just find the KEY, throw out the E and you have KY. Fleur-de-lis suggests PARIS, added to Blue Grass, representing KY., gives you PARIS, KY.) B L. E. THOMASON. (A cheerful mien shown in a circle refers to his photograph in the ad. A doubter of fame is the Biblical Thomas, which is most of his name.) £ ABC. (The first three letters of the basic series [alphabet] contain proven advice—Always Buy Chesterfield.)
ization and stick with it. Try to weed out the phonies; try always to make the club or paper or class better reflect solid student opinion and activity. Get to know the administration and its policies. Don’t accept them blindly. Find out answers to questions, if you can. Always keep in mind that a better Notre Dame rests on better relations between that administration and its students. And when you get to the top, do something — for yourself, for your organization, for youi- school — that will make it better.
Here and There
Stand the itineraries of the recent band and glee club tours side by side and you get a shocking picture. Why must the hard working band have to do so much more for their meals on these trips?
We can but second the South Bend Trib’s Jim Costin on his remarks about Cartier Field . . . the baseball playing conditions are disgraceful. We have seen better stands, better dug-outs and better infields on small high school grounds. Why is it that the football team is the only decently equipped sports squad around here ... or is the answer too obvious??
34
The Scholastic
Danis Gives NROTC Summer Cruise Route
Captain A. L. Danis, USN, commandant of the NROTC here, has announced the summer training schedule for the Notre Dame Unit. This program will include a Senior Sophomore Regular Cruise and aviation and amphibious training for the junior regulars.
The senioi' sophomore regulars, which includes 65 students, will embark at San Francisco on June 16, on the heavy cruisers USS Helena and USS Toledo. They will sail to Balboa, via the Galapagos Islands, and will return to Long Beach, Calif., on July 15. The program also includes submarine training for the seniors off San Diego, and gunnery training for the rest of the unit. The group will disband July 28.
The junior regulars, 50 students strong, will leave Notre Dame on June 3. They will arrive in Pensacola, Fla., on June 5. The group will engage in aviation and amphibious training here and in Little Creek, Va. Training will last until July 30.
Besides these regular NROTC groups, eight ND Marine Corps students will participate in a training program at Quantico, Va., from June 21 until August 16.

ARROW ARA COOL ENSEMBLES
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
^gilbTrfs
813-817 S. Michigan Street
May 6,. 1949
£ SUGGESTION
for Summer
Job
Hunters
ARROW
’f
For a successful summer—job seeking or vacationing— you'll make a good impression anywhere with a cool Ara Cool ensemble.
See your Arrow dealer today! Ara Cool shirts come in white and solid colors and are accompanied by harmonizing Arrow ties and Arrow handkerchiefs.
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS * SPORTS SHIRTS
MAIWW
5 K*TZ
1 V FOR MEN AND ■ ^.YOUNG MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
for
ARROW Sfcirts
Copyright 1949, Lkcett & Mins Tobacco Co.
See CHESTERFIELD CONTEST on page 34.