

•
I.e. 

Is uniformity ( of opinion) attainable? Millions of in­nocent men, women, and children since the in­troduction of Christianity have been burnt, tor­tured, fined, imprisoned; yet we have not advanced one inch towards uniformity. What has been the ef­fect of coercion? To make one half the world fools, and the other half hypocrites. 
Thomas Jefferson 

Fool or hypocrite. Some choice. The smoke had barely cleared from the guns of religious revolution in Europe when Jefferson, architect of in­dependence and enlightened deist, angrily penned his views against an official religion of the state for the new United States. The sharp lines of demarca­tion were drawn in constitutional ink: church separate from state. Now faith, much like the casting of an electoral ballot would be a free act. No fools, no hypocrites, no name calling. 
Two centuries later, the ink lines have smeared, 
with the clear distinction between church and state 
smudged across the pages of our newspapers. Vats 
of ink and emotion have been poured over this 
issue, baptizing it in the name of political rhetoric 
with the dubious title, "Religion vs. Politics." 
Now, religion is a mode of belief and politics is 
a mode of public policy, yet the two should never 
stand in opposing corners of the media boxing ring, 
ready to spar for constitutional priority. We are 
certainly less than patriotic if we cheer as a spec­
tator citizenry for a sensational knockout bout be­
tween two liberties so essential to our democratic 
lungs that yearn (as the statue in New York harbor 
reminds us) to breathe free. 

Here at Notre Dame, where religion rides with 
reason in the charter of the University, in the 
classroom discussions, or in the lunchtime editorials, 
many of us know firsthand about the dangerous torches political and religious zealots alike may carry into the arena of cool-headed, clear debate. They threaten to coerce when they cannot per­suade. Opinion burns easily while truth waits pa­tiently for the flames to die down. 
Here at Notre Dame, where theology and government are separate departments but not separate discussions, Cuomo came to challenge Catholics and other citizens to examine carefully their political choices. To cast moral decisions into the political circus ring where they may be paraded in legislative packets before an entertained elec­torate makes a priest out of a president, and a · heretic out of a political dissenter. This would be both foolish and hypocritical. 
Yet, here at Notre Dame, where the President of the University heads governmental commissions, the model citizen is said to be a thoroughly moral citizen. Perhaps religion and politics meet on a deeper level than partisan politics. The liberties we thought were separate like our church and our state may well entwine with each other at their roots, encircling sacred stone of the Constitution, human life. 
KATHLEEN W. MCGARVEY EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

.FEATURES­
4/Struggle for Justice: Opposing views of the Nicaraguan Experience Offers Fresh Insight into a Troubled Country 
by Chris Patnaude 
9/America at the Crossroads: Accommodating Religion and Democracy by Karen McCloskey 
13/Capitalism with aHuman Face: Adam Smith Gets a Slap on the Invisible Hand by Fred Zimmerman 
15/Endangered Species: Women in the Academic World of Notre Dame by Cindy Rauckhorst .· 
18/Sabbatical Policy: Obstacle in the Road to Excellence? · by David Finn 
22/The Writing on the Wall (and the desk and the table) by Kathleen Doyle 
25/That Troublesome Transfer Trap 
by. Anne Karnatz . . 
27 /Fashion Reflecting Character 
by Barbara Stevens_ · · 
30/Campus Fashion; A Theory of Relativity 
by· George Maney 
ELAN DEPARTMENTS 
36/Poetry 
Contributors.2; Artistic Opportunities 40; Snite 41; 
WSND 42; idle banter 44 
38/Gazing at Sean's Socks 
by Mike Kelley 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Kathleen McGarvey 

General Manager 
Mary Ellen Arn 

Editorial 
Jim Basile/News/Sports Editor Kathleen Doyle/Campus Features 
Editor Ann Gallagher/Saint Mary's Editor Timothy Gianotti/ Culture/ Fiction 
Editor Fred Zimmerman/ Executive Content Editor 

Graphics 
Darryl H. Daniels/Executive Design Editor . Kathleen Keifer/Art Editor 

Marketing 
Patrick D. Conboy/Advertising 
Editor Tom Curtin/Distribution Manager Dan Poorman/Business Manager 

Advisory Board 
Prof. Elizabeth Christman Mr. Michael Garvey Prof. Marjorie Kinsey Prof. Robert Schmuhl Dr. Linnea Vacca Mr. Paul Matwiy 

Design Staff 
Jean O'Bryan Thomas D. Grantham 
The magazine is represented for na­tional advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and ex­amination periods. Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription 
· rate is $9.00 a year and back issues . are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All un­solicited material becomes the prop­erty of Scholastic. Copyright © 1984 Scholastic I All rights reserved/ None of the contents may be reproduced without permis­sion. 



CONTRIBUTORS 

Mary Ellen Am is a senior Finance major from Pitts­burgh, Penn­sylvania. She is the General Manager for 
·Scholastic. 


Karen McCloskey is a senior in the Program of Liberal Studies from Rochester, New York. This is her first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 

· Dave Finn is a junior PPE Program­Government ma­jor from Dallas, Texas. This is his first contribution 
. to Scholastic. 
Kathleen Doyle is a senior English major from Har­risburg, Penn­sylvania. She is one of Scholastic's copy editors as well as a frequent contributor. 

Cindy Raukhorst is a sophomore economics major from Naperville, Illinois; This is her first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 
Sam Moore· is a junior Philosophy major from Glen­wood, Illinois. This is his first contribution to 
Scholastic. 

Anne Kamatz is _a junior English major at Saint Mary's. She is from Bay Village, Ohio. This is her first contribution to Scholastic 

Barbara Stevens is a senior American Studies-English major from Pit­man, New Jersey. She is a frequent contributor to 
Scholastic. 
Ron Mileti is a sophomore English-ALP A major from Rocky River, Ohio. This is his first con­tribution to 
Scholastic. 
Photo Credits: 

William Clifford, Inside Front Cover, 42 Pete Wowkowych, 2, 15, 16, 27, 28, 32, 33 Theodore Mariani, 1, 25, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 36, 37, 40, 41 Bruce Harlan, 10, 12 · · AP, 8 George Maney is a senior Program of Liberal Studies major from Tulsa, Oklahoma. This is his first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 

Fred Zimmerman is a senior­Economics major from Minnetonka, Minnesota. Fred is the Executive Content Editor for Scholastic. 
Mike Kennelly is a senior English Major. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
Lissa Astilla is a freshman from New Orleans, Louisiana. This is her first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 
Scholastic Archives, 12, 35, 36 


Illustrations: 
Jean O'Bryan, 18, 19, 20 Cindy Jett, 22, 23 Darryl Daniels 30, 31, 44 Kathleen Kiefer, Cover The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Schola.~tic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, _faculty, or the stu­dent body, 







. . . 


~_,;:~ttKR:tt/g i 
. · ·· .· The ,Renaissance Man •·. :knew a spiritual.ideal. He cultivated artistic ... . _l{ep, a· questionirig, dis~erning intellect, and an understanding· of his · place in the universe~. Mind was for him an end in itself . 
. SC_HOI,ASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 

A mural depicting the virtues of the San­dinistan cause. The sentence on the newspaper means, "The crusade marches on." 




by Chris Pabtaude 

Opposing views of the Nicaraguan experience Offer· fresh insight into a troubled country. 
The acronym of the Frente Sandinista de . Liberacion Nacional, FSLN, looms over the capital city of Managua. 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 
0 July 19, 1979, the SandiMtru liberated the Nicaraguan people from over forty years of despotic rule by the Somoza dynasty. This day marked the end of the terror and the hunger with which Somoza ruled, and the beginning of hope for justice in a country long deprived of it. As Tomas Borge and the Frente Sandinista de Liberacion Na­cional marched into Managua, the Nicaraguan people must have felt as though a long nightmare was finally end­ing. 
It was a nightmare which began in 1926 when U.S. Marines invaded Nicaragua as part of the U.S. ''big-stick" diplomacy. A year later, peasant leader Augusto Cesar Sandino began a guerilla war against the invading marines. That war ended in 1933 when the Marines pulled out and handed their power over to Anastasio Somoza Garcia and his American-trained National Guard. Somoza invited Sandino to peace talks in 1934, and on February 21, Somoza had his National Guard assassinate Sandino while leaving one of these talks. 
After the assassination of Sandino and the destruction of his peasant army, the Somoza family ruled Nicaragua as a private estate. They took over many of the country's basic industries. They gained control of 30 per cent of Nicaragua's arable land. Vaccines donated by other countries to fight polio were seized and sold on the black market. The people were left to starve as Somoza and other members of the elite exported needed crops for personal profit. Mean­while, the National Guard suppressed the people and earned the reputation of be­ing the cruelest police in Latin America. 



Then, in 1961, Carlos Fonseca Amador, Tomas Borge Martinez and Silvia Mayorga, formed the Frente San­dinista de Liberacion Nacional-the F. 
S. L. N.-to destroy the American­backed Somoza regime, and begin a social revolution to eliminate Nicaragua's backwardness. After almost twenty years of hard fighting, the Sandinistas achieved their first objective in 1979, as Tomas Borge led the F.S.L.N. into Managua shouting, "Sandino has been reborn!" 
The Sandinista's social revolution is over five years old now. Curious to learn how the Sandinista government is affect­ing the lives of the Nicaraguan people, I interviewed Notre Dame student Peter Carter who spent. last semester studying and traveling through Latin America. I also talked with a Nicaraguan woman-whose name is not used here to protect her father and family. 
Carter was very enthusiastic about the advancements made by the San­dinistas. Carter believes that the San­dinistas "have a sincere desire to fulfill the basic needs of the people in the socie­ty." 
"For example," says Carter, "when 


Somoza ruled, many people died of polio because he would take the vaccine and sell it on the black market. Today polio is virtually eliminated, because the San­dinistas administer the vaccine." 
"The Sandinistas are also interested· in educating the people about health care. During the Somoza regime, diar­rhea was a major cause of death among poor Nicaraguans, because they didn't know that you have to drink water to avoid dying of dehydration. The San­dinistas launched.an-education campaign to teach the poor how to take care of themselves, and -now diarrhea is no longer a major cause of death." 
Carter was also impressed with the Sandinistas' concern for human rights. "Immediately after the revolution," says Carter, "the Sandinistas let many of the Somoza National Guards go free, but they began fighting again because they 
were trained to do nothing else. So, the 
Sandinistas recaptured the National 
Guard and placed them in rehabilitation 
camps where they were taught to farm. I 
visited one, and it was the most civilized _ 
prison I had ever seen. The prisoners . were allowed to go into town to buy sup­plies, and once a month they could visit 
their families for the weekend." 
"All the people want is to be left 
alone to build their country. Peasants are 
learning to read, they are getting better 
health care, and their diet has greatly im­
proved. When I was down there, people 
kept asking me to tell my government 
that they just wanted to be left alone. 
The people I met were afraid that the 
U.S. 
economic blockades and the 

U. 
S.-funded counterrevolutionaries could destroy the progress of the revolu­tion." · 


"The people are preparing for war. It's strange, as an American, to watch the Nicaraguan people build bomb shelters to defend against our bombs. U.S. involve­ment in Nicaragua is wrong. Even the in­ternational court has come out against it. So far, the Sandinistas have held out against the pressures the U.S. is applying, but I am afraid that eventually they will be forced to turn toward the Soviets. I don't think they have turned toward the Soviets yet, although I can't tell you for sure. All I know are the impressions I got after ten days of travel, and what I learned from my own study of the situa­tion." 


''All the people want is to be left alone to build their country.·" 
No one denies that the poor's stan­

dard_ of living has been greatly improved 
by the Sandinistas. There are ·still, 
however, questions about the Sandinistas' 
true motives. The Nicaraguan woman I -interviewed is afraid that the Sandinistas may be organizing their own dynasty. 
"You can't use my name, because 
my father would be iri danger, but if 
anyone wants to talk to me privately, I 
will. I'm not afraid of that." 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 A· farmer in Nicaragua: what next for an· impoverished people? 


-"I was for the Sandinistas when 
Somoza was in power. Somoza was a bad 
man, and almost anyone would be an im­
provement over him. But I am disap­
pointed in the Sandinistas because they 
are not living up to their promises. 

"We had all thought that the San­
dinistas were going to be a transitional 
government. There are elections coming 
up and the Sandinistas have openly stated 
that they don't want anyone running 
against them. Is this right? What are the 
Sandinistas _afraid of? 

"I am not against socialism, but if 
there is going to be socialism, no one 
"The Sandinistas are" not living up to their 
. ,,
promises._ 
should be excluded. Yet, the government is gradually raising itself above the peo­ple. Recently, they spent several million cordobas to buy new cars from Russia so that the government people could get to work. Why didn't they buy buses so that everyone could get to work? 
"Although the Sandinistas have im­proved the hunger problem in Nicaragua, there are still a great many people who starve to death because they sell our basic dietary foods to Russia. For what? Guns? · 
"In fact the Sandinistas are very closely allied with Russia and Cuba. Rus­sians and Cubans teach in our schools and are involved in the government. Speaking of education, the Sandinistas have closed private schools to centralize education. Why won't they let a person go to school wherever he wants to go to school? The Sandinastas want to be able to brainwash the· people. They control the schools and spend tremendous amounts of money on propaganda. Every street has a monument dedicated to some fallen Sandanista. The government has recently spent an enormous amount of money to build huge weatherproof letters which spell F.S.L,N. How can they do this -when people are starving? They could have used that money to buy seeds, so that the peasants could grow food on the land the new government has given them, or to buy medicine. 
"Some people praise the San­dinistas for their Work for human rights. Most of what people have seen' is just propaganda. There are a few places the Sandinistas keep to -show visitors, but these places are the exceptions. I know of many human rights violations. There have been massacres I know of, but can't tell yo·u about, because I have no way to back myself up. People are afraid for their lives and won't talk. People who have talked have disappeared. 
"It's not the little people I'm afraid of, I fought with them against Somoza. It's the big people. When you see Tomas Borge driving around in his limousine which is followed by a fleet of military cars, you begin to understand what is happening. The government is becoming an elite class. The people who work for the government are the only ones who· can buy absolutely anything they want, because they are the only people who can still get U.S. dollars. The government has many such special priviliges. Do you know where Tomas Borge lives? On one of Somoza's former estates. 
"Peasants are learning to read, they are getting bet­ter ·health care, and their diet has greatly improved. " 
"In five ·more years, I'm afraid that we may end up with the same thing we had under Somoza, except with a dif­ferent name. If you ask, 'if this is true why don't you fight?' My answer is we can't. We had to put up with Somoza for forty years, because he had the guns. Now the Sandinistas have the guns. I do fight though. In my own way. · 
"To fight we need help, because tlie Sandinistas are supported by the Rus­sians. The Russians and Cubans are all over Nicaragua. Also, many government officials travel regularly to Russia. l would rather our government be backed by the U.S. than Russia, if it is going to be backed by anyone at all, because at least we know what goes on in the U.S. No one knows what goes on in Russia. 
"I respect the Americans who have taken an interest in Nicaragua, because they care. But I live there. I know the people, and they tell me things they could never tell a stranger. 
· Looking at the social revolution in Nicaragua, one is faced with two dramatically different accounts of the justice, Sandinista-style. Peter Carter's view, which is supported by m_any who have studied and.worked in Nicaragua, applauds the tremendous progress the Sandinistas have made toward raising the 



We have 
Supplies, Grooming, Small Animals, Birds, Tropical and Marine Fish 
standard of living for the poor in Nicaragua. Those who support the San­dinista regime see the present problems of militarization, concentration of power in the government, and centralized educa­tion simply as consequences of the revolu­tion. . · 
Yet voices of citizens like the woman interviewed here tell a different tale about the Sandinistas and the future of Nicaragua under their regime. This woman speaks of crimes the government has committed against her people, and propaganda campaigns that portray the Sandinistas · a beneficent and· popular 
Open Mon-Sat 
9 am-9 pm 
Sun 12-5 

government. She has seen the people in the government raise themselves above · the rest. She recognizes the improvements the Sandinistas have made, but worries that their increasing involvement with the Soviet government and their emerg­ing elitism depict frightening scenarios of Nicaraguan socialism. As the Sandinistas gain control of the country, she is afraid the Nicaraguan revolution may follow the course of the Cuban revolution. This woman says she risks her life to talk about the injustices committed against Nicaraguans. She fights her fear and feels 
. patriotic. ¦ · 
IDqe Qtnlonial Jancakt Nmtse 
'~ 


$1.00OFFT':::!hAd~ 
OUR SPECIALTY. Limit 1 OVEN-BAKED per person 
APPLE PANCAKES 


U.S: 31 North in Roseland · (Across from the Holiday Inn} 272-7433 Open 7 days a week at 6:00 am 
North Village Mall U.S. 31/33 N ·South Bend 
Good Thru Dec. 84 · 

.\:. 


:; 


at the Crossroads: 


Accommodating Religion and 
In a sense, it's a question of loyalty that Father McBrien has asked me here today to discuss. Specifically, must politics and religion in America divide our loyalties? Does the "separation between church and state" imply separation between religion and politics? Between morality and government? Are these different proposi­tions? Even more specifically, what is the relationship of my Catholicism to my politics? Where does one end and the other begin? Or are the two divided at all? And if they're not, should they be? 
(New York Governor Mario M. Cuomo, "Religious Belief and Public Morality: A Catholic Governor's Perspective," delivered to the Department of Theology at the University of Notre Dame, 13 September 1984) 
When Governor Cuomo traveled to the Notre Dame campus this September, his visit was heralded as an opportunity to inject order into the heated pro-


Democracy 
by Karen McCloskey 

Congressman Henry Hyde (R., Ill.) ad­dressed students at the Notre Dame Law School. He discussed the seriousness of the religion and politics dilemma in light of current media attention. · 
, For! believe that we are now in atinie '. ,of gr~at,, testing, a time, of arguments. 
•· down to the first principles. Whether the : mass media's interesHn the church/state :debate withers over the next weeks and 
; months, the debate it~elf will not go ' away. The questions it.raises are too jun-. 
life/pro-choice controversy. The news .. damental, imd the choices among .possi-, 
media, already scrutinizing the issue of religion and politics in this election year, focused its attention on the Governor, hoping to gather more fuel for an already fiery debate. What the Governor delivered was a carefully prepared ex­amination of the propriety of the in­fluence of a politician's spiritual beliefs on his secular role. 
Governor Cuomo addressed his remarks specifically to the area of the public debate on the morality of abor­tion, but the intent of his remarks was not limited to that issue. Apart from its own very serious implications, the abortion issue is important because it forces us to focus on a larger, more pervasive issue. The controversy compels us to realize our uncertainty about the status of religion in the political sphere. 
In a rebuttal to Cuomo's presentation, 

'· ble answers too important to thefuture of ' the American experiment, for this discus-· sion to be.resolved easily or quickly. · 
· ,·· · · · · ·, ·· • • · : (Congressman Henry J. Hyde, '\Keeping: '·· Godin the Closet; Some Thoughts on the, Exorcism of Religious Values from Public . Life," preseritedhyThe Thomas J; White· 
; · Center on Law and Government of the · . Notre Dame Law. School, .24 September · 1984) •, · .. ··· 
The question of the activity of or­ganized religions in state affairs transcends the current media blitz. Should we allow our religious values to influence our legislation? At what point is 
the wall between church and state 
breached by religious activists? When do 
politicians decide to shed their religious 
and moral training for dispassionate 
legislating-and is that possible? The 
answers to these questions will have far-
reaching consequences for the American 
political system. 
Faced, then, with making decisions on 
an ambiguous church/state dilemma, we 
should examine the nature of religion in 
the American way of life. One perspec­
tive that merits examination deals with 
the historical progression of religious 
values in the American experience. 
The origins of the United States are rooted in religion. Among the earliest Europeans to inhabit North American shores were the Puritans led by Englishman John Winthrop. Winthrop and his .compatriots undertook their voyage to the New World precisely for 
reasons of reHgious freedom. They fled the persecution of Anglican authorities and sought to establish a separate church 
and state in New England. 
The birth of the American republic of­fers an excellent point at which to ex­amine two closely related aspects of the 
historical progression. Religion can in­fluence the formation of government in both legislative and popular contexts. 
While religious influence on legislation and religious influence on the populace are not mutually exclusive, they deserve individual attention. 
In legislative terms, the issue of the separation of church and state was ad-
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 dressed even before the ratification of the 
U.S. Constitution. On December 5, 1785, the Act for Establishing Religious Freedom was enacted in the state of Virginia. Authored by Thomas Jefferson, this Act guaranteed the free exercise of religious preference and protected citizens from unfair impositions by other sects. Jefferson, attacked as an atheist by critics, was a strong believer in church/state separation. 
Later, the First Amendment to the Constitution guaranteed the freedom of religious preference to all United States citizens. But not all legislators shared Jef­ferson's zeal for religious freedom. As late as 1852, the state of New Hampshire had a test act to prevent Roman Catholics from holding office. 
Legislation in the early twentieth cen­tury was affected by nineteenth-century religious pressures. The Prohibition Amendment was ratified to the Constitu­tion in the 1920's. The idea originated, however, with organized religious ac­tivities of some fifty years before. 
Legislation proposed by nonreligious and antireligious groups has come under intense scrutiny in the second half of this century. Church-based organizations are lobbying for changes to current laws. The controversy surrounding the ex­istence of voluntary prayer in public schools is a prime example of the conflict between religious and secular interests. Some organized religious groups have ad­vocated reinstatement of religious tests for judges in the nation's court system. 
The abortion controversy epitomizes the church/state problem. It represents not only the influence of religious and secular interests in legislation but also of the effects of popular movements that are sponsored or encouraged by organized religions. The abortion controversy com­bines the legislative and popular tradi­tions of religion in America. 
These popular movements are com­mon to United States history. Throughout the nineteenth century, there were waves of groups which sought to impose their private religious beliefs on the rest of the populace. Most of these groups directed their attacks against another religious organization, ethnic group, or societal condition. 
One particular movement which bears 
examining is the Populist movement of 
the latter quarter of the century. 
In the late 1830's and 1840's, there was 
an awakening of religious identities in the 
nation. Rivalries and conflict arose 
among sects of religions. By the 1870's a 
strong Fundamentalist movement .was 
building . in the nation. Named ·. the 
Populist Movement, this crusade found 
its support in the rural South and West of 
the United States. 
Essentially, the Populist movement was a rural revolt against what its sup­
"Here we are with Ronald Reagan and Jerry Falwell who urge us again to see politics as a means of enforcing religion." 

porters perceived to be domination by the Eastern part of the nation. Populism at­lacked the bankers and big cities of the East. 
In this movement, farmers found the and passions molded with symbols and visions of their religious life. Leaders of the movement expressed fundamentalist visions in effusive biblical language. 

The strong religious overtones of the Populist rhetoric appealed to Protestants but found little support among non­Protestants. 
Therefore Populism never had a solid following outside of its regional strongholds. In . 189.6, the Populists directed their efforts toward the national level of government. Endorsed by the Democratic Party with William Jennings Bryan as its candidate, Populism con­fronted the "evil" of the East and failed miserably. William McKinley and the 


Democrats suffered serious setbacks as a national party. 
After the defeat of Populism, religious fervor as a political force became less ap­parent in American life. The twentieth century saw an increase in secularism as the focus of legislation and public opinion shifted in the direction of the absolute sep_aration of Church and State. 
The presidential candidacies of Al Smith and John Kennedy fortified this secularization. These men, both Roman Catholics, were attacked savagely by anti-Catholic forces. In order to defend themselves from charges of coercion with the Vatican, both men insisted on the separation of the church from the state . and of the political identity from the 

"If the line between protec­tion and prescription is crossed, American democ­racy may be severely damaged." 
religious identity. In answer to detrac­tors, Smith wrote that no powerin the in­stitutions of the Catholic Church would induce him to violate the operations. of the Constitution or the enforcement of the law of the land. Speaking before a meeting of the Greater Houston Ministerial Association, Kennedy said: 
I believe in an America where the 
·separation of church and state is ab­solute-where no Catholic prelate would tell the President (should he be Catholic) how to act and no Protestant minister would tell his parishioners for whom to vote-where no church or church school is granted any public funds or political preference-and where no man is denied public office merely because his religion differs from the President who might ap­point him or the people who might elect him. 
(Sen. John F. Kennedy, Meeting with the Greater Houston Ministerial Association, 12 September 1960) 
In response to the overriding secularism of this century, the "New Right" movement has emerged and become a viable political force. This 
· movement is composed of three major groups: Protestants ··Fundamentalists; Catholics influenced by the Right-to-Life movement and who find favor in pre­y atican II religious traditions; and Libertarian Conservatives in favor of limiting government intervention in private affairs. . . 
The connections between the cur­rent New Right and the late nineteenth­century Populist movement are striking. Both movements employ the language and literary persuasiveness of the Bible. Both movements are the embodiment of conservative reaction against a perceived threat; in the case of the Populists it was a reaction against the Eastern cities, for the New Right it is a reaction against a perceived loss of moral values in the society, an attempt to repair the torn moral fabric of the nation. Itis this moral 
. fabric which is at the center of the cur~ rent political deb.ates. The popular force of religious influence is merging with the legislative force in the cross fire of debate surrounding the church/state relation­
ship. . It is clear that organized religion has 
played a role in influencing both legisla­tion and popular action throughout American history. But legislation is often · tied directly to popular action. The media attention given to religious issues 
in the current election year has brought to light the American preoccupation with the church in _the political sphere. 
Government professor Peri Arnold said in an interview recently that for mcist of the twentieth century, through the presidencies of the Roosevelts, and John Kennedy, as well as in the time of Al Smith's candidacy, religion was denied a r.ole in in public policy. But of the current situation he says, "Here we are with Ronald Reagan and Jerry Falwell who urge us again to see politics as a means for enforcing religion." 
It is apparent that American society is undergoing a period of reevaluation and of introspection. The actions both legislative and popular which result from this introspection will no doubt have con-sequences which will be felt into the next century. Party politics, freedom of per­sonal religious expression, and, ultimate­ly, the shape of American democracy hinge on the decisions being made now. 

Just as the Populist failure spelled out devastating loss for the Democratic Party in 1896, so now the Republican Party must meet a monumental management challenge. The three groups in the New Right coalition are essentially at odds with one another. The Republican Party must maintain the interest of the Liber­tarians through economic incentive while catering to the religious demands of the Protestants and Catholics who, in many instances will be at odds with one another. It will be no easy task to main­tain the support of all three groups. But, if the party wishes to be successful, it must work to keep the coalition and its base of support cohesive. 
The amount of legislation which is enacted as a result of the Church/State debate will very likely form the boun­daries of personal religious expression in the country. Those who would prescribe and legalize proper religious actions for their compatriots are at odds with citizens who would guarantee extensive personal freedom in the matter. This issue is at the heart of the current con­troversies surrounding abortion, school prayer, and religious tests for judges. If the fine line between protection and prescription is crossed, American democracy could be severely damaged. 

In an interview on the subject of the Church/State controversy, former Gover­nor of Ohio, John K. Gilligan, O'Malley Professor of Law at the Notre Dame Law School, drew parallels between the tendencies of contemporary Fundamen­talists and the actions of /some public figures in the 1950's. "It's been a while in our history since religim/s norms have been (the focal point). Irimy day, when I was first getting into politics in the fifties and sixties, the term used was 'McCar­thyism.' Then it was 'Americanism.' If you share my views you're a red, white, and blue guy. If you don't, then you're a crypto-Communist and so on and so 
(Continued on page 34) 
WE TREAT STUDENTS AS THE 
PROFESSIONALS OF TOMORROW! 
We have the supplies for every need of commercial and fine artists, industrial architects, engineers, draftsmen, graphic designers and more. We also carry the largest supply of creative talent books in the area and offer Custom Framing, Prints and Unique Gifts. 
WE TRULY APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS.· 
HOURS: MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8:30 am -5:00 pm SATURDAY 8:30 am -12:00 pm 



M MAK/ElSKl INC. 
SERVING AREA ARTISTS FOR OVER 73 YEARS 
117 NORTH MAIN • SOUTH BEND, IN. 46601 • 233-2409· 

_Ada~•Slp.Ith.G~ts·a Slap)on_ the-Invisible.Hand 
Second, and more significantly, though perhaps not as immediate at that time, the Bishops wanted to fulfill their role as (this from canon law) "authentic teachers and instructors of the faith for the faithful entrusted to their care." 
Because it was the Bishops' intent to produce a teaching document of genuine moral import, it was decided that the 
Letter  should  elucidate  and  clarify  
Catholic social  teaching in  a  spiritual  
construct  first,  and  then  demonstrate  

how this teaching might be applied in economic issues of present debate. 

management professors, John Houck and Oliver Williams, C.S.C., provided the opportunity for a public forum of the issues to be addressed in the Letter. Their efforts resulted in a three-day conference held at Notre Dame last December, and attended by over 250 religious and lay people representing a wide spectrum of views. Scholars in the fields of economics, public policy, and theology were invited to present their views on each of the four topics, and the fifteen papers which were presented were calculated to give the Bishops a balanced view of the options economics of the issues to write a definitive statement. 
Accusations of meddling do persist, however. Two sources in particular re­sent the intrusion of the Bishops into deci­sions of the economy. Conservatives fear that the Bishops will produce a document at best somewhat similar to the 1984 Democratic platform, and at worst, a second Communist Manifesto. Others decry what they see as the needless and even dangerous secularization of the Church's teaching. 
The business press expressed its displeasure with the Bishops early and 

often. Business Week, for example, sug­
gested that the Pastoral would "warm the hearts of Democratic politicians-unless it goes too far ..." and FORTUNE claimed that the Bishops would gravitate toward socialism because it "gives them a role to play, while capitalism ... leaves them out in the cold," In fact this is not the case. Quite apart from the fact that it is Marxism, in its insistence upon an atheistic state, which leaves the Church out in the cold, the Bishops will keep a wide berth from any form of collec­
tivism. In order for the individual to have 
~~y meaningful spiritual growth, he must willfully and consciously choose the way of Christ, and in no sense does the Church endorse a view of Man which says that he can be molded by the social 
structure of the society in which he lives. 
The Bishops can be counted on to adhere to the principle of subsidiarity advanced by Pope Pius XI, which says that to assure the efficacy of the Church, family or community in matters of moral develop­ment, institutional organizations should be no larger than a breadbox. In the in­troduction to his book, Fr. Williams makes it quite clear that, "Catholic Social Thought is ever vigilant against collec-. tivist tendencies which tend to obliterate mediating. structures [such as family, Church and community]," Any recom­mendations in the Pastoral Letter of ex­tended planning on the part of the government will be limited and heavily qualified. 

There are, though, vocal opponents of the Bishop's Pastoral who, regardless of their political views, criticize the Letter for distracting the faithful from more fundamental questions of religion. Secularization, even more than liberalization, is for them the chief cause 
The Pastoral Letter will be a reminder to them that with power comes a responsibility to the poor and disadvantaged. 
of concern. In response. the Bishops would invoke the concept of the teaching role of the Church. Where 50 years ago American Catholics represented largely the working class and the poor, they now have risen to positions of power in the na­tion. The Pastoral Letter will be a reminder to them that with power comes a responsibility to the poor and disadvan­taged. Secondly, there is no reason that political or economic action must be an­tithetical to spiritual enlightenment. The two, if they are different at all, must complement each other. Fr. Williams writes, "Thus the emphasis on the spiritual is not· meant to imply that .the Christian can escape from the world but rather it calls for a more profound engagement with it." Finally, on a somewhat more subtle level, Fr. Williams suggests· that the human response-in the form of concerted ac­tion-to God's call is itself a meditation on Christ's message." [Pope] John Paul understands the Book of Genesis to mean that the most important purpose of work is to develop the human qualities of the person," he writes. 

The Bishops intend for the Pastoral Letter on the economy to be neither definitive nor final. The Letter will be debated, and comment from all quarters of the Catholic Chu'rch will be encour­aged. Then the Bishops will meet again in June 1985 in Chicago !here a second draft will be discussed. A!=,ain, the docu­ment will be revised, and in November of 1985, at their annu!J.( meeting in Washington, the Bishops will vote on a final version of the document. If it is ac-· cepted, the Pastoral Letter on the U.S. economy will become a teaching tool and a guide of reference for U.S. Catholics with regard to their economic role in society. However, it wiU never be con­
(Continued on page 34) 


Dr. Josephine Ford was among the first women faculty at Notre Dame. 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 15 , . 
"I thought how unpleasant it is to be locked out; and I thought how it is worse perhaps to be locked in; and, thinking of the safety and prosperity of the one sex and of the poverty and insecurity of the other . . one seemed alone with an in­scrutable society." 
£hru-ve,y beginning, woman h~ been destined to fight for an intellectual identity equal to that of her male counterpart. Virginia Woolf, in the above quote, speaks of the desire of woman to break from her restrictive roles as child-bearer and wife, and to enter in­to the world of education that she may possess the freedom which education symbolizes. 
Woolfs courage in speaking out for the rights of women to attain an equal educa­tion produced results, though they were somewhat slow in becoming apparent. Lady Winchilsea expressed indignation herself in the seventeenth century, ex­claiming: 
Alas! A woman who attempts the pen, 
such a presumptuous creature is es­
teemed, 
the.fault can be by no virtue redeemed. 
They tell us we mistake our sex and 
way; 
good breeding, fashion, dancing, dress­
ing, play, 
are the accomplishments we should 
desire; 
to write, or read, or think, or to en-
quire, 
would cloud our beauty and exhaust 
our time, 
and interrupt the conquests of our 
prime, 
whilst the dull manage of a servile 
house 
is held by some our utmost art and use. 

The indignation of Woolf, Winchilsea, 
and many others after them, eventually 
brought changes in education and 
women's role in it. After much slow prog­
ress, women scholars began to "come out 
of the closet," and express their desire to 
learn and discuss. As colleges and major 
universities began to accept women, the 
progression towards academic equality 
between men and woman picked up in 
pace, and the barrier so long ago erected 
between women and academia has final­
ly begun to be surmounted. 

The presence of women in education 
continues to increase. To the modern 
woman, who has seen in her lifetime a 
great forward progression towards 
academic acceptance and equality, the 
struggles of the past have produced 
results. However, even in the 1980's, the 
barrier has yet to be completely sur­
mounted, and the inequalities resolved. 
Women have achieved the right to equal
'--------------='-----''----'-­
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 
_ 


Director of Student Activities Joni Neal. 
educational opportunities, but problems exist in areas that Virginia Woolf and her colleagues could not have anticipated. 
One of the most important problems facing women in academics today in-valves the opportunities for equality on the college campus-not necessarily on the undergraduate student level, but par­ticularly in the areas of upper-level facul­ty teaching and reseiJ.rch. Acro~s the na­tion, a general trend can consistently be noticed: a definite imbalance is present in the ratios of men and women on the up­per levels of college teaching and 
research. In 1981-82, a study conducted by the 
U.S. Department of Education showed 
that of full-time college faculty nation­wide, only 26.8 % were women. This figure, however, becomes more segregated when upper-level universities, including the Ivy League schools and in­stitutions of similar notoriety, are con­sidered separately. A 1983 report by the American Council on Education cites figures for this particular division of schools in which the imbalance in male/female faculty ratios are even greater. For example, Massachusetts In­stitute of Technology has a male/female faculty ratio of 1172/ 135, Stanford University shows a ratio of 1032/94, Vanderbilt University's ratio is 843/69, and though Harvard gave no exact figures, their tenured faculty ratio is 496/22. A study conducted by Judith M. Gappa and Barbara S. Uehling of the American Association for Higher Educa­tion concludes that, "Research indicates that there have been and continue to be powerful constraints nationwide affect­ing the participation of women (in academia]; the status of women as students and employees is still not equal to that of men." 

"W fi. lt at Notre 
omen acu Y Dame comprise 15.2 % of
h l ,,
t _e___t_o_t_a_.__________ 
At Notre Dame, the problem of an im­balanced male/female faculty ratio follows the national trend. Despite its reputation as a prominent institution of higher education, the University has not been able to effectively rid itself of the problem, and is affected as keenly as any other school. 
The facts speak for themselves, and help to depict a lopsided situation. In 1983-84, of the 899 total members of the Notre Dame faculty, only 137 were women, comprising 15.2 % of the total. This puts Notre Dame approximately 10 % behind the overall national average, 













lem which will take time to get out of. It but ahead of many noted universities 
cording to a U.S. Department of Educa­
results from our usage of language and 
across the country. One more important 

tion study. This tendency of 
ideas. Ninety-nine percent of the 
factor must also be considered in the 

· undergraduate women towards certain 
discrimination I've experienced has been 
situation at Notre Dame, however. Only 

majors is definitely influenced by the 
unconscious on the part of the 
ten women have reached the level of 

ideas of roles of women in the past. In re­
perpetrator. Does that excuse it? No, it's 
associate professor, only four the level of 

cent years, much is being done to en­
culpable ignorance." 
professor, and only seven women have at­

courage women to enter fields that have 
Assistant chairperson of the theology 
tained the distinction of an academic ad­

· traditionally been heavily occupied by 
department Dr. Ellen Weaver claims her 
ministrator. This small percentage of. 

men. The future may show that some 
own experiences at Notre Dame have 
women faculty, especially noticeable in 

change is being made, but presently, the 
been good, yet she thinks Notre Dame has 
the higher-level positions, is one of the 

availability of women in certain 
an image problem regarding the Univer­
more important i~sues which the Univer­

technical fields is extremely limited. 
sity's treatment of women. "We don't 
sity of Notre Dame currently confronts. 
A third aspect of the imbalanced facul­

realize the message we send out-just 
Because the problem is complex, 

ty ratio problem is somewhat unique to 
through our language. There are women 
simplistic, superficial solutions have been 

the University of Notre Dame. It involves 
who won't even touch Notre Dame avoided; the University's plan of attack 
the well-publicized "male domination" 
because of its reputation of being the 
has had to be slow but deliberate. The 

attitude which many have noticed at 
male-chauvinist capital of the world. 
establishment of the University's 

Notre Dame. Only twelve years have 
Women, when members of a small 
Academic Affirmative Action Program in 

gone by since women were first admitted 
group, are often put on the defensive and 
1970 signalled the start of efforts to deal 

as students to the University, and some 
feel threatened." with the ratio problem on the faculty 
lingering opinions on the influence of 
In many ways, female students and 
level. Continuing more strongly today 

women faculty at Notre Dame have been 
faculty have had to adjust to tradition at 
'than ever, its goal is to promote approx­

expressed by students, faculty, and 
Notre Dame. Because both are in a imate equivalence between the represen­
alumni. 
definite minority, adjustments have been 
tation of minority persons and women on 

made to the unusual social, cultural, and the faculty and their availability for 
academic situations which Notre Dame
1 

presents. The special mystique of the of existence on the Notre Dame campus, 
faculty appointment. Inits fourteen years University, its traditional ideas about 

the committee has succeeded in increas­

N.ve, ha>nng taught at an "11-male 
women, its Midwestern location and lack ing the percentage of women to over 
university until she came to Notre Dame 
of proximity to a major city, and its 15 %. Although the rate of progress has 
in 1965, Dr. Josephine Ford describes 
limited social opportunities have a been somewhat slow, the facts suggest 
Notre Dame at that time as "an all-male 
definite influence on the decision of many that steady progress has been made and is 
desert where it was assumed that if one 
female faculty not to come to Notre . continuing. Several difficulties regarding the hiring of new faculty women account for 
"In many cases the financial rewards of private in­
the slow progress. For instance there is a 
relatively small pool of women to hire 

dustry are more attractive to women than getting 
from at the university faculty level. Until 
recently, it was not uncommon foi: 

doctorate degree~." 
women to end their education_ after high school, ·as a college education was con­sidered necessary primarily for men. The number. of women obtaining master's or 

was a woman, she couldn't know 
Dame. doctorate degrees was extremely small, 
theology." Especially in her early years at 
In the ongoing attempt to correct the therefore limiting the availability of 
Notre Dame, Dr. Ford was aware of .a 
imbalance in the male/female faculty women with competitive teaching and 
feeling of opposition towards women as 
ratios at Notre Dame, many questions re­research skills. 
colleagues on the faculty level. 
main to be answered. What can be done Even today, surprisingly small 
"It's not easy for women to get started 

to encourage an increase of women in the I).umbei:s of women receive higher-level 
here, to establish credibility," comments 
world of high-level academics? How degrees, and those who qualify for upper­
Fr. Malloy. "I don't think anyone I know 
great an effort will be made by affir­level teaching positions are aggressively 
is deliberately prejudiced against 
mative action programs across the coun­recruited, thereby reducing their 
women. In fact, many male colleagues· 
try? What is the future role of women in availability. Father -Edward Malloy, 
and administrators go out of their way to 
academics, especially in fields previously Assistant Provost, explains. "In many 
encourage them. I think it would be great 
occupied primarily by men~ cases the financial rewards of private in­
to get 100 more contributing female dustry are more attractive to women 
teachers/scholars." He co?tin_ues! "O? 
. [• >·7"'"·~-~7: CD 
than getting doctorate degrees." The 

the other hand, every mstltut10n 1s _-···-__ --~---·-·-•-ce~~-_-·-• .• competition to hire qualified women is a 
capable of prejudicial conduct. We all HC> --·.. .._~'-'--'-.......:_ ... .c:J problem for many schools, and Notre 
make mistakes. Because of the pressures Dame is no exception. 
present in our society, some women may, any look to the future with definite A second facet of the problem comes to 
even believe that they have been hope and expectation. If anything can be light when special fields are brought into 
deliberately treated unfairly." concluded about the increasing role of the picture. Despite hopeful beliefs to the 
Dr. Katherine Tillman, Associate Pro-women in academics, based on the in­contrary, women are still showing more 
fessor in the Program of Liberal Studies, creasing numbers of women entering col­trends towards study in the arts and let­
believes the problem of patriarchy at lege at both the undergraduate and ters majors, while the business, engineer­
Notre Dame merely reflects our male-graduate levels, it is that the outlook for ing, and natural science fields are still 
dominated culture. "It's a habit of mind the future is promising. Because of the primarily filled with male students, ac-
and an institutional, not a personal prob-(Continued on page 34) 








SABBATICAL POLICY 
The theme of the Hesburgh years has been "the commitment to excellence." The goal of the administration has been to move Notre Dame into the forefront of higher education. Perhaps no component of this strategy is more important than acquiring a faculty which is qualified and competitive on a national level. A prerequisite for such a faculty is a strong publishing record. The University has at­tempted to create such a faculty through more stringent hiring policies and by making publishing record an important qualification for gaining tenure. Now it appears that the University may be demanding of the faculty what it cannot deliver administratively. The current debate over sabbatical policy raises many questions about the demands placed on faculty as well as Notre Dame's ability and desire to attain the lofty goals it has set for itself. 
During the past few years, the Univer­sity's leave of absence policy has been the subject of considerable debate. A signifi­cant portion 'of the faculty oppose. the present policy and they are expressing their discontent to the administration. In response, the administration .maintains that the current policy is equitable and pragmatic. Unfortunately, the issue itself has become increasingly muddled, and the main points of contention obscured. It is evident that some clarification must 
Obstacle in 

the Road to Excellence? 

by David Finn 
precede any attempt at reaching an agreement. The administration's stance is outlined 
.inSection Twelve of the Faculty Hand­book. This section, titled "Leave of Absence," states: 
Consistent with its views on faculty services, the University recognizes the importance, for its own well-being, of faculty leaves of absence. The Univer­sity does not, however, subscribe to rigid formulae for such leaves. 
This sentiment was reiterated in the March 5, 1984, meeting of the Academic Council. This Council is the University's internal governing body. During this meeting, the University's Provost, Pro­fessor Timothy O'Meara, stated that he is opposed to an entitlement policy for faculty. sabbaticals. Expressing dissatisfaction with the present. policy, Professor Micha.el Crowe, the Chairman 

of the Faculty Senate Subcommittee on Research and· Renewal, argued for a University-wide sabbatical policy. This · policy would provide faculty members with the opportunity to receive. serious consideration for a half-semester paid leave of absence every seven years. Fapul­ty could opt for a two-semester paid leave at half salary if they so desired. Since the March 5 meeting, discussion concerning the University's leave of absence policy has focused on the following issues: fre­
quency of . leaves, entitlement, cost; recruitment, and library capacity ... 
On November 29, 1983, the Faculty Senate published a report on faculty research and renewal. In this report, the Faculty Senate compared the frequency of leaves of Notre Dame faculty to that of 1 peer institutions, namely, Brown, Duke, Indiana, Johns Hopkins, Princeton, Southern California, and Tulane.. The report found that· the average time between leaves at these in­stitutions was seven years, while Notre Dame professors average one leave every 
16.7 years. The report also, revealed a discrepancy in the frequency of leaves in the University's various Schools. For ex­ample, the faculty in the College of Arts and Letters can expect a leave every eleven years, while Business School pro­
. fessors can expect leave every 45 years. Commenting upon these findings, Pro­
______--=.___::______~__..c____ 

fessor Crowe explains that, "the Universi­ty has been very supportive in terms of pay increases, but quality research re­quires time:" He adds, "In view of the Administration's desire for :increased faculty research productivity, an ade­quate sabbatical policy is essential." Under the existing policy, department chairmen are allotted an annual budget for faculty leaves within their depart­ments. The faculty submit their applica­tions to the department chairmen and they make the decision. 'If the proposal is rejected, the faculty member may appeal the decision to · higher-ranking ad­ministrators, although such appeals rare­ly occur. Crowe maintains that the department chairmen are placed in a precarious position. The chairman en­courages the faculty in his department to engage · in productive research, but he · realizes that granting a leave of absence would increase his amount of work, as he would be required to shift teaching loads 

and shuffle professors. 
Crowe says that the Notre Dame facul­ty supports the Senate proposal. He argues that while the University main­tains that they rarely reject applications for leaves, the fact of the matter is that most of the rejections never make it past the department chairmen. 
However Professor Timothy O'Meara, Notre Dame's Provost, believes that the present policy is sound, and consistent with the University's ends. O'Meara echoes Father Hesburgh's observation that "we have a policy on leaves in the sense that no one has been turned down except on those rare occasions when too many members of the same department want to go on leave simultaneously." The Provost maintains that the University grants as many leaves as it feels can be well used. According to ()'Meara, the University encourages faculty members to apply for leaves. He feels that the number of applications would increase if more information regarding the present leave policy was disseminated to the faculty. He affirms Crowe's observation that the University is encouraging faculty members to increase their research pro­ductivity, but he stresses the need for 
quality, rather than quantity,. in research. He explains that publishing for the sake of publishing does not benefit anyone. He agrees that there should be a leave policy. The issue, he insists, is en­titlement that is, whether· or not a pro­fessor has a right to a leave. He asserts that the Faculty Senate has yet to address this point. 
Professor Crowe takes exception to the Provost's statement that the Faculty Senate has skirted the issue of entitle­ment. He explains that the Senate. dis­cussed entitlement when it was asked to formulate a sabbatical proposal for the Faculty Manual and for debate in the March 4, 1984, meeting of the Academic Council's Executive Committee. The Faculty Senate proposal was approved by the entire Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate. It recommended a sab­batical policy under which faculty members would receive serious con­sideration for a _University-funded leave for one semester every seven years. Crowe states that the faculty Senate does not believe that professors are entitled to aleave every seven years. Thus, he feels that the words "serious consideration" adequately express the Senate's attitude. 
The Faculty Senate's plan would· re­quire that professors apply for a leave in writing six months in advance of the beginning of the period of leave re­quested. A professor's proposal must be a well-documented plan which relates to the goals of sabbatical leaves. Funding would not be available for leaves oriented toward recreation, recupera­tion, or general travel. The proposal would then be reviewed by the depart­ment chairman, the dean, the provost, and possibly a faculty review committee. Should the application be rejected, the professor would reserve the right to re­quest a written summary of the reasons for denial. The Faculty Senate proposal would not preclude more frequent leaves, nor would it require that a professor go on leave every seventh year. Crowe maintains that the proposed leave_ of absence plan would greatly enhance the recipient's future contributions to the University, and it would tighten up the procedures of the present policy. 
During his address to the Academic Council Meeting, Father Hesburgh stated that the problem with the Faculty Senate's proposal would· be finding the money to finance it. The Faculty Senate maintains that a sabbatical policy is financially within reach. Professor Crowe indicates that peer institutions spend, on average, 6.82 % of their yearly salary _budget on university-funded leaves. This is compared to Notre Dame's expenditure on faculty leaves, which cur­rently consumes only 3.09 % of its yearly salary budget. Crowe estimates that if the sabbatical proposal were adopted, ex­penditures on university-funded leaves would increase by 3 % . The Faculty Senate argues that it would be a serious mistake to assume that the entire dif­ferential would have to come from en­tirely new funds, as a substantial portion of the additional funding could be recovered from the present budg~t. 
. Professor Crowe states that.one way to recover funds from the present system would be to have lower-ranking staff members and teacher's assistants fill the vacant professor's role for the year, as their salaries woul_d be less. Additionally, the Senate has estimated that were one course out of every hundred eliminated, funds could be made ·available for 11 ad­ditional leaves.. The Faculty Senate observes that if the funds from four en­dowed chairs designated for the establish­ment of research professorships were held temporarily by faculty on leave, funding would be generated to finance 12 addi­the suggestion of increasing the teaching loads to help defray the increased costs. It argues that, when compared to peer in­stitutions, teaching loads at Notre Dame are already disproportionately high. Crowe admits that even H cost-cutting measures were employed, and some out­side funding secured, additional monies might still be needed. It was with this realization in mind that he asked the Notre Dame faculty the following ques­tion: "Were a sabbatical policy to entail, say, one-half percent smaller increases in salary for each of two years, would this be acceptable?" Sixty-two percent of the faculty responded affirmatively. Crowe states that this response clearly reflects the depth of the faculty's commitment to the sabbatical proposal. 
The administration maintains that the current policy receives adequate funding. When asked to comment on the alleged discrepancy in the amount of money that Notre Dame spends on leaves as com­pared to the peer institutions, Professor O'Meara questioned the validity of the figures. "We don't really know how much those universities spend on their leave policies," states the Provost. He tends to believe that the budgeting pro­cess is much more complex than the Faculty Senate Report would seem to in­dicate. O'Meara reiterated the Universi­ty's belief that, at Notre Dame, funding is available for any leave which the Ad­ministration feels will be well used. 
Father Hesburgh has repeatedly stated that the faculty is getting better, but he feels that there are still too many faculty who don't seem to be motivated to apply for competitive grants. The President has expressed the hope that, in the future, there will be more leaves supported by sources outside of the University. The desire to have the .faculty secure measurable outside funding is witnessed by the procedural rules of the existing policy. Currently, all requests for leaves of absence from the College of Arts and Letters faculty must be accompanied by two proposals to foundations. This stipulation would seem to indicate that cost is, indeed, a significant factor in the ongoing debate. · 
The Faculty Senate argues that the reason Notre Dame professors have met with limited success in competitions such as those of the · Guggenheim and Rockefeller Foundations, and of the Na­tional Endowment of the Humanities, is not due to a lethargic faculty, un­motivated in applying for grants. Instead it insists that a partial explanation for the faculty's lack of success in this area lies in the fact that Notre Dame research efforts are undersupported when compared to many of the competing institutions. Pro~ fessor Crowe adds that a considerable portion of the University's faculty submit proposals which are renewal-, rather than research-oriented. Unfortunately, he states, foundations almost invariably support only research projects. 

The Faculty Senate believes that a secondary salutary effect of replacing the existing policy would be that the change would enhance the attractiveness of a faculty position at Notre Dame. Professor Crowe insists that if the proposed policy were adopted, young scholars of high potential would be more likely to join the University's faculty. He adds that, at peer institutions, nontenured professors are customarily given a semester sabbatical so that they are given a fair chance of ob­taining tenure. At Notre Dame, such a practice exists in only a few departments. The Provost responds by expressing his opinion that the University is already at­tracting and keeping strong scholars. He addresses Crowe's second claim by stress-. ing that a deserving untenured professor will be granted a leave if the University feels that it will be constructive and will benefit Notre Dame. 
The final point of contention in the sabbatical debate involves the University's libraries. The Faculty Senate Report reads: "One of the most impor­tant reasons for a sabbatical policy, at least for faculty in many disciplines, is the need for access to high-quality research libraries. The adequacy of the holdings of the University of Notre Dame 


is increasingly in question." The Report proceeds to cite Notre Dame's decline in the Association of Research Libraries' (ARL) rankings in terms of total materials and binding expenditure, volumes added, and serials. 
Maureen Gleason, assistant director for the University's collection depart­ment, argues that it is unfair to say that the University's libraries are deteriorating. She explains that the ARL rankings do not represent a cross section of university libraries, "the libraries in the ARL rankings are the biggest and best in the country." In fact, she adds, only 
one other Catholic university is included in their rankings. Gleason acknowledges that some segments of_ the University's collection are weaker than others, but she explains that it is extremely difficult to be strong in all areas. She maintains that the relevance of the libraries to the sabbatical debate is that professors in the areas where the libraries are weaker are ex­pected to research and publish with the same degree of quality as the professors in the areas where the libraries are stronger. Mrs. Gleason maintains that the percen­tage of the University's general budget devoted to the libraries is above average, · although, when compared to other in­stitutions in the ARL rankings, Notre Dame's total budget is significantly smaller. According to Gleason, the University's Development Office and library officials are working to secure en­dowment income which would help strengthen the libraries' weaker sections. 
The sabbatical policy debate seems to 
be a struggle between ah immovable ob­
ject, the administratiop and a powerful 
force, the faculty. The administration 
seems intent on presei-ving the existing 
policy, while the Faculty Senate seeks 
substantive reform. The debate is com­
plex, and often confusing, but the issues 
and implications are serious and deserve 
attention and review. First, the fact that 
Notre Dame faculty go on leave half as 
often as the faculty of peer institutions is 
disturbing. The administration · states 
that all worthy applications are ap­
proved, but de facto, access to leaves is 

limited. An overwhelming majority of the Notre Dame•faculty favor the Faculty Senate's proposal. 
. Secondly, contrary. to . Professor O'Meara's remarks, the Faculty Senate has rejected any claim to entitlement. In fact, the sabbatical proposal outlines the procedure to be followed should a pro­fessor wish to appeal a rejection. If the Faculty Senate proposal were an entitle­ment program, a rejection would be an impossibility. Additionally,. the Faculty Senate agrees that the ultimate decision­making power should lie within the ad­ministrative chain. Their proposal is not a power~play. The third source of friction involves expenditures. Presently, Notre Dame spends 3.09 % of its annual salary budget on faculty leaves, whereas the peer institutions devote, on average, 
6.82 % of their salary budgets to university-funded leaves. The figures used in the Faculty Senate report were obtained from high-ranking officials at the peer institutions; the discrepancy is very real. 

Also in question is whether or not the sabbatical· proposal would enhance the attractiveness of faculty positions at Notre Dame. Granted, the University is presently attracting strong scholars, but it seems obvious that the Faculty Senate proposal, if adopted, would encourage even stronger scholars to join the Notre Dame faculty. When compared to the libraries of universities with which the Administration hopes to compete, the Notre Dame libraries are, at best, marginal. Mrs. Gleason observes that the University has one of the best Catholic university libraries in the country. In previous years this would have been satisfactory. However, given the Univer­sity's quest for nationally recognized ex­cellence in the field of research, this is no longer sufficient. 
In short, if the administration aspires to make Notre Dame a leading institution in the full sense of the word, it should ante-up. If cost is the prohibitive factor, perhaps the University should qualify its expectations of the faculty to publish and should re-examine its ambitious goal to become the Harvard of the Midwest. ¦ 


Jrancesco has won the most coveted award in Italian cooking . Mam.a' s approval• • • fJ-rances~~,r ~l':%!:: 277-6155 Free Pitcher of Soft Drink With Large Pizza Order 1636 N. Ironwood Closed Monday  




BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• ARMSTRONG CEILING TllE • POWER TOOLS 
• CABlNETS • lUMBcR 
• 
P1.YWOOD • HARDWARE 

• 
OLYMPIC STAIN • PLUMBING & 


• PANELING ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE . 
EASY 
!I!!!!'.!!!!!!.



-~;@~ 

272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
ROSELAND
LUMBER 

CENTER 





~~~w ~~-~~~~~:~~w~ 
~~'% ¥~~1.;;.$ ·~~ ·'iW-~:i5W~-~

~~~~~--~a"t~,., 
ii:._~~, • ' . .;~-, ,•(4ftJ'iI."': , ,•, }, ~~ ~• , . "'°!' I , . ". ,.t \t'ffl I t .·:\•·,
:.~·):l~tJ;

•''"""""'·· r~~,t,i\l),. ~..,,.f1 ~w.::, ,,tki«-:S t;';f,.,c;,.,~......,.~ ~ . : )!:tr.,.•....ffl.·. 
_--~~~~•.1;~~~f~ :~:f:=~;::~;;irr'.;j:•:?~::~~ 1pt~itt:::~~+%~~;\ft:t 
:~'-.::~_-,.:. ~-Y-....if._,r-.~."'.;J fii;;_,}t,/? ~ftW,~ ·-~-1.-~\. . ·--::··; ... _·;_~~ -~~ . -·.i.:~:-~ -;.""·~-­
-~ lrlMi<t\-ti~ 
.:;;.~~;~i'~l~~;:i~~~~!~J


,on~r.,thetWall._ .f r-~••'i'°,-\,,,;.. 
\t/'.t,,;, 

i-'{??,1-~~~/;~-~ ·_ -/fa~ti, ~--,R~o!'i '1>."'"~''t.. -~ ,· ·· .7:-,:;,,~ .....,,, ~!;);~ •'·,'
i :\. 1,.;, jff. ..,:t' :ii,. ::'i ~:-~-'·f~, ,: ,, ' '.' .-,., . ,..-,,.,;'~.--,. 
·;It ' "'~,.1 r~ -Jfi ~?!--P ff: ' ,.. :J..~•:r-·• ·'1· 
~'\)'' ~,,• ..:,!f;!, t.:••·. "~'g~' \:' -~ ' :;; . .. >(.''C~\...,,.,,. .,: ,,).,
~ •~t .. uy • \l.:J. 1 ..... ~ \!.1' , v,;....,.-• ,r • 1 ••• o1 ~ ~7.;J~ ; ".:,-£-,.-:-: ,!, f~~ ,_ I~ ~~'f'i' ' ••• ~ ·IP ~ , l ' ;,,: \f...;
V

,,I -~ .... ! • ~-... . ·i • \' ~,~1• •• , r. {f .,.... ,.ac:. 
,'i 'f:i;"•j;.;. ,C! 'I§: ,,,.,,-,1 /1,;-:_J.,,~. • '' ' C..,j• . • • ;l@.!',,, ,, . y·~••,,. • ,._, t?C~t;!z(,~·:;~.:~..~;:t i¥5.(~~w ' .. -;~~:~~~ ;,,; 'tI ~.)4 ~i .il" ~*-__:./~ y •..:~ -./-"~.m~' 
( 1,-~•clc -~ /<','~ •;-•1J\••;-;, •,••~"~,•f. U,..~ ~, .. •..,• ~'} J,!\,;...',.\~"-\••' • ,_! r",..{:1'-;>.\'/"::' / r',l ;,,)"\ , 1r \.,.1•,1'•,'
ii . ,_,,,. ·. S 'If... . .·"' '"'·'·"'' ~=1z:m ' .. ,. ,... . ,. '· ' ' •. ·. ,.. ' 
"¥.I ,_ .e_ -expression~ , .. --n ,.._•.,,-. ,:,,r.,. . , ,,,.,,,, .•. •;,·,t• '. 
•. t '·n"'·, ". , ,. : .~t,•;.., '. ,;..c £t'"J~.: ._ . ;,,:..,._,,~1 ::: '-.1~ ~ , , ,..1:. ,·): ~ .' •.~-,.• 
.Tf:_~.--.{f,f:i. &ftt,_.... -," :.: er~~~~ l~g_ . , ~" ~.l,;;.~g~,::opm10ns,.~I\~· '0t~;;::): /,C'i'.7.'.:~;': l!{j~i ....... ,;,,f;;•t'filf~f ~ >J e~~n ,,}<;>ry m. a_:.W~Js... at's def'-t,1Sel£,,i~dh:idualisticiti~-•J ;,-;~, ·.,' ,.:·0 
r1 ·, 
~~1::;f~tfr~iji~J,ifltcll:::2'~:.::~:.,~·: 
;J,v;,,,-1),~\ --1 ,,,: 't 1,,;.. •'~":;/ .,,,.,;.·.>;,: ·\'7.tr': ,, :-J~~~~ir,>.,;' l,t,.=:~,'.,:~,,:)); ~,,~ ././61:)i;~ ., ,! ;,,:jl/fatiy., ;;r/i /t,/f .•,cc -~~•-1¢.'#;l &~~ ~ · Jl!:Tf:, ~ ',,,'.;l'i.11 ~r-,;"•'-'., ~~'{o1,_ 0 -'r,C~D~ ,-.,,,PI).J.i;, -""' . ~}'.•~.(}51f¾hl ~[l?,q,iena,-,:1~s>ftIi~~.$ :~ ~ii ~ "-reiE"fii· ~If,~. ,::P,,;~:;,;· ;_;::·:;,·,.,... ·J!;-;.;::·,: h'•' ;,q i\;'f'<",•f"f"".' hQw:~v~r;rtliisi;;o)ie;jiasf'i~ ,y_al' ws~~~r,i.fo 
• ~ ... ~ • -:t;t~t~! • • -~ •• :~....... "':•••~ • ••-·. :·-~ ••.< ~ ·····r•....,;~...,... i~•:•~~ --H ...L,~•::~ ltJ~'"1\1
I -?a• ,. 
~ , -.,:r..p; , .,,·_ ·.-J~;)i:0:§'(j_ _·, . ...,,~~1,,;",·., ~tJ2:ua1_g~_pers9?a ~a.Ten ,-!-~~a.}~n,. ,~r.•,,~-, :. ·•·. _,,6l1i~9g, _tary;a~g_,1I.1t~U~!Y;,al/at~~~Ea~-~l~_gs ··. < ....·--.m-r i' 
~ ~;*--~JWJ; t,.;Wh C:f::'i~-~~1m:i ,: 
~'i ~~ ~.:$,--~,f:%'i~ij;{~" 
Jib ~t~ ;~~: ~'11 ,.~'{f:i:illt. i5ifilifw. 
-~~~-~ . 
te,,· ~t-~«~ ~%f s.w 
~ji!tif1; ~-W.ijj;' t~i'ifl,fi 



~~'i!!l .~ftt~:Ji·;f;,.-~J­
. ~';;;:.ITil1 ~~~. 




3) CAMPUS LIFE 
Graffiti of this genre deals with the Notre Dame football team (e.g., Go Irish, Beat Mizzoul and Maul Miami), famous or infamous campus per­sonalities {e.g., Rock Emili and Hail, Hesburgh! Hurl Hesburghl Hi, Hesburgh!), and "interest ratings" on classes (e.g., Zzzzzz ... boring class
~~ and Help, I'm being held hostage in·a boring chemistry class!). 
Other less typical, but nonetheless'intriguing,



VILLAGE 
samples of graffiti deal with campus issues. 
I drink, therefore I am 
is without a doubt graffiti conceived of the recent controversy surrounding the administration's alcohol policy. . 
Another sample of campus life graffiti affords speculation. It reads: 

GREENHOUSE 
Mary-P;E. Lisa-Lyons Kathy-Lewis 
Could this be a Casanova's list of girlfriends and their respective dorms? Or a student government 
$15.00/dozen 
candidate's partial list of dorm representatives? The answer cannot be discerned from the graffiti, but it Single/ $1.50 doesn't matter; it just preoccupies thezrbader's mind long ~nough to refresh him. 
The final sample of campus life gr;iffiti, found on a bulletin board, is especially ingenious. It must have originally been written under a poster for it 
reads:

Chec/e ou1t f>llices 0111 
You thought that you would lift co1tsages al'ld boutol'll'lie1tes. this and there would be no writing under here, didn't ya? 
One has to wonder about the type of person who wrote that. Different, to say the least. 
4) PERSONAL SENTIMENT 
The full gamut of human emotions, from love to despair, is expressed in graffiti of this type. Perhaps for this reason it is the most common. Graffiti varies from I love Brad to I want outta here, now/ and Don't push me cuz I'm close to the edge. 
Fortunately, love pervades the theme of most of$4.95/dozen. this graffiti. There are two popular forms of expres­sion. First, the initials_are within a heart: 

Single 45¢/each 



1K___G9L:.. 
K.D. -------=­
\'\­

NORTH VILLAGE -Or first names are used 
MALL 
272-5335 


Often these "love equations" are accompanied by Delivery Service Anywhere expressions of hope for a lasting, meaningful rela­tionship: 
Some day we'll be together 
and 


We're meant for each other 
There is only one personal sentiment sort of graf­EDITOR'S NOTE 
fiti that supersede~ these expressions of love. And it Scholastic recognizes the reprinting rights of St. 
is appropriate that this should be; for graffiti is, Mary Crux newspaper for. the article, "A living ·_ above all else, an indicator of identity and per­Memory of Sister Madeleva~twenty years after her sonality; a personal tattoo on public property. death," as publisHed in the Ocfober Issue of 
IWAS HERE.• Scholastic. 

That Trouble TRANS TRAP 
by Ann Kamatz 

E,hy~, about th= hund,ed and fif­ty experienced college students from around the country to join the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. students have the dubious honor of being deemed "transfers," and like freshmen, they have come to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's because they are at­tracted by the academic qualities of both students each year. Whatever spaces that schools, the spirit of the campuses, and are opened, however, are quickly filled the people that surround the institutions. by students drawn from the large pool of Unlike freshmen, they often remain only applicants. Saint Mary's, which has a because they have an extraordinary higher attrition rate than the University, desire to overcome the frequently lonely also does not place much importance on off-campus existence, the frustratingly recruiting transfers, although they claim difficult social experience, and the need this is changing to a degree. Any student to become a real and important part of wishing to transfer to the College will be their new school. sent a transfer application (which, until a 
Everyone desires to be needed, but ap-few years ago was identical to that of the parently transfers at Notre Dame and incoming freshmen), and will be assisted Saint Mary's don't often see that desire 1 by an admissions counselor. Due to a fulfilled. Both admissions offices admit shortage in staff and a less than over­they do not need transfer students, and whelming amount of tra·1sfer applicants, state that they don't actively recruit the Admissions Office at Saint Mary's them. Unlike many schools which view concedes that there is no real immediate transfers as a welcome and vital part of need for a specific counselor to take their budget, Notre Dame specifically charge of transfer students. states that it does not have this need. New and unknown on campus, Michelle Thomas, Admissions Director in transfers can feel detached from the rest charge of transfer students, indicated of campus, and Notre Dame transfer that the University has a very low attri-students often complain that there is a tion rate, and that it doesn't lose many lack of cohesiveness between themselves and their peers. Perhaps this can partially be explained by the admissions process itself. At Notre Dame, the admittance of transfer students and that of freshmen are two completely separate processes, whereas at Saint Mary's they are surpris­ingly similar. Transfers to Notre Dame are granted admittance on the decision of the dean of the individual college to which they are applying, and the admis­sions office itself only takes care of the ad­ministrative paperwork. In the case of transfer students, Notre Dame feels it needs· to know whether or not the previous college has prepared the students in their major field of study on the same level as present University students, and by separating and review­ing each through the individual dean, the University believes only the "right" students get in. 

Unsought and segregated, the com­plaints do not end there-in fact, they just begin. Once accepted, the next major tivities. Paul Smith, a sophomore transfer from Saint John's College in Minnesota, has been told by the housing office that he is 150th in linefor on-campus housing. Like Kathe, he feels that he is missing out most by not being able to take part in dorm-related activities. · 

Although · Saint Mary's students are much more likely to obtain on-campus housing, they do share the common prob­lem of encountering a student body which has already built up its own net­work of friendships and relationships. Aware of this, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Student Activities have tradi­tionally sponsored orientation programs to combat this, and the off-campus, anti­social atmosphere that many students find so prevalent. Occurring usually the weekend before the regular schedule starts, transfer orientations coincide with that of the freshmen, and transfers are urged to attend the freshman activities. 

Individually, the transfer orientation obstacle for any transfer student is to find committees at both institutions usually housing. Although most transfers to Saint . organize a lunch with the administration 
Mary's get on campus immediately, the situation at Notre Dame is quite dif­ferent. There is no initial on-campus housing available to Notre Dame transfers. The admissions office makes them aware of this by sending them an information packet which includes not much more than a map of South Bend, the rules and regulations concerning off­· campus living, and considerations to keep 
and faculty, T-shirt parties, counselling groups, and mixers with other transfers. This year the unique "Adopt-A­Transfer" program was implemented by the Notre Dame Student Government. In this program, each hall agrees to "adopt" a certain number of transfers, and the "adoptees" are then invited and included in all dorm events. Certain students from each dorm volunteer to "adopt" a 

in mind when looking for an apartment.· transfer assigned to that dorm, and are 
There is also a booklet listing the apart­ments and houses for rent, yet this does not indicate that landlords are often reluctant to rent to undergraduates who intend to move on campus. Problems may arise too for students who per­manently reside any great distance from the University, for often the· landlord wishes to meet his tenant before he or she arrives to live there. Although most students ultimately find housing; they are left on their own to contact the landlords, secure a residence, and often, to locate roommates. 
According to many transfers, the hous~ ing problein is the major barrier they have to face. Upon acceptance, they are placed on the housing office's waiting list, following any freshmen who are waiting to get on campus. If a transfer is near the top of the list, the wait is often only a few weeks. Usually, though, the wait is somewhere between one and three years. Kathe Lach, a senior, transferred from Saint Mary's to Notre Dame in her junior year, only to spend her first semester dealing with the problems of "living at home" as a boarder in a South Bend home. Not only did living in this fashion complicate her adjustment; but she felt alienated from many social ac-responsible for contacting the transfer about the various events. Although a fresh and innovative event, there are not yet enough data collected on how sue­cessful the program is. 


Wu, some studen~ find these odenta­
ti6n activities helpful and rewarding, most agree that they do not solve the problem. Commenting on the poor atten­dance at many events, Ms. Joni Neal, Director of Student Activities at Notre 

Dame, believes many transfers don't par­ticipate in the events due to a large publicity problem. She noted that off­campus students are often cut off from campus events if they don't read The Observer closely, or if they don't eat at the dining hall. Yet s_ome students believe that the problem stems beyond mere publicity to the design of the programs themselves. Collectively, students argue that the orientation events are designed for transfers only, and only move to perpetrate the transfers' alienation on campus. Some, like Saint Mary's sophomore, Megan Comstock, complain that the events are spread too far and few between. Others state that events are poorly planned, and tend to conflict with class and homework schedules, and still others argue that Student Activities is wrong to equate the transfer experience with that of the freshmen, and feel they are being pushed in with the wrong class .. 
W.te~, the complaint o, a,gument, the fact still remains that most transfer students are less than satisfied with their individual situations. The real problem of living off-campus while attending a school whose social life revolves largely around dorm-related activities will not be solved by a few events which help transfer students become acquainted only with each other. Even those transfers that do acquire on-campus housing must not be forgotten an9-should be reminded that they are truly a part of their school's com­munity. Although both the chairpersons of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Transfer Orientation Committees attest that they are going to evaluate and ex­press the recommendations made by this year's transfers, feedback is not enough consolation for the many upset students on both campuses. Transfers at .both Notre Dame and SaintMary's are ready to see results, results which will make a big difference in their lives as active par­ticipants in their colleges. I 
•···· 

Bhm ofa ~ili& flock 
together here at Notre Dame. Most· of the students . tend to dress the 
same-conservatively-fit­. ting the all-American look; . many of the women could 
easily have modeled for Girl 
Scout cookie boxes. Over 
the pastfew years skirts and 
sweaters worn with match­
ing knee socks have 

dominated campus-fashion. 
This year styles seem to be a 
bit more radical, a,lthough, compared to the glittering, . ,wild clothes in the cities, . 
· Ni:itte ba~e fashion falls bacl~ into the girl-next-door ·category. 
The single most popular article of clothing to make its debut this year is the sweater vest. Women wear vests with shorts, jeans, and skirts. They wear therri with a blouse underneath or alone. Many women this year also wear shiny belts (usually long.enough to wrap around twice). Miniskirts, which appeared on the scene two years ago and endured their first winters in the bitter north, are still evident in large numbers. Judging from the number of people sporting denim jackets this year, the person who created the denim jacket has made a fortune. 
Notre·Dame lags behind the world of fashion. New trends appear first in cities and large towns, and gradually work their way into the smaller towns. The freshmen carry these new fashions with them to · school, often standing out at first like tropical birds who have accidentally flown 

north. Gradually, cold 
weather and the conser­vative atmosphere at Notre Dame suppress the bright 
colors and wild fads until 
most of the tropical birds 
have faded into the 
background. 
Although the basic fashions of Notre Dame could have been produced on an assembly line, dif­ferent groups do stand out, reflecting their characters or lifestyles. The women in the school of business tend to dress up more than the other women. Business students are sensible, and they study solid facts rather than exploring philosophical, abstract ideas. This practical nature of business students is reflected in their attractive, .tailored clothing. When they move into the "real world" to lat.inch their careers, they're going to have to project a profes­sional image. As business­women; they must look con fident and attractive, and they have begun to form that image now. Business students on the whole wear skirts and dress pants more often than jeans, and they select more muted shades of color. Arts and Letters · students also seem to prefer skirts, while premeds and engineers keep the casual look alive on campus, par­


ticularly on lab days. "On lab days, premeds look like slobs," reported one senior premed student. 
Although their clothes vary in levels of attrac­tiveness, the fashions of the four schools follow a similar line. There are two excep­
tions: Off-campus students who spend most of their time in the Nazz and ar­chitecture students. Accord­ing to David Klein, associate professor of . sociology, "Fashions mainly . reflect generalized beliefs on the following axes: 1) for­mal vs. informal, 2) conser­vative vs. liberal, and 3) respect for conformity/unity vs. respect for diversity/in­dividuality. All three axes characterize political and social themes and probably spill over into fashions." The group of off-campus · students who have evolved into a separate culture of people living in the Nazz il­lustrate this point. These students, who could easily have come from The Village in New York City, are the Notre Dame representation of the avant­garde. The women wear 
· calf-length skirts, long coats, bobby socks, and shoes and big earrings 

which match the bright col­or of their shirts or skirts. Their clothing illustrates their diverse style of life and their submersion into a separate world of fashion, time, and interests. These people study far into the night in the Nazz, taking breaks in the early hours of the morning to discuss philosophy, politics, or art over a cigarette or a cup of coffee. If, as Klein said "The clothes people we;r may be statements about at­titudes they have about themselves or may be at-· tempts to create attitudes in others who observe them," then this separate race of "Nazz People" are letting the world see their in­dividuality, their content­ment with that individuali­ty, and their eagerness to explore the uncharted seas of life. 

The other flock of people that deviate from the mainline of Notre Dame fashion, "the Archies," stand out from the minute they arrive on campus as freshmen. The style of the 
Nazz group can be summed 
up in one word: unique. 
The style of the Archies can 
be exprj§ed in one word: 
creativ7. The Architecture 
students apparently con­
struct their outfits with the 
same creative flair they 
design architectural struc­
tures. Archies wear loose 
clothing-big shirts (often 
belted at the waist), long 
army coats, and baggy 
pants. One of the most 
distinctive features of the 
typical Archie is that she 
looks like she's going on a 
journey. Archies always 
seem to have large bags 
flung over their shoulders. 
With their long coats and 
these oversized bags, they 
look almost like vagabonds, 
on the road, aimlessly 
wandering toward an 
unknown destination. 
Perhaps they acquired this 
look during their junior 
year in Rome, travelling 
throughout Europe. 
Associate professor of an­
thropology, Carl O'Nell, 
said that "Fashion helps to 
define the person and what 
· that person thinks of 
herself." If this is true, the 
Notre Dame architecture 
students, defining their 
creative talents in their 
unique, eye-catching styles 
of dress, should be highly 
successful in their fields. · 
Notre Dame, because of 
its location, is also in­
fluenced greatly by · something completely apart from culture-the weather. Harsh cold and snowy days · drive brightly colored out­fits and dress boots into the 

time, students don their OP shorts and shirts and head for the quad.· The change in the fall is also dramatic. Warm weather often lingers through October in South Bend, but on the first crisp, cold day, new skirts and sweaters crop up all over campus like fresh growth after a rain. 
The appearance .of more radical fashions. on cam­pus-feather earrings, col­ored stockings, punk hair­cuts-may be indicative of a decline in conservatism, but the prevailing at­mosphere on campus, like fashions, is only temporary. Liberal fashion trends, reflecting liberal attitudes, will pass through campus like the tide, rolling in then quickly rolling back out. As O'N ell observed, <'Pro­fessors' clothing moved toward something more casual in the early 70's:__it seems to be going back the other way at present." Similarly, wilder fashions have moved iri this year, but in a few years, the tide • will change, and they too will move back o_ut. In the meantime, this year's fashions add a look of piz­zazz to the student body. "We seem to have a curious mix of Ivy League/ROTC conservatism and M-TV in­spired but cautious punk," . said Klein. 
If indeed fashions do reflect people's attitudes both about themselves andback of the wardrobe, and about the world in general, girls dig for their duckshoes then Notre Dame, at pres-and warmest sweatshirts. 
. ent, seems to be more The life span of duckshoes liberal and daring. Studentsand colored slickers has are throwing caution to theprobably been longer at winds and conservative Notre Dame than on any clothing to the good will other college campus. Dur­and reveling in the glitter of ing the endless string of · 
-life. ¦
gray winter days, one color predominates the fashion scene under the Dome-dark. Different shades of blue, gray, brown, and even black add to the drab atmosphere pro­duced by the weather. The abrupt changes of season are accompanied by dramatic changes in the ap­pearance of the student body. With the advent of warm weather, a blaze of color bursts out of the dorms. Even before the mercury climbs to the sixty­degree mark for the first 



277-8866 
NOTE: Bicycle storage avallable from 11-8-84 lo 4-30-85 Coll fordetails 
In .Roseland one half mile north of campus on U.S. 31 Closed Sunday and Monday 

Bring this ad with you for 10% OFF on Iha typesetting of your resume. Offer expires January 31, 1985. Offer good only for typeset­ting.
offcit;lit
'eww-{
' ® 
TheNow Printers. 

Your resume should also be .. special. A professionally typeset 
· resume is important because it shows you in your best light. We are typesetting professionals and can help you look your best. 
247 Dixieway North South Bend, IN 46637 
219-277-3355 
-----------------•~-----• -­
by George Maney 
A Theory of Relativity 
Does the way you dress leave no doubt who's in command of your life, your lifestyle? Is your wardrobe you and you alone, a no-nonsense expression of who you are? 
Probably not. 
But why do you dress the way you do? Think about it for a while. Recent­ly, fashion has forced its way to the forefront of American culture more than it ever has, and we find ourselves constantly bombarded by its influence. · Every form of media and entertainment forces fashion on us in some way. Music, movies, and television all heavily influence the way we act and dress. To­day's advertising reflects the current fashion revolution. It pulls us this way and that, thrusting look after look upon us; different looks corresponding to dif­ferent moods or lifestyles. 
Fashion has always been more than the way one dresses; it is an expression of personality. In the past, fashion was less diversified, but today itis in a state of flux with unlimited parameters. 
Notre Dame's student body is often described as a homogeneous group adhering to a similar set of beliefs and lifestyles. Indeed, this is true to some extent, but in regard to fashion, several distinct subcultures can be identified within the community. 

SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 The Well-Dressed 

Marvelous! This group knows how to 
go in style. Tailored and expensive are 
the standard vocab. The well-dressed . 
exude a classy air by adhering to a 
traditional, fashionable dress code. The · 
members of this subculture are mostly · · pre-professionals and business majors. 

The Preppy 
Keen! Preppies are of the same genus ·as the well-dressed, but they are of a different species: They require no ex­planation and are easily identified by combinations of pink and green, alligators, polo ponies, and deck shoes. Every dorm has its share of preppies. Like the well-dressed, the members of this set are mostly pre-professionals and business majors. · · 
The Average Guy/Gal Look· 
OK. Nothing fancy here. Jeans or slacks with a sport short, sweater, or T-shirt and athletic shoes. This sub­culture includes the overwhelming ma­jority of N.D. students. Neatness touched with conservativeness reflects our homogeneous Catholic, middle-class upbringing. The members of this group most frequently deviate to other sub­cultures. 

· Dressed for Expression 
All right! This subculture possesses the greatest diversity of style and cer­tainly the most originality. To them belong the punkers, the new-wavers; the androgynous, and all the rest of the. avant-garde. Whether the members of this movement are looking for atten­tion, making a statement, or simply dressing for fun, they provide a refreshing change from the other students. 
· Those That Follow a Singularly Street­Wise Beat 
Yeah. Jean jackets, guys with ear­rings, and drab colors reign supreme in this subculture. Anything designer seems taboo, and the clean-cut image doesn't show its face. Venture into the Nazz after 1:00 am, and the members of this sect will be highly visible. They are reserved in manner, seemingly difficult 
. to approach. Most have chosen a major with a philosophical or sociological bent.· 
The Slobs and Jocks 
Yup! Sweats, turf shoes; lack of tidiness and color coordination are typical. They generally wear whatever is comfortable or clean, and they just don't worry about appearances that much. Well, good for them. 
While students may generally base their fashion preference in one of the six subcultures, they are not restricted to them. Students vacillate between the groups as their mood strikes them, and weekends often become a time for ex­perimentation. What it comes down to is that fashion is relative; each of us sees part of ourselves in every fashion group­
ing. ¦ 

SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 31 · 
--~­
----------------------~ 



America 
(Continued from page 12) 

forth. The terms are somewhat different, ·but the technique is as old as democracy 
itself. It's called demagoguery." 

The real danger in the outcome of the 
Church/State debate of the 1980's lies in 
the possibility of abuses of legislation and 
injury to personal freedom. If 
demagoguery is permitted to prevail, the · 
United States can look forward to an in­
creasingly limited society and closed 
democracy which hinders rather than en­
courages individual expression. · 
Much more than the 1984 elections 
will be decided by the introspection 
generated by the Church/State debate. 
The consequences of this controversy will 
extend far beyond the next presidency 
and will reach into the nation's long-term 
future. The consequences will penetrate 
beyond mere electoral politics, into the 
moral fabric which cloaks the character 
of the nation. We are at crossroads in our 
historic tradition of a separate church 
and a separate state. The solution to the 
present Church/State debate must recon­
cile America's religious tradition with its 
i:lemocratic ideals. ¦ 
Cagitalism 
(Continued from page 14) · sidered infallible or doctrine. It .will simply, elegantly; be an elucidation of one aspect of the Catholic faith by they who are most capable to do soe-the Bishops. The principal worth of the document may however in the end lie as much in the fact that for the first time in recent history the. doctrine of the 
·boundless pursuit of heedless self-interest 
. Conservatives fear that
th h 11 d 
e Bis ops wi pro uce 
a document at· best 
some·what s1·m·1"lar to the 
1984 Democratic plat-
d
form, an at Worst, a 
second Communist 
Manifesto. 
is being comprehensively and authoritatively challenged'. Archbishop Weakland writes that "we are in a special moment-a.new moment in the history of the Church in the U.S.A." Let us hope the the Catholic community in the U.S. seizes this new moment to actively seek a capitalism with a human face.• 

Women in the_ Academic World ­
(Continued from pa!!,e 17) 
changing roles ofwomen in s9ciety, de­mand for educated women ready to take on important careers in academics will increase. 
. In the words of Virginia Woolf, "Anything can happen when womanhood has ceased to be a protected occupation, I thought, opening the door. ... I should implore them to remember ·their responsibiliti~, to be higher, more 
· spiritual; I shotild remind them how much depends r/n them, and what an in­fluence they can exert upon the future." The future for women, the ''.endangered species of the academic world," is prom­ising. What lies ahead for thisspecial and daring group? The possibilities seem endless, and the positive changes in­evitable, if slow in coming. ¦ 
ACE ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN"~t~-r,-~...~-e-/-;~-t'f~'.:~·-~, . . 272-7535 • GARDEN • PAINTS SUPPLIES • TOOLS • HOUSEWARES • PLUMBING & • HARDWARE ELECTRICAL • SPORTING !';UPPI.JF.S GOODS FRf:f: PARKING FRONT & Rl:AR 219 DIXIE WAY NO. IN ROSEi.AND  


Come and Meet your friends at ~!hi@ W@rrffin~)t ~!hi@~ 
OpenEdison Road at St. Road 23 Mon., Fri., Sat.

State Rd. 23 
8-5

(Walking Distance from Campus) Tue., Wed., Thur.
277-0057 
8-7:30 



ELAN 


THf AKTS 


I am totally against poetryJor "art's" sake. 
I think, especially in this age, that honest and challenging communication is much more urgent than writing pretty phrases and spewing beautiful platitudes everywhere. 
-Sam Moore 
SCHOLASTIC/NOVEMBER 1984 35 


THE ARTS 


WALL 
She opened her eyes And the curtain was drawn; She won't let herself cry­The show must go on. 
Her costumes, her clown-whites Should hide it all well, But they tear under footlights And the audience can tell . . . 

Proud morning wil.l always hold arrogant dreams For getting and forgetting and for getting ahead, But all of us change when we get there, it seems, And illusion's shell cracks to show Wisdom instead. 
She wonders at night If she's who she used to be, And how much of the fright The dark audience sees. 
But she smiles right on cue. She might cry later on. But for now, you're.not you, And the show must go on. 

·-Anonymous 
You Break Yourself 
When you don't stand up, When you don't support, Your goals and aims By dull, hard work, You break yourself. 
Surrender control of your Emerging you, to the staid Solid mass, you break yourself, You paint yourself grey, and Against the grey background, You can't tell the difference, You break yourself. ( 
As you take from them So easily, Be a man and look, at The puppet strings you've Let them put on. Then be a human being; Cut the strings, Know what that brings? You collapse to the ground. Pick yourself up and Seize the goddamn power you Never thought you had. 
_:_Sam Moore 
, i 
,·P 
::·-···"-··~{ ~:, ..~:~:::~ ~ ;,::;~·-...~l: 


The Verdict 
You didn't know had no idea of the true world around you 
How could you expect such harsh reality when you flew the nest .. 
and plummeted 
Snared by society in midair; flung down by cruel, merciless hands . 
you paid 
for the sin that birthed your despair You are found guilty of innocence -Lissa Astilla 

Reflection On Conformity 
Life: our only possession, 
Fed to the gnashing teeth of the Majority. 

How easily we let go of identity. -R. E. Mileti. 

Gazing at Sean's Socks 

uhh long day long day / runaround work my ass / feel like I've been here forever but it's just starting / four long months BREAK-ahh that Bud's smooth / swish it around the mouth I just let it lay there slide down the throat / lift back up to the lips­
Letterman's on, Sean said. 

Shut your ass up I I'm working here / getting in to the flow / trying to concentrate / but not really 
The picture sucks. 

All right who's on / oh shit not stupid pet tricks again-back to work/ Look at that girl though -same kind of dress Karen was wearing / wonder what Karen's doing now / haven't talked to her in three days/ if only. · 
Bright sun beating down *Highway 96* Me and my lady talkin, laughin *"Pass that] over here Jack"* Oh yeah, cruisin; jeelin fine * 
-2-4-2-1 she better be BZZ there it's quarter aft~r BZZ where the hell are you Karen BZZ I need to talk. BZZ SLAM I that's it, she calls me. I don't care where she/ Holy Shit, what is that damn dog doing/ got his leg cocked / look out Dave / .. · 
I do care though, Ka-. . _· 
. "What?/ Yeah, I saw it, right on his shoe" I Do they call this entertainment / I got better things to do turn that crap off / 
by Mike Kennelly 

The fan's screwing up the picture.· 
The fan is also keeping _my ass cool in this Hoosier sauna, genius/ "it stays on." I How does anyone live in this screwed state/ Death Valley for Purdue, North Pole for Southern C-
Death Valley* It was hot; then, too* "Lookit that 'vette; up ahead there, Karen" *"Rustin out in back• though, think it's a '76" *Metallic sun beams, squint to block them *if only I could turn off the sun• I_ will next time goddammit I will Karen 
Did you say something Jac_k? 
Tune out roomate / back to work, back to work/ I wonder if Karen is home / I need to see her tonight / I need her. / I'm not gonna-call her/ should I?/ no it don't make sense / maylle though / no, if she wants to talk she'll call me / I fletter / NO -screw her, let her wonder. Where is she'? I talk to me / 
"Hey hey, talk to.me, watsa matter *come on over here, K"* "Why?" * "I don't know, we'll thinka somethiri'" * Crank it up, Hendrix is jammin' • just reach over her· and turn the knob • Piercing gold lasers cutting through my eyes * through my brain • "Yeah, just like that Karen -PurpleHaze, all in my brain"* 
-2-4-2-1 I Please answer / She won't answer though, BZZ I know it/ Don't do this to yourself BZZ Gently hang up / · 
Jack, are you trying to call Karen? 

"Who?" I pretend· uninterested / "Carrie who" / don't really care / "oh Karen-what am I nuts?" / I · · don't call that bitch anymore / I got pictures to , remember /·pictures in my head / too busy to call anyone anyway / got homework, got accounting after this / anyway, what can I do about her / change the subject -· watch Sean change the channel · / gray static on the screen / the TV's confused, put ft on a channel/ 
Where was IP • somebody changed the channel in my mind *.,She moved· her head and bumped the steering wheel * look back up at the 'vette • which way is straight? • more fiery swords slashing through the window though • c;an't see • pull the wheel straight• 
Fiction 
I'm turning it off. 

Watch him punch the knob / light flickers across the screen / and then nothing / ...... :...I is the TV dead? / who turned off the lights? / 
No more static • I remember Mile Marker 104 • where's the 'vetteP • They turned off the sun, too • is the sun dead? • No more lights, no more movement 
• .......... • Why am I on my head P • The sun's back on • a pale red now * "Karen, where did you go?" • hole in the windshield • gotto get out and get Karen • my body won't move • 
Did you get yo_ur accounting read? 
Why is the hood red?• there's Karen • Holy Shit ·the trucker said • Karen's laying down taking a nap ; 
· the t7"!'cker ran over to Karen and started kissing her • I want to stop him, but I can't move off the hood • slip into black, there goes the sun • . 


Artistic Opportunities 
FESTIVAL FOR YOUNG . HONEYWELL PAPER PIANISTS SHOW 
Deadline: December 1, Deadline: November 18, 1984 (application only) 1984 The Mozart Festival The Honeywell Center in Young Artists Competition, Wabash, Indiana, is looking ·-, sponsored by the Pueblo for "outstanding visual im­· Symphony Association, ages" to appear in their Inc., in Colorado, opens a photography show, running 
way for young pianists of from December 1 to two different age groups to · December 26, 1984. 
ll ·: .. 
... 

begin their recording Photographs must be 
--::::­

careers, appear in the original and must not have Pueblo Symphony.Or­been previously entered into chestra, and win up to a Honeywell competition. $1,200. The competition is The Honeywell Foundation, open to serious artists at . Inc., wilygrant a $200 · two levels: 25 years and award to the winning under and 17 years and photog!apher, and $350 in under. Both groups will be cash a\~ards will be made required to perform one available by various other work from each of the corporations and groups. following categories: Bach, All works will be considered Classic Sonata, 19th or 20th for sale unless otherwise · Century, Concerto. labeled. Only Indiana Previous winners of the residents may apply. Mozart Festival are ineligi­ble in the same level in which they won. Applica­tions only are ·dmi'in December; auditions will not be held until ·mid-January. 
INTERNATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHY 
Deadline: November 15, 1984 

Murray State University sponsors the "Silver Magic Show," a nonprofit interna­NATIONAL PRINT & tional competition designed 
DRAWING 
to encourage and reward

Deadline: November 24, 
those involved in 
1984 photographic media. Up toOver $4,000 will be made $3,000 in cash prizes will be available to artists residing presented to winning artists. 

in the United States at the · Only original, unpublished, 20th Bradley National Print 
unpurchased works, in­

and Drawing Exhibition, 
cluding all ·light-sensitive 

hosted by Bradley Universi­materials, color, black and ty. Original prints and 
white, and all combina­

drawings crafted in 1983 
tions, will be considered 

and 1984, in all media, are 
for mcire

eligible .. The competition is
accepted, and artists are en­I 
open to anyone of the 

couraged to submit work in­
species, Homo sapiens,

corporating experimental 
residing within 27,731.6 

techniques. Sales will be en­miles of Murray, Kentucky. 
contact

couraged, with no commis­
sion charged by the exhibi­tion, and each entrant will receive a free catalogue. 


The 8nite Museum of Art 
RICHARD GRAY: Photo­
graphs and Collages O'Shaughnessy. Gallery November 18-December 30, · 
· 1984 · This exhibit features a selec­tion of recent work by the assistant .professor of photography, Notre Dame's Department of Art,. Art History and Design. 

NOTRE DAME CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
·Sunday, November 18, 4:00 
p.m.
STEPHEN CLAPP; violinist 
Annenberg Auditorium Sunday, December 9; 4:00 In its second year as an all­
p.m.. . 
student string orchestra, theAnnenberg Auditorium Notre Dame Chamber Or­
A faculty member from chestra looks forward to con­
Oberlin College ·in . Ohio, 
tinuing a .tradition of 
Stephen Clapp is one of the performing the finest music country's outstanding per­froni the chamber music 
former/teachers. 
literature, under the direc0 tion of Laura Klugherz. 

PIANO RECORDING COMPETITION 
Deadline: December 1, 
1984 . . Leading graduate and undergraduate students to higher levels of attainment and preparing young artists for recording careers, the 1985 International Annual Piano Recording Competi­tion is offering over $2,000 .on both undergraduate and graduate levels, Events range from the sonatas of Haydn, Mozart, Clementi, Beethoven, Schubert and 
. . 

· Brahms to the concertos of . Chopin, · Mendelssohn, Schumann, Liszt, Mac­
formation... 
Dowell, · Saint~Saens, Tchaikovsky, Rachmaninoff and many more. Events also include 20th-century pieces in the contemporary idiom. 
icholastic· 
All entries must be taped. 



WSND 
American Public Radio 
WSND is scheduled to become part of the American Public Radio Net­work in late September, allowing us to continue bringing you a wide range of new and exciting fine-arts programs. These include: 
The New York Chamber Series The Cleveland Orchestra The Sunday Morning Program: the 
latest in news and public affairs 
Business Times: a·close-up look at current business trends and issues 
The Record Shelf: a critical review of newly released classical recordings 
Baroque and Beyond The list will undoubtedly expand and vary from season to season, focus­ing on the highlights of the musical calendar. 
Nocturne Nightflight 
An alternative to contemporary rock programs in the South Bend area, Nocturne (12-?) brings not only new but innovative music to the rock scene. 
Jazz on WSND 
Each week there are 2 jazz shows on WSND: a jazz Nocturne which is Sundays at 12 am following the news, and the Jazz Gallery, Monday evenings at 10 pm. 
The First 50 Years 
Marty Robinson explores the early days ofrecorded vocal music. 
Presented each Thursday afternoon at 1 pm by a grant from Audio Specialists. 

Daybreak/ Meridian/Ta fe Imus i k 
Monday through Friday, WSND features Daybreak (7-9 am), Meridian (12:15-1 pm) and Tafelmusik (5-7 pm), shows which concentrate on shorter, lighter works as well as news and public affairs. 
ln .. Performance 
Each Monday evening at 8. pm, WSND will present digital record­ings of perforrn~nces recorded in the South Bend area, including the RecitalSeries(of the Notre Dame Department and St. Mary's Depart­ment of Music. WSND is proud to announce our continuing tradition of broadcasting thevery latest con­certs by the South Bend Symphony, directed by Kenneth Kiesler. 
MONDAY 
1:00 pm Chamber Masterworks 

3:00 pm San Francisco Symphony · 
8:00 pm In Performance 
10:00 pm The Jazz Gallery 
TUESDAY 
1:00 pm Music From Germany 
7:00 pm From the BBC 
8:00 pm The New York Philhar~ · monic 
~ M times EST 
WEDNESDAY 
1:00 pm Baroque and Before 
7:00 pm America in Concert 
·THURSDAY 
1:00 pm The First 50 Years 
7:00 pm In Recital 
8:00 pm Chicago Symphony 
FRIDAY 
1:00 pm 20th-Century Masters 
3:00 pm Philadelphia Orchestra 

SATURDAY 
12:15 pm The Vocal Scene 
1:00 pm Saturday Afternoon Opera · 
5:00 .pm New_ Releases 
6:00 pm Collector's Item 
7:00 pm The WSND Request Program 
SUNDAY 
.12:15 pm Music From Oberlin 
3:30 pm WSND Request Program 
8:00 pm On Stage · · 

FM 88.9 
Special Fine Arts Programming Chamber Masterworks, Baroque and Before, 20th-Century Masters 
These programs are produced by . WSND Music Director, Ed . Jaroszewski, and are broadcast on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 1 pm. The programs explore the music of lesser known composers of these periods and are a fine way of , expanding your knowledge of the musical repertoire. · 
Saturday Afternoon 
Opera 
November 
3 Weinberger: Schwanda 
10 Rossini: Othello 
17 Britten: Death in Venice 
December 
Metropolitan Opera Marathon 
New York Philharmonic 
November 6 
Michael Tilson° Thomas, conductor Alexis Weissenberg, piano Bernstein: Divertimento for Orchestra Beethoven: Concerto No. 4 for Piano and Orchestra in G Major, Op. 58 Tchaikovsky: Symphony No. 5 in E, Op. 
64 
Novemb~r 13 
Robert Shaw, conductor Leona Mitchell, soprano Flat, Op. 73, '.'Emperor" Thomas Allen, baritone Westminster Choir: Joseph merfelp, director . 
Flum-
Brahms: "A German Requiem," Op. 45 
November 20 
Rich Leinsdorf, conductor •' Leon Fleisher piano -· 
M. S 'h · ·· · ­

Ravel: Concerto for Left Hand and Or­chestra in D Major _ Ravel: "La Valse," Choreographic Poem for Orchestra 
November 27 
-Erich Leinsdorf, conductor Yo-Yo Ma, cello Shostakovich: Concerto No. 1 for Cello and Orchestra in E Flat Major, Op. 107 Bruckner: Symphony No. 1 in C Minor 
December 4 
Vaclav Neumann, conductor Brigitte Engerer, piano Tchaikovsky: Concerto No. 1 for Piano and Orchestra in B Flat Minor, Op. 23 Franck: Symphony in D Minor 
December 11 
Andrew Davis, conductor Lorne Monroe, cello Haydn: Symphony No. 44 in E Minor, "Trauersymphonie" Bloch: "Schelomo," Hebrew Rhapsody for Cello and · Or­chestra 
December 18 
Zubin Mehta, conductor Patricia Wise, soprano ThomasMoser, tenor Simon Estes, bass-baritone New York Choral Artists; Joseph Flum­merfelf, director Haydn: Oratorio, "The Creation" 
Chicago Symphony 
Orchestra 
November 1 
Leonard Slatkin, conductor Radu Lupu, piano . Ravel: "Menuet Antique," "Pavane for a Dead Princess" Carter: ''A Symphony of Three Or­chestras" Beethoven: Piano Concerto No. 5 in E 
November 8 
s· · 
1r George Solt1, conductor 
K,o;;~: ymp ony No. 35 in D Major, F~licity Lott, soprano 
R . • . Diana Montague, mezzo-soprano 
ousse: Symphony No. 3 m G Mmor, Siegfried Jerusalem, tenor Op. 42 Simon Estes, bass-baritone 
Chicago Symphony Chorus Beethoven: "Missa Solemnis," Op. 123 
November 15 
Klaus Tennstedt, conductor Mozart: Symphony No. 36 in C, K. 425 ·"Linz" ' Bruckner: Symphony No. 7 in E 
November 22 
Edo de Waart, conductor Stephen Hough, piano Dvorak: "Othello" Overture, Op. 93 Piston: Symphony No. 4 Brahms: Piano Concerto No. 2 in B Flat, Op. 83 
. November 29 
Kurt Masur, conductor Menahem Pressler, piano Benita Valente, soprano Isola Jones, mezzo-soprano Jacque Trussel, tenor John Cheek, bass-baritone Chicago Symphony Chorus Beethoven: Fantasia in C Minor for Piano, Orchestra and Chorus, Op. 80; Symphony No. 9 in D Minor, Op. 125, "Choral" 
December.6 
Claudio Abbado, conductor Ken Noda, piano 
Beethoven: Piano Concert No. 2 in B Flat, Op. 19 Mahler: Symphony No. 7 in E Minor, 
"Song of the Night" 
·December 13 
Leonard Slatkin, cond~ctor Haydn: Symphony No. 60 in C, "II Distrato" Bax: "The Garden of Eden" Sibelius: Symphony No. 4 in A Minor, Op. 63 
December 20 
Sir George Solti, conductor Elizabeth Hynes, soprano Marilyn Horne, mezzo-soprano Keith Lewis, tenor Gwynne Howell, bass Chicago Symphony Chorus Handel: Oratorio, "Messiah" 
idle banter 
by Mary Ellen Am 

"Hello, I'm Mr. Conoco, and you . are?" "So what is your major? .... 
Where are you from? . · .. What was 
your favorite class? ..." 

To interviewing seniors those ques­
tions of freshman year are now the 
subject of an uncomfortable deja vu. 
What is worse, though, is that the 
people now posing them are not only 
listeningto, but also·evaluatingthe 
responses, writing their opinions even 
as one speaks. 

Job Interviews. I'm no longer asked 
what my major is, but instead why I 
chose it. But that's not fair, it's ·not 
supposed to matter what my major is; 
all that matters is.that I am learning 
to think! So now I'm required to think 
fast enough on my feet to explain my 
choice of the major I originally chose 
in hopes of learning how to think. Im­
possible. I'm too confused to. think. 
Word has it that I should also "be 
myself' and try to leave a unique im­
pression on the recruiter. _After all, the 
poor recruiter interviews quite a large 
number of people every day, and they 
inevitably begin to become in­
distinguishable. Be sure that while be­
ing unique, however, that you also 
look like a generic human being by 
wearing a dark business suit ensemble. 
This insures that when the recruiter 
calls out "Mike?" or "Mary?"_ into the . 
waiting room his gaze won't be drawn 
specifically toward .you in that sea of · cloned pinstripe people who look up in response to his call. Stand out, but don't stick out, as in sore thumb. 
The real key to getting the job is 
knowing specifically what you would 
like to do for both the corporation, 
and the next ten years of your life, 
based solely on the information 
. packets provided by the company. Ex­plain in great detail precisely which tasks you are well suited for; and when the recruiter in turn asks if you would consider some ,other area within the corripany, assure-him that your flexibility, though rigid at first glance, knows no .bounds. Also assure the in'." terviewer that his compa,hy is ideal for you, because. of the fifteJn companies you've interviewed with so far, his .has by far the best-looking brochures ... .In all,•·the interview process amounts to another Rite of Passage, in 



some ways strangely similar to ­
freshman year. Nervous and mindless 
chitchat circulates among the milling / 
students in the waiting area, no one 
really saying, or listening to, 
anything. The atmosphere is like th,at 
of a doctor's waiting room, and 
everyone_feels both awkward a:r;i.d 
relieved ip looking identical to · 
everyone else. Like freshman year, we 
immerse ourselves in uneasy self-,-· · 
consciousness, hoping we'll fit in 
enough. so we ca:n relax and be ­
ourselves again. ¦ 

Coming Next Issue .. .. 

Catholic Faculty 

Is Catholicism a criterion for hiring new 
faculty members? What is the Faculty's 
reaction to a growing emphasis by the Ad­
ministration on the Catholic aspect of a 
Notre Dame education? Scholastic in-' 
vestigates how Notre Dame's Catholicism 
affects Notre Dame's teachers. 
Ii~";'· 
Athletics at Saint Mary's 
Sports at Saint Mary's struggle to gain the recognition 
,and support of the school. The athletes fight spectator 
' apathy and low budgets in a battle to keep Saint Mary's athletic program vital. 

Glee Club Mom 

The wife of a former Glee Club director, . Mrs. Pedtke still maintains an active in­terest in her boys. Scholastic visits with Mrs. Pedtke and discovers why she has become something of a legend among the members of the Glee Club. · 











