This boor: is not 10 taken from the Library
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
February 26
19 3 2
That’s Pulling Power!
» » » » »
"2,000 Customers See N. D.’s Greatest Ring Show Friday"
And that’s the story in a SCHOLASTIC headline. Its a SCHOLASTIC story from start to finish. Conceived as a SCHOLASTIC enterprise this affair was solely publicized through this medium. A cam* paign of full page advertisements acquainted the student body with the affair.
We gave our customers a good show, just as we give our advertisers good display value. We maintain, however, that printed salesmanship in the pages of the SCHOLASTIC sold two thousand of the twenty-five hundred campus students tickets to the boxing show. Have you anything to sell?
THE SCHOLASTIC
At The University	Notre Dame, Indiana
P. S. Our market consists of more than four thousand, two hundred readers—three thousand, ' two hundred of them being undergraduates. May we send a rate card? •
February 26, 1932
One
Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
SURPLUS STOCK
: Men’s High Grade
DmAle Tap Sole—Iron Heel FIELD SHOES
FOR MEN OR BOYS
Last year’s price was $3.85. A shoe for all outside workers.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
and
SOD A GRILL
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Two
The Scholastic
△
Father O’Donnell Accepts Traditional Washington Day Flag
V
Presented by Eugene Connelly, Head of Senior Class
V
An Ode to Washington
In the acknowledgment of debt There maybe grace; but not enough for payment Unless the debtor by his payment prove That to the creditor he owes a bond Beyond mere paying: item—gratitude. Today we come foregathering to sue Grace of a creditor whose name all time, The more we pay, remains our happiest debt.
To you, O Washington, As children to a father do we come, Receiving still, and ever asking more, Our hands that offer payment, still held forth That you may bind them in a newer debt.
What would we have from you? What we have had: With loving scrutiny we scan the page To reckon the account there write in fire We read the reckoning of what we owe The story of your life and character:
The story opens thus: in earliest years A valiant tale of struggle in the wilds, A virgin land uncovered to the world, Strong hands to break the path, strong will to move Onward and ever onward through the dark Into the light of order and the ways Of government and peace. Yours was the mind That neither falters nor draws back, but sure And steadied in its own security Ever drives on—as in the frozen stream	.
When frontier waters crunched death-threatening ice Against your raft, plunged in the drowning wave, You struggled still for life and rose new bathed In strength of will and limb into new life.
So when the summoning voice of public weal Called you to serve, you served. Quiet and firm, Still strong and supple with the sinewy force Of woodland youth that won the wilderness .	'
And tamed the conquering elements, you stood Against the alien storm. Your voice was low, Even and clear, yet it could strike and beat Out of confusion’s chaos a new lightning To blaze a new pathway through the gathering dark. You spoke. You struck. You held. In your strong hand With all the tenderness and all the power ‘ Of giant grasp you shaped a young new world • Into the mold and form and symmetry Of nationhood. And still that hand that shaped Held strong and wielded, Hand of Washington, Great hand of power and wisdom, hand that wrote The record and the reckoning of our debt, Hand that could guide and guard, to you—the while We sign anew the bonding of our hearts, Our hands we lift in reverent salute, Our hands we raise in prayer as well as praise.
Washington, creditor, father, hear you us Today, your suppliant sons— Our ways are darkened now As never darkened were the ways you knew— The darklier ours because the night that lowers, The storm that threatens round us, strikes no more From alien shores or maddened brain of kings, But strikes within the sanctuary of oui’ light— Washington, father, high Promethean sire, Vouchsafe to us the gloried light—still burn Of our immortal story, that bright page Whose golden record of a mighty soul still stands the record and the reckoning Of our eternal heritage and debt.	•
To you, O Washington,
As children to a father do we come, Receiving still, and ever asking more, Our hands that offer payment, still held forth That you may bind them in a newer debt. .
—Frances J. O’Malley.
February 26, 1932	Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- j	bk I g	| I g ■ Entered as second-date
lished weekly at ths Univers-	I	I l^fHA	matter	at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu-	■ ■ ■ W I ' VM	V	l^QIIIW	WllVIClWklv diana.	Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	—. .	_	TT.	_	•»«••,	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubn-	Disce	Quasi Semper	Victurus	Vive Quasi Gras Monturus	section nos, October s. 1917,
cations Office, Main Building.	TT	, o e	-	authorized June t5, 1918.
r	U	U JN U Uj D 1 o b	d
Neil C. Hurley_____________________________Editor-in-Chief
Henry B. Asman
.Managing Editor
William W. Corr_____________’___Departmental Editor
Associate Editors WILLIAM BLIND	GEORGE WEIL
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN...........News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant Netvs Editor MITCHEL TACKLEY. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND	PAUL	FOLEY
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM	DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL	WIEDL
Desk Editors
GEORGE DUQUETTE	LLOYD	TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY..............The	Week
JOHN PICK..............College Parade
JOHN CONLEY............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON.........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER............Staff	Artist
Sports Staff
JAMES S. KEARNS........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER
PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON..........Features	Editor
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN RAY SHOLZ
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN...........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY-...Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
FEBRUARY 26, 1932
Number 17.
SUMMARY
NEWS
Washington honored in annual exercises commemorating his birth____________________________ 5
Maude Adams and Otis Skinner featured in the “Merchant of Venice,” now touring the middle west__________________________________________ 7
Final plans announced for the publication of the Santa Maria__________________________________________________13
/J
FEATURES
President of the senior class presents a flag to the University as part of a time-honored Notre Dame tradition_____________________________________14
Character of Washington as a great man revealed through his ideals, chief of which was selfsacrifice ____________________________________15
Reverend Charles F. O’Donnell, C.S.C., delivers Washington Day address to seniors___________. 16
Special postage stamp issued in recognition of the r • Bicentennial celebration___________________________17
SPORTS
Army basketball team makes first Cadet invasion of
Notre Dame tomorrow night__________________________20
Alex Wilson nips Eddie Roll by inches to capture National A. A. U. 600-yard championship____________21
Joe Voegele revives Irish attack in second half to lead way in 28-20 win from Michigan State__________24
Track squad to seek second victory from Illinois tomorrow in 17th renewal of indoor meet____________25
ft	.
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, February 26—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications’ office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, Publications’ office, Main building, 7 p. m. —Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.— Movie, Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy in “Pardon Us,” “Birds of the Sea,” News Reel, Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.—Commerce Forum, Room 101, Commerce building, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, February 27—Track, Notre. Dame vs. Illinois, Notre Dame gym, 2:15 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Army, Notre Dame gym, 8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, February 28—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, February 29—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Welsh Imperial Singers, Washington hall, 8:C0 p. m.—Academy of Science meeting, Room 104, Science hall, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, March 1—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—Patricians’ meeting, Law building, 6:45 p. m.—Educational Confraternity meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.	.
WEDNESDAY, March 2—Chemists’ Club meeting, Chemistry hall, 7:45 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 3—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, seminar room of the Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Joint meeting of the Foreign Commerce Club and the Commerce Forum.
Four	The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
In a way we are sorry that the junior prom and its attendant festivities has gone the way of such things. Now that the officials are just plebeians again, and the juniors have got over their pride in being allowed to choose electives and everything, we haven’t much to write about. As the letters home always say, there isn’t a thing happening around here. Even the football banquet this year was a flop as far as furnishing stuff to write about is concerned. Once upon a time someone like Eddie Collins would get up to bid the boys goodbye, would dispense with the usual tripe, and would say what he thought and why. It was great. But they don’t do that anymore. They are polite, mildly exhortative, and extremely banal these days, and the only exciting thing at the banquet is the sight of a genuine, honest-to-Armour steak, which meat, we will admit, when we are cornered, we’d rather discuss any old day.
IN jail in South Bend sits one Red Flynn, one of Notre Dame’s most hot and fiery partisans. Red never went to classes here, and he never bought a football ticket, but he did know a lot of Notre Dame men of all classes since the one which introduced the forward pass. You see, Red used to live very near the University, and many students used to drop into Red’s house on the banks of the St. Joe river. It was the finest stack of boards in the “jungle,” too. One night Red and a friend were presented with some very fine Sterno, which they proceeded to reduce to a liquid, and by which they soon were metamorphosized. Well, there was a little fight, and Red’s friend never did wake up, and now Red is living for awhile in South Bend’s best jail. But he’s happy, and sure he won’t be under arrest long; and when you bring him a clean shirt and a bag of something, he’s carefree enough to tell you about old N. D. days and men. He’s as full of stories as a synthetic alumnus and twice as interesting. Tell him we said hello.
T HE avid readers of Floyd Gibbons who shuffle plates and platters in the kitchen are casting side-long glances at a certain harmless fellow who scrapes plates like a very good plate-scraper. And the reason for the glances (the only reason) is that his eyes slant upward at the corners, and further, that he never says a word. The racial superiors all around see something ominous in all this silence, and for all they know, he may be a blood brother to Mata Hari, who was, among other things, a pretty good spy. But we’re all safe, because we found that the reason he is so silent is that he can’t speak the Slav tongue. If you want our opinion, we’ll bet he’s happy in his ignorance of it, even as you and I.
We had a swell paragraph all written on what we thought of Washington and the observation of his nativity, and somebody wrote all over it with a blue pencil and then tore it up. After that we feel like simply letting George go without a single word from the WEEK, just out of spite. He would have been sorry he ever became famous if he could have heard the comments bandied about on Monday after the exercises; and he would have been highly insulted if he could have seen one of our editors calmly reading one NEW YORKER after another while the bombs were bursting in air. What our own feelings are on the matter can be guessed when we remark that the Father of the nation made us miss three whole days in the home of our birth, Chicago. We love our country and all that, but not when it curtails a rest that is almost imperative. Next year we’ll submit a plan whereby seniors can be arrested momentarily and transported as far as the South Side for being aliens. Understand, Washington was a great guy and a good surveyor to boot, but we’re sort of apathetic, if you don’t mind.

February 26, 1932
Five
LAW FACULTY MEMBERS GIVE TALKS OVER WSBT
“Lawyer and Public” and “Delay of Justice,” Topics.
By Mitchell Tackley
Declaring that our present civilization demands more than advocacy from our lawyers, Thomas F. Konop, LL. B., dean of the College of Law, delivered the third speech of the radio series Wednesday evening over station WSBT, for the College of Law. “The Lawyer and the Public” was the subject of his talk. Judge William M. Cain, LL. B., spoke Monday evening on “Delay in the Administration of Justice.”
Dean Konop Speaks Wednesday
Dean Konop opened his talk with a brief explanation of the evolution of the lawyer, and his work in early times. “To-day, he is not only an advocate in our courts,” he said, “but he pleads the causes of clients before every department of government.”
“When a person has lost every friend on earth, and clouds of mob violence surround him, or when he is oppressed, and bigotry, hysteria, and anarchy begin to stalk in the land, it is the lawyer who points out and directs men to the constitution and laws for justice and civic order,” spoke Dean Konop.
He continued explaining that the lawyer was as necessary to society as law. Such leaders as John Marshall, Daniel Webster, and Abraham Lincoln were lawyers who piloted us and preserved us as a nation. He then refuted the common theory that members of this profession are all dishonest. Dean Konop then read in full the oath a lawyer must take before he is allowed to practice.
Lawyers Necessary to Society
By means of several illustrations, he explained how the public often misunderstands the attitudes and duties of a lawyer in a suit he is fighting. He declared that the public, enraged by newspaper talk, has become the judge and jury of a criminal, whether guilty or innocent.
Dean Konop quotes George Eliot with a definition of justice: “Justice is like the kingdom of God. It is not without us as a fact but within us as a great yearning.” Because of the great industrial and material
(Continued on Page 10)
PRESENTS FLAG
Eugene Connelly, president of the Senior class, who presented the traditional American flag to the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., as part of the Washington birthday exercises last Monday morning.
Prof. Nickoley Of Syria Will Lecture Here
Professor Edward F. Nickoley, dean of the American university at Beirut, Syria, will lecture here on Wednesday evening, March 9th. Professor Nickoley, one of the Carnegie foundation lecturers, has ben secured through the efforts of the local International Relations club.
In accordance with the policy adopted by the club before Christmas, members of the faculty and the students are cordially invited to be the guests of the club for this lecture.
Professor Nickoley has lived in the far and near east for over a quarter of a century and during that time has held many important positions in the educational field, including the acting presidency.
He has travelled through the Ottoman Empire, Egypt and Persia, not as a sightseer but on educational visits, visiting schools and colleges, conferring with principals, teachers and students, and meeting other people besides those engaged in educational work.
The subject upon which Professor Nickoley will lecture is, “The Near East, Its People and Its Problems.”
WASHINGTON HONORED IN TRADITIONAL WAY
Flag Presented to University In Annual Ceremony.
The complete text of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell’s address to the seniors will be found on page seventeen of this issue.
By Patrick V. Corcoran
For the eighty-seventh time in the history of Notre Dame, the traditional Washington Day observances included the presentation to the University of a flag by the senior class.
The seniors, clad for the first time in caps and gowns, marched last Monday morning across the campus from the Main building into Washington hall where the simple, yet impressive ceremonies took place.
Father O’Donnell Accepts Flag
The Rev.'Charles L. O’Donnell in his speech of acceptance, declared that the ceremony’s significance lies in the fact that the seniors wish to leave behind them some pledge to show their realization that their life here has been truly American. He referred to the uncertainty which attends a flag presentation, relating some of the events which were connected with previous flags such as those - which waved over the campus during the Civil, Spanish-American, and World Wars.
Opening the program was the singing of the national anthem, “The Star-Spangled Banner,” by the audience.
Edwin F. O’Malley, a senior in the College of Commerce, delivered the first address, “An Appreciation of Washington.” He appealed for a greater devotion in modern times to Washington’s ideals, especially that of self-sacrifice.
Ode by Frank O’Malley
The ode of the day was read by its author, Francis J. O’Malley. “The Debt We Owe To The Father of Our Country,” was his theme.
Eugene Connelly, senior president, formally presented the large flag, hanging draped on one side of the stage, to the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the
(Continued on Page 12)
I .
Six
The Scholastic
Thomas A. Daly Lectures On Poetic Compositions
FUNNY FELLOW TO AIM WIT AT CURRENT TOPICS
‘KNOW YOUR FIELD’
Bob Gorman Lowers Highbrow To Laugh At Paper.
Emphasizes Importance of Self Interest In Subject; Lauds Father O’Donnell.
By William B. Dreux
Thomas A. Daly, nationally known Catholic poet and humorist, delivered a well-planned lecture in Washington hall last Wednesday evening.
Giving the title of “General Confession of An Almost” to his talk Mr. Daly told of his aspirations for poetic fame after his graduation from Fordham University. “I had acquired,” he said, “the gift of using the right word which is so essential in poetry, but like most young poets I wanted to write on death and on love when I really knew practically, nothing about either.”
Riley Offers Advice
He then wrote poetr\r dealing with the Southern Negroes until he was advised by James Whitcomb Riley that it would be more effective to write on topics which were more familiar to him. “And that is one of the first things that a young poet should learn,” said Mr. Daly. “ In this business of poetry one should write about what is close to him and what interests him. He can then be sincere, and that is of utmost importance.”
Honors Father O’Donnell
During the evening Mr. Daly then recited one of his own poems, “The Graduation of Kitty Casey.” His perfect imitation of the Irish brogue scored a big hit with the audience. His rendering of his own poems in the Italian dialect was equally amusing. Mr. Daly concluded his lecture by giving a poem from his latest book of verse “Macaroni Medleys.”
In the course of his talk Mr. Daly mentioned the fact that Notre Dame has, in her president, the leading Catholic poet. “Father O’Donnell writes beautiful religious poems because he is sincere in his religious feelings. Father O’Donnell’s poetry on Nature is likewise pervaded with his sincere love for the beauty that God has put in the world.”
Monogram Men Learn Chorus Girl Dances
Nordhoff Hoffmann, president of the Monogram club, announced today that plans for the annual letter-men Absurdities are progressing rapidly.
“The dancers are now down town,” he declared, “and Paul Host and the boys are learning the steps of the nimble-toed chorines.”
Dead-line for skits by campus writers, who may be contemplating the ten dollar prize, is next Friday. According to Hoffmann, the winner will be announced March 12 in The Scholastic.
“Several contributions have already been handed in,” he stated emphatically. “But I feel safe in saying that there is still plenty of opportunity for the play-writers who may have such tendencies.”
The Absurdities, which are always one of the high-lights of the spring season, will be held this year on April 13, 14, and 16.
Russian Girls’ Plight Over Flag Halts Yearbook Issue
By Intercollegiate Press.
PARIS, Feb. 25,—Plans for a yearbook for the 1931 graduating class of nurses at the American hospital here went awry because the Russian girls could not decide about the design of the flag which was to appear over their names. None of the girls are sympathetic with the soviet regime in Russia, all of them being White Russians.
But Russia had so many flags between the time of the czarist regime and the rise to power of Lenin and Trotzky that the Russian nurses did not know which was proper. Since the Swedish girls, the American giris and the Canadian girls had their flags in the book it was decided not to print the book unless the Russian girls could have a flag.
Putting aside the silk toppers and monocles they used in the publication of the Highbrow number, members of the Juggler staff rolled up
Frank Conboy
Sometimes he draws funny pictztres.
their plebeian shirt sleeves and began work this week on a Current-Events issue.
The deadline for the number, which will be published during the third week in March, has been set at March 7.
According to editor Robert Gorman a less rigid theme will be followed in this issue than in preceding ones this year. Material of a more gen-, eral nature, dealing with topics and personalities of the day, is desired.
Positions on the staff are still open, and the customary five dollar prize for the best literary contribution of the month will again be offered.
Commerce Forum Meeting
The Commerce Forum will hold its regular meeting tonight at 7:30 in room 101 of the Commerce building.
Howard DeVault, John Bannon and Robert Rohrback will speak. Plans regarding the smoker to be held on March 3rd will be discussed.
Scientists and educators throughout Germany have sent messages of congratulations ot Dr. Nicholas Butler, president of Columbia University on the 30th anniversary of his presidency.
February 26, 1932
Seven
K.C. WILL CONFER FIRST DEGREE MONDAY NIGHT
“Merchant” Wins Praise, But Is It Shakespeare ?
Scholarship Fund Is Planned By Local Council.
PLAYED MONDAY
Twenty-five applications were considered at the Knights of Columbus meeting on Wednesday evening. The first degree will be conferred on the accepted members Monday, February 29, w’hile the second and third degrees will be conferred in conjunction with the Plymouth, Laporte, Mishawaka, and South Bend councils in the latter’s rooms Sunday, March 6.
John P. O’Donnell, the State Deputy, will be the honor guest and main speaker at the banquet Sunday evening, March 6. A special program has been drawn up with the “Jugglers,” campus orchestra, heading the list of entertainment. A special group will be present composed of all Grand Knights of the district, who will be led by Mr. Otto Dorsey, the State Secretary from Laporte. Mr. O’Donnell will present to the Eikhart council a cup for the largest yearly increase in membership.
A scholarship idea wras suggested concerning the foundation of a $250 yearly fund to be evenly divided among the- five Colleges of the University. This scholarship will be granted to the K. of C. members in each College having the highest scholastic standing throughout the year. Further action on the motion is in the hands of the trustee council.
James Collins has been selected to represent the University chapter at Indianapolis on Saturday.
Al. Seymour Is Chairman Of Presidents’ Banquet
Al. Seymour, senior in the College of Commerce and president of the Northern New York club, has been appointed general chairman of the Presidents’ council banquet, it was announced yesterday by President Charles Hitzelberger.
The banquet will take place Tuesday evening, March 8, in the Lay Faculty dining hall. Tickets may be obtained from Phil Conboy, Sal Bon-tempo or Leo Schiavone. Plans are being made for an enjoyable program including prominent speakers to be announced soon.
Darrow Talks On Radicals
To Wranglers
WILLIAM DARROW
Hitting at .the pseudo-student radicals of today, William Darrow, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, last night delivered the feature talk before the Wranglers in the Seminar' room of the Law building.
“I have never been able to tell whether these ungraduate radicals are sincere o r not,” he declared. “Sometimes it appears as though they actually are as radical as their absurd views
would make them appear. Then, again, I doubt it.”
The Wranglers, rising to a man to defend the radical tendencies of the student, seemingly sent to rout the theories of Darrow, until time for rebuttal, when he ably acquitted himself.
The short business meeting that preceded the talk by Darrow was noted for little practical value, and the meeting sped rapidly towards the evening’s speeches.
Palace Features N. D. Songs
The Palace Theatre, one of the finest motion picture houses in Indiana, last week conducted a series of Notre Dame campus songs.
Playing from the orchestra pit over the week-end, the conductor led the crowd in a bit of community singing, during which “The Victory March,” “The Hike Song” and other songs were featured.
Sentences of from four weeks to five months have been meted out to seven Nazi students who recently participated in riots at the University of Berlin.
Maude Adams and Otis Skinner Have Leading Roles I” Local Presentation
By John E. Ryan
In a performance obviously intended to play up the leading roles rather than to give Shakespeare’s play as he wrote it, Maude Adams and Otis Skinner appeared last Monday night in La Porte. The music was specially prepared for the tour now in progress; the scenes were scarcely to be admired; and, on the whole, the performance was not unpleasing.
Portia Untraditional
Miss Adams, in the role of Portia, gave a very pleasant—if somewhat untraditional — interpretation to the character. Relying principally upon her favorable comparison with those other people who surrounded her on the scene, she gave Portia a light impersonation.
Shylock, as Otis Skinner played the part, was thoroughly traditional, and on the basis of acting alone was generally thought to be the best performance of the evening. Perhaps, had Mr. Skinner been given the on-portunity to make himself pleasant and agreeable, he might have been quite as attractive as was Miss Adams, but under the circumstances he could do little more than give the interpretation as it has always been given—by great artists.
After 18 Years
After eighteen years in retirement, Miss Adams has returned to the stage, and though her management relies for the most part upon her personal magnetism in drawing crowds, the effort is not in -vain, for anyone should be pleased to see her performance of a somewhat unfamiliar Portia.
Her “quality of mercy” speech remains, in all probability, the best single bit of dramatic interpretation now to be found upon the America . stage; I suppose no one will deny that Mr. Skinner gives Shylock the best interpretation that one can see.
Eight
The Scholastic
PROFESSOR PHILLIPS IS
ACCLAIMED AT CAPITOL
Praised On Floor of Senate For Washington Articles.
Word was received at Notre Dame this week in connection with the Washington Day ceremonies, that an unusual honor had been paid a member of the University faculty when
Professor Charles Phillips His rentings on Washington are now in official Senate jniblication.
the Washington Bicentennial was being observed at the national capitol. During the discussion of the bicentennial in the Senate, Senator Shortridge of California made a point of commending the writings of Professor Charles Phillips on George Washington, and recommended that Mr. Phillips’ contributions to Washington literature be included in the official publications of the Senate.
100*Year-Old British Woman Advises Walking as Exercise
By Intercollegiate Press.
London, Feb. 18.—Mrs. Harriett Gregory of Chelmsford, Essex, will be 100 years old tomorrow. For longevity she advises, "Keek walking.”
Unless the weather is really bad she still takes a daily walk.
“People don’t walk enough now,” she said today. “That’s why they die young. Keep walking and go a iot further.”
Commerce Men Will Meet To Eat and Smoke
Speeches, boxing bouts, entertainment, smokes and refreshments will feature the joint meeting Thursday of the Foreign Commerce club and Commerce Forum smoker.
President Harry A. Moss announced the appointment this week of John Bannon as general chairman and Ollie Powers as master of ceremonies. Howard DeVault and George Lennartz are in charge of speakers, C. Prodehl and Edward Kennedy are in charge of entertainment, the refreshment committee is composed of Frank Maas and John Hoyt, while the ticket committee consists of J. Sinkule and James Doyle.
Foreign Commerce Club Holds Annual Banquet
The Foreign Commerce club held its second annual banquet at the Rose Marie Tea room on last Thursday evening. Each member was called upon to speak.
The club inaugurated a system of correspondence which is intended to keep them in contact with alumni members. It was also decided to retain the custom of tendering a banquet in May to the graduating seniors.
On Friday morning the members attended a Mass in Sorin chapel for the repose of the soul of Ed. Roxas’ mother. Father Farley was the celebrant.
Concert Orchestra Will Play at Basketball Game Saturday
Between halves the Army-Notre Dame basketball game in the gymnasium Saturday night, the University concert orchestra will play several selections. A varied program will be presented under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the organization.
Organizes Democratic Club
Princeton students have organized a Woodrow Wilson Democratic club, and will hold a “victory banquet” next month at which nationally known Democrats will be present. Woodrow Wilson was for many years president of Princeton University.
PLAN JOINT PROGRAMME
Glee Club and Orchestra Will Play After Easter.
Rehearsals under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta have been held during the past week for a joint program of the University glee club and orchestra. No definite date has been scheduled as yet, but the affair will take place soon aftei-the Easter holidays.
Something new in the line of musical entertainment will be presented. A selection called “Recognition of Land” by Greig, and “Pomp and Circumstance” by Edgar, works written especially for male voices and an orchestra accompaniment, will be given.
Professors Casasanta and Richard Seidel are planning to present the glee club and orchestra in two programs of this nature before June.
Spain Perfects Submarine New Life-Saving Device
By Intercollegiate Press.
MADRID, Feb. 18.—The 101st successful trial of the Genova lifesaving apparatus was made today by the Spanish submarine C-3 when a seaman descended 110 feet in the escape chamber, drank a glass of beer, and returned to the surface of Cartagena Bay.
The testers say they have demonstrated the apparatus will permit crews to escape at any depths to which submarines may descend safely.
The Ministry of Marine announced the escape chamber would be in stalled on five other submarines of the C class. • The apparatus is not secret, the Ministry said, but is patented. Each one costs about $4,000.
The escape chamber is similar to a torpedo tube but is mounted on the top of the bow instead of in front of the craft. Naval officers are now debating whether to place an additional escape chamber at the stern of each submarine.
Foreign observers, including the French naval attache, praised the efficiency of the new escape chamber the Ministry of Marine announced.
Hugh F. Glancy, jr., 17, freshman at Providence College, died last week from a wound suffered when his target pisctol discharged accidentally.
February 26, 1932
Nine
CONGRESS DRAWS 100,000
Notre Dame Man Estimates 10,000 Will Be From U. S.
More than 100,000 persons are expected to attend the Eucharistic congress this year, according to John E. Ryan, director of the National Catholic student tours.
Ryan, in a report to the Rev. John
John E. Ryan
“. . . It looks as if 100,000 'will be there.”
Cavanaugh, C. S. C., former president of Notre Dame and one of the supporters of the Student tour, stated that over 10,000 are expected to arrive in Dublin from America.
Dispatches from the Ireland representatives of Thomas Cook and Sons, authorized representatives of National Catholic student tours, were the basis for the estimate.
Clara E. Laughlin, author of the “So You’re Going” series of travel books, and who has planned the itinerary, reported this week that the final arrangements were made in Europtan countries for the two month journey.
Morphine Habit Now Curable
By Intercollegiate Press.
Ithaca, N. Y., Feb. 5.—Cornell university announced today a new medical treatment by which they claim the morphine habit can be completely cured in six days.
The treatment consists of washing the brain and the rest of the nervous system with a new compound.
Commander Attilio Gatti, explorer and former Italian cavalry officer, has left New York for the Belgian Congo, where he intends to film gorillas in the jungle. He will take sound pictures.
Welsh Singers To Entertain
Here Monday
“Britain’s Greatest Male Ensemble,” the famous Welsh Imperial Singers, will give a program for the student body in Washington hall at eight o’clock on Monday evening.
A selection of solos, duets, glees part songs, and choruses will compose the evening’s netertainment, which will be opened with “The March of The Men of Horloch.”
No definite program has been chosen as yet, but the numbers will be taken from the Ensemble’s repertoire of fifty-three choruses, six duets, sixty-one solos and five pianoforte solos.
The singers are under the direction of R. Festyn Davies, famed musical conductor, who has been in charge of several large musical festicals in the past. Recently, at Stanford University, he conducted a chorus of ten thousand voices which was accompanied by six full bands. An audience’ of fifty thousand was present on the same occasion.
Science Group To Meet
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science will be held Monday evening, February 29, at 8 p. m., in room 104 of Science hall. J. Arthur Reyniers, B. S., instructor in Bacteriology, will present a paper discussing the technique required in keeping guinea pigs bacteria-free in the laboratory.
Mr. Cobb Sees First Movie; Doesn’t Like It
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, HL, Feb. 25.—Mills S. Cobb, 84 years old, saw his first motion picture show this week. His impression was not favorable.
“It’s all foolishness,” he declared.
“But didn’t you think it great to hear the voices of those people on the screen,” he was asked.
“It sounded like all hell was broke loose,” he maintained sourly. “It costs twenty-five cents and it wasn’t worth it.”
POETRY AND THE NOVEL DISCUSSED BY BOOKMEN
Paper Read By John Driscoll Provokes Long Debate.
“Poetry and the Modern Novel” was the subject of John E. Driscoll at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening. Curiously enough the speaker attempted to place a comparatively new form of literature, the novel,- above poetry as a means of contributing to “purposeful existence in the form of ideas.”
Driscoll defined poetry as “an ‘escape’ device, an emotional outlet, a type of blood-letting.” According to this definition only short poems are justifiable. Poems of considerable length lapse in emotional quality, and express less intellectually than do novels. By this method of reasoning the speaker reached his conclusion.
Every part of Driscoll’s treatise was argued at great length. The first point attacked was his apparent confusion of emotion with passion. The discussion, however, centered around the problem of whether a long poem can not contribute as much as a novel toward intellectual satisfaction in addition to any emotion the poem might express; and supposing that the poem cannot contribute so much intellectually, whether its artistic value does not outweigh the purely intellectual value of the novel.
“Broadway Not Only Judge of American Play”—Critics
By Intercollegiate Press.
Iowa City, Iowa., Feb. 25.—Critics at a national drama conference here this week agreed that new blood must be injected into the American theatre and that new plays must be given a trial somewhere away from Broadway.
Hatcher Hughes, playwright and director of the Calumbia University Little theatre, declared that after experiments in his play house Broadway often becomes more interested in new scripts.
“There is no reason,” he declared, “why Broadway must first put on the stamp of approval before new plays will be well received in this country.”
Ten
The Scholastic
CATALYZER’S FEBRUARY NUMBER IS PUBLISHED
Former N. D. Student Contributes Principle Article.
By Lawrence Dunda
Fred A. Steele, Ph. D., a former Notre Dame man who received his master’s degree in 1926, is the contributor of the main article in the February issue of the Catalyzer which appeared this week. The subject concerns “Some Problems Arising in Pigment Research.”
In the author’s note, Dr. Steele states that it is his intention “to describe quite informally a few odd problems that have come to my attention in connection with pigment research.” His purpose in presenting these problems is because “there may be an object lesson simply in the variety of work which these researches have involved.”
Dr. Steele received the degree of Doctor' of Philosophy in 1928 from Penn State College and is now connected with the research staff of the New Jersey Zinc Co., Palmerton, Pa.
An editorial in this issue is entitled “Theory and Practice.” There is an interesting and informative description of the new John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. In the place of the regular “Ramblin’ ’Round Chemistry Hall” column is an entertaining story concerning the strange phenomenon discovered one afternoon in a Physical Chemistry laboratory.
Tire recent activities of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society, the Pharmacy club, the Chemists’ club, the Academy of Science and the Engineers’ club are reported. The usual column of “Personals” round out the contents of the issue.
New Laboratory
A new physics laboratory, costing §225,000, has been opened at Mount Holyoke college, the first unit of a new physics-chemistry laboratory which will eventually replace Shattuck, hall, now occupied by both departments.
Sir Francis James Wylie, connected prominently with the success of the Rhodes Scholarships, has been made honorary chancellor of Union College for this year.
WRITES ODE
Frank O'Malley, jiresident of the Patricians, zvhose ode was one of the features of the Washington Day Bi
centennial celebration.
LATE NEWS BULLETINS
The following articles were reported to The Scholastic this morning too late to properly print in any other way than bulletin form.
A series of one-act plays by Irish authors, including Yeats and Lady Gregory, will be presented in about a month by the University theatre, it was announced here today. The cast is now in the process of being chosen, and Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Speech department, hopes to get down to actual work before. another week has passed.
It was announced this morning that R. B. Osgood, of the Jenkins Bros. Valve Co. of Chicago, will speak to the A. S. M. E. on Tuesday evening at 7:45 in the new Engineering building auditorium.
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York—Feb. 18—Whether or not the Great American Sophorore is all that he tells freshmen he is to be tested throughout the country this » spring by a series of examinations given simultaneously in colleges and universities as a part of a project in research under the auspices cf the American Council on Education
LAW FACULTY ON RADIO
Radio Talks Continued Over The Tribune Station.
(Continued from Page 5)
progress, an unfortunate effect has been brought upon the professions, he said. That confidence and trust once possessed by the people is destroyed and naturally justice hindered.
In conclusion he defined law is a science, and a knowledge which cannot be acquired in a fortnight. In Indiana, a provision of the state constitution permits law school Hunkers to enter the bar, said Dean Konop. If this be eliminated, he continued, it will bring to the public a legal service that will be honored and respected.
Monday evening’s lecture, “Delay in the Administration of Justice” was delivered by Honorable William M. Cain, professor in the law school. Although each state has laws that require the administration of justice speedily and without delay, many litigants who have waited several years for a final decision would be very much startled to hear this, he said.
Jurge Cain then described how many civil cases when tried in tk'-court of last resort extend over a period of from three to five years. Plainly this is inexcusable, he said. It means that nearly one seventh of a man’s business life is spent on one case, he concluded.
The principal causes for delay can be summarized as follows, he said:
1.	Insufficient number of judges.
2.	Failure of the judges thereof to sit in divisions.
3.	Existence of intermediate courts of appeal, half way between the trial courts and the supreme courts, which, on the whole merely prolong the time required for final decision of the cause.
4.	Excessive periods of time, provided either by statute or by rule of court, for perfecting appeals, and filing briefs and petitions for rehearing.
Engineers Eelect O’Connor
Frank O’Connor, senior in the College of Mining Engineering, was elected • vice-president of the Engineers’ Club at the meeting held last Friday, February 19. O’Connor was elected to replace James Carideo, who is now attending Villanova College.
February 26, 1932
Eleven
DOME WORK PROGRESSES
Bill Dreux Completes Football Section For Yearbook.
Leslie Raddatz, editor of The Dome, stated yesterday that all picture work connected with the book will be completed by tomorrow. Joe Steffel, the official photographers from White
William Dreux
He writes 10 000 words on Notre Dame football.
Studio, has already left the campus, and the last of the undergraduate organizations will be snapped at noon.
More than fifty clubs, representing practically every organization on the campus, have been photographed. This total is by far more than ever before taken for any former Dome.
Editor Raddatz also announced that the Football section, edited by William Dreux, has been completed and is a-commendable bit of work.
Compiled after several weeks of careful planning and data selection it comprises 10,000 words. The pictures of each letterman clad in his leather armor are grouped according to respective positions.
Day ton U. Students To Males
Annual City-Wide Survey
By Intercollegiate Press.
Dayton, Ohio, Feb. 25.—All departments of the University of Day ton are to take part in the compilation of the annual report of the city of Dayton by students of the university. The report will cover all activities of each city department for 193L Students will gain experience and the city will cut down its expenses as a result.
i Campus Opinions
~ . — • ----------------------
Question: “What do you think of the changes in the 1932 football rules? (Asked of members of the Notre Dame varsity football team.)
Charles Jaskwhich, Howard hall, junior: “As a whole, I believe the rules that were passed are very unsatisfactory. It seems to me that the game will in time be limited to one of ‘touch” football. I don’t believe that injuries will in any way be lessened because the defensive player is now exposed to too much danger.”
Tom Gorman, Badin hall, junior: “The most drastic change in the rules is that concerning the use of hands on defense. This will, I believe, have a tendency to do away with the fast, light man and put the game back into the hands of the slow-moving, big fellow. As a whole, I would say the changes are unsatisfactory.”
Joe Foley, Walsh hall, senior: “I do not believe the new regulations will reduce injuries to any extent. For example, the allowing of a punt on the kick-off will tend to cause a mad scramble for the ball and in this there is a large element of danger.”
Joe Kurth, Badin hall, junior: “I believe that the rules committee has legislated too much regarding the new rules for football. The paramount idea in their minds seems to be the protection of the player, which in itself is very good, but they have de- -tracted from the game. The kick-off rule, I believe, is silly. I think there will be injuries without legislation. The other rules, I am afraid, will be frowned upon by many coaches and players. They allow the officials to discriminate in a far greater degree.”
Nick Lukats, Badin hall, junior: “The rules committee probably meant well in formulating these radical changes in order to cut down injuries in football, .but they seem to have overlooked the real causes of the injuries. I doubt very much whether the game will be any safer. The changes will, I think, do away with many of the interesting phases that have played an exciting part in football previously. As to how these changes will actually work out, only time will tell.”
M’CABE SAYS “SCRIP” WILL APPEAR SOON
Warns Readers That Work Of Editor May Be Included.
This is the second of a series of articles by Joe McCabe on Joe McCabe and the second issue of "Scrip”
' By Joseph McCabe
With a feeling of gratitude that is like a song on his lips (he is not a very good, singer) the editor of Scrip acknowledges the many thoughtful queries he has received concerning his charge. Yes, gentle readers, Scrip will appear, all dressed up in brand new clothes—and at a right early date, you may be sure.
But there always must be some sorrow along with the joy, and the editor (of Scrip) is also constrained to announce that some of his own work is very likely to appear within the brand new cover (of Script. He warned you; no one can say he has not; but contributions were not sufficiently forthcoming, and now—alas —you must suffer.
N. B.—Watch for the new cover! Are ya watchin’?
Denies Grammar Is Necessary To Use English Language Well
By Intercollegiate Press.
Flagstaff, Ariz., Feb. 25.—Does a writer have to know grammar to be able to use language well?
Carl Sandburg, famous" among contemporary American posts, dees not think so.
“I don’t know a noun from a verb,” he confessed to a member of the English department of Arizona State ’ Teachers’ College here during a recent visit. “Imagine my embarrassment not long ago when I had to con-, fess my ignorance to my 13-year-old daughter who is now a high school., student.
“Afterwards I looked it up, and I discovered a noun was the name of a person, place or thing. I’m still pretty foggy about them. I use nouns all the time but I don’t see why I should be able to classify them.”
Sandburg is the author of many books of poetry, and critics, many of them, think him the.greatest living poet. His biography of Lincoln is probably the most talked-of in the field.
Twelve
The Scholastic
“LOVE” POPULAR TOPIC IN LETTER CONTEST
Many Students Try For Prizes; March 5 Is Deadline.
Originality and marked enthusiasm are noticeable in the letters that have been submitted to Paul J. Hallinan, 307 Walsh hall, editor of the Santa Maria in that publication’s letter writing contest. Following the closing of the contest on March 5, Robert .Gorman, Neil C. Hurley, Leslie Raddatz, and Joseph McCabe will begin the judging process.
The letters received to date show that Notre Dame have diversified interests in letter writing. Of these, love seems to be the favorite. The trick phrases in the letter to the one loved, with indifference and the clearly stated sentiments to the ‘one and only’ give evidence that there are some students who can weigh their thoughts and express them in words they will not regret having written.
The political situation has been discussed with parish priests, high school teachers and many other individuals who might be interested in the newly acquired knowledge of the student. Cleverly schemed and involved methods of mulcting Dad of his salary have been laid bare in an attempt to add $15, $10, or $5 (prizes for the three best letters) to the personal funds. The standards on which the judges will base their decisions are style and friendly informality.
It is not too late to enter, for the contest does not close until Saturday, March 5. Everyone who can write his own name is eligible for the contest. • He may write on any topic, and to anyone.
WASHINGTON IS HONORED
(Continued from Page 5)
University. Connelly called attention to the venerable traditions connected with the ocasion and brought out that the flag is a token of the appreciation the class feels toward Notre Dame.
The new flag will be the official flag of the University for one year until it is replaced by the one which will be given by the Class of 1933. It will be blessed in Sacred Heart church on Baccalaureate Sunday next June and will then be raised for the first time by the members of the class.
SPEAKER
Dean Thomas Konop of the Law School ivho was the speaker over WSBT last Wednesday evening. The series of lectures is being sponsored by the University of Notre Dame.
76% of Student Body Engages In Athletics at Manhattan
By Intercollegiate Press.
Intramural athletics have taken a big step upward at Manhattan College since the new regime was instituted with the coming of John F. (Chick) Meehan as director of physical education.
A survey of the past fornight, announced yesterday, reveals that approximately 600 students engaged in 119 interclass contests of some sort during the period. The survey shows the 76 per cent of the total registration is engaged in some form of sports, either on the institution’s various teams or in the intramural program, the figures representing an increase of 66 per cent.
Basketball -appears most popular of the five sports on the program. About 200 students engaged in 40 court contests in the past two weeks, while 155 took part in 31 swimming meets, 145 in 30 track meets, 70 in 6 crew classes and 50 in 14 boxing classes.
SPECTATORS HEAR TALKS
Corcoran and Kahnes Speak to Campus Organization.
Patrick V. Corcoran, a sophomore in the College of Science, delivered a talk to the Spectators this week entitled “Wjhat of Religious Educa-iton?” Nicholas M. Kahnes, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, also spoke> and chose as his subject, “Quo Vadis?”
Corcoran dwelt upon some of the sacrifices made to maintain the Catholic school system and some of the ways in which it may be strengthened and improved. Particular attention was laid upon the means whereby Catholic children who have no immediate prospect of receiving Catholic education may be given this ne essary spiritual rtaining.
Discussion by the members of the club followed. All agreed upon the absolute necessity of religious training apart from that received in the home.
Kalmes, in his talk, attempted to analyze the trends of the times, especially those which apply to modem education. Attention was directed to the means of improving the calibre of the student body of a school. The merits and demerits of a liberal policy in education were discussed, as well as the ways in which it can be realized in practice.
Passed Ohio Bar Exams
Dean Thomas F. Konop, of the Notre Dame Law school, made the announcement this week that the following graduates of the College of Law recently passed the state bai' examinations of Ohio:
Herbert Nestor, of Lancaster, Ohio, a member of the graduating class of February, 1929; Robert Kuhn, of Lima, Ohio, and Joseph Wetli, of Toledo,- Ohio, both members of the 1931 class.
New York University has established the Alumni Meritorious Service Award to be presented to graduates -of the university who have rendered unusual service to their alma mater.
Dr. Walter Scott Athearn of Boston has been inaugurated as the new president of Butler College, Indianapolis. Dr. Athearn formerly was with Boston University.
February 26, 1932
Thirteen
MI. GROUP HEARS PAPER
Anti-Knock Gasoline Qualities Stripped of Their Mystery.
‘Why is one gasoline superior to others?” is the question which kept the senior and junior Mechanical engineers busy last week. K. T. Winslow of the WaukeshaMotor company lectured to the combined classes for an hour on Friday morning upon this question. The rest of the day was spent testing samples of gasoline for the Octane number by means of the recently developed C. F. R. testing unit.
Anti-Knock Gas
The octane number of any gasolene is simply the anti-knock quality as determined in the C. F. R. testing unit. In the range of the average priced gasolene the octane number varies from forty to seventy-eight while among the premium qualities it varies from sixty to eighty-nine. The Bureau of Standards recommends an average number of sixty-two for the former and seventy-seven for the latter.
“Gasoline,” Winslow explained, “with the highest octane number is not always the best for the passenger car. The ratio of combustion determines the octane number to be used, but by buying gasoline with the average octane number, one may be sure that his motor will be protected.”
About the Octane Numbers
The low grade gasolines are those with a low octane number. The motor in which these gasolines are used will soon begin to knock.
The speaker said he believed that in a short time the automobile manufacturers will recommend a certain octane number for their particular motor. The gasoline companies will display the octane number of their gasolines and enable the motorist to purchase the correct fuel for his motor. This will lengthen the life of the motor and eliminate guessing in the purchase of fuel.
The speaker is making a tour of the larger universities with this testing unit. He expects to visit Northwestern, Chicago and Illinois universities during the coming week.
RADIO TALKER
Judge William Cain, whose talk last Monday evening was one of the best that has been heard over WSBT in the popular Notre Dame senes.
Young English Boy Plays Billiards Like Professional
By Intercollegiate Press.
LONDON, Feb. 25.—In a championship match in London a ten-year-old boy, whose shoulders were just higher than the cushions, played shots and made runs that staggered spectators. When - Willie Swinhoe was brought by his mother to the match everybody laughed except Willie and his mother. Soon the laughs turned to surprise. Shot after shot, difficult or easy, he played with the same confidant assurance, often performing in a manner worthy of the most skilled professionals.
Willie learned in the basement at home, and played standing on a stool. Nobody took much notice of him at first, but when his mother saw him make a run of 83 she decided that he was capable of vieing with the best boy billiard players.
Daughter Born to Haywards
A baby daughter was born last week to Professor and Mrs. James W. Hayward. Professor Hayward is head of the Department of Agriculture.
HALLINAN ANNOUNCES “SANTA MARIA” PLAN
K. of C> Publication To Make Premiere About May 1.
With the awarding of the printing , contract to Peterson and Co., of South Bend, Paul J. Hallinan, editor of the Santa Maria, the local Knights of Columbus publication, announced that the actual work of producing the Santa Maria Annual is now under way.
The book is to make its initial appearance this year. It will contain eighty pages, depicting, in a rather unique manner, the activities of the Knights of Columbus and the relation of the organization to the University. It will be ready for distribution May 1.
Advance information obtained from the editor discloses that the book will be replete with the work of some of the most accomplished men of the University.
Among the features will be the frontispiece, a portrait of Columbus, by Joseph Lopker, art editor of the Juggler. The Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., will submit an article concerning the council.
A news review of the year has been prepared by Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic. Joseph S. Petritz, editor of the Football Review, will present a discussion of the athletic accomplishments of Notre Dame during the present year.
One section will be devoted to the pictures and tales concerning the “Knights” who will be graduated with the class of ’32.
Editor Finds Unknown Poem By Rich’d Brinsley Sheridan
By Intercollegiate Press.
LONDON, Feb. 25.—A hitherto unknown poem by Richard Brinsley Sheridan has just been discovered by Seumas O’Sullivan, editor of the Duo-lin Magazine. He told a friend here of the find and that it was in Dublin.
The poem is a satire of some five-hundred words and was not unlikely found in one of Dublin’s second-hand bookshops along the quays of the River Liffey, which are regularly haunted by O’Sullivan, whose real name is James Starkie, author of the famous poem “The Twilight People.”
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Self-Sacrifice of Washington Lauded by Edward O’Malley
Text of the Washington Day orations delivered by Edward O’Malley follows.
By Edward O’Malley
The tradition that we are continuing at Notre Dame today is indeed a proud and happy one. For over thirty-five years it has been our custom to assemble here at Washington Hall to mingle oui- joy and appreciation with that of the nation, nay even of the world, at the commemoration of Washingtons’ birthday. It is almost incredible that on this very day only two hundred years ago there was born into the world the “Father of Our Country.” This program is Notre Dame’s participation in the Washington Bicentennial Celebration to be inaugurated today at noon by President Hoover’s radio address. For the next nine months, until Thanksgiving Day, the entire nation will join in the ceremonial.
Name Immortal
Washington—that name, immortal which will live throughout the centuries—connotes all that is loyal, good and true. It is the Alpha of the record of our country’s history and progress. One noted historian has stated that George Washington by what he did, said and wrote, has influenced Americans and the world at large more than any other man in history. From childhood we have revered and hallowed his memory. We have thrilled to read or hear of his notable military achievements, of how his dimunitive army of discontented, insubordinate farmers and backwoodsmen conquered the world’s dominant power.
Fundamental Cause
But what is the fundamental cause underlying our perpetual glorification of this world-famed genius? To the Notre Dame man there is one particular trait of Washington that far surpasses in importance his other qualities, and that was his devotion to the ideal of self-sacrifice. Washington’s personality was a very happy mixture of the elements that go to make up the nation’s finest exhibit of substantial and genuine character. He was not the most brilliant man of his time. He was not the best man that ever lived, nor was he the greatest man that ever lived. But “of all
great men he was the best, and of all good men he was the greatest.”
In the gallery of the world’s leaders, Washington stands pre-eminent as an example of the coordination of the great and the good. Lord Byron, the Englishman, in his fine poetic
Edward O’Malley
“. . . in the gallery of world leaders, Washington stands preeminent.”
appreciation of the world’s heroes and of Napoleon in particular, saves himself from despair in this contemplation by recourse to George Washington in these words:
“Where may the wearied eye repose, When gazing on the Great;
Where neither guilty glory grows Nor despicable state?
Yes—one—the first—the last— the best—
The Cincinnatus of the West, Whom envy dared not hate, Bequeath’d the name of Washington, To make man blush there was but one!”
Lofty Pinnacle
WThy then is Washington elevated to such a lofty pinnacle in the esteem of all? Simply because he was the living personification of the ideal of personal sacrifice and the subordination of selfish interests to the good of a particular cause. His altruism, his sincerity and fidelity, his strength of characetr, his lack of cynicism, and his rock-bound faith in the conviction that right should and always will triumph—all these qualify him to be acclaimed as the one model which should be imitated by the young man of today who finds himself in a world saturated with selfishness and the (Continuer on Page 30)
TWO-PIANO RECITAL
WILL BE PRESENTED
Selections On Program Include Wide Range of Music.
A two-piano recital is to be given by piano pupils of the Department of Music the evening of Thursday, March 8, in Washington hall at 8:00 p. m.
The program will embrace all phases of music from the early classic to the modem school.
The program follows:
Fantasie ...................Caesar Franck
Sonatina .......................Beethoven
(a)	Allegro
(b)	Rondo Sonata in G (first movement).......Mozart
Rondino ..........................Schulze
Invention in F minor............J. S. Bach
Invention in F major............J. S. Bach
Le Soir......................C.	Chaminade
Norwegian Dances....................Grieg
Danse Moderne ......................Denec
Bridal Song (from the Rustic
Wedding Symphony) ..........C. Goldmark
Dance (from the Rustic Wedding
Symphony) ..................C. Goldmark
The students participating in the program include: Allan M. Collins, Raymond J. Doyle, Paul M. Hart, James A. Kaufmann, William E. Martin, William L. Newberry, Christopher A. Reilly, eGorge A. Rocheleau, John F. Sharpe, and William J. Sheridan.
Educate Rather Than Punish the Child, Says Doctor Wylie
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York City, Feb. 25.—Discipline should mean education and not punishment, is the opinion of Dr. Margaret Wylie, child guidance specialist from the New York State College of Home Economics.
According to Dr. Wylie, discipline, considered as a form of education, should be a constructive process. The child learns through the satisfaction derived from what he does and from the approval or disapproval he receives from his parents.
The child does not think in terms of adult experiences but in terms of his own. Dr. Wylie believes that the education of the child depends upon whether or not the parents of children remember this. Good teaching is founded upon satisfaction and approval, and is not based upon adult behaviour.

February 26, 1932
Fifteen
STUDENT DELEGATE AT GENEVA MAKES REPORT
Addresses Disarmament Conference For Students.
Although The Scholastic believes that the action of American colleges in sending a delegate to the Disarmament conference is childish to the extreme, it prints here a dispatch from Geneva in which James F. Green, student arms delegate, tells of his experiences.
By James F. Green
Special disaptch to The Scholastic, by In-etercollegaite Press. Copyright, 1932, by the Notre Dame Scholastic.
GENEVA, Feb. 14.—(by mail)—I had the opportunity this morning to address the Disarmament conference on behalf of the American college student through the Intercollegiate Disarmament council and the Student Christian Movement.
It was a unique meeting. It is the first time in history that students have had a chance to address a League meeting.
I made a two thousand word statement explaining the strong desire for drastic disarmament of the American students as expressed through the poll and the delegation sent to President Hoover.
I was also authorized to present the results of British students’ petitions. I expressed the conviction of students that war settles nothing, that students have lost interest in being cannon fodder, that an international government should replace nationalism and state sovereignty, and that students desire to build a world society. The speech was well received by League officials and the many reporters present.
Please continue the campaign at home. Our disarmament work is merely begun.
|	N. D. Jewelry On Sale
-	Notre Dame jewelry is still being
sold on the campus according to Robert Leppert and Edward Kelly, hold-J ers of the concession.
'	Many items have been added to
‘ the line in anticipation of the Easter rush. Jewelry and leather goods mounted with the Notre Dame crest are on display regularly.
President of Senior Class Presents Flag to University
tFolloiving is the complete text of the speech delivered by Eugene Connelly, senior class president, in the traditional presentation of flag to the University.
By Eugene Connelly .
This morning we are gathered to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the birth of the greatest figure in American history, the Father of our country. We are justified in recalling the principles for which he suffered in forming the foundation of this great nation. Many of us might be content to recall only his military prowess—which in itself is singular, when we consider Washington, the man— but today we are reviving his ideals in • order that we may become better citizens and better leaders of the future.
Loyal and Unselfish
He who has destined to become the first President of the United States was loyal and unselfish, endowed with the spirit of self-sacrifice and had the courage of his own convictions. He jeopardized his own personal property to establish this country of ours. From his own resources he contributed heavily to the support of the Revolutionary Army. He manifested a courage of unquestionable type when he dared to lead an army against the greatest world power of that time. The promise of abundant wealth in private life was discarded; he sacrificed himself for the nation. His whole life was one of sacrifice.
Thorough Justice
Washington supported the policy of thorough justice rather than hide beneath the artificial strata of peace and prosperity at any price. He was a man of heroic action—vigorous, courageous, and effective—never failing to take a stand and never failing to come to the aid of his fellow citizens. He was convinced that men lived not only by a personal prosperity but by a holy bond between every citizen to strive for a national happiness.
We cannot deny the influence of religion in so great a character. History reminds us of his deeply religious sentiments. We have heard
the story of his kneeling down at prayer in the darkness of Valley Forge. We have read in his Farewell Address to the army how he attributed his victory to the hand of God when he said: “The perseverance of the armies of the United States . . . was little short of a miracle.” This was his sentiment—deeply religious, uncompromisingly for God. He sought God’s aid in trial and thanked Him in victory. We can be sure that Washington’s religious feeling was the basis of his fine character.
Father of the Country
He, the father of our country, who regarded his fellow citizen as his brother in God, has left behind him a tradition which we dare not forget. Notre Dame has not forgotten. The ceremonies here in Washington Hall for the past 87 years are a testimonial. On this day every year since 1844, the members of the graduating class have renewed a pledge to God and to the country. The Washington tradition is a Notre Dame tradition.
Present Flag
Father O’Donnell, we of the Senior Class ask you to accept this flag. It is a symbol of our loyalty to the nation and of our faith in Notre Dame. We are pledging ourselves to the principles of the great Washington, inspired by a beautiful ideal. I know of no other way of expressing it, no finer phasing than your own description of the ideal of all Notre Dame men. It is “. . . the figure of a woman, with the Man-Child in her arms.” For the past four years we have been under her kind protection. She has taught us many things. Her words of wisdom will be realized later on, if not now. It is her everlasting influence that prompted us to make the presentation this morning. We have kept faith with Washington and at the same time have uttered a prayer of thanksgiving to Notre Dame.
-NOTICE!
Off-Campus students may secure copies of the Religious Survey at the Off-Campus Office, according tc- an announcement made yesterday by the Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S1C.
o
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Father O’Donnell Gives
N. D. Washington Address
BUTLER MAN WINS STATE ORATORICAL CONTEST
Following is the complete text of the Washington Day address, which was delivered in Washington hall last Monday morning by the Reverend Charles F. O’Donnell, C.S.C., on the occasion of the traditional flag presentation.
Members of the Senior Class:
The presentation to the University, by the senior class, of the official school flag is in itself an act of nobility rich with implications. Once a year — appropriately on Washington’s birthday — the University and its graduating class thus meet on the high ground of common love of country, bearing witness to the sacredness of that love in breaking through the reticence by which it is usually and properly guarded.
For obviously flag-wTaving is not the language of patriotism. We know the patriot worships in silence, a silence that is wilder than drums and steady as an army drawn up for battle.
Devotion Speaks Today
This voiceless devotion which is yours and ours speaks today in a beautiful ceremony which still leaves much unsaid. You give the flag; the flag is accepted. But in the giving of it and in the acceptance of it, there is a world of unspoken significance.
I think I meet your mind in the unwritten agreement of this contract when I assure you that Notre Dame accepts your gift both as a charge and as a mark of confidence. It is as if you said: “Up till now we have been here, for the years of our college time unconsciously enjoying the life of which this flag is a symbol and a guarantee.
A Pledge
“It is our last year, we go away, but we would leave behind us some pledge, some proof by which men may know that we recognized our life here as distinctly American and so prized it. This flag is that proof. Keep it for us. Our honor is in its folds. That you will so keep it for us, there is left us no possibility of doubting.”
If this is your mind, gentlemen of
the Senior class, in the name of the University I accept your trust and the compliment of your faith in us.
I have said that this ceremony is in itself significant. It has an added meaning and power by association.
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. “. . . God grant its message then as noil' will be ‘all’s well’.”
It is a tradition of Notre Dame. By virtue of this historic custom, the youngest, latest class reaches a hand back through the years to clasp the hands of other generations of Notre Dame graduates who in their day did what you are doing now.
Continuity Regarded
Not lightly is that continuity regarded. From ’61 to ’65, the flags of Notre Dame looked down upon a land tom by civil war. The Class of ’97 gave a flag which was to be challenged on land and sea. Before a year had passed, the flag presented by the Class of 1916 had the proud and sorrowful distinction of standing as the colors to which millions of Americans were called.
The flags of ’17 and ’18 were red with the blood of Notre Dame men. Domestic and local history, too, hangs potential in these folds. Who would have dreamed a year ago that the flag flying above our campus would a short month later be struck to halfstaff by the sudden and catastrophic
Eight Universities Take Part; Ryan Represents N. D.
Paul Duncan of Butler University won the state oratorical contest at Indianapolis last Saturday. Delivering a speech entitled “Our Planners,” he took the present federal administration to task. The judges selected Duncan from contestants representing eight schools in Indiana. His victory automatically makes him the representative of Indiana in the district oratorical contest to be held in Illinois.
Other schools represented in the contest were Purdue University, Notre Dame University, Manchester College, Evansville College, Earlham College, Franklin College ,and Wabash College.
George Ryan, carrying the Blue and Gold colors, gave an impressive talk on the disarmament problem, but did not place particularly high in the contest.
death of one of Notre Dame’s most cherished sons? Yet, such is the uncertainty of the future of a flag, such is the multiple meaning of its history.
Inheritors of Tradition
If you today are inheritors of a tradition that is a trust, you are also transmitters of both to the men who shall follow you, projecting into the coming time your conviction to American ideals as symbolized in this ceremony.
This flag of our country which you present to the University today will be carried by honor men of the class into the sanctuary of the church on Baccalaureate Sunday where it will be solemnly blessed. Thence it will be processionally borne to the flagstaff and raised.
“The Star-Spangled Banner” will be played by the band and sung by the assembly. For one year your flag will be the official flag, the only collective memory of 1932 on the campus. Then it will give place to a newer flag and • another memory. Almost like a person, it will stand sentinel until relieved from duty. God grant its message then as now will be, “All*s well”!

February 26, 1932
Seventeen
WASHINGTON’S DIARIES TYPICAL OF THE MAN
Noted Portraits by Artists On All Bicentennial Stamps
Interesting Cross Section Is Given of Boyhood Days.
By Joseph Degnan
Attempts to put the great at ease in our presence are numerous. They come in shirtsleeves, in slippers, in almost anything that will expose to
the curious those qualities which portray the so-called “real man.”
But now and then comes a character so adroitly formal, so obviously the unbending type that to present him in any guise intensely familiar is nothing short of misrepresentation. By nature he is to be seen in full dress. Washington was of this type.
Not that such a man pictures himself as a demi-god. Washington was fully aware of the fact that he had the usual amount of shortcomings. That trivial things often amused him, that he was as great a farmer as a general, are matters of fact. The major qualities of Washington, of course, formulate our picture of the man.
Meanwhile Washington has by himself certain things that are clearly his and his only. His diaries are a proof. Those kept during his boyhood are the most amusing. The first one begins on a Friday, March 11, 1748 when in his sixteenth year he set out with his neighbor, young George Fairfax, on a happy surveying and turkey-shooting expedition in the wild lands of Lord Fairfax beyond the Blue Ridge.
At this age Washington had high spirits and a choice sense of humor. Many jottings evince a relish for the (Continued on Page 29)
By Granger Weil
In recognition of the Bicentennial anniversary of the birth of George Washington, the post office department of the United States has issued a series of special postage stamps-in twelve denominations from one-half to ten cents inclusive. These stamps have as a central design a separate likeness of Washington modeled from the works of noted artists.
Sculptors Consulted	x
For the likenesses of the great general and statesman of the United States, the works of some of the greatest sculptors and artists of the eighteenth century were chosen, including those of Charles Peale Wilson, a likeness of whose miniature of Washington is on the one-half cent stamp, the original of which is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Another of Peale’s, on the one-and-one-half-cent stamp, is from the painting of Washington known as “The Virginia Colonel,” made at Mount Vernon in 1772, the original now being in Washington and Lee University.
Other likenesses of Washington by Peale appear on the three, four, and five cent stamps. Peale was for years the only portrait painter in the colonies, and he owed much of his success to the linking of his art to the name of Washington, who granted him fourteen sittings.
Hudson Draws Bust
On the one-cent Bicentennial stamp there appears a likeness of a profile bust of Washington done by Jean Antoine Houdon, which was made in 1785, and which is now at Mount Vernon. Houdon was the most distinguished sculptor of France in the latter half of the eighteenth century. He was a contributor to all the salons of his time and did busts of Napoleon, Josephine, Prince Henry of Prussia, Voltaire, and other of the most famous people of his time.
Of Houdon’s statue of St. Bruno, Pope Clement XIV said that “he would speak, were it not that the rules of his order impose silence.” Of Houdon it was said that “the most striking characteristic of his work is the life by which it is animated, the result of marvelous skill in execution and keenness in observation.”
The two-cent and ten-cent stamps have on them likenesses of Washington taken from the works of Gilbert Stuart, a distinguished portrait painter of American birth. He painted, in all, three portraits of Washington. He is known now as “unquestionably among the few recognized masters of portraiture.”
Portrait by Stuart
The portrait by Stuart appearing-on the two-cent stamp wTas made at Germantown, Pa., in 1776 for the Atheneum at Boston; and that on the ten-cent stamp of the “Vaughn Portrait,” done in 1795, and owned now by S. P. Avery.
The six-cent stamp has on it a representation of Washington done by John Trumbull. Trumbull also did the portrait of which a likeness appears on the seven-cent stamp. The original of this portrait is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
A likeness of a crayon drawing of Washington done from life by Charles B. J. F. Memin at Philadelphia in 1798, appears on the eightcent stamp.
Washington as a Mason
The nine-cent stamp is distinctive in that it has on it a likeness of Washington in a Masonic uniform, from a pastel portrait done by W. Williams in 1794. The original of this portrait of Washington, which would hardly seem representative of the entire population of the United States or as fitting, even, to be placed on a stamp, is at present in the Masonic Lodge of Alexandria.
There is only one stamp bringing to memory the home of Washington, Mount Vernon, which was so dear to him during his life, and this stamp is placed on the Bicentennial envelope. The central design is a representation of Mount Vernon formed by white embossing on a solid background. Within the arch at the top of the stamp in a curved line is the name “Washington.”
Stamp collectors all over the United States have been eager to procure the different stamps issued for the Bicentennial, and as a result the post office department made special arrangements with the Bicentennial Commission to distribute them.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE IAEAEE
Opportunities In Publicity for Journalism Graduates
By Norman L. Park
Director of Publicity, The Pittsburgh Motor Club	.
Written expressly for the National College Press Association
Service Bulletin and the Notre Dame Scholastic.
The folloiving article is printed here because of the timely significance that it will have for seniors, who may be considering the following positions after graduation.
The college man who is graduated in journalism with the sincere approval of the faculty of his school or department is better fitted for and will have more opportunities for success in publicity work than in newspaper writing.
The field of publicity is not well developed and it is not crowded with applicants like medicine, dentistry, law, and the business world. As yet publicity and its possibilities are not clearly defined in the average person’s mind. Many intelligent business executives still confuse it with its disreputable associate—press agentry.
V
In reality, publicity is as far removed from press agentry as day is from night. The press agent deserves most of the criticism he has received. He is a parasite, “space grafting” from, the newspapers.
It is his business to get, through any means at his command, columns of newspaper space for an individual or an organization deserving of no free space.
He has no conscience, no scruples. He is feared and hated by newspapermen. His occupation is illegitimate and rightly deserves the term “racket”.
V
A publicity man is one whose business is to get into the papers news of his organization which has a legitimate claim to space and which, if well written and squarely presented, will be welcomed by editors. Good publicity men can prove every fact of every story they send out.
Organizations which recognize the value of having their stories appear correctly and frequently in the public press are glad to pay intelligent publicity meh substantial salaries to handle this part of their public relations.
Although hundreds of former newspaper men and journalism school graduates are now employed in publicity, there are ten vacant jobs to each one filled. I say that’there are limitless numbers of civic and business organizations that need good publicity men.
V
Officers in charge of these organizations often don’t recognize the fact that they nee'd publicity men; others realize that they need them but have put off placing such expenditures in their budgets; many executives are disillusioned about publicity because they experimented with men without the proper training who consequently failed to produce the results.
There is a big field of publicity opening up in public offices. Officials of national, state, city and county governments are in the news every day. They all want to get as much publicity as they can from their efforts to serve the public, and none of them wants to be misquoted.
' V '
The wise department head and bureau director will use an intelligent, capable publicity man to get his news and his facts and opinions into the press correctly and fully, and he is willing to pay an attractive salary for a good piece of work.
To the college graduate who doesn’t care for newspaper work and is unable to make a decision what field of business he is best fitted for, publicity is one of the best paying and most convenient finding-ground jobs that he can turn to. The publicity man is in constant touch with other businesses and organizations; he makes excellent contacts, and the friendships he builds up usually make it possible for him to get an entry in the particular field of work he finally decides to enter.
What must the journalism graduate possess in order to become successful in publicity ?
(To be continued.)
February 26', 1932
Nineteen
EDITED’/ DACE
GEORGE WASHINGTON
Monday last a nation held high its head and sang hymn after hymn of tribute to a man whom it calls “Father.” The most eloquent orators of the land told attentive audiences about the virtues of a magnificent soldier and statesman. It was the bicentennial of the birthday of George Washington. As he watched the proceedings, and he surely must have, his one regret must have been that he could not have lived those two hundred years, years .which saw the tiny little group of colonies into which he was born emerge into a gloriously powerful nation.
Why is Washington so cherished by the people of America? Why has he lived and why will he continue to live as a part of them for centuries to come? The answer is a simple one. Washington has that quality which every great figure in history must have to leave an indelible impression upon mankind—an appeal to the individual. If we are to think of a man as we think of Washington, we must see the same obstacles he saw during his life, think the same thoughts, encounter the same defeats, and laugh at the same frustrations. Only after we have seen how a master went about his business, after we have visualized his difficulties and accomplishments in terms of our own do we really know a man and not a name.
Washington possesses that sort of appeal in its highest degree. He thrills alike the man in the ditch and the man in the White House. For almost two centuries he has been the inspiration of the lowliest private and the most exalted general.
How often a man, before an almost insurmountable task, has murmured to himself, as his thoughts turned to a night of cold and hunger, “Washington did it.” How often a president in the face of tremendous odds and in-imicable public thought has said the same thing!
That is what makes men heroes. That is why the name of Washington lives and the names of millions of others die.	E. A. S.
RADIO LECTURERS
Twice a week members of the Notre Dame faculty are delivering addresses on educational subjects over radio station WSBT.
As a practical innovation, the series of lectures have been greeted with considerable enthusiasm by serious minded undergraduates and townfolks. For the former the talks afford an opportunity to hear many of the leading thinkers of colleges other than the one in which a student is enrolled. To South Bend people the half hour on Monday and Wednesday evenings seems much better spent next to their loud .speaker than in a movie-house.
The Scholastic has always been of the opinion that one of the most regrettable features of a standardized collegiate course is the fact that very few undergraduates hear, much less get to know, the outstanding personages on the campus.
The present radio talks, though not completely getting around the difficulty, are a big step in the right direction.
Prominent educators are predicting a greater role for radio in the field of education. National broadcasting circuits, aware of the unlimited possibilities, are featuring weekly French and Spanish lessons, conducting musical appreciation hours, and presenting worthwhile dramas.
The new trend is an admirable one. Radio education, while lacking, of course, the direct teacher to pupil benefits, is practical and, above all, far-reaching.
AN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Through an error in the last issue the name of Dr. Harry Cooper was not included in the list of persons who had aided in the handling of the Boxing Show.
Dr. Cooper was in constant attendance at the ring-side and personally examined each of the fighters prior to the bouts.
The Scholastic regrets its error and takes this opportunity to express its gratitude.
Tiventy
The Scholastic
♦ SPOCTS ♦
Army Quintet Here To-Morrow
Stecker Leads Cadets In Attempt to Halt Keoganites’ Long Winning Spree
TRACKSTERS WIN HOME OPENER FROM BUTLER
Game Is First Local Invasion By An Army Team; Veteran Lineups Slated To Meet.
By James S. Kearns
Coming out of the east for the first local invasion in Army-Notre Dame history, a great squad of cadet eagers will attempt to halt the thir-teen-game winning streak of the Fighting Irish at the Notre Dame gym tomorrow night.
The West Point team looms as the most colorful attraction to appear on the local court in several years. Their appearance will mark the first visit of any Army team to the Notre Dame campus.
Stecker’s Shooting Feared
Leading the invaders is Captain Ray Stecker, high-scoring forward. Stecker is the same individual who chalked up two touchdowns against the Irish gridders in last fall’s game. His activities on the hardwood for the past three seasons have made him a stand-out in the upper crust of eastern basketball.
In last year’s one-point, 26-25, triumph of the Keoganites, Stecker turned in seven baskets, and four free throws for high scoring honors with an eighteen-point total. One handed shots from either side of the floor accounted for most of these points as he battled to keep the cadets within striking distance.
. Other Grid Aces
Supporting the Army leader on the cage squad are a numbei" of other gridiron luminaries. Ed Herb, fullback, cavorts at a guard post; Hai-ve Jablon sky, a football guard, and Ken Kennerick, veteran gridder, will probably see service against Coach Keo-gan’s charges.
Something in the nature of home-
Probable Lineups		
NOTRE DAME		' ARMY
Newbold	F	Stecker (c)
DeCook	F	Besson
Krause	C	Epler
Crowe (c)	G	Herb
Burns	G	Abell
coming will be injected into the occasion for four members of the cadet squad who are natives of Indiana. Julian Abell, regular guard, is from Nappanee; three sophomores, Jack Hillis, Logansport, Jack Neely, Indianapolis, and Bill Northam, Columbia City, completes the Hoosier delegation on the Point team.
Notre Dame Ready
With thirteen consecutive victories behind them, the Irish snipers are on edge to hand the invaders a decisive setback. The fact that Army has won 11 games in 13 starts indicates that defeating them will be a large sized assignment.
Despite the spotty play that showed up in places during the Michigan State game, the Irish flashed bits of smooth ball-handling, fast passing, and acceptable basket shooting that spoke of plenty of latent class. If it can be brought to light tomorrow night the chances of running the winning streak to 14 are exceptionally bright.
Veteran Lineup
Only two changes will appear in the starting lineups tomorrow from the teams that took the floor for the game at the Point last year. The Army newcomer is Frank Besson, appointee of President Coolidge, a “Distinguished Cadet”—his scholastic average is over 92%—but more important to the case in hand, an excellent basketball forward.
Notre Dame’s addition is none other.
(Continued on Page 21)
Swamp Bulldogs Easily, 64-22; Irish Take Seven Firsts.
Coach John Nicholson’s tracksters opened their home season last Saturday with a rousing victory over Butler University, 64-22. The Irish won seven first places and made slams in the pole vault and 880-yard run.
Because of the lack of competition the times for the various events appear ridiculously high; therefore, the tvin is no indication of the strength of this year’s team.
Slam In Pole-Vault
Rohrback, Behrman, and Slattery accounted for the first slam of the afternoon, taking all the places in the pole vault. King added five more points to the Irish total when he ran the mile in 4:34.7, Boaz of Butler was second, and Bowers of N. D. third.
Finkel, who placed first at Iowa last week, repeated his victory in the shot put with a toss of 42 feet, 9 inches; Groves of N. D. finished second, and Bailey of Butler third.
The sixty-yard dash went to Captain Bill McCormick, who beat Burns of Butler and Dilling of N. D. to the tape in the fast time of :06.3, a tenth of a second away from the world’s record.
Burns Wins 440
Burns of Butler, whom McCormick defeated in the sixty, won the 440-yard dash from MacBeth and Scanlon of N. D. in :51.6. Darling won a rather hollow victory in the high jump when he cleared the bar at only 5 feet, 10 inches. The Notre Dame jumper looked a bit off form. Tauer and Goudy of Butler took the other two places.
In the 60-yard high hurdles Tauer of Butler finished ahead of Fagan and Dupuy of N. D. in :08. The Ramblers’ second slam came in the 880-yard run.
February 26, 1932
Twenty-one
It's a Long Road...
WILSON WINS NATIONAL A.A.U. 600-YARD TITLE
With plenty of turnings for Gene Hozvery and Eddie King, shown here on a practice jaunt. Hozvery, the monogrammed runner above, is Coach Nicholson's leading two-miler. King, a sophomore, is the greatest mile prospect in many Notre Dame track seasons. He faces a severe test tomorroiu from Dean Woolsey, Illinois’ 4:18 miler.
Roberts, Troy, and Little finished in the order named to add nine points to the Irish total.
Ewing took a first in the two-mile-run when Gene Howery slowed up at the finish; third place went to Boaz of Butler. A relay team composed of Vettel, Kuhn, Scanlon, and Wilson had an easy time in the mile, winning under wraps in 3:31.2.
Summary:
POLE VAULT—Won by Rohrbach (ND) ; Behrman (ND), second; Slattery (ND), third. Height. 12 feet.
MILE RUN—Won by King (ND) ; Boaz (B), second; Bowers (ND), third. Time 4:34.7.
SHOT PUT—Won by Finkel (ND) ; Groves (ND), second ; Bailey (B) , third. Distance, 42 feet, 9% inches.
60-YD. DASH—Won by McCormick (ND) : Burns (B), second; Dilling (ND), third. Time :06.3.
440-YD. DASH—Won by Burns (B) : MacBeth (ND), second; Scanlon (ND), third. Time :51.6.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Darling (ND) ; Tauer (B), second; Goudy (B), third. Height, 5 feet, 10 inches.
60-YD. HIGH HURDLES—Won by Tauer (B) ; Fagan (ND), second; Dupuy (ND), third. Time :08.	'
880-YD.’ RUN—Won by Roberts (ND) ;
ARMY HERE TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 20)
than Ed “Moose” Krause, outstanding sophomore in midwestern cage circles. Passing the hundred mark in the Michigan State game, Krause is developing into one of the highest scorers in recent Notre Dame history.
In addition to Krause it is probable that the senior quartet of Captain Crowe, Newbold, Burns, and DeCook will be named in the opening lineup. However, the appearance of Joe Voegele at some stage of the game is almost certain in view of the sophomore’s scoring spurt of the past two games. In both the Butler and Michigan State games, Voegele supplied the offensive punch necessary to snap the Irish team out of its lethargy.
Troy (ND), second: Little (ND), third. Time 2:04.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Ewing (ND) ; Howery (ND), second; Boaz (B), third. Time 10:04.5.
MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Vettel, Kuhn, Scanlon, Wilson. Time 3:31.2.
Beats Roll In Great Finish; McCormick Beaten In 60.
Alex Wilson, British Empire champion and Notre Dame star, added the National A. A. U. 600-yard crown to his long list of championships last Monday night before one of the largest crowds ever to witness an indoor track meet in Madison Square Garden.	-
Wilson defeated Eddie Roll of the Newark A. C. in one of the most spectacular and hotly contested races of the present indoor season, both runners falling exhausted to the boards as they hit the tape.
Roll Sets Pace
Roll set the early pace and covered the quarter in :51.6. Wilson was keeping close to the Newark flyer, but did not press him, content to run his own race. It was not until they hit the straight-away, a stretch of 65 yards, that Notre Dame’s blonde flash made his bid. Roll, however, had saved himself for this emergency and matched Wilson stride for stride. As they neared the finish both runners made a lunge for the tape. Wilson was judged the victor, winning by inches.
The time of one minute and 13 seconds was much too fast for the other entrants and they were spread out far behind Wilson and Roll. Eddie Blake of the Boston A. A. was third and Harold Lamb, running in the colors of New York University, was fourth. Milton Sandler of N. Y. U. and Laszlo Barsi, Hungarian champion, were unplaced.
McCormick Eliminated
Pitted against the cream of the country’s dash men, Captain Bill McCormick, in his first race on a board track,’ failed to land a place in the National A. A. U. 60-yard event.
McCormick was second to Eddie Tolan, National Amateur 220-yard champ and former Michigan University star, in his first heat, but was eliminated by Emmett Toppino of Loyola of New Orleans in the semifinals. Toppino equalled the world’s record of :06.2 in this heat.
Twenty-two pairs started out last week in the first contract bridge tournament ever held at Yale University.
Tiventy-two
The Scholastic
Tieing Elder’s Record Gave McCormick Tensest Moment
IRISH CAGERS DOWN
BUTLER QUINT, 37-32
This is the fifth of a senes of articles by Paul Host, Scholastic staff writer, in which he describes tense moments in the lives of Fighting Irish athletic stars.
By Paul Host
Copyright, 1932, by Notre Dame Scholastic.
Its a far cry from the uneven, loosely packed running track of Granite City, Ill., Community high school ot the carefully groomed speedway of the Notre Dame field house. And its more than a throaty bellow from the mediocre time of :10.6 in the hundred to the equalling of the world’s record in the sixty yard dash.
Before the sound effects become monotonous or invite the accompaniment of a Bronx cheer, we’ll plunge ahead with the Algerian story of Captain Bill McCormick’s tensest moment in sport.
Qualifies in C. I. C.
The Central Intercollegiate track and field meet of 1930 promised to be the biggest event in the life of young Billy McCormick. As a sophomore sprinter, he had enjoyed a successful winter alternating with Ken Boagni, the veteran dash man, in counting up chalkers for the Notre Dame track team in the sixty-yard dash.
From the galaxy of speed stars who had undergone the pruning process in the preliminaries during the morning of the meet, eight men were selected to run in the semi-finals that afternoon. One of these eight was McCormick.
Running in the same heat as the Notre Dame sophomore were Boagni, his team-mate; the much heralded Treps of Marquette; and Francisco of Loyola who had tied the world’s record in this event in 1926, running under the colors of the Illinois A. C.
The four trimly knit figures crouch in the starting blocks; the sharp crack of the starter’s gun splits the air. The roar of the crowd shakes the glass skylights, diffuses over the tense scene, and McCormick continues the story.
Describes Race
“Coming out of the starting blocks Francisco pulled a tendon and was out of the race. Through the corner of my eye I could see Boagni and Treps matching stride for-stride on
- Bill McCormick
“. . . pretty darn thrilled.”
my right. Almost imperceptably they slipped from sight and I struck the tape.
“I had a feeling that it had been a pretty fast sixty, but having seen Jack Elder run the year before, never had the slightest hope that I would ever match his time. Unlacing my shoes in the basketball court a few minutes later I could see the timers stewing about something. For ten long minutes they argued back and forth, gesticulating with the stop watches they held in their hands.
“Finally ths announcer; ‘. . . and the time, six and two-tenths seconds, equalling the world’s indoor record.’
“It’s hard to express my feelings at that moment. I felt funny all over; wanted to run around, but knew I had to restrain myself. As a college girl would express it, I felt pretty darn thrilled.”	.
Voegele’s 15 Points Lead Way In Last Half Rally.
Staging a great comeback in the last ten minutes of the game the Notre Dame cage team overcame a nine-point lead and conquered a strong Butler quintet, 37-32, in a sensational battle at Indianapolis last Friday night.
The spectacular shooting cf Joe Voegele, who played just a few minutes more than half the game, saved the contest for the Fighting Irish after they were dazzled by a furious Butler attack in the first five minutes of the second half. The long-armed forward collected fifteen points, eleven of them in the second half, to stave off what looked like certain defeat, and to give the Keoganites their twelfth consecutive victory.	'
Tied At Half
In a grueling first half Notre Dame rushed to an early lead which was gradually cut down by the downstaters’ long range attack, a field goal by Proffitt tying the score at 14—all just as the period ended. Voegele replaced DeCook, who was playing his first game after a ten days’ illness, in the closing minutes on the first half and connected for a field goal and two free throws to commerce early his personal exhibition of shot-making.
The Butler offense completely puzzled the Fighting Irish during the first five minutes of the second half, and they ran up a lead of 25 to 16. Notre Dame then rallied but was unable to keep Butler from scoring and with the second period half gone the score stood 30-22.
Voegele Takes Charge
It was then and there that the Voegele boy took charge of things, and in a very short time he collected for himself eleven points. DeCook replaced Newbold at this point and added a pair of baskets for himself, all of which gave the South Benders pretty good control of the situation. Butler scored one more field goal but it came too late in the game to inspire any hope.
Krause was held to seven points, which is, comparatively, a low total for him. A pair of alert guards, with no other duty than that of stopping (Continued on Page 26)
February 26, 1932
Twenty-three
LYONS AND DILLON TIE IN FIRST HALL MEET
Iowa Upset Irish When Paul Castner Missed Field Goal
Sophomore Takes Third Place In Interhall Prelims.
Lyons and Dillon halls tied for top honors last night in the first division for the interhall track championships with 21 points apiece. Sophomore hall finished a close third with 20 points and Morrissey chalked up 6 points to finish fourth.
Huller of Lyons accounted for the best individual mark of the evening when he negotiated the 60-yard dash in one of the heats in the fast time of :06.5.
Robinson and Huisking of Lyons took first and second in the shot put. Robinson’s winning distance was 41 feet, 6 inches.
Summary:
POLE VAULT—Won by Louy (L), Maxwell (Soph.), second; Osweiler (Soph.), third. Height, 10 feet, 3 inches.
440-YD. DASH—Best times, Rohan (Soph.), :56.3 ; Shedell (Mor.), :58.4 ; Berger (Soph.), :58.4.
60-YD. DASH—Semi-final heats—First heat won by Crotte (D) ; Ashington (D), second. Time :6.6. Second heat won by Reinbolt (G) ; O’Toole (Sorin), second. Time :7. Third heat won by Huller (L) ; Coen (D), second. Time :6.o.	■
SHOT PUT—Won by Robinson (L) ; Huisking (L), second; Becker (Soph.), third. Distance, 41 feet, 6 inches.
MILE RUN—Won by Van Petten (L) ; Young (M), second; Anglen (Soph.), third. Time 5:07.
65-YD. LOW HURDLES—Semi-final heats— First heat won by Sullivan (Soph.) ; Reinbolt (C), second. Time :8. Second heat won by Robert (D) ; Kennedy (Soph.), second. Time :8.1.
880-YD. RUN —Won by O’Marra (D) ; Schultz (D), second; Van Petten (L), third. Time 2:19.
BROAD JUMP — Won by McCutcheon (Soph.) ; Coen (D), second; Long (L), third. Distance, 20 feet, 10 inches.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Flatley (D). Height 5 feet, 6 inches.
THREE-QUARTER-MILE RELAY — Won by Dillon ; Sophomore, second; Lyons, third. Time 2:43.
Dr. Leslie Shear, field director for the American School of Classical Studies, has discovered four inscribed stelae and a marble figure from the beginning of the fourth century B. C. at Athens.
This is the third of a senes of articles by Tighe Woods, Scholastic staff writer, on famous Notre Dame plays and players.
By Tighe Woods
History, even football history has a tendency to repeat itself. Last fall we saw a team composed of men who had never known defeat go down before a mighty wave of red-jerseyed warriors that could not be stopped. The game was played under the glamorous conditions that have made modem football cause the most prosaic spine to tingle. Defeat came as a complete surprise.
Just ten years ago aonther Notre Dame team was defeated while on its way to a third undefeated season but the incidents surrounding this loss were as different as night is from day.
Crowd Expected Slaughter
No packed stadium greeted the smartly clad team from Notre Dame the day they met Iowa. Only eight thousand people had the heart to go and see the Hawkeyes slaughtered. Great gaps of empty seats echoed the feeble cheers as the cheerleaders danced around trying to keep the icy breezes from sifting through white flannels.
The day was bitterly cold and the spectators crowded closer together for mutual warmth. The field looked like a miniature addition of Lake Placid. Snow and hail had fallen on the already adamantine gridiron and covered it with a thin sheet of ice.
Iowa Launches Offensive
Iowa started a fierce offensive immediately following the kick-off. Those two great backs, Locke and Devine, alternated in piercing the Irish line. The day was too bitterly cold for any fancy playing, they satisfied themselves with making savage thrusts at the line. A short thrust over guard here, a delayed buck through the center, a savage determination not to be stopped, and they were gaining.
Notre Dame retained their characteristic calmness under fire but they were moving back slowly. Only when Iowa had crept to the one-yard line did the Irish show their picturesque fierceness. They braced and held for
two downs. Gordon Locke, with one last beautiful burst of reserve strength, hit the line for a score and a few minutes later was carried from the game.
The spectators slowly emerged from protecting blankets, too dazed to realize what had happened, and then doubtfully shook their heads, it would be too bad for Iowa now. Notre Dame did open up, with a sweeping, breat-catching, spectacular offensive.
Notre Dame Fights Back
They passed, they plunged, they ran the ends, they resorted to trickery, but a stubborn Iowa line got down on its haunches and refused to move. Football history was made that day when a huge negro by the name of Duke Slater, one of the greatest tackles that prejudice has ever kept off an All-American, played the finest game of his career.
Iowa not only held the Notre Dame offense during the first quarter but they had the audacity to take the ball up the field and calmly hold their ground while Aubrey Devine kicked a thirty-five yard dropkick. Notre Dame played hard, brilliant football from that time on but the Hawkeyes turned back five or six attempts to score before Kiley went over the double chalk line after taking a pass from Johnny Mohardt. The goal was kicked and the score stood at ten to seven in favor of Iowa when the half ended.
Iowa Still Holds
Notre Dame had no illusions about this Iowa team when they returned to the field. They took the offensive and tried everything and every try was met by stubborn, dogged resistance. The time was getting short and a huddled figure on the Irish benches was moving uneasily. The ball was about ten yards past midfield when Notre Dame lined up in punt formation.
Paul Castner called for the ball and stood with his hands outstretched. It came back to him in a pretty spiral. With one swift glance at the grey goal posts fifty yards away, he let the ball drop for a dropkick. Up it ■ went, end over end, in a beautiful arc. It seemed to hover for an instant and then drop, too swiftly, for the crossbar was still a few yards away.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Irish Down Spartans 28-20 For 13th Consecutive Win
NEW YALE GYMNASIUM TO HOUSE SPORTS OF ALL TYPES
VOEGELE ADDS PEP
Sophomore Brings N.D. Offense To Life In Second Period; First Half Play Ragged.
By T. Edward Carey *
[E Keoganites made it Number' Thirteen last Tuesday night, when, for the second time this season, the Michigan State eagers fell victims to the Fighting Irish, After a sloppy
first half the locals came to life and ran up a comfortable margin, with the scoring finally ending at 28-20.
Joe Voegele was the one who finally brought the victors to life when he entered the game at halftime and gave an exhibition of first class floorwork besides chalking up seven points before he called it a day.
Irish Grab Lead
Notre Dame shot to an early lead of 10 to 3, mainly through the efforts of Norb Crowe, Newbold and Burns, and then folded up, missed shots and muffed passes for the remainder of the half. Ed Krause finally broke the scoring ice for Notre Dame just as the first period ended to give the locals a 12 to 7 lead.
Voegele replaced Newbold in the second half and immediately things started to happen. Captain Crowe scored twice from the field and Voegele once from the foul stripe to put Notre Dame ahead, 17 to 10. The Spartans, who had been doing some pretty rank playing on their own account, woke up at this point and in five minutes of hectic play reduced the Notre Dame lead to 17-15.
Voegele Scores Three
Then it was that the shooting sophomore, Voegele, snatched the spotlight for sure. He sank three field goals in rapid succession to put the Fighting Irish well out of danger, and just to make certain, Big Ed Krause whirled around from his pivot position to add another.
Barnard of State dropped in an extremely long field goal, and Pinneo followed with another and a foul shot,
but this rally was countered by Leo Crowe, replacing Burns, who duplicated Pinneo’s feat to conclude the scoring.
Miss Free Throws
Weakness from the foul stripe counted heavily against Notre Dame. Out of fourteen chances the Fighting Irish converted on four, while the Spartans were getting eight out of fifteen. From the floor Notre Dame outscored State twelve goals to six, holding the visitors to two field goals during the first half.
Hampered as he was by the superb playing of the lanky Boeskool, Krause managed to collect seven points to share scoring honors with Voegele. Pinneo led the Michigan State team with six points, but was much more valuable for his floorwork.
Summary:
Notre Dame (28)	g	f	p
Newbold, rf ....................1	0	2
Voegele, rf ....................3	1	1
DeCook, If .....................1	1	1
Krause, c ......................3	1	3
N. Crowe, rg....................2	0	2
Burns, 1g ......................1	0	2
L. Crowe........................1	1	0
Michigan State (20)	g	f	p
Pinneo, rf......................2	2	3
McCaslin, if ...................0	2	1
Beoskool, c ....................1	3	1
Kircher, rg.....................1	0	3
Vondette, 1g ...................1	1	1
Barnard, .......................1	0	1
Referee—Young (Illinois Wesleyan) ; umpire—Lane (Cincinnati).
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
ROUND TRIP EXCURSION
South Bend to Chicago
Week ends, Fri., noon thru Mon. Leave South Bend station, Michigan and La Salle streets, any train Friday noon to Sunday noon. Return on any train up to and including 11:30 p. m. train, Monday. For information phone South Bend 3-3111, or see Chas. Woods, 222 Lyons Hall.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

By Intercollegiate Press.
New Haven, Conn., Feb. 25.—In building the huge new Payne Whitney gymnasium, which is now nearing completion at a prospective cost of nearly $5,000,000, Yale has sought to work out, according to Dr. William G. Anderson, the director, “the most complete program possible under existing conditions to prepare the student physically for the battle for existence.”
“Two major factors have been taken into consideration: First, the widespread interest in body strengthening, and second, the need for housing more indoor athletics. The growth and expansion of this Winter recreational sports program has been a surprising development, more significant even than the growth of the leading sport of the day — football. The sports on the Winter program exceed in number those played outdoors.
“Two great arenas are to be built, therefore, each with a seating capacity for more than 2,000 spectators; there will be two immense swimming pools, eight or ten individual gymnasium rooms, special apartments for boxing, wrestling and fencing, each with spectators’ galleries; rowing tanks, provided with agitated water; forty-eight squash courts and eight handball courts.”
February 26, 1932
Twenty-five
CLEM CROWE TAKES NEW 'T'l • !• C L C J TI7* J coaching position 1 hinlies Second Win In
AT ST. XAVIER’S
The resignation of Clem Crowe. Notre Dame, ’26, as football coach at St. Vincent’s college, Latrobe, Pa. was announced yesterday. Crowe relinquished the post in order to accept a new position as assistant coach at St. Xavier U. in Cincinnati.
In taking over his new duties, Crowe will relieve Tim Moynihan, star Notre Dame gridder of the 1929 national champions who has been at the Cincinnati school for the past year. The new coach will report for duty at the spring practice next month.
Captain In 1925
Crowe was the first of four brothDame football team through an outstanding season. He lead the squad from an end position. During the same year he completed his third season as a regular with the Notre Dame basketball team.
Crowe was the first of ofur brothers to play on Irish cage squads. Frank, co-captain of the ’28-’29 season, and Captain Norb, and Leo, of this year’s squad complete the line.
The Huntington, W. Va., Chamber of Commerce has formed a corporation to sell stocks, from the funds of which a student union building will be constructed for Marshall College.
KRAUSE PASSES 100; VOEGELE GAINS (Including Michigan State game.)
	* G	FG	FT	PF	FTM	PCT	PTS
Krause	15	34	33	27	26	.559	101
Newbold	17	32	19	38	13	.594	83
N. Crowe	17	32	5	29	10	.333	69
Voegele	15	25	13	16	18	.419	63
DeCook	14 .	26	9	15	12	.429	61
Baldwin	9	17	5	14	5	.500	39
Burns	17	10	10	32	8	.556	30
L. Crowe	12	12	3	6	2	.600	27
Davis	11	11	3	11	2	.600	25
Schumacher	10	4	3	4	1	.750	11
Johnson	10	1	1	8	4	.200	3
Fehlig	1	1	0	0	1	.000	2
Schrader.	2	0	0	2	0	.000	0
Oelerich	1	0	0	1	0	.000	0
	—	—	—	■		—	I—	—	—
Totals	17	205	104	203	102	.505	514
Opponents	17	121	123	170	108	.532	365
* G—games ; FG—field goals ; FT—free throws ; PF—personal fouls ; FTM—free throws missed; PCT—percentage of free throws made; PTS—total points.
Seventeen
NOTRE DAME-ILLINOIS		
INDOOR RECORD		
YEAR	ILLINI	N. D.
1916	49	32
1917	58 1/2	36 1/2
1918	43 1/3	42 2/3
1919	44	42
1920	60 1/3	25 2/3
1921	63 1/2	31 1/2
1922	80 1/4	18 3/4
1923	45	41
1924	71 1/3	22 2/3
1925	54	41
1926	72	41
1927	56 1/3	38 2/3
1928	76	19
1929	61 1/2	33 1/2
1930	32	62
1931	51	44
Dr. Harlan T. Stetson, director of the Perkins observatory at Ohio Wesleyan university, finds that 1932 is to be a good year for radio listeners, providing the program are all right. Sun spots are still on the decrease, Prof. Stetson said, which means that radio rumblings will likewise decrease in proportion.
Year Illini Feud
CLASH TOMORROW
Woolsey-King Mile Featured; Close Meet Seen Under New-Fifteen Men Entry Limit.
HALLENGING the ability of the Illini tracksters to resume their “win forever” methods, the Notre Dame track squad will meet Coach Harry-Gill’s runners here tomorrow afternoon. The meet,
which will be the 17th annual renewal of Irish-Illinois indoor clashes, is the high spot in the Notre Dame dual meet schedule.	'
For 14 consecutive years the Illinois thinlies handed out defeats to Notre Dame squads. The margins of victory ranged from two-thirds of a point in 1918 to 61 % in 1922, but the Illini were always on top. Then in 1930, the man bit the dog and an Irish squad copped a 62-32 decision. Last year in Urbana, Coach Gill’s charges again took control with a 51-44 win.
Limited Entry
Tomorrow’s meet will mark the inauguration in Notre Dame track circles of the Big Ten rule limiting indoor teams to fifteen men. With the full strength of each team so concentrated, a good deal of sharp judging of opponents, and abilities will be needed by the men at the controls. Careful selection of entrants in an attempt to annex a large share of the third place points is expected from both mentors.
Away back in 1899, when the Illini made their first local invasion, as a part of a triangular field including Chicago U., a Notre Dame captain, J. Fred Powers, collected twenty points and gave the Irish a victory. From the advance dope, either team in tomorrow’s meet could use another Powers.
Wilson Runs Three
Probably the closest approach to the old time iron man will be made by Alex Wilson, newly crowned national 600-yard champion. The blond
(Continued on Page 27)
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Badin did it! It took the Badin lightweights to stop the threat that Sorin was making of taking both titles. However the Sorin heavyweights are still undefeated, and are tied with Morrissey and Sophomore for the Group I heavyweight lead. But Badin leads the lighter class alone.
Carroll Beats Brownson
Carroll eliminated Brownson from the lead in Group II and it looks like the Carroll lighties will play Badin for the championship. The lead in the heavyweight class is now more complicated than ever. Both Walsh and Off-Campus failed to show up Sunday, and Walsh (through an error they claim) failed to appear for the postponed date, Wednesday.
Some of the complications may be cleared up this Sunday. Sorin plays Lyons, Morrissey meets Sophomore, and Badin opposes St. Edward’s in Group I games.
Sophomore Wins Again
Group II headliners scheduled for Sunday are the Freshman-Off-Cam-pus fray and the Alumni-Walsh game.
Sophomore heavyweights continue.! to be in the undefeated class by winning a hard fought game from St. Edward’s, 17 to 11. Crossin, left guard was the big gun in the Sophomore lineup, scoring six points. He was tied for high point honors with Robilette, St. Edward forward. Ca-rideo and Kane were other luminaries.
Paul Host found the hoop for ten points and led the Sorin heavies to their fourth straight win, beating Badin, 21 to 13. DuWan and Ellis played good ball for Badin but not good enough to cope with Host and his teammates. Christman, Heitz, and Carmody also played well for the winners.
Howard Swamps Alumni
Howard sprang a surprise and dumped the previously undefeated Alumni five, by the overwhelming score of 24 to 2. Collins, Alumni left forward, scored the lone basket credited to Alumni. Gleason, right forward, Jaskwhich, right guard, and Uprichard, center, were the Howard stars.
Carroll nosed out Brownson in a
tight game, 8 to 6. Caldwell and Hallwell were the stars for Carroll on both the offensive and defensive. Follmar starred for the losers.
Lyons and Morrissey were heavyweight victors by means of the forfeit route.
Lyons lightweights dropped a hard fought game to Dillon, mainly because of the efforts of Bringgardner
STANDINGS
GROUP I
Heavyweight	Lightweight
	w	L	PCT.	w		L PCT.	
Morrissey	4	0	1.000	Badin	4	0	1.000
Sophomore 4		0	1.000	Sorin	o u	1	.750
Sorin	4	0	1.000	Dillon	3	1	.750
Lyons	3	1	.750	Corby	2	2	.500
St. Ed’s	1	3	.250	Sophomore	2	2	.500
Badin	0	4	.000	Lyons	1	3	.250
Corby	0	4	.000	St. Ed’s	1	3	.250
Dillon	0	4	.000	Morrissey	0	4	.000
GROUP II Heavyweight	Lightweight
w	L PCT.	w	L PCT.
*Walsh	2	0 1.000	Carroll	4	0 1.000
*Off-C’pus 2	0 1.000	Howard 3	1 .750
Alumni 2	1 .667	Brownson 3	1 .750
Freshman 2	1 .667	Off-C'pus 2	1 .667
Howard 2	2 .500	Freshman 0	3 .000
Carroll	1	3 .250	Alumni	0	3 .000
Brownson 0	4 .000	Walsh	0	3 .000
- Neither :	team made	an appearance Sun-	
day. When	The Scholastic went		to press
this game had not been played.
Game Schedule
February 28
Group I—
1:30 p. m.—Lyons vs. Sophomore
2:30 p.m.—Dillon vs. St. Edward’s
3:30 p.m.—Corby vs. Badin
4:30 p.m.—Morrissey vs. Sorin
Group II—
8:30 a.m.—Freshman vs. Walsh
9:30 a.m.—Howard vs. Carroll
10:30 a.m.—Alumni vs. Off-Campus Brownson—bye.
Practice Schedule
Varsity Floor	Apparatus Room	
Freshman	Friday, Feb. 26 7 P. M.	Badin
Carroll	8 P. M.	Lyons
Brownson	9 P. M.	Alumni
Dillon'	Monday, Feb. 29 7 P. M.	Off-Campus
St. Edward’s	8 P. M.	Howard
Sophomore	9 P. M.	Morrissey
Wednesday, March 2 Corby	7 P. M.		Carroll
Walsh	8 P. M.	Freshman
Sorin	9 P. M.	Brownson
and Tousek of Dillon, 17 to 13. The two freshmen tallied ten points together. Sauseville, Lyons forward, was the star for his team.
Sophomore led by Bucci and Ruby defeated St. Edward’s, 20 to 14 in an interesting game. Link with seven points led the St. Edward’s offense.
Corby held Morrissey to a mere five points and managed to gather 13 in the interim to win a lightweight game from the sophomores. Blom-maert and Dunleavy led the attack. Velker was the Morrissey star.
Montgomery and Lasardi were the main reasons that Badin was able ro down the Sorin lightweights, 16 to 7. This duo score 11 points. It would be difficult to select any Sorin stars as the team as a whole seemed to be playing ragged ball.
TRACK
The list of interhall track coaches was posted this week. They are: Addonizio and Brancheau (Alumni), Cronin and Freehill (Badin), Golden and Gru (Brownson), Hofron and Hayes (Carroll), Henningfield and James Harriss (Corby), Holleran and Keating (Dillon), Kozak and La-Borne (Freshman), Quenan and Reu-land (Lyons), Seidle and Sabo (Morrissey), William Smith and Szekeiy (Off-Campus), Van Allen and Baechle (Sophomore), Blaine and Cardinale (Sorin), Chapman and Clark (St. Edward’s), and Curry and Dregan (Walsh).
IRISH WHIP BUTLER
(Continued from Page 22)
him, turned the trick. Chadd was the big offensive star for Butler, amassing eleven points, seven of them in the downstaters’ big second period drive.
Summary:
Notre Dame (37)	b	f	p
Newbold, f .......................2	0	3
DeCook, f ........................2	0	0
Voegele, f........................6	3	1
Krause, c ........................3	1	2
Burns, g .........................0	0	0
<3
L. Crowe, g ....................  1	1	0
N. Crowe, g.......................2	0	3
Totals ..........................16	5	9
Butler (32)	b	f	p
Miller, f ’.......................2	0	0
Davis, f .........................2	3	1
Proffitt, c __L...................4	1	4
Parrish, c .......................0	0'	1
Chadd, g .........................5	1	1
Tackett, g .......................0	1	3
Totals ..........................13	6	10
Referee, Schommer; umpire, Lane.
February 26, 1932
Twenty-seven
War-time Enemies Are Now Members of Same Faculty
By Intercollegiate Press.
Tulsa, Okla., Feb. 25.—This is a yarn of the French bomb.
In 1916 a French aviatoi- tripped the release of the bomb carriage attached to the under side of his plane. He leaned out over the side and watched it drop into the German city of Nurnberg.
“Mon Dieu!”
In 1916 a German student in the city of Nurnberg heard the sound of airplane motors over the town and the coughing bark of anti-aircraft fire. He leaned out the window and saw the white glare of the bomb’s explosion.
In 1932 these same two live across the hall from one another in the same rooming house, eat at the same restaurant, and teach in the same school, the University of Tulsa.
Pierre Macy, the aviator, is professor of romance languages.
Kurt Sepmeier, the student, is professor of economics and business administration.
ILLINOIS HERE TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 25)
flash will undoubtedly be sent to the mark in both the 440 and 880-yard distances and may be called upon to anchor the mile relay team. He is a top-heavy favorite to win both his individual races.
Just how many other double starters Coach Nicholson will use is unknown but he has at least one or two sure nominations for every track event. Gene Howery in the two-mile, and Captain Bill McCormick in the 600-yard dash, doom as certain winners.
King, Woolsey Meet
The mile race should produce the greatest duel of the program. Dean Woolsey, winner of last year’s mile, and author of a record-smashing 4:17.2 jaunt in the Illinois Armory last Saturday will carry the Orange and Blue in his favorite distance.
Eddie King, sophomore flash, will be Coach Nicholson’s No. 1 man. King ' has not yet been pushed in competition but his training marks and previous records point to the probability of his crowding the 4:20 mark tomorrow.
Other Close Events
Practically the entire remainder of the program seems to approach a
toss-up. The best marks of Charley Finkel, Notre Dame sophomore, and Cook of Illinois in the shot put are but two inches apart. A toss of 45 feet, 5 inches last week gives the edge to Cook.
While Illinois is conceded at least a first place in the pole vault, the hurdles look like well matched races. Etnyre of Illinois will give Dupuy and Fagan of the Irish a busy afternoon going over the sticks.
Ostazewski, Illini sophomore, and Bob Darling, veteran Notre Dame
IT'S TIME TO "SPRUCE UP"
CaN’T you feel it in the air? It’s high time to discard the drab garb of winter and take on plumage a little brighter in hue.
Did we hear you say it’s too early for thoughts of Spring? You’re wrong again, for in our selection you’ll find suits and top-coats that both protect against Spring’s little blows and brighten your appearance.
When you’re down town drop in and inspect the latest arrivals in Spring clothing, at prices that will amaze you I
♦ .
Sam* I Spiro & Co.
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
jumper, will clash in an interesting competition in the high jump. Darling’s best effort of the year is one inch below the 6 foot, 2 inch leap of the invader.
The broad jump, which decided last year’s meet in favor of the Gillmen, again seems headed for the visitors’ side of the ledger. There is a chance, however, that Gough, Notre Dame entrant, will upset the dope with a winning jump. In last year’s meet he placed third behind Lee Sentman and Duncan of Illinois.

Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By James S. Kearns
CAPTAIN CROWE
Standing out like a sore thumb from the lineup juggling that sickness and general hard luck has necessitated in the Notre Dame basketball ranks this season is the way in which Captain Norb Crowe has found his niche.
Moving back to guard when Johnny Baldwin was forced from the team by sickness, Crowe has developed into
one of the sensations of the year. In seven games at his new position the Irish leader has scored 39 points, nine more than his total for ten games at forward.
Not only his basket shooting but his entire game has shown remarkable improvement. Always a ball hawk, he is now combining that knack with a tenacious guarding ability to make himself one of the most effective defensive players on the floor at every game. Directing the offense, he is sure, cool, and accurate. When the time comes to stall, he is complete master of the situation.
All in all it looks as if Norb Crowe is a better guard than anyone ever guessed he would be. Certainly he is a better guard than he was a forward, and his ability to shift to the new position with a gain, rather than a loss in coolness under fire, and all around court generalship, sets him up as an exceptional basketeer, and a great captain.
TRACK-MINDED?
It has been occurring to us rather frequently lately that something is lacking in the mid-west’s track and field environment. It is completely inconsistent that a sporting city such as Chicago with its hockey, basketball, Golden Gloves, six - day bike races, pro wrestling, and other in
door sports events in overflowing quantities should be entirely bereft of high class indoor track meets.
The East, with New York as its sports capital, has staged more first-rate meets in almost any one week this winter than Chicago will present in the entire season. They have drawn large crowds, been accorded columns of publicity.
Last night the Illinois National Guard and Naval Militia sponsored an invitational meet at their south side armory in Chicago. The entry list was undeniably attractive: Simpson, Beard, Brix, Shelby, Letts, Conger, and others. The crowd was passably large, and, rather surprisingly, exceedingly enthusiastic.
The combination was a bit too much for us. The enthusiasm was justifiable, of course, but why can’t it produce more meets ? Chicago papers carried only lines of notice, not columns, prior to the meet. It would seem that with a small bit of pushing by some able organization the midwest might possibly have at least one or two worth while meets during the indoor season.
It should really be interesting to have a place where our Wilsons, Congers, Sentmans, Nelsons, could run and jump for some home-section fans.
V
MILESTONE
There have been several additions made to Notre Dame athletic history this year. The Southern California game came to the campus; a new coaching staff was named; one victory chain was snapped, another started. Tomorrow night a new bit of glamor, a bit more history will go into the records: an Army team is to play at Notre Dame.
It will be the first visit of a cadet athletic squad to Notre Dame since Charlie Dorais tossed forward passes to Knute Rockne on the Plains at the Point to launch the famed rivalry.
Notre Dame has looked forward to the game as one of the hardest of the year. Army has looked forward with a hope of revenge. The fans have waited for a colorful, stirring battle. Everything points to an unusual evening.
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
STRAND
Prices 10c, 15c, 25c
SUNDAY and MONDAY
February 28 - 29
THE TALK OF SOUTH BEND DOUBLE FEATURE
Entire Game!
60 Minutes of Thrills
TULANE
VS.
See this thrilling spectacle --the Tournament of Roses
STUDENTS LOOK!
This Big Feature MURDER AT MIDNIGHT" With an all star cast.
Use This Coupon and' Save!
This Coupon and one paid 25c admission will admit two adults to the Main Floor any time except Saturday, Sunday, or holidays.
February 26, 1932
Twenty-nine
DIARIES TYPIFY MAN
(Continued from Page 17)
humorous, even to the extent of his own embarrassment. He records his stripping “orderly” for bed to find himself lying on a little matted straw under one threadbare blanket “with double its weight of vermin such as lice, fleas, etc.”
He gets up, dresses, and lies “as my companions” outdoors by a fire. Next day: “We cleaned ourselves (ts get rid of the game we had catch’d the night before).” This boy, who admitted a savor for the sound of whistling bullets, who did the sort of things Mark. Twain’s characters do, must have been in every sense an American boy.
Through the years to 1787 and his reception in Philadelphia at the Constitutional Conventional. Here, perhaps, from a slight attack of boredom, his memoranda of the sessions are barren while the lighter things receive considerable attention. Perhaps an antidote for too much governmental concentration.
Contemplates Valley Forge
We learn the names of a great number of laides and gentlemen with whom he “drank Tea,” that he sat to Mr. Peale for his portrait, and that he attended several charity concerts. What he felt in 1787 while standing on his old camp ground, from which he marched to Valley Forge, will never be known.
He simply says: “traversed my old encampment and contemplated on the dangers which threatened the American Army at that place.” When the four months convention is over little is said of the accomplishment but that he “retired to meditate on the momentous work that had been executed.
That Washington and Mrs. Washington were highly conscious of their parts during his Presidential office is rather apparent. Details w’ere important when he delivered his first message to the two houses of Congress.
Washington intensely himself w”? the country gentleman, the man of property, with a strong disposition toward successful farming. The years at Mount Vernon in the sixties and early seventies flowed by with quiet order. Thus we have several views of the man: the fun-loving boy, the national gentleman, and the first great American farmer, but all in all we cling to the greater portrait of the man: the true American statesman.
Introducing	Bob Darling
By William Flynn
When Robert “Bob” Darling hoists his six foot, hundred and ninety pound frame over the bar six feet above the ground to win five points in the high jump for Notre Dame,
Bob Darling
Only Monogrammed Engineer
the spectators see more than a high jumper in action.
For the dark-haired jumper is more than a .track star. He is the only student in the College of Engineering who is also a member of the Monogram club. And he is the only member of the Chemists’ club who is entitled to wear a sweater bearing Notre Dame’s athletic reward.
Four years ago, Darling left Auburn, Indiana and matriculated as an . ambitious chemical engineer at Notre Dame. He also had athletic ambitions.
At Auburn high school he hadn’t confined his athletic endeavors to one
or two sports. In his own words, “if you were big, you did everything: football, basketball, track, and everything else.” And Darling, even dui-ing his high school days, was big.
Sticks to Jumping
At Notre Dame, Darling wanted to learn the business of chemical engineering and found it to be a job requiring more than a considerable amount of his time. Consequently he was forced to limit his athletics to high-jumping.
Now he is one of the six chemical engineers who expect to be graduated in June and has been a consistent point-winner for three years on Coach Nicholson’s team.
Besides clearing the scholastic bars of Quantitative Analysis, Industrial Chemistry, Theoretical and Physical Chemistry, and Physical Metallurgy, and jumping as high as six feet one, Darling has other duties.
He is prefect on the fourth floor of Walsh. There his hundred and ninety pounds make him an ideal prefect. And it also is something of an asset when he joins the thundering herd of waiters in the West Dinin hall where he carries trays and juggles pitchers three times a day.
Darling’s career as a collegiate high-jumper began in rather a discouraging manner. In the first meet of his sophomore year, his first opportunity to win a monogram, he competed against Nelson of Butler. That was the day Nelson cleared six feet, six and seven-eights inches to set a new world’s indoor record.
Nelson His “Greatest
It was that feat that makes Darling believe that Nelson is the greatest jumper he ever saw in action. But he didn’t let a world’s record, set by an opponent, in his first collegiace meet, discourage him. His record in competition the last three years proves that.
After completion of his Bachelor’s thesis and graduation in June, Darling intends to enter the field of industrial chemistry. He has decid'-: that, if chemistry and all-around athletic participation wouldn’t mix during college, then practice of his profession and high-jumping won’t mix after he receives his degree.
)
Thirty
The Scholastic
ED. O’MALLEY’S ADDRESS
(Continued from Page 14)
hideousness of a well-nigh universal materialism.
When the colonial strife began and Washington was called to assume command of the Continental Army, he did not have to go to war. From the standpoint of his own private interests there was every reason why he should not personally engage in the conflict. He was the wealthiest man
THIS IS NEWS!
Six dollars now bu .-a our famous Walk-Over standard
grade qualify -.*zas $8.50,. And for $8 you can wear Walk-Over oustom grade ’was $10 to $12). The styles are smarter. The attings arc superior. This is the news that wiL renew your shoe wardrobe at dollars less than ever before. Come in today!
O STADIUM -Popular blucher- oxford made in black calf.
WALK OVER
A	SHOES FOR MEN
Jah One-One-One South Michigan Street
in the country at the time. His family was of the class which would have been better served by adhering to the English cause. But he regarded his financial resources only as a means to benefit others and to give him the opportunity for public service. And when the wealthy class did throw in their lot on the side of the struggling colonies the weight of their* influence had an enormous effect on the outcome of the war.
The American cause during the
Revolution resolved itself down to the character and ability of Washington. There were times when the Americans had nothing left but that. Continental Congress was in flight and Washington was hunted like a beast of prey when he might have been the honored guest at the revelries of the British army. Unquestionably he could have sold out to the English for a peerage if he would have simply withheld his influence from the American cause.
Chose Valley Forge
He would have been welcome anywhere and yet he stalked the encampment at Valley Forge, binding up the wounds of his soldiers, inspiring and comforting them. He was offered a very high commission in the English army. Many of his neighbors had accepted similar offers because that was the expedient thing to do. But Washington would not sacrifice his belief in principle for expedience. He followed the harder road because that was the way that led in the direction of what he believed to be right, and the years that haves ince elapsed have proved the correctness of his judgment.
Washington had no peace—practically his entire life was disturbed by the exactions of the public welfare. Certainly his motive in sponsoring the colonial cause was not the enhancement of his reputation because at that time it was a sacrifice of reputation. He felt that the rights of his neighbors had been violated and he sought to redress these grievances because he recognized his duty to others. Throughout, his path was strewn with obstacles in the form of difficulties with jealous officers of his staff who persistently blocked his progress through their inefficiency and deliberate antipathy. Even after he became President he was subject to vilification from his enemies and criticism from his friends for his unselfishness which made him a target for this censure.
Sought Rest and Privacy
He always anticipated the day when he could return to Mount Vernon. It was his fondest wish to “glide gently down the stream of life until he rested with his fathers.” When the British army had departed from our shores Washington rejoiced in the hope that at last he would be able to retire to the quiet of his home on the Potomac. .The grave possibility of disunion among the colonies however, and the anxious exhortations of
February 26, 1932
Thirty-one
Hamilton and his associates prevailed upon him to return to the capitol and assist in the formation of a stable government.
As President for eight years he plunged courageously into his new’ work with the resolve to take advantage of every opportunity to perform well the task at hand. He demonstrated the fact, that as we assume heavier duties we grow to the stature necessary to discharge those same responsibilities.
An Educator
Washington was an educator as well as a general, statesman and patriot. He spent large sums of his personal fortune for the education of a group of young people, and even with his heavy burden of public duties he did not neglect to write in his own hand lengthy letters of intimate counsel and advice to his nieces and nephews, counsel so wise that it can be well accepted today by the youth of our land as a standard of conduct and endeavor.
But the predominant lesson he has taught us is the realization that the passport to renown always has been, is now and ever will be an unflinching belief and reliance upon the good in human nature. We are celebrating
the 200th anniversary of his birth precisely because he was not cynical. The world would never have moved out of its savage state had people always been seeking the gratification of their own interests. Washington might have been comfortable and happy if he had remained at Mount Vernon, but the price that would have been paid undoubtedly would have been the loss of the American cause. If one wants his narrow grave to close up his importance to the universe, then selfishness is indeed the best seal he could utilize. Many others, when confronted with the problem that Washington faced, chose the easier way and as an inevitable result their names have g:ne down to the “deathless silence of the dreamless dusk.”
May His Spirit Live
May his spirit live forever! May this and the countless future generations adopt as their principles and policies the things for which he stood, the ideals which he strove to reach, and the magnificent devotion to country which actuated him throughout his entire life. May God Almighty bless our land with leaders imbued with these same high ideals, and may we Notre Dame men ever strive to re
member that true happiness and success can come only if we follow the path that Washington has trod before us.
Edward Francis O’Malley.
Purchase of 92 War Portraits Has Been Proposed in House
By Intercollegiate Press.
Washington, Feb. 18.—Purchase for 850,000 of ninety-two oil portraits of commanding Generals and other outstanding men who served with the American Expeditionary Forces, to complete the Chase collection of 139 war portraits in the Smithsonian Institution, is proposed in a bill introduced today by Representative McLeod of Michigan.
The portraits, painted by Joseph Cummings Chase while the American forces were overseas, were not listed in the bill, but are said to include the best-known officers and several soldiers whose acts of valor attracted wide attention.
Michael Dereso, 55, father of 23 children, has been sentenced to a year and a day in jail at Hoboken for failure to support his offspring.
SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY Feb. 27,28,29
DON’T MISS THIS GALA
SATURDAY ALL SEATS 35c
UNTIL 6 P. M.
R K O
AND SCREEN SHOW Headed by The Famous Musical Comedy Stars SEED and AUSTIN in “SUCCESS”
JIMMY BURCHELL antThis BLONDES of 1932
On the Screen
OH! LOOK
Its
Brown In not only HIS Greatest, but the Greatest of ALL
Screen Laff Hits "Fireman Save My Child" Its a Big Show in Itself '
MASTERS and GRACE in “Guess Who ’Tis”
THREE ACES and a QUEEN in “A Sensational Casting Exhibition”
Thirty-tzvo
The Scholastic
Check These Points:
Workmanship Service
Convenience
And that’s about all you could ask for in your laun- . dry and dry cleaning work,
At Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience— what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
So, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
On Down the Line
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA students beat an Indian war drum during football games when they are behind . . . SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA collected $1,262,000 in football gate receipts the past season . . . EARL POOL had ridden 1,200 winners in his 17 years as a jockey . . . AUGIE KIECKHEFER, three cushion billiard champ is almost totally blind in one eye . . . GEORGIA TECH once defeated Cumberland University 220-0 in a forty-five minute football game ... The UNITED STATES has won the Olympic games every time sinc.e their revival in 1896. . . .
V
JOHNNY WOODEN, a Purdue cage star, recently received the distinguished honor roll rating, with a scholastic average of over 95% . , . BOB FITZSIMMONS knocked out JIM CORBETT for the heavyweight championship when he weighed only 154 pounds ... In 1928 JOHN ROTHROCK played every position for the Boston Red Sox . . . Wrestling is the only professional sport in Japan . . . Six ARMY football regulars will graduate in June. . . .
■	. V
Fox hunting at WASHINGTON AND LEE is considered a major sport . . . PHAR LAP, Australian wonder horse, will make his American debut in the rich Coffroth handicap at Agua Caliente . . . The POLISH Olympic skiing team walked up the 102 stories of the Empire State building for exercise . . . Reports from Evanston state that “PUG” RENTNER will be forced to take 17 hours of semester work to remain eligible—this cruel world . . . The National Collegiate Swimming championships are to be staged at Michigan U. on March 25 and 26. . . .
V
According to the new football RULES, how is a player to hold the pigskin for a field goal, without a part (his knee) of his body touching the ground? . . . JACK DEMPSEY has grossed more than $500,000 the last six months barnstorming; this is more money than HERR MAX has made since he won the title ... In the past month, new world marks have been set in the high jump, shot put, and the mile run....	'
We know why men smoke PIPES
WOMEN don’t smoke pipes.
They’re not the style for women. Blit pipes are the style for men,
and more than that, a pipe and good tobaccogives a man greater smoking pleasure than tobacco in any other form.
In 42 out of 54 American colleges and universities
A pipe is not for girls
Edgeworth is the favorite pipe tobacco. Cool slow-burning hurleys give this fine tobacco exactly the character
A pipe is a real man’s smoke
to Larus & Bro.
Richmond, Va.,
that college men like best of all.
Try a tin of Edgeworth yourself! You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or if you prefer, you can get a special sample packet free: write >., 105 S. 22d St., I ask for it.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys,
with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive
and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AH sizes, 151 pocket package to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
t
Juggler Reprint Series, No. 5
CELEBRITIES AT HOME
Helen Morgan*s Silting Room
It’s intimate pictures of celebrities at home, such as this one, that hold the attention of our 15,000 readers (five to a family, you must remember).
Your advertising message will be read and acted on if you present it to the three thousand (and more) men at Notre Dame—regular readers of
At The University	Notre Dame, Indiana
fTd hate to be called an Outdoor Girl!
• |U» U.K XV unox H XiXOrtHKI -LEMMONIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
• "Music that Satisfies.” Hear Nat Shilkret’s brilliant orchestra and Alex Gray, soloist, every night except Sunday—entire Columbia Network—10r30 Eastern Standard Time.
TIHAT usually means a girl's a total loss in a tete-a-tete ... and takes up 'nature* as a last resort! But I must confess a liking for hills and forest trees... and all genuine natural things.
"I like the simple sincerity of Chesterfield's advertising. Have you noticed it? There's no extravagance in the claims. Just everyday facts about the fine tobaccos they select and the painstaking way they develop the flavor and. aroma.
"I've never smoked a milder cigarette! And I never tire of the flavor ... a fine natural tobacco taste. They burn evenly, too. Either they’re rolled more carefully... or the paper’s better. I feel the greatest confidence in Chesterfields. They satisfy me!”
THEY'RE MILDER • THEY'RE PURE
THEY TASTE BETTER
1952, Liggett Be Myers Tobacco Co.
