The Notre Dame Scholastic
195
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Again we have the “morning after the night before,” or the aftermath of an election which is disappointing to even a non-partisan. The poor Republicans have gone down the slide, having been given a vigorous push by the irate Democrats.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
EMIL L. TELFEL.... HARLEY L. McDEVITT
Founded 1872
... .Editor-In-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
The Republicans entered the race under a handicap because most of the officials of the same party were so inefficient that the general public just couldn’t stand them any longer. But the G. 0. P.’s made up a party just to give the Democrats something to run against.
An editorial in the South Bend News-Times enlightened us on a matter which should be of importance to all of us. The editor, who evidently lets nothing escape his glance, called our attention, by way of his paper, that the game with Indiana last Saturday was so inconsequential to the newspapers of Bloomington that they didn’t have enough spirit to send a reporter to cover the game. Instead the sports writers hied off to some little game, which, as the editorial says, “was played before 200 empty circus seats.” The point involved was that the papers of the down-state cities are not doing their share to advertise football games which have a direct bearing on the state and which are a credit to it. The News-Times stressed the fact that Indiana university was given free columns of space for publicity, not only for the game in South Bend, but for all their other games, while the papers which are in the city which supports the state institution almost ignore the football team, in fact, the write-up of the Notre Dame-Indiana game was put in one corner of the page where it would certainly attract no notice. We agree with the News-Times in its criticism of the Bloomington papers when they say that they are not acting fairly. It was also pointed out that there were . more of these papers represented at the Navy and Southern Methodist games than there ever have been at a Notre Dame-Indiana game. Indiana could not have a more prominent opponent than Notre Dame. Why not be fair to everyone?
—W. V. B.
John E. Bergan...... James J. Kearney.... Edward E. Brennan.. Walter V. Beesley... Alfred E. Gall...... James K. Collins.... Austin Boyle........ Paul J. Hallinan.... Richard J. O’Donnell Ramon G. Smith...... Frank E. Seward..... W. Leslie Raddatz...
.......Managing.Editor Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor .......Makeup.Editor .......Makeup.Editor .......Features.Editor .......Script.Editor .......Associate.Editor .......The	Week .......The Colle ye Parade .......Music	and Drama .......Campus..Clubs
.Assistant
William C.
Karl..
.News Editor
News Editor
NEWS STAFF
Neil C. Hurley..........
s	Edward R. Brennan	Myron Crawford	John Pick
-	James Carmody	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Dunda
-	William Fitzgerald	William Corr	Sanguinet Williams
	John Conley	Lloyd Teske	Lawrence Prybylski
	F. Granger Weil SPORTS STAFF John A. Kiener			.Sports Editor
	Cleve Carey	James E. McFeely, Jr.	Henry B. Asman
-	Robert Balfe	George Belting	T. Edward Carey
BUSINESS STAFF
James H. Rorke...........Local Advertising	Manager
James L. Rizer.........Foreign Advertising	Manager
John R. BlandA...........[Meal Circulation	Manager
Andrew McGuan...........Foreign Circulation	Manager
Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin Raymond J. Naber John P. Hess
Vol. LXIV
NOVEMBER 7, 1930
No. 7
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Once a Voice_______________________________ The Week___________________________________ Cotillion Plans Complete—James Carmody and John Pick. Cotillion Committee Chairmen_______________ Coming Events—William Karl_________________ Chesterton Receives Degree—Lloyd W. Teske__ Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan_ A Man About the Campus—Myron Crawford______ Campus Opinions______________________________
Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward-------------- The Wink------------------------------------- College Parade—Ramon G. Smith---------------- Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz--------------- Editor’s Page-------------------------------- Quakers Next Notre Dame Foe—John A. Kiener--- Rockmen Rout Indiana—T. Edward Carey--------- Splinters From the Press Box----------------- On Down the Line-----------------------------
.Frontispiece
_______ 197
_______ 198
_______ 201
_______ 202
_______ 203
_______ 204
_______ 205
_______ 206
_______ 207
_______ 208
_______ 209
_______ 210
_______ 211
_______ 212
_______ 213
_______ 220
_______ 224
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Build.nit.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
mmniiinminnninninnnninmnnmnninmnnnnnnininnniinnmniinnniiinniiinnnnmninuniinTtniuimraninnninimniiinnnmmnnniiinmimmnniCTmininniiiiinnnmininnnnnimiminunTO
Once a ^Ooice
. Sometimes in the darkness of my room At night, before I sleep, 1 see a face Come slow toward me, stop, and siveetly smile, Then vanish utterly without a trace.
And once in the subtlest silence of my room, I listened long; I felt that you were near— Sztddenly I heard a rustle in the gloom And a voice that whispered low, “My dear! My dear!” —L. L. H.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	197
r
♦ TEE WEElT*
*1' HE perverse god of the elements who controls the Indiana weather has once more been unjustly condemned. The epidemic of coughs and sneezes that is making itself heard on the campus should not be attributed to the caprices of the Hoosier breezes. A more material cause may be found. A human agency is at fault. We do not know whom to blame, the Republicans or the Democrats. But both parties certainly wreaked a horrible vengeance on the students when they attempted to stimulate the business at the voting machines by passing out celluloidwrapped ropes to aged but beardless freshmen. Many a student has been breathing in wheezes since the day of rhe elections. Tuesday found more excitement around the gymnasium than has been witnessed there since the day the old gym burned down. Considering the number of cigars distributed in its vicinity, it is quite remarkable that the present building is not a smoking ruin. The most pathetic case of the day that is recorded is that of the frosh who was given a “two for a nickle,” tried to vote but was intercepted, and thereupon had the cigar taken from him by a hard-hearted local politician. The .
• politician was probably a Republican following out the new Hoover economic policy. Not having an interest in Indiana politics, we have not taken the trouble to find out who the winners were in the local contests. But judging from the quality of the smokes that the campus representatives were donating, we imagine that the party which had the most left when the day was over was the victor.
Christmas still seems far, far away. Falling snowflakes are yet novel enough to cause dreaming students to stare out of classroom windows. The jovial features of that romantic person known as Santa Claus are as yet absent from the advertising pages of the papers. Never-the-less, there are symptoms of the holiday spirit already being manifested on the campus. The local state and city clubs are well under way in their preparations for the dances that will take place all over the country during the Christmas vacation. Enterprising salesmen are exhibiting to dance chairmen the programs and favors that will eventually find their way into the dainty hands of a thousand “only girls.” The annual Christmas dances are a social tradition that is really worth while. Many campus skeptics consider them merely another mild form of racketeering, but there are not many cases in which this is true. The instances wherein the financial results were in the red seem to have frightened the racketeer away from the dance promoting business. The Notre Dame holiday affairs provide the only real opportunity for students in a particular locality to get togethei- during the two weeks’ winter intermission. They also allow the alumni and undergraduates to meet amid pleasant and enjoyable surroundings. Furthermore, the prep school boy who is contemplating entering the University has a chance to become acquainted with Notre Dame students from his section of the country. These are all very valid justifications for a holiday dance, but what club, while making its plans, has ever had them in mind?
CaMPUS politics were not ended when the polls closed on Tuesday evening. There is another mighty battle yet to be waged. In fact, some of the freshmen have just begun to fight. For the yearlings have not had the opportunity to choose the class officers who will lead them through the storm and strife of their first year at Notre Dame. But the war is already under way; meetings are being held; propaganda is being spread; promises are being made, and everything seems to indicate that it will be a great fight. The tactics employed by the badgewearing button-holers in the state election were quickly taken up by the Brownson haliers, who held a private conference on Tuesday evening. Their gathering in the library basement resembled an old-time Chicago club election at which the typical Chicago means of intimidation were frequently used. This intrepid columnist had the audacity to assume the responsibility of conducting the meeting of the Brownson boys, and he has not yet fully recovered. It’s a delightful experience to attempt to have one’s self heard above the shouts, the “birdies,” and the general clamor of more than a hundred enthusiastic freshmen. It is equally enjoyable to be counting ballots in the midst of a mob of milling Brownsonites, and to have the lights suddenly go out. May good fortune follow the Samaritan who turned them on before the disgruntle'd electioneers had time to seize the votes and do violence to the cowed counter.
Over enthusiastic sports writers have frequently stated that one-half of the Notre Dame student body at some time or other in his coliege career has battled on the gridiron. Our sneers at these apparently exaggerated reports have suddenly disappeared. It seems that the athletic-minded gentlemen of the press were right after all. They were right, that is, if they included in then-statistics the unheralded, but gifted, undergraduates who are addicted to that popular sport called “touch-tackle.” It is probable, even, that the aforementioned sports writers underestimated the number of Notre Dame men who take their pigskin play seriously. The remarkable thing about this touch-tackle game is that the participants derive absolutely nothing but pleasure, mixed with an occasional pain, from their mad dashing, yelling, and passing. Their amateur standing is unquestioned. Their names have never appeared in a South Bend daily, and the Scholastic has its interhall columns, but no space for the humble and unknown touch-tackle heroes. Something should be done about it. A chess player at Northwestern gets more recognition than the best broken-field runner that ever fell in a puddle in front of Badin. Why should these valiant athletes sacrifice theii- ties and shirts, and frequently their pants, for the sake of a victory which no one ever hears about? Why? And after considering the question for some moments, we take it back, for there seems to be no answer.
198
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COTILLION PLANS COMPLETE
Annual Sophomore Formal To Be
Held Next Friday * *
Edward Dailey, president of the sophomore class, and general chairman James Clark, announce the Sophomore Cotillion of 1930, on the evening of November 14, in the ballroom of the Palais Royale. The announcement marks the completion of all the plans made by the general chairman and his staff of committeemen for presenting the first social affair undertaken by the sophomore class.
From all indications, and from the promises of the general chairman, the Cotillion will equal in every respect the standards set by the more successful of the past cotillions. Decoration has been given a novel twist by the introduction of a football motif, and the music is by a recognized orchestra. Every effort has been made to make the dance a perfect one, in conduct, management, interest, suspense, and character.
Bill Donahue and his Illini orchestra will play for the dancers. His is indisputably among the finest bands
❖------------------------------
WEEK-END PROGRAM
FRIDAY, Nov. 14—
9:00 p. m., Sophomore Cotillion, Palais Royale Ballroom.
SATURDAY, Nov. 15—
2:00 p. m., Notre Dame vs. Drake, Notre Dame Stadium. — Informal parties, South Bend.
9:00 p. m., Monogram Club Dance.
SUNDAY, Nov. 16—
9:30 a. m., Mass, Morrissey Hall Chapel.
10:15 a. m., Breakfast, Faculty Dining Hall.
4----------------------------
Edward Dailey
President of the Sophomore Class
in the West, and is mentioned along with Ash, Lombardo, Chapman and Jones. He spent a successful summer playing for the resorts at Deauville, and has broadcast regularly from the Campus Gardens of the Drake hotel in Chicago, through the Tribune station, WGN. His music is characterized by an easy swing that is popular among the undergraduate set, and he varies it with slow tempo arrangements and some of the accepted faster numbers.
Jim Kirby, as chairman of the decoration committee, has withheld any specific details of the fittings at the Palais Royale, but he has admitted that football will be the dominating theme, with draperies and various other accoutrements appearing in gold and blue. Pennants and trophies will have an outstanding place in the decorative scheme. As in other years there will be no favors. Instead the program will be especially elaborate, in its cover of fine leather, and' will
Dorothy Plotz
Guest of Mr. Dailey
combine a card case with an unusually large and unique program. It will contain a list of the patrons, class officers, chairmen and committees, and will be featured by a novel arrangement for apportioning dances. ■ This year for the first time in the history of sophomore cotillions formal engraved invitations were selected by Frank Hurley to be distributed to the members of the class.
Following the usual custom, the sophomores have invited as guests: Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; Paul J. Hallinan, editor-in-chief of the Dome; Louis Brennan, editor-in-chief of Scrip; John Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Timothy Benitz, chairman of the S. A. C.; Louis Esposito, treasurer of the S. A. C.; John Saunders, president of the senior class; Vincent Cavanaugh, junior class president; Edward Madden, chairman of the Blue Circle; and Robert Ruppe, chairman of the S. A. C. dance committee.
Beginning Friday, cars may be used on condition that the rectors are notified. Then in the evening there will be the dance of dances in the minds of the second year men—the
The Notre Dame Scholastic
199
MUSIC BY BILL DONAHUE
Katherine Baily
Guest of Mr. Clark
culmination of the efforts of all committees. For the Notre Dame-Drake game on Saturday afternoon, a special section has been reserved in the stadium.
Saturday evening at 9:00 o’clock there will be a dance sponsored by the Monogram club. The program continues with a mass on Sunday morning at 9:30 o’clock in the Morrissey hall chapel, with the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., officiating. Immediately afterwards a breakfast will be served in the faculty dining hall. Tickets for this breakfast may be secured from Roger Brennan, Norman Duke, Charles Quinn, Michael Lahey, Arthur Wiele, Michael O’Hara, and Paul George.
The list of patrons and patronesses is headed by the names of Dean and Mrs. Thomas F. Konop. The complete list follows: Dean and Mrs. James McCarthy; Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Smithberger; Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Casasanta; Mr. and Mrs. William Benitz; Mr. and Mrs. William Holton; Mf. and Mrs. Robert Riordan; Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Boc-skei; Mr. Paul Fenlon; Mr. William Coyne; Mr. Louis Buckley; Mr. John J. Connolly; Mr. Paul Byrne; Mr.
King of Campus Musicians to Play
« « For Sophomores
James B. Clark
General Chairman
Andrew Boyle; and Mr. George Keo-gan.
The honor this year of being the guest to come the greatest distance to take part in the Cotillion activities goes to Miss Eleanor Sweeney, of Queenstown, Ireland. Other guests will entrain from California, from Florida, from Ontario, and from Washington—there will be representatives from nearly every part of the country.
Cleve Carey, head of publicity, did more than his share to further the sale of tickets by making the sophomores “Cotillion Conscious.” He and his staff painted signs, nailed posters, and wrote articles. In general Carey and his assistants functioned as one of the best of the committees.
Don Lusardi headed the ticket sellers. To him was given the duty of rapping on closed doors, interrupting bull sessions, of admiring pictures of prep school sweethearts,
to listen to hard luck stories, and finally breaking down the resistance of the prospective sophomore.
Probably the most commented upon feature of the dance is the selection of Bill Donahue and his orchestra of campus musicians. The music committee of this year’s cotillion have probably brought to the Palais Royale the best orchestra that has ever played at any previous sophomore formal.
But a great deal of the credit must go to General Chairman James Clark and his co-worker, President Edward Dailey. These men chose their committees wisely. However, both were willing to lend a hand, and did so quite often, to any committee that felt need of their personal supervision.
The minutest details have been arranged for during the evening of November 14. The committees report that all is in readiness. The stage is set.
CAR PERMISSIONS FOR COTILLION WEEK-END
Students attending the Sophomore Cotillion are reminded to bear in mind the University regulations concerning cars. Those who have cars for that week-end should report the fact to rectors of their halls. Car may be used from Friday noon, November 15, until Monday noon, November 17.
.j—.----------------------
200	The Notre Dame Scholastic
PARTIAL LIST OF COTILLION GUESTS
Dorothy Plotz. St. Mary’s College Catherine Coady, Paris. Illinois Katherine Baily, Laramie, Wyoming-Antonette Faass. Utica, New York Regina Daly, Tulsa, Oklahoma Dorothy Templin. Mishawaka. Indiana Aileen Clemens. Milwaukee, Wisconsin Geraldine Sweeney. Buffalo. New York Patricia Lundy, Toronto. Ontario Rita Leonhardt. North Tonawanda, N. Y. Emily Dorgan, St. Mary's. Terre Haute, Ind. Virginia Koch. St. Mary’s College Catharine Hyde. South Bend. Indiana Louise Burke, St. Mary’s College Catherine Wall, Chicago, Illinois Veronica Vander Heyden, St. Mary’s College Dolores Leyes. Mishawaka. Indiana Betty Myers, Mishawaka, Indiana Florence Houston, Salt Lake City, Utah Ursula McCauliffe. Bellefontaine, Ohio Helen Costello, New York City Evelyn Strain, Greenville, Illinois Gladys Parmaly, South Bend, Indiana Betty Michael, Geneva, Illinois Marguerite Hoeller. St. Mary’s College Agnes Duncan, Bristol, Connecticut Lucille Philion, Mishawaka. Indiana Mille Branigan, Cleveland. Ohio Patty Strong, Atchison, Kansas Bonnie McGrath, Atchison, Kansas Elinor Kirby, St. Mary's College Lydia Winingden, St. Mary’s, Wash., D. C. Betty Proctor, St. Mary's College Isabel Husing, Chicago, Illinois Dorothea Jane Zaback. St. Mary’s College Rose Vessely. North Judson, Indiana Mary Ann Stebbins, New York City Mary Florio, Paterson, New Jersey Virginia New. New York City Henrietta Lewinski. South Bend. Indiana Helen Bradley, Chicago, Illinois Fiances E. Monroe. Saginaw, Michigan Virginia Dean, Chicago, Illinois Marie Gaydosh, Wheeling, West Virginia Mary Louise Felber, St. Mary's College Kay Meade, Chicago, Illinois
Lucille Hick, Chicago. Illinois	„
Florence Brett, St. Mary's College Ruth Johnson, Pasadena. California Alice Burke, East Orange, New Jersey Florence Kehoe, Syracuse, New York Walma McDonough, Scranton. Pennsylvania Kathleen Semeran, Chicago, Illinois Therese McNellis. St. Mary’s of the Woods Maiy Hulker, St. Mary’s College Rebecca Taibatt, Bardstown, Kentucky Elizabeth Tong, Bardstown, Kentucky Frances Tong, Bardstown, Kentucky Frances Barber, Chicago, Illinois Josephine Spalding, Bardstown, Kentucky Mary Smith, Bardstown, Kentucky Isabel Smith, Bardstown, Kentucky Dorothy McAllister, Brooklyn, New York Julia Duncan, Auburn, Indiana Margaret Soucy, Springfield, Massachusetts Malvina Pilling, Chicago, Illinois Helen Kirdys, South Bend, Indiana Josephine Nunnerman, Hot Springs, Ark. Helen Odum, Oxford. Ohio Ruby Buzan, Washington, Indiana Aurelia Carbonneau, Lansing, Michigan Sophie Folks, Lansing, Michigan Helen Hennion, South Bend, Indiana Gertrude Gallagher, Rockford, Illinois Dorothy Elaine Burmester, Detroit, Michigan Virginia Sharkey, St Louis, Missouri Angela Curtain, Springfield, Ohio -Agnes Whalen, Charlestown, Illinois •
, Bernadette Donlan, Oak Park, Illinois . Mary Jane Parker, Chicago, Illinois Jean Redpath', Michigan City, Indiana '
Kathryn Meyer. Mishawaka, Indiana Marie Cooney, South Bend, Indiana Carmelita Egan, St. Mary's. Terre Haute. Ind. Marian Coakley, Chicago, Illinois Patricia Stanton. Toledo, Ohio Ruth Johnson. Pasadena. California Maruca Gordoa, Mexico City, Mexico Virginia Blake, Georgian College. New York Hilda Salnon, St. Elizabeth College. N. J. Minna Bescher, Delphi College. New York Betty Jane Jack, Marygrove College. Detroit Helen Danz. Seattle. Washington Rosemary Longmeyer, Carlton. Illinois Virginia Carroll, Chicago, Illinois Sady Rosenfield. Chicago. Illinois Janet Dill, Kankakee, Illinois Florence McCarthy, New York City Jacquelyn Carnes, Cleveland, Ohio Willehamena Brucker, Chicago, Illinois Kathaleen Taylor, Auburn. New York Wilhema Rupp, Chicago, Illinois Georgetta Bolger, Alpena. Michigan Katherine Stooper, South Bend. Indiana Susan Rupp, Chicago, Illinois Jeanne Donnely, Newark, New Jersey Mary Frances Brennan, Bellefontaine, Ohio Catherine McCauley, Bellefontaine. Ohio Esther Hyatt. Leavenworth, Kansas Mary Fitzgerald, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Clara Pombrooke, Gary, Indiana Georgia Nichols, Lansing, Michigan Hazel Rogers. Mauston. Wisconsin Janet Bourke, Lima, Ohio Helen Cooper, Logansport, Indiana Golda Porter, New York City Anna Stubinski, South Bend. Indiana Mary O’Brien, Mishawaka, Indiana Matilda McCarthy, Chicago, Illinois Margaret Lynskey, St. Mary's, Columbus. Ohio Virginia Beatty, St. Paul, Minnesota Cecilia Real, Detroit, Michigan Veronica Sallsberry, Indianapolis. Indiana Rosemary Kendall, St. Louis. Missouri Martha Hocking, Wheeling, West Virginia Eloise Casey, Youngstown, Ohio Ramona Halperin. Louisville, Kentucky Rachael Gough, Lakeland, Florida Frances Glaser, Kansas City, Missouri • Helen Marie Case, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Katrina Wade, Mishawaka, Indiana Lucille Addison, Richmond, Virginia Katherine Jackson, Cincinnati, Ohio Mary Louise Flanagan. Los Angeles, Calif. Fanny Parrish. Boston. Massachusetts Mary Catherine O’Connor, South Bend. Ind. Mamie Hayes, Gary. Indiana . Bonny Galligan, Joliet, Illinois Bertha Collins, South Bend, Indiana Margaret Pennington, Detroit, Michigan Louise Foley, Niles, Michigan Sadie Neubaur, Kalamazoo, Michigan Virginia Ault, South Bend, Indiana Marie Schilling, Indianapolis, Indiana Mildred Arnold, Mishawaka, Indiana Dorothy McLaughlin, Mauston, Wisconsin Elizabeth Hurley, Hammond, Indiana Dorothy Hunter, Chicago, Illinois Gerry Hughes, Chicago, Illinois Harriet Wilson, Chicago, Illinois	-
Mary O’Connor, St. Mary’s College	*
Nelly Shumaker, Indianapolis, Indiana Mary Cassel, Saint Mary’s College Rose McHale, Chicago, Illinois ' Katherine O’Connor, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Anne O’Rourke, Waterloo, Iowa Margaret McLeod, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Mary Lou Savage, Chicago, Illinois Marjorie McIntyre, Butler, Missouri Mary Mahin, St. Mary’s College Lucille Geri, Manitowac, Wisconsin	'
Helen McNally, Chicago, Illinois .
Mary Lorraine Gallagher, Chicago, Illinois Alice Buckley, St. Maryis College Loretta Poyton, St. Mary's of the Woods Ann Burke, Portsmouth, Ohio Bernice Cannon, North Muskegon, Michigan Dorothy Schrom. Rockford, Illinois Marge Powers, Chicago, Illinois Genevieve Slater, Chicago, Illinois Jane Rolfs, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ' Marjorie Longinotti, Hot Springs, Arkansas Eilene Doherty, Jersey City, New Jersey Mary Scranton, Detroit, Michigan Geraldine Keller, Long Island. New York Adelaide Forburk, Baltimore. Maryland Edith Van Dine, New Platz. New York Betty Cunningham, Toronto, Ontario. Canada Helen Slinde, University of Wisconsin Jean Brown, University of Wisconsin Geraldine Sumption. St. Mary’s College Virginia Pendleton, St. Mary’s of the Woods Kay Karrer, Port Huron, Michigan Doris E. Whiteford, St. Mary’s College Edweena McCaffery, Colgany, Alberta, Canada Mary Louise Karrer, Port Huron. Michigan Anne Crawford Sommerland, New York City-Amy Nelson, Kenosha, Wisconsin Margaret Switzer, St. Louis, Missouri Ursuline McGuire, Des Moines. Iowa Elizabeth Funke, LaCrosse. Wisconsin Catherine Kelher. St. Mary’s College Gertrude Taylor, South Bend, Indiana Bernice Mason, South Bend, Indiana Betty McKean, Los Angeles, California Clarita Dukarte, Port Allegheny, Pennsylvania Juanita Dillon, South Bend, Indiana Mary Elizabeth Dacey, Duluth. Minnesota Eleanor Sweeney, Queenstown, Ireland Mary Burre, Butte, Montana	.
Elizabeth Booth, Georgetown, Kentucky-Mary Thompson, Key West, Florida Elizabeth McDonnell, Denver. Colorado Minnie Dorr, Boston, Massachusetts Katherine Nolan, St. Mary’s College Olive Olerieh, Wilmette, Michigan Honar Chudleigh, East Orange, New Jersey-Gertrude McCarthy, St. Mary's College Eleanor Brown, Greenville, Ohio Jean Erskine, Memphis, Tennessee Katheryn Ullman. St. Mary’s Co'lege Eleanor Franck, St. Mary’s College Martha Gulker, Canarsie Bay, New York Nelly Gableman, St. Agnes, Michigan Polly Grimes, Salt Lake City, Utah Mary E. Hall, Baton Rouge. Louisianna Mary E. Distel, Reno. Nevada Eloise Martin, Walla Walla. Washington Alice Denton, Naples, Maine Dorothy Geiger, Nome, Alaska Georgina Lamy, Chicago, Illinois Adelaide Cogley, Oak Park, Illinois Thelma Shoan, River Forest, Illinois Dorothy Hogan, Chicago, Illinois' Betty Naughton, Oak Park, Illinois Dorothy Pentz, Forest Park, Illinois • Mattie Taylor, St. Louis, Missouri Elizabeth Keeler, St. Louis, Missouri Lucy Della Garrett, Houston, Texas Catherine Gardner, Houston, Texas .Jean Ross, San Francisco, California
Mary Ellen Hogan, St. Mary’s of the Woods ' Kay Garrity, St. Mary’s of the Woods
Joan Norton, Greenville, Mississippi Marguerite Buesching, Urbana, Illinois Rita Higgins, Fort Wayne, Indiana Edith Fischer, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Dorothy LaChambe, Oak Park, Illinois Leontina Renner, Niles, Michigan Geraldine Hughes, Chicago, Illinois Teresa McMallis, St. Mary’s of the Woods Genevieve O’Neil, St. Mai-y’s College Mildred Thieme, Benton Harbor, Michigan
The Notre Da.me Scholastic
201
COTILLION COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN
Jack Duffy
Tickets—Donald Lusardi, chairman; Donald Martin, George Myers, Willard Higgins, William Kenefick, William MacCarthy, James Galligan, Edward Moriarty, George Reilly, Jack Kiely, Philip Ott, William Hanifin, William Hawkes, Seton Staley, Clem Kolonczyk, Julius Kiraly.
Publicity—Cleve Carey, chairman; John Pick, Frederick MacBeth, William Augsburger, Robert Monahan, James Uprichard, Raymond Walsh, Leslie Raddatz, Arthur Becvar, James Garrigan, James Shea, William St. Clair.	.
Music—Jack O’Shaughnessy and Jack Duffy, co-chairmen; Fred Breit, William Burke, Francis Crowe, Leonard Kenkel, Walter Roney, Donald Garrity.
Richard Parrish
Frederick Curran
Frank Hurley
Program—Dick Parrish, chairman; William Scully, William Cline, Leonard Regan, Sanguinet Williams, William Carrol, James Donnelly.
Arrangements—Fred Curran, chairman; Edward Sargus, John Lynch, William Slater, Carroll Staley, John Poynton, Thomas O’Meara.
Invitations—Frank Hurley, chairman; Thomas Walsh, Frank Len-riartz, Raymond Nabor, James Bourk, Thomas Downs, James Engels.
Frank Cawley
Roger Brennen
James Kirby
Reception—Frank Cawley, chairman; John Hoyte, John Donnelly, Thomas Skeehan, Robert Noll, Edward Eckert, James O’Donnell.
Floor — E dward Kennedy, chairman; Joseph Davy, Bernard DeLay, Edward Cogley, John Newbauer, John Travers, John Leonard. •
Entertainment. — Roger Brennen, chairman; Norman Duke, Charles Quinn, Michael O’Hara, Paul George.
Decorations—James Kirby, chairman; George Lennartz, Jack McCarthy, James Dron-goole, Daniel Rolfs, Walter Kilgalon, Maurice Scanlon.
202
The Notre Dame Scholastic

K. OF C. TO INITIATE NEW GROUP INTO ORDER BEFORE CHRISTMAS
Dates Subject to Change Without Notice.
FRIDAY, Nov. 7—Scholastic staff meeting, Publications’ office, Main building, 7:00 p. m.—Cross-country, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State at Notre Dame.
SATURDAY, Nov. 8—Football, Notre Dame vs. Pennsylvania, at Philadelphia, 2:00 p. m.—Gridgraph, 1:00 p. m., in gymnasium.—Notre Dame "B” vs. Michigan State Normal at Ypsilanti.—Movies, “Young Eagles,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Nov. 9—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00.—Utica club meeting, north basement of library, 10:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Nov. 10 — Mid-semester examinations.—Italian club meeting, 7:45 p. m., Room 2, Walsh hall.
TUESDAY, Nov. 11 — Mid-semester examinations.
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 12—Mid-semester examinations.—Scribblers meeting, Howard “rec” room, 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Nov. 13—Mid-semester examinations.—Spectators’ meeting, Journalism room of library, 8 p. m.
DEMPSEY GETS POETIC
ABOUT NEXT “JUGGLER”
Stars shine, and then fade, when the gridiron is their firmament, but in the minds of Notre Dame men the Four Horsemen will ride on forever. In the midst of an avalanche of reminiscing and fruitless contrasting by literary-minded sports writers, the Juggler promises us an unusual sidelight on the career of this great back-field, so says Editor Jack Dempsey. When the “Football Number” appears it will feature an article in which Layden, Stuhldreher, Crowley and Miller will have collaborated to present their most humorous football experience. “Layden, the rapier; Stuhldreher, the quarterback who seemed to be psychic; Crowley, who fled through a broken field like water between brook stones; Miller, the.daring.” So Collier's prefaces Mr. Rockne’s article. Now, however, the
I
Juggler will show us another side of the famous Four Horsemen.
At the regular meeting of the Knights of Columbus in their council chambers in Walsh hall last Monday evening, it was announced by Grand Knight Louis Buckley that another group of men would be initiated into membership in the order before Christmas. He urged the members initiated November 2 to aid in securing candidates for this class.
Business at this meeting included acceptance of the resignation of Edward O’Brien from the position of outside guard, to which he was elected last year. Mr. O’Brien did not return to Notre Dame this term. An election to replace him will be held at the next meeting, which has been deferred until November 24 on account of examinations.
MONOGRAM CLUB SPONSORS INFORMAL DANCE
NOVEMBER 15
President Arthur McManmon announces a fall informal to be given by the Monogram club on Saturday, November 15, after the Drake game, in the Knights of Columbus ballroom.
A football, personally autographed by the football squad, will be given away at the dance. Captain Tom Conley will do the drawing.
Paul Enright has been named general chairman, with the following •committee chairmen assisting him: Brant Little, publicity; Haskell Askew, music; William Sullivan, hall; A. W. Kegowicz, tickets. Mr. Enright announces that arrangements are well under way, with a real dance band to be engaged. Several unusual vaudeville features will be presented.
NOTICE TO ALL SENIORS!
Due to the failure of a few seniors to have their pictures taken during the regular time allotted, the “Dome” has arranged to give seniors one extra day — Thursday, November 13. All seniors who are listed as such by their respective deans, and who wish to appear in the 1931 “Dome” should call immediately at the K. of C. room, in Walsh hall, to secure an appointment. ' This is absolutely the last chance for senior pictures. The photographer from White studio will not return to the campus' again. Make your appointment without delay.
John Bergan, editor of the Santa Maria, the Notre Dame K. of C. magazine, announced that all copy for the first issue of this year is in and ready for printing. Publication of the magazine, which will probably be about December 1, will be discussed at the next meeting of the council.
After the business procedure, Lecturer William O’Malley took over the meeting and introduced members of the Laporte and South Bend councils. William Kruyer of the South Bend council congratulated the new members and issued to them an invitation to make use of the South Bend council chambers. An attendance prize of five dollars was awarded to Charles M. Quigley, a new member.
KEEFE AND McGREAL TO DEBATE WITH PURDUE
Once again Notre Dame goes on the air, this time in a radio debate with Purdue university. On Wednesday, November 12, at 7:30 p. m., over radio station WLS, Chicago, John Keefe and Francis McGreal will represent Notre Dame in the defense of the negative side of the following question:
“Resolved, that corporation farming is more beneficial to the farmer than is individual farming.”
This contest should prove interesting to the students, and those who have radios should turn the dials to WLS on this particular night instead of to the station broadcasting an hour of dance music.
THREE NEW MEN ADDED TO “DOME” STAFF
Editor Paul Hallinan of the Dome completed his staff this week by the addition of three new names. The new men are John Pick, Anthony Anzlovar and John Conley. With the other men on the staff, announced in the Scholastic of two weeks ago, the staff is now ready to go ahead with the work on the 1931 yearbook.
------------------------------£♦
NOTICE!
Because of the mid-semester examinations, the “Scholastic” will not be published next Friday, November 14.
------------------------■-!---t
The Notre Dame Scholastic
203
CHESTERTON
RECEIVES
. DEGREE
University Confers LL.D.
Upon Noted Author
Father O’Donnell Presenting Diploma to Dr. Chesterton
Gilbert Keith Chesterton, noted British author who is delivering a series of lectures at the University, received the honorary' degree of doctor of laws from the University in a special convocation of the faculty and the senior class Wednesday, November 5, in Washington hall. The program was opened with a selection by the University orchestra and three numbers by the glee club, directed by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta.
The Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, in the presence of the officers and the deans of the University conferred the degree, saying:
“The University of Notre Dame, in this special convocation of the faculty, confers the degree of doctor of laws, honoris causa, on a man of letters recognized as the ablest and most influential in the English-speaking world of today, and defender of the Christian tradition, whose keen mind, right heart, and versatile literary genius have been valiantly devoted to the eternal truth, goodness, and beauty, in literature and in life—Gilbert Keith Chesterton, of London, England.”
Following the awarding of the degree, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, president of the University, made the presentation address. He said that the exercises were the completion of a plan begun many months ago. It
By Lloyd W. Teske
was intended that Mr. Chesterton should give his lectures last spring and receive the degree with the class of 1930, giving the Commencement address. Mr. Chesterton fell ill, however, and the lectures had to be postponed until this fall. He continued by saying:
“It happens that, for the first time in the history of Notre Dame, there is a special convocation of the faculty, and an honorary degree is conferred outside of a regular commencement. An exception is made for exceptional circumstances, and for an altogether exceptional man.
“It is obviously difficult at this moment to say all that is in our heart. Looking, as we are now able to do, upon Doctor Chesterton’s contribution to the life of Notre Dame, the thing which I sieze upon with the greatest possible satisfaction is that note of confidence and triumphant Catholicity that has rung through these lectures, as it has sounded through all of the vastly serious work which has earned for this, our latest and most distinguished honorary alumnus, not only the admiration and love of his fellow-Catholics, but the respect of all men who have the power of appreciating the honesty, the courage, and the chivalry of a champion with whose cause they may not happen to agree.”
Upon receiving his diploma Dr. Chesterton gave a brief address of appreciation. He said that it was impossible for him to express his gratitude as “it is the irony of human fate that it is perhaps, the only thing that cannot be expressed.”
“There is always a bond- between us,” he continued, “that would make you tolerant of me, I know. I have only once before gone through a ceremony of this kind and that was at the University of Edinburgh. . . . .
“I remember that, when I came to America before, about nine years ago, when I was not yet a Catholic, and when I had hardly realized that there were Catholics in America, my first sensation in this country was one of terror. .... It all seemed strangely alien, although I quickly discovered what kind and generous people the Americans are. I did not feel at all like that when I came to America for the second time. If you want to know why I felt different, the reason is in the name of your University. That name was quite sufficient as far as I was concerned. It would not have mattered if it had been in the mountains of the moon. Wherever She has erected Her pillars, all men are at home, and I knew that I should not find strangers. And, if any of you who are young should go to other countries, perhaps to my own, you will find that what I say is true.”
204
The Notre Dame Scholastic
« Glances at the Magazines »
Last week at a London banquet in honor of Albert Einstein, the German scientist whose new theories have apparently upset the old order of the universe, George Bernard Shaw, the principal speaker, ranked the guest of honor one of the eight supermen of all time, one of the truly great who build universes. Above all Mr. Shaw insisted on Einstein’s having supplanted Newton. In his turn Mi*. Einstein rose and said nice things about Bernard Shaw.
Mr. Shaw is at least betimes with his estimate. Einstein has as yet given nothing to science except theories, which have not as yet been proved, for the simple reason that scientists do not quite know what it is they are to prove. It is a tendency of the modern age to erect towering temples to nine-day wonders, to heroes whose glory is transient or of no relative importance. There is a constant quest for the “greatest.” Especially is it the trend to exaggerate the present by belittling the past.
Of course the London acknowledgement may have only been Shaw’s complimentary gesture to a distinguished guest. Or he may have considered it an excellent opportunity to set an Englishman, in this instance Isaac Newton, on his head, which is Shaw’s particular delight. One never suspects him of sincerity.
Certainly there is one man who does not agree with him, and that one is Professor Charles Lane Poor, whose article in Scribner’s: “What Einstein Really Did,” reinstates the abused Newton, and sets forth very good reasons for considering Einstein a false prophet. And Charles Lane Poor as professor of celestial mechanics at Columbia university is far more qualified to speak with authority than is Shaw, the dramatist. His essay is very convincing, surely provocative of thought, at times necessarily technical, but not beyond the lay understanding.
Quite a point is made of the abtruseness of Einstein’s theories, and that, according to Professor Poor, is exactly what accounts for their acceptance. Everyone has consummately been taken in by the great one’s ability to bewilder. Einstein is so expert a juggler that when he first presented his thesis, so confusing was
his explanation, so involved his mathematical analysis, that men were left in a fearful muddle and Einstein’s way out appeared the only way out. So artfully did he collect a mass of mathematical details that men were impressed and blindly accepted, duped into credence. But the professor is not in the least bewildered; no simple hero-worshiper he, no awe-stricken gullible. After ten years’ intensive study of Einstein’s claims he rends very effectively the mystery that has veiled the magic name Einstein, and discovers no golden egg, instead a mare’s nest. Piece by piece the giant structure of relativity is brought crashing down. In the first place the very foundations of the new law of gravitation and theory of relativity were based on an amazingly unwarranted assumption. In demonstrating his theories Einstein was intentionally indefinite. He disregarded atronomi-cal facts, largely through ignorance, partly through motives of convenience. Even his interpreters, Eddington, Schwarzschield, and Russell, are hopelessly incoherent as they endeavour to furnish what Einstein himself could not—intelligible proof. Finally, what proofs have been advanced to support the theory can usually be explained by other natural laws.
It is strange that a mathematical problem cannot be simplified sufficiently to allow comprehension. Of course Professor Poor may be confused in spite of himself. ‘ Perhaps the theory is so involved that men may even be mistaken in being skeptical about it. But if no one but Mr. Einstein is ever to know the secret of it, what earthly good is it going to be? If no man living after him shall be able to explain the workings, the puzzle might just as well perish with its inventor or discoverer. The theory will scarcely be workable if it be unknowable. And the proudest boast of science is that faith does not enter in.
At last Harry Sylvester’s story appears in the Columbia. This story, “Four Great Years,” was written last year when Harry was still a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, playing on the football squad, and writing sports news for the Scholastic. It is a different story, truly. In it
LECTURES FOR FRESHMEN
TO BEGIN AFTER MIDSEMESTER TESTS
A series of lectures to the freshmen by members of the faculty will be inaugurated after the mid-semester tests. A partial list of the subjects of these lectures is as follows:
1.	“Getting Organized for College Work,” Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C.
2.	“The Management of Time,” Mr. Smithberger.
3.	“The Art of Citizenship,” Reverend Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
4.	“Ideals of Culture,” Mr. Phillips.
5.	“Some Secrets of the Library,” Mr. O’Grady.
6.	“Useless Languages,” Reverend Peter Hebert, C.S.C.
7.	“Common Sense Hygiene,” a physician.
8.	“Everyday Religion,” Reverend Paul Doherty, C.S.C.
9.	“Correlation of Studies,” Reverend Sidney Raemers.
Other subjects and lectures will be announced later. Printed posters indicating the time and place of each lecture will be placed on the various bulletin boards about the campus and in the halls.
SPANISH CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS
Officers were elected at a meeting of the Spanish club held last week. Gilbert Augustine was elected president, the secretaryship was given to Louis Godoy, and Louis Kreps was made treasurer. .
After the election papers on football were read by members of the club. Professor Martinez followed with a lecture on the history of Spain.
there are no heroics, no massed sideline crowds pleading to “hold ’em,” no cheerleaders flitting about, no sealskinned rooters, in fact, no great game at all. But there is a scrimmage that is as dramatic and intense as any epic matches ever described. There is no stalwart irresistible gridiron god. There is only a man facing failure, realizing the greatest of frustrations —a talent denied. There is no romance, no glamour, only the disillusionment and heart-break of a “scrub.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
205
A Man About The Campus

Of course all young masculine residents of New Haven, Connecticut, consider entering Yale university upon graduation from high school. It is but natural that they should be influenced by Yale’s stately buildings, her tradition, lore, and last but not least, by that famous “fence” on which her athletic captains are photographed. And Dan Halpin was no exception. He had completed all arrangements to enter Yale. This was two years after his graduation from New Haven Preparatory school, two years which he spent working, in order to defray school expenses. But Al Slaggert, of Detroit, a former Notre Dame cheer leader, did his alma mater a great favor by persuading Dan to enter Notre Dame. As a result, one of Indiana’s bleak September mornings in 1927 marked Dan’s enrollment at Notre Dame. He immediately cast his lot with one hundred or more other freshmen who had ambitions to manage a Notre Dame football team. It was a hard task, but the reward was ever ahead. Did he succeed? Well, judge for yourself! He is now the manager of the football team of 1930. One would think that Dan’s work was finished now. If you think so, then stop in 201 Sorin hall (maybe you’ll find him in; we did after a few futile attempts). Try to imagine yourself in his place while junior managers, political candidates, and Connecticut Valley men attempt to gain an audience with this young fellow. Dan laughingly admits that it is all hard work, but he likes it for that very reason.
We had to persuade him to leave his busy hive and follow us to Sam Vetrano’s room, just down the hall. Sam is Dan’s secretary and if you think that he isn’t kept busy typing letters and attending to other details, just ask him. It was here that we were able to gather some information.
Besides his official position of football manager, Dan devotes considerable time and attention to his duties as president of the Connecticut Valley club, president of the Usher’s club, and secretary of all interhall athletics, a position which he has held for three years. He has 1,850 men under his supervision in the Usher’s club,
an organization for which he is wholly responsible and in which he takes great pride. The plan of ushering is his idea. The fact that South Bend men are selected as ushers is building considerable good-will for Notre Dame in South Bend, and marks the first time that such fine co-operation has existed between the two. Dan was also a member of the sports staff of the Scholastic for three years.
Daniel D. Halpin
Dan’s hobbies are golf and poetry, but where he finds time for them is beyond us. For the past two summers he has played professional and exhibition golf at a prominent eastern country club. Poetry and literature? He admits a great appreciation for the works of Yeats, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Stevenson, Hardy, and an especial love for the poetry of James Stephens, the great Irish bard. Dan’s library has been acclaimed as the largest and most complete student collection on the campus. It includes, besides the writings of the above masters, philosophical books by James, Ladd and Woodworth, Peter Wundt, the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and Wyndham Lewis, and books on economics by such authors as Fisher and Buck. A large number of autographed copies of books are included in the library. It is truly a collection to which Dan can point with pride.
Dan is majoring in economics. He intends to turn his talents to the business of investment banking in New York upon graduation.
-----------------------------4^
| LAW SCHOOL NOTES
❖-----------------------------«
Honorable E. J. Dempsey of Oshkosh, Wisconsin, president of the state board of the teacher’s colleges and member of the state board of examiners of Wisconsin, will deliver the second of the series of lectures sponsored by the Law club, this evening at 7:30 p. m. in the new Law building.
A set of 100 books has been donated to the Law library by the firm of Parker, Crabill, Crumpacker, and May, attorneys of South Bend. Judge Parker was formerly a lecturer at the University Law school, and Mr. May is one of its graduates.
JUNIOR CLASS DUES TO BE COLLECTED NEXT
WEEK
According to Vincent Whalen, treasurer of the junior class, dues will be collected during the next week, starting Wednesday, November 12. Whelan has announced the following men as assigned to the different halls.
Lyons: Al Conti, Leonard Donag-hue, Joe Foley, Joe Raymond, Tighe Woods. Morrissey: Peter Trollio, James Lewis, Ray Geiger, James Devlin. Badin: John Collins. Walsh: Joseph Russo, John Cooper, Leo Schiavone, Nicholas Kalmes. Corby: Edward O’Malley, Vincent O’Neil, James Carmody, Murray Booth. St. Edward’s: Frank Ewing. Off-Campus: Charles Fogarty, Edward Rhati-gan.
Every member of the junior class is assessed one dollar. This must be paid before the junior is eligible to receive a senior pin. A receipt showing that dues have been paid must be presented when ordering a pin.
NOTICE TO JUNIORS!
Junior “Dome” pictures started today, and will last through next Wednesday, November 12. If any juniors have not yet secured an appointment, they ■ should call immediately at the K. of C. room to secure one. Wednesday will be absolutely the last day. The sittings take only about five minutes, and so will not interfere with exams, if everyone is prompt in keeping appointments.
206
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Campus Opinions
Question*: Would you. like to see the Scholastic in newspaper form?”
Wilbert T. Terre, off-campus, senior, and editor of the Catalyzer—“I think the Scholastic in its present form is a very fine-looking magazine. My opinion is that the magazine form better represents an educational institution than the newspaper form would. One usually associates newspapers with commercial or municipal organizations.”
William McAleer, Sorin hall, senior—“In my opinion, to publish the Scholastic in newspaper form would only detract from the inherent value of the publication, while it would certainly not add anything in the way of convenience or physical attractiveness. As it now exists, the Scholastic is one of the most representative weekly publications of all the schools of the country, and I believe that the more dignified, impressive magazine form dees much to further these qualities.”
Thomas Ashe, Walsh hall, senior, and manager of minor sports—“No, for two reasons. It seems more appropriate for a weekly publication to be in magazine form; the Scholastic has given us that habit. Despite the new editorial policies of the Scholastic, it remains primarily a magazine, and as such we still hope to find it.”
Walter Cahill, Sorin hall, senior —“No, I think that the Scholastic in its present form is the better of the two, for the reason that it can be put into book form in a much better manner—that is, of course, if any of the men wish to do this after four years, and want to have a recollection of the weekly events that occurred during their time. Only a daily should be in newspaper form.”
Charles Woods, Walsh hall, freshman—“No. While there may be a crying need for a campus newspaper, I don’t believe that changing the form of the Scholastic will fulfill it. Some of the editorials and feature articles are well worth saving; a magazine form is more convenient for that purpose.”
75 REPORT FOR VARSITY DEBATE SQUAD ON MONDAY
In contradiction to the generally accepted idea that Notre Dame’s first interest is the football field, over 75 candidates for the varsity debating squad presented themselves at the first meeting, held Monday noon, in the basement of the library. A little mathematics will show us that the above indicates an average of almost ten applicants for* each position on the team. Even Mr. Rockne doesn’t do much better.
The Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., varsity debating coach, addressed the candidates, explaining- to them the primary interpretation of the question, and the plan of eliminations.
PRESS CLUB MEETS; PROF. PHILLIPS SPEAKS
On Tuesday night at 7 p. m. the Press club held its bi-weekly meeting in the Journalism room of the library. President Robert Balfe opened the meeting and discussed business matters for a short time.
George Jackaboice, chairman of the program committee for the meeting, then introduced Professor Charles Phillips of the University faculty, a former journalist, who was the speaker of the evening. He spoke about his experiences as a foreign correspondent during the war. Mr. Phillips w*as foreign correspondent for- the American Red Cross. He spoke of meetings with the eminent Russian novelist, Merejkowski. Among other experiences he described his first interview, that with the famous actress of some years ago, Helen Mod-jeska, and that it was through the friendship arising from this that he was able to meet Ignace Paderewski.
In describing Paderewski he referred to him as the “man with two minds.” Paderewski is the world’s greatest musician, but nevertheless he is also a superb orator, politician and statesman.
Feats of magic as presented by James Kunz of the journalism department concluded the program. Mr. Kunz mystified even the journalists, who are noted for their powers of observation.
The next meeting will be held on Tuesday evening, November 18, probably in the faculty dining hall.
ST. JOE VALLEY SECTION OF A. C. S. TO HEAR
DR. TAYLOR
Dr. Hugh S. Taylor, head of the chemistry department of Princeton university, will be the speaker at the November meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society. The meeting is to be held on the evening of Thursday, November 13, in Chemistry hall, University of Notre Dame, at 7:30 p. m. Dr. Taylor is a physical chemist and is the author of several texts in physical chemistry. He is on a trip to Chicago, where he will address the Petroleum Institute on Thursday morning, November 13, coming to Notre Dame on the evening of the same day.
Dr. Taylor, will address the St. Joseph Valley section on the subject, “Complexities in the Mechanism of Simple Chemical Reactions.” The students interested and the public are cordially invited to attend this meeting. Leo Lovett, of the Singer Manufacturing company, is chairman of the program committee for the current year.
WILK STARTS “DOME” SUB- , SCRIPTION DRIVE
The drive for Dome subscriptions begun two weeks ago by Joseph A. Wilk, circulation manager of the 1931 Dome, has produced unusually satisfactory results so far. Although Manager Wilk does not expect to * cover the entire student body much . before the Christmas holidays, the results of his drive readily show that there is much interest manifested in the twenty-fifth anniversary Dome of this coming year.
The Dome of 1931 will undoubtedly * bring out the best in the way of university yearbooks. Several added innovations will be introduced in the ’31 edition, and they are expected to meet with the approval of everyone.
The anniversary Dome will sell for the usual price, five dollars per copy,	’
and as of last year, the amount may be placed on the student’s University account, payable next semester.
There will be no circulation contest this year. Off-campus students may sign subscription blanks at the Off- « Campus office beginning Monday, Nov. 3. Juniors and seniors may fill out blanks at the time that they have their pictures taken in the K. of C.
rooms in Walsh hall.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
207
« Music And Drama »

We have neglected records for three weeks now, but here they are. First, of course, is the several-times-men-tioned “Body and Soul” from “Three’s a Crowd,” done by Helen Morgan and Leo Reisman for Victor, and by Ruth ' Etting for Columbia. We think that Helen Morgan’s patter of this has the most personality, but you won’t realize it with just one hearing of the record, in fact, you may not even like “Body and Soul” the first time you hear it. Miss Morgan couples her rendering with “Something to Remember You By,” and Miss Etting does “If I Could Be With You One Hour Tonight” on the reverse of her disc. You’ll enjoy the life Reisman puts into the song. Libby Holman and Paul Whiteman have also made records of "Body and Soul,” but we haven’t heard these as yet. Elbel’s tell us that patrons have shown no marked preference for any one of the records, but all are popular.
W
“Beyond the Blue Horizon” is very well done by George Olsen and his music, with the realistic “choo-choo” effects which made the song novelty in that deliciously amusing and sophisticated tune film, “Monte Carlo.” On the other side is “Always in All Ways” from the same movie. Leo Reisman and his orchestra play “Sing Something Simple,” that grabbing-ditty from “The Second Little Show.” With it is “Lucky Seven,” and what this number can’t.do to your feet!
w
If you enjoy piano music in the evening before or after dinner there is Rudolf Friml’s recording of his own “Huguette Waltz” from “The Vagabond King,” and “Indian Love Call” from “Rose-Marie.” These pieces are familiar to all, but there are numerous Frimlesque touches which distinguish them on the record. Those who think the world ended with Debussy will like his “La Cathedrale Engloutie “(The Engulfed Cathedral) played by Olga Samaroff. The inspiration for this composition was the old legend “that on clear days the engulfed cathedral in the sunken city of Ys emerged from the sea. Chant
ing of priests, chiming of bells, and the organ were heard until finally the vision disappeared in a mist.” We were not especially moved by the work, and would like to see the same theme developed by Rachmaninoff or some other mastei- of the tone poem.
HU
Among the better movies which we may hope to see in the future, near or otherwise, is “Outward Bound.” This picture is somewhat out of the ordinary in that the characters are dead. The male leads are taken by Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and Leslie Howard, who is soon to be seen in Chicago in • that fourth dimension play, “Berkeley Square.” Universal is filming “Dracula,” that terrifying play which could almost make the very walls of the theater shudder. Greta Garbo’s new picture gives her a chance to try another foreign accent. After using a Swedish accent in “Anna Christie,” and then acquiring an Italian accent for the Cavallini role in the exquisite “Romance,” she is now studying French phonetics for “Inspiration.” Frederick Lonsdale, author of “Aren’t We All?” and “The High Road” (Ruth Chatterton’s “The Lady of Scandal”), arrived in Hollywood a few weeks ago with the manuscript of the sequel to his “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney.”
GALL SELECTS AIDS TO
GATHER SNAPSHOTS
Alfred E. Gall, snapshot editor of the 1931 Dome, has announced the following men to assist him in his collection of pictures: Sorin, William Ginder; St. Edward’s, Frank luen; Brownson - Carroll, Charles Fisher; Morrissey, Lloyd Teske; Lyons, Lawrence Dunda; Badin, Gerald Bustin; Sophomore, Donald Martin; Freshman, Richard Cahill; Howard, Lawrence Prybylski; Walsh, Robert Cahill. Off-campus students will leave their photos at the Off-Campus office.
The first of the series of contests closes December 1. All pictures for the first of the prizes must be in by then. Committee members are requested to see Al Gall, 347 Corby hall, any night next week for instructions.
I MUSIC NOTES i
£_____________________________
Jee Casasanta promised us action, and we got it. Last Saturday afternoon, during the limited time allotted for its appearance, the Notre Dame band marched down the field, and, playing “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By,” snapped into an “Irish” that would do justice to any college band in the country. Much praise is due, also, to the Indiana band, which Professor Casasanta declares to be one of the best ever seen at this University.
An appeal is made for a larger turnout for the Mandolin and Banjo club organized last week. The second tryout practice will be held Sunday, November 9, at 10 a. m., in the band room of Washington hall, and Professor Casasanta says that to insure the success of this new, but especially worthwhile organization, a much larger number of candidates will be necessary.
This week, too, comes the first announcement of the personnelle of the “Jugglers”:
Leonard Kenkel, piano; Al Dommer-muth, trumpet; Al Brasseur, trumpet; Al Stewart, trombone; Charles Schmied, first E-flat saxophone; Alex Scharbach, second B-flat saxophone; Robert Filson, third E-flat saxophone; Claire Taro, drams; Pat Mangan, banjo; George Bryan, tuba.
DR. KUNTZ ADDRESSES EDUCATION CLUB
Members of the Educational Con-’ fraternity were addressed by Dr. Leo Kuntz, head of the department of education of the University last Monday night in the journalism room of the library. Dr. Kuntz spoke on the practice teaching done by education majors in the South Bend schools and also of the fine spirit of co-operation exicting between the Indiana state department of education and the University of Notre Dame in this phase of educational work.
The program committee, consisting of vice-president Joseph A. Wilk, chairman; Professor Bernard Kohlbrenner, faculty advisor; and John Bergan, outlined the type of work that will concern the organization during the year.
208
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINK ♦
Let out ct whoop For Joe Gazoop. He says he likes The Friday soup.
QUICK WINKS
Snow . . . Plans for the Christmas dance . . . Exams a week away . . . We’re here for the winter now . . . $41.87 more and ths overcoat’s ours . . . The November elections . . . How did you vote? ... Or don’t you know? . . . Anonymous ’phone calls threatening our minor sports manager . . . Thrift books . . . But are they good for bowling in the Walsh “rec”? . . . Walt Philipp at Philly —for the football dance . . . What’s happened to the “Man About the Campus” column? . . . And Thursday afternoons at the Palace? . . . Tony and Keg bulldozing freshmen over at the gym equipment office . . . Fifty-three yearling footballers are wearing Gipp’s shoes . . . The Cunningham-to-California campaign . . . Bet he won’t even send us a postcard when he gets there . . . Matt Cullinan in spats . . . Come up and try them on some time . . . The Chicago Trib-Big Ten charity game feud . . . We haven’t seen Pegler mention Notre’ Dame all year ... A great break . . . Harry Sylvester’s story in Columbia . . . The K. C. initiation . . . The “Wink” supposed to be in a week ahead of time, beginning with this issue . . . Haw!
AUTUMN SONG IN EXILE
Deej) in ivoody glens there is space for roaming, Drink for minds athirst, balm for tired eyes, There above the trees soar the wild geese homing, Splashed with burnished splendor of the autumn skies.
High above the birches are the red vines creeping, Soft falls the tramp of youth- upon the dewy sod;
Deep amongst the rushes goes the wild stream leaping, Hear the humble voice it lifts to God!
Ah, city joys are free for all unstinting—
Vain tinsel offerings to the great god Man!
City hearts are .filled with gold, aglinting— Are there none that wander friendless in the van!
Oh, my ear’s atune to hear the Herefords lowing Soft among the elms along the homeward pass.
And my heart’s aflame to see the north wind blowing Through the russet leaves and waving water-grass.
—Attache.
For some reason or other the second half of the column this week seems to be filled with Austins. The little pests are scooting all over the place. Maybe they travel in swarms now. Or maybe someone went around on Hallowe’en pushing them over and got ’em all riled up. Anyway, here they come. Duck—or jump!
LOVE IN AN AUSTIN
(Baby Love) Oh, it cut like a whip When you arched your eyes And curled your lip, And showed surprise When you saw me stare. But it made me happy When your blue eyes danced And played on me, And showed romance— When you saw my car.
Bishop M.
What with the new buildings in such suburban locations, as it were, it won’t be long before some of the more enterprising and well-allowanced pseudo-students will be tearing about between Morrissey and the Law building in their bantam Austins. And then some gifted senior will invent a motorized kiddy-car for the inmates of Howard. This is truly a mechanical age.
—Armbo.
IN DAYS GONE BY
(No apologies to Austin Dobson) In days gone by, I loved you so: Your dear, sweet-, lips, eyes’ misty glow, Head tawny-flamed, and all
Your supple grace held me in thrall;
But that was very long ago.
Words of nets laves, murmured so lore, Bring back the bitter pain and woe;
Haunting, long-dead, old ghosts recall The days gone by.
The days twang by on time’s great bow, Dreary ivinds so coldly bloiv.
Winter’s here, but still a small, Still voice whispers of one past Fall:
(It’s hard to evrite this dam rondeau
Of days gone by!)
Tao Tuen.
Right here is where we declare a deadline for all further jokes, smott cracks, or witty sayings about the banty cars. Those received will be publicly burned from the balcony of Sophomore hall. And while we abjure ourselves of the name of this midget importation, we announce another which will adorn the bottom of the colyum for lo, full many moons. Herein and hereafter we’ll be known as
The Beamy Bard.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
209
COLLEGE PALACE
But We’re Not As Popular At Texas
The Tatler of the College of New Rochelle informs us that there is a Scribblers club on its campus. The University of Texas has one also. However, last year at New Rochelle, Notre Dame was elected the most popular school with the young ladies of that institution.
Closed Drinking At Kansas
No open drinking will be allowed at Kansas games. Imagine crawling under the seats every time you get thirsty 1
Hey, Bill! Here’s An Idea
The campus barber at Swarthmore, whose name happens to be Adolph, has promised to give free hair-cuts to all members of the soccer or football teams whenever they win a game. That plans works out fine except when the football team loses and the seccerites win. Then, the animosity is terrible!
What An Opening!—What An Opening!
Ihe Villanovan laments the fact that no theatre, clothing store or anything else has offered to send anyone at Villanova to a football game as is being done here. Now if some enterprising young commerce man would like to invest some cash in a clothing store or a theatre . . . ah . . .
Ohio State Again Mumbles
This young man that speaks so coyly .of the “Bald Eagle” of Notre Dame through the Ohio State Lantern, as the Sorinites know if they peruse the bulletin board, now mentions the fact that he takes back all he said about us, but he would like to know when Rock intends losing a game, as he would like to bet against us then. I would suggest he double the amount he lost on Carnegie and Pitt and bet with us. In such a case, Rock would be Rock and not the “Bald Eagle,” “The Sly Fox,” or any of the other endearing terms used to describe our coach.
Oregon Has A Tailor, Too
The University of Oregon has a tailor. Only this tailor is a senior who intends in the very near future to become a teacher of languages. His college education was interrupted for a short period of 25 years, but he reregistered this year to finish. The student has a daughter who will register next year as a freshman.
Go Home And Drink Your Own Tea!
Minnesota has a tea war. Hereafter you drink your tea and I’ll drink mine is the spirit shown in the battle. The Minnesota Quarterly is “dripping wet,” the English department is “dry,” but the psychology department is “wet” too. The Quarterly wants its own teas, and won’t combine forces with either of the two other tea tippling factions, hence the war. And how those young ladies can speak their minds!
Hey, Governor! Pass Down Your A. A. Book!
The governor of Ohio recently visited Ohio State. Donning beret and cape, he is said to have entered the cheering section and cheered lustily for the Ohio lads to beat Michigan. Anothei- case of noblesse oblige?
Anthropological News
“Cavemen in France,” says the Indiana Daily Student. Prehistoric cavemen they were, however, and that hasn't happened in a long time.
Here’s Another Wet Party
By this time, Howard Jones and Bill Hunter, coach and director of athletics respectively at the University of Southern California, have taken a voluntary dip into the Pacific ocean. Newsreel men will be there, of course, to catch the grand sight for the admiring public. The two men made a bet with themselves in 1925 that when the Trojans could win by more than three touchdowns from the Cardinals, the two would jump, fully clad, off the dock at Santa Monica.
Pennsylvania
The 165th anniversary of the founding of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine was celebrated October 10 and 11.
What If He Doesn’t Liks Corduroys ?
At Wabash college, a senior is determined by the color of his corduroys. If he wears tan corduroy trousers, he is undoubtedly a senior because nobody else can wear ’em there.
California Rallies
California has what is called a “Bleacher Rally” before sending her teams away for games. At the last scrimmage before the game, the students are ail admitted to the practice and give vent to feelings that would ordinarily be vented at game time.
Collegiate Cars Cut Capers
At Lehigh recently, a “wreck” race was held to test out, as these college boys will, the excellent qualities of their “collegiate cars,” and probably to make good the boasts that had traveled around the campus. A five mile course, with a rough road, hill climbing, and finally at the finish, another hill to go down. The “Dark Horse” finished first, covering the distance in 11 minutes, 50 seconds. The “Rolls” came in 19 seconds later on three tires and a rim. The “Blimp” and “Ida” (I’da rather walked) also ran, the latter burned out her brakes in trying to stop stop short at the finish, and altogether, a good time was had by all. Cars must be eight years old to challenge, and no tuning up allowed. Address Sigma Phi Fraternity, Lehigh university. They hold the championship at present.
210
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPUJ CLUB/
The WABASH VALLEY club held a special meeting-on last Wednesday, November 5, in the old Law building. All students living within fifty miles of Logansport were invited to attend and to join the club.
A regular meeting of the WABASH VALLEY club was held on Wednesday, October 29. The members discussed plans for a banquet to be held on Tuesday, November 18. Peru and Lafayette were considered as possible places for the Christmas dance. Both towns are conveniently located and there was promise at the meeting of some discussion before the site is definitely decided upon.
The YOUNGSTOWN club held its first meeting of the year on Wednesday, October 22. Men from within twenty-five miles of Youngstown attended and helped with the organization of the club for the- coming year.
President Charles Cushwa immediately announced plans for the Christmas dance. It will be held on Friday, December 26, at the Stambaugh auditorium in Youngs-town. Last year’s YOUNGSTOWN club dance was the most successful ever held by the club and one of the outstanding dances during the holidays.
President Cushwa announced the committees in charge of the dance. Gabriel Moran, treasurer of the club, is the general chairman. Under him are the following committees: decorations, Edward DeBartola, chairman; John Hagan, James Boyle and Thomas McLaughlin; invitations, Gilbert Tiberio, chairman; Joseph Vaschak and Eli Abraham; music, Thomas Enright, chairman; Samuel Jack-son, Paul Chuey and Thomas Hughen; programs, Michael Koken, chairman; Rannie Franklin and George Buttitta; novelties, Edward Madden, chairman; James Biggins, Ted O’Neil and George Schidel.
The PHARMACY club held its regular meeting on Tuesday, November 4. A paper entitled “Innoculation of Typhus” was given by Feliks Wiatrowski. In it Mr. Wiatrowski discussed the cause, symptoms and cure of typhoid fever.
Following this, Casimir Vaikasas read a paper dealing with, bacteriology. He pointed out in the paper the relation between bacteriology and pharmacy.
After the papers had been read the PHARMACY club men took up other matters. The members approved a banquet which will be held on Saturday, December 6. •
«At its regular meeting last Monday the FRENCH club followed the regular procedure suggested by its founder, the Reverend Conrad Hoffman. Before the French conversation was begun, however, a collection was taken up for the purchase of a hectograph with which to make copies of the key-words emphasized at each meeting. The members responded so generously that President William Dreux announced that there would be enough money to buy French phonograph records. These records will serve to stimulate the interest of the club members in spoken French.
The regular order of the meeting began with practice in French conversation. Sarto Marchand, erstwhile French freshman, spoke to the members concerning various parts of the human body. The reading of Le Petit Trotte was continued after the conversation period was over.
At a meeting on Tuesday, November 4, the NEW JERSEY club made first plans for a banquet to be held some time after the Notre Dame-Southern California game. Sal Bontempo was put in charge of arrangements.
President Robert Massey then appointed William Gadek as chairman of the Christmas dance to be held at the Newark Athletic club, probably on December 26. Under chairman Gadek are the following committee heads: Salvatore Bontempo, patrons; James Donnelly, arrangements; John Lisicki, programs; Emil Telfel, publicity; Paul O’Connor, music; Vincent Whalen, favors; and Peter Quinn, invitations.
The CINCINNATI club, inactive since its organization some weeks ago, plans a meeting sometime soon after the quarterly examinations.
The VILLAGER’S club held a combined dinner and meeting at the Oldenburg Inn on last Monday evening. Mr. Norman Hartzer presided over the fifty members who were present. Principal speakei- was Mr. Ollier, formerly general manager of the Studebaker company, who told of business opportunities here and abroad.
A football, autographed by Coach Rockne and the members of the varsity football team, was presented to Mr. Leon Livingston for having the best decorated store window in South Bend during the week-end of the Navy game. Other guests at the dinner included Mr. Earl, manager of the local RKO theatres, and Mr. Patterson, organist at the Granada theatre.
After the banquet plans for the annual Christmas dance to be held at the Palais Royale on December 27 were discussed. John Shively is chairman.
To conclude the evening the club attended the Granada theatre in a body as the guests of Mr. Patterson.
Plans for the annual Christmas dance of the DETROIT club were discussed at a meeting of the club held last Tuesday. President Robert Neyden suggested either the Book Cadillac hotel or the Webster Hall hotel as suitable places for the affair. Walter DeBeane urged the members to co-operate by writing to their friends in and about Detroit in order to arouse interest there.
The UTICA club, entering its second year of activity, will hold a meeting in the north basement of the library Sunday morning at ten o’clock. Plans for the club’s second Christmas dance, tentatively set for Tuesday, December 30 at the Yahnundasis Country club in Utica, will be discussed.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
211
EDITED’/ DACE
A WORD TO THE BAND
We have been waiting expectantly for several weeks for the University band to march on the football field at half-time. True, on at least one occasion, they went through several formations prior to the game, but the proper time for this procedure is during the intermission.
It has been decided that a band tax will be charged all students purchasing tickets for the Army game. This tax is to be either fifty cents or one dollar. It seems a bit inconsistent to charge the students some five or six hundred dollars (depending upon the number of students making the trip) to watch the band parade on a foreign field, when we are denied the privilege of a demonstration on the home grounds.
Director Joseph Casasanta has done excellent work with Notre Dame musical organization. The present band compares favorably with any that has ever represented our University. Why not allow all the spectators and students to see the result of his work, rather than the few who will see the band when it parades before the Army game?
Director Casasanta says that priority must be given to visiting musicians, and that the remainder of the time is alloted to silent cheering. But why give preference to silent cheering ? Why deny to the students and to the great number of spectators in the west stands the opportunity to see the band in action, especially when, as last week, there are only a handful of people in the east stands to “appreciate” silent cheering? If the band does not parade because of silent cheering then silent cheering should be discontinued. Surely a marching band is much more colorful than a dumb show imported from the West coast.
A BAD MISTAKE
A few days ago the chairman of the Blue Circle called a special meeting supposedly to give the members an opportunity to listen to a “worthwhile” speaker. This speaker was a political candidate from South Bend. He properly and naturally chose politics as the subject of his talk. During the course of his speech he extolled the virtues of his party and asked the members, as a campus organization, to vote the straight ticket.
The chairman of the Blue Circle made a bad mistake when he allowed the political candidate
to turn what was supposed to be a special meeting into a political ballyhoo. The Scholastic is not denying that he had the right to ask the Blue Circle members, as individuals, to support the candidate, but he had not the slightest right to call a meeting of the organization for what was in reality, a political purpose. The action of the chairman was contrary to the spirit of the University, and he has been severely criticised by the members of his own organization.
The whole affair was unfortunate and not a little unsavory. Politics in general, and the way that voting was conducted on the campus in particular, is not edifying. It is a pity that the Blue Circle should have been even remotely connected with anything of an outside political nature. Notre Dame does not want to turn out cheap politicians.
NOISES AND NOISEMAKERS
Dandelions would be beautiful flowers if one could keep them in a flower bed, but they do get into lawns and spoil things. By-products of chemistry are a nuisance when one must be troubled to throw them away. It costs money to dispose of useless things. Weeds are flowers out of place. Organization makes money out of by-products in business and accordingly, we may also assert that noise is sound where it is not wanted. Nothing should be wasted and on the principle of encouraging talent, we wonder that no one has thought of utilizing, oi’ putting to good use those student “sirenists” who do not seem to be able to go to supper without making the quadrangle wild and wierd with their screeches. Mind you, this is not captious- criticism. They are really good!—but a little misplaced.
Organized sound may make a beautiful cantata or an opera, but can we find a place for noise? Would these sirenists not be a “scream” placed in the middle of a football rooters.’ section with a special yell built around their siren? We strongly recommend them to the cheerleaders. Anyone that has heard this pre-supper demonstration any evening will admit that they can raise more noise per cubic foot of Notre Dame atmosphere than the rest of the students at the football games. Give them a chance in the proper place.	.
212
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
QUAKERS NEXT NOTRE DAME FOE
Brill and Conley Featured As 78,000 Expected For Game
BEST and strongest team you will have met this season was the way Knute Rockne put it to his boys this week in preparing them for the contest tomorrow at Philadelphia between the Fighting Irish and the University of Pennsylvania eleven. Seventy-eight thousand fans, a capacity crowd, is expected to see the contest and several thousand more were turned down inasmuch as all of the tickets were sold several weeks ago.
JOE SAVOLDI, the People’s Choice, continues as mid-western high-point scorer with seven touchdowns for a total of 42 points. Joe added one more to his list of six last week against Indiana.
Brill, Conley at Home
Captain Tom Conley and Marty Brill lend a bit of local color to the contest, for not only does each come from Philadelphia or close by, but Brill put in two years at Pennsylvania. You’ve probably heard about how “he couldn’t get a break there” but we’ll leave it go at that. Anyhow Marty is going to show them tomorrow just why he thought he could play real football.
This Penn team is going to be plenty tough. You can take that on good authority; Rock wasn’t fooling one bit or even reading out of a psychology book when he stated that the Quakers were liable to be the toughest competition of the season so far. Coach Lud Wray has developed a powerful team, fast and shifty, and one possessing the ideal backfield; four of the backfield men can pass, run, or kick.
Wingback System Used
The Pennsylvania offense is a cross between the Warner wingback system and that used by Carnegie Tech. There is the double wingback formation with passes or runs off jt with one man in motion cutting across in back of the line of scrimmage. A few lateral passes and spinner plays are also mixed in here and there to good advantage. The team as a whole is very fast and has some mighty fine blockers.
Bill Graupner has practically cinched the signal barking job with the Quakers, and Captain Dick Gentle and Carl Perina will probably be at the halves with Charley Greene at fullback. Walter Masters, Jerry Ford and Spike Collis may also see action in the backfield.
Paul Riblett and Bill Raff el will be at the ends, and John Olsen and Ted Bloch at the tackle positions. Osborne Willson, brother of Joe Willson, who captained Penn in 1925, will be at one guard and Cy Newcomb will probably be at the other with Engle at the pivot post.
In Graupner, Coach Wray has a man who is very good at runningback punts. A strong passing attack was evidenced last week. Greene completed one toss to Gentle for 18 yards; reversing the order later the two netted 37 yards. Masters tossed still another long pass to Gette which gained 42 yards.
Penn In and Outer
Pennsylvania has had rather an up and down season so far, losing to Wisconsin, 27 to 0, and coming back against Kansas last week to give them its first defeat in five starts, 21 to 6. Penn showed strength against Swarthmore, Virginia, and Lehigh, defeating these teams very easily.
Coach Rockne has made no definite announcement but it is probable that he will start the first team against Pennsylvania inasmuch as the Fighting Irish wall be warring on foreign territory and the shock troops may get into trouble readily if started.
FRANK CARIDEO has made 13 successful place-kicks out of 16 trys. Jaskwich, his understudy, has booted
two out of three, for a grand average of .790, which is not bad for any football team.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
213
ROCKMEN ROUT INDIANA, 27-0;
"FOUR HORSEMEN" RIDE AGAIN
Jaskwich ...........QB.......... Brubaker
Koken..............LH.................Ross
O'Connor.............RH........... Opasik
Mullins ............FB............ Saluski
Score by periods:
A SCRAPPY Indiana eleven faced the great Fighting Irish of Notre Dame last Saturday afternoon with the determination to die fighting, and did just that. The championship-bound Rockmen rolled up 27 points during twenty minutes of the second half and won their fifth straight game, and for the first time this season kept their goal line uncrossed. The outcome of the game was not unexpected and only 18,000 spectators saw Notre Dame crush its Big Ten opponents.
Carideo at Throttle
It was a kind of mechanical affair throughout. As soon as quarterback Carideo turned on the power, the Fighting Irish machine scored touchdowns. That’s about all there was to it. The marvelous team-play that crushed the Pitt Panthers last week was very much in evidence as Notre Dame out-rushed their rivals 432 yards to 78.
Savoldi scored the first touchdown early in the third quarter. A short ) Indiana punt gave the locals the ball in midfield. Schwartz and Brill plunged to the 35, and Big Joe crashed through left tackle for the
MARTY BRILL scored the first touchdown in his career as a Notre Dame varsity player and a few minutes later added another in the contest zuith Indiana. Last year he confined his activities to blocking.
remaining distance. Carideo’s kick good.
Taking the ball on the kickoff, the Rockmen marched 70 yards to their second touchdown. Schwartz, Brill, and Savoldi plunged through gaping holes in the line for many substantial gains in this spectacular* advance. Schwartz slid through tackle for the last 27 yards, doing a nifty piece of sidestepping. Carideo again converted.
Brill Makes Touchdown
The Fighting Irish began another long march down the field from their own forty. They completely overpowered the Hoosiers with their bonecrushing offense and made four consecutive first downs. Brill scored the first touchdown of his grid career at Notre Dame when he circled left end for the final 23 yards.
Marchy Schwartz tried to emulate his Pittsburgh performance through tackle for 79 yards to the Indiana one-foot line, where he was brought down by Ross, the visitors’ star halfback. Carideo attempted to even the scoring of the Notre Dame backs with a quarterback sneak, but the Fighting Irish were set back five yards for offside on the play. Brill crashed tackle for the final touchdown, and Carideo kicked the twenty-seventh point.
The Hoosiers only scoring threat came in the second quarter when Dauer attempted a field goal from the Notre Dame 30 yard line, but the kick was short.
All in all the game was nothing-more than a stiff workout for the Notre Dame varsity. The shock troops played all but the last five minutes of the first half. They battled evenly with the Hoosiers, but never threatened to score. The varsity took the field near the end of the second quarter and opened up with a passing attack that was cut short by the half-time gun.
The lineup:
Host ...............LE........Richardson
Hoffman ............LT.......... Kuchins
Harris .............LG............. Rehm
Rogers ..............C........ Mankowski
Pierce .............RG........... Zeller
Mahoney ............RT........... Jasper
.Donoghue ..........RE........... Dickey
Notre Dame ............0
Indiana ...............0
0 11
0 0
0— 0
Touchdowns—Savoldi, Schwartz. Brill (2). Points after touchdown—Carideo (3).
Substitutions: Notre Dame— Kerjes for Pierce: Cronin for Jaskwich: Metzger for Kerjes: Carideo for Cronin: Schwartz for Koken : Brill for O'Connor; Savoldi for Mullins : Conley for Mahoney; Kosky for Host: Kurth for Donoghue; Culver for Hoffman: Kassis for Harris: Yarr for Rogers: Koken for Schwartz: Mullins for Savoldi: Cronin for Carideo: O'Brien for Kosky: Vik for Conley: O'Connor for Brill; Harris for Metzger: Ter-laak for Kassis: Donoghue for Kurth: Hoffman for Culver: Rogers for Yarr: Kaplan for O’Connor: B. Leahy for Koken; Staab for Mullins: Murphy for Cronin: Carmody for Kurth : McNamara for Hoffman : Greeney for Harris: Cavanaugh for Rogers; Howard for Staab; Shekeetski for Kaplan : Christman for Murphy.
Indiana—Thomas for Martich: Richardson for Dickey: Dauer for Saluski: Waraksa for Rehm: Saluski for Dauer: McDonald for Waraksa; Dauer for Opasik; Hoover for Dauer; McDonald for Rehm: Koenig for Saluski; Shanahan for Jasper: Rehm for Waraksa: Morris for Rascher: Waraksa for Morris.	'
Referee, Gardner (Cornell) : head linesman. Graves (Illinois) : umpire. Young (Illinois Wesleyan) : field judge. Coffin (Cornell).
MARCHMONT SCHWARTZ has a right to be peeved. After breaking away from the entire Indiana team he ran ~9 yards but was brought down by a flying tackle only a scant yard from the goal line.
214
The Notre Dame Scholastic
shout when you try a bowl of crisp, Kellogg’s Corn Flakes served with cool cream and
perhaps a bit of fruit. It’s great for breakfast, delicious for lunch and ideal for a late bedtime snack!
RESERVES MAKE TRIP TO YPSILANTI TODAY
A reserve squad, directed by Manager John Colville, left this afternoon for Ypsilanti, Mich., where it will meet the Michigan State Normal outfit in a game tomorrow afternoon. The great strength the “B” team has shown in its games so far this season bids well for another victory at the expense of the teachers.
SECOND NIGHT GAME WON BY RESERVES
Night football seems to be to the liking of Notre Dame teams. The “B” outfit won its second night game in as many starts last Saturday evening when it trampled the Saint Viator college squad of Kankakee, Ill., by a score of 25-7.
The most popular cereals served in the diningrooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
CORN FLAKES
nJ
CORN Rakes SR

DRAKE GAME TICKETS DISTRIBUTED MONDAY
In accordance with the usual procedure, the distribution of tickets for the Drake game will begin Monday, November 10. Allotment will be made in the manner heretofore followed: seniors will report to the stadium for their tickets on Monjday; juniors on Tuesday; sophomores on Wednesday, and freshmen, Thursday.
I
I SPORT TOGGERY
I
f	SWEATERS—LEATHER COATS
SPECIAL -One-half Price Sale on Sheep-Lined Coats
GYM CLOTHES—GYM SHOES
Baby Grand Portable Radio
Just the Radio you want for your room.
Complete $68.00
Pocket Knives, Flashlights, etc.
Sweat Coats, Sweat Shirts, Supporters
Philco Baby Grand Console Complete $88.00 Terms if desired.
|	Outfitters for Every Sport	|
I	I
i	Recreation Equipment Co.	I
1 THE “RECO” STORE I
I	1
I	Loaders in Sporting Goods	|
I	113 N. Main Street	I
E	I
I	I
E	|
I	£
*-----------------------------------
i
§ I
I 1 I f I £ fi
Full line Men’s Furnishings School Representative: JIM BAKER, 164 St. Edward’s Hall
MICHIGAN at COLFAX
I

I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
215

3 INTERHALL SPORTS h
The semi-finals in the current interhall football season are close at hand. The field of four teams will be reduced to two by the championship games Sunday in each division. These play-offs were to have been played Wednesday but a combination of cold weather and late classes prevented all efforts at effecting a settlement.
In Group 1, St. Edward’s and Lyons will meet on Cartier field No. 1 at 2:30 Sunday afternoon. An official check-up of the standings last week revealed that the Lyons eleven was in a tie for first place after St. Ed’s had apparently clinched the right to appear in the finals. The efforts of these teams in the season’s opener ended in a 0-0 deadlock.
In Group 2, Howard and Walsh will play in their second encounter of the
WRIST WATCH FOUND
Turned in to the Lost. and Found department several weeks ago. If loser does not claim soon it will be given to finder.
season. Their first battle, earlier in the year, also resulted in one of the ever-popular scoreless ties. Sunday’s tilts, then, should find a quartet of evenly matched teams doing battle.
Climaxing the entire interhall race of 1930 will be the meeting of Sunday’s winners in a clash for the campus championship on November 16. This game will be played in the new stadium and will be a fitting close to the season-long battle for interhall gridiron supremacy.
STANDINGS
Group 1	W	L	T	PCT.
St. Edwards		__3	0	2	.800
Lyons 		.__3	0	2	.800
Corby			2	0	3	.700
Sophomore		.__2	2	1	.500
Morrissey		1	4	0	.200
Off-Campus B		4	0	.200
Group 2	AV	L	T	PCT.
Walsh		,__4	0	1	.900
Howard		.__4	0	1	.900
Freshman			3	2	0	.600
Off-Campus —		2	3	0	.400
Brownson________1	4	0	.200
Carroll_________0	5	0	.000
Sunday’s Games
St. Edward’s-Lyons, Cartier field No.
1, 2:30.
Howard-Walsh, Brownson field, 2:30.
PROBABLE LINE-UP TOMORROW	
Notre Dame Kosky Culver Kassis Yarr Metzger Kurth Conley (c) Carideo Schwartz Brill Savoldi	Pennsylvania LE	Raffel LT	Bloch LG	Willson C	Engle RG	Newcomb RT	Olsen RE	Riblett QB	Graupner LH	Gentle (c) RH	Perina FB	Greene
Notre Dame Shock Troops	
O’Brien, left end; Hoffman, left tackle; Harris, left guard; Rogers, center; Terlaak, right guard; Donoghue, right tackle; Mahoney, right end; Cronin, quarterback; O’Connor, right half; B. Leahy, left half; Mullins, fullback.	
		■■■-•—		—		■ — —4^
The Book Shop
119 N. Michigan Street
Headquarters Unexcelled
s
For
Books, Periodicals and Class Room Requisites
Pay Us a Visit We have the Book you want.
THE BOOK SHOP
119 North Michigan Street
-------------—------------------- I-----------I
I	•
|	Flowers	In	I
j	a	Corsage!	i
I	j
।	Nothing very much—a trifling	|
|	note when compared with the	|
|	beauty of your girl.	|
j	But they’ll add greatly to her	|
|	enjoyment of the	|
I	COTILLION	|
j	Send Her a Corsage.	!
1	We’ll deliver it for you.	|
I	I
| WILLIAMS |
I	The Florist	I
i	I
an—nM^—ns^—Ba^—Ba—iai«^—Ba—BB-^—na-^Ba—Ba—aa—ai—sa—•+
The Notre Dame Scholastic
216
Brownson 14, Carroll 0
Two brothers, “Red” and Jack Carney, put the game in the bag for the Brownson eleven in the yearly gridiron battle with the friendly but bitter rival of the same building—Carroll. The game was played on a mucky field, but the sloppier the field the harder the Carneys played. It was nip and tuck all the way through the first three quarters and it looked as if only a break would decide the game. But it was straight football and fleet backs that finally gave Brownson its first victory of the season, and that by a score of 14-0.
The first score came after the Carneys and Strepek had collaborated in working the ball from mid-field down to their opponents’ three-yard line by a series of end runs, the right end bearing the brunt of the attack. After Jack Carney had advanced the ball from the 18 to the three-yard strip, he called on his brother to take it over. “Red” responded willingly. Strepek added the extra point with a perfect drop-kick.
From the 25-yard line DeBiasio of Carroll attempted to pass over his left end shortly after, but Freddy Strepek intercepted. Leo Conlon, Brownson’s crack left end, took the only Carroll man near Strepek out of the play and left an open field for his teammate, who galloped 35 yards to score the final tally of the game. Strepek converted.
The entire Brownson backfield deserves much credit for the victory.
	HELLO MEN! SMITH’S CAFETERIA 111 East Jefferson Boulevard WE DO OUR OWN BAKING The Home of Quality The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame	1
The victor’s line cannot be left unsung. The way they blocked and opened up gaps in Carroll’s forward wall was in reality half of the victory. Bill Mottsett and Jim Pouene did the best work for Carroll on the line, while Leonard and Powell were the shining lights in the Carroll attack.
Corby 0, St. Edward’s 0
Corby and St. Edward’s met Sunday in the game that was to decide the championship of Group 1 in the interhall race, but when the timekeeper finally sent the boys to the much needed shelter of their halls, the score was still knotted.
The game itself was a fine example of successful offensives between the scoring zones and of stubborn stands by the defenders when touchdowns were imminent. Early in the game Corby drove down to St. Ed’s 12 yard stripe but were turned back. Hamilton, guard, put them again in scoring distance by recovering a St. Ed’s fumble some twenty yards from the goal. This time St. Edward’s took the ball on downs and launched an offensive of their own. A vicious attack featuring Malan, a hard hitting back, and climaxed by a long pass from him to English, carried them to Corby’s two yard line. Here a fumble on the third down rewarded Corby for their determined stand on the first two plays. They punted out of danger but were forced to withstand another St. Ed’s drive just before the half ended.
Play in the second half was almost a repetition of the initial period with both teams threatening occasionally and each always falling a bit short of' success. St. Edward’s biggest threat was a pass, Malan to McCarthy, which took them to Corby’s ten yard line, but the drive ended there.
Walsh 6, Off-Campus 0
Playing a fine brand of football and getting, in addition, a real break in having the game end when it did, Walsh gained an. important 6 to 0
WHERE
NOTRE DAME
MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili
Hot Tamales-
Ice Cream Candy-
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
217
victory over Off - Campus Sunday afternoon.
The Walsh score came with startling suddenness as the second quarter opened. Neither team had shown signs of power in the first period, but on the initial play after the intermission, Miller, Walsh half-back, broke through center and raced seventy-five yards to score. It was a well-executed play that shook him free in a broken field, and excellent blocking aided him on his way. The try for point failed.
The rest of the first half and all of the second half provided plenty of thrills that kept the ultimate result in doubt till the final whistle. In the third quarter Law of Walsh returned an intercepted pass to Off-Campus’ twenty-yard line where Ealey, star tackle of Off-Campus, brought him down from the rear. It seemed certain that Walsh’s fine backfield would score from here but a fumble lost the ball on the Off-Campus 35-yard stripe. A few minutes later Kozak, again the outstanding player on the field, punted to his opponent’s three-yard line. Faced with the possibility of a blocked kick Walsh did the unexpected and ran from punt formation for a twenty yard gain. Off-Campus held and Walsh punted.
In the final period after an exchange of punts Off-Campus threatened seriously. Kozak unloosed a long pass which was ruled complete on the Walsh three-yard line through interference. One plunge failed to score by inches and the game ended before another play could be run off.
Howard 13, Freshman o
After battling with their* opponents on even terms throughout the first
INDIANA GAME STATISTICS
First Downs:
Notre Dame, 14.
Indiana, 5.
Yds. Gained from Scrimmage:
Notre Dame, 432.
Indiana, 76.
Forward Passes:
Notre Dame, one of 14 completed for 13 yards.
Indiana, one of 5 completed for 4 yards.
Penalties :
Notre Dame, 40 yards.
Indiana, 35 yards.
half, Howard hall’s fast-stepping aggregation routed the Freshman hall team when they scored two touchdowns in the third and fourth quarters and earned for themselves a 13-0 victory Sunday morning.
Late in the third quarter Kelly, Howard left half, tossed a short pass into the open territory to Grunder-man who sprinted the remaining ten yards for the first tally. Robinson, versatile Howard center, place-kicked the ball squarely between the posts for the extra point.	*
Grunderman scored his second touchdown of the day, when he intercepted a long pass thrown by Cusack, Freshman back, and ran forty yards, trailed by the whole Freshman team. Robinson’s attempt to convert was wide.
Freshman’s passing attack, featuring Cusack and Drisser, the latter a full-back, threatened to score in the closing moments but a fumble recovered by a Howard linesman spoiled their chances to tally.
Robinson, Mariani, and Grunderman were the Howard hall luminaries, while Jandoli anti Drisser played stellar roles for Freshman. The officials were Pierce, referee; Zoss, umpire; Tomasik, head-linesman, and Hughen, field judge.
0
A Publix Theatre
Starts Saturday For One Week!
Gaspy scenes in Hawaii I On an ocean liner! In an airplane ! On top of skyscrapers!
HAROLD LLOYD
Gives you some good old-time thrills with new-time riotous dialogue ’....................
FEET FIRST
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE
VITAPHONE VODVIL - PARAMOUNT NEWS
fOLFAY
THEATRE XW
218
The Notre Dame Scholastic
the New
"IF I COULD BE WITH YOU ONE HOUR TONIGHT*
ERE’S one to warm up colder blood than yours . . . jazzed on a Victor Record as only McKinney's famous Cotton Pickers could jazz it . . . sung by a dark-voiced, dark-hued boy with his mind on his work!
0 saxophone, 0 trumpet muted, 0 magnolia trees growing in the jungle!
Smartest Coat on the Campus
College men. who know what to wear and how to wear it choose Alligator "50”— the new College Coat... Alligator ”50” is a smart double-breasted raglan—long—fullcut—roomy—full-belted, with big patch pockets, and a convertible collar that gives extra protection around the neck ... Light in weight—semi-transparent—absolutely weather-proof. Four rich, original colors—Deep Sea, Tan, Blue,Black—and only $7-50!... Other Alligator models from $5.00 to $25.00.
THE ALLIGATOR CO.
St. Louis, Mo.
Here are samples of the best of their kind . . . Remember . . . the greatest artists and orchestras record the latest hits first for. Victor . . .
r5MUJ8 “IF 1 COULD BE WITH YOU ONE HOUR TONIGHT"
"Zonky”
McKinney's C.otlon Pickers
I -225J 7 “SHINE ON HARVEST MfiO V "MeuiCi ies*’
Southern Orchestra
I -22526-B "DON'T TELL HER Wil AT HAPPENED TO ME" "Moonlight on the Colorado”
Shilkret and Victor Orchestras
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
V-1478 SERENADE—Student Prince "L’Aniour Toujour”
Crooks
The Music You ' Want When You Want It, on
Victor Records
The Notre Dame Scholastic
219
SUN. MON. TUES.
Presenting Another Bill Of
RKO VAUDEVILLE
ttn^—an—au—nn^—Ba—-an^—m——m—<■—o—m—bi—
I The South Bend Clearing
I House Banins
I Invite Your Patronage
Remember, the Palace is the only theater in South Bend where you see a great bill of Vaudeville and an entertaining picture for the same price that other theaters charge for pictures only.
On the Screen
Billie Dove
in
ONE NIGHT AT SUSIE’S
SATURDAY
WINNIE LIGHTNER in
LIFE OF THE PARTY
with
Charles
Butterworth
A former South Bend boy and Notre Dame graduate, now playingin “Sweet Adeline.”
Extra Attraction
Football with
ROCKNE
* ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST
|	COMPANY
I
I	UNION TRUST COMPANY
J	_ ___
|	AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
I	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
I	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS
|	BANK
{	FIRST NATIONAL BANK
1	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
I ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS
[	BANK
O- "»■—	— ■■■' I—1	<B Bl—■*
* u—w—mi——ob—iw—m—hh—««—tm—oh—na—m—hb—m—bi——
I	I
| Lunch At Our Fountains | | If purer and better and fresher foods were to be 1 T had oui- fountains would serve them just as we I f now serve the best. Hot and cold foods and a varie- I s ty of tasty fresh made sandwiches furnishes you | 1 with plenty of variety every day. Come once then j 1 you’ll come again.	|
> Hot Chocolate De Luxe I
j is made with a new process chocolate powder (NOT I । COCOA). Every one is made fresh in a few seconds 1 ? in a hot cup. A sustaining pick up lunch, to keep I s you fit for the afternoon, is a mug of Hot Chocolate | = and one or more of our variety of freshly prepared । • sandwiches.	I
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Bl»—	81	M—* BB—BS—Ml— Bl^— MB——<■—«■-—
220
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In every college town there is one outstanding
Splinters From the Press Box
At Illinois it’s
ALONG Green Street, where A campus leaders stroll ... in the great slate-roofed fraternity houses of Champaign . . . there is one pipe tobacco which always rolls up the biggest vote. At Illinois it’s Edgeworth, every time.
A pipe—Edgeworth. That is the smoking combination which has won the college man. Harvard, Cornell, Michigan, Stanford, Dartmouth — all agree with Illinois. Natural merit has made Edgeworth the favorite tobacco in America’s leading colleges and universities.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their verdict: try Edgeworth yourself. Find it at your nearest tobacco shop—the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address: Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive "eleventh process.” Buy Edgeworth anywhere in twoforms—"Ready-Rubbed” and"Plug Slice.”All sizes, 15$ ’	'	! tO
tin.
SCHMELING WORSE.
Now Herr Maxie Schmeling comes to the foreground with the startling announcement that it will be the milk fund for which he will fight in 1931 because it was the same milk fund which made it possible for him to win the title.
As for the mush in the milk, the Madison Square Garden crowd will be expected to buy their own ducats for his next fight although they hold an option on his services. The huge German says “Nichts mit Ihnen.” So it looks like the big city moguls will be left out in the cold, as Schmeling plans to fight- just as soon as the option expires, that is in 1931.
Young Kid Stribling might be his opponent but then again Mickey Walker would draw a fair crowd perhaps all of a few thousand.
THIS ARMY TEAM.
As the season progresses it becomes more apparent that the present Army team has shifted somewhat from its usual man-power plays to more of the Notre Dame type of offense under the direction of Major Sasse, the new coach. They have been developing a powerful passing attack along with spinner plays, reverses and double reverses, cut-backs and others which depend upon speed for their- perfection. Notre Dame will meet a tough team; doubly tough because Army hates to have the Fighting Irish winners for three years straight.
1930 BOOBY AWARD.
%
First claim on this football trophy -goes to Hobart college. Alfred beat them 19-0 last week, making six straight losses for Hobart this year, all by shutout scores. Last season they won no games but managed to score a few points. The Carnegie Institute would waste time investigating Hobart for any trace of subsidization.
THE DOPE BUCKET.
After the 73 correct guessers were paid off there wasn’t even one red cent left for the dope bucket—and it missed by only a lone point at that.
QmsiiitiiumniiaiiaiiiiimiMiiiaaniMitiiiiiiHtumiiiuiuiiiQ 1 PROBABLE SCORES i 1 TOMORROW
|	Notre Dame 20, Pennsylvania 7.	=
E	Northwestern 27, Indiana 0.	E
E	Ohio State 7, Navy 6.	z
E	Purdue 33, Chicago 0.	z
z	Army 14, Illinois 6.	z
z	Marquette 13. Iowa 7.	E
z	Michigan 14. Harvard 7.	E
E	Minnesota 26, Univ, of South Dakota 0.	E
E	Wisconsin 20, South Dakota State 0.	z
E	Brown 14, Tufts 7.	z
z	Pittsburgh 20, Carnegie Tech 13.	z
z	Colgate 14, Columbia 0.	E
z	Dartmouth 20, Allegheny College 0.	E
E	Vanderbilt 13, Georgia Tech 7.	E
E	Princeton 20, Lehigh 7.	z
E	Syracuse 27, Penn State 6.	z
z	Tulane 14, Auburn 6.	:
z	Yale 37. Alfred 0.	E
E	N. Y. U. 7, Georgia 0.	E
E	Bucknell 6, W. and J. 0.	z
E	Alabama 20, Florida 6.	z
E	Georgetown 20, Boston College 6.	z
z	Arkansas 14, Oklahoma Aggies 7.	z
z	Louisiana State 14, Univ, of Miss. 6.	E
E	Texas 14, Baylor 0.	E
E	Drake 27, Creighton 0.	E
E	Kansas Aggies 7, W. Virginia U. 0.	z
z	Michigan State 13. N. Dakota,State 6.	z
z	Fordham 14, University of Detroit 7.	z
z	Kansas 7, Nebraska 0.	E
E	Missouri 13, Iowa State 7.	E
E	North Dakota 13, Duquesne 6.	E
z	Stanford 13, Washington 12.	z
z	Southern California 7, California 0.	z
z	Oregon 13, U. C. L. A. 0.	z
Qillllllllllllllimiliuuiiii.iiliii.aaaaaaa.aaaaaaaaaiaaaaQ
A few more heart failures like last week and there’s gonna be another prostration. The average went kerplunk with the numerous tie games, scoreless and otherwise. Fifty-six wins, 24 losses, and 12 ties is the best we can confess to.
Ohio State and Navy, Army and Illinois, Michigan and Harvard—-there are three contests that draw gobs of attention, all mighty close and thrilling. The first named of the teams look best “before the game.” Ohio State sustained our confidence in the sophomore Buckeye squad by tying Wisconsin, and not being prejudiced either we choose them over the Middies.
Down in the Smoky city the Tartans and Panthers clash for the 17th time. Since 1923 there have been seven games and Carnegie has the edge with four wins. Comparing the scores in the two teams’ losses to Notre Dame we find Carnegie looking the .better, nevertheless Pittsburgh
The Notre Dame Scholastic
221
will win by a touchdown. And some wag’s goins to tell us now, that if scores don’t mean anything why do they have scoreboards? Well, shoot yourself.
Pennsylvania is going to surprise; they have scoreboards? Well, shoot boys are still pretty strong for the average teams. Just 20 to-7 we say, how about it “Wake?”
One that you might be interested in hearing about is the loquacious Fordham bunch meeting University of Detroit with the Easterners looking just too spry to lose. Southern California meets California in a pippin while Stanford is trimming Washington by a close neck shave. In the Big Six, Kansas and Nebraska nibble away at each other with the Jay Hawks looking one touchdown better.
OUR HARRIERS.
Coach John P. Nicholson is still gloomy in reference to his team’s chances with Michigan State this week. Taking things as they come we feel confident and look for a big surprise. Captain Howery and his runners have been working hard all season and are just about due to eke out a win at the expense of the Spartans.
a brief pause for station
announcement
Delicious and Refreshing
Drink

Grantland Rice -*"*-Famoua Sports Champion® Coca-Cola Orchestra-*— Every Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T.-s—-a-Coast to Coast N SC Network
Pause
that refreshes
Stand by everybody I for Coca-Cola broadcasting a program of delicious refreshment from every ice-cold glass and bottle. Operating on a frequency of nine million drinks a day. The happiest, shortest cut to refreshment is the brief pause for Coca-Cola. The drink that tunes in irith all places, times, occasions and moods. The easiest-to-take setting-up exercise ever invented, while its delightful, tingling taste will provide you with one of fife’s great moments.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-7
9 MILLION A DAY—it had to be good to get where it is
222
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Bare feet on damp floors may give you “ATHLETE’S FOOT”
ON the floors of showers and locker rooms, there the little ringworm parasite that causes "Athlete’s Foot” is right at home. Tinea trichophyton is the name, and in colleges as far apart as California and Pennsylvania it has been found that 50% of the men have it. Again, the U. S. Public Health Service
reports that "at least half of all adults suffer from it at some time.”
"Athlete’s Foot,” golfer’s foot, toe itch, dobie-itch—there are many names for the same thing, and the symptoms are redness between the toes, with i-t-c-h-i-n-g—or a thick, moist skin condition — or a dryness with little scales. The danger signals vary, but authorities agree that they are all traceable to the ringworm germ, tinea trichophyton.
It lurks in the very places where we all go for cleanliness and health—on the edges of
swimming pools and showers— in gymnasiums—on locker- and dressing-room floors. In spite
Absorbine
FOR YEARS HAS RELIEVED SORE MUSCLES, MUSCULAR ACHES, BRUISES, BURNS, CUTS, SPRAINS, ABRASIONS
of modern sanitation (you have to boil socks 15 minutes to kill it) this fungus parasite infects and re-infects bare feet almost any time they come in contact with damp floors.
Absorbine Jr. kills the germ of
"ATHLETE’S FOOT”
Tests in a famous New York "lab” have revealed that Absorbine Jr. penetrates flesh-like tissues deeply and that wherever it penetrates, it KILLS the ringworm germ.
It might not be a bad idea to examine your feet tonight. At the first sign of the symptoms mentioned, douse on Absorbine Jr. And keep a bottle handy in your locker as a preventive. Use it after every exposure of bare feet on damp floors. At all druggists—$1.25. W. F. Young, Inc., Springfield, Mass.
RESERVES WIN 20-0 OVER INDIANA
Displaying a splendid running attack in the third quarter of their game with the Indiana university reserves, the Notre Dame “B” team scored twice and crushed the Hoosiers with an overwhelming 20-0 victory.
The first period was fought on even terms. In the second session, however, Conley passed 35 yards over the goal to Bice, who made a pretty catch for the first score of the contest. Vejar place-kicked for the extra point.
Things remained rather quiet until late in the third quarter. Indiana kicked to Notre Dame’s 25-yard line, Conley started a march down the field with a 15-yard jaunt around the left end. Dilling and Kramer then alternated in slashing the line and skirting the corners until the ball rested on the Hoosier’s 15-yard stripe. Dilling tore off-tackle for the second tally. Indiana chose to kick and Conley took the oval on the run and returned it to the Hoosier’s 46-yard marker. Vejar inaugurated the second parade of the quarter, which ended when Dilling squirmed off-tackle, and then tore around the right flank for the final touchdown of the contest. He then passed to Rohers for the additional point.
Conley was the outstanding player of the afternoon. His continuous slashing line plays and long accurate passes were responsible at least in part for the Notre Dame victory. Van Rooy and Whalen did best for Notre Dame on the line. The Hoosier team was outplayed in all departments of the game, and there was no real Indiana star.
CO-OPERATION NEEDED!
Students are requested to leave the blue markers which designate the cross-country course in place until after the races. Last week the runners had difficulty completing the race because someone had removed several of the markers.
r—-------------------------
«	Phone 3-1254	।
i	!
i	Drs. Singler & Probst	i
f	DENTISTS	|
1	I
|	I
■	Suite 261 Associates Building	|
।	South Bend, Indiana	।
The Notre Dame Scholastic
223
QUAKER CITY GREETS
TEAM THIS MORNING
The Notre Dame squad, including Coach Knute Rockne, players and managers, arrived in Philadelphia this morning at 9:20. The party motored to the Manufacturer’s Country club at Oreland, and a practice session either at the golf club or at Franklin field was scheduled for this afternoon.
Twenty thousand Notre Dame fans, including alumni and South Bend fans, will be seated in a special section in the entire north stand lower deck tomorrow as a part of the 78,000 attendance. This will be the largest crowd ever to see a football game in Philadelphia and Franklin field will be jammed to capacity.
HARRIERS LOSE AGAIN; CRIMSON TEAM WINNER
Coach John P. Nicholson’s inexperienced but hard-working runners met their third consecutive defeat last Saturday morning at the hands of an evenly-balanced Crimson squad from Indiana university, 36 to 21. Captain Gene Howrey, of the Blue and Gold, was again in top form and traversed the four miles around the lakes in 20 minutes and 37 seconds to capture first place by a comfortable margin.
The Indiana outfit, led by Leas, Brockmeyer, and Kemp, annexed five of the next six places with only Joe Quigley breaking up their string. Tom Grimes finished eighth and Bauers tenth to leave several other Notre Dame men to fight it out for the other position. Norman Duke took eleventh position.
The Notre Dame cross-country team makes its last home appearance this afternoon when it meets the Michigan State squad. The Spartans recently suffered their first defeat in four years at the hands of their old rivals, the University of Michigan. This defeat may serve to relieve the team of any over-confidence and make them work that much harder to assure a victory over Notre Dame. It is well known, however, that this year’s Spartans squad cannot be rated with those of the last few seasons. The State coach faced a situation similar to that at Notre Dame when only two veterans, Fullerton and Chamberlain, reported for practice at the beginning of the year. At any rate, it should prove to be an interesting race. A dual meet with Iowa is scheduled for Saturday, November 15.
TA. clean cut appearance, broad shoulders, and an active step are the products of exercise and correct eating. The handsomest man in the senior class will have them and they will be the secret of his magnetism.
Two Shredded Wheat Biscuits a day go a long way toward establishing the right
“The Most Handsome Man”
eating routine. They are a part of many a training schedule—they are the mainstay of many a successful business executive.
Try them for breakfast with milk or cream. A great food for the mid-night lunch too.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Itll • SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY *	1930
ON DOWN THE LINE
Metal on trial
In the laboratories of scores of foundries and rolling mills, a constant search is being conductedforametal thatis stronger, more resistant to temperature strains, and more economical to produce. Almostas constantly the compounds and alloys so developed are being brought to Crane Co. for trial. The court that passes on them is composed of the most experienced Crane designers, metallurgists, and engineers. Under its direction bars of the new metals are carefully tested for ductility, reduction of area, elasdelimit, and yield andbreakingpoints. Hardness, transverse strength, and torsional strength are measured, behavior under temperature strains is determined by “1000 hour creep tests.”
When the findings of all tests are favorable, the metals are made into valves and fittings for trials in the Crane plant that will approximate actual working conditions. Then Crane Co. sends out these new materials to certain engineers who are interested in advancing piping practice. They use them in actual service; observing them over long periods, sending full reports to Crane Co.
Not only do materials thus developed serve all industry. They have contributed to a vast library of engineering data on metals and their capabilities. Much of this is embodied in a book. “Pioneeringin Science”, a valuable reference manual for students. Let us send it to you.
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM.
LIQUIDS. OIL. GAS. CHEMICALS
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO
NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 WEST 44th STREET
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Ninety-four Cities
a Seventy-three students guessed the correct Indiana score at Livingston’s . . . each receiving about thirty-three cents apiece. . . Athletic activities at Cornell last year showed a deficit of $18,000 . . . football was the only sport to show a gain and that being nothing to cheer about . . . Oakland has placed a price of $100,000 on JOHNNY VERGEZ, third baseman . . . Among the Scots of Carnegie Tech are ROSENWEIG, MORBITO, GOLDBERG, BURZIO and SCHNUPP . . . and still they speak satirically of the Fighting Irish . . .
WAR FEATHER, a filly, who was bought for $70,000, the highest price ever paid for a nag, never won a race . . . she is the daughter of MAN O’WAR, which makes it all the more strange . . . KID CHOCOLATE, Cuban fighter, is ambitious to hold four ring titles at the same time . . . the featherweight, junior lightweight, lightweight and junior welterweight titles . . . JOYCE GARDNER, crack-woman billiard player, recently made a run of 96 during a tournament . . .
JOE HUMPHRIES, veteran announcer at sports events, is now 58 years old and has been introducing celebrities for the past forty years . . . HARRY NEWMAN, nifty Michigan quarterback, who excels in tossing passes, was better at catching them in his high school days ... in 1927 NEWMAN made five one-handed catches and was chosen for the AllDetroit team ... he also stars at baseball . . .
CROWLEY, one of the “four horsemen,” who is making football history at Michigan State this year boasts of a few players who would make excellent RIPLEY material . . . BOB MONNETT is the strong man of the squad with wrists of steel and the biceps and torso of a blacksmith . . . the BUCKEYE BEAUTY can manhandle the biggest man on the squad • . . DON RIDDLER, giant 220-pound tackle, stands in MONNETT’S hands and the halfback carries him about, the locker room . . . HYLAN of Rolla university staged one of the queerest performances seen on the gridiron this year . . . with Rolla losing 33 to 26, HYLAN snagged a pass and became enshrouded in a fog bank . . . v then ran fifty yards for a touchdown without the other team even seeing . him . . .
tew,.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
•tm^—nn^—us^—na-
YOUR EYES
! 1
I I
I I i
Have them examined every year
QCCASIONALLY we hear someone boast of the extreme long life of his glasses — as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
LEMONTREES
102 W. Washington St.
222 1-2 S. Michigan St.

wt—

dfini/tana

For the Notre Dame man who desires distinctive patterns and the finest tailoring, we offer suits from
$48 to $125
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear
QUALITY BY
IIIIISIILIMII
The
“Festive
Season

is more fun if you wear good clothes!
From Thanksgiving Day to New Year’s, a holiday spirit seems to prevail. It’s the Festive season of the year — a season that’s a lot more fun if you have good clothes to wear on all occasions. Our wide selections for University meh will give you a choice of the best.'
Insist on quality by Kuppenheimer
CCCU CLCTUES EOT
UNIVERSITY MEN
226
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE BOARD OF LAY TRUSTEES
A bove are the members of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University who attended the annual meeting at Notre	,
Dame, Tuesday, November IS. In the front roiv, from left to right are: James J. Phelan, Boston; Fred J. Fisher, Detroit;	w
Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., President of the University; A. R. Erskine, President of the Board, South	I
Bend; Edward N. Hurley, Chicago.
Top roiv, from left to right, are: Frank E. Hering, South Bend; JohnF. Cushing, Chicago; Miles W. O’Brien, South Bend; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago. Warren A. Can-tier, Ludington, Michigan, not shown in the picture, was present at the meeting. The Board of Lay Trustees is charged with the responsibility of holding, investing, and administering tlie endowment funds of the University.	c