

itJ~~(f~ 
·r·;<.. 
Phone bills too high? Your son or daughter can't find the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame, subscribe to 

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame .students. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekends, and enjoy some college humor. 
You can be part ofall this for the introductory price of $20 a year-· just a dollar an issue. 
Subscribe now and share in of the 128-year tradition of Scholastic Magazine. 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:-----­Address: ______ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years =$ _ 
Please send this fonn, with payment, to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 9 FOUNDED 1867 . NOVEM:BER 10, 1994 
Ganging Up
3Twohighschoolstudentshavebeenshot Signso.f gang activity are on the rise. This week's cover story digs into the problem of gangs in South Bend. 



Placement or Debasement?
10After spending four years and $80,000 on a Notre Dame education, it's time for many students to start their career. But Career and Placement Services gets mixed reviews from seniors. 

Off the Mainstage 
·

16For theater buffs who can't get enough, alternative theater groups provide a wide 
. array of serious and humorous plays. 

FEATURES 
.Tales from the Streets.· Chris I...enko.........................................................................................................................8 Pride on the Line •Kevin Eckhardt ......................................................................................................................... 12 Preying on the Weak• Kevin Eckhardt...........................................~ .......................................................................13 Mac Attack·•. Aaron ·Nolan........................................................................................................................................23 
DEPARTMENTS 
From t:µe Editor ............................................................. 2 
Coming Distractions ...................................................20 
Campus .Watch .............................................................. 7 
On Other Carnpuses............................... ; .................... 21 
Splinters from the Press Box ......................................15 
Comics ................................... ; .......... ; .......................... 22 · 
Out of Bounds .............................................. : .............. 18 
Final'·Word ................................................................... 24 
\ 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 10, 1994 i 1 

Gangs and Notre Dame. It is hard to think of two more opposite worlds. The most exposure I've had to gangs at Notre Dame was watchingBoyz 'n the 'Hood for my core class sophomore year. It is a powerful movie, but it is set in distant Los Angeles, practically another world. Or so I thought. It is easy to forget, on our insulated island ofsafety, that gang violence lurks just around the comei:. No cities are immune to the threat of gangs anymore. South Bend, with its proximity to both Chicago and Detroit, is a breeding ground for gangs, drugs and violence. The Notre Dame students and administration cannot ignore this fact anymore. 
In the past few weeks, there has been a slew of assaults against students, most occurring on the fringes of campus or within sight of the golden dome. The security bulletins announcing the incidents have warned all students to use caution when venturing off campus, especially at night. Although the warnings are helpful, they do not point to any of the underlymg causes of the violence, much ofwhich may be gang­related. News editor Chris Lenka delved into subject of gangs in South Bend. She talked to high school principals, professional reporters and counselors who work with inner city kids. Her in-depth analysis of the gang problem appears on pages three through six. · 
However, she didn'tstop there. In doing her research, Lenka cameinto contact with · Notre Dame students from Los Angeles who grew up with the hard reality of gangs. Needless to say, these students made quite an adjustment in coming to Notre Dame. Though they are here, they left behind their families and friends. Bad news is always just a phone call away. The story of iwo of these students runs in the Campus Life section, on pages eight and nine. 
Also in this issue 

For seniors who are planning to work after gra'Cluation, this time of the year is full of anxiety. Some seniors are lucky enough to already havejobs lined up, others are just beginning their search. Career and Placement Services is meant to help students in their job searches. But does it fulfill its mission? Campus Life writer Shannon Forbes looks into this question on pages 10 and 11. 

Correction 

In the October 20 edition of Scholastic Magazine, certain changes in the sports commentary by Jake Schaller were made for editorial reasons. These changes did not accurately represent the sentiments or opinions of the writer. 
Katie E. Wiltrout Editor 

Cover photos by Brent Tadsen. The hand signals are used as symbols of various Los Angeles gangs. 
· Table of Contents photos by Brent Tadsen and Stan Evans. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• NOVEMBER 10, 1994 



South Bend, Gangs 
Millions oftelevision viewers associate the city ofSouth Bend with Fighting Irishfootball and a major Catholic university. But the emerging problem ofgang violence points to a dijf erent conclusion. 

by Chris Lenko 

T:e handsome young man, barely a teenager, spoke nonchalantly, almost indifferently. "Somebody getting popped right now. Somebody getting shot at right now," 
he said, as the sound of nearby gunfire prematurely ended the conversation. "I told you this 'hood is crazy," he finished during the momentary pause before three more bullets sliced through the 
. crisp fall air, their origin unknown. 
Itwould have been a good time for the director to yell cut, but this was not a scene from a Spike Lee movie, nor an excerpt from a novel. Thehoodthisyounggangmemberreferredtoisnotaremote crime-riddensuburbofChicagoorDetroit, butratheroneofSouth Bend'sneighborhoodslyingjustbeyond theshadowofthegolden 
. dome. · · "It was a shocking conversation with 14 to 15 Year olds, talking about killing someone. One kid described the first time he saw someone go down," recalled Mark Kelley, the WNDU reporter who interviewed the young gang member for Mean Streets: Our 
•Kids andGangs, his documentary series on Michiat:ia gangs which aired last October; 
The idea for the series was born in response to what Kelley termed "hard evidence" ofgang activity in South Bend. Frustrated by the police, who he said were very reluctant to admit what was going on, Kelley's break came from aWNDU staffmember whose nephew, a gang member, agreed to introduce his friends to the reporter. "Finally we were inside, and it was the first time we got frank commentary about what was going on," said Kelley. "I was surprised to see how major this was in a city of 100,000 +people. 
I don't think we wanted it confinned." 
Kelleyisnotaloneinwantingtodenytheextentofthecity'sgang problem. As David Hay, associate director of the Urban Institute atNotreDameastutely observed, the severity of South Bend's gang problem all "depends on who you talk to." Lieutenant Lynn ColemanoftheSouthBendPoliceDepartment, widely recognized as the officer with the most on the street experience when it comes 
.to gangs, concedes that the city has gangs, but insisted the problem in South Bend is nothing in comparison to big cities like Chicago. "We do have gangs in this city, the same way as in any other mid­size city," he said. ' 
· But South Bend is not just like any other Midwestern city. 
. Halfway between Chicago and Detroit, South Bend is viewed by academics as a potential breeding ground for gang violence. ''.I think South Bend's location has set the stage for a Chicago and . Detroit rivalry. I think enough people are starting to realize we're going to have to first face the issue and get more public," said Hay. 
Localhigh school principals, however, resist facing the issue 
of gang viol~nce when it comes to discussing gang activi­. . ties in their schools-in spite of the fact that incidents of violence in middle and secondary schools have been on the increase. Of the local schools Scholastic Magazine contacted, none would go on the record admitting their school experienced gang-related problems, although many offered thenames ofnearby high schools that were dealing with gang violence. Not surpris­ingly, when those schools were contacted, the response was uniformly the same: "Not in our school." . 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
The comment of Jim Meniny, principal of New Prairie High School, is typical: "Gangs are not a large problem as of this year," Meniny reported. ''We had a meet­ing with the kids and ... things have calmed down, parents have taken an active role." Although two students were killed at New Prairie High School recently, Meniny de­nied that gangs were involved in the mur­ders, as reported by the media. "It had absolutely nothing to do with gangs. The victims were in the wrong place at the wrong time," the principal said 
WhilethatmaybetrueoftheNewPrairie double slaying, parents like Roger Erhardt believe schools are concealing information from parents and the community regarding the extentofgang activities in local schools. Erhardt's stepson Travis Haynes, a tenth­grader at Penn High who works part time at the Morris Inn, faces felony and misde­meanorcharges forbringing a gun to school. 

incident ofextreme violence at Penn High last year, though he could not comment further due to his stepson's impending legal proceedings. Though he and his wife fear their home may be targeted for a drive-by shooting· in the near future, Erhardt has decided to go public with his story, "hoping to save one kid." 
*** 
The minute thatyoujoinyou'readead man. You are a dead man and you're walkin death. The only difference between you and a person in the cemetery is they just haven't kicked any dirt in your faces yet 
-Mean Streets: Our Kids and Gangs 
T:einconsistenciesandcontradictions that emerge when discussing South Bend's gang problem may_ result from a desire to protect South Bend's im­thefacts. Themediacanbeusedindifferent ways -it can be proactive rather than reactive. Instead of printing terrible stories, they could print articles without all the hype ... but educational articles don't sell pa­pers," she said. 
David Hay, who has researched South Bend's gangs extensively in the hopes of receiving a grant from the Department of Health and Human Resources and the De­partment of Justice, echoed Bordt's con­cern about the power of the media to shape public perceptions. Though he felt Kelley's documentary Mean Streets: Our Kids and Gangs was accurateand extensive in scope, he found the coverage "very sensational," in that the gang members' faces were cov­ered and their voices were altered. 
However, Hay does characterize media coverageofthe gang-related killings of two teenagers this summer as accurate and fair, bringing the problem of youth violence to 


"These two recentkillings are awake-up call. Coleman was essentiallypleading for his life and was shot in the back ofthe head, andMcFadden was shot with arifle, through acarwindow." -DavidHay, associate director, Urban Institute 
"I think it's bad," said Erhardt "Ifeach and every one of your schools didn't have gangs, where are they coming from? It's 
'·
bad like the drugs. They don't want to face that they have drugs and weapons." 
Erhardt, whose stepson claims he has been coerced to join a gang, bristled when he heard that South Bend's schools are gang-free zones. "Penn likes to cover up more than anyone else," he said ofhis alma mater, Penn High School, which herefers to as 'Penngate.' While school authorities labeled the incident with his stepson an isolated event, Erhardt knows Travis is not the first student to be intimidated by gangs at the school, and feels strongly that kids who want to go to school should be allowed to do so free from the threat of violence. "You should be able to go to the bathroom without having three or four people watch age, but the problem is likely one of seman­tics, originating in people's perceptions of what a gang is. When confronted with the 

-term "gang," most people imagine a group ofyoung,oftenblack, teenagers armedwith weapons and drugs and a flagrant disre­spect for authority and the law, intent on killing and raping, and marking their turf. Though the above picture does accurately describe a small minority ofviolent gangs, itisa stereotype applied indiscriminately to all gangs thatis fueled by sensational media coverage of violent gang activities. 
."Public perception is created by front-page newspaper articles about someone getting killed," said Rebecca Bordt, profes­sor of criminology at Notre Dame, who claimed that public perception is often warped by society's over-reliance on the media. "I think they're misinformed. I the public's consciousness. 
'These two recent killings are awake-up 

call," said Hay, referring to themurd~rs of 
McFadden and Coleman. "Coleman was 

essentially pleading for his life and was shot 
in the back of the head, and McFadden was 
shot with a rifle, through a car window," · said Hay,emphasizingthat these two deaths are evidence of hard-core gang activity that needs to be examined 
*** 
Fightin,kill,shootthat'llsolvetheproblem, winner takes all. So when you see the governments of all the countries doing the . same thing, leaves you no alternative but to 
say this is the answer to everything. 
-Mean Streets: Our Kids and Gangs 


4 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
• • • ~ ._ • ' _, -_J • 

The wanna-besarethe mostdangerous ... somerapedsomegi,rls, didsome violent acts, beating up boys andgi,rls to gi,ve themselves the limelight. It's their way of showing they can be trusted." -Frank Freedman, Youth Connections 

*** ins," he said of their activities, which are called Dog Life as among South Bend's 
often carried out on dares. "Some raped most prominent groups. And it was like, he dead. He layin' by the some girls, did some violent acts, beating "South Bend is a study of contrasts," trash.. And it seemed like everything just up girls and boys to give themselves the according to Hay, and the fact that there is froze, and I just dropped the gun in the . · limelight It's their way of showing they such a great polarity between the city's middle of the floor and ran outside, seen can be trusted," Freedman said. Corporal wealthierandpoorerresidentsmaycontrib­him layin' there. And he taught me every-Bill Murphy of the Juvenile Aid Bureau ute to the city's gang problem. "South thingIknewandijustfell tomy knees, man. reports that wanna-bes are getting younger Bend, like a lot ofcities, has distinct neigh­
-Mean Streets: Our Kids and Gangs and younger, withanaverageageoftwelve. · borhoods," said Hay. Walking from cam-The number of actual gang members pus, he estimated ''it would take us only "As we talked to them they were passing varies, as some kids are completely irn-about six minutes where Eddy turns-into a bottle of beer around in a paper bag, but mersed in gang life, while others just iden-Sample Street in the southeast neighbor­they werealso eating those Debbie Oatmeal tify with a gang's colors or symbols and are hood" before there was a noticeable con­pies," Kelley remembered. "There was an • only in itfor show oraspartofa passing fad, trast in the standard of living. While gang amazing contrast there ... they had these said Coleman. "Though they might not be activity is riot confined to one specific area young faces." As he listened to the teenage official gang members, wanna-bes embla-of South Bend, certain gangs are known to boy describe the first time he saw someone zon themselves with the signs and colors of frequent neighborhoods, and "every side of go down, Made Kelley was moved by the each of South Bend' s gangs." Lieutenant town has some gang activity," according to simultaneous hardness and youthful inno­Coleman has a personal collection ofshirts Coleman. Dog Life, a new African-Ameri­cence of the kids in the gang. "It ripped and caps with gang insignias on them and can gang, tends to congregate on the south me," Kelley confessed. '"They have hopes said some of the more common local gang side, while. the Chicago Boys, so named 
Intruth thoug):i, few gangs are delinquent or violent. by nature, as the media would have us believe. In "All Gang Activity is Criminal Activity: A Modem Myth," professor Bordt argued in a class­room lecture that only a small strain of gang activities are criminal in nature. Sociologist Jeffery Fagan, who classified gangs inL.A., Chicago and San Diego, found that gangs range from informal social networks to delinquent and organized gangs, with only the latter being involved in the types of activities the public associates with gangs. According to Lieutenant Coleman, South Bendis free from organizedand drug gangs, although he acknowledged that behaviors oflocal gangs include such illegal activities as the use and sale of drugs, intimidation, vandalism, graffiti, assaults, weapons.guns and violence. for the future. Two wanted to be comedi­ans, and one wanted to be an actor," Kelley said of the kids he spoke to, who were without exception young, bright, attractive adolescents who could not see how gang involvement was limiting their life oppor­tunities. 
In fact, sometimes it's the younger kids, those with bright futures who are only pe­ripherally involved with gangs, who pose the greatest danger to society. Known as wanna-bes, these young people actively pursue gang membership, striving to prove to hard-core members that they have what it takes to run with the gang. "The wanna-bes are the most dangerous," confirmed Frank Freedman, ayouth outreach workeratYouth Connections who counsels at-risk youth including active gang members. "Wanna­bes will do almost anything to become part ofa gang. We don't seem to have as much drive-by shootings, but we do have break-symbols include a six-point star, a pitchforlc , pointing up or down, a crescent moon and a five-point star. ' 
*** 

I done shot at em, tried to kill em. A whole bunch of times. I seen em fall. But I didn't even stop to turn around and see. 
-Mean Streets: Our Kids and Gangs 

According to Hay, all of South Bend' s gangs are offshoots of Los Angeles based Bloods and Crips, and use red and blue, the basic colors of those gangs, for their own colors. Coleman said the gangs are organized into two to four major groups, with sub-groups operating underneath them. Corporal Murphy names the Vice Lords, Disciples, G's, the Latin Kings andLatin Dragons, the Demos, the Hoochies, and a new gang 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
-
\ 
"Public perception is created byfront page newspaper articles about someone getting killed." -Rebecca Bordt, professor of criminology 
after South Bend's Chicago Street, are pri­marily a west side gang. 
Police officers, school officials, academ­ics, youth workers and parents may dis­agree as to the severity ofthe gang problem, butthere is consensus among all parties that the potential for the growth ofgang activity is explosive. · Situated between Chicago, Detroit and Cleveland, South Bend is seen as unclaimed territory for major gangs op­erating out of these cities. "South Bend is viewed as an up-and-coming ripe place for gang development -it's at a very ripe stage for blossoming into something big," saidBordt 
Howthecommunityrespondstotheprob­lem ofgangs willbecrucial in reversing the sweep over South Bend. .While creating morejobsand organizedactivitiesfor youths areimportanttactics,self-educationisoften overlooked as a weapon citizens can use to contain the problem, reacting to the media critically and communicating with local agencies such as the police department or youth organizations for accurate informa­tion. 
School boards can develop specific poli­cies to handlegang relatedproblems, so that students like Travis Haynes aren't tempted to fight violence with violence. Penn ad­ministrators toldHaynes thathe would have received protection had he approached teachers or the principal about the intimida­tion he experienced from gang members. However, as Erhardt pointed out, school officials could not watch his stepson 24 hours aday. "Ohsure theywould have done something-whilehe'satschool,"Erhardt said. Whataboutwhenhewasatadanceor a football game though?" Schools like Penn could consider adopting azero-toler­ancepolicyfor violenceand createan atmo­sphere that is safe for all students both at school and school related functions. 
Bordtsuggested thatwealthier, morefor­tunate families might use their resources to hold and organize panels and educate school boards and parent teacher associa­tions. Even those who lack financial re­sources can work to combat gang violence 
"/think it's bad ... you should be able to go to the bathroom without · having three or four people watch out for youo" -Roger Erhardt, parent 

Notre Dame students can getinvolved with Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County, or volunteer to tutor kids at a local community agency. "Tutoring is a big factor," according to Freedman. "In tutor­ing, the young person can also be a friend, help giveguidance. Thesekids will look up to older kids. Ayoung person can have one of the biggest influences on a young gang member." Whether one has financial re­sources or time to give, all South Bend residents have an obligation to intervene in the problem ofgang violence, according to Bordt, who issued this .final challenge: "People in communities outside the inner city have a res~nsibility to find out infor­mationratherthanjustclosingtheireyes.". 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 10, 1994 

631-7569 • 303 LaFonune -glpper.1@nd.edu 

Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 
Igottagon.ow,Rock. But when the team is up against it, and the breaks are beating the boys, you tell them to go in thereandwinjustonefortheGipper. I don't know where I'll be then, in factl don' tknow where I am now."Ronald Reagan recreates his famous role. 
. THE FOG IS GETTING THICKER Once again, as taken word for word from Coach Holtz's press conference: 
"I don't care ifI have to take a sleeping pill. I am going to get some rest I am going to insist the coaches do and this is some­thing thatI have notdone. Maybe you don't think as well in your decision making pro­cess dqring the. week, etc." Come on now coach, there are alot of solutions to the problems of this season, but are sleeping pills really the answer? What ifwe lose to Florida State, do we upgrade to Prozac? 
CRUEL PARENTS 

Have you ever had a friend who goes by his middle name because he is embarrassed by his real first name? The Gipper has a friend like that Yes, the Provost is hiding something, and it's his real first name: Onorato. Dr. Timothy O'Meara is really Onorato Timothy O'Meara. Imagine the grade school nicknames he had to deal with -Mr. Roboto, Ohmygod-o, weird-first­name-o. 
CUT THE YO-CREAM BUDGET 

The Gipper hears from a high-placed source within the hierarchy of the Dining Hall administration that the Dining Halls have already run over budget by a lot The alleged amount currently in the red is alleg­edly somewhere in the hundreds of thou­sands (enough to buy the BMWs and pri­vate plane which the Gipper knows some Dining Hall administrators own). Sounds like there's going to be some drastic cut backs in theme dinners. 
SHOOT ME FIRST _ 
TheGipper' s friendly neighborhood mole in the Athletic Department recently moled the Gipp that the brain-trust in sports mar­keting has recommended that several teal stripes be added to the football jerseys "to update the uniforms and increase sales." TEAL? Who is designing these changes, a transvestite? Didn'tDigger Phelps get fired for those atrocious neon green basketball uniforms? 

AMAZING GRACE 
Very mean people live in Grace Hall. This last weekend some poor freshman drank a little too much fire-water and be­came very sleepy. In fact, he was so sleepy· that he didn't wake up when the Gracie~ covered his face with black shoe polish (highlighted by liquid paper). The obliga­tory coloring contest not being sufficient, the Grades then took the unconscious one over to Flanner and dropped hill) on the corresponding floor. Being much nicer people, theFlannerites discovered this frosh and cleaned him up with lots and lots of shampoo, toothpaste shaving cream (and anything else they could get their hands on). · The Flannerites also "borrowed" his watch, keys and pc,lo shirt The Gipper thinks it's a good thing that Keough and O'Neill will be twin dorms or this kind of intra-dorm cooperation might die with the closing of Grace. (P.S. The combination of chemicals and cleaning agents ended up burning the poor frosh's skin; the Gipp extends his best get-well wishes.) 
30 YEARS AND RUNNING 
During that edge-of-your-seat:,bite-your­nails-to-the-bone victory over Navy, after the Gipper got tired ofplaying with the two beach balls going around the student sec­tion, after he lost interest in the "2-way" wave, after heran out of cups to throw at the Leprechaun, and after he had taken a brief nap for the entire third quarter, the Gipp noticed: <D NBC takes 51 minutes and 36 seconds worth of TV time-outs-theGipp timed it When they start taking a full hour, the Gipp is going. to take a high-powered rifle and shoot the little man with the orange mitts. ® When the football team chaplain (Bill Walsh in a collar) walks back to the locker room while the plays are in progress, he usually steps onto the field at about the 20­yard line and cuts clear across the end-zone to the goal post 
That's it that's all for this week. So for now the Gipp will go back to staring at the holy graffiti on the library-trying desper­ately to get The Rod of Jesse and The Burning Bush in the same picture. . 

SC H O LA S TI C M A G A Z IN E ¦ N O V E M B E R 1 0, -1~ 4 
\ 
I 

Freshman Maria Pia Altavilla and junior Jose Reynoso 


Tales 
have made the physical move from LA. to South Bend,he but the mental transit~on has
from t 
_ not come as easily 



STREET 



hy Chris Lenko 
OnSaturday,October22,afterflying hometoLosAngelesforfallbreak, MariaPia Altavilla was greeted at 
the airport with shocking news. "I got off theplaneandiheard 'Grizzly'sbeenshot... he'sinacoma, ... theNotreDamefreshman reported. Altavilla later found outt that Grizzly, a close friend, had been shot by police officers while attempting a beer run. 

respected gang member]." Altavilla's ac­tivity was also very limited within the gang, because of her ties to her uncle. "I cannot talk to any other guy from another gang unless I have my uncle's permission," said Altavilla, who explained that her uncle has been "trying to push me out of the gang." 
Though she was only peripherally in­volvedwithSotel13,thefreshmanpre-med major has personally experienced many of the horrors ofgang life. She has friends and relatives in jail, and has lost friends and 
Not to be confused with the term Notre~~ family members to gang violence. "I've 

Dame students use to describe a late night trip to Martin's or Osco for purposes of buying alcohol, a beer run in L.A. involves three people running into a liquor store, grabbing two cases each, and escaping into a waiting car. Grizzly is a gang member, and the tragedy served 10 remind Altavilla what she left behind when she chose to come to Notre Dame. 
For Altavilla, who is associated with Sotel 13, a Mexican gang named after a street in herneighborhood, gangs werejust a part of everyday life in the inner city. "You grow up with it," said Altavilla, who has uncles and cousins who are active gang members. "lnever got jumped mbecause· my uncle is apachucho [an established and 

seen a lot more than most Notre Dame 
kids," Altavillareflected. "Like drive-bys. 
The first time it happened to me Iwas in the 
first grade and my friend was in the fourth 
grade. You become immune." 
Jose Reynoso, a junior from South Cen­tral Los Angeles, can relate to the culture shock Altavilla experienced when she ar­rived in Indiana Like Altavilla, Reynoso lives in a gang-saturated neighborhood. Reynoso said there are three rival gangs in a IO block radius in his neighborhood, in Watts,L.A: GrapeStreetWatts,aHispanic gang, Colonia Watts, a Mexican gang; and · Fudgetown Mafia, a black gang. "You can hear shooting every day," said Reynoso. "The comer ofmy house is new gang terri­
tory. I hear shooting every day and drop to the ground." 
One of the hardest things for Altavilla and Reynoso is worrying about friends and relatives who remain in violence-ridden neighborhoods. The summer before his sophomore year, the week before he leftfor school, a rival gang drove by Reynoso's home and started a fight with his cousin, a member of Grape Street Watts. A fight broke out, and the gang members stole Reynoso' s aunt's car and fled, swearing the incident was not over. "They were imply­ing there was going to be a drive-by shoot­ing," said Reynoso. "I was worried and calledhomeeveryday. It'sbeenoverayear now." · 

It only takes a phone call to jolt Reynoso back to the harsh realities of life in South Central L.A. "Last year on Thanksgiving I got a call from my family, One of my cousins had been killed in a drive-by shoot­ing over Thanksgiving," Reynoso said qui­etly. "Because I'm from the area I should ­cope with it, but it's been really tough to handle. In a way I still miss my home ... I know it's something I don't want But it's still part of me." Reynoso, who is the first resident of Watts, a community ofl5,000, to go to a major university outside Calif or­

8 


. ~ -' . •: . -. . ,.. 
. ' 
' \ -• I • • , 
• • -• ,, • > -• • ~ , 
' ~ . .,, . ,, . 

nia, credits his parents for keeping him out of gangs. "I give a lot of credit to my parents. They kept me in school, put me in Catholic schools, and we went to church every Sunday." Reynoso'syoungerbrother, Felipe, is now a freshman at Notre Dame, having followed in his older brother's foot­steps. 
Altavilla is also one of the few people in her neighborhood to attend college, and though she loves Notre Dame, she admits the adjustment hasn't been an easy one. "It's hard to deal with the lifestyle and high class people," she admitted. "I grew up on the streets." Part of her still finds it difficult to believe that she made it this far: "This is incredible for me tobe here. I sit in the dorm and stare out onto the quad and say I can't believe I'm f--here. At Notre Dame of all places." Altavilla copes with the dis­placement by writihg stories of her gang adventures and experiences, and she willbe published in the next issue of Nuestra Voz, a newsletter for Hispanic students on cam­pus. She has also become involved with youth in the South Bend community, after signing up to work with an inner city com­munity organization at Activities Night her first week at school. "I've always wanted to make a contribution to the community," said Altavilla. "I need to be able to work within the inner city. I'm from the inner city." 
After she learned there were cholos, (Hispanicgangmembers)righthereinSouth Bend, Altavilla ended u oin to mass 
Photos courtesy of Maria Pia Altavilla 
with them one Sunday morning. "At first it was weird," she admitted. 'They mad dogged me (stared her viciously up and down). Eventuallythough,Altavillaearned the respect of the group, and now hangs out with them on Tuesdays and Sundays, when the group goes to mass, watches movies, or goes bowling. 
Like Altavilla, Reynoso remains con­nected to the gang culture, but rather tll'an work with the local gang population, he has made it his mission to educate Notre Dame students about the dynamics of gang ·in­volvement, hoping to open their eyes to the problem that plagues his city. With the 
Altavllla, right, kneels with hometown friend In front of a graffiti mural located In Venice Beach. 
support of Campus Ministry and LULAC, the League for United Latin American Citi­zens, Reynoso will be flying two of his cousins, Teresa Romo and Miguel Rodas, to Notre Dame to speak to students about gang involvement Both are active mem­bers ofGrape Street Watts, and by having them address the student body and explain why they feel gang membership is their only alternative, Reynoso hopes that stu­dents will become more sensitive to the problems faced by Latino youth growing up in gang-ridden neighborhoods. 
Altavilla, meanwhile, is still waiting for word of Grizzly' s condition. The last she heard, the gang member was out of his coma, but unable to speak. The doctors aren't sµre ifthis problem is temporary, or ifGrizzly will ever speak again. According to Altavilla, the word on the street is that it was a rival gang -not the police -who injured Grizzly, beating him over the head with glass bottles. There is talk of revenge on the streets. Meanwhile, in South Bend, Altavilla can only wait And hope. And pray. . 

Members of the LA. based street gang, Sotel 13, show their colors and signs at Venice Beach. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
9 



For some the Office

Placement 
or 

Debasement 
by Shannon Forbes 

T:mHobanhas been suspended. He's not barred from school. He's not banned from an athletic terun. In­
stead, Tom Hoban is in trouble with Career and Placement. "My white sheet wasn't in my bin, so I 
dents are dissatisfied with CareerandPlace­ment and feel that the program is neither helpful nor efficient 
English majorAnneMcNameyhasfound her experience with Career and Placement frustrating. "Career and Placement leads Arts and Letters students to believe that they will be successful during their job search," she said. "Halfway through their 

thought my interview might be can-r-c-=-c,,--,,.,-, celled or moved. I'm probably 95% at fault, but I'm still suspended for the month ofNovember." 
Because Hoban missed his ap­pointment, he is unable to use Ca­reer and Placement's interviewing service from November 9 until No­vember31. "I understand their point of view. It's not right of me to sign up for an interview and not show up," Hoban said. "But I took the honest approach in my explanation, and I thought they might have had a little more sympathy. ·1 think the penalty is kind of stiff." 
Notre Dame's Career and Place­ment Services, located in the base­ment of theHesburgh Library, do not provide exact statistics pertain­ing to the program's ability or in­abilitytoplacestudents, butnumer­ous students look for jobs through this Notre Dame service. Although 

the program is able to place a num-. . tan 
ofCareer and Placement opens the door to the professional world -for others the office's door is not quite open 

senior year, however, they often find them­selves with neither prospective interviews nor any hope of entering the workforce directly after graduation. Career and Place­ment mostly offers interviews with compa­nies that are interested in business related majors, particularly accounting. There are almost no publishing companies, journal­ism-related prospectsorpotentialjobsavail­
able to students interested in theater, foreign languages or public rela­tions." 
American studies major Amy Walker agrees. "Career and Place­mentinsinuates that they offer equal opportunity to all majors. They go so far as to off er a Career and Place­ment orientation for each individual college," she said. Walker attended the Career and Placement orienta­tion for Arts and Letters majors and wasverydisappointed. "Mostofthe speakers had degrees in business and could not relate to Arts anq. Letters students. Little information was offered about the humanities or foreign languages." 
Walker has found Career and Placement so useless that she hasbeenforced tocontinueherjob search on her own. "Basically, Arts and Letters seniors will find that search­ing for a job is very difficult unless 
vans 

they have some kind of pull or con­
berofseniors itis not without criti-Kit Noren, senior Finance major, prepares for an Interview In 
nection outsideofCareerandPlace­
• the waiting room of Career and Placement. 
cism. Many Arts and Letters stu-· . ment," she said. "Arts and Letters 
10 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 10, 1994 


students have virtually no chance of finding 
a job through Career and Placement be­
cause the services apply mainly to those 
interested in business or computers." 
Senior chemical engineering major Pa,t 

Gibbons believes that engineers are in de­
mand as well as the business students, but 
Gibbons still has complaints about the pro­
gram. "Career and Placement operates 
under cramped quarters, is very rushed and 
does not have enough people to adequately 
meet the needs of Notre Dame students. 
The people who do work there do not pro­
vide students with enough time. The whole 
process is rushed." 
Even students who have had positive 

experiences withCareer and Placement are 
concerned with the program's ineffective­
ness. Accounting major Amy Visnosky, a 
seniorreceivedasummerintemshipthrough 
the campus service, but still claims that it 
caters to thebusiness students to enhanceits 
/ . 

own reputation. "Career and Placement 
boasts about its ability to place a large 
number · of students, but this power and 
success is due to the fact that most of the 
students placed are in high demand majors 
such as accounting or computers." 
Career and Placement admits that it sim­

ply cannot fmd jobs for students in low-_ 
demand majors. Only particular types of 
companies want to come to campus to re-· 
emit students who will fulfill their indi­
vidual needs. It is a nationwide fact that 
business,particularlyaccounting, is aboom­
ing field wherejobs are plentiful and prom­
ising. 
Kitty Arnold,directorofCareerandPlace­

ment, feels that many students begin their job search with unrealistic expectations of the service. "Non-business related majors need to understand that they will undergo a more complicated job search than the busi­ness and computer majors." Arnold claims that Career and Placement offers opportu­nities for non-business majors in such areas as investment banking, retail, insurance and other business-related situations. "The op­portunity exists, but the general consensus . is that non-business majors are not inter­ested in these jobs. Non-business majors must rrieet the marketplace as it exists. It is very difficult, but they must conform to the way the job market operates. This is why fewer Arts and Letters students take advan­tageofCareerandPlacementservices; most understand that a graduate degree or law 
vans 

degree will enhance their otherwise ques­tionable marketability." 
CareerandPlacementtriestorecruitcom­panies interested in non-business majors, but it is oftentimes not cost effective for these companies to come to campus, they 
· claim. This inconvenience explains why few publishing and public relations compa­nies offer prospective jobs to Notre Dame students through Careerand Placement As a result, the service offers a group of alter­native avenues to explore options other than direct, on-campus interviewing. In addition to the campus interviewing pro­gram, Career and Placement offersjob fairs where organizations and companies are available to talk with students about pro­spective positions and other opportunities. CareerandPlacementoffersacareerlibrary thathasreferences intended to help students identify potential job openings. 
Career and Placement also offers work­shops that are open to any Notre Dame student These workshops inform students about obtaining internships, assessing tal­ents and skills, conducting job searches off campus, writing powerful resumes and de­veloping interviewing skills. Individual assistance with career consultants is pro­vided to students as well. 
Most students will agree, however, that searching for jobs is a tedious, frustrating and competive process. . 
11

S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ N O V ~ M B E R 1 0 , 1 9_9 ,t 



11 ,_ 
With both teams out ofthe championship hunt, when the Fighting Irish and 
the Seminoles meet in.the Citrus Bowl on Saturday, 




by Kevin Eckhardt 

AsShawn Wooden left the ground, leaving the earth and the end zone far below, mill~ons of eyes watched the Charlie Ward pass drift tow~d the back of the zone, toward that space between the impossible victory and crushing defeat In that one eternal fraction of a second, as the stands rose in unison, Wooden could not have seen what lay ahead for the two teams locked in the Game of the Century, the most hyped contest in college football history. None of the Fighting Irish or the Seminoles could see the way fate would twist Florida State and Notre Dame in the shoriyear ahead. For Wooden, for Ward and Bowden and Holtz and the millions, there was just the ball.... · A year ago, Lou Holtz was one of those millions watching that pass. Now he is staring straight down at what seems like the rock­bottom oftheFighting Irish season. He turned his eyes away from the exulting Boston College throngs taking down the goal posts. A week later, he turned from the field once again. Tom Krug's last­minute pass glanced off Oscar McBride's hands, and Notre Dame went down to Brigham Young. To many, Holtz looks older than he should, older than tlie man who watched Ward let the ball fly toward a touchdown or a defeat Now, no title will ride on any pass. Wooden left the ground with the millions holding their breath in 
Ayearago,Bobby Bowdenwatched the man upon whom hehad pinned his best shot at a championship fling that desperation toss toward the goal line, and he saw Wooden leap, and he waited. He waited two months, until a night when the warm Florida breezes blew a championship into the Orange Bowl as the millions looked on. A year later, Bowden looks older, having watched his team spend the off~season of their discontent acquiring police dossiers and Sports Illustrated cover stories. The chants of"Tairited Title" ring in his ears, and Bowden has begun to doubt himself. After remarking that one ofthe reasons FSU won last year was that he is such a nice guy, a reporter pointed out that he still was a nice guy. He replied, "I don'iknowabout that I think that's unraveled." 
Bowden came into this year with a young team, without eleven of last year's starters. Then those same Florida breezes blew into the Orange Bowl and Miami brought defeat to the Seminoles. Their title hopes vanished. Bowden looked 11way, stared down at the turf, walked off the field silently, and wondered just what else could happen to make those memories of his crowning glory, his ultimate moment, seem more distant, what could make them fade further and furtherbeneath the headlines and thewhisperedrumors. 
Ayear later, no huge stakes fay on the Notre Dame-Florida State game. It will affect bowl placement, but bowl p1acement means little to two programs accustomed to the New Year's Day battles, to the games that carry all the chips, all.the glory and the ultimate prize, to last-second desperation tosses and the heroic leap, in front 

\ 
The task for the Irish offense is to neutralize Florida State's big play linebackers.' Ron Powlus must have time to throw, and the piecemeal line needs to keep the holes for Kinder and company open long enough. The 'Nole secondary is formidable, boasting one of the best comers in the nation, Clifton Abraham, and Devin Bush, a talented safety. Powlus should get one-on-one coverage often on either Mike Miller or Derrick Mayes and must find them quickly when Florida State sends their ferocious pass rush, featur­ing the two Derricks, Brooks and Alexander. The offense has to retain its. composure under pressure. 
The Notre Dame defense must render the Seminole arsenal useless by putting pressure on the revolving point in the FSU offense, quarterback Danny Kanell. If pressured as he was by Miami, Kanell may make the bad call, and mistakes are going to be the pivotal factor in a game that should be a defensive contrast with last year's shoot-out Warrick Dunn, a sophomore back with
I 
tremendous speed, andKez Mccorvey, a seriousbreakaway threat, \ cannot be allowed out of containment Bowden's team has a strong, experienced offensive line that the Irish must keep off­balance with blitzes and stunts. IfNotre Dame can get to Kanell, benched against Miami and easily rattled, their many offensive . targets are idled. A year ago, millions watched Shawn Wooden leave the ground. Now, the memory is clouded with the haze of a lost season and the fog ofdoubt, and the millions have turned away, toward Penn State or Nebraska. But the Fighting Irish are still here, and this game is still to be played, the heroics perhaps on hold, the ultimate glory a dream on the far distant horizon. More is at stake here than a bowl bid or television ratings or national ranking. This game is about pride; about the eyes that have turned away from theFighting Irish, 
•; 


Former Florida State quarterback Charlie Ward scrambles left . with three seconds remaining In last year's Game of the Century. 
the eyes of the peopie in the stands, and the eyes of the team itself. The time has come to look again, and see just what this group can do. The Florida breezes will blow into the Citrus Bowl oil 'November 12 and bring further shame or rekindled pride to the Fighting Irish. D 

Preying on the Weak 
Once ranked the most difficultin the nation, Notre Dame's schedule offootball opponents is goingflat 
by Kevin Eckhardt 

Imagine this scene at Notre Dame Stadium on a clear bright fall day, a scene.that shone like so many of those amazing moments in Fighting Irish history. The students rushed the old field that had seen so many legends and myths act out their greatness, and they tore down the goal posts ravenously to celebrate the Irish victory over the Division I-AA Miami of Ohio Redskins. Ormaybe that was the Navy Middies, the same team that had not beaten a Division I opponent in two years. Oreven Northwestern, whose last glory days were during the Kennedy administration under a young Ara Parseghian. The Fighting Irish are, with some exceptions, a consistent top­10 team yearin and yearout, yetit seems as ifthe scheduleNotre Dameplays is getting weaker and weaker. The lack oftop-notch teams on the Irish schedule leaves many wondering. "TheNotreDameschedulehasbeenrated_thetoughestoverall since I've beeri here," said Head Coach Lou Holtz. In fact, the NCAA ranked Notre Dame's schedule the most difficult in the country over Holtz's first five years, from 1986-90. Under Holtz, Notre Dame has gone 19-10-1 against top-10 teams, which include powerhouses Miami, Penn State, Michigan and Florida State. None ofthese teams are on the schedule for next season, and oilly Michigan will appear among Irish opponents in the remainder of this century. The athletic department disagrees that Notre Dame is playing a sub-par slate of teams. The schedules for the years in question, 1995 and 1996, were made by former Athletic Director Gene Corrigan. As current and outgoing Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal observed, "These schedules must be viewed in con­text A team may be scheduled ten years before the game; and the team may be in a down period when the game rolls around." Notre Dame is not the only team to face the dilemma of scheduling far in advance. ''We have Florida State scheduled through 2009, and many of our games through 2006," Miami Assistant Athletic Director Larry Wahl added. Still, the ques­tion must be asked: were Miami of Ohio (on the schedule for i997), Northwestern, and the Service Academies recently on 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
13 



thewayup? Sometimes,rivalriesmustbemaintained. "We've played Navy for seventy years, and there is a history with Anny and Air Force," Rosenthal continued. 
NotreDamealsohasconsiderablefreedomingettingterunstoplay. While other independent schools with lesssuccessful pmgrams might have aproblem in scheduling tough foes, Notre Dame could play any teain it wants. "Everybody wants to play them, with the TV exposure· and name mystique they possess," said Wahl. Unlike conference­bound teruns, which have seven to eight games already set, the Irish can play whom they want, when they want and where they want "A lot of teams want to play Notre Dame," noted Holtz. "When people play Notre Dame, it helps their recruiting tremendously." Then, one might wonder, why are these lower-tier teruns on the schedule of Notre Dame, a squad made famous by Knute Rockne's "suidde seasons?" The seasons were so namedbecauseRockne scheduled the best football teams in the land (which included Anny, Nebraska, Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech, Northwestern, Minnesota and USC), yet almost always won. 
Thegames will improve, though. Rosenthal has arranged for Notre Dame to play Nebraska, Tennessee, and Texas A&M; the rivalries 
Perrennial powerhouse Miami will not square offagainst the Irish in the· regular season since Notre Dame has removed the teamfrom all future schedules 
Notre Dame rose to national 
. . 
promznence zn college football under Knute Rockne who often scheduled seven or more imposing teams in his famous "suicide seasons" 

with Boston College and Brigham Young have been extended. «we play the best from each conference," Rosenthal declared. And the teruns on next year's slate, although not top-IO caliber, do have histories of success and good prospects. 
"Next year we pick up Texas, Ohio State and Washington. They may not be one, two or three, but they've all won champi­onships recently," Holtz said. Recently has taken on a rather. relative tone-the Buckeyes' last title was early in the Nixon presidency, and Texas last claimed the crown when the Beatles were still together. Washington is a probation-plagued squad whose title in 1991 was not unanimous. 
The Fighting Irish have an unusually weaker schedule for 1995 and 1996, and thus expectations will be high. Coach Holtz is often called one of the best big-game coaches in football, but he will be a prime-time coach leading his squad against teruns bound for the Hall-of~Fame and Citrus Bowls. And as for that glorious scene oftriumph over the unbeatable foe, winning over Florida State or Miami or Penn State against unbelievable odds, well, the goal posts willgo downjustas easily after that smashing of Air Force. -. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup of the week in sports 
November 1 to November 8 edited by Jake Schaller 
WOMEN'S SOCCER The number one-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team keeps rolling along. The Irish breezed through the MCC Tournament this past weekend, securing the number­one seed for the NCAA Central Region, and a first round bye. As the top seed in the region, Notre Dame will host the tourna­ment this weekend. 
Notre oam·e left no doubt as to who the powerhouse of the MCC is. The Irish outscored opponents by an amazing22-1 in three games, shattering records in the pro­cess. In just over 41 minutes, the Irish netted seven goals against Wright State, setting a single game tournament scoring record. The depth of the Irish attack was apparent, as seven different players scored 
The nextdayagainstXavier,NotreDame outdid the!J1Selves. The Irish ambushed the Musketeers with eight goals in the first 34­minutes of the contest, paving the way to a 10-0 blowout. Rosella Guerrero and Michelle McCarthy had two goals apiecein the win, while the Irish defense allowed only one shot on goal. 
The finals showed the confidence and maturity of the squad. After a scoreless first half, the Irish regrouped and netted five second-half goals for a 5-1 win and the championship. Forthesecond time in three tournament games, five different players scored for Notre Dame. 
With thecloseoftheMCCseason, awards ·pouredin. JuniorForwardRosellaGuerrero was named the conference player of the year, the second straight Irish player to win the award. Guerrero also was named to the first-team all-conference squad along with fellow junior Michelle McCarthy, sopho­mores Cindy Daws and Jen Renola, and freshman holly Manthei and Kate Sobrero. Manthei was also named the MCC New­comer of the Year. For the fourth straight year, headcoachChrisPetrucelliwas named MCC Coach of the Year. 
MEN'S SOCCER After a disap­pointing regular season, the Notre Dame Men's Soccer team stepped up their level of play for the MCC Tournament, win~ ning It for the second consecutive year. 
The climax ofthe tournament W8:5 a 136­minute, 51-second contest against Wiscon­sin-Milwaukee. Thelrish builta2-0leadon goals by freshman Ryan Turner and sopho­more Konstantin Koloskov, but the Pan­thers rallied. Wisconsin-Milwaukee's Trevor Sisk scored two goals in 12 minutes, the second coming withjust45 seconds left to go in the contest, to tie the game. 
Halfway into the second overtime, how­ever, the Irish got the break they needed A penalty in the Goalkeeper's box gave Notre Dame a penalty kick. Koloskov netted the shot for his second goal and the Irish ~ic­
tory. . 
Koloskov's heroic effort earned ·me_ sophomore a place on the All-Tournament team with Tony Capasso and Tim Oates. Oates was alsonamed thetournamentMVP. 
Bert Bader, the four-year starting goalie, became Notre Dame's save leader. ·with his 15 saves during the MCC Tournament, Bader has 80 for the season and 299 for his career. 
With the tournament crown, the Irish earn a play-in contest against Central Con­necticut, the Mid-Continental Conference champions. A win in the contest on No­vember 12 will assure the Irish ofa berth in the NCAA tournament. 


Predictions 
Kennedy's Kall: The BC game already proved that revenge is not a factor, and last year's FSU game proved that Holtz wins the big games. Powlus wants to "be great," and his wishes will be realized. Zellars and Becton will shock the Seminoles with their effectiveness, and the Notre Dame defense will rattle Kanell. Notre Dame 24, Florida State 18. Schaller's Schot: With two weeks to work, the Irish come outrested and ready. Powlus steps up with the best game of his career, and the return of Zellars sparks the ground game. The Irish secondary gives FSU quarterback Danny Kanell fits, picking off two balls, and returning one for a score to seal the win. Notre Dame 28, Florida State 20. 
S C H O LA S TI C M A G A Z I N E ¦ N O V ,E M B E R 1 0, 1 9..:.9---.4 

A many-splendored thing 
Student groups prove there's much more to Notre Dame theater than just mainstage 
by Tony Leonardo 

You're at a supennarket And you really love cheese, so naturally you head right over to the deli to select the latest in fresh, delicious con­gealed dairy product But wait! What's this.? "Sorry," says the friendly supennarket employee. "We only have cheddar. In a coupleofmonthswe'llhavecolby, though." He or she then goes on to tell you there will, in fact, be only FOUR kinds ofcheese available this whole year, and, what's even worse, you probably won't even get any unless you're a regular shopperat this store. What's a fairly inexperienced but enthusi­astic cheese lover to do? Ah-ha! Wait just a minute there, sorry soldier! Don't hang down your head and cry. Perhaps you aren't checking in the right section of the store. Perhaps you don't need to get your cheese from the expensive, high-profile deli. Perhaps there are;many morejustas tasty but much more accessible varieties of cheese in the dairy case! Perhaps this is a stupid analogy for the-= ater at Notre Dame. But it's worth consid­ering if the more high-profile mainstage shows pi.It on by the Communication and Theatre department (COTH) seem a bit intimidating. Each year the department does put on four shows, and each year only a limited number of people can participate in them. But theater at Notre Dame does anything but end with those four shows. · Whether you're looking for theater that bucks con­ventions, theater that enlivens the tradi­tional, or simply theater that is meant to be a good time, you can find it here. The dairy case of theater under the dome is well­stocked with cheeses to suit every theatri­cally inclined palate's preference. Here are a few of this year's finest selections. 
Freshman Four 
The Freshman Four is a series of four one-act plays directed by freshmen, per­fonned by freshmen, and watched by fresh­men. From those who have experienced it, the word is that it is a guaranteed good time. Everyone involved is straight out of high school and eager to start the new college life, and as such, thecamaraderieamong the perfonners is obvious. All freshmen are invited to tryout, regardless of experience. The four directors choose the cast, and the shows areperfonned one night at Washing­ton Hall or in the LaFortune ballroom. 

typically full-length plays with large sets. These plays are successful every year and truly allow for creative expression within a welcoming environment of donn friends. 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 

The Not-So-Royal group was founded five years ago and is sponsored by the London Program. This acting ensemble perf onns a different Shakespeare play each year. The Not-So-Royal group stresses that the plays are primarily for fun and tl1at experience, though helpful, is not neces­sary. Students from majors other than 
Visiting director Bonnie Monte offers senior COTH major Camlen Quigley a suggestion during rehearsal for .the upcoming mainstage production of The Bacchae. The show 
runs Nov. 16-20 at 
Washington Hall. 

Dorm Plays 
Each year, a few donns receive funding and put on fairly large-scale production~ of different plays. The donn plays typically allow only members from that particular donn to try out, although obviously mem­bers of the opposite sexare welcome. Since the entire artistic and production crew live in the same donn, the cast is close-knit. 
The donn plays allow dorm members the opportunitytotryouttheaterinanarenaless competitive than mainstage. John "Babe" Ruskusky, producer of last year's Cavanaugh production of The Foreigner, commentedon theseproductions as "agood outlet for people in other majors to express their creative side." Donn plays are done entirely by students and the productions are theater often become involved in these productions as well. 
The productions remain faithful to Shakespeare and typically do not attempt to modernize the show. Costumes are obtained from the extensiye Saint Mary's collection and sets are minimal. Every year these shows have proven to be highly en­tertaining and enjoyable for the audience and participants alike. 
Senior Josh Hartman is currently run­ning the group. A play has not been picked yet, but it will be perfomed next semester. 
Student Players 

Student Players has typically been a or­ganization of specialized theater majors dedicated to putting on one major all-stu­dent production a year. This year, how-
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE m NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
ever, under the leadership of co-organizers Steve Susco and Mike Kersey, the group is trying to act as a "nexus for any kind of student performance." He considers Stu~ dent Players a facilitator for people who have ideas and would somehow like to get those ideas actualized. 
The group has so far sponsored a reading of ghost stories on Halloween in Washing­ton Hall-an event that Susco and Kersey would like to see continued as a campus tradition. The duo was pleasantly sur­prised when 350 attended the reading. 
Susco says that the group will also be doing a play in Washington Hall next se­mester and is currently trying to organize a Monty Python show for the spring, possi­bly in conjunction with AnTostal. There is no official membership in Stu dent Players. 
acting classes are required to put on shows at the end of each semester. Directing students have the opportunity to select a short play, audition and cast it, and design the set, lights and sound. These produc­tions are creative, and generally, "anything goes." In the past, students have even written and directed their own plays. 
Senior Jen Andre, currently directing one such show, commented, "Lab theater is the only place where the audience can feel like a part of the show." Lab theater shows are almost always done "in the round;" the audience is seated in a circle around the production area, creating the stage purely by their presence. The bound­aries are often blurred, however, when actors perform outside the arena and within the audience. 
Garrick. Starting next week is visiting 
director Bonnie Monte's v'ision of 
Euripides' The Bacchae. 
According to Josh Hartman, the show is 

going to be a "visual extravaganza" with 
lots oflighting and sound effects to comple­
ment the talented cast Dr. Bain, as well, 
notes that it will be a much more exotic 
production than usual. 
In addition to Monte, who serves as 

artistic director of the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival, the cast has been . working with a local specialist in choreog­raphy, and will be wearing costumes that 
Members of The Bacchae's cast concentrate Intently during a rehearsal in the lower levels of Washington Hall. 
Stan Evans 


Whether you're looking for theater that bucks conventions, or theater that enlivens the traditional, or simply theater meant to be a good time, you can find it here at Notre Dame. 

Stan Evans 
Behind-the-scenes work can be quite involved In larger productions. Here, a fake head ls created backstage with the aid of plaster casts. 

Lab Theater 

Perhaps the most exciting and original outlet for campus theater exists in the Lab Theater productions. The Lab Theater is a small theater located on the third floor of Washington Hall behind the mainstage. It is equipped with lights, a sound system and two closets of props. 
LabTheaterproductionsareusually done inconjuction with theCOTHdepartment's directing and acting classes. Taught by Dr. Reginald Bain, acting chair of the depart­ment, students in ·advanced directing and 
Since most of these projects are done by COTH students seeking to perfect their art, these productions usually highlight the cre­ative force of students and showcase their talent The productions are professional andreveal thededicationputinto theproject 
Upcoming Lab Theaterproductions will be held the first two weekends in Decem­ber. 
Mainstage Productions 
Last but not least are the mainstage pro­ductions, produced by the Communication and Theater department. These perfor­mances are well-publicized and are di­rected by professionals. This semester featured Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot, a difficult but entertaining play directed by the department's Father David accent the play' s mystery and Eastern in­fluences. 
Although the theater community here may seem to focus more intently on high­profileshows such as TheBacchae, there is · certainly no less talent or desire at work in the other opportunities listed here. If any­thing, it is when the spotlight isn't on that the actors, directors, producers, designers and stage crews at Notre Dame are at their most creative. This relaxed atmosphere, combined with the true diligence and en-. ergy of those involved, makes these theat­rical alternatives to the mainstage some­thing worth selecting -for anyone. D 
JosefEvans contributed to this article. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•NOVEMBER 10, 1994 17 

SCHOL A S,T IC MAG AZ IN E ¦ NOV EM BER 1 0, 1 9 9 4 
BRUNO'S 111[ Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 -1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE. 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 261 OPrairie Ave. 273-3890 · 288-3320 "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" . We 9ffer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.  

SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY-Size Appetite!!! Light Appetites: Big Appetites: 6 FootParty Sub6 Inch Cold Cut Combo Only $1.49! · • SR 23 At Iro11wood • US 31 N (By North Vil/age Mall)  





Coming 
Distractions 
From November10 -16 
Field, Rink, Court & Pool 
Hockey: All games played in the north dome of the JACC. Notre Dame vs. Ferris State, Fri., 7:00 p.rn. Notre Dame vs. Ferris State, Sat., 7:00 p.rn. 
Volleyball: All games played in the south dome of the JACC. Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin-Green Bay, Fri., 7:30 p.rn. Notre Dame vs. LaSalle, Sat., 2:00 p.rn. Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Sat., 7:30 p.rn. 
Soccer: Women's NCAA Regional Semifinal and Final TBA vs. William & Mary, Sat., 1:00 p.rn. TBA vs. Notre Dame, Sat., 3:30 p.m. Win•ners of Saturday's Garnes, su·n., 2:00 p.rn. 
Cultural Connection 
Fall Concert: Notre Dame Chorale, Wed., B:00 p.rn.,Basilica 
of the Saree! Heart. Acoustic Cafe: Every Thurs., 9:00 p.rn., Huddle. African Film Festival: "Neria,n Fri;, 7:00 p.rn., Rm. 119 
DeBartolo. 
Lectures and Seminars: 

•"The 
Morality of Homosexual ~onduct," Michael J. Perry, Northwestern University, Thurs., 4:00 p.rn., Courtroom, ND Law School. 

•"East 
Asian Models, North American Ideology, and the Future of the Latin American State," Peter Evans, UC­Berkeley, Thurs., 8:00 p.m., .Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 


•Multicultural Student Affairs LecJure, Tues., 7:00 p.rn., Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. · · Art Exhibit: "David to Degas: 19th Century European Master 
Drawings,n Snite. Play: "The Bacchae," Wed., 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall. 

On the Silver Screen 
Montgomery Theater: On the first floor of LaFortune. "Batman," Thurs.,7:30 & 10:30 p.rn., $1. · 
Cushing Auditorium: 
"Wolf,n Fri.-Sat., 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., $2. 
Cinema at the Snlte: 
''The Hudsucker Proxy, n Mon., Fri.-Sat., 7:30 & 9:45 p.rn. "Misty Wharf," Mon., 7:oo p.m. "lcycle Thief," Tues., 7:00 p.rn. 
University Park West: 277-7336. "The Lore," PG-13, 1:15, 4:00, 6:45, 9:30. "Stargate," PG-13, 1:40, 4:10, 7:00, 9:50. "Love Affair,n PG-13, 2:30, 5J0. 
University Park East: 277-J-336. "Pulp Fiction," R, 1:30, 5:00, 8:15. "The Specialist," R, 1 :45; 4:20, 7:20, 9:50. "Frankenstein," R, 1:45, 4:30, 7:15, 10:00. "Double Dragon," PG-13, 1:00, 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:30. "Squanto," PG, 2:10, 4:40. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. "The Thump Masters," R; 4:30, 7:15, 9:40. "Forrest Gump," PG-13, 6:45, 9:45. "Quiz Show," PG-13, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00. 
Saint Mary~ Collegg 

Film: "A Comedy Marathon," Fri., 6:_oo p.rn., Carroll Auditorium, SMC. Play: "A Doll's House," Thurs.-Sun.; 
8:00 p.rn., Little Theatre, Moreau Center, SMC. · 

Senior Dads Weekend 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
• ' ' • • ' •• ·._. • '. • • • • • • • • • J •• -' • ' ' [ ' • 
• -• -• , • -,, 
• , ~ • I ' !! . ' ' • ' ,• ' ' • , ­
-' . .., ' ' \. ' , , . . . . , ·-\ . , . -,. . 


News ofthe Bimrrefrom Our Nation's Universities 
Ben & Jerry's Expert Crowned Dairy King in Mississippi 
Lee Ford,. a junior at Mississippi State University studyingfood scienceand technology, has earned the right (and hrnor?) to call himself the Dairy King. Why you ask? According to the Chronicle ofHigher Education, Ford has a unique talent: he's an ice­cream connoisseur. He was crowned "best ice­cream taster'' at the 73rd Annual International Colle­giate Dairy Products Contest, which challenges stu­dents to measure the quality of dairy foods by their taste, texture and ingredients. But that's not all! Mississippi State really knows its dairy products. Ford's partner, Melissa Althen, won secondprize in the yogurt division as well! 
Generation X vs. the Flower Children 
This year marks the25 yearreunion for graduating classes of 1969,andMurray State University in Kentucky has.dedicated its Homecoming '94 to their own Class of '69. The Murray State News, in an effort to get the campus into that "groovy, love-in, peace-y" mood, ran a few articles about what was going on in music, TV and the economy. So read on and see how the "times-they've been a changin." 
Top Songs of 1969: 
• 
"Aquarius," Fifth Dimension 

• 
"Bad Moon Rising," Creedence Clearwater Revival 

• 
"Come Together," The Beatles 

• 
"Everyday People," Sly and the Family Stone 

• 
"Hair," Cowsills 

• 
"Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye," Steam 

• 
"Suspicious Minds," Elvis Presley 


1969 TV Debuts: 
• "60 Minutes" 
• 
''The Dick Cavitt Show" 

• 
"Hee Haw" 

• 
"Sesame Street" 

• 
"Monty Python's Flying Circus" 


• "Julia" 
And keep in mind that in 1969, one gallon ofgas cost 38 cents, a six-pack of beer was $1.20, adult admission to the movies was $1.51, and a half-gallon of · milkcost51 cents! 
From the front page of The University Journal at the University of Virginia: 

T he Tulane student newspapaer, called The Hullabaloo [yes The Hullabaloo] recently asked aquestion of a few ofitsnewfreshmen: 
"Ifyou could design your own major, what would it be?" The answers might Sl.llJ)rise you: 
• 
"Maybe shopping would be nice." 

• 
"How society screws people up in the brain." (Does she sound a little bitter to anyone else?) 

• 
"I would like to be a TCBY yogurt cashier." 

• 
"I'd like to major in babe-ology." 



• "I just don't know. I'm so confused." Wow, what a well-adjusted freshmen class Tulane has. Shopping andbabe-ology ... and these are future leaders of our country. . 
commentary by Mary Kate Morton 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E a N O V E M B E R 1 0 , 1 9_9-4 
21 



Grist for the Mill Rick Grey 
1-!0W 'BOOT TI!AT FARLEY ·. HALL?  nlE'r t'i:PBAU.i' EVEiJ Fl~b . our n\AT Tt\E SIMILAR.L'J' lilS06Y­IJ\.STIC.. 571.lFF COITA ALUM/JI I.IAtL WAS JUST -PLANTE!) THl:ec. B'/mROU.. GWS TO 1-V,J:E. rr SEEM ul:'.E. C>TilEl!. MEN H-0£.J) 7HE.  
S4ME. VIE.WS ll  "  
. AIJl:l, OF COO~E 1  
"DEt'~Vl"-\6 CA~OLL. or= INTEAA<-TIDN WIT)-\ /Jj'.)ME}J LMS WE. ~:!POI-Jt)(l)ORt'... FOR. BETTER Gmt:ft  
KELAT/OA)S tJ-J nlE. FOTOiE/  -CQJ  
~  l~  
G  9  

GEEZ, TJ/E F'OLLS'ITTS 
lilJ5T REALLY HATE U5/ ST/Ll NOT f}J THE 
TOP TUJENTY? lJJE CKU.SH8) /JAW
I I 

l.ESSEE, IF /JE llEAT FSU i3\', SAY, 701'01/STS, 
tuE •siiOUl-1> 
6IT lY-0:.. /IJTO THE TD"P 7-K 
TEJ\MS­
l 

U,/4 L llATt TI> &.!NG THIS cJp BOT OOIJ'j 
VOIJ {J.)YS THINK. 1-'0U?E "BEll-Jb JO.s, A LITfLE 
UNtEAUSTIC.. ? 
( 
TIIE ~11.J 
TJ-1/#Jb IS, 
I.OE. STILL· HAVE Al
CIIMICE. 
) 


22 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• NOVEMBER 10, 1994 




ac attac 
Afreshman'sfrenzy over computers 
by Aaron Nolan 

Astone, a Ramen noodle and me: what do these things have in com~ mon? The answer: they all have 
about the same knowledge of computers. No, I'm not afraid to admit that in the blossoming world ofe-mail, Bill Gates and Prodigy, I am a complete cyber-dunce. 
I can't understand where I went wrong. I started out like any other kid, playing "Oregon Trail" and "Spellavator" on the 
old Commodore 64 (the computer version ·of the Model T Ford) in elemen­tary school. One minute, I'm happily playing "Where in ·the World .is Carmen Sandiego?"on the 
Apple Ile, and the next 
thing I know, I'~ lost in ha 
world of alien lingo sue asDOS,WindowsandCD ROM Howdidigetstuck in thiscyber-vacuum while everyone else was jump­ingon-line? 
• The first time I saw a 
friend pull up a picture of a naked woman on his com­puter screen, my initial re­action was, "Sweet Jesus, is this legal? Doesn't the FCChavesomethingtosay 
Now when it comes to e-mail, I can honestly report that I am an utter idiot; perhaps I'm the only person on campus who has not even set-up his e-mail account To tell the truth, I think the e-mail scene intimidates me. It just seems way too easy to send people mail for free -there has to be a catch. Someday, scientists somewhere will discover that e-mail causes cancer or herpes. Until they prove that e-mail is not a health risk, I will continue to exercise "safe-mail." What's$ .29 compared to my health? 
keyboard. Oh, how wrong I was! We spent most of the year learning basic word-pro­cessing, databases and spreadsheets. Now, I don't mean to criticize those who do use spreadsheets in everyday life, but why on earth would a 17-year-old high school se­nior need to know them inside and out, especially when he hardly .knows how to type? Foraboutonequarterofourtime, we actually learned something interesting ­BASIC. Butnowthatl'vememorizedeach BASIC command, especially the "while ... wend" statement, I can't seem to find any 


use for BASIC in college. And after a whole year of bearing with this class, I never even figured out the difference between Mac and Windows, or ifthere is a difference for that matter. 
I don't mean to sound 
~e I blame mthy computer
1
ignorance on o er peop e. I accept responsibility for the wall I've built around ' myself and the computer . world. What I do ask for is 
1

·i.'Y O U . a re a n \\ . 1 
1 ,1, 
\ . f 
\ ' 'I D I OJ ! 1// :i _: ¾ 
, /, , 
4, _ V/2 abitofpityfrommyfellow ~ 1/~ students... If you're in the '1// : Hesburgh cluster one day
lta
and you see a kid strug­gling, on the verge of tears, 
trying to set-up e-mail, · /2 don't roll your eyes in dis­· ·, · · <lain. Instead, walk over 

about this?" Apparently, '-"""===LILU====-II""""'Fi.,_.""'...,,.,..:..-_-_-r_J~"'-~,_--_-_ --' -_ --'-u::f_,_~-"'!..'-~....:."""_-11_,_,and place a sympathetic 
this .is very much legal and is tame com­pared to some of the stuff you can find on-line. Alas, being the computer virgin that I am, the only way I can take part in such wholesomefunisbywatchingoverafriend's shoulder. 
Last year, my senior year in high school, . hand on his shoulder. I'm sure I'll appreci­I decided that since I'd be going to college ate it! . 
· in the fall, I'd better learn something about computers. I enrolled in an introductory . This is a humorous column. The views class thinking that I'd learn everything I'd expresseddo notnecessarilyrepresentthose need to know to become a genius on the ofScholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 10, 1994 
-"· 

Chris Lenka is a juniorfrom Toronto, Canada. She is the news · editor ofScholastic 
Magazine and spent . a month research­ing and interview­ing gangs to write 
the articles which appear in the news and campus life 
sections this week. ­

of South Bend 
One reporter's assignment: meet the gangs on their own terms and on their _own turf 
by Chris Lenko 

Iwouldn'twearthatiflwereyou,"Jeannewamed, as I dressed to meetjunior high gang members at Saint Steven's Parish. Worried that if I looked like a preppy Notre Dame student I might incite the wrath of the Latin Dragons, Jeanne and I did an inventory of my closet Finding nothing scruffy enough to allay her fears, I ended up wearing my favorite jeans and a Polo _sweater. The gulf that _ separates Notre Dame students from 14 and 15 year .old gang members isn't so trivial that it can be papered over with beat up jeans and a dirty shirt. It wasn'tjustmyclothesbutmyclass,raceandethnicity thatsetmeapartfrom the 14and 15 year old affiliates. of the west.side Hispanic gang, Latin Dragons . 
In our cover story feature on South Bend gang members, you mayhavenoticed thatthe voices ofthe gang members tnemselves are conspicuously absent from the article. This was not an oversight on my part. Although the police, high school principals, academicsandparents were eager to contribute to the story, none could put me in touch with active gang members. Gang members aren't like us, so some­times it's easier to forget about them, pretend they're not there. · 
Except they are, arid they're not as different from· you and I as you might think. · On All Saints' Day, while many Notre Dame 
. students were attending mass, agroup of12 Hispanic gang members assembled in a building on South Bend's west side as -they usually do on Tuesday evenings. Becauseitwas a holiday,FatherBillPiher, assistant director of the group, had the young people . actouttheday'sgospelreading. Afteralotofteasing and encouragement, "Pope John Ray" and "St. 
Harvey" gave a modem day account of the spiritual battle in the reading: "Satanic people rushed at us with guns and knive~and we killed them,>' Ray explained. "Youshould have turned theothercheek," Mio interjected,/bnly to be cut-off by Harvey's protests: "But they already started poppin' at us." 
In spite of their laughter, the exercise was not wasted on the kids. Relating the spiritual battle to a 
·gang_ fight, and getting high to experiencing a spiri­tual high, the kids"used the analogies to offer the same insights a Notre Dame student might throw out in a theology class discussion. Mio, a quiet, defiant look­ing kid dressed in black from head to toe, suggested thatwhile thebattlein heaven tookplacelongago,we are still fighting battles now. 
Mio is right Beyond the gang wars. that plague South Bend are the battles kids like Mio and Ray and 
· Rosie and David and Isabel face when people write them off as gang members, kids who don't have a chance to make it Even though Isabel is 14 or 15 years old and h~ an 18 month old baby, and even though Rosie gotfiveF's this semester, thesekids are struggling to make something better of their lives, · examining their gang involvement in the context of other more positive influences and groups: 
Dressed in Starter jackets, baggy pants and black running shoes, it wasn't hard tg imagine these kids flashing their colors on the street or fighting for the Latin Dragons. But as we all stood in acircle and 
, joined hands Tuesday night, Mio said a final prayer for the group that wasn't any different from one that you or I might offer upat mass: ''Thank you God for helping us make itthrough today and please help us make it through tomorrow." Amen. D 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•NOVEMBER 10, 1994'
24 

Catch the Spirit ofNotre Dame · 

Daniel "Rudy'' Ruettiger '76, the Children ofLa Casa, and Your 1995 Calendar. 
Catch "The Spirit of Notre Dame" all year long with this high­quality 1995 weekly planner featuring 52 beautiful photographs ofthe Notre Dame campus. 
The datebook is sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the class of '96, with proceeds from the sale bene.fitting La Casa de Ainistad, Inc., a Hispanic non-pro.fit 
· community center on South Bend's west side. 
Calendars will be available inside the dining halls, or through your junior class hall representative. 
ONLY $10.00 
***************
-', 


DINE~JN GUIDE 
Featuring Menus from lhe A~a's Finest Restaurants 
INTRODUCING ... 

• 
DENNY'S 

• 
The RATHSKELLER 


• 
:.IACRI'S FOOD FACTORY ... Along with 28 other Fine Restaurants 


COMING SOON! 
• 
T.G.l. FRIDA Y'S 

• 
C!IlL!'S Bar & Gnll 

• 
SPAGEDDIE'S 



DINE-IN DELIVERY SERVICE 
We Deliver The Restaurants To You! 
For Delivery Call ... 
272-2-EAT 
I ·.... . . ·. ·.· > ...· . . .. . . ·.·· . " . V .. 
. -. '-. ~ _, _, , ' 












