
The Growth of Science 


SC1HOLASTIC 
The Seventh of September 2006 
Ilews o4 ············· .. ······ ······8 
A HIGH STEP FORWARD Molly Kinder The first female Irish Guard member looks back on the highs and lows of her time with one of the university's most prominent groups. 
-COVER: STATE OF SCIENCE Daric Snyder Scholastic investigates the rhymes and reasons of bolstering the science department at Notre Dame. 
-OPEN ENROLLMENT 
Amy Meyers Notre Dame is joining an international course database that will make lecture notes, syllabi and assignments available to anyone for free. 
Culture 22 
······ ... 
······-DPAC: TWO YEARS IN REVIEW 
Michael O'Connor The performing arts center has loomed large on campus for two years now. Is it meeting its mission to educate Notre Dame students in the arts? 
CAMPUS CHATTER Sarah Barrett Aslice of life from the Notre Dame music scene. 

Sports 26 
:·········!······-SHOOTING FOR THE TOP 
; . i 
. ' Nick Gergen
. . After garnering No. 1accolades, the women's soccer team sets its sights on another national championship. 
_H:um.or_3_3_____ 
-GETTING BEHIND THE DEFENSE Mike Healy What happens when a group of Notre Dame students get drunk and embark on a trip to Georgia? You do not want to know. 
From· the Editor . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Class Spotlight ............25 Staff Editori~I . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Sports Notes .............26 Architecture 'Review . . . . . . .. 15 Gipper ................34 Snapshot , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 9/11 Retrospective .....·....36 
, No. 2 • 7 SEPT 2006 

SCHOLASTIC 
Editors In Chief 
Christopher Meskill 
DavidPoell 
Managing Editor 
Doug Schlarman 
Executive Editor 
Miko Laskey 
Associate Editor 
Claire Sobczak 
Executive Copy Editor 
Regina Gealcki 
Executive Copy Assistant 
Kate Dresser 
Executive Design Editors 
Julio Ruffin 
Jana Stewart 
News 
Carie Snyder, editor 
Kate Furlong, BBSiatant 
Culture 
Michael O'Connor, editor Sarah Barrett, assistant 
Sports 
Mogan Tolgen, editor 'Brittany Lash, aBSistant 
Humor 
Mike Healy, editor 
Joe Lattal, assistant 
Design 
Emma Daugherty, assistant 
BethAnn Visceglia, assistant Carolin Hubschor 
Victoria Lane 
Jane Leo 
Amy Moyers 
Chris Sebastian 
Kelly Wilklnaon 
Photography 
Kristin Keva, editor Juafl MUidoon, assistant Laura doGive 
Courtney Sullivan 
John Tierney 
Copy 
Teresa deVries 
Jessica Farmwald 
Business 
Bryan Lowery, manager Jemini Patel, assistant 
Distribution Bryan Lowery, manager 
Online Michael King, webmaster 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
COVER STORY 
DARIC SNYDER . 
COVER DESIGN 
JANA STEWART 
Disce Quasi S.emper Victr11'US Vive Quasi Cms Mo1·it1m1S 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved, No. contents of this magazine, either in whole or In part, may be repr~duced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not aasumo liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. lime to get buckw11d, baby. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be pubDshed in the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be Withheld uj:)on request in certain instances, I really like S•year-old boys, Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests far corrections made moro than 21 days a~er publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. P•k new facebook. i:-k those creipatera. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or data. Copies of the annual 1o·otball review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on requ0st, The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessa~rily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
7 SEPT 2006 



Corby Night 

i
I
I 
I 
it I 
!; ~s;;;2--r 
i­
i~ 


--""'<~~""'"""""-~"'1i""""'"''J 
Men ofNotre D-ame ... Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 
Tuesday, Sept. 19, 8pm at Corby Hall 


vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? call 1-6385 

... 
~T.n~a;;;;;;­
....:::::Jt II Allill .-.­
.........,.. . . --. . --. . . -.. . . . . . . ... . ... . . . . . . . .. .... . 

Crimes and Misdemeanors 
Recent incidents of off-cam.pus thefts and alcohol­
related offenses heighten awareness of Irish students' 
dysfunctional relationship with the city of South Bend. 
A midst the general sense of optimism in the Notre Dame com­munity during these first few weeks ofthe new academic year, an unwelcome reality has once again come to the fore of the public's attention: South Bend, Ind. is not the safest place to live. During the past three weeks, a series ofthefts and assaults has been committed against stu­dents living in apartment complexes and residential areas near campus. And although concentrated crime against Notre Dame students is nothing new, the most recent wave ofoffenses poses an opportunity for a constructive, intelligent debate among student representatives, university administrators and local officials about the nature ofthis problem and what can be done. The recent spike in criminal activity should come as no surprise. Accord­ing to the "2003 F.B.I. Report of Offenses Known to Law Enforcement," South Bend's per capita rate ofburglary is 1.88 times the national average, while the per capita rate for murder and forcible rape also exceed the national averages by a factor of 1.95 and 2.00, respectively. Whether aware of such statistics or not, all students tacitly assume the higher degree of risk that accompanies such statistics whenever they choose to abandqn the relatively safe confines of the dorms in favor ofoff-campus housing. Given these considerations, Notre Dame administrators should consider themselves fortunate that over 80 percent of students remain on campus year after year. Despite duLac restrictions and some downsides of dorm living, one must concede that it is safer to be nestled in a dorm room than a local residence. Notre Dame's strong on-campus presence is both a bless­ing and a curse when it comes to addressing concerns that primarily affect the minority ofstudents who choose to live off-campus. Since the number ofoff-campus students is so small, problems stemming from student-local relations are easier for the university to ignore. The disconnect between off-cainpus student communities and the ad­ministration has been exacerbated during the past year by the negative image Notre Dame students hold in the minds ofSouth Bend city officials. Reinforced by the passage ofSouth Bend's disorderly housing ordinance in July 2005, the coexistence ofstudents and South Bend residents is anything butpeaceful. Such discontent is most likely a combination oflegitimate con­cerns and negative perceptions. Given the prevalence of crime in the areas immediately surrounding campus, together with aggressive police efforts to enforce violations ofdrinking laws, it is not difficult to understand why many students feel that those living or partying in South Bend are targets of biased police priorities. As the largest contributor to the South Bend economy, Notre Dame is in a unique position to strengthen the relationship between students and locals. But unless the university takes the first step in bringing together a dialogue where the problems of crime and mutual coexistence can be ad­dressed and hopefully improved, an improvement is unlikely. The time for action on this issue is long overdue. . 0 
7 SEPT2006 


I I e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e O e e O e 
e 
The Golden Ticket 
More wins for Irish football lead to a flood of demand for tickets 

'"Kate Furlong 
hose who attempted to get tickets to the highly anticipated USC 
T 
game last fall probably couldn't imagine another game in as high 
demand. Yet, for proof, they need look no further than three of this season's seven home games. The Trojans' arrival on campus for Head Coach Charlie Weis' first season elicited a whopping 54,211 requests in the university's 2005 football ticket lottery. That number, however, pales in comparison to the 66,670 requests for this season's September 9th home opener against the Penn State Nittany Lions and the 61,631 received for the September 16th matchup against rival Michigan. The first two home games of the 2006 season set the record for the most highly requested in Notre Dame history, with the North Carolina and UCLA games also cracking the top 10. While these numbers are a strong indicator that Notre Dame football really is back on top, they also mean there were thousands of disappointed alumni when lottery results were announced in July. 
The Notre Dame Ticket Office undertakes a massive project each year with lottery applications going out to contributing alumni, monogram winners, benefactors and parents of current undergraduate students. Josh Berlo, director of ticket operations, says the actual lottery is "a computerized random number generation algorithm [ ... ] structured to enable as many different alumni to win tickets as possible and return to campus each fall." 
The system, however, isn't completely random and there are ways of improving the likelihood ofwinning desired games. Berlo says, "There are sub-lotteries within the system. These include the Sorin Society and Monogram Club, which have tickets set aside," Berlo says. The Sorin Society consists of individuals who make an annual contribution of at least $1,000 to the university, while the ND Monogram Club comprises those who have earned varsity status on an athletic team or who have been recipients of an Honorary Monogram. Also, Berlo says, "The more games you apply for, the better your chances of winning [ ... ] and requesting group seating for applications does decrease one's odds of winning." 
As for all of those frustrated alumni, Berlo says the university is work­ing on a better system. "Due to the record-setting demand, we did have alumni who were disappointed that they did not receive as many tickets in the lottery as in the past. We are looking at improving the algorithm for future years to handle the immense demand." And, when all is said 
and done, a ticket demand 
··. ·• ·•· \t.•·•.. ?{iilli that dramatically exceeds 
. '._'._~,:-\//"' 
supply is a definite sign that 
·(.' -~;-·,:: .~-­
this year's team wiH be one to watch, whether it's from the 50-yard line, the Backer or anywhere else that bleeds Gold and Blue. And that's nothing to be disappointed about. 0 

7 SEPT2006 


TuE FIRST FEMALE MEMBER OF THE IRISH GUARD REFLECTS ON HER EXPERIENCE 
• Molly KinderLegend has it that one of Navy's and the Notre Dame community ex-,-promise of today's unique student body previous coaches sensed doom pressed their enthusiastic support, my to become a fossilized relic of its once for his team when he saw that selection by Band Director Dr. Kenneth glorious past. the Irish had "guys in skirts" bigger than Dye incited intense opposition within the. Ultimately, progress requires the dis­his players. I've frequently imagined this Guard's ranks and particularly among the mantling of entrenched prejudices and same coach's reaction to emerging from Guard alumni, with a few notable excep-intolerance, and the willingness of the the tunnel on game day and finding a . tions. "\Vithin hours of my appofntment, old guard to welcome the new. Just as it squad of women in skirts who dwarfed my nine fellow .Guardsmen enacted a· takes only one individual to successfully his lineup -a sight guaranteed to purge uniform policy of rejection and disregard. break a barrier, likewise the passing of a the swagger from even the most victori-towards its lone female member. I was ·. torch often requires just one set of hands. ous coach's step. subsequently excluded from all initiation ·· . Such was'my'-dpei-ience during the first Tess Murray's appointment two weeks activities and socializing; rarely apprised football Saturday that I marched with ago to the Irish Guard brings t_he Fight-of essential information, and consistently the Irfsh Guard .. Standing stone-faced ing Irish one (high) step closer to this ostracized by my team members through:-: at attention durin.g my first pregame paradigm of intimidation. When ~he · out the season. This· discrimination was· inspection -u_nder the intense scrutiny dons her shako and kilt on Saturday, Tes's most visible during the Guard inspection· of hundreds of watchful eyes, the glare will assume her groundbreaking role as before home games, when I was excluded. of TV news cameras and the endlessly only the second woman in Notre Dame's from the customary "knock" given by my supportive gaze of my parents and fam­history to march with the Guard. Her captain and further sidelined by return-ily -I heard my captain invite return­participation will be celebrated widely as a ing Guardsmen. ing ·Guardsmen in attendince to inspect seminalacliievementforwomenatNotre While tradition is paramount to the the new members. From the corner of Dame and pr9mises to be yet another ex-unique character ofNotre Dame, taken. . my eye, lsaw, dozens of talt, rowdy men citing highlight ofan electrifying football too far it can stymie both progress and einergeJrom: th~ crowd, and surround season. Beyond adding a new i:erm to the inclusion in the-name· of convention. the six G11ardsmen to· my :left, leaving Fighting Irish lexicon -"Iris_h Guards-Looking around campus today, the me isolated anhe .end of the line. A few woman,"· ~ccording to a recent Observer student body no longer reflects a mirror tense and uncertain minu~es later, one · article -T~ss's accomplishment also image of.the white men immortalized in lone former Guardsman came toward signifies a permanent. change in Notre the lore of Notre Dame's early history. , me from the crowd, holding a young Dame tradition. The Irish Guard will Today half the student body is female ·girl in his aim:s.. "Molly; welcome to the henceforth continue to be legendary, im.:. -:--to say nothing of the increasing diver-Irish Guard," he said warmly. "This is my posing and eminent, but no longer will its sity ofreligion, race, ethnidty and sexual daughter. She hopes to be on the Irish membership be exclusively male. orientation -and yet campus culture is Guard some4ay." · Breaking tradition can be perceived . . still overwhelmingly dominated by the I have not had the g9bd fortune ofagain in two very different lig4ts: the birth of · annual social events of male dorms; the m~eting this unnamed Guardsman or his a new opportunity on one hand or the university's leadership is nearly exclusive-daughter. However,· just before the Irish death of a cherished ritual on the other. ly male; and.the fabled legends, whether · take the field this Saturday afternoon, it Nowhere is the tension between these . they be from the Church or the football is with sincere·gratitude for his gracious two competing conceptions more salient field, are more often than not men. ·welcome that I will for the first time as­than at Notre Dame, an institution famed Reflecting on his tenure as theDean of sume my place as one of the returning for its storied traditions and the passing theJohn F. Kennedy School of Govern-·• Guard members at pregame inspection. of age-old customs to successive Domer _ ment at Harvard, Graham Allison asked, My purpose is singular: to give a greatly generations. In such an environment "How can an institution reaching its 350th deserved knock i:o Tess, the brave woman where perpetuation reigns, change is year be ancient and· honorable, rather in .the skirt, who will give Penn State often unwelcome, even heretical. Thus than just old and tired?" One secret at yet one more re~son to fear the Irish on when I was selected in 2000 as the first Harvard, he posited, "is an unparalleled Saturday. female member of the Irish Guard, I was ·capacity for self-renewal." confronted with the challenge of strik-Notre Dame faces a similar challenge. Molly Kinder is a 2001 graduate of Notre ing a delicate balance between honoring Without evolving, adapting and eventu­Dame. She is currently in the graduate pro­tradition and writing a new page of Notre ally changing its traditions to reflect its gram at the Kennedy School ofGovernment Dame's history. While the vast majority dynamic and diverse student body, Notre at Harvard Universi'ty. of my classmates, fellow band members Dame runs the risk of overlooking the 
OPPOSITE PICTURE COURTESY OF NOTRE DAME BAND 
7 SEPT2006 








'NIOR P TRAITS! 

Sign up on the internet NOW @ 
www.LaurenStudios.com 
to ensure your place in the 2007 DOME Yearbook 
(This year, for the first time, the 2007 DOME Yearbook will be printed entirely in color, INCLUDING your Senior Portrait!) 
Who: Class of 2007 Students 
When: Pictures taken Aug 30 -Sept. 15 
Where: La Fortune 108 
Why: To be in your 2007 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook 

Rememb~r to Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com 





J:kii~J~ 
hi ola~po ._ 
1ng:bloc.Rm ni 
: :. n biology: "No 
.,, i:, I , • 
..es-sense exceptm t 'ttlie ,~ords ofgeneticis 1ian$ky. These are onl :~J.~t'.:fa( ,J. :·:_, . 

· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · @ScholasticCover Story 

a few examples ofthe details waiting to be Previously, some non-major courses were discovered in Notre Dame's newest build­unable to hold labs at all. ing. The greatest discoveries in Jordan, In the last few years, interest in science however, won't be found in the architec­courses at Notre Dame has expanded ture, but by students in the laboratories. noticeably. More students are adding After over a decade of planning, years of sciences as a primary or secondary ma­construction and $70 million in funding, jor. Since 2000, the number of science the building is ready for students. The degrees pursued by undergrads grew official dedication is set to take place on over 18 percent, according to data from September 14. Notre Dame's Office of Institutional 
As for Pluto, the International As­. Research. tronomical Union redefined planetary Overstuffed labs don't meet the high status last month, leaving the diminutive expectations of a school like Notre celestial body out. Despite state-of-the­Dame,. so it was time art eq~ipment, the Jordan Hall ofScience for the College of Sci-is already outdated; that's the forward ence to expand. Jordan march of science. The only constant is Hall, Notre Dame's change -and the speed of light. The largest building for un­College of Science at the University of dergraduate education, Notre Dame is evolving, and the change will allow thousands of and growth go far beyond new facilities, students to take science to stimulate increased enrollment, cut­lecture and laboratory ting-edge research and new opportuni­courses each semester. ties at Notre Dame that are unavailable The hall features 40 elsewhere. labs distributed among 
the sciences. Each lab ·is Out of the Dungeons loaded with brand-new 
Joseph Marino is the dean of the Col­equipment. Some pieces lege of Science. His office sits at the still rest in their original southwest corner ofHurley Hall, an unas­packaging, waiting to suming location for the headquarters of be opened and put to a college that just gained a $70 million, work. A nuclear physics 200,000 square foot building. Why not lab on the fourth floor is move into the Jordan.Hall of Science? loaded with intimidat­
"It's only for undergrads," Marino says ing equipment labeled proudly. with particularly com­
That may be a surprise to some, but plex instructions. "It's to Marino, it makes perfect sense. The custom equipment we department was out of lab space. "Our bought from a company capacity has almost tripled," Marino in Germany," Cappert explains. "We can now teach laboratory says. "When it arrived, classes during the day, as oppo$ed to everything was in Ger­holding night labs ,.just to fit everyone." • man." 
......... 10 
Many ofthe Jordan Hall labs host tools students at other universities would never see, let alone use. This state-of-the-art equipment includes a powerful Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) Spectrom­eter that will allow students to examine the world at an atomic level. 
In addition to the labs, Jordan Hall also features two stunning lecture rooms, both fitted with an advanced 3-screen projection system, a video-enabled fume hood for experiments and network con­nections for every seat. Each is spacious 

® ScholasticCover Story .............. 
* INCLUDES MULTIPLE­
Percentage Increase of Science Enrollment by Majors* from 2000 to 2005 
DEGREE SEEKERS 270,000 plant specimens from the late 

enoµgh to seat 250 students -or hold marching band practice. · 
There's a new dome on campus, too -Jordan's 50-foot Digital Visualization Theater. The 136-seat room is more than a planetarium; it is an opportunity across disciplines to visualize ideas in a new way. "It can show the complexity of the galaxy or the complexity of the human body," Marino says. He suggests the domed theater could also be used for presentations for students outside of the 
**INCLUDES SCIENCE PREPROFESSIONAL AND SUPPLEMENTAL MAJOR 
FOR A&L STUDENTS 
***INCLUDES ALL COLLEGE SCIENCE MAJORS (SOME NOT LISTED) 
sciences, such as virtual tours ofbuildings for architecture students. 
Over the summer, students helped move biological specimens to another of Jordan's attractions: The Museum of Biodiversity. The glass-enclosed area on the first floor is now home to Notre Dame's massive collection of plant and animal life samples, including the sub­stantial Greene-Nieuwland Herbarium. According to Curator Barbara Hellen­thal, the herbarium alone contains over 18th century onward. These specimens include thousands of samples that were identified as species for the first time. These important specimens are irreplace­able; carefully archived, the plant samples are still relevant to research today. The animal collection also provides unique learning opportunities. While the school has owned the sizable collections for some time, many ofthe animal specimens were hidden away and scattered across closets and storage cabinets throughout Galvin Hall. At last, the collection is gathered in one place. 
One room inJordan holds the "liquid" specimens, displaying a variety ofanimal samples preserved in jars. The room is arranged by organism complexity: on one end, there are invertebrates and fish; in the middle, frogs and snakes; on the other side there are mammals, including a jar with the complete nervous system ofa cat. Another room holds a comprehensive collection ofinsects, from mosquitoes to butterflies and plenty of rare species in between. Yet another room holds a collec­tion ofanimal skeletons and taxidermies. There are eagles and falcons, the skull of an elephant, skeletons of a tiger and a kangaroo and a drawer full of mastodon 

7 SEPT 2006 

bones. The museum's collection will blow you away -unless the smell of preservatives in the drawers do first. "The collection is priceless," Hellenthal says. Notre Dame has the museum's collection insured for $20 million. 
The specimen rooms aren't the only· great rooms in the Jordan -don't forget the greenhouse or the observatory. The greenhouse offers four smaller pods with precise individual climate controls. The observatory, hidden away on the roof, will allow astronomy classes a direct look at the night sky through many new computer-enhanced telescopes. 
The Jordan Hall of Science is an un­precedented update to Notre Dame's science facilities. While the new build­ing is devoted entirely to undergraduate teaching, space once used by undergrads in Nieuwland, Galvin and Stepan Halls can be rehauled for graduate and research programs. Everyone in the College ofSci­ence can breathe easier. Marino says, "A student who chooses science shouldn't feel like they're!>working in a dungeon." 
Keeping Competitive 
New facilities also help Notre Dame ~ compete in the cutthroat market of elite ~ universities. While Notre Dame has a 
o: long tradition of strong undergraduate 
w 
~ education -now including the Jordan 8 Hall -the College of Science is fortify-ti ing its graduate programs and strength­~ ening Notre Dame's reputation as a &sI research institution. 
first-rate graduate program it will extend through the quality of undergraduate teaching," Marino says. "They go to­gether. It's not a question of either/or." To accomplish this, the college is using · increased funding to recruit new high-quality faculty. But developing a world­class faculty takes time. "You can't say overnight 'We want to be as good as Har­vard,"' Marino says. "There just aren't unlimited resources." Still, the College of Science is working hard to enhance its 
reputation. 
Undergraduates are participating 
every step of the way, gaining valuable, 
first.:hand experiences. In most depart­
meats, the faculty involve undergraduate 
students in their work. In addition, with 
Indiana University's construction of a 
satellite branch of its medical school near 
campus, even more opportunities are on 
the way. The building, just south of the 
Debartolo Performing Arts Center, will 
bring some Indiana medical students and 
faculty to campus. Marino says, "We are 
looking at joint appointments with some 
of their faculty." The collaboration will 
provide more options for undergraduate 
research and serve as a hub for future 
growth in biomedical research. 
"The perception is that we're not a 
research institution and we're only dab­
bling," Marino says. "That's not true." 
Indeed, in the last few years, a substantial 
amount of important research has come 
from Notre Dame. Perceptions are bound 
to change. 
award-winning work led by Albert­Laszlo Barabasi. Notre Dame's Hofman 
Professor of Physics, Barabasi's research ­is transforming the field of network ·· 
theory. Originally examining problems in computing and networking, Barabasi is uncovering principles applicable to all sorts of networks. While most people typically associate the idea of networks with computers,· networks can be found everywhere. As such, Barabasi's research is now exploring questions about social networks and helping redefine science's understanding of the brain, nature's most complex network. Barabasi recently won the prestigious John von Neumann Med­al, an award for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technol­ogy -and this is only one example of the head-turning research taking place at Notre Dame. Barabasi's research is also notably multidisciplinary, a rising trend at _Notre Dame that the College of Science 
hopes to encourage. 

Newfound Freedom 
The prevailing design philosophy of the Jordan Hall of Science can be described in one word: open. 
The ceiling of the main hallway -rises past all four floors. Light penetrates the building from countless windows. Many of the labs can be peered into eas­ily through interior windows. Common areas are always just a step away. Labs are interconnected. The design of the building is representative of an ongoing 
Take, for instance, the unprecedented, transformation within the College of 
.~:'.:~-~~:ieve ifyou have a vigorous and 

7 SEPT 2006 
as nuclear physics and astronomy. Marino would also like to see pre­professional students learn more about pharmacy and other aspects of health science. "We want to make our students' schedules more adaptive," Marino says, "not just make them take more courses for their major." 
So, what will science students do with the extra time? Interdisciplinary studies are a strong possibility. "We're trying to expand the horizons of the curriculum," Marino explains. By streamlining core courses, students will have opportunities to take courses that will compliment their major. This will allow the college to further 


integrate the sciences and bring in departments from outside the College of Science. At the same time, more students are taking double majors, one in science and another at another college within the university. In science-business, a multidisciplinary program, enrollment has increased 30 percent since 2000. Stu­dents are seeking out multidisciplinary educations, and the College of Science is responding to the trend. New programs, such as neuroscience, are on the way. 
New multidisciplinary research is also emerging at Notre Dame. The college recently founded the Interdisciplinary Center for the Study of Biocomplexity (ICSB). ICSB's director isn't a biologist but an applied mathematician. Marino says ICSB is tackling a list of"megaprob­lems" in biological systems that remain unsolved. "No single discipline is going to solve them," Marino says. These "mega­problems" include interactions within cells and how they correspond with other cells and external stimuli. "This is one of the most exciting things coming out of Notre Dame: the interdisciplinary ap­proach to solving complex problems." 

Unique Opportunity 
While the College of Science is com­mitted to cutting-edge science education and research, the college is also firmly de­voted to Notre Dame's Catholic identity. As a religiously affiliated school, Marino understands that the university has a unique opportunity to use science for the benefit of all of humankind. "Notre Dame is a university that can and should use science to better the environment and the health and well-being of everyone," Marino says, "not just those in the United States." 
@ Scho/asticCover, Story .....•...• ••.•• 
Notre Dame's Department ofBiological Sciences is often the center of this work. According to Charles Kulpa, chairman of the Department of Biological Sciences, the department's mission is advancing human and environmental health. "Our goals fit very well with the goals of the university," Kulpa says. The department is examining climate change and other developing ecological problems. Univer­sity of Notre Dame Environmental Re­search Center (UNDERC), a longstand­ing university initiative, provides students and researchers with the chance to do in-depth ecological study at thousands of protected acres owned by Notre Dame on the border between Wisconsin and upper Michigan. Undergraduate work is only a small part of the UNDERC research. Samples for the Greene-Nieuwland Herbarium are also collected and can be compared to past samples to observe the effects of pollution. 
Recently, the department created a new graduate program called Global Linkage ofBiology, the Environment, and Society (GLOBES). This interdisciplinary pro­gram hopes to pull from the social sci­ences, as well as biology, to create a deeper understanding of ecologi­

cal issues. ~LOBES students will also work with other Jf/~'tf:j;~f 
ment such as UNDERC. 
Beyond the environment, the college is dedicated to sci­ence as social work, solving problems that profit-driven research ignores. The college is working with chemists and biologists on establishing a center for research on rare diseases. Pharmaceuti­cal companies often neglect rare diseases, which by definition only afflict less than 200,000 people. "We're not in it. for the money," .iVIarino says. "vVe're developing a center to help people." ~ 
The College of Science not only wants ~ to help stamp out rare diseases. Research o: 
w 
at Notre Dame is also tackling the in-~ sidious problem ofmalaria. Notre Dame's unique malaria research is looking at ~ the genes of both the disease and the ~ mosquitoes that transmit it. Researchers ~ and students also perform on-site wor~; 
13 ......... fff 11


'-\\ ' 



in Haiti and Af­
rica. When new treatments for the devastating illness are found, Notre Dame will likely 
play an instru­mental part. 
The College of: 
Science is focus­
ing on cancer re­search as well. Ma-, rino says, "We're · tackling aspects . of cancer we can uniquely contrib-• ute to." Notre: 
Dame's Cancer: Institute takes a 
full approach to : bettering cancer ' treatment, focus-· ing not only on researching new • drugs and treat­ments, but also on training doctors and health careworkers in methods ofimproving doctor-patient relationships. The institute has special colonies of mice and rats. that are fre­quently requested by other researchers because of their genetic makeup. "We have something to contribute," Marino says. "People are coming to us." 
It's no accident that Notre Dame Forum 2006 will be held on the day of Jordan Hall's dedication. Thisyear's topic 
is "The Global Health Crisis: Forging 
Solutions, Effecting Change." The forum 
looks to mirror the philosophy of the college by applying a multidisciplinary 
approach to solve world problems. In a recent press release, University President the Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., stated, "Despite the many scientific advances in health care over the past half century, poverty, disease and premature death continue to devastate large segments of the world community. As a teaching and 
research university committed to the ide­
als ofCatholic social justice, Notre Dame takes seriously our responsibility to exam­
ine this problem in depth and help forge solutions." The forum will feature promi­nent economist Jeffrey Sachs, author of "The End of Poverty"; Paul Farmer, a physician and medical anthropologist focused on infectious disease control; artd Miriam LakerOpwonya, a Ugandan doctor, specializing in tropical medicine 
......... 14 
and international health, issues. 
Michael Dewan, a Notre Dame senior science preprofessional studies major, will also be a panelist. Last summer, Dewan went to Uganda on a service project through Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. Dewan spent time working as a school teacher and serving in a clinic that tested for HIV, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. In his fifth week, Dewan contracted malaria. "Ispent a couple nights in a medical clinic where I received quinine treatment," Dewan says. "I was only sick for about a week." Dewan's quick recovery can be attributed to his ability to afford quinine treatment. The cost? About $8, accord­ing to Dewan. 
"When I discovered how cheap it was, I was pissed. You and I spend the same amount ofmoney on a burg­erand fries without thinking twice," Dewan says. "Mean­while, millions of children are dying from this same disease every year simply because they cannot afford the treatment," Dewan adds. "I think Notre Dame has a unique opportunity to take a leadership position in the war on medical poverty. If we do so, especially as an un­dergraduate institution, we will certainly be perceived as pioneers." 
Marino is excited for the future of the college. When he became the dean of the college, he quickly hired a science writer. The journal of the College of Science is Renaissance, a fitting title. With new facilities, larger staff, better research, more students, a new curriculum en­couraging interdisciplinary study and a solid dedication to Notre Dame's social mission, the College of Science is look­ing to have a major impact in the years to come. Marino says, "I'd like to see people take science, learn and go out and use it in meaningful ways." 0 


...... ·· · · ·· · · · f{JScho/asticNews 
ARCHITECTURAL COMMENTARY· o·N TH!E NEW 


Jordan Hall of Science 1 



0 
step further. spaces to the east of the former Juniper 
What is the Road are a bit of an afterthought. 
visual image of Certainly, it would not be reasonable Notre Dame? to replace the newer adjacent buildings Collegiate such as the Pasquerilla Center and Rolf's gothic has Sports Recreation Center so quickly. A an important preferable alternative, however, may place in archi­have been to break down Jordan Hall's tecture, but its immense program into a series ofsmaller recent ubiq­buildings, perhaps connected with arched uitous appli­bridges a la Lyons or other elements to cation on our form a new space such as that in front of campus from Morrissey. While a more direct link to the bookstore the other spaces of Notre Dame might to Jordan Hall be a complicated aspiration from this far has made it a flung location, a defined court or quad sort of default would make the lawn a comfortable
Undergraduate science majors are design for now venturing abroad to the land any project at an institution ofhigher 
l?:rJefrho~se:<>fJo!t~~s·;·:\' -i'.~::x::';%:~'~:.\'~w:b
beyond TouchdownJesus -the learning. In short, it has become 
r
east side of campus -where their new generic. home will be dedicated next week. The A good building is more than size 200,000 square foot Jordan Hall of Sci­and new amenities; it is a structure ence is a brick leviathan rising above the that is beautifuland functional with a lawns just north of the JACC. sense ofappropriateness and a place in 
j1~
While it has been heartening to see a the greater community. Certainly the 
,·1···.".1
return to traditional architectural detail­function ofthe building as outlined by .'ftn ing with the new construction on campus, the College of Science has been care­{;(J
•.,,!
we should challenge ourselves to go one fully laid out. To the second point, the exterior collegiate gothic detailing of Jordan Hall is done well, successfully expressing the planetarium space at the north end of the building and em­phasizing the main entry at the south. The third element, setting, is lacking. For instance, the main facade faces an ill-defined lawn that is unlikely to be viewed directly by most students ap­proaching from the core of campus. 
Facing the JACC and the service destination to meet friends or sit and entrance of the Galvin Life Sciences study rather than simply a place to move Building from a distance, Jordan Hall is through. painfully isolated. While the growth of The suggestion to break down the mass the surrounding trees will soften the ef­of Jordan Hall is not to say that large fect somewhat in time, they are unlikely buildings are inappropriate. They can be to ever frame the small lawn in the way done well, but as with all buildings they 
i
those on North Quad are able to, backed must speak to the viewer of their place z by the consistent line of dorm facades. in the pecking order. Cushing Hall of r= () The campus master plan makes a gen­Engineering is a great example of this. :5 (/) eral effort to frame spaces with proposed It is a massive building, but restrained () 0 I buildings, but it seems as though the detailing reminds the passerby that. it (/) 
7 SEPT 2006 '5 
m 


to the world at large. Stepping onto Main Quad, this sense of distinction is immediately apparent visually. It 
is not due simply to the proliferation 
of "WE ARE ND" signs taped to office and dorm windows. The yellow brick of clay dug from the lakes and eclectic 19th century vernacular interpre­tations of French second empire and clas­sical architecture define the boundaries of the quad and belie the early history ofthe campus. The collegiate gothic structures of South Quad (Alumni Hall, Law School, etc.) and the neoclassical Bond Hall overlooking the lake further fill out the is not the primary building on campus. It is beautifully done, but fits into the secondary fabric. If all buildings are big and elaborate, describing themselves as important, none of them can take prece­dence and truly be important. 
Sense of place is a question of identity. As students, faculty and alumni, we take great pride in affiliation with Our Lady's University -a community steeped in tradition, evidenced in all we do to relate 
I. 
! 
z 
0 
~ 
:5 
0 
:r: 
0 
Cl) 
history and stylistic diversity ofthe place. By choosing to focus on only one of these images time and again, we shortchange ourselves and homogenize the campus experience. Instead, by responding to the whole variety of existing spaces and traditional building styles on campus as precedent -which is not to say copying them -we add to the ongoing history of the university. 
Despite the critical architectural dis­cussion, the dozens of dedicated labs, greenhouse, laser lab, observatory, multi­media lab lecture halls and planetarium combine to make a truly state-of-the-art educational facil­ity. Jordan Hall 
provides immense opportunity for the scholars with­in to explore the natural world in remarkable new ways. Adding to the draw are study lounges flooded with natural light and furnished with comfortable couches, allow­ing students to curl up with their books, making the Jordan Building a real "home" for students in the College of Sci­
ence. 



University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 
http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu 
wvfi: voice of the fighting irish on the air monday, sept. 11 listen online daily, l O am to l:30 am http://wvfi.nd.edu 



the best part of cable in the dorms arrives september 20th. ­
www.nd.edu/~ndtv 
channel 53 

0 AmyMeyers
Every Notre Dame student under-Potts, a Notre Dame alumnus with a de-initiative, also hopes that the courses will stands that a quality education gree in American Studies. According to "help students make more informed deci­from Notre Dame is difficult to Terri Bays, the director ofOCWatNotre sions when choosing their majors." 
come by, especially as both admission Dame, Potts hoped that Notre Dame Finally, the OCW initiative is meant standards and tuition costs continue to would add courses that "focus on the hu-for fellow educators. The project's found-rise each year. man condition." These courses would be ers hope that professors at universities 
Recently, scholarships and stricter meant to serve as "a counterbalance to the throughout the world will compare teach­national education standards have given more technological courses at MIT." ing methods and techniques. According students of all economic, geographic and OCW should not be confused with to Hahn, he and Bays have "found a great ethnic backgrounds the chance to be more distance learning. There is no exchange of willingness on the part of the faculty at competitiveintheapplicationprocess.And information between professors and In-Notre Dame." The time requirement w h i 1e -----------------------ternetusers. for each participating faculty member these "I fi d d 1 · h I No credit is has been kept to about five hours total.
cannot n wor s to exp a1n ow 
new op-given. No Professors simply need to provide their 
portuni-feel! [. .. ] It's like the feeling one feels degree is class materials and a graduate student 
ties have when someone falls in love." granted. is assigned to· take the information and s u c -No fee is commit it to a form that can be placed c e e de d -A computer science student from Bangladesh assessed. online and made accessible to someone in diver------------------------The idea is who is not in the classroom. 
sifying Notre Dame's student body, the simply to share the knowledge ofa world-Although the project offers an exciting efforts have also made the admissions class university with anyone who has opportunity for people w!i,o traditionally process even more competitive. There-access to the Internet. would not have had access to a college fore, a Notre Dame education remains a The information available on the OCW .. educatioii;italso raises ~rucial questions limited commodity available only to the is protected under Creative Commoris >·-;bout the implic~tioris pfsha?ing courses elite few who can gain admission and pay License, a copyright restriction which with the entire world: While almost.~very tuition costs. allows copyrighted )nformation to be . commodityproduced in th'e Bnted Stat~s 
On September 20, the university will available for public use as long as_ users . nowcan._be p~oqucedin other countries,_· launch a new online course database that receive no cpnimerc~al profits from the. · the U.S.' ha.s maintained the m<lst_ad-.\ will make some Notre Dame courses informati,on, provide proper citation, and.. vanced anq inipr~_s,sive U:niversityisys~em :\ available for free to anyone with an In-allowa}lsubsequentresej_1\*-:~~Pl:1.~ica.,.:-):-!1:th~:worl<l,,:Ain~ric~s:,stillliave•be,tter \ ternet connection. The database, known tion ,to also be open to the public.· --<~> 0 C:acce~s_tc>:hig!i.t(eµµca,f:i<:>nthan any other·· \:: as Open Course Ware (OCW), offers free In particular, Jh'e OCWportaHifln,eanE . students.fa·t!,i~jyotld; . . . .._ .: , . . . .. . ' access to all content within these courses, to serve three corlai(cfiences. The fi~s,t·is, OCW·J:~rfateiis ·fo change· ~hat: Al-· including lecture notes, course outlines, ~'self-learners of anY: age or set of circum-··,.ready ni'rie'Japanese and 222 Chinese reading lists and assignments. Notre stances,'\includfng,· pe~ple~w.hQ_ c!o not univer~itie~ p:avejoined the. consdr~utn.:i Dame is one of 60 universities around; have access to a collfge education because--A:cpIUput~'r:' sdence·;~tudent. from Bari~ the world participating in the OC'Y ofecoridip.ic condidoi:i_rorrar and bright,,;~lad~s~.wa_s.quc:>telafs~y~1,,1g;)'.t?iµin(iti ', . initiative, which began at the Massac~h,. high sch6ol pudents or•profession_aj.swJ.if. ~ fi~4'.:~?r9s to ¢fRlain howTf~~tfJWs. setts Institute of Technology (MIT) iin want to learn dnore about thefr fields:· :, like the ,feeling orie feels when .sdaieohe; September 2002. Each university has/its .I11 fact,. MIT.s'tud~nis-lf,ar'ticip~ting):t±tf)a~lf ifrlove;",fo the articl~)'J:'-li?:Q¥fui:\~ : : . · own website, but all can be accessed at i:he . service projects irr'l\.frica ,hav:e· qrolight;:/ :University,'' :which appeat~cl.iii'a'J1ilyJl? :;; '.> OC,W Consortium (ocwconsortium.9tg). <_ Int~rne~ se97efs with the 9_<::;:W,ppr~~i,<,.iioo5··e:4itio11 pfthe.Bost.a~ Globe.:'.::)\.. };,··..·· -·' ·' · · 
·. Today, 75 percent ofMIT's courses in ·. 'Yith th_,emto provide for ~-e,~ic1tj~~ey \: :still, the·:willingness o(;~_rii~ersi~es to·. < subjects varying from English literaturb to were-serving access to c;ollege c9ur~~t ·. ', '· .·.· jqin .the consortium andJ>.£.professo,rs . . . :..·. · quantum physics are now available onltne, . Bays.txplained that \:he secimd!au,c;lie~~e • , to freely provide their time: s11gg~~ts'· a·~ · Ji, and the university hopes to make ev~ry in mind..'is<:furrent,college ~tud~nts 'fho q:mfidence th:atstu_de.ntswillcc;mtinii<! to . ) : course available by 2007. Notre Dame Jill want to a~grn:eI).!Jheir stud~es by t~k~tjg·-, · enroHin universJ!J,<!s and atterid:':lissis,It ·• be addingits first eight courses this semest~r . courses .at:"<;>th~r~iiniyersiti~s 01\ prep~r-~'.\,~tigg~stft},1:1tIfcpi):-e:-riciJe'(~cJ..t.e,~i.l.ip.gs :>. · . j , .. ··. 
.~!~~1E=~=\,f~!~~1111~-i,1iil 

: ! Arts Center (DPAC) was dedi­
, ' 
cated on September 29, 2004, the Notre Dame community prepared for a new element ofcultural enrichment on campus, with many world-famous acts coming from across the country and the globe. While Film, Television, and Theatre (FTT) majors use the space almost daily and some students frequent the many film and performance opportu­nities, other Notre Dame students have never stepped foot inside the building. Regardless of interest, changes over the summer have some students wondering what is going on with the DPAC, while others are barely batting an eye. 
The first major change over the .sum­mer of 2006 was the resignation ofJohn Haynes, the founding executive director of the DPAC. Haynes left Notre Dame in July somewhat mysteriously, without issuing a public statement explaining his departure. His reputation helped bring many world-class acts to the DPAC over the past two years, including the Chief­tains and the New York Philharmonic. Howard Hanson, the interim director of the DPAC serving until Haynes' re­placement is hired, says arrangements are being made to schedule program­ming until a new director is found. "Next year's programming will be outsourced and will be managed by the Office ofthe Provost," Hanson says. "I can assure you [the programming] will not drop off." Regarding his predecessor, Hanson says, 
"I understand that John Haynes resigned to pursue other opportunities." Another change at the Performing w Arts Center this semester is a new ticket 0: 
:::, purchasing procedure. In the past, tickets !:i for DPAC Presents performances went
:::, 
u on sale about a month in advance of the
: !::1 
I ~ 
performance. But over the summer a 
! :'.:S 
IQ decision was made to allow all tickets for 
'::r: 

lo DPAC Presents shows in the 2006-2007 
......... 22 
school year (including Itzhak Perlman in October, the London Philharmonic Orchestra in December and Ravi Shan­kar in April) to go on sale on August 1. However, no university-wide email was sent to the students alerting them ofthis change. An email was sent out to those students on the DPAC listserv, but a very small percentage of Notre Dame students are represented on this list. 
Hansonsays that the decision to change the ticket proce­

dure happened to be on the rise as before he came the semester con­aboard -Han­tinues. son himself did In light of these not become the changes, the DPAC interim direc­has been doing ex­tor until August traordinarily well 
1. Jacqueline in its first two Schmidt, man­years. From year ager of guest one to year two, services of the total DPAC atten­DPAC, admit­dance increased ted that the lack more than 35 per­of communica­cent. In addition, tion with the student ticket sales 
students "needs to be rectified." Schmidt explained the ticket change was put into effect to promote packages. Gen­eral ticket holders can purchase package deals, which offer a discount when buying tickets for any five DPAC Presents per­formances over the year. Students are not eligible for this package discount because of their heavily subsidized student ticket prices, which are on average about $15 per ticket. 
This ticket change and lack of commu­nication with the students could interfere. with the DPAC's desire to minister to the studentbody-one ofthe self-proclaimed purposes of the Performing Arts Center. To date, Itzsak Perlman and the London Philharmonic, the two most well known shows of the fall semester, are both sold out. According to DPAC data, student ticket sales represent approximately 26 percent of the total tickets sold for these two performances, although student tick­ets are also sold to children offaculty, staff or general ticket holders and do notsolely represent tickets sold to the Notre Dame student body. Hanson admits some shows are selling very well, while some are not. He stresses, however, that students have only been back on campus for a few weeks, 
and he expects sales 
cent from year one to year two and for both years student ticket sales represented approximately 30 percent of the audience. While these numb~rs display the attractiveness of the DPAC; the fact remains that many Notre Dame students have had no contact with the DPAC at all. 
Peter Holland, the FTT department chair, admits that it is difficult to get a large college-aged crowd to pack the seats in any major artistic venue. "The audience for theater is wealthy, middle­aged and getting older -a reality that isn't unique to South Bend [ ... ] It's a tough job everywhere in the States," Hol­land says. "Young people in general are sometimes intimidated by concert halls, galleries, etc." ·._ 
7 SEPT 2006 

@scholasticCulture · · ·· · · ··· · · · ·· 
Looking back, Holland wishes that certain measures were taken when the DPAC was being built that could have attracted more students to its general area. 
"It looks from the outside like every build­ing on campus [ ... ] It should have had a busy cafeteria, something to create a buzz and get students out here." Even though Holland agrees there are areas where the DPAC could have and still can improve, he does acknowledge the positive message ofthe programming. "Here at the DPAC we try to give students the beginning of a lifelong appreciation for art performances and cinema," Holland says. 
The DPAC administration realizes that it is not easy to get students to come to performances by artists that they have never heard of before. To combat this problem, posters and table tents are often set up in select locations around campus. In addition, the DPAC marketing team formed a student group last year, the Students Promoting the Performing Arts 
--' a team comprised ofone student from each dorm, as well as representatives from 
· Saint Mary's and Holy Cross, to promote DPAC events in their dorm during Hall . Government meetings and to hang up posters announcing weekly events. Hol­land agrees that this is the best way to get students to attend performances. "The most important thing is word of mouth. And then when they come, we have to make them want to come back." In addi­tion to these efforts, a 12-minute video was run at this year's The Show advertis­ing the DPAC Presents performance by DBR & The Mission on September 8. 
Hanson confesses, though, that the re­cent changes over the summer have been a slight hindrance to student outreach. 
"Due to staff changes, we are in the pro­cess of reorganizing the DPAC market­·ing. We are currently a bit late in getting the student group [ ... ] but we want to have the students involved in each of our areas: programming, performance and marketing." With these efforts, Hanson i~ confident that student attendance will continue to increase and that more new faces will be seen in the concert halls. 

But just.how much do Notre Dame stu­dents want to.become actively involved in this artistic appreciation promoted by the DPAC? Senior FTT major and creator of The Observer comic "CroissantWorld," Adam Fairholm, expressed some of his feelings in the August 28 issue of The Observer. In the comic, Fairholm poked fun at the advertisement for DBR & The Mission by calling the video "mind­numbingly boring" and claimed that the real purpose of the DPAC is "attracting and entertaining the elderly." In an in­terview, Fairholm claims the comic "hit a general idea of the DPAC," although there was some exaggeration. Fairholm acknowledges the state-of-the-art facili­ties FTTstudents have at their :fingertips at the DPAC, but says the DPAC has its issues, particularly with its relations with FTT students. "You feel like you're just building until this semester for a class and an occupant here with all the FTTclasses that "the DPAC is out there." Regarding in the basement;" Fairholm says. "FTT the DPAC's marketing strategies, Zepeda students were excited when the plans for says, "The things that are here are artsy. the building were :first presented and were They don't really appeal to me. Some told it was being built for students -but movies I've wanted to see, but I forget in reality it isn't." or I'm busy. I see the posters, but then I 
Junior Mary Ann Lane, an English and forget about them." violin performance major, disagrees with Inaddition, she agrees that a 12-minute Fairholm's comic. "That performance video presented during The Show was [DBR & The Mission] is a heck of a lot probably not the best way to communi­better than Third Eye Blind," Lane says. cate to an audience of college students. 
"It's amazing the tickets are $15. They Zepedaknows,however,thattheDPACis can't make it any cheaper." Lane knows beneficial, saying, "it brings a lot ofgreat that these types of performances will not cultural opportunities to campus." appeal to all college students, though. Among all the different opinions and 
"You're not go-strategies, one message is prevalent. As 

ing to reach the Schmidt puts it, "we are in the business whole student of cultivating." Even if the DPAC is pri­body," she says. marily reaching a smaller percentage of 
One of the students than some would like, there is many students room for growth. By starting small_ and who have yet focusing on those students who are ac­to be reached tivelyinvolved with the arts, the potential by the DPAC for DPAC popularity is great. Through ll! is., junior Kris-student groups, advertising and word 5 ten Zepeda, ,~n · of mouth~ the P.erforming Arts Center,.. ij English J;ifd·· hopes students will be able tb spend less"': ~ marketing ma-to see a performance on campus instead ::i jor. Zepeda says of traveling and spending more for main-§"! she had never stream acts. 0 en u i 
been in the ,a ......... ((;! 

•· · · · · · · • · · · · · · Scho/asticCulfure @ 
PRESS PLAY, THEN REWIND 
Last Tuesday, the five members of the band Speedplay had just fin­ished their two hour cross coun­try practice, showered, hit South Dining Hall and driven over to Waxwing Lane to begin their three-hour band practice. 'Speed play,' also known as 'Fartlek' to many cross country and track runners, is a Swedish running exercise intended to strengthen endurance and build speed -an appropriate name for a band full of runners. Settling into their cozy record­ing studio in the basement of drummer James Miller's parents' home, Miller and his four bandmates get settled, hooking up their guitars, amps and microphones. I sat wedged in the corner, a mic stand leaning against my leg, wires under my feet, about a foot and a half from both the drum set and two of the three gui­tarists. Practically sitting on top ofeach other, the bandmates -Jake Watson, Brett Adams, Jamal Afridi, Dan Bradley and Miller -chat about their upcoming show that Friday night at Turtle Creek (a show that later fell through, as the band adjusted casually, instead playing outside of Reckers -the site of their first show on campus). 
.•.•...... 24 
STI 
CAMPUS CHATTER 
The studio is adorned with an eclectic assortment of decor -a Best ofAcoustic Cafe banner (on which they are featured), an enormous vintage American flag and posters of Bob Marley, Muhammad Ali and an assortment of professional surfers. Their equipment is straight Fender, and there are more than double the amount ofamps and subwoofers as there are band members. A set of vintage Fender PAs lines one wall. 
Their shirts have come off, and Bradley and Watson strum their guitars as Afridi and Adams discuss which astrological signs are cooler and Pluto's planet status. 

"Pluto is not a planet," Afridi says as he put in his ear-plugs. "It's going to get a lit­tle loud in here,'' Watson warns. The band members tune their guitars, and Adams, the lead singer, suggests that they start off with a cover of Sublime's "Santeria." Several minutes later, Bradley ends the chatter with a demand for "Silence!" and begins to strum the first few notes. The room immediately fills with the familiar sounds of the Sublime classic. 
Adams serenades the microphone, dipping it with his eyes closed. Bradley bounces his head to the beat ofthe drums. Miller, crammed in the corner, sets the laid-back pace of the song. Watson rocks out, looking around at his band mates, and .then back down at his hot pink baby, a black lightning bolt making the face of the guitar body. Afridi sits on his low desk chair, feeding the bass of the song. 
As Miller drums out the last bars, Brad­ley yells at Afridi, "You gotta stand up and be rocking thats---out, man." Afridi promptly stands up, and looks to Watson, asking him if he could take over his old guitar strap -a strap that they soon confirm has been passed around the band since they got together in October 2004. Before the conversation ends, Bradley begins the instantly recognizable guitar riff that starts Weezer's "Say It Ain't So." And they begin to rock out again. 
· -Sarah Barrett 
7 SEPT2006 


0 Andre/orrego 

./ 
/ 
/ 
.. 
/ 
/
, 
'/l 
ro . o ert e ac ei~ __s_t__ ei__~~gn. 
I 
I 
~ ScholasticCulture·· · · · · · · · · · · · · -1
-.:;;
I \\,\.
I ~ t;;f@i~~
ij. 

I 
~,,~EATURES,. 0E D STG.i,~
1 
\,'-' ttk;> '<;V · · ,, •·•.. · ·.. · ·-··•· · •· ~ 
Notre fame design students promote the local zoo 
\ \ ~~~:: . 
M;;:1~rro2~;~:~~~i; ·~;!:;:;;;}l~~:1[:i;~,~~~ 
those enrolled in Notre Dame's Graphic Design III course, this opportunity is not only available, but part of their grade. 
This year, Professor Robert Sedlack's Graphic Design III students are partnered with the South Bend Potawatomi Zoo, working to improve the graphics used 
in its advertise­
ments and dis­
plays. Accord­
ing to Sedlack, 
the class will 
be improving 
the zoo's inte­
rior maps and 
signs, Web site, 
publicity sig­
nage, internal zoo graphics and external media such as billboards. "Students could 
course in 1sc_L_1_S~!.~!l·--~1 bring the zoo professional-level design at a very low cost or no cost at all as far as the design fees go," Sedlack says. 
This is not the first time that Notre Dame students have worked with the Potawatomi Zoo. In 2001, the zoo ad­opted a new logo designed by a member of Sedlack's class, Shane Culey. This time, however, the design students have undertaken a more extensive project for the zoo. 
The Potawatomi Zoo was ranked in the the high rankings and its close proximity 
to campus, many students are unaware 
that the zoo even exists. "Design is a way 
to help spread information," Sedlack says. 
When working with the Potawatomi Zoo, 
this is exactly what Graphic Design III 
students attempt to do. 
For the students, this project allows a valuable hands-on experience for a career in design. "The project offers a really good chance to get practice with a real client," senior design major Julie Ruffin says. Senior Patrick O'Toole is pleased with the symbiotic relationship that has developed between the zoo and the class. "It's a win-win situation because we, as students, are getting real world experi­ence and the Potawatomi Zoo is saving a 
lot of money," O'Toole says. 
Ruffin sees the project as a service· 
to the community, since the zoo is an 
important part of South Bend. Besides 
gaining incredible professional experi­
ence, students have the opportunity to 
malce a visit to the local zoo even more 
enjoyable. 
Since Sedlack first arrived at Notre 
Dame eightyears ago, students have been 
assigned to various projects of a similar 
nature, providing design expertise to 
local organizations. This is the third col­
lective project that Notre Dame graphic 
design students have undertaken. The 
first project involved South Bend's Me­
morial Hospital and last year's project 
was in conjunction with the South Bend 
Transportation System. 0 
··· · · ·• • · · · · · · @Scho/asticSports 
• Brittany Lash 
Admit it. You've looked at trashy celebrity gossip online. Whether it's a blog on Paris Hilton or on T.O. there's something satisfying about seeing the "mighty" fall, making the rest of the world feel a little bit better. 
·what about the college world, though? Increasingly, college athletes are placed under the same intense microscope of Internet scrutiny as their multi-mil­lion dollar counterparts. Biogs, online editorials and entire Web sites pick apart athletes' indiscretions. Even the personal Web sites of players can fall under attack. 
Unfortunately, this is where the problems begin. While celebrities may encounter some minor disdain because of negative online news (or, in Hilton's case, use it to become an even bigger star), college athletes stand the chance of losing playing time or eligibility for the pictures, videos and news that appear online, even those that are their personal property. It is new territory for NCAA violations, and it affects athletes from every angle. 
Notre Dame Senior Associate Athlet­ics Director John Heisler sums up the issue, stating, "You need to understand when you come here, you are joining one of our teams [ ... ] you're going to give up your anonymity." The Internet, to Heisler, is just one more area where athletes must accept compromised privacy. "You hope that people will use good judgment." 
The difference with the Internet, though, is the speed with which such stories break -sometimes without a fully informed source. For instance, take the Tom Zbikowski case stemming from last month's supposedly "promotional" TV clip. Within hours after a Ft. Wayne jo1,1rnalist posted the possible violation 
~ 
0 story online, it spread like wildfire, with 
a. 
Ill ESPN.com and MSNBC.com featuring 
u the AP version on their front pages. At 
~ 
0 that point, no one had been accused of 
I Cf) u any wrongdoing (and no one would be), 
but with the worldwide spread of the 
••...••.. 26 
speculative story, the damage to Zibby[ was already done. [ . · 
Sometimes the net does get it right,! though. While the story of former University of Oklahoma quarterback) Rhett Bomar's dismissal officially broke i this summer, it first appeared on the\ Internet last January. A member of the: message boards on TexAgs.com (an in-· dependentTexas A&M Web site) posted• in detail concerning OU football players! , -Bomar was named -who were on: the payroll of a local car dealership, bud . not working. OU officials hinted that: their investigation may have started as.· far back as these January posts, lending: 

I 
credibility to "amateur sleuths" on the! Internet. i ·• 
However, if the Bomar information' 
hadn't been posted on those boards,•·••• ·· inevitably it would have posted on( any number of other "watchdog" sites i . 
(www.badjocks.com is just one example).\· Posted on these pages is a shocking list ofthe indiscretions ofathletes, including: a surprising number of self-incrimi-l nating photos from college athletes'! . personal online profiles (i.e. Facebook, f MySpace, WebShots). Teams such: 
as the Northwestern women's soccer· team have been scrutinized for the ini-! · tiation/hazing photos discovered online [ by these watchdogs (numerous players: received suspensions), and schools across·. the country are asking their athletes to,_. use extreme caution on these Web sites i -or even not to use them at alL 
Future student athletes will find that• the Internet changes the rules of the, game, but in the end, there is one simple• solution: personal responsibility. Not( having a Facebook profile isn't the end! of the world -but being kicked off the i team could be. Stories break faster and! go furth{;t<>n the Internet, but they don't•· break at\t\fwhen nothing goes wrong.: Being smart and quick can help athletes! avoid the opposition on the field, but be-l ing responsible is the new key to avoid-• ing the sack before taking the field. 

T he Detroit Shock opened up the first game of the WNBA finals against the Sacramento Monarchs featuring a few familiar faces: forwards Ruth Riley (ND '01), Jacqueline Batteast ('05) and Head Coach Bill Laimbeer ('79). Batteast, acquired from the Minnesota Lynx in an April trade, is looking for her first WNBA championship ring while Laimbeer is looking to add to his three titles (two NBA, one WNBA). Riley is looking for a repeat of the 2003 season, in which she was named the WNBA Finals MVP, becoming 

the only women's basketball player ever to win the honor at both the collegiate and professional levels ... 
Women's volleyball, which for the 11th time in 12 seasons was predicted by coaches as Big East champion in a preseason poll, opened up their season on August 26 with a victory over Bowling Green. Freshman Christina Kalein, who led the match with 24 kills, was named Big East Rookie of the Week for her effort.This is the 16th consecutive season in which the team has opened up with a win ... 
On August 27, senior forward Justin Mc­
:Geeney led the No. 10 men's soccer team to a victory over No. 8 Creighton in the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. He was named BigEast Offensive Player ofthe Week,_ •after scoring two goals in the win. This was the second such award for McGeeney, who Ialso was honored as a sophomore in 2004 ... ! Despite the absence of two starters, the Irish women's soccer team, moved up to the 
1No. 1 ranking in the Soccer Times Coaches' Poll following victories over previously unde­feated fowa .State and No. 2 4 Mississippi ... 
0 
7 SEPT2006 
TI~~ 
• Alexandra Hellmuth 
Christie Shaner, a senior on the women's soccer team I is known for her competitive streak. As a central defender for the ­Soccer Times Coach's Poll No. 1 Fighting Irish, her superior ball handling and tackling skills make it impossible to penetrate the Notre Dame defense. With three Big East team nominations and Big East Rookie of the Year in 2003 among her accom­plishments, Shaner will be a vital contributor to Irish success. Shaner is a graphic design major enrolled in the College of Arts 
and Letters. 
QheJl did you first start playing eccer, and how did you know it was the sport for you? 
~irststarted playing soccer when 
was around four or five and in grade school I was also a seri­ous swimmer. I had to choose between swimming and soccer in high school, and obviously I picked soccer. I guess it was a good deci­
qion. ow, does it feel to be the No. rac:iked team in the country? We weren't ranked No. 1 at the 
Q
~eg~ning of the season, so obvi­·0usly we are really excited. But it puts an even bigger target on our backs. Now everyone is going to play us a lot harder. 
ha1: do the Irish need to do to in ~nother national champion­ship?
An~ ttie 2004 season,l 10 games 
ri"were won in the last few minutes. This shows that we not only work hard physically, but we are also mentally focused for the entire time. We know when to step up and get the job done. 
Ohat was it like to mark Brandi ~a;tain? 
Afplax~d against Brandi during 
.fl:sem1-pro WPSL game when I was playing for FC Indiana. I have known Brandi for a long time -I trained with her at national camp, and her husband Jerry Smith used to coach a few of my teams. Brandi is a really good, deceptive player, so she was hard to mark, but I was giving her a hard time. 
Oha! is one reason why every­~e should come to all of the women's soccer games this· A.,year? 
.r'ir-ou ~ill get to see a really high level of play, and you can hopefully· be a part of a championship team. Gr<::at teams are more than just the _ players; they are the coaches, the · trainers and, most importantly, the fans. So come watch us play. 
27 ......... 

··,.,,•. ,,•...•.@.•scholasticSports 


BEF 


Charlie Weis reacts to increasing press 
~ 
0 
Cl. surrounding Irish football 
(/) 
u 
iii 
:5 
0 
I 
u 
(f) 

0 
Megan Teigen 
In his now famous introduction as Notre Dame's new head football coach, Charlie Weis promised his audience "a hard-working, intelligent, nasty football team [ ... ] because the attitude of the head coach will be permeated through the players." 
A year later, Weis believes his team has fully absorbed its coach's "nasty" mental­ity: "I'd like to think that temperament now is ingrained into this team. I don't think that's [any] longer a temperament that needs to be developed. I really believe this is the way the team plays -with a high level of energy." 
Weis' mentality has reached Irish fans, as well. Expectations are astronomically high for the Irish, who entered the season with a No. 2 ranking in the AP poll, a No. 1 Reisman candidate in Brady Quinn and national championship expectations from a nation ofNotre Dame fans. Head Coac::h Charlie Weis has a 9-3 season behind him, but is far from content enter­ing his second season. The 2005 regular season, which left the Irish a combined six seconds from a perfect record, gener­ated a nationwide buzz that has steadiiy increased in volume. 
Ticket demand ,for this week's home opener against Penn State is the highest in school history and the increased interest in tickets is accompanied by heightened scrutiny. Weis recognizes that one of the toughest challenges of his second season will be managing the hype surrounding his team. In preparation, he has spent the offseason priming his players to deal with the attention they will face as they make a bid for their first national championship since 1988. · 
7 SEPT 2006 
"The number one objective of this football team is to raise their own ex­pectations," Weis told reporters at the spring media day. "I think last year the football team just didn't know at this point whether they were going to be any good or not, and I am hoping that 
Weis' four Super Bowl rings and aggressive attitude toward recruiting combined with last year's success on the field, are attracting an already formidable incoming class centered on the No. 1 high school prospect, quarterbackJimmy 
@ScholasticSp?rts·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
jurywas still out at this time, they didn't know how we'd do, how many games we'd win. But now we've won some so now the guys know, okay, this team at least has a chance," Weis said of his first season's impact on recruiting. 
For the first time at Notre Dame, 
-
theyare notsatisfied with the season 
three football players running they had last year. I know that I am backJames Aldridge, offensive line­notsatisfiedwith the season thatwe man Chris Stewartand wide receiver had last year. And I am hoping that George West -enrolled early to raising the expectations should be a get a semester's jump on the season. rather simple task." Right tackle Sam Young made his­
These heightened expectations tory with his start against the Yel­are the biggest contrast between low Jackets as only the fourth true the 2005 and 2006 seasons. After freshman to start on the offensive improving on the team's 2004 6-6 line, and Darrin Walls and Munir record, Weis spent the next eight Prince also gained valuable game months drilling into the minds of experience. Weis has praised both his players that 9-3 is simply not for their exceptional speed; so itis no good enough. He believes that he surprise that he is eager to get them and the team now have enough on the field. experience with each other to "take Attention to speed was a major it to a different level than where focus this summer as the defense, we were at last year." To create im­ranked 75th overall in Division I-A provement, Weis used every trick in last season, endured heavy criticism. 
his extensive playbook. 
His NFL background provided an opportunity this summer for Quinn to speak with pro quarterbacks Brett Favre, Peyton Manningand former Weis student Tom Brady about their games. Punter Geoff Price also spent time on the phone, discussing technique with former Irish player Hunter Smith, who is now a Pro Bowl punter with the Indianapolis Colts. 
Clausen. 
"There were many guys that commit­ted later last year because theywanted to see ifwe were going to be any good [...] Ifthey're a top flight recruit, they don't want to go to a program that they thinkis going to be mediocre. Theywant to go to a program they thinkhas a chance to win a whole bunch of games. Last year, the Just ask Weis, or anyone on defense, 
and they'll tell you: 617, the number of yards allowed against Ohio State in January's Fiesta Bowl, has been repeated so much over the last eight months that the entire Irish squad is sick of hearing it. 
"That's all I've been hearing all off­season," Weis said after the game. "Our much-maligned defense. If!hear 617 one. more time, I'm going to vomit." 



i..............@ ScholasficSports 
I 
I I 

That hasn't stopped him from using the back at their first-half failure to produce less criticism of Notre Dame's defense 
statistic to get his defense fired up. Weis big numbers on offense. With all the talk was a strong motivator to perform well, 
b_ornba,rded the defense-with the-statistic"· ·about Notre ·Dame's·prolific ·offensive · ·as were ·Weis'· constant-reminders. One 
at every practice session, and admitted output last season the players, like,the goodperformanceisnotenough,though,,:· 
to mentioning it several times on the fans, had not expected to fall behind· as both Weis and Zbikowski are quick to 
sidelines at Georgia Tech. against Georgia Tech. 'Wiikirig.into the point out. Zbikowski knows that Weis' 
With one season behind him, Weis felt locker room at halftime, "People were taunts wqn't let up. What Weis wants, he 
better equipped to evaluate personnel, acting like we were down 50 points," explained,"is for us to keep that chip on 
resulting in. Travis Thomas's move to · Weis said. "I told them, 'Hey, fellas, it's our shoulders the entire season, and not 
the defensive side of the ball in an effort -10-7. We're not down 50; it's a 3-point lose it after one good performance." 
to add speed to the depleted linebacker game. Relax."' Many questions arose in the season's. 
corps. Several defenders, including safety Weis admitted that he had expected to first game and much work remains to be 
Tom Zbikowski, worked out this summer be more productive on offense butprai_sed . done, but Weis:seems to be very success-· 
at speed camps, and speed was emphasized · the balance between rim and· pass, with ·.ful at managing the raised· expectation~ 
both at player-run summer workouts· and · 40 rushing plays and 3 8 passing. Quinn, that come with an established c~aching 
in pr~seas,op traiping camp.. ,however, was more critical, telling report--staff and.a·No;2 ranking. To those who•. · Of greater importance, according to ers, "I ani in no 'Yay pleased, especial1y were dissatisfied with the outcome, Weis Weis, is the defense's level of comfort with with my performance." The YellowJacket was quick to point·out' that "there's no the system. "They're playing with a lot defense kept Quinn on his toes as several such thing as a bad win, no such thing." If more confidence," Weis said at the end of key runs, including a 5-yard quarterback all goes well this season, the team's ability training camp. "They have a pretty good draw for a touchdown, made the differ-to remain focused and nasty will become understanding, a year into the system ence in the game. increasingly important, because the hype [ ... ] and they at least know what they're It was the "much-maligned" Irish de-will only continue to grow. 0 doing, and when you know what to do in fense that kept them in _the game, playing football, you play at a lot higher speed especially well in the second half. than when you have to think about what After 117 passing yards in the first you have to do." half, Georgia Tech quarterback 
Notre Dame's season opener Saturday Reggie Ball passed for only 23 more against Georgia Tech subjected the team's in the entire second half, and after burgeoning confidence to a national scoring 10 points in the first half evaluation. For many observers, the 14-Georgia Tech was held to a shut­10 Irish victory over the Yellow Jackets out for the remainder of the game. was not good enough. The Irish were 11 In his first defensive start, Travis seconds away from being shut out in the Thomas played well on both sides first half, and the 14 points they did put of the ball. He quickly adjusted to · up was the smallest total of the Weis era. the pace of the defensive game and Last season the Irish scored 31 points or found himself readily picking up 
moreintenoftwelvegames;onlyMichi-reads, making a key-sack on·the<· 
gan (17) and Ohio State (20) held the team Jackets' last drive. 
~t ,... · 2·• 
to 20 or less. After the game Zbikowski ac-
The players themselves were taken knowledged that the media's relent­

the women's soccer team aims for its second natibnalchampionship ·in three years 
T 0 
Nick Gergen 
he Fighting' Irish moved up_ the polls early this season and claimed the No. 1 spot in the Soccer Times Coaches' Poll. The team reached its lofty status only one week into the season, after the girls defeated 
__ The victories were even more impres--­
sive corisid~ring the absences of all-Big 
East sophomores Brittany Bock and 
Carrie Dew. Bock and Dew were selected 
to the U.S. Under-20 National Team in 
June. Notre Dame was one of only four teams who had multiple representatives on the U.S. Under-20 squad. They com­peted in a 16-team national tournament in Russia and helped lead the team to ·, ,aµ ~:xcellent showing. The team won ":itfrespective group, advancing to the quarterfinals against Germany. After defeating the German national team, they fell short in their next two games, both on penalty kicks. China topped them in the semifinal match after a scoreless game, and the girls lost to Brazil after -another 0-0 tie in the bronze medal game. Bock ~nd Dew will now return to the U.S. !tnd rejoin their Irish teammates inthe-hope of defending their No. 1 ranking. Two All-Americans, sophomore forward Kerri Hanks and senior midfielder Jen Buczkowski, are also returning to the Irish women's soccer team. Four other players also received all-Big East honors last year: senior defender Christie Shaner (see "Irish Eyes On," page 27), senior midfielder Jill Krivacek, juni_or forward Amanda Cinalli and senior utility player Lizzie Reed. Only one starter, senior K.J:m Lorenzen, has yet to receive Big East honors, but she will lead the team as its lone captain during the 2006 sea­son. Experience will not be a problem as the Irish march toward a national championship later this fall. Senior Christie Shaner, the pre­season Big East defensive player of the year, is well-known as an excel­lent defender on the field. Shaner and the Irish defense allowed a mere 15 goals last year, and Head Coach Randy Waldrum agrees with this perception ofthe senior defender. "If there's a better tackler than Christie in the game ofwomen's college soccer, 
I'd like to see her play," raves the Irish coach. "This is the time for our seniors, like Christie, to lead the team, and I think she will do a,gr~:i,tj!)b in that role." 
In addition to this vast amount of experien~e, ·fresh~;xt forward Michelle Weissenhofer adds some rookie flair. She took Big East Rookie of the Week hon­ors while topping Notre Dame scorers with two goals and three assists during the first two victories. Weissenhofer also uses a very unique "flip" throw-in technique, which led to a Notre Dame game-winning goal against Mississippi. With continued strong play from the younger players and leadership provided by upperclassmen, Notre Dame looks like a legitimate favorite in the national title picture. 
The Irish just completed competition in The Inn at St. Mary's Notre Dame Soc­cer Classic, and they played brilliantly, topping No. 19 USC in their first game. The second game in The Classic was a true rarity, with No. 1 Notre Dame facing another number one ranked team in Santa Clara (which was voted number one in a different poll). Notre Dame trailed 1-0 in the game before scoring three unan­swered goals in nine minutes, finishing off Santa Clara 3-1. Krivacek scored on a left-footed boot to tie the game, and Cinalli added two more goals to secure an Irish victory. Meanwhile, Notre Dame's new starting goalie, junior Lauren Karas, proved herself with a career-high nine saves in the 3-1 victory and in the process claimed top goalkeeper honors in the tournament. The Irish will be expected 
~ 
to garner even more No. 1 votes in the 0 polls and continue their dominance in ll. 
1/) 
the NCAA after a successful weekend 0 qf soccer. 0 ~ 
0 
::c 
0 
(/) 
.7 $EPT2006 



~r O . 
;~f e IstenIng n 
,,.. · • • • .......-·-·•
·.. · • e "Let's just follow the cops. I bet they know where the 
...,.,.--­rt:· ~ good parties are at."' ,f: i -overheard student at Rally1tc j 
:Le fiD "I don't like the word 'sexy.' It makes me feel nervous." • -overheard student in SDH 
,~:;-i O "Everybody knows the only reason to go to Activities :Cf< ·j Night is to steal frisbees and eat free candy." '.it}· f -junior student 
.... )_•. 
,,-:;:,:, • 8 '.'You know what the problem with Notre Dame students , }:f ~ 1s? Not enough pot." . ; if~j -overheard freshman student 
1 • 
"Americans. Sweaty, dirty messes, all of you" -Spanish professor 
;<H:·. r• "Isn't a lapdance just a lapdance? I mean, it's good, ; · \,; .. f because a girl is dancing on your lap, right?"t:::•• _ female student 
::_.J 
e drunken transgressions 1h·n thhe Gipper. It can db~ l~ssl .... inane and more.relevant.t an t e "conservative e 1tor1a -­
• publications" of Notre Dame. Heck, Scholastic even has th J£ · h (I b Ii
•---e.pow.er.to..get_you..pregniµit, .1t.so.c ooses. _ e ev.e____ ~ Scholasticisevenmorepot_entthanMattLeinart).How~ver, .· I our beloved campus magazine must've been a little more ' powerful in the '40s, as, the graduate students of campus e....:.were under.thejmpression-that.Scholastic.coulclhelp-im=-----···-­
• prove their football ticket placement. Let's take a look at 
the October 5, 1946 issue, shall we? 1-----Geiitlemen, . 
~ I amfrom New York; and I did not receive any ticketsfor the
L™'as=-~-2> j
,·-.. to·ourmeeting·did·not'tellus-clearly-whatto-do·[;-:-;}-Wouldyou,-··--..: 
• 
M1: Editor, give away .a few tickets? You should. Yoitr paper ! ___ _should be your own and not someone else's.. --··· _______ 

• 
Si ned 


• A Graduate Studetzt · · · . · ·_. · · ·· · ·.. ··· ' ~ I'm not s1.1r~·"'hatitaduate program .ac~epts _those who.· · 
I . can'tunderstand.thechnceptofa raffle. Eveiithe'inana e­
• ment majors ofcampus seem to understand thatyou can't ' JUSt crawl up to ili:e wmclow, liolcl outyour l:iancl, ~a na=v=e-----; ~ theniceman,attheci::nmtergiveyouashinyticketsoyou 
I ·can see the boys .throw around that pi:etty ball (Scholastic .. .i isbdding, of cour~e'. yVeJovethe dear, d~ar MB.t\s)~ . .
•. ;:•-:-·•--,-•-•-•-•-:-e-e.,--,e-•-:-:-•-•-•-•-•-:-•:--•·~•-•,---• .~ .Dave.Saucedo 
-i 
••-: C • 
_7SEPT2006 
33 ..... ;; •. (rn
.. _ 
~..... )1 
••••••···•···· )i}Scho/asticHumor 
e,@nd.edu 
tho. 
~'Q'Q @ 
,._v;-«..cj</. 1,'-The Gippe, welcomes you tcraamcptl~Osnatt-h.an gl ta) ta) e ~... 
-<...~ back from a summer of painful UP llP ~ l/JJ ­
summer vacays, mind-numbing intern-Brady Quinn's guns · 
ships, inebriated trips to Denny's to ofsteel. Whilethissoundsliketheendof 
gorge yourself on an "Moons Over My our drama with this couple, the nextweek 
Hammy" at 3:00 a.m., trips to the can whenourtipsterwasmeetingfriends, the 
shortly after watching "Room Raiders" same couple returned to their usual spot 
marathons, waking up in garages (hope shortly after and began.fighting again. 
you weren't huffing spray paint), inap-Old Man Gipp can onlyhope the romance 
propriate role play, friending strangers was rekindled at Rally, fueled by a mix of 
and then writing raunchy lies on their Natty Ice and desperation. Can you take 
walls, and scamming on underage tail at much more drama without watching a 
Limited, Too. Maybe that was just my few episodes o,f "Laguna Beach" to cool 
summer, but I'll never forget you, Juggs down:? How·n~sty is that witch Cami? 
A'poppin! The Gipp can't even believe it! 
Our first tale takes us back to the very Um ... Uncle Gipp apologizes for that 
end of last year. You know, back before outburst. In a more recent fiasco, the 
you became the only person to buy Gipp is warning all off-campus windows 
Paris Hilton's CD. Damn that "Stars are to be on the lookout for a suspect. An 
. Blind!" The hook is so c;atchy! Anyway, older tipster tells me a friend ofhis got a 
· · the _tj~:s~tr ".te_li.~ ine:t~at whi}e spending ride home from a partyand was carried to
·. .._; .. ,. :ti~e>i,~:aii{eliight~fr!$a:WP.~~ hang out, his room (which revisits the age-old ques­
:', ~~i:.f)\·'.T¼a~\ii±et#\CB~~:h~:tfI~~~r~)~::1~ !~:?':,r~:e:~~!1;,0th~uc~;r~::ret::~~ -­
.,t/ ··•· ·itnrillihgJet"-a-,te{such as this is;-~me,of "expel the poison" in his local lavatory.
::_l': .·.. ··., ·, t:h~:Gipp'sfavoritr sp¢c1:ator sp6pl§';;what Yet something inside his head told him to · 
, .;,;<°,'.;'.>;-•·· _'folJoied:vvas' vv~at::m~de this>p~ftic:;ular exit the bathroom immediately("Snakes 
.j ;', .. '. ,', frac:,<1s _mem<JrabJe., They atgued·.:~bout in aJohn?"). The tipster tells.~~.that 1:A~,.:·:.: :·:;~­
.JY' .... ;~i1;:!f~~1!i!~f!~i~J; !Fl!~;~:~:!f~!ti~I\i~;~;~~i.t;:;.. 
·{~.1 { ~'.~~~~;;;:;;!n~~:::;;:•;,tt,,-. ~::::~:~:i:~~=Q!f' C·...·.•. '7.f. /:~.~.:.;.'.~., .t•~~s) :nd~thee ab9tfc~o1:9 ~er!*i •kitchen wi~t:;':j~,"'1'1"\<;;}~ .:.. 
· ,, /,;';:,, .. 
··,<::it:: :;fu.i:t~l~1l~~i3:iii~l~:1 t::~:;;~ffhp-~if{(\~':;lt ,}t 
.·;,s<. . · job becauseshe-would orily l,ise the money done. No word'611'.ifltelias:apologi~ed_t:if '.·'.. , ) :'" . ... . .. ·. ._'< , •• 
<o ·:_' · · hhh"_.e:v,erytime it was uttered byour·fe·,•.~\proud a~~a:'.p~acock. :t{·-,t/:·;==~,'. ; ':>_.-·.. ···.1\': --._·. ' .. ·.. : ·. =-·.·,.' ·ug .. /'}:·.·-·
:::.::·\_"':.. ..•'.,.;_:~•...·.·.·.·:·,_.••.••.·. _·: ' ·. niale pi<iagonist. The ordeal lasted,0'\'~r-:~:': ··~' · ' .::, ::. , , -;:f/--.· ,_·. ·.. . r'-i,· ...-:·. ·. :.> . 
. · · • ..· 1...::·· . h' ', d' ' .· .' ·,· :·, .'cl ,· ., '· • •"·· -' .. s •. ' . ... . ·. · .· . 
.•. · ·: .tiiree· .ours,accor mgtoourtlpster,an •. ·_,., ;,::-. ·. t •-,.-.~-.:.-.-; ,·;<::']/:'L_ , .-,.: .. · :...,-· ..'. · 
_ •/" ··. ·.. -1t:1?\{cj.iffiff:\ .. ·f< .'•,·.·, :. ·... .-:., .
-~,-~__,,?-,._.-___ .·-······· 



';,:,,:.-,,,·... ,·,.'.. ' ._:-.. _ ',:_.··.'..J''· ,--_.:, ·.· _.,,.::r-:',.\:;.·t· ':'.-·-.': :.· '. ; ·:·-,,·.·;::·· ,·,·«i" /·•..·,'; :---'~ .",:: .. · 

c, ...•.tl:~iti.@~••··i'~,J;w·iJ;ffl\,ti:~~·..·.. El:~~,;~;"~I?!'i:: 
:~t~t;•.·~~~=~:~~:¥6~;~,;&~~~ZH7~~~~:~£~~~~~~•~6~:~e:~~~~I£ti~ 
My friends Erin, Erik, Kenton, Andy and I went to Atlanta this weekend. Erik is an engineer, Kenton sleeps a lot, Erin was the trip mom and Andy is out of his mind. Here's the story: 
We left on Friday. Erik has six classes each Friday. I have six classes each week. Score one for Arts & Letters. 
3:00 p.m. -Erik says he can't leave until 4 p.m. "because he has to do home­work." Score two for Arts & Letters. 
4:00 p.m. -Erikstarts putting his feet on me. Then he puts on an iPod playlist that consists of Dispatch and Dave Mat­thews Band. I hate Erik. 
4:45 p.m. -The conversation is pretty vanilla until Andy unveils a concept he's be(?:11 thin.king about called "Involuntary he made $309,000 that day. Considering ,,us1fuo a concrete patto enclosed by an it's the Friday before Labor Day, that'~6verhang. It is very spartan, and we don't pretty impressive. Andy tells him w~afe quite know wh~1:fwe are. in a band, and he should "give us moriey." 5:32 p.m./-7 We are inside Bobb~9dct Stonewall declines. Later on½K{ would Stadium. !.still don't understand:hbv,, sporadi~ally acc~se pe~pleyJ~ispering . 5_:Jf'p.m. ~ We e1:1-i9y-fifu scenery about him. I_r~ahze this~an makes more /?side the _stadmm, ,,~itmg fo~ someone 
than $112 billion a year!No wonder he's •... 
-invitro .fertilization.~~B_.:asica'1ly;'thiscoli~'-;r·'l0:00 a.m.--We do 1i9t wake up at 7 cept entails ... you kApw what, you don'f a.m.; we wake up at 10 a:m. Nor do we 
paranoid. ff. /'> 
5:00 a.m. -Kenton is drunk. As SlJch, he jumps on me,{fid hits me until I wrestle him to the gr~nd. /? 
5:03 a.ef/-Kenton pretei1'.'ds he is asleep. o/dead. I'm not sure.// 
5:0~.m. -Kenton attack's/me again. I su~tlrie him, and we make ~ldns to wake up{ft 7 a.m. -bright-eyed and bushy­,tailed. r: 
want to he~r about it, and I don't wanX{o talk about it, so let's move on. jl 
5:15 p.m. -Andy, still defendingiHVF ma½es the ~duc.ate_d claim that io/;~'itro is Latm for "m withm." £, 
10:53 p.m. -ErikannounceJ, "I really like Zelda." A&L is really p~lling away on.this one. lj 
12:45 a.m. -_To sav5ftime, ~enton 
dares me to pee m a waie;:t bottle mstead ofstopping. . _// ,.---._......,...., 
12:46 a::'m; ,......; I dare-myself to gt!t-all 
wake up bright-eyed ~P,-d bushy-ta~led -we wake up groggy-headed and weird-smelling. / / 
10:15 a.m. -EriVand I decide there is no time for both of us to shower, so we instead take a lap.jn the pool. Kenton neither showers nor ~~ims. 
4:00 p.m. -We' arrive in Atlanta. We check for hotel rdonis roughly 10 miles away from Bobby Dodd Stadium. Every­
where is booked. c---............,-.--,-,--,-.--,--. 
·.. · :4:45 p.m. ~ On a :wlii1rt; we qall the 
the urindoffmyl:iands, ... . =•. . ·.. .. : ·..••.. ·.HolidayInn Express a block from the sta­
1:30 a.rii: . W3/r1li-i'ntoNasli:vitl~dium: We gefili~ir1Iast rooin. BociYa! 
check into the Ci4mfort Inn and go to a bar called "The;,Tin Roof." 
2:30 a.m.. -;,Erik and I meet 1:w_o girls 
who seem mtdus. We ask them if they think w~ ha/1 cool hair (fes), if we have cool facial li~ir (yes) and if they want to have a ton£il-hockey tournament (no). 
3:45 a.J/..-We come baek-to-m1rJiotel 
5:00 p.m. -Out; friends are having a tailgate somew~er~, but Kenton, Erin, Ancly":and-~-don't 1i;iy13,ti~~!;s~et, and thlre·1s a good chance'we .will :throw up ifJ~tne<?11~:m.aJ,cesu~ ihiffwhisk~j-, so ~e decioe to talce a:.oscemc tour of Georgia Tech's campJis~\ 6 
5:20 p.m.\ "'"7 'T~e-' che,apest ticket we 
room ai/cl find K~tOilJhiikirig ciutwffi,""-can fi1;1d is $2?Q.~. ~~fe§gpourselves to 
·.· 
girl while Andyfand a \vell.:.dressed; over-watchmg tlie....:game, i!r\_bur hotel room, / 'Neig~fman irthis ~Os sing ~b eac4 other. bcl\COntin~e qur constitutional through ( 
to come kick us out.:.-The stadmm hasn't even opened t~1;1i{publicyet, so the only people inside/are Georgia Tech staff, about fif~housand Boy Scouts and us. We stick,o\it like sore thumbs. 
5:501f,m. -Consciously trying to push rpy luck, I ask a GT staff member whevh can find section 217. He responds witJ{/"I don't kn~w." Neither do I, friend. Ne~fher do I. 
6:00 P·J?l· -We are sitting in the bl~achers, hoping to keep a low profile uHtil the stadium opens, so we will be 
clirnoufl.age·d·'· ~veryone -is _~g1:1_o~ing·..us. I !start to feel hke Bruce Willis··iR,.'.;The Sikth Sense" and wonder if we're dead'.1':1:-; 
\~:15 p.m_. -We spe1:1-d mu~h of ~~e next 45 mmutes watchmg a httle B"oy · sc\\,ut explain to a littler Boy Scout how to H~her. Their combined age is maybe 10 yea~~ old. This is surreal. 
8:~pp.m.-Itisas~ldouts~ad~um._By 
us beiµg there, Georgia Tech is v10latmg every\~re code in the books. There are possifily orilyfollt no shows, in the entire venue; _anft4ey jtists6 happen to be in a row ngnt\nexno wliere our friends are sitting. H~J\ 
There are a litany of other things I could tell yow~bout (a haunted st:etch of Kentucky roaq, and Abraham Lmcoln's ?irthpl_ace amob'~ them), but let me leave it at this: \:\ 
Lodging (two nig~ts): $200 
Gas to Adanta-~ni:l~~ack: $180 
Speedi~g Ticke~,.in F\~nklin, _KY: $210 
---W,atchihg the Iqsh op~n their season Jw.ith._~ win: Pricrless (li¼{ally) 0 

·4tfar,i'.f~ .........rn
·35 
7 SEPT2006 
I~~ 
-
~· 
Q) 
0 

Q). 
. 

Did you lose SOmeone?that day?
sometn,ng. 
Syearsago 
as the heavy sun'still •······ clung 
to the verdant green, pierced the crystal lakes and blindingly bounced off the Plains' expan~e 
Did you see the smoke? and the heavy dust settltina 
. . set 11rrg . 
Making a time capsule out of a metropo/Js 
Who did you call frantically? 
and why did you cry when you hung up? 
west and south of what we call ground 
a rerun played twice 
ZERO 
Did you watch it even though6awo:,+no a~+ M8U)1 ApBaJIB noA 
' Ten and one days of September this year 
And where are you now? 
Who What 
How have you lost since then? 
-~ 
BUT ALWAYS REMEMBER 
W·hatyou 
WE 
have gained . 





