The Notre Dame Scholastic
719
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
It has often been said that Time is the great healer of all wounds. Perhaps, but the wound that Notre Dame has suffered by the death of her mostloved man will never be healed completely. Even now, after the nation has partially recovered from the passing of one of its greatest citizens, it is hard to realize what the loss of “Rock” means to us all.
Notre Dame without Rockne . . . the United States without Rockne. What does it mean? We hardly know, yet. The thousands of telegrams and letters received by the University are only partially indicative of the grief felt by the entire nation. It mattered not whether- the newsboys in San Francisco or New York or Florida knew “Rock" personally; he was a friend to everyone and they loved him.
We at Notre Dame were closer to Rockne than anyone else; his very appearance on the campus made the world look brighter; his kind face, his soft smile, his cheery hello gave a thrill to all who spoke to “Rock.” And no one was ever intentionally snubbed. Rockne was that kind of a man—“a man’s man.”
Father O’Hara received a letter from the father of a crippled boy, who last year asked for a photograph of Rockne and got it, personally autographed. The little fellow heard the announcement of the air crash over the radio. He turned the radio off. When his father came home, his small son, with tears in his eyes, asked: “Daddy, will there be a Notre Dame now?” That is typical of the question asked by millions, young and old. And the only answer to the question is: “There mil be a Notre Dame, a greater Notre Dame, because the spirit of the man-who made Notre Dame famous will inspire her sons to greater heights, will drive them on to preserve the high ideals which their leader always advocated, because ’“Rock” will be watching, guiding, and praying for them to “carry on” where he left off—at the pinnacle of success.”
We shall remember Rockne because he wanted us to do the right things in the right way. Always clean, always fair, always fighting for the highest things in life. That was Rockne.
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
=	EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief		
	Assistant Managing Editor	Managing Editor	Assistant Managing Editor
•	Neil C. Hurley	John E. Bergan	John A. Kiener
s		Associate Editors	
	Edward E. Brennan	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan
	Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan
x -	John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske
2	The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade
—	Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
s	Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs
	Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz
John Conley Myron Crawford Richard Molique William Knox
Netos Staff
William G. Karl, Netos Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant Netos
Anthony R. Schreiner F. Granger Weil Walter Johnson
Editor Lawrence Prybylski Edmund Stephan Joseph Degnan Lawrence Dunda
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Edmund Moriarty
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
George Belting James Kearns
T. Edward Carry Irving B. Halper Harry Burchell
Business Staff
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer
Raymond J. Naber
J. Aubert Smith
John P. Hess
Daniel E. Brennan
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXIV
' APRIL 17, 1931
No. 23
Frontispiece ________________________________ The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell________________ Rockne Funeral Impressive____________________2_______
Nation Mourns Rockne’s Death______ The Everlasting Arms—Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C— Rockne Grave Draws Thousands______ Isham Jones Selected For Senior Ball__ Juggler Receives National Recognition_ Coming Events_____________________:____L_____________
Campus Opinions—Myron E. Craivford---------------.--- College Parade—Daniel C. Williams---------------- Editor’s Page------------------------------------ Anderson, Chevigny to Coach N. D.—Henry B. Asman----- Golfers Open With Victory Over Valpo All-Interhall Basketball Teams------------------- On Down the Line—Cleve Carey---------------------
720
722
725
726
728’
729
730
731
733
734
735
736
748
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main. Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage or All Notre Dame Men.
IN MEMORIAM
KNUTE KENNETH ROCKNE

(
The Notre Dame Scholastic
721
THE WEEE
I T’S .laborious enough to have to go to classes in weather like this, without being also compelled to pound out a column that no one will have sufficient ambition ox* insufficient sense to read ... So we’ll have recourse to the McIntyre Method of solving the work problem for spring feverish columnists ... It consists merely of inserting a great number of dots like this ... on a page, and filling in the blank spaces with drivel about “me, my dog, and my dog, and me” . . . It’s very effetcive . . . The dots sometimes evolve into the most fascinating designs . . . And the printed matter1 doesn’t get much in the way. But since the only dogs in Sorin hall are those that you see parked on the porch railing, and since it is extremely bad form to use the first person, singular pronoun in this dignified publication, the most essential part of the McIntyre Method will have to be ignored.
P OSTERS announce that the Senior Ball is but three weeks away . . . And the Lawyers Ball placards make the campus conscious of the fact that the barristers will convene at the Palais Royale next Friday night . . . Both sets of signs were spread with no injuries to the spreaders . . . Bourke Motsett’s doctor has warned him against sign-posting . . . His last experience with that sort of business had a disastrous effect on his stomach . . . Speaking of signs, Eddie Ryan wants to do the sandwich man act as a means of publicity fox- the Ball . . . This Ryan fellow is getting too much publicity of late . . . He bought twelve extra Scholastics the last time his name was in print.
—o—
J ACK DEMPSEY has a painting in his room well worth seeing ... It was the first prize awarded by College Humor in the recent convention of collegiate comic editors at Madison . . . The art work in the Juggler was deemed the best in the country ... We have always been convinced that the Juggler is second to none in its particular field of publication in the United States . . . Which proves that vulgarity and comedy are not absolutely inseparable . . . Maybe Broadway is wrong, after all.
—o—
F RAN BEAUPRE’S golfing outfit opened the season with Valparaiso University last Saturday ... It was a good workout for the Notre Dame team . . . Also for Tom Ashe and Austin Boyle who were called upon to fill in as caddies . . . Boyle proved lacking in that Fighting Irish tenacity, and gave up on the twenty-sixth hole ... He said he’d die. for his alma mater, but not with a golf bag on his shoulder . . . The Valparaiso team started out under a terrific handicap . . . They asked about Bill Redmond, who they knew had won the Indiana State championship last year, and when they heard that he failed to make the team, they started to pray for a sudden snowstorm . . . Russ Beaupre contributed the feature of the afternoon by breaking the course record ... A national golf championship does not require any great stretching of the imagination.
HE CORBY CHORAL Club is the latest addition to the musical organizations on the campus . . . The spring weather seems to have gone to the heads, and the hearts, if not to the vocal chords, of Father O’Malley’s boys . . . Every evening the hall songsters gather- about the statue of poor Father Corby and fill the air with wailing sounds that have driven all the fish in the lake up to the opposite banks . . . The crowd has been increasing every evening, and as a result the volume is becoming greater and greater . . . Unfortunately, the quality has not improved as the quantity has increased . . . Anyhow, it’s good clean fun . . . That is . . . it’s clean fun.
ARRANGEMENTS fox* an S.A.C. boxing tournament are finally getting under way . . . Prospective entries see Ed (Tex Rickard) Madden ... In this weather a swimming meet would be far more appropriate ... Or a regatta . . . Ne vex- could understand why the lakes are not used more . . . Why not start a canoe club ... Or a rowing society . . . Fishing is beyond consideration . . . The Izaak Waltoners have a monopoly on that form of di-vertisement . . . Wonder what the League members are doing with themselves now that the season is over . . . Wednesday comes but once a week, which leaves six days for nothing but anticipations and retrospection . . . But why bring that up, as the young lady said to Dan Williams in the Blackhawk.
—o—
T HE rumor that Tom Yarr has ordered a reducing belt is all wrong ... It wasn’t a reducing belt; it was a muscle developer . . . And it wasn’t Tom that sent for it; it was Haskell (M’Fadden) Askew . . . And if Askew continues to deny it, perhaps we’ll have to say next week that it wasn’t a muscle builder, it was only a rumor . . . Does that make sense ?
'.l'HE doctors have decided to operate on poor old Badin . . . The front stairs will have to be removed ... A new set of steps for entering the building is being constructed in the basement . . . The method of exiting which has always proved the most popular will be left standing . . . You never can tell when a fire might break out there . . . Anything can break out in Badin ... Or anyone . . .
—o—
L/OU BRENNAN is in line for congratulations . . . Nothing involving cigars or invitations, or anything like that . . . His ability in writing short stories has been recognized by Edward O’Brien, internationally known as a short story critic and editor of anthologies . . . Lou received a letter from him in which he spoke highly of Scrip and praised in particular Mr. Brennan’s work in the most recent edition . . . The campus mail from England is getting heavy. Brennan’s letter- was postmarked “Oxford,” and George Spalding recently received a note from John Galsworthy, a British gentleman who also writes . . . Friendly relations between the two countries have been resumed now that Thompson is out of office.
The Notre Dame Scholastic

ROCKNE FUNERAL IMPRESSIVE
Father O’Donnell In Inspiring Eulogy Describes Rockne’s Character, Ideals
Sad Throngs Visit Campus to Attend Final Services in Sacred Heart Church.
On Wednesday morning, April 1, after the reports of the death of Knute Rockne the day before had been verified, a solemn and grave student body filed into Sacred Heart church to kneel at Mass for the repose of his soul. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, sang the Mass that day, and the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, began the distribution of Communion with the entrance of the celebrant. To a man the students at the Mass received the sacrament as their spiritual tribute to the man they had last seen the Saturday before.
Students and friends of Knute Rockne packed Sacred Heart church again on Saturday morning, April 4, the day of the funeral, to assist at a Mass sung by the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., assisted by Father Thomas Kelly and Father Joseph
McAllister. The brothers and priests of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and nuns of the order from St. Mary’s college all received Communion at this Mass, paying a last tribute to Rockne.
Noon found the crowd beginning to assemble for the funeral services. Students who had left on vacations returned; sorrowing admirers of Rockne lined the walks and spread over the quadrangle. Rockne’s closest friends, his associates, filed into the church to be with him for the last time, while the great bell in the steeple tolled at short intervals. The balcony of the Administration building was packed with clergymen, faculty members, and newspaper men, and students strained eyes from the roof of the Sorin hall porch.
Just before three o’clock, the long funeral cortege appeared past the statue of Father Sorin, and made its way over a hushed campus to the church, while the crowd on the quadrangle edged closer to the ropes that formed the roadway. The long cortege came to a stop at the church door, and the casket was lifted out and borne into the church by six of Rockne’s 1930 football stars, bowed now in grief at the death of their leader. They were Larry Mullins,
Marty Brill, Marchmont Schwartz, Tom Yarr, Frank Carideo, and Tom Conley, captain last season. They were weeping grimly as they consigned the casket to Father O’Hara.
Inside the church Rockne’s friends listened to Father O’Donnell’s splendid eulogy of his beloved friend, while out on the campus the crowd pressed around the loud speakers which carried to them the message and rhe solemn chanting of the funeral dirges by the Moreau choir. Heads were bared and some knelt on the grass in prayer.
The service over, the funeral cortege wound slowly out of the grounds and through the. city towards Highland cemetery, on the western outskirts of the city, where Rockne was to be interred. Streets along the route of the procession were packed and all traffic was suspended while the crowds stood silent to honor Notre Dame's coach.
At the cemetery police fought the crowds which attempted to get a last glimpse of the casket. Men and women pressed about the grave where relatives and close friends of the great man stood in mourning. Father O’Donnell conducted the simple and touching burial services, and the casket, with its monogram blanket for mantle, was lowered into the grave by those six teammates who had played their best for their coach. Rockne was buried as he had lived, simply and earnestly, with his men and his friends gathered around him.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
723
724
The Notre Dame Scholastic
NATION MOURNS ROCKNE’S DEATH IN CONDOLENCES TO UNIVERSITY
MASSES, COMMUNIONS FOLLOW ROCKNE DEATH
Telegrams And Letters Pour Into Notre Dame As Thousands Express Grief
After the reports of Knute Rockne’s death were verified late on Tuesday afternoon telegrams poured into the University from all over the world expressing grief and extending sympathy to Mrs. Rockne and to the University. Persons of every rank in life, who had admired and loved Rockne, sorrowed at his tragic death.
In a telegram to Mrs. Rockne President Herbert Hoover, said:
“I know that every American grieves with you. Mr. Rockne so contributed to a cleanness and high purpose and sportsmanship in athletics that his passing is a national loss.”
Secretary of War Hurley and General Douglas McArthur, army chief of staff, sent messages of condolence to Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
“I mourn with Notre Dame the loss of her great coach,” Secretary Hurley wrote. “He was more than a creator of fine football teams. He was a builder of character, and because he was that, his untimely passing is a loss to the country.
“Notre Dame loses his aggressive leadership but not the inspiration of the nobility of his character.”
General McArthur’s message said: “The army extends its depest sympathy in the tragic death of Knute Rockne. American sport has lost a great and beloved leader. We share with Notre Dame the inspiration of his gallantry, his vigor and his skill. The army will cherish his memory.”
To Mrs. Rockne from Norway, whence Mr. Rockne emigrated 38 years ago, came a personal letter from King Haakon VIII, who expressed his and his country’s grief at the loss of the great coach, and made known his intention of conferring a knighthood on Mr. Rockne at some time within the next six months. King Haakon likewise dispatched a special delegation, headed by the Norwegian consul in Chicago, Olaf Bernts, to attend the funeral and to place a wreath on the casket.
Governor Leslie and Secretary of State Frank Mayr of Indiana wired their condolences, and from the Min
nesota state legislature came a resolution of sympathy. Telegrams came from Harry Mackey, mayor of Philadelphia. From the unemployed of New York City, whom Rockne had made the beneficiaries of a charity football game played there last fall, came a beautiful floral wreath. Mayor James Walker of New York stopped in South Bend to pay his respects to the remains of the great coach, leaving for New York to make plans for a Rockne memorial.
All the universities maintaining athletic relationships with Notre Dame conveyed their great loss at his passing, and all of Rockne’s players, now coaches at other colleges, sent their regrets and came on to the funeral in person. Ludlow Wray, coach at Pennsylvania; John F. Laboon, athletic director at Carnegie Tech; “Slip” Madigan of St. Mary’s, California; Dick Hanley, coach at Northwestern; “Tug” Wilson, North western’s athletic director; Tom Lieb, Rockne’s old assistant; W. A. Alexander, coach at Georgia Tech; Major Ralph Sasse, of the West Point team; and Hugo Bez-dek, all sent messages of condolence to Mrs. Rockne and the University.
Particularly gratifying were the offers of masses which came in from parish churches, convents, and religious organizations, who immediately arranged for spiritual remembrance of the great coach. Bishop Noll of Fort Wayne, a very good friend of Mr. Rockne’s, sent his sympathy, as did Bishop Kelley, of Oklahoma City.
From a sick-bed in Florida came a message from Warren Cartier, who gave Notre Dame the ground for its athletic field. Margaret Anglin and James ,J. Phelan, Laetare medal winners, sent their regrets; condolences came from Jack Rissman, donor of the national championship trophy; Graham McNamee; Herbert Bayard Swope; and from William Lyon Phelps.
Calvin Coolidge said of Mr. Rockne that “men honored and loved him,” and Will Rogers, an pld friend of the coach’s, wrote: “You died one of our
(Continued on Page 746)
Students and Alumni All Join in Tribute to Dead Coach.
The news of Knute Rockne’s tragic death found the campus silent in tribute to the man. One of the first reactions to the report was the prayers of the students, who made silent visits to the hall chapels and to the Grotto, and took part in the adoration services in Sacred Heart Church. The Mass on Wednesday morning found every man who remained on the campus receiving Holy Communion for the repose of Mr. Rockne’s soul.
Requests have been made by nearly every student organization on the campus for Masses for Rockne, and by individuals here and elsewhere. From an alumnus came the suggestion that there be a universal Notre Dame Communion. This has been accepted and Sunday, April 19, has been named as the day for this universal reception of the sacrament as a tribute to the great coach.
At the request of the students, a novena for Rockne was begun on Sunday last, and a solemn Mass was celebrated immediately on the return of the students from the Easter recess.
There will be a High Mass on each of the nine days of the Novena, with various student groups participating in the ceremonies, and low Masses will be said in the hall chapels each morning. A series of Masses has been arranged by all four of the classes at the University, with the sophomore class assisting at the first group.
Students have been enabled, through the kindness of the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, to procure individual spiritual bouquets to be sent to Mrs. Rockne.
The spiritual response to the death of Notre Dame’s coach has been very gratifying. The Masses and Communions will be continued and augmented in tribute to, and for the repose of the soul of the man whom Notre Dame so revered.
The grave of Rockne under the Old Council Oak in Highland cemetery was visited by hundreds of students, South Bend residents, and visitors from neighboring states last Sunday. AU day long there was a steady flow of people passing by his grave, kneeling in silent prayer, and placing flowers on the mound.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE EVERLASTING ARMS » The SS'.Sk
“Lord, thou hast proved me and kwrwn me: thou hast known my sitting doivn and my rising up.
Thou hast understood my thoughts afar off: my path and my direction thou hast searched out.
“And thou hast foreseen all my zvays. . . .
“Behold, 0 Lord, thou hast known all things, the last and those of old: thou hast formed me, and hast laid thy hand tipon me.
“Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy face?
“If I ascend into heaven, thou art there: if I descend into hell, thou art present.
“If I take my wings early in the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea:
“Even there also shall thy hand lead me: and thy right hand shall hold me.
“And I said: Perhaps darkness shall cover me: and night shall be my light in my pleasures.
“But darkness shall not be dark to thee, ami night shall be light as the day: the darkness thereof, and the light thereof are alike to thee.
“For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast protected me from my mothers womb.
“I will praise thee, for thou, art fearfully magnified: ivonderful are thy works, and my soul knoweth right ivell.
“My bone is not hidden from thee, zohich thou hast made in secret: and my substance in the lower parts of the earth.
“Thy eyes did see my imperfect being, and in thy book all shall be zvritten.”—Psalm 138.
And I heard a voice from heaven saying to me: Write: Blessed are the dead, who die in the Lord. From henceforth now, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; for their works follow them.—Apoc. xiv, 13.
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord.” These comforting words, in this hour of sorrow, derive their comfort from belief in the existence and the benevolence of God. Who is the Lord in whom we live and move and are, in whom it is a blessedness to die? Let Himself answer: “I am
Who am.” “I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.” He is that necessary, self-existent Being, demanded by our reason and revealed by His own handiwork as the only key, the only satisfactory intellectual explanation of the riddle of life. Sought and found by our reason, He is further guaranteed by that exercise of our reason and our will combined, which, aided by help from Him, is the supernatural act of faith.
By the light of our own natural faculties which He gave us, and by the beam of that divine illumination which also is His gift, we know Him as the cause of, all things and the last end of all. Moving of Himself out of the uncounted ages of His eternity, He brought into being all things that are. Life, the power of life, that is His creation; from Him it comes, from Him alone. As human study proceeds, each advance of science opening new doors toward the hidden center of knowledge, widening in everextending directions the horizons of fact, which in their turn enlarge the reaches of human dreams, grander and more august, wiser and kinder we find Him to be who is the cause and source of all. Yet, when everything is reported of the splendor of our discovery of Him, it must fall short of that original postulate of our areason and our faith that names Him infinite. “0 the depth of the riches of the wisdom and of the knowledge of God. How incomprehensible are His judgments, and how unsearchable His ways. For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been His counsellor?” (Rom. XI, 33, 34.) He is “Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.”
He is the master of the universe. He is the lord of life and death. He is the lodestar of our destiny. He is the captain of our soul. All lands are His, all seas and the uncharted empire of the sky. “Whither shall I go from Thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from Thy face? If I ascend into heaven thou art there. ... If I take my wings early in the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea: even there also shall Thy hand lead me: and thy right hand shall hold me.” For, let us mark the greatest mystery of all: this Supreme Being, this God of majesty and power, is a God of tenderness and love,
‘reaching from end to end mightily and ordering all things sweetly.’ “What gray hairs are on the head of Judah whose youth is renewed like the eagle’s, whose feet are like the feet of harts, and underneath the Everlasting Arms.”
But, oh, this Infinite God, who fills all time and space, gentle Father though He be, is infinitely remote, it will be said; He is vague and impersonal to the heart of man, reaching out, as by his nature he must, to clasp a friendly hand, straining to catch the tones of a human voice. Ah, that need too He has foreseen and answered and provided for. The Word was made flesh and dwelt amongst us, and dwells amongst us still. This very week the whole world keeps remembrance of His life, His passion, and His death, His sacrifice pf Himself for our sakes. He came to be our Brother; He came to prove Himself the great Lover of mankind. For uncounted millions of men that proof has been conclusive, and will be accepted as the perfect proof till time is no more.
In this holy week of Christ’s passion and death there has occurred a tragic event which accounts for our presence here today. Knute Rockne is dead. And who was he? Ask the President of the United States, who dispatched a personal message of tribute to his memory and comfort to his bereaved family. Ask the King of Norway, who sends a special delegation as his personal representatives to this solemn service. Ask the several State legislatures, now sitting, that have passed resolutions of sympathy and condolence. Ask the university senates, the civic bodies and societies without number; ask the bishops, the clergy, the religious orders, that have sent assurances of sympathy and prayers; ask the thousands of newspaper men, whose labor of love in his memory has stirred a reading public of 125,000,000 Americans; ask men and women from every walk of life; ask the children, the boys of America, ask any and all of these, who was this man whose death has struck the nation with dismay and has everywhere bowed heads in grief.
Was he perhaps a martyr who died for some great cause, a patriot who laid down his life for his country, a (Continued on Page 743)
726
The Notre Dame Scholastic
NOTABLES IN THRONG AT ROCKNE FUNERAL
Many Prominent Figures at Burial Rites.
NOTICE!
The Classical Association will meet next Tuesday, April 22, at 8:00 p. m. in the classical room of the Law building.
ROCKNE GRAVE DRAWS THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
Burial Ground Jammed With Sorrowful Crowds.
Packed into Sacred Heart church on the campus Saturday, April 4, were men from all over the country, friends and admirers of Knute Rockne, Notre Dame’s beloved coach. There were business and professional men, Rockne’s old players of other years, coaches to whom he had taught the game, men from other universities who had come to know and to love Rockne through athletic contacts with the man.
Mayor James Walker of New York arrived Friday to pay tribute to Mr. Rockne and Mayor Harry Mackay of Philadelphia arrived on Saturday. King Haakon, VII, of Norway, who is to confer a knighthood on Mr. Rockne, sent Olaf Bernts, Norwegian consul, and six noted Norwegians to place a wreath on the tomb. Governor Leslie of Indiana wired that he would make every effort to be at the funeral.
Rockne’s old teammates and hundreds of the men he had coached at Notre Dame were on the campus for the funeral. Elmer Layden, James Crowley, Don Miller, and Joseph Bach of 1924 fame were there, as were James Phelan, Jack Elder, and Jack Cannon. The officials in charge of various Notre Dame games were represented by Ed. Thorpe, J. A. Wyatt, and W. J. O’Brien. Among the coaches of the various universities were Chick Meehan of New York university, Supt. George Remick of the U. S. Naval academy, Major Philip Fleming of the U. S. Military academy, and Major Ralph Sasse, Army coach. Judge Walter Steffen of Carnegie Tech was there. Ray Eichen-laub, old Notre Dame man, and Charles Dorais, Rock’s teammate, were present. Major John L. Griffiths, and Tad Jones of Yale were also in attendance.
Howard Jones of Southern California, and Glenn “Pop” Warner came from the west coast; Dan McGugin, Vanderbilt’s head coach; E. C. Lytton from Drake; James Phelan, from Washington, and Dr. Sutherland of . Pittsburgh were other coaches present. Jack Rissman, donor of the Rissman trophy; Arch Ward, Warren Brown, and Christy Walsh, all leaders in the sport world, were to be seen.
Other newspaper men present were Edward Meehan of the South Bend Tribune, Hugh O’Donnell of the New York Times, Mortimer P. Reed of the South Bend News-Times, Francis Wallace of New York, Harvey Woodruff of the Chicago Tribune, and Jimmy Corcoran of the Chicago American. Business leaders were present too: Avery Brundage of Chicago, A. R. Erskine of South Bend, James J. Phelan of Boston, John P. Murphy of Cleveland, Herbert Shar-lock of South Bend, and Ray Graham, Fred Graham, Robert Graham, William A. Fisher, Charles T. Fisher, and Lawrence T. Fisher, all from Detroit. Edward Kelly, South Park Board commissioner of Chicago; Dr. C. J. Barborka, of the Mayo clinic; Dr. D. M. Nigro of Kansas City, Mo., and Mayor W. R. Hinkle of South Bend— All these men were only a few of those who came to South Bend to pay their last respects to Knute K. Rockne, coach and Catholic gentleman.
2500 STUDENTS CROWD ROCKNE MEMORIAL MASS
The fact that no Masses could be sung during Holy Week caused the solemn requiem High Mass for the repose of the soul of Mr. Rockne to be postponed until Thursday, April 9, the day following the return of the students from the Easter recess.
Upwards of 2500 students filled Sacred Heart church to the doors on that Thursday morning to pray for the Notre Dame leader. Distribution of Holy Communion was started at the beginning of the Mass and the stream of communicants was continuous until the end of the ceremony. The student body to a man received the Sacrament in honor of the great coach.
Celebrating the solemn Mass was the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Assisting him were the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president, as deacon, and the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, as sub-deacon.
It was estimated that 15,000 people visited the grave of Knute Rockne on Sunday, the day following the burial. Situated on a little knoll in Highland cemetery near South Bend, with hundreds of floral pieces surrounding it, Rockne’s last resting place was .the scene of a visitation unparalleled in the city’s history. From far and near the admirers of Rockne came to pay tribute at his grave, to murmur brief prayers, and reminisce of brighter days.
So great were the crowds that a police guard had to be stationed in the cemetery to handle traffic and prevent visitors from carrying away the flowers which were desired as mementos.
Automobiles moved in a constant stream through the city and for miles along the Portage road. They came from neighboring cities, and neighboring states, bearing men, women and children. Like pilgrims they were, visiting the shrine of a national hero. The young men and boys were especially touched. To them Rockne had been an inspiration, a shining leader. They had learned from him ideals of true sportsmanship and a love of strong, clean living. Many of them had hoped some day to come under his personal direction, to play on one of his teams. The thought of Rockne dead left a void in their hearts.
Friends and acquaintances of Rockne who had been unable to arrive in time for the funeral exercises, came too. Only the sight of his grave could assure them that their friend was really dead, that the restless, fiery spirit was gone. And those who had once been cheered by his splendid vitality, who had acclaimed his name on the gridiron, could only kneel now and murmur, “Eternal rest give unto him, O Lord!”
And so it has been every day since the funeral. At almost any hour of the day someone is to be found, paying his respects to Notre Dame’s coach.	'

The Notre Dame Scholastic
727

HOLD BOXING TOURNEY
Meet For Amateur Pugilists Is Sponsored by S- A, C.


»
The Students Activities council is arranging a boxing tournament to be held in the gymnasium, May 12. The action was taken by the council after’ many students asked that such an affair be held. The amateur pugilists on the campus will have an opportunity to display their wares before their fellow classmen. Leonard Dunn and William Magarall sent in their applications to participate in the tournament when the first rumors of the pending contest were circled about the campus.
Any other men who wish to compete in this event are asked to see either Edward B. Madden, Sorin hall, or John F. Connolly, Badin hall. Prizes will be presented to the winners of the various bouts.
From the first report of the committee in charge of the show, it should prove to be one of the best boxing performances ever staged on the campus. The interest which the students have shown so far has surpassed. the expectations of the committee.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS INSPECT WILSON DAM
The government-owned Muscle Shoals development on the Tennessee river, near Florence, Alabama, was the first stopping point in an extensive inspection tour made during the Easter vacation by the senior class in mechanical engineering.
Two days were spent in visiting the power house, Wilson Dam and the nitrate plants, special permission having been obtained from Washington through Senator Watson of Indiana. The method of operating the . navigation locks, which are said to have the second highest lift in the world, was demonstrated for the benefit of the group. A dance under the auspices of the Florence Junior league was held for the visitors at the Sheffield Country club.
The party which included Carl Gaennslen, Joseph O’Hora, Maurice Mulrey and William Karl, then proceeded to Memphis, St. Louis and Chicago, inspecting several power plants in each of these cities.
NOTICE!
Tickets for the Spanish club banquet to be held on April 28 may be secured from Ramon G. Smith, 215 Sorin hall, or Kenneth Kreps, 1862 N. Fremont St., South Bend.
FATHER MILTNER, PROF.
FARRELL READ AT PEACE MEETING
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and vice-president of the Catholic Association for International Peace, and Professor William Farrell of the history department of the ■ University, attended the meeting of the association held April 6-7 in the Catholic club in New York City.
Father Miltner addressed the organization April 6 on the attitude of the Church toward war. Professor Farrell read a paper dealing with Fascism and World Peace. Many studies on the new conditions of modern social affairs were discussed.
The Right Reverend F. Lillis is honorary president of the association and the Reverend Francis J. Hass, the retiring president, was succeeded by Professor Parker Moon of Colum-mia university, New York.
Many of the nation’s outstanding authorities on peace attended the meeting.
Debate Tonight
Notre Dame will debate Northwestern university tonight at 8 p. m. in Washington hall. Judging from* the long standing rivalry in forensic contests between the two schools, this evening’s discussion should be perhaps the most hotly contested of the year. Charles Hanna, Timothy Ben-itz, and William Kirby will represent Notre Dame. Professor J. H. McBurney, director of debating at Michigan university, is to serve as critic-
• judge.
.Lay Faculty Club Banquet
The members of the Lay Faculty club held their monthly dinner in the faculty dining hall, Tuesday, April 14. Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady read a paper on “The New Physics and the New Scholasticism.” A general discussion of the subject followed the reading.
PLAN ROCKNE MEMORIAL
Committee Considers Project For Commemoration.
Immediately after the confirmation of the report that Knute Rockne was killed in an airplane crash, telegrams poured into the offices of the University expressing sympathy and grief. Among these was a number of messages concerning plans for the erection of a memorial to Rockne, and offering funds for the realization of these plans.
The number of offers was so great and the generosity of various men so pronounced that Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, called a meeting for the purpose of considering the erection of a Rockne memorial. Meeting with Father O’Donnell were Frank Hering of South Bend, president of the Alumni association; James Armstrong, secretary of that organization, and J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics. Another meeting’ will be held on Monday, April 20, to determine the nature of the memorial.
Other memorials in various sections of the country are being considered. Mayor James Walker of New York City, who visited South Bend just before the funeral, left for New York to make plans for a memorial of some kind to be erected in that city. One of the first acts of Chicago’s new mayor, Anton Cermak, was a proposal for a memorial there. Plans are also being considered for a memorial to be erected near Bazaar, Kansas, at the scene of the accident.
N. D. ALUMNUS HAS PLAY BROADCAST OVER WLW
Notre Dame fans who listened in on WLW, the Crosley station at Cincinnati last week, had the pleasure of hearing a play by a Notre Dame man broadcast. The play, “A Woman Laughs,” was written by James Griffin Jay, ’27, now of Dayton, Ohio, a former student of Professor Phillip’s play writing class, and winner of first .prize in the 1927 Indiana drama contest. Jay’s 1927 prize play, “Out of the River,” was one of the first productions of the University theatre, and was later presented at Culver. The radio drama was written by Jay was given three broadcasts: Sunday, April 5, Wednesday, April 8, and Saturday, April 11.
6
728 '
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ISHAM JONES SELECTED FOR SENIOR BALL MAY 8
Same Orchestra to Play For Tea Dance Next Day.
Plans are progressing rapidly for the Senior Ball which is to be held at the Palais Royale, Friday evening, May 8. The ticket sale opened Monday, and Walter Cahill, general chairman, announced yesterday that Isham Jones’ orchestra has been chosen to provide the music. A fortunate arrangement has been made whereby the same band will be retained for the tea dance to be held at the Chain-O’-Lakes Country club the day after the Ball. This is the first time in several years that the one orchestra has played at both the Ball and the Saturday tea dance.
Jones will come to South Bend from Cleveland, where he is at present filling an engagement at the Golden Pheasant restaurant. He broadcasts from there daily, his programs coming over the air from station WTAM. His music is said to be the best of its kind in the country, being distinctive for its smooth, mellow quality.
The orchestra has an international reputation, having appeared at the College inn, and the Palais D’or, among other well known places in this country, and having had a very successful stay at the Kit Kat club in London. Jones, aside from his prominence as an orchestra leader, is also famous as a composer. Many of his compositions have been outstanding season hits. He is also known to the American public through his phonograph recordings, having made more records for one company than any five other orchestras in the country.
The favors and invitations for the Ball have already been ordered, and the latter will be distributed within a few weeks. Jack Hughes says that he and his committee have selected an unusually attractive favor, which should meet with the unanimous approval of the feminine attendants at the Ball.
Pre-Lawyers Notice
The pre-Law club will hold a meeting on Friday evening, April 17, at 8:00 p. m. in the hew Law building. The meeting is an important one, and events of special interest are to be discussed.
BAND LEADER
DOME READY MAY 18TH
Preparation of Copy Finished; Book Half Printed.
The Dome of 1931 will probably be ready for distribution on Monday, May 18, according to an announcement made by Editor Paul J. Hallinan. The manner of distribution will be announced later by Circulation Manager Joseph A. Wilk, who also reports that to date orders for approximately twenty-four hundred copies have been received.
The various sections have been completed, and one-half of the book has been printed. The entire book, with the exception of the advertisements, is set up and ready to go to press.
This year’s Dome will be distinctive in that a four color process is being used on the main division pages and in the opening section. It will also contain a two-tone section with ten instead of the customary eight views. Included will be G. K. Chesterton’s poem “The Arena” which he dedicated to Notre Dame; and a story and picture of Mr. James J. Phelan, the winner of the Laetare medal for this year.
Nearly two hundred milkshakes and malted milks are sold between 8:00 and 10:00 p. m. in the cafeteria.
STOECKLEY GETS HONOR
Elected Executive Chairman of College Comic Association.
John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications at the University, was elected executive chairman of the National Association of College Comics at the annual convention of the association held at Madison, Wisconsin, from April first to fourth. Stoeckley was an associate editor of the Juggler in 1924. Since last October he has been in charge of the business affairs of Notre Dame’s publications.
The first meeting of the National Association was sponsored by the Wisconsin Octopus, and was held at Madison. The purpose of the organization is to unify college publications with a view to lessening business difficulties and costs. Special attention was paid to the handling of the $750,000.00 worth of national advertising annually appearing in college publications.
Arthur Towell, president of the Arthur Towell advertising agency, and former business manager of the Wisconsin Octopus, was elected grand executive chairman of the organization. He addressed the meeting, and explained how advertising costs could be substantially reduced. Stoeckley and Towell will endeavor to establish a single advertising representative for all college comics, either from the Collegiate Special Advertising agency, the Littell-Murray-Bam-hill agency or Charles E. Thorpe Associates. This will prevent duplication of effort on the part of publications and agencies.
AU of the 98 college comic monthly publications have agreed to join the National Association. This makes the organization a truly representative one. Stoeckley’s position is one of responsibility as he must face the problems of all the college comics in the country. His new duties will constitute a great advance in college advertising.
Fr. Murray at Conference
The Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department of sociology, attended the conference on the “Teaching of the Social Sciences” during the Easter . recess. This conference was held at Northwestern university on Friday, April 3.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“JUGGLER” RECEIVES NATIONAL RECOGNITION
Outstanding Art Work Brings Comic Association Award.
The Juggler, monthly humorous publication, received national recognition at the first meeting of the newly formed National Association of Col>	lege Comics when it was awarded the
prize as the best all-around magazine, mainly on the strength of the fine art work it contains. The award is an oil painting by R. F. Schabelitz which formed the cover of the May College Humor. This painting now hangs in *	the publications office, but will soon be
displayed in some prominent place, probably the cafeteria. It is to remain the property of the Juggler.
John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications, John E. Dempsey, editor of the Juggler, and John ’	W. Zaback, advertising manager of
the Juggler, represented Notre Dame at the convention which was sponsored by the Wisconsin Octopus and held at Madison, Wisconsin, April 1 to 4. College Humor donated three prizes, for the best art work, the best busi*	ness management and the most orig-
inal editing. The Penn State Froth was awarded the prize for the best business management for its excellent handling of the usual eighty-page Froths. The Columbia Jester won the prize for the most originally edited *	publication. In awarding the art
prize to the Notre Dame Jiiggler, the association recognized it as the finest college comic in America.
At the annual convention of the Midwest College Comics Association, the Juggler was elected president of *	the association. John W. Zaback,
advertising manager, now presides. The Midwest Association honored the Jiiggler highly when it adopted as standard the Juggler rate card and page size. This association includes many fine midwestern publications >	and meets once a year. The next
meeting will be held at St. Louis. The Wisconsin Octopus was elected vicepresident and the Washington university Dirge received the secretaryship. Washington university will be host to the association at its next
•	meeting.
During the football season there are from seven hundred and fifty to one thousand newspapers sold on Sunday.
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the news and sports staffs this evening at 7:00 in Room 222 of the Main building. The regular 6:30 editorial staff meeting will be held in the Publications office. All members are required to attend.
CHEVIGNY IS DELEGATE TO K. OF C. STATE CONVENTION
Past Grand Knight John E. Chevigny of, Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, was elected delegate to accompany Grand Knight Louis Buckley to the state convention of the Knights, to be held May 17 and 18, at Richmond, Indiana. The election took place at a meeting of the council held Monday night in the Walsh hall chambers.
Austin Boyle was chosen an alternate to Grand Knight Buckley, and Francis McGreal as an alternate to Past Grand Knight Chevigny. The council also voted to send Nicholas Bohling to Richmond to attend the meeting of the financial secretaries.
The committee to have charge of the annual picnic of the council was announced by Grand Knight Buckley. James Murphy was appointed chairman, to be assisted by James K. Collins, William Judge, Morris Good-eve, Arthur Bergan, Robert Streb, James Burke and Raymond Naber.
A first degree initiation to take place at Elkhart, April 27, in conjunction with the Elkhart council was also announced. The candidates voted on at the meeting as eligible for the degree were Charles J. Slatt, Ronald Bugni, Lawrence Zeil, John A. Durkin, William Rockenstein, Stacey Van Pittin, James T. Griffin, John La Brie, Jerry O’Neil, Faris Cowart, James Leonard, Raymond Fox, Anthony Marra, Robert Cahill, John F. Carmody, John E. Peter-schmidt, Frank J. Mudder, John P. White, Patrick Crowley, Thomas Behan, Daniel Rolfs, Edward Carville, Charles Fisher, George Cummings, Cyril Collins; and John Wilson Sayer.
The council also voted to supply funds for the services of a priest at the South Bend Boy Scout camp one Sunday of the summer. This was done at the suggestion of Trustee Raymond Hoyer.
NOTRE DAME DEFEATS PRINCETON DEBATERS
Hanna and Kirby Gain Victory in Team’s Eastern Tour.
For the second time in as many years a picked team of Notre Dame debaters defeated Princeton university during the team’s annual eastern tour, on which it met several of the foremost college teams in the country. During the Easter vacation Charles Hanna, William Kirby, and Timothy Benitz, accompanied by the Reverend F. J. Boland, C.S.C., varsity debating coach, traveled to Trenton, New Jersey, there to participate successfully in a debate with representatives of Princeton university.
In the two-man discussion Charles Hanna and William Kirby won a decision over Robert Watson and John Rice of Princeton. Defending the resolution: “The federal government should enact legislation providing for the immediate adoption of a system of compulsory unemployment insurance,” the eastern team stressed an obligation on the part of society of caring for those involuntarily unemployed. Since the problem is national in scope, they claimed, Federal control of the insurance plan is essential.
The Notre Dame team opposed the plan on the grounds that unemployment insurance had shown itself impractical in the past, that the proposed plan would bring the government into conflict with those states which have shown themselves opposed to insurance, and finally, that government control of compulsory unemployment insurance would tend to subsidize the laborer.
Thomas F. Waldron, managing editor of the Trenton Times, served as chairman of the debate, while judges Roscoe L. West, of the New Jersey State Teachers’ college, Clayton L. Traver, and Frederick W. Ginchtel rendered a decision in favor of the Notre Dame team.
New York university was next on the schedule, and there Notre Dame’s debaters were not quite as successful. In this debate, held at University Heights in New York City, Notre Dame was defeated. Due to difficulties which arose the evening of the debate, the previously agreed upon plan for a three-judge decision could not be canned out and hence awarding of the debate was left to an audience vote. Notre Dame lost by a margin of three votes.
730
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SEVERAL GOOD MOVIES
ON LAST QUARTER LIST
“Rogue Song” and “Abraham Lincoln” Included.
The students are especially fortunate in the eight movies which have been selected for the last quarter. “The Unholy Three” starring Lon ' Chaney, wherein he displayed unusual versatility, was presented last Saturday. According to Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C., who has charge of all campus movie presentation, the other seven will be: “The Rogue Song” (April IS), “Remote Control” (April 25), “Abraham Lincoln” (May 2), “Gangbuster” (May 8), “Feet First” (May 9), “Tom Sawyer” (May 13), and “The Fighting Caravans” (May 16).
“The Rogue Song” in which Lawrence Tibbett displays his unusually fine voice, gives the larger American public the opportunity of hearing an American who broke an old Metropolitan tradition by becoming an operatic star. Previous to his startling success, it was generally believed that America never produced outstanding operatic artists. This picture is in technicolor. Walter Huston makes “Abraham Lincoln” one of the outstanding pictures of the year. His portrayal of the Great Emancipator is one of the best of recent years. The screen version of that classic of American humor, “Tom Sawyer,” is very well enacted. Jackie Coogan returns, popular as ever, in the part of Tom Sawyer. Huckleberry Finn and Betty Thatcher are also well done. Of course in these pictures involving children, the director should receive the greater part of the credit.
Although the movies at Washington hall have always been well pat-tronized this year the attendance has been exceptional. No doubt the installation of sound equipment, making possible the presentation of the latest and best pictures, is largely responsible for the increased attendance. “Disraeli,” “Bulldog Drummond,” and “Holiday,” probably the best pictures shown this year, would not have been nearly as entertaining without sound.
There are sixty pounds of cookies sold in the candy store every day.
COMING EVENTS
Dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, April 17—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building.—Debate, Northwestern at Notre Dame, 8:00 p. m., Washington hall.—Golf match, Notre Dame at Michigan State.
SATURDAY, April 18—Golf match, Notre Dame at Detroit university. —Movies, “The Rogue Song,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.— Track meet, Wisconsin at Notre Dame, 1:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, April 19 — Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.—Track, Kansas Relays at Lawrence.
MONDAY, April 20—Universal Notre Dame Night.—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Music hall.—French club meeting, 6:30 p. m., room 3, .Main building.
TUESDAY, April 21—Spanish club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Law building. —Press club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Journalism room.—Classical Association meeting, 8:00 p. m., Classical room of Law building.
WEDNESDAY, April 22—Last day for re-reservation of rooms. — Wranglers’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
THURSDAY, April 23—Spectators’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec.”
FRIDAY, April. 24—Baseball, Hillsdale at Notre Dame, 3:30 p. m.— Lawyers’ ball, Palais Royale, 9: GO-12:00 p. m.
Distinguished Visitor Here
Dr. Townes Leigh, head of the department of chemistry and dean of the school of pharmacy at the University of Florida, will make an af-ficial risit to the department of pharmacy at Notre Dame next week. Dr. Leigh comes as representative of the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy, of which the pharmacy school here is a member.
LAWYERS HOLD BANQUET TO HONOR FOUNDER,
COLONEL HOYNES
The Law club held its annual testimonial banquet in honor of Colonel William J. Hoynes, dean emeritus of the Law school, last Wednesday in the lay faculty dining hall. Mr. Clarence Manion acted as toastmaster. A distinguished group of visitors, all former students of Col. Hoynes, attended.
The speakers were Mr. John L. Corley, Mr. Vitus Jones, Mr. Walter Clemens, Mr. George Sands, Judge G. Farabaugh, and the Honorable Dudley Shiveley. Mr. Ray Miller of Cleveland, who was to have been the principal speaker, was absent, as was Mr. M. O. Burns of Hamilton Ohio. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. was to speak, but was detained. The Reverend Joseph Carrico, C.S.C. spoke in Father O’Donnell’s place.
Dean Thomas F. Konop, the present head of the College of Law, introduced Col. Hoynes. The venerable dean emeritus spoke on the qualifications of a good, lawyer, which qualities he has inculcated so well into his students.
Col. Hoynes is the' founder of Notre Dame’s law school, and the donor of the Hoynes award, which is a prize of one hundred dollars given to the highest ranking senior in the College of Law.

CHEMICAL SOCIETY HOLDS MEETING HERE
The St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society met in Chemistry hall last Wednesday evening, April 15.
Dr. Irving E. Muskat, research instructor in organic chemistry, Chemistry department of the University of Chicago, was the speaker. He addressed the section on the subject, “The Mechanism of Substitution in an Aromatic Nucleus.” The subject was discussed from an electronic standpoint, and was a very interesting talk.
Conn. Valley Club Meets
The Connecticut. Valley club will hold an important meeting next Tuesday evening at 6:30 in the Law building. Plans for the summer dance and for the election of officers will be discussed at the meeting. All members are urged to attend.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
731
SHORT BIOGRAPHY IS WRITTEN BY MEMBER OF CONGREGATION
Campus Opinions
MONOGRAM CLUB REVUE LAST WEEK IN APRIL
The King’s Steward, a book by George N. Lyons, has recently been placed on sale in the University book store. This book is a short but “meaty” biography of a Catholic business man; Lyons calls him “a man of profound piety and boundless charity,” and the term fits him very7 well. One would probably have to search industriously for a long while before he could find a man who even approached this business man in goodness, let alone equalling him. The record of his unceasing devotion and of his unobtrusive charity is certainly one well worth the reading. In truth, this man, who is given the name of George Schumann in the book, approached very close to saintliness; he mastered the difficult task of applying Catholic principles of conduct to every phase of his life.
His. devotion was not made manifest by any pose of hypocritical rectitude but by a succession of good deeds, by large gifts to various charities, by constant answers to the appeals for aid. Not until after his death did his family realize how many he had helped, how much he had given to charity; the great number of sorrowful tributes to the dead man’s memory showed his children how widespread his bounty7 had been. He built up a large and prosperous business on the principles of fair dealing and honest service, applying to his business the same dogmas which he obeyed in his religious life, instead of divorcing the two, having one code for business and another for religious life, as is the case with many business men.
George N. Lyons is a pseudonym, used by a member of the Congregation here. The book is a small, attractive volume, very, reasonably priced at §1.10 a copy.
Architects Receive Mention
In the Class A and B Archaeology7 IV Project, recently conducted by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design of New York City, the following sophomores and juniors in the department of architecture received mentions for their designs of a “fieche,” which was the subject of the competition: R. Bisceglia, L. Chreist, P. Flanagan, J. Hinkle, C. Hyland, L. Stitt and C. Weiczorek.
Question : “What do you consider a fitting memorial to Rockne?”
Joseph G. Cooke, Lyons hall, junior—“I would consider the changing of the name of the Notre Dame stadium to ‘Rockne stadium.’ It was through his efforts more than any other that this stadium was accomplished and it should be given his name as a monument of his achievement. His name will always be associated with football and how could we better show this association here than by giving the stadium his name?”
James R. Slattery, Badin hall, senior—“In my opinion the most suitable memorial that could be erected for ‘Rock’ is a field-house to bear his name and to perpetuate his memory for all future Notre Dame students. Rockne’s activities were not confined solely to football, and it would be wholly appropriate to commemorate a new field-house to him.”
Hugh J. Murphy, Freshman hall, freshman—“A Rockne memorial fieldhouse, to my mind, would be more appropriate than the renaming of the stadium. Notre Dame needs something built for Rockne, not the renaming of a structure which he himself built. Notre Dame also needs a field-house, and it is Rockne’s due that, if built, it should be named for him.”
Willard Croxall, Walsh hall, junior—“A fitting memorial to Rockne is the naming of the new stadium, ‘Rockne Memorial.’ ■ It had been Rockne’s dream for many years and just as his dream seemed to approach realization, he was snatched away. In memory of his work and in honor of the high plane on which he placed Notre Dame and Notre Dame football, I think the stadium should be called ‘Rockne Memorial stadium.’ ”
Thomas F. Ryan, Off-Campus, sophomore — “Because Rockne was more than a football coach, Notre Dame owes more to him than the renaming of the stadium. Rockne, director of athletics here, should have a new field-house to commemorate his great life work.”
Athletes Are Hard at Work on Annual Show.
The walls of Washington hall should echo and reecho with laughter on the nights of April 28, 29, and 30, when the Monogram club will put on its annual musical show.
Members of the club with Arthur McManmon, Marty Brill, and Nordy Hoeman in charge have been working strenuously7 during the past month in an effort to produce the show. The men in charge of the show have intimated that this year’s production shall go down in history as the best produced. All monogram men are putting their best histrionic efforts into the show.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music, has arranged the music for the “Absurdities” and is also helping in the arrangements of the many prologues, dialogues, skits, and comedy melodramas. Among the many features to be offered will be a novel act made up of backfield men. Frank Carideo, Marty Brill, Nick Lukats, and Al Howard make up the quartet. The untiring efforts of the monogram men under the direction of Prof. Casasanta indicate that the musical show promises to be one of unusual merit.
LOUIS A- BRENNAN
HONORED BY O’BRIEN
Louis Brennan, editor of Scrip, has received a request from Edward J. O’Brien, editor of Best Short Stories, for a biographical note on himself. This request undoubtedly means that O’Brien, who has read some of Brennan’s stories in Scrip, has judged one of them worthy of honorable mention, perhaps for publication ,in the next edition of Best Short Stories. George Mattingly Spalding, winner of the Ladies' Home Journal short story contest, sent the copies of Scrip to Mr. O’Brien.
Dr. Kuntz Lectures
Doctor Leo Kuntz, head of the school of education, who has of late been active in addressing several South Bend clubs and organizations, gave a talk to the Young Men’s Business association last night at the local Y. M. C. A. His subject, appropriate for the occasion, was “The Plan of Life.”
732
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ASSIGNMENT OF HALLS FOR 1931 ANNOUNCED
Preregistration Must Be Made Before Next Wednesday.
Announcement was received this week from the registrar’s office concerning the allocation of residence halls for next year. This allocation supersedes all previous regulations.
All students who expect to return to the University next fall must preregister on or before Wednesday, April 22. Present students who do not preregister within the time set will be listed after new students in preference for class quotas. Class schedules for the coming year will not be made out for students who do not fulfill this requirement. The full regulations may be seen in a previous bulletin issued by the University.
Next year freshmen will live in Carroll, Brownson, Dillon, and present Sophomore halls. This means that Freshman hall will probably be torn down. Sophomores are assigned to St. Edward’s, Morrissey, and Lyons halls; juniors to Howard, Badin, and Alumni; and seniors will live in Sorin, Corby, and Walsh.
Only those students whose rating next year coincides with the above may re-reserve their present rooms. Exceptions will be made only for brothers who wish to room together, in which case a room will be assigned to the student with the lower rating.
ARTICLES BY PHILLIPS APPEAR DURING EASTER
Among recent appearances of Notre Dame writers in print two publications by Prof. Charles Phillips of the English department are noted, both relating to the Easter festival. The New York Times of Sunday, April 4, carried an informative article by Mr. Phillips entitled, “A Note on Passion Plays.” The Commonweal of April 1 published “The Soviet Easter,” a description .of the efforts being made by the Bolshevik government to do away with all such religious observances as that of Easter in Russia. Mr. Phillip’s tribute to Coach Rockne, written at the request of the United Press, and carried over their wires to hundreds of newspapers throughout the country, was broadcast by the Milwaukee Journal during their Rockne Memorial hour, April 4.
ARMSTRONG GOES SOUTH TO LEAD CONVENTION OF ALUMNI GROUP
James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary of the University, left Monday night for Atlanta, Georgia, to direct the eighteenth annual convention of the American Alumni council, which will be held at the Atlanta-Biltmore hotel, April 15-18.
Notre Dame was the first Catholic college to become a member of the council, which comprises the executive alumni officers of the colleges and universities of the United States and Canada. The Notre Dame secretary has served as vice-president of the council and as director of District V, the mid-western states. This year he was appointed to the post of director for conventions, in charge of the program which is being held this week in the south, with Georgia Tech, Agnes Scott, Wesleyan college and Emory university as the host colleges.
Members of the council form the bulk of the program, which treats primarily of the technical problems of alumni organization.
The convention will also be addressed by Dr. Frank Graham, president of the University of North Carolina, Mrs. Cora Harris, famous southern author, and James L. Key, mayor of Atlanta.
Mr. Armstrong’s position makes him ex officio a member of the board of directors of the council.
Universal N. D. Night
James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary of the University, announced yesterday that Universal Notre Dame Night will proceed as planned, and clubs everywhere have signified their intention of holding meetings. It is probable, from recent communications, that all programs will include some form of memorial to Knute K. Rockne. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will broadcast an address from WGN at 10:10 p. m. after addressing members of the Notre Dame club of Chicago. The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. will speak before, the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley in the University dining halls. Prof. Joseph Casasanta is in charge of the local musical program.
LAWYERS’ BALL PLANS COMPLETED THIS WEEK
Programs and Invitations to Have New Features.
Joseph Guadnola, chairman of the Lawyer’s ball, announced this week that final arrangements for the dance have been completed, and that according to present indications the affair will be one of the real highlights of the University’s social season. The programs will be decidedly different this year from any of those previously used, and the novel invitations have already been highly approved by those who have seen them. The music will be furnished by Jimmy Garrigan and his orchestra, popular entertainers at the Via Lago cafe in Chicago.
The unusual invitations contain several amusing features. Issued from the “State of Romance, County of Amaranth,” they are in the form of warrants for arrest. The warrants are sent out by the Notre Dame Law club, and the summons request that the fair lady to whom it is sent “be purposely, suitably, pertinently, or otherwise approvingly adapted, prepared, qualified, provided, or otherwise be ready to waltz, fox trot, double shuffle, camel hop, polly wave or otherwise disport the atrocities of the dance premiere.”
Robert E. Duffy, chairman of the program committee, has prepared somewhat of a novelty for the occasion. The lawyers this year will have an opportunity to show their guests how much they know about law, for the dances will have legal terms instead of the numbers to distinguish them. The favors will be in white leather with a gold lawyer’s seal in one comer and the coat of arms of the University in the other.
Lost and Found Notice
The following men have articles in the “lost and found” department in the Main building:
M. Estiada, , Charles Busser, William A. Hunt, Merril Van Dyke, John J. Dumpert, Joseph Willis, Gilbert Augustine, M. Bruce, Ed Foley.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
733
1
CCEEEDE PARADE
NOT ONLY NOTRE DAME. . .
A COACH WHO BELONGS TO THE AGES
Knute Rockne possessed natural leadership and a magnetic personality which undoubtedly would have made him an outstanding figure in any field of work that he might have chosen . . . His death robs the nation of a dynamic figure. His influence in sports will be felt for years to come.
.	—Daily Illini
A MAN HAS GONE
The Greatest Coach of them all saw fit to beckon Knute K. Rockne to the sidelines for all times . . . and the nation mourns one of its most colorful and outstanding figures — a man whose football wizardry was legend, a man to whom full grown men and callow-youths alike looked upon with respectful awe.—Stanford Daily Cardinal
THE MASTER MENTOR
Football and Knute Rockne—always in the same breath and always allied in the minds of football hungry fans and players. Now a sudden tragedy sweeps the master mind of the gridiron from the coaching fields and leaves the realm of the pigskin and sport-loving, sport-respecting Young and Old America desolate.—Daily Texan
AMERICA’S COACH IS DEAD
Knute Rockne, the football coach of America is dead . . . Notre Dame deeply mourns his passing . . . For Rockne stood firm in his place, a shining light in a sports world that had become “commercialized” and that is the subject of attacks by many educators for its overemphasized importance in collegiate circles . . . He was one of the leading men of the age in all attempts to give football its place in the sun, but he stood for amateur rather than commercial sports.
—Daily Nebraskan
THE PASSING OF A GREAT COACH
The football wprld in particular, and the nation in general, will deeply mourn his passing. For he was a good sport. At all times, Rockne played the game. Never a’ whimper, never an alibi, always taking his dose, whether good or bad, like a man. Until his equal comes to the fore, the football world will not be different. For the Notre Dame system, or the Rockne system, is established. That alone is tribute to his memory.
—Purdue Exponent
THE GAME IS OVER
In a highly publicized game such as football myths are apt to overshadow the actual personality of the best known leaders of the sport. In the case of Knute Rockne, whose untimely death takes away one of the greatest coaches in the history of the game, such was not true. This glamorous figure in the ever shifting gridiron spotlight was a man revered as much for his ability and character as for the success of his athletic teams that he coached . . . His name will go down in the annals of gridiron history as the finest coach, football’s greatest exponent, and a man whose sterling character honored his game, his university, and his country.—Minnesota Daily
KNUTE ROCKNE
The news of Knute Rockne’s death has been received here, as everywhere, with considerable surprise and sorrow ... To those who had the privilege of being personally acquainted with Rockne, he was a fine man and a good friend. To the thousands of others who knew him as football coach of Notre Dame, he was the greatest figure in present-day sport.
—Daily Princetonian
ROCKNE WILL REMAIN AN INSPIRATION
With the death of Coach Knute Rockne, Notre Dame suffers a loss that is not confined merely to her football prospects. With Rockne she loses a popular hero whose reputation has carried her name into millions of American homes ... To thousands of boys in their teens he was a hero and a model by which they gauged their own characters. The world is indebted to Rockne for the millions in college, high school, and grammar school who are growing up with the resolution never to acquire the traits for which Rockne could express only contempt.—Daily Californian
KNUTE ROCKNE, COACH AND SPORTSMAN
The entire college world today mourned the death of Knute Rockne, noted Notre Dame football coach ... He was one of the most persuasive talkers sports has ever known. He could inspire his team with a word. He was always the center of attention in every group he found . . . The world has lost not only a famous grid mentor but a great sportsman and an outstanding personality.—Ohio State Lantern
734
The Notre Dame Scholastic
EDITOR’/ DADE
finute lioctinc is Drab....
(Reprinted from the Scholastic “extra” issued on the day of Mr. Rockne’s death.)
The announcement came shortly after noon today- No statement in the history of Notre Dame has ever had a more poignant effect.
When he came here as a student in 1910 to study and to live in the shadow of the Dome, it was realized by his companions that here was more than an ordinary man. His fire, his loyalty and his ability were recognized.
Later he became teacher and assistant coach. Again, men came to admire him, to respect him with a feeling that enkindled love.
He became coach. And the greatest of them all. It was agreed.
Now he is dead.
His football men are stunned. “We can’t believe it” one of them said today. That.this dynamic teacher of all that was best in the greatest of sports is no more has a bewildering effect upon men that knew him and loved him not only as a coach but as a friend-
Members of the administration discussed the tragedy this afternoon in small groups. Their fellow-member was gone.
Students gathered in Sorin, where “Rock” as a boy used to live. Everywhere was the same feeling.
Into the Church of the Sacred Heart, where Coach Rockne knelt at his First Communion several years ago, there streamed hundreds of .boys, to pray.
Since the passing of George Gipp no pall of sorrow has fallen upon the campus which may be compared to that which hovers over us today. The man whose name has been connected with Notre Dame since the school was in its infancy has been snatched from our midst by the quick hand of death. By this time the news of his passing has spread to the four corners of the earth. And men in every walk of life who have followed the career of this mighty leader of youth will pause a while to regret, to reminisce, to breathe a prayer that his soul may rest in peace.
It has been said many times that Rockne has been more to the men of Notre Dame than a genius who led its athletic teams to astounding victories on the gridiron. And now that he has departed from this life, the fact will be more vividly outstanding. He has been an inspiration, in the most glorious sense of the word- He has been a living symbol of success in spite of almost un-surmountable obstacles. He had faith in the men who glorified in his leadership, and those who worked with him would have followed him to the edge of his grave.
No figure in the field of sports has ever been so sincerely and so universally loved as this great man. His strength of character, his winning personality, his untiring devotion to his Alma Mater have made him a personage admired and respected by all who knew him.	,
The master has passed. The SCHOLASTIC joins with the voices of everyone in regret at his death. But regret is tempered with faith. As Father O’Hara says in his Religious Bulletin for today, “We may feel that the Mother of God took care of him in his hour of need.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Z3-9
Anderson, Chevigny to Coach N.D.
Rock’s Spirit to be Head Coach With “Hunk,” Jack as Senior, Junior Mentors
Fr. O’Donnell Asks Squad to “Carry On” As Spring Grid Practice Is Resumed.
With the spirit of Knute K. Rockne forever’ the head coach at Notre Dame, Heartley Anderson was named senior coach and Jack Chevigny junior coach of football for the 1931 season. With the resumption of classes last week, spring football practice,
“Hunk” Anderson
Senior Coach
too, was begun again and the men who answered the call of the “Old Man” a few short weeks ago reported to Anderson and Chevigny to “carry on for Rock.”
Knowing that Rockne would desire that the spring sessions be continued, the University authorities decided to
follow the plans that he had laid out and, in order to do so, entrusted them to the hands of “Rock’s” right-hand men of the past year. At the noonday football lecture last Friday, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, addressed the players and told them of the plans that had been formulated for the next season.
“There will never be a head coach but Rockne at Notre Dame,” said Father O’Donnell. “ ‘Hunk’ Anderson will be in charge, but he will be the senior coach, and Jack Chevigny the junior coach. Rockne cannot be displaced as head coach.” And so the problem which had attracted the attention of the entire nation was solved for at least a year. It is not thought that the present arrangement will be permanent for Anderson has • expressed himself as unwilling to accept the position which the tragic death of the beloved leader left open. Following the conclusion of the next season, a permanent successor to the “Master Mind” will probably be selected.
In concluding his few words to the bereaved grid squad, Father O’Donnell asked them to carry on. “The eyes of the football world are on Notre Dame. It wants to know what Notre Dame will do without Rockne. You will answer. So carry on.” And his words have become the watchword of the campus and of the squad. Carry on! For the “Old Man,” Carry on! Posters throughout the gym, dressing rooms, and locker rooms encourage the men to carry on! Such reminders—such encouragement is not necessary for but one look at the squad is enough to convince that to a man “his boys” are trying to do for “Rock” what he would have them do were he still with them.
“Hunk” Anderson came- to Notre Dame in 1918, from Hancock, Michigan, and became a member of the varsity team in his second year at
school. Before he was graduated in the spring of 1922, he had earned the title of one of the best linemen ever to appear- in a Blue and Gold uniform. “Hunk” returned to his Alma Mater in the role of coach and, with the exception of two years spent as head coach at St. Louis university, he has been at Notre Dame ever since that time. The great defensive play of the Fighting Irish line has been due in no small measure to the work of Anderson. Following the loss of Moynihan, Cannon, Law, and Twomey in 1929, it was believed that Notre Dame would be unable to replace these great stars. Instead, the 1930 line was thought by many to be superior
Jack Chevigny
Junior Coach
to their predecessors. From a squad of comparatively green shock-troop and sophomore material Anderson had developed a forward wall that consistently refused to be outplayed or outfought.
(Continued on Page 746)
736
The Notre Dame Scholastic
GOLFERS OPEN WITH 17-1
VICTORY OVER VALPO
Russ Beaupre Breaks Course in Shooting Four Under Par.
Led by Russ Beaupre who whittled three strokes from the existing course record, four Notre Dame varsity golfers opened the 1931 divot shower with a 17 to 1 victory over the Valparaiso quartet Saturday at Valparaiso. Captain Fran Beaupre, Larry Moller, and Louie O’Shea completed the Blue and Gold team that- swept to victory in each of the six matches.
At the end of the morning rounds, which included four singles encounters, Notre Dame led by 11 to 1 as the result of four decisive triumphs over the Valpo swingers. The lone tally for the home golfers was earned by Nath and Chris.?. Each of these two worthies gained one-half point by virtue of finishing on even footing with the Beaupre brothers for nine holes. Moller and O’Shea stroked their way to complete wins in their matches.
In the afternoon, Notre Dame added six markers to their total by annexing both of the best ball matches. Moller and Fran Beaupre teamed to take the measure of Christy and DeGrazia of Valpo, 6 and 5. The Blue and Gold entries totalled a 74 for their round. O’Shea and the brilliant Russ Beaupre carded a fine 66 to defeat Nath and Shook, also by 6 and 5.
It was in this afternoon match that Russ Beaupre launched his assaults on the records of the Valparaiso Country club. He started by tying the nine hole mark with a 33, three strokes below par. He went right on to a new record for the eighteen by adding a 35 on the last nine for a 68 total. This was four strokes under par and three under the old . record. His card showed 11 par holes, four birdies, one eagle, and only two instances where he was over the “perfect” score. The eagle was a marvelous “two” on the 335-yard third hole. Nath had the best card of the Valpo contingent with a 77 in the afternoon.
Notre Dame’s morning scores follow: R. Beaupre, 74; Moller, 77; O’Shea, 79; Fran Beaupre, 82.
Summary:
Singles
Fran Beaupre (ND) defeated Christy (V), 2 and 1.
SPRING CAGE PRACTICE BEING HELD IN GYM BY 'OONIE’ DONOVAN
Some twenty-five prospects for next year’s basketball team have been working out daily in the gym under the direction of Coach Clarence “Oonie” Donovan during the past two weeks. The object of these practice sessions is to introduce the new men to the system that is used by Coach Keogan’s varsity.
Most of the prospects are members of this season’s freshman squad or of the various inter-hall teams. Because of the newness of many of these players to the Notre Dame style of play, most of the time so far has been spent on the fundamentals of the game in order to furnish a sure foundation for the future training. Tire daily sessions will continue for about five weeks with Coach Donovan in charge since Keogan is taken up entirely with his varsity baseball nine.
Although the practices have been under way for about ten days, there is still time for more aspiring eagers to report for work. It is especially important for anyone expecting to report for next year’s varsity to take advantage of this Spring training opportunity. Most of the constructive work as far as the fundamentals of the game and the rudiments of the local systems are concerned is done in this period. There is ample room on the squad for more men, and the benefits of the training will be great helps in next winter’s scramble for places on the varsity squad.
O’Shea (ND) defeated Shook (V), 3 and 2.
Russ Beaupre (ND) defeated Nath (V), 4 and 2.
Moller (ND) defeated DeGrazia (V), 2 and 1.
Best Ball Matches
R. Beaupre and O’Shea (ND) defeated Nath and Shook (V), 6 and 5.
F. Beaupre and Moller (ND) defeated Christy and DeGrazia (V), 6 and 5.
Russ Beaupre’s Card
Out:
Par_____44444345 4-36
R. Beaupre 35234345 4—33
In:
R. Beaupre 4 3 4 3 4 3 5 5 4—35—68 Par_____4 4 4 4 4 3 4 5 4-36-72
EIGHT DUAL MEETS ON CARD FOR N.D. GOLFERS
Team to Defend State Title; Also to Play in National.
Eight dual meets and two tournaments are scheduled for the Notre Dame golf team this season. The first of the former, the dual meet with Valparaiso, tock place last Saturday, with the Blue and Gold squad victorious, 17-1. With this one-sided victory as a starter the home team is looking forward to their second undefeated season.
Michigan State and the University of Detroit will both be met twice. Other opponents are Loyola, Iowa, and Pittsburgh. Three of the teams will be met at Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, and Detroit, the last two named playing on a home and home arrangement.
The team is entered in two tournaments, the Indiana State meet and the National Intercollegiate Tournament.
The Notre Dame squad is composed entirely of veterans. All of them have had previous experience in competitive play, and all but one was a member of the team last year.
Headed by Captain Fran Beaupre, the team is composed of Russ Beaupre, who broke the course record of the Valparaiso Country club, Saturday, with a card four strokes under par; Larry Moller, president of the National Intercollegiate Golf association and runner-up in the National Intercollegiate tournament last June; Louie O’Shea, University champion; Bill Redmond, champion of Indiana; and Art Bradley, runner-up in the University championship.
The team’s easy victory in their first contest is an indication of their strength, and golf fans are looking forward to a most successful season. The complete schedule is as follows:
April 17—Michigan State, there.
April 18—Univ, of Detroit, there.
May 1—Loyola, there.
May 2—Iowa, there. '
May 9—Michigan State, at Notre Dame.
May 16—Univ, of Pittsburgh, at Notre Dame.
May 22—Univ, of Detroit, at Notre Dame.
Indiana Meet.
National Intercollegiate Tournament, at Chicago.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
737
NOTRE DAME TO OPEN SEASON IN DUAL MEET
Wisconsin Favored to Win Over Men of Coach Nicholson.
after the prom
Coach John P. Nicholson’s Blue and Gold thinlies will receive their first test of the outdoor season tomorrow when they will play host to Wisconsin in the initial meet of the season. Wisconsin will be represented by practically the same squad that finished second in the Big Ten indoor meet, and will provide plenty of competition for the men of Nicholson.
Notre Dame will be depending upon the men that accredited themselves so well during the recent in-door season, but the balance of the Badger squad, and especially her strength in the field events, make them slight favorites. Captain Johnnie O’Brien and his mates have been exhibiting fine form in the practice sessions, however, and stand a good chance of turning the tables of victory.
Wisconsin will entrain for the Notre Dame stronghold with a well balanced team and several individual stars, whose past performances have been nothing short of sensational. In Bill Henke, the Badgers have a quarter miler who rates with the best in the land, and who boasts of a mark of 48.9, the world’s indoor record for that event. This race is expected to be the feature one of the afternoon, because it will bring together Henke and Alex Wilson, who is the British 440 champion. Wilson has been doing some great running in practice, and a very close race is expected. Sammy Behr, sensational Badger shot-putter is a consistent performer in this event and should win it with little trouble. He has approached the fifty foot mark on several occasions. Other stellar Badger performers include Thompson, a miler, and Wright, a two-miler, while their weight men, headed by Kabat, a 150-foot man in the discus, are all strong.
The meet should prove to be one of the most interesting of the season because of the well-balanced strength of the two squads, but Wisconsin is conceded a slight edge because of the fact that Notre Dame was thrown so far behind in training due to the tragic death of Coach Rockne.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They in-clude ALL-BRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
AS A late-in-the-evening snack, Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes are a wonderful dish. Here’s flavor that every one loves — the famous flavor of PEP. Here’s whole wheat for nourishment — the goodness of the whole grain. And there’s just enough extra bran to be mildly laxative — to help keep you feeling fit.
Enjoy these better bran flakes often—for breakfast, for lunch. You’ll never tire of their wonderful flavor.
Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. In the red - and - green package.

BRAN FLAKES
ALL-INTERHALL BASKETBALL TEAM FOR 1931
HEAVYWEIGHTS
LIGHTWEIGHTS
First Team:	First Team:	
Teders (Sorin)	1. f.	Forastiere (Brownson)
Law (Walsh)	r.f.	Dorsey (Carroll)
Sandera (Howard)	c.	Rodriguez (Off-Campus)
Baldwin (Morrissey)	L g.	Tomasi (Badin)
Rapier (Sophomore)	r. g.	Casey (St. Edward’s)
Second Team:		Second Team:
Palt (Corby)	l.f.	Brennan (Corby)
Fishleigh (Sorin)	r.f.	Horan (Freshman)
Bogna (Off-Campus)	c.	Morrow (Carroll)
Seidel (Walsh)	Lg.	Poppe (Howard)
Melchione (Morrissey).	r. g.	Maloy (Brownson)
Honorable Mention:		Honorable Mention:
Brost (Howard)		Vitt (Off-Campus)
Rascher (Carroll)		Foley (Walsh)
Osborn (Brownson)		Tunney (St. Edward’s)
The 1931 All-Interhall basketball teams which the Scholastic prints above, were chosen by the coaches and officials of the league during the past season. The men who have received this honor are, without doubt, the most deserving and we feel that the men who picked the teams did a good job despite the difficulty which one would naturally experience in attempting to pick such a team.
738
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SILVER JUBILEE SALE
Special 50c Or. West’s Tooth Brush
and
1.00 Bottle of
Oriis Mouth Wash S? 59c
F R I D A
S A
U R D A
Golf Balls Walgreen Peau-Doux 33c—3 for 90c
A N D
New
Anniversary
Twinplex Stropper
You’ve always wanted a Twinplex —now you can afford one at this low price
1.49
Walgreen Certified 45c-3 for 1.35
M O N D A
SOc
Tooth Brushes Greatest value* ever offered—your choice of pastel colored handles.
29c
Right reserved to limit quantiles
You're Always Welcome at Walgreen's
Sat Thru Tues.
The chewing gum comic, funnier than ever in a new and merry comedy of old and merry England.
Mill CC6EPS
In Mark Twain’s 19th century laugh classic—with a 20th century twist.
A CONNECTICUT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
739
BASEBALL TEAM WINS OVER WISCONSIN, 8-7
Palt Relieves Lisicki in Fifth and Features Game-
With a four run handicap amassed by Wisconsin in the first inning facing .them, the Notre Dame ball toss-ers fought an uphill battle to win Thursday on Cartier field in the contest which officially opened the baseball season as far as Notre Dame is concerned. Coming from behind in the fifth inning, the home guards piled up three runs to bring the score to its final status, Notre Dame 8, Wisconsin 7.
Last year’s Big Ten champions greeted Coach George Keogan’s squad in the first inning by running across four runs by dint of several solid blows, a sacrifice, a bunt, and an error. Askew, however, started the Notre Dame half of the inning by treating Poser’s first offering to a ride which was good for three bases. O’Connor struck out, and Captain “Dinney” O’Keefe "was thrown out at first, Askew scoring on the play.
Lomasney flied out to left field to and the turn at bat.
Lomasney, leading off in the last of the fourth, dropped a single over first base. Sullivan flied out to right field. Romanin, in left field for Notre Dame, hit to Poser, the Wisconsin pitcher, and both runners were safe when Schendel fell at second base in an attempt to catch the ball. Sacrificing to the pitcher, Kolski was thrown out at first, advancing Lomasney and Romanin. The latter two players scored when Mahoney banged out a hot single through the second station. As Sommerfield juggled Lisicki’s drive to right field, Mahoney scored, and the Notre Dame pitcher went to third, but Askew struck out to retire the side.
Palt entered the game for Lisicki in the fifth inning and allowed Wisconsin but two hits whilt holding them scoreless for the remainder of the game. After O’Connor had beaten out a, hit to third base, O’Keefe tripled into deep right field, but was thrown out in an attempt to stretch the hit into a home run. O’Connor had scored on the hit. Before Notre Dame was through, two more runs had been chased in, and the score was unchanged after that.
Box score:
Notre Dame—	ab r h pa
Askew, 2b ..............3	1.	1	2	0
O’Connor, cf............4	1	1	2	1
O’Keefe, 3b ...........-1	0	1	4	1
Lomasney, rf............3	2	1	1	0
Sullivan, lb ...........4	0	I	S	0
Romanin, If ............2	1	0	0	0
Cummings, If............1	1	1	1	o
Kolski, c ..............3	0	2	3	1
Mahoney, ss ............4	2	1	1	0
Lisicki, p..............2	0	2	0	1
Palt, p ................2	0	0	0	3
Totals ................32	8	'	11	27	7
Wisconsin—	■ ab r
Winer, ef...............5	2
Schendel, ss ...........3	2
Lusby, If ..............5	1
Smilgoff, c.............5	0
Cuisiner, 2b ...........5	0
Schneider, lb...........4	1
Poser, p ...............5	0
Griswold, 3b ...........3	1
Sommerfield, rf.........4	0
H 2 1 3 1 1 2 1 0 0
11
p
1
1
1
5
9
2
1
2
24
0
2 0
2
1 0
4
3
1
13
Totals ...■............39
Score by innings:	rhe
Wisconsin ......4	00 030 00 0—7 11 4
Notre Dame ...1 01 330 00 x—8 11 5
Errors—Askew, Kolski, Mahoney, Lisicki, Palt, Schendel, Schneider, Poser, Sommerfield. Two-base hits—Poser, Schendel. Three-base hits—Cusinier, Askew, Lisicki, O’Keefe. Struck out—by Poser, 5; by Lisicki, 1; by Palt, 5. Bases on balls—Lisicki, 2; Palt. 1; Poser, 1. Hits—off Lisicki, eight in four innnings. Stolen base—Sullivan. Sacrifice hits—O’Keefe, Kolsky, Sommerfield. Passed ball—Kolski.
JF NOME OFLIVE'ENTERTAINMENT'
Starting Saturday
3rd Smashing Week of Five Big RKO Acts Vaudeville
PHYLLIS RAY OCTETTE
AND HER AMBASSADORS Eighteen Fast-Stepping Rhythmic Feet
GRACIE BARRIE
The Best Blues Singers in a Blue Moon
STONE & LEE in “LAFFOLOGY” Laffology is the Science of ’Fun
Also Two Other Big RKO Acts
— - —	■ — Qn ule Screen — ■ —
All the Women in Paris in Love with Him— a modern Don Juan who got what he Juanted “GOD’S GIFT TO WOMEN” with FRANK FAY Laura Laplante 25c till 6 P.'M.
BEAUT^UL
dianada
STARTING Bargain Matinee, 25c SATURDAY Benings and Sunday-•JzA 1 VI	1 Balcony and Mezzanine 25c, Main 50c
Claudia Dell William Gaxton
OLSON
& JOHNSON in FIFTY MILLIONS FRENCHMEN"
Peppiest, Funniest, Frenchiest of comedies; the kind of fun American
John Halliday tourists see—never forget.
“DUFFERS SWING”
ADDED ATTRACTION------------------
Second of a Series of Golf Pictures with JOHNNY FARRELL
740
The Notre Dame Scholastic

Interhall Sports
SWIMMING
At eight o’clock tonight swimmers from Sophomore, Brownson, Walsh, and Sorin halls will compete in the second preliminary interhall swimming meet. As in the first meet, three places will count in the scoring, although only the first two men in each event will enter the finals.
Special Golf Set
3 CHROME IRONS WITH BELL ENDS A STEEL SHAFTED DRIVER & BAG.
$8.75
Complete
TENNIS RACQUETS RESTRUNG, AND ALL WORK GUARANTEED FOR 30 DAYS
THE "RECO" STORE
Leaders in Sporting Goods 113 N. Main St.
“IT PAYS TO PLAY”
Mr. James T. Masterson, in charge of the meet, has announced the names of the officials. They consist mostly of men in the physical education department. Daniel D. Halpin will be back at his post as referee, while John Grams, another manager, will again be clerk of course. Ray DeCook will score the meet, while Clarence Kaplan, J. J. Griffin, and Albert Romanin will select the winners and runnersup. Frank Leahy, William Artman, and William Taylor are the timers, and D. Napolitano, John Kuhn, Bernard Bresson, and William Minar-do are to watch the human fish try to keep in their own lanes and not bump their opponents. Football Captain Tommy Yarr will tell the audience what it is all about, while Joseph Mendelis will be the starter.
BASEBALL
St. Edward’s hall showed in their contest with Sophomore Sunday morning that they will have to be seriously considered by teams who think they have the championship already won. Goldstein’s pitching was superb, and the punch at bat was supplied by shortstop Vejar, Goldstein, and first baseman Bice. The score was 10 to 6, but St.’ Edward’s gave Sophomore a pair of runs as gifts in the ninth inning.
Badin tied with Morrissey and St. Edward’s for the lead in Group L, by nosing out Corby, 6 to 5. The game reached a climax when Perroni of Corby, went high into the air and snagged a liner with one hand.
Freshman hall, with Dupuy pitching, walked all over Walsh, 14 to 4. Hits and errors were numerous in this game with Freshman doing most of the hitting, and Walsh most of the muffing. The contest'was marked by the Freshman cheering section which was leaning out of the second story windows in their hall, urging their comrades onward.
Carroll, using two teams, beat Howard hall in a pitching duel between Crane of Howard, and But-tita of Carroll. Although the pitching was good, the score was kept down to 1 to 0 by the bases being almost twice as far apart as they should have been. Sandera of Howard, starred by put-out assists from his post in left field.	.
Group 1
Results:	.
St. Edward’s 10; Sophomore 6.
Badin 6; Corby 5.
Morrissey 9; Lyons 0 (forfeit).
STANDINGS
	w	L	PCT.
Badin		1	0	1.000
Morrissey		1	0	1.000
St. Edward’s		1	0	1.000
Lyons		0	1	.000
Corby		0	1	.000
Sophomore		0	1	.000
Sorin		0	0	.000
Don’t
Look
Because
« « «
You’ll never find a South Bend a u t o i s t disputing the Chicago highways with a perspiring truck driver. The South Bender prefers to use the hourly s e r v i c e of America’s fastest electric railway, with its downtown Chicago terminal.
♦
o
« « «
X50WC
Every hour on-the-hour to Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago
The Notre Dame Scholastic
741
Group 2
Results :
Carroll 1; Howard 0.
Freshman 14; Walsh 4.
Brownson9; Off-Campus0 (forfeit).

STANDINGS
	w	L	PCT.
Carroll			 1	0	1.000
Freshman			 1	0	1.000
Brownson			 1	0	1.000
Howard			 0	1	.000
Walsh 			 0	1	.000
Off-Campus			 0	1	.000
BALLTOSSERS RALLY TO WIN PRACTICE TILT
□
Displaying remarkable form in a pre-season game, the Notre Dame baseball squad came from behind in last Sunday’s contest with the Mishawaka Indestructos when Beesley doubled, scoring Askew, and Bill Sullivan stepped to the plate to register a home run, chasing Beesley in with the sixth run. Notre Dame used three pitchers, Lisicki, Palk, and Romanin in winning by a score of 75.
Sullivan, veteran first-baseman, had a perfect day with a home run, a triple, and two singles in four times at bat. In two trips to the plate, O’Connor, who replaced McGrath in center field, garnered a triple and a single to maintain a clear batting record for the day. Attempting to get a look at different men in action, Coach Keogan replaced many players in the starting lineup midway in the game.
Following Sullivan’s triple in the fifth inning, Kurth, who replaced Lomasney in left field, singled to bring the first baseman across the plate. Then O’Connor, the next man up, tripled to score Kurth, but the latter in his mad dash around the paths
Go To The U. S. Flying School
The U. S. Air Corps takes yearly over 700 college men for free flying training as Student Flying Officers. Get the best instruction and more than 200 solo hours. You will be paid a good salary. Receive generous mess allowance, frequent leave, social privileges and prestige of officers. Hundreds go each year. So can YOU. Find out: how to get in, pay, rank, leave, actual life, etc. Take the first step now. Mail ($1.00) for complete information. Same information concerning West Point and Annapolis, same price. All literature compiled by those who have been through the schools.
U. S. SERVICE BUREAU,
513 Lissner Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif.
failed to give a third base a legal visit, and was called out, retiring to the side.
The three pitchers, who displayed sufficient form for such an early season start, were successful in striking out 13 men that faced them. Lisicki, the portsider, fanned four, Palt, another lefthander, whiffed six, and Romanin, who pitched the ninth inning, chalked up three strikeouts in
Think what the Sound
of Your Voice Means to the Folks at Home!
Charges may be reversed if you desire
The Economical Voice of Millions
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
that frame. The latter put himself in a hole in one inning of pitching, but pulled out of it admirably. After allowing three hits to ring out and having a passed ball called on the catcher, Romanin then proceeded to fan the remaining two batters to retire the opposition and snuff the rally. Only one hit for extra bases, a double, was recorded by the boys from Mishawaka way.
MEMO
742
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SPRING GRID PRACTICE “CARRIES ON” UNDER “HUNK” AND JACK
“Carry on!” is the pass word, as Notre Dame’s football team starts in the final weeks of spring practice. Working out for the first time in thirteen years without the direction of Knute K. Rockne, the team that will be subjected to the most critical scrutiny of any team in football history, is facing its task with savage stoicism.
Three hundred and fifty men are
working out daily under the leadership of Coaches “Hunk” Anderson and Jack Chevigny. Scrimmages are held almost daily between the six groups that comprise the squad. Although no varsity team is picked, the coaches have a good idea of the qualifications of nearly every candidate, and the locker room gossip indicates that the line will probably be made up of members of the varsity squad of last year, and will probably be slightly heavier than in 1930. The backfield will be lighter and faster.
No predictions are being made, but the men are working with a spirit that is seldom seen in spring practice.
NINE MONOGRAMS GIVEN CAGERS AND MANAGER
The athletic board of control awarded monograms to eight members of Notre Dame’s 1930-31 basketball team and John M. Hughes, manager. The monogram earners are Johnnie Baldwin, Tom Burns, Norb Crowe, Ray DeCook, Joey Gavin, Clay Johnson, Bill Newbold, and Al Schumacher. All but Gavin will return next year.
That Little Extra Something
Saturday to Monday
On Saturday at 12:55 p. m. an agency asked for an estimate on 600 college publications.
Three typewritten copies were delivered at opening time Monday morning.
Tuesday we received 0. K. for large space contracts in over 400 of our papers—
And the agency said we did a “swell job.” -
Either of our offices will do. a “swell job” for you any time you ask us.
COLLEGIATE SPECIAL ADVERTISING AGENCY, INC.
NEW YORK, 18 EAST 41st ST.
CHICAGO, 612 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE.
P. S. The Spring: edition of The Collegiate Salesman listing all student publications will be sent without charge upon request.
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
c

The Notre Dame Scholastic
743
THE EVERLASTING ARMS
(Continued from Page 725)
statesman, a soldier, an admiral of the fleet, some heaven-born artist, an inventor, a captain of industry or finance? No, he was Knute Rockne, director of athletics and football coach at Notre Dame. He was a man of the people, a husband and father, a citizen of South Bend, Indiana. Yet, had he been any one of these personages that have been mentioned, the tributes of admiration and affection which he has received could not be more universal or more sincere.
How is this fact to be accounted ior? What was the secret of his irresistible appeal to all sorts and conditions of men? Who shall pluck out the heart of his mystery and lay bare the inner source of the power he had? When we say simply, he was a great American, we shall go far towards satisfying many, for all of us recognize and love the attributes of the true American character. When we say that he was an inspirer of young men in the direction of high ideals that were conspicuously exemplified in his own life, we have covered much that unquestionably was true of him. When we link his name > with the intrinsic chivalry and romance of a great college game, which he, perhaps, more than any other one man, has made finer and cleaner in itself and larger in its popular appeal, here, too, we touch upon a vital point. . But no one of these things, nor all of »	. them together can quite sum up this
man whose tragic death at the early age of forty-three has left the country aghast. Certainly, the circumstances of his death do not furnish the answer.
I do not know the answer;. I would - not dare the irreverence of guessing. But I find myself in this' hour of piteous loss and pained bewilderment recalling the words of Christ: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart. This is the first and greatest commandment. And the "■ . second is like unto this: thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.” I think, supremely he loved his neighbor, his fellowman, with genuine, deep love. In an age that has stamped itself as the era of the “go-getter”—a horrible word for what is all too often a ruth-less thing—he was a “go-giver”—a not much better word, but it means a divine thing. He made use of all the proper machinery and the legitimate methods of modern activity to be essentially not modern at all: to be
quite elementarily human and Christian, giving himself, spending himself like water, not for himself, but for others. And once again, in his case, most illustriously is verified the Christian paradox—he has cast away to keep, he has lost his life to find it. This is not death but immortality.
We who are here are but a handful of his friends, come to pay our last tribute of devotion to his mortal remains, to give some token of our affection that so be his dear ones, his loving wife and children, his venerable mother and his sisters, may in their sorrow be a little comforted by our sympathy and the knowledge that we too loved him. Of necessity, we are few in number in this hallowed place, though thousands are without the doors. But we represent millions of men and women like ourselves who are here in spirit, in the very spirit of these solemn services, and listening all over America to these holy rites.
It is fitting he should be brought here to his beloved Notre Dame and that his body should rest a little while in this church where the light of Faith broke upon his happy soul, where the waters of Baptism were poured on his brow, where he made his first confession, received his first Holy Communion, and was confirmed by the same consecrated hand that • today is raised in blessing above his coffin. He might have gone to any university in the land and been gladly received and forever cherished there. But he chose Our Lady’s school, Notre Dame. He honored her in his life as a student, he honored her* in the monogram he earned and wore, he honored her in the principles he inculcated and the ideals he set up in the lives of the young men under* his care. He was her own true son.
To her we turn in this hour of anguish and of broken hopes and hearts laid waste. She is the Mother of Sorrows and the Comforter of the Afflicted. 0 Mother of God, and Mother of God’s men, we give him into thy keeping. Mary, Gate of Heaven, we come to thee, open to receive him. Mary, Morning Star, shine upon his sea. Mary of Notre Dame, take him into thy House of Gold. Our Life, Our Sweetness, and Our Hope, we lay him in thy bosom.
Eternal rest grant unto him 0 Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon him.
May his soul and the sottls of all the faithful departed, through the mercy of God, rest in peace. Amen.

trains, porters, soot and early hours for country roads and
le
inns and cellars where you wish ... Be it England or the Continent a car to Drive Yourself’s your modus operandi and no more expensive than rail fare. We arrange all details... Cars delivered to landing ports. Reserve the right car now instead of what’s left later. Write us or see your local agent.
EUROPE™ WHEELS
-.INCORPORATED .
218 Madison Ave., New York
Il Rue Boudreau	93 Regent St.
Paris	London
EUROPE and Back... $185
Sell Dad on the idea! United States Lines makes it so inexpensive."Tourist Third” fares range from S185 round trip on the palatial REPUBLIC to S231 on the mighty LEVIATHAN, 5 day speed to Europe. Remarkable values also on the flyers AMERICA and GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Travel with the college crowd. Last year on one sailing of the LEVIATHAN 60 colleges were represented. This year the Harvard-Yale track teams sail July 1st on the GEORGE WASHINGTON for the Oxford-Cambridge meet.
Come on along! Enjoy fine food .. . comfortable staterooms . . . nightly dances to "red hot” college orchestras ... movies... sports on big sun decks. Send at once for the booklet. "TOURIST THIRD CABIN TO EUROPE”, and make reservations before the rush starts.
Official Fleet of the Intercollegiate Alumni Associations
Consult Your Local Steamship Agent or
UNITED STATES
LINES
216 No. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill. CHAS. KREILEK, General Agent,
744
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RACQUET-WIELDERS TO PLAY AT TERRE HAUTE
Schedule Includes Six Dual Tests and C. I. C. Tourney.
Notre Danie’s 1931 tennis season will get under way tomorrow afternoon when a group varsity racquet-wielders will face the Indiana State Teachers courtmen at Terre Haute. The meet will include five singles encounters and a pair of doubles matches. The Gold and Blue squad will be led into this first meet by Captain Matt O’Brien and the other four places will go to the semi-finalists in the elimination tournament which has been under way this week on the courts at Leeper Park in South Bend.
Though the team this year will be without- the services of two of last year’s stars in the person of Dick Bailie and John O’Brien, 1930 captain, the prospects for a good season are fairly bright. Returning veterans from the net squad of a year ago include, besides Matt O’Brien, Reaume, Kendall, Mangan, and Mike
O’Brien. These men have shown consistently good form in the past, and as a result of the tournament this last week, are in good shape for tomorrow’s matches.
A group of newcomers that promise to add strength to the net team has also appeared in the elimination contests, and some of them should land places on the varsity roster before the season is very old. Of these men, Mullins, Sullivan, Burghart, and Borda look exceptionally strong.
Starting with the meet at Terre Haute tomorrow, the netsters will face unusually strong schedule that includes six dual matches, and the Central Intercollegiate Conference Meet in Chicago. This later tourney will be sponsored, as usual, by Notre Dame and should attract some of the outstanding college tennis players in the Middle West. After that meet will come three of the toughest tests of the year for the Blue and Gold. Loyola of Chicago, Northwestern, and Michigan State will be met within a ten day span. Loyola and Michigan State are scheduled to appear on the South Bend courts, while the Wildcats must be faced at Evanston.
The final meet of the year with
the Michigan State team should give the Notre Dame tennis fans their greatest treat of the season for the State racquet men have always afforded the hardest sort of opposition. In last year’s match the result was not decided until the final doubles match was played.
The complete schedule follows:
April 18—Indiana State Teachers at Terre Haute.
April 25—Western State Teachers at Kalamazoo.
May 12 — Armour Tech at Notre Dame.
May 14, 15, 16—Central Intercollegiate Conference at Chicago.
May 20—Loyola at Notre Dame.
May 22 — Northwestern at Evanston.
May 30—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
There are approximately one thousand meals served every day in the University cafeteria; of this number, five hundred are breakfasts, three hundred dinners, and two hundred suppers.
The Book Shop |
Takes pleasure	=
in announcing to the men of Notre Dame	|
the opening of their neiv quarters	|
at	f
130 North Michigan St.	I
i The South Bend Clearing I
1 House Banks I | Invite Your Patronage I
To all Notre Dame men we extend a cordial invitation to inspect our enlarged stock of Books, Stationaj'y and Classroom requisites of all kinds.
i	THE BOOK SHOP
I	130 North Michigan Street
QtiimmmamauiaiMmiimtmittaaaiiiiittmmiiaiuimiumaiiiiiiiiiiwiiaaiainMmmHiitiiiiiinJ
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS BANK
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
UNION TRUST COMPANY
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BASEBALL SCHEDULE FOR '31 ANNOUNCED
playing Northwestern at Evanston, Wisconsin at Madison, Iowa at Iowa City, Purdue at Lafayette, and Michigan State at East Lansing.
(■liiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniitiimiitiiiiiiuiiiiiimuinmiii^
i 1931 Baseball Schedule |
Hosei Team, of Japan, to Play Twice on Cartier Field.
Twelve more games with six American colleges and universities and one Japanese college are scheduled for the Notre Dame baseball team. Seven of the games will be played at Notre Dame.
Iowa, Northwestern, Purdue, Hosei of Japan, and Michigan State will be played twice, with Hillsdale and Wisconsin ' scheduled for single contests. The Japanese team will be at Notre Dame, May 8 and 9 for two games during the course of their American tour. Sports followers are interested in the invasion of the Orientals because of the opportunity to compare the ability of American teams with that of a school that has comparatively recently adopted the game.
The next appearance of the Keogan nine will be against Hillsdale at Notre Dame next Friday. The Michigan State boys won the Little Big Six Conference title, and will present a veteran team.
Notre Dame will make five trips,
“Dinny” O’Keefe
Captain of Baseball
£	April	16—Wisconsin at Notre Dame	E
£	April	24—Hillsdale at Notre Dame	E
£	April	27—Iowa at Notre Dame	E
E	April	29—Northwestern at Evanston	E
E	Nay	5—Purdue at Notre Dame	E
E	May	S—Hosei at Notre Dame	=
E	May	9—Hosei at Notre Dame	£
E May 13—Wisconsin at Madison	£
E May 19—Northwestern at Notre Dame z £ May 23—Iowa at Iowa City	E
£ May 26—Purdue at Lafayette	E
£ May 30—Michigan State at E. Lansing E £ June 6—Michigan State at Notre Dame E
in ii mi tit mimiiiiiiitmiiiimimmiiiiiim□
Salesmen Wanted
No house to house canvassing. Guaranteed minimum earnings $460.00 for summer months to those who qualify. Personal interview required. Leave name, address and telephone number in Box 117, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Meyer ’s Luncheonette
Look at This Great Special $5 to $8 Values
Sandwiches
All our sandwiches listed are served with generous portions of Head Lettuce'and Ivanhoe Mayonnaise. If you desire yours made otherwise, please specify.
Some of the High Grade Brands Are: Heywood,” “Churchall,” “Leverenz,” “Marion.
“Thompson Bros.”
And Many Others That You Will Recoznize at a Glance
WHOLE WHEAT, RYE OR WHITE BREAD
Baked Ham	—20c	Chicken Salad	—20c
Ham Salad	—15c	Peanut Butter	—15c
Pimento Cheese	—15c	Swiss Cheese	—15c
Egg Salad	—15c	American Cheese	—15c
Boiled Ham	—15c	Kay Cheese	15c
Best grade fine calf leather shoes. Never to our knowledge have these fine shoes been -sold so cheap. Black and tan in the very newest lasts and patterns. Sizes and widths for all.
SIZES FOR
ALL
a
| ■ ~ * STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY — U. S| ARMY STORE 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
746
The Notre Dame Scholastic
College Student
Makes$99
First 11 Days Helping Me
Ray C. Hahn Sales Manager
Now 1 want 500 more college men to join me on the same basis.
No Experience Needed I want ONE wide-awake College Man in every locality (500 in all) to introduce and demonstrate an amazing new Fyr-Fyter discovery. The work is easy and pleasant. You can handle it in full or spare time and make $9.00 or more a day the same as Harold Conklin, a college student of North Dakota, did.
$99 in 11 Daysl
Conklin writes: “For the past few months, I have been working as salesman for your company. I have enjoyed the work very much, and I feel that the Fyr-Fyter line cannot be beat. On my last trip (11 days) I made an average clear profit of $9 a day. 1 have enjoyed the work very much and 1 am buying a car of my own. I realize that. 1 am a new man, but I am confident.” Conklin is a new man without any previous selling experience.
If you are interested in a position with opportunities to earn $6,000 a year or more. I can put you to work right away and prepare you for a big money-making summer season. Our new liquid actually ABSORBS fire like a sponge smothering vapor that is “sure death” even to the raging flames of high-test gasoline! You demonstrate to people in cities, small towns and on farms. WE DELIVER AND COLLECT AND SEND YOU COMMISSION CHECK EVERY SATURDAY. No experience necessary. We give you quick training and show you how to get started without capital. WRITF NOWI We can. ’'a"5. 500 College WKilE INx^Vy. Ms(U costs nothing to get the facts. Just send letter or postcard to me personally. Ray C. Hahn, Sales Manager
THE FYR-FYTER COMPANY OOOO Fyr-Fyter Bldg., Dayton, Okie
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
I Phone 3-1254
!	Drs. Singler & Probst	i
J	DENTISTS	|
i	|
■	Suite 261 Associates Building	?
■	South Bend, Indiana	?
“HUNK,” JACK TO COACH
(Continued from Page 735)
Chevigny, a .more recent product of the “Rock of Notre Dame,” entered the University in September, 1925. He, too, was a member of the varsity squad for three years. Jack played right halfback, the position which, on the Notre Dame team, requires a perfect blocker. And so “Chev” paved the way for the long runs of Christy Flanagan and Johnny Niemiec but algo found time to do a little running and driving of his own. His defensive play was the feature of nearly every game in which he played. When he was graduated in 1929, Rockne signed Jack to assist in drilling the backfield. That he has done his task well is attested by the nation-wide attention which the blocking and running of the Blue and Gold backfields of the past two seasons have demanded.
The position of director of athletics, formerly held by Knute Rockne in addition to his position as head coach, will be separated from the football job from now on. The appointment of a man to take over the administrative part of “Rock’s” old job is now being considered, and will be announced within a week by University authorities. No intimation of the name of the future director has been given, but several men have been mentioned in connection with the job. Jesse Harper, who was succeeded as head coach by Rockne thirteen years ago, seems to lead the procession in the public’s estimation, but doubt has been expressed as to his ability to sever business connections at his home in Kansas. Jimmy Phelan, head coach at the University of Washington, James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce at Notre Dame, J. Arthur Haley, graduate manager of athletics at Notre Dame, Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, and others have been mentioned, but until official announceemnt is made, the name of the man seems to be destined to remain a deep, dark secret.
Metzger, Vik to Catholic U.
“Dutch” Bergman, a former star gridder at Notre Dame and present head football coach at Catholic University, Washington, D. C., made a visit to his Alma Mater the other day and before he left he had succeeded in signing Bert Metzger, 155-pound
All-American guard of last year’s squad, and George Wk, shock-troop end, as assistants for the coming season.	‘
Freshmen Golfers Note
Plans for a freshman golf team at the. University were culminated early this week with the announcement that the ten men of the class of ’34 who turned in the lowest cards for 36 holes before Sunday, April 19, would represent the frosh on the links. All rounds must be played with another registered player before they will be accepted as authentic.
NATION MOURNS ROCKNE
(Continued from Page 724)
national heroes. Notre Dame was your address, but every gridiron in America was your home.”
On the air the evening of April 4, a memorial program was presented by the National Broadcasting Company, with Rev. Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., Margaret Anglin, and Hugh O’Donnell of the New York Times speaking.
The message from Charles Dorais, Rockne’s teammate and lifelong friend, was particularly touching.
In a letter addressed to the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Mr. Dorais wrote:	.
“Notre Dame will go on. It is too rich in traditions and glorious deeds to stop for long—but his place can never be filled.”
Carl Laemmle, junior, sent the.following wire: “A great idol of the youth of our country and a splendid man among men has by the inscrutable will of Providence ended his earthly task in mid-stride.”
From Dick Hanley and the 1930 Northwestern university football squad came the following message: “Stunned to hear of Rock’s untimely death. Words cannot express the loss of the greatest figure athletics has ever produced.”
Bishop Kelley of Oklahoma City sent a wire to Father O’Donnell, saying: “This ’ morning in the Catholic student chapel at the state university prayers were requested for the repose of Mr. Rockne’s soul and mass was offered for this intention.”
Ed Garbisch, former center on the Army football team, wired: “American youth and the world of sports share with Notre Dame the loss of his wholesome influence.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
747
E. R. (Slip) Madigan wired from Oakland, California: “Deeply grieved that I cannot be present today. Rest assured I am there in spirit.”
J. P. McEvoy, famous humorist and student at Notre Dame, said in a telegram to the school: “I am grieved and horrified beyond all words. Please convey to Mrs. Rockne my heartfelt sympathy.”
From Warren A. Cartier came the message: “Can hardly believe that such a man who did the good that Rockne did by turning out young men for the duties of life should be taken.”
Thomas Conley, captain of this year’s squad, received the folowing telegram from Harry A. Mackay, mayor of Philadelphia.
“My deep sympathy goes to all the men of Notre Dame. His loss is felt by all college men, lovers of clean sport, and by every American. I know that I speak for all Philadelphia in adding our appreciation of a . great life so soon ended.”
Fritz Crisler, head coach at the University of Minnesota, on hearing of the death immediately wired to Father O’Donnell: “Our deepest sympathy is extended to the University of Notre Dame in mourning the loss of the great soul who has passed on. The coaching profession has suffered a great loss. The athletic department of the University of Minnesota joins me in expressing condolences.”
Ralph Sasse, coach of the West Point team, said in a telegram: “The Army football team during these dark hours are with Notre Dame to a man.”
John L. Griffith, commissioner of athletics in the Big Ten, sent the following letter to Father O’Donnell: “I shall never cease to be proud of the fact that he was my friend and that I was his friend. He has meant more to me than I can ever enumer-
THAT HE WHO RUNS MAY WRITE . . .
For the man who “always wanted to own a typrewriter” here is an opportunity to secure a nearly new Royal Portable Typewriter, attractively ducoed in green, at but a FRACTION of the $65.00 listed price.
Phone 3-2521, the residence of H. R. Perkins, and GET full details, and the actual price it takes to become the proud owner—that is, unless you hesitate too long. Obey that impulse! Phone 3-2521.
ate and what is more, he has meant more to the young life of our time than the world can yet appreciate.”
Another letter came from the publisher of the Chicago Evening Post. It stated that “The publishers and staff of the Chicago Evening Post would feel sad indeed if they failed to forward an expression of deepest regret at the passing of Knute Rockne.”
Bishop Noll of Fort Wayne wrote, in part, the following to Mrs. Rockne: “I hasten to send to you an expression of my sincerest sympathy and assurance of my prayers for him during this Holy Week.”
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW
NEW YORK
Case System—Three-Year Course
CO-EDU CA T ION AL
College Degree or Two Years of College Work with Good Grades Required
Transcript of Record Necessary in AU Cases.
Morning. Early Afternoon and Evening Classes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar
233 Broadway, New York
The University of Buffalo
School of Dentistry » » »
A new dental curriculum operating upon the quarter plan which permits a student to finish the regular four year course in three calendar years.
The next session opens June 29th, 1931 » » »
For further information address
The School of Dentistry
25 Goodrich Street	Buffalo, N. Y.
748
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line

■ wr T* —r
BRAWN
blade artists
Take the coach’s word for it, fellows—you can’t get the strong back for the long stroke, unless the old corpus has the right rations. You won’t do much in other activities either—unless food is building you up instead of dragging you down. Whether it’s stroke of the crew or sub on the chess team, you can’t go wrong on Shredded Wheat. Coaches, profs, trainers and dietitians all loudly praise the bodybuilding, mind-mending virtues of that unbeatable combination—two Shredded Wheat Biscuits completely sunk in good rich milk! Try it tonight—for the late supper—and tomorrow morning for breakfast.
NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “Uneeda Bakers'*
. . . This season’s spring exhibition tour by the Yankees is the second in ten years to result in a financial deficit . . . KAREL KOZ-ELUH, Czechoslovakian tennis professional, is an all around athlete . . . having played soccer football on Olympic teams and as a skater ranks with the best . . . The American league used 17,772 baseballs last season, about 10,000 being fouled out of play and carried off by the fans, according to the late President ERNEST S. BARNARD . . .
This is the first time in 20 years that CY WILLIAMS, veteran big league outfielder, has failed to make a spring training trip . . . incidentally, he was the most-managed of all players, serving under 15 different individuals . . . BASANTA SINGH, Hindu wrestler, claims to eat a bit of pure gold now and then to give him added strength .. . TOLL GATE, nine-year old gelding pacer, raced for the first time last season and won ten events without suffering a defeat . . .
. . . Legislation to encourage hunting with bow and arrow and to oust automatic and pump guns with more than three shots, is favored by sportsmens’ organizations in many states . . . MRS. LENA LEVY, sister of KING LEVINSKY, recently became the first woman to receive a manager’s license in Massachusetts . . . she took out the permit so the KING could fight in Boston under her guidance . . . ART DONAVAN has been a boxing coach at the New York Athletic club for 16 years while his father served under the Winged Foot emblem for 35 years . . .
a
. . . HARRY STOKES, veteran Ohio harness-horse driver, started his turf career in 1894, when he was 16, and during the past 20 years has probably driven more races than any other reinsman ... BERT METZGER has been signed to assist COACH BERGMAN at Catholic University . . . CHUCK KLEIN, Phillies outfielder, is the only big league player to make 200 hits a year, totaling over 400 bases, for two successive seasons . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic	751
Does it ever strike you what an asset good clothes really are? It’s bad pshychology, to say the least, to disregard your appearance when the common failing of mankind is to judge by appearances only. Clothes speak for themselves. At a glance, they convey the secret of your habits, your self-respect, your personality. People can’t read your mind, it’s true, but they can judge by your clothes. And very often your clothes will tell them all they want to know.
Strange, isn’t it, that our Hart Shaffner & Marx suits will say kind things about you whether you like it or not ? They can’t help it; they’re built that way. They don’t deceive; they always speak the truth. Just slip into one of our new spring models and feel the difference. Fine, smart looking fabrics master-tailored to assure you confidence in every posture, ease in every movement. Up-to-the-minute styles with prices fashioned to the collegiate purse in a “depression” year.
KNOX HATS FOULARD TIES MANHATTAN SHIRTS
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
Home of Hart Shaffner & Marx Clothes
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Gateway to the Gold Coast