Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 3, 1883.	No. 9.
Notre Dame du Lac.	,
‘	  i
When Phidias and his rival	J
Stood before Diana’s shrine,	|
Each with his gift of marble
To rest above that dome divine;
The Grecian eye was smitten
With the rival form alone, Turning with impatience
From great Phidias’ cumbrous^stone.
But when the dainty beauty	•
Was drawn into the upper air,	I
Murmurous disappointment	•
Rose with the fast diminished fair;	j
'	1
Till, taught by sobered wisdom,	I
■	i
They lift the mighty Phidian form	I
Unto her native heaven;—	|
Mistress alike-of sun and storm,	j
And to the perfect figure,
So poised in that deep; blue above, The reverent throngs uncover,
As to the chaste, bright queen they love.
So, in fair Indiana,
Before our Lady’s skyward Dome, We’ve seen this mammoth sculpture, Wrought in the grander art of Rome..
And while the bponzfed image
Stood waiting.’neath the Dome, men passed It lightly by, and muttered
To find Her form so hugely cast.
But when the noble statue
Was lifted from that lowly stand, It seemed a new Assumption
As she rose o’er lake and land;
And when above the summit
Of the Dome she took her place, And paused there, in mid-heaven',•
Seemed Maryas self, so full of grace!
Still stands she clothed in beauty,'
Still sheds her blessings from above,
Still smiles in vesture golden,
O’er these fair lands, these heartsoflove^
Ah! ’tis a day of gladness:
For all within this blessed vale,— And-chief for him, the-builder,
Once so youthful,-yet so hale! -
Forty years did Moses
Labor through the desert land, Forty years this Founder
Toiled with his devoted band.
And, lo! the precious blessing.
With which to-day his great heart swells:— Within the Land of Promise,
Not stayed on Nebo’s Mount, he dwells!
So crowns the Maiden Mother
His love to her, so tender vowed, His faith that never faltered,
His hope that whitened every cloud!
To-day his heart is with her,
Queen that crowns those labors long;
And that little band, grown mighty, Unite with his their grateful song:
There rest thee, ever rest thee,
Guardian while we sleep and wake. In heaven’s dear blue above us, Our beauteous Lady of the Lake!
Utriusque Fili us;
Instinct and Beason.
’ “ What is that? ” exclaimed William, as agreen-. ish insect fell on a bush, a short distance off.. “ It is a fine, golden scarabee, adorned with white and-waving strings, and imprisoned in a narrow corselet. Now, my dear friend,” continued he,“this is a very opportune accident; I am sure you will take advantage of it to speak to mez of- the wonders wrought by God in nature.”	.
The old entomologist took up the insect, and, after examining it over and over again, appeared-to-be buried in reflection. At length, his brow'con-. tracted, as if he had been cheered up by the hope o£ certain victory. His usually calm and sterncountenance seemed-lighted up "as though sdme'irresistible argument had been given him by inspiration. “ Yes, indeed,” he said, good-humoredly, “T ain but a fly-catcher, and for that reason-1 must confine my-, self within the bounds of my modest studies; for I. do-not’pretend to be a scientist.” -
“ Well,” replied William, “themost enlightened mind, the greatest scientist soon perceives the limits of his learning,' and the' real: weakness of his mental strength when- striving- to penetrate too deeply into- the' mysterious recesses of nature.-
i3o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Nay, it often happens that genius itself stops short of success-in seeking to draw from its experiments the lierht of a satisfactory demonstration.”
“ We, poor, ignorant people,” continued the old man, “ are tending towards our end by the easiest and shortest road. By simply opening our eyes, we see God revealing Himself to us in the sublime majesty of His works.”
“ Well said;” remarked William, “ we agree perfectly on that point.”
“ Let us, then, .continue our way. A simple blade of grass would suffice to make you understand that there is an Infinite intellect ruling over the whole. world; a butterfly would show you clearly the law of a universal harmony. But let us rather take up this pretty scarabee which, gifted with wonderful life and motion, has an organism far superior to that of the butterfly. Let us examine it attentively, and try to read a most interesting page in the immense book of nature.”
The youth drew nearer to his aged companion, his curiosity greatly excited, and ready to listen to the old man’s lessons.	-
“ See this little creature!” the lattei' continued; “ wonderful as may be the power of human genius, there is no artist, no scientist who can add the least to its organization, so admirably adapted are all the constituent parts of its body to satisfy all its wants and to obtain the end for which it was made. It has wings to carry it easily from place to place; over these is spread a horny covering as a means of protection and defense. Its breast is fortified with a sort of cuirass, its eyes with a network of mail, lest the thorns of an eglantine or the sting of an enemy might wound it. It is armed with feelers which give warning of surrounding obstacles; and as it is a hunter by nature, it has swift feet to catch its prey, iron jaws to devour it, to dig out the ground, and make its dwelling therein. In case of an attack by some stronger adversary, it holds in reserve a sour and corrosive liquid, with'which it most effectually protects itself. A certain inborn instinct furnishes it with the best means to provide for its nourishment, to build up an habitation, and-to make good use of its instruments and weapons. -
“ But you might think, perhaps, that other insects are less favored than this little being. Do not be mistaken; each of them has had its share in the liberal distribution nature makes of her gifts. As a truth, we can never .know how various and how numerous are the means employed by Divine Providence to insure and perpetuate the existence of theselittle things on earth. .	.
« Now, let .us again consider our little insect, and with it compare the ‘ Lord of Creation,’ and we shall realize' how this frail creature, clearly and definitely, traces out for us the deep line of demarcation which separates man from beasts.
“ Man, indeed, appears upon earth weak and defenseless. He is incapable of flying like a bird, of running like a stag, or creeping like a snake. Before him are dreadful enemies that are armed with claws or stings. He is unprovided against the inclemency of the seasons, and exposed to the
rage of animals covered with fleece, scales and fur. No shelter is there for him, whilst other creatures possess a den or a burrow, or are protected by their shell or carapax.- And yet man conquered the lion—the monarch , of the forrests; man defeated the bear and dressed himself with his skin; pulling out the bull’s horn, man thus obtained his first cup.
“ Now, let me ask you, among all other animals, is there one that could live and preserve its existence if placed in such circumstances as man would be by nature at his- beginning? . Suppose for a moment we separate the workman from his work, God from nature. What! can it be that nature made everything for this small insect, and for man nothing? There must be some reason therefor; why is it? It is because man was created to be the progressive work of his intelligence, and not the stationary product of matter. Yes, in bestowing upon him that heavenly gift we call reason, that brilliant ray of light emanating from His own breast, Almighty God made man weak and miserable that he should exert his noble faculties and make use of his divinely-bestowed intellect, in order to find in himself, together with the consciousness of his native fragility, the powerful instruments of his greatness.”
o	,
“Bravo! my dear friend. All that is, no doubt, very eloquent and sublime; but, for my part, I don’t see anything so precious and admirable in that faculty you call divine, and wherewith the human race is said to have been enriched. If it is true that we surpass animals to some extent, we feel, and are, indeed, inferior to them in many other respects; and this insect itself, whose wonderful endowments you have most eloquently described, does it not excite our envy and inspire us with a sentiment of humility rather than with a feeling of pride? ”
“ Not at all! ” exclaimed the old man. “ It is true that, on observing the ingenious skill with which certain animals work, we cannot help being struck with admiration; and some may perhaps be led to think that they act and move through judgment and reason. But this is a mere illusion caused by a superficial view of the matter, for the least reflection will show us that their actions are determined by blind necessity and are the inevitable result of mere instinct.
“ In the first place, it is worthy of remark that these extraordinary works of irrational animals are almost entirely confined to the lowest classes, insects, and the like. .Now, such is the perfection and delicacy of these works that if we suppose them the products of ah intelligence, we must of necessity admit for their cause a talent and an art immeasurably superior to human genius—which statement no sensible: man can ever maintain. Besides, is it not a fact that the same animal we notice to be so cunning, or industrious, or so intelligent in certain particulars is quite the reverse in all others? How are we to account for this? How is it that art and so-called experience which appear 'to be so admirable in one case is of nd avail in all others?	.
“ Then, again, another consideration—and one that is especially important in this matter—is
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
131
brought before. us-in the want of progress or improvement amongst animals. Since the universe began, they have never undergone any change or variation; and though most of their works require very difficult combinations of mathematics orme-chanics, or involve a profound knowledge of natural laws, yet at the very beginning they were just as perfect as they are to-day.
. “ They are created with all the perfections of which their nature is capable, and therefore there can be no progress amongst them. As a fact, for more than six thousand years irrational animals have made no step forward. Natural history, with all its recent discoveries, tells us that; from the first days of the world down to our 'own times.' bees have built up the regular hexagons of their cells; the young as well as the old working everywhere with the same industry and the same precision. Beavers, wherever they are, construct their dams, and birds build theii' nests according to the same plan; caterpillars and spiders spin or weave shells and nets after the same pattern and form;. and in all times and places the ants have harmoniously drawn, without-the aid of compass, their circles, and spiral volutes. ■
“Again, animals are all fixed and invariably determined as to the object itself as well as to their special manner of working. Hence it is that the spider will invariably use the same stratagems to catch flies, and the squirrel will replenish its storehouse with a supply of provisions, even though there is no fear of dearth. Uniformity, therefore, is proper to animal industry, while man’s activity is characterized by diversity and variation. How are we to account for such a striking difference? Most assuredly, the reason lies in the fact that in -the brute creation everything proceeds from an unchangeable impulse of nature, whilst, on the contrary, man, endowed as he is with free choice and deliberation, at will begins, improves and perfects his own works and institutions. Order, skill and art, no doubt, are sufficient to infer some intelligence, but not in the object itself—otherwise we would have to say that a clock or,any machine is intelligent. Animals are by themselves stationary; and when we call them prudent, skilful or ingenious, we thereby pay an indirect homage to the Supreme Artisan who rules over and regulates everything with number, weight and measure; but at the same time we attribute to irrational beings moral qualities which properly belong to man’s reason and liberty. In truth, amongst creatures man is the only one endowed with reflection and capable of invention. It is a fact of experience that the nearest approach to intelligence in’ brutes consists in perceiving in material’objects what is particular, finite and changeable, while universal ideas constitute the inviolable possession of man, who, owing to his power of abstraction, is’ able to draw immaterial essences from sensible things, to connect them together through logical relations, to infer a cause from its effects, and, from cause to cause, to rise to the notion of an infinite and substantial Maker, of which nature and man himself are but a faint, imperfect image. In
fine, man alone feels and realizes what duty is; man alone knows how to practise virtue; man alone speaks and commands; man alone can understand the beauty and worth of such expressions ns these: honor, love, sacrifice and enthusiasm. And why? Because man, and he alone, has reason and free-will, and being a spirit, he naturally yearns for happiness and immortality, which shall solve the great problem of life and death.” r
“I know all that,” said William; “but tell me, dear, venerable friend, granting that those higher , gifts distinguish man from other living beings, is it true, indeed, that they are of so much profit to each one of us? If so, how is it that our sublime reason, though having its origin and model in the Divine Intellect is yet liable to en, and but tod often becomes for man a dangerous instrument; while, on the contrary, that natural impulse we call instinct in beasts never deceives them? Is it not an undeniable fact that man, though being susceptible of science and virtue, appears even to himself to be an object of contempt and pity? How is it that man, that noble king of creation, is doomed to error, vice and corruption? Is not the whole history of mankind like a long and sad chain of crimes, disappointments and despair, the links of which appear stained with tears and blood? Would it not be better for us to have received the infallible instinct which guides and governs animals?”
' “Not at all, and simply for this reason: that all created beings were not made for the same end, CT	•	Y #
and because God does not expect any virtue from brutes. Far different from irrational creatures that blindly follow the irresistible bent of their senses, man being endowed with reason and liberty has been constituted in a moral order. Break the wonderful harmony existing between the physical and the moral order, and you destroy the equilibrium of rhe universe. Allow wild beasts to select their food and shelter in any country whatever, and soon will the face of the earth resemble a terrible field of battle, where the right of the stronger prevails. It is, to be sure, to prevent such a dreadful collision and disorder from taking place, that the One who made everything out of nothing at the same time appointed to all His creatures their proper place. The inexhaustible bosom of nature unceasingly brings forth new beings; the earth, the sea, and the air swarm with animals, and even the smallest particle of matter fails not to show the stupendous mystery of life. Life appears and triumphs everywhere— through plains and valleys, in the depths of the forest and the immensity of the desert, on .the mountain top and deep down in the inmost recesses of the abyss, on trees as well as among rocks; in seas, lakes and rivers;—life springs forth and flourishes from sterile sands and marshy places, throughout all climates, all latitudes, from pole to pole; every atom is peopled, every drop of water is moving, breathing and living with faultless harmony and in the most perfect unity. Notwithstanding . their infinite number and variety, all these animals turn within a providential circle, and not one of
*32
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
them goes out of its limits and destination; for order and wisdom demand that all the points of this immeasurable exchequer should be filled and occupied; no room is left empty and none can leave its station without pining away and dying. But still it is true that, while all other animals find their dominion exactly circumscribed, man alone goes everywhere, is able everywhere to live. He can cross oceans and deserts; he can pitch his tent in solitude, or build up his home on the shores of lakes; he can sojourn, work and endure amidst eternal snows as well as under the fires of tropics. Man, indeed, has the whole world for his palace, but this palace is a prison.”
“ But if this universe is ruled over by a wise and just God, how can we account for so many crimes that are daily committed in the midst of the most civilized nations, and for so many disasters and calamities? I admire with you the sublime distribution and arrangement of all creatures; nay, my mind contemplates with awe and a kind of religious veneration that astonishing collection; but when I look back to man, then—”
“ O my friend,” interrupted the old man; “ don’t accuse God on account of disorders'in the moral or physical order. He it is that imposed upon matter general laws, and nature, like a docile workman, produces everything after types and patterns invariably fixed, though not necessarily unchangeable. The will of the Creator- is always accomplished, without His being troubled about a ship that is overthrown by the waves and drowned in the midst of a storm; without His being moved if a city disappears, swallowed up under the ruins of a soil undermined. He has given immortal souls the precious care and duty to regulate their actions, as the independence of our passions testifies. Thus it is that, after trying to show you animals blindly following their own instincts and inclinations, according to their proper species, I have a .right to conclude that man alone makes his virtues and- vices; man alone has free-will, because for him alone this earth is a land of trial and expiation. The mysterious tree of good we cultivate here below with so much toil and labor shall blossom for us only in heaven.”
Stanislaus Philalethes.
Weary.
l am weary, ever weary!
' Myself tires self, the world’s a. dreary dream! Drags life along,—as. when a tired team, Their labor done, just stabled for the night,
Grinding content great ears of yellow corn, For some great guest bent on returning home,
Are yoked again, and driven till the morn; Their journey seems, to stretch forever,
And every, step is dull and sullen pain.	-	.
So,but to live, for me, is discontent,
Which, lost at,night, the mqrning finds again. -
.	’ . .	. T. E. S-,’84.
Beading.
This is a subject of vast importance, but one which is sadly neglected in * our day. It is as hard, to find a good reader now as when books and money were scarce; and when all the books which our forefathers perused in eager quest of knowledge had to be transcribed with the pen. The time has passed in which holy monks spent their lifetime in writing down the principal events which happened during their days. But, were it not for the labors of these self-sacrificing men, what losses would not the literature of our day have suffered during the ill-termed “dark ages”! How much does rot posterity owe to these self-immolated martyrs to science and literature! But now, what excuse can the young- American bring forward for being illiterate? What can be the reason why so few of our young men can, pleasantly and fittingly, render a selection taken from some standard author? The reason is plain. Because they do not know how to read. “ Oh, yes,” you will say, “ I can read.” Indeed, you can; to please yourself. Because you mumble here and there a few incoherent words. Because you skip and jump over words which you cannot pronounce. Because you pay no attention whatever to the marks of punctuation. Still, you call this reading. What would vou think of a singer, who undertakes to sing a fine piece of music without paying any attention to his quarter notes, half notes and whole notes? I am inclined to believe you would have a very poor opinion of him. It is the same in regard to good reading. Your commas, semi-colons, periods, etc., are to you what the quarter notes, half notes and whole notes are to the good musician.
The principal points in a good reader are: first, to understand thoroughly of what the subject treats which he intends to read; secondly, he must not only understand it, but also try to put himself in the time and place of the author, in order hereby to make the audience which he addresses understand them. There are some people who, when they read, give their hearers the impression that they are running a race with a train of cars. This must be avoided. As there is a harmony in music, so there is also harmony in reading. In our bodies there exists the greatest harmony amongst its different members. If one was. wanting, the whole structure would very soon be affected. God gave us our voice as the greatest gift by which we can enchant men and draw them to.us.. What is more agreeable to a refined and well-educated-man than tq hear a fine selection read by. one who understands what he is reading?/ The words„flow from his mouth as the smooth and rippling water from a fair lake , on its way- to. the. ocean. They strike upon his ear. as the; sweet and melodious harmony of music does‘the enraptured musician. They stir his soul to its inmost depths, and they there find a responsive chord which answers him in mute applause.
The; principal defects in reading-are, first, haste, in which; one; thinks he has. a certain, amount
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of work to do, and in order to do it quickly, he rushes over it without the least respect for his marks of punctuation, as a river which has been pent up by a dam, rushes over the country, destroying- and ravaging, instead of fertilizing and gently watering it. The second defect is shattering. This practice is even more blameable than the former, because it goes to the other extreme. The third defect is, putting in words which are not there, and leaving out words which are expressed, thereby rendering vour reading ridiculous and obscure. The fourth defect is, in mispronouncing words, especially those ending in “ing,” “ion” and “ ed.” For instance, how often have we not heard the words “ apostacy,” “ fidelity,” “ incessantly ” and “ upbraid ” pronounced bv readers so-called, “’pos-tacy,” “ fudelity,” “ incessuntly,” and “ ubbraid.” The means whereby we can avoid all these abuses are: first, in carefully studying our subject, not merely reading it over, but to seek and find out the true meaning of each and every word. Secondly, in paying attention to our marks of punctuation whereby we may proceed calmly and without interruption. If we pay attention to these few remarks we will very soon note our improvement.
"	J. D. C.
Art, Music, and. Literature.
—A monument to Gottfried Wilhem-Leibnitz, author and statesman, was unveiled at Leipsic, on the 25th ult.
—A number of etchings by the most successful students of the art in America will illustrate the holiday edition of the “ Essays of Elia,” which the Putnams are preparing to issue.
—The immense collection of documents preserved in the archives of the Indies at Seville, are now being arranged and classified. A list has been found of the names of all the companions of Columbus in his first voyage, except two; and much hew light has been thrown on the relations between Columbus and the brothers Pinzon.
—An organ which has just been built in Germany is believed to be the largest in existence. It counts one hundred and seventv-four registers, and is . worked automatically by an Otto gas motor of four-horse power. Its height is twenty metres, its width eleven, and its depth ten—about 65^ feet, 38 feet, . and 36 feet respectively. Its largest wooden pipe is ten metres (325^ feet) long, and of a cubical capacity of two thousand litres (70.6 cubic feet): while by a curious contrast the smallest pipe is made only a centimeter and a half high (little more than half ah inch), and is attached to the greatest one. The instrument is to be set up in the Cathedral of Riga.
—Captain Mayne Reid, author of many works which have appealed stirringly to the hero-worship and adventurous spirit of youth, died recently in London, in his sixty-fifth year. He was a native of the north of Ireland. His father, a Presbyterian clergyman, sought to educate him for the
church. But Reid’s taste for adventure was irrepressible, and, in his twentieth year, led him to the West of this country, where he spent five years hunting and trading among the Indians of the Red Ri ver country and Missouri? On the outbreak of the Mexican War, he obtained a commission as second lieutenant in a New York volunteer regiment, arid distinguished himself in several battles. He then went to Europe with the intention of taking part in the Hungarian campaigns under Kossuth. He finally took up his residence in London and began writing his stories of adventure based upon his own varied experiences.—Home Journal.
—The Eisteddfod, recently concluded at Aber-dare and Mardy, afforded a striking evidence of the . powerful sway music exercises over the'Welsh people, and of their innate genius for musical expression. It was not an Internationa 1 contest, as the great display at Cardiff was. It was a simple exhibition of the skill in song, and in what we may call improvisation, of some two or three hundred miners and colliers. In a radius of twenty miles in the new coal district of Rhonda, scarce ten years in working order, seven or eight choirs have been formed, the miners themselves being the directors. The adjudicator was taken by surprise, not only at .the fine quality and range of the voices, but at the precision, intelligence, and feeling with which the solos and choruses were rendered. A girl of twelve sang a solo of Mendelssohn’s; another, a little
o	„	*	__ *
older, one from Handel’s “ Samson.” The discernment and genuine interest displayed showed that music was the absorbing delight and occupation of this population of pit-men and women. ''
Books and Periodicals.
U. S. Salary List and Civil Service Rules. Prepared by Henry N. Copp. Washington, D. C. * There is a great deal of interesting and useful information contained in the 160 pages, of this recently-issued book. It is prepared by Henry N. Copp, a lawyer of Washington, D. C. All the Government salaries are given, from President Arthur’s $50,000 to postmasters with $500, officials of the Treasury, Interior, War and Navy Departments, Custom Houses, post-offices, and fully 20000 federal offices arranged by States and Territories. Specimen examination questions for admittance to the Civil Service throughout the coun-trv are added. The price of the book is only 35. cents.	-
—In illustrations, important articles, and American fiction, the November Century attempts, to raise its own standard of excellence—a significant way of beginning the new magazine year. Among the engravers of the number, five are women, who contribute seven engravings. T. Johnson’s engraving from Thomas Sully’s portrait (owned in Philadelphia) of Queen Victoria at the age of nineteen, is the frontispiece of the number; also, with Mrs. Oliphant’s sketch of the life of the Queen is printed a copy of a recent portrait. Mrs. Oliphant’s paper is valuable for its analysis of character, which is in
134	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
terestingly shown, also in several anecdotes of Queen Victoria’s courtship and of her attention to public affairs. Alphonse Daudet contributes reminiscences of “ Tourgu6neff in Paris.” . An important contribution to the history of the war, and a most entertaining anecdotal paper withal, is the account of “ The Capture of Jefferson Davis.” It is by Burton N." Harrison, Esq. In “ Topics of the Time,” “ Open Constituencies ” and u Is the Old Faith Dying?” are discussed editorially. Professor Henry A. Beers writes in “ Open Letters ” of “Matthew Arnold in America,” and G. Federlein of.the outlook for “ Opera in New York.”
—St. Nicholas for November is the first number of a new volume, and is full of promise of srood things for the coming year. Louisa M. Alcott has the first half of a bright story called “ Sophie’s Secret”: T. T. Trowbridge contributes a thrilling biographical sketch of Captain Mayne Reid, and Frank R. Stockton furnishes one of his inimitable fairy tales, entitled “ The Beeman and his Original Form.” Then, appropriate to the Thanksgiving season, is a down-east sketch by Hezekiah Butterworth, with the taking title, “ A Thanksgiving Dinner that Flew Awav,” in which the humorous and pathetic are pleasantly blended; while E. S. Brooks, in “ The Little Lord of the Manor,” writes of the final evacuation of New York by the British, just one hundred years ago. There is also, in time for production during the holidays, a cleverly written and easily-produced Christmas play, “ Among the Pines.” Sophie Swett tells a very funny story about “The Gentleman from China”; W. O. Stoddard, author of “Dab. Kinzer,” “Among the Lakes,” and “ Saltillo Boys,” begins another six months’ serial, entitled “ Winter Fun.” Natural History receives due recognition in accounts of “ Benevolent Birds ” and the polar hare, with illustrations by Nugent and Beard. A varied assortment, of verses, jingles, and short stories, with pictures by well known artists, completes the number.
—The American Catholic Quarterly Review for October opens with an article on “The Law of Prayer” by the Most Rev. James Gibbons, D. D., Archbishop of Baltimore. In that clear and convincing style which ensured such extraordinary popularity for his book on “ The Faith of our Fathers,” the learned prelate explains the law of prayer and its reasonableness, and answers the objections which misuse of reason and science might bring forward; “William M. Thackeray,” by Prof. A. J. Faust, is an interesting paper . dn-ythe. . life, character and writings of the great novelist... Dr. John Gilmary- Shea.reviews “Bancroft’s History off the-United States,” showing.the charges and modifications introduced by the author into this' last revision. The. early liberality is replaced by an unmistakable bias against the .Catholic Church, which pervades the whole . narrative, and which has-led to the suppression and . alteration of facts; -The other, articles are: “The Church "in Spain,” by; Rev. Bernard Q’Reilly; “Who Wrote the Imitation of Christ?” by Rev. Aug. J. Thebaud, S. J.; “ Martin Luther ”; “ W hat
has Ireland Gained by Agitation ? ” by John Boyle O’Reilly; “The Origin of Civil Authority,” by Rev. J. Ming, S.J.; “ The Philosophy of Introspection,” by A. De G. With this number' the Quarterly closes its eighth volume, the excellence of which cannot be too highly commended. The magazine proves itself in every way worthy of the recommendation received from the late Provincial Council of New York; and the well-known ability of its editor, aided by the energy and enterprise of its publishers, ensures the maintenance of its high standard of excellence through the coming year. We hope that an enlightened public will testify its appreciation of the great worth of the Review by the increase in its subscription list. Hardy and Mahony. Publishers, 505 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.
.	. College Gossip.
—There are twenty men in the shorthand course at Yale. Notre Dame leads Yale by five. -
—A scholarship is to be founded in Turgenef’s name at the university, and a distinct school in the Russian capital.
—By a recent decision of the University of Bombay, women are hereafter to be admitted to the learned professions in India.
—President McCosh, of Princeton College, asks ' for $200,000 for the better endowment of philosophy, and expects to get it.—Badger.	* ’
—Out of thirteen students who applied for admission to the Course of Arts at Cornell University, only three passed the examination in Greek.
—Greek room.—Prof., prompting a slow Soph.: "El-ac.” Soph., brightening up: “ I make it next! ” A speedy application of camphor restored the Prof, to consciousness.— Vidette-Reporter.	.
—Vassar Institute, which has just received an additional sum of. $25,000 from John Guy Vassar, is not Vassar College, as some of our contemporaries suppose, but an asylum for old men.—Badger.
—Dartmouth College is to receive ten thousand _ dollars from the estate of the late Judge Jason Downer, of Milwaukee, Wis. Judge. Downer graduated from that institution in the class of ’3S.
—’A millionaire in Philadelphia who endorses the views of Mr. Charles Francis .Adams, Jr., about the dead languages, saysrthat he. lives in the most-convenient place in the city, for “the horse-’ cars run pro and con on his street.”—Harper's.
, —The Harvard .Medical .School celebrated its one hundredth anniversary .Wednesday, October fy, in the Institute of Technology. Addresses were made by President Elliot and Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes. Busts of the latter and’Professor Henry J. Bigelow were presented to the school. ’ . ’
.—The cry of over-pressure in . schools .. has reached, the teachers in North Wales, who vigorously re-echo it in the following resolution /lately passed.in a meeting for discussion.held near.Wrex-ham'. ..Resolved, That this meeting of practical. teachers strongly condemns the tendency of. mod
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ern education to unduly increase the subjects of instruction in elementary schools, and asserts that* the continual strain and preparation is injurious alike to pupil and teacher.	.
• —About a year ago, the students of Kensington Medical College, Canada, refused admission to women. Energetic steps were at once taken, both there and at Toronto, for the establishment of female medical colleges. That at Kingston was first completed, but on Tuesday, October i, the one at Toronto was formally opened under the - presidency of Dr. Barrett, formerly President of the Toronto School of Medicine. It numbers in its staff of lecturers the best-known medical men of the Provinces.
—It appears from the statistics of the last examination for the Baccalaureat which have just been published by the Minister of Education, that classical students still maintain their ascendency in France. The , examination for the Baccalaureat es Lettres is divided into two parts. There are 1,763 candidates in the first part, of whom 40 per cent, passed, and 1,143 in the second part, of whom 52 per cent, passed. For the Baccalaureat es Sciences, on the contrary, there were 1,329 candidates, but only 34 per cent, of them passed.
Exchanges.
—A new paper, The Wilmington Collegian, comes to us from Wilmington College, Ohio. ‘ ■* • , The Collegian is published monthly.	■
—The Badger and Lariat are among the spiciest of our exchanges. The Badger, especially, is noted for the ability of its editorial articles, its pithy news notes, and correspondence.
—The boys of the University of Minnesota send out a handsome, fairly-edited paper, The Ariel, but the local happenings, poetry and personals are in such small print as to impose a serious tax on one’s eyesight in reading them. The Ariel should ' -either enlarge its print or send out.a pair of spectacles to each of its subscribers.
—The Chronicle, irom the University of Michigan, begins its fifteenth year in a new lithographed cover of elaborate design and beautiful workmanship. The cover is printed in colors; the university buildings are shown in interlapping cards, a piece of workmanship nicely done, but giving the magazine the appearance of an advertising circular for some great manufacturing establishment, or a large railway folder. The make-up of the matter is as formerly—Editorials on commonplace topics, I	followed by the department of ‘^General Litera-
’ ’	ture,” or essays. ~ The editorial proper isin the
usual place—the centre of'the magazine, followed by personals and notes from the Law and Medical Departments. The Chronicle possesses the advantage of an Exchange Department, now’ being - dropped from many college publications, but which, when properly conducted, possesses . advantages that can be had in no other way. The “College 1	■ .’Notes,” “ Literary Notes,” and “ Local Miscellany ”
are judiciously edited, and contain much informa, tion for students.	.	.
—The Princetonian is a decidedly lively college paper under the new editorial board. It is hot at all improbable that the spirit of the defunct Tiger instead of going to the Elysian Fields -of-tigers generally, has ensconced itself under the aegis of this board, and that hereafter we may expect lively news from Princeton. Not that The Prince-Ionian is at all savage—oh no! quite the contrary. It shows quite an evangelical spirit, and has lately been doing the part of the Good Samaritan by pouring balm into the wounds of the Faculty. It is generally supposed that corporations have no souls, but The Princetonian thinks the. college Facuity there has a soul, dr at least that its individual members have souls, whose wants need looking after. Fellows of an inquiring mind, it says, naturally wonder why those who are supposed to .set a good example do not attend chapel with the students.
“ If, as we really believe, the student is benefitted by paying his daily devotions in public, then why should not the teachers receive the same help by joining with us? The answer is right here: The Faculty exercise their own personal freedom as to whether they will worship, while the students are compelled to go there whether or not they are in the spirit for it. If Chapel is a regular college exercise, at which attendance should be compulsory, then why should not students and Professors alike be under the same compulsion? Why should a Professor who is not in the mood for church-going, be allowed to exercise his prerogative in the matter, and yet the student, with the same disinclination, be forced to attend? It is not so with any other college exercise. To be sure a teacher would not get into difficulty for cutting recitation once or twice. But let the Trustees find out that a Professor is constantly absent from his recitations, and see what the result would be! He would at once be dismissed as unfaithful, and his vacancy be filled. So far as the students are concerned with absences, there is no difference between cutting Chapel and recitation. Then, should not attendance at Chapel and recitation be equally important with the Professor? It is not enough to reply that the Professors are old men, and should be spared the tax upon their strength of getting up in time to go to Chapel. .For, when it is remembered that almost every morning, the oldest member of the Faculty may be seen officiating at the exercises, the excuse of advanced age cannot fairly be urged in favor of much younger members.”	‘	'
The “Penal Code” and “Note-Taking in the Lecture-Room ” come in for an overhauling. A new code is published. Judging from “Section II” it seems rather severe; if enforced it will soon straighten up the crooked at Princeton. Said Section says:	'	•	'
“ No student shall indulge in any liquid refreshment other than pure water or milk.' All brewed, fermented, or otherwise prepared liquors, such as tea, coffee, and apollinaris, are strictly prohibited.”
To'be sure of its accusations against: lecturers being, well founded, The Princetonian hired a lightning stenographer to give a test. Said stenographer did very well for awhile,-but sometime after the unfortunate, longhand victims had succumbed, and were squeezing and rubbing cramp-seized fingers, the - lightning steno'found himself left, and threw down his pen in despair. As he fell back exhausted in his seat, the last,'hurrying words of the lecturer sounded dimly in his ears:	:
“ Without ageneralconcept wecannotcognize a particularobject orthing; therefore wemusthaveageneralnotibni”
136	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 3, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the Univeisity of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DANIE SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends hat have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,	-
Oi.d Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.30 fer Annum. Post-paid.
• Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—The event of the past week has been the Annual Retreat, which .began Monday evening and closed Thursday morning. The exercises were conducted by Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., and were well attended by the students. The seriousness and good spirit displayed lw those who took part in the retreat were extremely gratifying to all who have at heart the real interest of the students and the Institution. A retreat well made at the opening of the session exercises an "all-important influence on the remainder of the scholastic year; and hence it can be said that the success which has attended the conducting of these religious exercises gives the assurance that the. year ’83—’84 will be a happy and useful one to the students in generalyand Tong and favorably remembered by those placed over-them.
—It is well known that there exists, in connection with the University, a special department for boys under 12 years of age. These youthful stu-dents—called Minims—are placed under kind and gentle direction, and receive'the'instruction and care suitable to their tender age. .The success' which has attended the work of those in charge of this department is. shown in the marked increase in the attendance during the past few years.
1 These little fellows now number 100 strong, and ! to make suitable recognition of this fact, Very Rev. । Father General Sorin, their special and venerable patron, proposes to have a grand reunion of the
i Minims, their parents and friends, on the 24th inst. • It is intended to be a great affair: the Minims will give a play, hold a banquet, and provide other means for interesting their friends too numerous to mention.
—Every student should join the Archconfraternity, and at least one of the literary, and dramatic societies. Besides the advantages for improvement given the members, the exercises of the societies have a wholesome and exhilarating effect. The monotonous routine of the study-hall and class-room is broken by the literary exercises, the debates, and recitations; the student is lifted out of the rut, and his thoughts are diverted into new channels. The pleasant excitement of the contests in the societies, besides having a good general effect, is undoubtedly of great benefit to the student individually. This is beyond question. Anyone who has tried the experiment knows how hard it is to face a public audience, and those who have not had an opportunity in youth to take part in public debates, recitations, or dramatic exercises, seldom overcome a feeling of timidity that often paralyzes the tongue and makes its victim appear stupid. The Archconfraternities and the large number of literary and dramatic societies in the College afford excellent opportunities to students to acquire a spirit of self-possession and self-reliance before a public audience. And this without materially interfering with studies. The societies are numerous, and the custom of having each in its turn appear in public at least once a year gives a pleasing diversity and breaks the monotony of college life. A round, of enlivening entertainments are thus kept up without a severe tax upon anyone, unless it be the directors, and we have never heard of any complaint from them.	’
—We have heard it said that many of the students, especially the younger ones, fail to appreciate solid books and authors. Story-books and other light literature go like hot-cakes, while historical
CO	7
works, biography and books of travel lie on the shelves. This shows a poor taste—a great want of thought. If questioned, the young student will probably answer, “ I have no taste for history; I find it dry and uninteresting. For the little time I have to read T like a good story.” There is certainly'no positive, harm in reading such storybooks as are furnished in the Library, but it is at best a loss of time that could be turned to good purpose. If a. person does not possess a taste for solid reading it is owing to a wrong bent given the mind, and which should be counteracted. Good taste in the selection and appreciation of authors can be easily acquired; it needs but an effort at first; and a good habit will presently take the place of the bad. one. . Students should make this effort, and try to read books that will benefit as well as amuse
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J37
them. The late Archbishop Spalding said that ■his favorite book when a boy was Rollin’s Ancient History; he had acquired a taste for history in youth, and the result was that in after-life few men surpassed him in his knowledge of history.. Patrick Henry’s bent was for biography; he always had the lives of eminent men in his hand, and , the consequence was that he became an eminent man himself. Although apparently awkward and clownish, his mind was stored with high thoughts and noble sentiments, and it needed but the opportunity to bring them out and show what genius he possessed beneath a rugged exterior. A person who is fond of trashy reading should remember that a good habit can be acquired, and that schooldays are the best time for acquiring good habits and laving aside bad ones. As the twig is bent the tree is inclined.
—Although vanity is something which everyone ought to endeavor to repress in himself and never encourage in others, at is a fault of which few persons make any account. It has been de-.fined as the characteristic of small minds; and, if such it be, how few great ones there are! Almost everyone is vain about something or other. In many cases, it may require a long time to find out just what that something is, and when discovered, the vanity may be very slight and very easy to condone; still, it is observed with a sort of regret, and • cannot fail to diminish somewhat our esteem for the individual. Most persons’ vanity is of the coarse, common kind that shows itself in boasting, exaggeration and want of appreciation for the virtues and accomplishments of others. This is as generally indulged in as it is generally condemned A more dangerous fault it wduld be hard to name, because its inevitable offsprings are lying and uncharitableness. A man who has succeeded in making others believe him greater and better than he is will lie like a slave to sustain his reputation and run down his neighbor when possessed of a single quality of mind or heart likely to lessen it. A man very vain is a .man very untruthful and very uncharitable.	.
. Nothing is more delightful and more refreshing than to come across one in whose heart vanity holds no place, and the memory of such persons is ■ always both tender and enduring. Allessandro Manzoni was not more esteemed by those who - knew him for his rare intellectual gifts than for his lovable and simple nature, and not until “I Promessi Sposi ” is forgotten will men cease to admire the noble character of its author. An instance of his singular modesty occurred during the last months of his life. When going to the theatre to see a new play of Berezio’s he mistook the ap-' plause that greeted him for a tribute to its author, and joined in it himself. The redoubled acclama--tions of the audience showed him his error, at which he was so much discomfited, that he withdrew hastily, and could never again be induced to 'make any’ public appearance in -the evening.
. It would, bp well if Manzoni had as many imi
tators of his modesty as he has admirers of his genius. It would be something even to wish to be so. free from an ignoble vice.	-
Personal.
—Joseph Perea, of ’80, is County Clerk at Albuquerque, New Mexico. '	. . ' .	,
—	W. P. Nelson (Com’l), of ’73, continues his father’s business at 141 Adams St., Chicago, Ill.
—	J. W. Weldon and his brother Marmaduke^ of ’71, are connected with the Michigan Stove Co., Detroit, Mich.	-
—	S. H. Katz (Com’l), of ’82. represents on the road the wholesale clothing house of Kahm, Schbn-brun & Co., Chicago.	. .
—Mr. Ed. Ryan (Com’l), of ’82, has a fine position as ticket agent and operator of the Milwaukee & St. Paul R. R. office, at De Witt, Iowa.
—The old students of De Witt, Iowa, are spoken of in the highest terms. They are gentlemen in every sense of the word, and reflect credit on themselves and Alma Mater.
—Samuel P. Terry, who attended the College a few years ago, writes that he would have returned this year but for the poor health of his father, whom he accompanies to California. -
—Mr. M. A. Kelly, of Philadelphia, an old friend of Notre Dame, paid the institution a short visit lately, in company with Bro. Albert, C. S. C., his brother, who has been travelling lately on ac-count of poor health. Mr. Kelly’s many friends were glad to see him here.
—Rev. John J. Shea, C. S. C., arrived from Lead City, Dakota, last Thursday evening, and met with a hearty welcome from his numerous friends at Notre Dame. For the past two years, Father Shea has been pastor at Lead City, and his work in the ministrv there has been crowned with success.	•
—Albert Dickerhoff, of ’72, and Miss Lizzie Me-Caffrey, were recently united in the sacred bonds of matrimony at their home in Logansport, Ind; The, ceremony was performed by Rev. M. F. Campion, ’65, pastor of the Church of St. Vincent de Paul in that city. The groom has many friends at.Ndtre Dame, all of whom unite in offering their best wishes to himself and bride for a long and happy life.	’
—Ferdinand E. Kuhn, ’83, has been appointed private secretary to Mayor Phillips, of Nashville, Tenn. The Neivs of that city says:
“ Mr. Kuhn, is a brother of Casper B. Kuhn, the present City Auditor. He is a recent graduate, of Notre Dame College, and is thoroughly competent to discharge the duties of the office. Mr. Kuhn is well known, and by his genial and affable qualifications will, no doubt, give satisfaction both to the Mayor and the general public.” "
—We were pleased to receive a visit from Mf. Perceval Lowell, the courteous General Passenger Agent of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Mr. Lowell was accompanied by Mr. E. Sheldon, chief of the Literary Bureau of the C.B. & Q.R.R.
i38	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
They were both much interested in all that they saw, especially in the beautiful frescos of Gre-gori. Mr. Lowell-is a graduate of Harvard, and one of the most accomplished men in the railway service. '.We hope he will make a.'more extended visit next time.	■
—Mr. Carlisle Mason, Sr., President of the Excelsior Iron Works, Chicago, visited Notre Dame last Friday. Mr. Mason is one of the best scientific mechanics of our day; notwithstanding his modesty, he is well known by the results of his ingenious, keen and observant mind in inventions connected with his special line of business. Quasi scientists and mechanicians propound theories, and presume to have solved them: Mr. Mason quietly does, and shows practical results for what others say they can do, but “do not do. People talk, among other things, about burning smoke and economizingfuel ; Mr. Mason has burned the smoke and economized the fuel where others failed. The Excelsior Iron Works, of which Mr. Mason is the President, did the iron work for the Dome of the College, and all who have had business relations with the Company speak highly of them.
Local Items.
‘ —The Orpheonics are on deck.
- —Grand soiree next Wednesday. -
—Look out for the charge of the 100!
—Edward Sorin Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, was the lodth Minim.
-—The 24th of November is fixed as the day for the Parisian dinner.	.
■ -—Our friend John was informed, a few days ago, that there’s a post-office at Notre Dame.
■ —Prof. Lyons’ “ American Elocutionist ” has been received with universal favor by the press of the country.
—A bicycle club is among the things talked of. Bannigan and Saviei s, our leading bicyclists, are enthusiastic on the subject. -
—The great talk now is about the Grand Centennial'Parisian Dinner. It will be “the event of the season,” and no mistake.	•
—The Sorins held a meeting for the first time in their new - Society-Room last Monday. The room is one of the finest at Notre Dame.
.—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Mr. E. Am.oretti, of Lander, Wyoming Ter., for a-collection of specimens and. curiosities.. „ J—An overcoat-was left on the • Junior Campus on Field-Day, the finder will be" liberally rewarded on returning it to the owner, Frank Fehr. -	;
—The public' reading in the Juniors’.'refectory during the past week -showed a high degree of- excellence, and reflected the greatest credit upon the readers. ..	■	: i-'	.
_ —-Rev. President Walsh left this morning for Detroit, where he will remain , until Monday, the guest of Rev. A. Vandyke, pastor of the Pro-Gathedral. '	.	_	.
—=Some say that the 100th Minim is an indi-. vidual that goes to class somewhere between the College and St. Mary’s. The great question now is, Can he be counted?
—An extra half-day’s, rec. was given yesterday afternoon, and greatly enjoyed. In the Seniors’ Campus a most exciting game of baseball took place. A full report will be given in our next.
—James Solon, ’84, lectured in Peru, last Sunday night. The reception .accorded him amounted to an ovation, and the lecture was in every way a complete success. We are proud of our representative Eugl ossian.
—We are glad to announce that Very Rev. Father Sorin is rapidly recovering from the. effects of. his late accident. He is still obliged to keep his room, but we trust that but a very few days more will pass before he will be around again.
—Beautiful floral offerings were laid on the grave of Father Lemonnier on the 29th ult., the anniversary of his death. Requiem Masses were said for the repose of his soul by Rev. John Ford, Director of St. Aloysius’ Home, and Rev. C. Dela-hunty.
—The Orpheonics are determined to make the soiree a perfect success. The programme, printed elsewhere in these columns, indicates an entertainment of great excellence, and we are sure that those who attend will be favored with something worth 'V	-	O
hearing.	. .
—Some unusual festivities will be the order of the day next Wednesday, in celebration of the extraordinary large attendance at the College.. An oyster spread in the evening, followed by an entertainment, musical and .literary, are among the things talked of.	.	*
—The regular monthly meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held last Sundaj- evening, Rev. T. E. Walsh in the chair. N; H. Ewing read an interesting paper bn miracles, and E. A. Otis one showing the Bible not the sole rule of faith. W. Bailey and J. McIntyre were appointed to prepare papers for the next meeting.	’
—The case of the L. S. & M. S. Ry. Co. vs. I. & U. Air.Line R. R. Co., was tried in the University Moot Courts on Saturday evening. Mr. Farrell acted as clerk, and Mr. Geiser as sheriff. Messrs. Johnston and'Wilson were attorneys for the plaintiff, while Messrs. Steis and Burke represented the defendent. It was a jury trial,.and a verdict was rendered in favor of the plaintiff.	.	-
. —One of the most excitinggames ever witnessed on the .grounds of the “ Red' Sox ” came off last week. Though the Red Sox ” are considerably .weakened by the Joss of. such active players as Colyar and Ross, they still are more than a match for their old rivals, the “ Athletes,” as Thursday’s game conclusively proved.. The “Red Sox” led from the start, and though the “ Athletes ” played a good game, they were most shamefully beaten. Score, 14 to 3. - ’	.	’
—At the sixth regular meeting of the St. Stan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
i39
islaus Philopatrian Association, held Oct the 17th, compositions were read by J. Dwenger, J. R. Devereux and C. Mason. Recitations were given by Masters Cleary, Holbrook, Adler, Fitzgerald, Eisenhauer, Curtis, Cavaroc, Rhodus and J. Henry . Masters Tarrant, G. Lewis and C. Regan were elected members. F. Curtis' was elected 1st VicePresident vice G. Seegers, who was transferred to the, Seniors. J. McGofdon was elected 2d VicePresident, and C. Muhler Librarian.
—Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., left on last Monday for his sphere of duty at Watertown, Wis. We regret that the pleasure of his visit here had been marred by sickness, but we are glad to know that he is convalescent and will soon be’in the possession of his wonted health and vigor. Father Condon was for a number of years Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame, and counts many friends among the Faculty and students, all of whom were glad to see him in their midst. We hope for the pleasure of another visit in the near future.
—During- the - Offerrorv at the High Mass on' All Saints’ Day, Mrs. Maguire, of the Cathedral choir, Chicago, sang Mercadante’s Salve Maria. It was a splendid piece of vocalism, brilliantly executed and with ease and accuracy. The singer’s breadth of tone filled the large church, and the lovely quality of her voice greatly impressed her auditors. Mrs. Maguire is recognized as the leading singer of the city of Chicago. She possesses a fine,- rich soprano voice, pure in every note, buoyant and ringing; and in addition, it is well trained according to the best methods. Lovers of music who heard the Salve Maria on Thursday will not soon forget the treat with ■ which they were favored.	-
—The =;th regular meeting of the Columbian Dramatic and Literary Club was held Oct. the 20th. W. Cartier read a well-written biographical sketch of Napoleon I; A. Ancheta spoke well on Mexico; C. Kerndt on Sobieski; J. Eisenhauer on the early settlement of Indiana; W. Fogerty’s Henry Clay was well given; J. Kleiber delivered a speech on republics; G. F. O’Kane read a composition on Alexander Hamilton; F. Lucas presented a composition on Washington Irving; G. F. Combe spoke eloquently on Benedict Arnold; J. A. Hyde delivered a humorous speech on the great city of New York, arid L. Mathers closed the exercises by a well-written criticism- on the previous meeting.
—At the Sth regular meeting of the Saint Cecilia Philomathean Association, held, Oct. 19th, Masters . Gerlachj - M ahon, McDonnell,. Fendrich, Schott, Mug and Courtney: read' essays. The Quarrel Scene from Julius Caesar was; well rcn-dered'by F. Dexter and H. Foote. Declamations - and readings were'given by Masters D. Taylor, Stubbs; J. Devine, Wile, Hagenbarth, E. Porter, Schaefer, Monschein and Cassilly. An able, criticism of the previous meeting was presented by -W. Mug. C. Porter closed the exercises with a humorous recitation personating the “Jersey Attorney.” The Public Readers are: D. Taylor, C.
Porter, W. Dexter, W. Mahon, G. Schaefer, J. Fendrich, J. McDonald and H. Foote. e. ‘
—The 2d regular meeting of the St. Thomas’ Academy was held Saturday, Oct. 27th. Mr. T. EwingdSteele defended the thesis: “Logic is the, most useful among the speculative and practical sciences.” Mr. Steele began by defining logic to be the necessary laws of pure thought. . After reviewing the objections to logic made by Bacon, Des Cartes, and others, which naturally arose from the-excessive claims made for the-science by too enthuT siastic schoolmen, he proceeded to defend his thesis by clear and decisive proofs, both positive and negative, concluding with a short and concise summing up of his various arguments. That Mr. Steele had studied and thoroughly mastered his subject was shown by his direct and conclusive arguments, and the masterly way in which he refuted the argu-riients brought up by the objectors to his thesis.
—Thursday last, the Festival of All Saints, was observed with great solemnity. The fact that it marked the closings of the students’ retreat added greatly to the impressiveness of the ceremonies. Solemn High Mass' was .sung at ten o’clock 'by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Fathers A. M. Kirsch and N. Stoffel as deacon and subdeacon. Mr. M. Regan, C. S. C., acted as the Master of Ceremonies. The sermon was preached by Rev. J. O’Brien, who eloquently and effectively spoke upon the “honor which we pay to the Saints and Angels.” The reasonableness and utility of the devotion were clearly and convincingly, set forth. The conclusion of the discourse was ad-dressed especially to the students, who were exhorted to keep in mind the instructions to which they had listened during the retreat just closed, and to persevere in the good resolutions which they must have been led to form. In the afternoon, Solemn Vespers were sung, followed by the Vespers for the Dead.	.
—Among the many valuable additions recently made to the Library, the following are mentioned:
Ruskin’s Works, 15 Vols.; Works of Oliver Wendell Holmes, 9 Vols.; Lowell’s Works, 7 Vols.; Carlyle’s Works, 15 Vols.; Emmerson’s Works, 11 Vols.; St. Augustin’s Works—Oxford Translation—-12 Vols.; St.Chrys-ostom*s Works—Oxford Translation—15 Vols.; Writings of St. Gregory the Great, 4 Vols.; Writings of St. Athanasius, 4 Vols.; Tertulian’s Works—Oxford Translations; St. Cyprian’s Works,2 Vols.; Writings ofSt. Cyril; Lanzi’s History of Paintings, 6 Vols.; History of Ancient Pottery, Birch, 2 Vols.; Hope’s Costumes of the Ancients; History of Painting by Woltman and Wcerman; Architectural Styles, Rosengarten; History of Architecture in all Countries, Janies Ferguson, 2 Vols.; The Eighteenth Century, France 1700-17S9 by Paul Lacroix; The College Bpok.with Heliotype Illustrations; Pomeiana, The Topograph}-, "Edifices and Ornaments of Pompeii, by Sir William Gell,-and John P. Gandy; Herodotus Grace et Latine, ex Editidnibus Wesselingii et Reezii, 7 Vols.; Terence Sallust, Floras Baskerville' Edition; Senica Philosophi Opera, Qua' Exstant Omnia—A Justo Lipsio Emendatata, et ' Scholliislllustrata, Antverpia ex Officina Plantiniana apud ' Joariem Movetum, 1605; Joinville,Histoire St. Louis; Prior’s Life of Burke, 2 Vols.; Mythology of the Argan Nations, Rev. G,...W.-Cox, 2 Vols./Whittier’s Poems, 2 Vols.; A History of'Furniture, translated from the French of Albert Jacquemart, Edited by Mrs. Barry Palliser? RankeTs History of the Popes, 2 Vols.; Life of Leo the Tenth, Roscoe, 2 Vols. * .	-	: J-y ’ '
140
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
. —Next Wednesday evening will be made the occasion of the grand opening of the new “ Orphe-onic Hall.” The Orpheonics have made active preparations for the worthy celebration of the event, and cordially invite their friends to witness their presentation of the following ' PROGRAMME.
“ Mens nostra concordat voci nostrce.”
1.
Overture—La Gazza Ladra.......................Rossini
String Quartette.
u Ave Maris Stella,'1''—Society Prayer........B. A.
- Duo and Semi-Chorus.
The Orpheonics’ Tribute to St. Edward,—Deferred, not Forgotten.
(1)	Address...................................E. Wile
(2)	Sons’..................................Boileldieu
' T. Cleary.
(3)	“ Sweet Violets for Father,”.........f.K.	Emmet
J. Garrity. •
(4)	“Now, To-day, with Exultation, lo! We Hail Our Father Dear! ”............................J.	Wiegand
Grand Chorus.
Oration of the Day.........................G.	Schaefer
Latin Address...............................C. Porter
“The New Orpheonic Hall (Words by Prof. McCormack,
Musicby B. A.)...........................;. E. Wile
- 11.	'
Dedication Hymn...........................y.	Eichberg
Chorus.
“ Song can but feebly tell . Wbat help, 0 God, Thou art.”
“ Wake, Sweetest Melody! ” Aria, “ Il Giuramentoy
J. Courtney Essay—“ Music and Religion ”..................H. Foote
“Again we Meet with Zeal to Work”..........M. Dressier
W. Mulkern, F. Marcotte, E. Trepanier, J. Devine, J. Kelly, and C- Harris.
“Welcome to Our Guests!”..................f.	Wiegand
■ Chorus.
“The Bend of the River,” Song..........■■f	Blumenthal
H. Foote.
“The Skipper,” Song...........................H. Jude
G. Schaefer.
“ O Rest in the Lord! ”—Anthem................Chorus
“Holy Mother, Guide Our Footsteps!”—Duo from Mar-
- itana................ T. Cleary and G. Schaefer
Grand Finale. .
“Echoes of Commencement’’—Cantata..............Chorus
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchando, Ancheta, Aguilera, Banigan. Bowers, Burns, Barron, Buchanan, Becerra, Bailey, J. A. Burke, Browne, F. E. Combe, Coll, Callan, Cass, Creel, Celia, Conway, Christian, A. Coghlin, Callaghan, Campbell, Connell, De Groot, De Wolf, Donohue, Dickerson, Dolan, Delaney, A. J. Dennis, Eisenhauer, Fishel, Fogerty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, Gonsor, Goulding, Gonzalez, Guthrie, Geiser, Gutierrez, F. Gallagher, Garrett, J. Gallagher, God-froy, Henderson,. Howard, Hopkins, Handy, Johnston, Kerndt, Kimmelj Kolars, Kleiber, Lucas, Larkin, Long, - McErlaine, Mahon, McKinnery, Marquis, Mittendorf, McIntyre, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Edward O’Brien, Eugene .O’Brien, O’Connell, Ott, O’Kahe, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Shea, Steis, Stover, Scholfield, Spencer, Steele, Solon, E.-Smith, G. Smith, Teasdale, F. Uranga, J.-Uranga, Whalen, Wagoner, Wheatley.
’	1	. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. , "	.
Masters' Arnold, Anchando, Bafschulze, Bauer, Barclay, Breen, Curtis, Chaves, Cavaroc, Cleary, Clarke, Costigan, Dorenberg, Deaderick, Dexter, C. Dennis, Eisen
hauer, Foster, Fendrich, Fehr, Fierro, H. Foote, Garrity, Gimbel, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, Hagerty, E. Howard, A. Howard, B. Henry, W. Henry, Houlihan, Houck, Holman, Jensch, P. Johnson, King, J. Kelly, M. Kelly, Lake, Letcher, Mulkern, Monschein, Mullane, Miller, Menig, Mason, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, Moye, McDonnell, Marcott, C. Metz, Mug, Muhler, McCawley, O’Brien, J. P. O’Donnell, C. Porter, E. Porter, Pohl, Quill, Rogers, Rhodus, Shea, Sedberry,' Schmauss, L. Scheuerman, W. Scheuerman, Schott, Schaefer, Stumer,Smith, Saunders, Talbot, D. Taylor, Tarrant, Trepanier, Tinckh, Uranga, Wagoner. Wabrauschek, Weber, Williamson, Nester, Warner, W. P Mahon, Holbrook, E. Wile, Halligan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Amoretti, Bailey, Cummings, Coad, Devereux, Ernest, Ewing, Fitzgerald, Gonzalez, La Tourette, Lewis, B. Lindsey, T. McGuire, McVeigh, McPhee, Morrison, Moye, Meehan, F. Otis, O’Connor, W. Prindiville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Padden, Quill, Rebori, Studebaker,- Stange, Spencer, Schoneman, Sokup, Steele, L. Scherrer, Chas. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Thomas, W. Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, Tarrant, Uranga, West, Wright, L. Young.
Class Honors.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
Messrs. H. Porter, Guthrie, T. Carroll, Whalen, Fendrich, Dexter, Berthelet, McErlaine, J. O’Donnell, F. Combe, E. Fenlon, Schott, O’Dea, Gandrup, Guthierrez, Brosseau, Dorenberg, Menig, Jensch, Letcher, F. Rogers, Kelly, F. Grunsfeldt, E. Ryan, Crilly, Hemisbaugh, Barrons, Meyer, Delgado, W. H. McCarthy, Carabajal, Aguilera, Wilson, Warner, Bannigan, Gonser, Fogarty, Cussen, W. Mahon, J. Shea. Cass, De Haven, Kerndt, Donahue, Warner, Gibert, O’Connell, Steis, W. Cartier, Seegers, Whitman, Kolars, Barron, J. Eisenhauer, Jno. Cusack, Jos. Cusack, Sykes, S. Crawford, Ott, Geiser, O’Kane, Tinley, Ancheta, Saviers, Celia, J. Burke, V. Burke, F. Burke, Otis, Christian, S. Murdock, Hellebush, Wall, Hausberg, E. Smith, Browne, J. Carroll, J. Gallagher, Coll, J. McNamara, Fishel, Handy, A. Dennis, Slusser’, Jno. Heffernan, Jas. Heffernan, W. Keegan, J. Keegan, G. Smith, Stubbs. Halligan, Akins, Gerlach, J. Crawford, Gimbel, Courtney, Stumer, Wabraushek, W.Sheuerman, Violette, Leffingwell, A. Eisenhauer, Borgschulze, Schaefer, Schmauss, T. McGill, Arnold, Fehr, C. Porter, P. Johnson, Weiler Pohl, J. P. O’Donnell, Holbrook, C. Whitman,’ J. McGordon, C. McGordon, Arkins, Cleary, Costigan; W. Wright, Reynolds, G. Lewis, P. Yrisarri, Mug, Barclay, W. Clarke, J. Henry, W. Murphy, Harris, Baur, Jas. Smith, Williamson, McCawley, Hagen, Merz, Foote, C. Combe, Duffin-Adler, Shields, Lasley, Lucas, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Hyde, Scholfield, J. McCarthy, Jones, Orchard, Kaufman, J. Rogers, Reach, Henderson, Callaghan, Rudge, McDonnell, Kleiber, Hagenbarth, L. Sheuerman, C. Murdock.
List , of Excellence
■ [ The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL .	.	BRANCHES.	.
Grennan—Messrs. Ott, Steis, Mug, ^Miller, O’Dea, H. Porter, Baur, Weiler; French—J.'V. O’Donnell; Spanish —Messrs. Creel, Gonzalez, J. Menja; Instrumental Music —Messrs. McErlaine, Sykes, Burke, Schott, Schaefer, Gerlach; Vocal Music—Messrs. Schaefer, Cleary, Garrity, J. Kelly, Mulkern, Arnold* Marcotte, Trepannier, Tinley. Murphy, Wilson, Coll, McIntyre, Larkin, Gallagher, Gibert; Telegraphy—Messrs. Cussen, Neeson, Berthelet, Shea, O’Rourke, Kerndt, Meyer; Phonography—Mes'srs. Christian, Louis -Cellaj McErlaine; Elocution—Messrs. Solon, Otis, Saviers, Conway, Spencer, D. Taylor, Browne, Coll, Steis, Farrell; Drawing—Messrs. Wabrauschek; H. Foote, Fehr,-Mason, Tinley, Saviers, Heffernan, C.' Mur-. dock* S. Murdock, Sykes.	-	‘	‘
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint fflary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Danie University.
—The names of those who drew for the badge are unavoidably crowded out this week. Miss Nellie Scott was the successful winner.
—On Friday morning, the Minims accompanied the Prefect of Studies to the apartments of Very Rev. Father General, at Notre Dame, and were invested by him with the badge of u Children of the Infant Jesus.” After the ceremony the subject of “ Gold Spoons” was broached, and' Father General gave one to these little girls, at the same time requesting them to vote for the best among them, who would be the one entitled to use the spoon for a month. Jessie English was proclaimed, in a confidential whisper, as the best Minim.
—“ How the brave who fell have triumphed now.”
These words come instinctively to the lips when we look at the superb buildings crowned by the grand statue, and call to mind one who, nine years ago, was President of the University. The rare virtues of the Rev. Father Augustus Lemonnier are praised by every tongue, wherever his cherished name is'known. St. Mary’s never found a friend more faithful or more true; nor is this a matter of surprise, since his entire energies were so fully enlisted in the cause of education that we may justly say he fell a martyr to his love for the cause; or, better still, that he lived with the one thought uppermost—“ How shall I best promote the advantage of the pupils under my charge?” The fine bronze statue of the Immaculate Conception which keeps guard over his treasured ashes is a fitting souvenir of filial affection, and a touching proof of the ardor with which his devotedness was returned. His memory is ever fresh and warm in the hearts of those who cease not to mourn his early death. • Requiescat. in ■pace.
■ —The teachers and pupils of St. Mary’s extend their most affectionate condolence to the bereaved family of Mrs. Charles Walsh, of Chicago, who died on Tuesday, the 23d ult. Four of her daughters, the Misses Josephine, Minnie, Ada-(Class ’77), and Lizzie Walsh, were beloved pupils of the Academy, and in view of the. more than ordinary devotedness which existed between the members of this large and amiable family, the keenest sentiments of sympathy are called forth at the loss of her who was the centre and the dearest object of their love. But in the midst of the profound sorrow which shroudsrthe afflicted household upon the; departure from this life* of. a.mother so truly estimable and worthy, many consolations remain. It has been the rare happiness of Mrs. Walsh to live long enough to see all her children grow to full matur-ity in the practice of their-faith, and in the exercise of those virtues which such practice presupposes; furthermore, she has seen two of her beautiful daughters, enter upon the secure and holy path of religious life, the first and last of the above-men
tioned having received the veil- in the Convent of the Ladies of the Sacred Heart, near St. Louis.
In Memoriam.
[Affectionately inscribed by the pupils of St. Mary’s to the bereaved family, and especially to the dear twin-sister, of Sister Marie della Presenta-zione, of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, who, on the 30th of June, 18S3, breathed her last in the most beautiful sentiments of Christian faith and fortitude, after an illness of six. years, during which period death was constantly expected. Through it all, from first to hist, this lovely child of Holy Cross retained the uninterrupted use of her mental powers, edifying everyone by her gentle patience and her lively faith.]
1.
Dear twin-spouses of the Lord of glory!
Speak of one, the other comes to view;
None may tell of one the touching* story, But their dual worth he must pursue.
But one grave, a bed of fairest blossoms, Since the July sun first warmed the-sod, Tells of tivo hearts in tw faithful bosoms, One on earth, and one at rest viith God.
if.
One still waiting in this vale of weeping,
“ Working hard for heaven,”* her double task: Hereby her twin-sister’s counsel keeping,
Blest to give whate’er such love may ask.
One in heaven, we trust—and trust securely-^ Freed by prayerful sacrifice and pain
Suffered for God’s love, and for His purely, Cleansed forevermore from earthly stain.
ur.
Gentle Sister Presentazione,
Crucifix and Vows upon thy breast!
Thou didst leave not loved ones sad and lonely, For the thought of thee, a heavenly guest, Like a summer shadow, follows, follows,
Whereso’er the mourner’s footstep falls— On the hillside,, or in blooming hollows,
In the happy home, or Convent halls.
IV.
All thy thrilling words of resignation, All the memory of thy life of pain, . Bring to us a tranquil exultation,
For they prove thy “faith teas not in vain" O the years of suffering! and the anguish
Of the wasting and the slow decay, When the inmost soul itself must languish •
As the lingering life-spark fades away! .	'v.	\ ‘	?
What were they to one who saw before her < God’s white harvest and the laborers few—
One who felt that, should Hiswvill restore her, -She might bind the golden sheaves anew! .
She might toil in fields of Education, Guiding youth-to Faith’s.celestial shrine,
* The.frequent advice-of Sister Presentazione. to. her twin-sister was,.“ Work, work hard for, heaven! Dq. what you do for God! ”
142
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Winning them to holy emulation In the narrow path of love divine!
vi.	.
Did she murmur? did she live bewailing Her sad lot, of strength and health bereft?
• No! ah, no! When every nerve was failing Thankful sighs arose that joy was'left,—
" Jov that, in her anguish and her weakness, Far from counting them as woe or loss, She could bless them, with submissive meekness, As the priceless jewels of her cross.
VII.
Was she idle? nay! Devotion lingers
• Near the Altar vesture where her faith
Traced its grandeur, through her tireless fingers
• Wrought, while o’er her hung the shades of death. Light of mystic brightness seems to tremble Round each clear and delicate design, While pure types of pious prayers assemble, ' - • Broidered in each graceful mesh and line.
VIII.	,
O bereaved one! f ’mid the tropic beauty Of thy far-off mission, high reward
' Of thy sacrifice and hers to duty	'
Comes to thee, to her, from our dear Lord! Free to join her, thou didst wait the union Thy .fidelity shall win at length, And the sevenfold tie of Faith’s communion This denial shall perfect in strength.
IX.
Brother, by the cares of life encumbered, -What a blissful lot to-day is thine!
With thy dear home-circle she is numbered, :	Round thy little ones her love shall twine.
Sister, J who to her was more a mother, Nobly now will she thy love repay!
Thou, too, true and cherished youngest brother. What a friend on high thou claim’st to-day!
Ah! twin-spouses of the Lord of glory! Speak of one, the other comes to view;
None may tell of one the touching story, But their dual worth he must pursue.
Ah! the dear departed may not sever
The strong bond that bound the twain of yore, Her twin-soul now feels her presence ever Aiding, guiding her, as years before.
f Sister M. Florentine, a sister by consanguinity as well as in Religion, for some years absent on a mission in Austin, Texas, relinquished the privilege of visiting her dying sister, by the mutual consent of each.
J Miss Olivia Tong, the eldest daughter of the family, and to whom all look up as to a mother.
*•	' ‘	”OU.’
Roll of Honor. . .	.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
• SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Adderly, Ashton, A.^Babcock, C-Babcock, Bruhn, Beal, Black, Call, Campbell, Carney, M. Cones, Dunne, Duffield, N. Danforth,' Dowling, Dungan, L. English, B. English, Feiidrichj Fitzpatrick, Fisk, Fo-
gerty, Allie Gordon, Ada Gordon,.Ginz, Gove, Gavan, Gage, Heneberry, Helpling, Heckard, .Hunt, Hale, Hack, Holt, B. Haney, Hetz, Hart, Keenan, Kearns, Kearney, Kearsey, King, Legnard, Lintner, Leahigh, Munger, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, Mohl, McCarthy, Neu, O’Connell, M. Priestman, L. Priestman, Papin, R. Platte, Quill, Reilly, Ryan, Rey-, nolds, Russell, Ramsey, Rosing, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sheekey, Sheridan, Scully, Schmaltz' Sear, L. Spotwood, Stackerl, Todd, Tynan, Vandebogart, Weckler, Williams, Wilson. 2d Tablet—Misses Allen, Cummings, Horn, Johnson, Keating,-Udall.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses. I. Allen, Best, Bailey, Barth, Cummings, Chaves, S- Campeau, Dillon, A. Duffield, Dodge, Clara Ducey, C. Ducey, Durlacher, A. English, Fehr, B. Halsey, Haney, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lucas, McEwen, Moshier, Metz, Naylor, Papin, Richmond, Regan, Roddin, Shephard, Schmidt, Scott, Stumer, Sheekey, Snowhook, Turpie, Wolvin. 2d Tablet—Misses Brown, M. Eldred,.Lord, Van Horn, Best, Otis, Wolvin.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.	.
ist Class—Misses M. Beal, J. Reilly.
2D Division—Miss M._ Cummings. *
' 2D Class—Misses A. Allen, Gove, Hunt, Neu.
2D Div.—Misses Bruhn, Keenan, Shephard.
3d Class—Misses Ginz, Hale. Classed—Miss Tynan,
2D Div.—Misses M. Adderly, Carney, Dillon, Keating, Mohl, Sheekey, Scully, Todd.
4TH Class—Misses Campbell, Evarts, L. English, K. Fehr, Horn, H; Jackson, Ramsey, Van Horn. *
2D Div.—Misses A. Babcock, Gavan, Morrison, A. Murphy, Sears, Snowhook.
5TH Class:—Misses Call, Castenado, Duffield, K. Ducey, Fitzpatrick. Holt, Lucas, Munger, Moshier, Malbceuf, M. Stackerl.
2D Div.—Misses Chaves, Dungan, Dunn, Danforth, Fisk, Hart, Keyes, Quill, Russell, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, Williams, Wilson, Wolver.
6tii Class—Misses Barry, B. English, Fogarty, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Hack, Hetz, Heneberry, Haney, E. Jackson, Kearney, Legnard, Lintner, M. Murphy, Otis, M. Priestman, Platte, L. Priestman, Regan, Roddin, Richmond, S. St. Clair, Schmidt.	•
2D Div.—Misses C. Babcock, Billings, Bailey, Brown, Cummings, A. English, Kearsey, Kearns, McCarthy, M. Mooney, O’Connell, Reynolds, Schmaltz, Sheekey, Stumer, Turpie, Weckler.	"
7th Class—Misses I. Allen, Best, Dodge, J. English, Helpling, S. Jackson, King, Leahigh, A. Ryan. Spotwood. Classed—Miss Gage.
8tii Class—Misses L. Johns, McEwen, Scott.
9TH Class—Misses M. Ducey, Metz, Schmauss.
■ ioth Class—Misses L. Chapin, M. Lindsey, M. Papin. Classed—Miss B. Murray.
,	HARP.
4TH Class—Miss M. Dillon.
2D Div.—Miss E. Neu.
7th Class—Misses D. Fitzpatrick, L. Priestman.
GUITAR.
Misses M. Beal, A. English.	.
.	. violin. .	.
Miss E. Carney.
•	, .. organ. .
Miss C. Sheridan. .	..	. .
r . 7"' VOCAL.DfePARTMENTf ‘
ist Class—Miss j. Reilly.
2D Class—Misses Bruhn, Hale,	. _	. .
. 3D Class—Misses Neu, B. English, Ginz, C. Babcock, M. Tynan. -	.
4TH Class—Misses M. Ducey, C. Ducey, M. Beal, A. English, H. Jackson, S. St. Clair, Castenado, F. Dungan, L. Sheekey, A. Allen.	.	•
5TH .Class—Misses Schmaltz, Leahigh.
General Class—Misses L. St. Clair, A.’Russell, Ida Allen, M. Chaves, N. Brown.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
143
The CENTURY
PROGRAMME for i883-’84.
The programme for the fourteenth year of this magazine, and the- third under the new name, is, if anything, more interesting and popular than ever. With every season, The Century shows a decided gain .in circulation. The new volume begins'with November, and, when possible, subscriptions should begin with that issue. The following are some of the features of the coming year:
A New Novel by George W. Cable, author of “ Old Creole Days,” etc., entitled “ Dr. Sevier,” a story of New Orleans life, the time being the eve of the late Civil War.
“ Life in the Thirteen Colonies/* by Edward Eggleston, separate illustrated papers on subjects connected with the early history of,this country.
Three Stories by Henry James, of varying lengths, to appear through the year.
The New Astronomy, untechnicai articles, by Prof. S. P. Langley, describing the most interesting of recent discoveries in the sun and stars.
A Novelette by H. H. Boyesen, author of “ Gunnar,” etc. A vivid and sparkling story.
The New Era in American Architec-ture, a series of papers descriptive of the best work of American architects in Public Buildings, City and Country Houses, etc. To be profusely illustrated.
A Novelette by Robert Grant, author of “Confessions of a Frivolous Girl,” etc., entitled-“ An Average Man,”—a story of New-York.
The Bread-winners, one of the most remarkable novels of the day, to be completed in January.
“ Christianity and Wealth,” with other essays, by the author of “ The Christian League of Connecticut,” etc., on the application of Christian morals to the present phases of modern life.
Coasting About the Gulf of St. Law-
rence, a series of entertaining articles profusely illustrated,
Scenes from the Novelists, Hawthorne.
George Eli >t, and Cable, with authentic drawings.
On the Track of Ulysses, the record of a yacht-cruise in the Mediterranean, identifying the route of Ulysses on his return from the Trojan war.
“Carfield in England,” extracts from his private journal kept during a trip to Europe in 1867.
“The Silverado Squatters,” by Robert Louis Stephenson, author of “ New Arabian Nights.”
There will be papers on outdoor England by John Bur-ROUGHS'and others, a beautifully illustrated series on Dante, a number of papers by the eminent French novelist Alphonse Daudet, articles on art and archaeology by Charles Dudley Warner and others, illustrated papers on sport and adventure, short stories by the leading writers, essays on timely subjects, etc., etc.
Subscription price, $4.00 a year; single numbers sold everywhere, at 35 cents each. All dealers receive subscriptions, or remittance may be made direct to the publishers by postal or express order, registered letter, bank check, or draft.
Special Offers.
To enable new subscribers to begin with the first volume under The Century’ name, we make, the following special offers :
Nezu .subscribers beginning -with November, 1883, may'ob' tain the magazine for one year from date, and the twenty four previous numbers, unbound, for S8.00. Regular price for tlie three years, S12.00.
’ Or, if preferred, a subscription and the twenty-four num-, bers bound in four elegant volumes will be furnished for- $10. Regular price, $18.
THE CENTURY CO., New York, N. Y.
THE LEADING MAGAZINE FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.
ST. NICHOLAS,
EDITED BY MRS. MARY MAPES DODGE.
The Nezu York Tribune once said: “In the avalanche of immoral literature that threatens the children, some strong, vitally wholesome, and really attractive magazine is required for them, and St. .Nicholas has reached a higher platform, and commands for this service wider resources in art and letters than any of its predecessors or contemporaries.” The reference to the wide resources in art and letters commanded by St. Nicholas was never more fully illustrated than by the extraordinary list of attractions which that magazine announces for 1S84. The following will be some of the leading contributors:
Louisa M. Alcott, J. T. Trowbridge,
Captain Mayne Reid, Hjalmar Hjorth Boyesen
Maurice Thompson, Frank R. Stockton, Charles Dudley Warner, Joaquin Miller,
Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, . Mrs. A.D;T. Whitney,
Julian Hawthorne, Celia Thaxter,
Mary Mapes Dodge, Lieut. Frederick Schwatka,
Rose Hawthorne Lathrop,. E. S. Brooks,
George W. Cable, . Chas. G- Leland, Susan Fenimore Cooper, John G. Whittier,
“ H. H.,” W. O. Stoddard, C.- P. Cranch, and scores of other distinguished writers. The best artists and engravers illustrate the magazine. It has been truly said that the reading of St. Nicholas is
"A LIBERAL EDUCATION”
for the the boys and girls who are fortunate enough to have it. In no other book or periodical is instruction so happily blended with recreation and amusement.
The price is $3.00 a year, or 25 cents a number. Booksellers, newsdealers, and postmasters receive subscriptions, or remittance may be made direct to the publishers, by money or express order, bank check, draft, or in registered letter.
THE CENTURY CO., New York, N. Y.
RicMSW
CIGARETTES
are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and hisrhcst cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the 01D and OriginalBrand of Straight Cut CiGARETTES.and was brought out bj- us in 1S75.
Richmond Gem Curly Cut II Caution.
tobacco. I The greatpopular-
The Brightest and Most Delicate Flavored Gold Leaf Grown. This tobacco is delightfully mild and fragrant. Absolutely without' adulteration or drugs, and can be inhaled with entire satisfaction without irri-tatins: the lungs, throat or mouth.
ity of this brand has caused certain parties to place on sale I base imitations; the
I public is cautioned I to observe that our I signature appears I on every package I of Genuine Rich-I mond Straight Cut I Cigarettes.
AHcn & Ginter, Manufacturers, Richmond, Va.
Also Manufacturers of
OPERA PUFFS, blTTLE BCAUTIES KICn-MOND GEM, Etc., CIGARETTOS^lICmiOND STRAIGHT CUT, TURKISH & PEIUQUE.MIXTURES, and OLD RIP LONG CUT TOBACCOS.-
144
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NEVIUS & CONKLIN,
ESTABLISHED AND RELIABLE
DENTISTS,
Cor. Michigan & Washington Sts.,
South Bend, Indiana,
employ the latest methods in treating Natural Teeth and Roots. Superior work and reasonable prices. Will visit Notre Dame each Thursday during the School Year.
G. F. NEVIUS.
F. G. CONKLIN, D. D. S.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University. •	V
Price, postpaid, -	$1.00
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
814 Ap.ch St, Philadelphia, Pa.
L. S. & H. S. Railway.
On and. after Sunday, May 27, 1S83, trains will leave South Bend,.as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32- a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8:00 p.m:
11.23 a-m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo,.3.55 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 245 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo,. 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3.55 a.m.
6.21 p.m-., Limited; Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.28 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo .Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.55 a.m. Pacific Express;. Arrives at Laporte, 5.50 a.m. Chicago, 8)20. a.m;
740 a.m Limited Express.; Arrives at Laporte, 8.20 a.m. Chicago, iO4O,a.m.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton,-.3;i5 p.m.;: Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 p.m.; Chicago, 8.00p.m.
F. C. RAFF,- Ticket Agt.’, South Bend.
J. W\ CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN,, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON,. Gen’l Pass. Agent,,Chicago.
P- P. WRIGHT;. Gen’l. Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL; Gen’F M’-ger; Cleveland.
ARNOLD-4 LAND VOIGT; (E. F: Arnold, class of ’78.) Attorneys-at-Law, 470 Louisiana Avenue, N W., Washington, D. 0. Practice in the District Courts, and Court of Claims, before the Executive Departments and Committees of Congress. Special attention given to Claims of all kinds, including Customs, Land Office Cases, and to securing Pensions.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction, in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is. parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S.'C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
Pacific, Junction, or by way of Omaha or Kansas City, or by way of St. Joseph and Atchison,
TO DENVER DIRECT
Connecting at above named points in Union Depots with-Through Trains for
SAN FRANCISCO
And all points in the Far West. It is the Great Through-Car Line of America, and finest equipped R.R. in the World for all classes of travel.
Through Tickets via this celebrated Line can be secured, at any R. R. Coupon-Ticket Office in the United States. Baggage checked through.
Ticket Offices, 59 Clark St., 47 Monroe St., Grand Pacific Hotel, 16th and CanalS.treets;.and at Depot. All Trains’ leave Chicago from Union Passenger Station, on’ Canaf St., between Madison and Adams Streets.
T. J. POTTER,' PERCEVAL LOWELL,.
Vice-Pres, and Gen’l Mgr.	.Gen’l Pass..Agt.-
Cor.-Adams-.and FranklinStreets;. Chicago.