"WILL IT RAIN TONIGHT?"
... everyone wants to know, but military and air-line pilots must know and know promptly!
To help transmit this information, the Bell System maintains the largest facsimile transmission system in the world . . . a network nearly 20,000 miles long.
Over these wires the United States Air Force, in cooperation with the United States Weather Bureau and other government agencies, is able to send up-to-the-
minute weather charts and maps to many points simultaneously. Each receives a faithful reproduction of the originals. The chance for error is eliminated, valuable time is saved.
This network is a part of America’s vast communications system—the finest in the world. The job of maintaining and improving this system, of keeping the cost of telephone service as low as possible, never ends.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
The" Scholastic
Letters
Spoiled Little Boys
Dear Editor-:
What is the matter with the Notre Dame student body?
Never in my life have I witnessed such an exhibition of unsportsmanlike conduct as went on Tuesday night during our game with DePaul University. Sure, we’re great winners — probably because most of us have become accustomed to winning. As a result, we have inherited that Irish spirit, so famous to people in all parts of the world, so traditional to us here at Notre Dame.
But that spirit leaves the minute we lose a game. As soon as things don’t go so well for the students here, there is a reversal of form. No longer are we that wonderful student body you always hear so much about, but instead we are changed to a taunting, booing, rowdy gang of spoiled little boys who can’t have their way.
All semblance of sportsmanship is lost when “funny” remarks and arrogant statements are hurled at a player on the opposing team, lying in the middle of the court, injured, and obviously in great pain.
“Cut off his leg!” or “You’re next, Allen,” are only some of the mild sentiments expressed by the “intelligentsia,” those individuals who go under the name of the Notre Dame student body. When these same persons actually boo a member of their own team, then it’s time to do something about it.
If we continue along these lines, our famous heritage will be lost, and Notre Dame will just be another university.
Let’s think about it.
Bill Flynn, Morrissey Hall
See editorial page.—Editor
SCHOLASTIC STAFF MEETING
There will be a general meeting for all SCHOLASTIC staff members in the Law Auditorium at 7:15 p.m. on Thursday. Feb. 3. All writers on the news, sports and feature staffs are requested to attend this meeting. There will be no assignment meetings in that week. Any new men interested in working on the SCHOLASTIC are also invited to attend this meeting.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
Announces a
Store-wide Clearance
of Superior Quality
Suits-Topcoats Overcoats
OUR FAMOUS Mt ROCK COAT INCLUDED
/
50 to 60	SUITS & COATS $37.50
65 to 70 SUITS & COATS $47.50
75 to 80 SUITS & COATS $57.50
85 to ioo SUITS & COATS $67.50
Included are personally selected finest quality worsteds, sharkskins, gabardines, flannels and imported tweeds; all sizes including regulars, shorts, stouts, longs.
ALL SPORTS COATS —HALF PRICE
ALSO TUXES and TAILS — RENTALS
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115^-117/2 N. MAIN S. (Second Floor} SOUTH BEND
Ian. 21. 1949
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
ana ave.). Two bands, culled from the cream of umm-pa-pa cacophony, will polkafy such tunes as the “Warsaw Concerto” and “Slow Boat to Minsk” while the patrons whirl at 550 rpm’s. We suggest all sociology majors take in the hubbub and try to determine whether this is the long-awaited disintegration of democracy or just an ethnic group sharpening its reflexes. .
Somebody with drag around here should hire an efficiency expert, or any available Riley senior, to set up these exam schedules. Presently there’s only one way of getting the finals over with as early as next Tuesday. To do that, you must possess an 8, 1:15, and 4:15 Monday in combination with an 8, 1:15, and 4:15 Tuesday. Like holding the four aces, both bowers, and little caboose in railroad euchre.
Ray Driscoll, a Hollywood fashion designer of some note, put his head on the block this week and announced his list of the “worst dressed” people of 1948. Worstest of them all was Marg Truman who, Ray intoned, was “so overdressed she resembled a procession.” Also on the Garb Gutter Parade were such notables as Fred Allen, Her Highness Princess Elizabeth and Lucious Beebe. A review of the sartorial attire
sported on Michigan avenue this week convinced us a few Notre Dame men were also out of step with the Esquires, Max Adlers, and Sammy Spiros. Foregoing the possibility of an early swim in the St. Joe, we herewith offer our list of the worst dressed ND men: Frank Parise (like a symphony in a phone booth); Ted Budynkiewicz (the cap is as inappropriate as a canopy over Mt. Everest); Bull Smullen (a walking war surplus store); Bill Sherman (the allpurpose monogram sweater — loafer, topcoat, and shower robe); Walt Garrity (our best argument for aid to China); and Jack “Soup” Campbell (pink shirts, green slacks, and black eyes).
' Tomorrow night the battle for the polka championship of the world kicks into high gear once more down at garlicky German Hall (Prairie and Indi-
Campus flicker fans will get a chance to see some of the best films produced in Hollywood’s golden past when the Department of Journalism starts showing its film classics next semester. Part of the fare: “Duck Soup” with the whoops-a-daisy Marx Brothers; “The Informer” with cleaver-clawed Vic McLaglen; and “Top Hat,” the Rogers-Astaire dance delight. Get those season tickets while the gittin’s good. Just mail one buck, with name and address, to the Department of Journalism, Main Building. (Advertisement)
Sporting News gave Steve Oracko the tongue-out-of-cheek toga this week for confidence under fire. The mag reported that when Frank Leahy gave Steve the nod to go in there and do something about that 13-14 score in the USC game, Stephen Francis retorted: “Be right back, Frankie!”
OUR GREATEST JANUARY SALE!
Men’s Sport Shirts
Values to 5.00
2.88
Values to 8.50
4.88
Reduced from our regular stock of nationally known makes. All styles, colors and materials included. Two big groups to choose from . . . reduced to 2.88 and 4.88. Stock up now!
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER:
JAMES P. GRUBER
219 BREEN-PHILLIPS HALL
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic
'11k /IoIk
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 January 21, 1949 No. 14
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate ol postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor
JOSEPH A. DOYLE
Associate Editors
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON
KENNETH A. THOREN__________________News
VICTOR DORR—_____________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN______________Features
HARRY MONAHAN____________---------Sports RALPH H. WRIGHT._________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER______________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN________________Librarian
L. A. KYSER Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE----------Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK_______________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL----------Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN.______Faculty Moderator
the Zdlid&i'l ^beAk
Vacation Memo
There’s a good-sized vacation coming up after the finals end next Thursday (or whenever the schedule happens to let you out). Most Notre Darners will probably go home over the long week end. For them we have a reminder: don’t forget your Student Relief books. A little effort should clean them out in a hurry — anybody can use a Chrysler. If the Plymouth isn’t enough incentive for turning in your quota, just remember the college students in Europe — they need our help.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for. national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Everything but snow.
That olden cliche that goes, “If you don’t like the weather, wait a minute,” certainly applies in Indiana. The raffish climate has given us a sort of a la carte winter with no snow. Suspecting that some of the new boys would like to see how the old place looks under-snow instead of under water, we re-
spectfully submit this week’s cover. Profuse apologies are in order to the following: to the old-time Notre Darners of ’08 who still careen about the campus and mutter- about things not being as deep or as cold as they were in the good old days; and to the lads from Wyoming, Nebraska et al who just dug themselves out of several feet of the stuff.
—Photo by Kunkle
Old Business at Semester-End
This being the end of the semester we’re clearing up a flock of odds and ends in this issue — starting with a sort of catch-all editorial. . . . Among other things we haven’t got around to yet are several letters-to-the-editor that need answering. Pat Stanton of Howard hall suggests Scholastic start an etiquette column. Probably wouldn’t be a bad idea, but we don’t have space for it, Pat. Besides, nobody on the staff knows anything about etiquette. . . . Jack McHale of Cavanaugh wants a longer Thanksgiving vacation next year. So do we, but the slack would have to be taken up somewhere else — maybe in June. . . . Dalton O’Sullivan of Dillon and Dr. Francis of the Department of Sociology, inquired about the phone directory situation. Seems things are getting a little fouled up on the local wires. As far as we’ve been able to learn, no new phone book will be issued next semester, so you’ll have to keep dialing the operator. . . . There will be a student directory next semester, though, for them as wants it. . . . Dr. Francis also urged us to widen the scope of the magazine and run a few serious articles on various general subjects. Well, we had some on the elections last fall, Doctor, and we’re planning a few more for next semester. Our aim is to inject as much variety into the magazine as we can. . . . Bill Anhut of Morrissey would have Scholastic start a campaign for that ever-fading Michigan game. Wouldn’t accomplish anything, Bill. When Michigan authorities ignore a petition from their own student body, they’ll pay no heed to hollering from Notre Dame. If the Wolves had only four games on their schedule and a chorus of angels was pleading for a match with the Irish, Fritz would still turn his back. . . . Bill Flynn contributes a cogent letter this week on student conduct at basketball games. Might be a good idea for the more slobbish minority to stay away if it can’t behave like grown-ups at the cage contests. . . .We had another angry letter on the subject before the Christmas vacation, but it was much too long to print — which brings up another bit of advice: keep your letters short and to the point. We don’t have space for two-page jobs. . . .
A few bouquets are in order at the semester-end. To the Sophomore Class for picking up the Mardi Gras dance after the Rebels dropped it. To the engineers for reviving the Engineers Ball and for starting work on their own quarterly magazine, which they hope will make its debut next semester. To all the self-sacrificing people working on the Student Relief Campaign. To Father Gene Burke for a better-than-average film diet in Washington Hall.
And finally, an explanation for this, the second 20-page issue of the semester. We held it down this week to give the editors a chance to f,., study for the finals. . . . They’ll flunk all of them anyway.
Tan. 21, 1949
5
University of Notre Dame du Lac
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1948
Income and Expense
Income from:	
Student Fees 				..$4,810,020.79
General Endowment and Scholarships	 U. S. Government Reimbursement for	. 100,653.17
Research and Services		. 341,218.53
Funds Applied to Current Restricted Expenditures:	
For Research from Industrial Sources	 For Fellowships, Awards, etc.,	.	69,479.29
from Private Sources		.	65,664.49
Financial Income and Miscellaneous		. 200,875.53
$5,587,911.80
Net Income, Auxiliary Departments:
, Athletic __________________________________________$ 185,466.71
Book Store 55,491.43
Other 9,797.04
Net Income from Auxiliary Departments_______$ 250,755.18
Total Income_________________________$5,838,666.98
Operating Expenses:
College of Arts and Letters$1,076,409.46
College of Science----------------------- 972,887.07
College of Engineering___________________ 679,947.37
College of Commerce 283,521.45
College of Law 124,964.16
R. O. T. C. Courses_______________________ 25,525.61
Student Activities and Publications______ 174,285.13
Residence Halls  647,309.28
Dining Halls--------------------------- 1,497,612.78
Student Service Departments______________ 276,678.43
Scholarships and Fellowships 117,662.65
Balance Sheet
ASSETS
Current ---------------------------------------------$ 5,337,160.69
Accounts Receivable — Stadium Boxes---------------------- 20,379.00
Prepaid Expenses and Deferred Charges 	53,407.38
Other Assets 	5,225.13
Buildings and Equipment______________________________ 10,180,239.78
Fund Assets:
Restricted with University ....$1,639,204.21
Board of Lay Trustees_______ 5,748,728.25
Student Loan Funds----------	15,285.69	7,403,218.15
TOTAL ____________________________________.$22,999,630.13
LIABILITIES
Current ____________________________________________$ 2,799316.44
Deferred Income (Advance Stadium Sales) ____________ 56,021.32
Surplus -------------------------------------------- 12,741,074.22
Fund Accountabilities:
Restricted with University ....$1,639,204.21
Board of Lay Trustees.....^—	5,748,728.25
Student Loan Funds----------	15,285.69	7,403,218.15
TOTAL -----------------------------------.$22,999,630.13
Total Operating Expenses___________________$5,876,803.39
NET LOSS$ 38,136.41
CONTRIBUTED FUNDS
Gifts --------------------------$547,004.41
Unrestricted	$275,816.24
Restricted 271,188.17
Current Restricted Expenditures_ 135,143.78
NOTES: .a) The expenses of the religious - members for the year are included m expense as salaries of religious enmioyees.
b) Depredation, on buildings and' equipment*has been prorated to the various departments as an expense.
NOTE: $7,403,218.15 FUND ASSETS and FUND ACCOUNTABILITIES does not include $532,485.30—Unrestricted Contributed Funds, of which $350,000 has subsequently been designated for Science Building Fund.
As reported in the Income and Expense Statement the University had a net loss from operations amounting to $38,136.41, or a little over ^2% °f	total operating expense, which included an increased expenditure resulting from the expansion of the Graduate School and allo-
cation of the partial expense resulting from the erection of Farley Hall. In the interest of avoiding lengthy detail, we have presented net income from die many auxiliary departments.
In analyzing its position relative to die proposed Science Building in 1949 it was found that the University could contribute $350,000 of unrestricted contributions to Notre Dame in 1946 and 1947, towards the $1,750,000 estimated cost of die Science Building. Therefore, $1,400,000 is still needed from alumni and friends in 1949.
■ (Reprinted from the January Issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus)
6
The Scholastic
Naito
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 * Number 14 JANUARY 21,1949
January Seniors Plan Rose Buds and Snow
Commencement week end will begin next Friday night amid grinning snowmen and spring-like rose buds for some 300 of the 450 January Graduates.
“June in January” will keynote the mid-term Senior Ball—first in Notre Dame history—and will provide a consummate introduction to the 104th annual commencement Sunday afternoon.
Scene of the Ball is the East Dining Hall. Reigning maestro will be freshman Gene Hull, whose sweet-toned campus orchestra won long ovations at Victory Dances this fall.
Dance chairman John Fogarty, of St. Paul, Minn., announced this week that his date, and Queen of the Ball, will be Miss Marie Campbell, of Springfield, Mass. Miss Campbell, dark-haired and bright-eyed, is an. honor graduate of Springfield Hospital School of Nursing.
The “June in January” dance motif, as interpreted by decoration chairmen Tom Barber and Pat Gallagher, will find the interior walls of the East Wing screened by trellises of rose buds standing in artificial snow, all to be enhanced by colored lighting.
Dance programs will be embossed in gold with Notre Dame’s dome in the upper left-hand corner and the dance theme of “June in January” lettered in blue.
Bids are being sold at a surprisingly low $3.60 during noon hour in the basement of the Dining Hall. They may also be had at the rooms of hall representatives.
Chairman Fogarty announces that the guests will include: Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Ass’t. Dean Edmund E. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. LeClair H. Eells, Dr. and Mrs. Raymond E. Kent. Mr. and Mrs. C. Robert Egry, Mr. Paul I. Fenlon, Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Ball, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas T. Murphy, Mr. William E. Slowey, and Mr. George A. Strong.
Committee heads for the Ball are: tickets, Dick Hamilton; publicity, Joe O’Brien; reservations, Norm Gardner; business manager, Bob Brown; orchestra, Charley Roult; program, Tom Healy; and decorations, Tom Barber and Pat Gallagher. —Jim Kingsley.
Student Council Film Showings to Include Great Irish Gridiron and Cage Triumphs
Great sports films of special Notre Dame interest will be flashed every Thursday at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, starting February 10 and running through May 19.
The chief collaborators were Pete
MISS MABIE CAMPBELL Queen of the Ball
Gorman
JOHN FOGABTY The Queen's King
Brown and the Student Council who made the arrangements for the 16 mm. films and the services of cameraman Bill Bradley.
Elmer Layden’s top football crew of 1938 are shown in action along with Frank Leahy’s national single-wingers in 1941 and his top ranking T-formation outfit of 1946.
Basketball highlights of last season — the Irish triumphs over Kentucky and New York University will also he presented.
The complete program:
Feb. 10—Highlights of 1948 season.
Feb. 17—Michigan game—1943. Ber-telli-Miller vs. Daley-Hirsch.
Feb. 24—N.Y.U. basketball game. Garden fans see N.Y.U. streak stopped at 21.
March 3—Ohio State—1935. Greatest football comeback in history.
March 10—Army—1944. Blanchard and Davis run wild. Cadets 59, ND 0.
March 17—Sugar Bowl. Leahy’s Boston Collegers with Chuckin’ Charley O’Rourke, win over Tennessee.
March 24—Iowa—1939. Nile Kinnick and iron men beat Irish.
March 31—Kentucky basketball game. Old Gym scene of stunning upset of Ruppmen.
April 7—Great Lakes—1943. Lach and Sitko lead Sailor last-minute job in 19-14 Irish upset.
April 21—Army—1946. 0-0 stalemate viewed by frustrated students from field stands.
April 28—Minnesota—1938. Steve Juz-wik sparks Irish in 19-0 upset against Big Ten champs.
May 12—Illinois—1941. Last team to use Rockne system at ND ends with unbeaten season. Irish fair 49-14.
May 19—Pittsburgh—1936. Goldberg, Chickernio, Stebbins, and Cassiano romp, as dream team chalks up 26-0 win against ND.
HELP WANTED
January graduates: H you have an apartment available after graduation. call me. I'm desperate! 5-22*1
Jan. 21, 1949
CHAIRMEN PAT GALLAGHER AND PHIL FINNEGAN
Damnyankees plan northern Mardi Gras — Photo by Bruce Harlan
Ambitious Sophs Pick Up Mardi Gras Dance;
Freshmen to Be Included in Party—Feb. 25
Grass is one thing that the ambitious sophomores do not let grow under their sprightly feet. After the Rebels relinquished their claim on the annual Mardi Gras dance date, and the Student Council magnanimously offered it to the second year class, the sophs snapped it up like a hungry lion.
Tom Logan, class president, set the wheels in motion almost immediately. Pat Gallagher and Phil Finnegan were named co-chairman of the pre-Lenten dance. The festive party, fashioned along the lines of the world renowned N’Orleans celebration, will be held on Friday night, Feb. 25 in the Palais Royals from 9:30 to 1 a.m. The price has not been officially levied as yet, but the co-chairmen promise that it will be within the moderate bracket.
Tickets will go on campus-wide sale during the second week of February. The men of Morrissey and Lyons are now angling for a band. It will be selected more for its danceable rhythms than foi* a highly publicized name.
Plans for the selection of a Mai di Gras queen are being guarded with atom-like secrecy. In summing up the pending gala affair, Prexy Logan said, “We will run the dance along the line of the successful Rebel Mardi Gras. This is not to be a segmented class project,
but rather a dance for the entire student body. The Sophomore Class will serve as the host and we want everyone, including freshmen, to be our guests.”
Irish Debate Squad Meets Loyola, Mundelein, Bradley
Notre Dame’s debate team traveled to Chicago for matches with Mundelein College and Loyola University, and also to Peoria to meet Bradley University, last week.
In the Loyola debate, the decision was awarded to Notre Dame’s affirmative team, consisting of Ed Goerner and Frank Haendler. After speaking at Mundelein, Bill Dempsey and Austin Hogan went to Peoria for the debate with Bradley. These contests were nondecision.
Frank ’Finn and Bill Carey represented Notre Dame on a two-day jaunt to Pittsburgh, Jan. 8-9. They debated teams from Duquesne, Carnegie Tech, St. Vincent’s and Pittsburgh.
Earlier the University of Illinois, Chicago division, came to Notre Dame for a non-decision exhibition. Bill Rich and Frank Haendler, defending the affirmative, and Ed Waters and Kenyon Snyder, arguing negative, composed the Notre Dame teams.
N.D. Theater Presents One Act Play Series
Future plans for the University Theatre were recently announced by Producer* William J. Eisen of the Department of Speech. The drama group’s first presentation will be a series of three one-act plays given on March 14 and 15. This is the first time that three short plays in series have been available for student entertainment.
The trio of works slated for this series are: The Rising of the Moon by Lady Gregory, Dust of the Road by Kenneth Sawyer Goodman, and Monsignor’s Hour by Emmet Lavery. Director for these plays will be Mr. Francis J. Hanley of the Department of Art. Try-out and rehearsal dates will be announced next semester.
These will be the first productions under Mr. Hanley as director for a University Theatre Production. Beginning his extensive training and experience in drama at Fordham University, Mr. Hanley performed with the road company of The Magnificent Yankee during the 1946-47 season. He has served as actor and director for the Presbyterian Players of South Bend, and is a member of The Catholic Theatre Guild of St. Joseph Valley. Last November he directed Guest in the House for the Turner Theatre of South Bend and is currently directing Arsenic and Old Lace for a drama group in Dowagiac, Mich.
After the Easter vacation the University Theatre has tentatively scheduled the performance of a student musical. Work is under way on this production and definite plans are forthcoming.
On May 8, 9, 10, and 11 the dramatists will stage either Command Decision by William W. Haines or Angel Street by Patrick Hamilton. The road tour of Command Decision has been completed and the movie is being released but performance rights have yet to be received by the University Theatre.
—John H. Janowski.
THE "WILDCAT" GETS AROUND
Remember the fake wildcat that glared from the cover of the mag. the week-end of the Northwestern game? He gets around.
•Now he shows up in the victory edition of the Holy Trinity High School (Chicago) GOLD AND BLUE, not as a wildcat, which he isn't but as either a tiger, which he isn't or a lion, which he is. This special edition celebrated the basketball victory of the Trinity Tigers over the Leo Lions. Where will triple-lived "Baby" show up next?
The Scholastic

8
New, Temporary Quarters Being Completed For Rapidly Expanding Geology Department
By DAN BRENNAN
Construction of new, temporary quarters for the rapidly growing department of Geology is now under way, Mr. Archie J. MacAlpin, Ph.D., head of the department, announced recently. Partitions especially fabricated by Johns Manville are being installed in the south wing of the Main Building on the third floor.
In the 4800 square feet of floor space will be four offices for faculty members, two classrooms, a general geology lab, a mineralogy lab, a library, a map room, and a dark room. Dr. MacAlpin said that he hopes to have the department installed in its new quarters before the end of this semester.
DR. MacALPIN Thomas Helped
As the faculty members quickly express pleasure for all that the University has done, they nevertheless, wait almost wistfully for the completion of the proposed Science Building when really adequate space will be made available. To justify the University’s faith and consideration for the new department they point out that already, in less than one semester’s existence as a department, it has more majoring students than many other older’ departments of the University. At the beginning of the semester there were only six students listed as majors, but on last Friday the count had reached a total of 34, with more coming in nearly every day.
Dr. MacAlpin has christened the fledgling department “The Saint Thomas Geology Department” in honor of the great Dominican. Dr. MacAlpin, a convert, has
a great faith in Thomas and points out that the growth of the department has proceeded with his prayers.
Four To Be Awarded Honorary Doctorates
Four honorary degrees will be conferred upon prominent guests at the University’s mid-year commencement exercises on Jan. 30 in the Drill Hall.
According to an announcement last week from the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., honorary degrees of Doctor of Law will be awarded to the Most Rev. John K. Mussio, Bishop of Steubenville, 0., who will deliver the Baccalaureate address; the Mayor of Toledo, 0., the Honorable Michael V. DiSalle, who will give the commencement address; Joseph A. LaFortune, Tulsa, Okla., oil executive and a member of the Notre Dame Associate Board of Lay Trustees; and Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, president of the Investment firm of Cooper, Kanaley and Co., on Chicago, and also a lay trustee.
Bishop Mussio, who received a master’s degree from Notre Dame in 1925, was installed as first bishop of Steubenville in 1945, after holding several high ecclesiastical posts in Cincinnati.
Mayor DiSalle is best known for his inauguration of the famous “Toledo Plan for Industrial Peace,” under which numerous labor-management disputes have been settled peaceably by arbitration.
A native of South Bend, Mr. La-Fortune attended a special course in advertising and commerce at the University in 1915 and 1916. Since 1929, he he has held the position of vice-president of the Warren Petroleum Company.
Mr. Kanaley is a past president of the Notre Dame National Alumni Association. He is a member of the executive committees of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago, and the F. J. Lewis Fund for Tuberculous Poor.
CREDIT UNES
SCHOLASTIC missed some photo credits last week. The library girls’ pictures were taken by Munger and Brogan, the Pennsylvania basketball game by Kunkle, and the St. Mary's basketball shot by the San Francisco News from International News Photos.
Sir Francis
Frank Leahy, head football coach and director of athletics at Notre Dame, received one of the highest papal honors Monday night when he was inducted into the American Chapter of the Knights of Malta in ceremonies at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel.
Mr. Leahy is believed to be the first person in the field of athletics ever made a Papal Knight by His Holiness, Pope Pius XII. The honor was conferred on the Notre Dame coach by His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman, Archbishop of New York.
The Knights of Malta is the oldest order of laymen and prelates in the Catholic Church. Founded in the middle of the eleventh century, knighthood in the order is conferred by the Holy See on Catholic laymen who have "in an outstanding manner furthered the well-being of the Church, the Holy See and Society."
Second Semester Welcomes 300 New Students to Campus
With the first semester of the 1948-49 school year rapidly approaching completion, the office of the registrar announces that some-300 new students will enroll for the second semester, many of them transferees.
This influx of new students is made possible by the vacancy which will be brought about by the departure of the 450 January graduates and also a number of undergraduates who will leave the University prior to the second semester. The number of students leaving Notre Dame in January can not be approximated until tabulations have been taken of the registration figures. Registration for the second term takes place on Feb. 1 and 2.
Jan. 21, 1949
9
Drill Hall Plans Cause Carnival Set-Back
Biggest item on the relief drive docket this week was the change of date in the Mardi Gras carnival. Formerly scheduled for a two-night stand February 28 through March 1, the gala Mardi Gras festivities have been set back to open Tuesday, March 1, continuing through Wednesday, March 2. The change, it was learned, was made in compliance with a request by the University ‘which has other plans for the Drill Hall on the night of February 28.
Aside from that, John Moorhead, the Mardi Gras chairman, said the preparations will proceed according to plan. The grand prizes — the Chrysler New Yorker and the 1948 Plymouth convertible will be awarded at the height of the second night’s activities on March 2, however, instead of March 1 as originally scheduled.
Earlier in the week an official announcement was made concerning the distribution of proceeds from the Mardi Gras booths and automobile donation books. As in the past, the Foreign Student Relief campaign will receive the bulk of the profits, but in addition one of Notre Dame’s local charities will reap financial benefit this year. The Veterans’ Maternity Fund, recently formed by an enterprising Vetville aggregation, will be allowed to conduct two booths in the Drill Hall and all such proceeds will be retained therein. All other profits from the carnival and the car drive will go to National Student Relief.
Returns from the sale of the automobile donation books were coming in nicely last week, according to Ed Donohue, donations chairman.
ATTENTION. SENIORS
Attention, all January, June and August graduates!
•
Please turn your senior portrait proofs in at Bagby's Studio before Saturday, February 5. Your cooperation will be greatly appreciated by the DOME staff. There were 1295 portraits taken during the six-week period, which is believed to be the largest number of graduating seniors in the history of the school.
There are also a number of 1948 DOMES on hand at the publications office which have been paid for by the students but not picked up. If you have not yet picked up your book, please do so now.
Editor, The DOME
SWABBIES AND BIRDMEN HOLD MILITARY BALL —The barn-like Navy Drill Hall was festooned with gay streamers and crammed with gay RO's at the annual Naval Ball held last Saturday night. Landlubber Bill Cullen and his poop deck orchestra provided the music. Naval pride was swallowed and the birdmen from the air corps were invited over for the evening. The highly enjoyable "Night at Trader Vic's" was sponsored by the NROTC. Middies Lou Lorou and Ed Meagher served as co-chairmen.—Photo by Gorman
Glee Club to Depart for Southern Concert
Forty-one members of the “best Glee Club in the history of Notre Dame” will leave the circle at noon on Thursday. Jan. 27, on busses bound ultimately for Miami, Florida. This will be the start of a concert tour of the “deep south” which will last almost a week and a half.
The schedule for the forthcoming trip, as planned by Daniel H. Pedtke, director of the Glee Club, and Roy 0 ’Neil, the organization’s secretary and featured baritone, finds the Glee Club giving its first concert on Friday night, Jan. 28 in Greenville, Miss. The next night will see them in Birmingham, Ala., and from there the group will motor to St. Augustine, Fla., where the mayor of that city, himself an alumnus of the University, will present the entire group with the key to the city and an open coach procession through town.
The following night, Monday, will bring the Glee Club to Tampa, Fla., where they will give another concert and next day their final destination, Miami, will be reached. The group will sing on their first night in Miami, following with an open date on Wednesday, and finish
ing off their formal activities with a concert in that city on Thursday night at the Bay Front Auditorium.
On Friday, Feb. 4, a beach party, dinner dance and informal concert at Barry College of Miami has been planned. Other entertainment to be provided during the five-day stay in the famous Florida city includes several dances and some deep-sea fishing. The Miami Naval Base has offered to turn over a barracks to the troupe for sleeping purposes. The entire length of the stay in Miami will be four nights and five days. Saturday will find the Glee Club aboard the busses, heading north once again, but stops have been tentatively arranged at Marineland and Silver Springs, both in Florida.
This is the first time any campus organization from Notre Dame has ever travelled professionally to Florida. The Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., has accepted a Glee Club offer to accompany the group on their tour. Although the actual date has not yet been revealed, the group is expected to return to the Campus sometime in the week of Feb. 6. —Walt Collins
10
The Scholastic
SEMEfTEK NO. 1
Eager and Others Mark a Half-Year at ND
By GREG HALPIN
A semester at Notre Dame is a period of intense, and sometimes chaotic, activity. This fall semester of 1948-49 being no exception, the Scholastic puts it dozvn on a zveek-to-zveek, issue-to-isszie basis foz’ the generations to come.
September 24 — The wheels started rolling again in the ND machine and 1200 freshmen headlined the biggest enrollment in the school’s history. . . . YCS and Blue Circle hit the new frosh with an orientation program which included tours of campus, movies, lectures and a climactic get-together in the field house.
Returning students were greeted by a glittering Dome, in the process of being regilded and prospects of watching a gory battle in the Stadium as the Irish opened against Purdue.
October 1—The Purdue game was a thing of history but still being talked about. There were reports Steve Oracko’s toe was to be amputated, dipped in bronze and placed in the trophy case at the Rock. . . . Students settled down to a more comforting Saturday by their radios and the game with Pitt.
No More P.D.
The Student Relief Committee and the Student Council got together and started making plans for the Student Trip to Washington. . . . Father Cavanaugh, Notre Dame’s president, announced that there was no longer a Prefect of Discipline ... in his place there was now an Office of Student Welfare. . . . Students reading of its functions in the Scholastic figured things would be just about the same. . . .
October 8—Student Council reorganized and initiated hall elections. . . . University Theater promised bigger and better things and started making plans for The Milky Way. . . . Professor Richard Sullivan published his fourth and best received novel First Citizen. . . . Navy Trip tickets went on sale. . . . Notre Dame, having disposed of Pittsburgh, prepared for the invasion by Michigan State. . . .
October 15—Jack Dempsey was named Student Relief Chairman for the campus drive. . . . The Glee Club got together with the same group from Saint Mary’s for a mediaeval mystery play. . . . The YCS Engineers held a Town Hall Election meeting. . . . “Eager of Notre
Dame,” from the pen of ND student Pat Weishapl, dashed his way onto the pages of the South Bend Tribune. . . . The Irish, after a few weak moments, rode over a clever, hard working Michigan State squad and headed West for a date with Nebraska.
October 22—The Student Relief Committee announced with much pride that “Larry Clinton will be there Oct. 30,” thus ending campuswide speculation on the meaning of the tease posters’ cryptic message “LCWBT 30 . . . and you?” . . . The Seniors announced they would have a graduation in January and exams were pushed up two days. . . . ND-St. Mary’s frosh met for a “gala” picnic__ the elections were a major topic for discussion as was the Iowa game coming up that Saturday (Leahy and Co. had already disposed of Nebraska.)
October 29—The Student Trip shoved off from the siding at 5:15. Destination —Baltimore, Washington, the Navy and Larry Clinton. . . . The Sophomores announced that Elliott Lawrence would be their music maker at the Cotillion. . . . The campus went for Mr. Dewey by an 8-5 count and sat back with supreme confidence to await the results. . . . Moose Fischer and contemporaries had had a little trouble with a scrappy Hawkeye eleven but won going away and were working out in the main ballroom of the Lord Baltimore Hotel awaiting the morrow’s battle with the Navy. . . .
Hairy Shows 'Em
November 5—The Scholastic headline read, “ND and the Nation Go Wild About Harry” and that was the story of the week. . . . The Navy team, less successful than the fair-haired boy from Missouri, buckled under a tremendous ND ground and air attack. . . .
November 12—The big game with Northwestern was coming up and the campus was ready with a startling collection of decorations. . . . The Irish swamped Indiana the week before but were riddled with injuries . . . nothing else was going on around here and nothing else seemed to matter. . . .
November 19 — The Student Relief Drive was ready to start. . . . The annual law ball was held at the Indiana Club. . . . Cavanaugh and Dillon battled for the interhall crown.... The Kampus Keglers began another long season. . . .
The Cotillion bids were going fast....
November 26—The Scholastic took an issue off to digest their turkey. . . . The Sophs had their Cotillion. . . .
December 3—Clare Booth Luce and the Student Relief books were coming to town. . . . WND, already an afternoon feature, announced a Sunday schedule. . . . Father Doheny of the College of Law was called to Rome. . . . The ND basketball team prepped for its opener against Illinois. . . .
Southern Cal-amity
December 10—The Natural Law Institute met, ND lost its basketball opener, Clare Booth Luce dazzled a Drill Hall audience and BLACK SATURDAY had struck — ND squeezed a tie out of Southern California. Steve Oracko and his immortal toe booted the fourteenth point into football history. The Irish finished another undefeated season and Mr. Leahy took the family to Hawaii. —
December 17—Vacation was on the minds of everyone and, in three days everyone was on vacation. . . . Notre Dame chemists had found a possible antibody to the RH blood factor.... The ND basketball team was getting ready for a Western swing. .. .
January 14 — Exams were staring everyone in the face . . . seniors were getting ready for their ball in the chow hall . . . and to this semester, as to all semesters, death came at 12:01 January 28. . . .
STEVE ORACKO His Golden Toe Made the Difference
Ian. 21, 1949
II
Slipstickers Set Site For Revived Soiree
Leaving slipsticks and trig tables behind them ND engineers will journey to the Drill Hall for the revival of the Engineers Ball Feb. 11.
Freshmen are eligible to attend the Ball and the Saturday night hop.
The Ball, which is a revival of an old tradition that died out during the war, is to be held Feb. 11. Earlier plans had the dance located at the Palais Royale but a last-minute change of schedule prevented this. The Ball will be held in the Navy Drill Hall. A Saturday night dance scheduled for the Progress Club has not been changed.
A novel idea has been developed in connection with the dance which, it is hoped, will avoid high dress suit rental charges from agencies. According to the plan all men on campus with dress suits will be contacted and arrangements will be made with those who wish to rent their duds for the evening. A rental fee of $2.50 will be paid plus the cleaning bill.
A concentrated sale of tickets began this week and plans were being laid to contact every engineer personally through hall representatives. Off-campus engineers who wish to purchase tickets or get any information about the dance can see either Joe Harkins, 158 Alumni Hall, or Bob Weber, 163 Dillon. There will be a booth erected in the Engineering Building for ticket sales. On-campus engineers can contact their hall representative. Arrangements have been made for a date bureau.
The bids are priced at $3.90 for the Ball, Friday evening, and $1.10 for the dance Saturday night. Midnight permissions for the Ball are extended to 2:30 and to 1:30 for the Saturday night hop according to Father Barry. Car permissions have also been obtained for the weekend.
Gene Hull has been contracted to play for both dances and he has promised to play danceable music without an excess of intermissions.
Ticket-buyers in the first. sale. were polled on the question: “Would you prefer to donate-$1 to charity rather than buy a corsage for your date?” The majority of buyers were against this plan so arrangements have been made to buy flowers at a reduced rate through an agency. Those planning to attend the dance can order their flowers from ticket-sellers.
Plans have been made to show a film, “Football Highlights of *48,” Saturday afternoon for all those who attended the dance.—Dick Rosengarten
Current College 'Who’s Who' Selects 26 ND Students
Word has been received of the - acceptance of a number- of Notre Dame men in the lists of “Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.” This is a publication compiling the names of those students outstanding in leadership, studies, and athletics.
Those representatives of ND whose names will appear are as follows: Leo Barnhorst, basketball; Terrence Brennan, football; Louis Burns, national chairman of the Foreign Students Relief Campaign; James Cassidy, president of Student Council; Pat Costello, president of senior class; Frank Cronan, director of station WND; Richard Cullen, editor of the Dome; John Dempsey, campus president of Student Relief Campaign; Joseph Doyle, editor- of the SCHOLASTIC; William Duggan, president of the Blue Circle; Francis Finn, member of the ND debate team; William Fischer, football.
John Frampton, president of the Liturgy Club and football; Kevin Harrigan, Student Council; Leon Hart, football; Ernest Huffman, founder and director of the Kampus Keglers; John Kennedy, Student Council; Ernest McCullough, president of the Wranglers and track; John Noonan, Grand Knight of the K. of C.; John O’Donnell, Student Council; William Pfaff, Juggler and Wranglers; Robert Reynolds, editor of Concord and president of the campus YCS; Russell Skall, president of the junior class; Ralph Thorson, Glee Club; John Walker, Scholastic photo editor, president of Commerce Forum, member of Student Council, and Martin Wendell, football.
Notre Dame’s candidates for Who’s Who were selected for having the most votes among a number of students nom
inated for the honor. On the campus, each of the hall council representatives submitted 26 names (combining the four freshman halls as a single unit); the Villagers and off-campus council representatives submitted 26 names, and of the total, the men with the highest number of votes were turned in for final approval by the administration and Who’s Who.
Solon Would Revamp Agencies’ Procedure
A legislative blast at “red tape” in federal agencies was promised by Senator Patrick McCarran, of Nevada, in an address last week at the annual Hoynes banquet of the Notre Dame College of Law.
Law students, faculty and South Bend legal dignitaries at the banquet heard the Nevada solon promise backing for a bill to standardize and unify procedure before Federal agencies.
“I doubt that the modern administrative state has much further to go unless it first puts its administrative house in order,” the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee observed. “Unless better public relations can be achieved by our administrative agencies, there will be a lack of ability on the part of the administration to meet new problems of society or to win the necessary acceptance of extended government.”
Senator McCarran’s bill is modeled after statutes of 1934 and ’38, aimed at eliminating similar bog downs in federal courts’ civil and criminal procedure. As a result of these two bills, he pointed out, “we now have uniformity of practice and procedure in such widely different fields as law, equity, admiralty and criminal law.”
12
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC SPORTJ
Hopeful Irish to Test Kentucky, Denver Fives
By RALPH WRIGHT
Irish Thinclads Open Indoor Track Season Next Friday Against Top Teams of Midwest
By JIM HOWARD
Due to a late change in the Notre Dame indoor track schedule, the season will open officially next Friday with the Irish competing against Michigan, Ohio State, Michigan State and other* top flight midwest cinder squads in the Michigan A.A.U. battle at Ann Arbor. At the same time two crack Notre Dame individual performers will travel to Boston for participation in the classic Boston Athletic Association games. Jim Murphy will run in the two-mile run, and Vai Muscato, promising spohomore runner, will battle in the 600 yard event.
Originally, the team was going to be idle Jan. 29, but when an opportunity to test some of his relay combinations presented itself, Coach “Doc” Handy took advantage of it, and stepped up practice sessions to insure the maximum performances for the high-grade competition which will be represented. At the same time Coach Handy received notice that Murphy and Muscato were invited to the Boston affair. It will be the first opportunity Murphy, the rug
ged distance runner, has had to run in his home territory since he entered Notre Dame. Muscato gained such a wide reputation in his high school days that he was invited to the Cleveland K. of C. games as a freshman.
According to Handy’s latest plans only a few relay groups will compete in the A.A.U. contest, and no effort* will be made to nail the team championship. The first concerted effort by the entire cinder team will come a week later in the Michigan State Relays held in the fieldhouse at East Lansing. Foi* the past two years, the team title has gone to the host team, and since they are rated as the best in this section of the country this season, there seems to be slight possibility of an Irish triumph. However, none of the Notre Dame runners is injured, and several appear to be approaching top form, thus indicating that the local cinder kickers will offer strong competition for the team title.
In the individual events, Bill Fleming, Bob Smith, Jim Miller, John Helwig, and Capt. Bill Leonard are all contend-
(Continued on Page 14)
The University of Denver basketball team, often referred to as Vince Boryla and company, will do battle with Notre Dame’s eagers tomorrow night in the Fieldhouse and the Irish have many motives for* committing mayhem at the expense of the visiting Pioneers and Coach Ellison Ketchum.
Most important is the fact that Boryla, the scoring phenom who once starred for the Denver Nuggets and the U. S. Olympic squad, originally belonged to Notre Dame where he earned AllAmerica honors before transferring to the Colorado school after his Army discharge. ND also craves revenge for a disheartening 61-60 loss at Denver last season, one that cost the Krausemen the services of John Brennan for most of the season. . Brennan broke his arm in that game.	-
Boryla Averages 22
Boryla still handles his 6’4%” 205-lb. frame with agility and has hooked in an average of over 22 points per game this season.
Ketchum’s boys will head eastward Art th a little less optimism this time; they began the season prepared to take the East by storm, but lost three of four games on the trip. They edged Syracuse while losing to Niagara, St.
KENTUCKY'S RALPH BEARD Seeking All-American
COORLAS. KAUFMANN, FICHTEL DePaul Breaks Fieldhouse Jinx
DENVER'S (?) VINCE BORYLA Coming Back to Erin
•	13 '
Jan. 21, 1949
John’s and Toledo, •done better since, 15-point walloping the Denver court.
The Pioneers have but recently took a from Ohio State on
Twelve and One For Kaintuck
What happens to the Irish after the Denver game shouldn’t happen to a nice bunch of college athletes. On Jan. 29, they travel to Louisville where Ken-
KENTUCKY'S ALEX GROZA The Long One
tucky’s Wildcats will be waiting to reap revenge for last year’s upset win here. It’s close to impossible to beat Coach Adolph Rupp’s gang anywhere let alone on the familial’ Louisville hardwood. Last season the college champs nailed 36 wins in 39 contests, finally helping to represent the U.S. in the Olympics.
Kentucky did drop a two-point decision to mighty St. Louis in the Sugar Bowl tourney finals last Dec. 30, but their other 12 opponents went the way of all normal basketball teams. The Wildcats have feasted upon Indiana Central, DePaul, Tulsa, Holy Cross, St. John’s, Tulane, Bowling Green and Tennessee. DePaul, which completely humiliated ND here 10 days ago, took an even worse shellacking for their efforts in Kentucky. They lost, 67-36.
Rupp lost only Kenny Rollins and Joe Holland from last year’s regular performers. Ralph Beard — speed merchant, long shot expert and playmaker — and 6’7” Alex Groza, the Mutt and Jeff All-America combination, once again lead the Blue Grass powerhouse.
On the way back from Louisville, Notre Dame stops off in Indianapolis (on Jan. 31) for a return bout with Butler. The Bulldogs can be expected to look better than they did here last Tuesday for they have yet to meet defeat in the Butler Fieldhouse this season.
Although it’s no time for celebrating, ND will celebrate the opening of the 14
new semester with a home game against Michigan State. Coach Ben Van Al-styne, Spartan tutor since 1927, has guided the team to six wins in ten starts, but the boys from East Lansing miss Bob Brannum, the star center who turned pro. Bill Rapchak, veteran forward from Whiting, Ind., has done his best to help the dearth of points caused by Brannum’s departure, netting an average of around 12 per game.
On Feb. 8, ND meets Marquette in Milwaukee. Bill Chandler’s quintet, like MSC, lost its top scorer and suffers from inconsistent shooting. Brilliant Gene Berce, who closed his college career with a 35-point splurge against Notre Dame, graduated last June and took with him every Marquette scoring record in the books. Now the attack is centered around Frank McCabe, 6’8” center, but Dick Peterson, a third-stringei’ last year, produces most of the tallies, about 15 a game so far. Most of this season Marquette has opened like this: Peterson and Frank Graff, forwards; McCabe, center; Mel Peterson and Russ Geld-macher, guards. Colorful Sammy Sauceda, the stocky Mexican Jumping Bean, still serves as the No. 1 troubleshooter for Chandler.
We'll Settle for Four
How the Irish will fare in these next five encounters is something hard to say. Those inexplicable pool’ performances, like the DePaul debacle, wouldn’t earn a victory over any moderately warm team. Coach Krause could expect four victories if the locals settle down and play as they can.
Statistics from the first ten games (seven won, three lost) show Kevin O’Shea and John Brennan far ahead of the field in individual scoring for ND; O’Shea has 134 and Brennan 114. O’Shea also tops the regulars in shooting percentage, boasting a .352 average from the field. Jim O’Halloran’s .731 is the best free throw percentage. Notre Dame holds a decided edge over their ten opponents in both field goal and free throw percentage marks.
Track Schedule
Tentative 1949 track schedule (subject to the approval of the Athletic Board):
Jan. 28—Michigan. A.A.U. meet at Ann Arbor, Mich.
Feb. 5—Michigan State Relays at East Lansing, Mich.
Feb. 12—Purdue, here
Feb. 19—Bradley, here
Feb. 26—open
Mar. 5—Central Collegiates at
East Lansing, Mich.
Mar. 12—Indiana, here
Mar. 18—Knights of Columbus Relays at Cleveland (outstanding men only)
Mar. 19—Chicago Daily News Relays at Chicago (outstanding men only)
Mar. 26—Purdue Relays at Lafayette, Ind.
Track
(Continued from Page 13) ers for their specialty crowns. Fleming is an ace hurdler, Smith is shaping up as a terrific quarter-miler, Miller is a top pole vaulter, Helwig is one of the best shot putters, and Leonard is a highranked half-miler and miler. Notre Dame is also exceptionally strong in the mile, distance medley, and hurdle relays, and this is where Handy hopes to gain on the powerful Michigan State squad.
Barring injuries, the trackmen have the chance to complete an undefeated dual meet season.
Triple Loss Spurs Keglers To Seek Win Over Loyola
After suflering three successive defeats at the hands of Valparaiso, Loyola and DePaul, the Notre Dame varsity bowlers hope to even matters with their rivals in the return matches to be rolled
KEGLER'S ERNIE HUFFMAN To roll 300 against Loyola?
after the stall of the new semester. They will open up the revenge circuit against Loyola on February 19 on the local alley.
The Irish keglers have also been in-. vited to the DePauLInvitational Tournament in February.
Loyola and Valparaiso shut out the Notre Dame pin-splitters, 5-0, but the DePaul Demons just edged them, 3-2. The present members of the squad include: Jim Jennewein (St. Louis Club), Charles Derrico (Italian Club), Bob Bairley, Bob Fisher (Youngstown Club), Bill Gorman (Toledo Club), Paul Pukish (Rochester Club), and Ray Zasada (Chemists’ Club). Pukish, Zasada and Gorman were holding the top three individual scoring honors in the Kampus Keglers play as of January 12.
The Scholastic
Fencers Face Chicago After Easy Win Over Illinois Tech
Chicago’s Maroons, the scourge of midwestern fencing circles, will appeal1 at Notre Dame at 2 p.m. tomorrow. Undefeated since 1946, Chicago was the one team to edge Notre Dame last season. The Windy City boys opened their campaign last Saturday with an impressive 20%-6% win over Northwestern.
On Saturday, Jan. 29, Coach Herb Melton will lead his thrust-and-parry men to East Lansing for a match with Michigan State. The Spartans should prove nigged foes, for they forced the Irish to go all out before winning, 15-12, here last season.
The first Saturday of the new semester, Feb. 5, Notre Dame will be host to Illinois. All eight of last year’s monogram men are back to give the Illini one of the strongest squads in the Big Ten. Saturday home meets begin at 2 p.m. in the old gym’s fencing room, under the north stands.
The Scholastic will reciprocate recent action by the South Bend Tribune and reprint an unofficial unapproved athletic schedule that appeared in that paper last week, but with some rumored corrections:
Jan. 22—Chicago here
Jan. 29—At Michigan State
Feb. 5—Illinois here
Feb. 26—Northwestern here
Feb. 18—At Case	'
Mar. 12—At Detroit Mar. 19—At Wisconsin Mar. 25-26—National Intercollegiates at West Point
Student Wrestlers Grapple For Interhall Ring Crowns
Thirty-five prospective “Irish Angels” invaded the Rock last week to flex their muscles and make with the half-nelsons in the annual interhall wrestling tournament. After the usual series of elimination, semi-final and final rounds, eight grapplers crawled off the mat as happy victors and the 1948-49 campus champs.
Hugh de la Vergen, of Farley Hall, took the 121-pound crown; laurels in the 128-lb. class went to James Ray, from off campus; Farley placed another winner in the 136-lb. division in the person of Carl Carlson, while Jack Wenning snared the 145-lb. title. Edward J. Smith, another off campus student, got the nod at 155-lb. class; and Len Drew topped all contenders in the 165-lb. group. Top man in the 175-lb. competition was Aaron Dyson; and Tony Zambroski, of Breen-Phillips, was named ND heavyweight king.
Jan. 21, 1949
SPLINTERS from the Press Box By Harry Monahan
NC Double — A Doubletalk	‘
When is the NCAA going to quit making loud noises with small administrative details and get down to the task of solving the serious problems that face collegiate athletics? As the ranking body maintaining control over the college athletic program, it is time they made some progress away from just making rules or setting the weight of baseballs.
We have only congratulations to offer the group for its work in organizing various national collegiate athletic events. The national scope of these track meets, basketball tourneys and baseball playoffs is an indication that they can accomplish big things.
They cite that ineffectual nonentity, the Sanity Code, as a masterpiece — but why didn’t they put some teeth in it, We believe these men are seriously interested in promoting amateurism in college athletics. Therefore, what prevents them from submitting themselves to effective penalties under a workable code? The Pacific Coast Conference has been the butt of many jokes concerning the penalty system they have imposed on themselves, but at least they have done more than write platitudes about what they think should be done for college athletics. The NCAA has yet to prove it can take-action in this matter.
The NCAA can do college basketball a great service by lobbying for laws which will take the pari-mutuel techniques out of the college basketball picture. Again the PCC has shown that it is willing to act, not just talk; its teams have been prohibited from playing in spots where the gambling element is strong enough to create such incidents as the recent bribery case in New York. With the authority that they can muster, the NCAA could bring pressure to bear to force the promoters to even more thorough anti-gambling precautions.
The recent Taliaferro incident at Indiana University is only one episode in a long chain of similar clashes between the college authorities and the professional bosses. Firing nasty remarks back and forth never accomplishes anything. Both have interests that would be served by a joint NCAA-pro board
to set up rules and a permanent committee governing pro contracts to college athletes. Under a sensible cooperative effort the colleges will not lose key players who still have eligibility and the professional game will not be subject to bad publicity.
If the NCAA — the next time it is lolling in the snow at Palm Springs or the fog of San Francisco — will accept the responsibility for taking steps to correct these and other major problems of college athletes, we’ll agree that they are the important athletic body that they now think they are.
Musings at Halftime
The K of C’s have started the wheels moving for the 18th Annual Bengal Bouts and promoter Christy Walsh is promising the usual fine boxing card. Training for the contestants will start shortly. . . . Memo to the Student Council: ACT NOW to decide what game will be next fall’s student trip. ACT NOW to get good tickets for the students. Remember the Army fiasco of ’46! ... To the 945 people who have informed us that the term “harrier” is used for cross country teams our thanks for the correction and humble apologies for the slip. . . . Now will someone come up and get Midget Murphy out of our room.	*
BENGAL BOUTS
The Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, has announced that Christy Walsh, Jr. has been appointed promoter for the 18th Annual Bengal Bouts to be staged in the latter part of March. It was also revealed that Mr. DominiA Napolitano, physical education instructor, will once again be in charge of training the contestants. The first call for fighters will be February 7. Since the SCHOLASTIC will not be published again until February 11. further announcements about the time and place of this first meeting will appear on the campus bulletin boards and in the South Bend Tribune.
15
For the One and Only
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS & GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
V
Williams, The Florist
219 West Washington
"Just West of the Oliver"
WANT TO EARN S9000 A YEAR?
A career in life insurance selling can be both profitable and satisfying . . . with your income limited only by your own efforts. Many of. our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
To find out more about, the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, send for our free booklet. If you appear to have the qualifications for success, our manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job craining course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY off NEW YORK
34 Nassau Street	fly	New York 5, N.Y.
. 1RST IN AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET ADDRESS DEPT. 7
NAME.
AGE.
ADDRESS.
CITY——
Music
By VERNE KELLEY
By tip-toeing up to the door of 259 Cavanaugh any afternoon, you can hear the wails from within and see the tears flowing out from under the door. By some catastrophic tragedy called the Down Beat poll, an idol has been upset . . . onto his lean . . . piano.
In keeping with a record 1948 in which almost every poll suffered embarrassment, the Down Beat band poll crowned Duke Ellington and his distinguished men of music No. 1 ork of the year. The tears in 259, where Paul Leamy and Dick FitzGibbons hole up, are for Stan Kenton, a sort of Johnny Lujackish band leader to the youthful set who came in a very respectable second but not high enough according to his fans, who number in the millions, but who evidently didn’t buy a Down Beat so they could vote him into fame only, as he already has the fortune accumulated during his many concert tours.
Our congratulations to Down Beat’s King of the Year, who brought his band and six other poll winners in his band to the Palace last Tuesday. The other winners were Trombonist Lawrence Brown, Alto man Johnny Hodges, Tenor Ben Webster, Baritone saxist Harry Carney, arranger Billy Strayhorn, male singer Al Hibbler, and the Duke himself on piano. For consolation to Kentonites, June Christy, Eddie Safranski and Shelly Manne upheld the Kenton banner by taking their respective divisions.
We Have a Poll. Too
Here at Notre Dame “little old us” has a music poll but at last look (shortly before the vacation) it certainly wasn’t thriving. This is the type of poll that could go on for years until we graduate (wishful thinking again) at which time we will count up the votes, notify the winner and send him a brand new St. Thomas Aquinas Magnetic Catechism Quiz, sold exclusively by Brother Conan in the bookstore by appointment only.
However, the balloting has been furious, or rather the voters have been, and in the band division Vaughn Monroe and Stan Kenton are tied for first, Bing Crosby and June Christy are running away with vocal honors and Frankie Carle, Charlie Ventura and Enrev Yel-lek are battling it out for instrumental winner. We must report a few jokers have tried to push Father Sorin for vocalist, and some have even given the nod to H. Lee Hope and the boys, but in general everything is under control.
Thirteen ND Architects Win Mention in Design Contest
Competing with student-architects from schools throughout the country, 13 juniors and sophomores in Notre Dame’s Department of Architecture won honorable mention awards in the Beaux Arts Institute’s design competition.
The junior winners were D. Amdon-ian, S. Company, W. Koontz, W. Marshall, B. Mayotte, W. Nunnelley, A. Or-martian, and W. Ruoc. The sophs were M. Carr, S. Funk, R. Kirk, C. Nielsen, and J. Nachtegal.
University's Working Minions Switch to Five-Day Week
If Sam Gompers could have been at Notre Dame Jan. 3, there would have been a smile on his. face- For on that day, the first Monday of the new year, the forty-hour, five-day week came into effect foi* clerical salaried employees.
The new office hours are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.. Monday through Friday and Father Kehoe requests all students to please transact their earth-shaking business during these hours.
In the event that a skeleton force be maintained in any office on Saturday morning, the department head will rotate his staff so that each employe takes his regular turn.
TUXEDO RENTALS
Formal for All Occasions
LOGAN'S
107 N. Main Street Oliver Hotel
Place Orders Early
.	The Scholastic
16
Names Make News
choices were made by a panel of 13 judges, all under 36 years of age, and the nominees were all under the same
age.
In a speech last week in South Bend, the Rev. ROBERT H. SWEENEY, C.S.C., told the city Lions Club that Notre Dame has gained prestige and recognition throughout the nation for its achievements in the academic and scientific world. Fathei- Sweeney, executive assistant to the President of the University, emphasized the work of the 41 departments in the University and revealed that national interest in the institution was losing its “football aspect” and was beginning to realize the important role being played by the University in educational and experimental fields.
The Notre Dame Graduate Students association heard Professor ALFRED L. SCANLAN, of the University College of Law, propose the stressing of civil liberties as a means of stripping the subversive elements in the country of valuable ammunition. Among those attending the meeting, held last week in the ND law building, was U. S. Senator Patrick A. McCarran, of Nevada, who addressed the Notre Dame Law Club at its annual banquet the following evening.
Among thirteen leading educators and businessmen who have recently joined the Board of Directors of the Great Books Foundation is the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., President of the University. The list also includes such other celebrities as Clifton Fadiman, Norman Cousins, editor of the Saturday Revieiv of Literature, and Daggett Harvey, vice-president of the Fred Harvey Co. The Foundation is a non-profit educational corporation established to administer community Great Books discussion groups all over the country.
DALE FRANCIS, graduate student in political science, and feature writer for the Department of Public Information, evaluated the voting record of Catholics in Congress for last week’s issue of Commonweal. His article revealed that, contrary to the usual opinion, Catholics have a more liberal voting record than Congress as a whole.
Wardrobe Trunk
Used 3 times, reasonable. Also oxford gray double-breasted suit, 2 pr. pants, never used, size 38-40.
Ph. 3-7835. 1329 Fassnacht
DR. HUFNAGEL For a Lucite Tube
Dr. CHARLES A. HUFNAGEL, Instructor in Surgery at the Harvard Medical School and a 1937 graduate of Notre Dame, was listed recently among the Nation’s Ten Outstanding Young Men of 1948 by the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce. Dr. Hufnagel received the honor for his development of a technique to repair the aorta blood vessels with a plastic tube made of Lucite and for the establishment of artery banks similar to blood banks. The
Jotin's: Wtnitoersfitp ^tbool of lain
Approved by the American Bar Association; Member of the Association of American Law Schools.
Three-year day and four-year evening courses leading to degree LLB. (Summei- Sessions conducted).
Students are admitted to the School of Law in September and February. Law School Admission Test dates for September, 1949 classes: February 19th, May 7th, August 6th.
Application to take examination must be filed one week in advance with the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J.
REGISTRAR: 96 Schermerhorn St.
Brooklyn 2. New York
The nine other nominations include Lou Boudreau, Manager of the World Championship Cleveland Indians; Frank B. Zeidler, Mayor of Milwaukee, Wis.; Sidney S. McMath, Governor of Arkansas; George A. Smathers, Congressman from Florida; Walter W. Gener-azzo, President of the American Watch Workers Union in Boston; Richard N. Harris, President of the Toni Company; Elvis J. Starh, Dean and Professor of Law at the University of Kentucky; Thomas C. Hasbrook, National President of the Blinded Veterans Association; and Mike Gorman, reporter on the Daily Oklahoman in Oklahoma City, Okla.
The Rev. JAMES P. SMYTH, visiting professor of religion at the University of Notre Dame, gave another in his series of talks on Child Psychology and Training in the St. Joseph’s parish Town Hall, South Bend, a week ago Sunday. Father Smyth talked on the subject “Right Guidance of the Child During the Age of Five to Ten.”
GEORGE SULLIVAN, Notre Dame graduate of the class of ’48 and president of his class, was married on Dec. 27 to Miss Pat McGrane, a graduate of St. Mary’s College. Sullivan is now Athletic Director at Stone Hill College, North Easton, Mass.
Jan. 21, 1949
Dr. Ralph A. Berman DENTIST
Hours:
Mon. 9-12	:
Thurs. 9-12	1
1:30-5
Fri. 1:30-5
Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.
Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
arvi
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
$2.00 or MORE! Every Hour!!
Sell name plates for front doors
Every order pays you — in cash — immediately!
Free Sample
Write Dept. 158
NATIONAL ENGRAVERS 214 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
'Give Away' Spreads To Three New Fields
Three more organizations hopped on the “give away” bandwagon this week to swell the total of scholarships, awards and professional opportunities being offered to enterprising beavers.
In celebration of its fifteenth anniversary, the National Academy of Broadcasting in Washington, D. C., is offering several valuable scholarships to script writers in a contest which will close Feb. 1.
Grand prize will be a full semester of professional training in the residence school in Washington. The course will cover all phases of broadcasting studio work. Other prizes will consist of residence courses in announcing, continuity writing or production, and a basic course offered by correspondence.
Any type of original continuity, commercial or dramatic, will be accepted. Students interested in entering the contest should write directly to the National Academy of Broadcasting, 3338 16th St., N.W., Washington 10, D. C.
One thousand dollars in cash will be awarded to the author whose book “most progressively influences American thought” in 1948. Entries in competition for this annual Gutenberg Award must be received in printed form by the Book Manufacturer’s Institute, 25 West 43rd St., New York 18, N._ Y., before Jan. 31, 1949.
Openings for a number of qualified single men as aircraft communicators in Alaska, at starting salaries of $3718 progressing to $6540 a year, have been announced by the Civil Aeronautics Administration. Basic qualifications are the ability to transmit and receive International Morse Code at 30 words per minute and to touch typewriter 35 words per minute; and 18 months of aeronautical communications experience or a suitable equivalent.
Applicants should send Federal Application Form 57, obtainable at post offices and state employment offices, to the CAA Aeronautical Center, P.O. Box 1082, Oklahoma City 1, Oklahoma.
Corsages-
FOR THAT DANCE
Flowers for All Occasions
Flowers Wired to Every City and Town in the World
South Bend Floral Co.
114 So. Michigan	' Phone 3-8227
Registration Procedure
Registration for all students for the Spring Semester will be held Tuesday and Wednesday, Feb. 1 and 2. Registration must be made IN PERSON by the individual student, undergraduate and graduate, on the days assigned.
“No student will be permitted to register in courses at the University after the final day of registration. The case of a student detained by serious illness or death in his immediate family will be considered by the Committee on Admission; if the members of the Committee are satisfied of the justice of his claim, he may be permitted to register, under the regulations governing absences, on payment of a fee of $25.00. {Academic Regulation No. 5)
Classes for the semester begin Thursday, Feb. 3, at 8:00 a.m. Latest day for ESSENTIAL changes in classes is Saturday, Feb. 5.
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C.,
’	Director of Studies
'Review of Politics' Features Piece by Former Ambassador
According to Dr. Stephen Kertesz, former Hungarian ambassador to Italy, “No imperialistic great power has ever-abused her advantageous power position towards small states in such an arbi-'-trary way as Soviet Russia has done since she ‘liberalized’ the Danubian powers.”
Dr. Kertesz makes this observation in the January issue of the Review of Politics, political science quarterly published this month at Notre Dame. In his article, entitled “The Plight of Satellite Diplomacy,” Dr. Kertesz tells the story of Hungary since the end of World War I, presenting a diplomat’s account of the hard path which Hungary has had to follow since the peace treaty at Versailles.
The book reviews include important studies by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of the widely-circulated and quoted magazine.
Four New Directors Elected By ND Alumni Association
Four new directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association will be installed at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Association today and tomorrow on the campus.
William J. Sherry, president of the Sherry Petroleum Company, Tulsa, Okla., a 1921 graduate, topped the voting of the 15,000 Notre Dame alumni. The four directors were elected for three-year terms.
Other directors elected include: Edward J. Beckman, New York journalist and public relations counsel, class of ’16; William B. Jones, Washington, D. C., attorney and former Department of Justice official, class of ’28 and Law ’31; and R. Conroy Scoggins, of Dallas, Texas, corporation lawyer and State Deputy of the Knights of Columbus.
18
The Scholastic
r **
(HIK E PARADE
“Tweedle-de-dee!” answered the ticket agent. “Where do you want to go?”
By JOE PIEDMONT
This column is indebted to the University of Maryland’s Old Line for much of the material herein used. Amen.
A certain businessman had the habit of leaving his umbrellas at the office. One morning, as he was going to work, he sat next to a young lady in the trolley car; and as he rose to get off he absentmindedly picked up her umbrella. She said, “Pardon me, but this is mine.” The man was quite embarrassed.
That night he decided to take all his umbrellas home with him. When he got into the car, there sat the same young lady. She leaned forward and said in a
sar grads have 1.7. Which merely shows that women have more children than men.
She was only the grave-digger’s daughter; but, boy, could she lower the bier!
Two Front Teeth Needed
A man and his wife, starting on a trip to Duluth, Minnesota, arrived at the station one minute before the train left. The man rushed up to the window and blurted, “Two-to-Duluth!”
One of the classic “pep talks” stories is told on Michigan’s great football coach, “Hurry Up” Yost. Yost, as well as being a brilliant strategist, was a firm believer in dressing room oratory.
During half time of one important game, he pulled out all the stops in a fervent plea for victory. The players sat enthralled as Coach Yost poured it on.
“Go out that door to victory,” the fiery coach screamed. So carried away was he that Yost pointed to the wrong door.
The Michigan players, fired to a fever pitch, dashed headlong into the swimming pool, and, encumbered with heavy football gear, narrowly escaped drowning.—Pomona Student Life
low tone, “I see you did pretty well today after all.”
Then there was the man whose face was flushed, but his broad shoulders saved him.
Indecision
An asylum patient who had been certified as cured was saying good-bye to the director of the institution. “And what are you going to do when you get out into the world?” asked the director.
“Well,” said the patient, “I have passed my bar exams, so I may practice law. I have also had quite a bit of experience in college dramatics, so I may try acting.”
He paused for a moment, then continued thoughtfully, “Then, on the other hand, I may be a tea kettle.”
“I’m thirsty.”
“How about a glass of water?”
“I said thirsty, not dirty.”
It has been proved by statistics that Yale grads have 1.3 children, while Vas-
Wranglers' Ranks Open
The Wranglers, Notre Dame's oldest student discussion group, is currently admitting a limited number of new members. Those wishing to apply for membership in the organization are requested to submit their applications in the form of a short letter, stating briefly the college in which they are enrolled and the number of their present semester.
All applications must be received by the chairman of the Membership Committee in 203 Cavanaugh not later than Feb. 6, 1949.
Alice and George Davis
LET US MAKE YOU A GOOD DANCER!
Waltz	Jitterbug
Tango	Samba
In just one lesson we’ll show you that you can dance even if you have never danced before. Discover how quickly and easily you learn the new steps.
NEW POPULARITY
Good dancers have the best time.
Be one of them and see what hap- . pens. . . . Compliments, popularity, *. come your way.
----------FREE-------------
Half Hour Lesson
Phone for appointment or come in today
Phone 4-0801
345 Lincoln Way West South Bend
Open Daily 10 A.M.-10 P.M.
Saturday 10 A.M.-6 P.M.
Former Dance Director of ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIOS CHICAGO
Jan. 21, 1949
n
w'""
**
smoke lEL0S VCAUSC m n" nn c„
,W, N0 MINOR Vices'""^


WHY... I smoke Chesterfield
(FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS) “Liggett & Myers buy more of my best tobacco than anybody else. They ’ve always paid top prices.
“I’ve been smoking Chesterfields ever since they u^pd to nut thpm tin in a cardboard box. I never found ■