2
The Scholastic
Letters
Dear Editor:
For the benefit of freshman O’Keefe, whose state of confusion is understandable, and for that of your calendarist, whose like state is not, the following things are not true:
1.	Hatter’s Castle played at the Granada Theatre the week of September 25.
2.	The Babe Ruth Story began immediately thereafter.	'
The following things are quite true indeed:
1.	Hatter’s Castle began Thursday last at the Granada Theatre.
2.	The Babe Ruth Story has departed South Bend.
Yours in the interest of enlightenment, Richard Plantoghiet
(Which means one of several things or maybe nothing. The calendar writer says he is either right or he was misinformed. But we do knoiv this: Chi Monday last, two other felloivs played at the Granada; they — like the Babe Ruth Story—departed immediately thereafter; the theatre manager was madder than the hatter in the Hatter’s Castle. Now he has been enlightened—or maybe just lightened of $300 and his ivallet. We shall caution the Calendar writer.)
Campus Clubs
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR'S BARBER SHOP	5 Barbers Manicurist
.	"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop” SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT		
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
WOOL WARM-UP
30 Cincy Men Get Together
The Cincinnati Club held its first meeting of the year last week. More than thirty men turned out for the get-together, the first under the new officers who were elected last June. The club officials are: president Jack Favret, vice-president Bob Molloy, secretary Don Wilkie, and treasurer- Tom Gile. During the summer the Club sponsored several outings, chief of which was a very succes-ful dance at Summit Hills Country Club on July 2. At present, plans are underway for a club dinner on October 21 at the D. A. V. A. A steak dinner, a guest speaker, and an excellent pianist should insure a large attendance.
Cleveland Club Eyes Series
The Cleveland Club, exulting in the Indian’s pennant victory, held its first meeting of the year last night in the Vet-ville Rec Hall. Cleveland alumni club funds paid for cider, doughnuts, and cig-
The kind of sock you want when you’re stamping your feet in a stadium. Extra soft—extra warm, and smartly knitted in a 9 x 3 rib. Made by Byford as only the British can make socks. Completely new colors—see them now.
Rasmussen MEN'S SHOP
106-108 So. Main St.	130-132 W. Washington
Oct. 8/1948
3
arets for all hands. Serious business handled included plans for a special Thanksgiving dinner for the whole club and a possible World Series celebration next Tuesday night.
New Members for Forum
The Commerce Forum announces through John Walker, president of the Commerce College honor society, that 14 new members have been accepted, to bring the Forum up to its constitutional strength of 30. These new members are: John Alfieri, Bill Bender, Pete Brady, Joe Cattalani, Howie Chittenden, Bill Dacey, Vic De Fiori, F. J. Fitzgerald, Jack Kennedy, Lou Mustico, Ed Newton, George Patterson, Bob Skeehan, and John Sullivan.
Prof. Murphy continues as Moderator, and other officers are John O’Brien, Jack Dempsey, and Bob Hayes.
Plans have been made for the usual active semester, including the Social this coming Tuesday, the banquet for graduating seniors, and a field trip to Detroit.
Chern Engineers Organize
With one of its largest turnouts, the student chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers held its first meeting last Wednesday night. A business discussion was held with a me vie
on high-speed cameras following. The meeting was then adjourned and the group retired to the unit operations lab for refreshments.
During the business discussion it was decided to appoint a committee of two for the purpose of investigating the proposed engineers’ ball. The constitution of the club was read and a short welcome was given by the faculty adviser, Mr. Rich.
La Raza's Open With Election
Minus clicking castanets, the La Raza Club held its first meeting of the semester last Sunday. Election of officers was held and the following were elected: president, Louis Pallais, Nicaragua; vice-president, Hernan Rojas, Chile; treasurer, Gonzalo Burbano, Ecuador; secretary, Alfonso Grijalva, Ecuador; and sub-secretary, Eric Rey de Castro, Peru.
A group of new members from all parts of Latin America was welcomed. The election of the cultural, social, press, and sports committees took place in order to plan the semester’s activities. October 16 was chosen for the annual Columbus Day Banquet.
The club was honored by*a few words from Father Mendez and Father D’Autremont.
(More on Page 30)
TUXEDO RENTALS
Formal for All Occasions
To Rent and Sell All Sizes
TUXEDOS FULL DRESS CUTAWAYS ! ACCESSORIES
LOGAN'S
107 N. Main Street Oliver Hotel
Place Orders Early
THE BOLD LOOK
IX SHIRTS BY
fan Hensen
3.95
Fine broadcloth . . . sanforized to insure perfect fit even after countless washings ... in white and 5 bold colors ... a couple of which you will HAVE to be a bold man to wear! Widespread collars . . . French cuffs . . . genuine pearl buttons . . . Van Heusen perfect-fit tailoring.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER IS ...
FRANCIS DOYLE 441 ZAHM
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
to beat than Arcaro on Citation. Last week, the sentimental players here at Notre Dame sang the Victory March to the tune of “Empty Pockets.” One of my confidants informed me that there wasn’t a winner on the Green Sheet form, and only two winners on the Lucky sheet. Evidently, the boys who saw the Purdue-Notre Dame game forgot to read the Northwestern-UCLA clippings.
Top of the Week
The Notre Dame professor who comes in late is rare; in fact, he’s in a class by himself.
Cleveland by a Boudreau
It started Wednesday. It will end Monday. Since Robert Feller isn’t going barnstorming this year, it will take the Indians just six days to send the Braves back to their Beantown reservation. This will be Cleveland’s first World Championship since 1920, the year that Luke Appling showed up at Comiskey park and bought a half-acre between second and third. You can bet Lou Boudreau, the Indians’ great manager, captain, and shortstop, will have his tepee pitched inside Fort Cleveland for many a moon after this one.
The series poses a few problems for the football lover. It’s going to be difficult to catch the Michigan State game and Lemon’s pitching at the same time. A fellow next to me at the Purdue game tried it. He was tuned to the BostonYank game, but would switch every once in a while to the Detroit-Cleveland fracas — plus trying to watch what was going on on Leahy’s lot. When Ted Williams banged a homer in the second at New York and Lemon loaded the sacks with Tigers in Cleveland, this guy tuned in for the Michigan game and got John’s other wife going over standing up. Just as that happened, one of those small planes droned around the stadium trailing a sign which read: “Clear Heads Choose Calvert’s.” He did.
Tavern Pills
There’s one thing good about the Infirmary: it’s clean. Charlie O’Brien, the one from Rochester, N. Y., went over there the other day with what he called a “driving pain in my stomach.” Doc Eagan looked him over, tapped him on the back and said: “The best thing for you to do is to give up drinking, smoking and women.”
Said Charlie, thinking it over: “Doc, I feel I don’t deserve the best. What’s the second best?”
What Price Success?
We picked up our copy of Life at
Oct. 8, 1948
Walgreen’s last Saturday and found that another Notre Dame man had made good. Gerard Ford, one of Elmer Layden’s ends, was catching passes in a model-booking agency on New York’s Second Avenue. The pictures in Life showed him smiling through dozens of girls, as pretty as St. Mary’s undergrads. He grosses $250,000 a year for just making modeling appointments for what he calls his “clients.”
Parlay Got a Cracker
Those parlay cards have been harder
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
REMEMBER the mane? You should have seen the one on this social lion before he switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil. It was positively beastly! So may we paws to make a suggestion: try a little Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic on your own hair. You’ll roar with approval when you see how it grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that greasy, plastered down look. How it relieves dryness, removes loose dandruff and helps you pass the Fingernail Test! Wildroot Cream-Oil is non-alcoholic and contains soothing Lanolin. Ask your barber for a professional application. And get a bottle or tube for ydur den today. You’ll find it at any drug or toilet goods counter. We aren’t lion when we say you’ll like it better than any other hair tonic. Most of the cats do!
* of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. K
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Bottom of the Week
Democrat and Republican election campaigns.
INDIANA GAME SELLOUT
It seems the Irish are popular this year.
The ticket office at Indiana University reports that the Indiana-Notre Dame game has joined the Irish tilts against Michigan State and Nebraska games as sell-outs.
5
CALENDAR
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in
OCTOBER 8
COLFAX—Tap Roots. Van Heflin, Susan Hayward, Julie London. A new twist on the Civil War but it still comes to the conclusion that the North won. Big and brassy and technicolor. It could be better but if you like your history a la Hollywood it’s worth the price.
PALACE—Street With No Name. A highly suspenseful unfolding of FBI operations. Proves once again that the sober, semi-documentary approach to killer-thriller produces the best results. Big Town Scandal. A must for journalism majors.
GRANADA—So Evil My Love. This thing survives its title to be a better than average murder job with Ray Milland, Ann Todd and Geraldine Fitzgerald. Dream Girl. Hollywood presents again its oft-repeated set of lessons on how to ruin a good Broadway play. Betty Hutton tries hard but it’s a thrown-together mess.
STATE—Marked, Women. An appropriate title. She’ll be scarred for life after this one. Dost Be My Destiny. An old John Garfield picture and one of his best. Almost worth sitting through the main feature for.
MICHIGAN STATE PEP RALLY. Blue Circle will reportedly unveil new MC and hope to retain old spirit.
OCTOBER 9
MICHIGAN STATE—What started off last spring as a “breather” suddenly turns into a “representative contest.” Let us hope the Irish “emerge victorious.”
JOSE ITURBI—One of America’s leading pianists in a local appearance at John Adams Auditorium. Well worth a look and listen.
VICTORY DANCE—Drill House turns into a ballroom once again. Third of a series of really well conducted affairs.
OCTOBER 10
STATE—Fantasia. Full-length Disney spectacle of color and music. Classical “tone poems” animated for the layman.
WORLD SERIES. Cleveland fans will hope for Series end in big park by the Lake. Oldtimers see a long trip back to Beantown.
OCTOBER 12
COLUMBUS DAY—Students will gather in the Main Building for classes amidst the beautiful paintings depicting the life of America’s discoverer. Father Sweeney will no doubt conduct another tour lecturing on the voyage. Students with classes in other buildings will have classes as usual.
OCTOBER 13
FOUNDER’S DAY. No classes. Students will catch up on sack time early in the morning, then drift into the daily routine of study, exercise, and more sleep. Brave men will spend the day in the village.
OCTOBER 14
BACK TO CLASS. Students with a heavy MWF sked will feel refreshed, others will just bide their time until the surefire TTS holiday, Thanksgiving. The MWFers have last laugh, though. All Saint’s Day falls on Monday.
WANT TO EARN $9000 A TEAR?
Then here’s your chance to enter a business offering an opportunity for unlimited earnings . . . plus the satisfaction of rendering a worthwhile community service. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
To pre-determine your qualifications for success as a life insurance salesman, send for our scientific Aptitude Test. After taking the test, you’ll hear from our manager in or near your community. If you qualify, he’ll explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
34 NassM Street	J3W Alexander E. Patterson
New York 5, N.Y.	President
FIRST IN AMERICA
PLEASE SEND APTITUDE TEST NAME______________________AGE_____
ADDRESS—	-
- - --------------- — 1104
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 October 8, 1948 No. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
The Staff JOSEPH A. DOYLE, Editor Associate Editors ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN.________________News
VICTOR DORR______________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN Features
HARRY MONAHAN.__________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT.________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER_____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN.______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER________________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK______________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN.______Faculty Moderator
the
He Lost His Card
Somewhere today a poor college student sits in his crowded room at the university. The evenings get dark early now; it is cold and damp. And he is hungry—awfully hungry.
It has been three days since he has eaten. His food had never been too good, but at least it was something to fill his stomach. But that was before his mishap—that tragic day a week ago when he discovered that his ration card was gone.
He had been careless and lost it. Maybe he had lost it while he was walking to class, or let it fall in his wastepaper basket. He did not know where it had gone—just that it was gone and without it he could not buy his meals.
When he discovered it was gone, he went to see the burgomeister. But he could not get to see him. Only an assistant was in the office and the assistant told him that he could not eat without a ration card. To get a new ration card, he must pay some money—$42. He did not have $42. Where could he get such a sum, when his father and mother were working hard to send him to the university?
The burgomeister’s assistant told him that he could work for the new ration card, but it is hard to work when one carries many hours of studies and has another job besides. The assistant told him that the times were tough now, and someone else may be using his card to get an extra ration. So he must pay to replace the one that was lost, or else the burgomeister would lose money.
And so tonight the poor student sits in his room—cold and hungry. He does not have the money to buy a new ration card; he hopes someone kind -will find his card and bring it back. Or maybe he hopes that the good burgomeister will relent and let him eat without the ration card. It is a long time until the next ration card is issued. And he is so hungry!
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: With a bow to the Vet Gazette’s Tracey Cummings from whom Scholastic stole the idea for this week’s
cover, we present a problem which plagues Diaperville each time the team plays ball in the stadium. Mr. and Mrs. Chuck Perrin and recalcitrant Junior, roped securely to the old homestead, typify the difficulties of going anywhere sans offspring. Junior, never fear, will exact his pound of flesh by an orgy of mural-painting on the living room wall during his parents’ absence.
—Photo by Don Spinney
Sauce for the Goose
Last year the various classrooms, hallways, closets, etc. of most of the buildings were plastered with stencilled signs which said:
NO SMOKING
By Order of the Prefect of Discipline
This was a good idea. Too many times smokers filled the corridors with smoke, creating discomforts for those who dislike smoking, and also creating a fire hazard in those buildings constructed of non-fireproof material.
Lately, a good many students have chosen to disregard these signs. Many times we see people standing in front of these signs with a lighted cigarette. One day last week, a student was nonchalantly doing this. A teacher approached and reprimanded him severely, telling him of all the possible evils which might happen if the practice continued. The teacher was right—the student wrong.
But later in the day, the same teacher was seen on another floor of the same building within ten feet of a “No Smoking” sign puffing on a cigarette. True, he had just come out of an office where smoking—for
some strange reason—is permitted. But it seems to be logical that if the students are obliged by the book to obey such signs, then the same signs should apply to all—teacher, janitor, and administration official.
Oct. 8, 1948
7
LOST and FOUND
LOST
Parker 51 pencil—mai-oon 9:00 Class, 253 Main Building.
Schaefer pen and pencil set—green Sept. 18, between Zahm and Cavanaugh.
Esterbrook pen—green.
Girl’s ID bracelet.
Girl’s sorority pin from Mundelein College.
Schaefer pencil—brown	Sept. 20, be-
tween Farley and Breen-Phillips.
Wallet—black; important papers wanted—not money.
FOUND
Eyeglasses; in back of Lyons.
Sundry other articles: keys, glasses, jewelry, etc.
The Office of Student Welfare will redeem and receive lost and found articles.
SEE THE IRISH BACKS
GO MARCHING BY IN THE
1948 Scholastic
FOOTBALL ISSUE
Ready December 10th
PRICE 50c
How many million times today?
Send cash, check or money order (made payable to University of Notre Dame) to
FOOTBALL ISSUE
Box 185
Notre Dame, Indiana
(Subscribers and N. D. undergrads will receive a copy through regular delivery. Extra copies can be ordered at above address.)
More than 305 million times today and every day, Bell telephone users reach out to make or answer calls.
Day and night, you count on your telephone to work. And it does.
That’s because Bell telephone people are old hands at giving good service—and because Western Electric people have always made good telephones, switchboards and cable.
Ever since 1882, Western Electric has been the manufacturing unit of the Bell System—helping to make your telephone service the best on earth.
Western Electric
k UNIT OF THE BELL	SYSTEM SINCE 1882
8
The Scholastic
^tte Motte
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 3 OCTOBER 8, 1948
Council Reorganizes; Hall Elections Loom
By BILL BRADLEY
To create machinery for holding hall elections within the next two weeks, the Student Council has decided to reorganize for the present under the old constitution, it was learned Monday night.
Jim Cassidy, chairman of the stay council, announced that he had appointed a hall elections committee, with
Council Elections Monday
Elections for hall representatives to the Student Council will be held on Monday, October IL and Thursday, October 14. Any student residin? on campus who has maintained at least an 80 average and has no disciplinary record is eligible for the primaries Monday. Each floor will choose a candidate. The floor candidates will then compete in the finals Thursday to represent that hall on the Student Council. Voting will take place at night check. Ballots will be distributed and collected by members of the Student Council and the Blue Circle.
Jack Kennedy as chairman and Pete Brown and Jim Wise as assistants. The group will receive help from the Blue Circle in distributing ballots and supervising the voting.
Three other" temporary appointments were made. John Walker was chosen to be secretary of the Council. John O’Donnell was delegated to make the social and academic calendar for this semester. Lou Burns and Cassidy will act as the student trip committee. Election of Council officers will take place and permanent committee appointments will be made after the elections of hall representatives.
Council members voted to permit competition between two floral agencies on campus. Franchises were granted to Pete Brown and Jack Jacobs, and to Jim O’Connor and Bob Molloy.
Lou Burns announced that Trinity
N. D. Dramatic Tradition Revitalized As University Theater Hans Big Year
In a well-conceived attempt to rebuild tradition at Notre Dame, the University Theater bounces back this year, a revitalized organization destined to bring the best of student productions to the boards of Washington Hall.
Under the supervision of William J. Eisen, its new director, the University Theater- has a wealth of imposing ideas in store for the present school year, among them a lively three-act drama tentatively scheduled to open early in December. Other plans include the production of a student musical and the expected birth of a new entity in Notre Dame dramatics, the Workshop Theater.
As explained by Mr. Eisen, the Workshop Theater, when operating at full power, will produce a series of one-act plays, presumably one a month, according to present plans. Though still in the pre-embryo stage, the Workshop Theater is designed primarily to serve as an agent for increasing interest in, and in rebuilding the now-decadent drama tradition at Notre Dame. When plans are completed and approved, it will operate on an organized basis, something like the famed Little Theater groups.
Student musicals will not go unnoticed. Although lacking the talented impetus of Ed Cashman, there is still ample ingenuity remaining in the student body to field a representative musical team, and, according to Mr. Eisen, all efforts will be made to stage a
College girls are making tentative plans for an afternoon party for Notre Dame on the student trip in Washington, D. C., on Sunday, October 31.
Cassidy declared that he had been advised by a telephone company official that mutilation of the new hall phones would not be tolerated.
Jack Dempsey, who was introduced to the Council as campus chairman for the Student Relief drive this year, praised the outstanding contribution of Notre Dame students to last year’s campaign and asked for an even greater response this year, since, he explained, the national quota has been raised to $500,000.
good, student-produced musical during the year.
The University Theater, a subsidiary of the Department of Student Welfare, comes under the direct supervision of the Committee on Student Entertainment, composed of the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., chairman; Mr. Daniel S. Pedtke, Glee Club Director; Mr. H. Lee Hope,
Gorman
PROFESSOR ELSEN Hits the Boards
Director of the Band; the Rev. Louis Thornton, C.S.C., representing the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture series; and William J. Eisen. Mi*. Eisen, an instructor in the Department of Speech, was appointed director of the University Theater on September 15. He succeeds Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C. Father Coyle, long a familiar figure in Notre Dame dramatics, is now assistant chaplain at St. Mary’s College.—Vic Dorr
GET YOUR DOMES NOW!
Students who attended school here last year are entitled to a copy of the 1948 Dome. If you have not picked up your copy of this yearbook, please do so as soon as possible. They will not be mailed home! Pick them up now in Room 118. Main Building.
Oct. 8, 1948
9
South Bend Booklovers Honor Sullivan, As Publisher Releases 'First Citizen*
Library Receives Gen. Sherman Portrait
By VIC DORR and KEN THOREN
Almost everyone, at one time or another, has read of these sparkling soirees that are given to herald the publication of a new book. All the infamous celebrities are generally present with then-sophisticated chit-chat and rippling repartee. The distaff columnists more often than not conclude their resumes of these cultured afternoon brawls by saying, “Oh, it was all simply too gay for words.”
Well, South Bend held such a party last Sunday afternoon and surprisingly enough, it wasn’t of the superfiical type that one continually reads about. Instead of clinking champagne glasses there were clunking coffee cups and in place ^f caviar the enterprising ladies of the St. Thomas Aquinas Bookshop had supplied tasty cakes and cookies. The guest of honor was Richard Sullivan, a Notre Dame English prof, whose new book, First Citizen, was published on Monday. And he, too, was a refreshing contradiction to most peoples’ conception of a well-known author.
Sullivan would have been difficult to recognize amidst this group of South Bend literateurs. He bustled around from one group to another accepting the plaudits of his many well-wishers. Best of all, he was pleasant and courteous, and ready and willing to answer the questions of all. Autograph hunters besieged him from all sides as many realized the ambition of getting the author’s signature on a first edition. Sullivan proved that he had lost none of his charming personality in the light of his most recent success. But knowing Richard Sullivan, one feels that his book must be genuinely sincere. That’s the sort of fellow he is, and his book "will be the same.
First Citizen, released by the Holt Publishing Company, is the fourth novel written by Mr. Sullivan in recent years. His latest work tells the story of an egotistical opportunist, whose passionate desire for success undermines his family as well as himself. Kingsley Bond, the protagonist, is a would-be politician who has tried unsuccessfully to build his career on a series of shameful lies. Fate, however, eventually whips him.
From the time he began working on First Citizen, with a rough, twelve-page outline, until it was accepted by the publisher, a year of intensive labor went into the novel. According to Mr. Sullivan, his novels have as their background and cen
tral locale a composite of several small midwestern towns.
At present he has nothing on the fire in regard to future novels. Although he has gained renown in both the short story and novel writing fields, he has kept his course relatively clear of play
Gonnan
RICHARD SULLIVAN "First Citizen"
writing and radio scenarios in recent years.
Professor Sullivan, a 1930 graduate of Notre Dame, has been a member of the English Department since 1936, specializing in the instruction of composition, playwriting and comparative literature. In addition to his professorial duties, he devotes some time to the reviewing of books for the New York Times and the Chicago Tribune. In 1946 he won the Notre Dame Lay Faculty Award, a prize given annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Association for outstanding achievement during the school year.
When asked which of his four novels he personally liked the best, Mr. Sullivan replied diffidently, “Well, it’s almost natural for me to think the last book the best.” The critics and the public seem to be in harmonious agreement with that statement, hence, Mr. Sullivan’s works should not include a “swan song” for many years to come.
A portrait of General Wililam T. Sherman, illustrious Northern leader in the Civil War, has been presented to the University by his granddaughter, the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame archives, announced this week.
The granddaughter, Miss Eleanor Sherman Fitch, of New York City, gave the portrait as an addition to the University’s growing collection of records and relics from the famed general’s life. The collection includes one of Sherman’s uniforms and a number of letters and manuscripts.
Sherman sat for the painting at about the time he succeeded General Grant as chief of staff of the United States Army. The white-bearded general is shown seated in full-dress uniform, his sword at his side. The work is unsigned, but authorities believe it was painted by Duveneck, a prominent American artist of the post-Civil War period.
Father McAvoy says the portrait will hang in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery until a permanent Sherman exhibit is established.
The Sherman family has long been connected with Notre Dame. The general’s wife and children lived here for a time during the Civil War.
Among the letters in the archives’ Shei-man collection are several from the general to Father Sorin.
Price and Others
To Receive Army Awards
Three educators and three research experts will be awarded certificates of merit from the office of Scientific Research and Development for their services to the Armed Forces in World War II, at special ceremonies tomorrow morning at the University.
Participating in the ceremonies will be many well-known educators, scientists, engineers, industrial experts and high-ranking army and navy officers. The presentation will follow the fall meeting of Notre Dame’s Advisory Council for Science and Engineering.
Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Chemistry Department, will be among those who will receive certificates on behalf of the Armed Forces by several high ranking Army officers. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, will welcome the guests of honor.
10
The Scholastic
Navy Trip Victory Dance Ducats Go On Sde; Trinity, Dunbarton Gals Ready and Rarin' To Go
By JOE DUKERT
include Tom Boehling, Ed Drinkard, Tom Fannon, Jack George, Bob Hickey, Frank Hiner, Bill Jonak, Jack Kennedy, Charlie Kreis, Tony Lipton, Jack Owens, Ed Peduto, and Frank Yacobi.
Tickets for the post-Navy Victory Ball in Washington went on sale yesterday. Members of the Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club, sponsors of the dance, began hawking bids at $3.00 per couple in a canvass of the residence halls before general ticket sales in the basement of the dining hall get under way next week.
Trinity College of Washington has also extended an invitation to ND men on the Student Trip to attend a special dance held in their honor at the College Sunday afternoon.	■
Girls from Trinity and Dunbarton, self-styled “sister college,” of Notre Dame [St. Mary’s take note] have consented to provide the pulchritudinous companions for the Irish at Saturday’s Victory Dance under an elaborate date bureau system masterminded by S. Talmadge Powell, of Emporia, Va.
Prospective dates have been listed on file cards according to height, weight, color of hair and eyes, interests and preferences in men. ND lads will make their selections and receive the girls’ names, addresses and phone numbers. Transportation to and from the dance will have to be handled individually.
Students from Georgetown, Catholic U., George Washington, The University of Maryland, the Naval Academy and other colleges have been invited to attend.
According to Guy Perenich, president of the Washington-Maryland Club, a small, comparatively simple affair had been planned originally, but the scope of possibilities encouraged the club to enlarge its plans.
“We saw in it a wonderful opportunity to aid the Student Relief Drive,” Perenich points out. “And it’s also an opportunity to introduce Notre Dame, off the gridiron, to the East. We can play social host to the Washington area, have a wonderful time and aid a worthy cause, all at once.”
The Student Trip to Washington will be the longest in recent years. Immediately after the game Saturday, the students will entrain for Washington, where they will be lodged in the Annapolis Hotel Saturday and Sunday nights. Many activities have been planned, and sightseeing students will be on their own until early Monday afternoon, when the special train leaves the nation’s capital for ND.
Heading the ticket committee for Sat-
CARTER, PERENICH AND HELLMUTH Packin' 'Em in at the Uline
urday night’s dance in the giant Uline Arena, “Washington’s Madison Square Garden,” is Bill Mahoney. His assistants
Hesbur^i Heads Department of Religion
The Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh C.S.C., S.T.D., has been appointed by the president of the University as the new head of the Department of Religion. The Reverend Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., former head of the Department, has been transferred by the Very Reverend Provincial, Father Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., to Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.
Father Hesburgh was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1937 and received his doctorate from the Catholic University in 1945. Father Hesburgh has been a most active instructor in the Department of Religion since September, 1945. He is well known to the student body for his many campus activities and has been a prefect in Badin Hall and Vetville chaplain. As a speaker on Catholic Action, he has been in national demand. This September Father Hesburgh was appointed rector of Farley Hall. .
Father Simonitsch is to join the fac-
Irish Glee Club
Tops Rally Tonight
Judging from the crowd at the student send-off prior to the Pittsburgh game last week, all things point to a recordbreaking attendance at tonight’s pep rally. The occasion: Michigan State vs.. Notre Dame. The place: University Field House. The time: 7:30 P.M.
Highlighting tonight’s program will be short talks by Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., members of the coaching staff, . and various players. Father Sweeney, executive assistant to the president, has been a campus favorite for quite a while.
Before the doings in the Field House get under way, the freshman band will lead the parade around the campus. In addition, this group of young musicians will provide the music for the rally.
Besides that, due to numerous requests, the Glee Club will also be on hand to sing the songs you’ll want to hear.
Don’t Forget! That’s 7:30 tonight in the Field House for the Michigan State game pep rally.
ulty of theology at Holy Cross College, the theological seminary of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The illness of a member of that faculty necessitated the unexpected transfer of Father Simonitsch. In addition to teaching at Holy Cross College, he is to continue his advanced studies at Catholic University.
During the years in which he served first as acting head and later as head of the Department of Religion, Father Simonitsch proved himself a capable administrator. His influence extended beyond the University, and under his immediate guidance, the Department of Religion of the University has achieved an enviable reputation among Catholic colleges.
Other universities have watched with interest the growth and organization of this department. During the administration of Father Simonitsch an increasing number of priests and sisters have attended the University during the regular school year and the summer sessions to major in religion.
Oct. 8, 1948
11
Advisory Council Will Discuss Science Bldg.
Plans for the construction of a new science building to house the departments of physics, chemistry and mathematics, will be discussed at the sixth meeting of the Notre Dame Advisory Council for Science and Engineering today and tomorrow at the University.
Edgar Kobak, of New York, N. Y., president of the Mutual Broadcasting Company and chairman of the council, will preside. Fourteen other nationally-prominent scientists, engineers and industrial executives who are members of the council, will participate in the meeting with university officials, headed by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
The Reverend Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School at Notre Dame, will review plans for expanding research in bacteriology, chemistry and physics and other fields at Notre Dame. A new program in engineering mechanics will be outlined by Dr. Karl Schoen-herr, dean of Engineering.
Those who will attend the meeting include: Britton I. Budd, of Chicago, III., President of the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois; Dr. William Calcott, of Wilmington, Del., Assistant Chemical Director of the Organic Chemicals Department of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Inc.; Francis J. Curtis, of St. Louis, Mo., Vice President of the Monsanto Chemical Company; Bradley Dewey, of Cambridge, Mass., President of the Dewey and Almy Chemical Company; and Richard E. Dougherty, of New York, N. Y., Vice President of the New York Central System.
Also: William P. Feeley, of Chicago, III., President of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company; Frank M. Folsom, of Camden, New Jersey, Executive Vice President of the Radio Corporation of America; Thomas W. Pangbom, of Hagerstown, Md., President of the Pang-born Corporation; Peter C. Reilly, of Indianapolis, Ind., President of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation; and Arthur J. Schmitt, of Cicero, III., President of the American Phenolic Corporation.
Also: Oliver Smalley, of New Rochelle,
OCTOBER DEVOTION
There will be daily adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church during October. Adoration will start at 8 ajn. and close with Benediction at 5 pjn.—11 aan. on Saturdays. ■
CHESTERFIELD CONTEST
Winners in the Chesterfield contest are announced this week on page 27. The contest which opened with the first issue of SCHOLASTIC was judged one week later, too late for last week's issue as announced in the contest's rules. The next contest in the monthly series will be run in the next isue, October 15. The winners of that contest will be announced in the October 29 issue.
N. Y., President of the Meehanite Metal Corporation; Earle C. Smith, of Cleveland, 0., Chief Metallurgist of the Republic Steel Corporation; Leland V. Stanford, of New York, N. Y., Vice President of the Sinclair Refining Company; and Harold S. Vance, of South Bend, Ind., Chairman of the Board of the Studebaker Corporation.
Other members of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame are: Marvin E. Coyle of Detroit, Mich., Executive Vice-President of the General Motors Corporation; James C. Daley, of Bellwood, III., President of the Jefferson Electric Company; William H. Harrison, of New York, N. Y., President of the International Telephone & Telegraph Company; and Dr. Albert F. Zahm, of Washington, D. C., holder of the Guggenheim Chair in Aeronautics, Library of Congress.
Vet's Dance-Mixer Scores Huge Success
Vetville held its first big social event of the season last Saturday night when a year-opening get-together scored a terrific success in the Recreation Hall. Eighty-five couples attended this combination dance and mixer and considerable progress was made toward getting the new people acquainted with their neighbors.
The hall was decorated with sprightly blue-and-yellow streamers which were in tune with the feeling of gaiety which pervaded the Hall. Father Hesburgh, former Vetville’s chaplain, was present and Father Bailey, the new padre, was introduced to the merrymakers. All in all, this first production was a good indication of things to come.
A committee was formed last week whose members have been split up to handle all the varied activities around our local Toonerville. As soon as the gears start to mesh in these almost numberless departments, the rest of the University won’t be able to see the vets,
they’ll be so far ahead of the poor garden-variety student.
The biggest offering in the making is the forthcoming series of Victory Dances to be held in the Rec Hall. The first shindig will be thrown after the Michigan State fracas.—Charley Dullea
Band Plans Bang-up Half-time Program
Another “Musical Mural” will be presented by the Notre Dame Band during halftime at the Michigan State game tomorrow. Satire, sobriety, and good music will replace the hackneyed formations and worn-out martial airs of yesteryear.
After the pre-game ceremonies the combined Michigan State and Notre Dame Bands will play the National Anthem. At halftime, proceedings will begin with the Michigan State Band performing for the local crowd. Then, our band will form a huge “M” to honoi- the opponents. A Christophei- Columbus theme had been planned for the balance of the halftime show but because of the length of the show, the program has been changed to a “Salute to Music” theme.
The first formation will be a huge violin with a moving bow, playing the Jack Benny rendition of “Love in Bloom.” A trumpet will be formed next, while the band plays the “Toy Trumpet.” The final formation will be a trombone, complete with moving slide.
The halftime ceremonies will then close with the playing of the “Victory March.”
Engineering Students To Have Job Interviews
Mr. J. W. Gosselin, of the Graver Tank & Mfg. Company of Chicago, Illinois, will ba on campus to interview job applicants October 28. The firm is interested in, civil, mechanical, and mechanical (with industrial option) engineers.
The Radio Corporation of America, of Camden, N. J., was scheduled to send their representative on October 13 to talk to electrical and mechanical engineer job-seekers, but since there are no classes on that date, he will visit the University later on.
FOUNDER'S DAY
Next Wednesday, October 13, the University will observe Founder's Day, its annual tribute to Father Edward Sorin and the other founders of Notre Dame. Founder's Day is a free day for all students.
12
The Scholastic
McGuirl Again Named Head Of Utica, New York, Club
At a recent meeting, Utica Club members elected their officers for the forthcoming year. Michael J. McGuirl of Walsh was retained as president in view of his splendid work last year. He will be assisted by a very able selection of officers. George F. Hameline, Sorin, will take on the vice-presidential duties. Moving up from publicity director of last year is Felix M. Aquino, of Cavanaugh. He becomes the new secretary. Thomas J. Walsh, residing in Dillon, received the enthusiastic support of all sixteen members, being elected to the post of treasurer.
To complete the steering committee, McGuirl made three appointments. George S. DeKime, Alumni, was named Director of Club Activities. The new Publicity Director will be Raymond M. Belden. He will be assisted by Bernard F. McSally. Both Belden and McSally have residence in Howard.
Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics and a native Utican, was the unanimous choice as club moderator. This marks the third year he has acted in that capacity.
Series Sold Out; Mag Stuck With Weird Pic
IJipp
CLEVELAND CLUBBERS It Doesn't Happen Every Year
In addition to these elections and appointments, groundwork was laid for the plans of the coming year. From all indications, it will be a busy one, with many and varied activities contemplated.
Inter-American Club Meets; Plans 'Good Neighbor' Year
According to rumors flying around here, something atomic is about to explode on the campus. It’s the reorganization of the “good neighbor” club. Sparkplugged by the club president, Frank Spinelli, the Inter-American Affairs boys are making plans for a very active year. The weekly meeting will feature movies on the South American countries, in addition to several prominent out-of-town speakers.
Plans will soon be made for a well-filled social calendar. These will include joint socials with a sister organization at St. Mary’s, smokers and art exhibits. The club will be host next semester to all the Inter-American Clubs in the Mid-Western area for the Pan-American Conference which will be held here. In the past, these conferences were highlighted by coed attendance. This should be an opportunity for'some book-worms around here to get dates without leaving the campus.
Oct. 8, 1948
Last week a large and grievously overpaid group of Scholastic editors gathered in their Cavanaugh basement rat hole to “plan” this issue of the magazine.
Things went very badly indeed. Pretty soon the editors were throwing insults and heavy typewriters at each other, and the room was filled with the gentle warmth of ill feeling.
Suddenly a particularly bright young editor (known as “Thatch-Roof” to his colleagues) piped up with an idea.
“I have a rousing suggestion,” he announced. “The Cleveland Indians are on the verge of their first pennant in many years. I am told that the Cleveland Club of this great university we all love so well is planning to buy out the left-field stands of the Cleveland stadium for the World Series and hire a bus to take all the Cleveland fellows home.
“Let us send out one of our talented reporters to get a story on this splendid project. What is more, let us send one of our skillful photographers to take a picture of all the Cleveland officers wearing baseball caps and waving bats at each other. Thus, we can run an appropriate picture with the storyl It should prove amusing to the many students who are so generous as to read
our humble magazine each week.”
“What a rousing suggestion!” shouted all the other editors, clapping their hands.
“I shall have one of my reporters get the stoi-y immediately,” said Ken Thoren, the chubby news editorf ’	.
“And I shall have one of my photographers get the picture posthaste,” said Johnny O’Keefe, the ‘ brilliant photography editor . . . Johnny Walker.
The upshot of the whole business was that we got that extraordinarily silly looking picture you see above. In it are, left to right, Bob Lally, vice-president of the Cleveland Club (who has his name in this rag practically all the . time); Vince DeCrane, president; Ray Miller, treasurer; and Denny O’Neill, secretary.
But we didn’t get the story. The Cleveland Club couldn’t even get squatting room in the bleachers, let alone the left-field stands, so the whole thing fell through. But we had to do something with that picture. So there it is. Cut it out and use it to frighten your mailman or something. Just don’t bother us about it. - We have enough trouble. '
By the way, if anybody is driving to Cleveland for the Series, will you please come and see me?—Bob Stock
13
i
Academic Needs, Student Opinion Pondered As N. D. Foundation Faces Building Program
In an address delivered at the Alumni Dinner in the Campus Dining Hall, last spring, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, stated: “Laboratory space is inadequate. Space for research is hopelessly limited. Equipment amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars housed in old Science Hall is in grave danger of destruction by fire. It is our intention to construct adequate facilities for the work in chemistry and physics as soon as the contributions of alumni and friends make it possible.
Commenting on Father Cavanaugh’s statement, Mr. James E. Armstrong, vice-chairman of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, said, “There are two major approaches to this building program—one from the viewpoint of popular buildings of general appeal and utility, the other from the viewpoint of academic urgency.
“Student opinion, for example, will possibly give first place to the obviously needed Student Union. And there is much sympathy outside student ranks for this great project.
“But in point of academic need, providing facilities for essential and immediate expansion of work which is already demonstrated, for students crowding into the inadequate facilities, and for opportunities of limitless significance to future progress, the first building project is a Science Building, to serve the immediate demands of chemistry, physics, and mathematics.
“Fortunately, student initiative and the interest of parents are factors so vital to the consideration of a Student Union that they might possibly affect the sequence of construction,” Armstrong added.
He pointed out that the University administration has advanced as a second immediate objective a Notre Dame inn, to be located at the campus entrance. This building would house parents and ■visiting girl friends of students, visiting celebrities, returning alumni, members of the trustees and councils, and various representatives of learned societies, thus adding academic and general prestige to Notre Dame and enabling visitors to get at first hand a picture of the needs of the University.
Other buildings foremost in the plans of the University and the Foundation are a new library, a maintenance building, an auditorium, a graduate hall, a memorial chapel, and new residence halls
which would enable the University to both take care of the increased enrollment and replace old halls like Sorin, St. Edward’s, Badin, and Corby.
After emphasizing the importance each of these buildings will have, Armstrong advanced the arguments favoring the Student Union, showing the vital part it will play in campus life.
“It is the symbol of the one great fraternity which embraces all Notre Dame men,” he said. “It would be the crossroads of the 48 states and the many countries from which Notre Dame men come, and from whose associations the student derives a large, if unoffiical, part of his education. It would center and stimulate Class and Club life. It would remove the incentives to leave the campus and would reduce the distractions which are not actually a part of the rich experiences of Notre Dame.”
Armstrong also emphasized the fact that the building plans are merely tentative. They simply reflect some of the planning that motivates the work of the Foundation and the University administrators. The one constant factor is the interest which all concerned have in the fullest realization of Notre Dame’s great potentials.
Science Dean Names 74 to New Honor List
Seventy-four students of the College of Science were named to the Dean’s List of Honor Students released by Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger this week. Topping the list was George R. Schrodt with a 97.5% average, while George E. Maha made a close second with a 97.0% average.
To be included in this list a student must have a scholastic average of 87% or better for the Spring—1948 semester. In the case of freshmen, the average for the first two semesters was used.
Among the seventy-four students named, 35 or 47% had averages of 90% or better. In this group the preprofessional men lead the field with 21 names. Chemistry majors accounted for eight and physics majors had three representatives. Biology, mathematics, and physical science majors added one name apiece.
The entire list is as follows:
Allport, John James; Anderson, Robert Paul; Bale, John Joseph; Barnett, Howard John; Batters
by, Edward Joseph; Benning, Calvin James; Bisese, Albert Joseph; Bloorner, Herbert Allan; Boehm, John Joseph; Bona, Adolph Aloysius; Brennan, John Robert; Brickl, David Erickson; Budd, John James; Burgstahler. Albert William; Clynes, John Conway; Commerford. John Francis; Conroy, John Thomas; Conroy, William Joseph; Costa, Joseph Samuel; Christ, Joseph George; Downs, Richard Joseph, C.S.C.: Duffy, John Edward; Ewing, Donald Dean.
Flemming, George Earl; Flynn, Edmund William; Frankel, John Burke; Freeman, Jeremiah Patrick; Freiburger, Donald Stephen; Galla, Stephen Joseph; Glass, Richard Alois; Griesmer, James Hugo; Hieber, Frank Reynolds; Higgins, Dennis Curran; Hille-brand, James Ralph; Howland, Donald Everett; Imbus. Harold Roger; Judge, Walter Francis; Kelleher, Robert Cornelius; Kloecker, Richard Joseph; Kuzmich, Rudolph Walter; Lash, Victor John; Leone, Joseph Thomas.
MacDonald, Colin Francis; MacKay, Colin Francis; Maha, George Edward; Maternowski, Chester Joseph: McAfee, David Kimbrough; McMeel, James Eugene; Meloche, James Patrick; Merrick, Paul Donald; Meyer, Thomas Lloyd;' Miller, Allan Stephan; Mitchell, Roy Alfred; Mosca, Alfon Bernard; Mottolese. Thomas Nicholas; Muinch, George.
O’Connell, Robert Lawrence; O’Neill, Thomas Brendan; Owens, Joseph Lawrence; Peckham, Paul Earl; Rourke, James Arthur; Ruetz, Philip Peter; Rutkowski, Henry Richard; Sanders, John Alan; Schildknecht, Edward August; ‘Schrodt, George Randolph; Scribner, Robert Lawrence; Sondag, Donald Raymond; Stoner, Donald Lawrence; Tiedt, C.S.C., Brother Aloysius; Tufano, Robert Joseph; Wack. James Edward; Wise, James Kearney; Wuell-ner, James Albert.
Students Invited to Attend
Sunday's Outdoor Holy Hour
School Field in South Bend will be the scene of an outdoor public Holy Hour from 2:30 to 3:30 on Sunday, October 10th, Monsignor Sabo, directoi- of the affair, announced this week. This year the occasion, known as the Annual Eucharistic Hour, is dedicated to Bishop Noll on the fiftieth anniversary of his ordination.
The Blessed Sacrament will be exposed during the entire hour. The ceremony will include community prayer and singing, plus a twelve-minute period of meditation conducted by the Bishop. As an added attraction, the Notre Dame Dujarie Choir will sing. The period will be terminated by Benediction.
This is a public service, unique in that it lasts only one hour. South Bend is proud to present this popular form of worship, which has always been well received by both Catholics and non-Catho-lics. Upwards of 10,000 people are expected to attend. The Notre Dame student body is urged to participate in this hour of community prayer for their own spiritual welfare. “If the Notre Dame students would come in droves,” Father Sabo said, “we would have to put bleachers on the playing field, and we’d surely love that!”
14
The Scholastic
There's Gonna Be Some Changes Made;' what n.d. thinks
Rumor Comes From Mop and Broom Corps
According to latest reports from one of the Administration Building’s highest offices, that of the third floor janitor, “there’s gonna’ be some changes made!” Rumor has it that the recent activity in St. Thomas Hall, Main Building, is to ready it for its newest occupants, Notre Dame’s rapidly expanding Department of Geology.
Although shrouded in a veil of secrecy, information concerning the possible change was casually hinted by a congenial gentleman from the University’s mop and broom corps. Wilting under* intensive quizzing, he reluctantly admitted that he had heard the third floor St. Thomas Hall over the President’s offices would house the now crowded Geology Department when work is completed.
Upon closer inspection St. Thomas Hall appears to have a wealth of space, just what the doctor ordered for a department that has been a thorn in the side of the Biology Building ever since it began its rapidly spreading tactics. In the spacious third floor area of St. Thomas Hall there is ample room for a representative number of offices, classrooms, laboratories, and perhaps even a small library or darkroom, whatever necessity may call for.
As things stand now, Notre Dame’s geology department is as energetic an organization as ever graced the ‘grounds of Notre Dame. Just emerging as a separate department this semester, it has already some 17 students taking major courses. It has grown steadily in the last two years and now offers a course of instruction easily equal to that of many longer-established departments in other universities. Its facilities and equipment are improving by leaps and bounds. Even now it has a library of nearly 2,000 different slides, depicting many phases of geology and facilitating instruction.
As could be expected, perhaps, there is also a large demand for graduate geologists in the field today. According to information from the Department Head, Dr. Archie J. McAlpin, the accent is upon petroleum geology at Notre Dame now, because the need now is greater than ever. There is little difficulty in securing a good position in geology now, he said.
In addition to Dr. McAlpin, there are two other members in the Department of Geology at Notre Dame, Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick, instructor in petroleum geology, and Dr. Erhard Winkler, spe
cializing in engineering geology. Dr. Gutschick, who received his doctor’s degree from the University of Illinois, came to Notre Dame in 1947. Dr. Winkler, a graduate of the Vienna Institute of Technology, began his teaching duties here just this semester.
The department continues to grow and the need for additional space continues to rise. Is it illogical to doubt the janitor?
Series of Guidance Lectures Given for Benefit of Frosh
A series of guidance lectures were held on three nights last week in Washington Hall for the freshmen class. Father Howard Kenna, director of studies, gave a talk on the first night on “The Organization of the University and Academic Regulations.” Mr. Edward Quinn, head of the Testing and Guidance Department, followed with movies and a talk entitled, “How to Study.”
The next night Father Thomas Irving, C.S.C., Ph.D., opened the program with a talk on “Student Counseling.” Mr. Quinn gave advice on study with a talk entitled “Aids to Study.”
Coach Frank Leahy appeared on the final night of the series and spoke to the freshmen on “What Notre Dame Can Give You.” Mr. Quinn closed the lectures with movies and a talk on the “Use of the Library and Reference Material.”
THE STUDENT UNION, 2 TO 1 With Men Who Know the Buildings Best
Campus Opinion For Student Union First
Smarting under the need for necessary space in which to entertain relatives, guests, and friends, Notre Dame students rose up almost to the man last week in the Scholastic poll and voted the proposed Student Union as the first building to be erected under the new Notre Dame Foundation program.
In the hall-to-hall survey a huge majority of students voiced their opinion in favor of the Student* Union, with a minimum of miscellaneous buildings receiving votes, particularly, the Library, the Arts and Letters Building, the Field House and a Fine Arts Building.
Says Andrew J. Naughton, 315 Sorin, Park Ridge, Illinois, “A Student Union Building! It would be an ideal place to meet and entertain guests.”
Howie Wurth, 4 Sorin, Paducah, Kentucky, “I would like to see a Student Union Building so that all recreational and social activities could be centered on the campus where they belong.”
Phil Delaney, Cavanaugh, Chicago, Illinois, “A Student Union, because it would be a better place to sit than our rooms.”
Charles Bresin, Cavanaugh, Louisville, Ky., “A new Library . . . because of the old one.”
Jack Fischer, 220 Dillon, Fairmont, W. Va., “I’d like to see a Student Union put up. Personally I’m afraid to go into Washington Hall.”
Oct. 8, 1948
15
The Dome
VICTORY DANCE
Blue Circle Efforts Help Make Pleasant Evening
The Blue Circle is back at Notre Dame after fifteen years — and it’s just about as mysterious as it was in the old days.
The Blue Circle, as some insiders know, is an honorary society of students who work under the Student Council to promote student activity for University interests — and to keep up customs, traditions and rules.
In 1924 some of its graduating members came out in the open and had their pictures put in the Dome. About this time the Booster’s Club became the Blue Circle, some able students got control of it, and it gained a good deal of respect.
Some leaders turned out by the Blue Circle in this period were John Cavanaugh, now President of the University, Louis Thornton, now Registrar,
Blue
Circle
and John Hinkel, now Director of Public Information.
But after these left school, the Blue Circle seems to have gone under ground again — and its members are said to have become a little bit too conscientious in dealing with the rebels.
At any rate, the Blue Circle lost consciousness around 1931 — and wasn’t to be heard from again until 1946, when the Student Council revived it.
So in 1946 each Student Council member picked three members of the student body to serve on the new Blue Circle. Bob Uhl was appointed chairman, and Charlie Russ and Walt Zenner were elected vice-chairman and secretary. These fellows laid the foundation; they spent most of the year drawing up a constitution, setting up committees and fixing procedure. They did manage to get some things accomplished and deserve a good deal of credit, but most
Blue stands for the Blessed Virgin, and Circle for higher motives of sacrifice, unity and charity.
Back in 1946 Student Council members decided something should be done to revive the traditions and customs that had died out at Notre Dame during the war. They also felt Notre Dame needed some kind of organization to get students active and interested again. So they dug down in Notre Dame’s past and came up with the Blue Circle.
The Blue Circle had first appeared at Notre Dame in 1922 under the name of the Booster’s Club.
A 1924 Student Manual reads: “It is an honor and a mark of distinction for a Notre Dame man to become a member of the Blue Circle . . . the Blue Circle fosters all things that are truly Notre Dame in spirit. It endeavors to aid by knocking the knockers and by holding conservative and constructive views on student problems ... its members are able to stamp out prejudices, tear down the fences of self-important cliques or fight unwarranted excitation.”
Naturally a club of this sort worked behind the scenes. It often handled rebels who couldn’t be handled officially.
BLUE SEMI-CIRCLE — Committee Chairmen Bernie Powers, Johnny Vlalker, Jack Landers, Bill Duggan. Bob Bates, John Gaines, Bob Slocum, Curran Higgins.
16
The Scholastic
. . . SG4neiM*Uf	BomI
by BILL LYMAN
Hipp
CHAIRMAN DUGGAN
Circle's Hub
Notre Dame people were just a bit confused about what the Circle was and what it was supposed to do.
Fellows shrugged their shoulders when asked about the Blue Circle, but still the little group of relatively unknown members went about their business.	.
Last year new officers stepped in — Cliff Bloom, Dick Hahn, John Fitzpatrick. It was the same story: Blue Circle men put on football pep rallies, promoted interhall athletics, helped run the Mardi Gras and Republican Mock Convention, canvassed the campus for the Student Relief Drive and set up the freshman orientation program with the YCS. But still they remained behind the scenes. Still Notre Dame people wondered about them.
Blue Circle men were seen helping out all around the campus — ushering in the Main Church, the Drill Hall and Washington Hall; decorating for dances until three in the morning; pushing notices under doors; putting up signs on football week-ends — but nobody knew they were Blue Circle men.
Blue Circle men met visiting athletic teams and important visitors, and saw to it that their stay at Notre Dame was made pleasant. Very few people knew about it.
And how would a person go about getting into this mysterious Blue Circle?
Well, a Student Council or Blue Cir
Oct. 8, 1948
cle member would have to suggest his name to the Stay Council—ten more permanent Blue Circle men who select new members. If he qualified, the Stay Council would pick him and eleven other fellows to fill vacancies left by twelve outgoing members. There are forty-six Blue Circle members in all—ten on the Stay Council and thirty-six regulars. The chairman is appointed by the Student Council, and the vice-chairman and secretary are elected by the Circle. Stay Council members are elected by the Circle to serve two more semesters than the regular term of three.
Once a fellow gets in the Circle, he becomes a member of a committee—decorations, social, traditions and customs, hospitality, rally. The Circle works through these committees. And the Circle gets things done, too. .
This year Blue Circle men have started out to distinguish themselves again. They’ve elected three hard working officers in Bill Duggan, chairman; Jack Sanders, vice-chairman; and Bob Bates, secretary.
Blue Circle men have helped to put on the finest, most thorough freshman orientation program in Notre Dame’s history. They’ve had several letters from other colleges and universities asking for instructions on how to put on similar programs.
This year Blue Circle men have been the spark behind some of the most rousing pep rallies 01’ Notre Dame has ever seen. And Blue Circle men were quick to hold tryouts for talented masters of ceremony for pep rallies — a move some people call the greatest brain storm to break over ND in a good while.
And the Student Council has even bigger plans this year for the Blue Circle, its working arm. The Blue Circle seems to have made its place again at ND after two years of building foundations.
Last year at a communion breakfast Rev. John Cavanaugh, President of the University, awarded members special Blue Circle pins for distinguished service to the University.
Blue Circle men are workers — not just talkers.
That’s why they’ve never been known — that’s why they’re worth knowing about.
i
ft
FRANK CRONAN Mastermind at the Controls
From Sorin’s third floor one starry night there came a loud commotion. There were angry voices, a shuffling and finally a crash. Through a window there emerged a Philco radio—Table Model X501 to meet a violent end in the court yard below. As it lay there, a twisted and bent corpse with ruptured insides projecting, it gave mute testimony to an old Notre Dame adage. Namely that there was something else here which students couldn’t live with or without besides their women. It was the radio.
■e4 inj
Hi
It is now a known fact that 92.57 per cent of the rooms on this campus have radios. To many this is but statistical proof of what their irritated ears have been telling them for many a noisy evening. And to the other 7.43 per cent it should force them to the conclusion that they are indeed aliens in a foreign country. They just don’t belong. The radio is here to stay at Notre Dame.
And in case you’re a freshman and think all this racket is going to die down once the semester gets under way try and grin and bear this next grim figure. 47.3 per cent of those radios are blaring constantly between 12 noon and the light curfew at 11.
What do Notre Dame men listen to through all those noise-filled hours? Well they prefer a record program, give second nod to sporting events and award show money in this kilocycle derby to the funny boy type program of the Bob Hope, Fred Allen variety. If you don’t believe it, just stand outside in the corridor and listen some night.
On the night of February 9, 1948, there was in-
tei co or;
Ci
Jo
"n
no he
yo na
in
pp to tw to
5
‘ I
LEN ZALLER AND AL BURKICH Jockeys Choose Their Records
WND OSCILLATOR Rightside Up?
“DAME
pbs Only to Electric Razor
He comes from
and a rolling walk.
NEOPHYTE ENGINEERS Tables Are Guttered
DUNLEVY. RAPACH, CRONAN, GILLINGS AND GALVIN In the Black
(reduced into the radio life of the campus student a new force which struck ^Ipse to home. It was the radio debut of JSND, the campus station and it herald-,8^ a new era in Notre Dame radio listening.
The story of WND’s origin reads like a (script for “The Guiding Light.” But Hie pathos of its struggle was not an artificial one. All the difficulties were terrifingly real and there were a discouraging number of them. With proper organ music we thus begin its saga—
(Early in 1947 four members of the then highly inactive radio club, Frank Cronan, John Jones, Pete Reiner and John Clemens began thinking in concrete cerms of a campus radio station for No-;re Dame. The idea was not new. It had (heen tried before and failed. There was no reason why this new effort should he any more successful. That is unless you happened to know these four—Cronan, Jones, Reiner and Clemens.
(They started out with no money and in old studio in the band room of Wash-ligton Hall and they turned it into an operating station. Here WND was ready to hit the air. Then came the first of two body blows. They were told they had to move and WND was a radio station
’ I -

without a studio. After a long search it perched itself in one of the radio booths in the Stadium and was set to go from there and again was dispossessed. This time it looked as if it was out in the cold for good. Here is where the “Miracle of WND” took place. The University stepped in with a grant of money and a new, permanent home in the Old Gym. The carpenters built them a studio, the electricians put in some wiring, WND’s staff of engineers ran wild with a maze of coils and transformers and February 9 came and went. WND was on the air.
It was a success from the beginning. Students liked the idea of their own private radio station bringing them campus news and sports items they could get nowhere else. They were also appreciative of the interference eliminators distributed by the station to drum up interest. By the time the Bengal Bouts rolled around, WND had sold itself.
Is, that then, the WND story? Far from it. The story is hardly one of coils and transformers. Like most things it is the story of men. Particularly, it is the story of Frank Cronan.
Frank Cronan is a big, red-faced engineering student with a booming voice
AUDIENCE REACTION Take Your Choice
Waterbury, Conn., and when he graduates in June he wants to become an engineering salesman. But more than this, Frank Cronan IS WND.
As one of the pioneering four, Cronan nursed the station through its early hardships, personally installed much of the equipment, rounded up the writers and announcers, sweated out all the kinks, and when the station went on the air was its director. WND was his baby.
When you meet Cronan and talk to him about WND for a few minutes, you realize that there had to be someone like him or there would have been no WND. His entire life here at Notre Dame is tied up with the station. He spends a good 6 hours a day there during the year, and more on Saturdays and off days. He personally directs every department. But the thing that makes Cronan and WND click is that he loves his work. He’ll tell you otherwise and do plenty of moaning in that great voice of his but he loves it and everyone knows it.
There are, under Cronan, a staff of men as much dedicated to “The Student Voice of Notre Dame” as their director. There is Frank Venner, head of the announcing staff who is a veteran of the radio wars here at Notre Dame and who brings to the mike and his staff a high degree of professional polish. And under him there are such standouts as George Murphy and Walt Garrity. Bill Halligan, one of the most popular station personalities among the listeners, directs WND’s sports. And there are the engineers.
John Jones is head engineer. He’s a muscular boy who looks like he played a lot of high -school football and could handle himself on Cartier. With a pair of pliers in one hand and a screwdriver in another he is some sort of genius. WND is limited to campus broadcasts because it operates only where it is wired. This doesn’t mean less work for engineers. Just take a look at the WND control room sometime. Somehow Jones and staff manage their way through the labyrinth of wires and hit the right screw.
On the business side WND is self sustaining. They pay for their own records and equipment. Mostly they pay for it because they have on the staff one Larry Gilling.
Gilling is the business manager of the station. He is a suave, fast talking Commerce man who has become the scourge of South Bend advertising managers. He is the bread and butter of the station and this year through increased effort has been throwing in a little jam.
When WND went back on the air a couple of weeks ago there were some changes that had come, from over the
summer. For one thing the station was on the air two more hours. There was a revamping of the schedule. Among other changes was the sports department switched off into a 5 minute nightly program announced by Halligan and a 15 minute Monday night show during which Frank Tripucka gives his impressions of the preceding Saturday’s football game.
Harlan
GARRITY AND HALLIGAN On the Air
Moonlight Serenade, Jump Time and Broadway Musicals which hit the top of the popularity poll last year were retained. A new news discussion program which features members of the Notre Dame faculty and labeled “Views of the News” was inaugurated. And the Department of Music sponsors an hour of classical and semi-classical music from 9 to 10.
There has been much instigation
MARY ANN DRIVE IN 1711 South Michigan Street
The finest in the midwest
Sandwiches Sodas French Fries Malts Chilie
Open 7 days a week—11 a.m., to 12 p.m.
among students for afternoon and morning shows over WND. In a recent poll 53.7 per cent of 250 students said they’d like to hear more of the station. There is even a rumor floating around that Cronan and crew are contemplating a wake up show in the morning.
The station has such great potentialities that, as director Cronan said the other day, “We are only scratching the surface of what we can do. We are trying to push ahead as fast as we can but there is a lot of groundwork to be done on 'everything.” A lot of groundwork has already been done.
Maybe it was to 630 on the dial that the unfortunate who owned the X501 table model Philco was tuned the other-night when he became one of the 7.43 per cent. Whatever he was listening to he was carrying on one of the essentials of Notre Dame life. He was listening to the radio.
— - .	3 C ■
West. Michigan Club Meets, Chooses Officers for Year
The Western Michigan Club, organized last spring, held its first meeting of the new term last Monday night. Harvey Nedeau, Muskegon, was re-elected president. The vice-president’s post went to Bill Myler, Muskegon. Jim Nachtegal, Grand Rapids, was elected secretary and Jerry Sweeney, Kalamazoo, treasurer.
Although the club was newly-formed at the end of last term, several summer-functions were held. In July the president gave a weekend stag party for the club aboard his father’s boat, Romuhajo II, at Lake Muskegon. Later in the summer there was an alumni-sponsored picnic at Spring Lake, Michigan. Various activities are projected for this year, but no definite plans have been decided upon yet. All students who reside within the region are urged to join the club.
20
T.he Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC SLCLTJ
Hawaiian Slaughterers Aim For N. D.
SPANIEL ELUDES SKLADANY (88) TO SCORE The March Was On . . .
Harrier Squad Faces Wyoming Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s harrier squad will open its official season tomorrow morning at 11:00 when they meet the Wyoming squad in a dual battle on the Irish course. Coach Elvin R. Handy has selected his seven starters from among the ■winners of last week’s University championship.
The regular Irish group will be composed of Jim Murphy, top runner . of . last season and co-winner of the University cross-country title last Saturday with Benny Almaguer, a freshman; Jim Kittell, who finished third in the school . championship; Tony DaDamio, fifth place winner; Lou Lepry, who captured sixth; Lou Tracy, seventh place victor; Corny Styers, eighth position man, and Bill Leonard who qualified by finishing tenth. (Continued on. Page 24)
'Happiest Man' Aids Benny As Newest Freshman Coach
“I am the happiest and the most honored guy on earth,” said Edward F. Voorde upon learning of his appointment as assistant freshman football coach for Notre Dame. Voorde will help Benny Sheridan whip the green material into shape for varsity competition.
Coach Voorde is a native of South Bend who attended Notre Dame during 1931, 1932 and 1939. He played freshman football here, but was another victim of the Irish knee jinx and did not play varsity ball.
He has performed scouting duties for the Irish since 1942. He also assisted Bernie Witucki in turning out highgrade grid teams at Washington High in South Bend. Voorde is assessor for Portage township and will continue with the duties of that office. He is expected to continue scouting for the varsity eleven.
Spartans To Provide Stiff Test Tomorrow
By JIM BUTZ
Tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. Notre Dame and Michigan State will renew football relationships in a series dating back to 1897, but which has lapsed since 1921. Despite the 13-2 bulge in Irish victories in the series, tomorrow’s tilt is expected to be a severe test for Frank Leahy’s lads.
The Spartans from East Lansing have shown both offensive and defensive power this season and might force the Irish into exposing a few of the tricks which have been buried deep in their bag for the past three seasons. In their opener this year, Michigan State forced Michigan’s defending Big Nine and Rose Bowl champs to go all out for a 13-7 victory. The Wolverines tallied late in the final frame for their margin.
Last Saturday Coach Clarence “Biggie” Munn directed his charges to an unbelievable 68-21 slaughter of Hawaii, and the Spartans’ offense was a thing of beauty to behold. Admittedly, Notre Dame should halter the State backs a bit more effectively than did the Hawaiians, but a glance at the roster shows the Spartans to have
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN STATE
Martin---------L._________Huey
McGehee________L__________Vogler
Fischer (c)G Bagdon
Walsh----------C------(c) McCurry
Wendell G Mason
Fallon T Fusi	.
Hart E Gilman
Tripucka Q Krestel
Brennan________H____________Guerre	.
Sitko___s______H______Chandnois
Panelli------*.F--------L. Crane
Oct. 8;.1948
21
evenly-spaced depth throughout their line-up.
Veterans Bolster Spartan Squad
A total of 32 men on the 1948 Green and White eleven have won previous letters. Seven ends, seven tackles, five guards, two centers, three quarterbacks, six halfbacks and two fullbacks make up the veteran nucleus for this year’s squad.
Capt. Robert McCurry, bulky center for the Spartans, is serving as captain for the third year. Ends Warren Huey and Henry Minarik bulwark the flank spots, and Harold Vogler and Peter Fusi hold down the tackle positions. At guard, Don Mason and Ed Bagdon are expected to get the call.
The backfield features George Guerre at left half and Lynn Chandnois, “a pair of truly outstanding backs,” according to the Michigan State publicity releases. Both have shown their prowess before for State, and Guerre seems to have recovered completely from the broken leg which shelved him a year ago. Chandnois, in addition to his elusive running, is a left-handed passer* who may well find the weak Irish aerial defenses to his liking. The Spartans also can spring Horace Smith, elusive scat-back, upon the Irish.
Irish Show Improvement
Coach Frank Leahy’s boys looked like a much-improved team in their 40-Q triumph over the hapless Panthers of Pittsburgh last Saturday. After Frank Spaniel had nabbed a wayward Pitt pass on their 40 and raced it back to the 10, Frank Tripucka hit Leon Hart in the end zone for the first tally.
Emil Sitko, Spaniel and Jack Landry each added second period scores, and
Steve Oracko converted on each occasion to make the score read 28-0 at halftime. The final half was a parade of third and fourth stringers as Leahy tried to keep the score down. His charges did not throw a pass the final 44 minutes of the ball game. He used every one of the 39 players on the bench as he kept his first string and most of the second team out of the game the second half. He finally had reserve quarterback Bob Williams punt on second down to keep the Irish from adding insult to injury.
His tactics were only partially successful as Lancaster Smith gathered in a Pitt punt on his own 15, feinted a couple of Panthers off their feet and rambled 85 yards down a corridor swept clear of hostile tacklers by a host of green-shirted linemen. Leo McKillip added the final points to the Irish total by cracking off tackle for nine yards and a score. Oracko missed the final two conversion attempts.
Notre Dame threw but six passes and completed four for 47 yards. On the ground they rushed for 255 yards with Sitko, Landry and McKillip leading the parade. The reserves got a chance to flex their muscles, and they looked remarkably efficient. Boys like Landry, McKillip and Thomas were performing in their first Notre Dame game, and they showed promise of fine afternoons in the future.
Last minute news from trainer Hughie Burns reports that Ernie Zalejski will not see action tomorrow. Doug Waybright, reserve left end who suffered a ruptured blood vessel in his right leg against Purdue, may see limited duty against Michigan State. Aside from these two, the Irish are in fine shape for tomorrow’s battle.
Fencers Unsheathe Swords With Eight Lettermen Back
Coach Herb Melton’s fencing team, which won nine of ten matches last year, will begin practice for the new season, Oct. 17, in the Field House.
Prospects look good even this early in the campaign, according to Coach Melton, due to the outstanding material held over from last year.
Lou Burns, Mike DiCicco, Bob Schlosser, Bob Bosler, Ralph Witucki, Pete Gross, Tom Roney, and Ralph Dixon are the letter winners eager to try for an unbeaten season.
The schedule hasn’t been competed yet, but will probably contain nine or ten matches.
Mich. State Seen Easy Prey As Third Irish Grid Victim
Although Michigan State rolled up 68 points over* a weak Hawaii team, most students feel that the running power-displayed in the Pitt game plus the passing of Tripucka will give Notre Dame their third victory of the season.
Dick Burke, Chicago, Ill. — ND 27, Mich. State, 0. “The team is really rolling now. If Hawaii can score three touchdowns against Michigan State, Notre Dame can do better.”
Phil Finnegan, Beloit, Wis.—ND 40, Mich. State, 21. “Michigan State has scoring power, but Notre Dame can match it with plenty to spare.”
Frank Crovo, Richmond, Va.—ND 28, Mich. State 14. “Tripucka or Williams
Hipp ______ *	____
REFEREE BUNS INTERFERENCE FOB McKILUP (40) Irish Teniers Snap at Heels . . .
Hipp
LESKO (16) AIDS TEAMMATE STOP LEE ... of Panting Panthers
22
The Scholastic
won’t have to throw a pass all afternoon.”
Tom Carroll, Long Beach, Cal.—ND 39, Mich. State 13. “The sophomores will be in there before the end of the third period.”
Hugh Kennedy, Braintree, Mass. — ND 33, Mich. State 6. “Notre Dame has played heads-up ball in their first two games. This one shouldn’t be too difficult.”
Peter Green, Appleton, Wis.—ND 21, Mich. State 0. “Michigan State won’t score a point; they’re not playing Hawaii this week.”
ROBINSON, BRENNAN (37) COLLIDE
Hipp Pitchin? or Catching?
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS YARDS GAINED BY RUSHING
Times Net Yds. Carried Gained			Avg. Gain
Spaniel 		. 2	13	6.5
Coutre 		. 3	18	6.0
Panelli 		.14	74	5.3
McKillip 		.12	55	4.6
Swistowicz 		.11	45	4.1
Landry 		.15	54	3.6
Sitko 		.23	75	3.3
POINTS SCORED			
			Tot.
TD PAT FG Pts.			
Sitko 	'	3	0	0	18
Oracko 	।	0	5	1	8
Spaniel 		1	0	0	6
Panelli 	:	1	0	0	6
McKillip 		1	0	0	6
Landry 	:	1	0	0	6
Smith 		1	0	0	6
Hart 		1	0	0	6
Zmijewski 		1	0	0	6
Points scored byopponents, 27 68
SPLINTERS from the Press Box By Harry Monahan
Scuttled
Henceforth the make-up editor will prepare all predictions. He tried to keep us from printing that Bose Bowl guess. What happens? We get stubborn and have a pack of Wildcats pull our crystal ball out from under us.
So Purdue won’t be in the Rose Bowl —Pappy Waldorf can save a few shreds of respectability for us. Purdue not only played their best game of the season against the Irish, but may have played their whole season here. The Boilermakers will have to move fast to recover from these two losses; it’s just such a double defeat that can drop the spirit of a great team to the mediocre class.
More Revisions
The pre-season forecasters were accusing Frank Leahy of cruelty to collegiate football for leading 10 lambs to the Irish slaughterhouse. Some of those lambs are now showing more fight than some people thought they had. The Spartan squad which will invade the local stadium tomorrow upset everyone’s digestion with its stand against the Wolverines — sitting ducks are not supposed to shoot back.
Clyde Smith held a Badger skinning party which wasn’t on this year’s schedule to make our Hoosier cousins more than just a scrimmage engagement. Whether these surprises are made of solid stuff remains to be seen. At the same time the remainder of the Irish schedule has been pulled out of the pushover class.
Bob Voigts and his Northwestern Wildcats were expected to give the Irish trouble, but not the brand that they dished out to the Boilermakers. Order the large-sized tear buckets and towels for the week preceding November 13.
Musings at Halftime
Is Len Kroll, the Boys Town speedster, going to repeat the Coutre story? Larry ran wild in a “B” team in ’46 and moved into a traveling squad berth shortly afterwards. Kroll looked ter-
iific against the Purdue reserves last Friday; some spectators wondered why he wasn’t at Pittsburgh. . . . Bob Lally has never played on a losing football squad, which should be a good omen for the Irish in their try for a third undefeated season. . . . Ohio State and Michigan continue to collect western scalps. The Pacific Coast Conference must have more bald-headed coaches than any other league. . . . Snipers who like to point to Notre Dame as a school for pro gridders ought to read something besides the racing form. A check of the news page will show them that Notre Dame men captured eight out of 44 atomic research fellowships for this year. Not a single one of the winners was ever an All-American I
Man in the Dark
“Bill Walsh will be at center for Notre Dame.”
And that is usually the extent of the publicity for the 205-pound lineman from Phillipsburg, New Jersey. He is another Irish gridder with a shadow complex. As a freshman he slipped into the large shoes of Frank Szymanski. And just because there was no trouble at the center slot no one realized he was there. In 1946 All-American George Strohmeyer moved into the first string center job. But in 1947 Bill was back battling and ousted ferocious George after the Purdue game. This year Fischer, Martin and Hart are being tagged for All-American honors, and the man in the center is still the man in the shadow. Well, Bill, Moose and Marty are glad to have your company even if the press box boys don’t see you helping punch those center holes.
Prediction of the Week
There will be none of the comparative score fog which clouded the national title race last year. Notre Dame will do the job that Michigan was supposed to do. The Spartans will play over their heads for the first half — then the roof will fall on them. Notre Dame 35, • Michigan State 13.
Oct. 8, 1948
23
ND 142—AMERICAN MEDICAL 0
'We Quit!' Shouted Sad, Weary Gridders As Irish Rolled Up Record 27 Touchdowns
million miles to one inch for the other side. All point-a-minute performances were put in the shade. . . . Yost’s hurry-up system is now a mere tortoise ... it is said the play was so fast that the only time the spectators saw the players was before the game and between halves.”
“That looks good anyway. Rather relieves the feeling after the Wabash game.”
That’s what the Scholastic of 1905 had to say about one of the most incredible games in the history of football— Notre Dame vs. American Medical College, Oct. 28, l£05.
ND scored 27 touchdowns that wild weird afternoon, and but for the onset of total exhaustion and a midget-sized second half, might have piled up a dozen more. But Scholastic was unemotional in those days, and nobody got very excited when we beat American Medical, 142-0.
Almost everyone, of course, has heard that score, but few know any details of the game—the bloodiest massacre ever committed by a Notre Dame team.
For instance—all the scoring was done in only 33 minutes playing time. Linemen carted across 15 TD’s, three more than the backs. Even with touchdowns counting for five points each, the total would have climbed much higher if ND hadn’t missed 20 extra points—an alltime low in place-kicking.
To keep the score from getting too stupendous, the debacle was cut to a little more than half the length of an
BUT THEY MISSED 20 CONVERSIONS!! Times Haven't Changed Much ...
ordinary game. (Army did the same thing during the war to maintain friendly relations with Villanova and the Melville Torpedo Base, but the Cadets never slashed one that short.) The first half lasted 25 minutes, the second only eight. Score at halftime was 111-0.
American Medical was a total loss. Notre Dame backs romped up and down the field with practically no trouble at all. A slight sneer served to send the Medics tumbling on their faces.
Finally the backs got tired of the whole business and let the linemen score for a while. It was a lineman’s dream, and they made the most of it. Dropping into backfield positions, the center and right end made three touchdowns each. The tackles and guards trotted over for two each, and the left end—who must have been running on his hands—got one.
Let the Scholastic of that era tell the story in its own unruffled way:
". . . Although the Varsity had practically no opposition, they certainly had to go some to run up one hundred and forty-two points in thirty-three minutes of play. One hundred and forty-two is plenty, but had we kicked even a fair percentage of goals we would have twenty more points.”
(Scholastic complained even at that early age.)
“We were in good shape after the light work of the week before, and the men played the fastest game they have put up this year. The team work showed an improvement. . . . On defense we had no chance to show what we could do as the Medics fumbled or mixed their signals so that they never gained an inch, in fact, lost ground every time they had the ball. . . .
“The game as a whole was a poor exhibition of football as it was played by only one team; the others simply filled in space. From two to four plays was all that was required for a touchdown. The most noticeable feature of the game was the speed of all, but especially the men who were drawn out of the line to carry the ball.”
The New York Sun had a few funny cracks to make, too.
“. . . The total distance gained by Notre Dame is not given, but experts figure out that Notre Dame rushed the ball a
American Medical never played Notre Dame regain.—Bob Stock
Harriers Face Wyoming
(Continued from Page 21)
Wyoming has a relatively strong running unit, and among its members is a man who defeated the Irish ace Murphy in prep school. The seven-man outfit from the West finished in tenth place in last year’s national championships at Lansing, almost nosing out Notre Dame’s ninth-place squad. Several members of the Wyoming aggregation have already toured the local course in practice trials previous to the opening of school.
Coach “Doc” Handy was very pleased with the winning time of 15:53 turned in by the two intentional tie winners of last Saturday. The track mentor was looking ahead when he said we have some great distance runners coming up in the next few years. In addition to Almaguer, two other fledglings finished among the first ten men. Dick Lee finished strong in fourth place and Con Tetrault took the ninth position.
Murphy and Almaguer led the field during the entire run, with Lee close behind at the one and two-mile marks. The time for the first mile was 5:10 and for the second 10:24.—Jim Hoivard
Allport
ALMAGUER. MURPHY LEAD THE PACK Handy's Hamers Warm Up
24
The Scholastic
Irish Hold Slim Margin;
Tarheels Second in AP Poll
Though trailing the Tarheels of North Carolina in the number of first place ballots, the Fighting Irish won the first round in the Associated Press football poll by a slim 10 point margin. Northwestern by upsetting a favored Purdue eleven last Saturday blasted its way into third place.
The Mustangs of S.M.U. ran a shaky fourth. The Wolverines of Michigan who kept pace with the Irish through the 1947 season, slipped into seventh.
The first ten teams and their scores were as follows (number in bracket indicates the numbei- of first place ballots
■each team received): Notre Dame (50) .............    1200
North Carolina (55) ............ 1190
Northwestern (21) .............. 1025
Southern Methodist (13) .......... 882
Army (7) ......................... 725
Georgia Tech ..................... 598
Michigan (2) ..................... 542
Minnesota ........................ 407
California (3) ................... 399
Penn State (2) ................... 305
Interhall Basebailers Race Against Weather
The annual race against the Hoosier weather is being waged by the Physical Education Department in its annual fall interhall baseball tournament. In weather better suited for football, the various hall teams are attempting to finish their schedule by October 14.
Working on a double elimination basis, in which two losses drops a team from the tournament, the first round of games has been completed. In games played so far, Alumni was thrashed by Zahm 12-0;
CENTER BILL WALSH All Work and No Clippings
1947
1948
What a Difference a Year Makes
Walsh edged Breen-Phillips 4-2; St. Edward’s was blanked by Howard 3-0; Sorin’s old timers beat the Farley freshmen 9-3.
From the standpoint of color and baseball prowess, Zahm Hall has stood out. Froats, its pitcher, allowed only one man to reach base while striking out 17 of 18 in the Alumni game. Cornelius Mc-Gillicudy, grandson of the Philadelphia A’s venerable manager, is playing first base for the Zahm aggregation. Both these lads and others from the tournament. will bolster Coach Kline’s forces this spring.—Walt McGovern
Bitter Pittsburgh Writer Calls Double-Q 'Illegal1
Lacking anything constructive or- encouraging to report to Pittsburgh residents after last week’s Irish slaughter of the Panthers, Chester L. Smith, sports editor of the Pittsburgh Press, whipped out his micrometer and declared double quarterback illegal.
Mr. Smith cited rule seven, section two, article one, of the rule book which states that only one backfield man may be less than one yard behind the line of scrimmage. Ergo, the didactic Mr. Smith declares the Double Q (the nickname is Smith’s) to ba anathema.
What Mr. Smith failed to take into his mathematical computations is that with the stance of a 6-foot center it is very easy for both quarterbacks to be behind the one yard boundary. Further for Mr. Smith, the officials in the Purdue game were well aware of what was going on, because Coach Frank Leahy
diagramed the play for them before the game. Those custodians of the rule book, much more competent than Mr. Smith, everyone must admit, gave the Double Q a clean bill of health.
The Irish did not use the play against Pitt because they didn’t need it, not because of a closer look at the rule book. You will see it again this season, Mr. Smith, so be prepared with yardstick and rule book. But the odds are ten to one in favor of the Irish.
FROM THE WEST POINT "POINTER" Pick on Someone Your Own Size, Col. Blaik . . .
Oct. 8, 1948
25
Varda, Chamberland Warm Up New Teams, As Interhall Football Season Nears Kickoff
By TOM McNALLY
Score by quarters:
Notre Dame ...........
Purdue ...............
7 6 6 0—19 0006—6
Starting line-ups:
NOTRE DAME “B” PURDUE “B”
Get out the analgesic balm and the pressure bandages! Interhall football is here again and the boys look plenty rugged. Over by the Infirmary, next to the Chemistry Building and behind the tennis courts you’ll see them, 200 pound tackles, hair-line passers and shifty halfbacks, most of whom are wound up for revenge on two old enemies.
The men in question are Pete Varda and Ray Chamberland, coaches of last year’s winners. Gone are the days of their Cavanaugh and Lyons power-houses. This year Varda is coaching Alumni, and Chamberland is putting the freshmen from Zahm through their paces and both promise they won’t run away with the games again.
“Give me two ‘Zeke’ Lanes and a Tom Muscatello and we’ll do all right,” says Chamberland. Varda admits he could use men like Jim Presley and Bernie Powers. But both say they’ll hold their own and even win if things work out.
Chamberland’s big advantage is that he’s coaching freshmen. He and assistant coach Frank Hickey almost collapsed when 73 eager men turned out for the first day’s work since then they’ve been forced to cut 45 of them to get the squad down to a manageable number.
“That’s more than twice the number that turned out for Lyons and these boys are the most enthusiastic bunch I’ve ever coached.”
Ray has a light, fast backfield, including three fullbacks, four halfbacks and three quarterbacks—all top-drawer football players. The Zahm line averages 190 pounds and boasts a fine tackle in Bob Hunter. Men like Shaeffer, Moore, Campbell and McNeil will see plenty of action.
Pete Varda thinks his Alumni team will give anyone a tussle if a few of the boys come through. He has brought his great halfback Fred Bruno with him from Cavanaugh, along with his two quarterbacks, Harry Goheen and Pat Butler. Goheen is an excellent short passer and the fast, stocky Bruno was leading scorer for Cavanaugh. In the line Alumni has two crack tackles in Eirle-man and Van Nuys and good centers in Ogburn and Engels. Assistant coach “Rocky” Romeo is helping Varda.
“It looks like we’ll have a fast rangy ’ team, but without depth in any department. If the boys can learn to work as a unit like my Cavanaugh team did we’ll have a good club.”
Pete has a lot of respect for neighboring Dillon Hall which is potentially one of the best on campus. With Coach Jack McMahon at quarter, a host of fast backs and a. big, rugged line led by Bill Lydon this may be Dillon’s year to go. Howard Hall, meanwhile, has both Presley and Powers, along with Frank Harrison. A shaky line may slow them down.
And what of the champs? Coach Paul Bolous’s Zahm team of last year has moved into Cavanaugh and they’re raring to go. Paul says he hopes to keep the championship right where it is and he’s got just the men who can do the trick. With men like All-Campus quarterback Bob Barrett, Fred Bove at half and fullback Paul Schafly they are going to be a hard team to stop. Up front, Bengal bouter Jim Driscoll, Jack Klier, Kreuz and Dick Frankel will entertain all opponents.
That’s the interhall football picture. If Varda and Chamberland have anything to say about it they’ll meet each other in the stadium again this year. But they’ve got a long road ahead.
Strong Irish 'B' Varsity Raps Boilermakers, 19-6
In a hard-fought game played last Friday afternoon on Cartier Field the Irish “B” team defeated the Purdue "B” team, 19-6. Greatly outweighed, the spunky Irish team took a seven-point lead in the first quarter which they never relinquished.
The first Irish touchdown came in the first quarter when halfback Len Kroll took a shovel pass from Tom Carter and scored standing up from the one-yard line. Kroll also set up the second touchdown with the longest run of the game, a seventy-three-yard. return of a punt. Kroll took another shovel from Carter to score. George Dickson tried both conversions but was successful only on the first try.
Dick Cotter, Irish fullback, tallied the last touchdown for Notre Dame on a 45-yard run after snaring a lateral from Carter. Dickson’s extra point attempt was nullified by a penalty. The second try also failed when he tried to pass for the point.
Purdue scored their lone touchdown in the final minutes of play on a quarterback sneak from the one-yard line. The try for the extra point was wide.
Cantwell .......E............ Seput
Schwartz .......T..........  Daniel
Johnson ........G.......... Assimos
Jeffers .........C......... Sabilia
Higgins ........G.......... Bennett
Hudak ...........T..... Rheinschmidt
Murphy .........E........ Karwowski
Carter’ .........Q........ Keltzman
Saggau ..........H.......... Conlin
Smith ...........H.......... Rogatz
Cotter ..........F....... Campfield
Qei ^044^
NOTRE DAME
Pennants
Jackets
Gym Supplies
SPECIAL
Notre Dame navy-blue, reversible Letter Jackets $10.95 to $12.95
Sports Equipment Bowling Balls
Shoes
... at
SONNEBORN'S
SPORTS SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave. South Bend, Ind.
Phone 3-3702
26
The Scholastic
Only Eight Contest Entries Merit Chesterfield Cartons
Father Brennan’s and Mr. Mullally’s logicians fell down on the job this week as only eight students successfully deduced the correct answers to the Chesterfield contest. The contest which ran in Scholastic two weeks ago was based on the advertisement of the back cover of the magazine. Three clues were given whose answers were somewhere in the ad.
The eight winners who will receive a carton of Chesterfields each are: Paul Buchynsky, 287 Dillon; L. F. Porter, 104 Sorin; John Lindberg, off-campus; James O’Reilly, 104 Sorin; Ray Streb, 256 Morrissey; Hugh Roach, Law School; Fletcher Daniels, 304 Alumni; and E. A. Steffen, Jr., off-campus.
These eight said that the answers were the two crowns on Susan Hayward’s purse, the three letters A.B.C., and the seven white teeth and two brown eyes. Most of the entrants fell down on the first answer. Some did their own philosophizing on their answers as did Charles Mattingly of Morrissey Hall who reasoned that the crowns that fell in ’76 were British and that since then the only crowns in this country have been on checkers and poker chips.
“This national contest is being run on almost every campus in the country as a part of Chesterfield’s advertising campaign,” said Skip Rosser, who with Bernie Dannon is a co-representative for Chesterfield on this campus.
A contest will be run every month. The contest closes a week from the date that the clues are given and the winners will be announced one week later. The first ten correct answers will bring the authors a carton of Chesterfield. Since there were only eight winners this time there will be twelve cartons given away on the next set of clues. — Murray Powers
New ND Law Association To Hold December Assembly
For the first time in the history of the University, a Notre Dame Law Association is in the process of being formed. Members of the College of Law held a meeting last June, during which a constitution was drawn up and plans for the future were formed. The first annual assembly will take place at the University on December 10 and 11.
In organizing the association, the founders have principally in mind bringing graduate lawyers together for their mutual benefit. The organizers also contend that the new society will
help provide a placement service for graduate law students, procure qualified students for the law school and lead to the expansion of the Law Building library.
President of Notre Dame and present Bishop of Buffalo is to correlate theoretical classroom instruction in industrial management with practical experience.
Industrial Officials Open O'Hara Seminar Lectures
In the first of nine lectures in the current Bishop O’Hara Seminar series, two top officials of the Hughes Tool Company, Colonel Dan Martin and Charles Thornton, addressed students in the College of Commerce this week.
Martin, vice-president in charge of engineering at the Houston, Tex., company, and formerly an ordnance instructor at West Point, spoke on “Basic Tools of Management,” at an afternoon and evening session in the Law Auditorium. His colleague, Thornton, also a high executive in the organization, addressed the assembled Commerce and Engineering students on “The Organization of Business Management.”
The purpose of the Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lectures, named for the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former
FEET HURT? GET QUICK
RELIEF HERE at Dr.ScWf’s
Over 100 different kinds of Remedies, Pads, Plasters, and more than 50 types of Arch Supports have been developed by Dr. Wm. M. Scholl for the relief of all common foot troubles. Don’t go on suffering another day! Let one of our Trained Attendants show you how you, too, can join the thousands of satisfied patrons who took advantage of our Foot Relief Facilities!
COJNE INFO* A Fill FOOT TIST!
D:Scholl
FOOT COMFORT SHOP
215 West Washington Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Telephone: 4-7471
•Tndt M»r> Q. 3. P»t. Off.
Attention!
BERT CLEANERS & DYERS
222-224 West Washington Ave.
Bert Cleaners will give Notre Dame students an opportunity to save 25% on all their Dry Cleaning, Pressing, Repairing, and Dyeing at our plant. Take advantage of our 3-Hour and While-You-Wait services. Use our free pick-up and delivery service.
For your 25% discount card, fill out this coupon and present it at our office.
Name.................................
Hall............... Room	Number......
Oct. 8, 1948
27
Names Make News
The new rector of the fourth floor cf Morrissey Hall is the Rev. JAMES P. SMYTH, who came to this country recently from England. A native of Liverpool, Father Smyth studied at the Catholic University of Lisle, France, and holds a degree in the Philosophy of Politics and Economics from Oxford. Before the war, Father Smyth was active in youth organizations in Liverpool and Lancashire. He was a chaplain in the Royal Navy from 1944 to 1947. At present, he is teaching religion at Notre Dame.. . .
The Rev. JOHN HALEY, C.S.C., has been appointed to the faculty of St. George’s College, Santiago, Chile. Father Haley was formerly assistant Prefect of Religion here. . . .
DR. WALDEMAR GURIAN, Professor of Political Science and recently returned from a Lecture tour of Germany, has written an article for the Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science entitled “Peace Ideals and Reality.” Shortly after his return from Europe, Dr. Gurian lectured before the International Relations Club of the University of Chicago on the situation in Germany. . . .
Capt. JOSEPH J. WEIDNER, USAF, a former West Point three-letter man, has been assigned as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics for the recently mobbed Air ROTC at Notre Dame. Before entering the Military Academy in 1937, Capt. Weidner spent one year at Notre Dame. He is one of the finest athletes ever developed at West Point, claiming letters in lacrosse, basketball, and boxing. An older brother, FRED 1VEIDNER, was a monogram-winning guard under ELMER LAYDEN. . . .
CONNIE MACK, III, is a freshman at Notre Dame this year, living in Zahm. Connie is the grandson of the Grand Old Man of Baseball, Connie Mack, who owns and pilots the Philadelphia Athletics. . . .
RAYMOND J. DONOVAN, assistant director of public information and basketball publicist, was invited this week to the Basketball Writers’ Dinner in Chicago. Most of the sportswriters invited are still quite busily engaged re- • porting football activities, but believe in being fully prepared.. ..
CLAUDE JULIEN
Married: CORNELIUS STYERS, red-headed, bespectacled Irish distance runner, to Theresa Cavanaugh, also redheaded, sister of FR. JOSEPH CAVANAUGH, rector of Lyons Hall. Wedding date was August 17. . . .
Birth: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES TANSEY announce the birth of a son, Kevin Michael. The proud cigar-passer is a Senior in the College of Arts and Letters and is presently living in South Bend. . . .
Johnny-on-the-spot was EDWARD SNYDER, former Scholastic editor and now hustling police news on the night beat for the South Bend Tribune. Ed romped at high speed down the alley to the Granada Theatre last Monday
RUBIN CLEANERS
20% Discount
to Notre Dame Students on regular service.
217 E. Jefferson
and was one of the first to arrive at the scene of the robbery. The holdup men skipped with some $300, leaving the manager and his assistant lying on the floor. . . .
CLAUDE JULIEN, political science graduate student and instructor in French literature at Notre Dame last year, has written an article on France and the MRP in a current issue of Commonweal. Julien is a leading figure in the French YCS movement. . . .
JIM McMAHON and PAT COSTELLO, Cavanaugh Hall, traveled to the Pitt game in style. They flew two Navy fighter planes to Pittsburgh, landed at the airport, attended the game, and flew back to NAS, Glenview, Ill., Sunday. They belong to the organized Naval Air Reserve at Glenview.
DESK LAMPS
SPIRAL NOTEBOOKS
SLIDE RULES
RING BINDERS
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
126 S. MAIN
across from the courthouse
2 Blocks East of Kresge’s
28
The Scholastic
Books
The Seven Storey Mountain by Thomas Merton; Harcourt Brace and Company; §3.00.
The search within man to find a place for his soul in this materialistic world is an oft-told tale. Seldom, however, has it been related with more intense feeling and interest than in this book.
Thomas Merton is a convert to the Catholic faith, a leading intellectual and poet who, at the age of 26, entered a Trappist monastery. Why he was all of these things — intellectual, poet, convert and Trappist — makes for fascinating reading.
Merton was born in France of a frail, sensitive mother and an artistic father. As a result of this union he was never in one place very long. His father painted landscapes (later became quite famous for doing so) and since landscapes don’t come walking by the front door sill, had to go over all of Europe and America for subject matter. Thomas was educated at home, at public schools in America, at a Lycee in France, a public school in Cambridge, England, and finally at Columbia University in New York. It was while at Columbia that he became a Catholic.
The story of his college life and particularly those restless years that preceded his entrance into the church are, in reality, the heart of the book. Merton was a typical product of his age and his university. He was a shifting intellectual, filled with all the current conflicting ideologies and causes—D. H. Lawrence and Freud and Blake and Communism. He lived in a coflin-like room on 114th Street; sat through the nightly jazz and beer rituals in Greenwich Village; wrote for the excited, socially conscious, sometimes brilliant campus magazines and drank more beer. When he received his B.A. degree he kept right on in the graduate school with more time for reading and drinking.
It was while working on his master’s that one afternoon Merton stepped into a small bookstore on Broadway and came away with the Spirit of Mediaeval Philosophy by Gilson. That was the beginning of a road of thought that led him years later through the high gate at the Trappist monastery at Gethsem-ani, Kentucky. Between those two events were months of despair and search; nights spent in a room in Greenwich village or a cottage at Olean, New York, reading Gerard Manley Hopkins
Oct. 8, 1948
"The MEN'S Corner"
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
of course they re
ALL WOOL
SLACKS
$10.95
Whether it's the golf course, or just plain lounging around your room, these ALL WOOL SLACKS will fill the bill and then some.
s Katz
1 V FO/? MEN AND 1 ^.YQi UNG MEN MAIN AT Cb LFAX
2S
and St. Thomas. Of sudden revelations and a walk on a rainy night to Corpus Christi Church for the first of a series of talks on his conversion. And of another rainy night when he left St. Bonaventure’s college where he had been teaching and the long train ride down to Kentucky and the priesthood.
All this is written with the obvious spirit of a man who is amazed at what he has done in the past and eternally thankful to God for giving him the grace to' do what he is doing in the
LOW- ■ / fin
: TIME
j MT ROCK COATS
:	why they feet
good as they loofcP
......
See me in the feature presentation in
WE HAVE THEM *50 to ’125
present. It is written with a deep religious fervor and the author, without shame, interposes his narrative with Jong prayers of thanksgiving and Catholic dogma.
The book has many weaknesses. It is obviously dramatic. It lacks the poetical quality you might expect to find in a Thomas Merton work. The narrative is not always smoothly linked together. But the book has a great strength in that it was written with great feeling and overpowering sincerity; in that it
is a full confession of a troubled life that has found peace. It is a book written out of the soul of a man about the soul of a man.—Greg Halpin
Campus Clubs
(Continued)
Illinois Men Get Trophies
Denizens of mid-Illinois pulled up the curtain of the Central Illinois Club at a recent meeting. Prexy Frank Keating gave a short talk and welcomed some twenty-odd freshmen into the ranks of the club. Sunday the members journeyed out to the Notre Dame farm where the Club’s annual picnic was held.
Motor City Boys Eat Steak
According to a club publicity release, the “Dynamic Detroit Club has begun another school year with a bang.” The Detroiters held their first meeting last week at which president Larry Smith presented ideas to make this year a success. After a report on the many summer activities in the Motor City, the prexy introduced the new members to the club. Treasurer John Look gave a financial report with announcement following of the first steak-dinner meeting of the year. It was held last Wednesday night at the Ramble Inn.
Club Greets New Architects
With the welcome mat out to the new freshmen architect students, the Architect Club held their first meeting. The new officers introduced were: president, Vincent T. Boyle; vice-president, Louis Scibelli; secretary, Joseph Oravec, and treasurer, John Truemper.
The Club mapped out activities for the semester and introduced the faculty. Chase Black was chairman of the welcoming party.
15% discount on all ready made or made to measure suits, sport coats or trousers.
For further information, see our campus representatives: Gus Cifelli, Mike Ivers, Tom Tearney, Pete Francken, Tom McGuire and Jack Clynes.
Clothiers	Tailors
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
115/4 - 117^4 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
CONTEST SEEKS POETRY
Local Shelleys and Byrons take note: the national Poetry Association is lookin? for you! The annual contest is now open and asking for all contributions to be- submitted by November 5. Those lyrical pieces that are accepted will appear in the Annual Anthology of College Poetry.
Each effort must be on a separate sheet and must carry the following signed statement; the following verse is my own personal effort. That means plagiarism is out. Send your miniature masterpieces to National Poetry Association, 3210 Selby Avenue, Los Angeles 34, California.
30
The Scholastic
Music
Another maestro, Bill Cullen, has had orks on campus for the past two years. At last notice, he was beginning again with a different lineup.
George Finn, our candidate for ND’s
finest musician, is inactive this year. It’s too had his physics books keep him from forming a small combo to replace the now defunct Cavaliers. The school could use one.
By VERNE KELLEY
Pull up a bed, kiddies, and hear a fantastic story.
There is music on the campus. And not only Gregorian-chanting seminarians in training for the coming Sunday Mass season.
Somehow, students have started student orchestras and the ironic thing about it is that they’re good. Good orchestras, not good students.
In other years, the campus musicians would slouch near the Music Hall steps smoking, looking emaciated, and moaning about the “nowhere” status of music in general. Now, they slouch, smoke, look emaciated, ah, but with a gleam in their eyes. They are making money.
Competing with Stan Kenton, of whom much was said last week in this column, on the night of Oct. 16 will be Stan Seymoui- and the Collegians. This group of horn-blowers has been engaged by the Co-Hop committee for its dances. All this, mind you, without using soap.
Besides Stan, who fronts, plays lead alto sax, and smiles at the gathering throng at the bandstand, are Vic De Simon, who also toots alto and smiles, Jack Guion, former Student Councilor now hiding frustration behind a trumpet, Joe Harrison, soph trumpet, and an un-smil-ing, unconscious tenor man, sometimes known as Enrev Yellek. The rhythm section boasts Tom Voss, Frank Malzone and Tony Ortiz.
Every Saturday eve in the Navy Drill Hall you’ll find (if you’ll only look) the new music of Gene Hull, a freshman who fronts a band very unlike a freshman. He is managed by brother Duane Hull. Keep it all in the family, boys.
Among the many who receive pay checks from Hull are Bob Olcese, Ron Myrter, Bob Monacelli, Jack Fitzhenry, Howie Hornung, Garry Bolger and others we don’t know but would like to meet, if just to include their names.
Olcese is the trumpet lad who knocks out all that bop for the Hull crew. Pianist Fitz has been around for a long time, but not long enough to deserve the piano that is forced upon him at the Victory Dances.
Both orchestras play fine notes and neither would turn down a job if you ask them nice and offer some long green with a short future.
Oct. 8, 1948
Two things tsfoty college man should know /
This is a bookworm. Gets out of breath turning pages. Couldn't hurt a flyleaf. To take a leaf from your campus style book, get a smart "Manhattan” sportshirt.
$
I
s
This is a "Manhattan” sportshirt.
Even makes bookworms feel active.
Tailored for style and comfort. IFasitable rayon gabardine in choice of handsome colors.
$
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1948, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
s’

31
COLLEGE PARADE
By BARTON T. OAKS
Right Around Home
The Notre Dame Juggler, our literary cousin, has received what dignified gents call a “face lifting.” The stories in said magazine, we are told, will be printed in the King’s English. The Juggler must be getting high-class because the editors rejected our poem which had received an A-plus from Professor Cassidy, a B-minus from Prof. Staunton, and a C-plus from Dean McCarthy (a friend turned it in as a commerce thesis). Before we send it over to the engineering school via an ah' brake major, here it is for your inspection:
He rocked the boat, Did Ezra Shank;
These bubbles mark
o o o o o
Where Ezra sank!
—Notre Dame Juggler
Call the Morgue
“I see in the Trib that 11 profs and a student were killed in a train wreck.”
“Poor chap.”
—Cornell Crunch
—Texas Tech Terror
—Michigan Crisler
—Northwestern Nuisance and 205 others.
Figure This One Out
She	This!
Was	Like
The	At
Kind	Look
Of a You Girl
Vassal* Vigilant
Move Over
“Mama! Come here and make Dick stop teasing me.”
“What is he doing, dear?”
“He’s sitting on the other end of the davenport.”
—ND Scholastic, 1919.
Uh Huh!
Said the kindly clergyman, pinching the little boy’s knee: “And who has nice, chubby legs?”
Said the little boy: “Betty Grable.”
—St. Mary’s Static
Philosophy 32
“If this lecture has gone overtime,” said the good padre, “it’s because I haven’t my watch and the hells won’t ring.”
“There’s a calendar behind you.”
—Dave Cowden, 226 Dillon
Want to See the
NOTRE DAME - NEBRASKA Game?
RENT A NEW CAR or STATION WAGON
Gas and Oil furnished — adequate Insurance
The U-DRIVE-IT Co.
223 West Washington Street Next to Oliver Hotel
Estimates Gladly Given
Phone 4-1606 or 2-2941
Look to
GILBERTS
813-817 S. Michigan Street
for ARROWS
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
Ifs Adler’s
for
ARROW
ON UK COMO.... MKNItMl f MSMNMDN
32
The Scholastic
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 \AOUNG MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
for
ARROW shirts
Radio
TWO SWELL
COLLEGE BUDDIES
ARROW CANDY STRIPES WIDESPREAD "SUSSEX" COLLAR
ARROW SOLID COLORS
SHORT POINT "KENT" COLLAR
Practical and good looking additions to your wardrobe, these Arrow shirts are beautifully tailored in fine broadcloth and come in several colors.
Both the soft widespread "Sussex" collar and the non-wilt "Kent" short point collar are particular favorites of college men.
See them soon at your favorite Arrow store!
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
By VERNE KELLEY
You, friend, need a radio. A strong radio. Strong enough to hold up two “Introduction to the Introduction to Business” books, and strong enough to “receive” Chicago stations. . ■
Why?
Because: We have recently become aware of an amazing radio station located in Chicago (located in Illinois) which carries the greatest array of entertainers since the USO tours.
As an NBC affiliate it brings to its audience the great NBC Parade of Stars, a favorite everywhere. Oh, goody!
Everybody but Bing
This fall the Parade of Stars has Bob Hope, Bed Skelton, Al Jolson, Bums and Allen, Jack Benny, (breathe), Edgar Bergen, Fred Allen, Fibber McGee and Molly, Jimmy Durante, Eddie Cantor, (breathe), Ozzie and Harriet Nelson, Dennis Day, William Bendix and Dave Garroway. Whew!
Have you ever been so impressed? Don’t you have that hurry-let’s-turn-on-the-radio feeling? If you’ll only sit still a minute, you’ll hear even more.
The station is WMAQ. It is 670 on the dial. Yeh, its been there all along.
Learn the Easy Way
We also feel that your education will suffer if you don’t use the radio often.
Besides making you laugh, singing to you or serenading you, it educates you. No longer must you wade through poorly written history books to find out the facts about the Civil War—Southerners please note—or the Revolutionary War.
Now, radio brings the past to you in a documentary show on Sunday around 1:30. Next Sunday Christopher Columbus will conveniently stumble upon India and name it America, or was it the other way around?
Maybe we can get credit for the course. The prof is Ned Calmer. No IBM number as yet.	’
"Sitko. No. Panelli. No ..."
Tomorrow Notre Dame scares Michigan State in a game which should' be full of touchdowns and substitutions. If you abhor crowds, there is a man named Joe Boland who will be glad to. bring a play-by-play account direct to your room. Nice guy, eh?	-
The lad’s as good or better than the over-paid network mikesters. At least he doesn’t cover up his mistakes with more laterals than even two quarterbacks could throw. Listenin,’ Bill? ; -
33 :
Oct. 8, 1948
Browser’s Column
Max A. Browser
On May 13 of this year, 1425 Notre Dame students went to the polls to vote for their class officers of this year. It was one of the biggest elections in the history and was accompanied by a welcome display of publicity stunts and vote-getting rare to this quiet hamlet.
During the campaigning the contesting parties promised much. Now is the time to deliver.
A class officer is a man with a tremendous responsibility toward his fellowstudent. If there is to be any sort of a real student action at Notre Dame, he must figure prominently in it. If his class is to accomplish anything noteworthy at all, it will be because of him. If his class remains inactive it will be his fault.
It has always been the sad case in the past that class presidents considered their term of office a success if they put out a “gala” prom, cotillion or ball. This, they seemed to feel, was the reason they had been elected and appropriately enough this was the theme of their campaigns. To some extent last spring’s campaigns followed the same pattern.
Class officers of the past may have been correct when they assumed that they were fulfilling student demands on their office with a big dance. If so, it was because the student body is ignorant of the potentialities of that office.
student council; by setting up a class information service and issuing bulletins of information on jobs, courses, veterans affairs to his class.
There are so many things a class officer can and SHOULD do. He should have the time to do it. Being president of a class is no part-time job. To do it right takes hours of every day.
It might be well here to publish in a bold type the class officers for this semester. Get to know them. They should be ready to help you in any way they can. They made a lot of promises around election time. Make sure they keep them. Here they are:
Sophomore officers: TOM LOGAN, president; BOB WILLIAMS, vice president; HOBE TAYLOR, secretary; JOHN O’BRIEN, treasurer. (O’Brien is no longer in school).
Junior officers: RUSSELL SKALL, president; JIM HOLWAY, vice president; ROBERT LALLY, secretary; JACK THORNTON, treasurer.
Senior officers: PAT COSTELLO, president; MARTY WENDELL, vice president; JAMES J. McLAUGHLIN, secretary; DON MURPHY, treasurer.
HERE and THERE
It has been suggested to us that the clay tennis courts at the rear of Lyons Hall be put back into condition. As stu
dents are not allowed on the clay courts by the parking lots and there are no other courts of that type on campus it seems a good idea. . . .
There is a condition in the Dining Hall that is reaching the intolerable point. The pesky Indiana fly has taken possession of both wings and is making meals a very uncomfortable ritual. Maybe something could be done to eliminate them. . . .
May we humbly suggest to the proprietor of the loud speaker system at the Stadium that tomorrow he refrain from so many announcements about meetings and dances, etc. The reaction of the student body and most fans at the Purdue game was one of much annoyance. Why not give more football and World Series scores instead?
There was initiated in Sorin and Morrissey Halls last year the wonderful custom of get-togethers after home football games. Free coffee and doughnuts and other refreshments were served at these little affairs, much appreciated by all who benefitted. Other halls might do well to imitate — starting tomorrow if possible.
And, finally—why all the abuse for the Band that has been pouring in. Scholastic received a letter last week that was too bitter to print. The band
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
What can the president of a class do, outside of a few parties, a dance and maybe a picnic or “class day?” For one thing he might do something constructive. He might get in touch with the student council and see how he can work in close cooperation with that organization for better student organization. He can better organize his own class by bringing them together more often for better purposes: by organizing forums on employment possibilities for seniors; by conducting sessions on the selection of courses for freshmen and sophomores; by acting as a liaison between class members and the faculty, and of course —the administration; by receiving and acting on suggestions from his constituents which could be handled through no other channel; by seeing that the aims and purposes of his class are getting a full and understanding hearing in the
34
Swtwj, Staly Cale.
601 North Niles Avenue — for—
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
HOURS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to 10 p. m. SATURDAYS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to ll;30 p. m.
Call 3-0978	Janies and Josephine Bamber, Proprietors
The Scholastic
at Notre Dame is an entertainment medium. Mr. Hope’s philosophy is to give a fast-moving, light show during half time, a feat which he has constantly accomplished. The Notre Dame Marching Band, it seems to us, is a thing to be justly proud of. •
Cash and Scholarship Contest Open to Engineering Students
The trustees of the James F. Lincoln Arc Welding Foundation have released notification that their annual Engineering Undergraduate Award and Scholarship Program is now open and will close on April 1, 1949. The current competition is the second in a ten-year series of programs which offer to engineering undergraduates the opportunity to compete in the preparation of papers on various phases of welding for monetary awards as well as scholastic and industry recognition.
Students’ papers may fall in one or more of the following categories: design, maintenance and repair, welding fabrication, and research and development. The rules of the program were reviewed and approved by the Deans of Engineering of fourteen prominent engineering colleges and may be obtained by writing the James F. Lincoln Arc Welding Foundation, Cleveland 1, Ohio.
Ifs
Gilbert’s
for
Van Heusen
o
One Man Anotken
GILBERT’S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
College man’s favorite (the shirt we mean!)
It’s Adler’s for Fan Heusen
ON THE CORNER—MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
WET*- '
Van Ace
widespread button-down with ’’Comfort Contour” collar
Van Heusen’s version of the wide-spread button down collar deserves top-drawer place in your shirt wardrobe! Designed to take a Windsor-knotted tie, this collar features new low-setting "Comfort Contour” styling that adds so much comfort, neatness, good looks. In smooth white and colored oxford, lab-tested, Sanforized, §3.95. Other Van Heusen shirts §3.50, §3.95, §4.95.
You’ll find college men’s collar favorites in
Van Heusen
the world’s smartest
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1. N. Y
“VAN HEUSEN" IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE
Oct. 8, 1948