The Notre Dame Scholastic
35
COMMENT
We received this week a very thought-provoking contribution from an unusual and unexpected source. Though the Scholastic no longer has a literary section, we are stretching a point and printing this contribution, a poem, because it is dedicated to Father O’Hara, and for other reasons which are obvious. The mission ends tomorrow .... We are sure you understand?^
COMMUNION
Have you ever sat with yourself and thought	\ '
Of the plans you have planned that have come to nought,
Of the dreams you have dreamed and then put away
To rest in their nest till some future day?
Have you properly marshalled the actions you rue,
And said to yourself, “These cannot be time!”
Stark cruel, unintended, yet bitter as gall—
You have and I have and haven’t we all?	.
Have you ever communed ivith your God and said,
“The man who did those things forever is dead
And buried aivay ’neath the sod of the vault,
Whence he cannot come forth and lead me to fault.”
t Have you called up your vict’ries, the races you’ve run—
The few you have lost, the many you’ve won,
And said to yourself with dissatisfied mind,
“They’re good, well I know it; some others I’ll find!”
Then do sit with yourself and quietly know	:
That a vict’ry you’ve won spreads a beautiful glow.
The win that you made when you locked the vault,
Was worthy the merit of the God you exalt.	' ;
—Michael Lindon.
Walter V. Beesley Edward R. Brennan-James Carmody’ William Fitzgerald
I The Notre Dame Scholastic
I Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus
Founded in 1872
EMIL L. TELFEL.... HARLEY L. McDEVITT
... .Editor-In-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
John E. Bergan....... James J. Kearney..... Edward E. Brennan. . James K. Collins..... Austin Boyle.......... Paul J. Hallinan.... Richard J. O’Donnell Ramon G. Smith.......
Frank E. Seward...... W. Leslie Raddatz....
.........Managing.Editor Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor ..............Features.......Editor .................Script..........Editor ..............Associate.......Editor 	The	Week .......................The College Parade .......................Music and Drama .......................Campus	Clubs
NEWS STAFF
Neil C. Hurley
News Editor
William C. Karl...................Assistant	News Editor
Myron Crawford Alfred E. Gall Anthony’ R. Schreiner William Corr
John Pick
George x\llan Lawrence Dunda J. Sancuinet Williams
SPORTS STAFF
E	John A. Kiener.....................Sports	Editor
E	Cleve Carey-	James E. McFeely, Jr. Henry B. Asman
:	Robert Balfe	William J. Magarrall
BUSINESS STAFF
E	James H. Rorke..........Local	Advertising Manager	’
:	James L. Rizer........Foreign Advertising Manager
E	John R. Blanda..........Local	Circulation Manager
E	Andrew McGuan.........Foreign Circulation Manager
E	Frederick Bauer	Merle Baldwin	Norman E
I Vol. LXIV	OCTOBER 3, 1930	/ No. 2
i	TABLE OF CONTENTS
E The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell------------------------- 36
E Chesterton to Begin Lectures Monday—William Fitzgerald- 37
: New Law Building Adds Beauty to Campus—
E Myron Crawford and William. Corr---------------------- 38
:	Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward---------------------- 40
E	A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan--------------------- 41
i	Editor’s Page 47
E	College Parade—Ramon G. Smith----------------------   48
E	Believe It or Not—James Carmody^.-------------------- 49
I	The Wink 50
E	S. M. U. Hopes May Be a “Passing Fancy”—John A. Kiener- 51
E	Splinters From the Press Box---------------------     60
E	On Down the Line------------------------------------- 64
E THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu-E scripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building. '
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for jnailing E a special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
E The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of
E	All Notre Dame Men.
(s|»»H»|I||U|ll||||»lin|l||a|I||,l||,||<MU|>||>a>|||»l|,|l»|»||>||>|>aa>a||I»||||||»|>,»>a»ll>l>>allll*>alllllll>l»llll>>»>>lll»»»ll<a>l»»
|HIIIIIIHHIIinHIIHtHIHIIIIItHIIIIIH1lllltHllltlHHIItHltHttllllllMlllllHIIHllllllH1IHIIIIIIIIIIHIIIII MllllltllllllHHHIIMillMillHHIIItIlilllllllHIII IMIIIMMIHIIIIIIIIIIHIIHHIilllllMIIlllHlIIIIIIIHHHHHIHIIHHHHIHHIItlHUtlHIHIIIHIMitlinHHIIItlHHHIIIIIIMIIIHHMIIIHIMHIIIHIIHIIMHHIIHlgj
36
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WITS
I T has been estimated that seventy-two men cut classes this week to watch the operation being performed on the church tower. This number is slightly larger than that caused by the activities of the steam shovel last spring. We believe, however, that the shovel would win out if all the absences it provoked had been recorded. But it numbered among its victims several professors who almost ruined their vocal chords in trying to make themselves heard above the din caused by the shrieking earth-eater. When they gave up the debate, the students were left saddened because their appetites for the day’s learning-had not been satisfied, but they suffered no cuts. Those who viewed sorrowfully the passing of the steam shovel have brightened up since the clock engineers have had their heads protruding from the circles which once announced the approximate time of day to the campus. Whereas once we hastened from our classes in Science hall to get a good position to watch the mechanical monster dig up the campus, we now scurry over to Sorin, and park on the porch from which we may comfortably see the old tower clock undergo a rejuvenation, and hear it groan in bell-like tones as the doctors touch its intestines. For the enlightenment of a few curious freshmen, we might state that the purpose of all these activities is not the improvement of the local hangout for the University’s pigeons. In fact, the feathered residents of the tower are reported as being somewhat peeved at the invasion of their quarters. They have taken up their grievances with the Blue Circle, but as yet no steps have been taken.
T HE war preliminaries of savages are rather familiar to all those who have had the pleasure of seeing any of the current movie films that portray or pretend to portray life as it is lived in darkest Africa, or darkest Harlem, as the case may be. These wild men have not attained to such a civilization as might bring to them the theories of our modern psychologists and psychoanalysts, but they know enough about hypnotism and the powers of suggestion to change themselves from amiable enough colored gentlemen into fierce, blood-thirsty warriors. The dancing, yelling, chanting, and so forth attendant upon these rites bear a marked resemblance to the customs involved in that strange phenomenon of college life today: the pep meeting. Our purposes, of course, are not so dire as those of our weak-minded brethren, but our means of attaining them are not so different. There is enough of the primitive left in man, and especially in the man of college age, to make him thrill to the defiant shouts of a mob, and to send his blood rushing through his body to the beat of the drums, and the chanting of a song of victory. Tonight the student body will meet and synthetic pep in large quantities will be manufactured. Feelings will run high, and the sentence will be passed on our guests from the South who will be enemies for a day.
T HOUGH it may startle you, we have it from good authority that a regiment of Texas rangers is about to invade the peaceful village of South Bend, and its even more peaceful suburb of Notre Dame, armed with all sorts of football weapons of destruction, and intent on victory at any price. In fact, these southerners have so long been anticipating success that the idea of defeat ' has never entered their minds. The preparations they have made for their encounter with the national champions are said to extend back to last spring, and to have continued right through the summer. Indeed, some of these hardy gridiron soldiers ate spinach every day and took a cold shower every morning to harden themselves for the struggle. The merits of these rites are about to be tested. We have always been dubious about the much extolled qualities of that grass-like vegetable, and the cold shower addicts we have known are in most cases anaemic individuals attempting to drown an inferiority complex. So spinach does not an all-American make, nor cold showers a quarterback. The goings-on in that field behind the new green fence on Eddy Street are veiled in secrecy, but we presume that the men who gather there every afternoon are not playing parchesi. Could it be possible that they are planning maneuvers to confound the attacks of these determined Texan invaders?
T HOSE insignificant few who complain of the lack of social life at Notre Dame need only glance at the bulletin board in the Main building to have their grumblings silenced. When unhappy and discontented students rebel at a scarcity of “social recreation,” they usually mean a dearth of dances. Of course, there are other forms of recreation, such as a quiet chat in the parlor at St. Mary’s, or a game of pool in Brownson “rec,” but for some reason or other the terms “social activities” have taken on the meaning of terpsichorean gestures, undulations, footwork, or what would you suggest. And the posters that greet you as you leave the Main building offer inducements to the most ardent dance enthusiast that ever shunned O’Sullivan’s heels. Furthermore, for those freshmen who are not acquainted with the art, there is the Scholarship party which has other attractive features. The admission fee entitles them to a free chance on a football box and another free chance at any girl in the hall. We hope that every first year man will take advantage of this splendid opportunity to benefit a worthy cause and at the same time get off on the right foot on his local social career. We must not forget that a good beginning is one-half of the race, and, freshmen, if you don’t think a social career in South Bend is a race, ask any senior who has been beaten out by a faster competitor.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
37
Chesterton to Begin Lectures Monday
Noted Writer Will Speak to Students on Victorian History and Literature
FOR six weeks, beginning the 6th of October and ending the 15th of November, the University will be host to one of England’s most
There will be no admission charge to any of the lectures but each student must present an admittance card for admission to each of the lectures,
cards. Juniors had second choice. The total enrollment of graduate students, juniors, and seniors will, not exceed six hundred and fifty. Those
distinguished auth-
who were not for-
ors — Sir Gilbert Keith Chesterton. As a defender of the Catholic faith, to which he was converted, Mr. Ches(terton holds a h i g'h position among the laity, but he is' more popularly known to the general public as a great poet, essayist, shortstory writer, and novelist.	’
M r . Chesterton ‘ will conduct, during these six weeks, a series of eighteen lectures on the Literature of the Victorian Period and a series of as many lectures on the History of the Victorian Period. These lectures are open to students of advanced standing as elective courses. One semester hour of credit will be given to them upon the completion of an examination to
Sir Gilbert Keith Chesterton
tunate enough to secure admission to Mr. Chesterton’s courses may have the opportunity of hearing him in a series of special lectures which are to be arranged by the officers of the University. This last series will be open to the student body and the general public.
M r. Chesterton is a leader in the literary field and his international repute has made him long sought by American educators. He was scheduled to appeal- at the University last spring but, unfortunately, illness forced him to postpone his arrival until this date.
All lectures will be held in Washington Hall. Those on literature will begin at 8:00 o’clock p. m. on
be given by Uni-
versity professors. Because of the limited time, and to give as many students as possible an opportunity of hearing Mr. Chesterton, no one will be permitted to enroll in more than one of the two courses.
and to the examination for credit. The admission card is void if presented by anyone other than to whom it was originally issued.
Graduate students and seniors were given first choice in securing the
Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and the ones on history are scheduled for 8:00 o’clock p. m. on Tuesday and Thursday, and at 4:30 p. m. on Friday.
Mr. Chesterton is expected to arrive in South Bend on Sunday, October 5.
38
The Notre Dame Scholastic
New Law Building Adds Beauty to Campus
Oldest Catholic Law School in America Enters New Edifice
Bit Myron Crawford and William Corr
•	With the completion of the new
,	Law building, along with its contem-
porary structure, the stadium, the ;	Notre Dame campus becomes more
and more a beautiful spot, a cynosure to visiting eyes and a site to which Notre Dame students may point with
4	well-founded pride. These two struc-
tures are the first material results of a building program which will soon place Notre Dame in a position en-'•	joyed now only by the more heavily
(	endowed universities of the country.
The new Law building is an outstand-
•	ing example of Gothic architecture,
<	a type rich in symmetry and simplic-
<	ity of design.
..	The plan of the building is roughly
in the form of the letter “H.” There are three entrances with the main
)	entrance facing Notre Dame Avenue,
j	. This entrance is an open portico with
>	pointed arches framed in the stone.
,1	In the corner is a niche which will
!	later be ornamented with fine sculp-
G	ture work. On passing through the
ii	main vestibule, one finds himself in a
long corridor, flanked on either side by capacious classrooms and seminar rooms. The south pavilion of the main floor accomodates classrooms, and the north pavilion contains the courtroom and the Larvyers' office. The courtroom is in the modern manner, and is adequately equipped, for judicial use, with a judge’s bench, jury box, witness stand, and seats to accommodate sixty-three spectators. The main body of the second floor is devoted to the library and a reading room, shelved in dark oak. The library is roofed with a vaulted ceiling ribbed with oak and panelled with Celotex. Two rows of great stone columns support the Gothic ceiling. Grouped about the library are the offices of the librarian, of the dean, of the secretary, and of the faculty members.
The interior throughout is enlivened by Indiana Limestone, some of which has been shaped into shields bearing significant inscriptions. Every appointment qualifies it as eminent
among the buildings of the country’s universities.
Thomas Frank Konop, a graduate ’ of the University of Nebraska, and a former member of Congress from Wisconsin, has taken up his old duties as Dean of the College of Law in the new quarters. William James Hoynes, A.M., L.L.D., dean of the College from 1883 to 1918, remains at Notre Dame as professoi- of law and dean emeritus.
Notre Dame’s College of Law is the outgrowth of a course in law established at the University in 1869, and is historically the oldest Catholic law school in the country. Enroll- > ment in the College, which was formally established in 1905 in conjunction with the reorganization of the University at that time, now numbers one hundred and forty-five. The College is a member of the Association of American Law Schools, and has an » “approved” rating from the Council on Legal Education of the American Bar Association.
❖—

CARDINAL HAYES TO DEDICATE NEW STRUCTURE TUESDAY
On Tuesday, October 7, Cardinal Hayes of New York will visit the campus to take part in the dedicating ceremonies of the new University law school building. Cardinal Hayes will arrive in South Bend in the private car of George MacDonald, and will go directly to the cam pus where he will be welcomed by University officials and taken on a tour of the grounds, both here and at St. Mary’s.
The Cardinal’s stay will be brief. His car arrives at 12:11 o’clock Tuesday and almost immediately after the dedication ceremonies he will return to New York at 5:26 o’clock. The Very Reverend Stephen Donahue, D.D., private secretary to the Cardinal, will also attend.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
39
9
BLUE CIRCLE TO DIRECT STUDENT CHEERING
Plans made at the last meeting of the Blue Circle have materialized, and arrangements for the silent cheering at the games and for pep meetings before them have been completed, as announced by Chairman Ed Madden at the last regular meeting of September 30.
The quota for the silent cheering section has been easily filled, and the tickets for the students in the section are now being distributed by the row captains, who are to be in charge of instruction for handling the cards at the games. Ed Madden has announced a practice session, to be held today in the stadium at 5 o’clock. It is absolutely necessary that everyone connected in any way with the cheering section be there, for it will be the only practice before the first game on October 4, and the only one of the year.
NOTRE DAME ADMITTED INTO ARCHITECTURE
ASSOCIATION
Graduates of the school of architecture at Notre Dame will hereafter enjoy the advantages that accrue from the University’s newly acquired membership in the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture. Notre Dame was admitted to the association at the annual meeting of the executive committee, held in Washington, according to an announcement made by Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Engineering at ( the University.
Students graduating from architectural schools of universities belonging to this association are excused from examinations when applying for membership in the American Institute of Architects. Graduates • are also exempt from examinations in those states which require registration for the practice of architecture.
Many fine drawings are being turned out daily by the architects of the University. Only recently a Notre Dame graduate, Richard Zimmerly, > was accorded highest honors in the ; competition of the Beaux Arts Insti-i tute. The architects now occupy the * old law building, where ample light ; and space is provided for drafting.
Committees have been appointed to handle the pep meetings to be held on the campus before the games. Plans made at the meeting Tuesday night call for a session in the gym before the Navy game, for which special decorations will be provided. There will be individual hall decorations and signs; competition among the halls is expected to be keen, since a cup has been offered by the S. A. C. for the best decorated hall.
The Blue Circle, primarily a student’s service organization, is providing for out-of-town visiters on game days a number of information booths, placed in the lobbies of the hotels and in prominent buildings in town. The booths will be in charge of members of the Blue Circle, and will dispense information from nine o’clock until noon on game days and the days before.
NOTRE DAME ALUMNI HONORED
Hon. Robert E. Proctor, an alumnus of the University and popular member of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association, was named National president of the Fraternal Order of Eagles at the convention,of the order held last August at Los Angeles. F. E. Hering, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, was also signally honored by the fraternity by being re-named editor- of the Eagles Magazine.
Both Mr. Proctor and Mr. Hering are well known on the campus. Mr. Proctor has spoken at a number of football “pep” meetings and Mr. Hering is remembered as the first coach of football at the University.
LOST AND FOUND OFFICE IN MAIN BUILDING
Brother Antoninus, C.S.C., guestmaster of the University, has announced that a lost and found office is maintained in Room 109 of the Main Building. All persons finding articles may turn them in at this office.
Brother Antoninus is serving his first year at the University, having spent three years at Columbia University, Portland, Oregon. He succeeds Brother Julian at the University as guestmaster.
“DOME” PICTURES TO BE
TAKEN OCTOBER 27
October 27 has been set as the opening day for senior photography for the graduate section of the Dome. Caps and gowns will be the garb of the graduates as they sit for their four proofs.
Juniors will also be given particular attention in the Dome’s gallery of faces. Instead of lining the third-year boys into groups of four, each junior will pose for an individual picture, and two proofs will be made. No charge will be made for the junior sittings.
Because the juniors will be given special attention in the photography and make-up of the book, it will be necessary that coats and neckties be worn when the pictures are taken.
White Studio of New York, outstanding in theatrical and collegiate photography, has been selected for the work. The senior and junior pictures, as well as the class officers, club officers, members of the publications’ staffs, debating teams, and certain campus societies, will be completed before Christmas. Mr. Otto May, of White’s is the official photographer. Mr. John Durrett, of White’s is cooperating with the Dome staff in details of the photography.
Instead of a blanket invitation to all seniors and juniors to appear foi-their picture-taking, cards will be sent out next week to all seniors, with a schedule of hours. The senior is asked to indicate the hour he will appear, and mail the card back to the Dome. A check will be made of the hours, and a complete schedule made up for senior photography. A second card will then remind the senior a few days previous to his appointment.
The editorial staff of the Dome will be announced next week.
FITZGERALD, CORR AND WILLIAMS ADDED TO
‘SCHOLASTIC’ STAFF
The editorial board of the Scholastic announces the addition of William Fitzgerald, Sanguinet Williams, and William Corr to the news staff. Both Fitzgerald and Corr are juniors in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in journalism, while Williams is a sophomore in the same college. They are the first new men to complete satisfactorily the probationary period which every aspirant to the staff must go through.
40
e Notre Dame Scholastic
NATIONALLY KNOWN MEN INVITED TO ATTEND DEDICATION
«
Music And Drama
»
Among the thousands to throng the Notre Dame campus on October 11 to witness Navy and Notre Dame battle on the gridiron will be an imposing-number of our most famous and prominent citizens, representing many and varied lines of endeavor, participating in the dedication of the spacious Notre Dame stadium, if many of the invitations sent out by the University are accepted.
Heading the list of those invited are several men who have been intimately associated with national affairs during the past years. Charles F. Adams, present secretary of the navy; Patrick J. Hurley, secretary of war, both members of President Hoover’s cabinet; Senator James E. Watson and Representative A. J. Hickey of Indiana; Alfred E. Smith, Democratic choice for president during the last national election; John J. Raskob, chairman of the Democratic national committee; Governor Harry G. Leslie of Indiana, and Governor Louis L. Emmerson of Illinois, make up this illustrious group.
In continuing the list of prospective visitors, the names of Patrick Crowley, president of the New York Central lines, and James Gorman, president of the Rock Island railroad, are found, as are those of William Wrigley, Paul McNutt, former national commander of the American Legion, Samuel Insull, Julius Rosen-wald, Col. R. R. McCormick, and Walter Strong, Chicago newspaper publishers, and Rufus Dawes.
The list of those who are connected chiefly with sports include John L. Griffith, director of Western conference athletics; Jess Harper, former coach at Notre Dame before the advent of Knute Rockne; Harry Heneage, chaii^nan of the athletic committee at Dartmouth, and Sydney Hutchinson, athletic committee chairman at the University of Pennsylvania.
Among the leaders in business and almost every other profession are found:
J
Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Mich.: C. C. Mitchell, Chicago; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago ; Daniel P. Murphy, Rockaway, N. J.; A. R. Ersk.ne, South Bend; E. N. Hurley, Chicago; J. F. Reitz, Evansville, Ind.; Fred J. Fisher, Detroit, Mich.; Janies J. Phelan, Boston, Mass.
E. J. Kelly, chairman South Park board of
Richard Sheridan’s The School For Scandal has been filmed in England. This play, which has been popular for 150 years, has at last been done in permanent form by a cast of polished actors under the direction of Maurice Elvey. We were glad to hear that Mr. Elvey, contrary to the apparent motion picture tradition, has not desecrated Sheridan’s text.
Among the Victor records you might care for: “We’re on the Highway to Heaven.” played by Jackie Taylor and his orchestra. The Boswell sisters sing the refrain, which has one of those tunes that you can’t get cut of your head for several days. “When Love Comes in the Moonlight,” on the other side, is fair. There is “Okay, Baby” for those who like McKinney’s Cotton Pickers. It has a regular tear-up-the-street rhythm. “I Want a Little Girl,” which completes the disc, is slow and broadly syncopated. Gus Arnheim and his Cocoanut Grove orchestra play “Go Home and Tell Your Mother,” from the audible “Love in the Rough.” This is fairly good, but “I’m Doin’ That Thing” is not that way.
We are presumptuous enough to try to tell you about The Isle of the Dead, recorded by the Philadelphia orchestra undei- the direction of Sergei Rachmaninoff, the composer of the work. It covers five sides of three records. We are told that “if in your serious moments you have pondered the Infinite, if you have grappled with time and space and matter, if you have puzzled over death, then this magnificent music will touch an understanding and sympathetic note for you. Rachmaninoff’s symphonic poem bears the sub-title, £To the Picture
Chicago; Mayor W. R. Hinkle, South Bend; Vincent Bendix, South Bend; Frank Darling. Rye. N. Y.; E. L. Doheny. New York City; Angus R. McDonald, New York City; M. J. Connell, Los Angeles. Calif.: B. H. Kroger, Cincinnati, Ohio; W. E. Donahue, Chicago: Ernest R. Graham. Chicago: Col. W. J. Riley. East Chicago, Ind.; A. F. Meehan, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Matthew J. Carney. New York City.
Thomas J. McKeon, Los Angeles: Daniel Murphy, Los Angeles: Frank J. Nelson, Chicago ; T. R. Ansberry, Washington; James T. Callary, Pittsburgh; Richard T. Ford, Rochester, N. Y.: Martin J. Gillen. New York City; W. F. Kenney, New York City; Conrad H. Mann, Kansas City. Mo.; C. Roy McCanna,
by A. Bocklin’, which painting symbolizes the isolation . . . the neverending silence . . . the engulfing-gloom of the lonely island . . . the
realm of the departed.” is more than isolation silence in the Russian’s
But and music.
there dread
We
feel a terrifying fear of the unknown, and we become almost afraid to listen, afraid of the depths to which he will lead us. At one time there is a groan from the strings as though someone had cried, “My God!”, and the mighty chorus of woodwinds adds, “Have mercy on us.” Later, there is a distinct sensation of watching someone hurled from dark yew trees over the ghostly white cliffs of the island to sink beneath the black waters as a last fearful, heart-gripping- chord is wrung out. You will have awful thoughts while listening to this unearthly music which we thought could never be heard this side of hell. It is difficult not to believe that The Isle of the Dead was written by' a madman. Whatever your opinion may be on this modern music, you must admit that it is an overpower-ingly magnificent recording.
1

i
The Painted Veil, a novel by Somerset Maugham, published some years ago, is to be produced late this year. If Mr. Maugham’s novel can undergo dramatization as well as did his short stories “Sadie Thompson” (Rain) and “The Letter,” we shall very likely be hearing much about it.
I
i
Peter Arno, who has amused all of us any number of times, is to design the scenery for “The New Yorkers,” an intimate revue. There is no telling what these settings may be like considering some of the mischievous Mr. Arno’s work.
J
5
Burlington, Wis.; Alex A. McDonnell, St. Paul. Minn.
Stuyvesant Peabody, Chicago; officers of the Army and Navy _ club, Chicago; Raymond E. Jones, New York City; Charles W. Miezer, Fort Wayne, ,Ind.; Senator D. I.. Walsh, Washington; Col. William Donovan, New York City: A. D. Lasker, Chicago; E. S. Beck, Chicago: S. E. Thomason, Chicago; Sheldon Clark, Chicago; Harry Wheeler, Chicago ; Homer Gurck, Chicago; Fred Cordley, Chicago ; Gen. Wood, Chicago.
Leon Mandel, George Lytton, Maurice Rothschild,- John M. Smyth, Elmer Stevens, Melvin Traylor, Carrol Schaeffer, J. F. Cushing, all of Chicago: Frederick Rouson and Grattan Sanford, of New Yoik City.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
41
NEW TOWER CLOCK BEING PLACED ON SACRED
HEART CHURCH
The installation of a Seth Thomas tower clock in Sacred Heart church was begun last Monday. The work is progressing rapidly and it is expected that the timepiece will be ready for operation the first part of next week.
The new clock is automatically wound by electricity, yet is not run electrically. It is equipped with a device which regulates it to run within a variation of thirty seconds a month. The timepiece will strike every quarter hour: once at the quarter, twice at the half, three times at the three-quarter mark, and four times at the hour. Those who are afraid that the striking will keep them awake nights may calm their fears as a silencer has been attached to the clock to eliminate the quarterhour stinking between the hours of 10:00 p. m. and 7:00 a. m. The timepiece will also be equipped to ring the Angelus automatically every six hours.
Another improvement over the old clock is that it will have four dials instead of three. Each dial is to be fitted with lights which will go on automatically at the hour set. The hands on the tower dials will be set by the hands on the mechanism. This eliminates climbing into the tower in case the hands have to be reset.
PRESS CLUB LISTENS TO
ADVERTISING LECTURE
Mr. John Urban Riley of the Nelson, Duncan, and Harlow Advertising agency of Boston spoke to the junior and senior journalism classes of the University last Thursday on the function of an advertising agency, incorporating into his talk many personal experiences.
Mr. Riley is a graduate of Notre Dame, being a member of the war class of 1917. He is a veteran of the World war and commander of the Advertising Men’s post of the Boston American Legion. He is also director of the Boston Advertising Club.
The address before the journalism classes was the first official action of the Notre Dame Press Club for the year. Dr. John M. Cooney, director of the journalism school, introduced the speaker, and Robert C. Balfe, club president, announced the details of organization for the year would be carried out at the next meeting of the club, Tuesday, October 7.
1 A Man You Know h
The man who first promulgated the doctrine, “Jack of all trades and master of none,” would have made his statement more forceful if he had added that there were many exceptions to this rule. The Reverend Ray-
Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C.
mond Murch, C.S.C., is one of the exceptions. Within the space of a few years he has been a student, a teacher, a prefect, and a rector, and at every one of these “trades” he has given a good account of himself.
He was born in Black River, Michigan, in 1900. Soon after his birth his family moved to Alpena, a town
STUDENT MISSIONS TO BE CONCLUDED THIS WEEK
The annual student missions, which have been in progress for the past two weeks, will be brought to a close in Sacred Heart church on Saturday morning at 6:30, with Mass and the Papal benediction.
The mission this week has been for upperclassmen while the week previous, Sept. 21 to 27, a mission was held for freshmen, off-campus students, and Sophomore hall students. The same order of service was followed throughout both weeks of the missions, with a Mass and instruction each morning at 6:30, and a sermon
in the northern part of Michigan, and here he spent his boyhood. In 1914 he entered Notre Dame, and he was received into the novitiate in 1919. Continuing his studies, he was graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1923. After his graduation he studied theology for four years at Catholic University, and he was then ordained, in June, 1927.
He returned to Notre Dame, and for two years he was a prefect in Freshman hall, the “pasteboard palace.” In August, 1929, he received the degree of Master of Science from the graduate school. Last year he was the rector of Howard hall. Besides performing the duties of rector, he was also a teacher of chemistry. This year he has been appointed Prefect of Discipline, succeeding the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Golf appears to be his only hobby. Players on the University golf course often see him, persistent in his long, bitterly-waged battle against “old man par,” a battle which has lasted ever since the opening of the course.
During his years of study here he participated in many extra-curricular activities. For more than three years he was a member of the editorial board of the Scholastic, and he contributed to the magazine many skits, essays, and parodies. He was also a winner of the O’Brien medal, a prize awarded annually to the writer of the best essay upon some subject dealing with the history of the northwestern territory.
and benediction every evening at 7:30.
A very interesting series of instructions have been given this week to the upperclassmen by the Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C. Father Dolan has chosen the “Attributes” as the subject of his sermons.
The missions this year have been very well attended, and the greater proportion of students have taken advantage of the many opportunities offered them for confession and daily Communion, which is essential toward obtaining the full benefit of the missions.
The Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., has been in charge of both missions.
42
The Notre Dame Scholastic
LATIN STUDENTS FORM NEW CLASS-
ICAL GROUP WITH FIFTEEN MEMBERS
John Cooper Selected As Its President
An organization of classical character—tentatively known as the Classical Association—came into being Tuesday evening in the Journalism room of the Library. Fifteen members of the junior class of Latin 7 are the nucleus of the club.
Steps towards the formation of such a unit were first taken September 18, at the suggestion of the Reverend Peter Hebert, C.S.C., head of the department of ancient languages, who has maintained an enthusiastic but impartial attitude toward the infant club. Three readings of the constitution, drawn up by a committee headed by Frank O’Malley, resulted Tuesday night in its acceptance by the association.
John J: Cooper, of Port Reading, N. J., was elected president of the club. Vice-president of the organization will be Frank O’Malley, of Clinton, Mass., while Louis Brennan, of Portsmouth, Ohio, was chosen as secretary, and John F. Connolley, of
REVEREND R. W. MURRAY ATTENDS CONFERENCE
The Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology, attended the annual meeting of the National Conference of Catholic Charities, which was held at Washington, D. C., September 28 to October 2. Father Murray read a paper entitled “The Place of Anthropology in the Sociology Course.” The paper was one of two read in a newly organized section of the Conference, for teachers of sociology.
CLEVELAND CLUB HOLDS FIRST MEETING
Leading the Chicago club by the narrow margin of one day, the Cleveland club was the first of the campus clubs to meet this year. The meeting was held on Thursday, September 25, in the old law building. The freshmen were greeted by President John Raleigh, and tentative plans for the annual Christmas dance were discussed.
The club plans to hold a welcoming banquet for the new members in -the near future.
Toledo, Ohio, as treasurer. If as the club progresses, the publication of a classical journal is authorized, Paul J. Hallinan will be in charge; he was elected to the position of editor which at present will consist of publicity duties.
Meetings will be held monthly, at which addresses will be given on topics from the classical field of literature. A program committee will be in charge of the selection of these speakers.
At present the membership consists of junior Latin students, who are the charter members of the club. It is planned to receive into the organization, on a selective basis, sophomores from the classical courses.
Other activities include aid to the classical department of the University in the purchase of books, maps and other helps to the aspiring scholar of the classics. The possibility of a play in the original Latin was discussed at the meeting of the club.
LAW .SCHOOL NOTES
Dean Konop was the principal speaker at a banquet given by the joint association of St. Wenceslaus club in Cleveland, on the feast day of that saint.
Arnold Levandoski of Grand Rapids, Michigan, and a graduate of the Law School in June, 1930, with the degree of LL.B., recently passed the bar examination for admittance to practice. Harrington Noon of Jackson, Michigan, also passed the state bar tests. Arnold, in a letter to Dean Konop, proudly states that Notre Dame graduates who took the examinations in Michigan scored a “clean sweep.” There-were seven graduates of the Law school who successfully took these examinations. .
There are 145 students in the Law School for the year 1930-31. The enrollment is two more than that for September, 1929, and seven more than that for January, 1930.
SPANISH CLUB-LE CIRCLE FRANCAIS RESUME
ACTIVITIES
The Reverend Frederick McKeon, C.S.C., head of the department of modern languages, has announced the resumption for the coming year of the activities of the Spanish club and Le Circle Francais.
The Spanish club is composed of students in the Spanish classes who have had at least two years of study in the language, and have attained some degree of efficiency in speaking Spanish. Meetings are conducted in Spanish entirely, and members present at various times throughout the year, papers in Spanish on topics of interest to the club. Membership in the organization entitles a student to two credit hours in Spanish.
Le Circle Francais admits students from the more advanced French classes, and is conducted in the same manner as is the Spanish club. Members also receive two credit hours in French.
The purpose of both these organizations is to help the students to acquire a proficiency in both the speaking and the writing of French and Spanish. They provide, also, an opportunity for discussion of changes in the language and the literature of both countries.
Professor Jose Martinez, the director of the Spanish club, has called the first meeting for the group on Tuesday evening, October 7, at 7:45 o’clock, in Room 219 of the. Main building. Le Circle Francais, of which the Reverend Conrad Hoffman, C.S.C., is the director, will also meet on Tuesday evening, in Room 222 of the Main building.
S'
METROPOLITAN CLUB
HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The first meeting of the Metropolitan club was held last Sunday, Sept. 28, in the old Law building. President Ed Cunningham addressed some one hundred members, many of whom were attending for the first time. Mr. Cunningham called for whole-hearted co-operation and assistance from the members in making the year an active one both on the campus and in New York. The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain, spoke a few words of greeting to the new men. James Burns, treasurer of the club, read the financial report on the summer dance. It was approved by the members.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
These dates may be changed icithout notice.
Friday, Oct. 3—Rochester club meeting, old Law building, 6:30 p. m.— Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Room 222, Main building, 7:00 p. m.—Scholarship dance, Playland park, 8:30 to 12:00.
Saturday, Oct. 4—Mission for upper-classmen closes, 7:15 a. m.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Southern Methodist university, at Notre Dame, 2:00 p. m.—Notre Dame “B” team vs. City College of Detroit, at Detroit, 2: CO p. m. — Southern Methodist “hop,” K. of C. ballroom, 8:30 to 12:00 p. m.—Movies, “Caught Short,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
Sunday, Oct. 5—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00’, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—K. of C. Communion, 7:00 a. m.—Meeting, Wranglers club, Journalism room, Library, 9:00 a. m.—S. A. C. meeting, Journalism room of Library, 10:00 a. m.—Connecticut Valley club meeting, North room of Library, 10:30 a. m.
Monday, Oct. 6—Seniors’ Navy game tickets, main gate of stadium, 3:30 to 5:30 p. m.—Chesterton lecture, “Literature of the Victorian Period,” Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.; admission by ticket only.—A. I. E. E. meeting, Badin hall basement, 8:00 p. m.
Tuesday, Oct. 7—Juniors’ Navy game tickets, main gate of stadium, 3:30 to 5:30 p. m.—Dedication of new Law building, 2:30 p. m.—Meeting of Scribblers, Howard “rec” room, 6:30 p. m.—Spanish club meeting, Room 219 Main building, 7:45 p. m. —Chesterton lecture, “History of the Victorian Period,” Washington
CLUB SECRETARIES— ATTENTION!
Kindly send all notices of club meetings, announcements of meetings, and other club news to the Campus Club editor, W. Leslie Raddatz, 450 Morrissey hall.
SCHOLARSHIP CLUB GIVES FIRST DANCE TONIGHT
Elaborate plans have been made for a successful dance this evening at Playland Park, according to word received from officers of the Notre Dame Scholarship club. The Indiani-ans will furnish the music.
As one of the purposes of the dance is to introduce the freshmen to the local girls, the club has arranged to have the young ladies brought by members of the Scholarship organization. Special street cars have been chartered to take the students home after the dance, thus eliminating the bother of transfering in the city.
The box on the fifty-yard line to be raffled off has attracted much favorable comment. Six season tickets will also be won by some lucky student attending the dance.
This is the first of four dances to be held during the year by the Scholarship club, an organization of 35 South Bend and Mishaw’aka women whose purpose is to help deserving boys through Notre Dame. The proceeds derived from these dances are to be turned over to the scholarship fund, where it can be borrowed by needy students.
AMERICAN LEGION TO
. HELP TRAFFIC OFFICERS
The traffic situation which has always been a problem at Notre Dame football games in the''past, will be aided this year by the American Legion. Both the South Bend and Mishawaka posts will be on duty to help the City traffic officers, at the new stadium. The Legionaries may be recognized by their caps and belts, the official insignias of the organization.
hall, 8:00 p. m.; admission by ticket only.
Wednesday, Oct. 8 — Sophomores’ Navy game tickets, main ggate of stadium, 3:30 to 5:30 p. m.—Chesterton lecture, “Literature of the Victorian Period,” Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.
Thursday, Oct. 9—Freshmen Navy game tickets, main gate of stadium, 3:30 to 5:30 p. m.—Chesterton lecture, “History of the Victorian Period,” Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.; admission by ticket only.
Friday, Oct. 10—Chesterton lecture, “History of .the Victorian Period,” Washington hall, 4:30 p. m.
K. C. WILL RECEIVE HOLY COMMUNION IN BODY SUNDAY MORNING
The local division of the Knights of Columbus will receive Communion in a body at the Sacred Heart church cn Sunday morning. Arrangements have been made whereby the Knights will occupy the front pews of the church during the 7:00 o’clock mass.
The attendance at mass and the receiving of Communion as an organization is in keeping with the religious nature of the order, and hence every member is expected to be present.
Intense interest has been shown in the drive for new members of the order, both on the part of the membership committee and the prospective initiates. The first initiation is to be held probably on October 20, according to Louis F. Buckley, Grand Knight.
SENIOR LAWYERS ADD TO DIGNITY BY TOTING
CANES TO CLASS
Canes seen around the campus these days are being carried by senior lawyers, who received them last Thursday. It is traditionally a right of seniors in the law school to carry canes as a mark of their standing as the oldest men at the University; they are the only class so honored. They will carry the canes to their classes in the new building every Wednesday afternoon.
“SCHOLASTIC” EDITORIAL MEETING TONIGHT
There will be a meeting of the Editorial board of the Scholastic in the Publication’s Office tonight at 6:30 p. m. All members are urged to be present at that time. The news staff meeting will be held at the usual time, 7:00 p. m.
NOTICE!
Material for Scrip — short stories, essays and poems, should be submitted to Louis A. Brennan, 245 Corby hall. All writers or would-be writers are urged to send contributions. Scrip is the University’s literary quarterly.
44
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FIVE SENIORS IN PROBATION COURSE
DO FIELD WORK DURING SUMMER
Judge Hoyt Praises Notre Dame Plan
Five members of the senior class in probation work who did field work this summer in connection with the Juvenile Courts of New York City, Chicago, and Milwaukee, have returned to graduate in June. Six weeks of summer vacation field work in a large, city, in addition to- an A.B. degree with a major in Probation Work, is required for the University’s certificate in Probation Work.
The first student to qualify for the certificate was John F. Harrison, of Stamford,- Connecticut, who completed his course, except for the summer field work, in June. He received his certificate at the completion of his field work.
Judging by reports that are coming back to the University, this first class to do summer work has made a splen-
SIGNIFICANT MANUSCRIPT FOUND IN LIBRARY
Not long ago when Mr. Paul Byrne, the head of the University Library, was preparing a huge tome for rebinding;, he made a great find. As he was paging the volume, two manuscripts, water-spotted, yellow with age, rough and untrimmed, fell from its leaves.
The papers, revealing the faint delicate script of another day, proved to be indentures drawn up in 1804 and 1813; in the first, a certain young man was apprenticed until the age of twenty-one to a doctor. In the second, it is apparent that the boy failed miserably in his attempt to learn medicine, and, as a result, he was reapprenticed, in 1813, to a blacksmith.
The language and content of the manuscripts offer an insight into the life and customs of a century and a quarter ago. The doctor agrees to “instruct in the science and mystery of medicine arid give over meat, drink, and wearing apparel, to wit: one working suit, and one Sunday suit of decent quality.” On the other hand, the father of the boy vouches that his son will “gladly obey- the lawful commands of his master. The goods of his master he shall not waste. At
did impression and has established traditions which will help future classes. Chief Justice Franklin Chase Hoyt of the Children’s Court of New York City took occasion to compliment students who presented cases before him, and to praise the Notre Dame plan of training for this field.
The Probation Work program in the department of Sociology was established at Notre Dame in 1929. It is open to those who have completed the sophomore year, and extends over two years and one summer. The graduate receives a certificate in Probation Work, as well as an A.B. degree.
Students in the Probation Work course are trained for scientific probation work in connection with Criminal Courts, Courts of Domestic Relations, and Juvenile Courts.
cards, dice, or any unlawful game he shall not play. Taverns and houses of ill fame he shall not frequent.”
The uniqueness and significance of the discovery is that the two documents, the indenture and re-indenture, were found together.
DEDICATION DANCE TO BE HELD OCTOBER 11
All arrangements for the Navy dance, sponsored by the Students Activities council, have been completed, according to Robert F. Ruppe, general chairman. This affair is to be held the night of the Navy game, Saturday, October 11, at 8:30 p. m. By procuring both the ballroom and gym of the Knights of Columbus club house the committee makes possible the accommodation of an unusually large attendance. The Indianans orchestra will furnish the music.
Tickets, which will be on sale shortly, are priced at $1.50 a couple. Because of the anticipated crowd the number of tickets may be limited.
Blue Circle men are to sell the tickets. The names of the men assigned to each hall will be posted on the bulletin boards.
NOLL HEADS WRANGLERS’ INTER-HALL DEBATES
Frank Noll, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed chairman of the inter-hall debating series conducted annually by the Wranglers club, according to a statement issued by J. Edward Phelan, president of the organization. Mr. Noll states that work has already been started on the plans. He also announced that coaches for the various freshman halls will be appointed within the week. All coaches will be members of the Wranglers.
John Wilson has been made chairman of the membership committee, while William Kirby received the leadership of the initiation committee. Other appointments have not as yet been announced by Mr. Phelan.
‘JUGGLER’ TO MAKE FIRST APPEARANCE ON
THURSDAY
The Freshman number of Notre Dame’s funny book, the Juggler, will make its first appearance of the year Thursday evening, October 9. For this issue 5,000 copies will be printed, setting a new high mark for the magazine. It is expected that dedication day and the Navy game will diminish the supply with little difficulty.
Heading the staff of this widely read publication are Jack Dempsey and Bill O’Brien, editor-in-chief and art editor, respectively. The business staff remains the same as last year.
As in the past, the theme, in a large measure, will concern the boys of the verdant hue. ‘’Cut cracks” galore will fill the pages as never before. Incidentally, a new style in cuts is to be initiated by this year’s staff. Inquiry as to what it would be like resulted in a mysterious “wait and see.”
The cover has been drawn by Bill O’Brien. It is to contain much color and to all reports is excellently done. Color, too, is to be found in the advertising section, something “fresh” in Juggler history.
Featuring the issue will be one, or possibly two, columns of intimate •campus life. It is rumored that it should prove of interest to some of the- campus personalities. A sketch by Joe Lopker, for this issue, all that was allowed to the eyes of your reporter, was exceedingly well drawn.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
JUNIOR CLASS FOOTBALL DANCE TOMORROW NIGHT
Tomorrow night the junior class will hold the first football dance of the year in the Knights of Columbus Ballroom. All those having tickets will be granted 12:30 permissions upon presentation of the tickets to the rectors. Tickets for stags are $1.00; couples, $1.50.
The tickets may be secured from Philip H. Dunleavy, Walsh; John Ryan, Morrissey; Leonard Donoghue, Lyons; Frank Madden, Off-Campus; Oliver Powers, Corby; Bart O’Hara, Badin.
The freshmen of the University are invited to attend. Dancing will be from 8:30 p. m. until midnight. Myron Walz and his Hotel LaSalle Orchestra has been selected to play for the event.
General chairman Philip H. Dunleavy has been working with the various committees to perfect all the arrangements to make this dance successful.
EUGENE KELLY’S PARENTS PRESENT NEW CHALICE
TO NOTRE DAME
On September 21 a new chalice was used in the basement chapel. The chalice was the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph W. Kelly, of Denver, Colorado, in memory of the death of their son, Eugene. Eugene died of influenza on the day after Christmas, 1928, while home on his Christmas vacation from Notre Dame. He had been an ardent student and a devout Catholic while here, according to the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, and he was sincerely mourned by his host of friends. It so happened that the Notre Dame Glee club was appearing in Denver on the day that Eugene’s funeral was held, and assisted by forming a guard of honor- in the Denver Cathedral, where the services were held.
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE NOTES
Cletus Chizik, graduate from the University of Iowa, has been transferred from his former class, freshman Business Mathematics, to the position left vacant by the departure of Mr. Shors in the department of Advanced Accounting.
Mr. Stanley Price has been secured to fill the place left vacant by Mr. Chizik’s promotion. The newcomer is also a graduate of the University of Iowa.
BIG PEP DEMONSTRATION
HELD LAST EVENING
The huge pep meeting of last evening, in which three thousand took part, was pronounced by student leaders as one of the finest ever held at Notre Dame. The long line of the procession, swinging out of the dining halls to the gymnasium, with the columns colorfully lighted by flares held aloft by members of the Blue Circle, was a sight not often observed. The band, making its first appearance of the year, broke into the familiar strains of the “Hike Song” and “On Down the Line.”
The gym, brilliantly lighted, and ■ seething with threq thousand shouting Notre Dame men, proved to be'a’picturesque sight, and an inspiration to the team. There was no question as
COMMERCE FORUM HOLDS
FIRST MEETING OF YEAR
The Commerce Forum held its first meeting of the year on September 26 under the direction of Edward F. Lee, president of the club.
Plans for the coming year were discussed and it was definitely, decided upon to have speakers, whose names will be announced later, brought from all parts of the country to talk on subjects pertaining to business. Open discussions of current events will be another feature of the meetings.
Officers of the club for the present schol year are: E. F. Lee, president; A. R. Schreiner, vice-president; L. T. Lane, secretary; E. A. Cox, treasurer. H. C. Beasley, J. H. Zober, J. M. Wiggins, L. J. Kletzley, J.’ T. Doyle, D. F. McDonald, and E. C. Coyle are members of the board of control under the direction of Chairman Edward Lee.
NOTICE!
All applications for membership into the Wranglers club should be mailed immediately to John Wilson, Morrissey hall, chairman of the membership committee. Requirements for admission include an 85% average and active participation in some Notre Dame forensic activity.
j>----------------------------
to whether or not the students were solidly behind their mates.
As different athletic leaders addressed'the crowd, and the cheering broke forth, the students shouted for the squad. Ed Massa, the new yell leader, thereupon introduced several members to the crowd, who cheered them individually.
The noise, deafening, yet systematic, was a tribute* to the prowess of the new cheer leader, fresh from his duties at St. Mary’s on the Pacific Coast.
The meeting broke up- to the tune of the “Victory March” which was sung for the first time this year. The students had premised the team their support in the first demonstration of loyalty.
LARGE TURNOUT FOR
“SCHOLASTIC” STAFF
Fifty new men answered the call for try-outs for the Scholastic staff last Friday evening. Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief, addressed the new men and he made clear the points that would be considered when the time came to name the new members of the staff. Neil C. Hurley, head of the news staff, and John A. Kiener, sports editor, also talked to the men who contemplated trying for their respective staffs. Many of the men present have previous experience in newspaper work, and give promise of an unusually efficient staff this year.
JOHN A. STAUNTON JOINS ENGLISH STAFF
John A. Staunton arrived here last Tuesday morning to assume his duties as a member of the Notre Dame English Department. Mr. Staunton has recently resigned from his post as rector of St. Michael’s Episcopal Mission in Seattle, ending a career which covered a period of twenty-one years of missionary work in the Philippines. Mr. Staunton has always been held in high regard by his religious associates and his presence here should make him many new friends. A present member of the English department, Mr. Henry C. Staunton, is a brother of the new teacher.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SOPHOMORE COTILLION
TO BE HELD WEEK-END
OF DRAKE GAME
The Sophomore Cotillion will- be presented on the night of November 14, 1930, in the Palais Royale ballroom. The dance is to be on the night preceding the Drake - Notre Dame football game to be played in the Notre Dame stadium.
James B. Clark, general chairman for the Cotillion, and Edward W. Dailey, president of ihe sophomore class, concluded arrangements with the manager of the i'alais Royale Wednesday night, after weeks of endeavor to secure a suitable place for the only formal dance sponsored by the second year men.
Definite arrangements for a special “Cotillion’-’ section in the stadium for the football game have been completed, and other plans which the men in charge are not ready to release at this time have been formulated.
Each issue of the Scholastic will carry announcements by the committee in charge. A publicity campaign, centering around the orchestra, which according to advance notices promises to be one of the most popular ever to have played for a sophomore dance, will start in the immediate future.
The girls of St. Mary’s will attend the formal dance, as will many guests from other places. Activities, to more than occupy the sophomores’ and their guests’ time are being arranged for.
JUGGLERS MAKE THEIR FIRST APPEARANGE
The University orchestra made its first appearance of the school year, on last Wednesday evening at the dance held by “The Children of Mary” of St. Joseph’s Parish. Their performance brought favorable comment from those present, which alone should prove an indication of future success, not to mention the fact that several other organizations have already requested their services for the near future.
SCRIBBLERS TO HOLD MEETING TUESDAY
The Scribblers will hold their first meeting of the year next Tuesday night, October 7 at 6:30 p. m. At this meeting, which will be held in the Howard Hall “Rec” room, plans for the coming year will be discussed.
Department of Chemistry Notes
Mr. Daniel P. Nolan, Ch. E. ’23, has returned to Notre Dame as an in-slructoi- in the Department of Chemistry and is continuing with his studies for an advanced degree. Messrs. William H. Hamill, B.S., ’30, Elmer T. Weibel, B.S., ’29, John E. Nelson, B.S., in Ch. E., ’30, Merritt Otto, B.S., ’30, and Frank J. Sowa, B.S., ’30, have returned as graduate assistants in the same department and are continuing their studies for the master of science degree.
Messrs. Henry A. Persyn, M.S. ’30, Charles D. Carr, B.S., ’28, Harold Bowlus, B.S., in Ch.E., ’29, and Andrew J. Boyle, M.S., ’29, are continuing their studies for the Ph.D. degree and serving in the capacity of instructors in the department. Mr. Bowlus is the holder of the DuPont fellowship.
Mr. Lawrence O’Leary, who received his B.S. degree from Notre Dakota Agricultural College in June, 1929, is also a graduate assistant and a graduate student in the department.
Dr. H. D. Hinton, who received his Ph.D. degree in organic chemistry at the June commencement, is in charge of freshman chemistry. This year’s freshman registration is 323, an increase of forty over last year. Other . candidates for the Ph.D. degree in the department are Lawrence H. Bal-
NOTRE DAME GRADUATES STUDY IN EUROPE
From the school of architecture, which is now situated on the second floor of the old Law building, comes the report of several Notre Dame graduates who are studying in Europe. Donald R. Kreis, ’29, and Roy Worden sailed September 1 on the S. S. Paris of the French line, to Paris, France. They intend to study and travel throughout Europe. They are expected to return to America about April '1.	.
Donald Kreis in a recent letter speaks of meeting Stephen Nolan at the Fontainebleau School of Fine Arts. Wilfred Fregolle, ’13, is now in southern Russia supervising construction work for the Soviet government.	.	.
dinger, instructor in the Pharmacy department, Reverend P. F. McVeigh, who is on leave of absence from St. Charles College, Helena, Montana, and Sister Mary Florentine, C.S.C., instructor in chemistry at St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame.
Dr. W. E. Sturgeon, who has been in charge of freshman chemistry for the last three years, is now head of the Department of Chemistry at Beaver College, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania.
Besides the increase in enrollment in the freshman chemistry group, all the other divisions of the department have undergone material increases.
The October issue of the Catalyzer is scheduled to appear within the next week or ten days.
New courses in the department are Chemistry of Acetyline and Qualitative Organic Analysis, both taught by Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., and Advanced Chemical Thermodynamics, taught by Dr. Herman H. Wenzke. The Advanced Physical Chemistry course, also taught by Dr. Wenzke, has been provided with a newly-equipped laboratory which will greatly aid in the graduate work along this line, as there are now five students in the department who are majoring in physical chemistry.
FUNERAL SERVICES HELD FOR FATHER MILLER
Funeral services for the Reverend Paul Miller, C.S.C., one of the youngest members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who died Friday evening at the Community house were held Tuesday morning from Sacred Heart Church with a solemn requiem High Mass. The Reverend William Connor, C.S.C., was celebrant of the Mass.
Father Miller, who was a former teacher of Latin and Greek at the Holy Cross seminary, was graduated from the University with the class of 1916 and was ordained to the priesthood in 1921. He had served as professor of Romance languages at St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas and on the Notre Dame faculty continuously since his ordination.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
47
EDITCK’r PACE
SIDE SHOWS OR CIRCUS?
This week-end will be a rather hectic one. The first football game in the new stadium will be played, with all the attendant pageantry of silent cheering, playing bands, and cheerleaders’ antics. A football dance will be held on the night of the game to celebrate the anticipated victory. There will be, no doubt, many private celebrations.
A word of warning: the game and the dance, and the games and dances to come—indeed, most extra-curricular activities—are fine and good, but remember that they are only pleasant interludes in college life. They are worth while, but they should not be magnified to an importance all out of proportion to their real worth. They are only the side-shows to the circus—the true purpose of a university—education.
The essential aim of a university is the development of scholars. This aim should at all times be kept in the foreground, unhampered by counter-activities. Students should not commit the great blunder of letting the leaves hide the tree. A university is a place for work, not for play. College men are, to be sure, human beings, and as such require, varied activities: athletic games of all kinds, dances, smokers, and all the rest. They make for a well-balanced college life, provided that the student realizes that they are distinctly secondary to the real purpose of a college education—to fit him for life!
'Only too often this is not kept in mind, and the activities are emphasized to such an extent as to unbalance a student’s scale of values.
Scholarship—the culture of the intellect— along with a progressive knowledge of religion and morals, is the real purpose of a Notre Dame education.
The University exists to disseminate among her students intellectual and spiritual culture, so that they may become worthy members of society. Notre Dame gives the student a sympathetic insight into the relation of the present to the past, along with ideals to develop his character and bring out the best that is in him.
If you remember that one great purpose you will see the activities of tomorrow and the coming weeks in their true perspective. You will not let them occupy a position of too great prominence in your scheme of things. But if you do not remember Notre Dame’s real purpose, then you are, as the late President Wilson once said, “letting the side-shows swallow the circus.”
—E. L. T.
WE GROW GREATER
To the Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C.; Mr. John T. Frederick; Mr. John Staunton; Hon. William Cain, and Mr. William Rollinson, the Scholastic says: Welcome.
To the students of the department of English and the College of Law, we say: you are indeed fortunate. ,	•
" The addition of three men to the faculty of the English department—with an illustrious fourth soon to come—is an event of distinction. To have on our campus a recently-returned Oxford master; an outstanding editor and author of the Middle-west; and a brother of Professor Henry Staunton, is good reason for the pride of the members of that once heterogeneous, now select, group—the English majors.
With G. K. Chesterton soon to appear on the lecture platform, the literary future is exceptionally splendid.
The lawyers, transplanted to their new home, have with them two jurists new to the University law faculty: one is Judge Cain, formerly supreme court judge of Nebraska; the other is Mr. William Rollinson, lawyer, teacher, and editor.
The legal escutcheon, which has known the names of Wooten, Hoynes, Konop and Manion, this year adds two of equal prestige.
If, in law and literature, Notre. Dame grows greater, hopes for her success in other lines will not prove futile.	—?- J- H.
48
The Not re Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PARAGE
The Big Parade is on. Just this week I received a swarm of exchanges and spent the week-end glancing over the accounts of. rush parties and addresses to incoming freshmen. I find that out of 23 universities, colleges or what corresponds to either of them in some parts of the country, 23 colleges, universities or what have you, are worrying about getting through rush week without breaking someone’s by-laws or health.
—o—
At Southern California, a table of Ten Commandments came out for freshmen. The second: “Thou Shalt Not Queen” was completely over my head. Anyhow, starting the year I came here, South Bend women stopped going with freshmen.
—o—
Someone, who, I take it, is a student “working his way through,” is conducting the “sportiest small course in Indiana.” He offers the idea to me that something might' yet be done for the followers of “peanut” golf at Notre Dame if only Badin lake is turned over to them.
—o—
Boy scouts may still be boy scouts at Michigan. A booth for the incoming lads has been set up outside the registration offices. A few good deeds around here would not be amiss either. What a chance for a good deed an enterprising boy scout would have if we turned him over to Telfel!
—o—
“Fearfully Flustered Freshmen’ ’ at Michigan are advised to; (1) Beware of people wlio sell things; (2) Beware of people who don’t sell things; (3) Beware ....
—o—
The Xaverian News of Xavier university retells the one about the usher at church who took up the collection on Sunday and on week days skinned everybody in sight. It adds that he is now a bootlegger and doesn’t go to church even on Sunday. Blue Circle men are warned . . .
Denver university is expected to renew very shortly its quaint custom of having the women serenade the men. The custom, along with the women’s horse-shoe tossing tournaments, comes along every year. The men serenade the women and cigarettes are the reward; the women serenade the men and it’s candy. Not odd at all in Denver; the “College Parade” spent the summer there and attended summer school at Denver U.; reciprocal agreements of the kind are all the rage. (Registration is not limited . . . adv.)
The Brown and White of Lehigh university has a platform: (1) The elimination of corrupt political practices; (2) abolition of compulsory chapel; (3) recognition of fencing, freshman lacrosse, and freshman soccer; (4) deferred freshman class elections. The Brown and White also mentions, not a “Hello Week,” but a “Hell Week”— but do not be alarmed, it is only some more rushing propaganda..
The Loyolan speaks of a radio address in which, among other things, Tom Lieb spoke on Notre Dame’s football prospects. Considering that this Loyola is in Venice, California, I think I might take a vacation out there next summer.
—o—
Intra-mural athletes must take a physical examination at Michigan this year before entering. I would suggest that some such measures be taken this year to keep the huge turn-out from Sorin from hogging all the inter-hall honors. (Editor's note: This is probably sarcasm.)
—o—
An explanation of the honor system at Virginia university takes up approximately one page of eight in College Topics, organ of that university.
The stadium at Southern California will seat approximately 105,000 for the Notre Dame game. I see also that there they entertain freshmen at luncheon. The occasion was attended by all freshmen as guests of the alumni. It was on Wednesday—NOT on Friday.
—o—
Night football is being arranged for by Xavier university in Cincinnati. Sixty projectors are being used, each suspended 125 feet above the field. The cost is approximately $15,000, and when finished will be one of the most brilliantly lighted fields in the country.
—0—
At Northeastern university football is resorted to by the freshmen to settle the question of whether or not freshman restrictions will remain in vogue. Besides the game, a five-man, six-legged race, an obstacle race, and finally the time-honored pole rush will take place. If the sophs hold out, the freshmen are forced to go through the usual welcoming ceremonies. The frosh have already beaten the juniors at baseball.
In the “Campus Society” column of the Ohio State Lantern, I see that sorority has its own. premature golf course. The course was opened by the holder of the women’s championship for the stale of Ohio (in man-sized, of course) who was to par the course for the co-eds.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
49
BELIEVE IT OR NOT
Some Statistics on the New Stadium
IT might be interesting to delve x into the commonplace, everyday actions that underlie the building of anything as massive and complicated as the Notre Dame stadium. The finished structure can be appreciated and admired, and conjectures made as to the enormity of the task that confronted the engineers and architects and the contractors; but a survey of some of the many details actually reveals that the materials which were poured and hammered and mortared into the stadium exceed in quantity even the most exaggerated guess.
Completed in Four Months
By far the most surprising feat is the rapid completion of the stadium. Although work was begun Sept. 20, 1929, labor on the foundations did not start until April, 1930. For some three weeks forms were laid to hold the concrete, and on April 19, a battery of mixers and pourers began to lay the actual foundations. By September of 1930, a little more than four months later, the brick-work had been completed, seats had been erected, and the stadium was ready for the thousands of spectators.
Seats, Steel Work, and Brick
The seats in the stadium are made of genuine California redwood, which is practically indestructible, and not affected by any kind of weather. 100,000 feet of it were used. If a table were to be made of all this wood, say a table 4 feet wide, it would stretch into the distance for 25,000 feet. At it could be accommodated for meals 20,000 people, approximately one third the attendance at the Navy game. Let us take the steel that makes up the framework of the stadium. 400 tons of it, 20 carloads, were used. Suppose we were to make bullets of it, using two ounces for every bullet. We should finally have 6,400,000 bullets. Then, if we feed them steadily into a machine gun which shoots 100 of them
By James Carmody a minute, we should be pressing the trigger for 44 days and ten hours before exhausting the supply. In the same manner we can turn the brick that -was used to still another use, much more practical. The 2,000,000 bricks could be laid end to end, as is usual, to reach from the Administration building to the waterfront at Cleveland, a matter of some 300 miles.
Cement, Timber, and Stone Work
Looking at the construction from the point of view of the contractors, which means reckoning the finished product as tons of this and feet of that, involves a perusal of statements as to what actually went into the building. 45,000 feet of earth were moved in the grading and in the making of the foundations, and 75 carloads of cement went into the mixers. The erection of the forms for the mixed concrete necessitated the use of 500,000 feet of rough lumber and planking. From the quarries came 29 carloads of Indiana limestone to be used in the exterior finishing and the ornamental stone work. The necessary sand and gravel filled 500 cars, and even the iron brackets which hold the seats in place came in carload lots.
The Press Box
Especially notable is the press box. It provides what are said to be the finest accommodations for broadcasting and reporting games of any stadium in the country. There is room for 250 persons, as well as necessary radio equipment. The front of the box is entirely glass-enclosed, and the section reserved for broadcasting is absolutely soundproof.
Some More Statistics
The men, 500 of them, who actually built the structure, required a ton of food each day to furnish energy for their labors. They drank 500 gallons
of water each day as well. The 15, 000 cubic yards of concrete, if made into a tower of ten feet square would reach a height of five and one-half times that of the Woolworth building, usual basis of comparison. All these statistics serve to show concretely the huge amounts of material and the correspondingly great amount of laboi* that went into the erection of one of the finest stadia in America.
Sod From Old Field in New Stadium
The method used to transfer intact the sod of the old field to the new stadium is unusually interesting. The turf itself is some thirty-five years old and is quite famous for its firmness’ and texture. It was first cut into ribbons, then rolled up like a carpet is rolled, and finally transported to its new location. At the new stadium it was unrolled and tamped into place to form a perfect gridiron.
Engineers and General Contractors
The Osborn Engineering Company, general architects for the project, have designed some 50 stadia in all parts of the country. Among their largest are Comiskey park in Chicago, the Yankee stadium and the Polo Grounds in New York, and the stadia at the Universities of Michigan, Indiana, Purdue, and Minnesota. The general contractors were Ralph Sol-litt and Sons of South Bend, who directed the actual building of the structure.
Minor Contractors
The other, companies that participated in the construction were:
George Hoffman & Go......sand and gravel Marquette Portland Cement Co —cement Olney J. Dean Co., Chicago, .reinforcing steel Edwards Iron Works.................
________structural steel	and miscellaneous iron George Beyers	roofing
South Bend Glass Works..............glazing
Joe Wolf & Son.....................painting
Indiana Lumber Co................. millwork
U. S. Lumber and Supply Co.............
	lumber	and mason supplies Alexander J. King Stone Co___'.....cut stone George Meyer & Son......  hardware
50	The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINK ♦
Lives of freshmen all remind us We can make our “eights” on time, If we have God-fearing prefects TT7zo consider sleep a crime.
QUICK WINKS
The dog-cart travelling down the path to the Main building last Monday morning .... Ye Ed wearing our hat to Mishawaka last Sunday .... This colyumist asking Ye Ed for his hat on Wednesday afternoon . . . . The Press club prexy reminding us of the lad who wouldn’t send his town date home in a cab because she didn’t look good in yellow .... Another smartie being reminded that most of them don’t look good in South Bend or Indiana, either .... Things like that happen every once in a while in here .... The protozoic golf courses infesting the fair city to our south .... Juggler staff members catching the filched, lifted, borrowed, and stolen jokes in the copy turned in by some aspiring humorists . . . . The “ould sod” from Cartier Field in the new home of the "Fighting Irish” .... The good greens on the school golf course .... The philosophical gent consoling himself for the fifty cents lost to the A. A. book racketeers by getting a dollar’s worth of laughs out of the other fellows’ pictures.
—o—
The freshmen are a good lot and we like ’em. But they would be much more popular with us if they didn’t loll back so snootily in their taxicabs while passing up the busted seniors.
—o—
Something has happened. Something quite unexplainable. This here Wink, in only the second week of its existence, has received two contributions. Is there no respect for old traditions?
BY OK OF CRITICISM
Sweet indeed your verses, dear;
A bit too sweet for poetry.
Light and graceful to the ear, Sweet indeed your verses, dear. No thought obscures their sprightly cheer Or weights their whimsicality.
Sweet indeed your verses, dear— A bit too sweet for poetry.
Our second gift was from one labeled as “that masterculler, Ultra Violet.” The cullings are a bit disorderly, but show what the English profs call promise. We especially liked the one in which papa cautioned little Johnny that licking the salt off the pretzels would hurt business.
MISERERE
I will take my clubs and go now, For the local golf-course greens Have got me cutting paper dolls From the current magazines.
I will take my clubs and go now;
For the par on number three Has left me madly groping On a chartless duffer’s sea.
I will take my clubs and go now To a duffer’s paradise, Where a duffer’s got a fighting chance With threes and fours and fives.
. I will take my clubs and go now, And going, return no more.
I’ll shatter pars beyond the stars And shoot a perfect score.
I will take my clubs and go new, And after golf is done, I’ll drop my clubs into the sea— Gladly—one by one.
—RUMJAHN.
AN AMERICAN PAEAN
I sing of sweet gentility, The crowning glory of our race. Although we’ve no nobility, To culture we give frenzied chase.
Our five-foot shelves now set-the pace For cerebral agility.
I sing of siveet gentility, The crowning glory of our race.
Our pioneer virility
Despises royalty’s false grace, But yet we’ve proved ability— The women’s clubs have saved our face. I sing of siveet gentility, The crowning glory of our race.
It seems that there is still a contest on to give the Wink’s little boy a name. But nobody has' shown any interest. Maybe they don’t want to call us anything. They may prefer just to wave a haughty eyebrow at us • -and say, "That!” We have been called so many things now that it doesn’t matter. Two short whistles and a resounding-birdie will get us every time. ________?????
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
51
»
♦ SPCKTS ♦
S. M. U. Hopes May Be a "Passing Fancy”
Rockne Fears Passes of Mustangs
Too Strong
SOUTHERN METHODIST from ’way down Dallas, Texas, will show some mighty fancy passingin our brand new stadium tomorrow afternoon.
And tomorrow afternoon Knute K. Rockne and h s corps of gridders are going to attempt the big job of twisting that fancy passing into a passingfancy.
It’s only a matter of guesswork, this opening game. Just like a sea voyage for the first time. You never know how much of a struggle it is until it is all over.
When the Mustangs rode Howard Paine College, 27 to 6, a week ago yesterday by allowing their first team to stay in the game for merely six minutes, and during that time to amass a grand total of three touchdowns, they showed that they possessed a powerful machine.
S. M. U. Needs Good Start
Southern Methodist is casting its glimmers at the national championship title. And they’re all saying, “a good start is much better than a good finish.” And mind you, they intend to. get that “good start” right in Notre Dame’s new stadium tomorrow afternoon.	-
Well, we don’t know, they may and they may NOT. Whether they can or not is yet to be seen.
Anyhow, these Texans were practically unknown outside the southwest conference until two seasons ago, when they unloosed a dizzy overhead attack against the Army that barely fell short of victory.
Ray Morrison, dean of the southwest’s coaches and the exponent of the passing game in its most malignant form, had enough material out -this fall for three real good teams. Of the line-up that piled through a schedule of ten games last year without meeting defeat, only two men were absent from the first roll call.
One was Sanders, a big Indian guard. The other was Marion (Scrap Iron) Hammon, all-conference tackle and captain-elect, -who was out scholastically.
Outweigh Our Line
Their line will average about 195 pounds, just twelve pounds more than Notre Dame’s front wall. Inasmuch as no records as to the comparative lightness of foot and speed of the two lines are available we cannot make an exact comparison. We do believe, however, that Notre Dame’s inner wall has much the advantage in that regard.
Long and Koontz, two experienced wingmen, will probably hold down the
Captain Tom Conley
. . . also lending moral support . . .
Fighting Irish Show “Real Colors”
Tomorrow
end positions for Southern Methodist, with Neely, guard, and Powell, center, as the other veterans sure to get in the game.
Watch Gilbert Tomorrow
Led by Speedy Mason, halfback, the 1929 backfield is intact. Bob Gilbert is back at quarterback. Incidentally, this Gilbert fellow is said to be a mighty sweet passer, possessing somewhat the “cross-fire” delivery of a pitcher, if you can follow us. Bruce Kattman will play the other half and Iro Hopper, a big, strapping, bonecrushing fullback weighing 200 pounds, will capably fill out the backfield.	'
Kattman is a great end runner and Speedy Mason lives up to his soubriquet by returning punts with great adeptness and facility.
A7. D. Lineup Not Sure
And getting back to our own lineup we are not even sure of exactly what it will be. Rockne has been making transfers all week long and even today isn’t sure of his first string combination. The shock troops will start the game, it is almost certain.
When the field captain lifts his arm in signal to the referee tomorrow afternoon, the most important game to be played so far in the new Notre Dame stadium will be on its way.
But as “Rock” said a week or so ago, “We’ll take Southern Methodist in our stride just like the rest of the teams on the schedule and just as we did last year against each team we met.”	.
These words were straight from the lips of the one man who knows a great deal more than we about the matter. If he can be a wee bit confident, we might as well be too.
We’ll be able to give you a more complete story concerning the game just about this time tomorrow, if you should ask.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
GOLF COURSE IMPROVED
GREATLY OVER SUMMER
Students returning for the fall term were pleasantly surprised to discover that the William J. Burke University golf course, which was in a crude state last spring and barely playable a year ago, had been developed into a first class course during the summer. That the student golfers appreciate this is proved by the fact that the student-play for the first week of the present term exceeded half of the total play for the whole of the 1929 fall term.
Arthur West, head of the University golf course, announced today that he had renewed his contract with the University for another year. Along with his present plans for improvement of the golf course will be some unique contests for the students.
When school closed in the spring the greens were in very poor shape. In many of them there were spots ranging up to a foot in diameter. The turf was uneven, spotted with clover and weeds; the greens so hard that it was next to impossible to pitch to them. Now, thanks to successive top dressings with rich black dirt hauled in from the woods and to numerous applications of fertilizer, the putting surfaces are of uniform texture, and so soft that pitched balls “bite” and hold as they should. Many players pronounce the greens better than any they played during the summer.
In addition to course improvements the golf house, which was built entirely of old lumber from the dismantled football stadium, has been painted an attractive green and white combination. The approach to the golf house is also vastly improved, consisting of a bridge leading across the gully at the gate and connecting with a winding stone walk to the golf house.
Plan Tournaments
Plans for fall tournament play are developing and it is planned to have several competitions before snow falls. One of these is to be the “Notre Dame Open” in which all the students may participate. The winner will be declared the University Champion for the year. This is to be medal play over 72 holes. In addition to this event there are plans for a Freshman Tournament. Notices will be posted
at the golf house and printed in the Scholastic.
University golfers are already looking forward to the next intercollegiate championship to be held next spring in Chicago, and while Notre Dame’s representatives, particularly Larry Moller, did surprisingly well last spring at Pittsburgh there is confidence that even a better showing will be made next year. In team play at the tourney, Notre Dame finished fourth with a score of 767, one point less than the University of Illinois, who won the Big Ten Conference golf title.
In individual play, Larry Moller was runner up in the tournament being elected president of the Intercollegiate Golf Association. This is an honor for Notre Dame of which every student and faculty member may take just pride.
The golf team has returned to school without losing a man; and while this is to be the last year of competition for most of the present team the University is fortunate in enrolling some first class golfing-freshmen who show promise of carrying on and furthering the standard set by the present team.
PROBABLE LINEUP TOMORROW
NOTRE DAME		S. M. U.
Kosky	L.E.	Koontz
Culver	L.T.	Butler
Kassis	L.G.	T'arrance
Yarr	C.	Powell
Metzger	R.G.	Neely
Donoghue	R.T.	Skeeters
Conley, Capt.	R.E.	Long
Carideo	Q.B.	Gilbert
Schwartz	L.H.	Mason
Brill	R.H.	Kattman
Mullins	F.B.	Hopper
Notre Dame Shock Troops
Host, left end; McNamara, left tackle; Harris, left guard; Butler, center; Terlaak, right guard; McManmon, right tackle;
Vik, right end; Jaskwich, quarterback; Bernie Leahy, left half; Savoldi, fullback; and O’Connor, right half.
❖------------------------------$
ENGLAND WILL COACH
FRESHMAN TRACKSTERS
Edward “Spike” England, who received his A.B. degree from the University last June and who is now enrolled in the Law school, has been appointed freshman track coach for
Edward “Spike” England
Freshman Track Coach
the 1930-31 season. He took charge of the frosh at the beginning of this week, enabling- Coach Nicholson - to devote his full time to cross-country and varsity track.
“Spike” was the original hard luck man of “Nick’s” squad in his career on the Notre Dame varsity. His long-legs, coupled with his steady, careful training, made him one of the fastest dash men on the team, but a series of injuries robbed him of whatever chance he had to make a name for himself on the cinder path.
“Spike” knows his track very well and freshmen coming under him this year will profit much by his advice.
DISTRIBUTION OF TICKETS
FOR NAVY GAME TO
BEGIN MONDAY
According to J. Arthur Haley, business manager of the Notre Dame Athletic association, the sale of tickets for the Navy game is moving briskly, but there are still a number of seats available.
For this game the seniors may procure their tickets on Oct. 6, juniors on Oct. 7, sophomores on Oct. 8, and freshmen on October 9. No tickets will be issued at the gate of the field without the presentation of the coupon books.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
a
-53
CROSS-COUNTRY MEETS TO
PROVE TEAM’S METTLE
With the addition of two more meets to an already difficult schedule, Coach John P. Nicholson today announced ths official engagements of his 1930 cross-country team. A dual meet with Butler university has been arranged as a season-opener, to be run on the Bulldogs’ course at Indianapolis on October 18. The other meet is scheduled for November 15, at Iowa City, with the Iowa Hawk-eyes furnishing the opposition.
Both of these meets will be severe tests for the Blue and Gold. Butler has a veteran team headed by Sivak, Kistler, Urbain, and Jones, and should be in much better condition than Coach Nicholson’s inexperienced team at that early date. Iowa, although a more or less unknown quantity at the present time, may be expected to perform up to the standard of Hawkeye thinly-clads of other years, who have always been contenders for the Western conference title.
Coach Nicholson has expressed his disappointment at the small number
of men reporting for daily practices. With not more than fifteen or twenty men out for the team, and most of these men with little or no experience, he feels that prospects for a winning season are exceedingly slim. He wishes to impress on the students that he is willing and glad to work with and develop the “greenest” candidate in school, and that fear of not making a good showing should not keep any man from coming out.
CROSS-COUNTRY SCHEDULE
October 18—Butlei- at Indianapolis.
October 25 — Quadrangular meet (Illinois, Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Notre Dame) at Evanston.
November 1—Indiana at Notre Dame.
November 8—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
November 15 — Iowa at Iowa City.
RESERVES PLAY DETROIT CITY COLLEGE TOMORROW
A Notre Dame reserve squad of 22 players will leave this evening for Detroit, Mich., where they will meet City College of Detroit tomorrow.
The players who are to make the trip are as follows: Ed Agnew, George Aug, Roger Beirne, Bernard Cousino, Leo Dilling, Milton Foley, Currier Holman, Paul Kreuz, Frank LaBorne, Michael Leding, Thomas Mahaffey, John Manley, John Nichols, George Rohrs, Otto Seifert, Fred Staab, John Tobin, William Van Rooy, Maurie Vejar, Vincent Whelan, and Harry Wunsch.
The schedule for the reserve team is as yet incomplete but on Octobei' 25 the Wisconsin “B” team will be met at Madison. The Indiana “B” team is to be played at Bloomington on November 1, the same day the varsity teams combat in the Notre Dame stadium. On November 8 the Kentucky “B” squad is tangled with at Lexington, and Michigan State at Ypsilanti.
November 27th the feature attraction of the Turkey day celebration at Nashville, Tenn., will be the game between N. D. and Vanderbilt reserves.

Peach of a Pair!” In a Perfect Play!
Now you have the chance to see the popular stage success on the talking screen, all in gorgeous natural color!....................
Charles “Buddy” Rogers
AND
Nancy Carroll
In the Paramount production of the show that made America golfconscious.
FOLLOW
With a great supporting cast which includes
ZELMA
ONEAL
JACK
HALEY
PUBLIX PRESENTATIONS
Vitaphone Sound Vodvil Paramount Sound News
54
The Notre Dame Scholastic
—nu—mi—m.«—•
RKO
RANAD
SATURDAY—FOR ONE WEEK
j	MiSHTY STARS OF 'THE CUCKOOS
I	WHEELER
i	WOOLSEY
|	IN RADIO'S FEATURE COMH)Y BOMBSHELL
i j	'i-SUNRIse
*
RKO
PALACE
._2____—
STARTING SUNDAY
1	On the Screen “The Road to Paradise” With Jack Mulhall and Loretta Young In a Snappy Story of Young Romance		Vaudeville Presentation Robinson & DeWitt Singers and Dancers in “Starlight Revue” Joe Lane and Pearle Harper in “Bits of Wit” Hardin’s Animals A Treat for the Kiddies One Other RKO Act	|
i	Last Times To-day			=
s	On the Stage		On the Screen	=
T	Evans & Mayer	“For the Love O’ Lil”		=
	and		Elliott Nugent—	=
£	Three Other Acts		Jack Mulhall	
j Notre Dame Attention |
I	COMING WEDNESDAY	[
i “TIM” MOYNIHAN I
Your 1929 All-American Center
in
Four Big RKO Acts
$
The Notre Dame Scholastic
5-5
3 INTERHALL SPORTS
Swinging into action for- the first time Sunday in the race for the interhall football championship, the various hall teams and the Off-Campus entry will be seen in the four games scheduled for play in the morning and the two in the afternoon.
The twelve squads are divided into two groups, the first of which is composed of Lyons, Morrissey, Sophomore, St. Edward’s, Corby, and Badin. ’ Brownson, Freshman, Carroll, Walsh, Howard and Off-Campus make up the list of teams that will compete in group No. 2.
-I-
The schedule calls for games to be played throughout the month of October with the championship tilt between the winners in each division set for play on November 9. Over
Interhall Games Sunday, Oct. 5
Group I.—Lyons vs. St. Edwards at Minims field at 9:00 a. m.; Morrissey vs. Corby at Brownson field at 9:00 a. m.; Sophomore vs. Badin at Cartier field No. 1, at 9:00 a. m.
Group II.—Freshman vs. Walsh at Brownson field at 9: CO a. m.; Carroll vs. Howard at Cartier- field No. 1, at 2:30 p. m.-;~ Off-Campus vs. Brownson at Brownson field at 2:30 p. m.
350 suits have been issued to the candidates, and officials in charge of interhall equipment state that there are more outfits available in the physical education building.
Coaches appointed during the past week, have been tutoring their charges nightly on the various practice fields,, and schedules have been arranged for theory work in the gymnasium in the evenings. Interhall football serves a twofold purpose on the Notre Dame campus—that of furnishing exercise and recreation to students who enjoy the game and are lacking in varsity caliber, and that of “unearthing” capable men who would be of service on the varsity squad. Many varsity
| Dictionary cf Chemical Equations ।
I Contains twelve thousand completed and 1 | balanced chemical equations, classified and | J arranged for ready reference. It is no * j more difficult to find a desired equation in | i this book than it is to find a word in the * | Standard Dictionary.	I
’ NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE | ----------------------—-
footballers of the past owe their early-training to interhall competition.
* * *
Four fields will be utilized for the games which start Sunday. They are designated as follows: Brownson field, old Cartier field known as Car-tier No. 1, varsity practice field— Cartier No. 2, and the Minims field, the second field north of Sophomore hall. The interhall practice field will not be used this year as the slab of
concrete surrounding the manhole in the center of the gridiron is at times a bit of a hazard when the contestants find themselves in the vicinity of the obstruction. Brownson, Minims, and
the interhall practice fields are those which are being used for nightly scrimmages.
*
Choice of the officials for the contests has not yet been completed. Varsity men will act as arbiters in the games, and it was said that considerable difficulty would be encountered in naming them as several games have been arranged for reserve teams during October, making it necessary in some instances for the men
56
The Notre Dame Scholastic
to be absent from the campus on Sunday mornings.
■ With the advance of the interhall football season the old timers recall the stiff competition in the league last year when the Off-Campus boys matched wits and strength with the Sophomore hall outfit in the championship game. The play of these two teams drew a large crowd at Brownson field. If the two groups produce winners this year that com
pare favorably with the two successful teams last season, the race should be a tight one from start to finish.
Any morning postponed games are to be played on the Tuesday following the dajr scheduled. The afternoon postponed games are to be played on the Thursday following the day scheduled.
Comes a rainy day and old Cartier
field will be a swamp of trampled and muddy grass, unfit for a football game. The sod on the old gridiron was planted this summer after the removal of the old turf to the new stadium. It still remains in a soft state, but is suitable for- use as a contest grounds in fail- weather. The other fields on the campus have been put in shape during the last week and are now ready for the games to come.
Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
Your good deed for today
—LISTEX
Grantland Rice
Sports Champions —a— Coca-Cola Orchestra —a—Every Wednesday 10:30 to H p. m. E. S. T. "a Coast to Coast N BC Network
'*• Pause
that refreshes No matter how busy you are—how hard you work or play—don’t forget you owe yourself that refreshing pause with Coca-Cola. You can always find a minute, here and there, and you don’t have to look far or wait long for Coca-Cola. A pure drink of natural flavors—always ready for you— ice-cold—around the corner from anywhere. Along with millions of people every day, you’ll find in Coca-Cola’s wholesome refreshment a delightful way to well-being.
The Coca-Cola Company* Atlanta, Ga.
9 MILLION A DAY~ IT
CW-6
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
The Notre Dam e Scholastic	57
CAMERAMEN SAFE
IN NEW STADIUM
Photographers gathered for shots of the Southern Methodist-Notre Dame game will initiate the new platform constructed under the roof of the press-box in the new stadium.
Reports that ambling photographers slid off the roof of the pressbox at the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech game last fall prompted officials to place the snapshot artists under cover where they will be safe from any injury, either to themselves or to the spectators below.
FIELD WELL PROTECTED
BY SPECIAL COVERING
The playing field in the new stadium will be well protected from all kinds of inclement weather in the future. A special covering of rubberized silk has been obtained, and will be left on the field until several hours of the game tomorrow.
Again Sheaffer’s are first* in America’s Colleges
The business, professional and college people of America have definitely marked Sheaffer’s as their pen. Sheaffer’s outsell all others; amon^ America’s hundred leading colleges, each registering 1,700 or more students, Sheaffer’s are first in sales.
You’ll a^ree that Sheaffer’s popularity is deserved when you try a Sheaffer’s Balance0 Life
time0. Do that! Choose the point exactly suited to your hand. Feel the swing, and rhythm of Balance0 writing. See the modern color and modem Balance0 contour. Know that your Balance0 Lifetime0 is guaranteed to serve satisfactorily as long, as you live. And without any doubt, you’ll make Sheaffer’s your Lifetime0 writing companion, too!
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 pen is Sheaffer’s; do not be deceived! All fountain pens are guaranteed against defects, but Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 is guaranteed unconditionally for your life, and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green or Black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $8.25. Black-and-Pearl DeLuxe and Marine Green Lifetime0 pens, $10; Ladies’, $9.50. Petite Lifetime0 pens, $7 up. Golf or Handbag Pencil, $3. Others lower.
*A recent survey made by a disinterested organization showed Sheaffer’s first in fountain pen sales amon^ the 100 leading American colleges having registration of 1,700 or more students.
Documents covering this survey are available to anyone.
BALANCE
The only Balance0 ven ana pencil is Sheaffer's.
AT BETTER STORES EVERYWHERE
NaLTSC, $3.25
No.H74TC, Marine Great 59.50
SAFETY SKRIP, SUCCESSOR TO INK, SKRIP-FILLED, 50c ro $10. Carry Safety Skrip in your luggage and to classes. It’s leakproof, practically unbreakable. Saves furniture, clothing, rugs, keeps the fluid fresh, makes all pens write better.
SHEAFFER’S
PENSPENCILSDESK SETSSKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON, IOWA, U. S. A.
This white
dot identifies Sheaffer's.the ONLY genuine Lifetime0 pen.
’Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
© W. A. S. P. Co.. 1930
»
58
The Notre Dame Scholastic
USHER’S CLUB ACTS
TOMORROW AT GAME
The officers of the newly organized Usher’s Club, as elected Saturday, September 20, for the year 1930, are as follows:
K. K. Rockne...Honorary President Daniel Halpin..President
Raymond Hertel......Vice-President John Saunders, Secretary-Treasurer Patrick Turnock.....Marshal.
By virtue of the constitution of the club, the honorary presidency, the presidency and the secretary-treasurer’s office will be filled by the director of athletics, the senior football manager and his associate respectively. The remaining offices are occupied by South Bend men, in no way connected with the University.
The idea of having an Usher’s Club at Notre Dame was originated by Daniel Halpin. He and Charles Weiss, junior football manager, have been working on the plan since last spring, but it was not until September 7 that the official announcement was made.
The principal function of this organization, will be for its members to
serve as ushers at all home football games. Approximately 1,040 men have made application for membership.
The appointments of head ushers, joint ushers etc., were made by the officers at a meeting held last Saturday. At this meeting Mr. Rockne promised the club men that if they would give the patrons of the Fighting Irish their money’s worth in the stands and treat them as football spectators should be treated, then he would give them their money’s worth on the field. Coach Rockne concluded his brief address by promising the ushers a banquet at the end of the season.
FROSH AND SOPH
MANAGERS NAMED
Undergraduate members of the managerial staff of the athletic association who have been assigned the duties of handling home practice sessions and home games in all sports have been announced. Headed by the board of senior managers and the assisting board of junior managers, the undergraduate organization completes an efficient body.
Sophomore managers for the year are: James Baker, Edward Bergan, Frank Buhl, Francis Fallon, Bruce Fox, Ralph Greer, William Kenefick, John Kenny, Donald Martin, Thomas Murray, Robert Noll, Andrew O’Keefe, Harry Scholnick, Charley Sheedy, John Sherman, Burton Shinners, and Anthony Wirry.
The yearling managers who comprise the present list will be reduced in number shortly following the football season, the cut being based on ability, attitude, and reliability. The freshmen are: William Adams, Elmer Albertine, Charles Auth, Robert Boylan, Ray Braszo, Edmond Butler, John Connolly, L. Crego, Thomas David, Eugene Dobyns, Edmund Dolan, Manuel Estrada, Edward Fitzmaurice, Edward Fisher, Ted Grabeski, Abe Goldberg, John Hanley, Ed Holman, Andrew Jansbreski, Frank Johnson, Robert Kelly, Edwin Kenefake, Hal Kotte, John LaBrie, Robert LeSage, Clyde Lewis, William McCormick, John McGrath, Alfred McIntosh, Paul McManus, Joseph Mosey, Edward Mulvihill, Edward Murphy, Edward O’Brien, Charles Quinn, Edward Roach, Sidney Rubin, A. A. Sandusky, Joseph Schrage, Harold Sparling, L. J. Stockwell, Fred Sullivan, August Von Broecklin, and J. Joseph Welsh.
1000
I One Week Starting Fri
The
Mightiest
of All ,
Outdoor
Dramas!
f
Seats
t
at
i
1
25c
Bringing back the Alaskan gold rush I Men and women—all kinds!—fighting, loving, laughing, hating—in their mad pursuit for wealth!
GARY COOPER
In Paramount’s sensational production of the Rex Beach thriller!
THE SPOILERS With
BETTY COMPSON Harry Green—Kay Johnson William Boyd
ADDED—Publix Sound Vodvil Fox Movietone News
A PARAMOVXT-PUBLIX THEATRE
Hats for Fall
E I t I
I
I
I f
I I
I
I E I 1
Distinctive shapes in new colors made from fine fur felts, especially for us by Trimble.
$5 to $15.00
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR
E
S
s I
I
I i
E
E
s
§
E





❖ ❖ ❖

E
I
1
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
59
FRANK LEAHY
ON HOSPITAL LIST
Frank Leahy, left tackle on the first varsity squad, failed to rise from the ground on the second last play of the scrimmage Wednesday afternoon and upon investigation was found to have been seriously injured.
Leahy was taken to St. Joseph’s Hospital immediately for care. It is understood that he will not be able to
play in the game with Southern Methodist but will undoubtedly be released in time for the Navy tilt.
CINDER TRACK
BEING RELAID
The cinder running track in Cartier Field has been undergoing some very extensive repairs this week. Coach John P. Nicholson has been personally supervising the work of tearing up
the old surface, putting in a firmer foundation, and as the final step, screening and forming the top cinder preparation.
When completed the track will assume a position as one of the finest in the Middle West. Coach Nicholson is well pleased at the prospects of having a perfect running track, since the uncertain foundation of the old one was not conducive to fast times.
The First Lesson for the Fall Term of School
Oocket	.pluA CbuAe xtn.	\Japerc
Aet
Duofold Jr. Pen $5. Pencil to match $3.75. Other Pens $5 to $10; Pencils $2.50—$5.
i—Parker Pocket Duofold being Convertible—
2— saves the Price of a Desk Pen —Now or later
3—which pays for the Desk Base!
Every Parker Duofold is convertible— a combination pocket and desk Pen both, at no extra charge. Choose Parker Duofold and you virtually get two Pens for the price of one.
Yet you have only one to fill. And you have your accustomed point wherever you are.
When you’re on the go, it wears its trim, streamlined cap, with Parker’s patented clip that holds the Pen low and unexposed in your pocket.
On your desk, it rests in Parker’s ball and socket Base. And with this comes the
4
tapered end for the Pen (once $1 extra), now included free.
Attaching the taper converts the Duofold into a Desk Set. Removing it restores the Pen to a pocket model.
Guaranteed for Life
Paying more won’t get you a thing— but will deprive you of this double value. For only the Parker offers this. And a Pen thatholds 17.4% more ink than average, size for size, Guaranteed for Life!
Go try them at any nearby pen counter, side by side, with any other pen, regardless of price. You’ll be surprised.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, Janesville, Wis. Offices and subsidiaries: New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Buffalo, San Francisco, Dallas, Toronto, Canada; London, England; Berlin, Germany.
CT Duo fold
PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE *^*5 ‘J *IO
60
The Notre Dame Scholastic
the New
Splinters From the Press Box
Smartest Coat on the Campus
College men who know what to wear and how to wear it choose Alligator "50”— the neiv College Coat... Alligator "50” is a smart double-breasted raglan—long—fullcut—roomy—full-belted, with big patch pockets, and a convertible collar that gives extra protection around the neck ... Light in weight—semi-transparent—abso-•utely weather-proof. Four rich, original colors—Deep Sea, Tan, Blue, Black—and only $7.50!... Other Alligator models from $5-00 to $25.00.
THE ALLIGATOR CO.
St. Louis, Mo.
STUDENTS
PERSONAL
STATIONERY
Send today for samples—letterheads and envelopes—printed with name and address—also fraternity or sorority— highest quality ripple finish—boxed— choice of three colors. 200 envelopes, 200 letterheads, only §4.75. Money making agency open to live student in each college. Write for particu'ars. Address Dept. 033, Merchants Industries, Inc., Third and Wayne Avenues, Dayton, Ohio.
We welcome Southern Methodist to our midst. Not only as competitors on the field of battle but also as guests of honor. It is a great pleasure for Notre Dame to open its new stadium to such a renowned foe. We have been hearing much about our gridiron opponent from down Texas way. Every bit of it has confirmed our belief that the Mustangs have a wonderful team.
Ray Morrison, dean of the southwest’s coaches and exponent of the passing game in its most malignant form, brings a well-drilled outfit, properly schooled in an offense which might bring disaster to our own Fighting Irish.
If Rock’s boys are as confident in themselves as we are in them, the new stadium will be opened in the only right way we know of. And that is, a solid victory.
LIGHTS.
Night baseball has done more than increase the attendance at the games, namely, it has increased the effectiveness of the pitchers.
It is true that the lights play havoc with the players’ eyes and cause them to misjudge the pitch and as a direct results, free-hitting contests arc passe as far as night baseball is concerned.
Just the other night, Dave Danforth, pitching for the Buffalo Bisons, struck out 20 of the 27 Rochester batters to face him. A day or so later, Jim “Lefty” Mooney, hurling for- the Charlotte club in the Sally league, whiffed 23 men to set a new record.
ODDITIES.
On September 19 the following item appeared in the Chicago Tribune, “The Cubs caught a 6:10 train for Boston, a most unusual proceeding. The reason: Joe McCarthy wanted his boys in regular- beds, in the interest of much rest for the series with the Braves.”
Just one week later the same paper-announced the appointment of Roger-Hornsby to McCarthy’s position.
That McCarthy was dropped from the Cub roster because of something outside of the playing field is what the writers have been trying to say, and yet they are forbidden. Mac had a good season last year, winning the National league crown. This season his team finished second, a natural reaction after a previously tough year. The A’s possessed a much stronger team, physically, than the
Cubs and were able the stand the pace.
Inability to shuffle his hurlers cost-McCarthy several games but that inability is minor compared to his generalship.
His real worth is understood when we hear that the Yankees and the Pittsburgh Pirates are after him to sign a contract. Boston Red Sox are also after his services.
CALAMITY JANE.
Bobby Jones is going to play “golf for fun” from now on.
That is probably the best news the competing golfers have heard in a long time. Without Jones, the championship matches will assume a more natural free-for-all atmosphere.
The national amateur race has always been the easiest for Jones. In 1924 he beat George Von Elm, 9 and 8; in 1925 he defeated Watts Gunn, his protege, 8 and 7; defeated Chick Evans in 1927, 8 and 7; and in 1928, .the last year he won the amateur, he soundly trcunced T. Philip Perkins, then British amateur champion, 10 and 9. Last Saturday Jones finished his match with Eugene Homans, 8 up and 7 to play, and became the first man in history to win the British open and amateur and the American open and amateur in the same year.
His soubriquet of “supreme golfer” has been well earned.
OPENERS.
Tommy Mills, erstwhile Notre Dame assistant grid coach, last Saturday saw his personally trained Georgetown squad sweep through St. Mary’s, 14 to 6.
Johnny Law, ’29 captain, had less success with his Manhattan varsity, losing to Rider, 14 to 0. Johnny was confronted with a tough proposition from the beginning of the season with only a score or more reporting for the team.
TIE
Last year Indiana and Ohio State played to a scoreless tie. Tomorrow afternoon the same two teams meet with the identical result as a good prospect.
GUESSERS.
Our predecessor last year knew his “onions.” He cut out guessing because it was too hard on the nervous system. We’re coming right at you with a prediction that Notre Dame will walk off the auld sod tomorrow afternoon with the score board showing 14-6. Of course, Milly Muckenfush, in their favor.

i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
61
4
A group attack on the “X” of industry
Research, finding answers to the eternal x = ?, keeps step in the Bell System with the new industrial viewpoint.
The joy in working out studies in development is shared by many. Results are reached by group effort. Striving together, the mature engineer and his younger assistants, each contributes to the final solution of the problem.
Men of the Bell Telephone Laboratories are sharing in useful, interesting research. They are getting valuable training in the modern strategy of organization attack.
And because that strategv assures them the aid of men and material resources, they are actually turning some of their vision into fact.
BELL SYSTEM
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF MORE THAN 20,000,000 INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
62
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
OFFICIALS FOR GAME
The officials for the Notre DameSouthern Methodist game to-morrow are as follows: Referee, Quigley, (St. Mary’s); umpire, Schommer, (Chicago); head linesman, Wyatt; field judge, Garrity, (Texas).
QUIN RYAN VISITOR FROM STATION WGN
Radio station WGN’s premier sports announcer, Quin Ryan, was on the campus Tuesday afternoon to look over the radio booths in the new stadium and to select the one which he will use in broadcasting the Navy-Notre Dame game. It is understood that N. B. C., Columbia, and an Indianapolis station will also broadcast the game.	•
BRING A. A. BOOKS’
Don’t forget to present your Athletic book at the gate tomorrow along with your ticket or entrance to the stadium may prove to be difficult.
“Silent cheerers” should be in their places at least fifteen minutes before game time.


For Quick Reference
on all facts concerning words, persons, places, ' you are continually in need of
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
Ushers. Free specimen pages 'f you name this paper.
G. IC. MERRIAM CO.
Springfield, Mass.

The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL —The “Supreme Authority.” Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it for the wealth of ready information that is instantly yours. 106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and other > special features.	$
See It at Your College Bookstore or
Write for Information to the Pub-	is;:’




i	i
|	HELLO MEN!	|
I	SMITH S CAFETERIA	|
I 111 East Jefferson Boulevard I
Youll Want Her to Wear a
Chrysanthemum to the Game
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
See
The Home of Quality
WILLIAMS
The Florist .
219 West Washington Avenue Telephone 3-5149
1 The Favorite Eating Place of । I	|
f	Notre Dame	1
I	1
I	I
4———————--------------
Flowers Telegraphed, Anyivhere	I
on Short Notice.	1
I
-	1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
63
“GET IN SHAPE NOW”
NICK TELLS TRACKMEN
“I don’t care whether or not you make a good showing in the fall handicap meet. I won’t even be watching you. All I want is for you to get out here, learn the method of doing these things, and get your body in shape for the work to come during the indoor season this winter.” Thus Coach John P. Nicholson addressed a group of track candidates last Tuesday afternoon in the University gymnasium.
The talk, intended primarily for the thirty-odd freshmen in the group, stressed the importance of reporting daily and working seriously when on the track.
“Nick” pointed out that at the present time he can work with each man individually and devote all of the time necessary to correct faults any man may possess. This winter it will be impossible with from 50 to 100 varsity candidates on his hands each day.
The fall season lasts little more than three weeks and is climaxed by the annual fall handicap meet, placewinners in which will receive medals and other prizes. Although the date for this meet has not bee definitely set, it will probably be held about October 18.
The College Man* Guide to Style

H
s
2
S
800 S. M. U. ROOTERS TO ARRIVE HERE TONIGHT
More than 800 Southern Methodist football team rooters will arrive in South Bend tonight preparatory to attending the grid game tomorrow between the Mustangs and the Fighting Irish. The fans, filling four excursion trains, left Dallas, Texas, on Wednesday.
The Southern Methodist backers will have a special cheering section of their own in the East stands tomorrow at the game, their seats being directly in back of the S.. M. U. team.
BS—O—W—«•— !	i
j Residence	Office ।
| Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 |
i	i
Dr. Edgar	S. Lucas !
j	Dentist	I
s	|
I	702 J. M. S. Building	|
s	2
I	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA	|
—-—■—-—-—-—«—■—-—-—-—■—
Have You Obtained Your Copy of this FREE Leaflet?
An. old friend to Seniors ... an absolute necessity to first-year men is this Learbury Style Leaflet. Learn from it the inside information on what campus leaders will wear. Its facts are gathered on the spot by Learbury scouts and are authenticated by one of America’s leading style counselors. Come in and get your copy today. It’s free I
M. GILBERT & SON
§
§ I 3
§
3
I
3
3
3
I
I
§
§
§
3
64
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ON DOWN THE LINE
RIDE
. . . Here we are again . . . back with the full number of dots . . . last week we could find only a few . . . we’re sorry . . . And a bit of timely news says that since 1922 BOBBY JONES hasn’t allowed a single year to pass without winning either the United States open oi' amateur golf championship . . . WILLIE “YOUNG” STRIBLING, heavyweight boxer, holds the record for the number of fights in a year . . . that is, 55, and for kaycs scored, 122 in all. . . .
THE
. . . Bryan Grant, Jr., clay court tennis champ of the U. S., is only five feet, four inches tall . . . weighs just 118 pounds . . . YASHIO FUGI-WARA, of Japan, recent winner of the professional 18.2 balkline billiard title of that country, will shortly appear in competition in the U. S. . . . YASHIO is 26 years old. . . .
MUSTANGS
...• . EARL SANDE, outstanding American jockey, works on a percentage basis . . . He earned $20,000 for riding. Gallant Fox four times during the present season ... He received ten per cent of the winnings . . . RUTH, GEHRIG, and MEUSEL twice hit three home runs in succession in 1925 and 1929. . . .
TO
... JESS PETTY and AL MAM-AUX, Newark stars in the International league are old vaudeville partners . . . SIDNEY B. WOOD, JR., one of the rising young tennis players, is a nephew of MATSON WASHBURN, a former vet of the game . . . Just another one of those popular family rackets . . . Apropos to the last JONES’ victory we find that HAROLD HILTON is the only British player ever to win the U. S. amateur golf title . . . He beat FRED HERRESHOFF in a 37-hole final round at Apawamis in 1910. . . .
VICTORY!
. . . JACK SHARKEY, GENE TUNNEY, and JACK DEMPSEY are the only three heavyweight boxers in the history of the sport who have made more than $1,000,000 with their fists . . . Although he served an apprenticeship .in the amateur ranks, AL SINGER, lightweight champ, never won a title among the simon-pures. . . .
❖
♦
The Best
Dressed
It takes more than a startling array of haberdashery and the impeccable taste of a Beau Brummel to carry off the proud title of “best dressed man” of the senior class. Don’t forget that health is a vitally important factor. Shredded Wheat adds that glow of health that makes splendid raiment becoming. Mineral salts and bran to
Man”
promote a good complexion —carbohydrates and proteins for energy and freshness—vitamins for pep and vigor. Try a biscuit or two tomorrow morning—delicious with milk or cream, and a few slices of your favorite fruit.
Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers
•J

