
Ht W I lfM A A IA bfl 4AF5if€!t.BA#ib NG a 

We Appreciate Our Dining Hall W-orkers Thursday, Oct. 8 


Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine October 8, 1987 
Cover 
6/Flying High by Theresa Henley 
8/Yes, Ma'am by Andy Hilger 


Student Life 
12/Knowing When To Stop by Sam. Harty 


Departments 
4/week in Distortion: The Attack of the Sniglets by Mike Keegan 
17/Music: Songs of Summer by Pythagoras and Weird Beard 
18/Coming Distractions by Mike Farnan 
20/Final Word: Cultural Sharing by Marty Rodgers 



News 
9/Being Prepared \>Y Maggie Sieger 
10/saint Mary's Responds To The AIDS crisis by Marilyn Benchik 


Sports 
14/A Most Dangerous Game by Marty Burns 
16/Sports week by Terry Lynch 

Scholulic ia publiahed WNldy durins lb• school year excopl durin1 examinations and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN -'6656 and prinled at The Paper1, Inc., Milford, IN 466542. The sub1cription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinion¦ expreued in Scholutic are tho¦e of author1 and editor1 and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholutic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or 1tudent body. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the editorial board. Manu1cript1 are welcome. All un¦olicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nation­
ally by CASS Communications, Inc. 0 1987 Scholastic magazine. All right¦ re¦erved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permiaaion is prohibited, 



Editorial 
Clarify AIDS policy 
Notre Dame does have an AIDS pol­
icy, despite an .appa. re.nt desire to play it down. The administration 
should be commended for formu­
. lating a policy; however, the ool­icy is too vague. Saint Mary's policy, which came out with much more publicity, has the advantage of being specific. · 
Treating each case individually initially appears to be very· reasonable, but there is a problem. Although there are many ways to catch AIDS, those who come down with the disease fall into certain patterns. People who have received virus-contaminated blood contract AIDS. The Unh·ersity idealistically will show compassion to individuals at Notre Dame who catch AIDS in that way. But drug-users, practic­ing homosexuals and simply sexually-active individuals are also at risk. Would the Univer­sity use the way a student, staff or faculty member caught AIDS to suspend or fire that individual? Obviously, we hope not; this policy, however, does not explain what the administration's perspective is. 
This administration apparently is aware that it has not settled · the problem, and it is approaching further action with the proper atti­tude: education is necessary: And here is where the administration deserves real commendation. Showing a film on sexually-transmitted diseases and informing students has to be painful -but it is necessary. "Fhe administration is doing an great thing with the education program. All that now is needed is a clarified policy. 
Scholastic 

. Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spel­ling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space limitations, Scho­lastic cannot print all letters 
received. 
Letters should be limited to fewer than 250 words. Address all correspondence to: 
The Editor 

Scholastic LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Scholastic 
Scholastic announces two new members of its gemfral board for 1987-88. The new members start their duties immediately with this issue. 
Margaret M. Sieger, a junior American studies major, has been chosen news editor. Sieger, from Houston,. Texas, is currently an intern with the South B.end Tri­bune. 
Monica Spoelstra, a senior American Studies major from Portland, Oregon, has been selected advertising manager. 

Hep Schoolastick wit itz speling, sty1, punktyouateshawn, und dickshon! 
Applications are now being accepted for the position of 

Copy Chief 
Letters 
Get involved while maintaining· and improving your own writing abilities in a friendly atmosphere. There's minor bucks in it, too. 
For more information, contact Kathleen McKernan at 239-7569 or 239-5029. Applications are due by 5 p.m., Thursday, October 16. 
October 8, 1987 
__ ____ . 
Week In Distortion/Mike Keegan 
The Attack Of The Sniglets 
.....,  - n  experiencing  Notre  9  TREASURE  ISLAND  - the  package.  
Dame, the average stu­ island  in  the  middle of St.  Joe's  
dent finds that there are  Lake where many chests have been  fl SARDINEVILLE  -the student  
certain situations during  uncovered.  sections at  the Notre Dame foot­ 
his career that are hard ....,j ~ to define. In trying to explain these sometimes awkward situations to our roommates, many a time we fail to find the right  e THE CHIT-CHAT LOUNGE -the second floor of the library where studying takes second place to socializing.  ball games. • COINGOTCHA ­the act of put­ting change into a vending machine and receiving nothing in  
word.  Without  a  particular word,  8  CHICKIFiCATION  return.  
the  idea  we  try  to  convey  can  -the  act  of trying  to  justify  to  
drown in a sea of ambiguity.  your friends that the girl you were  8  DOMELINS  -those  creatures  
So where can you turn to find  with  last  night  looks  as  pretty  who invade your  room  while you  
the appropriate words to describe  sober  as  she  did  after  a  twelve  are asleep and steal your telephone  
life  on  the Notre Dame campus?  pack.  directory and your dogbook.  
Well, right here, of course. Below is a list of Notre Dame Sniglets to  e PICKPOCKETDOMER  8  DOMEMOMS ­ those ladies· who  
help you describe your next Notre  - the thief standing behind Touch­ answer  the phone when yo11 dial  
Dame moment.  down Jesus who is pointing a gun  zero and always scold you for not  
at him and telling him to keep his  looking ,· up the number yourself. 
hands raised high above his head  
. 8  FRUITLOOPING the act of eat-­ or else.  8  BOBSLEEP  -the continual  up 
ing cereal for dinner because one can't distinguish between the fil­ling in a Ground Beef Hoagie and  8 BEERGIRLPHOBIA -the fear of running out of beer at  and down motion of the when one falls asleep in class.  head  
the sauce on the spaghetti.  your party because you know that  0  BEERCREEPS  -acestors of the  
beer  is  the  only  reason  that  the  cavity creeps.  These creatures are  
• JACCITCHING  -the  undesir­ girls are staying.  responsible for manufacturing the  
able  urge  to  go  to  the JACC  to  paste found in your mouth when  
excercise after realizing that the freshman thirty has turn into the  0 FANACIDE -the demented wish that when they are passing a  you wake up in_ the morning after a night of excess.  
sophomore forty. 8 RHINELANDEROS -a cheap, inexpensive way to forget about jaccitching.  student up the stands during a football game that the last group on top will throw the student over the wall.  • BRAINLEAK -the excuse for not being able to remember what you did the night before. G PITTPIE -what Notre Dame  
8  HOUDINI PACKAGE  football players will· snack on this  
G PIGSKINITIS ­ jock attraction.  -the  amazing disappearing  care  weekend.  

Scholastic 
ND
ROTC 
Flying 
igh 
Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC has distinguished itself as one of the top detachments in the United States 
A 
BY KERRY SIEGER 
ir Force ROTC Detachment 225 cele­brated its 40th 
anniversary at Notre 
Dame Septemher 18. "Since that time, the detachment has compiled a record of excel­lence few could rival,,, states a booklet printed by the Flying Irish. 
From January 1981 to April 1982, the United States Air Force honored the Flying Irish with the Outstanding Unit A ward. "Unfortunately, the eligibility requirements have changed since then and we no longer qualify," said Commander Colonel David Woods. "The highest award for which we are now eligible is the Air Force Organizational Excel­lence Award." Less than 10 per­cent of the 153 Air Force ROTC units nationwide receive this honor. "Notre Dame was awarded it in 1986," said Woods. 
In 1983, the Right of Line Award was established. to recog­nize the best unit in the Air Force ROTC. Each unit is first ranked individually, then enters into regional and finally national compct1t1on. The Inspector Gen­eral Evaluation is one aspect used in the ranking process. The Flying Irish "won the first outstanding rating of any unit on the evalua­tion in 1985," said Woods. 
A second aspect is the Quality Index Score of each unit. The QIS is a composite score taken from the average GPAs, SA Ts, and Air Force Officer Qualification Tests of each cadet. 
Other factors considered are reports from summer training camps for each unit, the number of juniors in each school's Air 

October 8, 1987 
· Force ROTC program and the regional ranking of each unit. The Flying Irish have one of the largest number of junior cadets in the nation. "We have been consistently highly ranked for a number of years in the Ohio Valley Region," said Woods. 
"The first unit ever to win the Right of Line Award was Notre Dame's Flying Trish for the 1982~ 
83 academic· year," said Woods. Clemson University and the University of Southern California earned the award in 1984 and 1985, respectively. The Flying 
. Irish also made history last year by being the first unit to win the honor for a second time. 

Said Woods, "We are very for­tunate at the University of Notre Dame to have very talented stu­dents who did well in high school." Among scholarship cadets, the national average for high school GPAs is 3:68. The Fly­ing Irish have an average of 3.70. Nationally, the scholarship cadets have an average SAT score of 1240. The Flying Irish's average is 1310, even higher than the University's average. And the national ranking of scholarship cadets is in the-94.6 percentile, while the average cadet in Air Force ROTC at Notre Dame is in the 95.2 percentile. 
Notre Danie's cadets arc con-




sistently higher than the average cacjct because said Woods, "We're looking for the same kind of stu­dent Notre Dame is looking for." The Air Force, like Notre Dame, looks for students with high academic achievement as well as extracurricular activities such as band or club membership. "A stu­dent is awarded a scholarship for Air Force ROTC. The potential cadet then applies the scholarship to any university or college which he or she attends. So while the Air Force is recruiting these stud.cnts for its ROTC program, Notre Dame is recruiting the same stu­dents for its freshman class," Woods said. 
Another similarity which exists between Notre Dame and the Fly­ing Irish is in the number of "legacies." Approximately 25 per­cent of Notre Dame's student body 
arc the children of alumni. Simi­larly, approximately 25 percent of the cadets in the Flying Irish are the children of military families. And to the 31 percent of Notre Dame's student body which is f cmalc, the Flying Irish compare their 20 percent. "I'd like to see it higher," said Laur::i Silva. ::i iunior in Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC, "but the Air Force recruits mostly engineering majors and those are typically male." Said Woods, "Women permeate all of our top­ranking offices." 
In addition to the Notre Dame students in Air Force ROTC, Woods gives the credit for the Right of Line Award to his high­quality staff. "Various members of my staff have won individual awards. Technical Sergeant Lee Farner was named the Top Non­Commissioned Officer in Air Force ROTC for 1985, and Cap­tain Roger· Overturf was named the Ohio Valley Region Inst~uctor of the Ycar for the same year," he said. 
Subsequent to the winning of the Right of Line, Staff Sergeant Paul E. Brierley was named the Top Administrative NCO of Air Force ROTC and Air Training Command, the next higher echelon in Air Force ROTC. In addition to these awards, Captain Candi Schaefer was named the Air Force ROTC Officer of the Quarter for October to December of 1985, and Master Seargeant Paul Eddy was named the Air Force ROTC NCO of the Quarter for April to June 1986. 
"We're proud of our history of excellence," said Woods. "We'll continue with the tradition for many more years.' II 

Lecture 
"Economics in this Time" 
by 
John Kenneth Galbraith 
Tuesday, October 13, 1987 
8:00 p.m. Washington Hall 
Tix: $2.00 Available at the Ticket Stub 10/6-10/9 and 10/12 from 12-1 and 4-5 p.m. Undergrad Reception from 5-7 p.m. at the Snite. 
Lecture sponsored by the Student Union Board and the Economics Department. 
October 8, 1987 

Yes, Ma'am 
Women take their place as commanding officers in Notre Dame's ROTC 
BY ANDY HILGER 
Despite being a dis.tinct minority, the women in Notre Dame's ROTC "can do a lot more than people say they can," said Army Lieutenant Colonel Douglass Hemphill. In the case of each branch -the Army, Navy and Air Force -very few restrictions, in terms of what they may and inay not do, exist for females. Most limitations are a result of the congressional combat rule which restricts women from participating in certain battle situations and not because of the ROTC program itself. The 32 females in the army program comprise 14 percent of the total batallion. Hemphill said that in terms of recruiting "the target is the same: the best quali­fied person. The army also has no quota that says we are limited to X number of women." The physical fitness requirements were adjusted approximately five years ago to accomodate women. Hemphill said, "It is a different standard, but it is now more realistic than it had been in the past." Captain Anita Domingo stressed that women currently involved with ROTC shatter stereotypes by "taking advantage of opportunities originally developed for men, such as air­borne." The females are also well integrated into the leadership posi­tions. Last year's batallion com­mander and one of this year's pla­toon leaders are females. In 1982, only four women were 
involved with the Navy ROTC program. Presently, 25 are actively involved; they formulate about eight percent of the batallion. Just as in the army, recruiting is han­dled the same way for men and women. 
"The Navy is, however, con­strained by numbers, making the competition tougher (for women)," Captain John Rohrbough said. Though restricted by the congressional combat rule, Rohrbough said the opportunities for women are "not less, just dif­ferent (than those for men)." 
Unlike the other branches of the ROTC, Rohrbough stressed that "the Navy is designed solely as a compliment to the United States Naval Academy." There­fore, everyone receives the same rank, assignment philosophy and commission (as those at the Naval Academy).. Women are taking an active role in terms of leadership 
WOMEN 
lli@~© 
in the Navy ROTC program," 
according to Rohrbough. The 
current executive officer of the 
batallion is a woman. 
The Air Force ROTC program 
boasts 45. females, which 
comprises close to 20 percent of 
the total batallion. Captain Sam 
Gaglio said that "no distinctions 
are made (in the Air Force), put­
ting us one step ahead of society in 
that respect." Just as in the other 
branches, recruiting is handled in 
the same manner regardless of sex. 
There are no quotas for the 
number of women that can be 
accepted into the Air Force. 
In terms of opportunities in the 
Air Force ROTC, "women arc 
basically entitled to the same 
options as men," said Staff Ser­
geant Paul Brierley. Women have 
also integrated themselves into 
leadership positions -two of the 
past four corp commanders have 
been women. ¦ 
IN ND 
Being 
re 
ared 
Notre Dame quietly instituted an AIDS policy in 1986 and now presents a total picture of prevention during AIDS Awareness Month 
BY MAGGIE SIEGER 
n July 1986, near the beginning of the
I 
national AIDS hys­
teria, the University 
of Notre Dame. after five months of planning quietly instituted a policy designed to respond to Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
"The policy is more of a frame­work,'' said Carol Seager, director of University Health Services. "Each case is individual. The guideline provides a mechanism for each case to be dealt with on two levels: the individual's specific circumstances and the best medical information and advice available at the time. You can't set up ahead of time a policy that addresses all cases unilaterally." 
The policy is the result of the collective efforts of a committee comprised of a cross-section of people on campus, according to Seager. "It was not a one-person cffort. The policy addresses every­one on campus, students and staff,'' she said. 
In February 1986, Seager rf'.ceived a directive from Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. "The purpose and intent was to have a framework in place before we need it," Seager said. "We didn't want to deal with AIDS when we had AIDS." 
The policy-making committee was chaired by Seager and mcnt into the AIDS guideline. They gave personal opinions as well as going into their dorms ­there's a representative from each dorm -and asking questions and bringing back information that was incorporated into the guide­line," she said. 
"We have to be careful because we are definitely at risk. AIDS 

included representatives from the. faculty, personnel, counseling center, housing, athletics, a physi­cian and legal counsel. "The health center has a student advisory com­mittee that serves in a variety of capacities, one of which was to provide student input and com-among heterosexuals is rising at a faster rate than the typical high risk groups," Seager said. 
"Anyone who is sexually active is putting themselves at risk. The sexually active need to be con­cerned not only with their sexual partner but also with their 
October_8, 1987 
partner's sexual partners." 
October is National AIDS Awareness Month, according to Seager. In keeping with this, University Health Services, in 
·._ conjunction with the Office of Student Affairs, has planned several days of programs and presentations devoted -to AIDS education, she said. On October 26, 27 and 28, we will show a film entitled 'Sex on Campus: AIDS and Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases.' Anonymous questions about AIDS will be taken afterward. On ·November 2, representa­tives from different areas will give presentations and then answer questions collected from the previ­ous three days and any others that are generated that night. These representatives will include Tyson for questions regarding university policy, a physician for clinical 
· questions, a member of the coun­seling center for open and indivi­dual questions on social, group and emotional support within the Notre Dame community, one or two AIDS patients from St. Joseph County and maybe an employee of the public health department. One purpose of the program­ming is to present a total picture of AIDS prevention, including how to practice safe sex. "This is a Catholic university," said Seager, "so, of course, we'll present both sides. Really, though, they go together. Look at what the (United States) Surgeon General is saying. Regardless of religion, the number one safest way to avoid AIDS is to abstain (from sexual intercourse). The Catholic church and the medical profession agree on what is best. The ways in which they coincide help people to be safe. This indicates that what the Catholic doc_trine is saying is 
very appropriate. We're going to show the total picture." 
Once the information is presented, it is up to the indivi­dual to respond, according to Seager. "The way to avoid AIDS is through our own behavior. It's a very personal decision," she said. "We're going to try to give infor~ mation so people can decide what's best. Then, it's up to the indivi­dual." 
"I'm not sure if we'll ever have 
a specific counseling policy for 
people with AIDS," said . Dr. 
Patrick Utz, director of University 
Counseling Center. "We are look­ing at starting a support system on campus for persons with serious, life-threatening illnesses. AIDS would fall into that group." 
Utz does not foresee any separate policy developing for helping an individual whose friend or family member has contracted the disease. "I don't want to sug­gest that they're the same thing, but I don't see us coming up with any policy separate from the one we have for dealing with those relationships and other terminal 
illnesses, like cancer," he said. "Our function is support and referral. Of course, riot having had this before, we don't know 


what's there." 
"We don't talk about AIDS in a 
separate context," said -Father 
Andre Leveille, director of the 
Office of University Ministry. 
"We deal with the whole area of 
spiritual counseling. We have no 
AIDS policy as such, just as we 
have no cancer policy. Our. policy 
is to help all people who come 
seeking help." 
The -gay community at Notre 
Dame is concerned with student · reaction to AIDS on campus . according to Michael Dini. sookes-: 
man for Gays/Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. "Perhaps the administration will be able to handle a student with AIDS with compassion and understanding but what about the student body? There will be a general rise in homophobia," he said. 
"As for education," Dini said, "so far the steps that we've taken are pretty much concerned with our members, making sure they're educated." 
"The University is prepared ­that's what's important; that's the purpose of the policy, not fanfare. Now we'll be able to take care of ourselves in a way that we all deserve," said Seager. Ill ­

October 8, 1987 

A student-run club designates October 11 to 15 Alcohol Awareness Week with hopes of educating students about alcohol use 
BY SARA HARTY 
' 

e're going to the six kegger on St. Louis Street, Campus View for awhile and if I'm still standing we'll hit the bars. This week was hell -three tests, two papers and a marketing project I never did finish. I deserve to get trashed." 
The average Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is hardly unaware of alcohol. BACCHUS ­Boost Alcohol Consciousness Con­cerning the Health of University Students -strives to bring about a different kind of awareness. With that goal in ~ind, the week of October 11 has been designated 
Alcohol Awareness Week. 
The week includes a variety of events, ranging from the educa­tional -speakers and a bartcnding demonstration -to the just plain · fun -Sundae Nite at the movies, Comedy Nite at the Senior-Alumni Club and a Bring Your Own Body Picnic on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
According to Mike V erbaro, Alcohol A warcncss Weck Chair­man, BACCHUS hopes student awareness of the club will increase as a result of the week. "We just want to make people aware that 
. the organization exists, of our goals and purpose, which is really just to promote responsible drink­ing on campus. We're not at all anti-drinking or · against people having a good time .. We're partiers ourselves, but we feel we're responsible. Being responsible involves not drinking arid driving or not getting sick every time you drink." 
Alcohol Awareness Week is just one aspect of BACCHUS. The student-run club is a chapter of a nationwide network dedicated to educating students about alcohol use. 
Some responsible decisions regarding alcohol that BACCHUS . outlines include: 9 Don't have drinking be the pri­mary focus of any activity 9 Measure the alcohol when mix­
ing a drink 8 Don't push drinks on guests 9 Always serve non-alcoholic bev­
erages and snacks when serving 
alcohol 0 Don't drive after drinking 0 If walking, never assume that a 
driver can see you BACCHUS also hopes to edu­
• 
cate students about drinking prob­lems. Verbaro stressed that there is a difference between an alcoholic and a person who · has a drinking problem. "You shouldn't assume someone with a problem is 
an alcoholic. Some people have tendencies toward a problem that they have to deal with but they don't actually have a problem. A lot of students might have personal experience with that kind of thing." 
The club has tried to offer something for everyone in the course of the week. · Perhaps a pamphlet on the Alcohol Policy put out by BACCHUS sums things up well when it states, "There is a great need for students to adopt the moderate approach to drink­ing: 80 percent of all disciplinary problems are alcohol related . . . weekends mean more than just getting drunk." ¦ 
Schedule of Events Sunday, October 11 12 p.m. 5K Run -"Show us Your Guts" 
7:30 p.m. Sundae Nite at the Movies -"Arthur" -Knights of Columbus Hall -Make your own sundae after the movie 
Monday, October 12 
7 p.m. Rex Rakow, director of security -Rights of students on and off campus with question and answer period 
8:30 p.m. Linda Thorpe Gordon and Barb Noser, from local alcohol council -Attitudes and perceptions of alcohol 
Tuesday, October 13 
7:30 p.m. Bartending Demonstration Tips with slides of BACCHUS philosophy 
*All speaken for the week appear in Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Wednesday, October 14 10 p.m. Comedy Night -Senior-Alumni Club Thursday, October 15 4:30-6:30 p.m. BYOB (Bring Your Own Body) Cookout -Field­
house Mall 
ARE YOU HIDING YOUR ARTISTIC ABILITY? Break out of your she_ll and join us at Scholastic ... We are now accepting applications for the position of ADVERTISING DESIGN EDITOR Contact Monica Spoelstra or Catherine Coffey for details at 239-7569 or 239-5029 Applications due by 5 p.m., Thursday, October 15.  



T 
EROUS 

G ME 
Fourth-ranked Notre Dame better be careful Saturday night at Pitt Stadium The Pittsburgh Panther defense has been known to iame. even the wildest breeds 
BY MARTY BURNS 
TTENTION, NOTRE 

DAME FOOTBALL TEAM. Before you get too carried away with your No. 4 ranking, 
your full week off to prepare for this Saturday's game with Pittsburgh -not to mention 
the Panthers' recent losses to Bos­ton College and Temple -you· might want · to consider a few things: Big Tony Siragusa, Pitt's six-foot, five-inch, 270-pound starting right tackle keeps a seven-foot python for a pet. His best friend, 6-6, 250-pound start­ing left end Burt Grossman doesn't like slimy things so he owns a pit (or is it Pitt) bulldog and not one ­but two -alligators, which he named Jewels and Frank. Call them "The Pet Shop Boys," but please, not to their face. 
If that isn't enough to transform · your composition into gelatin, you can always remember last year when Pitt's defense turned you inside out, allowing only three field goals in its 10-9 8 
.M
> 
., 
~ 
win at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Overall last year in fact, Grossman 
and Siragusa bit, cl~wed and stran­
gled so many running backs and 
quarterbacks -including your own 
-that Pitt finished ninth in the 
nation defensively. 
It's no wonder Pitt line coach 
Frank D' Alonzo sounds like a bro­
ken record when asked if Gross­
man and Siragusa can be more 
fierce than any other Panther in 
history. "Tony has the opportun­
ity to be the best in his position at 
Pitt." And what about the guy 
with the alligators? "Burt has the 
chance to be the best ever at Pitt 
playing his position." 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, like D' Alonzo, wisely agrees with any favorable assess­ment of the Panther defense. "Their defensive line is as impos­ing as probably anyone we'll play against all year." Holtz then quickly notes for good measure Pitt's four returning starters in the secondary and their top tackler, linebacker Ezekial Gadson. 


Pitts' Siragusa (aboye) will try to wrap up the Irish like a python, but Notre Dame's "No-Names" (left) may pull together and make the Panthers look like Purdue. 

Yet while Pitt's stop troops have been stingy, the offense, under senior quarterback Sal Genilla, has been inconsistent. Genilla, a junior college transfer, beat out ex-Notre Dame player Joe Felitsky for the starting job left vacant by the graduation of John Cangemi. He threw four intercep­tions in last weeks 13-10 loss to Boston College (he has thrown 
, eight on the year) and was able to lead his team to only six points in its win over West Virginia and to only 21 in its loss to Temple. Pittsburgh's offense, as a matter of fact, closely resembles Notre Dame's. They run out of multiple sets, have a good crop of receivers, and rely on an inexperienced but capable quarterback. Of course, the Irish don't have an "Ironhead". Running back Craig "Ironhead" Heyward, who got his nickname for being a stubborn child, has rushed for over 100 yards in each of his team's five games this sea-

son. Unlike former Panther great 
and human fluid Tony Dorsett, 
Ironhead likes to run over 
opponents -using every one of the 
250 pounds on his six-foot frame. 
Ironhead, quite simply, gives 
Holtz a headache, "Heyward's got 
as good a combination of size and 
speed as anyone you're going to 
find," he says. "One guy doesn't 
have much luck tackling him very 
often." At least the Irish won't 
have to contend with Heyward's 
huge backfield buddy of last year, 
Charles Gladman. Gladman was 
given a permanent leave-of­
absence by the university for 
accepting payments from an agent. 
A smaller individual, 5-10, 195­
pound freshman Prentiss Wright is 
slated to start at fullback, although 
Ironhead's bigger smaller brother 
Nate (5-10, 185) may also play 
there. 
Despite these weapons, Pitt 
head coach Mike Gottfried must 
cringe when he thinks of playing 
the 3-0 Irish after they've had a 
week to prepare. Like Holtz, 
Gottfried promised to rebuild his 
school's winning reputation. 
Unlike Holtz, though, Gottfried's 
3-2 club has stumbled out of the 
starting blocks. Notre Dame, 
before its week off, clubbed Pur­
due 44-20 despite being down at 
the half and despite having several 
key players out with injuries. 
Listening to Holtz speak about his 
team -now healthy and rested ­
wouldn't make Gottfried feel any 
easier. 
"The object of_ the game is to win, and we've done that three times so far," says Holtz. "I was pleased with what I saw in the second half at Purdue because I didn't know how we would react when a little adversity came our way. But we came out in the second half and played crisply. I ··can't imagine that this won't be an extremely intense, emotional foot­
ball game." 
One person for whom this game will be an emotional moment is Foge Fazio, former Pitt head coach and current Irish defensive coordinator. Saturday marks the first time Fazio will stand on the Pitt sidelines since he left the Pan­ther job after four years at the helm there. Two of Fazio's Pitt teams went to bowls, but the last two finished 3-7-1 and 5-5-1, not good enough for fans accustomed to being near the top of the polls year in and year out. 

Foge Fazio 
Although Fazio downplays the revenge factor, it will be interest­ing to see which of the two hard­hitting units, Pitt's "Pet Shop Boys" or his own "No-Names", determines the outcome of the game. "I'm trying to treat this game just like any other football game," says Fazio. "I know many of their players and I've told our guys that they'll be playing across the line from a lot of players just like themselves. It'll be a good old-fashioned street brawl." 
Then, the leader of the "No;. Names" thinks about Pitt's animal-lovers, Siragusa and Gross­man, and adds: "Pitt has a lot of players who would fit in well here at Notre Dame." Maybe, coach. But No-Names are allowed at Notre Dame, pets aren't. Ill 

sportswe k 
SOCCER 
The soccer team travels to Spartan­burg, SC, this weekend to play in the USC-Spartanburg Invitational. The Irish will play Winthrop on Saturday before tak­ing on USC-Spartanburg on Sunday. Winthrop is a belated entry in the Irish schedule and was substituted after Tennes­see dropped its program to club status. 
Last week, the Irish notched two over­time victories over regional powers Bowling Green (2-1) and Wisconsin (4-2). The soccer team now stands at 11-0-1, the best start in the history of the 11-year-old pro­gram. The Irish also were ranked 11th in the Sept. 29 issue of Soccer America, and are currently second to Indiana in the Great Lakes Region Coaches' Poll. 
VOLLEYBALL 
The volleyball team's 14-3 start is its best ever, and its seventh-place ranking in the latest Midwest Regional poll is the highest ever for Notre Dame. Notre Dame has yet to appear in a national poll. 
After a tough 3-2 loss to 16th-ranked Northwestern, the Irish rebounded to beat DePaul, Butler and Iowa by 3-0 tallies. Two of Notre Dame's three losses have come at the hands of nationally-ranked powers Northwestern and Southern Cal. 
The Irish play three home matches this weekend, hosting 11th-ranked Kentucky tomorrow night at 7:30. Northern Illinois then comes in on Saturday night, and Min­nesota concludes the three-game stand. 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
The cro8s country team hosted the Notre Dame Invitational last Friday in cold, rainy weather and came out of the race with a third-place finish. Michigan and Edinboro finished in the invitational's top two spots. 
DAN GARRETT finshed second overall, · losing to Michigan's JOHN SCHERER, while PAT KEARNS and RICK MULVEY ran together in the second half •Of the race to finish fourth and fifth. The team now takes a week off before run­ning in the Indiana Intercollegiates next Friday in West Lafayette, IN. 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
The women's cross country team fin­ished fifth in the Notre Dame Invitational last Friday, the first women's race in the history of the meet. THERESA RICE fin­ished fourth overall with a time of 18:46.6. 
Heavily-favored Virginia took the team title in the 11-team field. 
The Irish travel to Muncie, IN, for a dual meet against Ball State on Saturday. Head Coach DAN RYAN, looking ahead to the Indiana Intercollegiate and the North Star Conference meet, will rest the top five runners on the team against the Cardinals. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
The Irish, under first-year coach BOB BAYLISS, ran into a tough team in West Virginia last weekend in the first annual TOM FALLON Invitational. The Irish doubles team of BRIAN KALBAS and RYAN WENGER lost in the finals to West Virginia's JOBY FOLEY and RAY KUREY. Kalbas also made it to the third round of the singles A-flight before losing to PAUL MANCINI of West Virginia. 
The men now take a week off before travelling to Winston-Salem, NC, for the 
Wake Forest Invitational on Oct. 17-19. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
The fall season will end for the Irish at the North Star Conference Championship tomorrow through Sunday at the Courtney Tennis Center. Notre Dame will be seeking its fifth straight confe.rence championship. STEPHANIE TOLSTEDT and ALICE LOHRER will be out to retain their 
number-two  and  number-three  singles  
titles.  
FIELD HOCKEY  

The field hockey team comes home today to face Central Michigan at 3 p.m. on Cartier Field. The Irish offense exploded Monday afternoon, posting an 8-0 win over Albion. The win pushed the team's record over the .500 mark for the first time this season, at 4-3-1. 
The Irish have a 4 p.m. Tuesday match 
. at home against Goshen before embarking on a four-game tour of the East Coast over break. 
GOLF 
The golfers suffered an unexpectedly bad day on their home course at the Irish Invitational last Sunday. The Irish gold team finished eighth out of 11 teams in the field, well off the pace of champion Dayton. TERRY BERLAND and PAT MOHAN tied for the top Irish spot at 79, but that was far from the top two finishers, KEVIN RYAN of Detroit and ANDY­KACZMAROWSKI of Dayton, both of whom fired 72s before entering a playoff. 

That disappointing finish came on the heels of a second-place finish at the Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Championships last week. Notre Dame finished ahead of Indi­anapolis University but behind tournament winner Ball State. 
The team will finish the 1987 season at the 14th Annual Buckeye Fall Classic at Ohio State Unive·rsity. This is the first time that the Irish will participate in the 54-hole tournament. 
SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 
The tennis team boosted its record· to 8-0 after an 8-1 win over Taylor University last week. The Belles travel to Joliet, IL, on Saturday for a match against St. Francis. 
SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
Last week the Belles battled to a score­
less tie against Notre Dame before beating 
the University of Chicago, 3-1, later in the 
week. CELESTE AQUINO, AMY ROSS 
and TRICIA TROESTER all scored goals 
for Saint Mary's, now 4-3-2 on the season. 
The Belles go on tli~ road on Saturday to 
take on Lewis College. 
SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team improved its record to 9-3 after wins over Bethel and Purdue-Calumet last week. The Belles will play in the Lake Forest Invita­tional on Saturday. 
COMPILED BY TERRY LYNCH 
Scholastic
16 

Music/Pythagoras a_nd Weird Beard 
Songs of Summer 

eird Beard: Summer Songs. We all have them. These are the songs -or albums -that 
you listen to over vacation and help to define the summer. When­ever you hear the song years later, you are automatically reminded of the summer during which that was 
' "the song." For instance, when­ever I hear "Green Grow the Rushes" by R.E.M., I instantly think back to the summer of '85. Golly Gee, that was quite a sum­mer. Sigh ... Pythagoras: Yes, Weird Beard, I understand what you're saying. Usually these summer songs tend to be more laid back -if not in style then often in message. Just the same, many of the songs that define certain summers for me do so because of the appropriateness of the lyrics. 
PYTH and WB: (in unison) Well, since the temperatures are drop­ping, and last week we bade fare­thec-well to Mr. Summer, we fig­ured we'd do an article on the albums and songs of the summer of '87. 
1. XTC -Skylarking 
Although this _album came out in '86, we really didn't appreciate it until this past spring and sum­mer. This album by the English trio is one of the best summer albums of all. The first cut, "Summer's Cauldron/Grass," was especially appropriate for listening to under certain transcendental conditions. 
2. (by Weird Beard) U2 -The 
Joshua Tree 
This was probably EVERYBODY'S summer album this year. It's about time U2 got the recognition they've deserved for so long. This album, which is arguably their finest, is a good exception to the general rule that popular is crap. This album was -and still is-played on the radio and at parties so much that it will probably be the most definitive album of the year. Producer Brian Eno's influence comes out more 
than ever on The Joshua Tree, 
making for a more expansive, 
sweeping and powerful sound. 
3. (by Weird Beard) Elvis Costello -"Beyond Belief" and "I Want You" 
"Beyond Belief" originally appeared on '82s "Imperial Bed­room." It wasn't until I got The Best of Elvis Costello, though, that I fully appreciated the song, with its constant rising and falling, speeding up and slowing down. An extremely well-crafted song. "I Want You" is off last ye_ar's Blood and Chocolate. What starts out as a simple love song turns obsessive, vindi~tive and downright neurotic, both lyrically and musically. The repeated line, "I Want You," becomes more desperate and dis­sonant as the song progresses. It's a brilliantly cynical view of an unrequited love. 
4.( by Pythagoras) David Bowie -. "Ashes to Ashes" 
For some reason, I really got into this song this summer. Its haunting mood seemed to capture perfectly the almost surreal nature of my summer nights. Maybe it had something to do with the Christmas lights strewn across my ceiling. Pseudo-psychedelic, eh? 
5. (by Pythagoras) Various Artists -Summer of Love 
This compilation album, con-1 sisting of "25 of '67s GROOVI­EST," came out this summer on Rhino Records. This obvious attempt to capitalize on the 20­year anniversary of the summer of · '67 turned out to be a great collec­tion of songs, from "Lazy Day" by Spanky and Our Gang and "Epis­tle to Dippy" by Donovan to "Incense and Peppermints" by the Stawberry Alarm Clock. Although I'm no longer a '60s fanatic, I still believe that rock will never again experience such an explosion of creative energy as it did in the late '60s. This album merely emphasized this point, for the most lightweight and carefree pop songs on this album are better than anything on the charts today. It's even more disconcerting to realize that the 25 songs were all from one year, and that they are only a 
handful of the great tunes released that year. Well, at least the brilli­ance of that year could still influ­ence my summer experience 20 years later. 
Well, we hope you' ve learned from this. If nothing else, how our pasts can make for an article. So, until next time, well you know. We_ leave you with a quote from Philip Plumshire: A woman's like a big ball of styro­foam, because she too ... Geez, this chair is cold! 

Coming Distractions October 8 -14 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8 
FILMS: 
"Color Purple" Engineering Auditorium 7, 10 p.m. $2 
"Them" LIFE Film Series Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. 
LECTURES: 
Annual Hibernian Lecture Library Auditorium 8 p.m. 
THEATRE: 
"Death of a Salesman" Washington Hall 
8:10 p.m. 239-5956 for tickets 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9 
FILMS: 
"Heartbreak Ridge" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
"Menage" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $2 
SPORTS: 
NDW Tennis Courtney Courts 8 a.m. 
NDW vs. Kentucky Volleyball JACC 
7:30 p.m. 
EJ:liTERTAil'iMEl'\T: 
Sophomore Blitz Weekend Bonfire at Whitefield 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. 
"Death of a Salesman" Washington Hall 
8:10 p.m. 239-5956 for tickets 

CONCERTS: 
Redd Kross Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark October 9 
7:30 All Ages-
Georgia Satellites Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark October 11 
7:30 p.m. 
Spirit Biddy Mulligans 7644 N. Sheridan October 10 8 p.m. $10 
PJ and The Magic Bus Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark October 8. 
7:30 18 and over THEATRE: 
"A Chorus Line" Village Players Through October 17 Friday and Saturday 8 p.m. Sunday 2 p.m. $8 
"The Merchant of Venice" Alternative Classic Theatre of Equity Library Theatre Through November 22 Tuesday-Friday 8p.m. 
Saturday 
5:30 and 9:30 p.m. Sunday 3 and 7 p.m. $15 and $22 
"Nunsense', 
Forum Theatre Through January 3 Wednesday-Friday 8p.m. Saturday 
6:30 and 9:30 p.m. $18.50 and $23.50 
MICHIANA 
MOVIES: 
University Park West 
"Big Shots" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. "Full Metal Jacket" 
7:15 and 9:30 p.m. ''LaBamba'' 7 and 9:30 p.m. 


COMPILED BY MIKE FARNAN 
SATt;RDAY, OCTOBER 9 
FILMS: 
"Heartbreak Ridge" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
SPORTS: 
NDW Tennis Courtney Courts 8 a.m. 
Men's and Women Swimming Blue vs Gold Inner-squad Rolfs Aquatic Center 11 a.m. 
Football ND VB. Pitt 
Away 
7:15 p.m. EDT 
Co-Rec Volleyball JACC Time to be announced 
University Park East 
"The Untouchables" 7 p.m. "No Way Out" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Beverly Hills Cop II" 
7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. · "Can't Buy Me Love" 

7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. "Big Easy" 


7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "The Big Town" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Can't Buy Me Love" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. .Town and Country 
"Stakeout" 
7:10 and 9:40 p.m. "Fatal Attraction" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "The Principal" 
7:25 and 9:45 p.m. 
El'\TERTAINMENT: 
MFF. A Taste of Nations Stephan Center 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
THEATRE: 
"Death of a Salesman" Washington Hall 
8:10 p.m. 239-5956 for tickets 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 11 
SPORTS: 
Volleyball NDW vs. U. of Minnesota 4 p.m. 
MASS: 
Sophomore Class Mass Grotto 
2:30 p.m. Rain location is Stanford/Keenan Chapel 
"Death of a Salesman" Washington Hall 
Scottsdale 
"Hellraiser" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "The Pick-Up Artist" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
MONDAY,OCTOBER12 
FILMS 
"Road Warrior" 7p.m. "Small Change" 9p.m. Annenberg Auditorium $2 
TUESDAY,OCTOBER13 
FILMS 
"Breathless" Annenberg Auditorium 7 and 9 p.m. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13 
LECTURES: 
Lecture by John Galbraith "Economics in this Time" Washington Hall 8p.m. $2 
Final Word 
Cultural Sharing 
BY MARTY RODGERS 
t all began with an 
idea and a question. 
The idea was the crea­
tion of an annual fall 
festival on the same 
scale of An Tostal, the question was what theme could provide enough variety that it could be used every year. 
Luckily the idea and the answer to the question both fell into very capable hands -those of Adele Lanan, an assistant director of Student Activities. Multiculturalism wou.ld be the theme and so she began to assem­ble in the beginning of the 1986-87 school year an Executive Board who would take the idea and develop it into something tangible, a vibrant and breathing cntitiy. She composed the origi­nal Executive Committee of members from a variety of organizations -including Student Government, Student Union Board, International Students' Organization, Black Cultural Arts Council, American Indian Association and the -Hispanic Students Union. This diverse group than set about the task of turning concept into creation. After three weeks of exhausting but exciting and fun work the first annual fall f es ti val came to pass. 
But the festival fell short of expectations, not due to lack of cffort or enthusiasm but rather a vast array of other causes. An insidious question also haunted the committeee: could multicul­turalism work at Notre Dame? 
We insisted yes and returned this year with renewed vigor, organi­zation and efficiency. The previ­ous year we had assumed that the rest of the campus would be as caught up in the spirit of multi­culturalism as we had been. That assumption proved to be our ulti­mate downfall; we failed to account for the fact that multi­culturalism was not something everyone entirely understood. 
We learned from our mistakes and this past week shared with you the fruits of our labor in the 
second annual Multicultural Fall Festival. It has gone extremely well and we thank you for your support as we seek to show what can be achieved when people from a wide range of back­grounds work together for a common purpose and as we seek to weave this festival into the fabric of the many Notre Dame traditions. 
Multiculttualism is a feeling, a sense of unity, and a sense of sharing. 
Multiculturalism is a paradox. In one regard, it looks at the microcosm which is Notre Dame and seeks to recognize the vari­ous cultures, talents and diversity which exist here in our midst. In another regard, multiculturalism beckons us to transcend the insu­lated confines of Notre Dame and appreciate the world at large. Multiculturalism underscores the differences among us and, ironi­cally, in so doing, hints to how very similar we all are. 
Of necessity, multiculturalism espouses understanding. Under­standing which in turn uprooots and defies prejudice and stero­typcs. Understanding which is the genesis of community and family and provides the founda­tion for friendships. · 

Multiculturalism is the joy of educatiing and relating the experiences of life -mandating, by its very nature, dialogue and exchange. It is the gift of giving part of oneself to others and, consequently, of mutual enrich­ment. It is the excitement of try­ing new things and of growth. 
Multiculturalism  is  music,  
dancing,  storytelling,  smiles,  
laughter,  compassion,  caring,  
concern and respect.  

Multiculturalism is the theme of the second annual fall festival which will become a yearly trad­ition parallel to AnTostal (in terms of scale not content). The events of this week -the fireside chats with profs, the entertain­ment on the quad, concerts, pow-wows, lectures and "The Taste of Nations" -are all designed to foster unity on this 
campus while at the same time affording students the opportun­ity to learn outside the classrooom and have a good time. 
But most of all, multicultural­ism is people. It is you and me ­us.II 

OH BOY! NURSERY SCHOOU 
P.T LAST! AN I: S C.HPE. r:-'20M I-I0ME., FROM T\-lE. E;N'vl..e.SS 1-louRS OF 'TV GAr-\S S1-tOWS Ai-.10 SOAP OPS.RAS, FROM T\4€ T€D1ov.s C.RAwl.11J6 ovE-2. Tl-le SAME. Bo1211-l6 FL.Oo'2S, t..'.>A.TC.1-11..iG T~c SAM'c SoRu-lG t>vS~ B~l-l.S --AN ESCAPE 'l=taoiv. I So\,ATIOt,J ~tJQ ~ORC.€.v NA~S Q..io ~li?C'~,J C00\c:.IE~. 
WE.1-COl'-'\E.! WELCOME TO T#E. RouC:>I-\-AND-i"UM8U:. 

-m-r-:.==::::.--Ob 
,., 
EE~ OP, :t 
rn
L.E: 0Nf.. ~ 
.,
c OtJL':1 "fl 
t8. !:1eARS I> -i 
c:. 
::,
060. 
"' 
"' 
----;::===::::::===--,:;_~~ "' 
0 
WORLD OF NURSE.R:1 SCHOOL I-\IC,/-\ JJNKS! 
~OU M~AIJ ,o SA~ IT°S 
NOT Fl JAIL Foll 
.J.t.<f'--i.. CH 11...e>R EN?;--·--~ 
FOR GOODNE<;S' $~'!(.'c., NO. il-\AT WOt-J'T BE.G1tJ FOR P\N0TIJ.E.Q. ~E.AI< OR. "TWO. 
~---------------; 
1C:,12AB A • Coo1<1E. 
THOSE l.11TU: C.'2.6ATueE~ WHO A2E. Po\::1rJG, PrtJC.HliJ6, AIJD HITT'l>JG ~OU ARE 
tJ0T Mo.J'E.'T£.l~S, A.J,...,At.S, DR TV 11\1\A(:,E.S-·THE~ ARE SMA'-L, PowERLcSS 
l·hJMP..J BE1"1GS JUST (,\\::E. ~ou~SE.Lf. ~OU MIGHT WISH TO POl:=E, F'11JU{, 
ANO 1-l IT T\{E.M To tv.l\l=E. Su'=?E.. 
\H\N6S TO DO 
[) FORM SMALL TR18ES. 
® S&.T UP A HIE.gFIRC.\-\~, COMPt.HE vJ I T"H RVLE. S, 8oSSE.S, A~"v 'i"ASOOS. 
13,\ DISOA11\l TH€ DPPOSITE .SEX. \.::::J
© F°ORAC:,E. AtJD HOARD (81..0tl:5, 001..1..), f:TC.)
® 8RViALl"2.€ 0VTS1OE:R S'. 
@ TA\::E. 8ReA\::S l=oR JUICE 
AND COOK1€c;. 
tvuR.s &R-'-:l _SCHOOL-! 
~OUR EDuC.ATloiJ HAS NOW BEGVN . 
.... 
z:, 
,;! 
-0 
....., 
"' 
********************************************************* 
''A TASTE OF NATIO 

_Saturday, October 10th, f ram 9 p.m. -1 a.m. at Stepan Center 
.. 

Let's just ·call it the party of the year. 
Food and desserts from many different countries (catered). Cultural entertainment and music to start the evening. An American music survey complete with· six different dance contests. Door 
prizes. The Decorations an~ atmosphere are awesome -you won't even recognize Stepan. And· better yet it's FREE ! Everyone will be there so why don't you plan to be there too and bring a 
friend. 
*********************************************************:. ,I 




