‘ The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing*] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
January 18, 1935
No 14
DEBATERS OPEN SEASON AGAINST KENT, FEB. 10
PROMINENT AERONAUTICAL LEADERS ATTEND NOTRE DAME CONFERENCE
Notre Dame debaters will initiate the 1935 season on Sunday, Feb. 10 in a radio contest against the Chicago Kent College of Law. The unique program will be broadcast at 9 a.m. over station WLS Chicago.
The subject chosen for the season’s debates is “Resolved: That the Nations Should Agree to Prevent the International Shipment of Arms and Munitions.”
The debate with Kent College will be the first Notre Dame debate broadcast over the air. In addition to meeting its midwestern opponents, Notre Dame has scheduled Stanford University in an intersectional contest for the first this year.
Debates which have been scheduled to date are as follows:
Feb. 10—Chicago Kent College of Law, affirmative; University of Notre Dame, negative. Sunday, 9 a.m. WLS Chicago.
Feb. 13—Stanford University, affirmative; University of Notre Dame, negative, at Notre Dame.
Feb. 22-23—Notre Dame “B” debaters at tournament held at North Manchester, Ind.
March 1-2—Delta Sigma Rho tournament at Iowa City, Iowa.
March 6—Michigan State, affirmative; Notre Dame, negative, at East Lansing.
March 13—Michigan State, negative; Notre Dame, affirmative, at Notre Dame.
Other debates which have not yet been officially scheduled will be announced later.
The schedule is one of the best the Notre Dame Varsity debate squad has anticipated in several years, and it is hoped that the student body will give the home team its full support when the debates are held on the campus.
The varsity men are meeting three times weekly and are devising several cases so that they may be well prepared to meet the strong teams on the schedule. It will be remembered that the Notre Dame team returned from Iowa last year having tied for first place in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament.
WILL ROGERS
He didn't go to Oxford.
PROF. P. C BARTHOLOMEW ANNOUNCES INTERNSHIP ! EXTENSION
Mr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of politics, and chairman, of the local scholarship committee on Internship in Government, announced this week that the time of internship has been extended to three months instead of two as was previously announced. Also, the three months apprenticeship may be served at any time. It was formerly thought that the period was definitely to be filled in February and March. This change permits the scholarship winners to supplement their class room study of political science with practical experience in Washington during the summer months, if so desired.
(Continued on Base 17)
HELD IN WASHINGTON HALL
A group of men, prominent in the fields of aviation, business, and civic affairs, attended the Aeronautical Conference held in Washington Hall, Tuesday afternoon, January 15. The conference was concerned with the advisability of adding an aeronautical course to the curriculum of the University.
To accommodate the men flying to the conference, a special landing field was prepared on the University grounds, south of the Law building. Details, such as the erection of a wind-sock on the stadium, removal of rocks, and marking of landing hazards with red flags, were worked out with the co-operation of the manager of the Bendix airport.
The parley opened at one-thirty with Dean J. E. McCarthy, of the Commerce School, acting as chairman. The entire program was broadcast over Station WSBT. The speakers were Professor H. J. Burden, of the University of Toronto, and Col. W. A. Bishop, Canada’s great war ace. An interesting, informal talk was given by the colonel on the problems, adventures, and development of wartime aviation.
Mr. Bishop was followed by Commander H. B. Grow, U.S.N., retired, who exhibited that rare combination in a public speaker, droll humor and vivid presentation. Grow Icept the house in good spirits while telling of his adventure in establishing; t^e first air line in Peru.
. During the session after-the three o’clock intermission, speeches were delivered by Mr. Merrill C. Meigs, publisher of the Chicago Evening American, Mr. Herbert L. Sharlock, and Mr. John R. Cautley, both of the Bendix Aviation Corporation of South Bend.
Shortly before the end of the conference, Will Rogers, famous comedian who visited the campus for the football testimonial banquet, was in-
(Continued on Page 20)
January 18, 1935
. Q ne
Shane Leslie Will Arrive Soon To Teach In English Department
CHARLIE AGNEW TO PLAY AT K. C. FORMAL DANCE
WEEKLY PUBLIC LECTURES
By Lindsay Phoebus
Shane Leslie, Irish author and one of the foremost authorities on Jonathan Swift, will join the faculty of the University of Notre Dame on Feb. 1. He is expected to arrive at Notre Dame on Jan. 28. He will offer
Shane Leslie
He plans “Hamlet” in stadium.
two courses on Shakespeare and Swift during the second semester for seniors and graduate students who are particularly interested in the further study of these two authors.
According to word received by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, Dr. Leslie is desirous of supplementing the lectures which he will give on Greek tragedy with discussions of Aeschylus in the original. A group will probably be organized for this purpose. Mr. Leslie will also give a weekly lecture to the public on “The Catholic Movement in English Literature.” A mass production of “Hamlet” in the Notre Dame stadium is planned upon the completion of Mr. Leslie’s courses in June.
Professor Leslie lives in Glaslough, Ireland. He has visited the United States frequently. Educated at Eton, King’s College, University of Paris and Cambridge, he is the author , of many reviews, biographies, dramas, and of several novels.
The author’s latest book is The Passing Chapter. He has also written The Celt and the World, The Skull of (Continued on Page 3)
Organ Recital Sacred Heart Church, Monday, January 21, at Eight o’Clock
Mr. George Carl Hager, C.S.C., ’35, of Moreau Seminary, will give an organ recital in Sacred Heart Church on Monday evening, January 21, beginning at 8 o’clock. The program will include works by Johann Sebastian Bach — the 250th anniversary of whose birth the musical world is celebrating this year. To the Bach numbers will be added Yon’s “Second Study,” the “Toccata” from Widor’s Fifth Symphony, and several lighter works.
Mf. William J. Furey, ’23, South Bend’s well known singer, will assist Mr. Hagei' contributing two arias from Mendelssohn’s “Elijah, “A Sacred Song” by Fritz Kreisler, and “Come Unto Me” from Beethoven.
Mr. Hager is a pupil of Mr. Willard Groom of the Department of Music.
University Band Plays
Grofe’s Rockne Suite
The University Band, under the able direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, scored a decisive hit at the Butler game last Saturday evening rendering selections all the way from the syncopated rhythms of “Tiger Rag,” to the stately and measured beats of Ferde Grofe’s Rockne Suite.
Tentative arrangements for the appearance of Professor Casasanta and the band at the opening of the South Bend Automobile Show in the Granada Exposition Hall, for a one hour concert next Sunday, indicate the tremendous popularity of the musical organization with townspeople and visitors to the basketball games.
The band will entertain at the series of basketball games sponsored by the Catholic Youth Organization in South Bend. These will be held in the large gymnasium of the Studebaker Athletic Club.
Philosophy Meeting
The attention of the Faculty of Philosophy is called to a meeting to be held on Wednesday, January 23, at 7:45 in the Conference Room of the General Offices. Matters of general interest for the coming semester and the work for the summer school will be discussed. A full attendance is desired.
Announcement of the annual Knights of Columbus Formal was made this week by John Clark, chairman. The K of C Formal is one of the finest of the open dances sponsored by Notre Dame organizations. It is accessible to all students, including freshmen, and because of its traditional dignity, coupled with the fact that it is not expensive, it has invariably rated high in popularity.
Chairman Clark was selected after he had proven his ability as a leader during the recent membership drive
John Clark
From a drive to a dance.
by the Council. The chairman immediately launched plans to make this year’s dance finer than any of its stellar predecessors.
The formal is to be held at the Palais Royale, which, after rigorous inspection, has been found safe after the recent bombing of the Palace Cafe. The date, purposely placed beyond the reach of the final exams, has been set for Friday, Feb. 8, and Charlie Agnew’s orchestra has been tentatively selected to furnish the music. Emrie Anne Lincoln will be on hand to lend the necessary feminine touch to the orchestral arrangements.
The price of the tickets will be announced at a later date. They may be procured from any of the committeemen in the following list. Tickets sales will be conducted according to a plan to be announced in the Santa Maria, which will be distributed tomorrow.
A list of the committees follows:
Tickets: Robert Cavanaugh, chairman.
Arrangements: Raymond Martin, chairman; Lawrence Sibr, Howard Cusack, Edmond Hammer, Harold Druecker.
Programs: Eugene Zinn and John Busichio, co-chairman; Joe Costa, Irwin Crotty, Henry Dendler, Francis Collins.
(Continued on Page 19)
Two
The Scholastic
• SECOND ISSUE OF SCRIP APPEARS NEXT FRIDAY
Thos. Reardon Named Chairman
Of Junior Prom by Pres. Murphy
Scrip, campus literary orgai^, will make its second appearance of the year one week from today, January 25, Editor G. Albert Lawton announced this week.
Feautred by two excellent bits of poetry by Rev. C. Broehm, C.S.C., yj Notre Dame graduate now studying in Washington, the issue will present student poetry, prose, and drama along with contributions from faculty members.
Two new writers in addition to Father Broehm will be included in Scrip’s list of contributors. Howie Cusack, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has written a fine travelogue of a European trip. “Sandwich Man,” a short story, will be the first work of Paul Foley, Aits and Letters sophomore, to appear in the campus quarterly.
The second installment of “The Aesthetics of Poetry,” written by M. A. Hendele, will be included in the new issue. This work has been particularly well received, and it is expected the second appearance will add to its popularity.
James A. Byrne, Jr., whose “The Belle” was accorded warm reception in the first issue, will again be represented by a short story.
Two other authors appear in Scrip for the second time with poetry, Professor Frey Myers, of the English Department, and Vincent W. Hartnett, author of “Quis Multa Gracilis.”
In addition to these longer pieces of poetry Matthew J. Bruccoli will contribute a successor to “The Traveller.”
Editor Lawton, deserting the field of tapestries, turns his attention to fiction of the vignette type and turns in a contribution titled “Saturday Afternoon for Four.”
The departmental editors are again represented with “Boards and Drapes,” a column of dramatic criti-cism being handled by Mitchell C. Tackley, while staff members contribute a page of book reviews under the caption “Book Ends.”
Editor Lawton expressed himself as pleased with the caliber of the work presented but urges the student :	writers to contribute more freely.
,	“We can use material in forthcom-
ing issues in the field of poetry and the essay,” Editor Lawton stated. “With two more issues remaining this year we wish to invite all student
3	writers to submit their work.”
January 18, 1935
Examination Schedule Is Released By The Director of Studies
The following is the schedule of semester examinations, officially released from the office of the Director of Studies.
The semester examinations will be held in all the colleges of the University on the Saturday morning, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, of Jan. 26 to 30, according to the fol
lowing schedule:
Classes taught at 8:00 on Tuesday 9:00 on Tuesday
10:00 on Tuesday 11:00 on Tuesday
1:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Tuesday
Classes taught at 8:00 on Monday 9:00 on Monday
10:00 on Monday 11:00 on Monday
1:15 on Monday 2:15 on Monday
3:15 on Monday
will be examined at 8:00 on Saturday 8:00 on Tuesday
10:00 on Saturday
10:00 on Tuesday
1:15 on Tuesday
3:15 on Tuesday
3:15 on Wednesday will be examined at
8:00 on Monday
8:00 on Wednesday
10:00 on Monday
10:00 on Wednesday
1:15 on Monday
3:15 on Monday
1:15 on Wednesday
Classes taught any day at 5:15 are to be examined at 7:00 p.m. on Monday. Classes taught any evening at 7:00 are to be examined at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday. The time for the examination in any course not provided for in the schedule above will be fixed by the teacher of the course. — The period for each of the semester examinations is one hour and fifty minutes. Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances. Any examination outside these four days assigned in the University calendar will not be valid for credit. Monday in the left column of the schedule above means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday; Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday.
SHANE LESLIE TO TEACH
(Continued from Page 2)
Swift, Doomsland and The Cantab.
In addition to his published works on the Oxford Movement and several books on Irish literature, Dr. Leslie has also written translations of Plato and the Greek Anthology.
Extremely rare editions of the English masters will be brought to the University in connection with the classes which Dr. Leslie will teach. Included in these will be: Shakes-peareana, and editions of Thomas More, and of the martyred poet, Southwell. In addition the famous Adelman collection of the works of Francis Thompson will probably be forwarded from New York.
PROM DATE IS MARCH 1
By Mitchell C. Tackley
Thomas M. Reardon, Sioux Falls, So. Dak., has been named general chairman of the 1935 Junior Prom. The announcement was made today
Thomas M. Reardon He’s not the Registrar.
by President Thomas Murphy of the Junior Class. The prom week-end festivities are planned for March 1-2.
This year’s prom promises to offer a departure from the conventional place element. The University Dining Halls and not the Palais Royale is the place being considered by Chairman Reardon for the locale of the dance. The plan to keep the dance on the campus has the hearty approval of the junior class members and whether or not such a plan will be effected is dependent upon arrangements now pending.
Each year class officials strive to select an orchestra for the prom that will outclass any other similar function. Last year’s prom boasted of Ted Weems; this year’s prom has no orchestra as yet, but considerations include Jan Garber, Kay Kyser, and the Dorsey Brothers. The possibility of hiring a New York orchestra that will be touring at that time has also been considered.
Committees, further plans for the dinner dance, and ticket information will be announced at a later date by Chairman Reardon.
Three
Presidents9 Council Hears Resolutions Demanding Statements From All Clubs
LAW DANCE TONIGHT AT PALAIS ROYALE
I
JANUARY 22 IS DEADLINE
Banding together again in an effort . to bring order out of the chaotic condition of campus clubs, the S.A.C. in co-operation with the Presidents’ Council passed a series of new resolutions this week to throw some light on the financial standing of the various campus organizations.
This newest move was brought about largely by the muddled state of affairs existing in many of the larger groups after their holiday dances. Stringent care is to be taken in the regulation of future affairs and club presidents are to be held to strict statements.
The first resolution passed in the S.A.C. conference and adopted by the Presidents’ Council reads: “All campus clubs shall be required to make a complete financial statement as of January 10. This statement is to be submitted to the Presidents’ Council on or before Jan. 22, and shall include all items of income and expense, the names of orchestras playing for the various club dances, the names of the buildings in which the dances were held, etc. Failure to comply with this regulation will result in cancellation of the club’s charter. Notice of this cancellation will be tendered to the prefect of discipline.”	"
This item in particular is aimed at the latest Christmas dances. As a supplement to the resolution it was decided by the Council and the University that a separate, ' identical statement must also be presented to Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, at the same time it is presented to the Presidents’ Council.
The second step taken by the combined forces to bring about some semblance of order reads: “Another complete financial statement shall be submitted to the president of the Presidents’ Council on the 15th of May by each club. If the club then has a deficit, it shall be made up by dividing the amount by the number of members and the placing of the assessment on the regular University bill sent the student.”
This statement of course is aimed at securing a complete and final report on the standing of each organization before school closes and will embrace all activities of the school year so that positive check can be had at the fall re-opening.
The third item is supplementary to the second inasmuch as it defines how the membership of a club is es-(Continued on Page 20)	.
NEW TRUSTEE
William C. Potter A worthy addition.
FATHER LANGE SPEAKS TO SCIENCE MEN ON SNAKES
Reverend Bernard Lange, C.S.C., was the guest speaker at the Academy of Science meeting Monday night in Science Hall. Father Lange, who recently came to Notre Dame from St. Edward’s University, will teach Physical Anthropology in the College of Science next semester. The title of his talk Monday night was “Snakes.”
Father Lange is not only an authoritative lecturer on this subject, but is very witty, and his address was one of the most interesting of the year. He began the talk by stating that there is no animal about which so much erroneous information has been written and believed than the snake. Most of the common theories and beliefs concerning the serpents are false.
In his address, Father Lange presented many interesting and unusual facts about snakes. The king snake is the best house pet, being non-poisonous and practically- harmless. King cobra is so called because it is usually 20 feet long, neurotoxic, exceedingly insolent, has very long fangs, displays more intelligence than most snakes, and not only injects its venom but chews the flesh where the wound is made.
In Africa, the most poisonous snake (Continued on Page 19)-	.
Tonight the dignified Lawyers will unbend a bit and dance across the floor of the Palais Royale to the strains of music as rendered by Jess Hawkins and his orchestra, of Chicago. The large and stately figure of Chairman Michael Coyle will lead the Lawyers in their social event. President Paul O’Neill will regard the frivolity with a stern eye.
The Lawyers will forget the long and arduous hours of labor facing them before the final exams, and will relax into the much pleasanter task of entertaining their young lady friends. The patrons, all professors in the Law school, will do their best to appeal’ unobtrusive, and will congregate in dark corners to admire the same men that they will harangue for sleeping through their Saturday classes.
Knights of Columbus Push Many Activities
The Knights of Columbus are turning their attention to their annual formal dance, a full story of which appears in another section of this issue. In connection with this dance, a meeting will be held in the council chambers next Monday night. The preceding officers meeting will be held as usual, and the chairmen of all dance committees are requested to be present at both meetings.
John Busichio, chairman of the Communion Breakfast, announces that complete plans for the next breakfast will be published in the Santa Maria. Brother Busichio announces that the following regulations will be in effect for the coming breakfast: all members who wish to attend must be in good financial standing with the financial secretary; all members must receive Communion together in the Main Church.
The Bowling League, guided by Brother Foohey, meets every Wednesday night at the Jefferson Plaza. Editor Ray Martin announces that the Santa Maria will be out tomorrow. Bob Grogan is going ahead with plans for the membership drive.
Caps and Gowns
Measurements for Cap and Gown for the Seniors will be taken February 5th and 6th. Further details will be forthcoming at later date. from Cap and Gown Chairman, Walter Powers. .	..
I
Four
• -The S c holas tic
> NET CLUBS WONDERS ABOUT ITS FINANCES
Will Rogers Is Principal Speaker At
Football Banquet for Team and Coaches
Now that all the Christmas cigars have been successfully smoked and the vivid neckties efficiently hidden it would seem the Yule season has passed—but not for the officers and wondering members of the Metropolitan club.
With President Andrew Maffei on the explaining end, the officers are beginning to salvage the wreckage of the annual holiday dance and formulate plans for the liquidation of the $290 deficit the affair piled up.
Since the dance, rumor has flown high and reports of varying nature have been circulated concerning the frolic and its management. After the whole thing has been boiled down it seems the following facts are still pleading for successful explanation.
With only 171 paid admissions some of the members are wondering ► where all the crowd came from, how it happened that Hotel Roosevelt’s dance floor was so crowded.
Another faction is beginning to wonder what section of Macy’s or Tiffany’s the favors came from in order to have cost $1 apiece.
Still another group is somewhat worried about the $525 item that George Hall is alleged to have received for his evening’s work. It would seem that the members have started worrying a little early because that is only about half the story.
The Metropolitan club, according to reliable figures, has a total deficit for the year of slightly more than $400 which must be liquidated by the mem-s bers.
Again Dame Rumor has taken a hand and offered various suggestions as to how the debt can be paid. Assessment plans have been offered and discarded almost daily since the affair made its funny noise and expired.
It has been quite definitely established this week, however, that there will be no general assessment of New York residents. The problem has been dumped squarely in the laps of the club officers for them to wrestle with as they see fit.
This latest development brings out the somewhat startling fact that there are only about 45 actual members in good standing in the Metropolitan club. Since they constitute the official organization they must be responsible for the club debts.
The whole set-up with its maze of unexpalined angles seems to vie with the Lindbergh case for the year’s most baffling puzzle. There still remains the 125 favors that are lost, strayed or pocketed, not to mention the fact that someone, somehow, forgot to serial number the tickets and
January 18, 1935
NEW TRUSTEE
TRIBUTES ARE PAID TEAM
Peter C. Reilly His presence will be felt.
JUNIOR OFFICIALS PLAN A CLASS SMOKER IN FEBRUARY
According to Tom Murphy, junior class president, the general chairman and committees for the Junior Smoker have been selected. This social event will probably occur about a week aftei- exams.
Dan McLaughlin has been appointed general chairman. He has already chosen his various chairmen and their committeemen. The list of chairmen is as follows: Ed Hammer, speakers; Dick Baker, refreshments; Bill Smith, arrangements; Jack Gleason, entertainment; Cliff Brown, publicity. Paul Rubly is chairman of the ex-officio members composed of the six class officers.
The program for the Smoker has not been completely arranged yet. More definite plans will be settled after exams. However, several features are now under* consideration, such as a movie of either the Notre Dame football game with Pittsburgh, or with Army. Attempts will be made to secure interesting speakers, both from the ranks of University professors at Notre Dame and from popular speakers and entertainers outside.
no actual record is left of the number sold.
In any event it would seem that most of the members feel a few words from President Maffei would be in order.
By Joseph Ratigan
About 1200 persons attended the annual testimonial banquet given in honor of the team and coaches by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley. The banquet was held in the East dining hall last Tuesday evening. Gay flags and banners representative of Notre Dame’s rivals were displayed. On the wall were portraits of the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., the late president of the University; Knute Rockne, and Johnny “Tex” Young. During the course of the evening, a Memorial tribute was paid to the memories of these three Notre Dame men. The room was darkened, and while the spotlights were focused on the‘portraits, the band under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta played a special arrangement of the Victory march. It was the most solemn and impressive part of the program.
John T. McGovern, counsellor of the Carnegie Foundation and coauthor of the famous Bulletin Twenty-three, was toastmaster. His ready wit prefaced each introduction and contributed largely to the success of the evening.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University drew a fitting analogy between the Notre Dame system on the field in education. Father O’Hara said that Notre Dame’s aims were to send out graduates who were Christian gentlemen, scholars, able bodied men and good citizens.
Will Rogers, noted humorist and actor, was the principal speaker of the evening. Mr. Rogers attributed Notre Dame’s success and its hold on so many millions of football fans to something “Rockne built up.” He added, “What it is I cannot explain but you are keeping it going.”
“Terry,” McGovern presented other distinguished speakers including Mayor Geo. Freyermuth of South Bend; Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune; Rev. Michael Moriarity, former Notre Dame pole vault star and now Director of Catholic Charities in Cleveland; James Phelan, coach at Washington University; Elmer Layden, head coach and Di-rector of Athletics at the University, who introduced the members of the 1934 team; Timothy P. Galvin, president of the Notre Dame Alumni association; Noble Kizer of Purdue; and Ralph Young of Michigan State. Warren Brown of the Chicago Herald and Examiner and the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of Notre Dame, were also on the program.
Five
FIRST NOTRE DAME SONG SET TO MUSIC IN 1902
OPERATIC STARS APPEAR IN WASHINGTON HALL
$
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Notre Dame without a “Victory March.”
“Impossible,” you will all say. But once—back around 1907 or ’08—the “Fighting Irish” had no battle song of any kind whatever. That means there was no “Victory March” at that time either. However, the university had its “Song of Notre Dame” which is still played every year at the George Washington birthday exercises of the senior class. It had first been written by Frank Schwab as a poem for The Scholastic, only later on being set to music and first sung in 1902. But it was not exactly the stirring type of song that could be sung with gusto at a football game.
At that time the students used to sing “Auld Lang Syne” with Notre Dame words on the field. Still that didn’t suffice. John F. Shea, ’06, realized this when he returned from Harvard to the campus of his undergraduate days; so he introduced the Harvard song to which Notre Dame words were set. This was sung at a football game in Indianapolis where Notre Dame won herself a state championship. Yet this did not constitute a battle song that the “Irish” could truly call their own.
Finally the urgent demand for a fight song that would be all Notre Dame’s caused Shea and his brother, the Reverend Michael Shea, ’05, to work together on one in 1908. The result of their collaboration was what has become the most popular of all college songs, “The Victory March.” This and the “Song of Notre Dame” were the only official Notre Dame songs until 1924.
In 1919 another verse was added to the original lyrics of the “Victory March,” and for the first time a band arrangement was made for it. This arrangements was the work of our own Joe Casasanta, ’23.
Then in 1924 Notre Dame’s “Four Horsemen and Seven Mules” won a national championship in football. As the backfield would shift in those days the quarterback would hark out, “Hike, hike, hike, hike.” This was Joe Casasanta’s inspiration to add to the school’s fine tradition of song by composing the music to “Hike, Notre Dame.” Vincent F. Fagan, ’20, wrote the words. First introduced at the Monogram show in 1925, it became immediately popular with the students.
Another of Notre Dame’s great (Continued on Page 17)
Six
xibout the comPus
Turn back the calendar ten years; the scene in the back yard of a home in the thriving town of Kewanee, Illinois. Five little boys were playing basketball, but unfortunately the
air seeped out of the ball, and we found one boy pumping it up in a very business-like manner. Of course, he fixed the old ball, and maybe his unusual ability along that line prompted him to volunteer his services as the basketball manager of Kewanee High School.
As the townspeople gathered around Philip Harrison Kirley as he boarded a train for South Bend and Notre Dame they were all of the opinion that some day he might be taking care of the important duties connected with the University basketball team. And so the fates decreed.
We doubt if it is necessary to describe our man-of-the-week, but for those who aren’t acquainted with Phil, we will tell you that he lives in 237 Walsh with Baseball Manager Carl Weber. Any evening, after his commercial duties have been taken care of, you are likely to find him stretched out comfortably, reading any one of our better magazines. His important task each morning is to get his room-mate up for breakfast.
Travelling has always been a great diversion in Mr. Kirley’s life for, aftei’ spending an exciting year in Dillon Hall, Phil toured Wisconsin during the summer. While residing in Morrissey, he took time out from his numerous pranks to be guest of the President when a group of students took a trip to Washington. Then in the third year, he took possession of
(Continued on Page 20)	.
The joint recital given last night, at 8:00 o’clock in Washington Hall by Margery Maxwell, soprano, Forrest Lamont, tenor, and Chase Bor-remeo was well received by an appreciative audience composed of students and townsfolk.
Miss Maxwell appeared in South Bend about a month ago to sing at the testimonial dinner given to the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University. The following pertaining to Miss Maxwell’s appearance at the dinner is extracted from the South Bend Tribune-.
“Not since the visit of Charles Hackett, Metropolitan grand opera romantic tenor in October, 1932, have we heard such effortless singing as was demonstrated by Miss Maxwell at yesterdays’ recital. She simply thrilled and electrified with her pure lyric voice, her rare delicacy of shading and her charming stage presence. She was grace herself, and her program was selected with fine musicianship.”
The lovely lyric soprano has appeared with the Chicago Opera Co., and later with the Grand Opera Co., in Bordeaux, France. She possesses an ability to impart vividly to an audience the essential spirit and emotion of a musical composition. Miss Maxwell has also appeared in concert and opera in New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.
Forrest Lamont, a very rich tenor, is already renowned for his work in French and Italian opera. He is particularly well remembered for his portrayals in “Faust” and “Parsifal.” Mr. Lamont has also appeared with the Chicago Opera Company and has toured the United States giving concerts in all the larger cities of the country.
Chase Borremeo, of New York has attained great prominence in the field of radio. At present he sings with the Chicago Symphony. He is a featured artist with the Apollo Club a musical organization of Chicago.
Father Boyle Visits Campus
The Rev. Joseph Boyle, C.S.C., President of Columbia University, Portland, Oregon, visited the University over the week-end to transact some business with the general administration and to arrange for details with the Notre Dame branch of the summer session at Portland. Father Boyle reports a large increase in enrollment at Columbia this year. This increased enrollment has made necessary a new Science and classroom building. Construction is well under way.
The Scholastic
. REGISTRATION RULES ARE ANNOUNCED
College Parade With Vincent Gorman
STUDENT THEATRE WORKS ON COHEDY
Mr. Kenneth Oliver, secretary of the University, has announced the regulations for registration for the second semester of the 1934-35 school year. In issuing the regulations Mr. Oliver said, “I hope these will be clear to every student on the campus.
Kenneth Oliver “We don’t tvant $5.00.”
We don’t want to be taking $5.00 fines from students who register late because they were not acquainted with the rules.”
Registration for the second semester will take place Thursday, Jan. 31. Certifications will be issued at the office of the secretary. Each student is required to receive his certifications by that date and to complete his registration for classes not later than 4:00 p.m. Class cards will be issued only upon presentation of the Tuition certification.
The University has arranged to mail to the residence halls certifications of those students whose accounts have been settled in advance. These mailings will begin about a week prior to registration. Certifications will not be issued either by mail or in person to any student whose account has not been settled in full.
Classes begin at 8:00 a.m., Feb. 1. There will be a late registration fee of $5.00 for all students who have not completed their registration by 4:00 p.m., Jan. 31. Cuts in classes incurred by reason of late registration will not be excused. Students are cautioned therefore, to make full provision for payment of their accounts promptly, in any case not later than Jan. 31.
January 18, 1935
Dedicated to Collegals OBSERVATIONS
Names, addresses and ’phone numbers of all Pitt co-eds can be had for ten cents — about all they’re worth anyplace. . . At U. of Georgia co-eds were forbidden to hitch-hike after 6 p.m.—now they want free transportation. . . Girls in a Kansas U. dorm decided their language was slipping —so they pinned a tax on every cuss word at a run in one’s stocking, the spilling of one’s powder, etc. . . . Aspirants to Margrove Dramatic society put on a play titled, “The Three Spinsters” — grand opportunity for good acting ability. . . . Add paradoxes: A class in ice hockey at Mississippi State College for Women. . . And a co-ed football team at Southern Methodist. . . Members of Mary-mount Riding Club planned military drills for the horse show — imagine cavalry a la femme. . . And St. Mary Static goes dynamic with this head on a Christmas story: “Freshmen to Trim Tree!”
* * *
Then there’s the one about the latest Greek society bearing the name, WHO KIPPUR UPSILONG.
* * *
■ CONGRATULATIONS
To the plucky scribe on Mt. St. Vincent’s Campus Record for this letter:
Dear Editor:
Please note that Heywood Broun went on a mad and wouldn’t contribute his regular column to the World-Telegram for five days! We find out that it was because that paper refused to print one of his columns. If Heywood can be temperamental, so can we. Here-aftei- please handle us with tact.
Them’s our sentiments too.
* * *
TIMING MAKE-UP
An interesting survey is given by a columnist of VARSITY NEWS. Coeds at U. of Detroit take anywhere from half a minute to twenty minutes in applying their paints. Some do the job while driving to school, others wait until they arrive, some renew after every second class, others once, twice or thrice a day. — But why on earth at all? Perhaps it’s their modesty which leads them to use so much powder in order to avoid shining in public!
V
Fagots wished for “the banishment of real knitters,” in ’35; Campus Record protested Christmas cards of non-Christian propaganda in one editorial appropriately titled, “CHRIST CHILD OR ‘SCOTTIE’—WHICH?”; and New Rochelle’s Tatler takes the prom bid for the finest Christmas edition—a twelve page number in gay spirit from red and green cover to cover!
“Turn to the Right,” a comedy in three acts and a prologue, written by Winchell Smith and John E. Hazzard, will be presented by the University Theatre in Washington Hall sometime in mid-February. Professor Albert Doyle of the department of speech is casting the characters in the play and has already begun rehearsing some of the scenes.
The play, a light 1910 semi-melodrama, should prove popular on the
Professor Albert Doyle
Prof. Kelly gave him a job.
campus as it has all the requisites of a well-rounded panorama depicting American life in a small town about two decades ago. While not nearly as humorous as “Gold in the Hills” nor in any manner as extreme, “Turn to the Right” smacks of the melodramatic touch to the extent that there is much action and a variety of interesting characters.
Professor Frank Kelly, head of the speech department, has turned over the directorial duties of the play to Prof. Doyle. Prof. Kelly will handle the technical side of the production. The script calls for three rather extensive sets and Mr. Kelly promises the construction of sets quite unique in comparison to any other used by the University Theatre in previous productions.
Character portrayals for “Turn to the Right” will be handled by Thomas G. Proctor, Joseph Mansfield, Irwin Goldman, John Sweeney, and others. Casting as yet is incomplete. A few-feminine roles will be played by South Bend actresses.
The play marks the second offering of the year by the newly formed theatre group of the campus. Definite dates will be announced later.
Interclub Basketball
Little interest has been shown in the proposed inter-club basketball circuit. Any campus clubs wishing to join should see Mi*. Scannell in the Physical Education building at once.
Seven
PLAN SOCIAL WORK IN GRADUATE CURRICULUM
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
NEW ALUMNUS CONTAINS INTERESTING ARTICLES
Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Sociology, and Professor Raymond A. Hoyer, Director of the Department of Boy Guidance in the Graduate School, today announced the formation of The Graduate Curriculum in Social Work, to be connected nominally with the Department of Sociology.
The Curriculum will bring together the courses of the Boy Guidance Department and the Program in Probation Work under two generic divisions, group work and social case work. Group work, under Professor ■ Hoyer, will continue to emphasize boy guidance; social case work, under Professor Frank T. Flynn, Jr., will emphasize preparation for the field of probation through training in broad, fundamental courses.
The Department of-Boy Guidance was established in 1924, with the cooperation and financial support of the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus, who had felt the need of securing trained men for directing the leisure-time activities of boys and young men. More than a hundred graduates of the department are in executive positions in community recreation, scouting, boys’- clubs, industrial welfare work, and in relief agencies. The recent growth of the Catholic Youth Organization movement has emphasized the need of trained leadership in group work with youth.
Professor Hoyer completed recently an exhaustive survey of trends in the field, and the present move toward homogeneity in the social work courses is one result of this survey.
The Program in Probation Work was organized in 1929 by Father Murray and has been strengthened gradually. The present training equips the student for work with departments of public welfare, child welfare agencies, Catholic Charities, relief organizations, and in fact any type of social work which demands comprehensive training. There is also particular stress on training for work involving juvenile and adult delinquency, especially in the courses dealing with probation, parole, and prison administration.
Today leaders of social thought believe that these particular fields are part of the larger field of social work rather than distinct technical entities. Present courses' which will be included in the curriculum have been revised to meet this trend, and new courses are being added.
Professors Hoyer and Flynn are senior members of the American Association of Social Workers, which is the only organization in the field of (Continued on Page 17)
Eight .
Commiseration—
It was with the deepest sympathy that we read of The Week’s difficulties in not seeing the basketball game in his native city. It was neither a surprise nor a shock to us, however, for we passed him and his frau as we tardily and nonchalantly strode through the crowded lobby to present a special ticket to the indifferently bored usher at the door.
For, you see, we were covering that game for our beloved newspaper — theoretically. The editor knew nothing of our self-imposed journalistic task during the yule days at home, but an innate love for work and a desire to see the game at the expense of the management prompted us to use the one connection we have and, after many set backs and a severe blow to our pride (the Garden press agent had never heard of The Scholastic, much less Dome Dust), we finally talked our department into a choice seat among the working press.
The small-time preliminary game was about half over when an official looking person, resplendent in the blue and grey of the house, pushed his way past the cream of the metropolitan sport’s staff, and bent down to whisper in a confidential, between-you-and-me manner into our inattentive ear.
“There’s a guy outside by the name of Kennedy who says he’s a writer on one of your papers back at Notre Dame,” our informant told us. “He wants to get in. Do you know him?”
“Sure,” we said, in the affectionate manner we professionals reserve for each other, “He’s our society editor.”
“Then what’s he doing at a basketball game?” persisted the man of the house.
“You’ll have to ask Mr. Kennedy that Question,” said we, returning our attention to the game in session. “But,” we added, calling him back and moving over a seat, “You may show his young lady in, if you would, please.”
But the story ends here; for neither our society editor or his young lady accepted our hospitality. We, of course, remained in our official capacity of the Scholastic’s representative and reporter-at-large in the big city, but our mind wasn’t on our work, and we’re afraid we enjoyed the game in a most unprofessional way.
There Comes a Time.
There comes a time when even five year men must graduate, and it is with deep regret and a feeling of let-(Continued on Page 17)
The Notre Dame Alumnus in its initial appearance for 1935 features an address given by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Ph.B., ’ll, at the Sportsmanship Luncheon of the Town Hall Club in New York City and an essay entitled “What is the use of Philosophy today?” by Dr. Francis E. McMahon, Ph.D., instructor in Philosophy at the university. An interesting supplement to Dr. McMahon’s article is the accompanying bibliography prepared by the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. In addition to these articles the January issue contains many other items of importance outstanding of which are a complete and detailed account of the new eligibility rules governing athletics at Notre Dame, a story of the award of the William H. Nichols medal to the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., for outstanding work in the field of chemical research, and a discussion of the aeronautical engineering conference on the campus this month. "
There is also a splendid tribute to the spirit of Notre Dame expressed by the prominent writer Fred Perry written after the Navy defeat. Mr. Perry’s article stresses the point that “thousands come to see Notre Dame win. This is a tribute of signal character which we believe to be unique in sport.” Such high homage from the sporting public, Mr. Perry continues, is because of “the underlying character of Notre Dame elevens, their clean and expert play, their absence of swank and swagger, and their modest in greatness.”
The Alumni Clubs during the recent holiday season, according to the publication, were highly active. Practically in every club news item, mention is made of successful dances and alumni gatherings. W. D. Morrissey, president of the Cincinnati club reveals the interesting fact that even at this early date demands for tickets to the Notre Dame-Ohio State contest for next November are so heavy that it indicates a delegation of about 2,000 from that section for the game. Also from Michigan comes the news that the Notre Dame Club of Berrien County officially inaugurated its career with a dance held at the Four Flags Hotel in Niles, Michigan on the evening of Dec. 29.
Other items of real interest to the student body are the story of the editorial tribute in the Tulsa Tribune paid to Judge Thomas D. Lyons, Litt.B., ’04, upon his retirement and . the appointment of Fred L. Steers, ’ll to a membership on a committee selected by Avery Brundage, president of the A.A.U., to consider plans for postgraduate competition.
The Scholastic
Voice of the Campus
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
A Reasonable Request
Editor of The Scholastic:
At the basketball game last Saturday evening the announcer requested that the spectators refrain from smoking for two reasons: 1) because of fire insurance regulations, and 2) because the smoke-filled air is injurious to the players.
No sooner had this announcement been made than a few students promptly lit up their cigarettes and practically these same ones continued to do so throughout the game. Whether these giulty persons just did not think oi* whether they just said, “poof, who cares for regulations anyway” and immediately proceeded to show that they did not, I don’t know. But the fact remains that they broke the regulation.
This not only gives outsiders a bad taste concerning Notre Dame men, but it also shows a marked disloyalty to the team that is out there playing the game for us, when a few unthoughtful ones and a few “Joe Blows” light up their cigarettes.
It doesn’t seem probable that an hour’s abstinence from “old man nicotine” would be fatal to anyone, so let’s co-operate with the University and the players and refrain from smoking in the gym.
Sincerely yours,
J. V. E.
Calendar
Friday, January IS
Symphony Orchestra rehearsal at Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m.; Lawyers’ Ball, Palaise Royale, 9:00 p.m.
Saturday, January 19
Movie, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p.m., “Operator 13,” with Marion Davies.
Sunday, January 20
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.
Monday, January 21
Servers’ Club meeting, Sacristy, 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, January 22
Symphony Orchestra rehearsal at Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m.
Wranglers meeting, 6:30, auditorium, Law building.
January 18, 193 5
Fatalist
As we approach the semi-annual calling to explain our stewardship, or something of the sort, we have noticed one phenomenon, so to speak.
For three and a half years, this fellow has been worrying. He’d worry for you at the drop of a hat. Pick it up and he’d worry some more. About classes, about cuts, about holidays, about anything.
The phenomenon took place this month, we believe. We saw him in the library the other day, and in the line of being sociable, asked him what he thought of the exams coming up. He regarded us with a pitying smile.
“Aw,” he said, “you aren’t worrying about the exams, are you? What the heck—if you pass, you pass; if you flunk, you flunk. Why worry?”
That’s it—why worry? Laugh and be gay, and smile when you get your throat cut.
•
Editorial
The bagatelle game in the candy store must go. It is not merely that it is a source of gambling and sin; that it reaches out and grabs the pennies of the so-called “sporting element” on the campus, who are squandering their parents’ hard-earned money; or that it takes up time that might be spent in more profitable pursuits.
There is another consideration. We can’t win a darn thing on the board.
•
The Weigh of All Flesh
And then there’s the candy store’s older brother, or sister — the cafe. Two reforms needed here, but we’ll just save one of them for some other time. This week it’s the scales, the weighing machine. We don’t like it.
First of all, we went to the gym aand weighed ourself. We weighed 134. (Chorus: “Who cares?”). Then we tramped over to the cafe. The scales said minus three. We stepped on them. They said plus eight. We dropped a penny in the slot. They said 130. We did not lose four pounds walking from the gym to the cafe, and if the penny taken from our pocket made the difference, pennies are not what they used to be. Ergo: the scales are crazy.
After dinner each night, there are, according to count, approximately 20 men who weigh themselves in the cafe. What is happening? These 20 ’ men are writing home and telling 40 parents and sixty or eighty feminine acquaintances how much they have gained or lost since the last time. The 40 parents are telling (taking the
average home) two of the student’s brothers or sisters, who are in turn telling their children. There is no calculating how many the feminine ac-qaintances tell.
The whole thing, therefore, amounts to something over eight million people being misinformed weekly as to the weight of the Notre Dame students. The entire situation is a false one, and is contributing no little, towards the undermining of the very foundations of the government. It is just what is needed to plunge the world into another terrible war.
•
Beaux Arts
We’re in a devil of a mood this week, you can see. Anything at all is apt to touch us off like—shall we say a skyrocket? No, it’s altogether too cold to be a skyrocket this week. Let’s make it something warm and cozy, like kerosene on the kitchen stove.
Just what, for instance, is the Beaux Arts prize? Why do they award it, to whom, and how often? Every other week we read of somebody in the Architectural College receiving a Beaux Arts prize. Did we say “somebody?” Everybody must get them.
They get firsts and seconds, honorable mentions, publication of their sketches—six or seven of them at a time. The whole crew of them must have tons of medals from the Beaux Arts. And here we are trying to sell Life two jokes. Good ones, too.
Precisely what does it take? Could we get in on the racket somehow? We’ve got drawings of things — houses, and girls, and miscellaneous other stuff. We even used to plot . whole villages in dirt, once. Does that count?
We don’t understand. The whole Architectural College can’t be great architects. Or maybe they can—we don’t know. We asked one of them point-blank just what the B. A. prizes were about, and he laughed. So we said to ourself okay, we’ll come out in print and ask, and then see how they like it. So here we are asking in print.
To Architects: How do you like it?
So Long, Scrip, Birthday
And so, we’ll see you all after the formal setting-down exercises of next week. And in the meantime, don’t forget Scrip, which will be circulated in the usual happy-go-lucky fashion next Friday afternoon, or thereabouts.
And in case no one else says it, happy birthday to us.
^in e
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 18S5
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Sall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE..........................Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING..............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI_______________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN__________________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY 0. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors WILLIAM A. KENNEDY____________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr-----------------------College Parade
MITCHELL C. TAOKLEY.---------------------Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN_________________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN_____________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL____________________Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN----------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER-------------------------HARRY	A.	BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS__________________________FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY-----------------------------IRWIN	L.	GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI------------------------FREDERICK	SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH________________________JOHN	A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST___________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER-------------------Assistant Sports Editor
3OEN L. GLANZNER________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN----------------JAMES A. WALDRON
james mcmullen
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY— ______________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated €bUe$iate ftress 1	wusweas or	*	- _
-31934	Buicsf 1935 S-
H*MSOM	WISCONSIN
January, 18,1935
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE COUNCILS
Last week in an editorial entitled “Be it Hereby Besolved” The Scholastic expressed as its first two campus hopes for 1935 that:
The S.A.G. would be an active organization during the second semester despite the absence of pep meetings and football weekends and that the Presidents’ Council would take measures forcing the campus clubs to pay their debts and would disband those which did not.
The Scholastic also voted its opinion that the S.A.C. and the Presidents’ Council, under the guidance of such capable leaders as Thomas K. LaLonde and Edward J. Van Huisseling, would live up to our hopes. On page four of this issue, there is a story which proves that our confidence in these organizations and in their leaders was not misplaced. The S.A.C. and the Presidents’ Council, cooperating in a worthy cause, have advanced a plan whereby the clubs will be practically forced to pay their
Ten
debts. Some of these debts are several years old and are still in existence only because of the laxity of the student governing bodies. The Scholastic congratulates the S.A.C. and the Presidents’ Council both on their activity and upon the force of their plan.
The clearing up of the old debts, however, while in itself a splendid idea should not be considered as the consummation of any effort in this direction. The clubs, in so far as possible, must be prevented from incurring more debt. While this is something of a Utopian aim, several measures can be enforced which will be at least partially effective in accomplishing this work.
The Scholastic suggests two plans. First, that those clubs which over a period of years have consistently incurred deficits should be prohibited from holding dances in the future. Second, that the largest campus clubs with their unwieldy roster of over a hundred members scattered over a radius of fifty or seventy-five miles, be broken up into smaller, more compact groups. The case in point is that of the Metropolitan Club. This group has piled up an enormous deficit during the past three years. The upshot of the whole matter is the probable assessment of over two dollars on every student living within fifty miles of New York City. This seems hardly fair because oftentimes the students within this radius are almost a hundred miles away from the scene of the dance, and by the mere physical distance are prevented from attending the dance. For example, to get to a dance on Long Island — where most of the Metropolitan club’s summer functions are held—a member living in, say Tarrytown, would have to go a considerable distance through heavy traffic. These evils could be eliminated by the breaking up of the Metropolitan Club into a New York City Club and a Long Island Club, both of which could hold functions within reasonable striking distance of the members.
AVIATION RETURNS TO ITS HOME
The recent aeronautical conference held on campus in addition to providing the student body with a most comprehensive series of lectures, proved to be a very definite indication of Notre Dame’s policy of progress. Aviation is, without a doubt, still in its first stages of development. The industry, in the immediate future, will need trained men to direct it. Notre Dame has again shown her progressive spirit by holding a conference on campus to consider the advisability of establishing a school to train such men. The Scholastic hopes that the results of the conference will be favorable to the establishment of such an institution.
It is fitting that Notre Daine should do this since it was on this campus that some of the first experiments in flying were conducted.
- The Scholastic
♦ SPOKTS ♦
NTEPS
FRO/A THE ikPRESS BOX
Pin MENACE LOOMS IN PATH OF IRISH; PLAY AT DETROIT MONDAY
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
a
AT IT AGAIN
They did it to football and now they’re threatening basketball. The sporting public has survived a series of years that were characterized by such jostling and altering of football rules that the average box seat holdei’ had difficulty in recognizing the game from one year to the next.
Basketball coaches and experts, realizing- that changes in the football regulations brought that sport more squarely before the public gaze, are planning a similar shakeup in their own field or, more properly speaking, on their courts. While grid changes were effected to reduce injuries, it appears that basketball rules are due for mutilation for no reason other than “the old order changeth for the new” and the proverb “let well enough alone” are as unpopular at present as is the rugged individualist, and have very definitely lost their bite.
One enthusiast of the “there’ll be some changes made” clique proposes doing away with the backboard. Such a fantastic suggestion, if adopted, would make basketball fascinating. But the trouble arising from this suggestion is that no one, not even the ingenious mind that originated it, has solved the problem of how baskets will remain suspended without the aid of the backboard. Perhaps the no backboard enthusiast will solve this by a further suggestion that would eliminate even the basket —just throw a ball in the midst of ten hungry looking youths and let them wrestle themselves to exhaustion.
Someone else has suggested that the basket be raised from its present height of 10 feet to 12 feet. That’s a noble thought too, but personally if they’re going to do any elevating we’d be in favor of moving the hoop not beyond 11 feet, 8hs inches. The reason is simple. At 12 feet, but not at 11 feet, 8|£ inches, the lights in the various field houses would shine in the shooter’s eyes as he took aim (except
(Continued on Page 15)
BALL HAWK
Johnny Ford This Ford picks up fast.
NOTRE DAME FENCERS SET BACK WASHINGTON
11 TO 6
The Irish fencing team opened their season here last Friday night with a 11-6 win over Washington University of St. Louis. There were 17 bouts in all, fought: nine in foil, four in sabre, and four in duelling swords. Kevin Kehoe and Captain Carlos de Landero carried off individual honors for Notre Dame, taking the four sabre fights, while Kehoe also garnered the laurels of victory in the duelling swords.
After a bad start in the foils, Ca-resio came back to triumph over Captain Barnes of the invaders in one of the cleverest exhibitions of fencing in duelling swords ever witnessed in the local gym. Grosso and T. de Landero, the last making his first varsity appearance, fought three beautiful bouts in foils, each winning two and losing one. The remaining bouts in duelling swords were lost by McAuliffe and T. de Landero against more ex-(Continued on Page 15)
SEEK 7TB AND 8TB WIN
The Irish of Notre Dame will once more renew their basketball feud with the Panther of Pitt tomorrow night in the Smoky City. At present the Pittsburgh team has the advantage over Notre Dame in the number of games won. Out of 13 contests the Panthers have won eight and lost five to the Irish.' Last year they succeeded in making a clean sweep of the series, winning both games' and increasing their lead from one game to three over the Irish.
Pitt, it is reported, is as good as ever this year, with Claire Cribbs, All-American center, and Skippy Hughes, flashy forward as the mainstays of the team. Several highly publicized sophomores are credited with strengthening and adding to the teams versatility considerably.
Irish Seek Revenge
Thus far this season both Notre Dame and Pitt have fallen in defeat three times. Pitt to Northwestern, Duquesne and Temple; Notre Dame to Northwestern, N. Y. U., and Minnesota. If the Northwestern defeats are taken as a basis of judging the merits of the two teams, the Irish seem to have a decided avantage over Pitt. Northwestern downed the team from the Smoky City by a score of 45-22, but had a more difficult task in defeating the Notre Dame quintet 26-25. This however does not mean that Notre Dame will easily triumph over the Panthers, Pitt has a much stronger team than the Northwestern score indicates.
The outcome of the game tomorrow night will depend on the ability of the Notre Dame defensemen to stop the swift Skippy Hughes, who shares the captaincy of the team with Cribbs, the All-American. Marty Peters has a task ahead of him in playing against this talented player, and Peters’ work against Cribbs will be closely watched by everyone.
Notre Dame will take the court determined to avenge the two stinging (Continued on Page 12)
January 18, 1932
Eleven
Forty Boxing Enthusiasts Report For Bengal Bouts Training Grind
BUTLER FALLS AS FORD AND O’KANE LEAD IRISH
BYRNE TRAINS FIGHTERS
By James A. Waldron
Preliminary training for the coming Bengal Boxing Show sponsored by The Scholastic began officially last Monday. Some 40 pugilistic hopefuls absorbed the fine points of boxing as taught by Max Marek, Golden Gloves Champion. There has been
James Byrne
In charge of the show.
. a change in the schedule of these classes and starting next week they will be on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons at 4 o’clock.
It was noticed that there were more interested spectators at these classes than participants. Various reasons have been advanced for this condition. A feeling of self-consciousness at personal ignorance in the art of fisticuffs seems to be the primary cause. Remember that no one in the class will advanced any faster or be more adept than anyone else except through practice and appliance of the fundamentals given in the instructions. Don’t stop at merely attending these classes twice a -week, but go down to the boxing room every afternoon and polish up on weak points.
Participation in the Bengal Bouts is not a necessary requisite for taking part in these classes. This reminder is brought forth again because many students desiring to learn how to fight feel that they have to go in the Boxing Show. Join the classes while the instruction is in its basic stage, thus giving the instructor an opportunity to note your advancement and polish up the rough spots.
The Scholastic is expending every effort to obtain a guest referee of prominence in the sporting world in order to make this affair the highlight of the winter sport season. From the candidates who have been out so far, several halls are well ahead of the others in the number of participants. This warning should serve as a stimulus for the trailing halls in the competition for the award given by The Scholastic for the (Continued on Page. 16)
T welve
Chicago and Ohio State Are Next in Line For Coach Keogan’s Squad
Two basketball games with Big-Ten schools are scheduled during the examination period. On January 26, Notre Dame plays Chicago here. This game should prove very interesting for although the boys from the Midway have lost their only two contests in the Big Ten Conference they have a team built around the veterans, Harlow and Lang, which is liable to get started at a minute. Those who saw last year’s contest still remember the way Haarlow had of sinking impossible one handed shots from all angles of the court.
The second game pits the Irish against the Buckeyes, at Columbus, on January 31. Ohio State, like Chicago, has had very little success in the conference. They have lost two games, and their only victory was an overtime contest against the Wolverines from Michigan. Ohio State has suffered the loss of most of her veterans, and with a comparatively green team have been making a good showing. Their defense is not quite so good as their offense, but the Keogan-ites will be in for an exciting evening.
PITT-DETROIT GAMES
(Continued from Page 11)
defeats handed to them last year by the Panthers. Not only will they attempt to win the game because of the defeats last year but they will try to break the “jinx” that Pittsburgh teams have over the Irish. For the past year Notre Dame has not been able to triumph over Pittsburgh in any athletic contest. Football, track, cross-country, and basketball teams have all fallen before the attacks of the Panthers of Pitt.
On their homeward journey the Notre Dame team will stop off at Detroit the following Monday night and engage the Detroit University team in a basketball game.
Detroit has a vastly improved aggregation this year and hopes to provide as much excitement for the Irish as Pittsburgh is predicted to create. In past years the Detroit men have not given the Irish much competition, but will attempt to make up for this deficiency next Monday night.
In another of those thrilling and close games for which the Irish seem to be famous, the Notre Dame basketball team defeated the Butler squad last Saturday night, 30-29, in the Irish gym. This win gives Notre Dame a three game edge on the Bulldogs in the 23 year old rivalry.
The game began in a usual enough manner. Notre Dame took an early lead and it looked as though Butler was hopelessly out-classed. Notre Dame’s speedy pair of forwards, Ford and O’Kane, with the help of Marty Peters seemed to have very little trouble in breaking through the Bulldog defense for several field goals. Butler, on the other hand was having difficulty in finding the basket and the half ended with Notre Dame in the lead 21-12.
The Bulldogs decided, at the start of the second half, that they, too, would like to -win the game, and proceeded to run up a score that twice threatened the Irish supremacy. The first time Notre Dame had little difficulty in pulling away into the lead, but toward the latter part of the game, Butler nosed ahead to make the score 29-28. It was at this time that Ford came to the rescue with a field goal on a pass from O’Kane after Johnny found himself alone under the basket.
One of the outstanding features of the game was the scarcity of substitutions. Butler’s five starting players played the entire forty minutes and Wade’s replacing Ireland was the only change in the Notre Dame lineup. This, in itself, indicates the close nature of the game, for both coaches were evidently afraid to put into the game any but their top-notch players.
For Notre Dame, the honors of the day went to Ford and O’Kane the forward section of the Irish unit. O’Kane led the scoring with a total of 14 points, and Ford’s playing, which consisted largely in taking the ball away from the opposition, was spectacular. Jones, Bulldog guard, led the scoring for Butler with four field goals and one free throw for a total of nine points.
The lineup:
Notre Dame (30)	Butler (29)
B F P |
Ford, f _____3	1	1	|	Armstrong,f	..1	0	1
O’Kane, f _.....6	2	1 j Batts, f	------3	1	3
Peters, c ____3 1 0 | Demmary.c.....2 0 1
Ireland, g --0	0	2	[	Jones, g------4	1	0
Jordan,g (C)..~l	0	0 j Bradford,	g	..3	U	2
Wade, g -----0	0	0	|
Totals -_________13	4	4	|	Totals ______13	3	1
T he^ Scholastic
e LIVELY TUSSLES NARK OPENING OF HALL LEAGUE
Four Dual Meets to Give Nickmen Busy Season; C. I. C. Meet Here
By John L. Glanzner
Two sophomore quintets, St. Eds and Lyons, opened the interhall basketball season Sunday, and when the smoke of battle had cleared, St. Eds was an easy winner over the Gold Coast five, 24-10. Gallagher and LeK vicki were the spark plugs of the winners and Hackett was high scorer for Lyons.
The Sorin Tigers, paced by the mighty Ed Herold, clawed the Dillon-ites in the day’s outstanding game, 15-14. Herold tossed in three buckets and a charity throw to pace the scorers. Bill Lord and Collins scored four points each.
Only two forfeits were recorded. In the heavyweight division, Howard forfeited to Walsh, and the Morrissey lightweights failed to appear for ** their tilt with Badin.'
In a display of offensive power, Carroll smothered Freshman, 35-27, in a rough and tumble contest marred by frequent fouls. Kapp’s defensive play was the game’s feature.
The defensive duel between Morrissey and Badin resulted in a win for the sophomores, 16-13, with Burnet and Foley accounting for 12 of the winner’s points. The close guarding of Degarmo of Badin was the defensive highlight.
The smoothly functioning Brownson five ran roughshod over the jittery Off-Campus team, 25-10. Brownson jumped into an early lead and was never headed.
In the lightweight division, Dillon was especially impressive. Only the fine floorwork of Buckets Farrell kept Sorin from losing decisively. The final score read 16-9. With Dolsey leading the attack, Brownson stopped Off-Campus, 24-14. The Carrollites beat Freshman 30-24, when Meier and Whitticotton with eleven points each shared high scoring hoonrs for the circuit. After a slow start, Howard , nosed out Walsh, led by Tourek, Tony gj	Bucci et al, 23-20, -with	a	whirlwind
T	finish. Lyons met with	little opposi-
;	tion in the bewildered	St.	Ed’s five
;	and won, 22-14.
The schedule for Sunday, Jan. 20.
Group 1—9:00, Morrissey vs. Dillon; 9:50, Sorin vs. St. Ed’s; 10:40, Lyons vs. Corby; Badin, bye.
Group 2 — 1:30, Brownson vs. Freshman; 2:20, Carroll vs. Alumni;
\	3:10, Howard vs. Off-Campus; Walsh,
bye.
January 18, 1935
Incomplete Golf Card Contains Outstanding
Opponents For Irish
It’s probably a crazy time of year to be thinking of golf — not mind writing about the game — but that’s just what Faculty Director, The Bev. George Holderith, C.S.C., has been doing these past few weeks, with the result that already there has been formulated a most representative schedule of matches. The lineup at present includes contests to be played with Wisconsin, Purdue, Chicago, Northwestern, Illinois, Ohio State, University of Detroit, Michigan State, and Pittsburgh. The State meet, to be played again this year on the University course, will be held on May 30 and June 1; thus providing a worthwhile entertainment for commencement week visitors.
Golfers Dispose Of Clubs
The prospects of our golfers winning the majority of these matches are not too bright at the moment, but when the first day of April rolls around things should be much better. At this writing two of the squad are-without the implements of war so necessary in beating a gras snake, a golf ball, or the number-one-man of anybody’s golf team. Win Day neatly broke up his twenty-two clubs in an auto mishap somewhere down south this Christmas. Bill Cole disposed of his sticks to the highest bidder and is therefore quite unprepared for things. Pat Malloy, another veteran, has lost something too — his swing — and must soon go on the hunt for a replacement.
Banks May Return
Another man for this year’s squad seems lost for competition. He is Kenny Morine who recently announced his intention of joining the professional ranks and taking over the teaching duties at one of the local country clubs. All of which leaves the Irish with only Herm Green, who . might or might not be able to get a sufficiency of free afternoons to do anything about this golfing business.
One very bright ray of hope surrounds the almost surety that the captain of this year’s team, Johnny Banks, will be present when the new semester gets under way next month. With the sunny “Toots” available to lead the charge, it’s a fair chance that a third consecutive season without defeats can be accomplished.
BUTLER RELAYS MARCH 23
By James M. McMullen
The indoor track outlook is beginning to take definite form. A schedule calling for only one week of inactivity during the months of February and March has been arranged,
Coach John P. Nicholson He drives to Indianapolis.
and the boys are now far along the training grind preparatory to their first test, February 1. Inter-team competition filled last Friday’s bill, and gave Coach John Nicholson a sight of the squad under light tension.
The schedule should be a genuine boon to starved track enthusiasts of this section. The Irish open with Chicago here the first, meet Marquette in the fieldhouse the ninth, and Iowa the sixteenth. After the Hawkeye engagement, there will be a week of rest and then the concluding dual meet of the year against Illinois in the enemy’s own back yard. The Central Intercollegiate Conference get-together at Notre Dame is set for March 8. The Armour and Butler relays are on successive following Saturdays at Chicago and-Indianapolis.
Concerning the comparative strength of the scheduled opponents, Nick has been fairly optimistic. Chicago and Iowa are known to be unusually strong, while Marquette, the Irish mentor terms as fair. Notre Dame has never defeated Illinois on the foreign field but Nick admittedly has that little feat in mind for the current tracksters. A victory of the dual variety over the boys from Champaign would more than offset any humiliation they might suffer in their earlier competition. The Central Intercollegiate Conference Meet high-
(Continue don Pacre 15)
Thirteen
INTRODUC ING
By Joe Prendergast
THIRTY THREE MEN WIN FOOTBALL NONOGRAMS
The Minnesota vs. Notre Dame basketball game of the 1932-33 season was as heated an engagement as Minneapolis hoop followers had been privileged to witness in some time. There was about a minute of the game yet to be played and Notre Dame was leading, 29 to 27. Joe Voegele, right forward for the Irish, committed his fourth personal foul
and was forced to leave the contest. George Keogan waved to a young looking, small substitute on the bench and sent him into the ball game. Minnesota made the free throw good and was now in the red by only one point with 40 seconds to go. On the next tipoff, the demure little substitute sent into the fray got possession of the ball, dribbled down the sidelines and let go a one-hander that swished through the netting without hesitation. This basket clinched the game for Notre Dame.
The next day the box scores of the game carried the name of the meek substitute as O’Kane. Joseph C. O’Kane hails from southern Indiana, the hotbed of basketball in this country. Washington, Indiana, to be specific, is the name of the town from which Joe came to perform for the Irish court five. Joe attended Washing Catholic High for four years and captained the basketball team in both his junior and senior years. During his last year at this high school, his
team won the State Catholic title and was eliminated, in the semifinals of the National Catholic tournament in Chicago. Joe was unanimously chosen as all-state forward and later as allnational.
The Rev. John Davis, Director of Athletics at Washington Catholic High, kept telling Joe that Notre Dame was the school he ought to at
tend and Joe kept agreeing with him. So in 1931 Joe enrolled at Notre Dame. He reported for freshman basketball and was making fine progress until a cold waylaid him. This later developed into pneumonia and kept him out of school for half a year. He returned in 1932, made up the half year lost as a freshman and became eligible for competition in February of 1933. Coach Keogan lost no time in using him, for Carnegie Tech met the Irish the following evening after O’Kane became eligible and Joe saw his first bit of action.
Last year, just as Joe began to click, hard luck hit him in the form of a knee injury. He was hurt in the Northwestern game of last year and this injury, a torn cartilege in his knee, kept him out of competition for over a month. He won a monogram, nevertheless, with plenty of time to spare. This year Joe has hit his real stride. In nine games played to date, he has scored 62 points, climaxing his
■ Thirty-three players on the Notre Dame varsity football squad were awarded monograms and six members of last fall’s cross country team won their minor sport’s insignia, according to an announcement from Elmer F. Layden, head football coach and director of athletics. .
Two of the 33 football monograms went to sophomores. Bill Steinkem-per, left tackle, and John Lauter, left guard, were the only second year men on the squad to win awards. Juniors were the recipients of 21 sweaters while the remaining ten went to seniors.
Of the cross country monograms given, three went to sophomores, two to juniors, and the remaining one to Bob Lee, a senior.
The list follows:
Football — Left ends: Wayne Millner, Sturla Canale, Matt Thernes.
Left tackles: Joe Sullivan, Ken Stilley, Bill Steinkemper, Dick Pfef-ferle.
Centers: Jack Robinson, Henry Pojman, Fred Solari.
Left guards: Rocco Schiralli, John Lauter, Sonny Church.
Right guards: Bill Smith, Paul Schrenker, Fritz Weidner.
Right tackles: John Michuta, Harry Becker.
Right ends: Dom Vairo, Marty Peters, Irwin Davis.
Quarterbacks: Wally Fromhart, Rey Bonar, Frank Gaul.
Left halfbacks: Will Shakespeare, Andy Pilney, George Melinkovich.
Right halfbacks: Mike Layden, Dan Hanley, Tony Mazziotti.
Fullbacks: Fred Carideo, Don Elser, Steve Miller.
Cross Country—Robert Lee, James McDevitt, John McKenna, Joseph McGrath, Arch Gott, and John Kenyon.
fine all-around play last Saturday evening in the local fieldhouse by tallying 14 points to pull Notre Dame away from the yearning jaws of the Butler Bulldog.
When it comes to baseball, Joe is equally a star. He patrols the outfield and although never reporting for baseball at Notre Dame, he has played on a championship amateur nine for the past three summers, in Washington, Ind. Joe is a senior in the Physical Education School, weighs 168 pounds, is 22 years old, and stands five feet, 11 inches. After graduating this June he expects to coach. .
The Scholastic
Fourteen
“COLLEGIATE DIGEST” PICKS ALL AMERICAN
For the first time in the history of intercollegiate football, the undergraduates of the nation — the bullsession “experts” and “Monday morning coaches” of fraternity and dormitory houses — have chosen their own all-American football team, and they agree with the selections of the professional experts only a little better than 50 per cent of the time.
The thousands of college men and women from all sections of the country who sent in their “bests” in a nation-wide all-American poll, results of which are announced in today’s issue of Collegiate Digest, chose the following men as the outstanding football players of the 1934 season:
Captain and Fullback — Pug Lund, Minnesota.
Halfbacks — Fred Borries, Navy, and Duane Purvis, Purdue.
Quarterback — Bobbie Grayson, Stanford.
Center — Jack Robinson, Notre Dame.
Guards — George Barclay, North Carolina, and Regis Monahan, Ohio State.
Tackles — Larry Lutz, California, and Bill Lee, Alabama.
Ends — John Pennypacker, Pennsylvania, and Frank Larson, Minnesota.
Bernie Bierman’s championship Minnesota Gophers received more mentions for the various positions on the team than any other single gridiron aggregation. In fact they received such wide recognition from students in all sections of the country that they undoubtedly are the national champions of the students in the 250 colleges and universities who participated in the poll.
Despite the great scattering of votes for favorites from various sections of the country, these who were voted in final place on the team received an overwhelming number of ballots in their favor. The “hero” of all of the collegians in the past season was Francis “Pug” Lund, of Minnesota, who received more votes than any other player in the country. In fact he was nominated to play every position in the backfield, but he reecived the greatest number of votes for the fullback position.
A team of true leaders, the all-American eleven selected by the collegians, includes men who are individual stars on their own teams, and more than half of whom are captains of their own teams. Those included in the captains’ category are Pennypacker, Lund, Lee, Barclay, Monahan, and Lutz.
January 18, 1935
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11)
at Pittsburgh where two candles provide the illumination). That would necessitate sun glasses for the players or make it imperative that the Mazdas be turned off and the boys allowed to play in the dark. Some of them act as if they’re in the dark even when benefited by lighting.
Still another inventive soul suggests making the hoop larger. Combating this is a motion that the ball be made smaller. That IS a setup! One of them is bound to lose, for if both suggestions were adopted by the rules committee it would be child’s play to ring ’em up from far and near and all intermediate points. These two gents are going to provide the .fireworks of the whole movement. They’ll probably cause so much comment that someone will call a conference to settle this dispute and consider other equally assinine suggestions. A couple good cigars and a couple other good things will pass before the delegates, and they’ll undoubtedly wind up with their total accomplishment being a resolution that these conferences be held more often. But most heart-rending is the fact that if all these changes are put into effect, Doc Carlson of Pitt will probably have to scrap his newly-marketed parlor basketball monstrosity.
Seriously, there seems to be no pressing need for drastic alterations in the basketball code. At present the game is as lively and interesting as the human heart and nervous system can stand. The change which moved play out of the backcourt is responsible for that condition and has made the game perfect from the spectator’s point of view.
SUPERLATIVES
A simple yet difficult question was put to us recently: “What do you think of Ford and O’Kane?” We told the seeker of inforamtion that we think of them in superlatives — and why not? There’ll be plenty basketball games played here before any two forwards equal the demonstration put on by these two in the Butler game last week. The entire fracas settled down to the matter of when Johnny Ford wanted to play with the ball. When he got these frequent spells of “gimme” he proceeded to extract the ball from Bulldog hands. It was then a question of waiting until his fellow forward decided it was time for a bucket. Joe rang up 14 points and Ford stole the ball from Butlerites approximately as many times.
INDOOR TRACK
(Continued from Page 13)
lights the shining home engagements. Marquette will again be on hand to challenge the prospective Irish dominance.
Last week’s handicaps were completely satisfactory for such early trials. Sal Du Cassa won the 660, McKenna the three quarters, and Bob Bernard the quarter mile test. Moore captured the 50 yard honors, barely nosing out Boyle, a fellow first year varsity man. Captain Vince Murphy was held in on the high jump, but Edwards cleared 12 feet, 6 inches with the pole rather easily. The fate of the whole team seems to rest at this date on the somewhat crippled, mile and two mile entries. Coach Nicholson is not sure at all that the healing arches of Leo McFarlane can withstand the strain.
The complete indoor schedule follows :
Feb. 1, Chicago, here.
Feb. 9, Marquette, here.
Feb. 15, Iowa, here.
March 1, Illinois, at Urbana.
March 9, Central Intercollegiate Conference Meet, here.
March 16, Armour Relays, at Chicago.
March 23, Butler Relays, at Indianapolis.
FENCING MEET
(Continued from Page 11)
perienced opponents. For the visitors Capt. Barnes was no doubt the outstanding man, accounting for four of the six victories by his team, winning three in foil and one in duelling swords.
The total score was as follows:
Won Lost
Foil—Notre Dame ---------•---5	4
Foil—Washington -------------4	5
Sabre—Notre Dame-------------4	0
Sabre—Washington-------------0	4
Duelling sword—Notre Dame ---2	2
Duelling sword—Washington —2	2
Although there is much room for improvement, the Gold and Blue gave promise in this, their first meet, that all and everyone of their opponents this season will find unexpected resistance.
The remaining schedule:
Feb. 2—Purdue here.
Feb. 8—Illinois here.
Feb. 9—Northwestern there.
Feb. 14—Wittenburg there.
Feb. 15—Ohio State there.
Feb. 16—Cincinnati there
Feb. 23—Wisconsin here or Chicago there.
Mar. 2—Washington U there or Chicago here.
F if t e en
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 12)
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
Madison Square Garden has been doing a lot of boasting as regards their so called record basketball crowds . . . why doesn’t some one remind them that an Indiana high school tourney has drawn 17,682, and almost each year equals the 16,000-odd they hail as all time capacity busters . . . MAXIE BAER may be cleaning up on his exhibition tours but his promoters aren’t . . . Over in Boston the other night the head man is said to have gone down to the tune of 3 C’s ... A few years back, FARMER BURNS, the JIMMY LONDOS of your Dad’s days, claimed that the thickness of his neck would resist hanging . . . They gave him a test, and the Farmer hung for ten minutes, without harm . . . Another rosin eater, GEORGE BOTHUN, with a weight of 138 engaged in more than 400 wrestling bouts with grapplers often weighing as much as 300 pounds . . . HELENE MADISON, the swimmer, turned in 100 record breaking performances in 1930 . . . Sweden is about ready to send to these states of ours, a lightheavy challenger . . . name of JOHN ANDERSON, and he’ll be gunning for BOBBY OLIN, the present champ . . . OLIN fears no one for didn’t he fight “IRISH” FANIS TZANATOPOLOUS in Boston not long ago? . . . This column has mentioned BILL HO OLAH AN as the man who will unseat the great MAXIE ... It seems Bill’s home country is taking no chances on his possible failure for, from across the pond will soon come “MICKEY” CALLAGHAN, 6 foot 8 inches tall, and weighing 234 pounds . . . Back to youi* toys, CARNERA. . . .
BOBBY GRAYSON, of Stanford’s great eleven, is now an immortal . . . He’s had a baby named for him . . . the far off Japanese newly born is christened GRAYSON YOHASHI TAKETA . . . DON HUTSON, all American end of Alabama, is the southern conference sprint champion . . . and yet they say, Stanford couldn’t cover up! . . . Baseball’s big league magnates have declared no bonus’ for their outstanding stars during the coming year ... and Manager BILL TERRY, of the Giants, says — no card playing for members of his team . . . NICK TREMARCK, Brooklyn outfielder, own a canary farm ... maybe now he won’t mind the birds he’ll get while operating in Flatbush . . . PAT MALONE, recently of the Cubs, was once a professional fighter, under the name of KID WILLIAMS . . . SLADE CUTTER, Middie football hero, is said to have
turned down an offer of $50,000 to enter the same profession . . . while BIFF JONES has rejected a contract calling for $10,000 for three years, if he will quit the Army and coach a pro football team . . . JAMES TEN EYCK, at 83, is beginning his 34th year as coach of the crew at Syracuse . . . Barnstorming by big time baseballers is to cease because of the danger to the athletes . . . yet BILLY ROGELL, Tiger infielder, has been keeping in shape playing that nice tame game of Hockey . . . BILL TILDEN pulled the same stunt while getting ready for the present exhibition tour . . . WILD BILL CUMMINGS cleaned up $40,000 in 1934 piloting a gas buggy . . . now he’s running a night club outside of Indianapolis. . . .
Learned PROF. TAUB, expert on masculine dress, was asked to rate the year’s athletes as dressers . . . He complies in putting JACK DEMPSEY, MAX BAER, LYN LARY, JIM LONDOS, and LEO DOROUCHER on the top, and in the order named . . . the professor* puts the attire of the DEAN brothers in a class by itself — as the very worst . . . One of the most important things in a hockey player’s equipment is his cap . . . experts say the visor hides the eyes of the man with the puck and thus prevents him from tipping off Iris next move . . . PAUL DERRINGER failed as a pitcher after leaving the St. Louis Cards . . . Why? Because he lost the services of the man who coached him between innings . . . the old master, BURLEIGH GRIMES . . . Knox college may have the world’s record for consecutive defeats, but 300 applicants answered the school’s call for a new coach . . . This year’s basketball is much livelier than ones of the past . . . the size of the ball was reduced but the pressure to be inserted was kept the same . . . The largest sporting hall in Europe will seat only 15,000 . . . and that is the one now being erected at Hamburg for the Hamas-Schmeling shindig . . . They are calling JOE LOUIS, “Clay Face,” the boy has absolutely no expression on his map while tossing them out . . . Man O’ War, greatest of stall walkers, won the Lawrence Realization Stakes in 1920, by 100 lengths . . . He beat Hoodwink, his only rival, to pay the shortest odds on record . . . 1-100 . . . two cents for a two dollar wager . . . BUCKY HARRIS, brand new manager of the Senators of Washington, will soon announce BUDDY MEYERS his captain . . . HAROLD STARR, of the New York Rangers, is not only tops at hockey, but is far above the average in wrestling, lacrosse, football, baseball, and boxing . . . MAX BAER has a long way to go before he equals old man DEMPSEY as a crowd drawer.
hall which collects the greatest number of points in the course of the tourney.
The contestants who began training last Monday are rapidly rounding into form. The caliber of the men contesting this year, led by all the champions from last year, promises the fight fans the greatest night of boxing that has ever been shown on the campus.
Rifle Team Loses Third
Successive Match, 841-816
Apparently still in their slump, the Rifle Team lost their third consecutive shoot with Buchanan, Michigan, at the latter’s range, Sunday, January 13. The team, after winning twenty-nine consecutive matches, have suddenly lost their eyes and as a result serious changes are being made in the personnel. The score of the match was 841-816.
James T. Connell, a member of the team, recently qualified in the junior division of the National Rifle Association as an expei*t rifleman. The only grade higher than expert is distinguished riflemen. John McGrath, the captain of the team, is also an expert rifleman.
Diving Lessons
The Rev. Julian P. Sigmar will discontinue, temporarily, his periodic diving instructions, which he has been giving students since last fall. Father Sigmar believes the students taking his instructions will be unable to devote sufficient time to their diving because of the approaching examinations. The lessons will be resumed, in February, probably on Monday and Thursday evenings.
Captain-Elect Sullivan
Suffers Pneumonia Attack
Joseph Sullivan, regular tackle on last year’s football eleven and captain elect for next fall was rushed to St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend Wednesday suffering from a slight attack of pneumonia.
Joe spent Tuesday in the University infirmary because of a mild cold, but when his condition grew worse they transferred him to St. Joseph’s hospital where the case was diagnosed as pneumonia. On Jan. 8, Joe was unanimously chosen captain of the football team for the 1935 season and exactly one week later he developed this pneumonia attack.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
NO VICTORY MARCH?
(Continued from Page 6)
fight songs was born in 1926. Casa-santa, working again with Vince Fagan, gave us “On Down the Line.” Joe did not cease his song writing then. His pen was eager to do yet greater honor to the gold and the blue.
By 1929 we were known universally and throughout the entire nation as the “Fighting Irish” of Notre Dame. As a result, and appropriately enough, our band director wrote “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By.” The new song was given to the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who wrote the lyrics to it.
Our new alma mater song, “Notre Dame Our Mother” was originally written in 1931 as a poem by the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of the University. It was later set to the music of Elgar’s “Pomp and Circumstance.” But Casa-santa thought that it should be sung to music that was really of Notre Dame. Consequently, he composed the music that we now know as part of the new alma mater song. Intent on writing a Notre Dame song that could be appropriately sung in church, Joe composed the music of “Notre Dame Our Mother” in G flat major, the richest key known to the musical world. Thus the song is really a hymn.
With the playing of the “Notre Dame Toast” by the band at the football games last fall, Joe Casasanta introduced to us the latest of his compositions. Dean James E. McCarthy of the Commerce College and Vince Fagan worked together on the lyrics of this piece. The “Toast” may be Joe’s latest but we can feel sure that it won’t be his last contribution to Notre Dame’s great list of songs.
The “Killarney,” an old Irish tune was also played by the band as it marched in the stadium at the fall football games. Few members of the student body except those in the senior class ever heard our band play it before. In fact Casasanta’s boys had not rendered it since 1931 when, ■ to the amusement of all the spectat-' ors, they had to play it during the Carnegie Tech game on a field that j	was nothing but a collection of little
|	takes which had been deposited there
I by a heavy rainfall. £
The “Victory March,” “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By,” “On Down the Line,” and “Hike, Notre Dame” have all been recorded for phonographs. These four have also A-	been subjected to the vitaphone
process.
"	January 18, 1935
A. KORZENESKI APPOINTS HOCHREITER TO I. C. O. CHAIRMANSHIP
Arthur L. Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers, appointed Franklyn C. Hochreiter as chairman of the committee on reception and arrangements for the finalists in the I.C.O. contest coming to Notre Dame next month. Aiding Hochreiter will be John Kavanagh and John Logan.
Six male students who have withstood the preliminary contests in their local districts will arrive at Notre Dame on the morning of Saturday, February 9 to compete in the final contest, in Washington Hall, the following afternoon, February 10.
Upon their arrival the young orators will be entertained at a luncheon by the Wranglers and then will be taken on a tour of the campus. On Saturday evening there will be a banquet in their honor at which prominent men on the University faculty will speak. This will be followed by a reception.
Sunday morning the guests will attend nine o’clock High Mass in Sacred Heart church followed by a visit to the Art Galleries in the University library. After* dinner the competitors will rehearse their orations for the public meeting in Washington Hall later in the afternoon. .
Following the oratorical contest a trophy will be presented to the winner and medals to the other contestants.
The men will leave Sunday night.
INTERNSHIPS
(Continued from Page 1)
The candidates nominated by the local committee headed by Mr. Bartholomew and composed of the Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., Dean James McCarthy, and Professor William Downey will compete for the final appointments to be made by the Institution on a regional basis determined by the distribution of student population.
Requests for application forms and information regarding the institution’s Internship should be addressed to the National Institute of Public Affairs, 1001 Fifteenth Street, Washington, D. C.
The National Institute of Public Affairs is a non-partisan, non-politi-cal, privately financed and self-governing organization working in cooperation with the federal governing organization working in cooperation with the federal government on this project. . ;
SOCIAL WORK
(Continued from Page 8)
social work accepting the responsibility of setting up standards, and the latter group has assisted in the work of reorganization of the social work courses at Notre Dame.
For those interested either in group work or in social case work a broad pre-professional sequence of courses is suggested, beginning in the second semester of the junior year. Emphasis naturally will be upon preparatory courses in the various social sciences. With an adequate background it will be possible to complete the academic requirements for the degree of master of arts, as well as the professional certificate, in one year of graduate work. Scholarships will be available on a competitive basis.
' Students of junior and senior ranking are urged to consult members of the Curriculum faculty in order to assure the selection of a satisfactory undergraduate courses of study, details concerning scholarships will be announced later.
DOME DUST
(Continued from Page 6)
down that we pen this obituary to the scholastic career of Jack—his friends call him “Moxie”—McGrath. For Robinson’s roommate is soon to leave the senorial and highly dignified environments of Sorin to go out and make his way in this world of debs.
Yet he will not leave unprepared. He has spent the numerous vacations of a five year man—and not a few Army trips—in the apprenticeship of a man-about-town. He has presented his card at the most fashionabe of metropolitan salons; he has lent his charm to the most ultra of tea parties; and it is still a mystery to us why the New Yorker hasn’t taken a printed interest in his doings as yet.
So again we pen our regrets at his departure. But we know that wherever portly dowagers choose to present their daughters; and whenever the horsey set pauses for the bit refreshes, there will be a part of Sorin in that gathering.
Abandon Annual Trip To Nation's Capital
The annual trip to Washington, D.C., led by Mr. Paul C. Bartholomew, assistant professor of Politics, has been abandoned for this year. This trip which annually attracted a large number of students interested in government and political science will, however, probably be resumed next year.
Seventeen
After You Pass
The Exams
SC
Meet Your Friends at the
Second Annual . . .
BIRTHDAY BALL
for the President
* The Night Exams End—January 30th
The JEFFERSON Plaza The OLIVER
£ । i
4.
Benefit South Bend’s Crippled Children
Eighteen
The Scholastic
• TENNIS SQUAD WILL PRACTICE INDOORS
MR. HENDRIKX ADDRESSES ENGINEERS’ CLUB ON BRICKS
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
EXPANDS CHARITY WORK
Coach deLandero, varsity tennis mentor, has started making preparations for the spring net season. Arrangements are being made to have the squad practice indooi’s, starting late in February, with the purpose in view of developing the men for the stiff competition they will face in the opening match. The schedule, although not completed, will be ready for publication in a short time, after meeting with the approval of the Athletic Board; it is being worked out ■with the idea to include all major teams possible.
“The outlook,” states Coach deLandero, “based on showing and results of the fall tourney is most encouraging, and it is hoped that this year there will be a tennis team ready to face opposition when the campaign gets under way. We hope to have Notre Dame represented at the state tournament the last of May.”
Coach deLandero urges that the men start getting in condition before the call for indoor practice goes out. With the new monogram as an added incentive, much interest is being manifested by the veterans of 1934, and those new candidates who are planning to wage a fight for a berth in this year’s starting lineup.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
(Continued from Page 4)
is called the river jack. It has peculiar horns around its nose, and its poison is both hemotoxic and neurotoxic. There are four types of .venomous serpents in North America, namely: the rattlesnake, water moccasin, copperhead, and coral-snake. Australia is the habitat of the most deadly serpent, and it is called the tiger snake because of its appearance.
The world’s largest viper is the bushmaster which, incidentally, has never been kept in captivity for any length of time. There are no vipers in Ireland although there are several species in England, Scotland, and Wales. The anaconda snake is although not the longest, the largest snake, sometimes measuring 20 feet long and 40 inches in circumference.
After Father Lange’s lecture, he answered many questions which members of the Academy asked him. Most of_ these .were-concerning habits of serpents, and common but usually false ideas concerning the scaly reptiles. The scientist explained the Hindu fake snake-charming trick, and exposed its fraudulent effect.
January 18, 1935
Mr. Hendrikx of the National Paving Brick Company discussed the merits of brick pavement at the meeting of the Engineers’ club, Wednesday evening, Jan. 9, in the auditorium of the Engineering building. Mathias Sagartz read an interesting paper on, “Length of Geological Time.” Al Vitter, secretary, conducted the meeting in absence of President Jerome Cushing.
Mr. Hendrikx outlined the evolution of the modern paving brick from its beginning in the dried mud bricks used by the ancient Egyptians. He emphasized the fact that as the type of traffic grew heavier, and as the demands for better roads increased, the paving brick improved correspondingly.
At the conclusion of the discussion Mr. Hendrikx answered various questions asked by the group concerning the construction, maintenance, and life of brick pavement.
The Engineers’ club smoker will be held in Carroll Rec, Wednesday evening, Feb. 6. May 3 was announced as the date of the Engineers’ Formal. No other details were announced concerning the formal.
K. OF C. BALL
(Continued from Page 2)
Decorations: Walter Sheehan, chairman; Jerry Lambiente. John Pettingill. Paul Foley, Maurice Fairhead.
Entertainment: James Foohey, chairman; George Thomas, Paul Kreuz, Arthur Cronin, William Foley, Achilles Moorman.
Publicity: Joe Schmidt and Robert Grogan, co-chairmen; Nicholas Cassilio. Carl Senger, John Britton.
Patrons: James Kaufman, chairman; William White, Sal Costa, John Slanznel, John Donovan.
Music: Michael Santulli and Frank McGah-ren, co-chairmen; Vincent McAloon, Richard Newcombe, Edward McNally, John Quirk.
Door: John Coyne and Julius Rocco, co-chairmen ; Thomas Flynn, Alfred Capitell, Ray Bambenek.
No Patrician Meeting
Unfortunate circumstances caused the postponement of the weekly meeting of the Patricians last Wednesday. It had been expected that Prof. Rufus W. Rauch would address the society on the subject of “Humanism.”
This talk has been deferred until a later date, and the regular series of weekly meetings interrupted until a date to be announced following the semester examinations.
Ten dollars was contributed by the Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society to the AntiTuberculosis League in the name of the students. The Society also volunteered to take an active part in the sale of Christmas seals on the campus next year. A number of letters of appreciation for the donation and the offer of assistance have been received from the town organization by the Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., St. Vincent de Paul chaplain.
The town work has been expanded to include work in other parishes and groups. This expansion has long been desired, but has been delayed until enough experience had been gained to show that it was prudent. The Society played Santa Claus to the South Bend poor by distributing 23 ample Christmas baskets, which were gratefully received. The proceeds of the Christmas dance of the Central New York Club were donated to the Society. Application for affiliation with the International St. Vincent de Paul Society has been made to the general headquarters of the organization in Paris.
A movement to collect second-hand text-books from the students to send to Catholic high school libraries is under consideration and will probably be launched in the near future. A number of sets of the pamphlets, God’s Heroes, written by the Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., has been ordered for donation to Negro Catholics. They are probably the most readable lives of the Saints yet published. Magazines donated by students were distributed to the inmates of relief institutions during the Christmas vacation.
A subscription to the Catholic School Interest Magazine was donated by the Society to the St. Francis nuns of Lafayette, Indiana, and a letter of thanks was received from them this week. The Society voted the sum of $25 to be given to St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend. Last night there was an old clothes drive through all the halls.
Father Cunningham
Rev. Wm. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., represented the University of Notre Dame at the annual meeting of the Association of American Colleges held at Atlanta, Ga., yesterday and today.
On the evening of Jan. 16, Father Cunningham attended the first annual national conference of the National Conference of Church-Related Colleges of which he is a member of the commission and of the executive committee.
Nineteen
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL
(Continued from Pape 4)
tablished and arrived at by the organizations. It states: “It will be necessary for each president of a campus club to obtain the signature of every member of his organization to be submitted to the president of the Presidents’ Council by Dec. 1 of each year. (This year’s list must be submitted by Feb. 10.)”
Here again the Council has aimed at an old evil. It is understood that the University- is not in favor of spread assessments • fox' the liquidation of debts except as a last resort. The compilation of official lists of members will definitely place responsibility for the club’s affairs.
It is understood that the revocation of a Club charter by the Presidents’ Council will automatically bar that organization from participating in or sponsoring any activities in the name of a Notre Dame organization either on or off the campus.
Financial statements, with special attention to those due on Jan. 22, may be presented to either Ed Van Huisseling at 117 Walsh Hall or Philip Purcell at 106 Walsh. The statement for the office of the Prefect of Discipline, due at the same time, must be presented directly to the office.
AVIATION CONFERENCE
(Continued from Page 1)
troduced to the audience. He was given a tremendous ovation and was prevailed upon to address the conference. In his drawling voice, often drowned out by laughter and applause, he gave his views on aviation, the Democratic party, the U.S.C. football team, and Huey Long.
At approximately 5:15 the program was adjourned and the visiting aviators repaired to the Main Building ’ where plans for the University’s projected course was discussed.
Dr., Albert Zahm of Washington, former Notre Dame professor, pioneer in aviation and occupant of the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Congressional Library, notified Father O’Hara Monday that ill health would prevent.his attending the conference. Captain Alford Williams, formerly of the U. S. Navy and holder of many speed records, was also unable to attend.
Other prominent members who attended the conference included Mr. R. C. Smith, President of the American Air Lines, Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, chairman of the University Board of Trustees, and Col Frank Knox, publisher of the Chicago Daily News.
Twenty -
PROFESSOR FINDS GOLD IN HIS OWN HACK YARD
While the lure of gold at high prices is attracting the unemployed to the old diggings of the Far West, Dr. Knowles B. Smith, of South Bend, has discovered that he can mine the precious yellow metal almost in his own backyard.
Recently Dr. Smith, head of the mining engineering at the University, tested a bed of fine gravel located neai' his home to determine the possible presence of gold which he believed should be found in the glacial drift of this region.
• ’ The results obtained from a series of tests showed gold to be present in an amount from a trace to a few . cents worth per ton of gravel.
For the detection and extraction of such minute quantities of barely visi- • • ble gold, the most precise and sensitive assaying laboratory equipment is required. To handle such small amounts by any mining and metallurgical methods would not be profitable.
The glacial deposits containing the gold are one hundred feet or more in thickness in this region and. consist of sand, gravel, clay and boulders.
However, according to Professor Smith, the finding of gold in Indiana is not recent. It has been mined from similar glacial drift in Morgan and Brown counties south of Indianapolis since the year 1850, although not in recent year and always on a small scale. The largest nugget of record was worth $5.50 but the average per day by one man was only $1.25.
Balliet Will Address the Economic Seminar Tuesday
Balliet will sum up his paper on “The House of Adam Smith” before the meeting of the Economic Seminar, Tuesday evening, Jan. 22, in the Law building. This is taken from the book of the same name by -Ginsberg which explains the philosophy of Adam Smith, the economist. A general group discussion will follow the delivery of the paper.
Balliet will sum up his paper in the following words: “Amid the confusion of tongues unable to ferret out the real cause of the malady, Smith rose up with the conviction that it lay in the rapacity and monopolizing spirit of merchants and manufacturers.”
“Summarizing Smith’s contribution, he offered sound advice for his economic time because laissez faire would have remedied .the abuses-about which he wrote. Besides this he emphasized the value of labor and the value of mass education in a national economy.”
French Club Entertained by Speakers and Musicians
On Jan. 10, at 8 o’clock in the evening, in Carroll Rec. Hall, the Cercle . Francais held its first meeting of the New Year. President Louis Grosso opened the meeting by introducing the Master of Ceremonies, Gerry Doyle who presented the speakers and the entertainer. Pierre de la Vergne spoke briefly on “The Mardi Gras.” Carlos de Landero also gave a brief talk on Fencing. Ernest Kling entertained members of the Cercle by playing on the accordian, “Ida,” “Some of These Days,” “Indian Love Call,” and “The Sharpshooters Song.” The meeting was concluded with group singing of French folk songs. The next meeting of the Cercle will be held on Jan. 24.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 6)
a wing in Alumni and proceeded to rule it with an iron hand.
But Phil deserves all the breaks he may receive, for he has worked hard during his college career so far.
Manager Kirley, who wears a big diamond and who intends to sell coal in Kewanee when he graduates, is an average student. He enjoys college life to the fullest and has never been-heard to find fault with anyone or anything.
MAIL 10 CENTS FOR SAMPLE COPY
REPRESENTATIVES WANTED
CREATE
YOUR OWN FORTUNE
With the "UNIVERSAL BUDGET", World's most Unique System of Personel
Finances. Endorsed by / „	.
America's foremost edi-1 • *UDGET tors and by professors of	-* ~
UNIVERSAL SYNDICATE
MAQINIR TOWcU ■MIU'
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each.year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). * The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
The Scholastic