The Notre Dame Scholastic
227

COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Resuming our duties after a restful week of worrying, cramming, and devising ways and means of maintaining a 77 average, we are ready to carry on—for another week at least.
After watching the crowd which turned out for the last home game of the year, we are inclined to believe that a new policy must be adopted. We suggest that the men in charge of tickets distribute them next year along with five dollar bills wrapped around them. Such a small item might induce the “ardent football fans” in this vicinity to come to see the Notre Dame football team, that is, if they can spend the time.
The Scholarship dances might be a blessing to freshmen who have ambitions of building up “friendships sacred and eternal” but for those who go to these dances for pleasure . . . oh, what agony. Maybe the freshmen will quiet down by the next dance and show some signs of intelligence and good manners. A senior and his guest aren’t safe any more when the Scholarship dance gets under way.
Having heard the current edition of the Notre Dame “Jugglers” at the Monogram dance last week, we feel that they are deserving of a word of praise. Their music is “hot,” their assortment of numbers is good and they show plenty of life. If they can show any improvement in the weeks to come we may nominate them as the official Senior Ball orchestra. (This is slightly exaggerated, as you might guess, but the “Jugglers” sound good to us.)
The departure of Mr. Chesterton from the campus has left many of us with a feeling of despair because it is only now that we realize the opportunity which we had to acquire knowledge which came from a man who, as a master of the English language, has no equal. It was quite impossible for the students to attend all the lectures given by Mr. Chesterton, but those who heard him at least once were impressed beyond wdrds. This man left an impression which will be lasting. We regret only that he could not remain with us longer.
—W. V. B.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
EMIL L. TELFEL.... HARLEY L. McDEVITT
Founded 1872
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
John E. Bergan...... James J. Kearney. ... Edward E. Brennan.. Walter V. Beesley. .. Alfred E. Gall...... James K. Collins.... Austin Boyle........ Paul J. Hallinan.... Richard J. O'Donnell Ramon G. Smith...... Frank E. Seward..... W. Leslie Raddatz...
...........Managing	Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
. .Makeup . .Makeup .Features — Script Associate
Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor
........The Week
The College Parade ..Music and Drama .....Campus Clubs
NEWS STAFF
Neil C. Hurley..........
William C. Edward R. Brennan James Carmody William Fitzgerald ' John Conley
Daniel C. Williams
Karl
Assistant
Myron Crawford Anthony R. Schreiner William Corr Lloyd Teske
F. Granger Weil
.News Editor
News Editor
John Pick Lawrence Dunda Sanguinet Williams Lawrence Prybylski Walter Johnson
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener............
Cleve Carey
Robert Balfe
James E. McFeely, Jr. George Belting
James Kearns
Sports Editor
Henry B. Asman
T. Edward Carey
BUSINESS STAFF James H. Rorke................Local Advertising	Manager
James L. Rizer..............Foreign Advertising	Manager
John R. Blanda................Local Circulation	Manager
Andrew McGuan...............Foreign Circulation	Manager
Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin Raymond J. Naber John P. Hess
. i Vol. LXIV	NOVEMBER 21, 1930	No. 8 =
1	TABLE OF CONTENTS	I
E Board of Lay Trustees______'______________________Frontispiece E
i	The Week—Richard J. O'Donnell-------------------------- 228	=
i	University Receives Endowment—Lloyd Teske-------------- 229	j
=	A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan----------------------- 232	=
E	A Man About the Campus—Daniel C. Williams-------------- 233	=
E	Campus Opinions—Myron Crawford------------------------- 235	E
E	Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan------------- 236	=
E	Music and Drama_______________________________________  237	|
E	Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz------------------------- 239	E
i	College Parade—Ramon G. Smith-------------------------- 240	E
1	The Wink_______________________________________________ 241	I
E	Editor’s Page__________________________________________ 242	i
E	Two Undefeated Teams Meet—John A. Kiener--------------- 243	=
E	Notre Dame Trounces Drake—T. Edward Carey-------------- 243	=
E	Penn Feels Sting of Rockne’s Horsemen------------------ 245	e
E	Interhall Sports_______________________________________ 247	e
E	Splinters From the Press Box--------------------------- 252	=
E	On Down the Line_______________________________________ 256	E
E THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu- E E scripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building. :
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at :
E special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3. 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.	E
E	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of	E
E	All Notre Dame Men.	‘	E
O aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa i, (, aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaf^
228
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
jA_T country fairs the yokels used to get a great deal of fun out of throwing baseballs at the head of a grinning darky, and trying to win a cigar by denting some part of his upper concrete anatomy. The darky didn’t mind because he was getting paid for it. Besides, he had a limited space in which he might move about and dodge the missiles. He had a fair chance. At the game last Saturday there was a situation analogous to this. But the missiles were bigger and heavier than a baseball. And the persons they were being hurled at had paid more money for the privilege of being a target than the target in the first insatnce had received as his wages. Furthermore, these innocent spectators were hit from behind. They didn’t have a chance in the world. The box holders in front of the silent cheering section must have heaved a sigh of relief as the home season ended with the Drake game. At every game this year they have been showered with flying cards, colord in various hues which may have delighted those in the opposite stands, but which could hardly have appealed to the aesthetic sense of the persons whose necks were dented by them. The cards were bad enough, but the throwing of knotted shirts last Saturday was nothing less than disgraceful. To hit a man from behind is cowardly. To fling a heavy, knotted bundle of cloth into a group in which there are number of women is the act of not only a coward, but also of someone with a stunted intellect. Some of those at the game, of course, will look on the incident as just another student prank. But they are the fortunate folk who were out of the danger- zone. They were not thumped from behind by what must have felt like a football punted by Frank Carideo.
above all. there was his reverence towards the Church to which he was converted, expressed so frequently in words which flowed from the heart, and which proceeded to the hearts of his Catholic listeners. It would be futile to attempt to praise him. We must merely hope that he experienced to some extent the pleasure which Notre Dame whole-heartedly derived from his stay here.
1'HE classes of 1929, 1930, and 1931 held their Sophomore Cotillion at the Palais Royale last Friday evening. It seems as though the third and fourth year men have as their social motto, “Once a sophomore, always a sophomore.” The whole campus must have been swept by an epidemic of that dread malady known as “sophomoritis.” Why it was called the Sophomore Cotillion is as much a mystery as the reason for calling the Notre Dame team the “Irish.” There were as many Sorin haliers there as there were residents of that long barrack-like building which is at right angles to the Pasteboard Palace. All the officers and committee chairmen of the class of 1929 were there, but they didn’t count since they put no money in the treasury. Annie Oakley was the belle of the ball. She was responsible for more students being present than any other ten young ladies at the hop. It was a very successful dance, financially as well as socially, and all the promoters are to be congratulated for the good results their work produced. They can now rest contentedly on their laurels, satisfied that they outdid in every way the recent society extravaganza in the other end of town— the St. Hedwige Cotillion of Charm.
Another ghost has been added to the luminaries of the spirit world who walk o’ nights about the hallowed floors of Washington hall. Perhaps he be not a legitimate ghost since his human counterpart is yet very much alive. But, after all, a spirit is only a partially materialized memory. And the memory of Mr. G. K. Chesterton is one which will live long in the minds of them who had the great privilege of coming in contact with his genius. Mr. Chesterton has contributed to the cultural character of the University. He has left behind him impressions which should prove as lasting as Notre Dame itself. The present students should congratulate themselves on having had the opportunity to be the audience at his lectures, foi- it will be a long time before the University will have the honor of playing host to anyone so prominent in any field of human endeavor. Not all the students who listened to Mr. Chesterton had the intellectual background to appreciate to the fullest the subjects of his talks. But aside from the essential nature of his lectures, there were added features of a general appeal. There was his wit, a complete contradiction of the popular opinion of British humor; there was his geniality, his perpetual good nature which made him so well liked by all who heard him; and
A.LBERT A. ALBERT, local news gatherer, and guardian of the campus leaves and leavings, reports that this has been one of the most successful autumns he has ever experienced. Mr. Albert says that in spite of the increase in his duties arising from the crowds on the campus at the football games, he has succeeded in maintaining a landscape so spotless as to have aroused inspiring com- • ment from many of the visitors to the University. “It is indeed a pleasure,” he remarked while being interviewed, “to receive such encouragement in my work. Few persons realize how it spurs one on to bigger and better accomplishments to be praised for a good job well done.”
Though immensely satisfied with the way things have ’j been going thus far, he objects vehemently to the project • now under consideration which would result in the planting of numerous trees in various spots about the campus.
Mr. Albert, or Albert, as he is affectionately known to many undergraduates, believes that this is running things • to the ground. He believes that the ground is hard enough to handle as it is, and that planting more trees in it would only mean putting more leaves on it. He seemed • satisfied, however, when it was explained to him that it was pines that were to be added to the campus scenery.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
229
UNIVERSITY RECEIVES ENDOWMENT
Edward N. Hurley Donates $200,000 For New
College of Commerce Building
Edward N. Hurley of Chicago, member of the University’s Board of Lay Trustees and internationally known business man, in a recent letter to the University, presented it with §200,000 for the erection of a new building to be known as the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. This donation is the first of its kind in the history of Notre Dame.
Mr. Hurley was led to make his donation in part by a desire to commemorate the founding of his own fortune through international busi- • ness.
In 1897 Mr. Hurley and the two Kimman brothers began the manufacture of pneumatic drills and hammers in a barn back of the Kimman home in Lawndale, Illinois. Hurley found it impossible to raise capital in Chicago so he went to London in 1899 and, in five days, sold the British patents for §125,000. Ever since he has been urging American business men to operate markets abroad for their wares.
In 1914 President Wilson appointed him special commissioner to South America to report on banking and credits in Argentine, Brazil, Chile, and Peru. While chairman of the Federal Trade commission, he helped to pass the Webb-Pomerene bill which permitted American manufacturers to combine and form foreign export associations.
As war chairman of the United States shipping board and president of the Emergency Fleet corporation, he helped to build the ships which played a momentous role in transporting men and materials to France during the World war. For that service he was recognized by the United States, as well as by France and by Italy. He also was President Wilson’s shipping advisor* at the peace conference in Paris.
Since the war President Coolidge appointed him to the World War Foreign Debt commission. A year ago he was elected president of the American Manufacturers’ Export association. Recently President Hoover made him a member of the Advisory Shipping committee to investigate and make recommendations for future development of the American merchant marine.
Edward N. Hurley
In his letter to the University Mr. Hurley suggested means of visualizing in the new institution the spirit of American business and the importance to all nations of international commerce. He suggested that each of the six principal study halls be named for distinguished American industrial leaders, and than an oil portrait of each sponsor be placed in his respective study hall. The men proposed by Mr. Hurley are: James A. Farrell, New York, president of the United States Steel corporation; Ernest R. Graham, Chicago, senior member of the firm of Graham, Anderson, Probst, and White; Samuel Insull, Chicago, chairman of the Commonwealth Edison company; Charles E. Mitchell, New York, chairman of the National City bank; John D. Ryan, New York, chairman of the Anaconda Copper company; and Gerard Swope, New York, president of the General Electric company.
“The young men graduating from the College of Commerce,” continued the letter of the donor, “will blaze the trail of modern and equitable business
methods just as our forefathers blazed the trail for civilization and commercial progress by exchanging goods for furs with the Indians.
“In order that the students may visualize what modern transportation and communication have done towards bringing the nations of the world into closer contact,” said Mr. Hurley, “the four walls of the main or memorial hall of the new College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce building are to have a mural painting in colors of a map of all the countries of the world, showing the seven seas and trade routes, featuring the seaports of the world, giving the nautical miles between the principal international ports and the shortest time it requires for the fastest passenger and cargo service between different countries, as well as cable and radio telephone communication systems to the countries covered by that service.”
The University authorities expressed great appreciation of Mr. Hurley’s donation, and stated that Notre Dame wishes to call the building the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce as a tribute to the donor’s contribution to the progress of international trade and the upbuilding of our merchant marine. The administration also expressed themselves as being particularly pleased with the suggestion that the study halls be named for the six internationally known industrial leaders mentioned by Mr. Hurley.
It was said at the administrative offices, “We deem a donation from a man of Mr. Hurley’s character a valuable endorsement of the business and economic courses furnished by the University. Presidents Wilson, Coolidge, and Hoover have all officially recognized Mr. Hurley’s ability and desire to do things in a helpful way in the interest of the public.
“The fact that he is devoting all of his time to public service today is an encouraging indication of the manner in which American business men are assuming public responsibilities and recognizing that industrial leaders in their later- days should do something in recognition of what they owe to America, and to the economic solidarity of the -world.”
(Architect’s Drawing on Page 247)
230
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
These dates are subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, Nov. 21—Scholastic staff meeting, Room 222, Main building, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Nov. 22 — Football, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern university, at Evanston, 2:00 p. m.— Movies, “Be Yourself,” Washington hall, 6:40 p. m.
SUNDAY, Nov. 23—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:C0, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m. — Interhall football, Brownson vs. Carroll, Cartier field, 2:30 p. m.
MONDAY, Nov. 24 — Italian club meeting, Room 2, Main building.— K. of C. meeting, Walsh hall chambers, 7:45 p. m.
TUESDAY, Nov. 25—Spanish club meeting, Room-219, Main building, 6:45 p. m.—Wranglers meeting, journalism room of library, 6:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 26—Scribblers meeting, new Law building, 6:30 p. m.
GLEE CLUB TO BE ON AIR NEXT FRIDAY
Next Friday, November 28, at 5:30 p. m. the Notre Dame Glee club will broadcast over stations WMAQ, WLW and WOR. The broadcast -will be a feature of the Football Prediction hour sponsored by the Williams Manufacturing Company of Portsmouth, Ohio. Coach Hanley of Northwestern university will be the speaker of the hour. On the same night the Notre Dame Glee club is broadcasting over the Armour hour from 8:30 p. m. to 9:00 p. m.
Tonight the Yale band will be the feature of the Football Prediction hour.
I NOTICE!
= All Mechanical Engineering i | students wishing to make the | = inspection trip to the Western i | Electric plant in Chicago on = = December 8 are requested to = = leave their names with the sec- | | retary, M. Mulrey, Sorin hall, E | as soon as possible.	|
CHESTERTON CONCLUDES LECTURES FRIDAY
Gilbert Keith Chesterton, noted English man of letters, left Notre Dame Saturday noon after completing his series of lectures on the history and literature of the Victorian age.
His visit here created a stir in literary and intellectual circles throughout the country. The lectures were attended not only by students and professors of the University, but also by residents of South Bend and nearby communities, who came to hear the famous coiner of paradoxes.
For six weeks Mr. and Mrs. Chesterton and Mr. Chesterton’s secretary have lived in South Bend while the lectures were being presented. Following his appearance here he was to give a special lecture at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. Before his return to England Mr. Chesterton will speak in Cincinnati and New York.
In his concluding lecture of the series on Victorian literature last Friday evening in Washington hall, the break-up of the Victorian age was discussed.
He said that the Victorian Age had a sense of unreality in that it carried no ideas to their definite and logical conclusion.
He referred to the entire age as “that period when England had reached the highest point in its social, economic, and political progress; when she felt most secure from attack, was most comfortable for the better classes, and had a confident air of superiority to the things about her.”
KEEFE AND MCGREAL WIN RADIO DEBATE
John Keefe and Francis McGreal successfully inaugurated the 1930-31 debating season last Wednesday, defeating Purdue university by a margin of 349 to 13. To anyone with a knowledge of debating procedure this would seem a rather unusual score— but then it was not an ordinary debate. Thirty states and Canada were represented when the judges, radio listeners of WLS, Chicago, in their some three hundred letters voted Notre Dame’s presentation of its position on corporation farming superior to that of Purdue. The surprisingly large number of replies, together with their varied sources, tend to indicate the possibilities of future radio debates.
.j,______________________________.j.
I Engineering Notes | 4--------------------------------1
The Notre Dame Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers held their third meeting of the year in the Engineering building on Tuesday night.
Plans were made concerning the proposed inspection trip to the Western Electric plant at Chicago. December 8 was the date decided upon for the trip.
A membership committee of the following men was appointed: C. Gaens-slen, Leo Freitas, Ralph Furstos, Ralph Else, James Yoch, and Harry Donnelly. These men are to canvass their halls for all mechanical engineers.
Mr. O’Hora read several letters from the home office concerning membership, the national convention in New York to be held the first week in December, the Edward T. Main Award for students, and Mechanical Engineering, the monthly magazine published by the society.
Mr. James Kraus, of the sophomore class, presented a very interesting paper dealing with his experiences in the copper and gold mines of Canada.
President O’Hora discussed the last meeting' of the St. Joseph Valley Branch of the A. S. M. E. which was held at the Hotel Mishawaka Nov. 14. High-speed motion pictures, taken at speeds up to 20,000 frames per minute, of air passing over the wing of an airplane, of a bullet striking a lamp, and of the testing of railway draft gears were shown. At this meeting a portable projector reproducing sound was used, it being the first machine of this type to be used in this part of the country. The meeting was attended by the senior-class.
STUDENT DIRECTORY FOR SALE ON CAMPUS
Announcement has been received that the student directory is finished by the printer and has appeared on the campus. The directory, published each year, gives the name, school address, home address and classification of every student enrolled in the University. The book is offered for sale at the magazine stand in the cafeteria; the price is twenty-five cents.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
231
DOME PHOTOGRAPHY COMPLETED;
NEARLY 1,000 PICTURES WERE TAKEN
Hallinan Completes Work in Record Time Of Eighteen Days
During- the past eighteen days Mr. Otto Mays of White’s Studios has taken picture after picture of juniors and seniors and men prominent in campus activities until the total number of photos has passed the 950 mark. This means that the present staff of the Dome has set a record, for production of photography that has heretofore not even been approached. For eighteen days fifty-two photos a day have been taken in the basement of Walsh hall, and now every necessary picture has been made, enabling Mr. Mays to leave for New York to complete the work attendant on preparing them for the 1930 Dome.
Those students who have received proofs of their photographs have expressed complete satisfaction, and any criticism of the work that has been made has been extremely favorable. Great care was taken in the
BERGAN TO ISSUE “SANTA MARIA” SOON
Publication of the Santa Maria, official organ of Notre Dame Council 1477, Knights of Columbus, will be discussed at a meeting of the campus council Monday at 7:45 p. m., in the K. of C. room in Walsh hall. John Bergan, editor of the Santa Maria, has announced that all the material is ready, and that the first edition of the year should go to press about December 1.
Balloting on names of candidates for the class to be given the degrees before Christmas will be voted upon at this meeting.
Negro entertainers will be furnished for the evening by the Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C., director of the South Bend Negro mission.
I NOTICE! |
E The barber shop on the cam- i I pus will be open next Tuesday e E and Wednesday evening, Novem- E E ber 24 and 25, until 8:30 p. m. E
photographic process, and good results were practically assured even before the proofs were available. As for the proofs, they will all be available in the basement of Walsh hall sometime before the end of next week. Thomas Monahan, in charge of proofs, asks that students return the ones selected as soon as is possible, in order to facilitate the work in arranging the pictures in the yearbook.
Assisting in the work of arranging and collecting material for the section of the Dome dealing -with photographs have been Myron Crawford, John Bracken, August Petrillo, Joseph Wilk, Andries Curtin, George Belting, Harold Kotte, Alex Japkiewicz, Robert Bonkamp, Albert Phanenf, R. Oldham, Don McIntosh, and Joseph Simon. The activity of these men has enabled Paul Hallinan, editor-in-chief of the Dome, to complete successfully •the work on this most important section of the book.
CHICAGO CLUB TO HOLD PRE-ARMY GAME DANCE
The Chicago club of Notre Dame will sponsor a pre-Army game informal dance on Friday evening November 28 in the Pompeian and Gold room of the Congress hotel. All Notre Dame men who expect to be in Chicago the week-end of the Army game are extended an invitation to attend the dance.
Walter Kelly, general chairman of the affair, has announced that the dance will be one of the outstanding affairs of the fall social season. Two very good orchestras, Art Kassel and his band, famous broadcasters from KYW, and Herbie Mintz and his Merrymakers will play the program of dances.
The dance of this year is to be a strictly invitational affair and all students who plan on attending are urged to obtain their tickets from General Chairman Kelly in Badin hall.
The Chicago club, one of the largest and most active organizations on the campus, is being directed this year- by President Benedict L. McShane.
HARLEY L. McDEVITT GIVEN FAREWELL
BANQUET
Harley L. McDevitt, retiring graduate manager of publications, was given a farewell banquet last night in the lay faculty dining hall by the business and editorial boards of the four University publications.
The Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C., senior member of the board of publications, acted as toastmaster. Speeches were made by the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., former chairman of the board; the Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C., present member; and Frederick Davis, Mr. McDevitt’s assistant. All praised the fine work Mr. McDevitt has done and wished him success in his new position with the Conde Nast Publications, Inc., of New York City.
Others present at the banquet were Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; John Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Paul J. Hallinan, editor-in-chief of the Dome; Louis A. Brennan, editor-in-chief of Scrip; James H. Rorke, local advertising manager of the Scholastic; Edward W. Mehren, local advertising manager of the Juggler; Joseph Wilk, circulation manager of the Dome; Andrew McGuan, foreign circulation manager of the Scholastic; John Zaback, foreign advertising manager of the Juggler; Edward Britz, advertising manager of the Dome; James Rizer, foreign advertising manager of the Scholastic, and John R. Blanda, local circulation manager of the Scholastic.
j MUSIC NOTES [ I J,
The complete personnel of the band will accompany the football team on their next two trips. On Saturday morning, November 22, 82 musicians will leave for Evanston to perform between the halves of the Northwestern-Notre Dame game on that date. Joe Casasanta promises a complete assortment of formations, including the Northwestern monogram, the spelling out of “Irish,” and the traditional N. D. monogram.
The Notre Dame club of Chicago will have a little local color at its annual football banquet on November 28. Music for the stag dinner at the Lake Shore Athletic club in Chicago wnll be furnished by the Notre Dame “Jugglers.”
232
The.Notre Dame Scholastic
4 A Man You Know £
FR. RAEMERS TRANSLATES FRENCH EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY TEXT
A genius is born, not made. A man who is a genius both from birth and from training is a great asset to any community. If the Reverend Raymond Joseph Clancy, C.S.C., is not a genius by birth, he is certainly one by training, for only a genius can handle successfully the job of director of Off-Campus students. Born in Peterboro, Ontario, Father Clancy was descended from a long line of hotel proprietors, another qualification which makes him eminently fitted for the office of director- of over a thousand students who are compelled, for lack of housing space at the University, to reside in South Bend.
Father Clancy’s training has made him a capable man for the position. Having completed a course in business administration in the business college of his native city, he began the long-course of preparation for the priesthood at St. Andrew’s Preparatory seminary, Rochester, New York. He registered as a sophomore at Notre Dame in 1915. In 1918 he entered St. Joseph’s novitiate and a year later was sent to Catholic university in Washington, D. C., where he studied theology and specialized in homiletics under the renowned Paulist, Father Walter Elliott. He was ordained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, in 1923.
The first assignment of the newly-ordained priest was soliciting funds for the Holy Cross foreign missions of Bengal, India. He met with immediate success in the diocese of Springfield, Massachusetts, and also in the diocese of Peoria, Illinois. In 1925 he served as assistant pastor of Sacred Heart church, New Orleans, Louisiana, and the next year was appointed pastor of a small church in Richwood, Wisconsin.
In 1927 obedience called Father Clancy to Austin, Texas, where he was secretary-treasurer of St. Ed-word’s university, and was also professor of English. While in Austin he organized the Mission band and found time to give retreats, missions, and Forty-hour devotions.
The next year found Father Clancy at Notre Dame, where he has been professor of religion since. When St. Edward’s hall was converted from the Minim department to a residence hall for university7 students, Father Clancy was appointed the first rector, and
while he ruled with a stern hand, he endeared himself to the students by7 his kindly7 interest in all scholastic and athletic activities.
Last year, during Lent, Father Clancy7 preached the entire series of
Rev. Raymond J. Clancy, C.S.C.
Lenten sermons to the students. This was the first time one priest ever undertook such a task at Notre Dame, but again Father Clancy’s work met with great success. Perhaps this was due at least in part to the special study of preaching which he made at Catholic university.
During his course of studies at the seminary, Father Clancy was a member of the literary and dramatic society and has performed before the footlights in several dramatic presentations. He has a rich baritone voice and was a member of the four-part choir in his seminary7 days. His favorite sports are baseball and hockey, and he has a fond remembrance of his days as a lacrosse and rugby7 player on the back lots of his home town. At present he is a member of the Knights of Columbus and is honorary president of the Rochester club.
It is the opinion of the students that Father Clancy will make the best of a very difficult position, and while the Off-Campus boys have a stem disciplinarian in him, they can be assured that he will do his best to make them happy and studious if they meet him half way.
Book Written By De La Vassiere, S.J.
The Reverend Sidney7 A. Raemers, instructor in philosophy7 at the University, has recently published a translation from the French of Educational Psychology, by Jules De La-Vassiere, S.J. This is the tenth book translated by Father Raemers and he is now working on the eleventh.
In reviewing the book Dr. Leo J. Kuntz, head of the Department of Education says:
Educational Psychology, by Jules De La Vassiere, S.J. is not just another text in educational psychology. The work possesses a number of valuable and distinctive features; . . . the subject matter is consistent with and developed according to Christian and Scholastic principles of philosophy, and . . . constitutes a thoroughly desirable contribution to the general field of educational psychology. The Catholic educational psychologist has long felt the want of a text which would present and interpret the problems of educational psychology7 from the viewpoint of scholastic philosophy.
“Another distinctive feature of this work is the inclusion in it of discussions pertaining to such interesting problems as: the origin and development of moral and religious concepts in the child; character, temperament and personality; education of the will; the teaching of the abnormal child; and co-education — problems of basic concern for the Christian teacher but especially7 so for those who are convinced that scholastic philosophy is a sound interpretation of human life.
“Not unlike most texts, certain short comings are discernible. Although frequent use is made of data derived from experiments made in this country, the European experimenter holds the more prominent place in this work despite the fact that the American investigator rec-ognizedly dominates this particular aspect of experimental education.
“The translator, S. A. Raemers, has performed a splendid task in making accessible to the English-speaking student the pleasing translation of De La Vassiere’s Educational Psychology.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
233
A Man About The Campus
Tim Benitz is one of the local boys that have made good at Notre Dame. He was graduated from South Bend High school in 1927 with the firm conviction that' far fields were not greener. As a result, in the next September, Tim “went away to college” by the simple process of jumping on a north bound street car, and enrolling at Notre Dame. However, it is quite inconceivable that he should have gone any place else. It was after his grandfather that Howard hall was named; his mother, a graduate of St. Mary’s college, is an active member of the Scholarship club; his father is none other than Professor William L. Benitz of the College of Engineering.
Tim has nobly upheld the Notre Dame tradition that runs in his family. He is at present the chairman of the Student Activities council,—a position demanding the maximum of energy and resourcefulness. Under his leadership, the S. A. C. has taken on new energy and initiative. The enormous project of silent cheering is Tim’s own brain-child. Using a plan of his own invention, he mapped out the intricate details of the formation, and supervised the organization of the cheering section. Of course silent cheering is only one of the many ills that the S. A. C. chairman is heir to. He eats, sleeps, and studies to a perpetual chorus of “Got any dope for the newspaper?”, “Can we organize a Squashville Center club?”, “What’s the price for the student trip?”, “When’s the next pep meeting?”, and “May I sit next to Joe So-and-so in the cheering section?” Tim is calm under it all, however, and keeps right on smoking his Camels. Last year, the S. A. C. sent him to represent Notre Dame at the Midwest Student Association conference at Atlanta, Georgia. Tim so distinguished himself as chairman of the opening session that he was elected vice-president of the Association for the present year.
His interests, however, are not confined solely to the S. A. C. Last year he contributed much to the success of the Junior Prom by his work as chairman of the decorations committee. He has been active for four years in the affairs of the Villagers club. His prominence in the Wrang
lers club can be judged by the excellent coaching of the Howard hall debating team, interhall debating champions of last year. For two years Tim has been a member’of the Spectators, and at present is secretary of that august body.
Timothy E. Benitz
The pressure of duty this year has forced Tim to change his residence from Sunnymede to Sorin, where he lives in one of those symmetrical bulges known as a “Tower room.” Measured in cubic inches this room is probably the largest on the campus, large enough in fact, to hold the entire S. A. C. and Blue Circle when occasion demands (and it often does demand). O’Donnell of Pittsburgh, known in newspaper circles as “The Week” shares this spacious room with Tim. They have both proved admirable interior decorators of a room graced by two chiffoniers, one honest-to-goodness bookcase, several bridge lamps, fifteen ash trays, four windows of multi-directioned exposures, two filing cabinets, and about nine chairs (reduced to seven when there’s a bridge session in the Touhy-Pender-gast room next door).
When he finds time, Tim indulges in his favorite hobby — bridge — and contract bridge at that. He is a wide reader, but especially favors the novels of Dickens and Conrad, the short stories of Wilburn Daniel Steele, and the essays of Christopher Morley.
300 COUPLES ATTEND
SOPHOMORE COTILLION
More than 300 couples at the Sophomore cotillion last Friday evening witnessed the culmination of the efforts of President Dailey, General Chairman James Clark, and their numerous committeemen.
Bill Donahue and his Drake hotel orchestra, while not quite coming up to expectations, played excellent dance music.
The programs, their embossed leather covers stamped with the seal of the University, pleased the guests. The Palais jRoyale ballroom was decorated with pennants and trophies—the first time that theme has ever been worked out for a school dance.
Not only was the dance an unqualified success, but the guests had an an enjoyable week-end. Saturday afternoon they attended the Notre Dame-Drake game, while in the evening many of them went to the dance sponsored by the Monogram club. Sunday morning a Mass, held in Morrissey hall chapel, was followed by a communion breakfast in the faculty dining hall.
“SCHOLASTIC” BUSINESS STAFF ADDS NEW MEN
Through the recommendations of the respective managers and Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, five men, having completed satisfactorily a try-out period of six weeks, have been appointed to the business staff of the Scholastic.
The new men placed on the circulation staff are: Alexander Japkie-wiez, Carroll hall; Joseph Simon, Brownson hall; and Walter Johnson, St. Edward’s hall.
The new men placed on local advertising are: Daniel E. Brennan, Jr., Howard hall, and J. Albert Smith, Brownson hall.
“In poetry,” says Tim, “I’m especially fond of Tennyson, and also some of the lighter poets, such as Baird Leonard. However, at the present, my reading has been confined to works concerning my major — sociology.” (Father Murray please note).
Tim doesn’t know about the future. He has considered a variety of lifetime occupations, but has not definitely made a choice. “I’ll wait for opportunity to knock,” he said. Just then somebody knocked on his door. It wasn’t Opportunity, however, but just a few campus “big shots” who buttonholed him, and brought our interview to an end.
234
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ALL-COLLEGE DANCE TO
BE HELD AT BUTLER U.
An all-school dance unique in Indiana intercollegiate society, will be held in Indianapolis, November 26, at the Hotel Antlers, when the Butler chapter of Sigma Delta Chi will give its annual “blanket hop.”
Held traditionally during the Thanksgiving vacation, the “blanket hop” is attended yearly by an increasingly large number of students from other colleges and universities of the mid-west who are in Indianapolis for the holiday. Notre Dame students are invited to attend.
Luke Walton’s original Curtiss Robins, a band that has played at dances on practically every mid-west campus, has been engaged. The main ballroom and main dining room of the Hotel Antlers have been contracted for the hop, which is expected to be one of the largest college dances of the season, according to Harlan V. Hadley, hop chairman.
DR. WYLAND TO ADDRESS BOY GUIDANCE MEN
Dr. Ray 0. Wyland, director of education of the Boy Scouts of America and a member of President Hoover’s White House Conference Committee on Child Welfare, will address the students in Boy Guidance and those students majoring in probation work in sociology on November 26. Dr. Wyland will speak on the findings and results of this committee that began its sessions Tuesday. The speaker is a well-known authority on his subject, and should prove interesting to his auditors.
LABOR PROBLEM CLASSES HEAR SPEAKERS
Seniors and juniors in labor problem classes in the College of Commerce have in the past few weeks been receiving practical knowledge of the matter that they have been studying only in theory. On November 15, Mr. Hugh Mulligan spoke to the students on “Work of the Labor Union.” Mr. Mulligan has been active in the labor union movement in Chicago for many years. At present he is international vice-president of the asbestos workers’ union.
Dean Konop Of the Law school spoke to the class on November 19 concerning the work of the Industrial commission in Wisconsin.	•
< BOOK REVIEW <
Introduction to Metaphysics, by Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and Daniel C. O’Grady. Macmillan.
Although it has been generally and reasonably stated that there is a profusion of text-books on the subjectmatter of philosophy, the need has long been felt for a small, yet comprehensive treatise on ontology, at least in the Catholic universities in this country. For this reason the recent, attractively bound publication of an introduction to Metaphysics is
JUNIOR DUES TO BE COLLECTED NEXT WEEK
Junior class dues are to be collected during the next week according to an announcement by Vincent Whelan, class treasurer. The men assigned to the various halls will be around at the beginning of the week.
Decembei- 5th has been given out as the last day for the payment of these dues. Only those whose dues have been paid by that date will be eligible to receive a class pin.
Due to a deficit on the football dance sponsored by the class on October 4, and the lack of money in the treasury, the campaign for dues has started early. President Cavanaugh announces that if the dues are not paid promptly the offenders will be denied the right to go to the junior prom.
❖-------------------------------*
I	I
| Academy of Science Notes
1	' I
-----------------------------4.
The Academy of Science held a meeting last Monday in room 108, Science hall. Louis W. Esposito read a paper on “The Development of Anesthesia” and Robert Gore gave a talk on the possibilities of inheriting acquired characteristics.
At the first open meeting held a week ago, Dr. MacDonald, Mishawaka specialist, talked on life in a medical school as he experienced it during his student days at Northwestern university.
welcomed by all professors and students of the subject. The work is the product of the co-operative efforts of the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady of the department of philosophy at Notre Dame.
One of the most difficult tasks of Neo-Scholastic writers is the reduction of technical Thomistic and'Aristotelian terminology to significant English. In overcoming this difficulty the authors of this work have succeeded admirably. Throughout, the argument is presented so clearly and simply that even the student unfamiliar with the language of the schoolmen can follow with considerable facility. Each chapter is generously supplied with references, not only to scholastic sources, but also to the works of the modern thinkers of alien affiliation. With a view to the practical aspects of the subject matter, the volume contains a wealth of discussion topics, all intended to familiarize the reader with the applicability of the principles of “First Philosophy” to the other departments of the same field, to the sciences, and to life. Many of the more abstruse topics are wisely avoided since they have been known to serve as little more than a source of confusion for the average upperclassman, whose main interest usually lies in domains other than the philosophical.
It is to be hoped that the purpose of the present movement in the department of philosophy at Notre Dame to publish a complete series of philosophical texts adapted to the needs of the classroom will be shortly realized. Already there are four works in book form: Logic, by the Reverend Thomas Crumley, C.S.C.; The Philosophy of Value, by the Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.; The Elements of Ethics, by the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and The Ethics of International Lazu, by William Roemer, Ph.D. The Reverend Sidney Raemers of the same department, has already published a translation of de la Vasierre’s Educational Psychology. It seems singularly appropriate that such a series should come from the pens of the professors of the largest department of scholastic philosophy in the country.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
235
Campus Opinions
Question : “Would you like to see a more active University theater at Notre Dame?
harley McDevitt to leave notre dame
FOR ADVERTISING POSITION IN EAST
Has Been Graduate Manager of Publications For Two Years
Louis L. Hasley, St. Edward’s hall, senior—“An active University theater is as important as any cultural activity which a university can foster. The ideal would be to really afford an opportunity for the production, by students, of plays written by students, as was originally intended, as well as the production of plays of recognized repute. I should like to see the establishment of a school of dramatics which could handle such a program efficiently and provide, as do other large universities, courses in the writing, acting, and production of plays.”
John C. Litcher, Walsh hall, junior—“I am of the opinion that a more active University theater would create more of an interest in this type of work among the students. At present the University theatei- is barely existing, and when a show is presented it is only supported by a minority of the students.
Louis W. Esposito, Walsh hall, senior, and treasurer of the S. A. C.— “Certainly! The dramatic productions given by the University theater in past years, though few in number, have been outstanding successes. The students have evidenced a keen appreciation for such plays as “Journey’s End” and “The Taming of the Shrew” and look forward to enjoying many more brilliant performances. Inasmuch as the University theater is probably the best medium both for fostering student theatrical ability and for developing non-participants’ evaluation of art, it should be more active.”
Edmond W. Sheeran, Walsh hall, senior—“Notre Dame’s greatest shortcoming in campus activity work is most prominently manifested in the lack of an active University theater. The efforts of those interested in drama are confined to one short season during which an inadequate number of plays are offered. In the past the students have displayed their in-
Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications at Notre Dame since his graduation from the University in June, 1929, will end his work here on November 25. Mr. McDevitt has accepted an offer from the
Harley L. McDevitt
Conde-Nast Publications, Inc., of New York City, and will assume his new position there on December 1st. He will be the fourth graduate of Notre Dame whose experience on the campus publications has resulted in a position on the staff of an important publishing firm. Preceding him in the past few years were Franklyn Doan, Dome editor in 1927-28, who is now with Collier's; Walter Layne, editor of the 1927-28 Juggler, now manag
terest in the meager activities of the University theater—give them more cultural recreation and they will support it. Students and active participants would secure invaluable benefits by the presentation of more drama through a more active University theater.”	•
Joseph Blaney, Sorin hall, senior —“Yes, I believe that with the proper supervision and selection of plays the University could become proficient in this field of college activity. It would enable Notre Dame to come before the public in another light.” .
ing editor of one of the McFadden publications, and Lester Grady, also a Juggler editor, and at present the editor of Film Fun. ’
Mr. McDevitt’s work on the school publications while still an undergraduate provided ample preparation for the duties of the office he has held for two years. During his four years here as a student he was associated with the Dame, the Juggler, and the Scholastic in various business capacities. He was business manager of the Scholastic during the editorships of John Mullen and John V. Hinkle. He has the unusual distinction of being the only man to ever hold this position for two consecutive years.
The system whereby a graduate manages the business of a university’s publications is a new one. Princeton and Illinois universities have it, and the success it met at these schools prompted its adoption at Notre Dame. Since Mr. McDevitt began his work, the advertising in the Scholastic has increased thirty-five percent. There has also been a corresponding increase in circulation arising from active soliciting and the improved quality of the magazine. The Juggler and the Dome have been equally benefited by the work he has done in their behalf. Besides performing his business duties, Mr. McDevitt has also co-operated with the editorial staffs of the magazines and has given them assistance which his past experience has made valuable.
KARL DANE AND ARTHUR VISIT CAMPUS
George K. Arthur and Karl Dane, famous movie duo and vaudeville stars, were visitors on the campus last Tuesday afternoon. They were impressed by the Notre Dame campus and expressed their pleasure at being allowed to witness the practice of the Notre Dame varsity football team.
Arthur and Dane stated that they would be present at the Southern California game December 6. While in South Bend they played at the Palace theatre.
236
The Notre Dame Scholastic
« Glances at the Magazines »
(More or less hurried glances.)
Mr. Dempsey’s new Juggler is on the stand (see Bill Kirby) and is worthy your purchase. This year’s Jugglers have unusually good covers, we think. And for once we can rightly judge the book by the cover. The Juggler is nationally recognized as one of the best of the college comic magazines. And the Funny Fellow himself has quite a reputation as a humorist.
The Readers Digest, criticized as being only current literature in pill form, is nevertheless of value to those hurried ones who have not time to extend their reading to any length, and to those impecunious ones (our number is legion) who by stress of fortune can’t just rush home with all the latest issues. The Digest offers thirty-four articles from as many publications : “An article a day from leading magazines, in condensed, permanent booklet form.” It certainly offers an extensive survey of the magazine field.
Brother Leo’s book comment in Columbia is always interesting and informative.
Collier’s this week contains Mr. Rockne’s story of George Gipp, the greatest of Notre Dame’s football players, whose deeds are an inspiring legend. And next week Mr. Rockne will state his views of the new football regulations which have aimed to slow up the forward passing game, the shift, etc.
Mr. Rockne is not the only one recording the deeds of the Four Horsemen. One of that famous quartet is himself relating their exploits in a series of articles in the Pittsburgh Catholic. The author is Elmer Layden.
,	The Saturday Reviezv of Literature
appears weekly and is the most popular of the reviews. Its editor is Henry
i	Seidel Canby. Christopher Morley
?	writes “The Bowling Green,” and Wil’	liam Rose Benet, “Round About Par-
•'	nassus.”
Il
'	There is numerous mention in the
J	magazines of The Treasurer’s Report,
“	a new hook by that devilish fellow,
»	Robert Benchley. Treasurer’s Report,
>	of course, is mainly a collection of
*
s, s t r
S	•
Benchley’s articles from various magazines.
The November issue of the American Golfer affords an interesting account of the past golfing season with special features by prominent golfers, notably 0. B. Keeler, Glenna Collet, and the grand master himself, Bobby Jones. There are excellent photographic studies of golfing form. The editor is Grantland Rice.
Commonweal is our favorite of the weeklies. Though we intend to say more of it again, we mention that it is required reading in many colleges.
Bill Kirby is quite proud of having on his news stand in the cafeteria Mr. Chesterton’s own publication, G. K.’s Weekly. In the light of the intimate glimpses into the editor’s personality afforded in the past few weeks to students at Notre Dame, Mr. Kirby should have no difficulty in selling the few available copies. The magazine sells for sixpence, which does not equal six cents, as you will learn.
G. K.’s Weekly is a remarkable journal. As the personal organ of one of the most brilliant Englishmen of letters, it is bound to be interesting. The editor’s personality is well reflected in its pages. There is agile, substantial thought, sharp wit, rare humor. The editorial comment is keen and well considered. Such men as Walter De La Mare, Hilaire Belloc, Compton Mackenzie, and Theodore Maynard have contributed to the high ■ standard of the weekly.
The department especially written by Mr. Chesterton is “Straws in the Wind,” which was known in the first issues as “Found Wandering.” These short personal essays deal with any number of different subjects.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO MEET MONDAY EVENING
The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, will be held Monday evening at 7:45 in the Walsh hall council chambers. Grand Knight Louis Buckley will conduct the meeting.
Lecturer William O’Malley has promised that there will be a very-interesting speaker and entertainment and urges as many of the knights to attend as possible.
STADIUM USHERS WILL BE HONORED AT BANQUET
The Notre Dame Athletic Association will play host to the ushers of the stadium at a banquet in the University dining hall some time next month in appreciation of the splendid work done by the ushers at the various football games held in the new stadium. Daniel D. Halpin, football manager, is in charge of the affair.
Much favorable praise has been manifested by the spectators at the various games for the efficient manner in which people were seated and crowds handled at the games. The ushers in their first year- were well organized and did very efficient work. The Ushers club will be retained by the University next year. John F. Saunders, senior football manager, was in charge of the stadium and was ably assisted by junior managers Charles Weiss and Charles Spangenburg and a corps of sophomore and freshman managers.
NEW LIBRARY REQUESTS UNIVERSITY CATALOG
The University has received a request from the Museum of Science and Industry of Chicago for a copy of the general catalog, to assist them in the formation of a special library which has recently been started. The library will contain works dealing with applied science, industry, economics, and sociology. Its purpose will be not only to trace the evolution of industry from its earliest beginnings, but also to stress the social and cultural influences of discovery and invention. The library was founded by Julius Rosenwald and will be free to the public.
EXAMS IN CHESTERTON LECTURES GIVEN
Examinations for credit in the lectures on literature of the Victorian period, given by Gilbert Keith Chesterton, were held last Monday afternoon, November 17, in the two library basements and in the Main building. Credit examinations in the history lectures were held Tuesday afternoon, November 18, in the library classrooms.
Grades will be issued as soon as possible and will be included in the report made to students and parents in February. Those who failed to report for the examination will be marked “failed on account of cuts.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
237
NOTRE DAME RADIO FANS HEAR MARGARET ANGLIN IN CLASSIC GREEK DRAMA
A large number of Notre Dame students and members of the faculty enjoyed a radio treat of special interest to them last Friday afternoon when Margaret Anglin, celebrated classic actress and Laetare medallist, gave a presentation of Euripides’ “Iphigenia in Aulis” under the auspices of the Radio guild of New York. The production took a full hour, and with chorals and incidental music by Walter Damrosch, director of the New York Symphony orchestra, was one of the most complete and successful dramatic programs yet given on the air. Miss Anglin’s famous voice was at its best, her impersonation of the tragic daughter of Agamemnon coming over the air with exalting power.
The Radio guild announces a weekly drama hour of this kind every Friday at 3:00 p. m. This week Julius Caesar will be presented, the following week Jane Cowl, who is now performing in New York will be heard.
Notre Dame radio patrons are hoping for later* performances by Miss Anglin of her Greek classic repertoire, which includes Sophocles’ “Antigone” and “Electra,” and the “Medea” of Euripedes.
REGULATIONS FOR TRIP
TO N. U. GAME ARE
ANNOUNCED
Regulations governing student attendance at the Northwestern game to be held in Evanston the week-end of November 22 have been issued from the office of the prefect of discipline. Students wishing to attend this game may do so provided the following restrictions are followed:
1.	Seniors and juniors and all student whose homes are in Chicago (members and associate members of the Chicago club) may receive one of their regular week-end permissions. No other week-end permissions will be given.
2.	Those not entitled to a week-end permission may go to Evanston on the morning of the game, but must leave Chicago not later than midnight of the same day.
3.	Letters from parents or guardians authorizing such trips or weekends must be sent directly to hall rectors. Permissions by telegraph or telephone will not be honored.
4.	Auto excursions are strictly prohibited.
« Music And Drama »
Recently we listened in on the second act of Tannhaeuser broadcast from the Chicago Civic Opera, and a truly grand performance it was. The act opens, as you know, with Elizabeth’s rapturous “Hail, Hall of Song,” followed by the love scene between Elizabeth and Tannhaeuser. The aria was beautifully sung by Lotte Lehman who was rewarded with the polite applause usual, we are told, among the sedate Chicagoans. We had anticipated the next scene, the processional march of the minstrels and courtiers, and we were satisfied beyond all hopes. The women’s chorus in this familiar music was especially thrilling and effective. After Wolfram’s song* on pure love came Tann-haeuser’s dramatic but blasphemous “Praise of Venus,” the climax of the opera. The depth and variety of expression in Paul Althouse’s voice was the finest we have ever heard over the radio. By this time the hour was gone, and the broadcast came to an end on the stormy scene following the aria. But it was a glorious hour, and one we shall remember for some time. Judging from the excel-
THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY REGULATIONS ANNOUNCED
Regulations in order over the Thanksgiving holidays and the weekend of the Army game, November 29 are:
1.	Students going home for the Thanksgiving holidays may leave after their last class on Wednesday, November 26.
2.	Students not going home must have due authorization by letter direct to their hall rector, specifying where they may go and where they are to stay. ■
3.	Students are not permitted to stay in hotels unless they ate with some member of their immediate family.
4.	Each student must return to his place of residence not later than midnight of Sunday, November 30.
5.	All violations of these regulations will be punished under the rule of the Undergraduate manual: “Unauthorized absence from place of residence,” Sec. 3 paragraph b, page 24.
lence of this broadcast, we may expect a great deal from the ones to follow throughout the winter. The restriction of radios recently inflicted upon us makes it even more difficult than before to hear good music upon the campus, but those fortunate enough to be near a radio on Saturday evenings should tune in on WIBO at nine for an enjoyable hour.
Tannhaeuser belongs to that period of composition in Wagner’s life before he turned from the standard opera form to the music drama. Its popularity may be attributed to the fact that it tells not of gods and goddesses but of men and women and their most universal weakness. Then, too, the music is such as appeals to everybody. “The Pilgrims’ Chorus” is indicative of the truly Christian spirit and is as sublime as much of the Mass music of the Church. At the other extreme is the “Praise of Venus,” typifying in every note the purely pagan idea of sensual love.
For the Thanksgiving week-end plan on taking your parents to see “Sweet Adeline” at the Illinois. They will enjoy it even more thoroughly than you will, for the “gay nineties” may seem not so long ago to them. Helen Morgan is great singing the fine music of Jerome Kern, composer of “Show Boat.”
We listened in recently on the broadcast of the “Iphigenia in Aulis” of Euripides, starring the great American actress, Margaret Anglin. This was the first of a number of classic dramas to be transmitted over the air each week. Ibsen’s “The Doll’s House” and Sheridan’s “The School for Scandal” are among those to be heard with the following players in the casts: Jane Cowl, Basil Rathbone, Tom Powers, Eva Le Gallienne, and Rollo Peters. Incidental music for the plays will be furnished by Walter Damrosch and his orchestra. Once again must we regret the scarcity of radios on the campus, but here is a chance for the University to greatly add to the educational value of the literature and drama courses now being given. We sincerely hope that these programs will not be “perfume wasted on the desert air.”
238
The Notre Dame Scholastic
JOHNSON, KEARNS, AND WILLIAMS ADDED TO
“SCHOLASTIC” STAFF
• Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, announces that Walter Johnson, sophomore, and James Kearns, freshman, have been added to the staff of the Scholastic through the recommendations of Neil- Hurley, news editor, and John Kiener, sports editor, who said that the two men have done excellent work during their probationary period. Johnson is on the news staff and Kearns on the sports staff.
Editor Telfel further announces that Daniel C. Williams, in recognition of the fine work he has done in the past substituting for the regular conductors of “The Week” and “The Wink” pages, will write the “Man About The Campus” column beginning with this issue. Williams takes • the place of Austin Boyle, whose duties as script editor have forced him to relinquish the column.
TRYOUTS FOR DEBATING TEAM BEGIN NOV. 23
The Reverend F. J. Boland, C.S.C., announces that the first tryouts for the varsity debating teams will begin Sunday evening, November 23, and will continue each evening through the week. The seventy or so applicants who reported at the first meeting about two weeks ago have been assigned in groups of ten, each group to go through several eliminations before the final selection. A ten minute speech, without rebuttal, will be required of all candidates. Applicants for the. team will be informed during the week as to their division and the time and place of their tryouts.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
CLUB HOLDS MEETING
The Physical Education club started activities for the current year with a banquet last Tuesday evening at the Green Parrot tea room.
Short talks were made by President James Griffin, Mr. William T. Master-son, head of the department of physical education, Mr. John A. Scannell of the physical education department, Mr. John J. Connelly of the philosophy department, and the Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline. Mr. William Coyne of the department of speech was toastmaster for the evening.
CHICAGO ALUMNI CLUB TO HOLD
BANQUET AND DANCE NOV. 28 & 29
Many Famous Guests Will be Present at The Two Affairs
During the Thanksgiving recess the Notre Dame club of Chicago is sponsoring two social affairs. An informal dinner will be given at the Lake Shore Athletic club on Friday evening, November 28, at 6:30, and a formal dance will be held on the following night at the Congress hotel.
The Army ball will be staged in the Gold room and Balloon room of the Congress on Saturday evening, November 29. Music for the dance will be furnished by Tom Gerun and his Brunswick orchestra and by Victor Young’s Maytag band which will also give a concert during the intermission. Dancing will begin at 10:00 p. m.
Hosts and hostesses for the affair will be: the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, Monsignor Thomas V. Shannon, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest R. Graham, Mr. and Mrs. Edward N. Hurley, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Insull, Mr. and Mrs. Marcus A. Kavanaugh, Mr. and Mrs. D. F. Kelley, Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Kelley, Mr. and Mrs. Wilhelm Middleschulte, Mr. and Mrs. Knute K. Rockne, Mr. and Mrs. Kickham Scanlan, Mr. and Mrs. Frank T. Fitzsimmons, and Dr. Richard J. Tivnen.
Richard L. Halpin of the class of
PRESS CLUB HEARS JUDGE
WILLIAM CAIN
Judge William M. Cain addressed the third meeting of the Press club last night in the lay faculty dining room. Judge Cain, erstwhile journalist, gave a very interesting talk on his early life in Lee, Nebraska, where he began and ended his short career in the journalistic profession. He related to the members of the club some of his experiences while engaged in politics. At present the judge is professor of law in the University.
Short talks were made by Mr. George Jackoboice, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters majoring in journalism, and Dr. John Cooney,
1927 is chairman of the dance committee.
The dinner has been arranged to celebrate eighteen years of relations between the United States Military academy and Notre Dame, as well as to pay respects to all Notre Dame’s 1930 opponents. Alumni from each of the 1930 opponents as well as representatives from all the large Notre Dame alumni clubs will be present.
Honored guests will include the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. president of the University; Major General William R. Smith, superintendent of the United States Military academy, and Colonel Sherburne Whipple, Adjutant of the United States Military academy, as well as coaches from all the schools who are on Notre Dame’s 1930 schedule and representatives of prominent newspapers. John B. Kanaley of the class of 1909 will act as toastmaster.
Reservations for the dance are being taken and tickets are being sold on the campus. The dance will be limited to 500 couples. Reservations for the dinner must be sent to Chicago. The price of the tickets for both affairs is $4.00.
Official headquarters for Notre Dame during the week-end will be at the Congress hotel.
dean of the Department of Journalism. Mr. John Sheehan was toastmaster for the evening. Later he was elected to the vacated office of vice-president.
President Robert Balfe presided and current business was discussed. Members signified their approval for the adoption of a club watch charm and the president appointed a committee.
QmaiiiinimiitiiiiiiuiiitiiiiiiiiinmiiitittuntuuninuinuQ
1 NOTICE!
= Proofs of Dome photographs i E may be secured in the K. of C. 1 i room in the basement of Walsh 1 | hall. Students are requested to = : make their choice and return j | the proofs as soon as possible. =
The Notre Dame Scholastic
239
CAMPLr CLUDJ
Goal of many a Notre Dame man and many another on the Friday evening before the Army game will be the Pompein and Gold rooms of the Congress hotel where the CHICAGO club is holdings its informal dance. Present, according to Chairman Walter Kelly, will be Art Kassel and his orchestra, WIBO broadcasting stars, and Herbie Mintz and his Merrymakers.
As guests and special entertainers will be Ted Lewis, nationally famous orchestra leader; Helen Morgan, now starring in “Sweet Adeline”; Ann Cardy, leading lady in “Sons-o’-Guns”; Harold “Shorty” Fall, premier radio announcer and entertainer.
The dance will be strictly invitational. Those who plan to attend must get their tickets from General Chairman Kelly at 259 Badin hall.
—o—
The WABASH VALLEY club held a banquet last Wednesday evening, November 19, at Morningside. There were a few brief talks after the meal.
—o—
On Monday evening, November 17, the EDUCATIONAL CONFRATERNITY met in the Journalism room of the library to hear a talk by Mr. Seymour on “State Requirements for Teachers of Secondary Schools.”
—o—
At its second meeting of the year on October 26, the AUBURN club chose James Mulvaney as chairman of its Christmas dance. Mr. Mulvaney held the same position last year, and on account of his good work was unanimously elected this year. The dance will be held on Thursday, December 25, in the Pompeian room of the Osborne hotel.
Mi-. Mulvaney appointed the committee chairmen at a meeting of the club on November 9. They are: Philip Conboy, invitations; Frederick Lower, programs; Richard Donaghue, reception; Francis Donaghue, publicity; Walter Sullivan, floor; George Shamon, tickets; Al Stewart, music; and George May wait, decorations.
—o—
The LA RAZA club held a special meeting on October 31 to-elect a new vice-president in place of Ralph Garza who did not return this year. Elected was Alfred Canepa. In a brief talk he thanked the members of the club and promised to do his best during the year to make the club one of the best on the campus.
Following the election, President William Murphy appointed Marcelius Garza to be chairman of a banquet that the club will hold shortly before Christmas. Edward Roxas and Julius Arce were chosen to have charge of the annual banquet for new members.
Club members considered a design for a club monogram but decided nothing definite.
—o—
At its regular- meeting on November 3, the ROCHESTER club decided to have a Christmas dance, an affair handled in former years by the Rochester alumni. At a special meeting on November 8 members decided the
place, the time, the orchestra, and the man in charge. These are the Sagamore hotel, December 29, Hughie Barrett’s orchestra, and Mr. Martin Dowling.
The ROCHESTER club held its first banquet of the year on October 19. President Howard Maloney introduced as speakers the Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., ROCHESTER club honorary president, Professor Moran, and Professor Daniel O’Grady.
The METROPOLITAN club held a meeting on Tuesday evening, November 18, in the north basement of the library. Principal attractions were speakers and a magician.
—o—
On Tuesday evening, November 4, the members of the SPANISH club heard the Reverend Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., well known authority on painting. Father Gregory spoke of his last trip to Europe, of all the countries that he visited, and of Spain in particular. He told the members of the architecture and painting in all the principal Spanish cities and of the customs of the Spanish people.
—o—
At the last meeting of the CONNECTICUT VALLEY club President Dan Halpin announced the arrangements for the club’s annual Christmas dance. It will be held at the Hotel Bond in Hartford, Connecticut, on Monday, December 29. In charge is Vincent E. Turley. Under him are the following committee chairmen: William Fla-haven, favors; Francis D’Muhala, invitations; John Conroy, publicity; Richard Lacy, reception; Frank Murnane, programs; Everett Noble, floor; Robert Halpin, arrangements; Gerald Andres, alumni; Roger McGovern, tickets; John Carney, patrons.
The CONNECTICUT VALLEY club will hold a special meeting on next Monday, November 24.
At its last two meetings the FRENCH club has had as speakers Club Secretary Fred MacBeth and Jules de la Vergne.
—o—
Members of the ITALIAN club may expect to hear-talks sometime in the near future by the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and Cavaliere Antonio D’Arceie Carbona, an Italian nobleman and member of the diplomatic corps, who is now on a lecture tour of the United States, it was announced at the last meeting.
Other business of the meeting was the appointment of a board of recorders: Carlo Spangenberg, chairman; Francesco Oelerich, and Giovanni Geddes. In the hands of these men will be the editing and publishing of the club weekly, Il Circolo, and the handling of all club publicity.
President Bontempo announced an invitation committee. On it are: Lugi Esposito, chairman, Guglielmo Gosselin and Giueppe Munizzo, who will secure prominent men to address the club at future meetings on subjects dealing with Italy.
240
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CCLLEGE IAIAIE
Wait Till Joe Yoch Sees This!
The Indiana Daily Student prints a challenege that might well have come from Dr. Samuel Johnson. It is from the medical students to the lawyers, and runs:
“It is well known to all high-minded and right-thinking gentlemen that there infests the environs of Maxwell hall a loathsome, degenerate band of thieves, a cantankerous horde of sign-painting, spittle licking, travesties on humanity; and whereas:
“Not content to render hideous the campus by their manifold and obscene stenches, the purulent and miasmatic exhalation of their foul and decomposing minds, these Laws have with their depraved and contumacious audacity seen fit to mar the beauty and majesty of the time-honored citadel of the pure and noble benefactors of humanity—the lofty and magnanimous Medics: the currish, yapping and most imbecilic drool and drivel have drawn upon their podocephalous and microcephalic crania the righteous wrath and godly condemnation of the resplendent disciples of the great Galen, Hippocrates and Asclepiades . . . .” And again: “. . . . this vile, corrupt and thieving horde of grafting, pettifogging, jury-fixing, perjuring, ambulance chasing, legal degenerates .... Shyster followers of Blackstone . . . .” Aw—that should be enough.
—o—
Raineses IV No Make Good Medicine.
Fordham lost to St. Mary’s because the new goat mascot didn’t know his stuff. Barneses III was a good mascot until a pack of dogs encountered him on the Fordham campus and questioned the right of his Highness to rule. Barneses IV didn’t quite come up to the high standard set for him, and is now a black sheep on the campus. {Editor’s Note: How in blank-blank can a goat become a sheep?) {Author's Note: You would be technical.)
Who Signed You Out Last Night?
University of Chicago students are to be employed to test a “lie detector” which, if successful, will probably be used against students who are suspected of cheating in examinations. And still they tell us that it means nothing to anyone but ourselves whether we cheat or not.
—o—
State! Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, State!
Unlike other schools, North Carolina State goes in for indoor rather than outdoor sports. The sport which meets with the greatest favor is cheating. A student at the state college was asked to withdraw after publishing a newspaper article accusing his fellow students of dishonesty. He was brought before the “Board,” some of the members of which agreed with the young man. Nevertheless, he was suspended for a period of two years.
—o—
Chick Meehan Talks a la Rockne.
“Fordham will win over N. Y. U., 7-0,” said the Fordham coach. N. Y. U. didn’t believe him. They lost, 7-0. The N. Y. U. paper explains: “Chick pulled a-Bockne, but N.'Y. U. didn’t pull a Notre Dame.” Now isn’t that just too cute?	..
Ed. Note: When Does He Eat?
The Minnesota Daily claims that the average student comes to college 5,700 hours a year and sleeps 2,160 of them. That leaves, I suppose, 648 hours for class, 1,446 for full sessions, 723 for the Olivei- mezzanine, 700 for the LaSalle mezzanine, and 23 for study.
But Why the First Commandment?
Dr. Cornell of Northwestern university gives you all ten commandments on “How to Choose a 'Wife”. The future spouse should be:
1.	Healthy enough to run 100 yards in Jess than 13 seconds.
2.	Devoid of jealousy.
3.	Thirfty.
4.	College educated.
5.	Possessed of tact, good taste in dress, home management.
6.	Ability to entertain.
7.	Willing to be a mother.
8.	Capable of acting as home secretary.
9.	Willing to allow her husband to attend meetings and conferences at any time.
10.	Attractive in appearance and “smart enough to maintain her good looks.”
Well, well, and well again. But is polygamy allowed in these United States?
Figure This Out For Yourself.
Professor Kilpatrick of Columbia university says that college students are less cynical now than they were a generation ago. Will someone please give this to the editor-in-chief and tell him he is a generation behind the times? {Editor’s Note: Take a look at your weekly copy after the editor is through with it—then you’ll know why he’s cynical.)
—o—
Take It or Leave It —-Colorado Again.
At the University of Colorado freshmen are told to paint on their trousers “Beat so and so” just before the “big” game. After reading the thousands of ads in college papers all over the country advertising a new kind of snappy corduroy trousers which defy all the laws of nature and all the whims of mankind to be “busted,” I see why business is good. Colorado, by the way, thinks that athletically she rates with the best in the country, or did last week, because she beat Missouri. {Editor’s Note: Pardon the polite sneer.)
—o—	'
Go West, Young Man — Go West!
At Kansas they have what is known as a “Gripe committee” to take care of every “gripe” the undergraduate might possibly conceive of. I must add that it hasn’t been in long, and that it is a committee, not one man
The Notre Dame Scholastic
241
♦ THE WINE ♦
QUICK WINKS
Charlie Butterworth, the Villager who made good in all the big cities, purveying horse-sense to the home folks at the Granada a few weeks ago . . . Dan Williams wondering when they’ll put tin cups under the “Please” signs . . . The Juggler’s Football Number . . . No two-in-one jokes this time . . . Grantland Rice, John Kieran, and Warren Brown on the football team . . . This column receiving a contribution copied from an issue of Judge the Bard remembers seeing seven or eight weeks ago . . . We’re not that hard to break into . . . So try to make the stuff original, at least . . . “Sarge” Raleigh complaining that he’s the only nice fellow left in his hall . . . The big smoothie . . . Our Dome proofs . . . Too bad we can’t print them and make this look like Ted Cook’s column . . . The new supervisor in the east dining hall . . . He’s a little slow on his feet . . . Only three laps to the meal . . . The razzle-dazzle name we finally selected . . . Now there’ll be another contest to find out what it means.
—o—
SOLACE
Brush the ashes from the hearth, lad, The old fire is done.
Lift up thy head—eyes adare, lad, Kindle thou a new one.
Brood not on the quips of fate, lad, Thine is the power to rise, Thine the clear vision and brave hope, lad, Thine a brighter enterprise.
This God’s wise gift of soul, my lad, '	Let nothing it dismay.
Let the bitter heart be quenched, my lad, Look to the dawning day.
.	—Rumjahn.
—o—
Ta, tata ta, ta tah! With a pardonable gesture of i flustered pride, the “Wink” hereby presents to the old school the results of two weeks’ intensive probing of the inner secrets of a sophomore’s soul. Gentlemen, we have attempted nothing less than to worm out the honest opinions of five sophomores on the cotillion. We’re a week late for three reasons. In the first place, our fact-finding commission bummed carfare to go downtown last Monday ' night and gather material in the aisles of the five-and-ten stores, and has failed to report. In fact, he has not been heard of since. We think he was stepped on by a stout woman looking for a checkered apron and something inexpensive in neckties for Junior, please. In the second place, we thought there would be an issue of the Scholastic last week, and were agreeably surprised when there । was not. And in the third place, we could get only three honest opinions from sophomores, and had to put our ear to the ground on the quadrangle with the rest of the squirrels and sound out senior and freshman sentiment on the matter. Gentlemen, we present:
CAMPUSED OPINIONS
Question: “Why didn’t you go to the cotillion?”
Hubert L. Gillglouter, Morrissey hall, sophomore— “A few words will suffice to answer the carping critics who have so far forgotten themselves as to question the integrity of those who object conscientiously to customs to which a short time since no sufficient argument could be brought at, for—I mean against. I insist that just so long as transparent, theatric, and insincere charlatans threaten the corner-stone of liberty, just so long as tyranny, injustice, and extortion raise their ugly heads and leer at the foundations of fair play, just so long as unscrupulous, heartless, and hypocritical imposters twine their slimy tentacles about our most cherished institutions, just so long—well, so long. No, I wasn’t appointed to a cotillion committee.”
Bernard I. Beerscuttle, Corby hall, sophomore— “Notre Dame by five touchdowns! J’see me’n Charlie Blimer at the South Bend inn last Saturday night? Boy, were we drunk. Get on Plumbago Fly in the seventh at Latonia tomorrow. She can’t lose.” '
James Snockworthy, Sorin hall, senior, and vicepresident of the Sidline Coachers’ club—“I had it fixed up with the guy who roomed next door to the guy that rooms vith the fellow who comes from the same town as a guy on the program committee to get me a ticket. But I dunno, somp’n went wrong somewhere.”
Jerry Berling, Walsh hall, sophomore—“For two reasons. The first was no dough. I’ll think up the other one by next week.”
Roscoe R. Dripp, Brownson hall, freshman—“Aw, rats!”
APOLOGIES TO TEXAS G.
In days of old when lords were bold And fought with greatest pleasure, They found at times the need far rhymes Digested, with their food, at leisure.
But ivhen a minstrel daring grew
And ’gainst a noble ’gan to holler The sire straightway heaved him up And got the wretch an iron collar,
And had him hustled to the smith,
His knightly ire quite out of hand, And to that villain gave harsh arder— “Give this churl a great big band!”
—Armbo.
And thus comes to an end our first essay into fearless journalism. Perhaps next week we shall publish the answers to the questions we are going to ask the co-eds out at Evanston tomorrow night—“Wasn’t it just loads of fun for you and the fraternity boys to be collegiate for a whole week after you won the Big Ten title and get all the bonfires burned before you met Notre Dame?”
—The Beamy Bard.
242
The Notre Dame Scholastic
EDITED’/ DACE
THE HURLEY DONATION
This issue of the Scholastic carries a story of Mr. Edward N. Hurley’s donation of $200,000 for the erection of a new college of commerce building. Such a gift requires more than a mere explanation of the facts surrounding it.
Mr. Hurley’s generous endowment conies at a most opportune time. For years University officials have been planning for a greater Notre Dame, having realized for a long time the need for expansion due to the ever-increasing number of students coming to Notre Dame every year. Despite the financial investment involved, the University has gone ahead with plans to accommodate a greater student body, especially in the College of Commerce, where a growing enrollment demanded a more adequate building. Mr. Hurley’s gift greatly lightens the financial burden entailed by the plans of the administration; and is furthermore the first endowment since the founding of Notre Dame that will completely provide for the erection of a building.
This magnificent donation by one of the most distinguished business men in the United States shows that the work of the University in training . young men for their future life’s work has received nation-wide notice, and that “Notre Dame is justly regarded as one of the leading universities of America,” to quote Mr. Hurley’s words. Himself a business man whose ability and integrity have been recognized and honored by both the United States and foreign governments, Mr. Hurley realizes the need for a college of commerce that will train its students not only in the fundamentals of business, but in ethical business practices. His letter says: “I hope that young men from this school will blaze the trail of modern and equitable business methods . . . .” Such an ideal has always been one of the aims of Catholic education.
The University will not forget Mr. Hurley’s gift. It is fitting and proper that the building it will provide for is to be named the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. That will express, in a small way, the gratitude of administration, faculty and students.
HARLEY L. McDEVITT
The Publications office will not seem the same after next Tuesday. Harley L. McDevitt is resigning his position as graduate manager of publications to accept a position with the Conde Nast Publications in New York. The loss of the four Notre Dame publications is the gain of the Conde Nast people. McDevitt, in his two years as graduate manager, has shown a talent for the business end of publishing which should and undoubtedly will insure him success in his new position.
Under McDevitt’s management the advertising income and the circulation of the Scholastic have increased over one-third. The Juggler and the Dome have prospered correspondingly. For that reason we are sorry to see him go, but chiefly because his genial personality and willingness to help and co-operate will be missed. He has made many friends at Notre Dame. The Scholastic, as one of them, heartily joins in to congratulate him and wish him success.
A PUZZLING SITUATION
Last week the Scholastic was informed that the band would parade at the half during the Drake game. Instead, two miniature football teams played an interesting little game between the halves. The Scholastic does not know the reason for the change. Possibly it was a good one.
Tomorrow our musicians will parade at the Northwestern game; the Scholastic carries an article about the new and colorful formations they will use. It seems rather puzzling and unfair that the students were denied the pleasure of watching the band parade between the halves of home games. The motto of those responsible for this puzzling situation seems to be, “If speech is silver, then silence is brassy.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
243
♦ SPOUTS ♦
TWO UNDEFEATED TEAMS TO MEET
Notre Dame and Northwestern Both Own Perfect Records
On Eve of Battle
AFTER tomorrow there’s going to be only one undefeated team in the middle-west. And inasmuch as the game tomorrow is North-I	western’s last on the present schedule
‘	the Wildcats are going to be out gun-
ning for theii’ eighth straight win at the expense of our Fighting Irish because the mythical national title hangs in the balance.
Mr. Knute K. Rockne, the wily • Notre Dame mentor, hopes to see his boys take all such thoughts out of the minds of the Dyche stadium boys tomorrow afternoon when they administer a plentiful dose of the Rockmen onslaught.
Although handicapped somewhat by the loss of Jumpin’ Joe Savoldi, Notre Dame is going into the game with odds favoring them. That doesn’t mean the game is going to be easy or any such thing. Quite the contrary, for this tilt is the first of the i three real testers on Rock’s 1930 assignment.
Notre Dame’s success against the ,	wingback system, developed by Pop
|	Warner, gives the team more than an
i	even chance. So far this season
j	Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania, the lat-
• ter using a modification of the system, i	have proved to be easy matches.
Northwestern, however, seems to have a well-balanced squad and will offer much more competitive strength.
:	Coach Dick Hanley has two excel-
lent fullbacks in Reb Russell and Pug Rentner; Rentner has been on the in-f	jured list but will undoubtedly see
;	service during the game. Hank Bru-
j	der, the original Hard Luck Charley
|	of the squad, will be at left half, with
|	Lee Hanley at right. Al Moore and
i	Leach have been alternating at the
।	quarterback position.
>	On the line are the two very clever
!	ends, Frank Baker and Larry Oli-
phant. Here are two ends which will rival the best the country can offer.
Next to them is the tackle duo of Jack Riley and Dallas Marvil to fit into a powerful front wall. An experienced guard, Wade Wordworth, is back and Jimmy Evans has been flanking the center on the opposite side. With Mickey Erickson out of the ranks since last season Red Clark has stepped into the breach and captured the pivot position.
Northwestern has had relatively consistent success with its passing attack, as few as the passes have been in its early games. In the tilt with Wisconsin last week the Badgers drew first blood after blocking one of Hank Bruder’s punts. When Northwestern once got started there was little doubt as to the Wildcats’ superiority.
NOTRE DAME TROUNCES DRAKE FOR SIXTEENTH CONSECUTIVE WIN
DRAKE University’s stubborn Bulldogs, always tougher than they’re cracked up to be, became the most recent link to be welded into the Notre Dame victory chain. Mr. Rockne’s men ran their two-year record up to sixteen consecutive victories when they took the measure of the Des Moines outfit, 28-7, last Saturday at the Notre Dame stadium. It was the last appearance of the Fighting Irish on their home field this season.
After a close first quarter, during which both teams threatened, the Notre Dame varsity took the field and pushed over a touchdown in less than two minutes. Hanley, a new back-field ace, made the score, stiff-arming his way 35 yards through the entire Drake team. This evidently aroused the visitors, for they immediately started an 80-yard advance through, around, and over the home team and again knotted the score.
Notre Dame was not long in regaining the lead. Schwartz grabbed the
Previous to the defeat of Wisconsin, 20 to 7, Northwestern beat Tulane, 14 to 0; Ohio State, 19 to 2; Illinois, 32 to 0; Centre, 45 to 7; Minnesota, 27 to 6; and Indiana 25 to 0. Seven straight victories and every one of them won by a very decisive margin.
Only twenty-five points have been scored against Northwestern, and of those points three touchdowns only are represented. In these figures the strength of their defense is remarkably shown. Whether or not it will be sufficiently strong to withstand the devastations of the powerful back-field and line of Notre Dame will depend most probably upon the reserve strength which is said to be exceptionally good. For that matter the last stands good for both teams.
next kick-off and galloped 73 yards to the Drake 13-yard line. On the next play he made eight through center, Mullins contributed two more, and Brill hit tackle for the touchdown.
Plunges by Schwartz and Brill, and a 45-yard pass, Schwartz to Kosky, put the ball on the Drake 8-yard mark as the half ended.
In the third quarter, Notre Dame combining a strong running and passing attack, marched 65 yards for a touchdown. Brill again made the score, going over from the five-yard line.
The final touchdown was made in the fourth quarter when Schwartz, aided by Carideo’s great interference, galloped down the side-lines, reversed his field, and crossed the goal line after a run of 42 yards without having a hand laid upon him. Carideo kicked all four extra points.
Notre Dame uncovered a new star in the person of Dan Hanley, shock-
244
The Notre Dame Scholastic
troop fullback, who made his first appearance here against the Bulldogs. While Coach Rockne was watching the Northwestern Hanleys run rampant over* Wisconsin, his own Mr. Hanley was doing things to the boys from Iowa. He stole the show in the first half, slashing the Drake line to pieces and breaking loose for two runs of 18 and 34 yards, one of which resulted in a touchdown. He displayed a great straight-arm and an elusive change of pace. His spectacular
appearance just before the three toughest games, leads us to believe that' he is due to become another famed horseman.
Although the game was hard fought throughout, the Fighting Irish were never in trouble, and there was at no time any doubt about the outcome.
In the absence of Coach Rockne, Assistant Coach Heartley Anderson ran the team. He started the shocktroops, substituting the varsity line when they failed to score, and finally
inserting the four horsemen when the Notre Dame goal was threatened. The shock-troops played the first and fourth quarters.
The lineup:
ECONOMY!
SPEED!
Going Home For Thanksgiving?
Ride Colonial Stages
The Busses The Students Ride
TYPICAL LOW FARES One Way. Round Trip.
LOW RATES EVERYWHERE
Pittsburgh___________$ 9.00	$16.20
New York_____________ 19.00	34.20
Cleveland______________ 6.75	12.15
Youngstown 7.65	13.75
Buffalo _____________ 10.25	18.45
Detroit _______________ 3.75	6.75
Toledo ________________ 3.75	6.75
One Way. Round Trip. Cincinnati __________$ 5.95	$10.70
Louisville ____________ 6.00	10.80
Nashville 10.00	18.00
St. Louis _____________ 6.00	10.80
Chicago _______________ 2.25	4.05
Columbus  7.50	13.50
Dayton  6.00	10.80
Reliable Connections
All reclining chairs All Steel Busses Frequent Schedules Busses Everywhere
Tickets and information, 217 IV. Jefferson Blvd. Phone 3-5500
Campus Representative
Leo Kletzly, I Morrissey Hall
SAFETY!	COMFORT!
Notre Dame	Drake
O’Brien ............LE............ Briley
Hoffman ...........LT..............—	Blank
Harris .............LG............. Bowers
Butler ............C............ Don	Carlos
pierce .............RG.......... Sullivan
Donoghue ...........RT........... Kokjohn
Vik ................RE..............Klaas
Cronin .............QB.............. King
Koken ...............LH.......... Vonkoten
Hanley .............FB............. Brewer
O'Connor ............RH.......... Iverson
Score by periods:
Notre Dame ...........0 14	7	7—28
Drake ................0	7	0	0— 7
Touchdowns—Hanley, Brill. Mullins. King. Schwartz. Points after touchdowns—Carideo 4 ; Seiberiing 1.
Substitutions: Notre Dame — Kosky for O’Brien, Culver- for Hoffman. Kassis for Harris. Yarr for Butler, Kurth for Donoghue, 'Conley for Vik. Carideo for Cronin, Mullins for Hanley, Brill for O’Connor, Schwartz for Koken. Metzger for Pierce. Harris for Kassis, Hanley for Mullins, McManmon for Kurth. Cronin for Carideo. Pierce for Metzger. Koken for Schwartz, Host for Kosky. Hoffman for Culver, Vik for Conley. O’Connor for Brill, •Jaskwich for Cronin, Carmody for Pierce. Harris for Carmody, Leahy for Koken. Staab for Hanley, Kaplan for O’Connor.
Drake—McMichael for Vankoten, Lansrud for McMichael, Seiberiing for Iverson, Hal-gren for Klaas, Faber for Kokjohn, Vankoten for Lansrud, G. Seiberiing for Brewer. I. Seiberiing for Iverson, Bowers for Sullivan. Schneeman for Seiberiing. Snelson for Briley. Olson for Briley.
Officials: Referee—Cochrane. Umpire — Simson. Head linesman—Houston. Field judge —Lourie.
I STATISTICS OF THE 1
I	GAME	i
E First Downs:	e
E	Notre Dame, 15.	:
=	Drake, 11.	1
| Yds. Gained From Scrimmage: 1
=	Notre Dame, 387 yards.	=
E	Drake, 139 yards.’	=
|	Forward Passes:	1
|	Notre Dame, 3 completed	out	e
E	of 8 attempts for 69	yards.	E
E	Drake, 8 completed out	of 16	E
E attempts for 114 yards. E
E	Penalties:	e
:	Notre Dame, 45 yards.	E
i	Drake, 30 yards.	E
.......
The Notre Dame Scholastic
245
PENNSYLVANIA FEELS STING OF ROCKNE’S FOUR HORSEMEN
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish gave another of their awe-inspiring exhibitions of speed and power Saturday, November 8, on Franklin field, when they annihilated the Red anti Blue warriors of Pennsylvania university, 60-20. It was perhaps the worst beating that a major Eastern team has ever suffered in the eyes of the many present.
Marty Brill, the man who wasn’t good enough to make the Penn team two years ago, ran wild. He played with a fury and a recklessness that was exhilarating, and on three of the ten occasions that he carried the ball he ran through the entire Penn team for touchdowns. He led the offense and bore the brunt of the defense. He was the outstanding player on the field, and proved himself to be one of the best all-around gridders of the season.
It isn’t often that a Notre Dame player stars as much in one game as did Brill, but sensational as he was, the co-ordination and precision of the team as a whole overshadowed his great work. Any team that can run up nine touchdowns and gain 567 yards against a strong major team is not a team of individuals, but a machine of eleven parts all working-together.
Add the extra points that were
Celebrate with
“TWEET” HOGAN and his Famous Band
at the
Miralago Supper Club
On Sheridan Road—5 minutes North of Stadium
After the Notre Dame-Northwestern Game
No Cover Charge	No Admission Charge
scored after his three touchdowns, and Brill scored more points than the entire Penn team. The other Notre Dame touchdowns were scored by Carideo, Schwartz, Savoldi, Mullens, O’Connor, and Koken. Carideo kicked five- out of six extra points and brought his season’s average up to eighteen out of twenty-two.
Captain Conley, who left Philadelphia four years ago as one of the best prep school athletes in the city, came back as captain of Notre Dame and showed the folks just why he was the captain. Although there was no occasion for him to do any of his famous pass receiving, he gave a great exhibition of line play.
Pennsylvania got the customary opponents’ allowance of three touchdowns against the Notre Dame third team. Collis and Perina did the scoring for the Red and Blue and gained most of their team’s 73 yards.'
RESERVES GO SOUTH TO MEET VANDERBILT
A picked squad of reserve football men will leave next Wednesday afternoon for Nashville, Tennessee where the Vanderbilt “B” team will be met Thanksgiving day. This is the final game for the Notre Dame reserves this year.
WHERE
NOTRE DAME
MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream
Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
oJm—t»n——an—u^—m— 1	i
I	Phone 3-1254	|
I	Drs. Singler & Probst	i
j	DENTISTS	|
I	i
1	Suite 261 Associates Building	|
1	South Bend, Indiana	।
1	s
?	I
ijiti—a—ii—
i
246
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RANAD
STARTING SATURDAY
An All Star
IRRESISTIBLE!
Cast Including
IRREPRESSIBLE!
Lawrence Grey Joe Donahue
INIMITABLE!
MARILYN
Just a Few More Days Left
Full Speed Ahead Candidates
California is just around the corner--Students vote for your man in the
GILBERT'S
Notre Dame
California
Contest
Get votes at the Palace, Granada and Gilberts “One Man Tells Another”
Send some lucky chap to the big game and Hollywood
Its RKO — Lets go
The Notre Dame Scholastic
247
THE HURLEY COLLEGE OF COMMERCE
Above is the architect’s drawing of the new Hurley College of Commerce, made possible by the donation of Edward N. Hurley of Chicago. Work on this building will be started next Spring. The exact location of the structure has not yet been decided but it will probably adjoin the new University College of Law building.
4 INTERHALL SPORTS h

The battles are over; the title has been won in a race that was replete with tie scores and low-score contests. Walsh emerges from the melee the victor by virtue of Law’s long pass into the arms of speeding Jane, who raced for the lone counter just two minutes before the final whistle. But for that one play by which the score was made late in the last quarter, the championship game might have ended in a deadlock.
Approximately two thousand people watched the game which was played in the new stadium. The final score is an indication of the comparative strength of the two teams which represented the divisions of interhall outfits on the campus. Lyons had finally won the right to represent group one in the second playoff with St. Edward’s. A second playoff was necessary as the two squads had engaged in a no-score game the week before.
Carroll' was the only team which did not record a victory. The eleven was defeated by their dormitory rivals, Brownson, in the game which arouses so much interest in the Main building every season. Brownson scored only one victory, as did Off-Campus “B.” The latter was inserted in the schedule to take Badin’s place after several games had been played. They won their first game and forfeited the rest when they experienced difficulty in mustering enough material at the time set for the contests.
The Off-Campus regulars, usually a threat in the interhall football realm, were handed three beatings, Howard, Walsh, and Freshman being the outfits that showed their heels to the downtown players.
Many of the interhall squads will make trips on Thanksgiving to meet teams in this region. Sophomore has
a game scheduled for River Forest, Ill., where they will meet up with a pack of tough “hombres” in a Turkey day special, the proceeds of which will go to charities. Lyons hall goes to Toledo for another charity benefit.
With such weather as has been favoring the campus for the past week, we find it hard to realize that this is the football season — let alone basketball time. Interhall basketball practice will not start until after the Christmas vacation, according to officials but cage coaches of several halls have already begun to meet with their men in an effort to whip them into shape by January. Gene Howrey, Sophomore hall coach, has begun work getting his players into condition and within a few weeks will begin workouts.
Walsh 6, Lyons 0
A long pass from Law to Jane in the closing moments of the last quarter put a real Merriwell finish on the Walsh-Lyons game Sunday. Walsh’s one touchdown, plucked out of the air by the sprightly Mr. Jane, was the only score in the 6-0 battle. As a result of the victory, the 1930 inter

248
The Notre Dame Scholastic
hall flag goes to the Walsh eleven.
For the greater part of the afternoon it looked as if the season’s list of scoreless ties was going to add another victim. The play that brought the decision to Walsh was the only scoring threat produced by the winners in the whole game. Lyons, too, limited their major offensive to a single effort.
This Lyons threat came early in the game. An exchange of punts with Walsh getting off a poor kick into the wind gave Lyons the ball on their opponents thirty-yard line. From this point, Conti, Oelerich, and Gosselin crashed their way to the Walsh two-yard stripe. Here the potential champions stiffened and took the ball on downs when Lyons’ final effort failed by inches to gain a first down. Walsh punted out of danger and Lyons’ only consistent drive of the game was over.
The remainder of the first half, and most of the second, brought out little except a pair of stubborn defenses that rendered ground-gaining efforts practically useless. Continuous exchanges of punts with an occasional interception of a pass kept the ball out of the scoring zones and touchdowns were never particularly im-

PROBABLE LINE-UP TOMORROW
i	Notre Dame Kosky	N ORTHWESTERN		
		LE	Baker	
	Culver	LT	Riley	
z	Kassis	LG	Woodworth	z
Z	Yarr	C	Clark	
z	Metzger-	RG	Evans	
z	Kurth	RT	Marvil	z
z	Conley	RE	Oliphant	z
X	Carideo	QB	Leach	z
z	Schwartz	LH	Bruder	z
-	Brill	RH	Hanley	X
	Mullins	FB	Rentner	=
1 Shock Troops: Host, left end; E i Hoffman, left tackle; Harris, E E left guard; Butler, center; Don- = E oghue, right tackle; Mahoney, = E right end; Pierce, right guard; = = Cronin, quarterback; Koken, E £ left half; O’Connor, right half; E E Hanley, fullback.	E
minent. In this period of play, the work of McCarthy, fullback, and Blummer, center, easily stood out in the Walsh defense. For Lyons the general play of Conti, and the consistent tackling of Captain Woods were especially bright.
Walsh’s already-mentioned scoring act came with about two minutes left in the final quarter. Standing on his own forty-yard line, Law passed some thirty yards to Jane who picked his way through Lyons’ secondary for another thirty and a touchdown. Lyons countered strongly in the last seconds with passes and a run by Conti but the gun halted their drive in mid-field.
The summary:
Walsh	Lyons
Jane ..............RE.......... Bontempo
McCann ............RT......... Woods (c)
Madden ............RG........... Conaton
Blummer ............C............. Meade
Jordan ............LG............ Hilger
Nugent ............LT............. Reedy
Mikes (c) .........LE.......... Willigan
Crawford ..........QB............. Conti
Miller ............RH.......... Gosselin
Law ...............LH.......... Oelerich
McCarthy ..........FB.......... Bohnsack
Touchdown—Jane.
Substitutions: Walsh—Lambert for Jordan; Van Etten for McCann; Jordan for Lambert; McCann for Van Etten; Kuhn for Miller-; Bressen for Jane.
Lyons—Citro for Willigan; Travers for-Hilgei-; Chadwick for Bohnsack; Hilger for Travers; Cox for Conaton.
Officials: Referee, Chevigny. Umpire, Vezie. Head linesman, Jones.
Starts Saturday Thru Tuesday
fOLFAY
twbatrbVW
PUBLIX PRESENTATIONS
Vi taphone
SOUND	VODVIL
Publix
SOUND NOVELTIES
Hello Fellows! Back Again And This Time Pm Better Than Ever ■■■ Yes Sir — Even If I Do Say It Myself!
Boy, Can’t I Make 9Em?
America’s Joy Boy m another laff not that will surpass all others.
TEA I I GJ’
A Paramount Picture with
LILLIAN RUTH — EUGENE PAULETTE
Paramount
SOUND	NEWS
The Notre Dame Scholastic
249
J
*
Cash In On This Two-For-One
Sale
NATIONALLY famous makes of suits, tuxedos, and overcoats in this unusual sale —buy one for the regular price and another for $1.00. Bring a friend and divide the cost I
Come in soon—yott’ll be pleased with the quality of these fine offerings.
813-815 S.Michigan St.
OPEN EVENINGS
Florsheim Shoes
666 Clothes	Manhattan Shirts
Stein-Bloch Clothes	Mallory Hats
Johnson & Murphy Shoes
Spend Now Sale
Help Increase Employment
Prices Now Lower Than Ever
§1.25 Absorbine, Jr., 87c 50c Auto-Strop Blades 39c
35c Gem Blades, 23c
50c Gillette Blades, 39c
$1.00 Gillette Blades $1
$1.00 Lavoris Mouth Wash, 67c
$1.00 Listerine Mouth Wash, 64c 50c Aqua Velva, 34c
65c Barbasol Shaving Cream, 37c
10c Camay Soap, 61±c
25c Cuticura Soap, 18c
25c Listerine Shaving Cream, 19c
25c Listerine Tooth Paste, 16c
35c Colgate’s Shaving Cream, 29c
I I * STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
§
--——4,
j MAGAZINES . PAPERS J
|	University	I
[	Cafeteria	I
।	and	1
I	Soda Grill I
I	DAILY SPECIALS
f	Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.	I
i	!
I CIGARS	CIGARETTES |
250
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ONE AUTOGRAPHED BY MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TEAM
SO ONE AUTOGRAPHED BY NORTHWESTERN TEAM)
WILL BE GIVEN AWAY
VARSITY NIGHT
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 21
at-	.
CHICAGO'S BRIGHTEST SPOT
1
COLOR ORGAN DANCE FLOOR WITH SURFACE
OF TEAK & k EBONY
7,

6.

CHARGE
UNTIL 9:30 PM.
SHERMAN
STOP
AT HOTEL SHERMAN ♦2?O AND UP SINGLE UPLAND UP DOUBLE DRIVE
YOUR CAR RIGHT INTO HOTEL SHERMAN
CAGERS WORK HARD FOR SEASON OPENER
The final home football game already played, the followers of Notre Dame sports are looking forward to the opening of the basketball season. Coach George Keogan is driving his squad through hard daily work-outs in preparation for the early opening of .the cage year. A contest with Kalamazoo college is slated for December 8, and an earlier one on December 4 is pending. The strength of the squad that will take the floor for these games is at present rather uncertain.
The loss through graduation of Donovan and Smith, guards, and McCarthy, a forward, from last year’s regulars was a hard blow to Coach Keogan’s prospects for a winning quintet. Added to this is the failure of O’Connell, substitute center, to return to school, and the ineligibility of another reserve pivot man.
Such losses as those should have been enough for any squad but the Notre Dame tossers are further handicapped by the absence of some reliable basketeers who are still occupied with football. Tom. Conley, Paul Host, and Mike Koken of last year’s varsity squad, Staab and Jaskwich from the freshman ranks, will not be available for some weeks on this account. With the first game, with Northwestern, slated for December 12, the absence of these men is liable to prove costly.
However, the services of Crowe, Newbold, and Gavin, lettermen forwards, are immediately available as is Ray DeCook, a monogram winner at center. Burns, Johnson, Butorac, and Teders of last year’s squad are back and may produce the necessary punch to fill the vacancies. Rising from the ranks of last year’s frosh, Ferris, Schumaker, and Baldwin have shown up well in practice and should see some action.
All in all, the success of the season seems to depend on the speed with which this squad can round into shape. If they develop rapidly, the possibilities are pointing to another Blue and Gold success.
COLLEGE INN
CENTER OF CHICAGOS NIGHT-LIFE
\ HOTEL SHERMAN- • RANDOLPH AT CLARK STREET
JOE LAUERMAN MANAGES
PRACTICE FIELD WORK
Although only a few selected persons ever get a peek within the sacred walls of Cartier practice field, there is a great deal of activity going on in which the student athletic man-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
251
agers play an important part.
These managers see to it that the field is marked, headgears arranged in order and given out, sweatshirts issued, whistles ready for use, tackling dummy put up, and numerous other items to be taken care of.
This huge job has been taken care of very capably this season by Joseph Lauerman, senior manager, and his assistants. Lauerman takes charge of assigning specific weekly duties to
the other managers. Under his guidance everything is ready for the varsity’s use as they trot out on the field each day for scrimmage.
The managers have taken matters in their own hands regarding rewards for their long hours of work. An emblem or pin, which is to be decided on later, will be given to those managers still on the list at the end of the football season.
At present the staff is composed of
about forty freshmen, fifteen sophomores, seven juniors, and six senior managers.
INTERHALL RACE TO-DAY
The interhall cross-country meet was to be held this afternoon at 4:30 over the University course. Several of the halls had fine teams entered and had excellent chances of winning the meet.
Strengthen your Defense Mechanisi
11

DEAN
Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
with the
that refreshes
LISTEN IN-*--*--Grantland Rice -*-*-Famou. Sports Champions Coca-Cola Orchestra-*--Every Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p- m. E. S. T.-s--*-Coast to Coast N BC Network
The best defense is the attack. The best time to attack is when you’re feeling good. You feel your best when refreshed. Q.E.D.; also, Eh, Voila I —- Coca-Cola!
Refreshment—that’s the true inward meaning of Coca-Cola. Ice-cold, sparkling, delicious—an all-day drink, pure as sunlight. For millions of people, every day, Coca-Cola is the first thought and the last word in wholesome refreshment.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta* Ga.
______________________________ ___________________________CW-7
9 MILLION A DAY—it had to be good to get where it is
!•
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box

Roper. “Football,” he wrote in one of his books on the game, “is ninety per cent fight,” and it was on that premise that his men took the field.
NEW PRO CAGE RULE.
A new rule in the American Basketball League this season is to the effect that at least two rookies must appear in the lineup of each team during a game. This probably accounts for most of the new names noted in the contests already played. The measure adds new blood to the hardwood contests, a condition so very much needed, especially in those professional circles.
ROPER’S LAST STAND.
A tall heavy-shouldered, grim-faced figure strode away from the Princeton bench last Saturday after the narrow 10 to 7 loss to Yale; strode away— never to return again to the battleground of the Bengals.
Bill Roper, famous Tiger coach, stepped out of his football picture— one which received its final touches back in 1920 when a 14-14 tie with Harvard was the only blemish on a great season and two years later when he turned out another smashing, banging crew. Then it was that
Tiger dressing rooms were placarded with such slogans as, “A Team That Won’t Be Beaten Can’t Be Beaten,” and “Pick Up That Ball; Don’t Fall On It.” As evidenced in that last warning, systems never worried
f«|iiiiiiiiiiiininiiiii»iiiiiiiiiiitiiHiiiiiiiiiiimtiiiiiiiiininii|lj| I PROBABLE SCORES I \ TOMORROW	j
E	N. D. 21, Northwestern 13.	E
= Ohio State 14, Illinois 0.	E
x Indiana 13, Purdue 6.	J
x	Michigan 19, Chicago 0.	x
E Nebraska 6, Iowa 0.	x
E	Wisconsin 7, Minnesota 0.	E
E Carnegie Tech 13, Temple 7.	, E
E Fordham 14, Bucknell 7.	E
x Yale 7, Harvard 0.	:
x Army 33, Ursinus 0.	x
E	Navy 13, University of Maryland 0. x
E	N. Y. . 14, Rutgers 0.	x
E	West Virginia 7, W. & J. 0.	E
E	Boston College 19, Boston U.	7.	E
E Oklahoma 14, Oklahoma Aggies 6. E x Rice 14, Southern Methodist 0.	E
x Drake 7, Iowa State 0.	x
E Michigan State 13, Detroit 7.	x
E Missouri 7, Kansas 6.	E
E Stanford 27, California 6.	E
QllllMHtlltltlHIUtilttlllilnlllllllHIItlHiailllHIMHattlftlllllQ
SINGER’S SOWING MACHINE.
Tony Canzoneri came into a little of the reward due him for his long and patient struggle for the lightweight title of the world when he took the crown away from AI Singer last week. Singer’s win over Sammy Mandell last year left most fight fans dubious and the quick action on the part of the Italian-American left little room for doubt as to the real merits of Singer. The new titlist will reign gloriously; he’s a natural scrapper and will make a successful champion. The man who robs him of the title will be one of greater fighting heart.
OUR DOPE BUCKET.
After a week’s respite from labor, the dopester is back again. Our last batch turned out mighty fine. Twenty-nine winners, five losses, and one tie brings the total up to 85 winners, 29 defeats, and 13 ties. This is the time of the year when schools located in the same town get together and fight out their personal grudges. The
g
HELLO MEN!
Baby Grand Portable Radio
Just the Radio you want for your room.
Complete $68.00
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
Philco Baby Grand Console Complete $88.00
Terms if desired.
Full line Men’s Furnishings
School Representative: JIM BAKER, 164 St. Edward’s Hall
MICHIGAN at COLFAX
1 I
=
I
I 1
g
I
I
I E
I
I g
I g
E I
I E I
I E
E
I
I E
*
E
E
E
I g
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Scholastic
253

N. Y. U. and Rutgers, Boston university and Boston college contests are examples.
The relative merits of “glorified basketball” will undergo a stiff test tomorrow; however Rice should take Southern Methodist easily. Michigan State and Detroit do battle, with the former the best shot.
Northwestern—blocking the path to our 17th consecutive win, midwest and national honors — meets the Fighting Irish tomorrow. The result: 21-13. No further comment needed, except that whichever team gets steam up first is all set.
Yale and Harvard mix for no other reason than that the schedule calls for them to play. Let’s give Yale a break. Ursinus offers little or no opposition to Army for its second week of rest before meeting Notre Dame.
In the Big Ten, Michigan is trying to decide whether a tie is good enough for the title when they meet Chicago. We think a tie is good enough. Ohio State is still coming, Illinois is still going; the Buckeyes can’t be stopped.
The west coast is quiet; Thanksgiving will see more life. Stanford
and California will do or die. Page a number 27 to 6 coffin for the latter.
JONES’ RETIREMENT.
The news of Robert Tyre Jones’ withdrawal from the ranks of amateur golfers brought sadness to many and joy to not a few. For a good many years the amateur golf tournaments have been more or less a certainty that Jones would be one-two in the final reckoning.
Now that he is definitely out, as far as simon-pure golfing is concerned, many of his defeated opponents of former tournaments are going to heave a sigh of relief. What’s more the matches are going to lose some of the popular interest for a good many of the fans flocked not only to see Bobby Jones, but because there was always the possibility of some unknown coming up from behind and beating out the pride of Atlanta.
Jones selected a time to quit the amateur ranks just after he had reached the pinnacle of his career. He predicted that he would be through if he won all four major titles this season. And he kept his word, both in winning the tournaments and dropping out of the ranks of the amateurs.
THE New
Smartest Coat
j Stop • • • at the j i	New Eastgate j
I	Ontario St. at Michigan Ave.	1
1	or	।
j	St. Clair Hotel	|
j	Ohio St. at Michigan Ave.	j
I	When in’ Chicago for the	f
| NORTHWESTERN GAME I
I	Convenient transportation to	s
I	Dyche Stadium—at the rim of	।
I	the Loop—handy for all the	।
I	interesting things the city	।
I	offers.	I
I Special Low Rates t0 collegiates in town for the	1
I	Game including	|
f	FREE STORAGE I
t	.	I
I	on your car in our own garage. ?
X	I
on the Campus
College men who know what to wear and how to wear it choose Alligator "50”— the new College Coat... Alligator "50” is a smart double-breasted raglan—long—fullcut—roomy—fall-belted, with big patch pockets, and a convertible collar that gives extra protection around the neck . . . Light in weight—semi-transparent—absolutely weather-proof. Four rich, original colors—Deep Sea, Tan, Blue, Black—and only $7.501... Other Alligator models from $5.00 to $25.00.
THE ALLIGATOR CO. St. Louis, Mo.
| Residence	Office ।
j Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 j
| Dr. Edgar	S. Lucas I
!	Dentist	I
I	l
J	1
•	702 J. M. S. Building	|
I	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA	|
254
The Notre Dame S.c holastic
In every college town there is one outstanding
At Illinois it’s
KLOdSG Green Street, where ax campus leaders stroll ... in the great slate-roofed fraternity houses of Champaign . . . there is one pipe tobacco which always rolls up the biggest vote. At Illinois it’s Edgeworth, every time.
A pipe—Edgeworth. That is the smoking combination which has won the college man. Harvard, Cornell, Michigan, Stanford, Dartmouth — all agree with Illinois. Natural merit has made Edgeworth the favorite tobacco in America’s leading colleges and universities.
HARRIERS WIN TWO TO END SEASON
The 1930 cross-country season was brought to a close last Saturday afternoon when the Blue and Gold swept to a brilliant victory over the university of Iowa harriers at Iowa City by a score of 21 to 36. Captain Gene Howrey was in top form and turned in the best performance of his career. After running the first mile in 4:37, he continued his killing pace to chalk up the remarkable time of 9:49 for the two miles. At this time he was leading the field by close to 400 yards. Lessening his pace slightly, he took the remaining three miles easy and finished with a comfortable lead in 27 minutes and 35 seconds.
Tom Grimes, a sophomore who has been coming to the front lately, crossed the line next for Notre Dame in third place and was followed by Bauers who won a hard-fought battle for fourth place. Ewing and Duke took sixth and seventh to complete the Notre Dame scoring. Joe Quigley was forced to drop out of the race at the two-mile mark when he became ill.
This meet marked the second con
secutive victory for the men of Coach Nicholson. Two weeks ago they conquered a well-balanced Michigan State team led by Clark Chamberlain, who last Saturday was victorious in the National Intercollegiate meet in New York. This was the Blue and Gold’s first victory of the season but was well-earned and clean-cut. Captain Howrey took second place, Grimes fourth and Quigley fifth to lead the Notre Dame scorers. The loss to Notre Dame marked only the second defeat for the Spartans in the past four years, during which time they have produced some of the outstanding harriers of the present decade.
RESERVES WIN CHARITY GAME IN MICHIGAN
The Notre Dame “B” team contributed to a very worthy cause last Saturday afternoon when it played the Michigan State freshmen at Grand Rapids, Michigan. Five thousand football fans crowded the Ramona Park stadium and also contributed to the support of the Carl A. Johnson post of the American Legion. Probably it wasn’t the exact way that their hosts liked to see
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their verdict: try Edgeworth yourself. Find it at your nearest tobacco shop—15^ the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address: Laras & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
Here is no bashful eereal
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blendoffineoldbur-leys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive "eleventh process.” Buy Edgeworth anywhere in twoforms—"Ready-Rubbed” and"Plug Slice.”All sizes, 15$ pocket package to pound humidor tin.
THIS is Kellogg’s Rice Krispies speaking — the cereal that tells the world how good each golden mouthful is! It’s a fact! When you pour milk or cream in a bowlful of Rice Krispies, these crunchy rice bubbles actually crackle out loud. And what a delicious flavor!
Eat Rice Krispies for breakfast — great for a quick lunch with fruits or honey added. And what could be better for a late bedtime snack at the campus restaurant? The world’s most different cereal! Have you heard it yet?
RICE
met
KRKRES
s
KRISPIES
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Corn Flakes, ALL - BRAN, PEP Bran Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg9! Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee “■die coffee that lets yon sleep.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	255
them contribute; for the “B” squad handed the Staters a sound 32-0 trouncing.
The Fighting Irish got away to an early start when they blocked one of Jones’ punts and Abbatemarco recovered for the Blue and Gold. After a few trys at the line failed to gain very much yardage, Abbatemarco cut loose around left end and behind perfect interference tore 45 yards for the touchdown. Banas missed the extra point try.
The “B” team then scored at will and the home town boys didn’t have a chance to get within 20 yards of the Notre Dame goal line. The victors scored once more in this period. Lukats slipped through right tackle and exhibited one of the nicest performances of the afternoon, by racing 60 yards for the second tally. Banas placekicked for the extra point.
The remaining three touchdowns were all registered in the final quarter of the contest. One was the result of a long pass from Vejar to Bice who caught the oval over the goal line. Lukats counted his second touchdown of the afternoon on a plunge from the six-yard line. The fifth and last score of the afternoon came when Kozak intercepted a Michigan State pass, and carried two men with him while he gored his way eight yards to the goal. Banas again converted.
Although the Michigan State aggregation were outclassed all around, there were two outstanding linemen on their team. These two boys Smith and Cooney were responsible for the Notre Dame team being held from two more touchdowns. Had any other but fighting grid warriors been occupying these two berths, the score would have been much larger.
❖
BROWNSON AND CARROLL TO PLAY AGAIN SUNDAY
Apparently Brownson and Carroll halls have not had enough football for their year as an all-star for each hall is to meet in a contest next Sunday afternoon on Cartier field No. 1 at 2:30 p. m.
Permission has been granted this game and all residents of the respective halls who have been on the freshman football squad will be eligible to play in this game, the second of the year between the two teams.
In the first contest, played during the official interhall season, Brownson trounced Carroll, 14 to 0. The status of the two teams before the second tilt is somewhat uncertain because of the insertion of many good players from the freshmen squad.
In dormitories as
well as in the
...beware of
'ATHLETE’S FOOT”
THE man who’s making his
"M. A.” as well as the man who’s making the team—the fellow whose foot-work is from class to class as well as the bright boy who can foot it in 10 seconds flat—any one or all of them stand a good chance of having that ringworm infection commonly known as "Athlete’s Foot.” In fact, 50% of the men in universities as widely separated as those of Pennsylvania and California have caught it, according to authoritative reports. "At least half of all adults suffer from it at some time,” according to the U. S. Public Health Service.
The symptoms vary, but all are traceable to one germ, tinea trichophyton by name. Sometimes it starts with redness between the toes and i-t-c-h-i-n-g. Again, tiny blisters appear; or it may show itself in a thick, moist skin condition; or dryness with little scales.
It lurks in the very places where we all go for cleanliness
Absorbine
FOR YEARS HAS RELIEVED SORE MUSCLES, MUSCULAR ACHES, BRUISES, BURNS, CUTS, SPRAINS, ABRASIONS
H
and health—on the edges of swimming pools and showers — in gymnasiums—on locker- and dressing-room floors. In spite of modem sanitation (you have to boil socks 15 minutes to kill it) this fungus parasite infects and re-infects bare feet almost any time they come in contact with damp floors.
Absorbine Jr. kills the germ of
"ATHLETE’S FOOT”
Tests in a famous New York "lab” have revealed that Absorbine Jr. penetrates fleshlike tissues deeply and that wherever it penetrates, it KILTS the ringworm germ.
It might not be a bad idea to examine your feet tonight. At the first signs of the symptoms mentioned, douse on Absorbine Jr. And keep a bottle handy in your locker as a preventive. Use it after every exposure of bare feet on damp floors. At all druggists-—$1.25. W.F. Young, Inc., Springfield, Mass.
256
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13 NDERNOURISHMENT and a pleasant disposition don’t mix. The “best natured man” of the senior class isn’t the one who spends his time smiling through a series of minor ills.
Man”
high. It’s easy to digest and provides the bran to keep the system clear.
If you want to start the day with a cheerful outlook eat
ON DOWN THE LINE
Shredded Wheat is the natural breakfast for good-natured college men. It supplies all the vital food elements that keep their spirits
two Shredded Wheat biscuits every morning with good rich milk and plenty of fruit. It clears away those dark mental clouds in a hurry.
. . . Don’t holler Mr. HANLEY at the game tomorrow . . . you’ll probably have a half-dozen rush up to you . . . Besides ours Northwestern has no less than four . . . DICK is head coach and PAT and MIKE carry on as his chief assistants . . . LEE is regular halfback with the Wildcats . . . Last year Southern California walked away with five major championships on the Pacific coast . . . that’s all there were ... or they might have had more . . . Golf has invaded the state prison of New Hampshire where a number of inmates are taking up the game, playing in the prison yard . . . Now we know for sure where “waste a quarter” golf started . . .
... It is said that the New York Americans bid $50,000 for the services of KING CLANCY, star defense man of the Ottawa hockey team at one time . . . DAZZLING DAZZY VANCE, ace of the Brooklyn Robin’s pitching staff, has the proud record of pitching seventeen and a half consecutive innings without a single hit being made off him . . . Because of the extensive travels that were undertaken this fall by West Virginia’s eleven, a “blanket” insurance policy, paying liberal amounts in case of serious accidents to the men in travel was taken out by the school athletic association . . .
. . . WILLIE HOPPE, it is estimated, has scored six million points during his more than thirty years of play as a balkline, three-cushion and pocket style star in green baize matches . . . Here’s something new a-la-Ripley . . . CHARLES C. PETERSON is a famous billiard expert of St. Louis ... he has had constructed a billiard table without corners and is carrying on a series of experiments with the novel layout ... on it use of reverse English produces natural angles on the round playing surface
. .. The royal yacht “Brittania” has won exactly 200 races for KING GEORGE during her 37-year career on the water . . . It’s pretty tough to beat out a candidate for the same position you play but beating out your own brother is another . . . LEO and LLOYD JENSVOLD have been battling all season for the quarterback job on the Iowa team . . . what’s more they are twin brothers
The Notre Dame Scholastic
257
'Jen*—uh—iw—uu—un^— mi—nn—nn—mi—#n—tm^— tra—h»^— nn—m—no-
The Book Shop
119 N. Michigan Street
Headquarters Unexcelled
For
Rooks, Periodicals and Class Room Requisites
Pay Us a Visit We have the Book you want.
THE BOOK SHOP
119 North Michigan Street
1 Buy Your Kodak Film [
i	1
I	and have them DEVELOPED	«
j • at the NEWS STAND in the	I
I	Notre Dame Cafeteria	I
1	When in town visit our store	»
j	-with a complete line of Photo-	I
I	graphic Supplies -	j
I	§
I	j
I	Schilling’s Photo Supply	I
j	329 S. LaFayette Blvd.	|
I • South Bend, Indiana	I
l PHOTOSTAT COPY SERVICE !
♦- — —   — — “-1 — — f — — — —.   ? —। —tm --n nA
in—tui^—bu^—on—«bu—«u—n»—m—hm-<
Baby Grand Portable Radio
Just the Radio you want for your room.
Complete $68.00
Philco Baby Grand Console Complete $88.00
Terms if desired.
Full line Men’s Furnishings
School Representative: JIM BAKER, 164 St. Edward’s Hall ^Lo^hlCo.
MICHIGAN at COLFAX
«—«a—M—n—
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage
1 UNION TRUST COMPANY	•
|	AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	1
I	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	j
!	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	|
1	BANK	j
I	FIRST	NATIONAL BANK	I
|	I
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY J
I ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS I
I	BANK	|
| ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST | I	COMPANY	I
i	I
+-----------____________-------—+
258
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Main Entrance to University Dining Halls