
. . . . . 
· CoNGREGATION OF HoLY CRoss· 
' , , 
...,_ . . . ' . ­

Men ofNotre Dame ... Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation " to serve as a priest or brother? 



vocation.nd. edu 
Questions? Call 1-6385 
/ 

FROM THE EDITOR UI 
Notre Dame was back. In 2005 Brady Quinn and new Head Coach Charlie Weis led the Irish to a 9-3 record that exceeded expectations. Preseason hype was sky high in anticipation of the 2006 season, especially after Weis declared that 9-3 wasn't good enough. 
Questions abo~t the defense's tendency to give up big plays, most notably the 617 yards of offense surrendered to Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl, didn't drop the Irish in early polls: Notre Dame's No. 2 preseason ranking was the highest since 1990, when the Irish opened against No. 1 ranked Michigan. Instead the offense, led by Quinn,Jeff Samardzija and a healthy Rhema McKnight, was projected to carry the team to a national championship -and pick up a Reisman for Quinn along the way. After a turbulent three years, such a finish would be the perfect ending. 
The 2006 season featured many memorable moments. Dramatic comeback wins against Michigan State and UCLA made these games instant classics. A new post-game tradition was started as the team joined their classmates to sing the alma mater, and a special senior class played its last home game wearing green jerseys. Quinn celebrated after the game by leading the student section in a "Beat SC!" chant as another chance at the championship game suddenlyseemed possible, ifremote. He later traveled to New York as the first Reisman finalist since Rocket Ismail finished second in 1990, and the Irish played in their second straight BCS bowl. But conspicuously absent from the final tally, for the second year in a row, were wins in the big games. 
After a blow-out loss to No. 11 Michigan at home and then losses to No. 3 USC and No. 4 LSU to close out the season, even the most optimistic Notre Dame fans could no longer ignore the team's shortcomings on both sides of the ball. The same was true of the media. The journalists who were quick to minimize Irish faults early in the season became their biggest critics, and their change of attitude was reflected in the polls. Despite the preseason expectations and a second record-setting season from Quinn, it was obvious that the Irish were not ready to compete with the nation's best teams. 
Weis made it clear after the Sugar Bowl loss to LSU that a 10-3 season was not what he had expected. "For me personally, it's disappointing," Weis said. "10-3 just means we played one more game." Next year, 10-3 may not look so bad. The departure of a very large senior class, as well as the loss of running back Darius Walker, will leave the Irish with many holes to fill. ~everal starters are returning for a fifth year, but much of the team, as well as new defensive coordinator Corwin Brown, will enter the season untested. 
There is some hope for the future. After two years of lackluster recruiting under Tyrone Willingham, Weis has put together back-to-back top-10 recruiting classes, and this year's class is currently ranked first in the nation. Just as Quinn had to four seasons ago, an untested true freshman will most likely start at quarterback next year. Unlike Quinn, however, he will develop under Weis from the beginning. A national championship didn't happen during my time at Notre Dame, but it may happen by the end ofsome ofyours. The Irish will struggle to replace the talent lost this season, but make no mistake: Notre Dame will be back. 
Sincerely, 


THE FACE OF THE FIGHTING IRISH As a four-year starter, Brady Quinn is arguably the most recognizable Notre Dame athlete of the decade. 


Brady Quinn's Legacy 
very home game 
this season carried 
a special reminder 
for Brady Quinn of 
what was expected of him in his fourth and final season as quarterback ofthe Notre Dame Fighting Irish. A new NCAA rule standardized the 12-game season, adding one to the 11-game precedent in South Bend and giving Notre Dame seven home games for 2006. 
Seven Notre Dame home games, seven past Reisman winners -conveniently coinciding with the senior season of the most prolific passer in Irish history. Past winners were brought in to speak at pep rallies and be recognized during the game. Legendary quarterbacks Angelo Bertelli, John Lu jack, Paul Hornung and John Huarte graced general admission tickets -an impressive line up that Quinn, after a record-shattering junior season, seemed destined to join. 
Like the rest of this year's senior class, Quinn arrived at Notre Dame with high hopes after Tyrone Willingham coached the Irish to a 10-3 "Return to Glory'' in his first season as head coach. Instead, he struggled through two disappointing seasons and endured an uncertain offseason after Willingham was fired and Charlie Weis was hired. 
Quinn earned his first start against Purdue in just the fourth game of his freshman season, after seeing playing time in each of the season's first three games. Inconsistent performances by senior Carlyle Holiday prompted the switch, and Coach Willingham never went back. 
The Purdue game was a rough one for Quinn. He completed 29 of an astonishing 59 pass attempts for 297 yards and a touchdown, but was hit repeatedly and threw four interceptions. It was the same for much of Quinn's first two seasons. Notre Dame finished with a 5-7 record in 2003; Quinn was 4-5 in his 9 starts. In 2004, Quinn and the Irish finished a disappointing 6-6. Following a 3-1 start that included an upset of No. 8 Michigan, the season ended with three straight losses, including a 38-21 defeat by Oregon State in the Insight Bowl after Willingham's firing had been announced. "When you're hitting lows like that halfway through your college career," Quinn said, reflecting on the situation's uncertainty, "and you're not having the type of career you thought you would 

--,-.-.-.--.-:;-~-----;~ ~----,,-,,..--·~.:~---;:­T sc'HOLASTIC Ill 2006 FciOTBALL REVIElf,f:, .· s· .. '· 
I . .::_· _, ·.:-..:'_ '• ·, .. -~-~-\.>": .:?,:;_~-:.< :_::', :-_:.:/:·/\.):. ;::· . ,'' .. ·.·. ·. ;:•:, ·. ,:_ '•' ·: >?j:-·.· ..:;_·. : . ' : ., /'•:?1.i~tt.~i:: / ._.-__ :I 
have, and then you have a coaching change, you don't lmow where you're going to end up." 
But just one year later, it suddenly looked as if Quinn would end up on top. Under Weis' instruction, Quinn developed from a 50-percent passer into the top Reisman candidate and arguably the best passer in Notre Dame history. 
After the Sugar Bowl loss to LSU, an emotional Quinn struggled to maintain his composure as he explained to reporters what his time at Notre Dame meant to him. '.'Notre Dame's been a great place for me," Quinn said at the post-game press conference. "I've grown to love it. The people here are the best 
-Ican't forget these guys." 
And Notre Dame won't easily forget Quinn. Not only does he own 36 school passing records, from most career touchdown passes (95) to career passing · yards (11,614), but no other quarterback in Fighting Irish history comes close. Quinn's 9 5 career touchdown passes, for example, almost double the previous record of 52, set by Ron Powlus from 1994-97. His 226 consecutive passes without an interception this season broke his own 2005 record of 130. 
After an 11-13 record in his first two seasons, Quinn led the Irish to a combined 19-6 record over his last two, with four losses to teams ranked in the top five. In the 2005-2006 seasons, Quinn completed 64 percent of his passes for 7,197 yards, throwing 67 touchdowns and only 12 interceptions. With performances reminiscent ofquarterback Joe Montana's 1979 "Chicken Soup" comeback in the · Cotton Bowl, Quinn orchestrated dramatic come-from­behind victories against Michigan State and UCLA in 2006. He coolly led his offense on an 87-yard touchdown drive to take the lead -and nearly the upset 
-over USC in 2 005. This season, Quinn was named the Maxwell Award College Football Player of the year as well as the Cingular All-America Player of the Year, the only major award determined by fans. He received the Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award and was a Reisman Trophy finalist after a fourth-place finish in 2005. 
Beyond the numbers and awards, however, Quinn gave something more to 
Notre Dame. As a four-year starter and two-year captain, he was the face of the Irish team that, after years of mediocrity under former head coaches Bob Davie and Willingham, finally returned to the national spotlight. Before the 2006 season, he graced the covers of Sports Illustrated and ESPN Magazine, among others -and the walls of many girls' dorm rooms. As autograph requests piled up outside his own dorm room and the expectations of fans across the country grew exponentially, Quinn consistently handled the attention and pressure with class. After Notre Dame's last-minute comeback against UCLA, a reporter asked offensive guard Bob Morton, "How cool was Brady on that final drive?" Morton's only response was, "How cool 
is Brady always?" 
But will everything Quinn has done 
be overshadowed by the things he could not do? Quinn never won a game against USC, and he extended Notre Dame's bowl losing streak to nine with losses to Oregon State, Ohio State and LSU. He "l9st" the Reisman after throwing three interceptions in the worst Irish home loss since 1960, and was criticized for 
failing to perform in big games. 
Asked after the 2006 Army game how 
the senior class would be remembered, 
Weis told reporters their legacy had 
yet to be defined. "You're always 
remembered by how it ended," Weis 
said. Unfortunately for Quinn, his career 
ended with disappointing losses to USC 
and LSU. But Quinn has done too much 
over the past four years for the losses 
to overshadow his successes. "I can't 
imagine any player in this country being 
more important to his team than Brady 
Quinn is to ours," Weis said before the 
Army game. "Maybe that exists. I just 
can't imagine it." 
Looking toward the end of his college 
career, Quinn reflected on how he would 
like to be remembered. "Hopefully, what 
I've done over the last four years, and 
really what happens in the next game, I'd 
like to be remembered as the quarterback 
who helped Notre Dame go from a time 
when we weren't doing so well and helped . 
turn the program around," he said. "At 
this point, that's all you can hope for and 
all you can do." He has done just that, 
and his achievements on and off the field will continue to strengthen the program even after he moves on to the next level. Top quarterbackrecruitJimmy Clausen is already being heralded as the next leader of Notre Dame's return to prominence, and you can bet that he wouldn't be here if not for Quinn's succ~ss under Weis. Clausen may have a promising career ahead of him, but his way was paved by Quinn. The groundwork for future success was laid over the last two years; it is now up to the recruits he helped attract to continue what Quinn started and, in doing so, help cement his legacy. 
As Quinn prepares for the NFL draft, he has another impressive line up of quarterbacks whose legacies he can aspire to. Thanks to Weis' pro experience, Quinn spent time last summer speaking with NFL legends Brett Favre, Peyton Manning and former vVeis protege Tom Brady, each of whom gave Quinn advice on handling the spotlight and succeeding in the pros. And, if he can continue to transform teams like he did at Notre Dame, Quinn could cement his legacy at the next level, too. 0 


·,•. jf/i'· SCRAMBLING MAN Irish quarterback Brady Quinn ran his way into the endzone for Notre Dame's first touchdown of the season. 

A· Nail biting Opener 
Notre Dame 14 Georgia Tech 10 

eager anticipation of Charlie Weis' sophomore season as Notre Dame's head coach. Coming off a 9-3 season in 2005 that reinvigorated Irish fans across the country, including a "Game of the Century" in which No. 9 Notre Dame was seconds away from upsetting No. 1 USC, Irish fans' high expectations for the 2006 season included phrases like "Reisman Trophy'' and "National Championship." 
The Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets used that hype as motivation, and when the No. 2 ranked Irish team and thousands on top with a 14-10 victory over the YellowJackets, but the match-up showed that Notre Dame would have to make use of both its running and passing game in order to hold on to a top ranking. 

While fans and critics alike expected quarterback and captain. Brady Quinn to start off another record-breaking season of touchdown throws and passing yards, the Irish were held scoreless in the first quarter. In fact, after a missed :field goal attempt by senior kicker Carl Gioia, Notre Dame didn't put any points on the board until Quinn scrambled into the endzone with 11 
UNDER PRESSURE The Georgia Tech defense frustrated Brady Quinn's offense all night, · 
holding the Irish to only 14 points. 
seconds remaining in the first half. 
In the meantime the Yellow Jackets, led by junior wide receiver Calvin Johnson, had put 10 points on the board with Johnson's first-quarter touchdown and Travis Bell's 30-yard :field goal in the second quarter. The Irish came out better prepared on defense in the second half, holdingJohnson to only two catches for 16 yards. This defensive performance allowed a third-quarter touchdown from junior running back Darius Walker, a Georgia native, to stand as the winning score. Here, the Irish b.enefited from a Georgia Tech personai foul that set them up at first and goal. Walker took the handoff from Quinn and with it, the win. Quinn :finished the game 23-of-38 for 246 yards and, though he was sacked twice, threw no interceptions. 
Despite the close score, the Irish did show signs of strength that promised to keep them in step for another winning season. Notre Daine fans were excited to welcome back senior wide receiver Rhema McKnight who was injured in the 2005 Michigan game. McKnight had a triumphant return, catching eight passes for 108 yards. The game also marked a change of position for senior captain Travis Thomas, whom Weis moved from running back to linebacker prior to the start of the season. Walker was also a top performer with 99 yards on the ground in addition to his touchdown run. And though Geoff Price was a less familiar name during the 2005 season, his standout performance against the Yellow Jackets ensured that every Irish fan would soon know who he was. Price punted five times with a 50.4 yard_ average; Senior tight end John Carlson also stepped up to fill the gap left by Anthony Fasano's departure to the NFL. Carlson had four receptions for 3 6 yards and promised to play an integral role in the Irish offense. Above all, Notre Dame's composure in recovering from a 10-point deficit gave Irish fans confidence in their team's ability to come back, something that would prove key in later games against Michigan State and UCLA. 



Home Sweet Home 
Notre Dame 41 Penn State 



of a sold-out Notre Dame Stadium on September 9. The Irish had not played a formidable Penn State squad since the Nittany Lions joined the Big Ten conference in 1993. After Penn State won the conference title in 2005, many anticipated a very competitive match-up between the two teams. Despite the hype surrounding both teams coming into the game, the No. 4 Irish took a 20-point lead in the first half and had no difficulty securing a solid 41-17 victory over Joe Paterno's No. 19 Nittany Lions. 
The Irish went up 3-0 on their first 
RUNNING WILD Darius Walker darts to the outside as he runs through the Penn State defense. 
drive of the game but were quiet for the remainder of the first quarter. They started the second quarter much like the first with another field goal. Senior safety Tom Zbikowski forced a fumble on 
17 
Penn State's next drive, and a 7-yard pass to senior wide receiver Jeff Samardzija made the score 13-0. Notre Dame added another touchdown on a 9-yard pass to senior wide receiver Rhema McKnight with seven seconds left in the half. 
While the 20..:0 halftime score gave the players -confidence, Head Coach Charlie Weis was not as comfortable. "It's different when it's 20-0 because three touchdowns, you still lose," Weis said. "When it's 27, your mentality as a play caller changes. As you know, I'm never one to try to score a hundred [ ... ] My deal is to win the football game and win it the right way." 
One minute into the third quarter, the Irish lead reached that 27-point mark. Zbikowski forced a fumble, then picked the ball up and ran 25 yards for 


DOUBLE THREAT Playing this year at both linebacker and running back, captain Travis Thomas broke free for a 43-yard run, as well as a touchdown, against Penn State. 
the score. Penn State responded with a field goal, but the game was out of reach for the Nittany Lions. Performances by Zbikowski and Notre Dame's other senior leaders allowed Notre Dame to win the "right way." Then a Reisman front-runner, Quinn's performance against Penn State only strengthened the argument for his place among the nation's best quarterbacks. 
Quinn completed 25-of-36 for 287 yards, including three touchdowns to senior receivers Samardzija and McKnight and one to junior running back Darius Walker. Senior kicker Carl Gioia, who had struggled in the previous week against Georgia Tech, opened the game with two successful 35-yard field goals. Adding to the excitement, Travis Thomas' 43-yard run on a fake punt set up a touchdown late in the third quarter. Thomas' ensuing 1-yard touchdown run brought the Irish lead over Penn State to 34-3. 
Paterno complimented Quinn after the game, saying, "I thought Brady Quinn was a heck of a football player coming in, and he didn't do anything to change my mind." 
The Nittany Lions struggled in their first away game ofthe season, following a thumping ofAkron in their home opener. "I think they outplayed us," Paterno said. "We made too many mistakes. We were sloppy." 
Penn State quarterback Anthony Morelli was no match for the Irish defense as he struggled to complete passes in only the second game ofhis career, passing for 21-of-33 with only 189 yards including one interception and the aforementioned fumble. But Morelli was just one of several inexperienced players on the field for Penn State. 
Paterno believed that playing an established team like Notre Dame would be a positive experience for his team, saying, "You know, I went out in this thing with the idea that this would be a good experience for the young guys. Regardless of what the outcome would be, I think we'd be a better football team for it. Obviously, I hoped we would play better than we played." 0 




CONFUSION ABOUNDS Notre Dame wide receiver David Grimes (11) searches for wiggle room against a stingy Wolverine defense. 
History Repeated 

are credited with having brought football to South Bend in 1887, but Notre Dame had no success in the first few contests between the two -that is, until 1909. On November 6, 1909, first-year Head Coach Frank Longman led Notre Dame to an eight­point victory over Michigan, and from that day, Michigan Head Coach and Athletic Director Fielding Yost started a campaign to stop the Notre Dame program before it overtook Michigan's title as "The Champions of the West." Yost refused to schedule another match 

POISED AND CONFIDENT Chad Henne (7), who has traditionally been rattled in big games, came through with three passing touchdowns against Notre Dame. 

against Notre Dame and convinced other Big Ten conference members to do the same. On that day, a rivalry was born that still curdles the blood in the veins of students, alumni and fans alike. 
Continuing the bitter rivalry, the Wolverines salivated at the chance to smother the Fighting Irish in 2006. With the memory oflast season's upset still fresh in Ann Arbor, Michigan wasted no time pouncing on. Notre Dame, intercepting Brady Quinn on the second play of the game for a Wolverine touchdown. By the time the Irish headed into the locker room for halftime, they· faced a nearly insurmountable 20-point deficit, and just like that, the chance of a Notre Dame national championship vanished. When the dust finally settled, no one needed to check the scoreboard to know the 47-21 outcome; it was written on the faces of the students struggling to sing the alma mater, much like the Michigan crowd's reaction a year earlier. . · 
The game started tumultuously for Notre Dame, with the aforementioned 

HART AND SOUL Michigan running back Mike Hart (20) battled for 1 24 yards and a touchdown against the Irish, who injured him in last year's match. 
interception by Preston Burgess for a touchdown. However, Notre Dame showed some life early, as Chinedum Ndukwe picked off Wolverine quarterback Chad Henne, setting up a short touchdown run for Ashley McConnell, which tied the score at seven. Unfortunately, this would be the last glimmer of hope for the Irish. 
After a trade-off ofunsuccessful drives, Michigan found a mismatch in the Notre Dame secondary. Wolverine wide receiver Mario Manningham made his presence known, catching a 69-yard touchdown pass from Henne to put Michigan up by six. On the ensuing kick off, Notre Dame returner David Grimes fumbled the football, giving Michigan excellent field position at the Irish 27-yard line. Michigan halfback Mike· Hart, injured in last season's contest with Notre Dame, punched the ball into the endzone after three consecutive carries. 
Michigan stifled the Notre Dame offense, forcing another punt by Geoff Price to start the second quarter. Henne handed off to Hart to gain some short yardage before hitting his long-range receiver, Manningham, for another touchdown, making it 27-7. Ten scoreless minutes later, Henne would find Manningham in the endzone again, capping a 10-play, 59-yard drive. While Quinn responded with seven consecutive completions, including a touchdown pass to receiver Jeff Samardzija, it was too little, too late; Notre Dame was down 34-14 at the half with no improvement forthcoming in the second half. 
Quinn finished the day 24-of-48 with three interceptions, clearing the way for eventual Reisman winner Troy Smith of Ohio State in the race for college football's coveted award. The 47-21 loss was the second worst home loss the Irish have suffered, having only given up more points to Purdue in 1960. While Quinn struggled in the game, he was not alone. The Irish rushing attack yielded only four yards, as opposed to Michigan's 120. 

Head Coach Charlie vVeis wa·s quick to give credit where credit was due, saying, "We can all sit there and talk about Notre Dame football [ ... ] But I think it's really only right to give just due to your opponent who just kicked your butt." 
A 47-21 loss to an archrival is appropriately a "butt kicking" -but that seems to be the nature of this storied rivalry. 0 

SLIPPERY WHEN WET Despite falling behind on the rain-soaked fields of Spartan Stadium, Darius Walker and the Irish offense managed to engineer an epic fourth quarter comeback. 

Blame It on the Rain 
Notre Dame 40 Michigan State 37 
or decades, Notre 
Dame and Michigan 
State have fought an 
annual battle for the Megaphone, an obscure trophy dating back to when Michigan State opted to play Notre Dame in Michigan's absence. During the broadcast of the September 23 contest between the two schools, ABC analyst and former Irish Head Coach Bob Davie said, "You know, I didn't even know there was aMegaphone Trophy [ ... ] but then again, I never beat Michigan State." 
To Notre Dame fans, it looked frighteningly like Charlie Weis might end up matching Davie's ignominious feat, as the traveling Irish spent the first 

HOT AND COLD Spartan quarterback Drew Stanton is known for his inconsistent performances on the field. 
half trailing the Spartans on a wet and windy East Lansing night. Notre Dame looked lost, leaderless and ready to take a very long bus ride back to South Bend, where only a week before they had been manhandled by the Michigan Wolverines 47-21. 
Coming out of the gate, Notre Dame· looked like it was still in a stupor from the previous week's defeat. The Irish offense was unable to get anything going, while Michigan State blitzed its way onto the scoreboard with a 34-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Drew Stanton to wide receiver Kerry Reed. The Spartans followed this with another touchdown -a 26-yard trick play pass from wide receiver Matt Trannon to running back Javon Ringer on the heels ofa fumbled punt return by Irish captain Tom Zbikowski. A 32-yard field goal by kicker Brett Swenson made the score 17-0 Spartans as the first quarter expired. 
The Irish ~truggled to stay in the game during the second and third quarters, 


brates after scoring a touchdown to close the gap between the Irish and the Spartans. 
but for every attempt to get back into the game, Michigan State had an answer. Rhema McKnight pulled in a 32-yard touchdown pass from Brady Quinn only to watch defensive end Ervin Baldwin take an errant Quinn pass back for a touchdown two minutes later. John Carlson sprinted to the endzone on a career-long 62-yard pass reception but the Irish saw that erased by a 30-yard J ehruu Cahlrick fumble recovery for a touchdown to close out the scoring for the third quarter. 
"I think that at halftime the guys realized the season was starting to fall away for us," Weis said after the game. "Everyone could feel ·the same thing. After the game we played last week, and now we're down big at halftime [ ... ] it was basically 'Hey fellas, what's it gonna be? Are we just going to be a bunch of also-rans or are we going to come out here and give it a chance to win the game?"' 
It wasn't until the fourth quarter began (and the blustering winds shifted against the Irish) that Notre Dame was able to make its final breakthrough. Jeff Samardzija and McKnight grabbed another pair of touchdown passes while Michigan State Head Coach John L. Smith and his Spartans tightened up, as if they realized they were in the midst ofanother one ofthe epic melt­downs that had become their trademark. 
Rallying behind the powerful arm of Quinn and a suddenly stout defense, the boys in the gold helmets overcame deficits of 31-14 and 37-21 to cap off a furious fourth quarter rally with a dramatic interception return for a touch­down by cornerback Terrail Lambert. Lambert then picked off St_anton for good measure on the Spartans' last-gasp drive to ensure a 40-3 7 Irish victory and keep alive BCS and national championship hopes. ~ 


tt~it tfie 
~NEWLY RENOVATED* 




HUDDLE 

in £afievttune Student eenwt 
I, ;--------------------------------------------~' \ 
Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ 
with the purchase of a$5 To Go Pizza. 

Coupon required for 99¢ 2 liter. No coupon required for $5 To Go Pizza. 
Not to be used with any other coupon or discount. Coupon has no cash 
value. Please present this coupon before ordering. Limit one per customer 
Only valid at Lafortune Sbarro. Offer expires February 28, 2007. 
I I Sbarro accepts 
• fIE0E­

~, ;'
~-------------------------------------------­


SHARK ATTACK Senior wide receiver Jeff Samardzija sprints right through the Purdue secondary. 

Surviving September 
Notre Dame 35 Purdue 21 
issued a statement that became a rallying cry for ESPN broadcasters leading into the fall season. "If the Irish can get out of September unscathed versus Georgia Tech, Penn State, Michigan, Michigan State and Purdue," they printed, "then a national title game berth is possible." Unfortunately for the Fighting Irish, September proved to be as difficult as predicted, with a humbling loss to Michigan at home, as well as near misses at Georgia Tech and Michigan State. On the last day of September, Notre Dame had an opportunity to end the month on 
BOILED OVER Junior running back Darius Walker shred­ded the Purdue defense and carried the ball 31 times for 146 yards. 
a high note against the Boilermakers ­one that they would not overlook. 
Brady Quinn, who had been shaky in three of his four outings in the young season, pulled back into contention for the Reisman with his 29-of-38, 316-yard performance, resulting in two touchdowns and, more importantly, a definitive 35-21 Irish victory. Senior center John Sullivan summarized the difference in the post­game press conference. "When [Quinn] does well, success for the whole team follows," he said. Even Purdue Head Coach Joe Tiller was impressed with Quinn, reflecting on his maturation under Charlie Weis after the_ game. "I think [Quinn] is a much more polished guy tl1an he was as a youngster," Tiller said. "I thought he had great physical talent as a youngster, and now I think he has outstanding physical talent as well as mental skills to help him maximize his abilities." 
Quinn, however, was not the only Notre Dame player to have a big game. Junior running . back Darius 'Walker finally netted substantial yardage, with 
FIELD GENERAL Irish quarterback Brady Quinn drops back behind an offensive line that protected Quinn all day. He finished with 316 passing yards and two touchdowns. 
146 yards rushing and 73 yards receiving. Walker's performance reestablished Notre Dame's ground game, after many analysts criticized the "one-dimensional" Fighting Irish offense. 
Returning to the patterns of the 2005 season, Notre Dame did its damage early, scoring 28 points in the first half. In fact, the Irish wasted no time against Purdue, scoring on their first drive. Walker made a short reception and followed it with five carries to set up an 11-yard touchdown run by George West. Purdue responded quickly, however, tying the game with a rushing touchdown by Kory Sheets that was set up by a string of completions by quarterback Curtis Painter. For the Boilermakers, Sheets' touchdown would be Purdue's only points until the final seconds of the first half. 
Quinn took control of the game after the Purdue touchdown. He made five completions on the very next drive to give Walker an easy score to take the lead. Then, on their first drive of the second quarter, Quinn repeated his performance, completing another five passes, with the last resulting in a 6-yard touchdown to senior wide receiver Rhema McKnight. 
While Quinn and Walker did much of the scoring, senior wide receiver Jeff Samardzija put the exclamation point on the half. After an unsuccessful set of downs in i:he Boilermaker red zone, Notre Dame set up for a short field goal. Samardzija, as the holder, pulled the ball away in Lucy v. Charlie Brown fashion and ran into the endzone untouched to give the Irish a 28-7 lead. 
The ensuing kick off pinned Purdue at its own 12-yard line with a little more than a minute remaining. After Painter 
missed on one pass attempt, he found wide receiver Selwyn Lyman deep for an ·88-yard touchdown pass to make it a two-score game headed into the locker room. Lyman, who had 238 receiving yards on. 
. the game, had to make a few athletic · moves to get the score. "I saw the safety come over, and I was preparing myself for a big hit after the catch," Lyman said. "But I was able to stay on my feet, and I just took off." 
The second half saw very little action offensively. Notre Dame and Purdue swapped touchdowns, with McKnight and Lyman each getting his second score ofthe game. As it stood, Notre Dame held off Purdue in the second half to escape September, not unscathed, but still in the national spotlight. 

Darius Walker gained 153 rushing yards and scored one touchdown against the Cardinal defense. 
Shooting Down the Cardinal 
Notre Dame 31 Stanford 10 
ans filed into Notre 
Dame Stadium on 
October 7 expecting 
the Irish to have their way with the then-winless Stanford Cardinal. The only question on anyone's mind seemed to be how many points the Brady Quinn-led offense would score on the woeful Cardinal defense. Heading into a bye week, Head Coach Charlie Weis, in an effort to motivate his players, threatened the team with a tough, intense week of practice if they didn't play well. Weis and his squad knew better than to overlook Stanford, who was a late Darius Walker touchdown away from upsetting the Irish in the 2005 regular season finale. 
The game started off well for the Irish as Quinn engineered the offense ona meticulous 17-play, 91-yard drive 
that ended with an 8­yard touchdown strike to Jeff Samardzija to give the Irish the early lead. On the ensuing possession the Cardinal offense, attempting to strike back, went on a 14-play, 71-yard drive. The drive was stopped short of the endzone 
and ended in a 19-yard field goal by ofthe first half to build on their 7-3 lead. Stanford kicker Aaron Zagory. They did -not gain any more breathing There was some anxiety in the stadium room until-Rhema McKnight's 15-yard as the Irish struggled during the remainder touchdown reception with 29 seconds to 

THE FINAL TALLEY Ronald Talley (99) played his last game in blue and gold against Stanford, after which he decided to transfer to another university. 
go in the half, making the game his fifth straight with a touchdown reception. Despite a relatively slow start for the Irish, they ran into the locker room at halftime leading 14-3. 
After starting flat, Notre ·name came out looking like a different team in the second half. The Irish marched 7 6 yards on their opening drive, which culminated in a 32-yard touchdown run by Darius Walker. Walker, who ran for a then-season high 153 yards in the game, gained the bulk ofhis yards on this ·drive, accounting for 65 of the chive's 76 total yards. Carl Gioia added a 3 5-yard field goal after a stalled Stanford drive to put the Irish ahead 24-3 going into the fourth quarter. 
The Irish defense;· spearheaded by Victor Abiamiri's three sacks, held the Cardinal offense to a season-low 226 total yards. They committed their only big mistake early. in the fourth quarter, allowing Stanford wide receiver Kelton Lynn to slip free on a 57-yard halfback pass from Anthony· Kimble. The touchdown throw closed the margin to 24-10. A few minutes later, however, after a 12-play, 77-yard drive, senior tight end John Carlson made an incredible one­handed diving touchdown grab to push the Irish lead up to 31-10, the eventual final score. 
Though the game was not the blowout that many had expected, the Irish were in control for the most part, overcoming a slow start to open up the game in the second half. Quinn finished 27-of-37 for 2 3 2 yards and threw three touchdown passes for the fourth time in six games. 
This performance, coupled with Walker's superb day on the ground, created the balanced offensive attack against Stanford that Weis was looking for all season. "I always like to call the game that way, where you're heavy more along the balance of 50/50," Weis said after the game. "I think it really puts more of a mental bind on the defense where you can get into not knowing whether it's a run or a pass every time you go out there." 
Notre Dame's offense lines up to gain some yardage on the Bruins, who held Notre Dame to only 20 points. 

Foiled Spoiler 
Notre Dame 20 UCLA 1 7 
n October 21, 
UCLA Bruins came 
to South Bend 
planning to derail 
the then-No. 10 Notre Dame Fighting Irish crusade for a BCS match-up. "While the Bruins had won only half their games thus far, they boasted one ofthe most stubborn defenses in the country and seemed poised to stun Notre Dame's high-flying offense. The Bruins would go on later in the season to upset USC's national championship bid but, despite keeping the Irish pinned until the last minute, were unable to foil Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's first drive after kick off ended prematurely with a Darius Walker fumble on Notre Dame's 39-yard line. UCLA was unable to capitalize on the opportunity, missing a 47-yard field goal attempt a few plays later. The Irish and Bruins then exchanged another round of scoreless drives, with Notre Dame punting after three plays and the Bruins turning the ball over on downs at the UCLA 44-yard line. 
With good field position, BradY. Quinn and the Irish offense found little resistance on a seven-play drive to the end zone, and Jeff Samardzija caught the 2-yard touchdown pass from Quinn. Notre Dame would have trouble repeating this offensive success for the rest of the game. "While Terrail Lambert intercepted UCLA quarterback Patrick Cowan's first down pass following the touchdown, UCLA's defense forced 
another three and out. · UCLA's next drive was more successful, as the Bruins inoved the ball 87 yards on their first trip to the endzone. The Bruins scored on a deep 54-yard pass from Cowan to Marcus Everett, exploiting the weakness of the Irish secondary. After tying the game, the Bruins held the Irish on two consecutive drives. UCLA then scored again on another 3 6-yard breakaway pass from Cowan to William Snead. 
The Irish tried to respond on the final drive of the first half, but after stalling within 10 yards of the goal line, they settled for a field goal as the clock expired, leaving the game 14-10 UCLA at the half. 
The third quarter proved to be a high­impact defensive battle. On the first five 
TEAM TACKLE Maurice Crum (40), Chris Frome (75) and Chinedum Ndukwe (18) take down UCLA's tailback behind the line of scrimmage. 
drives, both offenses moved the ball a Notre Dame's potent no-huddle offense· combined total of 25 yards. Notre Dame came up short, turning the ball over on broke the stalemate later in the quarter downs after a rapid drive to the UCLA with a 60-yard drive that ended in a 33-35-yard line. yard field goarby Carl Gioia. At the end With 2:20 remaining, UCLA hoped to of the thircl, UCLA held tlie ball and a overcome the Irish defense to lock away 14-13 lead. the game, but the energized defenders 
With the Irish offense still unable to held their ground. Using all three of take control of the game, Notre Dame's their remaining timeouts, the Irish put defense hoped to keep the Bruins quiet in the ball in Quinn's hands one more time the fourth quarter. Despite the defensive with 55 seconds left on the clock. From efforts of the Irish, the Bruins kicked a the Notre Dame 20-yard line, Quinn 
, field goal midway through the quarter, quickly moved the ball with a 21-yard extending their lead to four points. Notre pass to Samardzija. Without hesitation, Dame urgently needed a touchdown, yet the offense reassembled and Quinn their drive after the UCLA field goal threw a 14-yard pass to David Grimes for quickly ended in another punt. UCLA's another first down to stop the dwindling next drive mirrored Notre Dame's, clock. Still 45 yards from the endzone giving t;he Irish another''opportunity with with only 27 seconds remaining, Quinn · 
3:3 3 remaining on the clock. But again, again threw long to Samardzija, who 
dodged past several UCLA defenders on  
his way to the endzone for the winning  
touchdown. UCLA had little opportunity  
to  respond  as  Derek  Landri  sacked  
Cowan to end the game.  
The dramatic victory marked another  
historic game for the famed Irish and  
proved the resiliency of Charlie Weis'  
squad.  "Good  teams  win  games  like  
that," Weis said in a post-game interview.  
"Good teams make a play at the end of  
the game to win."  0  
I  
!I ii  



4illll.llli 
GROUND ATTACK Darius Walker runs past a Midshipmen defender on the way to his third 100-yard rushing game this season. 
Coming Back for More 
espite a losing streak 
unmatched by any 
other team in college 
football history (42 straight losses to Notre Dame coming into the 2006 game), the Midshipmen of the Naval Academy still greet their annual battle with the Irish with an air of excitement and revelry. Why? 
Because every year, this game could be "the" game. 
The Midshipmen filed into M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore with poise and dignity, filling the field with their precise ranks. Once in the stands, however, they erupted in cheers and clapped their plastic thundersticks wildly. Unfortunately for Navy, the Irish offense wielded the true 
Notre Dame 38 Navy 14 
thunder as Brady Quinn led an air and ground offensive against the Midshipmen, . rolling to a 3 8­14 victory. 
The cards were 
• stacked againstthe Midshipmen from the start. Navy senior quar­
~terback Brian 
FULL EXTENSION Receiver Jeff Samardzija out-jumps two Hampton was defenders for the touchdown. sidelined due to injury, and Navy was forced to give sophomore quarterback Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada his first col­legiate start. In addition, a sellout crowd of 71,851 appeared to be predominantly 
blue, green and gold -a relative home 
away from home for the Irish. 
While the Irish offense opened the game with· a 40-yard Carl Gioia field goal, the true test was on the defense. Could the . Irish hold back an option rushing-a4ack that was unlike anything they had seen all year? Early indications were less than_ stellar, as three of Navy's first four rushing plays went for 10, 17 and 19 yards. The defense adjusted on the fly, and Victor Abiamiri crushed the Mids' momentum as he sacked Kaheaku­Enhada for a 6-yard loss on third and eight at the 9-yard line. The Irish then · caught a big break as Matt Stover's 32­
yard fiel~ goal went wide. 
Rolling out of the pocket and making 
an impressive running cross-body throw, 
Quinn capped the ensuing Irish drive with a 36-yard touchdown pass to David Grimes, the first touchdown reception of his career as well as his longest career catch to that point. His diving reception was a welcome. glimpse into the future for the Irish, setting at ease fans worried about who· might fill the shoes of departing seniors Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija. 

Frustratingly, the Irish allowed Navy to stay in the game in the first half. Derek Landri jumped offsides on fourth and one at the Navy 29-yard line, giving Navy the first down and _much-needed momentum. The Irish allowed the Mids to rush for 45 yards in three plays, and Kaheaku-Enhada completed his first pass for 19 yards to bring Navy to the Irish 2-yard line. A quarterback sneak gave the Mids the score. 
Travis Thomas ran 16 yards for a touchdown in his first rushing attempt since the Penn State game -where his last carry also resulted in a touchdown -but the Mids answered back with a 65­yard touchdown drive of their own. 
It would be their last, as the Irish defense clamped down and the Irish offense exploded. Quinn threw a 33-yard pass to McKnight to make it 24-14 at the half. The defense then held Navy to a three and out to start the third quarter, and .the Irish fired back with an ironic twist -Quinn scrambled 19 yards for a touchdown. He ended the day with an additional 6-yard touchdown pass to McKnight and was 18-of-25 passing for 295 yards, with three touchdowns and no interceptions. 
The offense showed the same swagger and confidence that appeared so promising in the Penn State home opener, gaining 4 71 total yards and never punting. And the defense showed that it had the power to make second-half adjustments, allowing 228 yards in. the first half but only 85 in the second half. 
Navy struggled late against Notre Dame but showed life and a competi­tive spirit. Kaheaku-Enhada finished the season with respectable pass yard­age and nearly beat ACC power Boston College in the Meineke Car Care Bowl. While pundits may mark the victory in retrospect as the first "cupcake" acad­emy game en route to a faux Irish Com-. mander's Cup, history gives it a different perspective: respecting the tradition of a school tough enough to keep coming back for more. 0 
KICKING ·up HIS HEELS Darius Walker dances past North Carolina defenders. 


On. the Heels of Victory 
rior to the 2006 
season, many observers 
expected the Fighting 
Irish of Notre Dame to be a team that made its living by winning shootouts. Questions abounded about the defense, but there was faith that the Irish could defend their goal just enough ti.mes to allow Charlie Weis' sleek offense to beat opponents into submission. When these predictions were made, Notre Dame's 45-26 triumph over the North Carolina Tar Heels on November 4 was exactly the type of win the Irish were expecting. 
On the strength of a season-high 346­yard day from Brady Quinn and a 53­yard punt return for a touchdown by Tom 
Notre Dame 45 UNG 26 
Zbikowski,NotreDamesimplyoutclassed the Tar Heels who, to their credit, played with a great deal more vigor and spark than one would expect from a one-win team with a lame duck head coach. It looked as if the Notre Dame starters might be in for a short day, as _the Irish jumped out to a quick 24-7 lead thanks to three QID11ll touchdown passes (an 11­yard pass to tight end John Carlson and tosses of 7 and 14 yards to wide receiver Rhema McKnight) and a picture-perfect field goal by Carl Gioia. 
As was the case for Notre Dame all too often in 2006, however, the opposition was· able to utilize a spate of big plays to stay in tp.e game despite the best efforts of safeties Zbikowski and Chinedum Ndukwe.-North Carolina took advantage of a kickoff return for a touchdown by


UP FOR GRABS Wide Receiver Jeff Samardzija pulls down a Brady Quinn pass. 
Brandon Tate and a six-catch, 171-yard, two-touchdown day by freshman receiver Hakeem Nicks to keep the Tar Heels on the periphery ofcompetitiveness. 
Junior tailback Darius Walker put the game away on a 1-yard plunge to end the scoring at 45-26 with alittle more than 11 minutes to go in the fourth quarter. Mop-up action was highlighted by the strong running of freshman running back James Aldridge, who carried the ball eight times for 45 yards and ran with a determination that gives Notre Dame fans reason for optimism in the wake of Walker's departure to the 2007 NFL draft. 
Of further note to the Irish was Jeff Samardzija's 42-yard touchdown reception in the third quarter, which gave him the all-time school record for touchdown catches with 23. Additionally, North Carolina's 26 points were the second most scored by the Tar Heels against a Division I-A opponent tj,.is year, surpassed only by a 45-point.·outburst against Duke in the final week of the season. 
Following the game, Weis was not displeased with the easier-than-usual, yet closer-than-expected victory, stating that he wasn't preoccupied with "any crescendo or fever pitch or anything as far as a team on the rise. I'm just concerned with us getting better." 
As the USC and LSU losses later in the season would show, it seems North Carolina may have exposed Notre Dame's Achilles' heel. They just couldn't capitalize on it. 0 
AIR STRIKE Quarterback Brady Quinn receives the snap from center John Sullivan while eyeing the Falcon secondary. 
A Force to be Reckoned W,ith 
Notre 
he Irish were out­
gained in total yards 
383 to 405, held the 
ball for 17 fewer minutes, had three extra points blocked or botched, and even had five fewer first downs than the Falcons. 
On paper, these signs might indicate a close game, but in reality, the Irish played their most efficient and focused football of the season, unleashing a quick and nasty game plan that shut down Air Force early and often. 
On November 11, the No. 9 Irish went to Colorado Springs to face an unranked Air Force squad that had demolished Army 43-7 the previous weekend. The Falcons planned to dominate the run 
Dame 39 Air Force 17 
clear who would dominate. Brady Quinn completed two straight passes for 29 and 51 yards to Jeff Samardzija to start the game, going 80 yards for the touchdown in just under a minute. Air Force went three and out, and Quinn produced four straight completions capped by a 1-yard touchdown pass to John Carlson to put the Irish up 14.:.0 in only six minutes. 
Air Force quarterback Shaun Carney completed a 24-yard pass to receiver Beau Suder to set up the Falcons' only points of the half, a field goal from 32 yards out. The Irish looked set to give back the ball on fourth and twelve, but a roughing the kicker penalty gave the Irish the first down and Quinn threw a 24-yard touchdown pass to Rhema McKnight. 
In the first possession of the second quarter, the Falcons drove 63 yards to set up a field goal only to have it blocked, yielding a 76-yard touchdown return by junior Terr3i,l Lambert. Air Force stalled on a fourth and three on its next possession, and the Irish headed to the locker room leading 2 7-3. 


In the third quarter, senior tight end Marcus Freeman, filling in after starting tight end John Carlson left the game with a knee injury, caught the first touchdown pass of his career, a 23-yard grab, to boost the Irish to 33-3. The Falcons finally reciprocated at the end of the third quarter with a 12-yard pass from Carney to Suder for a touchdown. Darius Walker, who rushed for a total of 153 yards, scored the .final touchdown of the game in the 12th minute of the fourth quarter. 
Many of the newest Irish players saw some playing time. Thirteen freshmen got in the game, including running backs James Aldridge and Munir Prince. Samardzija had six catches for 106 yards, and Quinn had 207 passing yards, four touchdowns and no interceptions. 
WhileAir Force almost matched Quinn with 205 passing yards and surpassed the Irish with 220 rushing yards (the Irish had 189), the Falcons were clearly no match for Charlie Weis' quick, effective game plan. As Weis said in the post-game conference, "I think their expectation level is going up. Just like every fan and follower of Notre Dame football, when things around them start helping, when other teams start losing, that causes optimism for them as well." 
The game marked the first time that Irish football was broadcast on CSTv, a college sports cable network only available in select satellite packages and online. It was the :first Irish game since 1992 that was not broadcast on NBC, CBS, ABC or ESPN, and frustrated students had to go to game watches or sports bars or take a road trip to enjoy the game. For students who missed the game, the win was easy to predict. The victory advanced the Irish to a 35-1 record against service academies in the past 20 years -the one loss to Air Force a decade ago in South Bend. The Irish left Colorado Springs with a 39-17 win, a 9-1 record, and their eighth straight road win, ready to return home to face Army and finish their sweep of the service academies. 0 
STOPPED SHORT Defensive tackle Derek Landri (66) wraps up an Army rusher. 


Mission Accomplished 
No. 6 Fighting Irish came out of the tunnel fired up, proudly wearing the infamous green jerseys that first appeared in the 1977 win over USC. The Irish hoped to restore glory to the green jerseys, which have seen Irish losses in their last four appearances. Notre Dame (9-1) was going for its eighth straight win against a weaker Army team (3-7 at the time) in the final home game ofthe season. It was a special game for the graduating seniors, and seniors Brady Quinn, Jeff Samardzija and Rhema McKnight all had excellent performances. Quinn passed for 218 yards, completing 22-of­3 0 passes along with three touchdown 
Notre Dame 41 Army 9 

BREAKING THE CURSE In his final home game Brady Quinn helped the Irish break a four-game losing streak in the green jerseys. 
passes. Samardzija had nine catches for 87 yards and a touchdown. McKnight had two touchdown catches, 8-and 24­yard receptions. With 162 yards rushing, junior running back Darius Walker reached his second 1,000-yard rushing season, becoming only the fourth player in Notre Dame history to do so. 
Army chose to receive to start the game, and fans quickly began to wonder if the curse of the green jersey would continue as the Black Knights opened with a 42­yard return. Army could not get anything going in the first series and had to punt, but Notre Dame's first series ended with Quinn's first interception in seven games and 226 passes. 
The Irish defense made sure that Army did notcapitalize on the interception, and they forced a turnover on downs when Army went for a first down on fourth and four. But again, the Notre Dame offense could not execute effectively and were tagged with a 10-yard penalty followed by a 10-yard loss on a catch by Walker. 

Geoff Price punted again, giving Army an opportunity to be the first to score. 
Army took advantage of that opportunity. A _16-yard completion to Tony Moore and a 24-yard rus)J. by Wesley McMahand set up a 27-yard field goal. But heading into the second quarter after this field goal, the Irish began to establish the running game and never looked back. Walker had three solid runs leading up to his 10-yard touchdown, which made the score 7-3 in favor of Notre Dame. 
The Irish defense came through again, forcing Army to go three and out and setting up Notre Dame's second straight touchdown series. This drive was led by Quinn's seven completions and was capped off by Samardzija's 16-yard touchdown grab. A mis.sed extra point put the score at 13-3. 
On the following drive, senior tackle Derek Landri drilled the Army quarterback for an 8-yard loss that forced Army to punt, opening the door for the third straight Irish touchdown. Walker and freshman running back James Aldridge contributed to the drive, and Quinn connected with senior Rhema McKnight for an 8-yard touchdown to put Notre Dame up 20-3 at the half. 
Notre Dame's fourth consecutive score was .a little more interesting. Walker capped four big runs with a fumble on the 1-yard line, and David Grimes recovered the fumble in the endzone for a touchdown, putting the Irish ahead by 
24. The defense made sure that the Black Knights had no answer as senior Mike Richardson came up with an interception. A 24-yard pass to McKnight added a fifth consecutive, touchdowni 
A blocked Army field goal , was recovered -by Terrail Lambert, and the defense continued to shine with another interception by Richardson (followed by Walker's second touchdown run, making it 41-3) and a fumble recovery by Ray Herring. 
With two and a half minutes r_emaining, the starters left the game to a standing ovation. A last-second Army touchdown made the final score 41-9, but it did not dampen the celebration. As the Irish seniors ended their last home game with a final lap around Notre Dame Stadium, Quinn leapt into the student section to sing the alma mater and join in the "Beat SC!" chant that swept through the student body. 0 
COMING UP SHORT The Notre Dame offense struggled to put points on the board in the first half, falling behind 21-1 O. 
Trojan Trouncing 
fter last year's heart­
breaker, revenge was 
to be a dish best 
in L.A. A mere 13 months after the Trojans' heralded 34-31 comeback victory over the Irish in front of a stunned crowd at Notre Dame Stadium, "vengeance" remained the buzzword on the minds of every Notre Dame fan, coach and player in the L.A. Coliseum that balmy November evening. 
The game began auspiciously enough for the Irish. Starting out with decent field position on their own 32-yard line, quarterback Brady Quinn completed a 38-yard pass to wide receiver Rhema McKnight on the first play to move 
USC 44 Notre Dame 24 
Notre Dame into USC territory. Yet 
after the first big_play of the game, the · 
drive stalled. Instead of letting place 
kicker Carl Gioia attempt a field goal 
from the USC 29, the Irish elected to go . 
for the first down on fourth and nine, a 
pass from Quinn to McKnight that fell 
incomplete. 
After taking over, the Trojan offense 
wasted no time picking apart a highly 
vulnerable Irish secondary. Led by 
rookie quarterback John David Booty, 
the Trojans engineered an eight-play, 
71-yard touchdown drive in which Booty 
completed four of five passes, including 
a 9-yard bullet to wide receiver Dwayne 
Jarrett in the endzone. · 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, the 
much-needed sense of urgency failed to 
materialize. After gaining a mere five yards on the ensuing-possession, Irish punter Geoff Price kicked a paltry 3 7­yard punt to Trojan returner Desmond Reed, who ran the ball back43 yards to the Notre Dame 26-yard line. Booty picked up right whefe he left off, completing a 25-yard pass to wide receiver Steve Smith and then another touchdown pass to the All-American Jarrett. Midway through the first quarter, the Trojans had already jumped out to a 14-0 lead. 
On their next possession, the Irish offense finally managed to generate a sustained drive that put points on the scoreboard. Starting at their own 20-yard line; Quinn marched the Irish down the field to the US~ 9. Despite having a first and goal deep inside Trojan territory, the Irish failed to penetrate the endzone and were forced to settle for a 2 7-yard Gioia field goal, cutting down the USC lead to 11 points by the end of the first quarter. 

Led by a balanced air and ground assault, the Trojan offense once again manhandled the Irish defensive line and secondary to drive down the field for its third touchdown in as many possessions and take a commanding 21-3 lead. Mercifully for Notre Dame, this USC touchdown would be the Trojans' last points of the half as momentum began to shift. After the USC defense forced Darius Walker to fumble on the USC 7­yard line, putting the potent offense back on the field, the Irish defense showed its first signs of life in the form of a blocked punt by defender Steve Quinn. It took only one play for Brady Quinn to connect with Irish wide receiver Marcus Freeman in the endzone to cut ,the USC lead to 21-10. 
The story of the rest of the half was the sudden inefficiency of Booty and the · failure of the Irish offense to capitalize on two USC turnovers. On the first play of the next USC possession, Irish comer back Mike Richardson intercepted a pass from Booty at the Notre Dame 48-yard line, but the offense once again stalled and turned the ball over on downs. Booty threw another interception on this possession, this time to defensive back Trevor Laws, but the Irish again failed to gain a first down and turned the ball over on downs in USC territory. After the game, Notre Dame Head Coach Charlie Weis voiced his frustration. "We didn't win on special teams. We didn't win on offense. We didn't win on defense," Weis said. 
When the Trojans began the second half with another impressive touchdown drive, the tone of the i:est of the game was firmly set. After missing the window of opportunity opened by the two interceptions, Notre Dame failed to threaten the USC lead in the second half, which never fell below 11 points. For the rest of the night, Booty and the Trojan offense showcased their superior speed against an · overmatched · Irish defense, a mismatch that Quinn and the offense could not overcome. After cutting the lead to 37-24 with three and a half minutes left in the game, USC kick returner Brian Cushing returned a Notre Dame onside kick 42 yards for a touchdown to make the final score 44­
24. It was the third consecutive game for the Irish at the Coliseum in which they gave up more than 40 points to the mighty Trojans. 0 

SOUR FINISH LSU's offensive line dominated the Irish all gam~· l_ong, giving quarterback JaMarcus Russell time to complete his passes. 




Tiger Bait 
SUGAR BOWL: LSU 41 Notre Dame 14 
:,I 
! 
. I 

fter a 2005 season in which the Irish be-· came lmown for their strong starts, Notre Dame struggled in 2006 and often came out flat. Despite Head Coach Charlie Weis' adjustments to their bowl game preparations, the Irish continued this trend in the season's final game, allowing LSU to jump to an early 14-0 lead that Notre Dame would never overcome. 
The Irish.lmew they needed to score early to avoid a record ninth straight bowl loss. Instead, they gained only 14 yards on their opening drive, hindered by a 15-yard unsportsmanlike conduct 
penalty after receiver Jeff Samardzija caught a first-down pass and flipped the 
football to his defender. Weis called for to generate some momentum and avoid a fake punt on fourth and three, looking . · yet another slow start in a big game. But 

·· 
NOWHERE TO RUN Running. back Darius Walker had a big first half but was held to just three yards in the second. 
Travis Thomas was stopped short, and two plays later LSU found the endzone. 
Notre Dame's second drive also stalled, and this time Geoff Price punted the ball away. The -Tigers marched 80 yards in three and a half minutes for their second straight touchdown and a 14-0 lead. 
After the LSU score, the Irish began to show some life, responding with an 80-yard drive. of their own that ended with a 24-yard touchdown catch by David Grimes. On the following LSU possession, Travis Leitko recovered a fumble by JaMarcus Russell on the LSU 21-yard ·line. Notr_e_ Dame failed to capitalize, however, and the teams traded possessions -and missed field goals -for much of the second quarter. 
QUICK ON HIS FEET The Irish defense could not hold on against LSU receiver Early 
Doucet and the rest of the Tiger offense. 
With just under three minutes left in the half, Darius Walker broke free for consecutive runs of 3 5 and 15 yards, and Brady Quinn found Samardzija for a 10­yard touchdown to tie the score at 14. 
The Tigers retaliated quickly. Russell's 58-yard pass to Early Doucet · set up Russell's first rushing touchdown of the season from five yards out. The last­minute score was disappointing, but the Irish headed to the locker room still confident they could play with a bigger and speedier LSU team. 
"I felt in the locker room at halftime that things were calm and under control," Weis said. "I saw no signs that we would play a completely crummy second half." 
But after putting up 262 yards ofoffense and dominating time ofpossession in the first half, the Irish fell apart. The offense saw the field for only eight minutes and 4 3 seconds ofthe game's final 3 0 minutes, gaining only 30 yards and failing to score in the second half, while the defense allowed 333 second-half yards and 20 more points. Walker, whose 125 yards rushing led Notre Dame's first-half comeback, was held to just three yards for the rest of the game. Quinn, after throwing for 124 first-half yards, added only 2 4 after halftime. 
It was the Tigers who controlled the clockin the second half, and Notre Dame simply couldn't get anything going. On the opening drive of the third quarter, senior cornerback Ambrose Wooden forced a fumble at the LSU 32-yard line. He appeared to recover it, but the call was overturned after review. LSU went on to kick a field goal, going up 34-14. 
Senior cornerback Mike Richardson intercepted a pass by Russell early in the fourth quarter, but the offense went three and out, and the Tigers responded with their final touchdown of the night, making the final score 41-14. 
Quinn had season-low passing num­bers, finishing the game 15-of-3 5 for 148 yards, two touchdowns and two intercep­tions. After the game, however, Weis was quick to blame himself first. "I'm gonna have to do a better job," he said. "We can't be 10-3, going to a bowl game and getting our clocks cleaned." ~ 

WHAT ARE YOU DOING TONIGHT? 
MAY WE MAKE A SUGGESTION? 
c;,5>>·•.::~;;~~~\ 
j . \\ 
~ \\ 
-..~ 
.'.:J
1
,·1
, 
:y•;j 
HUNGARIAN STATE PERLMAN/SCHMIDT/BAILEY · DECADANCE VS. FOLK ENSEMBLE PIANO TRIO THE FIREBIRD 
TUE, FEB 13 AT 7:30 PM FRI, FEB 23 AT 8 PM TUE, MAR 6 AT 7:30 PM . WED, MAR 7 AT 7:30 PM 
HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
fOR TtiCKETS Ctd.l 574.631.2800 


....~~ 
DEBARTOLO ~UNIVERSITY OF 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
~NOTRE DAME 




Fifth-Year 
espite the departure of several standout 
senior players following this season, 
including Brady Quinn, Jeff Samardzija, 
Rhema McKnight and Victor Abiamiri, 
there will still be several familiar faces from this year's senior class on the sidelines next September. Three weeks ago, Notre Dame Head Coach Charlie Weis announced that nine players from the senior class will be applying for a fifth year of eligibility. . Here, Scholastic breaks down each player's 2006 stats and previews what the returning fifth years hope to bring to an Irish squad that will be relatively young for the 2007-2008 season: 
#9 Captain Tom Zbikowski (Defensive Back) 
After gaining national prominence as botha potent kick return threat and a hard-hitting defensive back in 2005, Zbikowski had a relatively tame year in 2006. Despite recording 79 tackles for the season (third on the team), Zbikowski's inclusion in a lackluster secondary damaged his national standing and highlighted his inability to effectively cover lightning-fast receivers from powerhouses like Michigan, USC and LSU. Hopefully the infusion of new defensive coordinator Corwin Brown will reenergize next year's defense in a way that allows Zbikowski to return to the bruising form he showcased so well in 2005. 
#26 Captain Travis Thomas (Linebacker/Running Back) 
Emerging as a dual threat as both a linebacker and running back this year, Travis Thomas will return next season as a valuable asset to the Irish squad. Playing in 11 games during the 2006 season, Thomas recorded a total of 35 tackles and cemented his place as one of the most improved players on the team this year. His return next year will provide a solid foundation for Brown's new defensive schemes. 
#89 John Carlson (fight End) 
After last year's departure oftight end Anthony Fasano to the Dallas Cowboys, many thought that Notre Dame would be at a disadvantagein the tight end position this season. Any such fears went for naught, as senior Jo?O Carlson stepped up to become one of Quinn's favorite passing targets. Despite missing two games due to injury at the end ofthe season, Carlson started all 11 games he played in this year and recorded 47 receptions for a total of634 yards. With the loss ofSamardzija and McKnight, Carlson will have the most receiving yards of any returning player next year. 
#78 John Sullivan (Offensive Lineman) 
A veteran at the center position, Sullivan's decision to stay an extra year will be a welcome addition to an offensive line that will lose three of its five starters. With the departure of Bob Morton, Ryan Harris and Dan Santucci, Sullivan will be the clear leader on the offen~ive line. Freshman quarterbackJimmy Clausen will benefit from Sullivan's breadth of experience on offense and his ever-imposing 6'4", 290-pound frame. 
#98 Trevor Laws (Defensive Line) 
Having established himself as one of the most effective defensive linemen for the Irish, Laws will return next year for his third consecutive year as a starter. In 2006, Laws finished the season fifth on the team in tackles, with a total of 62. Laws will look to continue his strong leadership on the defensive line next year, which will see four of seven starters returning. 
#57 Dwight Stephenson, Jr. (Defensive Line) 
With the departure of seniors Abiamiri, Derek Landri and Chris Frame, Stephenson will look to compete for a starting position on the defensive line. Stephenson has been primarily a reserve player for the last few years and has yet to see any prolonged action in a game-day setting. Stephenson hails from Boca Raton, Fla., and is the son of NFL Hall of Fame center Dwight Stephenson of the Miami Dolphins. 
#52 Joe Brockington (Linebacker) 
Predominantly a special teams regular for the Irish the previous two years, Brockington reinvented himself this year at the linebacker position. Playing in all 13 games, Brockington finished the season as the sixth most proficient tackler for the Irish, with a total of 59 tackles. Next year Brockington will benefit from the return of fellow linebackers Maurice Crum and Travis Thomas, as well as the addition of a new defensive coordinator who will try to improve a defense that finished 45th in the nation this year in yards allowed per game (320.5). 
#22 Ambrose Wooden (Defensive Back) 
Ambrose Wooden entered the season with a starting position in the Notre Dame secondary, but any expectations he had that 2006 would be a banner year dissipated after he suffered a concussion during the Michigan game. In Wooden's absence, Terrail Lambert filled in for the Michigan State game and essentially won the thriller for the Irish thanks to two late interceptions. Wooden played intermittently for the rest of the season but never gained back his starting position. It will be interesting to see how new defensive coordinator Brown uses Wooden next year. 
#17 Geoff Price (Punter) 
Perhaps one of the most welcome additions to the Irish this year, Price established himself as the Notre Dame starting punter and one of the greatest at his position in the nation. During a year when both the offense and defense suffered from extended periods offrustration and inefficiency, Price was the team's model of consistency throughout the season. Price punted 50 times and averaged an impressive 45.4yards per kick, which put him at eighth place among punters nationwide. For all the uncertainty surrounding Notre Dame next season, there will be little to worry about at the punting position. 0 
Should I Stay or Should I Go? 
n January 3, Notre 
Dame lost more than 
had been predicted. 
Head Coach Charlie 
· Weis was adamant 
that the team needed to stay loose and 
have some fun in the Sugar Bowl, the last 
game for team leaders like Brady Quinn 
and Jeff Samardzija. But it is difficult to 
focus on having fun when so much is at 
stake -the longest bowl losing streak 
in collegiate football history, the legacy 
of the senior class and, what no one 
had predicted, the last game of Darius 
Walker's college career. As the football 
team was embarrassed for the third time 
this season in the bowl game against LSU, 
Walker stood out as the only successful 
facet of the offense -much to the 
chagrin of the analysts who said Notre 
Dame was a "pass only" offense. Walker 
rushed for 128 yards on 22 carries and 
also made two receptions for 3 0 yards. It 
was the perfect showcase opportunity for 
the junior tailback, who is eyed by NFL 
scouts as a third-and-long situational 
back. 
A week after the debacle in New 
Orleans, Walker made his intentions 
known to his coach, teammates and the 
rest of the Notre Dame community. 
On January 11, Walker held a press 
conference to declare for the NFL draft. 
"I've been playing football since I was 
five years old, started out peewee, a little 
boy at five," Walker said. "So I know 
forever my dream was to play pro and 
to go to the NFL. And thankfully, with 
the blessing of God, that opportunity has 
permitted me now." 
So now, the question remains -did . Walker make the right decision? With 
one more year of eligibility remaining 
and another year under Charlie Weis' 
tutelage forgone, most analysts have 
said that Walker is setting himself up 
for disappointment in the 2007 draft. 
However, considering all of the factors 
affecting the NFL draft and Notre Dame 
football, I firmly believe that Walker has 
made the right decision. 
First, the running back situation 
at Notre Dame will be much more 
competitive next year. Walker would probably not enjoy the same oppor­tunities as an eve1y-down back next season, with James Aldridge's health improving. Also, with the recruitment of linebacker talent, Travis Thomas, who applied for a fifth year at Notre Dame, would probably be transferred to the backfield. Meanwhile, highly touted high school running back prospect Armando Allen has committed to Notre Dame. As it stands ·walker would likely split time with these other halfbacks and would not be given the same consideration by NFL scouts as he will coming out of this year. 
Second, Walker is facing the "Matt Leinart dilemma" concerning entrance into the draft after junior year. Leinart, the Reisman-winning quarterback from USC, decided to stay with the Trojans for his senior season following a national championship junior campaign. However, he enjoyed less success his senior season and was supplanted at the top of the draft by fellow teammate Reggie Bush, as well as Rose Bowl adversary Vrnce Young. If Leinart had declared after his junior season, he would have been the first selection instead of NFL flop Alex Smith. 
Like Leinart, Walker has a relatively weak draft class following his junior sea­son. This year's draft will feature talented backs such as Oklahoma's Adrian Peter­son and California's Marshawn Lynch. However, this year's class is top heavy, with lesser backs constituting the rest of the available talent. Next year's class will be much more competitive with talented backs from start to finish. IfWalker were to stay at Notre Dame for his senior sea­son, he would face, among oth­offense, the Fighting Irish will undergo a rebuilding season under Jimmy Clausen, Demetrius Jones and James Aldridge. To build team chemistry for the future, it is best for Notre Dame to transition into this new system and get established as soon as possible. If Walker were to stay Weis would feel some obligation to adhere to his old offensive patterns. In order for Notre Dame to make that last step to be a national power like USC and Ohio State, they need to incorporate a scheme that utilizes their younger, highly recruited talent. 
ers, Arkansas' Darren Mc­ ../  
Fadden, Michigan's Mike  '  
Hart, Boise State's Ian  
Johnson,  West  Vir­ 
ginia's Steve Slaton  
and Rutgers' Ray  
Rice in the draft.  
Last, Walker  
is  doing what  
is  right  for  
Notre Dame.  
With the de­ 
parture of so  
much  of  the  

By all measures, Walker has done the right thing for himself and for Notre Dame, and all signs indicate that he will graduate with a degree from the university. Reflecting on his career, fans will always remember him as a Notre Dame man from start to finish. From the glorious win over Michigan that he fought for in his very first game to the pure heart he put forth in his last contest, Darius Walker has done great things for Notre Dame. As he enters the draft this spring, I, for one, wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors. I only hope that he continues to represent Notre Dame after college as he did during his time in South Bend. 0 
The views expressed in this colmnn are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views ofScholastic. 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, 
~-~~~---· --~~----­
-
"
' ~ . 
~ , ' :~....!-·'I~""':,...~·;"''·,,..~~;":,:-..""",..,. ·:~"''::T"~~"'f\J';';~:~:·,":t' 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN






STUDENTS 
and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http:l/corecouncil.nd.edu 


. . -­
--~-----_. -~-~---­
. / 
Quinn, Brady 146.66 467 289 7 61.9 3426 37 [S_:u11_ardzij_u)eff ...... 0.00 2 0 . i) 0.0 0 ·o · . . NOTRE DAME .O.P..PONENTS Sharpley, Evan 79.40 2 0 50.0 7 0 
SCORING 403 310 Total 145.75 471 290 7 61.6 3433 37 62 Points Per Game 31.0 23.8 
Opponents 137.55 339 187 11 55.2 2644 24 88 flRSTDOWNS 280 241 110
Rushing 103 RECEIVING' I -:· • • • No. . . '·.. Yds• .. ._, Avg . . TD " _; Long Samardzija,Jeff 78 1017 13.0 12 51
Passing 157 11'1 Penalty 20 20 [ii1c:_~i_gJ_i_sruie~1a-____ ---~7 ---?.~?____ _ 13.5 _________1f 44 Walker, Darius 56 391 7.0 I 21
RUSUING YARDAGE · 1634 1779 Yards Gained Rushing 1941 2160 :Ca,:!~011,J>h~~----~------17. --_ .6.~-----·-. 13.5. ------~-4 -------__ 6J~ Grimes, David 26 336 12.9 2 36
Yards Lost Rushing 307 381 :t,~eeman, Ma~cus· ---..
Rushing Attempts 423 468 9.. ·~--~~----10.9 -------~~ _ · ··· ~ __2j]Anastasio, Chase 2 21 10.5 0 15
Average Per Rush 3.9 3.8 
2 14 . . 7.0 0 -----9
[west, George . _ McConnell, Ashley 2 8 ~o I 5 
Average Per Game 125.7 136.8 
TDsRushing 14 11 
. i -··-----·· . 7 . . 7.0 -0----·-· 7
[Parris, Robby· 
PASSING YARDAGE 3433 2644 Total 290 3433 11.8 37 62
Att-Comp-Int 471-290-7 339-187-11 Opponents 187 2644 14.1 24 88
Average Per Pass 7.3 7.8 Average Per Catch 11.8 14.1 
HELD GOALS : ·fGM fGA . Pct .Lg :Blk Average Per Game 264.! 203.4 iGioia, Carl 8 13 61.5 40 Oi 
I··•---•-· --~· 
TDs Passing 37 24 
SCORE BY QTRS . 1st 2nd · . 3rd · 4th· -OT ' Total
TOTAL OffENSE 5067 4423 ,Notre Dame 92 141 89 81
Total Plays 894 807 ·• .. 403J
--------··-----·-·------~--· --... --~---··· -----. Average Per Play 5.7 5.5 
Opponents 95 86 55 74 310 
Average Per Game 389.8 340.2 
INTERCEPTIONS , No. Yds Avg , TD. Long
KICK RETURNS-YARDS 45-965 59-1177 
Richardson, Mike 4 21 5.2 0 20 PUNT RETURNS-YARDS 23-169 21-242 --9]}' ·1 -· 27
[Lambert, Terrail . ____ .. 3 . _ 27 · .. 
. ··-·---·--·-­
INT RETURNS-YARDS 11-100 7-146 
Ndukwe, Chinedum 2 52 26.0 0 51 
KICK RETURN AVERAGE 21.4 19.9 'CrmniMau~Tce -·---~~-----~--~ • . . 2_:_____ o.o .. _________ o--·-····--__ o]
PUNT RETURN AVERAGE 7.3 11.5 
Laws, Trevor 0 0.0 0 0 INT RETURN AVERAGE 9.1 20.9 
Total 11 100 9.1 51 fUMBLES-LOST 13-7 14-8 
Opponents 7 146 20.9 2 35 PENALTIES-YARDS 87-695 79-695 Average Per Game 53.5 53.5 PUNTING . .:_-No. Yds: -Avg Long ln-20 Blkd PUNTS-YARDS 51-2309 59-2449 Price, Geoff 50 2272 45.4 62 12 0 
·----3'( 0 --.
Average Per Punt 45.3 41.5 Quinn, Brady I 37.0 . ·37 .. o: 
Net Punt Average 37.8 35.6 Total 51 2309 45.3 62 12 0 TIME Of POSSESSION/ 30:35 29:25 Opponents 59 2449 41.5 73 12 GAME 
3RD-DOWN 701177 55/160 PUNT RETURNS No: Yds Avg TD -: Lqng Zbikowski, Tom 16 144 9.0 1 52

CONVERSIONS 
:West, George______ ---·-'-~ _ ~2_(!_____ . 5.0 ______::Ji~--·· ·:___!_{)]
3rd-Down Pct 40% 34% 4TII-DOWN 19/33 7/19 Samardzija, Jeff 2 4 2.0 0 2 CONVERSIONS fQuirui; sceve ·-·· To--· . 6----1I 
4th-Down Pct 58% 37% 
Total 23 169 7.3 1 52 SACKS BY-YARDS 31-230 31-216 Opponents 21 242 11.5 0 43 MISC. YARDS 106 0 
KICK RETURNS , No. Yds Avg . TD Long

TOUCHDOWNS SCORED 55 40 
Grimes, David 21 514 24.5 0 50

HELD GOALS-ATTEMPTS 8-13 12-18 
,West, George 12 "251 20.9 .0. ·------___ 3!j
PAT-ATTEMPTS 49-54 34-39 ----·--·-··-~--·-~------·-· 
. Vhlls, Darrin 5 84 16.8 0 28
ATTENDANCE 565,565 278,040 ~Zbikciwski,Tom_____ __ 5 ----:···:·yyf______ ._2L4 _________o 28
Games/Avg Per Game 7/80,795 4/69,510 Leitko, Travis I 9 9.0 0 9 Pcissiey, Nlcf ---·· ... 1 .... 6. 0.0
-RUSHING . Att Net , Avg TD . Long Avg/G 45 21.4 
50
Total 965 0 Walker, Darius 255 1267 5.0 7 39 97.5 Opponents 59 1177 19.9 2 90 ,Aldridge,James ··-~ 37 ~-· 142 _ JL_-·_ 0 ----ff~~--~-=-20.3 _ 
KICKOffS No. Yds · Avg TB OB
Thomas, Travis 13 78 6.0 2 43 7.1 
Burkhart, Ryan 45 2670 59.3 8 0;Q~n!l, Brady ·--. ~--.:s2--·-.-_)1____ . oX ·:~__:_ ~ ___--···60:---_ 5.5 ..... 
~nkes,Bobby____ ------~? ..... I~IL ______ 61.4 5 o.
Prince, Munir 15 21 1.4 0 11 2.1 
Gioia, Carl 7 282 40.3 0 
fs~hw~pp·; &~Ph ·----~~4~=~·_--_·___is ._______----~~------~-­
0 -. ·--~ ····---· 7.5_ j Whitaker, Nate 1 • ... · 50 · 50.0 0 Lyons,John 2 14 7.0 0 10 14.0 
Total 75 4353 58.0 13
JiV~,_c;eorge_____ -•---~ ·__:_ __1 _-·-11.~--_--1i:o·---~----1~~~ -.--~-Ii. ~_-----~-o~~ ___ _ 
Opponents 63 3696 58.7 14 
Samardzija,Jeff .. J:5-..... I ......5-. .. 0.5 Mf_c;:~prieii; &hler_____~ } _ 6 __ .. 2.0 . ___o. ____ 4 _ 0.5 _. fUMBLE RETURNS No. . Yds . Avg TD Long Mc~ig~t, ~~ma I 5 5.0 0 5 0.4 Zbikowski, Tom 1 25 25.0 25 . . 0.0
_QriJ?les, David __" 2 2,0 ... ____ l ____~~ -£---__ 0.2.. j I.aml.:iert, T'eiran-· 6 ·O o: Sharpley, Evan 2 0 0.0 0 2 0.0 Total 25 25.0 2 25 
--------···--•---• .. --~-----.-.-... .,. •··•·-···•-•<>••·-------•·--·­
/TEA,.\1 ·-.· ---. 
3 -4 -1.3 0 0 -1.3 Opponents 54 54.0 54 Total 423 1634 3.9 14 60 125.7 Opponents 468 1779 3.8 11 37 136.8 
....DENOTES RECORD 
,, 
,Cflllll, Maurice 3 
Ndul-we, Chinedum 13 -98 6 1-0 ---2 :zhiliowslii,Tom-·12 19 ·----2· · ·-1-25 1 -o, 'G,c1ii;i:>erek --···· 13 --·-·34· --:ir-· i;s -·Ts:s-so· -7.0-53 0-0 -1 --··o~o -·o -o' 
LawsiTrevor · · ----t3 ·· 22 ··••41J· ·62 -9:S-40 ··-·3:s~24·· ,:er · · i · --· ·1:0· r _--·01 'Brodcington;foe 13 -23 -36 -59 ·z:o:a·· ·ui:6 . 0-0 i 0-0 O O 
~J~~t~~t,~1~• -­


-!r--i~----~ir -15~;~~r ·l;;~t-·::±t:r·-~:r·::~:~r=r:=ij 
'Lambert, Terrall 13 30 10 40 ··1.s_-9 ·0.5-6. -3-27____ 1 · -·· -i~o ··-·i ----.,
ncinia,;-trnvi•--·· __ff_____ i2··-··u·-----.is---s:o-if ·--1:0~9--·----·o:o-------·ir-··--o:o· ·-o -··o' ~,ome;cliris·· __ -u--10 ··21 · 31-·1.5.3···-o:s~i--· o:o--~-3-·=::::o:o ~_o__=o] Wooden,Ambrose 9 17 4 21 0-0 0-0 0-0 2 0-0 1 O 
[!!erri~~-Ray_----___g ., ,... 9___ __9 __ 18 . ---°-:~--,,. ,_Cl_:_~ .. .2:0 ·_ . ,_·1,·:-~.-::i:=~:=_(:=~J
Bruton, David 12 12 6 18 1.0-1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 O · 0 ~~rse~._N'ic~---___12 . --8 -6_ __ l~ -. J.0:5_____ 9~0__ ---_o_~o_ __g__ -_-0-0··-r-.0] Cullen, Casey 13 5 6 11 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 r_t:illey,Ronald _____6___ 1___10_11_______ 0.s-1 ___ o~o __ ··o:o ___ --o_··-1:-o··---o-·--01 Thomas, Mitchell 13 5 5 10 0.5-2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 O O
re!:~;l~t--------:~----:--1---1~___l.~:~ -~:~-----~~r------~ ---=~·1r~-~-:=g1 tt,Jrir,e ....i~---r +--i-----t~---~l----ti ----i-----~--~--!7 ~:1::!re ------:; ---!---; ----;---o.~:~ ------o.~:~ -----~}--~ ----~~~~F==r~~ t~:~=~:-----:----! --~ ---:---1.5~~~ l.5~~~ -~!-----: ----·-i:r·-~----~, 
"ai,lion,John ---n--3° -1 4 o-o ··-o:.o---a:o--·o---o-=-o-··-,r-··--w Ryan,John -lo 2 2 --4 1.0-2 -0-0 0-0 . O ---·-0-0 -·-•o --O 
t~~il~~thon·--::------;--···!·--·--! ----~:~--------~:~ ·--~}---~-------~~~-~ 
iPrice, Geoff _ ·___ 12_____ 2 ·, --~--·_0-0 ___ 0_-0 0-0 __ O ·___ 0-0--ci-ll] Freeman, Marcus 13 2 I 3 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 -Jabbie,Junior 5 i" 0 2 0-0 0-0 0-0 O----o:o---o ·· -07 JansenJJ-.---13 I 0 1 0-0 0-0 -o:o--,f--·-5:·o··-·jj"··-o 
TOTAL OFFENSE . . G -Plays _, Rush . Pass Total Avg/G
~tcphenson,Dwight____ ,_l___ 0 _____ l _____ l _________ 0-0 _____ 0-0 _______0-0______0__________ 0-0 -0 -Di 
Quinn, Brady 13 549 71 3426 3497 269.0
Vernoglia, Anthony 8 I 0 1 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 iW:illrei-;--Darius_ 13 -255 . 1267 _ o 1267-_-97~51 
t~t';.~~~bby ____ \!----: -}---:--~:~-----~:~---~}--~ ------~~--~-~ Aldridge,James 37 0 20.3
7 142 142 [W'est,_~~----_1_3_ -I -0 1 -0-0 -o~o -0-0 _ b -0-0_____J)=----0J t_tnomas~-Travis __________ _ _ 11 _____!-3_ _________ ?._~_____________o______}_~=--=:t:'!J
Grimes, David 12 I 0 I 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 
Prince, Munir 10 15 21 0 21 2.1
:lllcKnigli~ Rhema J:i I 0 1 --0-00-0--0-0 ~ -0-0 --0.. '7)1 ·Burkhart, Ryan -9 I 0 1 0-0 0-0 · 0-0 0 0-0 ii -o' ~~~wapp~ ~-ap~---2 4----· iS-_-_---_---_-· =0~~ ~~-~-=--··_7~5J lrEAM 3 I O 1 1.0-2 0-0 0-0 0 0:0 -0 -07 Lyons,John 1 2 14 0 14 14.0 Total 13 470 396 866 78-355 31-230 11-100 29 8-25 11 0 
!West. George 13 1 •-11 0 11 0.8]
Opponents 13 489 362 851 64-301 31-216 7-146 40 7-54 7 0 Sharpley, Evan 8 4 0 7 7 '~ ;Samardzija,Jeff 13 6 6 ____0 6· 0.'51 McConnell, Ashley 13 ----3 ·------6 ____o · --6-----0.5 
~cKnight, Rli:~..11:1~------13 ·-----f 0 · 5 0.41 Grimes, David 12 2 0 2 ---·02 
ALL PURPOSE G Rush Rec PR KOR IR Tot Avg/G iTEAM 3 3 -4 0 -4 -1.37 jWalker, Darius 1J____!_2_~7-___ 391 0 -----~-------~------1_658 127.1J Total 13 894 1634 3433 S067 389.8 Samardzija,Jeff 13 6 1017 4 0 0 1027 79.0 Opponents 13 807 1779 2644 4423 340.2 
~cKnight, Rhema 13 5 ___ --2_~7___ ___ O O .-_ 0 _912 _____?0.2J 
Z006 Schedule and Results --·.
Grimes, David 12 2 336 0 514 0 852 71.0 
September2 at Georgia Tech W 14-10 ~arlson,John ___________ U___ ·_ o___ 634____ o _____ o______ O____ 634 -S7.61 
September9 -PENNSTATE W 41-17! West, George 13 11 14 20 251 0 296 22.8· 
September16 --MICHIGAN____ L 47-21 :Zbikowski, Tom 12 · 0 0 · 144 107 0 251 20.9] 
~epicnil>er23 _____atMicliiganState ______________ W ·_____ ---~~__El Aldridge,James -7 142 0 0 0 0 142 20.3 September 30 PURDUE W 35-21 ;&eeman, Marcus_ ___ 13 _____0______ 98 ______ 0 _ 0___ 0 ______ 98 7.~ ,October7 ____________ STANFORD ____________________________ W _______ 31-10; Walls, Darrin 8 0 0 0 84 0 84 10.5 October21 UCLA ______________w 20-17 pcrober28__ _ vsNavy(Balnmore) W -38-14: 
November 4 NORlH CAROLINA --·-w ·---·------45-2l
~~=:sn!:t-------!~-------;~-----~-----~ -----~-.. ,.. ~---;~ !:!1 
~ovemberH __________atAir Force____________________ _______ W ________ _ 39-111 November 18 ARMY W 41-9 
Ndiikwe, Chinedum -13 -0 -----0 0 -0 52 52 -4.0l 
Lumbert, Terrail ·-13 · · 0 --0 0 --0----27 -----27 --"i.1 
November2s·· -att:ISC ---------. ----. --------L ------·--·44-24 !Richardson, Mike 13 0 0 0 0 · 21 -21 1.6! }anuary3 -·vsLSU ·-----~··-~----··-~------·-·L-·--------~----·--41-14, );;,astasio, Chase 11 0 21 ii -0 ------0 ------21 · ---·1.9' 
l007 Schedule · , -· 
;:::~:=ph _____ 1~. --~!---. _-~ ------~---~------~-----!! -~} GEORGIA TECH
September 1 
~cConnell,Ashley __ 13 ____ } ___8 ______ 0 ______ 0 ____ o____ 15 ____i.i] 
·::::::::1s ··----::::::re --=---~=::---===:===:-~==·--·==~--=-== 
Lyons,John 1 14 0 0 0 0 14 14.0 :s·eptemoer·22 __ _,_ ___________MICHIGANSTATE·-----------------·-··•--·-···----------· ·-----···------· ------­
sCptember 29 . at Purdue . -. -.. ----...._________ .__
~:~:•~~:-------___ 1!----~-------~ -------~ ______ ~ ________ -~ ___·----~ -~:~1 
;octobertr-.--·-· at UCLA . •-se•-----­
~ T-~ --·, --------·· -·-----------~ 
'.Quinn, Steve · -12 0 0 1 0 · · 0 1 ___ ~:I_, Octohcr 13 · ·---BOSTON COLLEGE --· -----·-··· .. -·· ---~ TEAM··-----------·3 -4 ·--·-o~··--·o· o -·o--4 -1.3 pi:tober 20 ---------·--use . --------------------------------------------------------------·---: Navelllber3 NAVY----. -----------·•
Total 13 1634 3433 169 96S 100 6301 484.7 ~ovemberiO . AIRFORCE ----------------------------------­
Opponents 13 1779 2644 242 1177 146 5988 460.6 
N'avember l7 u••nUKE·•-,e• ..... --.. ----­
November 24 · at Stanford · · · 








