	Disce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.	
Vol. XVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 7, 1882.	No. 5.
For the Fly-Leaf of a Little Girl’s Album.
Dear Amy, on these pages white. Each one who loves thee may indite Delightful verses, tender rhymes, In which thy heart, in sadder times, Can find a balm to solace grief, .And give each aching care relief.
Then let no trifier insincere
Inscribe his senseless folly here;
Oh! keep these leaves from folly free, jXoble, and full of purity!
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
.	Miltiades.
This distinguished commander was a native of Athens, and the descendant of one of the noblest families of Greece. His father, named Cimon, was one of those high-minded Athenians who could not brook subjection to the tyrant Pisistratus, and therefore went into voluntary exile. The magnanmity of Pisistratus, however, induced him to return, but he was soon afterwards slain in a domestic tumult which broke out in the city. Cimon left two sons, Miltiades and Stesagoras; the latter was called to a higher station than that which either his father or himself had filled in Athens. The sons of Cimon had an uncle named Miltiades, who through his own merits, and in consequence of the dictates of the Delphian oracle, became prince of the Thracian Dolonccs, the inhabitants of a part of Chersonesus; and, dying without issue, his nephew Stesagoras succeeded him in the sovereignty. The reign of Stesagoras was not of long duration; he was slain by an enemy in disguise; and, dying like his uncle, without issue, Miltiades became the legitimate claimant to the throne and property of his brother. At this time he was a great favorite with Pisistratus, the sovereign of Athens, and that prince, ever the friend of monarchical government, assisted him with a small army to support his title. With one ship only, he sailed to take possession of his new government; and, perceiving the necessity of a stratagem, on his arrival in the Chersonesus he absented himself from the public shows, and affected a particular seclusion, pretending grief for the death of Stesagoras and a desire to do honor
to his memory. Bv this artifice he brought around him all the influential persons from the neighboring cities, an event for which Miltiades had duly prepared.
The murder of his father Cimon was said to have been contrived or perpetrated at Athens by the very persons whom he now found in his power; they were therefore seized and imprisoned by his order, and his path to the throne was secured from danger.
Miltiades now found himself the undisputed master of Chersonesus. He immediately formed a bodv guard of five thousand auxiliaries, and an alliance with Olorus, king of Thrace. Dur- ’
J o
ing the third vear of his government, Darius, to avenge certain alleged injuries he had received from the Athenians, made war upon' all Greece and the neighboring countries. Then the Scythian nomades, or wandering tribes, either irritated by some injuries they had received from the Persian expedition, or taking advantage of the general state of confusion and alarm which it occasioned, assembled in great numbers on the bof-ders of Chersonesus, and desolated the country around. This was a force which Miltiades found himself unable to withstand, and he prudently retired until the storm was abated. According to the customary mode of warfare with the Scythians, they plundered the Chersonesus without attempting to retain their conquests, and soon suffered it to revert to its former prince; thus Mil-tiadcs was reinstated in his power by the Dolonces.
A short interval of peace succeeded; but in the third year after his restoration Darius, provoked, perhaps, bv the well-known attachment of Miltiades to the Athenians, sent a powerful army of Phoenicians against him; and the hero, surrounding himself with his friends, and collecting all his riches, finally abandoned his dominions and set sail with a fleet of five .ships for Athens. The Athenians had been prepared to receive the royal fugitive with honor. He had never in the course ’ of his sovereignty over Cheronesus forgotten his relationship with his native land; and on one occasion had rendered Athens a considerable service. The inhabitants of the Island of Lemnos, having been admonished by.the Delphian oracle to settle, their differences with the Athenians by an absolute submission, the Lemnian ambassadors are said to have answered, contemptuously, that 11 they would comply, when a ship from the Athenian dominions
66
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
should be blown into their harbors by a north wind,” confident in the then imperfect state of the art of navigation, that, as the haven of Lemnos was ^jtuated to the north of Attica, they were perfectly secure from such event. Miltiades, however, being possessed of the Chersonesus, easily sailed from a port in the Hellespont, and was driven into the harbor of Lemnos by a strongnorth wind. Then, aware alike of the oracle and of the positive answer of the Lemnitcs, he instantly demanded a fulfilment of both, in their submission to him on the part of the Athenians. This requisition was immediately complied with, partty, perhaps, through superstitious reverence of the oracle, and partly in deference to their own honor.
But neither these services, nor the known friendship of Miltiades to the Athenian State, could screen him from censure, on account of what was, in the eyes of the Athenians, a serious crime. He, an Athenian citizen, had become a monarch; and the Athenians, in their inveterate hatred to kingly government, brought this accusation against him, 0*0	O'
foi- which he was tried, but acquitted. His talents, reputation and riches now soon elevated him to the highest offices of public trust and honor. When the ambassadors of Darius came to Athens, demanding earth and water from the citizens in token of their submission to the Persians, it was to the eloquence and exertions of Miltiades that Athens owed the glory of her decisive conduct. He induced his countrymen to throw those emissaries of the tyrant into a pit as a signal of defiance to their master, proclaiming to them aloud that in that place they would find the objects of their requisition, earth and water sufficient for their purpose, and as much as the Athenian honor could grant them. After this hostile menace, when war was preparing on both sides with the utmost activity, Miltiades was appointed one of the ten Generals to command the Athenian army, upon which he brought undying glory on the field of Marathon, and saved Athens from being attacked and plundered by those fugitives whom he had already beaten. On his return to Athens from the splendid victory of Marathon, Miltiades was treated with increased respect. Soon afteiwards, in an assembly of the people, he proposed that they should make a descent upon the Island Paros, to retaliate upon the inhabitants of that place for the offence which- they had committed in rendering ■ assistance to Darius in his late expedition to Marathon. Unfortunately, both for his own fate and the fortunes of the Athenians, Miltiades, now a leading man in their assemblies, succeeded without difficulty in persuading them to adopt his scheme ; and they entrusted him with a fleet of seventy ships well manned and proportionately appointed.
With this force Miltiades sailed from Athens in high hopes of conquest, and promising to return with great riches and advantages—the fruits of his anticipated victory. Arrived at the Island Paros he landed without opposition, and sent heralds to the city, demanding the. sum of one hundred talents to be immediately paid him as a ransom for their country,
which, in case of refusal, he threatened to give up to the violence and plunder of his soldiers. The Parians refused even to deliberate on his proposals, sent back to Miltiades an unqualified defiance, and vigorously prepared for their defence. The Athenian army then invested the city, and, for a time, carried on the siege with prospect of ultimate success. Miltiades, however, being deceived by the treacherous advice given by Timo, a Parian priestess, was baffled and defeated in his attack. With this ended the short season of the glory of Miltiades. The great victor of Marathon was now doomed to the same fate which had befallen many a great hero of Greece,—public contempt. The slightest misfortune was at all times sufficient to change the aspect of the Athenian favor; and in proportion as their expectations had been raised by success, so were their vexation and anger vented upon a reverse. With an army diminished in number and broken in spirit, the helpless Miltiades returned, wounded, to Athens, and found that the general dissatisfaction was increasing.
The circumstance of a personal quarrel with Lysagoras, a Persian chief, was alleged as an argument to prove his motive- for the recent expedition to have been self-interest alone; and Xantip-pus, the father of the famous Pericles, boldly came forward to the general assembly and accused their formerly victorious and highly-favored General of having designedly misled the people into war. This construction of his conduct was instantly adopted by the fickle-minded Athenians, and the popular voice now loudly demanded the sentence of death on the unfortunate Miltiades as an expiation of his crime. The situation' of the accused was the more distressing as it was utterly impossible, because of his wounds, for him to appear in his own defence. His known eloquence, and even his personal appearance. might not have been without their due influence on the multitude; but he was obliged, however unwilling, to trust his defence to Tisa-goras, his brother, who, indeed, used his most strenuous exertions on his behalf. Tisagoras represented to the Athenians that, although Miltiades had failed in his last expedition, it was yet to him that they were indebted for that victory at Marathon which had saved Athens from the cruelties threatened by the Persian monarch. He therefore entreated them to forgive his present error in consideration of his past services, and to regard, at least with' some commiseration, him to whom they were indebted for the power of that deliberation which they now exercised, and those laws which he had protected from dissolution by the Persian king. These arguments and this appeal to their justice as well as to their pity, were not without effect. On a solemn hearing, the assembled Athenian people’acquitted Miltiades of any crime deserving death, but, at the same time, they sentenced him to pay a fine of fifty talents, the cost of the late unfortunate Parian expedition. As he was unable to pay this large sum, maimed and disabled as he was, the Athenians dragged him to prison, condemning him- to suffer in prison for that which he was unable to pay in money. And thus the cele-.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	67
■	brated hero, owing to the wounds received while .
I	fighting for his country, terminated a miserable
1	existence in prison. The cruelty of the Athenians
'	did not end with the death of their victim; in their
hard-heartedness, they even went so far as to
I	deny him the rites of burial until the fine imposed
'	upon him was discharged. This shortly after-
wards was done by Cimon, his son, who offered his own person to redeem the body of his parent P from further indignity.
’	J. M. S.
The Recruit.
MARIOX MUIR.
“Mine to-day the soldier’s joy! ” (Homeward wrote their warrior boy.)
“ When, like hail, through bush and brier, Drove our foeman’.s scattering fire;
Oh, believe me, sweet and new, Sang the bullets as they flew! ”
But the man who heard it read, Laughed, old soldier, as he said:
“ When he hears that music long, He will praise another song.” ----------------- ------------
The Vale of Avoca.
The river Ovoca which flows through the charming Wicklow valley of the “ Meeting of the Waters,” is named Oboka on the ancient geo-graphical chart compiled by Ptolemy. “In. the portion of his work relating to Ireland,” remarks the author of “Irish Names of Places,” “Ptolemy mentions over fifty names, and of this number only about nine can be identified with names existing within the period reached by our history.” In the Irish annals, the proper name of the river now so well known as the Ovoca, is Abhainn-mhor. At the date A. M. 3501, in the Four Masters, we find that Amergin, one of the leaders of the Milesian expedition and chief ollav of the Gade-lian colony, made a causeway at Inbher-mor (the mouth of the Ovoca); and the learned O’Donovan states, in a note on the entry, that the remains of this tochar are still traceable, and give name to a townland in the vicinity of Arklow.
The celebrated “Meeting of the Waters” is formed by the confluence of the streams of the Avonmore and Avon beg. The latter descends through the historic defile of Glenmalure, in whose rugged fastnesses, during the fierce and protracted struggle between the Irish septs and the armies of Elizabeth, the gallant clan of the O’Byrnes had their stronghold, and bade defiance to the lords of the Pale. In 1580 they annihilated the forces of Lord Grey, who, upon his landing in Ireland as viceroy, had directed his first expedition against the Wicklow clans. He rashly determined to force the pass of Glenmalure; but the English troopers had no sooner penetrated into the heart of the defile,
than they were surrounded by the O’Bymes and their allies, and cut off almost to a man. .	'
The scenery of the Vale of Avoca is exquisitely portrayed in Moore’s beautiful melody, the.“Meeting of the Waters:”—	•
o
“There is not in this wide world a valley so sweet . As that vale in whose bosom the bright waters meet; Oh! the last ray of feeling and life must depart- . 4 Ere the bloom of that valley shall fade from my heart.”
In this delightful region nature has been lavish of all her softer charms, and everything around wears an aspect of serene and enchanting loveliness. The graceful outline of the encircling hills, clothed-with the brightest and most luxuriant foliage; the repose of the sylvan solitudes, unbroken, save by. the murmur of the summer wind, or the wild,? sweet warbling of the feathery songsters; the . tranquil, silent flow of the crystal waters, now-darkened by the shadows of the sentinel groves," now reflecting in their clear wave the picturesque: forms of the slowly-drifting clouds that seem. loath to wander from such a fairy scene,. anon •. glancing in the splendor of the golden sunbeam— -all tend to create some of the most delightful sen-.. sations that can be enjoyed in the contemplation of the many favored gems of scenery in our. Western Isle. Little wonder that the exquisite. charm of such a scene captivated the prince of Irish bards, and that under the spell of their magic., beauty, he should have sung—	"	’’
“ Sweet Vale of Avoca, how calm could I rest In thy bosom of shade with the friends I love best, When the storms thatwe feel in this cold world would cease, And our hearts, like thy waters, be mingled in peace.” ;
Books and. Periodicals.
—Donahoe's Magazine for October, presents an attractive ■ table of contents. Rev. J. V. O’Condr contributes an. article on the “Physical Endurance of the Irish Race”; Wm. J. Onahan; one on “ The Jesuits,” with a tabulated statement of their number and distribution throughout the world; Rev. P. F. Dealy, S. J., gives us a sketch of the career of “An Irish Catholic Governor”. (Col. Thos. Dongan, of New York, in the time of James I). Besides the leading articles, Donahoes Magazine has, as usual, short articles on mis-cellaheous subjects, current topics,-Facetue, etc. Edited and published by P. Donahoe, Boston.
—Among the literary attractions of St. Nicholas for October the young reader, after scanning the beautiful pictures in the magazine, will, probably first settle down on Mrs. Mapes Dodge’s, story of . “ Donald and Dorothy,” which is brought to ..a happy conclusion in this number. Clara Erskine Clement’s entertaining “ Stories of Art and Artists ” speak' this month - of Domenichino - and Guido Reni, and give . illustrations. of Guido’s . Beatrice Cenci and Aurora. . “ The Captain of the Orient Baseball Nine ” will, of course, prove attractive reading for. the boys. The department for “Very Little Folk” is pleasingly.written and nicely illustrated with doll-parties , and that sort of
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thing. “Learning to Ride,” written for older boys and girls by Charles Barnard, gives illustrations in horsemanship that cannot fail to prove attractive. “ The Story of a Very Naughty Girl,” by ’Lizbeth Hall, and numerous other pleasantly-told stories, handsome pictures, etc., will give excellent entertainment to readers of both sexes. St. Nicholas is published by The Century Co., 33 East 17th street, New York.
—The Century Magazine for October gives as frontispiece an excellent portrait of Abraham Lincoln, engraved by Cole. Frank B. Carpenter tells how Lincoln’s nomination came about, notwithstanding Mr. Seward’s and Mr. Chase’s popularity, and gives an interesting account of the caucus meetings and convention. “ Life in a Mexican Street,” by Robt. H. Lamborn, is splendidly illustrated by Mary Hallock Foote; as are also “The Corcoran Gallery of Art,” “A Georgia Corn-Shucking,” and “ The Negotiations for the Obelisk.” “ The Gibraltar of America,” by Chas. H. Farnham, is splendidly illustrated by Henry Sandham and F. Hopkinson Smith. W. D. Howells concludes “ A Modern Instance ” in a manner that will probably surprise most of his readers and enhance his credit with all. The concluding chapters form one of .the best masterpieces of writing that we have had from any author' of fiction— and will undoubtedly be productive of much good. Mr. Howells attacks that accursed bane of modern society—Divorce—and overcomes it with its own weapons and upon ground of its own choice. Atherton, the clear-headed, pure-hearted lawyer, reasoning with a man kind at heart, but confessedly without that higher moral principle which true religion alone can give, says:
“ Oh! has thatpoison got intojwz, Halleck?. You might ask her, if she were a widow, to marry you; but how will you ask her if she’s still a wife, to get a divorce and then marry you? How will you suggest that to a woman whose constancy to her mistake has made her sacred to you? .... Have you really come back here to give your father’s honest name, and the example of a man of your own blameless life, in support of conditions that tempt people to marry with a mental reservation, and that weaken every marriage bond with the guilty hope of escape whenever a fickle mind, or secret lust, or wicked will may dictate ? Have you come to join yourself to those miserable specters who go shrinking through the world, afraid of their own past, and anxious to hide it from those they hold dear? or do you propose to defy the world, to help form within it the community of outcasts with whom shame is not shame, nor dishonor dishonor?”
“ Through one Administration ” - is continued in this number. Charles G. Leland contributes an illustrated article on “Hand-Work in Public Schools,” and Francis A. Walker one on “ The Growth of the United States.” The various departments entitled respectively “Topics of the Time,” “ Literature,” “ Home and Society,” “ The World’s Work,” “ Bric-a-Brac,” etc., contain much that is of general interest.
—Two remarkable articles in The Catholic Worldior October are “ Literature and the Laity,” by John R. G. Hassard, of the New York Tribune, and “ Incidents of the Reign of Henry VIII,” by S. Hubert Burke. Mr. Hassard, among other
things, points to the fact, that while Catholics support the secular press equally with Protestants, Jews and infidels, it seems to be an accepted belief in newspaper offices that it is not worth while to be civil to Catholics, as they will not resent an affront, and irritating misrepresentations of Catholic doctrines and practices, or of the facts of Catholic history, or of the relation of current events to the Catholic Church, rarely provoke a protest. Mr. Hassard touches upon matters of much greater weight and importance than this, but as our limited space prevents anything like a review of the article, we refer the reader to the magazine itself. In “ Incidents of the Reign of Henry VIII” things not generally found in histories— certainly not in modern histories—are brought to light. Among these is the last will and testament of Henry VIII,—suppressed by those who attended at his appalling death,—which contained a special command that his son, Edward VI, should be educated in the ancient Catholic faith and have Masses said for the repose of his father’s soul. Mr. Froude remarks (Vol. v, p. 2) that Lord Hertford “did not dare to make public the last conversation he held with the king the daj- before his death.” The man whom even Elizabeth’s friend Raleigh described as “ the very incarnation of human wickedness,” and whom Miss Strickland calls a “ regal ruffian ” and the “ English Bluebeard,” died as he had lived, after having, as we are informed by Dean Hook, in his death-agony signed the death-warrant of the Duke of Norfolk.
O	.
Sharon Turner and other eulogists of the wifemurderer will no doubt find the London lawyer’s paper interesting reading. The other articles in this number of The Catholic World are: “The Comedy of Conference,” after the manner of Mr. Marshall’s “ The Comedy of Convocation ”; “ The Greatest of Mediasval Hymns,” by A. J. Faust, Ph. D.; “The Pilot’s Daughter,” a story, by Wm. Seton; “ St. Magdalene” (poetry); “ St. Anne de Beaupre,” by Anna T. Sadlier; “James Florant Meline,” a biographical sketch; “ Memory and its Diseases,” by C. M. O’Leary, M. D., LL. D.; “The Crusades,” by Hugh P. McElrone; “A Ballad of Things Beautiful,” by Inigo Deane, S. J.; “The Good Humor of. the Saints,” by Agnes Repplier; “A Railway Accident” (poetry), by Delta. Published by the Catholic Publication Society Co., New York.
Scientific Notes.
—The French Government has offered for the .second time a prize of $10,000 for the invention of the most useful application of the voltaic pile. During five years this remains open to competitors.
—Lieut. Com. Charles Dwight Sigsbee, United States Navy, has been offered a decoration of the Order of the Red Eagle by the Emperor of Germany, for meritorious service rendered to the German navy in the construction of a deep-sea sounding machine, invented by himself.
I!
J	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The use of face masks of mica for the protection of metal and glass-melters, stone masons and other workmen exposed to heat, dust and noxious vapors, is found to be' quite serviceable. These masks allow the eyes to be turned in any direction, and admit of the wearing of glasses.
—Italian papers announce the discovery at Dor-gali, in the island of Sardinia, of a great stalactite cave. Fifteen galleries have been already traced. In one of them there is a row of pillars like white marble, and the floor is smooth, resembling the finest basalt. When lit up with torches the combinations and varieties of coloring are wonderfully beautiful.	.
—“Monkeys,” says Alfred R. Wallace, “are usually divided into three kinds—apes, monkeys, and baboons; but these do not include the American monkeys, which are really more different from all those of the Old World than any of the latter arc from each other. Naturalists, therefore, divide the whole monkey tribe into two families—one having its habitat in the Old, the other in the New World.”	.
—Two scientific observers in Geneva, Messrs. Dufour and Farell, have discovered a fresh proof <of the theory that the earth is of a globular form, as taught by modern science. They find that the images of steamers and the surrounding mountains reflected upon the surface of a large lake, invariably appear slightly diminished in size. They conclude, therefore, that the surface of the water must be bent in a convex shape, so that it produces t(ie same result as a convex lens.
—Dust mixed with air is found to be, under certain conditions, a dangerous explosive. Thus, if a large log of wood were ingnited, it might be a week before it would be entirely consumed; split up into cord wood and piled up loosely, it would, perhaps, burn in less than an hour; cut it into shavings and allow a strong wind to throw them into the air—or in any way keep the chips comparatively well separated from each other—and the log would perhaps be consumed in two or three minutes; but if ground up into fine dust or powder, .and blown in such a manner that each particle is surrounded by air, it would burn in less than a .second.
—The coldest place is not, as has hitherto been believed by meteorologists, Yakutsk, in Siberia, but Verkoyansk, in the same region, lying in sixty-:seven and one-half degrees north latitude, on the river Yana. Its lowest mean winter temperature is forty-eight and six-tenths degrees below zero, Centigrade. This is the cold pole of the earth in Asia, the corresponding pole in America being to the northward of the Parry Islands, and the line joining these two places does not pass through the north pole itself, which is thus, in all probability, outside the line of greatest cold. On the other hand the greatest heat in the tropics is not at the equator, but some distance north and south.
—Professor Barff has lately contributed a paper to the Month in which he describes a new process ■ whereby articles of food, notoriously liable to
putrefaction, can be preserved sweet and good for an indefinite period of time. This wonderful result may be obtained by a very simple expedient. Glycerine, heated with boracic acid, produces ‘ a chemical compound somewhat analogous in its composition to beef or mutton fat. Prof. Barffj the discoverer, has provisionally termed this substance “ boro-glyceride.” It is by means of this preparation that the Professor has been enabled to achieve such wonders. Articles of food to be preserved are immersed in a solution of this boro-glyceride until they are required for use; liquids can be treated with a dilute solution and yet retain their native taste and freshness. It is also reported that animals can be preserved whole and shipped in perfect condition to any part of the world. The animal is first stunned by a blow, a vein is then opened, the compound is injected and the circulation of the blood carries the antiseptic into all the arteries and vessels of the body.
—It is a well-known fact, says the Scientific American^ that any person of average structure and lung capacity will float securely in the water if care be taken to keep the hands and arms submerged and the lungs full of air. Yet in most cases people who are not swimmers immediately raise their hands above their heads and scream the moment they find themselves in deep water. The folly of such action can be impressively illustrated by means of a half-empty bottle and a couple of nails, and the experiment should be repeated in every household until all the members—particularly the women and children—realize that the only chance for safety in deep water lies in keeping the hands under and the mouth shut. Any short-necked, square-shouldered bottle will answer, and the nails can be easily kept in place by a rubber band or string. First ballast the bottle with sand so that it will just float with the nails pointing downward; then by turning the nails upwards the bottle will be either forced under the water at once or will be tipped over so that the water will pour into the open mouth, and down it will go. To children the experiment is a very impressive one, and the moral of it is easily understood.
College Gossip.
—The bequests to Harvard College during the past year foot up to $400,000.—-Ex.
—Dartmouth’s expenses for the year 1880—1 were covered by its income for the first time in twenty-two years;—Pa. Univ. Mag.
—The oldest Baptist college in Iowa, the Des Moines University, has suspended with an indebtedness of $15,000.—University Press.
—We learn from the Cornell Sun that the value . of the McGraw-Fiske bequest to Cornell University will closely approximate.$3,ooo,qoo.
—Prof.—(placidly producing the brains of a -couple of sheep)—«I have been fortunate enough to secure some brains for the class,”—-fix,	'
7o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The University of Berlin has over 4,000 students. It is feared they are too thick to thrive, and other buildings will have to be erected.
• —W. J. Mason, secretary to Prof. Fiske, of Cornell University, has a growing class in Isaac Pitman phonography.—American Shorthand Writer.
—“What building is that?” asked a stranger* of a boy, pointing to the school-house. “That?” “ why that’s a tannery 1 ” and he feelingly rubbed his back as he passed on.
—An Edinburgh professor, being driven to church, was asked a double price, and he demanded the reason. The cabman told him it was to discourage travelling on the Sabbath.
—The Cincinnati Wesleyan Female College has been sold at sheriff’s sale.—ExchaiiQ'c. Females don’t pay, and the trustees of Wabash College are aware of the fact.—Lariat.
—The Iowa State University has large and growing classes in phonography. The Pitman system is taught. The classes, numbering 75 members, are under the direction of Mr. Eldon Moran.
—The lilies of the field have pistils, and every citizen of Texas is “ arrayed like one of these.”—Argo.
We wonder gt such a sensible paper as the Argo shooting off jokes like this one. There is no stamina to it.
—The editing of the “ Correspondence of Carlyle and Emerson” has been entrusted to Prof. Norton, of Harvard University. The interchange of letters began in 1834. Carlyle, before his death, gave his sanction to the appearance of his portion of the Correspondence.
—Complaint is made that the German universities are overcrowded. During the season of financial speculation that followed the French war, the attendance seriously fell off. But now students are coming in larger numbers than ever, with the result, it is said, of injuring productive industries and depreciating the standard of examinations. •
—At the instance of the fathers of two of the Trinity College students, at Hartford, Conn., who . were hazed by members of the senior class, last April, prosecutions have been brought against the thirteen students who were suspended by the faculty and who have recently returned to the city. The offending students pleaded non contendere, and were fined, $10 each and costs.—Pa. Univ. Mag.
—Cornell has had two cane-rushes since the beginning of the present term. The chronicler of the second of these events, in The Cornell Daily Sun, in one place describes the rushers as “acompact body of struggling, perspiring, and somewhat denuded humanity,”. around which was “an encircling crowd of skirmishers, and surrounding all an appreciative audience.” Elsewhere it is stated that “the .Freshman’co-eds, having attended a class-meeting in. some force, afterwards ‘viewed the rush .at a distance.’ ” ,’ We make no comment, further than, that we think the Cornell press has a mission to perform.* We may remark en ptassant that Yale'hasialso had a “rush” this,year.
—The Sisters of Notre Dame, whose successes.
in the Examinations of the Educational Department have for many years been so conspicuous, are beginning to make a figure in the competitive lines of secondary education. Seven of the good Sisters’ pupils have obtained the Certificate of Associate in Arts from , the University of Oxford, by creditable success among the senior candidates. In the recent examination for the Certificate of the College of Preceptors, the Liverpool High School, of the Sisters of Notre Dame, was equally distinguished, as twenty-two of the pupils passed with credit, and Miss Edith Emma Sheid was ranked second for botany and geology, among 4,616 competitors.—London Weekly Register.
—Dr. Bacon is quoted by the Chicago Tribune as saying that “ Within a few months a chair in an orthodox theological seminary in the dominant Christian sect of New England has been occupied by a man who, during the period of his incumbency, sued for • separation and bigamy-permits for himself and wife, and, of course, secured them. The fact did not interrupt his tenure of professorship, nor the course of his official duties, unless, perhaps, he would glide a little lightly, in the course of his expositions, over the nineteenth chapter of St. Matthew and the parallel passages. So far as known, he continues still in good stand-ding with the clergy of the Congregational order throughout the country. And yet, adds Dr. Bacon, ‘They are unanimously and conscientiously opposed to polygamy—in Utah!’ ”
Exchanges.
—With its second issue this year The Cornell Daily Sun appears in a new and neatly-engraved heading. The paper has been enlarged and is now about the size of The Harvard Daily Lieraid of last year. The Sun states that the Freshman Engineer Class is this year larger than during any previous year. *	.
—The Badger (University of Wisconsin) is passably good, and promises better. The Badger has no desire to question the benefit of military drill in the-college course, but thinks there is too much of that kind of thing at the University of Wisconsin. That is just what we lack this year, for’ want of a military instructor, but on dit that the want will be only temporary.
—The University Press is the first college exchange that greets us after the opening of the scholastic year—if we except the K. M. I. .News, from Kentucky, which has been published regularly during vacation. .We can almost imagine we see the K. M. I. man scribbling away, for dear life during the dog-days, with a wet towel round his head, and a huge fan in his hand to “ raise the wind’’.and keep off the flies. Plucky fellow, that K. M. I. man.
—The Musical Record, of Boston, edited by Dexter Smith and . published by Oliver- Ditson & Co., contains a large amount of news from all parts of the United States, letters from abroad,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
etc. The warm contest now going on in its pages between the advocates of the staff notation and those of the Tonic Sol-fa system is interesting, to music students especially. Several pages of good music accompany each number of the Record. Price of subscription, $2 a year.
—Brainard''s Musical World for August contains, besides the usual amount of matter on musical subjects, an entertaining description of a visit to Liszt by “Octavia Hensel” (Lady Mary Alice Seymour), whose contributions to The “Ave Maria” Harper's Magazine, and The Home Journal seem to meet with no little favor. The Musical World accompanies the description of the visit with the best portrait of Liszt that we have seen in any of the papers.
•	—The University Press has been - changed
from the quarto to the octavo form, with a cover, and is now issiied weekly. In its third number the editors commend the energetic stand taken by the college authorities against hazing, which it terms a “meaningless, purposeless, idiotic legacy of antiquated college shorts! One case of hazing has occurred at Madison this term, and the Press hopes the “ Regulators ” will, by preventing anything of the kind in the future, “ avoid the censure and contempt of all sensible people.” The Press is right in its denunciations and deserves credit for the stand it has taken.
—The Catholic Examiner is the title of a new literary monthly published in Brooklyn. It is a three-column quarto, and very neatly printed. The object of the paper is the elevation of popular literature. There is a great variety of readingmatter, and, very properly, that of a light tendency predominates. Among the essays of a serious character is one on “ Divorce,” from the pen of one of Brooklyn’s rising young lawyers. The leading article, “ Drifting,” from the pen of Mr. John Fitzgerald, is a thoughtful and well-written production. “ Will-o’-the-Wisp’s ” editorial notes on current topics are excellent. The Examiner is published by Feeney, Fitzgerald and Hagerty. Subscription price, 75 cents a year. Address, P. O. Box 43, Brooklyn, N. Y.	.
—The 'Home Journal, now edited by George Perry and Morris Phillips, has reached far into its 37th year of publication and continues to main-' tain the high prestige received from its founders, N. P. Willis and George P. Morris. The literary contributions are evidently selected with care, and are in.pleasing variety. “Octavia Hensel,” who is evidently an art critic as well as an exceptionally pleasing writer, contributes a series of papers entitled “ Bridle Paths in Berkshire,” in which we obtain some delightful glimpses of American rural scenery and the important persons connected with it. The Home Journal devotes a large amount of space to.society notes. The editors are enthusiastic advocates of spelling reform, and their paper is printed in the modified spelling adopted by the American and British Philological Societies.
—Not long since a subscriber from a distance, who called expressly “to see the editor of the Ypsilanti Sen
tinel" expressed his surprise. He thought such a paper, in a business place- ought to abound with advertisements, and he had concluded there was very little here. We hope we shall not be accused of vanity in noticing this small, but significant incident.—Ypsilanti Sentinel.
The business people of Ypsilanti are evidently behind the times in their lack of appreciation of the Sentinel as an advertising medium. In a live town the advertising columns of the Sentinel would be crowded, and the business men would reap a corresponding reward for their outlay. If Mr. Woodruff had not brains enough to fill his paper with excellent reading matter, both original and selected, but would “ let out ” his advertising pages as many do wilfully or through ignorance, to such venal charlatans as the Chicago “Doctor” who was lately hauled up before the courts by the Society for the Prevention of Vice, he would have advertisements enough; but Mr. Woodruff is a gentleman, a man of principle, and will not stoop to fill his paper with such pernicious advertisements. As things go, ten columns of advertisements is not so bad. The Sentinel has nearly completed the 35th year of its publication.
—The first number of The Lariat, from Wabash College, is a sprightly one. The list of entrances so far is rather small, on account of which 7 he Lariat criticizes the authorities for their* want of spirit in not advertising the institution. There is only “a baker’s dozen of Seniors” and a Prep, class of 70. The Lariat makes some sensible remarks about the too frequent change of textbooks in one of the departments of the college, and in another editorial about the deprecable haste of students in general in making a collegiate course. It savs:	.
•/
“What is a college course for, anyhow? Is it merely an affair to be gotten through with in all possible haste, that the student may be conscious of having finished (?) it, oris it to be a kind of nucleus around which during the four vears one may gather a vast array of outside material, all bearing on a thorough education? We know some men who are endeavoring to take about four years in two—apparently just to get through college. It appears to us that the bare ‘book-learning’ which may be obtained from the prescribed course is not the vital part of a college education. If one omits general reading, the advantages of the literary societies, and the cultivation acquired by mingling in society, he loses absolutely the greater part of an education. Especially true is this of the student who expects to mingle much with people in his after life. If he here fosters the habits of a hermit, he will find much difficulty in afterwards making people believe him civilized. Some students have been here three years without forming a half dozen acquaintances outside the college circle. Who doubts that such will find difficulty in making themselves agreeable to others? If we would gain aught of practical: worth from the years spent upon the mastery of languages and mathematics, we must get it by using every collateral aid which may consistently be employed.”	'
It is our opinion that the more a student avoids outside society during the college term the better it will be for him. As to the benefit of the literary societies in the college there can be no question, if they are properly conducted. We will see enough of society during vacations and after leaving college without wasting valuable time that should be given to study and the athletic sports necessary to counteract sedentary work and preserve a sound constitution.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, October 7, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects - connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
. All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
'—It has been remarked that but once before in the history of the College is it recorded that the Band appeared in public so early in the session as this year. The lamented Father Lilly—whose memory can never die at Notre Dame—when appointed to the directorship of the Musical Department, in ’70, entered so enthusiastically upon his work that he succeeded in forming a Band from among those who remained during vacation, and thus was enabled to present the unique feature of “ Music by the Band ” at the opening of school. This, however, was a solitary instance and has never been repeated. As a rule, at the beginning of the year, among the members of the band there are but few old players, the majority being “ raw material,” who require weeks of drilling before they can appear to advantage in public. This year, again, is an exception to the general rule. As mentioned in our local columns, the Band appeared at a reunion some weeks ago —and lately, on the occasion of the visit of Gdv._ Porter, it showed the excellence to which it had already attained. It is with pleasure we record this, for the Band is an institution at Notre Dame, and the efforts of members to please are duly appreciated.
The College authorities have lately given fresh proof of interest in the organization, in the purchase of new instruments. And we have no doubt that when these shall be brought into use, many defects which now unavoidably exist will be remedied, and the Band, under the able direction of Prof: Paul, be as perfect as any amateur band in the country. '
— On Saturday, his Excellency Governor Porter, accompanied by Mrs. Porter, and Mr. and Mrs. C. Studebaker, of South Bend, visited the University, and received a cordial and patriotic welcome from the President, the Faculty, and the students. Word having been received a short time before that the Governor would be at the College at 1 o’clock, the University Cornet Band and the students were drawn up in front of the College to receive him. An address of welcome from the students was delivered by Mr. M. E. Donahoe, of Boston, who, in a few, well-chosen words, expressed the great pleasure felt by the students at finding his Excellency amongst them; calling attention to the fact that those who had assembled to greet him were representatives from almost every State in the Union, besides Canada and Mexico. The Governor responded at length, but we give only the substance of his remarks. He said that when he came to this part of the .State it had been no part of his programme to visit the College; but, being in the vicinity, he concluded to call upon the President and have a quiet chat with him, go through the buildings, etc. He had no idea that such an ovation awaited him, and what he had witnessed" had afforded him the most delightful pleasure. He was much, surprised, and very glad, indeed, to see so many young men assembled here from all parts of the country, and was pleased to know that the institutions of our State could attract them from so far. “ We, Indianians,” he said, “ give you a most cordial welcome. I feel confident the education you receive here will be a great benefit to you in after-life. Knowledge not based on morality is not at all beneficial, and I am delighted to find here science and morality going hand in hand. In this country-^a country governed by a free people—moral integrity constitutes the strength of society. Knowledge, combined with this, gives us a sure guarantee of success. We have but to look around us for proofs of this. I was surprised to see in South Bend such immense establishments built up by workingmen. Here is a proof of the value of knowledge; for it was their knowledge, and skill, and integrity, and persevering industry that made these workingmen so successful. Without education they could not have succeeded, and thus we see the infinite value of education to the prosperity of the people.
“ I wish you, young gentlemen, success in your college career, and have no; doubt it will enable you to meet with success. I would; however, like to impress one ,truth, upon ybu—and that is, that the smallest portion of an education is that which
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
can be obtained within the walls of a college. Education is a life-work of which the college training is but the beginning. Man’s whole life is but the acquisition of an education.
“ I shall take with me back to Indianapolis the most pleasant thoughts of your reception, and shall ever remember it with kind cordiality. It will give me pleasure to speak to my friend the Bishop, and my venerable friend Father Bessonies, of my visit to Notre Dame and the kind reception I have met with. I hope your career will be a bright one, and that you will hereafter be of great use to society and to your country.”
Governor Porter is well advanced in years, of prepossessing appearance, and a good speaker. His voice is a clear baritone, and although he spoke without apparent effort he was distinctly heard by every one present.
After the students’ reception, the party were entertained at dinner by Rev. President Walsh; after which they were conducted through the buildings, and visited the church. The Governor expressed the greatest admiration at all the many beauties and wonders pointed out to him. He was especially enthusiastic in speaking of Gregori’s mural paintings in the college, and the grand frescoes in the church. He declared that he would certainly give himself the pleasure of an extended visit to Notre Dame, at a more convenient time.
To the Editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic:
Dear Sir:—Enclosed, I send you $10, a contribution from Mrs. W. H. White, of Jackson, Mich., towards the final crowning of our Blessed Mother’s statue on the Dome. As you may see,’ already your appeal of last Saturday to the generous and loving children of Mary is beginning to be heard and responded to. No wonder, indeed! for, who could pretend to feel an interest in the New Notre Dame, slowly rising from its bed of ashes, and leave it much longer in the shape of a big barn for want of its chief ornament, the splendid Dome, which, in the architect’s comprehensive mind, is to crown so nobly the whole massive pile of elegant structures, and without which every other secondary feature, however fine and rich, loses all’beauty and necessarily looks unsightly, rude and uninteresting.
All have the same feeling in regard to this strange anomaly. Some pretended liberal, wealthy friends had promised to see to it substantially, as they said and wrote; but they seem to have forgotten the first praiseworthy impulses of their generous hearts; and yet the means are.not wanting; abundance reigns almost everywhere. But the rich man zvho has enough, is not to be met everywhere.
For full three years that splendid gilt statue, 16 feet in height, has been looking in vain for a loving hand to raise it on its pedestal, 192 feet above the ground, until it has proved a reproach no one can bear any longer. It must go up, and gladden and delight with its bright crown of stars of electric light, if not the just pride of the millionaire, at least the Christian soul of moderate means, who looks upon a sacrifice to honor God’s own Mother as the best and safest investment that can be made for time and eternity. There is something in it.
Mrs. W. H. White heads the list with $10. She will soon have plenty of generous followers. The work must be commenced at once, and before it is finished the $25,000 shall have been found, and many a noble heart will rejoice at it, feeling it had a hand in the glorious task. I promise you $25 for my share.
One who Owes Something to the
Blessed Virgin. .
A Communication.
To the Editor of the Scholastic:
“ Those coming events cast their shadows before ”	•
That speak by the dozen and laugh by the score.
(Air.—As you tike it.) -
As we were just looking over last week’s index of strange plants and odoriferous flowers in-the new botanical gardens situated between Dixon and. Anderson, our attention was attracted by the Professor of Botany, who was “just in time ” to warn us against the various species of cactus, thistle and nettle that grew in yonder vale.
After having interchanged the ordinary civilities we stood still to admire the surroundins’ beauties of. nature, to listen to the gay hymns of thanksgiving which went forth from the .feathered fowl of the air, and to the sweet music of the purling waters of the great St. Joseph’s as it flowed majestically along to the boundless ocean whence it first evaporated as the gaseous child of air. We were just then reminded of how fleetins all thinss mor-tai are, and how, like the dying echo of the in- -audible Chimes^ they are all destined to melt away over the unruffled surface of Lethe’s Lake. ■	.
• By the shrubbery on the river-side we rioticed some weeping-willows which seemed to forget that the bereavements and misfortunes of this life are but so manv blessinss to remind us of the life to come. In the remote corner of the botanical garden amidst numerous rosebuds we beheld some sequestered lilies of the species called “Rosa Mystica.” These lilies, true to their kind, are, I am informed, accustomed to keep their faces from early morn till late at eventide always turned towards the ever-effulgent luminary of the skies, to drink in the sweet nectar of heaven.
“Happy, indeed!” exclaimed the philosopher, “are those mystical Roses whose sanctity and sequestered life cause their countenances to beam forth the reflex joy of heaven, the divinely participated happiness of habitual grace, the anticipated bliss of heavenly fruition, for, as one who knew it, justly wrote—‘ Coming events cast their shadows before,’ and, the bliss of earth is but the shadow of heaven.”
We then began to return as the sun, reclining on his golden couch, betook himself to the nether regions of the sky. On our way homeward we admired, the harmony of the spheres, and the grandeur of those millions and millions of fiery orbs that wend their way through the realms of space to show forth the immensity of the great “ I Am,” of Him who supports on His palm both heaven and earth, and before whom all things are as if they were. not. . Suddenly our philosophic contemplations were interrupted by a quondam visitor of St. Mary’s who asked if we believed that “coming events cast their shadows before.” “Well, it is true if one has his back to the shining sun!” exclaimed a savant^ “ and I even have heard • of one instance, during a very dark day, when a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
youth having seen a dark shadow approaching saved himself by flight from the rod.
“ ‘ For, coming events cast their shadows before
But through fright, in his run he fell in the shore! ’ ”
“ Well,” exclaimed the visitor, “ I, too, have a justification of the proverb, for last Saturday in the Scholastic I saw after me the shadow of a genteel but veiy modest and unaspiring Conservatory Director, who came up and remarked, in terms as adroit as they were polite, something equivalent to the following—‘Sir, we have one piano for - every two inmates of this institution, now, would you kindly present us with no more, and then we’ll have one for each.’ (Double-false-position class how many in all?) Piano, piano! chi va 'piano, va sd.no.
“ If you take the will for the deed, as they do in heaven, you may have just as many more of them from this your kind benefactor,” responded I.
Now, that a visitor should be bewildered by the ■perfection of three-voiced harmony or even of a one-voiced harmony is very questionable. We have heard of persons being bewildered by the murky appearance of weird phantoms, or even by the discordant notes of Minims round a pet donkey, but never ere now have we heard of any one being bewildered by the perfection of music. For by perfection and harmony men are perfected and charmed, but not bewildered. Such is man’s nature, such aistheticism, too. Still, if the visitor arrived during the time of bewilderment he may have been bewildered, for as in oratory the acme of eloquence is silence, so, too, in music, the highest point of harmony is sometimes a pause. The visitor may have entered during the perfection of a pause, during vacation when there was no music in the air, when weird phantoms stood around to give a fairy touch to tuned pianos. This, perhaps, explains why he made his figures goodfip a good general guess without waiting to count up numbers. Then how can a man lose what he never got or took? How can a visitor lose liis count, when he takes no count, makes no count, and keeps no count of these’ shrill-toned painted ornaments which are generally locked up in a music conservatory.
“ But, to be serious,” concluded he, “ were I at St. Mary’s, I would request all strangers to turn their eyes, and their charitable donations towards that long-since commenced but hitherto unfinished o.	e	__
church in front of the main building. That, indeed, is the harmonious piano I would wish to contribute for; that piano, whose vibrating chords will elevate the hearts of men and whose sweet notes will thrill the angels with inundating ec-stacies as thej^ mount up with joj^ful tidings and eternal ‘Alleluias’ to the throne of the Most High, whence responsive echoes will shower down in the form of. innumerable benedictions on those who may have the honor of erecting an earthly mansion for the Living and Ever-Adorable God of heaven.
Yours Respectfully,
. P. F. M. S.”
Personal.
—E. J. Taggart (Com’l),'of ’81, is connected with the firm of Hatten Bros., leading pharmacists at Zanesville, Ohio.
—Mr. C. AV. Swenk,of ’71, is living in Denver, Col. He is at present in the employ of the Pullman Palace Car Co., and is doing well.
—Max Nirdinger (Com’l), of ’60, is a prominent business man at Fort Wayne, Ind. A youthful and intelligent scion of his will be entered as a Minim next year.
—Among the. secular clergy in attendance upon the Diocesan Retreat, are several old students of Notre Dame. There are Rev. M. F. Campion and J. R. Dinnen, ’62; J. Bleckman, M. Messman, ’67; J. Grogan, of ’68, M. O’Reilly, ’59; and John Crawley, 61.
—Mr. Scott Ashton, of ’70, is one of the most prominent lawyers of Leadville, Col. He is also interested in the mining business, from which he has already realized handsomely. Prof. Lyons says he was sure Scott would, do well because he was a good St. Cecilian. Cecilians, attention!
—We are glad to learn of the unwonted prosperity which attends the College of the Sacred Heart, at Watertown, Wis. Under the able Presidency of Rev. John O’Keefe, our onetime Prefect of Discipline, it meets with continued success. Fa-ther O’Keefe may be assured that the best wishes of his old friends go with him.
—The Very Rev. J. B. A. Brouillet, well known as the agent of the Catholic Indian Bureau at Washington, and a great and devoted Indian mis-sionary, honored the College' by a visit, last week. Father Brouillet is a whole-souled, genial French gentleman, and heartily devoted to the cause of the poor Indians. He will always be a welcome visitor to Notre Dame.
- —We had the pleasure of a visit this week from Hon. Judge McGoffin, Mayor of El Paso, Texas. The Judge, the father of Mr. Jas. Mc-Goflin, of the Senior department, was accompanied by Mrs. McGoffin and his little daughter Josie. They, examined, among other things, the Scholastic office, and expressed themselves much pleased with all they saw.
—The Scholastic man has been worming some of the friends of a new member of the Faculty, whose retiring disposition and quiet manner has hitherto repelled the interviewer—namely, Prof. McCormac. We learn that he is a graduate of the Royal School of Mines, London, England, and the Queen’s College, Belfast, where he attended the lectures of Professors Huxley and Tyndall, and received certificates in their special branches. He very successfully instructed classes for matriculation in the Royal College of Surgeons and the Queen’s University, Belfast, Ireland, and holds high certificates in acoustics, light, heat, magnetism, electricity and physiology, and lower and higher mathematics from the Science and Art Department, London.	\
THE NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC,	75
Local Items.
—Streppitozo Furioso!
—“ It is time to retire.”
—An iron roof is being put on the Gymnasium.
—Wasn’t that league reception a little too-too?
— On dit that he is about to write a treatise on chic.
—Competitions next week in the Commercial Course.
—Wanted:—Three mule-drivers and one signpainter.
—The popularity of the Chef still continues undiminished.	’
—There are great preparations for the boat-race on the 13th.
—“ The Shoddy Aristocrat ” is the name of the play to be brought out on the 13th. ,
—Lost—a latch-key. The finder will confer a great favor by leaving it at the printing-office.
—The Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary ” enjoyed “ rec.” last Monday, in honor of their feastday. .	.	.
—The Notre Dame exhibit at the Agricultural Fair, receives the highest encomiums from the local press.
—It is expected- that the sermon at High Mass to-morrow will be delivered by one of the visiting clergy.
—Ye “ local ” says that trips to the Farm are very good as far as they go, but they go pretty far. Nuff sed.
—We have heard it said that the “ Reception Committee ” may be brought to trial for assault and battery.	■
—Among the welcome visitors this week was Mr. Kirwin, the gentlemanly agent of Sadlier & Co., New York.	.	•
—Our friend John sawr a wrasp lying on the floor, and, thinking it was dead, picked it up to throw it away. It 'tvasrit dead!
—Prof. Paul speaks very enthusiastically about his Vocal Classes. Vocal music promises to be a great feature of the exhibitions this year.
—The Crescent Club will give a grand reception next week. Non-members can procure tickets by applying to Mr. M. T. Burns, Senior department.
—The Professor of Greek reports fhat he was never better satisfied with his department. Something that will throw the glories of “ CEdipus ” into the shade may soon be expected. .	.
—The regular Diocesan biennial Retreat has been going on at Notre Dame during the week. It is conducted by the Rev. Father Wissel, C. SS. R., and* attended by about 65 priests. It wall end tomorrow morning.
—Mr. D. Kotz, a Chicago artist of reputation, has on exhibition in the ladies’ parlor, main building, a painting representing Notre Dame as seen from a point on St. Joseph’s Lake between Calvary and the Novitiate.
—The St. Cecilia assembly-room is well worth
a visit. Many improvements have been made lately. The ceiling has been handsomely frescoed, and various other artistic decorations are to be added, which, it is said, will make it the finest literary club-room in the United States.
—B. Alfred and his men have been kept unusually busy during the past week, and in a few days have accomplished wonders. Among other things they have placed a dynamo-electric machine in the basement of the Printing-Office. But, by the way, how about the feelings of the typos? eh!	.
—Among the important matters under consideration is the formation of a Philosophical Society. We hope that the subject wall not be laid on the table. In any case, it is to be hoped that the philosophers wall caiay into effect an idea which has often been suggested—namely, to hold public discussions at stated times during the year.
—The second regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association took place Sept. iSth. Masters J. Henry, T. McGrath, J. Devereux, T. Walsh, H. Goldsmith, P. Warren and T. I. Cas-sily wrere unanimously elected members. Declamations were then delivered by Masters'Devereux, F. Fishel, L. Gibert, H. Metz, and E. Wile.
—“ The City of Rome,” of the Inman Steamship Company, has been returned to the builders; she having failed to come up to the contract, both regarding speed and capacity of tonnage. There will be no interruption in the sailings of the Inman steamers; and another steamer, to take the place of the “ City of Rome,” is already in process of construction.
—The 2d regular meeting of the Thespian Association was held Sept. 24th. Messrs. T. Coakley, Ed. Fenlon and J. Farrell wrere elected members; Prof. A. J. Stace wras unanimously elected General Critic. Speeches w*ere delivered by J. Solon, M. Burns, E. Otis, M. Donahue, J. P. O’Neill, W. Arnold, W. Cleary and C. Tinley. The various reports wrere then handed in and debated. .
—The great social event of last week was the Coffee party, on Monday evening, given by the Junior members of the Crescent Club. It was certainly an affair recherche. Amongst the distinguished guests we noticed, besides several members of the Faculty, Madame Bartholon, of Newr Orleans; Mrs. Cavaroc, of Chicago; and Mrs. Wright', of Denver.
o	__
—The Philodemics met last Friday for the purpose of reorganizing. Mr. Wm. H. Arnold was appointed Chairman -pro tem. The following officers were elected: Rev. T. E. Walsh, Director; Prof. A. J. Stace, President; E. A. Otis, Vice-President; J. P. O’Neill, Corresponding Secretary; Jas. Solon, Recording Secretary; F. A. Quinn, Treasurer; H. M. Noble, 1st Censor; Wm.-Bolton, 2d Censor; J. J. Molloy, Historian.	.
—Signor Gregori and Prof. Edwards speak in the highest terms of the courtesies extended them by the gentlemen they met last week at the Cincinnati Exhibition. They are especially indebted to Mr. Harvey Anderson, President of the Exposition Art Department; Mr. Garland, editor of
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
• *
The Catholic Telegraph ; Mr. Reuben Springer, Cincinnati’s great benefactor, and to Rev. Father Hurth, C. S. C., President of St. Joseph’s College.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held their second regular meeting in.St. Edward’s Hall on the 4th inst. Compositions were read by Masters E. Thomas, C. Metz and F. Otis. Masters Whitney, P. Johnson and J. J. McGrath delivered declamations. The question, “ Is the Junior Department preferable to the Senior? ” was debated. On the affirmative side were Masters Chas. Spencer, J. Chaves, and F. Whitney; on the negative, R. Papin, A. Windsor, and F. Otis. After a protracted debate the question was decided in favor of the negative. The meeting adjourned after an interesting address from the President.
—The 2d and qd regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were held Sept. 16th and 20th respectively. Masters H. Foote,-J. Courtney, W. J eannot, E. Dillon, W. Schott, C. AchofT, F. Brice, J. McDonald, W. Mug, J. Kah-man, H. Dunn, M. O’Connor, H. Austin, H. Bush, E. Gerlach, after performing the necessary requirements for admission, were unanimously elected. Declamations and readings were given' bv A; Browne, D. Taylor, J. Fendrich, H. Bush, J. McDonald, M. O’Connor, H. Dunn. A criticism on the previous meeting was given by A. Browne. The public readers are as follows: A. Browne, D. Taylor, J. Fendrich, M. Foote, M. Dolan, J. Courtney, G. Schaefer, F. Johnson, J. M. Courtney, H. Foote, AV. Jeannot, H. Dunn, E. Dillon, W. Mug. Master Schott then closed the exercises by performing two selections on the organ, to the great delight of the members.
—The “ Lotus Club,” of Notre Dame, attracted no little notice on our streets yesterday, driving a pair of Colorado burros in tandem. The Club was in this city to meet its honored President, G. E. Clarke, but was disappointed, the gentleman not arriving as expected. Messrs. Frank Clarke, J. Solon, M. E. Donohue and J. O’Neill were the gentlemen in charge. This afternoon Mr. Geo. Clarke reached here, and was met at the south end of Notre Dame Avenue by the Notre Dame drum corps, a detachment of cadets, in' command of Capt. Cleary, and Messrs. Coon and Anderson bearing a banner, having on one side the inscription “ Welcome to Our Land Leaguer,” and on the other “ Hurrah for Cairo.” It is understood that Mr. Clarke represents Cairo at the University. The banner was a sort of an indescribable work of art from the brush of Prof. Ackerman, . with an ice-cream border and I-wish-the-old-folks-would-go-to-bed back-ground. Not the least interesting feature of the procession, after the banner, was presented by , the burros. It was President Clarke’s first view of them, and he had to bring all his mathematical calculations to bear, to decide whether there was more ear than body. This done he mounted one of the burros and Capt. Cleary the other, and there was a beautiful procession down the- avenue, and the reception was over.—South-Bend Tribune.	-
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Bowers, Brady, Browne, Burns, W. Bailey, Carroll, Chelini, Craig, Clements, Campbell, Celia, Conway, T. Clarke, J. Donohue, Drover, M. Donohue, Bolton, J. Carroll, Eisenhauer, N. Ewing, Eaton, Freese, Farrell, Fitzgerald, Fitzgerrell, Fleming, T. FenIon, E. Fenlon, Gall, Gray, Grever, Garrett, Golonski, Grange, F. Gallagher, Flynn, Heffernan, J. Gallagher, Becerra, Jones, Johnston, Keller, Kolars, Kimmell, Koehler, Kuhn, Kavanaugh, Larkin, McEniry, Monoghan, McEr-lain, Marlett, McCarthy, j. McNamara, T. McNamara, Molloy, Mullen, McIntyre, S. Murdock, Morse, Noble, Neeson, Noonan, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Brien, Paquette, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Peery, Ratterman, Rodgers, Ryan, Solon, Stover, Smith, Steele, Seitz, Stull, Saviers, Spencer, Tinley, Walsh, Warner, Wheatley, Whalen, Zahm, Coll, Delgado, Fulton, Fogarty, Godfroy, Gooley, Jas. Delaney, Jno. Delaney, Anderson, McGoffin, ’ Whitman, Piefer, Metz, Hausberg.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Allen, Brice, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Brewster, Curtis, Cavanagh, Coover, Cassilly, J. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, Coghlin, Caveroc, Chirhart, Cain, Droste, Dolan, Dorenburg, Dillon, De Haven, Dunn, Dare, Devine, M. Foote, Frain, Fishel, Flynn, Gerlach, Hibbeler, Hess, Herrmann, Halligan, Hellebush, Hannavin, Holbrook, Hagen, Hegenberth, Johnson, Jeannot, Hornaday, Kah-man, Kerndt, Katz, Kengel, N. Keegan, M. Keegan Kelly, Livingston, Lund, McCawley, Mug, McGrath, Mason, J. McGordon, McDonnell, Murphy, Morris, McCartney, M. O’Connor, O’Donnell, D. O’Connor, Ohnick, Peery, Pick, C. Porter, Rothschild, Ruppe, Ruppe, Ryon, Ryan, Reach, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Schaeffer, Sanford, Seegers, Talbott, Warren, Waggoner, Wilkinson, Zaehnle, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bunker, Burlingame, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Chaves, Chirhart, Cummings, Colwell, Devereux, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, Coad, W. Devine, Harris, Hopkins, Huestis, Johnson, Keeffe, Kelly, Kraus, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, Moss, Morrison, E. McGrath, McNaughton, McGordon, Metz, McPhee, Nester, F. Otis, A. Otis, T. Otis, Pick, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Studebaker, Stange, Spencer, Smith, Schmitz, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Thomas, Unger, Walsh, Whitney, Welch, Wright, L. Young.	.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Sturla, Freese, Neeson, Drover, Kimmel, Me-Erlain, Ratterman, Koehler, J. McNamara, Campbell, Seitz, Ryan, Lease, Donahue, Marlett, O’Brien, Wheatly, Saviers, O’Reilly, Rhodius, Grever, Spencer, S. Murdock, Carroll, Jas. Delaney, Gall,. Fulton, Hausberg, Wile, J-Courtney, Ohneck, Kerndt, Schillo, Grathaus, Wilkinson, Dean, Pick, Warren, Dorenburg, Holbrook, Fishel, Schaeffer, Lund, McGordon, Waggoner, McGrath, Yrisarri, Mason, Coover, H. Foote, Danielson, Hagen, Rhodus, Zaehnle, Caveroc. ,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Beall, Bannantine, Coad, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Cain, Colwell, Chirhart, Dirksmeyer, G. Dunford, H. Dyer, A. Devine, Hopkins, Johnson, Keeffe, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, Moss, Masi, McPhee, McGuire, Nester, F. Otis, A. Otis, T. Otis, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Rebori, Roberts, Rea, Stange, Spencer, Smith, Unger, Walsh, Whitney, Welch, L. Young.	”
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY COURSE.	.
Reading and Orthography--------; Grammar—Messrs. Waggoner, Brice, Kerndt, Coover, Peery, Ackhoffj Yrisarri, Dunn, Halligan, Kahman, Gerlach,Lund, Bacon, McGrath; Arithmetic—Messrs. Rothschild, Mason, Schillo, Ohneck, McGordon, Robb, Morton,- Violette, White; Geography and History—Messrs. Farrelly, Holbrook, Dorenburg, Dean; Penmanship ——; Latin—Messrs. Burns, Gall; Algebra—Messrs. Murdock, Mug; Greek-------.	•
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
11
Saint JFlary’s Acabemy.
One Mile Tl^est of Notre Dame University.
—Owing to the increase of piano players, the harp and guitar pupils were obliged to move, and now lodge in the Art Department, temporarily only, until the grand Rotunda is built.
—The Christian Art Society held their first meeting on the 27th, presided by Mother Superior. The following officers were elected for the coming year: President, Miss C. Campbell; Vice-President, Miss L. Fox; Secretary, Miss C. Donnelly; Treasurer, Miss M. Clarke.
—This year, the beautiful month of the Angels opened with the great Blessing of the First “Adoration.” The Blessed Sacrament was exposed all day. Who can estimate such a favor? In the silent, lowly chapel, knelt hourly earnest lovers of Jesus, obeying His words, “ Come to Me.”
—The Living Rosary Society was reorganized on the Festival of the Holy Rosary. The Prefect of Studies presided, and proposed the names of the following young ladies as officers, and the same were elected by unanimous vote: President, Miss Mary Clarke; Vice-President, Miss Grace Taylor; Secretary, Miss Mary Campbell; Treasurer, Miss Louisa English. After the usual in-stiuction, all repaired to the chapel, and the whole rosary was said in common by the members. ’
—A word of advice to those who desire to grat-ify their parents when they seek the names of their children on the “ Roll of Honor.” The best way to ensure- this, is to keep watch over the heart, checking its unruly motives as they rise; never to act or speak from impulse, temper or irritation, and always strive after a calm self-possession! Why not do for God’s sake the same so many accomplish in the world for mere human respect? Small daily sacrifices will soon amount to perfection, and none are too small for God to heed.—From the French.
—“ Mamma,” said little Clara, “ How long will it take me to grow that long?”—measuring the length from one bunch of roses on the velvet carpet to a mat near the door. “ Why do you ask, my dear?” said Mrs. Stewart, seeing the earnest look which accompanied the question. “AVell, ma, Sissy is going to travel when she grows tall, and Charley says he will build a big store, and sell all kinds of pretty things, but I want to help God! Yes; He must be ever so tired. I have watched so many nights, and He pieced on to the moon every night a little bit, till it was round and shiny; then He got tired and blew out the light.”
—Academic reunion, Oct. 1st. The pupils entitled to good points had the honor of receiving them from the hand of the Very Rev. J. B. A. Brouillet, head of the Bureau, and friend of the Indians, residing in Washington'; for years his name has ever been connected with those heroes who spend their lives for the “interests of Jesus.”
Readings were given by Misses M. Hughes, E. Slattery, V. Barlow and E. Todd. Among the visitors present we noticed Mrs. Eunice Crouch White, graduate of ’69, and Miss Gleason, daughter of the late Capt. Gleason of Chicago. She was also a former pupil, and has brought to the Academy her niece, Miss Murphy. Our old pupils are always welcome.
—The pupils in “ The School of Art ” are determined to be artists in reality, and already the large gallery where finished work is placed, promises well for a brilliant exhibition of paintings in oil and water-colors, portraits, etc., at the semi-annual examination. Here are beautiful specimens of oil-painting, representing fruits of various kinds, peaches, grapes, that make one hungry to look at, and landscapes so charming that the eye is at once captivated. Strangers love to linger, here, for among so much to admire, the particular taste of each finds something to attract special attention. Paintings in black and white, taken from casts, . scattered round the walls and studies, in various styles of drawing, show the progressive course of instructions. The general drawing classes are also busy sketching from Nature before she lays aside her rich autumnal hues for the no less beautiful garb of winter.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
Steadiness of Purpose. -
The tiny rivulet, by keeping the same course, wears for itself a channel even through the firmest rocks, until, joining another stream, it aids in transporting the commerce of a nation, and finally mingles its waters with those of the mighty ocean. Small and almost unnoticed at its source, by its steadiness of purpose it has removed everything that tended to impede its progress. It is by steadiness of purpose that grand results have been accomplished in every age by men who, gifted with noble minds, marked out a path in life and kept that path until the destined goal was reached. History records the rise and progress of nations, and inscribed on its imperishable pages are the names of men who by steadiness of purpose were instrumental in elevating to the highest degree of power and magnificence many empires of the Old World, though some of those empires had but a brief existence because the potentates who succeeded to their government were incapable of defending their kingdoms from the invasions of of‘ jealous and avaricious neighbors. But of all . the empires that have risen gradually or suddenly, none have experienced so many changes, on account of the steadiness of purpose of her monarchs, as sunny France. Amongst the many kings who swayed her sceptre, three in particular possessed genius and determination to accomplish thatwhich would increase the glory of .their kingdom and shed lustre on their names. But how different the
78
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
motives which directed their actions, and how di • verse the results! Louis IX sought to increase the prosperity of his realm for the benefit of his subjects and the glory of religion. Louis XIV, vain and ambitious, cared little how his subjects fared, but directed all his efforts towards extending the limits of his realm and making his court the most luxurious and magnificent of Europe. But in the brilliant and extraordinary conquests of Napoleon Bonaparte we have an unparalleled example of what can be accomplished by perseverance, though, unfortunately for himself, his perseverance and ambition were the cause of his ruin. The present German Empire is an example of what steadiness of purpose can achieve even when exerted in an unworthy cause. It would be an easy task to give innumerable examples of wonderful results accomplished by firmness and perseverance ; but it is not necessary to search through the record of past ages when we are surrounded by so many living examples.
The privileges which we Americans enjoy are sufficient proof of what can be effected by a strong will when bent upon securing a given object. The seven years’ patient waiting of Columbus were well rewarded when he caught a glimpse of the New World which was to be a place of refuge for the oppressed of all nations; so was Washington’s persevering courage which drove the invaders from our shores. The present century surpasses all others in the number and utility of its inventions, its wonderful discoveries in every branch of science; yet we who enjoy the advantages derived from the patient labors of others, scarcely ever think of the length of time it required and the difficulties that had to be overcome ere the present results were obtained. We admire the inventions more than the genius and patience of their inventors. But what matters it if we do not derive personal benefit from our labors? Others have toiled a lifetime without a ray of success to cheer them; but, conscious of walking in a path designed by an all-wise Providence, they were content to toil unnoticed by the busy world, knowing that their reward would far surpass any earthly commendation; for not all of the triumphs achieved by steadiness of purpose are visible except to “ Him who sees all things at a glance.” And greater than any conqueror of nations is’ he who, by persevering watchfulness over his own mind, can direct his thoughts to noble aims and by steadiness of purpose bring about grand and noble .results.
Innocence, peace and pure enjoyment are the portion of little children; they are happy without consciously reflecting on their happiness. All thought and care they leave to those who love them. So the childlike soul enjoys a most real, unsought happiness which God Himself pours into it, causing “ all to work together for good to those that . love Him.”—From the French.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Clarke, Dillon, Feehan, Fox, Wiley, Wright, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Fendrich, Johnson, Laffer, Sullivan, Shickey, Todd, Barlow, Beal, Call, Duffield, Dunn, Ginz, Gove, M. Heneberry, Keenan,. Knott, B. Legnard, Mohl, Owens, O’Connor, Pease, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Richardson, Semmes, E. Slattery, Ramsey, Van Patten, Wood, L. English, Sawyer, Adderly, Munger, Wallace, Heckard, Stackerl, Daily, M. Dickson, Coakley, Williams, Clifford, Unger, Pick, Madole, Hunt, Cox, Taylor, O’Connell, Harrigan, Leydon, Black, M. Hawkins, M. H. Ryan, King, Fenlon, McCoy, Chirhart, Kolb, Slattery, Rettig, Harris, McCawley, McCarten, B. English, G. Legnard, Donahue, Hughes, Dolan, Donnersberger, Hagan, Castanedo, Newton, Pampell, Foster, O’Neill, Eldridge, L. Heneberry, Commerford, Gavin, L. Hawkins, Fowler, Shull, Drover, Maginn, Mooney, McGuire, Gallagher. 2d Tablet—Misses Walsh, M. A. Ryan, Donnelly, Bathrick, Danforth, Anderson, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Hunter, Myers, Hintz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Spangler, Dignan, Duffield, Dil" Ion, Morgan, Coogan, Nevius, Donnelly, Grist, Richmond) Fehr, Gale, Ewing, Schmidt, Shephard, Johnston, Moshier, Van Horn, B. Haney, Chaves, Mary Otis, T. Haney. 2d Tablet—Misses Considine, Fisk, Howlett, Hetz, Hibben, Spencer, Coyne, Robinson, Otero, Sullivan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Sawyer, Barry, J. English, J. McGrath, Martha Otis, Snowhook, Prescott, McKennon, Lindsey, Westfall, Paul.
ART DEPARTMENT.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.	•
Misses Van Patten, Williams, Barlow, V. Reilly, Daily, Pease, Grist, C. Richmond, M. Richmond, Ewing, H. Hicks, C. Campbell, Spangler, Pick, Unger, Shephard, M. Walsh, Stackerl, Madole, Fendrich, M. English, Mary Otis, A. English, Dolan, C. Donnelly, M. A. Ryan,, Fehr, M. Clarke, Otero, Harrigan, Johnston, M. Dillon, Beal, Knott, O’Connor, B. Legnard, Shickey, Costigan, Gavin, Anderson, Fowler, L. Hawkins, Wood, M. Hawkins, M. Heneberry, Owens.
It is of the greatest consequence to strengthen the organs of the mincTof a child, before you oppress them with too much instruction; to avoid everything which may excite the passions, accustom the child to easily give up those things which it ardently seeks, in order that it may not entertain the hope of possessing everything-which it desires. However mischievous the child’s natural disposition may be, it is yet easy to render it docile, patient, firm, gay, and even tranquil; whereas if it be neglected in its infancy, it becomes from thence self-willed, impetuous and restless all its life. When • they arrive at a more advanced period, when reason becomes developed, it is then necessary that in all our instructions we should inspire them with a love of truth, and a contempt for all dissimulation. Thus we should never make use of any artifice to appease or persuade them to do what we wish, for by this we would teach them a sort of cunning which they nevei" forget; We ought to lead them, as much as possible, by reason only.—Fenelon on the Education of a Daughter.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
The Minim Department.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
(Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic, and Classical grades.	'
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large Musical Library in French. German, English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course iu Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rales of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
. GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m;
12.38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
6 35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 725 a.m.
GOING WEST: •
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.48 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at’Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte,8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a.m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p.m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte
2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m : Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.26 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m ; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l Manager, Cleveland.
This is a separate Department in the Institution or Notre Dame, for Boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive Instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History,- is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, 0. S. 0.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED with the geography of this coun-
try WILLSEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP THATTHE
CHICAGC.fiOCKISLAND&PACIFICR’I
Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous	-
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, N ewport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville. Louisrille, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express ■Trains.	■
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the	-
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Free. & Gen’l M’g’r, Gen’l Tkt. A Fan. A(L CHICAGO.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA. '
I
(
(MAIN BUILDING.\
THIS UNIVERSITY was.founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of • railway—the Lake Shore aud Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution. In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected. New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
I II IM If il, JJW ! IHHII FII IRrt Wil
