9
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moritnras.
Vol. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 13, 1884.
No. 2.
Shadows Cast by the Morning' Star.
BY ARTHUR J. STACE.
No streak of dawn had tinged the cloudless skies, The crescent moon had set, and yet a ray
Of creamy lustre with its glad surprise
Awaked me. Phosphor, harbinger of da\, Threw shadows of my lattice on the floor Distinctly traced. A thousand stars or'more
Shone in ihe East: the glowing Charioteer And Leda’s twins with crowns of lambent fire. Belted Orion, and the maiden choir
Of Pleiads; red-eyed Saturn, too, was near. Cross-lights from these too feeble were by far
To fur the edges of those shadows cast.
Transcendant joy, by shade of misery past, Is measured, like the light of this fair star.
Notre Dame, August, 1884.
Mental Training.
A very important work of life and one most beneficial in its consequences to man is that of a sound mental training. There is no undertak-ing to which he should apply himself with greater diligence and care than to the development of those precious faculties given to him by his bountiful Creator. It is this superior training, when properly cared for, that enables him to take his place in society and gain for himself the honor and respect of bis fellow-men, and place himself in close communication with his Maker. It is a duty incumbent on all who conceive the real object of their existence.
Now, as industry is the chief motive power of success in all physical toils, so it is in the intellectual. It takes vigorous and long continued application to mould and fashion the mental fabric and make it a storehouse of useful knowledge. To be convinced of the evidence of this, we need but take a cursory glance at the catalogue of illustrious men—men who have immortalized, not only themselves, but their age, their race, and their country by their mental efforts, and see how they became the intellectual beacons of their times. We shall readily perceive that their success was not the work of a day or a year, but of a lifetime. As the law of growth applies to all physical life, so also does it apply to the intellectual and moral life.	I
The subject of this paper relates more particularly to intellectual life, which consists in the union of the intelligent principle with the objects submitted to it, and which it conceives as true, that is, as being in reality what they appear to be, and as a result from this—good or beautiful. As truth is the harmony of thought with things, intellectual growth, in its proper bearings, is a continual approximation to this perfect harmony, which, though unattainable to the finite mind in a superlative degree, nevertheless constitutes one of the grand charms of mental progress and its chief stimulant in all its operations. Glancing over the pages of the world’s history, both ancient and modern, we meet with the names of men of erudition whose intellects might seem to be unlimited in the extent of their knowledge in certain channels— men, such as Socrates, Demosthenes, Cicero, Milton, Shakespeare, and Longfellow of a later day.
But, notwithstanding all this, the very nature of the human intellect itself determines limits to its progression, though the degree of limitation, in any particular case cannot be accurately assigned but may be indefinitely extended. These lines of demarcation may be readily perceived by reflecting that we are not in possession of a single idea which does not contain in itself, or its postulates, something which transcends all human com-prehension; but the mind, ever active, strives to obtain as great a degree of perfection as its capacity will permit. The indispensable condition of all growth is effort: and as there is no life without effort, life is a struggle in which minor forces are overcome by major ones, whether we view it in the physical, intellectual, or moral order, and to facilitate this action is the imperative duty of education. Experience has proved that numerous are the obstacles to be surmounted in gaining a preponderance of power over the lower force's of the mind. These obstacles which beset our paths to intellectual progress are to be sought for either in the circumstances which surround us or in ourselves. We are so weak and so dependent on outward resources and current circumstances, that when these are unfavorable it is almost impossible for us to make any great advancement.
There are within ourselves many impediments of various kinds to mental growth. Some have their origin in the body, some in the intellect, and some in the will. Infirm health and love of ease—two
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
peculiarities incidental to the corporeal system— are detrimental in their consequences and generally incompatible with intellectual growth’. The brain, the material instrument of the mind, is so reciprocally related to the mind that whatever tends to affect the one will also produce a corresponding effect in the other. However, some of the greatest minds,— some of our literary champions,—have wrought, through feeble bodies as instruments, works of unquestionable merit. But the literary man, it may be well to remark,is not necessarily the thoroughly educated man—that is, proficient in all the avenues of literary culture. It often happens that he is confined to a certain species of writing or groove outside of which he becomes almost mentally incapacitated to sustain himself. We often find him vain, self-conceited, unfaithful,—a mere caricature on human nature, which really substantiates the fact that men of superior general education are few and far between. Such is the nature of the mind itself that obstacles may be found therein which, vary with the peculiarities of the individual, namely: there are weak minds, slow minds, and inattentive minds. All minds are in a greater or less degree subject to these defects, and as all things are graded by comparison, it is according to this that some minds are said to be weak, others potent.
Impediments hostile to mental progress may be found in the will when under the influence of inordinate passion; for whilst in this state it is incapable of that deliberation and attention that is required. This, if not counteracted, produces degeneracy in the mental powers; it prevents thought and separates the mind from the society of wisdom. As the office of the will is to choose the good proposed to it bv the intellect and avoid evil, the logical inference drawn from this would be that nothing is willed _______________________	o
until it is first known. The mind, therefore, should be taught to resist its desires and inclinations, and to suspend them at the goal of the intellect until they are focused by the judgment and viewed with the eye of reason, and proved to be right. The habitual dwelling with one’s own thoughts is an essentia] condition of mental growth; it is this which causes the will to be guided by the light of truth.	.
Another consideration suggestive of salutary thought in connection with this, and one which contains a certain amount of truth, is that the mind should be prepared for the reception of knowledge by liberating it from all those narrow dispositions and opinions which are based on no other foundation than that of prejudice. There are personal prejudices, national prejudices, and prejudices of old age, etc.,—the last of which is fully illustrated in Cicero’s treatise, “De Senectute,”—how people at times, through contempt for antiquity, have lost ancestral veneration and become superficial. Personal prejudice influences each one to think too highly of himself, his talents, his acquirements; it is this, in short, which causes it to be almost an impossibility that any power should be granted us— “ to see ourselves as others see us.” It forms a great barrier to the acquisition of knowledge and a broad channel to error, undermining the judgment
and perverting the will; it fosters within us an inclb nation to deceive ourselves concerning whatever we love or hate. National prejudice is also a very common phase of this general weakness. In perusing the writings of illustrious men, and more especially historians, how few do we find who are impartial in their opinions of the manners, customs, and interests of foreign nations’ The imbecility of some in this respect seems to constitute a sort of original sin of contemporary nations, and stamps upon the literature of the country a defect most pernicious in its consequences. Therefore, being fully apprehensive of the narrow position of such, we should not allow ourselves to be drawn into this absorbing disposition; for it has often been a severe blow to the flourishing anticipations of many whose talents, if properly directed, would gain for them laurels in the literary field. An unbiased, refined, and intelligent appreciativeness should be sought after and cultivated by all, in order that mental strength and logical accuracy may attend all their judgments and give complexion to their reasoning. The knowledge of the many defects and incongruities to which the mind is liable, and of the nature and tendency of each, with its proper remedy, will greatly assist in erecting the mental edifice with aplastic hand. He who wishes to become thoroughly educated must have persevering energy, and unfailing courage. He must
O	OJ 3	o	o
be willing to sever himself from the conflicting interests of the ambitious, and see himself overshadowed by the transient and easy-won reputations of those of his own day and age, who will wear their laurels of honor full blooming but ephemeral, while all his life and labors are confined and centered in the bud which wraps it close and nourishes it.
The proper training of the intellect involves the-training of all the faculties. Of the imperative duty and priceless value of such education there can be no diversity of opinion among intelligent men. Wealth and position cannot give to man that dignity and satisfaction which may be obtained from the perfection of his own powers. That this is essentially true needs no explanation, since we know well that we are superior to that which ministers to-our wants and vanities. The happiness.that is derived from the perfections of these powers is something, relatively speaking, of a superior character, and should be centered in the hearts of all. A desire for this should be cultivated, and especially by those who have all the necessary conveniences at their disposal. ’
The student at college possesses special Advantages bearing directly on this point; he has many valuable auxiliaries to assist him in cherishing a fondness and aspiration for the good and the true; and with the stimulus to seek for the perfect thither will his inclinations gravitate by a law as universal as that of attraction. Sentiments morally elevating and mentally nourishing and inspiring have a magnetic power in fostering within him a desire for the beautiful. How to apply the mind, and what to study are problems which engage the attention of the deepest thinkers, an adequate solution of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which can be found only in a perfect philosophy of education.	;
The mind, as I have previously intimated, grows by the assimilation of knowledge, which is never effected except by direct application of the thinking subject to the object thought. It is one thing to study, another to read. To read simply demands that sort of attention necessary for a vague notion of each sentence as it passes through the mind. A man might peruse all the books in an Alexandrian library, and still scarcely retain as much knowledge as there would remain water in a sieve through which a stream had been poured. Indiscriminate, light, inattentive reading, if persevered in, begets a mental habit incompatible with clear perception; it softens and blunts the reasoning powers and imparts an unhealthy complexion to the moral principles. An important consideration, from an educational point of view, is not so much to get knowledge as to strengthen and develop all the faculties of the mind that it may be fitted to grapple intelligently and successfully with the problems which most concern and interest us as rational beings. When we read, we should read intelligently and thoughtfully; the striking thoughts and forcible modes of expression of the author we are reading should be treasured in the mind. By practising this manner of reading, the mind can be strengthened and made a store-house of choice sentiments and expressions which are an ever pleasing resource.
Writing, also, is a valuable auxiliary in the progress of mental culture. We should write, not simply that others may read our thoughts, but that they may become more familiar and clear to our own minds. It gives to the mind a capacity for developing and perfecting its faculties as well as for giving them exactness and polish. It enables us to acquire a power of sustaining thought, the chief aspiration of the mature mind; for when we are able to apply our minds in sustained thought, we have at our disposal the mastering of almost any subject. It creates within us a determination to self-activity, a principle applicable to every stage of the mind’s development and the secret of success in the work of education; it fosters within us a desire to search through wisdom’s treasures,—good books,—for in books chiefly is all human knowledge. There is also a special worth in sentiments written, not to please the gratifications of a vulgar populace, not to advocate a false and intolerant public opinion, not to gain either applause or gold, but for truth and the dignity of the human soul. As the painter takes his brush, the musician his instrument, each to perfect himself in his art, so he who desires to learn how to think-must take his pen and do honest work.
Persons of intellectual aspirations should, as far as possible, associate with their superiors in knowledge. There is an aristocracy of mind to which neithei* diamonds nor title can gain admittance, but kinship of spirit^ animated with the love of high thinking. The skilful artist makes it an unswerving rule never to cast his eye upon an inferior painting, apprehensive of the fact that the tint of the expression would influence his own
pencil or brush. So it is with the good mechanic at his trade; and if such advantagescan be derived from mere incidentals like these, how much more valuable is a prudent selection of associations founded upon good moral and mental considerations. Imitation and comparison are concomitant habits which few can avoid, and such are our susceptibilities to the surrounding influences which permeate the social atmosphere that they call forth or. repress whatever is meritorious or evil in our nature. Hence a safe rule is to rate ourselves by the standard achieved by those above us. The contact of mind with mind enkindles the latent fire and strikes life into the slumberins- thought: mind becomes supplementary to minds, constituting the purest friendship and highest pleasure. Knowing, therefore, the dispositions-and qualifications necessary to our calling, it is the .pressing duty of each one to acquire and exercise them as far as possible.
Upon taking a view of the drift of the opinions and interests of the day we can easily perceive the passing necessity of minds of superior training and knowledge to keep pace with the times. It requires intellects of tried strength to surmount the many obstacles of to-day on the road to true knowledge. But as the warrior on the battlefield is goaded on by the hope of victory, so also should the same motive inspire the intellectual warrior in all his struggles, without which he will fall back on himself powerless as the bird whose wing is clipped. Hope gives the conviction of strength, and confidence is power. The individual equipped with true intellectual armor need not be discouraged or dazed at the biased power of his enemies, but meet them with unfaltering step. If we wish, therefore, to stand firm on the foundation stone of truth and contend against its enemies we should lose no time in disciplining and storing the mind with valuable, resources. If . we wish to make a deep impression upon our age and country—one that the consuming hand of time can never efface, but brighten, as its cycles roll by,—let us not fall out of the intellectual ranks, but remain firm at our posts. We have, first of all, to resolve to be true to our God, to ourselves, and to our fellow-man; but next to that, and, I might well say, included therein, as necessary to its perfect realization, there can be no other higher or nobler aim in life than to seek to grow in intellectual strength.	J. G.
Duty.
Man is placed in this world with certain duties imposed upon him by the Creator and which he must fulfil to the best of his ability. They are divided into three classes—duties towards God, towards ourselves, and towards pur fellow-men. To perform these conscientiously, we must make a proper and steady cultivation of the faculties with which God has so liberally endowed us. Can we name anything which He has not given us? He has given us existence, health and hap
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
piness; but better far, He has endowed us with a free will; a will by which we can do either good or evil, and for the good or bad use of which we must render an account hereafter.
Duty exists in every station of life, from that of the king who sits on his throne, surrounded by vain and flattering courtiers, to the condition of the humble peasant who has but a thatched roof to cover his head.	.
We admire and extol the gallant feats of the soldier on the battle-field surrounded by dead and dying companions. He never flinches when commanded by his General to undertake some hazard-• ous enterprise, although he knows there is danger and most probably a loss of life. He cares not for danger; he laughs at obstacles placed in his way; he pushes on to the desired goal. It is won, and he has done his duty.
“If we wish to be great,” says St. Augustine, “we must begin by being little or humble.” Humility, then, must be the ground-work of loftiness. If we wish to build a large house we must first ■ have a good foundation. If greatness be our ambition then we must have humility for our foundation-stone. On this will rest our fabric.
The question may arise, “How can we know when it is our duty to do a thing and when it is not?” Surely there can be no difficulty in this. First, there is our duty to God; there are some duties which we perform in secret. A man’s public life is well known; but the inner life, the life of the soul, remains a secret between man and his God. We have the scales in our own hands. If we are weighed and found wanting we must bear with the consequences. When men arrogate to themselves certain privileges and exemptions from both the natural and Divine law,.the only method left is to recall them to a sense of their duty. There is no justice in these our times. We hear and see nothing but corrupt lawyers, jurors, and ballotboxes. The masses of the people have no voice • in their choice of men capable of filling high and responsible positions in life. They do not accept these positions because they have been elected fairly by the voice^of the people, but because they can with more alacrity fill their pockets with hard cash which perhaps has been wrung from the hands of the widow and orphan.	-
“What is the best government?” asks Goethe. “That which teaches us to govern ourselves.” We must' first begin to govern ourselves. We must set to work at once, and not be dreaming and trying to shift the burden on our neighbor’s shoulders. We must.do our best. We all can do something good in oui* own proper sphere of action. /
If we wish to build up a character for ourselves we must perform bur duty well. , It does not suffice simply -to know our duty, we must also doJt. Of- course, we admit, sometimes our duty is not very easy to- perform; We have to surmount many, obstacles which not only make' it hard but a often very disagreeable. But it is’our duty, and therefore-we- are bound to- dp it. The irresolute -man' will be- thinking and - dreaming all the-time without-performing- anything. He lets slip those
golden opportunities of doing good and which may never return. How many people do we not find who have no character! They are influenced by the mass'es. . They change like the wind. In the family circle, around the same hearth-stone., impelled by the sweet and persuading influences of tender parents, loving brothers and gentle sisters, is the place to build up our character! As we commence it here so it will stick to us through life, be it =■ good or bad. It is a pity, indeed, to see so many of our young men lounging about the public parks and standing on the street corners. They are idle, and think of nothing but pleasure; they sneer at those who are industrious, but do nothing them___________ * &
selves. They are utterly indifferent as to what class of society they belong. They believe in nothing. Skepticism is their standard of religion. They make no noble efforts, to obtain a stainless character. Each one of us has the propensity to good or evil. We can choose which will be the better to follow, but the duty is there, which must be done, willingly or unwillingly.
. D. C.
Bev. Dr. Cahill.
Bright star, whose intellectual light Dispelled the ebon clouds of night, Champion of Right in stormy days, How shall we fitly sound thy praise? When helpless in her gory shroud Erin lay; when mocked her tyrants proud ; When from her shores in thousands flew Her hapless sons; when friends were few; Who filled with hope the sore-tried Gael, And made his brutal masters quail?
• Immortal Cahill! thine,the voice To bid our race once more rejoice!
When stalked across bur misruled land Famine and fever hand in hand;	.
When, panic-stricken, thousands fled To find a grave in ocean’s bed;
When scoffed and scorned by brutal foe, ■ The Nation’s heart was filled with woe;.
When famished corses thickly lay Coffinless in the light of day;
, Who bade the foes of Erin refrain, Nor rend her deadly wounds again ?_• Immortal Cahill! thine the hand. -Stretched forth to shield.the suffering land?
And when; upon a friendly shore,.	’
He passed away, his labor o’er, . Did Erin scorn his sterling worth?
. Was he forgotten where, from birth, He labored in the holy cause?
Is he.forgotten now? :Ah, pause!
Nor answer with indignant pride _ . While; his last wish is still denied ;/t And while adistant land doth hold ; That sacred clay.- that heartdf gold, , Swift bring him thence that he may rest" tn jhis loved; Island of the West. .
\
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
21
Novels.
A certain celebrated French philosopher used to say that more was to be learned from good novels and romances than from the gravest treatises on history and morality. In novels we find a close imitation of men and manners: we see the very Web and texture of society as it really exists, and •as we shall meet with it when we go forth into the world. If, as the saying goes, poetry has “something more divine in it,” novels savor more of humanity. Through these we are made acquainted with the motives and characters of mankind, and from them we imbibe our notions of virtue and vice. As a record of past manners and opinions, they afford the best and fullest information. Extremes are said to meet; and the works of imagination, as they are called, sometimes come the nearest to truth and nature. And, after all, they arfe the most moral writers who do not pretend to teach any moral. Otherwise they unavoidably degenerate into partisans of a system. The novel-writer gives the facts of human nature, and leaves us to draw our own conclusions; if we are not able to do this, the fault is surely our own. The first-class writers of this kind are few, but these few we may reckon among the -benefactors of the human race.
Cervantes’ history of the renowned “ Don Quixote de la Mancha ” presents us with a hero more romantic, and, at the same time, more real to the imagination than any other with whom we are acquainted. The blunders of Sancho and the unlucky adventures of his master naturally attract the attention of the majority of readers; but the real pathos and dignity of the sentiments are hidden under the ludicrousness of the subject, and, as has been truly said, provoke laughter when they might well draw tears. “ Don Quixote,” gentle, •open, and generous-hearted, has brooded over the dreams of chivalry and romance until he has for- gotten self, and been deluded into a belief of their reality. Many have considered “Don Quixote” ■as merely a satirical work. This is a great mistake, as anyone who is acquainted with the character and temperament of Cervantes will surely affirm. The characters in “Don Quixote” form a class rather than belong to a class. Their every impulse is true to nature, and are so well drawn that they are easily retained in- memory. •
Le Sage’s “Gil Blas” has, a reputation next to “Don Quixote.” It belongs to a different and perhaps inferior class.- The characters are not so Well drawn. As a describer of manners, Le Sage is most truthful and exact; but the persons with whom we are brought in contact in. his works are not what we would call individuals.. His hero has qo character in particular. He merely appears to us in the different lights in which he is thrown by (Circumstance. All the great English novelists'are •said to be imitators.of these two writers. But although there may be a slight resemblance in certain cases, the resemblance is not sufficient to .warrant the truth of the remark. Fielding’s novels
are essentially his own, and are remarkable for7 a profound knowledge of human nature. Scarcely inferior to Shakespeare as an observer of human . nature, he did- not possess his genius or poetical qualities of mind. Fielding’s characters, one and all; are possessed of merely ordinary intellects, and are little given to flights of fancy. Smollet is not as interesting as Fielding, though in portions of his works he exhibits a power of writing that is remarkable. Richardson was an odd genius. Exact in detail almost to a fault. He lived, as it were, in a world of his own, taking his materials entirely from his own brain. The extreme elaborateness of his works seem to have cost him nothing. His is a nature of sentiment and reflection?' His characters act after careful reflection. Dr. Johnson said there was more knowledge of the human heart in a page of Richardson than in all Fielding. The charac-
-	o	__ .
ters of Sterne are lively and inventive. There is more affectation in him than in the others. . His style is quite different from Richardson’s. It is rapid, light, graceful, and very conversational. There is a vein of tenderness of feeling mingled with a dry, sarcastic humor in his writings. These four novel-writers belong nearly to the same age, the general characteristic of which was a spirit of sturdiness and independence, which made the English character an individual one. Each person indulged his own peculiar humor, so much so that the reign of George II has been aptly called the age of hobby-horses. Since that time, affairs have turned into a different channel. Individuals, instead of being absorbed in their own peculiar and private affairs, have turned their attention to State affairs, and have watched with eager eyes the government and the person of the sovereign.
The literature of the period had partaken of the disorder of the times. Mrs. Radcliffe’s “ Mouldering Castles ” derive most of their interest, no doubt, from the supposed tottering state of all old structures at the time.
Madame D’Arblay’s writings show that she is a quick, lively and accurate observer of persons and things; but she always looks at them with a woman’s eye. There is little passion or character in her works. Her heroes and heroines have set phrases and resemble the characters assumed for one night at a masquerade. Her best novel is her shortest. It is generally admitted that women have a more acute perception of singularity of character than men, and that they are more alive to absurdities arising from a violation of the rules of society or a deviation of established custom. They are easily impressed with anything that appeals to, their senses or habitual prejudices.	.
The lovers of the marvellous will find a rare treat in the Provencal tale, which Ludovico reads . in the Castle of Udolpho as the lights are beginning to burn blue, and just before he is carried off The tale is that of a knight who, while dancing at a great festival in olden times, is summoned out by a mysterious knight, clad in complete armor. He is conducted into a neighboring wood and to a - hollow glade in the depth of the tangled forest. Here the mysterious knight points to the murdered
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
corse of another knight. On lifting the helmet of the fallen knight, the face of the spectre-guide is revealed.	'
It is to the novel that we turn to find relief when the cares of life beset us, and from the woes and disappointments of its heroes we find solace by sympathizing: with their troubles. The reading of good novels is one of the best courses of study. It makes us familiar with the world of men and women; it records their actions, tells their motives, whims and pursuits, ridicules their absurdities, and reveals their inconsistencies. It show us what we are and what we ought to be. It plays the game of life before us, and by its teaching enables us to perform our respective parts. Contributing then such an important part to our education, we should select with judicious care and read only those that are the best and most reliable. Indeed, when read at random and without any care in their selection they must prove pernicious. We cannot read every novel or book that is published. Let us then read only those that competent judges consider the best.	-
W. H. B.
Books and. Periodicals.
The History of the Church of God. Part II—Church History. By Rev. B. J. Spalding. With Preface by Rt. Rev. J. L. Spalding, D. D., Bishop of Peoria. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St. 18S4.
This “Second Part” now completes Father Spalding’s “ History of the Church of God,” containing a succint account of the Church from its foundation A. D. 33 to the present day. We have no doubt the work will meet with a hearty and generous welcome in our schools and colleges, O	O'
wherever those in charge realize the necessity of imparting a thoroughly Christian education to the youth of our own times; for certainly a knowledge of the history of the Church forms an essential element in the knowledge of the Christian religion. The History is designed as a text-book, and so arranged as to make the various epochs and facts easily learned and retained by the student. It will supply a want that has long been felt.
Our Lady of Lourdes. By Henri Lasserre.
Translated from the French. Seventh Edition. New York: D. and J. Sadlier & Co., 31 Barclay St. Price, 50 cents.
This publication forms one of a series of good, cheap books, published by the Messrs. Sadlier of New York, and known as the “ Sadliers’ Household Library.” The work itself—the' history of one of the most marvellous events of the nineteenth century—has met with such a wide-spread reception among the Catholic reading-public that it needs no extended notice from us. The narrative of the apparition of the Blessed Virgin at Lourdes is told in the interesting style and with all the attention to de-, tails for which Mr. Lasserre is so well and favorably known. It is a history, which will be read and re-read with increasing interest and leave an impression upon the mind well calculated to serve
as an antidote to a prevalent spirit of unbelief so characteristic of our age. The cheap form in which it is now published places it within reach of all, and, we are sure, will secure for it a more extended circulation.
Our Birthday Bouquet, Culled from the Shrines of the Saints and the Garden of the Poets. By Eleanor C. Donnelly. New York, Cincinnati and St. Louis: Benziger Brothers. 1884.
This book, which the gifted Miss Donnelly has given to the Catholic reading public, is a treasure-which needs but .its possession to be appreciated. In a neat volume 8vo of some 400 pages the talented writer, so well known to our readers and the public generally, has collected a series of sketches of the Saints whose festivals are kept on each day in the year, with appropriate quotations from favorite poets,—among whom it need not be said the author herself is in the front rank,—and the whole crowned with a suggestion of a devotional practice for the day. Or, to better express it in the author’s own words taken from her preface—“ To the choicest flowers from the shrines of the servants of God the compiler has united the purest and most fragrant blossoms (exotic and native), from the haunts of the children of song. The golden chain of Our Lady’s feasts inter-laced with the slender ribbon of a daily Christian practice binds the blooming mass together.” The book is gotten up in a tasteful and elegant style, and reflects credit upon the publishers. It is suitable as a premium, a holiday or birthday gift.
Scientific Notes.
—The Berlin correspondent of the British Medical Journal relates that a schoolmaster of Marienburg has just died from nicotine poisoning due to oversmoking.
o	-
—The Academy of the Nuovi Lincei, Rome, has taken the initiative in the project of erecting a monument to the late Father Secchi, S. J., the famous astronomer. Subscriptions for this purpose will be received up to the end of the present year.
—His Holiness the Pope has erected, at his own expense, at Carpineto-Romano, his native city, a Meteorological Observatory. It has been placed at the top of the castle of the Pecci family. The directorship of this establishment,.which will be one of the most important in:the whole Italian system, has been given to Count Lodovico.
—An American has invented a novel rifle. He uses an accelerating charge of gun cotton instead of powder, and a hollow steel arrow or bolt for a bullet.. The bolt may be charged like a percussion shell or filled with chemical compounds. The latter are-two in~number, one being an inflammable fluid like-Greek fire, and the other a liquid that bursts into-a highly poisonous gas.
—Prof. Douglass, of the Michigan State University, produces amateur cyclones at will by suspending a large copper plate by silken cords. This.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
23
plate is charged, heavily with electricity, which hangs down like a bag underneath, and is rendered visible by the use of arsenious acid gas, which gives it a green color. The formation is a miniature cyclone, as perfect as any started in the clouds. It is funnel-shaped, and whirls around rapidly. Passing this plate over a table, the cyclone snatches up copper cents, pith balls, and other objects, and scatters them on all sides.
—Among the English scientists at Montreal at the recent assembly was the Rev. S. J. Perry, S. J., of Stonyhurst College, Lancashire, England. He is now making a tour of the Astronomical Ob-servatories of the New World, and will read a paper before the American Association at its meeting in Philadelphia. The Rev. gentleman is a prominent member of the leading Astronomical societies of Europe, and has at various times been entrusted with grave questions of scientific research. He publishes annually a book called “ Meteorological and Magnetical Observations at Stonyhurst College,” which has an extensive circulation among astronomers all over the world.
—The opinion is now being advanced by competent scientific writers, based alike on mechanical and physical considerations, that too much erosive power has been attributed by certain geological authorities to glaciers, and that it is doubtful, in fact, if the work of actual excavation has been accomplished by them at all. According to this new theory, the differential movement of glaciers is attributable to the following causes: First, crackling and regelation, as explained by Tyndall and Helmholtz ; second, generation of heat within the glacier, as set forth by Helmholtz; and, third, the penetration of the glacier by luminous solar energy, the absorption of this by opaque bodies, such as stones, earth, organic germs, etc., contained in the ice, and the transformation of it in this way into heat. Thus, contrary to all the commonly accepted ideas on this subject, is .attributed to these causes the greater differential motion of the glaciers by day than by night, and in summer than in winter. An interesting discussion is likely to be opened up in scientific circles by this novel reasoning.
College Gossip.
' -—A new Catholic "college was opened in Kansas City, Mo., on the ist inst. ' 'r
—According to late statistics, there are 2,370 Catholic parochial schools in the United States.
—It is proposed to open a new college under the auspices of the Jesuit Fathers at Morrison, Colorado.
—W. W. Corcoran, the Washington banker and benefactor, has added to his good works by founding the School of Science and Arts in connection with Columbia University, New York.
—The coming centenary birthday (Oct. 24) of Sir Moses Montefiore, the Jewish benefactor, will
be celebrated at Cincinnati by the founding of a perpetual professorship in the Hebrew Union College of that city.
—From Seton Hall, Manhattanville, Fordham, Notre Dame, Worcester, and other colleges, far and near, come most gratifying notes of the promise of prosperity with which the scholastic year opens. So high are the characters of the faculties of our colleges that we are sure the financial prosperity of these institutions is only an indication of the successful mental work that they will accomplish.— Catholic Review.
—The Catholic Seminary of Boston will be opened for the reception of students on the 22d inst. The building is situated at Brighton, one of Boston’s most beautiful and healthy suburbs. It is able to accommodate about one hundred persons; but additions will be built as the increasing number of students may demand. It forms part of a more general plan which- will not require completion for several years to come. The superior is the Rev. Father Hogan, for the past twenty-five years one of the leading professors in the grand Seminary of St. Sulpice, Paris.
—The first American citizen to be made a member of the Faculty of a German university is Dr. Caspar Rene Gregory. He is the son of the Vice-President of Girard College, and a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and Princeton College. He has for some years resided in Leipsic pursuing his studies, and took there his degree of Ph. D. For his work in preparing the “Prolegomena” to the eighth edition of Tischendorf’s o _______	o
Greek Testament he received this appointment. He read an inaugural essay and had a public “ disputation ” in Latin, as is usual, in both acquitting himself most creditably.
—The number of students who attended the twenty-three colleges under the care of the Fathers of the Society of Jesus in the United States during the year lately closed was about 557°°? distributed as follows: Georgetown University, Georgetown, D. C., 207; Loyola College, Baltimore, Md., 118; Boston College, Boston, Mass., 250; Canisius’ College, Buffalo, N. Y., 267; St. Ignatius’ College, Chicago, III., 265; St. Francis Xavier’s College, Cincinnati, O., 280; Detroit College, Detroit, Mich., 217; St. John’s College, Fordham, N. Y., 300; St. Francis Xavier’s College, N. Yr. City, 419; St. Peter’s College, Jersey City, N. J., 92; Floly Cross College, Worcester, Mass., 170; Gonzaga College, Washington, D. C., 144; St. Charles’ College, Grande Coteau, La., 133; College of Immaculate Conception, New Orleans, La., 320; St. Joseph’s College, Springhill, Ala., 174; Las Vegas, College, Las Vegas, N. M., 206; Marquette College, Milwaukee, Wis., 130; Creighton College, Omaha, Neb., 264; College of the Sacred Heart, Prairie du Chien, Wis., no; Sta. Clara College, Santa Clara, Cal., 261; St. Ignatius’ College, San Francisco, Cal., 270; St. Mary’s College, St. Mary’s Kan., 283; University of St. Louis, St. Louis, Mo., 308.
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WMsewnm
Notre Dame, September 13, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support of the'many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early7 application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive infomartion concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Owing to circumstances mentioned in a previous number of the Scholastic, it has been found necessary to postpone indefinitely the solemn dedication of the New Notre Dame. Due notice will be given in these pages when a day has been fixed upon for this solemn ceremony.
The Opening- of the Scholastic Year.
On Tuesday, the 2d inst., studies -were resumed and classes organized at Notre Dame; but the formal, solemn opening of the year was postponed until Sunday7 last. On that day Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Vice-President Toohey, assisted by7 Rev. Fathers Fitte and Toomey7 as deacon and subdeacon. After the Gospel, Rev. President Walsh ascended the pulpit and delivered an eloquent discourse to the students. We hope the following resume has preserved at least a few of the many beautiful and instructive thoughts and suggestions with which the Rev. speaker’s address abounded. President Walsh began by7 saying:
Another scholastic year has begun. That it
may7 be as pleasant and profitable to the students as the one which closed so brilliantly7 last June we all sincerely7 hope and fervently7 pray7. But, realizing the fact that though man may7 propose, the final disposal rests with God, that though man may labor, his labors are in vain unless ihey7 are seconded from on high, we are assembled here this morning to invoke the blessings of Heaven upon the labors of the year. Heaven helps those, we are told, who help themselves; you can best be of assistance to y7ourselves by7 setting about the labors of the year from the outset with the manful resolution to do your best, under all circumstances, to accomplish your duty7 as students; and if such be the spirit with which you undertake the ten months’ task now opening, it will be entirely7 safe to promise you that the blessing from above which is to fertilize your labors in good results will not be withheld.
You need not be told how great is the importance of the task which is to occupy7 your attention during the next ten months. We measure the o	, _
importance of any7 undertaking by7 the sacrifices which we are willing to impose upon ourselves in order to accomplish it. You have all left happy homes and loving friends; to justify7 such a sacrifice on your part and on theirs, you must have some very important object in view. Such is, the case: you have in view the object of acquiring an education.
What more natural, therefore, than that you should have clearly7 set before you at the very outset of your labors the real meaning of the object upon which your energies are to centre and the best means by7 which you may7 succeed in accomplishing it? When a person undertakes a long and perhaps fatiguing journey, he asks himself two questions: 1st, “Where am I going?” 2d, “ What road should I follow in order to reach my7 destination?” Unless he has succeeded in finding the proper answer to these two questions of paramount importance, he may7, if you wish, exert himself and fatigue himself, but in the end he is just as likely7 as not to find himself as far removed from the goal to which he was tending as when he started out. In like manner, unless you have clear ideas on the two important questions’,-“Why7 am I at college?” and “How shall I best attain the end for which I came here?” y7ou may7 exert yourselves overmuch, you. may7 make your stay at college a burden to yourselves and others; but in the end you will'most probably be far from reaching the object which you had in view in leaving your homes.
You have come here, then, to apply yourselves to the task of acquiring an education. What does this mean? When the question is first proposed1 to you, your answer will probably be that it means; the acquisition of a certain amount of knowledge; which you do not now possess and which is. to be of use to you in after life. The answer is. correct, so far as it goes, but it does not go far-enough. Mental culture is unquestionably-something of great importance.’ In the age iii which
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
we live, and in the walks of life which the majority among you aspire to follow, it is of indispensable necessity. No matter how bright and keen . the intellectual powers with which nature has endowed you, unless these powers be developed and cultivated, they will go to waste, and bring forth none of the fruits which they are capable of producing. The mental world in this respect is very much like the material world which surrounds us. Take two tracts of land of equal natural fertility. Let the one be subjected to care-’ful cultivation, and the other be allowed to lie fallow; what will be the result? The one will bring forth an abundance of useful fruit—the other will become a desert, or at best a spot in which nothing but weeds and thorns will attain a rank vegetation. So it is with minds. Like the earth, they share the effects of that primeval curse imposed upon all nature, which dooms them to sterility, and renders them of themselves incapable of bringing forth anything useful or good. Their cultivation is a labor, and sometimes a painful one; but when you consider the importance of the results to which their careful cultivation can lead, you will readily understand that it is an object worthy of all the energy that you can devote to it. To leave college, therefore, next June with the abundant harvest of good fruits which the careful and painstaking cultivation of your mental faculties during the next ten months cannot fail to produce is a part—and a very important part—of the object which you proposed to yourselves in coming to Notre Dame.
But be careful not to suppose that the cultivation of your intellect is the only object which should occupy you.
MAN IS NOT INTELLECT. ALONE, nor has he done his full duty • towards himself when he has labored to polish his mental faculties and succeeded in storing his intelligence with a fund of knowledge. The father of a large family would not be looked upon as having done his whole duty if he lavished all his care and attention upon one of the children and neglected the others. In like manner, neither could you be looked upon as having done your whole duty if you devoted all your attention to the cultivation of your mental faculties and neglected everything else. Education means not the undue development of any particular powers, but the symmetrical development of all. Man has body and soul, mind, heart and conscience; to educate him is therefore to make each of these constituent elements attain its full development. To build i’p your physical strength, to polish your manners, to enlighten your consciences that they may know the right, and to strengthen your wills that they may always enable you with God’s help to do it, these are duties which await you during the year, and which are not less important than the sharpening and polishing of your mental faculties. We do not aim at forming scholars or book-worms simply, but men—men of the kind that the world needs, and who will make the world in which they live feel their influence,—
men of correct principles,' of strong hearts, of well-formed minds, and adding to all these advantages that of bodily strength.
HOW CAN YOU BEST SUCCEED
in accomplishing the objects to which I have briefly alluded? You can do this by taking from the outset the manly resolution to observe the rules that are laid down for your guidance, whatever little sacrifices the keeping of this resolution may oblige you to make. The regulations to which you will be subjected are, perhaps, at first sight, strict, because it is for your interest that they should be. so. But I trust that you will agree with me in thinking that they are without the least tincture of harshness. They are not enactments imposed by passing whim and caprice; they are the fruits of the experience of many generations of school-men,—of men older and wiser than you are; of men who had no object more at heart than to advance the real interests of youth; and who, after mature deliberation, have adopted these rules as the very best -means of accomplishing the object which brings you to . college.
“ Order is Heaven’s first law,” we are told by a poet. Without order it is useless to dream of carrying any undertaking to a successful conclusion; and none can be more thoroughly convinced of its absolute and indispensable necessity than those who, whether as students or instructors, have had any experience of life in a boarding school. These rules have, therefore, for primary object to secure that perfect order which is the special characteristic of every well-conducted institution, and without which you could not venture to hope that your stay at college would be productive of any real benefit. These rules prevent the loss of time by allowing for intellectual labor as many hours per day as it would be prudent for you to devote to it. They ensure your physical well-being by prescribing certain fixed and’ definite hours of recreation which you are advised to consecrate to necessary healthful exercise. They foster a methodical spirit by requiring you to perform all your duties at fixed times. They beget habits of punctuality by insisting that you shall be always in certain places at a stated hour, which you ought not to anticipate, and after which you should not lag behind. If your year at college had no other result than to endow you with the two great virtues of promptness and punctuality, any man of affairs and practical experience would assure you that it would be a year well spent.
, OBSERVANCE OF THE RULES
is the first requisite to success in. studies—one of the objects of your coming to college; and, I may add, that observance of the rules is equally important in the task of building up and strengthening your moral nature; and why? because, in the first place, you cannot observe the college rule without building up in yourself that fundamental virtue of obedience to authority. The exact compliance with these few and easily-observed rules
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of college goes a great way towards 'making the wilEsubmissive to the great laws of God. The college rules, it has been justly remarked, when properly observed, become for the law of God like so many out-posts, stretching far away, and rendering it difficult for the enemy of salvation to make an irruption into our hearts. But that such may be the result in your case you will be constantly reminded that your submission to rule should not be merely mechanical or grounded on servile fear^but should spring from conscientious motives. The virtue which blooms only under the master’s eye, and which withers and dies at the first breath ■of temptation is not the robust kind of virtue that the world needs, and certainly not the kind which nt expects Catholic institutions to produce. Your observance of rule should be of such a kind as to make of you men of honor and principle,—men whose actions are preceded by the question “ Is it right?” and not “Am I likely to be observed?” Men who, while avoiding the occasions of sin and the sources of temptation, will yet, when temptation is thrust upon them—as it must be thrust on every man—know how to offer it a vigorous and manly resistance.
The observance of the college rules, as we have ‘ seen, is essential to the proper development of your intellectual faculties and to the cultivation of your moral nature,—the two most important objects you have in view. It can easily be shown that it is also essential to the formation of
A GENTLEMANLY CHARACTER;
and why? because true politeness does not consist simply in the knowledge and observance of exterior forms; it is, above all, a delicate regard for the rights and feelings of others. Now, this regard can never be possessed by the. man who is unable, occasionally at least, to, impose some little sacrifice upon himself. These rules accustom you to self-restraint—to the giving up at times of your own views and notions; in a hundred little ways they tend to form in you that suppleness of character and disposition which the true Christian gentleman ought to possess, and which will serve to set off to such advantage all the varied accomplishments which your studies and labors ought to en-
• able you to acquire.	.
Besides, I might ask, what serious difficulties does the observance of the college rules present? They are intended only to advance your own interests; their object is to allow you the widest liberty compatible with perfect order; they proscribe no healthy amusement in which it may please you to indulge; they are enforced by men whose dearest aim is to merit your affection and confidence, and to deserve to be considered your friends,—and friends in the truest sense of the term. , They wage relentless war against, and hold out no hope of mercy or pardon only to certain gross vices which you, equally with the college authorities, condemn and abhor,"and in pursuing which with inexorable severity the college authorities can always count on the co-operation and support of every student whose good opinion is worth desiring.
To sum up briefly, therefore, we have asked ourselves this morning, “ What is your object in coming to college, and how can this object best be attained?’b and we have seen that your object in leaving your homes was to devote the year to the work of your education, /. e., the task of filling your minds with useful knowledge, and your hearts with sound principles; of building up your physical strength; of refining and polishing.your manners; in a word, the task of making you well-informed men, practical Christians, and gentlemen in the true sense of the word. The means by which' this desirable consummation is to be reached is the conscientious observance of the rules which devoted and experienced men have laid down for your guidance.
That your resolution will be to adopt the means indicated, I cannot doubt. And what better place could be found in which to renew the resolutions you have already formed than this church of God in which we are assembled ? and what better day than this which is especially consecrated to God’s service? Here, therefore, before the altar of God, and during the celebration of the holy Mysteries of our Faith, form or renew the resolutions that are to inspire you during the year. Ask from above the grace and strength which will enable you to accomplish them under all circumstances. And if you remain faithful to these resolutions, rest assured that the year upon which we are entering will be one fraught for all with the choicest blessings both for time and eternity.
Personal.	.
—Rev. I. Murphy, of Hamilton, Ohio, was a welcome visitor to the College during the week.
—We are informed on good authority that all of the old Notre Dame students of Wheeling, W. Va., reflect credit upon their Alma Mater.
—Henry Hess, of ’82, is in active business with his father at AV heeling, W. Va., and promises to figure prominently among the commercial men of our day.
—Very Rev. Father Granger and Rev. Father Spillard were in Fort Wayne, last week, attending the celebration of Bishop Dwenger’s “ Silver' Jubilee.” ..	..
—Rev. M. Robinson, C. S. Q., arrived at Notre Dame last week from Austin, Texas, and will be engaged in teaching at the College during the coming year.	'
—Signor Gregori, with his wife and daughter, sailed from Hamburg, on the yth inst. They return after an absence of three months on a visit to their native Italy.
~—Ambrose J. Hertzog, ’75, is spending a few days at Notre Dame, visiting his three cousins, students of the college. All his old friends are delighted to see him.
—Rev. Vice-President Toohey celebrated the 20th anniversary of his ordination on the 8th inst,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Rev. Father was the recipient of numerous congratulations on the occasion. Ad multos annos /
—General Lew Wallace, the distinguished Minister from the United States to Turkey, paid a flyingvisit to the College last Thursday morning. The General expressed himself delighted at the University grounds and buildings, and promised himself the pleasure of a longer visit next month.
—Mr. W. P. Breen, ’77, at present a leading lawyer in Ft. Wayne, delivered an eloquent address to Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger bn the occasion of his “Silver Jubilee,” which was celebrated on the 4th inst. The Ft. Wayne Daily Nexus says: “ The address was attentively listened to and was, indeed, a masterpiece of oratory and thought.”
— The Burlington (Iowa) Haxvkeye speaks as follows of a former student of Notre Dame of the Class of ’74:
“ Charles T. Dodge, Burlington, son of the late Gen. Dodge will be a candidate for Attorney General, in the Democratic convention, to be held Sept. 3d. Mr. Dodge is a young man of far more than ordinary ability, and if he receives the nomination, will draw more than the party vote.
—A very welcome visitor to the College’during J	00
the latter part of the vacation was Prof. Wm. J. Ivers, ’64, of Philadelphia, for many years a Professor in the University. It was his first visit since the great fire of ’79, and his surprise was unbounded at the numerous buildings erected and the many improvements made. The Prof, was warmly greeted by many friends, all of whom were glad to see him in good health, and to know that he is meeting with deserved success in business.
—Catholic Temperance will now have a missionary ready to do battle for the good cause and teach and preach its truths whenever the necessity demands. More than a year ago The Catholic Reviexv announced that a liberal Catholic gentleman of Chicago had placed at the disposal of Bishop Ireland a handsome fund to be employed in securing the services of such a temperance organizer. It was not easy to secure a competent worker not otherwise engaged. The zealous priest to whom Bishop Ireland first offered the post was obliged to decline. At last Heaven has made possible the acceptance of the post by a great missionary, known far and near, one whose war record made him friends every where,and whose missions in time of peace have ranged from the Gulf to the Hudson. The Rev? Father Cooney, C. S. C., of Notre Dame, was urged by Bishop Ireland to take up this great task. Pie has done so. We rejoice that he has, for he is a man whose eloquence has already done ample service to this vital reform.— Catholic Reviexo.
—The last number of the Chicago Weekly Magazine contained a well-written sketch of the career of the Hon. John Gibbons, of ’68. We present the following extract:
“It would be difficult to select a name from the bright strong men of our time that would afford as interesting a sketch for this department of the Magazine as that of the Hon. John Gibbons. He is a young man, and people more generally would like to know who he is—a few facts, at
least, concerning his history. A resident of Chicago since 1879, and a member of the Chicago bar, he is remembered by many here, and by all the people of Iowa, as at one time a strong and influential member of the Legislature of that State. He is known in Chicago as a gentleman of scholarly tastes and attainments, as well as a lawyer thoroughly learned in the principles and lore of his profession. A man of sterling character, clear and bold in his convictions, yet naturally retiring and kindly in manner and disposition, he is really one of the very foremost Irish-Americans of the West. He was born in the county Donegal, Ireland, in 1S48. and is therefore thirty-six years old. His. scholastic training was commenced at a private academy in Londonderry, was resumed on coming to America at the Broad Street Academy in Philadelphia, and was afterwards pursued at Notre Dame University, in Indiana, which institution conferred on him, in 1877, his degree of Master of Arts.. He first read law in the office of Wm. H. Martin, Esq., of Philadelphia. Removing to Keokuk, Iowa, he was there admitted to the bar in 1869. Shortly after, his new legal friends of -that city, seeing his capacity and marked legal promise, solicited and obtained for him the appointment of • assistant prosecuting attorney, which position he held until he resigned it, five years afterwards. From 1873 to 1S76 he was also City Attorney, elected and re-elected by the votes of both republicans and democrats. The affairs of the city of Keokuk were at this time in an extremely com plicated and unfavorable situation, and Mr. Gibbons greatly distrn-guished himself among his legal brethren for the legal skill, efficiency and rare originality which he brought to bear in disentangling the difficulties and reducing the municipal government and legislation to simplicity and order. Elected to the Legislature in ■ 1876 as a member, it is said, of the most brilliant and probably the best delegation Lee County ever had in that body, he was at first at a disadvantage from being young and unacquainted. He was not, of course, recognized like his older associates in the appointment of the standing committees; but before the Legislature adjourned he was conceded to be the highest authority in the body on all questions of Constitutional Law. A year later he received the nomination of the democratic party for Attorney-General of the State. In 1879,as has been stated, he removed to Chicago, where he has built up a good practice—something not easily nor quickly done in the midst of a bar so extensive and comprising such a large number of able veteran lawyers, well-known and commanding to such a degree the attention and confidence of the weighty and influential portion of the community. But it is not only as a lawyer but as a thoughtful, broad-minded, schol -arly and public-spirited man that Mr. Gibbons is especially making his mark upon the times. Great possibilities lie before him as a lawyer, for he is known to be both learned — in the law and possessed of rare judicial qualities of mind; but he will doubtless be heard from soonest and most prominently as a man of ideas—a man of progressive spirit, and the champion of the best interests of the masses of the American people.”
Local Items.
—Shake! '	. '	■
—Glad to see you back!
—“It’s sheer heaitlessness!”
—Jim is practising for a catcher.
—Have you heard the Quintette Club?
—Where hath, the little sign-board gone?
—The Elocution Classes are well attendee^.
—’85 boasts the class championship at baseball.
—The St. Cecilians were the first to reorganize.
—The scaffolding has been removed from the Dome.
—Indications point to an unusually large attendance this year.
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—Our “ box ” is in the same place. Contributions ; thankfully received.	'
—Full reports of the organizations will be handed in next week.
—Classes were inaugurated on the 2d, and are now in good running order.
—The billiard-tables in the Seniors’ readingroom have been rejuvenated.
—The first edition of “Joseph Haydn ” is nearly exhausted; only a few copies left.
—The “ Knights of St. Edward ” have reorganized and will ere long be heard from.
—Prof. Ackerman is busily engaged decorating the interior of the Academy of Music.
—Read our astrologer’s prediction in the Scholastic Annual about the next President.
—It is claimed that a Greek chorus will pass current for a Chinese Temperance Lecture.
—The Juniors scored the first 100 on last Friday; the Seniors came in a good second on Saturday.
—The Gymnasia have received the finishing touches in the shape of new and neat hard-wood floors.
—The baseballists are already in the field, and we predict some interesting games during the coming year.
' —Many of the societies have been organized. We invite the secretaries to send full reports of the proceedings.
—The Boat Club has been reorganized. The crews will soon commence practising for the 13th prox. Hand in your reports.	.
—Mr. M. O’Dea, Teacher of Telegraphy, has started a Type-writing Department in connection with his Telegraphy Class this year.
—Prof. Lyons’ New Drama of “The Prodigal Law Student ” is published. Copies may be had on application to the Prof, or at the Students’ Office.
—The students who travelled east of Buffalo during vacation, are under many obligations to Mr. Wm. H. Cadwell, Gen’l Pass. Agent of the West Shore road.
—The Juniors’ study-hall is a gem of neatness and art. The efforts of the Prefects have been amply rewarded, and it is now a worthy rival of the “ Princes’ Hall.”
—The field-sports will surely be very interesting on St. Edward’s Day; for an “old timer,” one, too, who always carried off the prizes, is back. He will make it lively for pur local athletes.
—A valuable gift was received a few weeks ago from China. It consists of a library of Chinese works, with Latin translationsand notes.' It was • sent to Father Hudson, to be given to the Lemon-nier Library, from W. H. Doyle, Esq., of Shanghai. .	. .	..	. '	.	.
—The Juniors’ Campus has been greatly improved by the leveling of the unsightly hills and mounds that used to rear up in certain parts. This work of improvement was begun during vacation, and is still being carried on, with most gratifying results.	-	,
—The general remark of everyone on seeing the tile-flooring from the main entrance to the different study-halls is that “it fills a long-felt want,”—i. e., a want of further beauty and symmetry with which to enhance the general perfection of those imposing corridors.
—It is rumored that the St. Cecilia Society will be made up of members from the Senior department. We trust there is no foundation for the report; as, from time immemorial, the Cecilians have been formed exclusively from the elite of the Junior department.
-—The Juniors’ and Minims’ study-halls are enlivened by the presence of two beautiful Mexican birds, known as the Clarine. and the finest singingbirds in the country. They are the gift of Senora Parez, of Mexico, to whom the students in these halls desire to return their grateful thanks.
—An interesting game of baseball was played on last Thursday afternoon, between the 1st Junior nine and the little tvaiters. The game was witnessed by the Junior department, their Prefects and a number of the clergy. The little waiters used the willow manfully, scoring 17 tallies to the Juniors’ it.
—There are indications that the study of music has received a marked impetus, such as to warrant us in expressing the belief that our entertainments, exhibitions, etc., during the coming year will be made unusually attractive. By the way, now that our musical societies are being reorganized, why can we not have a college choir?
—The regular meeting of the Lemonnier Boat Club took place on the 8th inst for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing session. The result was as follows: Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh; President, M. Regan, C. S. C.; Commodore, J. Guthrie; Treasurer, H. Steis; Recording Secretary, L. Mathers; Corresponding Secretary, C. D. Saviers; Captains, C. D. .Saviers and H. Steis.
—Prof. Edwards has the College Library in first-class condition. Besides the valuable collection of volumes with which it is .well filled, the space in the large apartment has been economized, so that room has been found for a number of cases of literary, historic and other relics and curiosities which serve to impart interesting and useful information. We shall in another number give more particular data m regard to the contents of the Library room.	’
—During the vacation, the Director of the Art Department of the Cincinnati Exposition visited Notre Dame, and expressed his admiration at the many beautiful works of art found here. With the consent of the authorities, he secured a number of works to place on exhibition in Cincinnati. The collection aggregates in value $70,000, and their packing was superintended by a distinguished artist from Chicago. We have heard that the Notre Dame section in the Exposition is attracting a great deal of attention. \
—The members of the Library Association return thanks to Mrs. Doss, of Trinidad, Col., for a;

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
present of 13 volumes, and a collection of shells, minerals, pottery and photographs; to Mrs. Grimes, of Denver, foi' Chinese coins; to H./C. Peglow, of Laporte, Ind., for specimens of U. S. fractional currency; to Bro. William, for a collection of South American beetles, and a silver dollar of the year 1798; to Master Leslie Doss, of Trinidad, for a mounted wild-cat and a prairie chicken; to Master Myers, of Dubuque, for coins; to Mr. Alvarez, of Mexico City, for a Mexican Serapi.
—His Majesty Alfonso, King of Spain, has' presented to the University a copy of the ancient portrait of Columbus, lately found in the National Library of Madrid, on a canvas which had been painted over by a more modern artist. The original formerly belonged to the historian, Paulo Jovio, whose extensive gallery of authentic portaits of great men had a world-wide renown in the age o	e	o
of Leo X. The portrait is accompanied by two volumes of the “ Boletin de la Real Academia de la Historia,” containing learned dissertations on Columbus, his portraits and matters of interest connected with the life of the great discoverer.
—The first regulai* meeting of the Thespian Society was held Wednesday, September the 10th, for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing session. The election resulted as follows: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; H. P. Porter, Vice-President; AV. H. Johnston, Historian; A. A. Browne, Recording Secretary; D. C. Saviers, Treasurer; C. C. Kolars, Corresponding Secretary; H. J. Steis, Librarian; J. AV. Guthrie, 1st Censor; W. J. Ramsay, 2d Censor; Messrs. Goulding, Callaghan, F. Combe, Ancheta, C. Porter, Mathers, Mahon, were elected members, after which the meeting adjourned.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger has written the following letter to the Minims, in reply to their address of congratulation on the occasion of his “ Silver Jubilee ” in the Priesthood:
Ft. Wayne, Ind., September 6, '84.
Dear Feelow-Minims :
I need not tell you that I received your letter and most beautiful address. The Minims of Notre Dame do everything in a princely style. Their address was the most beautiful I received on the occasion of my Silver Jubilee. I thank them sincerely, and whilst I will try to be an honor to them, I hope the Minims of St Edward’s Hall will always be such excellent boys that it will be quite an exceptional honor to be one of their number.
Yours in Christ,
& JOSEPH DWENGER,
Bishop of Ft. Wayne.
—The following works have been received by the Directors of the Lemonnier Library: From the Hon. AV. J. Onahan, LL.D., of Chicago, The • Works of Sallust, to which are prefixed Two Essays on the. Life, Literary Character and AVritings of the Historian with Notes, History, Biography, and Criticism, by Henry Stewart, LL. D., 2 vbls., Jto, London 1806; British Family Antiquity, Illustrative of the Origin and Progress of the Rank, Honors, and Personal Merits of the Nobility of
the United Kingdom, with an elegant set of Chronological Charts, 4 vols.; Pamphlets 20; Intemperance—Our Duty in regard to the Evil, Lecture by Rt. Rev. Bishop Ireland, 50 copies; From Miss A. C. Gibbons, of New York City, Through Normandy, by Katharine S. Macquoid; A Country Doctor, by Sarah Orne Jewett.
—The Junior branch of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin met on the evening of the-7th inst. and elected officers for the coming session-The election resulted as follows: Rev. T. E. AValsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C.,, Spiritual Director; Mr. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President; F. J. Hagenbarth, 1st AGce-P resident; M. Clarke, 2d Vice-President; S. O’Brien, Secretary; Ji Monschein, Corresponding Secretary; J. Dorenberg, Treasurer; M. Mulkern and AV. AVa-braushek, Censors; AV. Berthelet, Standard-Bearer; R. Oxnard, Organist. After the election, the President appointed Masters F. Hagenbarth, Clarke, Monschein and Dorenberg to prepare papers for the next meeting, which will be held on the evening of the twenty-first of September. All are cordially invited to attend the meetings of this society.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association for the purpose of reorganizing. was held Saturday evening, September 6th. The following are the names of the officers for this scholastic session: Arery Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., Perpetual Honorary Director; Rev. T. E. AValsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant Director; J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; J; F. Edwards, LL. B., Honorary President; Professors A. J. Stace, C. E., A. M., and AV. Hoynes, A. M., General Critics; Bros. Leander, Alexander, and Lawrence, C. S.C., Promoters; Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of Or-pheonic Branch; F. Hagenbarth, 1st Vice-President; F. Dexter, 2d Vice-President; C. Stubbs, Recording Secretary; E. Porter, Treasurer; J. Monschein, Historian; M. B. Mulkern, Corresponding Secretary; J. Courtney, 1st Censor; C. Mason, 2d Censor; T. Cleary, Librarian; L. Grever, 1st Monitor; J. Garrity, 2d Monitor; S. O’Brien, Ser-geant-at-Arms; W. R. Berthelet, Marshall; C. Harris, 1 st Property Manager; J. H. Crawford, 2d Property Manager; R. Morrison, Prompter; R. Oxnard, Organist.
—The students’ party,' alluded to in a late issue, left for Notre Dame'University last evening, in a special palace car. One of the best Pullman’s in the service was chartered by Rev. J. A. Zahm, who has charge of the party, and goes through to South Bend, Ind., near which the University is located, without change. The excursionists went via the Burlington and Missouri, and were evidently prepared to have a good time until they reached their college home. Many of the students have been at Notre Dame, for two dr-more years, and others go there for the first time. We trust that those who attend the University this year will make as good a record as those who -were there last year, and that they, will bring; back as many
THE NOTRE TAME SCHOLASTIC.
honors at the end of the term in June next. The following are the names of those whose names we were able to get: Messrs. Paul Chapin, Albert Marion, Lynn Austin, Joseph Reily, William McPhee, Albert Grimes, William Grimes, John Bull, J. St. Elmo Berry, Ernest Crawford, John Fisher, Dean Sweet, J. Mason, Leo Scherrer, F. and J. Peck, of Denver; F. Noonan, of Golden; J. McMillan and J. Ernest, of Deer Trail, S. Day of Ouray; J. Donellan, of Laramie, Wyo.; Frank Hagenharth, of Challis, Idaho; F. Murphy, of Lincoln, Neb.; and Leslie Doss, of Trinidad. Besides the above, we noticed Mrs. Dr. Grimes and daughter, Miss Agnes Keys, Miss Minnie Smith, who go to attend St. Mary’s Academy near Notre Dame, and Mrs. Doss and Mrs. Keating. When we last saw the car, it was filled with students and lunch baskets, and we almost wished that we were a boy again, if for nothing more than to go to college in a palace car. A large crowd of parents and friends assembled at the depot to say farewell, and to bid the young folks God speed. We join them and wish our young aspirants for college honors every success and a safe return in June.—Denver Daily Nevus, Sept. 4.
Roll of Honor. '.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Willard, Hamlyn, Noonan, McGill, J. Wagoner, Donohue, W. Williams, Sheridan, J. Ryan, O. Ryan, Harless, Meyer, Livingston, Halligan, Conlon, Kolars, Waggoner, H. Porter, C. Porter, Pohl, Saviers, Brooks, King, McCartney, F. McErlaine, Creel, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Crilly, W. Collins, Wm. Collins, Quill, Steis, Stephand, Conway, Guthrie, Johnson, McMurray, Spangler, Johnston, M. Lechuga, F. Baca, A. Barbabosa, J. Barbabosa, • Garcia, Bustillos, Estrado, Callaghan, O’Donnell, Cartier, Bates, Chapin, Marion, Crawford, Austin, Mathers, W. P. Mahon, Rice, Reach, Duffin, Schaefer, McMillan, Dwan, Perley, Felix, Baca, McArdle, G. O’Kane, M. Burns, S. Williams, Alvarez, Lechuga, Sagreda, Arce, Rui, Hotal-ing, P. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, Casavantes, McNulty, Ancheta, Browne, T. Becerra, Carbajal, F. Combe, C. Combe, De Groot, Goulding, Kleiber. Marquez, Ramsay, Sanchez, Padilla, Gordon, Jess, Kegel, Zeitler, C. Williams, Wiley, Rothert, Dory, Rivaud, Howard.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Aikens, B. Arnold, W. Arts; J. Ackerman, W. Butterfield, W. Borgschulze, E. Byerly, D. Bearss, E. Benner, F. Benner, J. Baur, W. Berthelet, W. Congdon, M. Cummings, M. Clarke, G. Cartier, D. Cartier, M. Colina, J. Crawford, E. Dillon, J. Dempsey, J. Dorenberg, J. Dougherty, J. Donnellan, W. Daly, L. Eppstein, J. Emmons, A. Finckh, J. Fisher, J. Grunsfeld, L. Grever, E. Grever, J. Garrity, W. Grimes, A. Hoye, W; Hemis-baugh, C. Harris, E. Howard, O. Haring, J. Hieronimus, J. Hibbler, S. Holman, W. Houlihan, F. Hagenbarth, B. ‘ - Henry, J. Kelly, R. Kinsely, M. Luther, T.Zozaya, A. Loya, A. Moye, G. Martinez, M. Mulkem, A.. Muessel, W. Morrison, R. Morrison, J. Monschein, G. Menig, C. Mason, G. Myers, S. Nussbaum, R. Oxnard, S. O’Brien, M. O’Kane, J.-Portillo, E. Proudhomme, E. Porter, J. Porter, C. Regan, M. Real, L. Rose, V. Rebori, C. Ruffing, J. Remish, E. Reynolds, F. Rogers C. Stubbs, C. Senn, J. Shields, J. Sokup, F. Smith, W. Stange, C. Spencer, E. Schmaus, F. Shaw, L. Sheuerman, M. Sheuerman, -J.
Talbot, F. Thurston, G. Tarrant, W. Vandercar, W. Wa-braushek, W.Wagoner, W. Willard, T. Williams, G. Wiet-ing.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters T. /Addington, H. Addington, Ackerman, Boos, Berry, Bull, Bunker, Barger, Blakeslee, Crotty, Comins, Cobbs, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, J. Doss, G. Doss, Day, L. Doss, Ernest, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, G. Falvey, Grimes, Grunsfeld, Henry, Haney, C. Inderrieden, B. Inderrieden, Jones, Kellner, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Landenwich, C. Mitchell, J. Mitchell, Morgan, Murphy, McPhee, McGill, McGuire, McCourt, Mahon, Mason, McNulty, .Moncada, Mooney, Nussbaum, Noonan, O’Kane, Jno. Peck, Jas. Peck, Piel, Piero, Paul, Perkins, Quill, Rugee, Salman, Sozaya, Sweet, Scherrer, Shdneman, Smith, Stone, Weston, A. McVeigh.
From Niagara to New York.*
To the Editor of the “Scholastic”:
Our journey from Buffalo to New York by way of the celebrated Suspension Bridge and Hudson Valley was, as far as regards scenery and magnificence of travel, all that could be desired. As soon as we had arrived in Buffalo, we made immediate connections with the West Shore road, ran out to see the Falls, and returned in time to take the train going south. The view from Suspension Bridge is one of the best general views that can be obtained from any position. Supported in mid air, right over the cataract, one sees the swift rapids for miles above the Falls, he sees and hears the immense flood as it thunders down over the precipice, and feels the mist and winds caused by the terrible commotion. It is a sight that can be taken in at a glance, and scarcely has an equal on the globe. The scenery from Niagara to Hudson River is that of fresh, green vegetation and well-cultivated land. The road, too, that we took—the West Shore—is one of the smoothest, best laid tracks in the country. The speed is something extraordinary, quite frequently reaching a mile in a minute; the conductors and officers of the road are polite and obliging, and the cars are among the best equipped in the country— all of which added to our pleasure and comfort.
The beauty of the Hudson is only equalled by the grandeur of the Falls. On both sides, all along the whole length of the river, the banks rise steep and high, even to mountains, and all loaded with green foliage and flowers. The hurrying boats that are continually passing, the magnificent mountain scenery, and‘the flying trains that sweep up and down the double track, make this one of the most delightful routes in the country.
VlA'I’OR.
* Last June, a party of students.—about twenty-five in all —went to New York by the new route,—the West Shore— and the above extract from a letter of one of the party we ' take the liberty of publishing, as we know that it will be of interest to at least some of our readers.—(Ed. Schol.)
For the Dome'.
John C. Larkin...........................  $5.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint TRary's Academy.:
One Mile West of Notre Dame'University.
—The Class in Latin is already in active operation under the charge of the Rev. Chaplain, Father Shortis, C. S. C.
—The cheerful face of Miss Emma Laiig, a
O t former pupil, is a welcome sight. She brings a younger sister as a pupil.
—The Rev. Father O’Keefe, President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., made a short call on his return from a trip to Ireland.
—The Class in Phonography has opened with a goodly number, and very fail' prospects. This useful branch of a business education is every day growing in popular favor.
—The opening Mass of the scholastic year was celebrated by Very Rev. Father General on the Feast of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin. The Catholic pupils received Holy Communion.
—A very beautiful painting of the Nativity of our Lord just completed in St. Luke’s Studio, also several numbers of the Stations of the Cross designed for the new church may be seen in the Art department.
—On the festival of Our Lady’s Nativity, the altar of Loreto was beautifully decorated, and on the eve of the Feast the Magnificat was there chanted to commemorate the grand event of the birth of her whom all generations shall call blessed.
—The Juniors’ recreation-hall has undergone renovations in walls, pillars and windows; the latter being neatly shaded, the panes assuming the appearance of finely-ground glass. This hall is one of the prettiest rooms in the Academy.
—The Chapel of Loreto is the scene of important renovations. The entire front, representing the altar of the basilica which covers the original shrine of Loreto, is to be built up of solid mason work and more durable material, than that at first employed. .
—The work of earnest study has already commenced, and though the weather is intolerably warm and dry, and all are longing for rain and the cooling autumnal breezes, the consequent lassitude is generously spurned, and a lively spirit of • emulation is everywhere to be seen.
—The Princesses take royal sport in the apple orchard. The apples they gather have the reddest cheeks, the smoothest shapes, and the spiciest pulp of any there found. It is no small amusement to see these little ones play “ Lady Bountiful ” when they return, laden with their tempting treasures.
—Among the welcome visitors, Mrs. Briggs, ■of Ft. Dodge, Iowa, a pupil at St. Mary’s twenty-two years ago, and Mrs. Emmons, of Jackson, Mich., a pupil of twenty years, are named; also Mrs. G. A. Reynolds, of Mesilia, N. M.; Mrs.
Ryerson, of Chicago; Mrs. Morrison, of Clarksville, Texas; Mrs. Donnelly, of Michigan-City.
—Father Fitzgerald, from County Kerry, Ireland, passed some time at St. Mary’s. He is canvassing for a monument to be erected in honor of the great Daniel O’Connell in his native place. In the Rev. advocate from his native County where the monument is to stand, the great Christian statesman and orator finds a worthy exponent. Mrs. M. M. Phelan contributed the sum of one hundred dollars to the noble enterprise.	‘
—The Minims’ room has resumed its former bright look, and to watch the tiny inmates in the evening absorbed in some new game, all eyes intent and minds oblivious of everything outside the circle—if we may be allowed to make a parody on the appellation of King Arthur’s Knights—they might be appropriately styled “ Princesses of the Round Table.” Little Dotty Lee, not yet nine years old, is their last charming acquisition.
—The repairs in and about the buildings give a fresh and cheerful aspect; but, better still, are of a nature to sensibly contribute to the pleasure and comfort of the pupils, particularly as the cement walks are now so extended as to entirely supersede the brick pavement of old. Now, active out-ofdoor exercise can be taken, no matter what the weather, for much of the concrete pavement is under shelter, and roller skates will find free scope upon the smooth, inviting surface.	’
—The Seniors’ study-hall has been plastered and calciumined, and furnished with new flooring- and fresh adornments. As one enters, the first object that strikes the eye is a beautiful panel, seven feet wide, extending entirely across the upper part of the east bay-window. It is executed in the effective new style of “broad handling,” by Miss Young, of Class ’72. The design is the motto, ’■'■Labor Omnia Vincit” surrounded by rich clusters of elder blossom, morning glories, and luxuriant apple blossoms. The First’Senior class-room is also adorned with a beautiful gift from Miss Y~oung, as a token of love for her Alma Mater. It is a panel composed of Trumpet Creepers. This apartment is also used as a French class-room; hence the motto on the panel is in that sweet and graceful language—“ Vertu et Science” The office of the Prefect of Studies is in possession of a fresh donation from the same gifted hand—a table-cover in northern magnolias. These paintings reflect credit upon St. Luke’s Studio,, within whose walls the young donor received, her first lessons in art. Pier skill with the magic brush last spring earned for her name the distinguished favor of being placed, in the Catalogue of the National Academy of Design, New York City. “The Glass of Roses,” which was accepted for the Annual Exhibition, may now be seen at St. Mary’s.	.
—The silver jubilee of ordination to the-priesthood was celebrated by the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne bn Wednesday, the 4th ihst. On the part of the Academy, the. following lines of con
32	TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gratulations were tendered. The inscription for the fly-leaf was as follows:
“To Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, as a token of respectful congratulation on the twenty-fifth anniversary of his ordination to the holy priesthood. From the young ladies of St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind. Sept. 4, 1859. Sept. 4, 1S84.
“ A silvery sound on the silvery waves
Of the morning’s misty ether,
In echoes of mirth, surrounding the earth, Wakes music above and beneath her.
Do 1 the harmony laves even coral-bound caves, Tike the beams of the sun that enwreath her.
“ To our Bishop A Greeting floats over the plain!
For twenty-five years unceasing
He hath made to arise The Great Sacrifice, Bound souls from sin’s fetters releasing;
Now the old-time refrain, as it echoes again, Tells of God and His glory increasing.
“ Thanks, thanks, holy Bishop! your bright jubilee
Is ours, and treasured sincerely,—
Since twelve years your care we are honored to share;
As our “ Shepherd ” your worth beams out clearly; And the youngest may see faith, faith is the key
To the life-work your heart loves so dearly.
“ On the silver-crowned year of your record divine Accept their profound gratulation,
Dear Bishop, from souls whom your Lordship enrolls In the range of your kind ministration;
From young hearts thattwine round St. Mary’s loved shrine To honor your blest Ordination.
“ Your Lordship’s loving and deferential children, “The Pupils of St. Mary’s Academy.”
The cover was an appropriate and finely-executed design painted on parchment in St. Luke’s Studio.
—On Monday, September 1st, Father General, following the Roman calendar, spoke on the edifying life of St. Elizabeth, Queen of Portugal, and in the course .of his instruction alluded to an incident which proves how tenderly a loving Providence watches over and protects the virtuous from the snares of the most artful enemies. A certain courtier endeavored but too successfully to poison the mind of the king against another courtier remarkable for his piety and devotion to the saintly queen. The king,in exasperation, went to a neighboring' forge, and grave the command that the first courtier who should come and make the inquiry, “Have you obeyed the command of the king?” should be thrown into the seething furnace. The traduced courtier accordingly was dispatched by the king to the forge on the following morning, and charged to make the inquiry as stated above. On his way he passed by a chapel, and, taught as he had been by a pious mother, never to neglect •hearing Mass when it was in his power, he dismounted from his steed and entered the holy - place; his devotion impelled him to remain and ‘hear a secondh and even a third Mass; these completed, he joyfully proceeded on his .way to fulfil the orders 'of the king, o	.
On reaching the place designated, and propounding the question, the reply being in the affirmative, the light-hearted youth returned to the palace; but when the king beheld him he was overpowered with astonishment. Far from looking for him, he expected his enemy who had, Aman-like, fallen into the snare laid for his innocent fellow-courtier.
Happily for the sovereign, he beheld in the event the hand of God,’ and, from leading a disso--lute life, turned earnestly to the service of God, and learned at length how to realize the treasure he possessed in his consort, who, although one of the fairest women of her time, and endowed above others with intellect and every qualification of which a worldly heart might be proud, was preeminent for her humility and virtue to a degree that has raised her upon our altars to receive the homage of a saint.
Bulwer has translated from Schiller a beautiful ballad embodying the history. It is entitled “Fri-dolin; or, the Message of the Forge.” The beauty of the description taken from the ballad is our best apology for quoting a few stanzas:	•
“ If God is found upon the way Thou must not pass Him by! ” He stepped into the church to pray, But all stood silently.
It was the harvest’s merry reign The scythe was busy in the grain; And not a chorister was there
The Mass to serve, the rites to share.
The impulse to his heart is given As sacristan to be—
“ Whatever promotes thy service, Heaven, Is not delay,” saith he.
So, on the priest, with humble soul,
He hung the cingulum and stole	'
And nimbly ranged each holy thing, To the High Mass administ’ring.
To aid the priest (those duties o’er), As ministrant he stands
Now, bowed the altar shrine before,
The Mass-book in his hands.
Rightward, leftwar.d, kneeleth he, Watchful every sign to see;
Tinkling as the sanctus fell
Thrice at the holy name the bell.
The clear and delicate word-painting proceeds till we find Fridolin on his cheerful way—
“ Lightly, with conscience calm he goes, Before his steps the furnace glows;
His lips, the while (the count completing), Twelve Pater Hosiers slow repeating.”
But, beautiful as the ballad is, much as we; may admire the exquisite translation, the true history in the “Livesof the-Saints” is of far more exalted and absorbing interest.
Has fit ever occurred to baseball men that a • milk pitcher is: generally a good fly-catcher?