GENUINE
TAILORtO BY ^afnz UcacA, COMPANY
OUR NATURAL SHOULDER TUXEDO
$49.95
Every' Notre Dame man should have his own comfortable, tropical-weight dinner jacket with matching trousers . . . tailored by Palm Beach for correctness in every detail. Natural shoulders . . . narrow lapels . . . slim trim trousers: no pleats. Get yours now . . . enjoy it during the holidays ahead . . . charge it the Campus Shop way.
^GILBERT'S ^ampu^hop
l t
OUR HERRINGBONE TOPCOAT.............$65
OUR NATURAL SHOULDER SUITS..$65 and $69.50
The Campus Shop topcoats and suits are correct in every detail . . . here on the campus, or wherever you go. The topcoat comes in deep Black Walnut worsted herringbone, choice of fly or button-through front . . . set-in sleeves . . . the perfect weight for comfort. The worsted suits have natural shoulders, matching vests . . . trim ivy trousers: no pleats. In deep charcoal tones. See them soon ... be ready for the holidays ahead.
^GILBERT'S
4
Football Review
Assignment: find a fitter paper that works harder the dirtier it gets
in chain-drag test, truck raises heavy dust clouds to check air filter efficiency.

Results: Up to 30,000 miles between filter changes
in Ford-built cars for ’63!
The 1963 Ford-built cars you see on the road these days can eat dust and keep coming back for more, thanks to improved carburetor air filters.
In our continuing quest to build total quality and servicesaving features into Ford-built cars, our engineering research staff explored the entire field of physical chemistry for new air-purifying properties in materials.
The result: a filtering material made of chemically treated wood pulp and paper that permits Ford-built cars under normal operation to go from 24,000 to 30,000 miles before carburetor air filter replacement is required.
The new, tougher filter paper is accordion folded to increase surface area four-fold, permitting higher filtration in a smaller package. The more matter it accumulates, the better it filters right up to its full rated service life. It saves owners time and money. It keeps Ford-built engines livelier longer.
Another assignment completed—and another example of how Ford Motor Company provides engineering leadership for the American Road.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE HOME THE FARM • INDUSTRY • AND THE AGE OF SPACE
December 7, 1962
5
If you have trouble saying it...
Say it with a Parker
If you're a little shy and have difficulty saying “I love you" or even "I like you very much"—say it with a Parker.
The new Parker Arrow makes a beautifully expressive gift and looks as if you paid a small fortune for it. It only costs $3.95, however, which should leave you with enough date money for an impressive presentation ceremony in romantic surroundings such as the second booth from the back in your local drugstore.
The new Parker Arrow comes in black,
dark blue, light blue, light gray, and bright red, with a choice of four instantly replaceable solid 14K gold points. Gift-boxed with five free cartridges.
P. S.To girls: a Parker Arrow—besides being a very romantic gift—comes in one size (the right one), should last at least ten times longer than a scarf or a tie, and should bring in a harvest of correspondence you'll cherish the rest of your life.
<|> PARKER Maker of the world’s most wanted pens
New PARKER ARROW only $3-
6	Football Review
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
A Most Welcome Gift For Christmas
SPECIAL
4 LOVELY GIFT MINIATURE PORTRAITS $950
N.D. Student Card Honored LIMITED OFFER
o Call Now: CE 2-2003 McDonald Studio H6 W. COLFAX
NOTICE — Special Scholastic Advertising Rates Now available for all Campus Clubs and Organisations For Information call JAY WARD. Ext. 515
A man needs Jockey support
Jockey is for men. Made from 13 separate pieces to give the support and protection every man needs
A man needs a special kind of support for true male comfort. And only Jockey builds a brief from 13 separate, tailored pieces to give that support-plus comfort. No other brief has such a firm, long-lasting waistband to hold the brief up for constant support, and no other brief has the Jockey assurance of no-gap security.
Get the real thing ...it isn’t Jockey
8RIEfs
if it doesn't have the Jockey Boy." ■
COOPER'S. INCORPORATED. KENOSHA. w»SC.
The Wonderful Tales and Anecdotes About the Fighting Irish Now Available in a New Book
A TREASURY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL
edited by Gene Schoor
The near-legendary history of football at Notre Dame is colorfully chronicled as it happened! Here are tales and anecdotes by some of the magic names in sports—Red Smith, Knute Rockne, Herman Hickman, John Kieran, John Lardner, Grantland Rice and others.
This handsome book is generously illustrated with 32 pages of photographs to delight football and sports fans everywhere.
$8.50
Now on sale downtown at
THE BOOK SHOP
130 No. Michigan St.
December 7, 1962
nr 1 rjnmrnronn i *!■ nv

OnCampus
M&Shulman
(Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
HAPPY TALK
Reservations: CE 4-0136
As we all know, conversation is terribly important on a date. When lulls in the conversation run longer than an hour or two, one’s partner is inclined to grow logy—even sullen. But occasionally one finds it difficult to keep the talk going, especially when one is having a first date with one. What, then, does one do?
If one is wise, one follows the brilliant example of Harlow Thurlow.
Harlow Thurlow prepares. That is his simple secret. When Harlow is going to take out a new girl, he makes sure in advance that the conversation will not languish. Before the date, he goes to the library and reads all 24 volumes of the encyclopedia and transcribes their contents on his cuffs. Thus he makes sure that no matter what his date’s interests are, he will have ample material to keep the conversation alive.
Take, for example, Harlow’s first date with Priscilla de Gasser, a fine, strapping, blue-eyed broth of a girl, lavishly constructed and rosy as the dawn.
Harlow was, as always, prepared when he called for Priscilla, and, as always, he did not start to converse immediately. First he took her to dinner because, as everyone knows, it is useless to tty to make conversation with an unfed coed. Her attention span is negligible. Also, her stomach rumbles so loud it is difficult to make yourself heard.
So he took her to a fine steak house where he stoked her with gobbets of Black Angus and mounds of French fries and thickets of escarole and battalions of petit fours. Then, at last, dinner was over and the waiter brought two finger bowls.
“I hope you enjoyed your dinner, my dear,” said Harlow, dipping into his finger bowl.
“Oh, it was grandy-dandy!” said Priscilla. “Now let’s go someplace for ribs.”
“Later, perhaps,” said Harlow. “But right now, I thought we might have a conversation.”
“Oh, goody, goody, two-shoes!” cried Priscilla. “I been looking everywhere for a boy who can carry on a intelligent conversation.”
“Your search is ended, madam,” said
♦ ♦ ♦
The makers of Marlboro cigarettes, who print this column at hideous expense throughout the school year, are very happy for Harlow—and for all the rest of you who have discovered the pleasures of Marlboro.
If
Harlow, and pulled back his sleeves and looked at his cuffs to pick a likely topic to start the conversation.
Oh, woe! Oh, lackaday! Those cuffs on which Harlow had painstakingly transscribed so many facts—those cuffs on which he had noted such diverse and fascinating information—those cuffs, I say, were nothing now but a big, blue blur! For Harlow—poor Harlow!— splashing around in the finger bowl had gotten his cuffs wet, and the ink had run and not one word was legible! And Harlow—poor Harlow!—looked upon his cuffs and broke out in a night sweat and fell dumb.
“I must say,” said Priscilla after several silent hours, “that you are a very dull fellow. I’m tearing.”
With that she flounced away and poor
Harlow was too crushed to protest. Sadly he sat and sadly lit a cigarette.
All of a sudden Priscilla came rushing back. “Was that,” she asked, “a Marlboro you just lit?”
“Yes,” said Harlow.
“Then you are not a dull fellow,” she cried, and sprang into his lap. “You are bright! Anybody is bright to smoke such a perfect joy of a cigarette as Marlboro which is just chock full of yummy flavor, which has a Selectrate filter, which comes in a soft pack that is really soft, and a Flip-Top Box that really flips, and which can be bought wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states and Duluth . . . Harlow, tiger, wash your cuffs and be my love.”
“Okay,” said Harlow, and did, and was.
© 1962 Max Shulman
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
You Always Gel a Square Deal at Breen’s
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 S. Michigan St Phone AT 7-3630
^kWTURBOW
XpPTOMmm
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING
ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
•
117 NORTH MAIN ST. South Bend, Indiana CEntral 3-2409
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza • CE 4-6688 •
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
Football Review
NOTRE DAME MINIATURES
A Special Gift — Reserved for Special People
"The Ideal Christmas Gift"
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST —NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS—1962-63
All rings are in durable 10K Gold
Black Onyx .................................    $17.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00 Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back  19.00 Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back...... 19.00 Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue .................. 19.00
Synthetic “Notre Dame” Blue Spinel
No. 1, buff top, faceted back ................ 19.00
Synthetic “Notre Dame” Blue Spinel
No. 2, faceted top and back .................. 19.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS All-diamond cluster ...................    $165.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00
WEDDING BANDS
Lady’s, plain or beaded, Regular ...........$	8.00
Lady's, plain	or beaded.	Contour ___________ 9.00
Man's, plain	or beaded,	Regular .........  11.00
Man’s, plain	or beaded.	Contour ............ 12.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
Ring Size For Measuring Finger
34567891011
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
December 7, 1962
9
LIEUTENANT JOHN MONTEFUSCO, HISTORY MAJOR, CLASS OF ’61
THE SCHOLASTIC
The Notre Dame Fan’s best report on Irish sports, SUBSCRIPTION — $5.00 PER YEAR
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry
★
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
For: Hamilton — Elgin Butova—Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
104 N. Main St.	CE 2-1756
If I had it to do over again, would I take Army R.O.T.C.?
My wife and I are in Panama at the moment. She likes it. You know, Officers’ Club, dances—that sort of thing. I like it, too. But whether I stay in the Army or not, the question is: Would I take Army R.O.T.C. if I had it to do over again? Yes, I certainly would. In spades, I didn’t realize how lucky I was. At the time I figured: Okay, so I’ll get my degree—get an Army commission, too, and pick up some extra money along the way! I wasn’t the leadership type, I thought. I was wrong. Boy, was I wrong! Looking back on it, I wouldn’t trade the leadership training I got for anything! Take my word for it, leaders are made—not born! Whether I stay in the Army or not, nobody can take away what I’ve learned. And let’s face it, where can anybody my age step out of college and walk into a standard of living this good? Look, if you have already invested two years in college ROTC, take it from me: Stick it out! It’ll be one of the smartest things you ever did. I say so.”
19 6 3
NOTRE DAME TOURS
6-DAY ALL EXPENSE FOOTBALL THEATRE TOUR
TO
NEW YORK CITY
NOV. 26-DEC. 2
•
N.D. vs. SYRACUSE THANKSGIVING DAY YANKEE STADIUM
SEE 2 LEADING STAGE PLAYS • STAY AT ONE OF
NEW YORK’S LUXURIOUS HOTELS
ONE DAY TRIPS
NOTRE DAME vs. PURDUE WEST LAFAYETTE, INDIANA
October 5, 1963 Via Indiana Motor Bus
•
N.D. vs. MICHIGAN STATE EAST LANSING, MICHIGAN
November 16, 1963 Via Grand Trunk Railroad
FOR FULL INFORMATION and/or to place your name on mailing list write:
REDDEN
TRAVEL BUREAU
1671 Lincolnway East SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
AT 9-9259
10
Football Review
Vol. 104
December 7,
No. 9 1962
editor-in-chief
JOHN BECHTOLD
associate editor
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
special contributors
MIKE BARRY
REGE CAMPFIELD
BOB CONWAY
BILL CRAGG TOM ECKROAT JACK GERKEN DICK KENNEDY
REX LARDNER BOB LEFFLER JACK McCABE SKIP RENKER
JOE RYAN GARY SABBATE
BOB SCHEFFING
JOE YOCHES
photography
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
business manager
JAY WARD
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC football review
The Football Review is a regular issue of the Scholastic. Entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, the Scholastic is accepted for mailing at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918.
CONTENTS
You Win Some, You Lose Some ...................... 12
Irish Action ’62 ..........................        16
Individual game summaries ..................    19-35
Oklahoma .............................         19
Purdue ...................................     20
Wisconsin ..................................   21
Michigan State ...........................     22
Northwestern .............................     23
Navy ...................................       25
Pittsburgh .................................   30
North Carolina ............................    33
Iowa ......................................... 34
Southern California .......................... 35
Faces of the Irish..............................   24
College Sports Editors All-America................ 26
Irish Stars ....................................   36
Prospects for ’63 .........................        38
Statistics ...................................     38
1963 Schedule ..............................       44
Freshman Team ............................         47
Behind the Scenes .........1....................   48
Spirit .................................         48
THE COVER
Clay Stephens blocks as Gerry Gray picks up eight yards on Notre Dame’s first touchdown drive of the season.
December 7, 1962
1962 was not as successful a year for Notre Dame football as some had expected, but was not as dismal as many had envisioned. The high point was the rejuvenated performance of the Irish on the four Saturdays of November. Low points were the four consecutive losses to Big Ten rivals and the apparent ease with which the Trojans of Southern California handled an upset-minded Notre Dame eleven in the season finale.
THE GAMES
Before a nation-wide television audience, the Irish opened the 1962 campaign against Bud Wilkinson’s Okla
homa Sooners. A large homecoming crowd at Norman, Okla., hoped to see the Sooners avenge their famed 1957 loss and score their second straight win of the young season. Oklahoma had opened impressively with a victory over Syracuse the week before, while Irish coach Joe Kuharich had been plagued by injuries and inexperience in preseason preparation.
Notre Dame opened strong with an inspiring 13-7 triumph. Daryle La-monica directed the offense flawlessly, completing all five of his passes and providing the running punch along with seniors Ed Rutkowski and Bill Ahern. While certain individuals
stood out, this was a team effort — highlighted by a brilliant goal line stand in the last half.
The four week ends of October would like to be forgotten by Irish fans. The poised team that whipped Oklahoma beat itself with careless mistakes against Purdue, losing 28-6. The October game of revolving quarterbacks began as preseason “regulars” Lamonica and junior Frank Budka proved ineffective. Unheralded Dennie Szot, coming off the bench in the final stanza, showed flashes of brilliance at the signal-calling position. This performance of Szot gave Notre Dame fans some hope as un
12
Football Review
beaten Wisconsin loomed ahead.
The Wisconsin week end will be remembered by Notre Dame students for beer consumed rather than football played as the Badgers beat an Irish squad that tried, but did not jell, 17-8.
Bitter rival Michigan State, captained by a supposed overrated George Saimes, came to South Bend on Monsoon Saturday. Some Notre Dame followers saw hope — figuring the rains would stop Spartan scat-backs Sherman Lewis and Dewey Lincoln. A few mentioned that Saimes had been a one-man show against the Irish in 1961, but they were quieted by assurances by the “experts” that this was a lucky day that had not been duplicated since by Saimes.
On the fifth Spartan scrimmage play from the MSU 46 yard line, Saimes handled the ball for the first time. The next 59 minutes convinced the sell-out crowd that, perhaps, Saimes was underrated. Saimes only held on to the ball for about ten seconds in this initial carry before he jubilantly heaved it into the rain from the Notre Dame end zone.
However, after this and another long touchdown scamper by Sherman Lewis, Notre Dame played the Spartans on even terms — trailing only 12-7 at half time.
Unfortunately for the Irish, Saimes also played in the second half. In what must go down as the greatest individual performance in stadium history, the Golden Greek made two dazzling touchdown runs, a clutch interception, and red-dogged brilliantly from a halfback position; he generally dominated the game.
Number one ranked Northwestern continued unbeaten as they slaughtered Notre Dame, 35-6, before a sellout Wildcat homecoming crowd the next week end. The passing combination of Tommy Myers to Paul Flatley and the general ineptitude of the Irish in all facets of the game made it no contest.
The following Saturday, after four straight mediocre performances, began a month of play that certainly was the best in Kuharich’s four years.
THE STARS
On a sponge-like field at Philadelphia, Lamonica and Co. upended the Middies of Navy, 20-12.
Notre Dame looked like an Irish unit of championship days in beating a fairly good Pitt eleven, 43-22. The Lamonica to Jim Kelly combo erased many all-time Irish records as the team jelled like a national title squad.
A stubborn North Carolina team slowed the Notre Dame drive for a half, but fell to a 21-point second half outburst. Don Hogan, Tommy MacDonald and Joe Farrell starred as the Irish won their third straight, 21-7.
“Our best performance — everyone was tremendous,” explained an unusually happy Kuharich after the Iowa game. Kelly broke seasonal Notre Dame pass receiving marks, while Lamonica, Hogan, and Farrell were again outstanding in a 35-12 victory.
Everyone was pointing to the next week’s encounter with the nation’s top-ranked squad, Southern California. Many quarters picked an upset for the
rejuvenated Irish. Optimism abounded around the campus as it looked like Notre Dame was ready to again amaze the football world. Spirit was highlighted by a Tuesday night rally at one of the dorms, the usual pep rally, and an impromptu rally for the colorful Budka, taking a test during the regular session, in back of a class
building.
Unfortunately, the Trojans had just too much balance for Notre Dame. Southern California’s line and the great running of Ben Wilson and Willie Brown whipped an Irish club that seemed flat after their November wins.
There were many outstanding individual performances this season. The finest was that of Jim Kelly. He broke both game and season pass receiving records and must be rated as one of the greatest ends in Notre Dame history. Only injuries can stop the talented junior from All-American listings next season and the distinction of being the greatest end in Irish history.
Lamonica was the driving force in all five of Notre Dame’s wins. His general leadership and all-around play left nothing to be desired in these victories.
Ed Hoerster and Bob Lehmann were
outstanding in the line all season. Both were gutty players, holding their own against some of the top backs in the country.
Hogan, Farrell, and Jim Carroll had outstanding sophomore years and show great promise. Hogan, especially, was a spark in gaining over 450 yards this season.
December 7, 1962
One of the biggest improvements this year was that of the defensive secondary. MacDonald broke the Notre Dame record for passes intercepted with nine, most of them key grabs in clutch situations.
Budka developed into, as he said, “a defensive specialist noted for his clean playing.’’ Besides always providing the fans with a show, he was the most versatile man on the team. He
hard-luck jinx, he should become a topflight pro runner.
Kuharich had counted on Lind for much of the ground attack this season and, while Farrell developed quickly, Lind’s absence was noticeable. Also Lind was the type of captain whose greatest leadership asset was the playing example he provided.
The loss of Snowden, Paul Costa, and Mickey Bitsko because of aca-
He is a sound, experienced coach who can spot basic flaws quickly. However, he is very set in his conception of the game.
With the vast array of talent that is present on most big time college teams, no one squad can ever again establish a destiny as in the past. Therefore, with equal material and a well-schooled coaching staff, other factors determine the final victor.
was outstanding in the secondary, made a clutch catch against Navy as a flanker back, and may yet develop into a consistent performer at of-ensive quarterback, his natural position.
ANALYSIS
An analysis of this individual season would seem to indicate that Kuharich, basically, has done a creditable job. Kuharich, looking ahead to this season, said last spring “Much depends on whether Mike Lind, Jim Snowden, and Jim Kelly stay healthy.”
Perhaps the greatest tragedy of the season was the knee injury to captain Lind that kept him sidelined most of the season. Lind could have been one of the top running backs in the nation if he had not been hurt. He showed in his junior season that he possesses one of the quickest starts in college ball and was a highly effective inside runner. If he can shake off the
demic deficiencies greatly hindered Kuharich’s ’62 plans. Bitsko would have been one of the outstanding performers in a line that suffered greatly from inexperience. Whether Snowden and Costa would have developed into outstanding runners is debatable; however, both had the raw ability to bolster this season’s attack.
Therefore, a five-five season is all that could be expected for 1962 under the circumstances. However, the fact remains that Kuharich had a rebuilding record in his fourth season at the helm. He has not produced a winning team in any of them.
Once again this year the team’s inconsistency was highlighted. As Kuharich often has said, “You win some, and you lose some.” This professional approach does not take into account the emotions of the players.
No one will deny that Kuharich knows the technicalities of football.
Luck, or the breaks of the game, is certainly one of these. However, continual losses cannot be blamed on this alone. Continually winning teams, besides possessing outstanding material, usually are based on either inspiration or imagination.
Kuharich, being a professional, treats the team as a group of individuals whose dedication to the game is all-encompassing or professional. Also this treatment is the same as would be given at any other school. Therefore, the biggest single asset of Notre Dame is ignored in the internal development of the club: its unique spirit.
That something meaningful has been ignored was pointed out by Tom Kapacinskas, writing in the Nov. 16 issue of the Scholastic.
The desire to win football games, as a result of the Notre Dame spirit, became an answering con
14
Football Review
struct, a symbol of the aspiration for which Notre Dame at her best stood — intellectually, culturally, socially, physically. It became a sustaining ideal for all associated with this University and, soon, for all those — Catholic and nonCatholic alike — who began to look wonderingly at the victorious facility of the school’s football team. Many began thinking—many grew up thinking—because of this very physical manifestation of internal spiritual, and intellectual strength — that perhaps there was something unique about the place. Perhaps there was, something which set it apart from every other university in the country — not to say the world.
The Notre Dame spirit, the desire to win over all for that abiding internal reason, became more than a sustaining symbol. It became a sustaining tradition. This tradition, this answering construct, nourished
sneer at such terms as “winning tradition” and “Notre Dame spirit.”
This results because the answering construct of the tradition, the sustaining ideal, has lost its grace of meaning — like so many liturgical terms. We have awakened to find that the old meaning of Notre Dame football has escaped us. The old, unconscious, but clear-cut motivation is gone.
I feel Notre Dame must be unique in its very nature. This must be true in football especially. To treat the Notre Dame football team like another major college team or like a professional unit is basically ‘wrong. To be quite frank, it is obvious that Notre Dame cannot match in the recruitment of players the offers of other major colleges — either financially or in terms of social life. The top athletes at Notre Dame now, who could have gone to most colleges in the nation, came to Notre Dame be
them wonder if they should have possibly gone elsewhere, feeling that the Notre Dame approach is no different from the Northwestern or Michigan State approach — differing only in lack of material gains or social life.
This unique spirit must not be a merely external projected mirage. I feel that some of the pep rallies have become simply superficial spectacles that have been used as forums for complaints directed not against the opposing team and are thought of only for their entertainment value. However, many of these rallies have served a useful purpose (Joe Boland’s speech before the 1959 Iowa game is an example of this). This spirit must be conceived more along the lines of the Badin Hall prerally rally or the spontaneous reaction that brought about the Budka demonstration before the Southern California game. This can be achieved at the major rallies also.
Some of the individual players re-
the school in a special way for many years. The values and meanings it held within its frame of reference were valid and good and, as mentioned above, stood for Notre Dame at her best.
We face a conundrum today where football is concerned. We have awakened to find that we no longer win simply as a matter of course. We have even begun to
cause of this uniqueness. If, upon coming here, they are handled no differently than in any “football factory,” then this uniqueness and its practical application on the football field are gone.
The coaching staff, Kuharich or anybody else, must naturally be competent football men. But they must instill a type of attitude into the individual players that will not make
turning next year like Hogan possess this type of spirit, luckily. With most of the stars of this season coming back with another year of experience, Notre Dame should have more natural ability than at any time in recent years. If the coaching staff can realize the emotional as well as the physical potential of the squad, then Notre Dame will once again lead the way.
December 7, 1962
15
jursmi..

Football Review
c
’62
December 7, 1962	77
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: PAUL DOWNING
How can telephone craftsmen be kept up to date on the sophisticated equipment of the Telstar age? Paul Downing (B.S., 1956) solves this problem for Illinois Bell.
Paul’s job is to evaluate Illinois Bell’s plant training methods. He came to this job from one in which he supervised 72 repairmen and installers. As Test Center Foreman for the Franklin District of Chicago. Paul learned the
business quickly and showed a strong knack for handling responsibility. This important ability led to his promotion as Telephone Wire Chief.
Paul Downing and other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America.
ND 13, OKLAHOMA 7
Irish Top Sooners in Season Opener
Norman, Okla., Sept. 29—Notre Dame drove for scores after taking the opening and second half kickoffs, and muscled to a 13-7 victory over Oklahoma here this afternoon. It was Notre Dame’s 72nd win in 74 opening games, and the fifth for the Irish in six contests with the Bud Wilkinson-coached Sooners.
Three senior backs and a line which was just too big for Oklahoma to handle proved to be the deciding factors for the Irish. Quarterback Daryle Lamonica did an excellent job of faking, ball handling, and directing the team, ran for 25 yards himself, and hit five of five key passes for 62 yards. Halfback Ed Rutkowski and fullback Bill Ahern, neither of whom played enough to earn a monogram last season, scored Notre Dame’s two touchdowns and between them racked up 80 of the team’s 202 rushing yards.
After Rutkowski returned Oklahoma’s opening kick 23 yards to the 31, the Irish began a drive which carried 69 yards in only ten plays, almost a seven-yard average. Rutkowski contributed 27 yards to the march, including the last seven for the touchdown, and converted successfully.
The key play in the drive was a 15-yard Lamonica to Clay Stephens pass on third-and-four, which gave Notre Dame a first down on the Oklahoma 47-yard line. The march was relentless: Rutkowski got five at right guard, Frank Minik four at left tackle, Rutkowski nine around right end; Lamonica rolled around left end and lateralled to Minik for 10, Gerry Gray blasted over left guard for eight (see cover), and Minik got four more for a first down on the Sooners’ seven. Capping the drive, Lamonica pitched to Rutkowski who swept right end and went into the end zone almost untouched.
After gaining five yards on an exchange of punts, Oklahoma moved 58 yards in 10 plays for its lone touchdown, aided by an offside penalty which advanced the ball from the Notre Dame 10 to the five. Paul Lea, blocked from behind by several teammates, shoved over from the one. Guard George Jarman converted to pull Oklahoma into a 7-7 tie, with only 38 seconds left in the first period.
The second quarter was a seesaw defensive battle in which two Notre Dame threats were halted by interceptions.
The Irish opened the second half with a magnificent display of ball-control football, consuming 11 minutes and 35 seconds on an 89-yard scoring march. Lamonica directed the team flawlessly for 19 plays. Said Coach Joe Kuharich: “It was an amazing job. You usually can’t run 19 plays in dummy scrimmage without making a mistake.” Ahern scored from the nine, slipping through a hole at left guard and into the end zone before the Oklahoma secondary had a chance to react.
Notre Dame spent most of the fourth period fending off the charging Sooners. Oklahoma moved steadily from its own 28, using 13 running plays to get a first down on the Notre Dame three. With their backs to the wall the Irish got tough. Tackles by Bob Lehmann, Budka, and Kelly held the Sooners to two yards in three attempts, and on fourth down Minik recovered a fumbled pitchout at the 12 to preserve a hard-fought opening game victory.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
December 7, 1962
19
ND 6, PURDUE 24
Offense Ineffective, Penalties Hurt
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 6 — Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish were crushed by the Boilermakers of Purdue, 24-6, in a game played before 61,000 in Notre Dame Stadium this afternoon.
First-quarter play seemed to keynote a defensive battle with Purdue’s two first downs being the only ones of the period. However, this statistic was due more to a lack of offense rather than any great defensive action.
The pattern the game was to follow became evident later in the period when Lamonica was forced to punt from behind his own goal to the mid-field line, only to have Purdue half Dave Miller run the kick back to the Irish 27. The quarter ended with Purdue in possession in a fourth-down situation on the Notre Dame ten. Skip Ohl did the inevitable by kicking a 17-yard field goal to open the second period.
Before the period was over, the Boilermakers had tacked seven points to their score on a 25-yard Ron Di-Gravio to Forest Farmer pass play. The touchdown drive started on the Purdue 37 after Daryle Lamonica threw incomplete on a fourth and six pass attempt. With Gary Hogan passing and Charlie King running, the men from Lafayette moved the ball to the Irish 25 in four plays. Hogan missed on a pass to King, then DiGravio came in and hit Farmer in the end zone.
A Lamonica punt on a fourth and seven situation early in the third quarter drew boos from the crowd who felt the Irish had given up. Some fine running and two well-executed pass plays by DiGravio, totalling 58 yards, brought the pigskin to within the Irish five. DiGravio went over from the one two plays later.
The opening minutes of the fourth quarter saw Notre Dame and South Bend’s own Dennis Murphy pilfer a Boilermaker toss on the Irish 45 and bring it back 55 yards for a score only to have it nullified by a penalty against one of his teammates.
20
Later in the quarter, sophomore Denis Szot fumbled on his first play in an Irish uniform and gave the ball to Purdue on the ND 20-yard line. In one play Gene Donaldson went over for the TD and the score rose to 24-0. After the kickoff, the Szot-led Irish drove for a touchdown with a 17-yard pass play from Szot to Don Hogan culminating the rally.
The 24-6 victory was the Boilermakers’ eleventh in 34 attempts; there have been two ties. It was Purdue’s fourth triumph over Notre Dame in their last five outings.
The game revealed, most of all, a lackluster Irish offense. The rushing attack was almost nonexistent, the passing accuracy not much better. Lamonica had one of his worst days in the air, consistently overthrowing his target or throwing behind his man. The backs couldn’t penetrate Purdue’s line and were held to short gains, if they managed to gain at all.
The outlook was not completely gloomy, however. Denis Szot emerged as a quarterback who could, at least, inspire the team even though they trailed by 24 points in the final quarter. Daryle Lamonica, disappointing over the first three downs, proved he could boot the pigskin for long yardage in a fourth-down situation. The contest also proved that the Fighting Irish, after a so-so, five and five season, could still draw record crowds — in this case 61,292.
Purdue showed the Irish one of the best defensive lines in the nation together with two equally skilled passing quarterbacks. The 18-point Notre Dame deficit was due to the fact that Purdue played up to expectations while the men under Kuharich didn’t come up with as fine a game as expected. Notre Dame had its usual bad breaks: two TD’s called back by penalties, Lamonica’s punt which rolled dead on the three but was brought back to the twenty.
.	—Joe Ryan
Football Review
ND 8, WISCONSIN 17
VanderKelen Sparks Badger Attack
Madison, Wis., Oct. 13 — Under a brilliant autumn sun, the Badgers of Wisconsin continued their drive for national football recognition by defeating the Fighting Irish 17-8 here today. In a hard-fought contest, unheralded Wisconsin quarterback Ron VanderKelen threw a touchdown pass and scored once himself, and Notre Dame lost its second straight game to a Big Ten opponent.
VanderKelen, playing in the shadow of “almost great” Ron Miller and hampered by injuries, saw all of 90 seconds of action last fall. Though he enjoyed great success against two inferior teams in Wisconsin’s first games, he came into his own this afternoon both offensively and defensively as he pitched 25 yards to All-American Pat Richter for a first period touchdown, scored on a one-yard plunge in the third quarter, and intercepted a pass late in the fourth stanza to thwart the last Irish attempt.
The Badgers spurted to a 10-0 lead in the first quarter, on long drives the first two times they had possession, but needed the breaks of the game and great defensive work to play the Irish on even terms thereafter.
The home team elected to receive, returned the opening kick to their 20, and marched in nine plays to the Notre Dame 17, where Gary Kroner kicked a field goal with 6:08 of the first period remaining. VanderKelen passes of 14, 22, and 14 yards were the big plays.
Notre Dame took the ensuing kickoff and was forced to punt from its own 20. This time the Badgers moved 64 yards to pay dirt in seven plays. VanderKelen’s passes were again the big gainers, and he capped the drive with a 20-yard heave to 6-6 All-American end Pat Richter. Only 24 seconds remained in the first stanza as Kroner converted to make the score 10-0.
After the Irish had moved to the Wisconsin 36, Frank Budka’s fourth-and-one pass caught the Badgers napping; unfortunately, it was just out of reach of end Denny Murphy, who had no one to beat, and the drive stalled.
The second quarter was a comedy of errors, with Wisconsin fumbling to the Irish twice and neither team able to mount an attack.
The final Badger touchdown came in the third period, as a fumble in the Irish backfield gave Wisconsin the ball on the Notre Dame five. On the third play of the series, VanderKelen knifed over left guard for the six points. Kroner converted with 2:15 left in the quarter, and Wisconsin’s scoring was completed.
Denny Szot engineered the only Irish touchdown of the day, as he led the Green 68 yards in eight plays late in the fourth quarter. Sophomore halfback Don Hogan sliced off left tackle from the three for the score; Szot’s two-point conversion pass was completed to Jack Snow. Big plays in the scoring drive were two passes of nine and 33 yards to end Jim Kelly.
In the final analysis, the Irish adapted well enough to stifle the Wisconsin passing attack, but couldn’t handle the Badgers’ swift, strong running backs. And, as Joe Ku-harich said in a post-mortem, “we just couldn’t make the big plays.”
—Rege Campfield
December 7, 1962
ND 7. MICHIGAN STATE 31
Rains, Saimes Ruin Game for Irish
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 20 — It appeared to many a rain spattered fan that Coach Duffy Daugherty unleashed some of the Agriculture Department’s finest beef, as the mighty Spartans of Michigan State stampeded to a 31-7 rout over the Irish.
George Saimes, the man who knocked the Irish out of top contention with two touchdown runs last year, more than bettered his 1961 performance. The State captain and All-American fullback scored three touchdowns, collected 153 yards in 13 carries, and was a demon on defense. It was perhaps his finest collegiate effort.
“Let George do it” — and he did. On the fifth play of the game he dashed 54 yards for his first touchdown. Irish fans begem to moan. Five plays later, another thorn in the Irish side, tiny seatback Sherman Lewis outraced the ND defenders for 72 yards and the second State touchdown. Irish hopes of an upset were nearly erased.
The early Spartan lead looked invincible, but the two teams exchanged punts and the Irish took possession inside the Spartan 50. Denis Szot was at the helm for the Irish. Szot overthrew Bliey, but connected the next time to Don Hogan for a first down on the 33. Fullback Joe Farrell hit the middle for nine; then Szot, electing to pass again, fired a strike to end Dave Pivec at the Spartan 12. Farrell carried to the eight, and twice more to the two-yard line. Then, on his fourth carry of the drive, the hard-running fullback plunged two yards to pay dirt. Ed Rutkowski added the point after and the Irish trailed 12-7 with 2:10 remaining in the first period.
The second half could be described by the word Saimes, as once again the “Golden Greek” romped for two third-quarter scores. On the Irish’s second play of the half, he alertly picked off a Lamonica jump pass at the 22. Three plays gained only six yards for the Spartans and it looked like field goal time. But nothing doing. On fourth and four, the big fullback from Canton, O., took a pitchout and raced off left tackle for his second touchdown. The extra point failed again, but the Spartans, with only 3:17 gone in the third period, had jumped to an 18-7 lead.
Notre Dame’s wall collapsed on the next defensive series, as the Spartans drove 57 yards for their fourth touchdown. The scoring play came when quarterback Pete Smith threw a perfect strike to end Dick Flynn. The Spartans’ only noticeable weakness, extra points, was once again evident, and with 5:11 left in the third quarter, it was Michigan 24 — Notre Dame 7. Five minutes was planty of time for Saimes.
Lamonica’s 59-yard punt put the Spartans on their 16, but not for long. Saimes carried twice to the 25, and Lewis followed with a 22-yard scamper to the 47. Two plays later, at the Irish 49, Big George found a hole and shot through for his third touchdown of the game. Earl Lattimer finally made good on the conversion attempt, and the Spartans increased the margin to 31-7
Irish Coach, Joe Kuharich, disappointed with the team’s third straight loss, had this to say — “They were a big, strong club with speed. They had much more depth than we did. Saimes? He’s terrific. A great football player.”
“Other teams might have fallen apart,” said Duffy Daugherty, “but that Irish club kept scrapping.” Praise comes easy to the victor though, especially to a man whose team has won its seventh straight over Notre Dame, and its tenth since 1950.
—Jack McCabe
22
Football Review
ND 6, NORTHWESTERN 35
Myers' Passing Highlights Game
Evanston, DI., Oct. 27 — Too much Myers. This was the story at Dyche Stadium this afternoon as Northwestern’s Wildcats, quarterbacked by sensational Tommy Myers, mauled and dismembered Notre Dame 35-6. It was Myers who, time after time, accurately threw pinpoint passes into the Irish secondary; it was Myers who, behind a chunky Northwestern line, directed most of the Wildcats’ running attack which devoured 202 yards for the afternoon and perplexed Irish defenders constantly. This was a game in which the quarteback starred; this was Tommy Myers’ game and he maneuvered the Wildcats almost unerringly before an ecstatic homecoming throng of over 55,000 spectators.
On this bright fall afternoon, Notre Dame’s incapacity to recover from any bad break turned the game into a quick rout. Irish impotence was further heightened by the savage play of Northwestern’s bulky linemen, who clogged Irish running passages and outblocked Notre Dame all afternoon. One glimmer of hope for Irish fans, however, was Notre Dame’s passing attack. Spearheaded by Irish quarterback Daryle Lamonica, Notre Dame managed to accumulate an impressive 190 yards through the air and thus save the game from becoming a total failure for Notre Dame in all departments.
Notre Dame’s troubles mounted early in the contest. On the first play from scrimmage, Ed Rutkowski fumbled. Northwestern recovered and eight plays later, fuDback Steve Murphy jolted across the goal line to send the Wildcats into the lead. Dick Ulhrir kicked the extra point and a stunned Notre Dame team found itself behind 7-0.
From that point the Wildcats became virtually unstoppable. After an exchange of interceptions — one of which checked one threatening Wildcat drive — Myers recovered and flipped a 23-yard touchdown pass to the
December 7, 1962
sensational Paul Flatley — his favorite receiver. Ulhrir kicked the extra point and soon the first quarter ended. Northwestern led 14-0.
A blocked punt set up another Northwestern score in the second quarter. With the ball on Notre Dame’s 23-yard line, Myers was spilled for a ten-yard loss. But on the ensuing play, he completed a 28-yard pass. Moments later and aided by an offside penalty, Steve Murphy blasted over center for the third Wildcat touchdown. Ulhrir once more booted the extra point. At the half Northwestern led, 21-0.
The second half saw a determined Irish squad make a gallant but hopeless comeback. One Irish drive bogged down in Wildcat territory. Myers then continued to bring more havoc on the now beleaguered Irish. Northwestern scored again in a drive that featured a 40-yard Myers-to-Flatley pass; this drive was climaxed by Myers’ 7-yard toss to Flatley. Myers passed to Dick Machalski for the two-pointer and the score zoomed to 29-0.
But Notre Dame was not to be denied a touchdown. Lamonica directed an Irish drive that led to Notre Dame’s only score of the afternoon. Lamonica hit Jim Sherlock for 39 yards and then passed to Kelly for 10 yards. After a few running plays, Joe Farrell crashed over center for 3 yards and the touchdown. The try for the two-pointer failed.
Northwestern administered the coup de grace with another touchdown achieved through a series of ground plays. Dick McCauley danced around tacklers on a draw play and scored from Notre Dame’s six-yard line. The try for the two-pointer failed but Northwestern had more than succeeded. The scoreboard showed Northwestern’s 35-6 clobbering of Notre Dame to be the worst ever inflicted on the Irish by a Wildcat team.
—Gary Sabatte
23
tyaceL the tJfUih
24
Football Review
ND 20. NAVY 12
Lamonica Leads Comeback Surge
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 3 — After four successive washouts against Big Ten opponents, the Irish finally began to ride their own tide today as they fought back to beat Navy, 20-12, in a cold rain. Daryle Lamonica had his best day at signal calling since the Oklahoma game, and his determined execution, when Irish ambitions were bleak, reflected the team’s bounce-back spirit.
First half action saw Notre Dame take complete command of Philadelphia Stadium’s slick, muddy field, but Navy retaliated in the third quarter; capitalizing on breaks and their running game, they pulled in front, 12-7. But no sooner had the scoreboard registered the lead margin, when Lamonica struck a surprised Denny Phillips with a 45-yard touchdown pass, giving Notre Dame the deciding points in a very wet and welcome win.
Navy kicked off to begin the game, and Irish were progressing steadily downfield until an interception on Navy’s 13-yard line ended the drive. The Middies were held, and after the ensuing punt, Notre Dame marched 65 yards for the only score in the first half. The touchdown was set up by Don Hogan’s 16-yard burst to Navy’s one-yard line. Two plays later, Daryle Lamonica plunged over, and Ed Rutkowski’s boot made it 7-0 with 1:13 elapsed in the second quarter.
John Sai of Navy found ball handling a slippery chore on the kickoff, and a jolting tackle persuaded him to fumble. Notre Dame scooped up the loose ball on the Navy 26-yard line, and a score seemed imminent when a lonesome Phillips gathered in a 24-yard aerial from Lamonica. Unfortunately, a penalty cancelled the 6 points.
Led by Ed Hoerster and Tom Goberville, the defensive unit was so devastating that Navy gained a paltry 3 yards in the first half, and collected nary a first down or pass completion.
Navy made up for its offensive void of the first half on the passing of Roger Staubach and the running of Bob Teall in the third quarter. Twice Teall ran a delayed trap
for gains of 12 and 19 yards deep into Irish territory. Sai climaxed the offensive plot with a 4-yard touchdown run, but Staubach’s two-point denouement was given a twist when Nick Etten and Goberville threw Staubach and his plans into the mud.
Leading only 7-6, the Irish took the kickoff, and were thereafter drubbed for 12 yards in losses. Lamonica’s partially blocked punt wobbled only to the Notre Dame 22-yard line. Fortunately, the gloomy quarter ended on a ray of hope; John Sai fumbled on the Irish one, and Phillips recovered. That ray died when Lamonica fumbled on the first play of the fourth quarter. Navy recovered, and Irish chances seemed as bleak and as black as the weather. Staubach merely flopped over the goal and even though the two-pointer failed again, Navy led 12-7.
Then came the bounce-back. Navy’s kickoff dribbled only as far as the Irish forward wall, and Bill Burns did halfback honors by lumbering to the Middie 45. On the very first play from scrimmage, Lamonica ricocheted a pass off a Navy defender into the eager hands of Phillips who cruised into the end zone. An attempted try at two points was unsuccessful, but the 13-12 advantage was sufficient.
Irish defenses held firm, and gave the ball back to the anxious offense. A 73-yard touchdown march was the result, and it was keyed by the hard running of Don Hogan. Frank Budka made his debut as a flanker back at this time, and made a leaping catch of a Lamonica pass on the Navy two. Again Lamonica sliced over, and Rutkowski’s PAT ended the scoring at Notre Dame 20, Navy 12.	•
The game ended in a driving rain, but Irish gusto could hardly be dampened; more like yeast, it billowed. Daryle Lamonica’s poise under pressure, Don Hogan’s 81 yards in 14 carries, and Bob Lehmann’s toughness on defense and offense were but a few of the outstanding factors in the spirited win.
— Bill Cragg
MUMAUUm

1962 College Sport
John McKay COACH OF THE YEAR Southern California
Jerry Stovall HALFBACK Louisiana State
Pat Richter
END Wisconsin
Bobby Lee Bell TACKLE LINEMAN OF THE YEAR , Minnesota ’ .
Jack Cvercko GUARD Northwestern
s Editors All-America
George Soimes FULLBACK BACK OF THE YEAR ■ Michigan Stale
Terry Baker.
HALFBACK
Oregon State
George; Mira QUARTERBACK Miami
Dave Behrman .	Rufus Guthrie .
CENTER •	GUARD	.
Michigan State . .	.	> Georgia Tech ..
Jim Dunaway TACKLE Mississippi.
Hal Bedsole END
Southern California .
OREGON STATE’S BAKER AND BURKE
All-America 1962
plete football player.” Not only was Saimes MSU rushing leader, but he was also one of their outstanding blockers and tacklers. “Every time they put me in I pretend the next play will be the last of my career. I figure I ought to do the best I can.” Saimes has run the last play of his collegiate career and will always be remembered as one of the greatest fullbacks Notre Dame has ever faced.
Bobby Lee Bell is again an AllAmerican and is this season’s Lineman of the Year. It was Bell who rallied his Minnesota teammates to hold Missouri to a scoreless tie and to hold Michigan State, which boasts a 220-yard rushing average per game, to 30 yards on the ground. Though he is light for an All-American tackle, 214-

SECOND TEAM
E—Hugh Campbell, Wash. St. T—Steve Barnett, Oregon G—John Treadwell, Texas C—Lee Roy Jordan, Ala. G—Dave Watson, Ga. Tech. T—Tom Nomina, Miami (Ohio) E—Dave Robinson, Penn. St. QB—Billy Lothridge, Ga. Tech. HB—Paul Warfield, Ohio St. HB—Mel Renfro, Oregon FB—Ray Poage, Texas
by Joe Ryan
Scholastic’s 1962 All-American selections, as chosen by the collegiate sports editors throughout the nation, show the Midwest as the leader in football greats followed closely by schools from the Southern part of the country.
Southern Cal’s John McKay heads this year’s list of stars, picking up Coach of the Year laurels. It was McKay who brought his club from a .500 percentage in 1961 to the national championship this year. It was McKay who led his Trojans to their first undefeated season since 1932.
McKay’s star player, like that of runner-up coach Milt Bruhn, was an All-American end . . . Trojan star Hal Bedsole, one of two juniors in the AllAmerican ranks. Bedsole combined with USC’s two great passing quar
terbacks, Pete. Beathard and Bill Nelson, to give ^he Trojans a powerful passing attack to supplement their heavy ground game. McKay’s squad never won by less than a touchdown though they played strong teams like Washington, Iowa, and of course, Notre Dame.
Back of the Year should be a surprise to no one who follows Notre Dame football. The man in question is the “Golden Greek,” George Saimes. A mid-season injury kept Saimes from the Big Ten rushing leadership as he lost the crown by 13 yards to Dave Francis of Ohio State. Saimes gained almost a thousand yards in MSU’s nine-game schedule, including more than 150 against Notre Dame.
State’s coach Duffy Daugherty has called the 5-10, 186-pound son of a Canton, Ohio, shoemaker, “the com
pound Bell makes up in aggressiveness what he lacks in weight.
First string All-American ends are ; Pat Richter of Wisconsin and Hal Bedsole from Southern Cal. Both Richter and Bedsole snapped their schools’ pass-receiving records in only two sea- l sons of play. The 6-5, 229-pound Wis- ! consin great piled up nearly two thou- j sand yards in pass receptions to easily j set a new Badger record. He has been	1
fortunate enough to have had the best	j
in the Big Ten tossing the football, i Ron Miller in 1960 and 1961 and Ron * VanderKelen this year.
Bedsole is one of two juniors on this ; year’s squad and promises to outdo ; Richter for lifetime totals before he I finishes his college career. The sudden ■ emergence of Pete Beathard, Bedsole’s ; battery mate, as one of the nation’s •' finest passers has given the 6-5, 225- j pound Trojan end a chance to become J great after a semi-successful sopho-	;
more year. Bedsole has not let the i chance go by.	।
Washington State’s Hugh Campbell	j
and Penn State’s Dave Robinson rate	j
second team berths in this year’s selections. Though he is not too well :
Football Review
known outside of the West Coast, Campbell holds several national collegiate records, including total receptions (176), total yards (2,452) and single season receptions (66) in 1960. He played his finest game of 1962 against Washington when he pulled down ten passes for 178 yards and a touchdown. Dave Robinson is one of the few All-Americans from the East as the 6-5, 229-pound senior helped bring Penn State the Lambert trophy. Vernon Burke of Oregon State and Jim Kelly of Notre Dame round out the All-American selections.
Big Bobby Bell of Minnesota dominated the first string tackle selections. Jim Dunaway of Mississippi was elected to the other first team tackle spot. Bell looks small compared to 260-pound Dunaway who is considered by pro scouts to be the best lineman in the country. Dunaway’s strong play has merited for him the nickname, “the monster of Ole Miss.”
Steve Barnett of Oregon and Tom
THIRD TEAM
E—Jim Kelly, Notre Dame T—Scott Appleton, Texas G—Ed Budde, Mich. St. C—Ray Mansfield, Wash. G—Mickey Ording, Oregon T—Carl Eller, Minn.
E—Vernon Burke, Ore. St. QB—Billy Moore, Arkansas HB—Roger Kochman, Penn. St. HB—Dave Hoppman, Iowa St. FB—Ben Wilson, U.S.C.
Nomina of Miami (Ohio) were voted to second team positions. Scott Appleton of Texas and Carl Eller of Minnesota merited third team choice.
Jack Cverko of Northwestern and Rufus Guthrie of Georgia Tech are the Scholastic’s All-American guards. Both are massive. Guthrie tips the scales at 231 while Cverko registers a not-so-modest 235. Guthrie, easily an All-Southeast Conference guard, led a “Rambling Wreck” line in Tech’s 20-9 upset of highly ranked Duke. Cverko is the cornerstone of Northwestern’s line. He was injured in the Indiana game and while he was out, his teammates lost an undefeated season, number one national ranking and the Big Ten title.
Texas’ 202-pound John Treadwell and Georgia Tech’s Dave Watson earn second team plaudits. Treadwell is excellent at the linebacker spot as evidenced by his clutch tackle of Ar
kansas’ Danny Brabham on the Texas goal, causing a fumble which the Longhorns recovered to preserve a 7-3 victory. Dave Watson is one of a trio of Georgia Tech All-Americans. His 221 pounds and aggressive play have garnered for him selection at the right guard spot on the Southeast Conference All - Conference squad. Michigan State’s Ed Budde and Mickey Ording of Oregon merit the third string guard spots.
Michigan State’s 263-pound Dave Behrman edged Alabama’s Lee Roy Jordan as first string center. Behrman captured All-American honors last year at tackle and guard. When injuries cropped up in midseason, Behrman was moved to the center post where he has reigned ever since. Jordan, a 207-pound defensive star, was an important factor in the Crimson Tide’s low point yield. Washington’s Ray Mansfield garnered the third team center spot.
The battle for first string quarterback was the closest of the balloting with Miami’s George Mira finally getting the nod. He opened the season with 248 yards against Pittsburgh, a Miami record. Later in the season Mira snapped this same record with a 288-yard performance against Dick Shiner and Maryland. Georgia Tech’s
BACK OF THE YEAR GEORGE SAIMES
Billy Lothridge garnered the second string spot with Billy Moore of Arkansas coming in third.
Jerry Stovall, LSU’s 200-pound halfback, easily took first team plaudits sharing the halfback honors with Oregon State’s fabulous Heisman trophy winner, Terry Baker. Not only can Stovall run well, but he can also kick, is a fine receiver and is amazingly effective, on defense. Baker, something of a dark horse in the Heisman balloting, led the nation in total offense this year with more than 1,000 yards. He can pass with either hand and has raised Oregon’s total offense record for two straight years.
Halfbacks Paul Warfield of Ohio State and Mel Renfro of Oregon compose the second team with Roger Kochman of Penn State and Dave Hoppman of Iowa State rounding out the third team.
Saimes was the nearly unanimous choice at fullback. Not enough can be said about Saimes, as Joe Kuharich has noted, “He must be the best in the nation.”
The distinction of being second best belongs to Ray Poage of Texas with Ben Wilson of Southern Cal completing the Scholastic’s 1962 AllAmerican selections.
December 7, 1962
29
ND 43, PITT 22
Explosive Attack Overwhelms Pitt
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 10 — In this warm, sunbathed Notre Dame Stadium, a “small” homecoming crowd of 52,215 cheered as a band of Fighting Irish brutally sent the Panthers from Pittsburgh down to defeat, 43-22. The “revitalized” Notre Dame eleven hit their stride early in the game and romped to their second straight victory. Finding the field conditions considerably drier than in the previous week’s encounter with Navy, the Irish unleashed a formidable offensive attack, knocking holes in Pitt’s forward wall and secondary.
The victory also brought to light the passing combination of senior Daryle Lamonica to junior end Jim Kelly. Together they sparked the Irish to the victory while breaking one record and tying two. Pulling in eleven Lamonica passes for 127 yards, Kelly established a pass-receiving record, breaking the previous record of eight held by Monty Stickles. Quarterback Lamonica tossed four touchdown passes, tying Angelo Bertelli’s old record, while Jim Kelly hauled in three of the four passes to equal all-pro Jim Mutscheller’s twelve-year-old record. The victory -was Notre Dame’s second straight in the series.
Notre Dame took the opening kickoff and rolled 58 yards in 10 plays for their first score. Lamonica keyed the drive with two fourth down passes of 14 and 11 yards to Kelly. Don Hogan, a promising sophomore, carried the hall the final six yards to break the ice for the Irish. Senior Ed Rutkowski’s placement split the uprights at 10:58 of the first quarter.
On Pitt’s first series of downs, the stalwart Irish deLense threw the Panthers for a five-yard loss, and three Notre Dame first downs later, Lamonica and Kelly were pounding at the Panthers’ front door. Opportunity came with a five-yard jump pass to Kelly, and Rutkowski’s two-pointer made it Notre Dame 15, Pitt 0.
The Irish defense reached for a bit of glory as they backed the Panthers into a corner and then Clay Stephens recovered a Pitt fumble to set up the third Irish touchdown. Three plays later, halfback Ron Bliey blew the
game wide open as he swept right end for seven yards and another Notre Dame touchdown.
Pitt was quick to retaliate as quarterback Jim Traficant drove the Panthers 83 yards for six points. In the remaining two quarters, the offenses pounded away, producing a seesaw battle of touchdowns.
Fighting back, the Irish moved once again with the fabulous combination of Lamonica to Kelly. Capitalizing on a blocked Pitt punt by end Tom Goberville, Lamonica rolled out and lofted a pass to Kelly in the end zone. Pitt had a few tricks of their own left. After mixing up several plays, quarterback Traficant called for the double reverse. Halfback Ed Clark responded as he rode the sideline strip 56 yards for a second Pitt tally. Pitt’s allAmerican candidate Paul Martha picked up the two-pointer making the score Notre Dame 29, Pitt 14.
The Irish fired back with a dazzling 40-yard touchdown pass on the first play after the kickoff. This time the honors went to end Clay Stephens while Rutkowski added the extra point.
The final Irish drive of 75 yards ended as most of their touchdowns did this day — a 13-yard bomb to end Jim Kelly in the end zone. It was Pitt, though, that applied the finishing touch to this sporting afternoon as Pitt quarterback Mike Mazurek took the kickoff and returned it 93 yards for the final tally of the day.
The day wasn’t all Lamonica and Kelly — it was more all Notre Dame. Lamonica wouldn’t have had the time to find Kelly if it hadn’t have been for the superb blocking of Ed Hoerster, Bob Lehmann, Jim Carroll, and their cohorts on the offensive line. Pitt’s resurgent offense might have gained more than they did had it not been for the sturdy defense which held the Panthers to half the yardage the Irish offense gained. And the powerhouse Notre Dame offense of sophomores Don Hogan, Ron Bliey, and Joe Farrell, and seniors Bill Ahern and Joe Maxwell provided the needed support. True, today there were Lamonica and Kelly; but today, there was also Notre Dame.
— Jack Gerken
30
Football Review
... la KelLf
December 7, 1962
31
ND 21, NORTH CAROLINA 7
Interceptions Key to Victory
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 17 — Notre Dame won its third straight game today with a come from behind victory over stubborn North Carolina. The Tar Heels, coached by Jim Hickey, silenced Notre Dame’s offense in the first half, and grabbed a 7-0 halftime lead following a 35-yard punt by Irish quarterback Daryle Lamonica. The Irish retaliated in the second half scoring three touchdowns, all following interceptions by an alert secondary. The slim crowd of 35,553 saw the Irish amass a 21-7 victory total after Tommy MacDonald and Gerry Gray picked off Junior Edge passes. The attendance, limited by a 38-degree temperature and overcast skies, was the lowest since the 1943 Illinois game.
The visitors from Chapel Hill capitalized on a break midway in the first period. Lamonica boomed a tremendous punt 58 yards downfield, but an offside penalty nullified his effort and the Irish were forced to punt again from their own end zone. The Tar Heels took over from the Irish 40-yard mark and scored 9 plays later on another break.
Junior quarterback Junior Edge completed a pass to Bob Lacey on the Irish 28. Then after four running plays moved the ball 11 yards, Edge fired another pass to Lacey. Notre Dame’s Gray batted the ball away only to see fullback Ken Willard catch the deflected ball and race to the Irish 5. Two plays later Willard scored and Lacey converted ending the scoring for the first half.
North Carolina limited the Irish to a mere 23 yards rushing in the first half. Lamonica was able to complete only one pass, a 31-yard circus grab by Jim Kelly, due to the hard rushing Carolina line.
The second-half play was another matter. The pass defense, sparked by Tommy MacDonald’s three interceptions, tieing Angelo Bertelli’s record of eight in a single season, held Edge to only three completions in 14 attempts in the second half compared to seven of eight in the first half. Given more running room by the Irish line, Don Hogan and Joe Farrell rolled up 180 yards, including two touchdowns by Farrell and a 59-yard sprint by Hogan.
Aftei' an Irish drive stalled on the Tar Heel 24, fleet Tommy MacDonald pilfered an Edge aerial on the Carolina 42. Hogan and Farrell moved the ball to the 14-yard line and Kelly made a leaping grab of a Lamonica pass on the one. Farrell bulled into the end zone to bring the Irish to within one point. Coach Joe Kuharich chose to go for one point and a tie and Rutkowski obliged by making a perfect conversion — tieing the score.
MacDonald intercepted his third pass of the game two plays later on the Tar Heel 35, waited wisely for his blocking to form, and raced to the Carolina eight-yard line. Three plays later Farrell slanted through the left side of Carolina’s line from the six and Notre Dame led for the first time in the game.
Taking a cue from MacDonald, Gray swiped another Edge pass on the Irish three and returned it 25 yards.
Two plays later, Hogan took a handoff from Lamonica and swept over the middle of the line, reversed his field and went 59 yards before being overhauled from behind by speedster Hank Barden on the four-yard line. Lamonica ended the 72-yard march with a one-yard walk into the end zone behind center Ed Hoerster who opened a gaping hole. Rutkowski terminated the scoring with his third straight conversion.	—Bob Scheffing
December 7, 1962
33
ND 35, IOWA 12
Irish Avenge Big Ten Losses
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 24 — Led by the fine quarterbacking of Daryle Lamonica, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame upset the University of Iowa today by a score of 35-12. Three individual Notre Dame records were broken in a game witnessed by 42,653 fans in 43-degree sunshine.
Late in the second quarter, defensive halfback Tom . MacDonald intercepted his ninth pass of the season. This heist broke the existing record of eight, held by Angelo Bertelli.
Junior end Jim Kelly broke Irish records for pass receptions in a season and total yardage. By snaring five passes, Kelly brought his season total to 36, breaking the mark of 35 set by Jim Mutscheller in 1950. His present total of 475 yards snaps the old mark of 442 by Jim Morse in 1956.
Notre Dame dedicated the final home game to its seniors as the Irish team displayed a consistent offense and a vastly improved defense. Quarterback Daryle Lamonica had one of his finest days as he ran for 85 yards and one touchdown and completed 10 of 19 passes for 144 yards and another score. The senior signal caller completely outplayed his rival, Matt Szykowny. The Hawkeye quarterback found his mark only three of 16 times.
After an exchange of punts in the first quarter, the Irish started rolling when Lamonica hit Kelly with a bullet pass over center for ten yards and a first down on the Iowa 29. On the next play, sophomore halfback Don Hogan circled left end and, with the aid of blocks by Ed Hoerster and Jim Carroll, scored the first of five Irish touchdowns. Ed Rutkowski’s conversion was good and Notre Dame led 7-0 with 8:34 left in the period.
Iowa marched to the Irish 37 near the end of the first half with its captain and All-American candidate, Larry Ferguson, making most of the gains. But a few plays later, MacDonald went high in the air to intercept a
Szykowny pass and end the Hawkeye drive.
After the half-time intermission, a rejuvenated Iowa team drove to the Irish 5-yard line. On a fourth and goal situation, Ferguson hurdled right guard for an Iowa touchdown. The conversion failed and Notre Dame still led, 7-6, with 7:53 remaining in the third quarter.
Then the determined Irish completely dominated the game, driving 71 yards in six plays for their second touchdown. Hogan smashed for 4 and Farrell for 3. Lamonica then hit Kelly for 11 yards. Then Hogan slipped away from three Iowa defenders for 26 yards to the Hawkeye 27. Farrell barrelled for 8 over left guard. The climax came when senior halfback Frank Minik swept right end for the final 19 and an Irish score. Rutkowski’s conversion was blocked, but the Irish led, 13-6.
Early in the fourth quarter Notre Dame started moving again. Lamonica sneaked for nine and then hit Clay Stephens for 14 and a first down on the Iowa 27. Daryle then faked a pass, ran down the sidelines, and cut back sharply to the middle of the field, dodging a half-dozen tacklers for the score. Rutkowski’s second conversion put the Irish on top, 20-6.	'
A pass from Lamonica to Minik for the fourth Notre Dame score climaxed a 49-yard march in 5 plays. During the drive, Daryle ran once around end for a 21-yard gain.
A few plays after Frank Budka came up with Notre Dame’s second interception, the Irish scored again. Senior fullback Bill Ahern slammed over left tackle for the last Irish touchdown. For the conversion attempt, Lamonica pitched to Rutkowski who rolled to his right and threw to Hogan in the end zone for a two-point play.
Lamonica, Hogan, Farrell and company gained a total of 283 yards rushing to the lowans’ 110. But it was the Irish defense that looked most impressive. The interior line of George Bednar, Bob Lehmann, Nick Etten, and linebackers Hoerster and Carroll repeatedly stopped the Iowa onslaught.	—Rex Lardner
34
Football Review
AP Wirephoto
ND 0,
SOUTHERN CAL 25
A Disappointing Ending
Los Angeles, Calif., Dec. 1 — The University of Southern California’s football team found its pot of gold — a perfect season — right in its own back yard at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. Coach Johnny McKay’s Trojans, claiming the 1962 national football championship, completely outclassed the upset-minded “Fighting Irish” of Notre Dame 25-0 before 81,676 sun-drenched spectators. The Trojan victory snapped a four-game Irish winning streak; the Irish gridders closed the 1962 season with a 5-5 record and the 25-0 loss was the first shutout dealt Notre Dame in 21 games. For Southern California, the victory was one which sent Trojan alumni and fans to the scrapbooks to compare this year’s invulnerable squad with the great “thunder teams” of the late Howard Jones.
Excellent blocking, excellent tackling, and an excellent offense — all these ingredients spelled doom for the Irish footballers. There was no doubt that Notre Dame was “up” for the game but USC was simply the better team physically. USC’s massive line pounded Irish ball carriers all afternoon and efficiently stopped the usually effective running and passing of Irish quarterback Daryle La-monica. On offense, USC devastatingly sent its two human battering rams — fullback Ben Wilson and tailback Willy Brown crashing through Irish defenders. Poor tackling was a prime reason for Notre Dame’s defeat. Often a Trojan runner seemed contained, but would trickily break away for extra yardage and that all-important first down. Penalties also wrought havoc with Notre Dame’s upset designs. The officials penalized the Irish seven times for 63 yards — there were many occasions when the red flag importantly hindered a threatening Irish drive. In fact, USC’s first touchdown was aided by an offside penalty.
After Notre Dame received, showed no gain and punted, the Trojans marched 60 yards in seven plays for the six-pointer. A 34-yard flare pass to Willy Brown was the key play in this drive. After two smashes by Ben
Wilson, a short run by quarterback Pete Beathard, and an offside penalty, the men of Troy struck pay dirt as Ben Wilson stormed over from the one.
Undaunted, Notre Dame fought back and later advanced the ball into Trojan territory but fullback Joe Farrell fumbled on the Trojan 22-yard line and USC recovered. Nine plays later, USC scored again in a drive that featured a flashy 28-yard run by Beathard. Again Wilson cracked over from the one for the touchdown. Irish end Tom Goberville blocked the extra point kick and, at this point, Notre Dame fans hopefully speculated that a concerted Irish effort in the second half might find the Irish edging the Trojans dramatically by a single point, 14-13.
But such speculations proved to be only dreams. The third quarter was scoreless for both teams. Notre Dame, with its back to the wall after a great punt by the Trojans’ Ernie Jones was downed at the one-yard line, managed to fight back to mid-field towards the end of the third quarter, but a penalty halted any further advance. After an exchange of punts, quarterback Bill Nelson directed a 40-yard touchdown drive in eight plays. The clincher came on a 14-yard “threading-the-needle” pass to Fred Hill. The two-point conversion try went awry but with 7:51 remaining in the contest, the jubilant Trojans had “iced down” the game thereby laying an indisputable claim to the national championship.
Notre Dame fought desperately to hit the scoring column. A Lamonica aerial was intercepted on the Notre Dame 20. Craig Fertig, one of three Trojan quarterbacks for the day, rifled a 14-yard pass to sophomore halfback Gary Hill and then, on the ensuing play, ran 6 yards for the touchdown expanding the score to 25-0. The pass for the conversion failed, the scoring had ended, and 53 seconds later the game was over.
— Gary Sabatte
December 7, 1962
35
HOERSTER
HOGAN
KELLY
36
Football Review
LEHMANN
LAMONICA

BUDKA
Decent ber 7, 1962
Prospects for ’63
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
by
“Wait ’till next year!” is a cliche often used by fans whose teams have had not-too-successful seasons. But in Notre Dame’s case, the cliche fits: prospects for a successful football season in 1963 are excellent, probably the best of the Kuharich era.
The schedule is, if anything, easier. UCLA, Stanford, and Syracuse replace Oklahoma, Northwestern, and North Carolina. All three 1963 opponents should be weaker than Oklahoma or Northwestern, but tougher than North Carolina.
But most important, the Irish should have the personnel to match any team on the schedule, including Big Ten champ Wisconsin — which loses All-American end Pat Richter and All-Big Ten quarterback Ron VanderKelen. Only three of Notre Dame’s starting 11-plus-four will be missing: center Ed Hoerster, the team’s tackle leader with 73; Daryle Lamonica, the squad’s top passer; and defensive star Gerry Gray.
Hoerster developed this season into a topnotch blocker and linebacker, and should be tough to replace. Fortunately, there are several likely candidates, including sophomore Norm Nicola — who may be shifted to tackle, junior Bill Burns, soph Tom Kostelnik, and 247-pound freshman Mike Wadsworth.
Finding a replacement for Lamonica, the only quarterback who saw much offensive action during the last half of the season, will be the biggest personnel problem. Junior Frank Budka, a defensive specialist this season but an outstanding offensive performer in 1961; sophomore John Huarte, who saw a few minutes of action this year and looked to be a capable passer; and soph Tom Longo, out with a leg injury this fall; should
be the top contenders for the signal calling job.
Gray, a sure tackler and excellent pass defender, will probably be replaced in the starting defensive backfield by Bill Pfeiffer, the secondary’s fifth man in 1962.
At other positions, all the players who had a significant part in Notre Dame’s late-season resurgence will be back.
Jim Kelly, greatest pass receiver in Notre Dame history with 41 catches for 524 yards and four touchdowns this year as a junior, leads an experienced end corps. Others returning include Tom Goberville, Clay Stephens, John Murray, John Simon, and Jack Snow.
At tackle, George Bednar — a junior who improved vastly this season, Gene Penman, Dave Humenik, Nick Etten, and Marty Olosky are all returnees. And there should be some help coming from the freshman team, including 260-pound giant Mike Webster, from Vancouver, B.C.
Starting guards Bob Lehmann and Jim Carroll will return, along with Wayne Allen, Ken Maglicic, and Mike DiCarlo.
In the backfield, sophomore sensation Don Hogan — the team’s leading ground gainer — will be back, along with Joe Farrell — the runner-up to Hogan in the ground gaining department. So should Ron Bliey, barring academic difficulties, and the hoped-for return of Paul Costa and Jim Snowden could add even more punch to the offense.
In the defensive secondary, Tommy MacDonald — who broke the Notre Dame single - season interceptions mark with nine, elbow-tackler Frank Budka, and Denny Phillips will all be back.
Just wait ’till next year.
1962 Final
Statistics
TEAM STATISTICS
N.D.	OPP.
159 ...... POINTS SCORED 192
140  FIRST DOWNS 138
1382 _____ YARDS RUSHING______1760
449 ______ TIMES CARRIED_______435
3. 08_____ RUSHING AVERAGE 4.05
1160______ YARDS PASSING 870
195 _____PASSES ATTEMPTED_______146 90 _____________________________ PASSES COMPLETED  67
.461__COMPLETION PERCENTAGE ____ .452
15 ___ PASSES INTERCEPTED BY____ 16
166 ____YARDS INT. RETURNED_____ 75
2542 _____ TOTAL OFFENSE________ 2630
50 __________ PUNTS ____________ 42
1808 _____ TOTAL YARDS _________1433
36.2 ________ AVERAGE 33.8
11 ___BALLS LOST ON FUMBLES_____ 17
SCORING
Player	TD	FG	PAT	TP
Farrell 		4	0	0	24
Kelly		4	0	0	24
Ijamomca	4	0	0	24
Rutkowski*		1	0	17	23
	3	0	9	20
Ahern		2	0	0	12
Minik 		2	0	0	12
Bliey		i	0	0	6
Phillips		i	0	0	6
Stephens 		i	0	0	6
Snow** —		0	0	2	2
ND TOTALS		23	0	21	159
OPP. TOTALS 		28	2	18	192
*2 on run. **Pass for PAT.				
PASSES CAUGHT
Player	No.
Kelly 41
Hogan 12
Stephens  5
Minik 5
Snow _________________________ 4
Murray 3
Rutkowski 3
Phillips 2
Sherlock-----------------------2
Pivec 2
Goberville 2
Farrell________________________1
Simon 1
Budka 1
Bliey	   1
Murphy 1
Ahern__________________________1
Gray 1
MacDonald ____________________ 1
Lind  1
Yards	TD
523	4
146	0
93	1
66	1
46	0
35	0
—3	0
47	1
39	0
32	0
29	0
27	0
20	0
19	0
17	0
14	0
9	0
5	0
0	0
0
PUNTING
Player	•		No.	Yards	Avg.
Lamonica 				49	1789	36.5
Budka -				1	19	19.0
38
Football Review
RUSHING
Player	TC	Yards Avg.
Hogan ------------------------- 90	454	5.0
Farrell _______________________ 70	278	4.0
Bliey  57	167	2.9
Lamonica ---------------------- 74	145	2.0
Ahern ------------------------- 25	97	3.9
Gray  28	94	3.4
Minik  22	61	2.8
Rutkowski  16	52	3.3
Phillips ______________________ 18	38	2.1
Budka __________________________ 12	21	1.8
MacDonald  10	14	1.4
Lind  8	13	1.6
Maxwell  3	9	3.0
Huarte ------------------------- 3	—14	—
Szot --------------------------- 13	—47	—
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player	No.	Yards	Avg.
Bliey _________________________ 13	311	23.9
Hogan  9	206	22.9
Minik  2	61	32.0
Rutkowski 	2	42	21.0
Phillips  2	39	19.5
MacDonald  2	30	15.0
Budka 	1	20	—
Farrell _______________________ 1	19	—
Gray _________________________   1	10	—
Burns __________________-____ 1	5	—
Kelly _________________________ 1	3	—
PUNT RETURNS
Welcome Notre Dame Students
■
DOYLE'S BARBER SHOP
706 E. Jefferson ■
We specialize in flat-tops and Ivy League haircuts.
Appointment if desired. AT 7-1447
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
[■JiiiitiitmttiuiiiiiiimiiiiiutMitmiiuitiittiiiiiiiitiiuiiiimiiitii 1 Remember your = | FRIENDS and FAMILY I :	with world famous	£
I	BARTON'S	I
I	CONTINENTAL	I
I	CHOCOLATES	|
=	&	I
E Candy Mailed Daily Anywhere = =	&	|
:	Also Your Center For	=
I HALLMARK CARDS, I I PARTY SUPPLIES and GIFTS | I	&	I
=	Yours Exclusively At	=
MICHIANA’S NEWEST AND I I MOST BEAUTIFUL STORE | | IMPERIAL HOUSEj 1	113 So. Michigan St.	I
E	Downtown South Bend	£
i
Player
Minik __________________________
Rutkowski —______________ Goberville ______________ Bliey __________________________
Phillips____.___________________
No.	Yards	Avg.
6	41	6.8
2	28	14.0
i	17	17.0
2	10	5.0
3	8	2.7
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS
TACKLES:
Hoerster 73; Lehmann 61; Carroll 58; Budka 51; Gray 49; Bednar 45; Pfeiffer 39; Maglicic 35; MacDonald and Nicola 29; Goberville 25; Phillips 23; Penman 22; Kelly and Allen 21; Burns 19; Rutkowski, 17; Burke, Hogan and Olosky 15; DiCarlo, Pivec and Stephens 14; Etten and Murphy 13; Minik 12; Humenik 11; Murray and Simon 10; Ahern 9; Farrell 6; Sherlock 5; Lamonica 3; Dennery and O’Hara 1.
PASSES BROKEN UP:
Budka 8; MacDonald 5; Phillips 4; Gray and Pfeiffer 2; Bums, Goberville, Hoerster, Kelly, Lamonica and Rutkowski 1.
OPPONENTS’ FUMBLES RECOVERED:
Carroll, Pfeiffer, Phillips, Pivec and Stephens 2; Gray, Hoerster, Kelly, Lehmann, Minik, Murray and Simon 1.
BLOCKED KICKS:
Goberville 2; Lehmann 1.
PASSES INTERCEPTED
Player	No.	Yards	TD
MacDonald  9	81	0
Gray  2	23	0
Murphy _______________________ 1	25	0
Snow 	1	23	0
Budka ________________________ 1	10	0
Lamonica ___________________ 14	0
PASSING
Player	Att.	Comp. Int.		Yards	TD	Pct.
Lamonica 		128	64	7	821	6	.500
Szot 		45	18	6	244	1	.400
Huarte 		8	4	0	38	0	.500
Budka 	 ..	9	9	3	25	0	.222
Rutkowski 		9	1	0	20	0	.500
Rascher 		3	1	0	12	0	.333
a guaranteed gift
Sure to please or we will exchange it for another from our stock.
~Notre Dame^
BOOKSTORE
December 7, 1962
39

I f f: f: f: f f f t: f: f f
%
t
Sent out your Christmas cards yet?
J^otre ©ante Cfjnstnias Carte
NOW, AT SPECIAL QUANTITY PRICES
BUY THEM NOW — ONLY 18 MAILING DAYS LEFT BEFORE CHRISTMAS
Available at . . . NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
& 1 1 I § =1 i i & & i i i & § % A
^ss-sSis-Kis Cassia-cissiya-SSss sya ?«s tsj»^sSsstSs-^ss-KaaSia-ssjss ssjaiis
Neither has “shaved” in a month!
No kidding. As far as the guy on the right is concerned, he stopped shaving a month ago, started rolling his whiskers off with the new REMINGTON® LEKTRONIC* II Shaver.
• What’s the secret? Remington’s exclusive roller combs. They roll skin down for comfort. Roll whiskers up for closeness. So comfort-
able, it’s just like rolling your whiskers off.
P.S. The Lektronic II is the only rechargeable electric that runs with or without a cord. Use it cordless anywhere you want (or with the cord from any 110-volt AC outlet).
Seethe new Remington Lektronic 11 Shaver at your college bookstore.
•LEKTRONIC js a trademark of Sperry Rand Corooration
Nero plays and the critics rave on! ",.. all the bite of a very dry martini,” High Fidelity. “Tinseled, quick-silvery arrangements, "Time. “All coolness and color," Life. His newest, The Colorful Peter Nero, is a kaleidoscopic trip from "Journey to Red Rocks,” on through the spectrum to a plush “Deep Purple.” In Living Stereo, Monaural and Tape RCA VICTORS ^^The most trusted name in sound
ICE SKATES $9.95 up •
SKATE GUARDS
Reco Sporting Goods
113 N. Main St.
Next to Oliver Hotel
[ A Big Man on . ? Any Campus!
S'JOHNNY
WNASH
THE OUTSTANDING YOUNG SINGING TALENT WHO HAS TAKEN AMERICA’S COLLEGES BY STORM!!!!
•• — ---------------------- —
''Better than any Johnny you can name (Ray, Mathis, et. al.)	—NY Journai-American
An absolute standout! Exactly what one desires in a popular singer! -VAR|ETY“
NOW MAKING HIS FIRST CONCERT TOUR OF THE NATION’S CAMPUSES IN A PROGRAM OF POPULAR, FOLK AND SPIRITUAL MUSIC.
Attention Campus Organizations! A LIMITED NUMBER OF DATES ARE AVAILABLE IN YOUR TERRITORY!
For further information, write: COLLEGE SERVICE DIVISION
WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY, Inc.
1740 Broadway, New York 19, N.Y.
Congratulations to . . .
1962 FIGHTING IRISH
and especially
A GREAT GROUP OF SOPHOMORES
John Antongiovanni	Jim Carroll	Tom Kostehiik	Jim Rakers
John Atainian	Vince Dennery	Tom Longo	John Ruel
Frank Billy	Joe Farrell	Ken Maglicic	John Selzer
Kon Bliey	Jim Harnisch	Vince Mattera	Jack Snow
Sandy Bonvechio	Don Hogan	Norm Nicola	Bob Telfer
Jim Brocke	John Huarte	Gene Penman	Gerry Tubinis
SOPHOMORE CLASS OF 65
December 7, 1962
41
Congratulations to
1962 FIGHTING IRISH
and especially
A FINE GROUP OF SENIORS
Bill Ahern Brian Boulac Ed Burke Gerard Gray
Ed Hoerster Dan Kolasinski Steve Kolski Bill Kutzavitch
Daryle Lamonica Alike Lind Joe Maxwell Frank Minik
Dennis Murphy Charlie O’Hara Ed Rutkowski Jim Sherlock
John Slafkosky Harold Vogel Greg Wood
Who gave their
all through four rugged years
SENIOR CLASS OF ’63
A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY CLUB ATMOSPHERE
THE MORRIS INN
“on the campus”
All Outside Rooms
Completely Air-Conditioned
Indiana’s Finest
• TERRACE DINING ROOM
• PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS
• BEAUTIFUL PATIO
• COCKTAIL LOUNGE
• GOLF PRIVILEGES
•	CIRCULATING ICE WATER
•	TV AND RADIO IN EVERY ROOM
•	LARGE PARKING AREA
(Delicious ((food
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
(Delightful (Drinks
Prompt Attention Will Be Given Your Reservation Request . . . Sorry, No Public Sale of Rooms for Home Football Week Ends.
Owned and Operated by UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME
ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager
42
Football Review

The Huddle
Best Wishes to 1962 Notre Dame Football Squad
. . ■ ■ STOP at the HUDDLE , ■ , ■ for that little snack between classes
Announcing.
LOVE IS LIFE
Francois Dantec; $5.00
Discusses frankly and reverently married love and responsibility from the Catholic married couple’s point of view.
UNITY AND REFORM: Selected Writings of Nicholas de Cusa
Rev. John Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., ed.; $6.50 Historical study of pre-Reformation bishop who advocated lay participation in church, ecumenical unity, cultivation of intellect for all classes.
CHILE AND THE UNITED STATES, 1880-1962
Fredrick B. Pike; $7.50
The basis of United States-Latin American tension is nowhere so thoroughly analyzed as in CHILE AND THE UNITED STATES, 1880-1962.
PAPERBACKS
BEOWULF CRITICISM	$2.25
Edited by Lewis E. Nicholson
THE ENGLISH CHURCH IN THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY	$1.95
W. A. Pantin
THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS $1.95 William Rose Edition
A MIRROR FOR FOOLS	$1.95
Translated by J. H. Mozley
THE VICTORIAN AGE IN LITERATURE $1.75 G. K. Chesterton
JOHN DOOLEY: CONFEDERATE SOLDIER $1.95 Edited by Joseph T. Durkin, S.J.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
December 7, 1962
43
1963 Schedule
Sept. 28—WISCONSIN at Notre Dame
Coach Milt Bruhn loses stars Pat Richter and Ron VanderKelen, but most of his Big Ten Championship squad returns.
Oct. 5—PURDUE at Lafayette
Ron DiGravio, Charlie King, and Gene Donaldson will have another tough Boilermaker line to help them try for two in a row over the Irish.
Oct. 12—SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA at Notre Dame
Another great Trojan-Irish battle is forecast. Pete Beathard and Willie Brown will lead Johnny McKay’s eleven.
Oct. 19—UCLA at Notre Dame
In the second of three straight games with West Coast clubs, the Bruins will have a young, but seasoned squad.
Oct. 26—STANFORD at Palo Alto
The Indians are hungry after many lean years and could be a surprise on the Coast.
Nov. 2—NAVY at Noire Dame
Roger Staubach heads the returnees as the Middies seek revenge.
Nov. 9—PITTSBURGH at Notre Dame
An experienced Panther unit will be paced by All-American candidate Rick Leeson.
Nov. 16—MICHIGAN STATE at East
Lansing
George Saimes is gone. Thus the Spartans will again be playing with eleven, rather than ten, mere mortals. Sherman Lewis and Dewey Lincoln, Saimes’ running mates, return.
Nov. 23—IOWA at Iowa City
Jerry Burns’ Hawkeyes, minus Larry Ferguson and Matt Szykowny, will be out to avenge this year’s 35-12 humiliation by the Irish.
Nov. 28—SYRACUSE at New York
City
A great way to end the season: a Thanksgiving Day grudge battle with the Orangemen in Yankee Stadium.
44
Football Review
Have The
South Bend
Tribune
Delivered to
Your Door
Keep up with the activities of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, as well as national and international news. The nation’s top rated columnists and features.
Daily and Sunday 50c a Week
Order from your
Campus Representative:
Alumni, Sorin and Walsh Halls Frank Gasper, Dillon Hall
Room 164, Ph. Dillon Ext. 630
Fisher, Pangborn and Dillon Halls Ray Wherley, Dillon Hall
Room 289, Ph. Dillon Ext. 631
Lyons, Morrissey, Badin and Howard Halls
Frank LaNasa, Lyons Hall Room 309. Ph. Lyons Ext. 457
Breen Phillips, Farley, Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls Gary Jones. Zahm Hall
Room 222, Ph. Zahm Ext. 581
Keenan, Stanford and St. Edwards Halls
Roger Aiello, Keenan Hall Room 235, Ph. Keenan Ext. 613
In Charge of The Tribune's Campus Distribution
Jerry Aspito, Phone CE 2-8567
Also On Sale Daily and Sundays at
NOTRE DAME DINING HALL Huddle Morris Inn
NOTICE!
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT ROMAN INN CORNER OF NOTRE DAME & SOUTH BEND AVENUES “On the Bus Une”
— DELICIOUS FOOD — 'A Hungarian	Ar German
A” American	A’ Italian
DANCING DOWNSTAIRS
YOU* HOSTESS MISS “COBY” Manager
Private Room Available for Private Parties: For Arrangements Call CE 3-0480
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by Ur (GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!)
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S
SHAMPOO
somcr, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control. ; Keep your hair and scalp really clean, dandruff-free! ■ ■
December 7, 1962
45
INSURE YOUR 1963 FOOTBALL REVIEW ORDER NOW!
Since only a limited number of Reviews are printed each year, it is advised that you make your order early. Send your name and address and 50c for each additional year that you want the Football Review to: Football Review, Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
the fourth dimension: TIME
... still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculation—and surprise.
SEPT. 5,1752, NEVER HAPPENED!... Nor did any date from Sept. 3 to 13, at least in England and the American Colonies. Why? The King decreed that these days would be skipped to correct a discrepancy between the Old English calendar and the newly adopted Gregorian calendar. This left puzzled Englishmen and colonists with one 19-day month and a 355-day year.
sag
IT TAKES TIME TO MAKE TIME. Hamilton’s extremely precise version of a timepiece takes from 6 to 9 months to produce. Half of the more than 2000 production steps are quality inspections which assure Hamilton accuracy.
THE HAMSTERS BUILT-IN “CONTINUOUS CLOCK”...enables him
to maintain his daily activities of eating and sleeping without the usual stimuli of light and darkness. He lives on exactly the same schedule even in total darkness.
Are you a person who likes to stand out? A Hamilton is both attractive and distinctive, a touch of excellent taste that you can wear every hour of a lifetime. They start as low as $35. Ask your favorite gift-giver. Hamilton Watch Co., Lancaster, Pa.
Have The
South Bend
Tribune
Delivered to
Your Door
Keep up with the activities of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, as well as national and international news. The nation's top rated columnists and features.
Daily and Sunday 50c a Week
Order from your
Campus Representative:
Alumni. Sorin and Walsh Halls Frank Gasper. Dillon Hall
Room 164. Ph. Dillon Ext. 630
Fisher. Pangborn and Dillon Halls Ray Wherley. Dillon Hall
Room 289. Ph. Dillon Ext. 631
Lyons. Morrissey, Badin and Howard Hails
Frank LaNasa. Lyons Hall Room 309. Ph. Lvons Ext. 457
Breen Phillips. Farlev. Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls Gary Jones. Zahm Hall Room 222. Ph. Zahm Ext. 581
Keenan. Stanford and St. Edwards Halls
Roger Aiello. Keenan Hall Room 235. Ph. Keenan Ext. 613
In Charge of The Tribune's Campus Distribution
Jerry Aspito. Phone CE 2-8567
Also On Sale Daily and
Sundays at
NOTRE DAME DINING HALL
Huddle Morris Inn
46
Football Review
Freshman Team
“They’re a small group, but as fine as any I’ve ever worked with,” said Coach Hugh Devore of his 42-man freshman football team. “If 12 or 15 of our boys can help the varsity next year, we’ll be satisfied.”
Devore rated these linemen the best at their positions as practice drew to a close: ends Tom Talaga (230, Chicago, HL), Harry Long (189, LaGrange, Hl.), and Ken Ivan (185, Massillon, O.); tackles Mike Webster (260, Vancouver, B.C.), Tom Sullivan (237, Oklahoma City, Okla.), and Herb Seymour (265, Detroit, Mich.), the squad’s biggest man; guards Pete Thornton (213, Portland, Me.), Mike Sheehan (230, San Antonio, Tex.), and Larry Hribal (225, Carmichaels, Pa.); and center Mike Wadsworth (247, Toronto, Ont.).
Among the top freshman backs named by Devore were quarterback Dick Sauget (205, Belleville, Hl.); halfbacks Bill Wolski (202, Muskegon, Mich.), Nick Eddy (194, Tracy, Calif.), Pete Andreotti (182, Chicago, Hl.), and Arunas Vasys (200, Cicero, Hl.); and fullbacks Pete Duranko (220, Johnstown, Pa.), and Allan Loboy (195, Park Ridge, Hl.).
Other members of the team, which drilled under coaches Devore and John Murphy and junior Pat Keneally, include:
Ends—Brian O’Shaughnessy, Farmington, Mich.; Bob Schenkelberg, Cleveland; and Phil Sheridan, Rutherford, N.J.
Tackles — Bob Meeker, Akron, O.; and John Reisert, Hempstead, N.Y.
Guards — Jim Barra, Wyonissing, Pa.; John Cavan, Needham, Mass.; Neal Gardner, Cincinnati; Bob Kerrigan, Manchester, N.H.; Mike Krach, Fairfield, Conn.; and Dick Stuedle, Louisville.
Centers — Ben Martorano, Chicago; and Mike Carroll, Roanoke, Va.
Quarterbacks — Dan McGinn, Omaha; Tom Myszewski, Milwaukee; and Bill Zloch, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Halfbacks — Larry Allen, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Denny Conway, Sioux City, la.; Alex Garlo, Tiffin, O.; Jim Hughes, Minneapolis, Minn.; Larry Mauch, BeHeville, Hl.; Bob Merkle, Brandywine, Md.; and John Reding, Madison, Wis.
Fullbacks — Ed Seymour, Detroit; and Jim Smith, Columbia, Pa.
FARLEY HALL
wishes to congratulate the FOOTBALL TEAM OF 1962
Now-
give yourself
"Professional" shaves
with ...
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
New "wetter-than-water" action melts beard’s tough, ness—in seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—in seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave... fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.
« l-l U l_TO ISl
December 7, 1962
47
Wins
UBR1KY ud BOOK SHOP
For Unusual Gifts in ■ LUGGAGE ■ HANDBAGS ■ LEATHER GOODS ■ BRIEF CASES ■ GIRS
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
138 N. MICHIGAN • SO. BEND A Non-Profit Organization
Nans/- Ri ntzscm
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
Phone: CE 2-5881
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
now offering
An
Exclusive Columbia
Special Products
Genius §8 inwordsXg and music S£
Record	- „
FOR ONLY $1 —
with the purchase of any book from our new
DOUBLEDAY BOOKSHELF
For your reading pleasure—we have a wide variety of Doubleday books in every price range. And for your listening pleasure, as a special bonus—this magnificent new album in which
DYLAN THOMAS reads his own works JOHN GIELGUD reads Shakespeare LEONARD BERNSTEIN plays Copland ...and DAVE BRUBECK—I'm in a Dancing Mood ...and much more on this unique 12"	.
Hi-Fi 33% RPM record—for a limited time only
COME IN TODAY...
and build a nest egg of knowledge from our new Doubleday Personal Bookshelf.
Behind the Scenes
As a million-dollar business, Notre Dame football requires administrative personnel in much the same way as a large corporation. Among the key figures behind the scenes:
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice-president of the University and chairman of the athletic control board, has over-all charge of the athletic program and coordinates athletics and academics.
Athletic Director Ed “Moose” Krause is responsible for scheduling all opponents, as much as five and six years in advance.
Herb Jones, as business manager of athletics, handles all financial matters, and is responsible for the upkeep of the stadium and away-game travel arrangements.
Ticket men Bob Cahill and Len Kahler tackle the job of deciding who gets which seat.
Trainer Gene Paszkiet is responsible for the physical well-being of the Irish.
Charlie Callahan, as director of sports publicity, has been responsible since 1946 for the promotion of Notre Dame football. He is assisted this year by secretary Mary McCarthy, and student assistants Frank Zirille, John Hutton, and Tom Doty.
Among the functions of the sports publicity department are publishing the Football Dope Book, furnishing pictures and stories to each gridder’s home-town paper, releasing regular reports to the major wire services, and accommodating visiting writers, broadcasters, and cameramen before and during home football games.
Spirit
Each season, three groups give emphasis and direction to the spirit which traditionally accompanies Notre Dame football.
The cheerleaders direct the vocal support of the Irish, both at Friday night pep rallies and Saturday games. This year’s captain is senior Bob Maturi; members of the squad are juniors Fred Heroman, Pete Fischer, and Bill Meeker, and sophomores Mike Ghelardi and Tom Kahl.
The Band of the Fighting Irish, 120 strong, gave their traditionally fine performances at home games, and in addition made the Northwestern and Navy trips to support the team. Band Director Robert O’Brien is assisted by James Fleischer; drum major is “Dutch” Heil, and band president is Vince Massa.
Adding color to the half-time shows was the card section of 1380 Notre Dame and St. Mary’s freshmen, which performed such stunts as the traditional shamrock, the block ND, and a quickly flashed “Irish.”
48
Football Review
Plan now for your ^BERMUDA College Week 1963 bigger, busier, better than ever!
•	Informal welcoming dance to start the fun.
•	College Day at the Beach . . . the biggest beach party of the year.
•	All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon. Calypso music. Gombey Dancers.
•	Round Robin Tennis Tournament.
•	College Talent Revue.
•	Fun Festival with jazz concerts, choral groups, dance contests.
•	Barbecue Luncheon.
•	Sightseeing.
•	Special Tennis Trophies.
ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE
The BERMUDA Trade Development Board
420 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N.Y.
1
It’s greasy, by George! But Vitalis with V-7 /Wk keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Vhahsl
Naturally. V-7® is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try it today!
EUDENTAIRE
V V V 1/ 241 Badin Hall
Phone Central 2—1797
TRAVEL, INC.
CHICAGO, ILL.

For Your Christmas Gifts
I
FINE JEWELRY • FINE SERVICE FAIR PRICES

DIAMONDS
Keepsake ■ Artcarved * Orange Blossom
WATCHES
Omega * Rolex * Longines * Wittnauer Patek Phillipe
14K GOLD JEWELRY
Charms • Bracelets • Pendants • Crosses Pins * Cultured Pearls
FASHION JEWELRY
Trifari * Monet * Eisenberg * Siamese Sterling and Gold Filled Charms
CREDIT (WITH NO INTEREST) AND LAYAWAY—AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 P.M.
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311
p, fl pj fl fl fl fl
1] fl
fl fl
fl
>1 ] 1
1J ]
bj
fl
fl

so;
EVERY MAN’S CHEERLEADER
Sportsman or spectator, you’ll cheer for the “Gordon Dover Club” Shirt. Softly rolled buttondown medium-point collar is teamed with a center plait in back and button on back of collar.
Perfect fit results from years of Arrow tailoring know-how. Comfortable “Sanforized” cotton Oxford cloth comes in this fall’s leading solid shirt colors. $5.00.
FOUNDED 1851
te
GOOD FIT, GOOD FEEL, GOOD TASTE
The man who wants all three wants the Arrow “Gordon Dover Club.” It is traditionally styled with softly rolled button-down collar, placket front and plait in back. Expert tailoring is geared to fit the active college man. “Sanforized” cotton Oxford spells day-long comfort.
’5.00
^GILBERT'S
so
Football Review
IDEAL GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS
Twin Magazines!
Distinct , . . but related
CATHOLIC BOY
CATHOLIC MISS
Published at Notre Dame by the Holy Cross Fathers
EACH MAGAZINE
48
pages chock full of sports, adventure, comics, stories.
hobbies and Catholic inspiration.
EACH MAGAZINE, only $3.00 a year!
And here are your handy subscription forms:
CATHOLIC BOY	□ 1 year, $3.00
Notre Dame, Indiana	□ years, $5.00
□ 3 years, $7.00
Dear Fathers:
Please send CATHOLIC BOY to:
Name
Street and Number
City	Zone	State
□ Send Gift card to read from:
Your Name
Your Address
CATHOLIC MISS	□ 1 year, $3.00
Notre Dame, Indiana	O years, $5.00
□ 3 years, $7.00
Dear Fathers:
Please send CATHOLIC MISS to:
Name
Street and Number
City	Zone State
Q Send Gift card to read from:
Your Name
Your Address