
•v!vt- qv^si • AofVTv/^s*
Vol.' XXXI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 13, .1897.'	No. 10..
A Rime of Life,
FAILURE.
■^TIGH in the sunlit vale where field-flowers nod My castle builded fair. Lo! down there trod * The crushing foot of Fate. My triumph ruins, 1 cursed the laws of everlasting God.
DESPAIR.
Dark the dragging day may be or fair;
On crumbling ruins brambles gather where
My castle builded. Fate in life is all, To Fate I, weakling, bow in dull despair.
HOPE.
Green the grasses are where melts the snow,
Out from the brambles budding roses grow Where stood my castle. Death breathes life again.
Perhaps my castle—ah! but who may know?
REGENERATION.
Fair in the vale the field-flowers bloom again; High in the sun, my castle grows as then, Turrets gleam and spreading roses blow;— What goods God gives we do not know, nor when.
M.
Tuberculosis.
JACOB ROSENTHAL, ’97.
fUBERCULOSlS, that disease which is puzzling the greatest pathologists, scientists and physicians of our day, is indeed a complicated study. The first record we can find of this disease .dates back to the year 1680, when Franciscus Delefoe Sylvius accurately described tubercles of the lungs, and it was known to him that the centres of these tubercles might degenerate and so form cavities. Mag-net, in 1700, went a little further, and recognized that these tubercles may be diffused throughout the body. A step further was made by Matthew Baillie, in 1794, when he remarked
that the characteristic feature of tubercles is-, neither their size nor their location, but the-physical properties of the substance of the tubercles themselves. This he calls scrofulous matter, and compares it to fresh cheese. These terms led to a great deal of discussion and false theories regarding scrofulosis as identical with tuberculosis, because a cheesy product was present in both cases. In the year 1810 Bayle made a long stride forward ’ when he confidently proved that tuberculosis was not a local disease, limited only to the lungs, but was a general disease involving the whole body, and was developed by a tuberculous diathesis.
From the year 1810 to 1S45 there was nothing of great importance discovered; but about that time Addison first brought the microscope into use in the study of this disease, and he described tubercles as a collection of epithelial cells, and that these cells originated from white blood corpuscles which were arrested in the small capillaries where they were changed into epithelium. From this time on,all observations were made with the microscope, and in the year 1844 Lebert discovered peculiar small corpuscles which were characteristic of tubercles only, and these he called tubercle corpuscles. As . a further result of this discovery he taught that tubercles were not products of inflammation, but of a peculiar pathological process.
The next great step was made by Buhl in-1857, when he published the results of two hundred and eighty post-mortem examinations, twenty-three of which were acute cases of miliary tuberculosis. He found that in twenty out of twenty-three cases either cheesy nodules, yellow tubercles, or cavities formed in consequence of the cheesy nodules, were present. From these and other similar observations made before, he was led to assert that acute miliary tuberculosis was an infectuous disease.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
T54
He argued that a specific virus was present in these nodules, and if these be absorbed, minute nodules containing this peculiar poison become scattered throughout the whole organism.
So far, then, nothing is definitely known in regard to the true nature of tuberculosis; but it must be remembered that the pathology and histology of this disease had been so well developed that by paying attention to its cellular structure and regressive metamorphosis, we can, under certain conditions, make at least the histological diagnosis of tuberculosis.
In the year 1865, Villemin declared that tuberculosis, like syphilis, is a virulent disease, because, after inoculating several rabbits with material from tuberculous patients, scattered tuberculosis was developed. A very important discovery in this respect was made by him later on, when he determined by several experiments that tuberculosis was caused by a specific virus, and that this virulence was the only criterion of the disease, because neither the anatomical noi’ histological structure sufficiently characterized tubercles.
, From this time on many experiments were made by inoculation, many theories brought forward and afterwards refuted, but nothing very definite can be obtained from them. Many experiments were made by inhaling tuberculous matter; among them were the experiments of Tappeiner and Sippl, who added tuberculous sputa to the air breathed by dogs, and in all cases nodules and even capsules and cavities were developed. Experiments were also made by feeding tuberculous matter to certain animals; in all cases ulcers and nodules were produced in the stomach and on the liver.
So far all experiments were entirely in the dark. Nothing was known of the real cause of tuberculosis. Man)'- thought there was a poisonous something which they called tuberculous matter; but what this was and of what it really consisted no one knew. The first man to give any definite idea of this was Klebs, in the year 1877, when he published a series of investigations by which the theory of contagium animatum was indisputably proved.
Dr. Sattler, in his translation of Dr. Arnold Spina’s work on the history of tuberculosis, gives the experiments of Klebs as follows: “Klebs first placed the whites of fresh eggs in vessels that had been thoroughly cleaned and were protected from dust by cotton. After he had demonstrated, by a long period of observation, the absence of every trace of decomposition, tuberculous matter was introduced.
On the second or third day the culture-fluid showed a perceptible cloudiness, which the microscope demonstrated to be due to the presence of a large number of small, moving granules and some objects having the appearance of short rods. A drop of this clouded fluid was put into another clean vessel filled with albumen, and this, too, soon became cloudy; and in this way he cultivated the bacteria through many generations. Small quantities of these culture-fluids were injected into the peritoneal cavity of healthy animals, and led to the development of numerous nodules as if genuine tuberculous material had been inoculated. He examined these nodules microscopically, and found .in them organisms similar to those contained in the inocultated culturefluids.” From these experiments and others which he performed later, he was led to conclude that the organisms found in the culture-fluid were the direct cause of the disease. This was accepted by many; but there were some who refuted it strongly, and proved by experiments that other substances injected into the peritoneal cavity would produce nodules, and in almost all cases part of the injected substance would remain in the centre of the nodule.
It was during the time of this discussion that Robert Koch was working to discover the real cause of tuberculosis. From the many experiments made on this subject he was led to believe that there were minute organisms which caused it, and his diligent observations and experiments led him to publish in 1882 his famous article, “The Etiology of Tuberculosis.” His first step was to find a suitable stain by means of which these bacteria could be made visible under the microscope. As Koch was an expert in this line, it did not take him long to find that by treating a cover-glass preparation with a staining fluid, prepared by mixing 200 c. c. of distilled water with 1 c. c. of a concentrated alcoholic solution of methylene blue, and .2 c. c. of a ten per. cent caustic potash solution for twenty or twenty-four hours—if heated to 400 C., one half to one hour—and then treating it with a concentrated aqueous solution of vesuvine, the bacillus is stained blue, while all other substances' are stained brown.
The bacteria he thus found exhibited some very peculiar characteristics. They were rodshaped, and were therefore bacilli; they were very thin, and were from one-quarter to one-half as long as the width of a blood corpuscle. He always found that • these bac ere
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
discovered in large numbers in those places where the tubercles were just forming, or where they were progressing very rapidly. After the tubercles become fully grown, the bacteria become fewer in number and more scattered, generally along the margin. The bacteria were usually found in the centre of cells, but sometimes in cheesy masses; they may be scattered in bunches all through the preparation.
Koch next made experiments to prove that these bacilli were the direct cause of tuberculosis. He made a series of examinations of tuberculous matter from man and animals. Of human subjects, he examined eleven cases of miliary tuberculosis, twelve cases of cheesy bronchitis and pneumonia, one case of a solitary tubercle in the brain, two cases of tuberculosis of the intestines, three cases of freshly extirpated scrofulous glands, and four cases of fungoid inflammation of joints. He found that the bacilli were never wanting in the miliary tubercles of the lungs and in miliary tubercles of the liver, spleen and kidneys, also in the gray nodules of the pia-mater in cases of meningitis basilaris. The caseated bronchial glands also contained swarms of bacilli. In the twelve cases of caseous bronchitis and pneumonia, the presence of the bacilli was generally limited to the margins of the cheesy, infiltrated tissues, but .they were present here in large numbers. In most of the lung cavities the bacilli were very numerous. In the cases of tuberculosis of the intestines the bacilli were also very easily demonstrated. In only two of the three scrofulous glands examined were bacilli, enclosed in giant-cells, visible. And of the four cases of fungoid inflammation of the joints, bacilli in small numbers were found in only two. Of animals, Koch examined ten cases of murrain, with calcareous, degenerated nodules in the lungs, the peritoneum, and the pericardium. In every case bacilli were found, and especially in the interior of the giant-cells of the tissues immediately surrounding the calcareous nodules. In three monkeys that had died of turberculosis, bacilli were observed in the numerous nodules of the lungs, spleen, liver, omentum, and in the caseous glands. Nine guinea-pigs and seven rabbits that were affected with tuberculosis were also examined, and bacilli found in all cases. Besides these cases in which the disease was already present, he inoculated a large number of animals with tuberculous substances; ■ and after examining the nodules of the lungs, he found that the bacilli were not absent in a single case.
Ij^om these numerous observations, Koch ~ was led to, believe that in all cases of tubercu-lo.us. aflection,s of m.an and-animal, the bacilli discovered by him, so different from all other known. bacteria, were constantly present. He says.; “It does not follow,.however, that the bacilli thus found are the cause, the starting point of tuberculosis, although the fact tha^ the bacilli are found in those points, especially where the tuberculous process is just beginlng, or is progressing rapidly, and. disappear when the disease process ceases, rather favors this supposition.’1’ In order to find out whether-the bacilli alone caused tuberculosis, Koch wished to isolate these bacteria from all other-forms of disease matter, and inoculate the pure germs into animals to see if tuberculosis showed itself in consequence.
To accomplish this end, he made a firm, transparent, nutritive substance that would remain firm even at the temperature required for brooding. This he did bv taking the serum from the blood of cattle or sheep as pure as possible, placing it in test tubes plugged with cotton, and heated for six days, an hour at a time, at 58° C. He then heated them in a slanting position, at 65° C., until they congealed. The media was then an amber-colored, transparent, jelly-like mass, presenting a slanted surface upon which he placed a small particle of tuberculo.us matter, being careful to avoid the access of foreign matter, and placed them in , a brooding apparatus which was kept at the terhperature of 370 to 38° C. No perceptible change was noticed during the first week, but about the tenth day he noticed very minute points and dry, scale-like particles surrounding the tuberculous matter. Under the low power ' of a--microscope they appeared as spindle and ~ generally S-shaped structures, which, if stained in the way described above, and examined _ with the high power of the microscope, are „ seen to be composed of the bacilli described. : In a few weeks the growth of the colony had ended, because the bacilli are entirely without . motion of. their own. In order to cultivate the -bacilli repeatedly, he transferred them after ten . or fourteen days to a fresh serum by means of a platinum needle previously heated red. hot. .
After cultivating the bacilli in this manner . through many generations, Koch proceeded to ' make inoculation experiments. In making these every known precaution was employed- • by disinfection, heating instruments and so-.. forth. This was done to prevent any contamination from other germs. He inoculated from
5
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
four to six guinea-pigs at a time; and in all cases where the tuberculous bacilli were used, the wound generally closed on the following day, and remained closed for about eight days, when a nodule developed which either increased in size without breaking, or, more frequently, changed into a shallow ulcer. Two weeks afterwards, the inguinal glands on the side inoculated became enlarged to the size of peas; sometimes, though less frequently, the axillary glands also participated and became swollen. In the organs of all these animals, especially in the spleen and liver, the characteristic tuberculous changes were found. It is evident that the infection of the guinea-pigs was brought about by the inoculated substance, because in the inoculation of other animals with substances from a scrofulous gland, no bacilli were found. Koch also made many experiments to determine if by inoculating the cultured bacilli the same results would be obtained. He inoculated many animals; and all cases, without a single exception,—whether inoculated with culture bacilli in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, or injected into the peritoneal cavity, or directly into the circulation,—became tuberculous with nodules present, not only in a single organ, but scattered throughout the organs of the body, depending on the amount of the infectious material introduced.
From all these experiments Koch was led to assert that the bacilli found in tuberculous material were not only the attendants of tuberculous processes, but the real cause; and that the bacilli actually represented the real tuberculous virus. He also added that henceforth it would not be difficult to decide what is tuberculosis and what is not. “Not the peculiar structure of tubercles, not their want of blood-vessels, not the presence of giant-cells, will decide the question, but the proof of the presence of the tubercle-bacillus.” : With this as a criterion, he pronounced, in accordance with his observations, miliary tuberculosis, caseous pneumonia, caseous bronchitis, tuberculosis of the intestines, tuberculosis of cattle (murrain) and tuberculosis produced in animals by inoculation, to be identical diseases.
A great many experiments have been made since, some corroborating Koch, others1 against him; but none have conclusively disproved his statements. This much may, however, be said with Dr. Sattler: “ We are yet on the threshold of a great discovery, and it will, require constant inquiry, patient investigation and deep research before the true relation of bacilli to
tubercles, and the part they play in their pathology and causation, are fully determined.”
Tuberculosis appears in many forms. It may attack the serous membranes, liver, kidneys, central nervous system, skin, iris, internal ear, lymphatic glands, bones, joints, tendon-sheaths, lungs, and, in fact, almost every organ of the body. When an animal is inoculated with tuberculous matter, and the inoculation has taken effect, the first result appears to be general miliary tuberculosis. On post-mortem examination this shows itself as small tubercles, ranging in size, from the point of a pin to a small millet-seed, scattered over the liver, lungs, kidneys and the peritoneal cavity. It was only after long and painstaking experiments, such as those enumerated, that the first property or characteristic of tuberculosis was made known. That the disease is caused by bacilli and that it permeates not only the lungs, but the whole body, is one of the most important discoveries ever made in the field of medical science. In. the end it may lead to another discovery by which this dread disease can be prevented.
Tuberculosis of the lungs is caused qy the inhalation of bacilli or their spores which lodge in the air vesicles, and, under favorable conditions, develop small tubercles. The manner in which tuberculosis spreads throughout the lungs is always the same; The first formed nodule increases in size by peripheral extension of the cellular infiltration. After a time it softens and disintegrates, and then breaks through into the bronchus. The caseous matter given off contains some tubercle-bacilli; and as this passes up toward the trachea, some of these bacilli may be drawn into other bron-chiae, and so spread the disease. The course of one of these nodules is generally thus: First, there is an abundant cellular discharge; after some days or weeks this forms a nodular, infiltrated patch which then becomes caseous in the centre while the periphery consists of living cells. If the section of one of these nodules be stained properly and examined with the high power of a microscope, the bacilli can be distinguished singly or in groups, both in the caseous centre and in the living cellular tissue. The alveolar walls, are infiltrated with leucocytes, especially around the veins. The lymphatics, around the bronchias and arteries, as well as between the alveoli, are also, in some measure, affected by the inflammation being more or less distended by exuded matter.
(CONCLUSION-NEXT WEEK.)	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Garret Reveries.
In a sleepy small town, there is a certain old house, which, although it is a remnant of the colonial days, is looked upon with an awe that is quite extraordinary for a simple dwelling of its kind. It is true that the wood and gardens surrounding it give it an aspect of grandeur; ■and the tall gables, weather-stained walls and cornices, and moss-grown roof heighten this effect. Withal, just what the mystery of it is contained in, few persons know.
There are many tales clustered around this mansion of my ancestors, some of which are true and commonplace, others, fictitious and wonderful. Indeed, were you to ask each greybeard you saw why the- village folk held the house in such reverential fear, each would bring up a different incident learned by hearsay, or formed within his own imagination.
As a matter of fact, it lies in none of these. It is the fearful gloominess now clinging around the mansion, and the air of mystery from cellar to garret. The tall oaks and pines seem to absorb all the sunlight. The windows are deep and narrow, and hidden by the spreading rosebushes that cover the wide veranda. When the sky is clear, the rooms are far from cheerful, but when over-clouded, the gloom seems to hover over you, and float to and fro all day long.
The wainscots and chairs are almost the color of ebony. The walls and ceilings are frescoed in colors so dark that the scanty light hardly enables you to distinguish the painted festoons and forms. The carpets and rugs are soft and yielding, and have little color that is not dark and sombre. The tall clock ticks softly in the shadow. A fly perhaps buzzes at the window in his efforts to reach the sunshine. Image these things, with a strange ’ sense of mystery coming over you, and you are in the guest-room,—the most cheerful of all. This, I take it, is the cause of honor given to the house.
To me, who have always been somewhat dull and not fond of gaiety, the darkened hallways, the wide staircases, and the all-pervading shadow of gloom have been most agreeable. When others preferred the flashing lights and places of merriment, I chose to mope, as they say it, in the gloomiest nooks of the building, ■ reading or dreaming.
I sought out the old black-letter books in the library, the. literature that •_ charmed my ancestors fifty years gone. When these I had
read again and again, I collected more of the kind that best suited my temperament. Now they are piled in the shelves, covered with dust for aught I know,—these tales of kobolds, sylphs, salamanders and undines,—the spirits . of earth, air, fire and water.
It was this search which led me to the garret, if I may so call it, a little room just under the roof. Spiders held full sway there. ‘ The unbroken stillness and gloom won me away from the haunts downstairs. • In time, I grew so fond of sitting there alone in the old stiff colonial chair, that I left the spring and summer go by without venturing out into the sunshine for pleasure or work. But I was a ; boy then. Now, God knows,-1 fain would live always in the little sunshine that comes into my life.
Coming up even from the dismalness downstairs, you must shade your eyes with' your hand before you can see the contents of my little room. There is only one small window, and the light oozes in slowly between the corner tower and the right wing of the house. Indeed, I had best light a candle; my eyes are better seeing in the gloom.
You expected to see the landscape; it is shut off from sight. If it be summer, the hazy sunshine and green forests; if autumn, the wide golden harvest fields; if winter, the patches of * white and black on the hills; if spring, the last banks of melting snow and the withered world just returning to fresh green,—all these are hid from you. Only the green vines clinging to the rough masonry of the tower, the grey coping-, and one bit of blue sky are visible.
There you are within the four walls of that little room—the whole world, if you choose to think it so—with dreams willing to float from ' your fancy, with pictures of the past or future, as you wish them.
On the shelves there are bundles of clothes too good and too sacred,-perhaps, for beg- , gars, but not too valuable to serve as food for the moths. There are black silk gowns worn by a great-aunt of mine, perhaps, as she .went through the stately minuet with some brilliantly accoutred, officer of the British army. Satins and velvets -and laces lie covered with ’dust in out-of-the-way corners. Canes that steadied -the tottering legs of a great grandfather form a frame for the spiders’ webs. ' Dainty highheeled slippers, satin breeches, plumed bonnets, -rusty swords, curios and other things, are care- . fully stored on the dusty shelves, wasting away : in their silent haven. '	'	; .
K'S#
SCHOLASTIC
158	NOTRE DAME
There I found them all. I gratified fully my desire of rummaging, and scattered them on the floor until I had opened the last bundle. I found nothing of the nature of which I sought at first except, I might say, a dog-eared tactic book belonging, as stated on the fly-leaf, to Lieutenant M. Tyrrell. My grandfather has told me this youth was killed in the war of Independence.
I am by nature melancholy and inclined to sadness. Dreaming is my pastime. A gloomy surrounding, a tale, a sorrow and solitude to rouse my emotions,—I can close my eyes and • call up at will shadowy forms and.faces; weird scenes will flit through my mind. '
Thus I found my retreat, and took to dreams which these ancestral relics called up. Hereafter, perhaps, I shall set them down in words, as best I can, if they will be full enough of interest for others as thev are for me. However, dreams are made of very fragile stuff; and when they are put in words all the delicate traceries—their whole charm—are lost, unless the writer be exceedingly skilful, which I am not.
Each one of these old relics suggests to me a person whom I am able to clothe in the satin gowns and high-heeled slippers. That I love them, therefore, is no wonder, since I make them as I would wish them to be were, they now living.	.
I shall make the young Lieutanant a tall, graceful fellow; but he shall have some flaws in his character which shall render him somewhat disagreeable in spite of his refinement and brilliancy. I have a great regard for those valiant former youths that won our country for us; and the red-coats of that period I shall always consider a pack of fair-looking young fellows for the most part, but rather deceitful and untrustworthy.
The queen of all these persons of my fancy shall be called Dorothy. Most of the gowns shall be hers, and I shall not give jewels-because she will be of a good-natured disposition with a smile always upon her lips, and will look better without them. She will be the sunshine of the old mansion, flitting and dancing from room to room, laughing all the day.\r
If you wish to .hear the stories of-the.;lives of the others of this colony of'..m[ne,gran-dames and uncles, and young, bright fellows, you must come to my garret on a gloomy day—I shall light a candle for you—and hear them from my own lips. I fear they can never be put in writing.	.	’ M. '
Varsity Verse.
CAN HEARTS SO SOON FORGET?
^rypITH winsome kiss and fond caress, \[L With love as strong as nature knows, The early breezes fondly woo The marigold and blushing rose.
Each hour these flowers load the air
With offerings from their perfumed breath;
The season wanes, the wind turns chill
And drives the-plants to gloom and death.
Just so, we read our earthly lives, A mingled tale of love and scorn, The smile that tokens well tonight
May change before tomorrow morn.	.
All friendly words, all kindness too, Alas! these quickly fade away;
Oh! why do hearts so soon grow cold, Will men be heedless thus alway?
•	M. G. 0. H.
THE BALLADE OF SIR FIN-DE-S1ECLE.
In the eyes of the people today
Stands a hero on pedestal high;	-
He has girded himself for the fray, Has this dauntless and battle-tried knight, And woe to the ill-starred wight,
Who, confronting him sturdy and tall, Will the palm of. the victor deny To the warrior skilled in football.
How he marshals his men in array, And his enemy smites hip and thigh!
How he stands like a lion at bay, Then charges forth on in his might! And the crowd with a cheer of delight
See the man that would tackle him fall;	. J
And they send up a hoarse, mighty cry	_ ,
For the warrior skilled in football.
And the damosels raimented gay Adore him, as he dashes by, And many a ravishing fay
Out of sympathy shuts her eyes tight,	,
Lest open they’d suffer the sight
Of a wounding which might them appal;	!
So she listens, and stifles a sigh	.	'
For the warrior skilled in football.
Thus in spite of what old maidens say	;
About danger, we only cry “fie!”
We still to the gridiron stray
.Where they battle on left and on right;
And there 'round the umpire unite	.
For a long-winded, vigorous brawl, •	•
. For we like to be frequently nigh .
The warrior skilled in football.	'
' . ' l’envol *- .	:
■ Oh! king on your throne richly dight, Soft flatteries sometimes may pall,	-
But you e’re must delight in-the sight .Of the warrior skilled in football. . :	:J-J-D-
LvLy<Ai’ ■ L
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Thomas Jefferson.
CHAELES M. NIEZER, ’99.
In looking over the pages of history and reflecting upon the characters and qualities of great men and the circumstances that made them great, there seems to be two kinds of greatness. There are men that have a popular greatness and men that win a deeper, more secluded greatness. Of the two I think the latter is the nobler; for too often the people mistake popularity for worth. Those that are truly great are often not popular, because they soar too far above the appreciation of the ordinary mind. In fact, we may justly say that unpopularity in men that have distinguished themselves is very often a sign of greatness; for the popular mind and the truly great mind seldom run in the same channel. Weaker men seek favor by voicing the clamors of the people. When we find a man that is firm in his judgment and loved by the people, he has combined two virtues in one person, and may be said to be twice great.
Thomas Jefferson can be classed among the few we call great men. We cannot say he was popular, but he was loved by all true lovers of freedom. His statesmanship was not of a crafty sort, it was honest, straightforward. He did not do things because they seemed to be of momentary benefit to the people; but he fought for right and principle for their own sake and his country’s eternal good. He never thought of gaining prominence or of seeking reward, but considered himself a servant of his country. He never sought to thrust himself before the people by becoming the loquacious champion of some popular cause or, rather, clamor; but in his quiet and conservative way he penned that immortal document, the Declaration of Independence, which expresses the true feeling, of every American, and the end they wished to see realized. His brief inaugural address was probably the only public speech he ever delivered. He despised public debate and controversy, and in his conservative way he preferred arbitration.
Without doubt he was the most educated man that has ever been President. His love for learning was justly exemplified by his life and surroundings. Besides being a student of Latin and Greek, he spoke French, Spanish, and Italian. Jefferson accumulated the most complete private library of his times.: His love
T59
for books was genuine. He sought them not as a book-worm, but as a scholar. When he returned from his French Ambassadorship, an old servant met him on his homeward road to tell him that his house had been destroyed by fire, and not a thing saved. “Not even my books!” exclaimed Jefferson—and the loss of his books, not his property, was ever the cause of grief. Property was a means for advancement-and good, not an end, to him.
As to his religious tendencies, he honored no particular denomination, but believed in a tolerance of all. He was not an atheist as is held by some, he was rather a God-fearing man, as is proved by his moderate and useful life. His first aim was duty, next charity. He died almost a pauper rather than turn a deaf ear to-the supplications of those that asked his aid. In the history of our country it is as hard to find a man of this same cast of character as it is to find one of equal amplitude of mind He did not possess that vicious love of pomp and show which most public men have, but simplicity of life was his delight. He impoverished himself to pay the bond of a friend, but his last moments were made cheerful by the generosity of his countrymen.
Vines.	I
JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, ’99.
Vines may be defined as plants that grow to an unusual length in proportion to their other dimensions, and generally depend upon other plants or objects to support them. There are many kinds of vines, and we may for the present purpose classify them according to the manner in which they are supported in their growth. Some plants that are often called vines have no strength of their own by which they are held up. These either creep along the ground or hang down if grown in pots. Some vines grow up-by their tendrils, as the grape and wild-cucumber. The tendrils of the latter do not stop twisting when they have obtained a . good hold, but keep on until they form a small coil like a spring between the plant and attachment. This untwists at every gust of wind, and ■ thus the plant is not easily torn away from its hold. *	_	’	’
The morning-glory is an example of a twiner. ' The whole stem grows-around the support by successively bending from right-to left at the top. Why plants of this nature will always
160	NG TRE DAME
bend in this direction cannot be explained. I have tried to set a morning-glory in an opposite direction, but it did not grow very well: still I do not think it was for this reason. It is strangel}7 true, however, that when left to themselves they will always twist in one way.
The common poisonous ivy, or three-leaved ivy, has along its stem a continuous succession of small roots that fasten themselves to a support, generally a tree or fence. They grow into the . tree to which they cling, but it is not likely that they draw nourishment by this means. There are other vines that have similar roots only at leaf-axils.
Not far from the college near the river is a place where grows a peculiar vine called dodder. It twines like the morning-glory, but it also sends rootlets into the tissues of the plant on which it grows, and from it takes moisture and nourishment. It is then a parasite. Judging from the color of the stem it can make food for itself. It is one of the higher plants; for it has a four-petalled flower, and is therefore not a fungus; but it appears to be little concerned about gaining a livelihood for itself. It is a vegetable tramp. I am told that in certain parts of Europe it is so abundant as to cause considerable destruction of crops. Here I never saw it in gardens or cultivated fields. It grows generally upon tender, juicy plants near streams, especially on one sensitive plant called “ Touch-me-not.” This parasite, however, can become hardy, for it will even grow upon nettles and shoots of woody shrubs. It sprouts from the soil, but when mature has neither leaves nor roots.
The common five-leaved ivy shows some peculiarities under certain conditions. Ordinarily it grows long and becomes thick and woody. As a rule, it can hardly be made to cling to a brick wall: for it has no disks on its tendrils. When grown in good rich soil in a shady spot, and so placed that it must go up a wall or fall prostrate, it will perhaps choose the former alternative. Then it sometimes undergoes changes.
First of all, the tendrils on coming in contact with a smooth stone or brick, develop on their ends little pads or disks which cling to the wall. Often the stem becomes slender, especially when in very rich or very poor soil. Next the higher leaves become a pale yellowish green and Ipse their prominent veins. The two leaflets nearest the leaf-stalk become smaller ‘ than the others as the stem grows, and finally are lost, when but three smalTones are left.
SCDGLAS'liC
The English ivy has but one leaf which is three-lobed. These are glossy, deeply veined but very thin. Whether the common ivy,can change farther and until but one leaf is left is O	1
not likely, but there is a close resemblance;
and this tends to show that plants can by natural processes, become so changed as not to resemble their former appearance. This	I
ivy can, like many plants, be propagated by	;
“slips,” an asexual process; but after such a	;
change as I have described I have never seen	*
the ivy produce flowers. It seems that the	j
plant loses the power to bloom in this changed	i
form.
After the Show.
FRANK R. WARD.
The people returning from the theatre were	;
taking a short cut through a dark side street,	1
to reach the cable cars. The cool, light gowns of the women and the dark coats of the	;
men were visible only as the wearers passed	।
under the gas-lamps, to disappear again in the shadow of the buildings.	|
' The only lights on the street were the gas-	I
lamps, with their begrimed glasses and rusted	I
posts. On a cross street and just beyond the feeble circle of light cast by the gas, stood a man and a woman. The two were talking	[
earnestly, and paid no attention to the passing	||
crowd. They were probably husband and wife; | for she said something about his coming home I to which he did not assent. ■
There was nothing uncommon in their appearance; they were merely examples of the poorest class of the people of our cities. She was thin and homely and tall; but so bent, although not old, that her head was little higher than that of the man, who was below middle height and lame besides. He was an ordinary street-loafer. '
He was talking to the woman in a voice meant to be soft and caressing, but in reality • hoarse'from the effects of bad whiskey. Nevertheless, what he was saying seemed to please her, for a smile spread over her tired, sallow E face. They lowered their voices as they talked, ' so that the passers could not distinguish their . words.	.	;
The man stepped gradually nearer to the woman as he was speaking,.and put one arm awkwardly around her; She seemed surprised and then pleased, and the hard lines on her face softened. She put one- Hand into the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
pocket of her dingy skirt, and taking out something gave it to the man. One of the passers-by said to another: “There’s an example of conjugal love for you!”
The clangingof a gong announced the departure of the car from the block below, and the waiting groups moved out from the sidewalk toward the track. Just then several men came from the other side of the street, and as they crossed the tracks the light from the approach. ing car fell on their rowdyish appearance and bloated faces. They were headed for the saloon on the corner, and the leader, a short, lame man was saying: “The old woman got paid tonight fer some washin’ she tuk in, an’ - I jollied her out o’ de coin.”
Books and Magazines.
A History of the Protestant ReformationIn England and Ireland. By William Cobbett, revised with notes and preface by the Very Reverend Francis /Video Gasquet, D. D., 0.8. B. Benziger Bros. New York, Cincinnati, Chicago.
“ The chief value of this history,”says the distinguished Benedictine, Gasquet, “ would seem to lie not in the actual accuracy of this or that fact, but in the general impression made upon the mind of the reader.” So earnest is the author’s manner that no matter how incredible his statements may at first sight appear, we are reluctant to call them into question. An additional value is given to this edition over the old by the fact that the Very Reverend editor has taken pains to verify (in the' light of the latest historical research) all the assertions made by Mr. Cobbett, cither by giving the authorities in the footnotes, or by pointing out where there may be, in his opinion, some ambiguous or exaggerated statement. Though Cobbett belonged to the “Church as by law established,” it was contrary to his principles to sit idly by, and see atrocities heaped upon that religion and that people which made Britain the foremost nation of his day.
His volume shall live for ages a rebuke to that nation which impoverished its once happy people, and with the overthrow of its monasteries and convents supplanted sweet charity’s alms, and,sanctioned the sacrilegious pillaging of shrines and sanctuaries. On noticing the kindlier social feelings prevailing among all denominations at the present time, one cannot help feeling that the day is not far distant when all peoples will regret the “ Reformation,”
' 161
and strive to blot out its memory,- as we do now the days of slavery and of civil strife.
--Prccco Latinus, Vol. IV., Num. I. Philadelphia. The friends of Praco Latinus must rejoice at the improvement made in the appearance of this unique venture in journalism. It is a bright, newsy and progressive paper published in easy, clear and fluent Latin. The Prceco ought to be a welcome visitor to every classical student. There is a pleasant originality in the treatment of the articles which is refreshing. The various departments furnish matter to suit the taste of the most fastidious. A few typographical errors might perhaps prove a stumbling block to . beginners; as, per-veterc in verse 28 in the poem “Elissa” instead of pervertcre—“pervetere” not only destroys the metre but also the meaning. Verse 5 in “mors optima rerum” wants a foot:
Eccur me odisti? — — me vincula, fletus.
The editor is well and favorably known as the author of Palccstra and Tusculum, and the staunch supporter of the idea that Latin ought to be the language of the world.
—The Musical Record for November, with its new cover and under new management, is quite as refreshing and pleasing as a friend who had been ill, and under proper treatment has returned completely renovated. The able manner in which the articles contained therein are treated, show the good judgment of its new editor, Mr. Philip Hale; that he has taken the helm of the rudder with a firm hand, and that he intends to guide the Musical Record to the port of success. If all the numbers following this one are as instructive, interesting . and pleasing, there is no doubt that he will make his paper one of the foremost musical monthlies in America. The report of the musical festival in Birmingham, by John F. Runciman, shows how great works are improperly rendered owing to the need of rehearsals. The letters from Boston, New York and Chicago keep one thoroughly posted on the principal musical events in those cities, and contain admirable criticisms. The article anent comic opera by B. E. Wolf is a wise and well-timed suggestion; and we hope the day is not far distant when we can have such a manager with a permanent home for comic opera of the better class. Among its principal musical numbers is a “Melodie tiree des chants du Voyageurs,” by Ignace J. Paderewski, and a “ Romance,” by Walter O Wilkinson, for violin or violincello and piano. A portrait of Mme. Szumowbka, the f. ff. pianist, is accompanied by a biography from the pen of Mr. Hale. .
162
NOIRE DAME SCHGLASIIC.
Chicago, 34; Notre Dame, 5.
Publtsijrl) rbcrn Saturtan burins Ecrm JTimr at &. D. iHntbrrstts.
Hntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Address:
Teruis, Sr.^o per A unit in. Postpaid.
THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
ELMER J. MURPHY, ’97; PAUL J. RAGAN, '97;	FRANK J. F. CONFER, '97;
FRANK E. HERING,'98;	THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98;
WILLIAM SHEEHAN,'98;	RAYMOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98;
EDWARD J.M1NGEY.’98;	FRANCIS W. O’MALLEY, ’99;
JOHN J. DOWD, ’99;	JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99;
LOUIS C. M. REED,	J
• Francis o'shaughnessey, r Reporters.
ROY A. MURRAY,	'
—Our neighbors across the way, just beyond the unsightly green gate where the stile used to be, and where it should be even to this day, have lived in the midst of festivity and merriment for two days. The reorganization of the Alumna; Association of St. Mary’s Academy is the cause of this merriment and hand-shaking. In fact, that business affairs are the principal reason for the coming together, no one would imagine seeing the gladness and hearing the laughter of those who had come again to their Alma Mater. The ways of Notre Dame are quiet, dreary almost, in comparison with the gala-days of St. Mary’s. However, our days have been and will be, we hopej and we will-. ingly and quite humbly bow our- heads to the triumph of St. Mary’s Academy, and wish it to be repeated often. Such an organization should be able to do a great deal of good to its Alma Mater in many ways; and to keep fresh in memory the life of passed days in the convent school is well worth the trouble of coming together. Besides there are the-hosts of old friends and faces to be looked, upon again. In the dark, dreary-days Notre Dame had only a bit of sunshine on Thursday afternoon, for which it is garteful. The Alumnae Association certainly will be successful in ^bringing about its ends. The Scholastic says this with the air of a prophet, and wishes the organization length of life and happiness.
We have met the enemy and we are theirs. In Chicago last Saturday,Stagg’s men defeated the Varsity by a score cf 34 to 5; and we are more proud of our representatives than ever. With weak interference and weaker tackling, and with some of the best players out of the game, the Varsity played a hard, courageous game, and, in spite of all obstacles, proved that for downright perseverance and fearlessness, Notre Dame is at the top. We lost fairly and have no excuses to offer. Chicago’s interference was wonderful, and her assaults on our weakened line were terrific; but in many cases we held them. They deserve all the credit for their hard-won victory: to Notre Dame, belongs the glory of having made a game fight from start to finish. Painfully injured and weak from repeated charges, Schillo stuck to the game until compelled to retire by the coach. In Schillo we have a man of whom any team in the country might well be proud. Kegler’s punting, coming, as it always did, at the critical time, saved us many touchdowns. Only one of his punts was blocked—the rest saved us. Besides this, the full-back hit the line hard, and once carried the ball seventy yards through all the opposing tacklers; but his punting was a feature of a game that was full of features.
For the first time on Marshall Field the Princeton kick was successfully accomplished, and Daly is the man who did it. From the thirty-yard line he sent the ball squarely between the posts, and scored against Chicago for the only time in the afternoon. At centre, Eggeman was in the game all the time, and out-played the much-talked-of Cavanagh at every point. The praises which the spectators lavished upon Big John were well earned. Waters played a splendid game. His passing was perfect, and he tackled with a dash that was exhilarating. At full-back he downed Chi-cago without fail. Monahan did well, and while they were-in the game, Farley, Captain Mullen and Littig put up a pretty game. For Chicago, Kennedy, Clarke and Hamill played well; and Gardner kicked five out of seven goals.
' There were several- reasons for our defeat, and the following are a few of the most flagrant. In consequence of their unfamiliarity with the signals, the team at times bungled fearfully, and much strength was lost on mass plays, as the men lined-up very slowly. Our
NOTRE DAME
interference was weak at times. It started slowly, if at all. but melted away much faster when attacked. Its slowness and irregularity • cost us a great deal. On most of our kick-offs
. the Varsity went down the field in a leisurely manner in marked contrast to that of Chicago who was on the ball almost immediately. Mullen was an exception. Although playing with a wounded ankle he was fast on his feet, especially when the ball was in the air. Many of the heavier and more experienced players were not in the game all the time. Schillo, Daly and Farley were taken out, and this weakened'the Varsity. The men who were substituted worked hard, but they were light, and some of them did not know the signals.
The Gold and Blue fluttered from all portions of the stands, and her supporters were loyal to the last. Every good play made by Mullen’s men- was cheered to the echo, and when Daly sent the ball over the bar, the crowd broke loose. The team’s stay in Chicago was made pleasant by Coach Stagg of the Maroons, and the men are grateful to him' for his many kindnesses. The friendly feeling in athletics that exists between Chicago and Notre Dame should be encouraged and strengthened, o	o
THE GAME.
Captain Mullen picked “heads” to win and “heads” came up. He took the south goal with a gentle wind blowing from that direction. On the kick-off Mullen recovered twelve yards. Then the .line-bucking started, Daly going through twice for three yards, followed by Schillo with an advance of the same number. Then Schillo gained four, and the Maroons got the ball. Kennedy failed to gain, and although Clarke gained two the ball went over. Dalv went through the line in a magnificent attempt for three yards. Farley went around the end for four. On the first down Schillo advanced seven, and the skies wege bright for the Gold and Blue. Kegler got his picture in the papers by a great spurt of seventy yards through Fox, Clarke and the rest, and laid the ball behind the line. The officials saw him overstep the line and called him back thirty yards; but it was a splendid run for all that. After unsuccessful attempts oh'the line the ball went to Chicago. Hamill repeated the performance, but was called back for holding down’ while the end was getting ready for his run. Ke'gler punched a hole for . a yard, and then swung his leg on the oval for fifty-five. Clarke received the ball, and Farley was on him like a flash—ball on Chicago’s twenty-yard line. Hamill and Gard-
SCHOLASTIC.	163 ; f
ner gained, but the ball went to Notre Dame . F-y on a fumble, and Kegler hit the advance guard •	. .
for three. Then Daly was placed on the Roll	V
of Honor by unanimous consent. With the ball . . :;F on the thirty-five yard line ‘.‘Mike” launched	j "
it over the cross-beam with'the Princeton kick.
Fie received.an ovation; the yells could have	. .
been heard bloc.ks away. Notre Dame,'5;	F
Chicago, o. After, line-bucking had failed the leather went back to Kegler for a punt. Ken-	.
nedy burst through the line, and what might '	. : ;
have been a safety was a touchdown. Gardner	. ..
kicked goal. Chicago, 6; Notre Dame, 5. Daly	, ~
kicked forty-five to Gardner who ran back •twenty when Kegler. threw him with more ;
force than politeness. Hamill went down the field eighty-five to the second touchdown.	.
Chicago, 12; Notre Dame, 5.	(F
Daly kicked off to Clarke who was downed	. _,.F
by Schillo after a gain of ten. Schillo again	; ..
connected with Clarke after the acting captain	. :
had gone three. Monahan-tackled Hamill at	'-F'
the end of a .two-yard gain. Clarke carried the	' *
ball four times, and Eggeman downed Kennedy.	;
The ball went over, and Schillo and Farley threw a yard apiece into the donation basket. - .	.
Eggeman made another grand-stand tackle.	;C
Clarke tore up the line for ten, and the balloon	j
was in the air, as far as the aforesaid line was	FT
concerned, for about five minutes during which resting spell Kennedy went over for a touch- ,	’ . ’
down and the fair-haired Gardner kicked goal.	' <
Chicago, 18; Notre Dame still clung to the	CF
Again Daly kicked off, this time thirty-five	F
to Hamill who was tearing up the newly-laid	- ~
hay on the field when Niezer brought him .	. ;
down; Clarke cleared all the runners on .the -	. . -
field with a twenty-five yard gain. Daly went .	. FC
to the side-lines, and Littig, of the reserve	. -	• F
force, took his place. Farley was ruled off for	.	. ;C'F
hugging Clarke too strongly, notwithstanding . FF.-the fact that Clarke said nothing of the kind . C f\C had been done. Fennessey went in; Waters	/Cf
brought Clarke home after a gain of twenty-	F
five, and was hurt, but returned gamely to the - TFC defence of his goal-line. Monahan dove into F . : : ' F big Hamill, and Hamill decided to discontinue - . - / F'CF ' o	7	.	* -	-	-
his journey. He started again, and again Mon-. ' -. ,JCF ahan interrupted his progress.	o.a. • FC
When Notre Dame got the ball, Schillo and ’ • . FF'jF ■ Monahan advanced fifteen yards, and all wasF FFT serene. : Mullen was;injured, and then trouble -f. .. TCFJ began. Schillo gained, but• Chicago got the. < / ;T.C ball. Hamill went into the same old place.for :	,fCF
three, and Schillo stopped^ him on his next -; FCF% trial. Again.the Varsity he]d.the precious ball. ff FCS?
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Littig threw himself into Chicago for three, and Kegler and Schillo followed with ten and one-half, Chicago again taking the oval, ligge-man and Schillo blocked Clarke after a gain of five. Hamill started, and Schillo threw him back with no gain; then Kennedy ran twenty and Hamill hit the line. Here Schillo, who had been playing a wonderful game, was hurt. He rested a moment, and dropped into his
ler’s punt. Linns made a running dive at Clarke, after which, and on the next down, Clarke made a touchdown, but Gardner missed goal. Chicago, 22; Notre Dame, 5.
Gardner, who received Daly’s kick-off, was downed by Monahan after a short gain. Clarke hit the line for half a yard. Clarke ran outside, and after Monahan had got Clarke’s punt, Notre Dame was given five for Chicago’s offside play. Schillo was hurt again, but prevented Hamill from gaining. Clarke hit the line for eight yards, and then made twenty, being downed by Schillo. Kennedy behind that armor-plate interference gained six and fifteen. Mullen dove into the interferers in a desperate effort to stay the tide of defeat, and succeeded in stopping the next play. Time was up with the ball bn Notre Dame’s five-yard line.
THE MEMORABLE SECOND HALF.
This is the half, part of which was played in the dusk and with the moon shining; and it was in this half that the Varsity, crippled as it was, held Chicago’s, most savage attacks. Murray, Naughton, Powers and Farley went in at the beginning of the second half, Stagg acknowledging the mistake made by the officials when they ordered Farley out of the game.
Kegler kicked outside. On his next try, Farley downed Clarke who received the ball. Chicago fumbled and lost: Clarke hit the line for a yard, and on the next fumble Notre Dame got the ball. Powers hit the line for three and Kegler for one. Kegler punted; . Clarke fumbled and lost the ball, Notre Dame Speed”^ gaining four.' Farley gained two and Kegler Cavanagh
four in gallant plunges into Chicago’s line.
Kegler hit thefline and the ball went over.
Chicago fumbled,’ and the Varsity again had the ball. Here there appeared to be a chance for a rally, and Powers went .into the line to
. Substitutes—Chicago; Patterson, Anderson, Manning and Kimball: Notre Dame—Eennessey, Littig, Powers, Murray, Healy. Bouwens, Naughton. Goals from touchdowns, Gardner (5);goal from, field, Daly. Touchdowns, .	..	;	. . „	. Kennedy (4), Clarke, Hamiil. Referee, Harding, C. A. A. .
and a. half and Naughton one. Daly replaced Umpire, Culver, Northwestern. Linesmen—Angus Mc-Nano-htnn-	-n	Donald and Dr. Allen. Time-keepers—Prof. Thatcher
ixaugnton, Aotie,Dame tumbled, and Chicago and Dr. Thdmpson...Place-Marshall-Field, Chicago, .
-again had the pig’s-skin. Clarke ran outside. Nov. 6, 1897..	/
start the festival, Kegler following him. Kegler-punted, ten to Clarke who lost the ball, and the chance was still open. Farley gained/three
the chalk mark and was called back. Kennedy went twenty and* met Daly—here he stopped.. Powers was too eager to get in the play, and1 Chicago advanced on the off-side. Ball went, over on Clarke’s fumble. Neither Daly nor'
successfully circled the end. Kegler punted, and Big John fell on the runner. Kennedy ran thirty to a touchdown, Gardner kicking goal. Chicago, 28; Notre Dame, 5.
On Daly’s kick-off Clarke recovered fifteen. Kennedy failed to gain, but Gardner hit the tottering line for gains. Clarke circled the end for thirty yards, but the line held the tandem interference for no gain. Clarke placed the ball behind Notre Dame’s line, and Gardner kicked goal. Chicago, 34; Notre Dame, 5.
Here Chicago ceased to score. Although their efforts were as hard as ever, they were held for losses, and the line and backs threw the Maroons now that touchdowns were asked for. Many of the Varsity were injured, but they limped into the scrimmage and played a desperate game. With the moon trying to shine and with the sun long gone down, it was almost impossible to see the players, and totally impossible to see the ball which changed hands, many times on off-side plays, fumbles, roughness and almost every cause that could be found. Kennedy and Gardner still plugged at the line, but were unable to gain. For Notre Dame, Bouwens and Kegler shone with the moon. Bouwens hit the line, and Kegler, time after time, punted the ball out of danger. Chicago would rush it to Notre Dime’s ten or fifteen-yard line, lose it on off-side or something else, and Kegler would lift it in-the air, and send it down the field to where Clarke was waiting in the darkness many yards away. Neither team could score, and finally, while the shades of night were falling fast and the. ball in the centre of the field, time was called. Chicago’s players in a bunch cheered for Notre Dame; the Varsity heartily returned the compliment, and the game, with all its exciting incidents and sensational features, was a thing of the past.
Chicago Fox
’ - . The Line-up
Left End
Left Tackle
Left Guard
. Centre
Right Guard .
Right Tackle Right End .
Quarter-Back
Left Half-Back r Right Half-Back
Full-Back' - s- '
Notre Dame.
Niezer Linns Eggeman Swonk Schillo
Mullen (Capt.) Waters Daly Monahan
’ Kegler
Webb Hamill Garrey Kennedy. Clarke (Capt.) Gardner
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
Special Telegrams to the Notre Dame Scholastic..
Marshall Field, Chicago, III., Nov. 6, 18'9,7.
Game called, time, 2.45 p. m. Chicago kicks off to. fifteen-yard line. Schillo makes five through line. Then Schillo makes five around end. Time received, 3.15 p. m.
Chicago’s ball for holding. Immediately lose same on downs on Notre Dame’s forty-five yard line. Schillo makes five through line—3.16 p. m.
Kegler goes around left end seventy-five yards for touchdown; but ran outside thirty yards from goal, and was called back to thirty-yard line.—3.30 p. m.
Ball goes to Chicago’on downs. They go around end for touchdown, but are called back for off-side play, and Notre Dame is given the ball. Score, nothing to nothing.—3.30 p. m.
Kegler punts forty-five yards. Notre Dame gets ball on fumble. On Chicago’s thirty-yard line. Daly kicks goal from field. Score, Notre Dame, 5; Chicago, nothing. Goal from thirty-yard line.—3.35 p. m.
Chicago kicks off to our ten-yard line. Chicago blocks Kegler’s kick, but Monahan gets ball.—3.37 p. m.
Kegler, fumbles ball touchdown, kicks goal. Chicago, 6.—3.24 p. m.
Chicago runs around
for kick, and Chicago makes Total score, Notre Dame, 5;
end sixty yards for touchdown,
kicks goal. Score, Chicago, 12; Notre Dame, 5.—3.48 p.m.
Chicago goes steadily down field after kick-off for large gains to our forty-yard line, where they lose ball for holding. Chicago gets ball on downs.—3.52 p.m.
Chicago makes touchdown, kicks goal. Total score, Chicago, 18; Notre Dame, 5.—3.55 p. m.
Daly taken out of game; Farley put out for slugging. Our ball on our twenty-five yard line. Schillo makes twelve yards in two downs.—4.00 p. m.
Notre Dame gets ball on downs on our forty-yard line. Kegler makes five through tackle. Chicago’s ball on downs. Notre Dame’s ball on fumbles, on our five-yard line.—4.05 p. m.
• Kegler kicks in the air. Chicago’s ball on our five-yard line. They make touchdown, fail at goal. Score, Chicago, 22; Notre Dame, 5.—4.10 p. m.
First half over. Total score, Chicago, 22; Notre Dame, 5—4.27 p. m.	.
Hering took Daly out because he was sick. Schillo laid out.—4.40 p. m.
Farley goes in second half again. Notre Dame kicks off. Notre Dame’s ball on downs. Daly goes back into game. Notre Dame loses ball on fumble. Chicago makes 30, then 40 yards;—4.50 p. m.
Chicago given ten for off-side play. We get ball on foul. Kegler kicks. Chicago gets ball. They make fifty. yards and touchdown in two downs. Kick goal. Chicago, 28; Notre Dame, 5.—4.55 p. m. '
Chicago makes, seventy yards around right end. Chicago makes touchdown. Kicks goal. Score, Chicago, 34; Notre Dame, 5.—5.04 p. m.
-We get ball on Chicago’s forty-yard line. Lose it on off-side play. Chicago makes fifty yards in three downs. We get ball on foul. Chicago gets ball on fumble. Our .
; ball for off-side. Kegler punts 30.—5.21p.m.
Time called—darkness. Time, 5.10 p. m. Final score, Chicago, 34; Notre Dame, 5. Our tackling and interference poor. ^Chicago’s. Interference magnificent.. Give the college yell.—5.36 p. m.	.	:	-	'
Exchanges.
—Carter's Monthly for November under the heading KNoted Western Men,” has an interesting- sketch of Hugh O’Neill of the Chicago bar (LL. B.’91, B-L. and LL. M.’92). The writer says:
Hugh O’Neill is one of those men intended by nature to be a lawyer, and who in a few years has pushed his way to the front rank at the Chicago bar.
His range of knowledge is not limited to the study of the law, as he is a student of literature and classics, the
natural and physical sciences, mathematics and engineering, economics and philosophy. He is gifted with analytical powers, as well as critical judgment and constructive faculty. He has that brilliancy and varsatility, that fire and force which makes his personality felt, whether he speaks or writes.
The education of Hugh O’Neill was received in Ireland and at the University of Notre Dame, which institution conferred onhim three degrees. He is'writing a legal treatise for the doctor’s degree in an Eastern university, and has written a lecture on “ English and American Courts,”. to be read in French next month at the University of Louvain, Belgium. His speeches and essays on Home ‘ Rule, and Ireland’s struggle for liberty, on the labor question, the money question, and other live topics, show . that he can handle the great questions of the hour with as much force and fervor as if he were trving to swav a jury or convince a judge.
The article contains many more tributes to Mr. O’Neill’s ability, but lack of space will not permit us to print them all here. The picture accompanying the sketch is an admirable likeness.
Now that all the students have returned to the colleges the number of our exchanges has increased wonderfully. During the past few weeks our sanctum has been brightened by the receipt of The Polytechnic, Queen's University Journal, YErolith, Mount St. Joseph's Collegian, The Manitou Messenger, The Penn Chronicle, The Washbum Weekly Review, Rocky Mountain Col- ■ legian, The Blackburnian, Agnetian Monthly, Blair Hall Breeze, High School Bulletin, College Chips, Res Academics and The Northwestern. -
The Yale Courant for the last week of October comes to us in a new dress which is very attractive. During the past year the Courant contained many stories that far surpassed the. average college short-story, and some of them would be a credit to even the large illustrated , magazines. The copy we have before us ably sustains the past reputation of the Courant. The stories.are very well told, and the verses are quaint:, and, pretty. Altogether, the Courant is one of our very best exchanges, and it is always read:with pleasure, by us.	...
166
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Our Friends.
—During the week Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding of Peoria and Right Rev. Bishop Rademacher of Fort Wayne, Ind., found an opportunity to leave behind for a short time the tumult of the Alumnm meeting at St. Mary's Academy, and pay the University a short visit. Among the students and the faculty both are well known and well liked; for to Notre Dame they areas old friends, and no old friend is here forgotten. It is to be hoped that both shall come again before long, and then Bishop Spalding will remain long enough to deliver an address.
—Rev. Father Sullivan of Chicago visited Notre Dame during the past week. Father Sullivan always brings happiness with him and he is always welcome.
—The Reverend Theodore Haggenman of o o
Toledo, 0., and the Reverend George Fleisch of St. Mary’s Home, Indiana, visited the University on Monday in company with the Rev. Dean of Mishawaka.
—Miss Winifred Cooney of Toledo, Miss Boyle of Oil City, Pa., and Miss Hurley of Franklin, Pa., visited the University yesterday. The young ladies came West to attend the reunion of St. Mary’s Alumme.
—M. John Dempsey, ’95, is playing full-back for Cornell, where he is taking an engineering course. In the Harvard-Cornell game two weeks ago, Mr. Dempsey distinguished himself by making a drop-kick goal from the field, the only points scored by Cornell in the game.
—Mr.T. Cavangh, ’97, is playing right guard on the Law School team of Harvard University. The team will probably play the Banker’s Athletic Club in the Coliseum, Chicago, sometime before , the holidays, so Mr. Cavanagh’s friends in the West will have a chance to see him distinguish himself. Mr. Littig, brother to our sub-end, who visited Notre Dame a month ago, is playing tackle, on the same team.
Local Items.
— Lost.—A black leather . pocket-book. • Return to Fred Fitzwilliams?"’'
..	—Chuck Fleming made a surprisingly swell"
appearance on the campus last week,—neuralgia caused it.	-
—Coach Baab, in speaking of one of his men, said: ‘‘That fellow has a fine-head and he uses it in a game, too—for bucking.”-
—Now that, the basket-ball season is ap- .
: .proaching, perhaps the basket-ball cup will be displayed in the Carroll Hall reading-room.
-—The number of students, in Brownson Hall
• this year is greater than ever before in. the . history of the institution. The extra desks, that
are usually brought in after the holidays, are now in use, and every seat in the study-hall is taken.
—The Senior Temperance Society will hold a meeting tomorrow night in the Columbian room. The program will be unique and inteir esting.
—The Sorin Association of St. Edward’s Hall held their first meeting last Friday. The election of officers was postponed until next .Friday. .	•
—Among.the games on St. Edward’s field last week were: Princeton, 10; Yale, 4; Pennsylvania, 4; Carlisle Indians, 9; Cornell, 5; Princeton, 0;
—Fire Companies No. 1 and No. 2 will have a race on Thanksgiving day. The boys are train ing hard for the competition, and it promises to be very spirited.	.
—“The-football signals are not the only things that is hard to get onto,” said Sen-Sen, who strives piteously for success, “ The Roll of Honor, for instance/’
—The following omissions occurred in the last report of the List of Excellence—F. McKeever and H. S. Fink for Algebra, and Leo Kelly for Arithmetic.
—In the report of the Philopatrian’s reorganization last week, Brother Cyprian should have been mentioned as President and Brother .Alexander as Promoter.
— “That poem has become, a classic,” said the follower of Plato. “ How so?” quietly interjected the unsuspecting victim. “Because, it has pursued us from class to class.”
— The Sorin Hall reading-room will be open on Wednesday and Saturday evenings, in order that those who have no work on hand may spend a few hours in recreation.
—Brownson Hall has two ex-juniors that are developing into beautiful specimens of physical manhood along different lines—Murray in latitude; Watterson in longitude.
—An exhibition of high.kicking in the training room last Thursday cost Murray a stiff hat. He held it up eight feet from the floor, and Pete_ Kearney v kicked the top in the first trial.	,	-
—Watterson made an illustrated joke - for Cornell to use as a decoration in his room. It is one that originated with Heinegabubler and is real funny. It reads, “ In case of fire ring the towel.”	’‘
—Father. Morrissey visited the Minim Department last week for the Competitions? He was highly gratified with the work of the young, gentlemen, and promised to examine . them again before the holidays. .
;—The boys will be playing baseball on a dead leveL when the work is completed on the field. !A good fielder last year had to be a hurdler to cover the ground well.; We are indebted to Bro. Hugh Tor this good work.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	167
’—The first case in the chancery division of the Moot-court was tried last week, an injunction suit. The case was dismissed for want of equity jurisdiction. M.-J. Ney was solicitor for the complainant and F. P. Dreher for the defendant.
—On Thursday afternoon the University was favored with a visit from the St. Mary’s Alumnae. The ladies were escorted through' the buildings by several members of the Faculty and students. Each was presented with a souvenir of the University.
—Eggeman plays hand-ball now, and he is becoming very proficient in the game. He gets around the court with surprising agility, and he never misses a ball. Some one said it was because his hand* was large that he was good in serving. But that isn’t so; his hand is no larger than a tennis racket.
—“The Sunday morning newspapers,” said a precocious Carrollite, “seemed to make a great noise about that Princeton kick in last Saturday’s game.” — “ But wasn’t it great, though?” queried a Brownsonite. “ Nawh,”said the youth; “It was only a Daly occurrence with our Varsity.”.	,	,	.
—Wednesday afternoon the University Band with uniform of Gold and Blue marched to St Mary’s Academy, and serenaded the Alumna; who have been holding a reunion at the Academy this week. Before the main building several marches were played, after which the • musicians were not loath to march to the dining-hall where a bounteous lunch was served.
—The classes of ’oo organized last week and elected the following officers: James McGinnis, President; W. P. Monahan, ist VicePresident; John Mullen, 2d Vice President; W. R. Miller, Secretary; George Stulfauth, Treasurer; St. John O’Sullivan, Poet: John F. Daly, Orator; Robt Fox, Historian. The colors selected by the class are Maroon and Black.
—One of the study-hall faculty of Brownson Hall sat up late one night last week to study. The night was still and the flickering gaslight cast weird shadows. It was the hour for spooks and hobgoblins. He was startled by a noise like a croquet ball rolling across the floor. Upon investigation it was found to be a remark ' Charlie Flannigan had dropped that evening.
A gust of wind carried it across the room.
—In the Moot-court Wednesday the case of Worcester vs. Black was finished, the jury ’ returning a verdict for the defendant. Messrs.
Hoban and Weadock argued Mr. Hoban’s motion for a new trial in the Hall case. The motion was denied; but as the prisoner, Frederick Hall,is needed in the festivities in Chicago, he was released. Cases already on the docket will occupy the attention of the court for . many weeks to come.
—The Columbian Society held an open session last Saturday in Washington Hall, the
occasion being the eighty-sixth anniversary of the Battle of Tippecanoe, one of the great historical events of the state of Indiana. Mr. W: W. O’Brien- delivered the eulogy on Wm. Henry Harrison, the hero of the battle. Mr. Barry rendered a violin overture. “ The Dying Alchemist,” a reading by Mr. Duperier; acomic sketch by Mr. Hubbard created much amusement. Wr. Wilson read an essay on the history.* of Indiana. A one-act farce entitled Courtship under Difficulty, with Messrs. Crowley, Touhy and Gilbert in the cast, was clever. During the program bulletins from the football game at Chicago were read by an official member of the society. While awaiting later bulletins, Prof. Carmody consented to give a reading from Julius Caesar. The entertainment was hastily arranged, but reflected great credit upon the society, and the students were well pleased.
Society Notes.
The Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society held their 3d regular meeting Thursday evening. The subject for debate was: “ Resolved, That Hawaii should be annexed to the United States.” Duperier and Crumley made strong arguments for the affirmative, and the decision was awarded to them. Ensign and Funk appeared for the negative. Messrs. Wilson, McDonald, Barry and Crowley also spoke. Messrs. Wheeler, Adams, Malloy, Donahue, M. O’Shaughnessy and C. McDonald were elected to membership.	‘
The Phlopatrians held their second regular meeting Wednesday evening. Messrs. Nast, Fink, G. Kasper, Blanch, Carney, T. McCarthy and Werk were elected members of the society. The program was well rendered.
The Society of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary'was organized at St. Edward’s Hall on Nov. 7. After a brief explanation of the object ofthe society the following officers were elected: Honorary Directors, Very Rev. W. Corby and Rev. A.’ Morrissey; Director, Rev. J. Cavanaugh; President, Mr. B. Iwaszewski; Vice-President, F. Phillip and Frank Ebbert; Treasurer, R. Clarke; Recording Secretary, M. Jonquet; Corresponding Secretary, T. Jackson; First Censor, T. Dougerty; Second Censor, J. Van Dyke; Sergeant-at-Arms, F. Van Dyke. Great interest was shown by all, and it was with regret that the meeting terminated.
—The Brownson Hall students were taken out on a tally-ho ride last week to w*ork off some of their enthusiasm. They had a bugler < with them to keep up the noise while they drew their breath between yells. Crowley was given an opportunity to sing, but his voice failed him. He began again by placing his hand upon his chest and looking up to heaven; his. attitude frightened the fellows and his turn was passed. During the quiet that followed, Red Foster was discovered telling, the driver about “me and the Guvnor of Illinois.” Miller
a
I

16'8
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
I-
b -
endured this as long as his delicately-attuned nature could stand it. Then he remonstrated: “They did not permit such things in Sorin Hall,” he said. At this some one shied a a brick and a general assault followed. When they had finished with him he was docile. A passing street-car started Wheeler. He came from the country and wanted to see it. He leaned too far out, and fell to the ground in a heap. He had been to the “duck dinner,” and was so bulky on that account that it took three men to hold him. The Foghorn quartette were given a chance: Dwyer, Holihan, Donovan
and Touhy; and now people who live along '	complain of hideous noises in the
the route nig-ht.
Roll of Honox\
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Atherton, Arce, Brown, Brucker, Byrne, Campbell, Daly, Dukette, Delaney, Eyanson, Foulks, Fitzpatrick, Fennessey, Grady, Haley, Hesse, Hartung, Kegler, Kearney, Krause, Medley, J. Murphy, D. Meyers, J. Meyers, Magruder, Miller. Mingey, Morris, Mc-Conn, McGinnis, McCormack, McKenzie, "McDonough, McCarrick, Raymond O’Malley, Pulskamp, Powers, Reed, Rowan, Rahe, Spaulding, Steiner, Wurzer, Welker, Walsh,
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Adams, Armijo, H. Barry, J. Bouza, F. Bouza, •Baab, Burg, W. Berry, J. Berry, Bou wens, Burns, Baloun, Bourns, Bommersbach, Blish, Callahan, Crowley, Cavan, augh, Condon, Crunican, Conway, Cypher, Crawford, J, Cassidy, Dominguez, Dalton, Donahoe, Drejer, Dooley, Delaney, Donovan, V. Dwyer, Devine, T. Dillon, Darst, .Dreher, Dellone, Davies, Daly, J. Dillon, Desmond, T. Dwyer, Doherty, Ensign, Fitzwilliam, Fetherston, Far-ragher, Farley, Foster, Fleming, Funk, C. Flannigan, Follen, M. Flannigan, Furry, Guerra, Glynn, Graham, Guilfoyle, Gainer, R. Garza, C. Garza, Gilbert, Hay, Hoover, Herbert, Harrington, Hubbard, Healy, Heinemann, Hagerty, Hanley, S. L. Hunter, S. R. Hunter, C. Hunter, Howell, Hoban, Hermann, Henry, Hesse, Heffel-finger, Hennebry* Jennings, E Jackson, Kellner, Kehoe, Klein, Kuppler, Koehler, Kangley, Lins, Littig, Longan, Lampert, Metcalf, Miilcrone, Moorehead Murray, Morrison, McKenny, McKenzie, McCallen, McNichols, Me-
Donald, McCollum, D. Naughton, J. Naughton, O’Reilly
J. McBride, E. McGeeney, R. Leclerque, W. McMahon, J. Hart, A. Shields, H. Donahoe. Grammar— Masters M. Jonquet, J. Fogarty, Frost, Weidman, Abrahams, P. Manion, Weber, Cunnea, Clarke, Davis, Hall, P. McBride, ’ . Bosworth, T. Butler, Ervin, Fleming, T. Jackson, Lock-wood,McFarland, F. Phillip,Casparis, Wilde, R. McMaster, B.McMaster G. Ebbert, W. Butler, O. Rellner, Hinsey, F. Fogarty, Bortell, Dyer. Catechism—Masters P.Manion, Dougherty, Dessauer, W. Butler, L; McBride, Sinnott, P. McBride, G. Ebbert, J. Hart, T. Jackson, McFarland,G.. Phillip, W. McMahon, Shields, J. McBride. Reading— ,	.	Masters Clarke. Van Dyke, Van Dyke, Weber, Trentman,
Messrs.- Armijo, Bloch, Britt, ,F.. Brown . Brann, Bar- Jackson, L. Hart, Ervin, T. Butler,'McMahon, G. Ebbert, . . rett, G. Beardslee, L. Beardslee, Bligh, Belhnger, H. E. J. Hart, Caruthers, L. McBride, McFarland, Donahoe, ? Brown, Becker, Berger, Buck, H. J. Brown, Clement, Downer; B. McMaster, .Topper, Hinsey, F. Fogarty.
. Clyne, Caruthers,: Crowley; Carney, Condon, Curtis, J. Geography—Masters L. Hart, T. Butler, J. Hart, Aber- .
. Coquillard; A. Coquillard, Cowie, Davidson, Dinnen, crombie; Ervin, .L. MtBride. L.' Van Sant, J. Fogarty, Donsett, Edgarton, Ellwanger, Elitch; Ernst, .Furlong,. . Bosworth,.Frost, T. Jackson, R. McMaster, F. Van Dyke, : Fink, Ferstl, ,F. Flynn, A.. .Flynn, prank, Friedman, J. McMahon, Hall, Strong. Orthography—Masters Rob.. .Girsch, Gibbons, L. Garrity, M. Garrity, Hinze, Hickman, bins, WjMcMahon, Leclerque, F.. Van Dyke,. Eroin,. . . ^Hickey, Hogan, Hunter, Hoban, Hubbell, Juretich, Joyce,	-	’
JPJKuntz, J.vKun^	JR.: Kasper,VKirklaiid, ,
; Krug, G. Kasper, Kelly,' Luken,. Land, <;Leffingwell, Tj Mulcare; J; Mulcare; Michels, Moxley, Morgan, Mooney,.: J Jk? M	Maher, Morrissey; Meagher,
•_ TjMurray, .McConnell, ■ McSheehy, McFarland, McSor-’ yjiey;. E. McCarthy,T.McCarthy, McDbnnel IfN blan, “Nast,
F. O’Shaughnessy, M. O’Shaughnessy, O’Sullivan, O’Connor, Pickett, Posselius, Pendleton, Pim, Powell, J. W.
Ryan, J. F. Ryan, Rupel, Reuss, Reed, Reising, Revels, San Roman, Sullivan, Schubert, Sauer, Stuhlfauth, Sher-
J -
man, St. Louis, Schwartz, Singler, Scott,- Summers, Simpson, Spalding, B. Sanford, Swonk, Sossoman, Smogor, Tomlinson, Tong, Thacker, J.. Taylor, Thanis, Vogt, Wynne, Wieczorek, Watterson, R. Wilson, F. .Ward, "Wheeler, Williams J. Ward, R. M. Wilson, W. Ward, G. Wilson, Wagenman, Wells. . .	. .
-	'	CARROLL HALL. /	‘
'4;
Noonan, Naughton, Ordetx, O’Malley, O’Brien, Petritz, Padden, Phillips, William Page, Putnam, Quinlan, Ryan, Richon, Staples, Sibley, Smith, Robert Stengel, Slevin, E. Sheekey, Schmitt, Shea, Schoonover, Spillard., J._ Sheekey, Scheftels, Weidmann, White, Ward, Wheelock, Werk, Welch, Wellman.	■
st. Edward’s hall.
Masters Abrahams, Arnold, Abercrombie, W, Butler, T. Butler, Bernero, Blanchfield, Bosworth, P. Bortell, C. Bortell, Clark, Casparis, Cressy, John Cunnea, Caruthers, Dougherty, Dessauer, Donahoe, Downer, Davis, Ervin, George Ebbert, Fleischer, Fleming, F. F ogarty, John Fogarty, A. Fuchs, C. Fuchs, Frain, Frost, Miles Flynn. Milton Flynn, Linn Griffith, L. Hart, Huleatt, Jeremiah Hart, Houser, Hinsey, Hall, Jonquet, T. Jackson, G. Jackson, Walter Kellner, Oscar Kellner, Leclerque, Lawton Lockwood, Leisander, E. Manion, P. Manion, James McGeeney, E. McGeeney, Louis McBride, Willie McBride, M. McMahon, C. McFarland J. McMahon, W. McMahon, A. McFarland, P. McBride, McCarthy, R. McMaster, Bl McMaster, B. Nye, C. Nye, Nix, F. Phillip, G. Phillip, Paul, Robbins, Sinnott, Strong, St. Clare, Schonlau, Shields, Shipley, Seymour, Topper, Trentman, Ralph Van Sant, L. Van Sant, F. Van Dyke, H. Van Dyke, Veneziani, Wigg, Wilde, Williams.
HOLY cross hall. .
Messrs. Barthel, Buse, Coyne, Crowley, DeLorimier, DeWulf, Darron, Davis, DuGuay, Gallagher, Gorski, Dwan, Hiss, Heiser, J. J. Hennessey, J. Hennessey, Long, Lavin. Murphy, Marr, Moynihan, McKeon, Nieuwland, M. J. Oswald, M. Oswald, O’Brien, O’Connell, Ritter, Rees, Sutton, Sullivan, Sammon, Schumacher, Szalewski, Trahey, Walsh.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.
Messrs. Adelsperger, Benson, Brogan, Baldwin, Brand, Breslin, Clifford, Carlton, Cullinan, Crepau, J. Corley, E. Corley, Dwyer, Guiff, Hartzer, Jones, Kachur,'Kelly, Lynch. Malone, Bl Malloy, -F. Malloy, McElligott, J. McIntyre, R. McIntyre, McKeever, Norris, Neville, Pieper, Power, Rinke, Sullivan, Schwanz, Sherry, Vennet, Wolf.	'
j. r Is 5,
I tv
j &


ft
I
List of Excellence.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Arithmetic—Masters G. McCarthy, Clarke, R.Van Sant, L. Van Sant, j. Van Dyke, Weber, F. Ebbert, Cunnea, Trentman, Kelly, Davis, Lawton, Dessauer, J. McMahon, F. Phillip, Sinnott, Wigg, Dougherty, E. Manion, W. Kellner, O. Kellner, Griffith, G. Ebbert, Bortell, Butler,

E. McGeeney, Davis, Blanchfield;.Casparis, Weidman, , Abercrombie, ^Fleming,: McCarthy,. L; Hart, 'Griffith, -Jonquet, T. Jackson, G: Ebbert, J. Hart, Weber, McFar- -land; E. Manion/;L-McBride, , Bosworth,- Huleatt, R, .
•' McMaster, B.McMaster. - Music—Masters Casparis, F; .. .
- -Phillip, .Wilde,' Donahoe, Bortell.Davis, J. McMahon, : Clarke, Lawtbn,L.McBride,L.Hart, Bosworth, F.Ebbert.
