i!
It’s toasted
That package of mild Luckies
"If a man write a better book, preach a better, sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, tho be buildbis bouse in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door. "—RALPH WALDO EMERSON. Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lodcy Strike?
THE FALL OF CONSTANTINOPLE "Nature in the Raw"—as portrayed by Thomas Webb... inspired by the savage slaughter of 5000 Christian defenders— at the hands of the vengeful, barbaric horde of 250,000 men under the ruthless
Mohammed 11—14531


and raw tobaccos have no place in cigarettes
They are not present in Luckies ... the mildest cigarette you ever smoked
WE buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never overlook the truth that "Nature in the Raw is Seldom Mild”—so
these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"It’s toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.
Cwt.. 1132.
October 7, 1932
One
Ask Jimmy . . .
The South Shore Line is happy to announce that James H. McGrath will be its student representative at Notre Dame this year.
Drop around to No. 1, Morrissey Hall, and ask him about our service between South Bend and Chicago and intermediate points.
Trains between Chicago and South Bend “Every Hour on the Hour.”
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE
AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
CANDIES
. . . and Salted Nuts
Fresh Every Day from our South Bend kitchen.
V
THRIFT SPECIAL . . 50c lb.
FAMILY ASSORTMENT 60c lb.
FRUITS AND NUTS . 70c lb.
v
Special Attention to Mailing
[Open Evenings and Sundays
V
Mrs. Thompson’s Candy Shop, Inc.
Phone 4-5491	In the Oliver Hotel
O. A. CLARK’S
RESTAURANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
s Catering to > NOTRE DAME MEN | for over thirty years <
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Man’s Meal Drop in Any Time.
Kuehn—
SHOES
Styled Right Priced Right
In today’s language, Kuehn shoes are a buy. Kuehn quality from heel to toe; rightly styled, finely made. Yes—at their new low prices they are certainly unusual values.
Priced at
$3.00, $4.00, $5.00, $6.50, $8.00 A few higher.
Master Fitted
120 South Michigan Street
Two
The Scholastic
Meet the Heads of Notre Dame’s Publications!
REV. L. BROUGHAL, C.S.C-
Chairman of the Board of
JOSEPH M'CABE	CHARLES SHEEDY
“Juggler”	“Scrip"
October 7, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	k I	I I ,
I ne Notre Dame scholastic
scripts may be addressed to
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
cations Office, Main Building.
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Edmund A. Stephan...............
James S. Kearns.................
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL	JOHN PICK
WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX LLOYD TESKE
News Staff MITCHELL TACKLEY........News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ.......Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors BERNARD COUSINO WALTER KENNEDY PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
JOHN PICK ............ The	Week
ROGER McGOVERN.....College	Parade
ROGER BEIRNE......Music	and Drama
RICHARD PREZEBEL.....Staff	Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ .......Sports Editor
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES PICK
Features Staff RAY WATERS.............Features	Editor
LOUIS HRUBY HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
Business Staff JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER_____Circulation Manager R. J. FITZSIMMONS .. Advertising Manager HARRY MCGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
Volume LXVI.
OCTOBER 7, 1932
Number 3
S UMMARY
NEWS Toward which political party will Notre Dame swing?
Read rules of The Scholastic’s presidential poll. 5
Sophs select music of Jimmy Garrigan for their annual frolic; Additional plans announced......... 5
Student body cheers heard in peppiest of pep meetings held in gym last night....................... 7
Hilaire Belloc’s proposed visit to Notre Dame indefinitely postponed ............................. 6
Tune in on WSBT at 8:30 o’clock tonight and hear Notre Dame’s Glee Club in their first concert.... 12
University bandsters to include Navy and Pittsburgh football trips in itinerary...................... 14
FEATURES
His “Brownson Hall” background stamps Jim Gerend as notorious in this week’s “Man About”........... 8
■ Current Literature evaluated as to its worthiness and shortcomings; John Pick........................ 9
Month of October launches Chicago and New York theater season; Beirne.......'................... 10
Grudges openly discussed in The Scholastic communication column ......................-..... 11
Test tubes, flasks, and bugs brought to light from the depths of Science Hall.:..................... 17
Introducing Charlie Jaskwhich .................. 24
SPORTS
Notre Dame opens 44th grid season against Haskell tomorrow____________:---------------------20
Favorites advance in fall tennis meet_____________21
Varsity squad in shape for opening game; story by Joe Kurth______________________________________22
Twenty tough games listed for Keoganites this winter; schedule released-------------------------23
Interhall grid season opens with six games this
Sunday _________________________________________23
“Splinters From the Press Box” picks more scores: Notre Dame 34, Haskell 0________________________26
Opening games in past years have produced wins, losses, hard-fought games for Irish_____________27
---------$$----------
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Oct. 7—Scholastic staff meetings: Editorial board, Publications Office, 6:30 p. m.; News, Sports, Features, and Group II of candidates, Room 222 of Main Building, 7:00 p. m.; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:45 p. m.; Meeting of Patricians Club, 7:45 p. m., Law Building; Glee Club concert over WSBT, South Bend, at 8:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, Oct. 8—Football game, Notre Dame vs. Haskell Institute, Notre Dame stadium, 2:00 p. m.; Movie, Jackie Cooper and Chic Sale in “When a Fellow Needs a Friend,” Washington Hall, 6:35 p. m., and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Oct. 9—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.; S. A. C. meeting, Library, 10:30 a. m.
MONDAY, Oct. 10—Drake game football tickets, seniors, 3:00 to 5:00 p. m.; Stadium; K. of C. meeting, council chambers, 7:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, Oct. 11—Meeting of Press Club in Journalism room of Library, 7:30 p. m.; Drake football game tickets, juniors, 3:00 to 5:00 p. m., Stadium.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 12—Drake game football tickets, sophomores, 3:00 to 5:00 p. m., Stadium; Wranglers meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.; Dead line for Scholastic poll, 9:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, Oct. 13—Founders’ Day; no classes; Drake game football tickets, freshmen, 3:00 to 5:00 p. m., Stadium; Spectators meeting, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
i HE QUADRANGLE, that long green plot from Main Building to Postoffice, was the setting for several occurrences, unusual to say the least.
Supposedly filled with lions, tigers, elephants, and other standard members of a menagerie, Saturday night reverberated with yells, shouts, hoots, ululations, bombinations, outcries, vociferations and an assorted hubbub rolling back and forth from Science Hall to Sorin. What caused the miniature circus ? The movies. Tarzan, hero of American youth, impelled a thousand students, crouching behind shrubbery, to roar at their prey, to jump out and all but eat the very grass.
In the city to the south those who went to bed at a reasonable hour—about eight-thirty, after the first show—rose in their nightcaps and locked their doors for fear that the campus jungle would advance upon them. If the flood light on Washington Hall could have been turned around, we’re sure so-called college men could have been seen swinging from limb to limb, from Pinus Greenus, to Cedarus Highus. ’Tis said Brownsonites, in their nightmares, hung single handed from the pipe trellises above their beds. We met a few fevered enthusiasts in the starlight at St. Joseph lake apparently on the lookout for a drove of crocodiles. (Memo to proper department: Do crocodiles go in droves?) Only “Quack! Quack! Quack!” echoed to them.
Who said the young aren’t impressionable ?
V
I^/ATER in the week we watched Robinson Crusoe (Douglas Fairbanks) in an hour of somersaults. If you enjoy buoyant youthfulness and zest—and South Sea palms and moons—we hope you saw him.
CZ^URIOSITY number two: (Setting: same as above; Time: Late one afternoon; Characters: South Bend High School students) Monday a score of explorers, brilliantly sweatered, chewing their Juicy Fruit with gusto, lingered from tree to tree reading scientific classifications and hesitatingly plucking twig specimens for their botany classes. The chap with the butterfly net —the one with the glasses — went back with two beetles, a grub and three worms.
V	'
I—/AST week six burly men, muscles bulging through blue shirtsleeves, lifted a battered brown piano to Dillon’s third floor. Cautiously they rolled it down the waxed corridor to a student’s room. Later mysterious airs—and airs can be strange on a creaking ($15 delivered) upright—disturbed history reports and Latin translations. Result: two nails driven through the key cover. Replied the indignant student, “Others have their violins, clarinets, oboes, and picolos, why can’t I have my piano?
V
OW THAT the world series is finished (incidentally we know of two students who, Sunday, raced with time to see the game, only to find tickets were sold, and to listen from the outside via radio) professors need no longer push white absence cards down the slot in the Director of Studies office. The sport sheet’s ecstatic ravings over “super homers” require less attention, but still must we listen as emotional baseball idolators, madly gesticulating, upset our milk and brush their sleeves in our spinach. Some people are fanatics!

October 7, 1932
Five
POWERS PLANS TRIALS FOR ASSISTANT PEP MEN
SOPHS’ CHOICE
COTILLION HEADS SIGN GARRIGAN’S ORCHESTRA
Two Candidates Will Work Tomorrow; Two Next Week.
After a week of ardent practice Dave Powers, head cheerleader, had some difficulty in choosing his two colleagues, out of the twenty candi-datese, who had reported to him. Four men responded so well to the tests that they are to be given a chance to perform at a game before the final selection is made.
Quinn, Clark Tomorrow
Of the four men, two, Don Quinn, a sophomore and Jim Clark a senior, will perform with Dave Powers at the Haskell game. Two more, Jim Kelly, a sophomore and Caesar Kol-man a junior will, go through their gymnastics at the Drake game, under the direction of the head cheerleader.
A monogram is offered to the head cheerleader, who is eleceted to this position by his colleagues.
“Scholastic’s” Presidential Poll Begins Today;
Is N.D. Republican, Democratic or Socialist?
Ballots for The Scholastic’s presidential poll are enclosed in each copy of this week’s issue. The rules for the poll are simple:
1.	Any student, whether he be of voting age or not, may vote. •
2.	Students may vote a split ticket; presidential and vice-presidential candidates are listed separately.
3.	Ballots must be deposited either in a box which will be placed directly beneath the bulletin board outside the Main Building, or in another box to be placed in the corridor between the two wings of the dining hall.
4.	All votes must be cast before nine o’clock on Wednesday evening, October 12.
5.	Faculty members are invited to vote in the poll.
6.	Results of the poll will be announced in next week’s Scholastic.
The ballots contain names of the nominees of the three leading political parties: Herbert Hoover and Charles Curtis, Republican; Franklin
Jimmy Garrigan, whose orchestra will play at the Sophomore Cotillion on Friday evening, Oct. 21.
Jugglers Contributions!
Contributions to the first issue of the Jziggler are still being received. Manuscripts must be turned in to 117 Sorin Hall.
D. Roosevelt and John N. Garner, Democratic; and Norman Thomas and James Maurer, Socialist.
Notre Dame has in the past been very largely Democratic; especially was this so in 1928.- This year, however, offers problems that may change campus sentiment. Many students that President Hoover has been a leader in the depression. Others believe that he has been a failure. Men who were Democrats .last year have changed sides because of lack of confidence in Franklin Roosevelt, while other ex-Democrats may have changed because of the party’s treatment of Al Smith. Still others may be so disappointed with both candidates that they will vote for the Socialist ticket.
Read the rules carefully. Make up your mind. Mark your ballot. Put it in either of the two ballot boxes. The Scholastic will announce next week which .way Notre Dame’s political wind is blowing.
McKean Names Committee; Ticket Sale Opens Monday.
By Walter Kennedy
Definite plans for the coming Sophomore Cotillion, to be held October 21 at the Palais Royale, were announced this week by John Breen, president of the second year class.
The sophomores and their guests will waltz to the melodies of Jimmie Garrigan and his orchestra, from the Oriental Gardens in Chicago. Garrigan has gained considerable prominence with his broadcasting from the Via Laga Cafe and the Oriental over station WBBM.
Ticket Sale Monday
Tickets for the Cotillion will be put on sale on Monday o.f next week; Breen anticipates an enthusiastic reception. The sale of tickets for the Sophomores will close one week before the dance; upper classmen will have an opportunity to buy until Wednesday, October 19.
General Chairman John McKean made known his committee appoint-menst this week also, the following men being selected:
Tickets: Healy, Koreneski, Carbine; Music: Keefe, Nesom; Invitations: Weber, Martin; Reception: Raus, Colleran; Patrons: Brett, Tourney; Hall: Devine, Murtha; Publicity: Dillon, Doyle, Shields; Arrangements: Hoffer, Cronin; Programs: Moore, Miller.
Small Committees
It will be noticed that the class has made an • innovation in their appointments, only two and in a few cases, three, men being on each committee. This does away with the “padded” type of committee, which was rapidly becoming a source of campus amusement.	.
Sophomores are advised that they will be able to procure two tickets for the Carnegie Tech game for themselves and a guest, by presenting their A. A. books and their Cotillion ticket at the Athletic office the week prior to the game. A special section has been reserved on the east side of the stadium. A definite date when these may be obtained will be announced later.
Six
The Scholastic
N.D. Grid Stars In Cast Of Movie “The All-American”
BEGIN WORK ON SENIOR “DOME” PHOTOS MONDAY
OPENS AT PALACE
Schwartz, Yarr, Carideo, And Others Included In Group Of Football Luminaries.
Again Notre Dame is well represented in a moving picture venture in football. “The All-American” produced by Universal Pictures of Hollywood, and opening at the Palace
On Location
Marchy Schwartz and Frank Carideo, shown with Angus P. McDonald, ’00. During Filming of “The All American.”
theatre tomorrow, carries the greatest cast of football names ever assembled in one picture. Five Notre Dame men as well as Director of Athletics Jesse C. Harper appear in the presentation.
Among the names in the cast of “The All-American” are Marchmont Schwartz, 1931 all-American halfback; Tom Yarr, 1931 all-American center; Frank Carideo, two times allAmerican quarterback; Larry “Moon” Mullins, and Al Howard fullbacks.
Five nationally famous grid figures, all members of the all-America Board of Football, are included in the cast. They are W. A. Alexander, Georgia Tech; Edward L. Casey, Harvard; Glenn S. “Pop” Warner, Stanford;
(Continued on Page 30)
Plans Are Being Made For Band to Make Navy And Pittsburgh Trips
Plans are being completed by Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta for two major trips for the University band, the Piittsburgh game, and the Navy game. The Pittsburgh game is to be held at Pittsburgh on Oct. 29, while the Navy game will be held at Cleveland on Nov. 19.
According to custom the entire personnel of the band is taken on the football trips. The Pittsburgh trip is the first to be made by the University band since 1923. The Navy game will mark the band’s initial appearance in Cleveland.
Commercial Enamel Topic At First Chemical Meet
At the first meeting of the Chemists Club, Wednesday evening, Grenville King spoke on the preparation of commercial enamel. He gave the physical properties of the product and traced the development of the raw clay through combination, pressing, testing, and heat application to the finished, glossy product offered for sale. The high spot of his talk was the thorough explanation of the pigments and oxides used in coloring the enamel.
A. E. Keefe spoke on the use of liquid ammonia in the organic laboratories of the chemistry department. He stated that Notre Dame was one of the foremost users of this medium in the experimental field. This use he attributed to the preparation of the higher acetylenes by the' sodium method and to preparations of the more complex amalgams. He then proposed the possibility of an ammonia world instead of a water world.
At the business meeting the club discussed the possibility of speakers representing the club before the Freshman Chemist club by talks on physical, organic chemistry, and metallurgy.
Each Senior Hall to be Given Two Days For Sittings.
Of special interest to the seniors is the announcement by Arthur A. Sandusky, editor of the 1933 Dome, that work on the senior cap and gown pictures for the Dome will begin on Monday, October 10 in the basement of Walsh Hall. Moffet Russell Company of Chicago, the firm having the photography, announced that they are sending one of their- best men down to Notre Dame to handle the job. This company’s work has always been of the finest quality.
A New Procedure
A different procedure will be followed this year by the Dome in taking senior pictures. Instead of making individual appointments for pictures each hall will be assigned to a certain day. On that day every resident of the hall is requested to pose for his sitting. The editor explained the change of system saying that ic will eliminate an endless amount of red-tape in the matter of picture assignments. Sandusky also made it known that the Dome will make every effort to include all seniors who have pictures but that it is the responsibility of the seniors themselves to see that the pictures are taken.
The Schedule
The following program is the one to be followed: On Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 10 and 11, seniors in Walsh Hall; on Wednesdays and Thursday, seniors in Sorin Hall; on Friday and Saturday, seniors in Corby Hall; Off-Campus seniors may come at any time.
The charge for the sitting is one dollar. Seniors are asked to remember that all the men in one hall cannot be taken on the last afternoon so they are urgently requested to have their pictures taken at the earliest time possible. By so doing an unpleasant congestion may be avoided. Posters will be placed on the board in each hall to announce the date for that hall. The caps and gowns will be furnished at the studio in the basement of Walsh Hall. .
Following the usual custom the Dome will run individual pictures of the Junior Class.

October 7, 1932
Seven
IND. SCIENCE ACADEMY TO MEET HERE NOV. 19
2300 Students Roar Support To Irish At First Pep Rally
Over Two Hundred Members to Attend Annual Meet.
Notre Dame will be host to more than two hundred of Indiana’s scientists and educators when the annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science convenes at the University Nov. 17. Preliminary announcements relative to details of the meeting’s organization were mailed this week by Dr. E. G. Mahin, professor of chemistry and Metallurgy, chairman of the Academy’s program committee.
Botanists On Thursday
Thursday, Nov. 17 will be devoted to a session for botanists interested in taxonomy. Dr. Paul Weatherwax, Indiana university is chairman of the group. Entomologists will hold a similar meeting the same day under the direction of Prof. J. J. Davis, Purdue.
Executive committee meetings will be held at the Oliver hotel, South Bend, on the evening of Nov. 17. A dinner for all members of the Academy is scheduled to precede the executive meeting.
The Cushing Hall of Engineering will be the scene of meetings on Nov. 18. During the morning of that day, registration of members will be followed by a general business meeting in the engineering auditorium. Section meetings, for presentation of scientific papers, will begin at the close of the general session.
Banquet In Dining Hall
The Academy banquet will be served in the University dining hall on Friday evening, Nov. 18. Following will be the address by the Academy’s president, Dr. Fernandus Payne, of Indiana university, which will be open to the general public. The last day of the meeting, Nov. 19, will be devoted to special trips or sessions.
Members of the Program committee in charge of all details for the Notre Dame meeting are: Drs. M. W. Lyon, Jr., of Notre Dame; C. A. Malott of Indiana; N. E. Pearson of Indiana; L. A. Test of Purdue, and E. G. Mahin, chairman, of Notre Dame.
During the fall of 1927 the Indiana Academy of Science also held its annual meeting at Notre Dame.
HELD LAST NIGHT
Father O’Donnell, Coach Hunk Anderson, Paul Host Speak To Crowd; Band Plays.
A student audience of 2300 roared its support of the Fighting Irish grid squad at the first pep meeting of the year held in the gym last night.
Chairman James Gerend of the S. A. C. was in charge of the rally, and introduced the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, head coach Heartly W. Anderson, and Captin Paul Host as the speakers of the evening.
Father O’Donnell stressed the “higher goal” of Notre Dame football, pointing to the widespread influence and support that the Fighting Irish elevens always have.
He cited the enthusiastic backing of young leper exiles on Molokai, listening to games on the radio, and the hero worshipping of thousands of youths throughout the country.
Payment With Interest
Paul Host, speaking second, promised best efforts from the players at every game, and asked for unfailing support from the students. His hope to pay back the “debts” to Northwestern, Army, and Southern California with “interest” brought a storm of applause.
Coach Anderson was the final speaker, and he stressed the important role of the student body in maintaining the high morale of the squad.
He urged the students to forget the attitude that viewed some games as “pushovers” and to approach each Saturday as he wanted the players to approach it: “on edge to give the best they have.” He then introduced members of the varsity squad who were seated with him in the balcony.
The band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta met the student body at the Dining halls immediately after supper, and headed a torchlight parade to the gym where they played all the campus marching songs.
Head cheerleader Dave Powers put the assembly through its first rehearsal of organized cheering of the year during the rally.
Hillaire Belloc’s Visit To Notre Dame Has Been
Indefinitely Postponed
Word was received at the University during the past week that Hilaire Belloc, celebrated Englishman of letters and renowned Catholic apologist, has indefinitely postponed his intended lecture visit to America, and accordingly to Notre Dame.
It was originally planned in conjunction with the Catholic Writers Guild of America to have Mr. Belloc come to Notre Dame last spring. Illness at that time prevented his doing so.
Whether Mr. Belloc will still fulfill his -intended engagement here is • a matter of conjecture.
“Big Business” Dragged
Over Coals by Wranglers
Claiming that “the Hearst newspapers are as fickle as a cat” when presenting their arguments to its reading public, Richard Ballman, attacked the newspapers, as one possible source wherein the gullible voting class “is in sad need of an educational qualification for voting.”
His statement followed the regular business meeting of the Wranglers, last Wednesday, in a speech which vigorously pleaded for the adoption of an Educational Qualification for Voting.
Instructed Votes
Ballman, a new member of the Wranglers Club, ripped into big business as a controlling element in voting, in which the “laborer was instructed how to vote, in order that he might help his job.” He cited the present economic depression, declaring: “Many of us have blamed the present administration, which if at fault, can ultimately blame the unintelligent voting class, for their lack of judgment in choosing political leaders.”
Bringing his arguments down to a specific instance, he characterized “Wild Bill” Thompson, former mayor
(Continued on Page 10)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
ALUMNUS TAKES FIRST BOW FOR THIS YEAR
By Louis Hruby
It wouldn’t surprise us a bit if the S. A. C. should happen to be the most active organization on the campus this year. The reason? Well, that’s
James Gerend
A student trip is worrying him now.
easy! Jim Gerend, its president, with his unusual ability for activity, has big things in store for the student body.
If we are able to judge from past records, he will continue to show more than a passing interest in campus activities. Our presumption is based on the fact that he held prac-• tically every important office while in high school, ranging from president of the student body, to president of his freshmen class.
Sheboygan Is Proud
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, the city of the four C’s (churches, cheese, chairs, and children!) proudly watches every accomplishment of her distinguished son.
Gerend, (so says Jack Cary) exhibits a remarkable endurance, as well as choice, regarding room-mates. Cary attests Gerend’s weakness for green shirts and Gus Ardheim. He told us Gerend’s secret ambition is to come back next year to run for president of the freshmen class! (Magnanimous character, this Cary individual!).
Popular belief has it that Jim’s notoriety was firmly established only because he was, at one time, a resident of Brownson hall. However, Corby, for unknown reasons, “is the
one and only residence,” he maintains.
Membership in such organizations as the Glee club, Knights of Columbus (he was treasurer in his Junior year), Commerce Forum, and S. A. C. (sophomore representative, and secretary when a Junior), give necessary proof for his splendid initiative.
Speaking of his present office, he wishes it to be made known that the important object of the Students Activity Council, is in the interests of the students. To that effect, he is planning novel pep rallies, and will welcome any suggestion that will go to their betterment. The student trip to Cleveland occupies most of his time at the present, with such things as rail rates and general management still to be arranged.
Willa Cather Again
Things you see when you interview him: a tri-legged clock stand which looks dangerously close to the collapsing point; a slightly used package of Old Gold’s (of course, it’s an “ad”!); Cary, asleep in the lower berth; a copy of Willa Cather; a wooden figure of a nonchalant bellhop, holding an ash tray in his hands; plenty of unusued books; and the Indian blanket hung upside down merely for sake of diversity.
Mentioning rooms reminds us that we have never seen one quite so pro-fusively tapestried. Various prints, in all colors, hang from every conceivable crook and crevice. (To say nothing of every angle!).
Earnest And Entertaining
Jim’s desk helps to offset this seemingly orderly nature of things though, for it is cluttered with scraps of paper, ash trays, a typewriter, and other incidentals that are not so vitally essential to the success of a president of the Student Activity Council.
If impressions are to be considered as a criterion in ascertaining the character of Jim Gerend, no doubt is left in the mind of the interviewseeker that questioning him is the easiest task in the world. He exhibits a surprising amount of earnestness, complaisance, and entertainment. By nature, he is modest, and certainly not self-praising. Those who know Jim will affirm these statements. . . .
Size is Somewhat Less Than That of Former Issues.
The Notre Dame Alumnus made its first appearance of the 1932-33 scholastic session early this week. The magazine is a bit smaller in number of pages than last year’s. This change was effected by dropping the cover, in order to reduce expenditures and make possible the issuance of the publication each month. Some curtailment of feature stories will result, but the essential sections covering class news, campus news, and club items will be of approximately the same proportions as in former years.
Agnes McDonald Promoted
Featured in the initial issue are news of faculty and administration changes at the University during the past summer, and the story of the advancement of Angus McDonald, ’00, nationally known executive and former Notre Dame athlete, to the general presidency of the Southern Pacific transportation system.
A splendid book review page by Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. This latter’ section has been added tentatively to aid alumni in following the best in current books, particularly those of interest to Catholics, and should prove one of the most popular-departments of the Alumnus.
Bishop Finnigan’s Life
An account of the life of the Most Reverend George J. Finnigan, C.S.C., Litt. B., ’10, deceased Bishop of Helena, Montana, is included in the October issue. Joseph S. Petritz, ’32, director of University publicity, outlines Notre Dame’s grid prospects on the Athletics page.
A short, to-the-point editorial heads that department, giving a glimpse of the wonderful future lying before Notre Dame, and the chances of her sons to aid in making the best of that future.
The frontispiece is an excellent aerial view of the University campus, showing to advantage the five new buildings along the proposed Plaza.
Saturday night movies in Washington Hall will be shown as follows, it was announced this week:
First show at 6:35 p. m.
Second show at 8:15 p. m.
October 7, 1932
Nine
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA TO PLAY IN DECEMBER
BOOK REVIEWS
Professor Seidel’s Proteges Learn Their Notes.
Thirty enthusiastic members of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra under the baton of Professor Richard Seidel have been diligently rehearsing for their opening concert to be given
Professor Richard Seidel Thirty-nine years a first violinist
during the first week of December.
Professor Richard Seidel, the director, is a graduate of the Leipzig Conservatory of Music and studied with such artists as Friedrich Hermann and Carl Reimecke. Theodore Thomas, the organizer of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, engaged Professor Seidel as first violinist, a position which he held for thirty-nine years.
Since his resignation from that position ten years ago he has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty of music, teaching violin. He has held a similar position at St. Mary’s College since 1891.
Because of his wide experience with symphony orchestras the repertoire for the Notre Dame symphony has always been of the highest class. For the first concert it will consist of, “The Magic Flute” by Mozart: “The Surprise Symphony” by Haydn; “Sleeping Beauty Waltz” by Tchai-kowsky; and “The Egyptian Suite” by Luigini.
There is still a need for several (Continued on Page 17)
JAMES T. ADAMS FINDS LOGIC IN THE STORY OF AMERICA
It is significant of The March of Democracy (Scribner’s), the new volume of James Truslow Adams, author of The Epic of America, that most absorbingly interesting portions of the book are those chapters entitled “American Life in 1763” and “The Nation in Mid-Century” and those other passages scattered throughout the volume that are descriptive of the cultural growth of the American people.
In Mr. Adams’ capable hands American history becomes something more than the seemingly endless series of dates that the textbook writers would have it.
Mr. Adams, who is as much a philosopher as he is an historian and who sees the period of our national development as a part of the whole, makes the record of that development a living, vital sequence of reasons for the United States’ emergence as the world power it is today. He gives plan to America’s story and probes depths of understanding and comprehenison in his readers so that they, too, may know the processes of American growth.
The Reasonableness of History
History, thus written, links political events with the growth of thought, and vice versa. There is a logic behind historical events, and it is seemingly Mr. Adams’ purpose in The March of Democracy to find the logic behind the rise of America. Even the title of his book suggests just that. And yet, while Mr. Adams is intent upon proving the relationship between cause and effect in American history, he tells the tale of our development, as every good historian inevitably must, in chronological sequence. And in his hands the story of the American Revolution becomes something more than a mere recital of the dates of the Boston Tea Party, Paul Revere’s midnight ride and the appointment of George Washington as commander-in-chief of the Army.
A few more than 400 pages suffices for Mr. Adams to relate in The March of Democracy the story of America from its beginnings to the “inevitable conflict,” which was, in 1860, to divide the northern and southern states. The present volume is sub-titled “The Rise of the Union” and significant
chapters in it are “The Federal Union Formed,” “The Presidency of Thomas Jefferson,” “The Jacksonian Period,” and “A Decade of Expansion.”
“The Rise of the Union,” a jacket blurb informs the reader, is to be followed by a second volume of The March of Democracy, a volume in which Mr. Adams will continue his story of American growth to the present day. If this first volume is indicative of the splendid texture of the second, The March of Democracy when completed, should constitute the finest and omst understanding history of the American people that has yet . been written.
V
WALPOLE CONTINUES THE SAGA OF THE HERRIES FAMILY
The Fortress (Doubleday - Doran) is the third of the novels in which Hugh Walpole tells the story of the Herries family and the England in which they lived. Rogue Herries, the first of the four, picture Georgian England; Judith Paris, the second, followed the family to the' time of Waterloo; The Fortress shows us England from 1882 to 1875. A fourth will bring the family up to the present day.
Family Feud
The Fortress is the story of enmity between two branches of the family. Walter, the hale, blustering, carousing grandson of old Rogue Herries builds the Fortress, his home on High Ireby overlooking Fell house where lived his cousins, Judith Paris, Jenifer, and their children. The Fortress was a spite house, built to aggravate and intimidate the two women. .It was never completely finished and the hatred, engendered long after the cause was forgotten, finally destroys that which Walter holds dearest in life. This seed of hatred planted in the mind of Uhland, Walter’s crippled son, finds fertile soil, more fertile than Walter had thought, and creates tragedy.
How well Walpole depicts the insidious power of hatred! In the accumulation of incidents and details which build up this feeling he is supreme. But after the tragedy, which marks the climax, the story as a novel weakens. At least it seems to go on and on aimlessly, making nearly 600 pages in all, and before the end one is a trifle weary of the Herries claim, their traits and traditions.
Ten
The Scholastic
THEATRE TALK
“DONE’' EDITOR MAKES FINAL APPOINTMENTS
October delivers the stage out of darkness. In New York some nineteen first nights will busy the thea-maniacs of premiers. Six opened this week including Playwright John Henry Lawson’s “Success Story” for the theatre society called the Group Theatre. John Henry Lawson continues the success story next week when the Theatre Guild’s second play “The Pure In Heart,” stars Osgood Perkins and June Walker.
Problem of Movie Selection
Osgood Perkins, if you haven’t seen him, has the most effective hands on the modern stage. The vibrations arising from the acting about him are caught and thrown back on his supple long fingers. The trick of his finesse seems to be in never accentuating the line verbally, rather modulating quietly while cutting the air from a crooked elbow or sticking one long finger out of one white three-inch cuff. There is maintained throughout the dexterity and the unfolding continuity of the hands of a sculptor steady at work.
Selective movie listings are an impossibility. The fourteen year old mind capacity, which is the target for Hollywood perpetrations, has less to satisfy than a college mind, of course. Nevertheless, the response of the college student should be more creative. The vaster rescources formed by higher mental pursuits augment the reesponse hoped for by the producer. In art, the personality of the observer’s past life injects itself to an integral degree in the world of semblance. But the mass production of talkies sacrifices original creation and leaves all to the finesse of the actor’s fortes. The net result of most movies is either a little edification by enjoyment of a master acting technique on twenty minutes of self-disgust on the returning trolley.
Those Of Lasting Impressions
The distorting proportions arrived at on massaging our recollections of the hours spent in local theatres are Covarrubian. The pictures which make lasting impressions, the pictures which can be brought up like cud and still be palatable rechewing, the pictures that stand dreamy reliving are only so, for the most part, in virtue of their superior laugh provocatives, not because of any real honest-
to-the-production ideal attempt. The ephemeral chewing gum flavor of the other pictures sustain by contrast a good deal of vividness, too, no doubt, of the memorable ones.
The Amateur Theatre
The theatre of the amateur is a mountain of thankless jobs. The theatre of the amateur is a chrysalis of personal endeavor as stimulating as any club could be. The South Bend Theatre Guild and the South Bend Players are two amateur societies under the necessary impression that Thespis did right by them as well as by Broadway. What conceit and humor may be in such an attitude are the fundamentals of amateur work. Each group plans ten or twelve evenings of plays this winter. Last year both interests did a higher caliber of study than most unprofessionals. We haven’t visited the Players new theatre above the South Shore station but our visit to the Guild’s Black Box on South Lafayette makes us praise the wholesome initiative of the people who did the character studies on the black walls and the novelty of not painting each chair black. Yes, there is a black curtain to complement the vastness afforded by the black fullness of the tiny store. But it is diverting digression withal.	,
WRANGLERS’ MEETING
(Continued from Page 6)
of Chicago, as “slashing the arms of those who pushed him into office.”
At the conclusion of his speech, the Oregon System of debate was referred to, allowing each member of the club to cross-examine Ballman.
Regular business of Wednesday’s meeting centered itself around the selection of suitable questions for inter-hall debating. The suggestions offered for consideration were: “Resolved: That the Oxford system of education is superior to the American system of higher education; resolved: “That universal suffrage in the United States should be abandoned for a qualified suffrage; Resolved: “That the President of the United States was justified in calling out the United States Army to evict the Bonus Expeditionary Forces from Washington, D. C.” •
Noted Campus Writers Chosen to Fill Various Posts.
Arthur Sandusky, editor of the Dome, completed this week the appointments to the major positions on his staff. The following men were selected to fill the offices of responsibility: sports editor, Clyde Craine; photographic editor, Joseph Durkin; Organization editor, Eugene Sullivan; Drama and Forensic editor, Bryan Degnan; assistant art editor, William Dusch; and clubs editor, Edward Raddatz.
Degnan, who is well known for his excellent writing in both The Scholastic and the Juggler, is expected to handle a particularly difficult section in his interesting, individual style.
Department Heads At Work
Departmental heads for the past week have been busily engaged forming plans for their respective sections and giving out assignments to those men under their charge.
The editor has been proceeding as rapidly as possible with general plans for the book. Mr. Miller of the Bradley and Osgood Engraving Company of Chicago was here during the week to discuss with Sandusky the problem of engraving.
Photography, in charge of Moffet and Russell, was necessarily postponed because of the inclement weather. It is expected, however, that the numerous shots of the campus and buildings will be taken next week.
Seminar in Philosophy is Well Attended Monday Eve.
Twenty-three were present at the first meeting of the Philosophy seminar held last Monday evening in the Law building. Rev. Charles C. Milt-ner, C.S.C., head of the Department of Philosophy, presided.
The membership to date consists of nineteen regular students and four voluntary members. Various subjects on Philosophy were discussed at Monday’s meeting.
October 7, 1932
Eleven
FATHER CAVANAUGH TO TALK AT NEXT K.C. MEET
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Columbus Day, Founders Day, Occasion for Gathering.
The Knights of Columbus are planning a joint observance of Columbus Day and Founders Day in the form of a meeting Monday night,
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
An old friend of N. D.’s Knights
October 10, at which the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, will be the principal speaker.
Through the co-operation of Father Cavanaugh the local Knights were granted the use of their present council rooms in Walsh Hall. For the past decade, the former president has been a colorful figure in the Notre Dame council.
Following the address of Father Cavanaugh, Lecturer Charles Fiss will give to talk on Columbianism. Elections are to be held for the offices of Chancellor and two Guard - positions.
The Activity committee has arranged for entertainment at the conclusion of the meeting.
Philosophy Department to Make Announcements
Juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters with Philosophy as a major sequence are requested to meet the Reverend Charles C. Milt-ner, C.S.C., head of the department, Sunday morning at 10 o’clock in the south-west lecture hall on the first floor of the Law Building.
Important announcements will be made concerning the comprehensive examinations in their major subject. Customarily, the examination is held in May.
All letters must be signed in full with address and mailed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall.
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
If The Scholastic has one major weakness, one grievous flaw, it is the childish remarks it places under its features. The first one last week, for instance: “James Gerend, has his troubles.” Don’t we all? Why not “James Gerend, President of the Students Activities Council”? Conventional to be sure, but if one must be childish, and almost burlesque, in their attempts to be unconventional, then it’s better to be conventional. Charles Sheedy, editor of Scrip, appears better known for missing a nine inch putt . . .
J. D. C.
Editor of The Scholastic Dear Sir:
The first issue was ... a marvelous accomplishment. ... It contained not a bit of uninteresting news . . . cut lines . . . catchy, and well handled . . . just personal enough. Your balance is perfect ... a superb success.
L. 0. B.
The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
Your editorial entitled “Budget” of last week’s issue should give offence to anybody who has anything to do with the financing of the Sophomore Cotillion. You insinuate, and I believe you do it consciously, that unless everything is in black and white for the whole student body to see, money will disappear somewhere. The Scholastic is only the student newspaper after all, and not a department of discipline. It’s too bad that people can’t mind their own business.
An Honest Sophomore.
The Scholastic, Dear Editor:
The Commerce Forum is to Be heartily congratulated for undertaking its present survey. We, the student body, should take their efforts seriously because its direct benefits will accrue to us. Why not be truthful in our declaration of personal desires so that these local and national concerns will be better able to satisfy
our wants? Certainly the good will created with the firms furnished with this valuable information will materially aid the Notre Dame graduates of the future when making application for work. And just how many of us will soon be looking for a job?
Best wishes to Francis Fogarty and his Commerce Forum!
Sincerely,
A. T. P. C.
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
“Theatre Talk” is to my mind the best column in The Scholastic. It is expertly handled, has an authoritative air to it, and is really informative. Wouldn’t it be possible to include a criticism of worthwhile movies ?
Art Cavender.
Dear Editor:
Why doesn’t some ambitious campus writer use his talents in the writing of brief histories of certain buildings and traditions about the campus.
I was informed several days ago that our own Dome, the symbolization of Notre Dame spirit, has a fas-sinating history. May I suggest that The Scholastic do something to satisfy this curiosity. I have concerning these things, I am confident that this same feeling is prevalent in a majority of the students.
Sincerely,	-
' M. C. T.
Rolfs and Dreaux Amuse the
Spectators at Weekly Meet
Twelve Spectators heard Daniel Rolfs and William Dreaux. seniors in the College of Arts and Letters, deliver well groomed talks at the regular Thursday night meeting last evening.
Rolfs, in his talk, flayed the conformity of the modern individual to any new' notion that grips society and bewailed the resulting loss of individualism. Facetious examples of mob psychology kept the Spectators in rollicking mood.
Dreux’s evaluation of the possibility of another World war raised the question of the ultimate possibility of complete world peace. Opinions varied; the evening’s session ended.
Twelve
The Scholastic
GLEE CLUB WILL SING OVER WSBT TONIGHT
Program Given in Conjunction With College Song Week.
In conjunction with the celebration of National College Song Week in the United States, the Notre Dame Glee
Prof. Joseph Cassasanta His club goes on the air
club will broadcast a special program of university songs through station WSBT, South Bend, tonight.
Forty members of the club personnel will participate in the program. Under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Cassasanta, a repertoire consisting of the “Victory March,” “Down the Line,” “Hike Song,” “Irish Backs,” and “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” will be presented.
The song week plan was originated by the Association of American Colleges. Throughout the country, special colegiatle broadcasts are being made this week.
The program tonight will open at 8:30 o’ clock. Following is a list of the members who will participate:
FIRST TENORI—Maurice Scanlon, president ; Richard P. Burchill, William Casazza, James Corrigan, Francis Schlueter, Emilio Gervasio, Thomas Meeker and Charles Dietrich.
SECOND TENORI—John F. Gill, Joseph Davey, Tom Downs, Joseph Dockendorff. Norbert Halt, John Carnes, George Wenz, John Egan, Robert Klaiber, Art Henry, Irwin Goldman.
FIRST BASSI—George Menard, Jr., Ed-
JAEGER CLAIMS THAT HIS PRESS CLUB WILL MEET
The Press club will have a business meeting Tuesday evening, October 11, at 7:30, in the Journalism room of the Library, announced Jack Jaeger, president of the organization, early this week. The presence of all members is strongly urged, since several important matters are to be brought before the club. Prominent among these is the question of securing a well-balanced fall lecture program.
Francis T. Ahearn, city editor of the South Bend News-Times, and John Gibbons, assistant city of the South Bend Tribune, are to deliver lectures before the Press club within the next two weeks. The Press club, co-operating with the department of journalism, plans a more pretentious series of lectures for the 1932-33 program than those held in former years.
Pharmacy Club in Session
President William J. Kenny opened the first meeting of the Pharmacy club Monday noon with a short outline of the club’s activities for the year. Kenny stated that a new time for meeting is to be selected in place of the former evening schedule. The reason for the change is that so many Pharmacy students live off-campus.
The main discourse at the meeting was given by Prof. Robert L. Greene, head of the Pharmacy Department. Mr. Greene pointed out the importance of the club from the social and intellectual viewpoints. According to Prof. Greene, many field trips will be made by the club to get first-hand information regarding drugs and their preparation.	.
N. D. Screen Songs To Be Used at Saturday Movies
The management of the Washington Hall entertainments announce that Notre Dame songs will be flashed on the screen regularly before each performance Saturday nights.
Those who attend the Washington Hall Theater are asked to join in the singing.
ward Quinn, Justin Tompkins, Jerome Roach, Robert Cahill, Robert Butler, William Murphy, James Gerend, David Ryan, Robert Nesbit, Raymond Reuland.
SECOND BASSI—Daniel Smyth, L. Chouinard, George Lennartz, John Laey, George Coady, William Ayres, James Marohn, Philip Geoghegan, Daniel Rolfs, James Wade, Thomas Dwyer, Joseph Corduro.
COMMITTEES ARE NAMED AT BLUE CIRCLE MEET
Plans Discussed For Coming Year at Meeting Tuesday.
The first meeting of the Blue Circle was held Tuesday evening in the North Room of the library. Maurice Lee, newly-appointed chairman, presided.
After Chairman Lee called the assemblage to order, the secretary, Michael De Lay, read the articles concerning the Blue Circle in the S. A. C. constitution, which, in brief, state that this organization was established to further enkindle school spirit.
Plans for the Haskell pep meeting were then discussed. It was reported that, because of the First Friday devotions, the pep meeting would have to be held last evening immediately after supper.
Following is a list of committees appointed, and a complete list of members:
COMMITTEE ON PUBLICITY—Edmund A. Stephan, chairman; John A. McEHigot, Joseph McCabe, J. Kirinaich, O. Wise.
COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC—Dan. J. Casey, chairman; Julius J. Kiraly, Frank Hurley. James McGill, Wm. Lynch, A. W. Wirry, A. J. Andeoni.
COMMITTEE ON PEP MEETINGS—A. J. (Tony) Andreoni, chairman; J. O’Shaughnessy, J, Kenny, D. Casey, D. Martin, W. Lynch, E. Vzyral, F. Cashier.
MEMBERS—J. Tobin. M. Linisky, T. Gorman, J. Harris, W. Lynch, J. A. McElligott, J. Collins, J. Galla, J. McCabe, J. Engels, L. Regan, Bi Lenahan, F. Hurley, J. McGill, D. Martin, J. Kenny, D. Casey, B. Kiraly, F. Cashier, J. McNeill, T. Misterly, A. J. Andreoni, M. Flanigan, E. Mulvihill, G. O’Brien, E. Hallowet.
M. Ronzani, W. Brown, P. Sartteretto, C. Slatt, J. Roddy, P. Boehm, J. Underhoffler, R. Bunch, F. O’Hara, P. Kreuz, J. Clark, R. Troy, H. Burchell, T. Healy, F. Jaeger, R. McGovern, M. Mulville, L. Vejar, R. Parrish, E. Vzyral, R. Waters, J. Waldron, J. Beach, J. Reishman, R. Gilger, E. Robert, G. Bruno, E. Abraham, J. Cahill, J. Carey, E. Dailey, M. DeLay, L. Douville. F. Fayette, C. Fiss.
P. Geoghigan, W. Kenny, L. Kramer, R„ O’Shea, B. Quinn, S. Hyde, T. McLaughlin, . C. Carey, R. Gerend, L. Hazen, J. Burke, E. Sargus, E. Stephan, N. McDougall, A. Wirry, J. Baker, E. Fisher, D. Wise, J. Kirincich, J. Edwards, C. Smith, R. Gannon, E. Gennsen, A. Baskerville, R. Boland, P. Connelly, F. Fallon, J. O’Shaughnessy, F. Buhl, B. Shin-ners, C. A. Conley, C. A. Lewis.
October 7, 1932
Thirteen
M’CABE IS CONFIDENT ON EVE OF BIG DAY
Captain Host Lends Strength To “Juggler” Lineup.
By Meadowland Mice
It was good to stand there, head exposed to the easteming breeze, and listen to the “ping” of the erasers overhead as Coach McCabe put the 1932 edition of the Notre Dame Juggler through its paces. It was good to feel the warm October sun beating down, and to see those lithe fingers skipping about the typewriter keys.
McCabe Wrote This
But most of all it was good to be with the Old Scripper, and hear his wholesome dyed - in - the - wool voice snapping out platitudes, and to know that here was one stable figure that wouldn’t stall. “Straight from the shoulder, that’s me” he said, just as he always has. You won’t find him breaking the old tradition among coaches, and saying something different from year to year.
“If you want.to get your letters” he told his squad “you got to be on the right spot at the right time. It’s no jabbing at an “x” and expecting a “y” to appear on the paper. Nature didn’t intend typewriters for that sort of tomfoolery. Good old Nature!” he said, the light of wholesome enthusiasm lighting up his dyed-in-the-wool face.
Then he turned to me, and drew me apart. (And really, I’ve had no end of trouble pulling myself together again!)
“It’s a tough schedule ahead of us, but vre got a good-----”
“Oh, no,” I said, gently but firmly. “That’s not in the part.”
And This
He looked helplessly at me. “I know it,” he said, and the tears began to stream down his face. “I’ve tried so hard, b—but—but I just can’t remember my lines . .
I prompted him. “We lost . . .”
“Oh, yes!” his face lighted up wholesomely. “We lost a lot of good men last year, and prospects don’t look so good. We got a tough schedule ahead. But I found a new prospect in a Paul Host, who just came through in grand style, upsetting Football Authors in a spectacular, crashing essay of less than a thou-
BOOKMEN SELECT WORKS OF FAMOUS WRITERS
FOR NEW LIBRARY
Choosing books for the coming semester was the business of the Bookmen at their meeting last Monday evening.
About twenty-five books were suggested by the various members. After the usual heated discussions the following were selected: The Burning Bush by Sigrid Undset, Faraway by J. B.. Priestley, The Catholic Church and Art by Ralph Adams Cram, Marie Antoinette by Hilaire Belloc, Modern American Short Stories selected by Edward J. O’Brien, Obscure Destinies by Willa Cather, What We Live By by Abbe Ernest Dimnet, and The London Omnibus.
Dean Addresses Forum
“Be questioning” was the advice Dean J. E. McMarthy gave the Commerce Forum at its first meeting Tuesday evening in the Law building. The meeting was attended by over a hundred members.
Before introducing Dean McCarthy, President Michael Fogarty announced the Forum’s first survey among the students, on the motion picture industry. About two hundred complete replies are expected within a month.
Dean McCarthy in his talk illustrated the need for leaders who will be independent in thought, never accepting things unless satisfied in their own minds as to their value. He particularly recommended applying the question “Why?” to every matter in business.
The next meeting of the Forum will be held October 18.
sand words. It brought me back to the days of Butcher Benchley. A few more like Host, and we’ll have a line that nobody can resist.
Then there’s Degnan and Woods and Dreux and Raddatz and a new lad named Doyle. I expect that Bec-var and Belaurier and Prezebel will draw this year—they sure are colorful. And there are others. But there’s always room for more.” Then a dyed-in-the-wool frown came over his face. He shook his head wholesomely. “But don’t forget—there’s a tough season ahead.”
“Schedule is the better word” I said reprovingly.
PRE LAW CLUB HOLDS FIRST MEET OF YEAR
Members to Elect President; Deeb Gives Brief Talk.
Joe Deeb, president of the Law club addressed the first meeting of the Pre-Law club, last Tuesday evening at 7 o’clock in the Law Building.
Joe Deeb
Regretted the dean’s absence.
Frank Fallon, past-president of the club, presided as temporary chairman.
Deeb, in his talk, announced the intention of the Law club to hold a series of banquets and smokers throughout the year and urged the members of the Pre-Law club to participate in these functions. In addition, he suggested that all new members subscribe to The Lawyer, official publication of the College of Law. Deeb expressed his regret, in closing that neither Dean Konop nor Professor Manion were able to address the meeting, as planned, but he indicated that one or the other will speak at the next meeting.
Chairman Fallon announced that as. neither president-elect, Bob Boyion, nor vice-president-elect, Jack Casey, were returning to Notre Dame this year, an election of officers to fill these positions would be necessary. This statement aroused a spirited discussion in which politically ambitious freshmen participated. The question as to whether the secretary and treasurer of the club, James Jennings and Art Korzenski, respectively, should succeed to the two higher positions was debated.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
BAND TO PLAY DURING HALVES OF FIRST GAME
Special Program Planned For Tomorrow’s Football Game.
Dressed in full uniform, eighty-two members of the University band will make their first appearance of the year on the field during the halves of the Notre Dame-Haskell game tomorrow afternoon.
For tomorrow afternoon’s program, Prof. Casasanta has arranged a special demonstration. Immediately following the close of the first half of the game, the band will march down the field. The Haskell football song and letter formation will feature the maneuvering.
Together with the playing of the Notre Dame songs, a suitable formation will be presented. Louis Alaman, junior, will act as drum-major during the program.
A Bacteriologist Looks
By Joe Partello
Perhaps the least known element of Notre Dame’s features is the room on the second floor of Science hall known as the Bacteriology “lab.” An occasional A.B. student going to a philosophy class on the third floor may find the door ajar and, peering in, catch a glimpse of white robed, silent students stirring mysterious brews or gazing inquiringly at racks of cotton plugged test tubes. On returning he may run into a group of the students putting on their ordinary attire and talking glibly of autoclaves and lac-tose-agar media. Of the true nature of the work done here, he and most of the school remains completely ignorant.
Each student in this laboratory has an assigned place and a drawer equipped with test-tubes, flasks, and other necessary equipment. To insure cleanliness he must wear a white gown or apron and, when working must lay all his material on a clean towel. Unnecessary talking is forbidden and the student may work as rapidly or as slowly as he wishes. Since pathogenic organisms are used in the work these precautions are merely to insure the safety of those present.
So far this semester the laboratory
Metropolitan Club Plan to Sponsor Army Trip Nov. 29.
The Metropolitan Club, with Edwin Kosky presiding, held an informal meeting in the north room of the Library last Wednesday evening and went through the process of reorganizing and becoming acquainted with the Freshmen members.
Plans for the proposed Club trip to the Army game in New York were discussed. It is probable that the trip will materialize if the desired . rates can be obtained from the railroads. Last year the round trip was twenty dollars, and negotiations have been opened this year with the idea of obtaining the same or better rates.
Single cuts only, instead of the customary triple ones before a holiday, will be given to members of the club making the trip. This privilege has been granted to the Metropolitan club by the office of the Prefect of Discipline. Tickets have already been laid aside in the Athletic Association Office.
Around His Own Lab
work has been the preparation of the media on which bacteria are cultivated. The students first prepared beef broth, the basis of many other media, from meat extract and peptone. The broth was then adjusted to a specific degree of alkalinity since the growth of many bacteria is in-hibeted by the presence of acid. Some of the broth was then solidified by the use of gelatine and of agar-agar. Agar-agar is used because many bacteria have the property of liquifying gelatin. The vessels of media are rendered sterile by being heated in an autoclave, under a pressure of "fifteen pounds of steam, for twenty minutes.
Test-tubes of media are innoculated with bacteria from other test-tubes by means of a loop or a straight piece of chromium steel wire. The piece of wire - should be about three inches long, and is fused into the end of a glass rod froni six to eight inches in length. The loop is used in working with fluid media as it will pick up a small drop of the liquid. The straight wire is for making stab cultures. In doing this the wire is first dipped into a culture of the desired form of bacteria and then plunged straight downward into a test-tube contain-
_	(Continued on Page 15)
PROF. STAUNTON NAMED IB. FACULTY DELEGATE
Several Important Measures Passed at Meeting Wed.
Prof. Henry Staunton, Department of English, was unanimously elected official delegate of the faculty of the College of Arts and Letters to the University council at a meeting of
Prof. Henry Staunton
He represents Arts and Letters
that group held October 5. Several other important measures were decided upon at the meeting.
The faculty recorded themselves in favor of the semester as the unit of probation as against the quarter. Should this change be adopted by the University council, the quarterly tests and reports of delinquent students will in no way be affected since such reports will be sent regularly to the parents of such students.
This new modification would likewise not permit the suspension of any freshmen before the end of the current scholastic year.
Several committees were named at the meeting and each was given a specific field of academic activity to study and to make regular reports to the faculty as a whole.
No radical change in the curriculum of the College of Arts and Letters is contemplated, although several proposals for modifying it will be carefully considered.
Campus Botanists and Horticulturists should observe the rose bush decked with a few fragrant buds which grows at the south-east comer of the Library.
October 7, 1932
Fifteen
PROF. PETTIT SPEAKS TO PRISON DIRECTORS
Reads Paper On Probation Work In South Bend.
“The Rehabilitation of Gangs Through Probation” was the subject of a paper read by Prof. Maurice L. Pettit, Department of Sociology, before the members of the American Prison Association at their annual meeting held in Indianapolis, Ind., on October 3.
The paper gave the result of a five year experiment which Mr. Pettit and students majoring in Probation work at Notre Dame have been conducting. The experiment dealt with gangs in South Bend.
The Notre Dame experiment has attracted attention since Prof Pettit first reported on it two years ago in a paper read before the National Probation Association at St. Paul, Minn.
The paper will be reprinted in its entirety in the Annual Proceedings of the American Prison Association.
BACTERIOLOGY LAB WORK.
(Continued from Page 14)
ing solid media. This method of growing bacteria allows both the surface and the deep growth of the organism to be observed.
Immediately after innoculation the mouths of the test-tubes are passed through a flame and carefully plugged with non-absorbent cotton. These precautions are taken to prevent the entrance of other types of bacteria than the one desired. The test-tubes are then placed in the incubator and, if everything has been done correctly, the bacteria within the tubes, will begin to increase and colonies of thg#T" will be seen on the media.
Although one semester is too short a time for the students to learn many of the details of the complicated science of Bacteriology, Mr. Reyniers claims that if it does nothing else, the work in the bacteriology laboratory will teach budding medical students to use their hands for more than lighting cigarettes. The great majority of the students seem very much interested in the work, and it may be that some Louis Pasteur of the future is at present clumsily preparing beef broth on the second floor of Science hall.
CRIMINOLOGIST
Professor Maurice Pettit of the University’s department of Sociology tells about the results of his five-year criminology survey.
New Books In Library Cover Multifarious Fields
New reading matter, including a novel by Sigrid Undset “The Burning Bush,” sequel to “Wild Orchid,” and a collection of the poems by Padraic Colum, 1932 edition, may be found at the present time in the Notre Dame Library. According to Miss M. K. Lawrence of the Circulation Department this list of new books placed at the disposal of the student body during the last week is excellent in its variety, covering practically all fields of literary expression.
The list follows:
What We Live By—by Ernest Dim-net.
American Minority People’s Physical Education—by Donald Ramsay Young.
Fighting For F u n—by Eddie Eagan.
The Burning Bush—by Sigrid Undset.
Profits In Advance—by Lee Hastings Bristol.
The Coming of a Neiv Party—by P. H. Douglas.
Continuous Prosperity—by M. K. Graham.
Poems—by Padraic Colum.
ENGINEERS WILL HEAR FR. STEINER IN TALK
Dean of College Will Speak To Members of Club Wed.
On Wednesday, October 12, at 7:45 the Engineer’s Club will hold its initial meeting of the year in the Engineer’s Auditorium. At that time Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Dean of Engineering, will address the students. Other speakers for the evening include Mr. Edward Mahin, Professor of Chemistry and Metallurgy, and Mr. Daniel Hull, Professor of Mathematics and Physics.
Martersteck To Preside
The meeting will be in charge of William Martersteck, president of the club. The other officers of the club are: James Kraus, vice-president, James Malcolm, secretary, Arthur Eppig, treasurer, and Henry Schaffer, junior secretary.
The Road to Revival—by F. C. James.
Radio Physics Course—by Alfred Chirardi.
Civilization and Society—by Franklin H. Giddings.
Education Through Recreation—by Lawrence P. Jacks.
Etchings and Etchings—by F. L. Emanuel.
The Making of American Literature—by Thomas Herbert Dickinson.
Figure Draiuing and Portraiture in Lead Pencil, Chalk and Charcoal—by Borough Johnson.
The Lady of Godey’s, Sarah Josephe Hale—by Mrs. Ruth Finley.
Our Brothers—by Brother Ernest .Ryan, C.S.C.
The last book, a philosophical treatment of the various orders of the Brothers of the Roman Catholic church, was written by Brother Ernest Ryan of the order of Brothers which makes its home on the Notre Dame campus. Any of the volumes listed may be found in the reference room of the library.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
USHERS CLUB MEETS;
ELECTS HEW OFFICERS
Haley, Wirry Speak to Group Saturday; 1,000 Present.
Approximately one thousand ushers, gatemen, inspectors, attended the first meeting of the Notre Dame Ushers’, club for the 1932 season, in the gymnasium last Saturday afternoon. The meeting opened with Charles Weiss, introducing Frank Buhl, the Stadium manager, who in turn presented the Business manager, J. Arthur Haley.
Haley, in his short talk, stressed the importance, purpose, and duties of the organization. In conclusion, he invited the members to the Varsity-Freshman football game which was to be played in the stadium that afternoon. Anthony Wirry, Senior Manager of Football and President of the Ushers’ club, followed with a brief talk in which he expressed his confidence in this year’s staff.
A motion was brought up to amend the Constitution making the present Ushers’ Pin the standard pin of the club. It was passed unanimously, and the amendment was adopted. Martin Tarbot had made the motion.
The last event of the meeting was the election of a vice-president and a marshall, in which Roy Phillips was victorious over Ves Bradfield for the office of vice-president, and Pat Turney defeated Louis Izabo and Eddie Wolton for the office of marshal.
Troop Schools to Reorganize
Troop schools of the Organized Reserves, Army of the United States, will resume activities tonight, at 7:00 p. m., sixth floor, Indiana and Michigan Electric Building, 220 W. Colfax avenue, South Bend, according to an announcement by Major E. W. Bondy, Inf. D. O. L., officer in charge of reserve affairs.
Any one who has had previous military training in the C. M. T. C., the R. O. T. C., National Guard, or Regular Army may enroll for instruction leading to a commission in the Reserve Corps. Several members of the University faculty are active members of the Corps, and last year several students followed the courses which are given on alternate Friday evenings. Two students received their commissions before leaving school and several others will become eligible this year.
CLASSICIST
Robert Flint, Patrician chib president who is doing his level best to keep classical lore alive amongst his subordinates.
Italian Club Holds First Meeting; 45 New Members
With the enactment of a new constitution and an increase of over fifty percent in membership, the Italian club held its first meeting of the year last Tuesday evening in Room 2 of the Main Building.
The new constitution, drawn up and submitted by Jerome Ferrara, president of the club, was voted upon and passed unanimously.
“Culture, friendship and knowledge” were emphasized as outstanding principles of the organization by Professor Pirchio in a short address to the club.
Forty-five of the eighty present were new members. The meeting was concluded with the appointment of Anthony Cusano as temporary sergeant-at-arms.
Cincinnati Club Elects
The Cincinnati Club met during the past week and elected the following men: George Aug, president; Carroll Staley, secretary; and John Brinker, treasurer.
Plans for a Christmas dance were definitely put aside in harmony with the conservative ideas expressed by the members. Rather, the Club will limit its activities to smokers and the banqueting of its Senior members, which has been a policy of the past clubs.
S.A.C. IS REALLY ACTIVE; MEETS TWICE THIS WEEK
Class Dues Plan Abandoned; Nobody Wants to Collect.
A meeting of the S. A. C. was held during the past week, the primary purpose of which was to straighten out matters with reference to the Presidents’ Council. After an extensive discussion the S. A. C. voted unanimously that the chairman of the executive board of the Presidents’ Council shall be a member of the S. A. C. appointed by the president Jim Gerend. They hope that this will serve as a link of harmony between the two organizations.
Sinking Fund Established
The recent decision that each member of the upper classes pay an annuity of fifty cents was sanctioned by the authorities, although they did not approve of - having it added to the semester’s bill. Since the room to room canvassing involves too much work for the class officers the class dues problem was abandoned.
In its place there has been established a sinking fund, by the setting aside of two hundred dollars from the treasury of the S. A. C. This money is available to the classes as a protection to them in sponsoring a dance. Likewise all profits, over and above expenses, from these dances are to be ' added to the fund. This plan was submitted to the faculty this week for their approval.
Chairman Appointed
President Gerend appointed George Reilly to succeed Ray Brancheau as Chairman of the dance committee. Neill Ebert was named as the successor to Jack Finneran as Chairman of the Cleveland Trip. Finally, George Aug, the Commerce School representative, was placed in charge of the . Rally committee.
The regular weekly meeting of the S. A. C. was held Sunday morning in the library. By a unanimous vote of the Council it was decided that in all future elections the President of the S. A. C. is to be elected by the retiring organization. In former years the incoming members have exercised that power. This motion is beneficial in many ways, particularly because it will practically eliminate politics.
The Council voted to engage the Notre Dame Jugglers for all of the football dances.
October 7, 1932
Seventeen
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE PLANS ANNOUNCED
Annual Function of Club to be Held Friday, Oct. 14.
Under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Scholarship club, the annual Scholarship dance -will be presented next Friday evening, October 14. The event will he held at the Oliver hotel, from 8 to 12 o’clock.
A special invitation is extended to the freshmen to attend the dance although members of the other classes are also welcome. About one hundred and fifty South Bend girls have been invited by the committee as guests for the freshmen.
The Scholarship club was founded eleven years ago by a group of socially prominent South Bend women for the sole purpose of giving financial aid to ambitious Notre Dame students. The membership now numbers about thirty-five.
Proceeds To Student Aid
Proceeds from the dance will be used exclusively for scholastic aid to students. A season box seat estimated at the value of approximately one hundred and fifty dollars, will be sold to the highest bidder. In previous years, the box seat has been raffled off.
The club has given assistance to many Notre Dame students during its existence. A large percentage of those aided have graduated after four years of financial support.
The affair is in charge of Mrs. John L. Warden, president of the • club. Mrs. Frank Powers is chairman of the committee on entertainments. Music for the dance will be furnished by Myron Walz and his orchestra.
Those in charge of the dance would greatly appreciate the cooperation of the Notre Dame students. Tickets will be distributed among the various rectors. Students will be allowed twelve-thirty permissions.
Patricians to Meet
A meeting of the Patricians will be held Friday evening, Oct. 7, at 7:45 p. m. in the Classical Room of the Law Building.
Robert Flint, president, announces that it will be an important meeting and that all members should attend.
ARTIST
Art Becvar, artist extraordinary, whose contributions to the Funny Felloiv’s first issue appearing Oct. 15, are going to please yozi.
Kansas City Club Organizes;.
Mahoney Heads New Group
Seventeen Notre Dame students who claim Kansas City, Mo. as their home town, have petitioned Cleve Carey, president of the Presidents’ club, and his organization for a charter for the Kansas City club of Notre Dame.
J. William Mahoney, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, is president of the new club. Other officers include Emmet Conkling, vice-president; Norman M. Bowes, treasurer; Robert T. Pendergast, secretary; and John Whitaker, sergeant-at-arms.
Membership will not be limited to residents of Kansas City for the petition sent to the President’s club states that Notre Dame students from towns in the vicinity of the Missouri metropolis will be asked to join.
President Mahoney indicated that his club’s activities would be similar to those of other campus groups and would include the customary Christmas dance.
Student Directory Will Be Available Within Ten Days
The 1932-33 Student Directory of the University will be available to the campus public within a week or ten days, announced Registrar Robert B. Riordan this week. The material is in the hands of the printer this week. In general make-up the publication is to be along the same lines followed in other years.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE ELECTS NEW OFFICERS
Siegfried is Chosen President; Juniors Get Other Jobs.
Edward G. Siegfried, a senior in the College of Science, was last Tuesday elected president of the Notre Dame Academy of Science at its first meeting of the year, the seventy-sixth of its history.
Richard B. Tobin was named to the post of vice president and ex-officio chairman of the Academy’s executive committee. The secretaryship fell to James P. Murphy. Both Tobin and Murphy are juniors in Science.
To the powerful executive committee were named Matthew W. Brucker, Fred L. Weniger, and Robert T. Lesage.
The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator, in a short speech acquainted the new members with the aims and purposes of the body, and discussed prospects for the coming year.	-
The Academy of Science is one of the oldest and best known of the honor societies on the campus. Membership is limited to science students who maintain a high scholastic average.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
(Continued from Page 9)
new players, and any students desirous of joining are asked to report to Professor Seidel at rehearsal on Tuesday or Friday evening.
The membership of the orchsetra as it now stands is as follows:
Prof. Kichard H. Seidel. Conductor.
FIRST VIOLIN—Joseph S. Petritz. James C. Fesler, Thomas F. Paradise, Robert J. Klaiher, Brother Bernadine, C.S.C., William Klima, George W. Barber.
SECOND VIOLIN—Michael J. Yriberry. John J. Desmond, Donald M. Draper. Lloyd Teske, Francis Donovan, Otto G. Reymer, Nicholas P. Romanko.
VIOLA—J. Ben Beyrer.
CELLO—Brother Paul, C.S.C.
BASS—Francis M. Joyce.
FLUTE—Philip W. Ott.
CLARINETS—Edward J. Zimmers. Paul R. Locher, John P. Youngen, Paul Halbert, John J. Locher, Jr.
TRUMPETS—Roy O. Scholz, J. F. Murphy.
E. F. Theis.	'
TROMBONE—Charles N. Fiore.
FRENCH HORN—Prof. LeClaire H. Eells.
SAXOPHONES—Alfred J. Hiegel. Theodore J. Hiegel. L. F. Gorman, Charles Dohnalek, Edward H. Kilmurry.
PIANOS—John F. Sharpe, James A. Kaufmann.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE

AN A. B. IN THE BALANCE
Does a liberal arts course qualify a young man for earning his living? According to Dean Archibald L. Bouton of the college of arts and sciences at New York University, only rarely does a liberal arts course qualify a young man for earning his living.
At the outset, before evaluating this statement, we ponder at its scope and stop to consider the source. Certainly no man is better qualified to make such a sweeping statement than a dean.
Apparently, though, the dean believes that fifty million Frenchmen can be wrong.
Statistics seem to prove that the opposite is true, if we can say that statistics at least show a tendency, because more college graduates come from the liberal arts course each year than from any other single course offered in universities.
From this we could infer that the graduates of liberal arts courses throughout the nation know beforehand that their course will hardly enable them to be a success, if making a living is an indication of success, yet they go against their own reason and choose a course whose lucrativeness is dubious. It doesn’t follow, does it?
Moreover students when they reach the college age are capable of arriving at something that smacks of judgment. Dean Bouton’s statement refutes this almost entirely; however, if we glance at the registration of various colleges almost invariably the students enrolled in the liberal arts course top the list; from this it is logical to deduce that college students are capable of arriving at decisions in proportion to their station in life.
Our understanding of a liberal arts course nar-nows down to this—it prepares you for nothing specifically, but for everything generally. Practically speaking its value is negligible unless it is applied to some pursuit and then its value rests with the individual himself and the repercussions of the liberal arts course cannot and will not be silenced. In promulgating this, we do not mean to slight the other courses but we believe them to be outside the issue, hence we are letting them alone.
Cardinal Newman’s idea of a university in
cluded the training of the intellect for the intellect’s sake alone. If a university does this, the individual, who is the recipient of such training, is more than qualified to earn a living. The responsibility rests with him, however, and it is no reflection on the course if he fails to earn his daily sustenance.
The value of a liberal arts course has been tested in the crucible of time and has not been found wanting. The accusation against its extrinsic worth is, therefore, hardly justifiable.
V
VARIETY IS THE SPICE OF LIFE
We are not pleading for the relegation of the good old fashioned “bull sessions” to a suitable Valhalla, nor are we acting as the press agent of the Intercollegiate Society for the Promotion of Aesthetics in reprinting College Babble from the Daily Texan. Our idea of a better heading for this editorial is College Babel. (Our apologies to the writer.)
V
COLLEGE BABBLE (Daily Texan)
It has become the custom of college men and women to talk endlessly about nothing and the result is a light-headed discourse. It is becoming a habit to babble for hours without saying a sensible word. Nonsense phrases are trite.
Soon it will be necessary for such a person to remain absolutely silent when he or she is in a formal or even sensible atmosphere. (The chief reason for this lack of sensible entertainment.) However, human beings are going to have recreation, and if this recreation is not provided for, it will be created. Probably an unfortunate creation. The only remedy possible is a provision for this recreation.
What college men and women need is recreation which is aesthetic, educational or in some way profitable to the growth of the individual. Idleness does not only result in evilness but also in light headiness and thoughtless conversation.
October 7, 1932
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
A POPULAR FALLACY
Notre Dame’s football season opens to-morrow. Nine games, most of them as gruelling and as taxing as will confront any team in the country, lie ahead. Those affairs which are not particularly troublesome from a victory view-point can easily be costly if injuries result.
As in past years talk of a national championship is already heard around the campus. People who know anything about the vicissitudes of the sport are keeping their mouths closed and are sitting tight. The spirit of buoyancy is contagious, nevertheless. Notre Dame students, like everybody else, are prone to believe those things which they want to believe. If a coach makes a statement that Notre Dame might lose a game or two his remark is generally interpreted as a move to dispel overconfidence. The enthusiasm that emanates from a few poorly informed individuals appears to have more effect on the student populace than does the word of people who are watching the machinery at work.
The Scholastic would revel in a national championship for Notre Dame but it believes that even the suggestion of such a thing at the present time is childishly premature. Those who persist in flaunting their pre-seasonal information might well consider the following facts: When a team feels that it is expected to win a national championship the realization of such an accomplishment never carries with it the thrill that results if its following looks upon its feat as a long uphill battle. It is not difficult for three thousand students to work themselves up to a point where a championship is considered as a perennial occurrence, and a single defeat as a cataclysm.
The Scholastic will probably be accused of wet blanket sentiments but it feels positive that its position is psychologically sound.
NOVEL BUT WELCOME
Appearing in this week’s Scholastic is a feature article contributed by a student in the College of Science who is not a regular staff member. The Scholastic welcomes such interest. Regardless of the efforts of a features’ staff, events that are of general interest in the colleges of the University often escapes their attention. The Scholastic earnestly hopes that this will serve as an impetus to further student contribution.
o o o
PLEASE—
Two rather ambitious undergraduate ventures will be launched during the next few days. The success of both of them will be directly proportional to the response and interest they receive from the student body.
One is the presidential poll which The Scholastic undertakes tonight and which will continue until next Wednesday evening. Nobody who has anything to do with the poll’s management is under the illusion that as Notre Dame goes so goes the nation. The results will be amusing, though, when they are compared with the tabulations of the election itself. Vote early, but not often.
And the other enterprise we have reference to is the survey which is about to be conducted by the Commerce Forum. Representatives from that organization will undoubtedly visit your room within the next week. They will confront you with a list of questions pertaining to your likes and dislikes in the fields of motion pictures clothes, shoe polish, etc. If you answer sensibly the survey will be a success. If you attempt to be funny a lot of valuable time will be wasted.
9
Twenty	The Scholastic
Irish To Battle Haskell In Opener
Launch ’32 Grid Campaign In Stadium Tomorrow; Kickoff At 2:00 O’clock
FOUR MEETS CARDED FOR HARRIER SQUAD
Powerful N, D. Squad Heavy Favorites; Expect Colorful Opposition From Indians.
Notre Dame’s forty-fourth football season will get under way tomorrow afternoon when the 1932 Fighting Irish clash with the Haskell Indians in Notre Dame stadium. The game will start at two o’clock.
, Tomorrow’s fray will mark the renewal of an old rivalry as well as the launching of a new season. Eighteen years ago this fall, a Notre Dame grid team trimmed an eleven from Haskell by a 20-7 count. Three subsequent meetings in larger years saw the Irish on top by large margins.
Haskell Strong Offensively
There is little expectation that tomorrow’s game will interrupt the Notre Dame victory record. The Indian band under Lone-Star Dietz is a worthy, but not a dangerous opponent.
Assistant coach Tommy Yarr, who scouted the Haskell team twice this fall, has reported that the tribe can be expected to produce plenty of fancy offensive work. In their first game Haskell won from Ottawa 12-6, but dropped a 6-0 decision last week to Creighton.
Yarr, however, reported that the Indians decisively outplayed Creighton in spite of the testimony of the score. In addition, he stated that in Bob Holmes, 135 pound left half, Haskell had the best small back he had ever seen.
Notre Dame Is Heavier
Holmes, who is an Ottawa Indian, can run back punts “as well as Orv Mohler of Southern Cal” according to Yarr. Holmes will be the smallest player on either team. The visitor’s team average is 178, with the line tipping 187 and the backfield 162.
The Notre Dame weights show an
average of 191 in the line, 178 for the backfield, and 184% for the first eleven. The average will drop some when Laurie Vejar is in the game as
Paul Host
Is host to Haskell tomorrozu.
Chuck Jaskwhich, his rival at the pilot’s post, has a noticeable advantage in poundage.
Consistent with the policy followed at home games during the past, the N. D. A. A. has invited Boy Scout and Campfire Girl organizations of this region to attend the game. The Kalamazoo college eleven that plays the Irish “B” squad tonight will also be guests of the school at the Haskell game.
PROBABLE LINEUPS
Notre Dame	Haskell
Kosky (185) --------LE_________ (168) Barlow
Krause (212) _______LT.________ (188) Holmes
Harris (188) -------LG_________ (180) Pence
Alexander (181) ____C_______(180) Crowe C Greeney (190) ______________RG_ (200) McDonald
Kurth (204) --------RT._________ (220) Miles
Host C (175) _______RE______ (175) Pierce laskwhich (164) ____________QB_ (170) Eagleman
Lukats (185) -------LE--------- (135) Holmes
Brancheau (185) RH.____________ (175) Duffina Melinkovich (180) _____________FB- (167) Wapp
Officials: Don Henry (Missouri), referee: Dr. F. A. Lambert (Ohio State), umpire: Dr. E. P. Maxwell (Ohio State), head linesman; Frank Hogan (DeKalb Normal), field judge.
Race Against Three Big Ten Opponents Next Week.
By James Pick
The 1932 cross - country schedule which was released yesterday pitches the Irish thinlies into four meets this fall.
The first of these is a week’from tomorrow. This contest will bring three Big Ten stalwarts into opposition with Notre Dame over the walks and woodland paths of Evanston. Northwestern, the home team, Wisconsin, and Illinois have powerful squads this year and are anxious to try the Blue and Gold harriers in their first meet.
Carnegie Runs Here
The week after the quadrangular gathering in Evanston, the Carnegie Tech cross-country team will accompany their football squad to Notre Dame. The Scots will run on the local course around St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s Lakes and about the Burke Memorial Golf Links.
This meet will give students their first glimpse of the 1932 thinlies in action. The following Saturday will be an open date.
On November 5, the Irish will be host to Michigan State. This dual meet is bound to be packed with thrills. The Spartan squad has always been one of the closest rivals that Notre Dame has had in track. Then, too, there is a little matter hanging over from last spring when Michigan State nosed out Notre Dame in a track meet 64% -64% to blemish the undefeated record which the Irish had last year. Michigan State is the alma mater of Chamber-lain, the 1930 national intercollegiate cross-country champion. Their teams (Continued on page 28)
October 7, 1932
Tzventy-one
NEW POWER HOUSE
VARSITY SWAMPS FROSH 91-0 IN ANNUAL GAME
Left to right: Ray Brancheau, right halfback; George Melinkovich, full back; Nick Lukats, left halfback; Chuck Jaskwhich, quarterback.
Favorites Advance In Net Meet; Doubles Start
The almost unopposed march of the favorites marked the second round of the fall tennis tourney now in progress on the University Courts under the direction of Manager James Baker. Each of the three favorites swept through to victory in straight sets.
Louis Chreist, the number one man of last year’s varsity and winner of last year’s fall tourney defeated McGinnis 6-3, 6-0. Chreist, in the first set, experienced some difficulty in controlling his shots, but he steadied down in the second to take the set at love.
Dick Kelly, the doubles partner of Chreist, had things all his own way while defeating Link, 6-4, 6-1. Dick Staley the third varsity man swept to a decisive 6-1, 6-1 victory over Brias. With Staley playing at the top of his form, the result was never in doubt.
In the hardest fought match of the round, Gill, after losing the first set, came back to win his match from Valdes 1-6, 6-4.. 9-7.
The doubles tourney started Thursday. The outstanding entry is the Chreist-Kelly combination. Made up of the number one man of last year’s varsity and his regular partner, this
entry appears, on paper, to be invincible.
Manager Jim Baker, however, expects some of the dark horse teams to give the favorites plenty of tough competition. Potential dynamite may be concealed in any one of the ten teams entered, and the Staley-PowTers entry in particular will bear watching.
It was announced Tuesday that trophies had been donated for both the singles and the doubles tournies. To the winner of the singles will go a large silver loving cup while each member of the winning doubles team will receive a smaller cup.
• Summary second round:
Staley defeated Brias 6-1, 6-1.
Hoffman defeated Conner 6-2, 6-4.
Measer defeated Revland 6-2.7-5.
Daly defeated Fallon 10-8, 8-6.
Kelly defeated Link 6-4, 6-2.
Weldon defeated Puterbaugh 1-6, 6-1, 6-4.
Brodshaw defeated Hackenbrook 8-6, 4-6, 6-2.
Haverick defeated Delandeno by default.
Gill defeated Valdes 1-6, 6-4, 9-7.
Chreist defeated McGinnis 6-3, 6-0. Margrett defeated Hill 1-6 6-4, 6-4.
Doubles entrants: Shapiro and Daly, Staley and Powers, Chreist and Kelly, Farastiere and Dugan, Valdes and Margrett, Fredericks and Annos, Gill and Martin, Bintz and Christensen, Cashman and Puterbaugh, Hach-enbrook and Morrisson.
Melinkovich, Brancheau Lead In Touchdown Production
The 1932 edition of the Notre Dame football team made its pre-season debut in the stadium last Saturday by completely overwhelming Jake Kline’s freshman team by the score of 91-0. A crowd of some 8,000 watched most of the varsity and freshman pleyers pass in review during the course of the four hours entertainment.
Freshmen Put Up Good Battle
To say that the varsity did well goes without saying. From the time that Brancheau galloped for a touchdown from the Frosh 30-yard line till “Duke” Millheam outsped the Freshman team in a 79-yard dash for the longest run and final score of the day the varsity had things pretty much its own way. True, the freshmen put up a good battle in the early stages of the game, but once the varsity put on full pressure there was no stopping it.
All of the varsity players were in at some time or other during the fray, and they all showed to advantage. Outstanding, however, was George Melinkovich who made many big gains throughout the course of the afternoon. Time after time he plowed his way through the freshman line and into the open to complete big gains before being taken down by the secondary defense.
Place-kicking Weak
He scored three touchdowns during the afternoon, the first coming after a 28-yard run. Shortly after he scooted along the sideline for 35 yards and another score and at the beginning of the fourth quarter he concluded his scoring for the day by taking the ball over from the eightyard line.
In addition to Millheam’s 79-yard run for a score Labome reeled off a 74-yard run to cross the frosh goal ine and Leonard completed a 60-yard run for a score shortly after he entered the game in the second quarter.
All of the Varsity men who did the punting got them off in good style, but in the matter of making the points after touchdowns they were not so successful. Of the 14 attempted only seven were completed.
(Continued on Page 28)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Lineups Unchanged As Squad Marks Time For First Game
RECORD FIELD BEGINS ANNUAL GOLF TOURNEY

TEAM IS IN SHAPE
Bad Weather Stops Play After First Round.
Shock Troops May Start Game Anderson Tapers off Work During Past Week.
By Joseph Kurth
The process of tapering off for the first game of the 1932 season was in progress upon Cartier Field during the past week under the watchful eye of Coach “Hunk” Anderson. No scrimmage for the first, second, and third string teams was scheduled and the players on those respective aggregations are in excellent shape to meet the Haskell Indian team.
The line-up for the first three clubs has remained unchanged. There is a likelihood that Coach Anderson will start his second team—the “shock troops.” This team should bear the brunt of the first quarter, after which the first team will line up opposite the native Americans.
New Men On Second Team
In the second team line faces appear which were not there in the past. At left end Sturle Canale will enjoy his first year as second string end. On the opposite wing Hugh Devore cavorts in old haunts. The tackle posts, both of them, have new men. On the left Mike Leding, the honor student engineer, and South Bend boy, holds sway; while at the right tackle post Tom Roach occupies the position.
Harry Wunsch, another South Bend lad, and Jack Flynn possess the right to be called shock troop guards. Harry is a monogram winner, while Flynn is new in the traces. Tom “Kitty” Gorman, an experienced youth, holds down the center post. The backfield consisting of Vejar, Koken, Banas, and Sheeketski have all had considerable experience against Norte Dame opponents.
Veterans Make Up First String
On the first team some new but experienced men appear. Ed Kosky, in his third year at the left end position, does his duties at that post. Captain Paul Host holds down the right end position to where he has
Ed Kosky
Begins his third year at left end.
been shifted from the second string left end post of last year’s team. Ed Krause holds the fort at the left tackle position having played there also last year. Right tackle rests on the shoulders of Joe Kurth. The guards posts are possessed by Jim Harris at left guard and Norm Greeney at right guard. Harris is a veteran at his post while Greeney occupies his new role for the first time this year having been shifted from second string left guard.
Haskell Looks Fairly Strong
Ben Alexander, a one year monogram winner, tosses the ball to the backs from the center position. The backfield posts rest in the capable hands of Jaskwhich, Lukats, Melinko-vich, and Brancheau. Lukats did not play last year on account of an injury to his leg, but he played at the left halfback post under Knute Rockne in the season of 1930. The remaining trio all have had at least a year of experience in handling the ball.
In looking over the prospects of the game with the Haskell Indians one finds that the Lawrence, Kansas school possesses a light, fast backfield and a fairly heavy line. Haskell has always been noted for its trick plays, and from the looks of things Coach “Lone Star” Dietz will not disappoint the attending crowd.
What with Babe Ruth breaking all kinds of records in the recent World Series, and with the golf season being on at Notre Dame, it looks as if the year 1932 will go down in history especially at Notre Dame, as a year of record breaking. Last week Win Day established the record of being the first freshman to win the William J. Burke memorial trophy. And this week comes the announcement from Golf Manager “Andy” O’Keefe of another record.
This new record was set last Saturday night for the largest group of entrants ever to participate in the annual handicap tournament. At that time seventy-two men had signified their intention of competing for the trophy to be awarded to the winner by the Athletic Association.
Sixteen foursomes took to the course Sunday morning, and sixteen of the winners were paired to shoot it out before Wednesday afternoon. However, the weather during the early part of the week made it impossible for these matches to be played. The same pairings are still in effect, and it is hoped that weather conditions will be such that these men may get through with their round by Saturday.
The regular elimination process of determining the winner is being used in this tournament. Unfortunately, or if you are in the tourney, fortunately, neither Captain John Monte-donico nor Win Day are competing. However, Bill Veeneman and Johnny Banks are in there carrying the varsity colors.
The sixteen leaders, as a result of the matches played Sunday, and their pairings for the next round are:
Name	Gross	Hdcp. Net		Hdcp
1 R. Maher 			.97	28	69	25
L. Kempf 			87	18	69	15
2 W. Devine 			81	12	69	9
R. Meade 			78	9	69	6
3 Wm. Veeneman ....		76	6	70	3
T. Moran ... ... _ ..		84	14	70	13
4 J. O’Connor				84	13	71	11
G. Nagelsen 				85	14	71	12
5 Ed Eckert				85	14	71	I9
H. Greene 			..83	12	71	10
6 J. Landers ... — ...	..89	17	72	
G. Como 			87	15	72	13
7 Wm. Cole			77	5	72	3
R. Kelley			84	11	73	10
8 M. Olson			87	14	73	13
John Banks			.76	2	74	2
October 7, 1932
Tzoenty-three
SIX INTERHALL GAMES OPEN SEASON SUNDAY
Twenty Games Listed On Great N.D. Basketball Card
Teams End Week of Practise; Record Number Turn Out.
When the barrier is lifted at Churchill Downs and the Kentucky thoroughbreds begin their dash around the track, the crowd bellow’s, “They’re off.” There will be no such cry but the sentiments will be identical here when twelve interhall elevens match speed and brute strength in the opening games of the annual fall grind on Sunday.
The largest turnout in the history of interhall football was recorded last week when all available equipment was disposed of on Thursday and Friday.
78 Out For Dillon
Reports are forthcoming that the Freshman halls all have exceptionally large squads. Dillon leads the field with seventy-eight candidates.
With a week of hard practice behind them, twelve aggregations are keyed for the opener Sunday. Alumni is the only hall that will not swing into action; the junior hall drawing a bye as this week’s assignment.
The six scheduled contests are evenly divided between Groups I and II.
The first intra-class struggle is billed for Sunday. It will feature St. Edward’s pitted against Lyons on Minims field at 9:00. The former crew boasts a fast and heavy team while Lyons is counted on to show up with a traditionally strong machine.
Morrissey opposes Badin on Brownson field at 9:00. The Gold Coast eleven has a squad of twenty-six men, most of whom have seen a year of service in the interhall league.
Dillon vs. Corby
Dillon will meet Corby in the other contest in Group I.
The Howard and Walsh elevens will thunder up and down Cartier field No. 2 at 9:00 in the feature contest in Group II. Howard boasts such interhall stars as Bob McDonough, John Brennan, and Jerry Pahlman.
Off-Campus, always a dark horse in the race, will clash with Brownson, and Carroll will oppose Freshman in the remaining games.
The officials for the opening games follow:
Lyons vs. St. Edward’s — Pivarnic,. Gaul. Fromhart.
Morrissey vs. Badin—Dilling, Bo-
NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL SCHEDULE, 1932-33
Dec. 9—Albion at Notre Dame.
Dec. 15—Illinois Wesleyan at Notre Dame.
Dec. 19—Northwestern at Notre Dame.
Dec. 23—Purdue at Lafayette.
Dec. 28—Ohio State at Columbus.
Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston.
Jan. 7—Marquette at Notre Dame.
Jan. 14—Butler at Notre Dame.
Jan. 21—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Jan. 23—Toledo at Toledo.
Feb. 1—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame.
Feb. 4—Chicago at Chicago.
Feb. 11—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Feb. 18—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Feb. 20—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
Feb. 24—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
Mar. 1—Butler at Indianapolis.
Mar. 4—Wabash at Notre Dame.
Mar. 7—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Haskell Party Due at Noon* Today; Workout in Stadium
A party of 29 Haskell Indians were to arrive here about noon today. The party included 26 players, head coach Dietz, assistant coach Ward, and Athletic Director S. W. MacDonald planned to place a wreath on the grave of Knute Rockne before coming to Notre Dame.
A limbering up workout for the Indians was planned for this afternoon either in the stadium or on the Cartier field practice ground.
Press reports emanating from Lawrence, Kansas, disclosed yesterday that Haskell’s regular fullback, Wapp, may be out of Saturday’s fray.
In the event Wapp is unable to play, Smith will move from quarter to full, and Hindman will play quarterback. The visitors’ party left Lawrence late yesterday.
Opening Games
The unbeaten team of 1919 opened its year against Kalamazoo with a 14-0 win. The champions of 1920 whipped the same opponent 39-0 in their launching. Coming closer to the present, the Four Horsemen ran up 40 points over Lombard as their first canter toward a national title.
nar, Kopzzak.
Dillon vs. Corby—Tobin, Shrenker, Milner.
Howard vs. Walsh—Boland, Basin, McFadden.
Carroll vs. Freshman — Pierce, Dagle, Sullivan.
TO PLAY NINE HERE
New Opponents Scheduled; 5 Big Ten Teams to Clash With Keoganites.
Coach George E. Keogan’s Fighting Irish basketball squad will face twenty hard court battles this winter according to the schedule released yesterday by Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper.
Five quintets who were not on last season’s card will challenge the Irish this year. The newcomers include Illinois Wesleyan, Ohio State, Toledo, Carnegie Tech., and Chicago.
Albion Here Dec. 9
The court season -will get under way before the gridiron curtain comes down. Albion college will limber up Coach Keogan’s boys Dec. 9th. Illinois Wesleyan and the ever present Northwestern Wildcats will play here before the holidays. The fourth preChristmas game will be against Purdue at Lafayette.
Opening their campaign again five days later, the eagers meet Ohio State, and Northwestern the second time to wind up the old year. Their January campaign includes the familiar names of Marquette, Michigan State, Butler, and Pittsburgh, and one of the newcomers, Toledo U.
Six Games In February
A half-dozen tilts will be played during February. Featured in this group is the first Notre Dame-Chicago university game in cage history. The Keoganites will visit the Midway on Feb. 4. Pitt, Pennsylvania, Western Reserve, Michigan State and Carnegie Tech complete the sextet.
Going into the final stretch, a pair of traditional Hoosier rivals get the March games under way when Butler and Wabash face the Irish. The Wabash game here on March 4 will wind up the home season. The year’s finale will be played against Marquette in Milwaukee.
Everything in nature has a purpose, but no one has discovered what is the purpose of the 460 species of fleas.—Dr. E. Bardsley.
Tiventy-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Chuck Jaskwhich
By William Flynn
Charles Joseph Jaskwhich, understudy to Frank Carideo, the Little Napoleon of Notre Dame football in 1930, Napoleon of the team in 1931, . and now holding that position against the onslaughts of Murphy, Vejar, and Foley, wants to be a railroad traffic manager.
With Notre Dame’s schedule, this year, calling for trips to Lawrence, Kan., Cleveland, Pittsburgh, New York, and Los Angeles, Jaskwhich should have plenty of practical experience in observing the different manner in which railroad trains are shuttled back and forth across the continent.
Jaskwhich comes from Kenosha, Wis. Back there at the Kenosha Central high school, the present first string quarterback (at least at this
STRATIGON “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD”
114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special
—served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries
—the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save . money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
writing) was something of an all-around athlete. He was a member of football, basketball, and track teams.
Incidentally, Jaskwhich still holds the Wisconsin inter-scholastic pole vault record which he made while Kenosha was winning their state track title. His mark is 12 feet, and has yet to be surpassed. Perhaps the
FA Y’S Jewelry Co.
COME HERE FOR FINE JEWEWLRY
“We Sell for Less”
Expert Watch Repairing
We Guarantee Our Work at Very Reasonable Prices.
FA Y’S Jewelry Co.
137% S. Michigan St.
possession of that record is the reason why indoor track fans have occasionally observed him in action carrying the Notre Dame varsity track colors.
After the athletically successful high school career, Jaskwhich fell under the spell of Tom Lieb, assistant coach of the Fighting Irish in 1929, and matriculated at this institution in the College of Commerce.
Turns To Football
As course after course was passed, the hankering to become a traffic manager began to make itself felt. But while that idea was developing, the individual, ambitious-to-be-a-man-ager-of-railroad-cars, took a little time off from his studies to learn the art of directing football players toward touchdowns.
He spent one year on the Frosh team. The next season, 1930, saw him sitting on the bench near the late Knute Rockne, absorbing football wisdom from the master. Occasionally, he would get into a game.
In the Southern California game of that year, when Notre Dame routed the Red Shirted warriors from the “Sun Kissed Sands,” Jaskwhich was the boy who “got the second team a touchdown for themselves” in the closing minutes of that perfect exhibition of football.
Regular Last Year
Last year he was given first call for the signal-calling post by Coach Heartley • (Hunk) Anderson. His return of a punt in the closing minutes of the first half of that year’s Southern Cal game was his biggest thrill. His own was the taking of the team down sixty yards in seven plays for a touchdown in the Pitt game.
But to get back to traffic managing, Jaskwhich must know something about that. For the last two years he has won the Hering award for being the best scholar among monogram men. Competition will be tough when he does get the job routing freight cars, he says, but adds that football has taught him the value of competition.
He rooms in 203 Walsh with Vince Burke. When Jaskwhich was questioned about hobbies, Burke said something about “Mary Louise.”
“That’s not right,” stated the quarterback, “my only hobby is weekends to Kenosha whenever I get a chance.”
October
1932
Tiventy-five
ALL-AMERICAN ?
Here is one neat line-up of football articles made to order for YOU—a winning team of All-American players and writers in action.
Jerry Dalrymple, Tulane, kicked off in the September 24th issue. Just look at this schedule for October—and then watch for our November line-up:
Lo! The Poor Tackle, by Red Grange.
66Eckie,”6y Ring Lardner.
Bench -Warmer, by Harry A. Stuhldreher and W. Thornton Martin.	.
Do Football Players Think? by
John Baker, All-American Guard, U. S. C.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST

Twenty-six
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
The most unusual gridiron innova-vation that we’ve heard since Tom Playfair called signals in Latin is due for uncovery in Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow.
These Haskell Indian gridders are reported to employ their own Indian tongue in calling their plays. The language is Chinock, a sort of universal Indian speech. With fifteen tribes represented at Haskell Institute, it is necessary to employ some such common language.
It’s an odds-on bet that the Irish line won’t catch many play numbers tomorrow.
QUOTES
From Red Grange, who has turned author for this week’s Sat. Eve. Post: “I am forced to doff my helmet to the Notre Dame system as the soundest and most scientific of all. The only way to beat that system is to match power with power, meet speed with speed, and pit brains against brains
and pray the breaks will be in your favor.”
“The Notre Dame thrust at the opposing left tackle is football’s hardest play to stop without gain.”
SCORECASTS
Not only bloody, but slightly bowed. We could have stood the 26-0 reverse of Eliowitz and Co. (C. C. note spelling) at Michigan, but to have Yale slide down to Bates’ class after our nice, generous 46-0 gesture toward the Bulldogs was too much.
Stanford and St. Mary’s produced in great fashion for us, ringing up the exact scores we had given them. Thanks. Our total for last week showed 17 wins, 3 losses, and one tie.
This week is a lot tougher. The vanishing American will slip a few notches out here in our own backyard. Michigan looks strong enough to down the Wildcats. We’d prefer an N. U. victory, but can’t see it that way. As a matter of record, we’d prefer a
whole string of N. U. victories, up to and including their Ohio state game, Nov. 5. They play here the 12th.
Our selections for tomorrow’s games:
NOTRE DAME 34, HASKELL 0.
Michigan 14, Northwestern 7.
Army 34, Carleton 0.
Carnegie 14, Western Reserve 0. Columbia 20, Princeton 0.
Oklahoma A & M 7, Drake 0. Michigan State 27, Grinnell 0. Harvard 40, New Hampshire 0. Nebraska 14, Iowa State 0. Marquette 20, Creighton 0. Navy 7, Washington & Lee 0. N. Y. U. 13, Rutgers 0. Ohio State 7, Indiana 0.
Purdue 20, Minnesota 7.
California 7, St. Mary’s 6.
Tulane 13, Georgia 0.
So. California 20, Oregon State 0. Yale 14, Chicago 0.
Wisconsin 13, Iowa 0. Kansas 7, Oklahoma 0. Oregon 7, Washington 0. Pittsburgh 20, Duquesne 0.
STYLE-BOOK
For a few contemporary sports-editor in these parts we would suggest that the official title of the Irish football plant is Notre Dame Stadium—not Memorial Stadium.
STARTS
SATURDAY
Hunted
By Love!
Before the first one's kisses had faded from her lips, she longed for the other’s embrace . . . because she loved them both. What could she do but flee from love?
COMING TUESDAY
For 4 Days
A Timely Drama of the Sporting World!
SPICED WITH A LAUGH A MINUTE-SPEED ROMANCE JACK OAKIE MARION NIXON —ZASU PITTS And THOMAS MEIGHAN
Marlene Dietrich
In JOSEF VON STERNBERG’S Production
“Blonde Venus"
With HERBERT MARSHALL - CARY GRANT
--In-
“Madison Square Garden”
The Surprise Thrill Picture of 1932!
LATE NEWS EVENTS
COMEDY HIT!
AND NOVELTY
COLFAX
A P U B LI X THEATRE
October 7, 1932
Twenty-seven
Records Show Wins, Losses, Hard Battles In Openers
By James S. Kearns
Taken in cross-section, opening day football games at Notre Dame have produced some of the most colorful exhibitions in Fighting Irish history. In the course of the 43 openers already played, Notre Dame elevens have fought against every type of opposition obtainable.
In November of 1887, the first Irish grid team played its only game of the yeai- against Michigan. “On account of time,” says The Scholastic of that week, “only a part of one inning was played and resulted in a score of 8 to 0 in favor of the visitors.”
Highest Score
Paging along in the record book, we uncover the highest score of an opening contest: 116 to 7 over St. Viator’s in 1912. The worst beating taken in an initial game came in 1888 when Michigan triumphed 26 to 6. Notre Dame has not lost an opener since 1896.
If the search turns to hard-fought games, the palm must go to two plucky teams from the South who stormed the Irish stronghold in 1928 and 1930.
Most people remember the latter game when Ray Morrison and his Southern Methodist Mustangs passed the Irish dizzy for three periods and went far into the last quarter sharing a 14 to 14 tie. The breaking of that tie by long passes from Schwartz to Tom Conley and a short off-tackle stab by Schwartz, is part of the saga of Notre Dame’s third national championship.
Loyola In ’28
Loyola University of New Orleans put up the 1928 battle in the opening game on old Cartier Field. Coach Clark Shaughnessy sent an inspired eleven onto the field, fighting to upset Notre Dame on their home grounds— a thing unheard of for over twenty years.
First indications of the Wolf pack’s strength came when they stopped Notre Dame for four downs within the ten yard line. A little later they took the ball on the Irish 45-yard marker. A lad named Junior Lopez tossed a 35-yard pass to Drouilhet,
and three plays later Lopez scored.
Loyola led 6 to 0 till the middle of hte third quarter when Jack Elder cut loose with a 45-yard race for a
Capt. Fred Miller
Held off Loyola
score; the kick for point failed. Loyola soon had a chance on a fumbled punt, but Captain Freddie Miller and the Irish line held them off.
In the middle of the last quarter Johnny Niemiec and Johnny O’Brien entered the game, completed a couple of passes, and closed in on the Loyola goal. A defending back contributed a break when he batted an Irish pass back onto the playing field from the end zone, giving Notre Dame one more try for a score. Despite an heroic stand by Captain Pete Miller and his Loyola mates, Niemiec cracked the Wolves’ line for a touchdown and a 12 to 6 victory.
WELCOME
Notre Dame Men To Our
SODA FOUNTAIN AND LUNCH ROOM
Platter Lunches Complete Dinners Special Sunday Dinners.
“Service with a Smile”
THE PHILADELPHIA
116 N. Michigan
STARTS SATURDAY
The Greatest
Football Classic of All Time!
The All American
With
RICHARD ARLEN
ANDY DEVINE
JAMES GLEASON
and the Entire
1931 ALL AMERICAN
FOOTBALL TEAM
You’ll See
MARCHY SCHWARTZ
TOMMY YARR
FRANK CARIDEO
JESSE C. HARPER
Clarence Munn, Jesse Quatse, Jerry Dalrymple, Jack Riley, Johnny Baker, John Orsi, Gaius Shaver, John Cain, “Moon” Mullins, Chris Cagle, Albie Booth, “Shipwreck” Kelly—
And Many Other Gridiron Stars and Coaches!
DON’T MISS
“THE ALL
AMERICAN”
Starting
SATURDAY
There is a BETTER show in the
RKO
PALACE
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
FRESHMAN HALL TEAM BEATS E. CHICAGO
HIGH SCHOOL 7-0
A group of Freshman Hall gridders journeyed over to East Chicago, Indiana last Friday night, where they nosed out the Washington high school team, 7-0 in a night game.
Both teams showed a lack of experienced team work. Although the Freshmen had the ball in their possession throughout most of the game, they threw away many of their chances by fumbling or by their overanxiousness.
The only score came in the fourth quarter when Tony Mazziatti, right half, plunged over for the winning touchdown. Sam Allsworth, quarterback, kicked the extra point.
The following men made the trip:
119 WEST COLFAX, WEST OF PALAIS ROYALE
"The Mary-Ann Welcomes Notre Dame Men"
LEMONTREES
Optometrists
222% s. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
Allsworth, Angelo, Beezley, Bums, Byrnes, Durn, Flawley, Glynn, Hauze, Buffer, Tom Higgins, Wm. Higgins, Kramer, Mazziatti, McLinn, McShane, Naparano, Reagon, Spilley, Silvano, Scafati, Thehnes, and Tancredi.
FOUR HARRIER MEETS
(Continued from Page 20)
have always had the helpful support of the student body.
In the last meet of the season Notre Dame will travel to East Lansing, the home of the Spartans, to engage in the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet. A large field of runners will most likely be at the starting mark that day.
The prospects for the season are still fair — just fair. In the drills during the past few weeks the fol-
SPECIAL LUNCHES
Dinners
lowing men have been outstanding: Jake Bowers, Joe Young, Tommy O’Meara, Clyde Roberts, Red Hoyt, Tom Grimes, John Duke, Siggy Slus-ka, and Paul La Frambois.
The schedule:
Oct. 15—Quadrangular meet at Evanston—Wisconsin, Illinois, Northwestern, and Notre Dame.
Oct. 22—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame.
Nov. 5—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
Nov. 19—Central Intercollegiate Conference meet at East Lansing.
VARSITY 91, FROSH 0
(Continued from Page 22)
Jaskwhich, usually a certainty in this line, was unable to convert a single point in four attempts.
After the completion of the regular game the members of both the Freshmen and Varsity squads who did not get into the fray battled it out till darkness was coming over the stadium.
Summary:
Varsity	Freshmen	
Kosky	LE	Millner
Krause	LT	Sullivan
Harris	LG	Bassett
Alexander	C	Katz
Greeney	RG	Church
Roach	RT	Martin
Host	RE	Allen
Jaskwhich	QB	Fromhart
Lukats	LHB	Pilney
Braneheau	RHB	Smith
Melinkovich	FB	Cavalier
Score by periods:		
Touchdowns: Melinkovich 3, Braneheau 2, Lukats 2, Koken 2, Leonard, Banas, Tobin, Laborne, Millheam.
Points After Touchdown: Lukats 2, Koken 2, Murphy, Laborne, Staab.
Officials: Referee—Daniels (Loyola), Umpire—Graves (Illinois), Field Judge—Wyatt (Missouri), Head Linesman—Felt (Michigan).
THIS 1 A WILL
TICKET I I If* ADMIT
AND 1	YOU
ANY EVENING AFTER 6 P. M. TO
THE OLIVER
GLASSES ...
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□ .
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
The Oliver makes special concessions to the students to see the best talking-pictures at the lowest prices. :	:	:
Patronize
The Oliver Theatre
and
Save Money.
October 7, 1932
Twenty-nine
FALL TRACK WORKOUTS CONTINUE; TO HOLD
HANDICAP MEETS.
Last Friday afternoon the first fall handicap track meet was held on Cartier field. The races were all short of the regulation distances, but gave the thinlies some incentive to work.
There will be handicap meets of this same type every Friday afternoon until late in October. .
The annual fall meet in which the varsity will compete with the freshmen will be held on or about Oct. 21. The exact date for this meet cannot be decided as yet because the fall session will be prolonged until the weather changes.
About eighty men have been reporting daily for the autumn training. Most of this group appear to be freshmen.
With only nine monogram men returning for the 1933 winter and spring campaigns, upper classmen should have a strong desire to make the varsity.
Many places are open for men in the century, furlong and quarter. The broad jump, high jump, javelin, and discus events also need more aspirants who are eligible for varsity competition.
Highest N. D. Scores
Among the highest scores made by Notre Dame football teams are 82-0 over Highland Views in 1896; 92-0 over American Medical in 1902, and 142-0 against the same team in 1905; 88-0 over Chicago P. and S. in 1908; 80-0 Loyola, in 1911; 116-7 over St. Viator in 1912; 87-0 over Ohio Northern in 1913; 74-0 over Kalamazoo in 1923; and 77-0 over Beloit in 1926.
"energy lunch"
ENJOY a bowl of crisp Kellogg’s Corn Flakes for lunch. Serve with milk or cream and add some sliced bananas.
Today and Every Day at
Cafe Peacock □
Tenderloin Steak, 50c Chop Suey, 25c Chicken Chow Mein, 50c
□
CAFE PEACOCK 128 W. Washington Ave.
South Bend
Good? You bet it is! And good for you. Those delicious flakes furnish rich energy. Easy to digest. Refreshing. The kind of food that helps you feel fit and keep fit. How much better in the middle of the day than hot, heavy dishes! Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee that lets you sleep.
^09^
CORN FLAKES
Thirty
The Scholastic
“THE ALL-AMERICAN”
(Continued from Page 6)
Christy Walsh, New York; and Mr. Harper, Notre Dame.
With the help of Christy Walsh, such players as Frank Carideo, Ernie Nevers, Emy Pinckert, Albie Booth. Fred Lenihan, Gaius Shaver, Russell Saunders, and many other equally well known have been assembled for “The All-American.” Each has a part, however small, in the picture giving the fans a chance to see what the goal-kickers and touchdowners really look like.
The theme is the unravelling of the career of one college star in particular (played by Richard Arlen); the story follows him out of school and gives an insight as to what happens to many a famous pigskin carrier after the shouting has died down. Supporting Arlen in the picture are Gloria Stuart, Andy Devine, June Clyde, Merna Kennedy, Harold Wald-ridge, .and Preston Foster. The work is directed by Russell Mack.
Pointing the way to the
advertised brand
Many a “sale” made by advertising has gone to a competitor because the purchaser did not know where to buy the advertised brand. Telephone men evolved a plan to make it easy to find.
They created a “Where to Buy It” service in the classified telephone directory. There—beneath the advertised trade marks —Buick, Goodrich, RCA Victor, General Electric and many others now list authorized local dealers. Thus telephone men complete the chain between advertiser and consumer—increase, the effectiveness of advertising — help manufacturers and dealers to increase sales—help consumers to get what they want!
Because they apply vision to subscribers’ problems, Bell System men continually increase the value of telephone service.
Drake Tickets
Student tickets for the Drake game will be distributed on the first four days of next week. The ticket distribution is handled at the stadium ticket office at Gate 14, from 3:00 to 5 o’clock each day.
Seniors will receive their tickets on Monday, juniors on Tuesday, sophomores on Wednesday, and Freshmen on Thursday.
NOTICE!
All members of the President’s Council will meet in the North basement of the Library tonight at 6:30 p. m.
OTTO INVITES YOU
NICKLE LUNCH
Wholesome Delicioits Food
Any Dish, 5c Sandwiches, 5c
BELL SYSTEM
T-Bone Steaks ....35c
Pork Chops —......30c
Fried Chicken .....30c
Hamburger Steak___25c
Above orders include
French Fried Potatoes, Bread and Butter, or Toast; Coffee.
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
October 7, 1932
Thirty-one
T TEAM SEED, SQUAD ANNOUNCED BY HARPER
Trips to Texas, Pennsylvania Feature Hamburger Season.
A four game schedule including two intersectional affairs was announced today foi’ the Notre Dame “B” football squad by Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper.
The Reserves will open their season against Kalamazoo college tonight at Kalamazoo. The game will be played under floodlights.
October 28 will see the Hamburgers making the longest trip in Irish “B” team history when they travel to Lubbock, Texas for a game with Texas Tech. Tech looms as the stiffest opposition on the card in view of their 6-0 victory over Southern Methodist last week.
St. Thomas college of Scranton will provide the opposition in the second intersectional battle to be played on their field Nov. 5. The final game of the year will take the Reserves to Lafayette to meet the Purdue “B’’ squad on Nov. 12.
This year will be the first time that the Reserve squad has been kept intact every week. Several Saturdays in past years there have been as many as three Norte Dame “B” teams playing in various places.
RADIO CLINIC
R _W ZELLERS MGR
"SERVICE our specialty'
PHONE 4-2343
L 116 WEST COLFAX AVE „
Across from Palais Roy ale
Your Set and Tubes tested FREE!
New guaranteed
Radio Tubes____
New Philco-Superheterodyne Radios, 18.75 Complete
STUDENT Newest $12.95 special i
A squad of 22 gridders will make the trip to Kalamazoo tonight. The roster for the group was announced last night as follows:
Left ends—Hafron and Herold Left tackles—Mariani and Kennedy. Left guards—Knappman and Fisher. Centers—D’Amora and Fitzmaurice. Right guards—Shamla and Bruno. Right tackles—Jehle and Cousino. Right ends—Murphy and Sullivan. Quarterbacks—Crossan and Burke. Left half backs—Cavender and Devitt. Right half backs—McArdle and Mudre. Fullbacks—Ronzone and Heinle.
Managers—Vince Gorman and Jim C'oll.
What is a classic, if it be not a book that forever delights, inspires, and surprises,—in which and in ourselves, by its help, we make new discoveries every day.—Lowell.
$45.00 Sr*
This Price includes 8 Tubes and Federal Tax Paid.
c/Ka/ntota
8 TUBE SUPERHETERODYNE
Ask “Kingfish” Leonard how he likes his set. --------------------❖❖--------
GOODRICH SILVERTOWN INC.
LAFAYETTE AT COLFAX Phone 4-1144	We’ll send a Set out.
INDIANA
RESTAURANT
226 N. MICHIGAN Opposite LaSalle Hotel
COMPLETE SPECIAL DINNERS
25c
No charge for extra cup of coffee.
We welcome NOTRE DAME MEN
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Architecture?
Kenneth Reid, managing editor of the architectural publication, ’'Pencil Points,” writes: "The successful architect needs not only an instinctive feeling for design and a technical skill in construction, but also a complete cultural background. Architecture requires long training, intensive concentration, a keen mind.”
IN ARCHITECTURE, certainly, brains rate 100 per cent. ". . . intensive concentration, a keen mind.” That’s why in this business, as in college, a pipe is the favorite smoke. Get out your pipe now, light up, and through the curling blue puffs of Edgeworth,* let your mind drift down the road to thoseyears after graduation.
If you’re not already an Edgeworth, smoker, there’s new smoking satisfaction waiting for you. Edgeworth’s blend of fine old hurleys is distinctive, different. You’ll know—after the first puff. Want to try it before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Larus Bro. Co., 105 S.22dSt., Richmond,Va.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edge worth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—151 pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
On Down The Line
Ry Fred MnrRpth
Just as 15 members of the WOODMERE (Long Island), ACADEMY football team were being treated for severe burns, after being struck by lightning, RAWSON LATHAM, a Findlay, Ohio, football star, tackled a LEIPSIC ball-carrier, rolled into a crowd of spectators and bowled over his mother . . . she was taken to the hospital with a fractured ankle . . . LAURIE VEJAR, alternate first team quarterback is the smallest man on this year’s Irish squad . . . The Spanish midget is 5 feet 6 inches tall and weighs 150 pounds .... EMMETT MURPHY runs a close second for small man honors.
Reports from Prague say that FRANZ DOUDA, the Czecho-Slovakian weight man, has again broken the world shot-put mark . . . that makes it the third time . . . yet LEO SEXTON beat him handily at the Olympics . . . the same thing goes for KAYE DON ... he makes plenty of speedboat records, but GAR WOOD manages to win all of the races . . • GENE VENZKE was great indoors . . . PEN HALLOWELL and RALPH HILL beat him when it counted most.
Recommended by the English Department of THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Webster’s Collegiate
Tile Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority. Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it for the wealth of ready information that is instantly yours.
106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,268 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography; Hiles of punctuation; use of capitals abbreviations, etc.; a dictionary Of foreign phrases; and other helpful special features.
See it at your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you name this paper.
Duquesne boasts a poetical guard . . . MAROON ANTOON by name . . . JOHN BEGOLLY is a halfback at GENEVA COLLEGE . . . CHRIS REILLY who banged the BIG drum in the N. D. band last year, is taking a stiff course at the CINCINNATI SCHOOL OF EMBALMING ... at a recent tournament of the “HOLE-IN-ONE CLUB,” held on a New York course, 300 “ACES” shot a total of 1500 balls on a 150-yd. hole . . . and failed to get a single ball down in one . . . the nearest was 42 inches from the pin.
LOU GEHRIG and TED BUSING were on the same high school baseball team in NEW YORK CITY . . . TED sat on the bench . . . this summer CLEVELAND and the ATHLETICS played a 19-inning game . . . the A’s won 18-17 . . . there were 54 hits made . . . BURNETT, the INDIAN shortstop, had nine in eleven attempts . . . ROMMELL allowed 28 hits, but got credit for a win . . . WILLIE McFARLANE, former open golf champ, managed to score a couple of 67’s in the ROCK LEDGE OPEN, at HARTFORD . . . HOWARD JONES is emphasizing a sudden shift and unexpected change in position of the linemen, making it difficult to spot the eligible pass receivers . • .
ALLERTON HOTEL^
Still Time if You Hurry
to get the famous
er
^uofold Pen
for only
and an old pen—or the great over-size
$7 Duofold Sr. Pen
for only	and an old pen
Parker reserves the right to end this National Trade-in Sale any day!
A make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in.
Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.00 to 12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$1.50 to $4.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL
Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
Tens of thousands of people are trading in old pens of all makes for $1.25 to $2.50 cash in payment for Parker’s latest streamlined Duofold Pens, and trading in old mechanical pencils for 75c to $1.00 on the purchase of brand new Parker Duofold Pencils.
This National Trade-in Sale by Parker, to make way for late fall and Christmas shipments, is the biggest clearance ever held in the fountain pen industry.
These are Parker’s latest and smartest colors, including Burgundy and Black, Sea Green and Black, Jade, Plain Black, etc. All have streamlined non-breakable barrels—the pens with super-smooth, pressureless writing Duofold points, and quickstarting, non-clogging feed.
Take your old pen or pencil to the nearest pen counter before this offer expires and walk out with a beautiful new Parker Duofold Pen, or Duofold Pencil, or both.
The pen you trade in must have a 14k gold point but it does not have to be a Parker. The Parker Pen
Company, Janesville, Wisconsin.
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS
Inc.
THE PARKER PEN
STORE
116 S. Michigan St.
237
CAMPUS PARKER
PEN STORE
THE BOOK STORE
Badin Hall