Vol. XIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 21, 1885.	No. 15.
St. Thomas, Apostle*
’Twas not the letter’s bond, the law’s control, But Faith unseeing made men’s spirits whole, Till Thomas, doubting, Jesus’ wound beheld, Then touched, believed, and doubt fore’er dispelled.
Through him our Faith is built on solid ground— Our ozvn hands touch the Lord; we hear the sound Of His sweet words that chasten, yet invite All wav’ring souls to seek the steadfast light, o	o
Oh, great Apostle! favored o’er the rest, Whose hand was laid on the Redeemer’s breast, Who made that fount of peace again to ope The well-spring of our faith, our love, our hope!
Strong in his new-born grace, with heart inspired By love infused and light from sense acquired, The Apostle speeds like giant in his glee J To spread Christ’s name and fame o’er land and sea.
To furthest Ind his tireless footsteps turn, Her dusky children hear his words that burn , Like their own sun; the great Redeemer’s name Spreads o’er the East—a soul-consuming flame.
Thus, myriad souls—that, seeing not, believe And blessed are—his primal fault retrieve. The cruel spear beneath whose stroke he died Renews the grace he drew from Jesus’ side; And through this gate divine his soul flows out To realms where never entered sin nor doubt.
And thou, dear Father, Thomas called from him, May thy life’s cup be filled above the brim With sweet assurances of grace divine.
May Thomas’ virtues live again in thine!	.
May Faith above thy path its rays send forth, Like that true star that glistens in the North! Should dangers threaten, or should ills betide, Thy haven be the wound in Jesus’ side.
* Address to Rev. President Walsh, read by Master E. Porter at the Twenty-eighth • Annual Winter Exercises of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
J Exultaxrit ut gigas ad currendam niam.—Ps.
Christmas.
BY F. H. DEXTER.
“ Mortals, awake, with angels join, And chant the solemn lay; * '	Joy, love, and gratitude combine
To hail the auspicious day.”	•
As Christmas approaches, the whole of Christendom unites in celebrating, with liveliest demonstrations, this glorious festival which commemorates the birth of the Man-God in Bethlehem, eighteen centuries ago. Of all the feasts and time-honored customs of the Christian world, there are none more sacred in character, none more rich in associations, or more interesting in the manner of celebrating than Christmas and its joyous festivities. Wherever the festival is observed, it is the occasion of generous impulses and friendly sentiments.
This happy season comes to infuse into the hearts-of all the blessed fire of charity, and to wake from million lips the glorious orison of “Peace on earth, good-will to men”; it comes as a soothing balm, healing the wounds caused by personal enmities and private wrongs; it comes to fill with unselfish happiness the rich and the poor, the young and the old, and to unite all in a common bond of gratitude and joy.
That eventful night,	.
“ Wherein the Prince of Light	.
His reign of peace upon the earth began,”
has Been celebrated from the earliest ages; while yet the foot-prints of the Holy One were fresh upon the shores of Galilee, hymns, sung by the first Christians in honor of His Nativity, arose from over the hills of Jerusalem.
In the work’s of the early Fathers many references are made to this festival, and we read that, during the reign of Diocletian, who held his court at Nicomedia, a church, where a number of Christians had gathered to celebrate the Nativity, was set on fire and burned, all the people within perishing in the flames.	.
The institution of Christmas as a regular festival of the Church is attributed, by decretal letters, to Pope Telesphorus, who died A. D. 138. : In the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
beginning it was the most movable of feasts, being confounded and celebrated with the Epiphany until the year 325. About this time, St. Cyril of Jerusalem became convinced of the importance of finding the exact date of our- Saviour’s birth, and at his instance, John, Archbishop of Nice, induced Pope Justin I to make inquiry into the matter. After an extended and careful investigation, the theologians of the East and West, relying chiefly upon the tables of the censors in the archives of Rome, agreed upon the 25th of December. The Greek Church, however, observes it on the 6th of January.
Many have been the methods of celebrating this festival in various lands, and numerous are the legends relating to it. These bore peculiar characteristics, according as they were influenced by the nature and situation of the people. It is curious, though, to notice the similarity of elements and features which still prevailed among them, all breathing the same spirit of devotion and happiness.
The fires which the hardy Northmen kindled on the bleak hills of Norway, and the rude verses that they chanted under the midnight sky, were expressive of as deep a reverence as that exhibited in the more lively* demonstrations of the people of southern lands.
We have to look to the poet and dramatist, rather than to the historian, for information concerning common life and manners in the olden time; but in these fields of English literature, in particular, the antiquarian may find many rich and interesting descriptions of scenes and customs that may throw a strong light upon the path of inquiry. The games and sports which formerly characterized the Christmas season were of the most extravagant and hearty kind. In their character, a strong resemblance can be traced to the celebrations of the Romans at the Winter Solstice. The “lord of misrule”—a conspicuous figure in the Christmas revels of mediaeval times—was, in a manner, the successor of the mock “king,” who presided over the sports of the Saturnalia. The fanciful and superstitious character of these pagan exercises, however, was dispelled and changed by the pure and healthy sentiments of Christianity.
Norway, Italy, England, Spain, France, and Germany are the cradle-lands of homely customs and beautiful legends, whose semi-mystic spirit invests them with singular interest and endows them with universal popularity.
In old England, Christmas was the greatest day in all the year. All distinctions were laid aside, and all men were on an equality:
“ Then open’d wide the Baron’s hall
.	To vassal, tenant, serf, and all;
Power laid his rod of rule aside, ' * And Ceremony doff’d his pride;
The heir with roses in his shoes, $ That night might village partner choose.”
The festivities were held in the halls of the nobles, frequently lasting from All Hallow eve -to Candlemas Day. For weeks before the eventful day, the lady of the house was occupied in superintending a large corps of servants who were
busily engaged in laying away in the capacious store-room enormous supplies of Christmas viands and in preparing numerous rich and curious dishes peculiar to the feast. The Italians have a proverb— “ He is as busy as an English kitchen at Christmas!” Holly, bays, laurel, ivy, rosemary, and mistletoe were brought in from the forests and hung upon ceiling, wall, and pillar; while the Yule log, erected in the massive fire-place and lit on Christmas eve, was kept blazing many days after into the new year. This custom of decorating the house with holly and mistletoe is a relic of the days of the ancient Druids who thus decked their temples on their feasts.
In the old Church calendars, Christmas -eve is marked, Templet exornantur—“ Adorn the temples.” The Yule log derives its name from the feast of Juul when, at the Winter Solstice, huge bonfires were kindled by the Norsemen in honor of Thor. When the halls were filled with all whom the hospitality of the lord could gather, '
“ The huge hall-table’s oaken face, Scrubbed till it shone, the day to grace,”
was laden with its stores, and everyone was licensed to enjoy himself as he pleased. On this occasion, the usual division by the salt was not observed.
First among the dishes at the feast was the boar’s head, garnished with bays and rosemary, which was brought into the festal hall with great ceremony and sound of minstrelsy.
The duty of bearing the boar’s head was one of great honor and a position of distinction. According to Halinshed, Henry II performed this service on certain occasions at the table of the prince, his son.	■ w .
If tradition be true, a most curious circumstance explains the introduction of this dish at Christmas, feasts. A student of Queen’s College, Oxford, was walking in a neighboring forest, reading Aristotle, when he was suddenly attacked by a ferocious boar. Without a moment’s hesitation, he boldly grappled with the beast and rammed his volume down its throat, crying, as he did so, “ Gracum estI” Thus, as is narrated, the savage was vanquished by the sage. The animal was borne to his college where its head furnished a novel feast, and so the custom, originally begun by his comrades to commemorate the student’s valor, soon became popular throughout all England.
Next in importance among Christmas dishes was the well-preserved fowl—the peacock—which, being first deprived of its skin with feathers intact, was roasted, and afterwards set upon the fable dressed in its beautiful plumage.
It was not until the beginning of the sixteenth century that the now popular turkey appeared at Christmas feasts.
Our ancestors made merry over the savory goose, venison, mutton, and fatted beef, with plum-pud- . ding, apple and mince pies, and countless other palatable things,—all of.which were accompanied by deep potations of mead, ale, Gascon-wine, or sparkling cider. •	’	‘
The banquet lasted far into the Christmas eve,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
235
and was continued with as great festivity the following night.
About the time that the common people ceased to understand Latin, a beautiful custom became prevalent in England. This was the singing of carols on Christmas eve, in imitation of the songs of the shepherds when they found the new-born King in the stable of Bethlehem. We find a like custom existing on the continent, as is shown in the Weinachts Lieder of Germany and the noels of F rance.
One of the first books printed in England was “ A Book of Christmasse Carolles,” from the press of Wynkin de Worde. A modern author thus expresses their beautiful sentiment:
“ There’s a song in the air, There’s a star in the sky, There’s a mother’s deep cry, And the star rains its fire, . While the-beautiful sing, For the manger of Bethlehem Cradles a King.”
The young people, boys and girls of a village, having- most likely been practised by the choirmaster, went about from house to house, decked in white and ivy, singing their beautiful carols. When they finished, the good people of the house threw open their doors and, with faces glowing with kindliness, welcomed them in to partake of the good cheer spread in the large, raftered kitchen where
“ The fire, with well-dried logs supplied, Went roaring up the chimney wide.”
While yet the company were making merry, another party, all most fantastically dressed, would probably come tramping in, without invitation or warning. These were the “ mummers ” who, none the less welcome on account of their intrusion, and without more ado, began to go through a ludicrous performance, entitled “ Saint George, of Merrie old England,” in which the national champion, clad in a ridiculous garment profusely ornamented with spangles and odd pieces of manycolored ribbon, achieves some prodigious feats of valor with a wooden sword and a pasteboard shield. At the conclusion, upon the hearty invitation of the host, they all refreshed themselves, and then departed to perform their music and their mummery at some other house. .
As they went off into the bright night, through the crisp snow, their merry voices and beautiful songs rang out and re-echoed from hill and dale upon the Christmas air until midnight, when all the bells were tolled, and caroilers and mummers dispersed to their homes. .
To this day the choristers of the village churches in England retain this quaint custom; and in Italy, the Calabrian minstrels leave their mountain homes for Rome and Naples, where they offer their rude music before the shrines of the Virgin Mother of the Incarnate Word. Loving mothers, who had not the money to buy gifts for their little ones, would send them out to sing carols before the houses of the rich, who kindly received and treated them to a Christmas feast.
It was in Germany that the Christmas tree originated; and here also appeared that well-beloved Knecht Rti^ert, or “ Chris Kringle,” who came from mystery-land to hold such potent sway in the childrens kingdom. He appeared also in England, and other countries, at an early date.
The real Knecht Rti'pert of modern Germany, where this festival is known as “the children’s season,” is a neighbor, dressed in an odd costume, with long, gray beard and hair, who calls at the house on Christmas eve, bearing beautiful gifts which have been secretly sent to him by the parents.
A custom, popular among the children of the United States and somewhat similar to that in Germany, is to hang up their stockings near the fire-place that “ Santa Claus,” the giver of good things, may see them. At an early hour, little feet go pattering off to bed; later, bright eyes expectantly peer over the coverlet before closed in sleep:
“ Darker and darker
The black shadows fall, Sleep and oblivion Reign over all.”
Then it is that “ the jolly old man, with his pack on bis back,” whisks down the chimney and fills the stockings with beautiful gifts. He calls on the children of the rich and the poor; and, though his gifts, are sometinres humble, no one is forgotten. It is seldom that his visit cannot bring pleasure to unsuspecting and simple little hearts.
Christmas customs were not very popular in the United States in the beginning, especially among the stern Puritans, who thought to find in these simple ceremonies too close a resemblance to the rites of paganism; and the feasting which accompanied this festival in the land they left 'was to them an abomination, and hateful in the eye of the Lord. Lapse of time and contact with other peoples have worn away this prejudice, even in New England, while in every other portion of the United States the festival is celebrated with almost as much enthusiasm as it is abroad.
Notwithstanding the respect and pleasures which • it now calls forth, it has lost much of its former character. The quaint and even artistic customs of the olden time have been worn away and robbed of much of their simple beauty by the steady shifting of public sentiment into practical channels. Religious rites have, with many, given place to social festivities; and that spirit which opened the hearts and homes of "our ancestors to every one in the land is now almost confined within the limit of the home-circle.
To the children alone does the festival retain its festive character; and even they are annually becoming more undeceived as to some of its intitu-tions. The youngster, who, had he lived.some years ago, would have implicitly believed in the existence of a mysterious being who rewarded good boys and girls on Christmas eve, now hies to bed, but not to sleep on this night; and when the door is softly opened, whispers to his brother, with something like a wink: “ Lay low, Johnnie, here comes pap!”
2^6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
For the sake of society and the advancement of the public morals, the Christmas season must not be divested of those innocent and, withal, reverent associations which tend to inspire in us a deep veneration for home and its influences, to purify and broaden the mind by a contemplation of what is high and noble, and to create a bond of sympathy and fellow-feeling among all men.
Let us rather, at the first approach of this happy season, open the flood-gates of love that a deep and fruitful stream of charity—charity so apt to be locked up in our hearts, behind the barriers of selfishness—may burst forth to deluge the land in happiness—a stream in which suffering may be assuaged and sorrow be comforted. Let us throw about thee, O Christmas season, a halo of light, as did the glimmering star of old over the lowly cradle in Bethlehem, so that, increasing, year by year, in brilliancy, it may at last blaze forth a signal and a sign of the glorious resurrection of Him o	o
whose Nativity thou commemoratest!
“Heap on more wood!—the wind is chill; But let it whistle as it will,
.We’ll keep our Christmas merry still.”
Yes, heap on more of the wood of good intention and practical resolution in the furnace of charity; rake away the dross that has been left as the rankling remembrance and effect of past sins and present enmities; while the warmth of the new fire, penetrating our hearts, will fill them with complacency on that blessed day, when the booming bells ring out to all,
Amerky Christmas and a happy New Year!
A Friend.
sities of a friend.” All classes have their friends, from the prince in his palace, to the beggar that wanders from door to door. When we are so fortunate as to possess a true friend, we should do all in our power to retain him.
Each and every one on this earth of ours, the saint and sinner alike, may be assured of one true Friend in Him whose coming amongst us, whose assumption of oui' mortality, in order to remove from us the burden of sin and misery, and procure for us the enjoyment of a blissful immortality we commemorate in the joyous Christmas festival.
Jno. J. Hamlyn.
Carol.
The snow upon the ground
Was white as woolly fleece, And the quiet flocks around
Were folded and at peace;
While the shepherds in the night,
Watching for the morning light,
Wondering saw the golden gleaming of the snows;
Saw a splendid star ascending	'
In the East, where softly blending Angel voices on the mellow air arose.
In a snowy manger laid,
Warmed by fragrant breath of kine,
Neither fretful nor afraid,
Smiling in Its sleep divine,
Lo! the Christ-child from above,
All aglow with heavenly love,
Though so bitter and so wintry was the weather;
While above Him, near and far, Each and every little star
Lifted up a voice that rang as they sang all together.
A friend is the most precious jewel that one can possess. The diamond’s sparkle and the ruby’s tint are darksome compared to friendship’s transcendent lustre. It is.not only radiant in the noonday sun of prosperity, but it sparkles and glows in the midnight of adversity. It is a gem that all the world’s wealth cannot purchase.
But the diamond can be imitated; so, too, alas! may friendship be assumed. How often is it the case, for example, that a man, when possessed of all the luxuries that riches can procure, has around him a host of people who help him to spend his money, and with praise and flattery profess to be his friends; but let the night of adversity hang its dark pall over him, and quickly is he abandoned by those who at one time felt it an honor to be recognized by him, and who now pass him by as if they were not aware of his existence.
A true friend, like the ivy that clings to the walls of the old, deserted castle, is ever by one’s side—to comfort us in sorrow and rejoice with us in prosperity; to give due praise for the good that is done, and censure for the wrong committed.
As all precious gems are rare, so are friends; and well may we quote: “ Rare, indeed, is a faithful friend who will persevere in all the pressing neces-
Snow.
This is a subject expatiated upon by writers in every age, and on which poets have exhausted the mechanism of rhyme and rhythm. However, in all the works of nature, there is ever found something new—something: that furnishes food for reflection. Thus it is that the thoughts which the first fall of snow suggests to those in the different stations of life are almost as varied as the forms of the flakes themselves.
Before the active mind of the school-boy flit visions of sled and skate, of games of snowball which bring to the cheek the ruddy glow of health. To the farmer, who from the fruitful fields has garnered in his store of grain, comes the thought of a well-earned season of rest, of months of enjoyment spent in the closer communion of the family circle. To those occupying higher stations in so- , called fashionable society, visions of a constant whirl of pleasure and excitement are presented; and too often, may it be said, in this, as in other, affairs of life, the dreams of expectancy exceed the reality.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
237
But the student, whose duty should prompt him to gather knowledge from every source, will find this to be a subject, not only replete with information, but full of beauties unknown to the careless observer.
In the formation of the snow-flake, or crystals, the atmosphere should be moist - and the temperature below 320 Fahrenheit. When the atmosphere is calm and about this temperature, the crystals are large and may be easily studied; but as the cold increases, they become finer, and their examination more difficult. The snow-flake is composed of crystals always uniting regularly at angles of 30, 60, or 120 degrees, and comprising some of the most beautiful forms of pyramidal rhombic and hexagonal crystals. If they were solid, they would be transparent like nearly all other crystallized bodies; but, being filled with air, the transmission of light is impeded, and the rays, striking the assembled faces of the crystals, are reflected, thereby giving to the flakes their brilliant whiteness. In the process of crystallization, the vapor in the atmosphere is first condensed to a liquid state, by the lowering of temperature, then solidified; in the mean while, the liquid volume expands eight or ten times.
Seven or eight hundred distinct varieties of crystals have been observed; but they may all be placed under a few principal heads. Among the varieties most common in this latitude are flakes possessing either a spherical nucleus, or a plain figure studded with needle-shaped crystals; 2d, prismatic crystals, usually three or six-sided; 3d, six-sided pyramids; 4th, crystals in the form of thin plates. To the latter class belong by far the greater number of crystals; and although’including many varieties, their arrangement is regular, and their axes inclined to each other at angles of 60 degrees. Another remarkable fact that may be noticed is that the flakes which fall during the same snow storm, as a rule possess the same figures; while those falling- in the* next may be altogether different.
Although the snow seen in temperate regions is always white, other colors are often seen in the Polar zones and on the tops of mountains. Red snow is often met with in those regions. In 1813, the whole range of the Apennine Mountains was covered with a rose-colored snow. In i8i8, the Pyrenees, Alps, and Apennines were covered with snow of a brilliant crimson hue. In 1838, the snow at Spitzbergen, which on the surface appeared of dazzling whiteness, when pressed by the foot became green in color. The coloring matter seemed to lie just below the surface. .
The cause of these singular hues is the presence of an infinite number of microscopic plants which lie just beneath the surface, and whose tenacity of life enable them to exist at a very low temper-’ ature. These minute vegetables are composed of globules, each about one thousandth of an inch in diameter. Each globule is made up of six or seven cells filled with a liquid, in which live a number* of animalcules. The original .color of the plants is supposed to be red, and the green and other hues to be due to action of light and air.
In the economy of nature, snow serves many important purposes. Gathered in an exhaustless store on the mountains of the globe, it is the fountain-head of innumerable streams, nfajestic cataracts and purling rivulets, which, in their turn, flowing through burning sands, water plains that otherwise would be arid wastes, causing fields to fructify and valleys to smile and.bloom; while the snow-capped mountains within the tropics may be styled the great refrigerators of nature—tempering the winds, and mitigating the fierce temperature of those glowing regions. On the other hand, in latitudes where the winters are severe, snow forms the covering which nature spreads like a blanket over the earth, protecting the soil and vegetation from the rigors of a frigid climate. _
P. J. Goulding.
Elocution and Eloquence.
Elocution is a very important part of oratory; so important, indeed, that eloquence seems to derive its name from it. It is guided and governed by certain principles which should be familiar, closely observed, and thoroughly practised by all who wish to become proficient in the science of reading and speaking correctly, either in private companies or public assemblies.
Without ample information, no practical oration was ever yet produced. The true spirit of genuine eloquence, like an intense fire, is kept alive by adding fresh fuel: every new commotion gives it vigor, and in proportion as it burns, it extends and brightens to a pure flame.
In like manner, he who possesses the power of eloquence rises to eminence; and,"by means of the art which gives him popularity, he is sure to eclipse . his fellows. He strengthens his influence over the minds of men, and gains favor, not only in a particular society, but in all and each of the assemblies of the people.
When, upon some grand occasion, the orator comes forth with a well-digested speech, filled with the thoughts suggested by his subject matter, and aroused to animation by a feeling of sympathy with the thoughts inspired and a desire to impart that feeling to his auditors, his breast expands and heaves with feelings of emotion unfelt before. In his joy there is a dignity and composure suited to the occasion, and to the weight and energy of the composition which he has prepared.
In the present age, the tenets of philosophy and the precepts of rhetoric are -no longer a secret. The common class of our day are now, I will not say fully instructed, but fairly well acquainted with . the elements of elocution, oratory, and delivery. The orator, therefore, finds himself obliged to seek new avenues to the heart, and new graces and style to embellish his discourse, in order that he may be able‘to attract the close attention of his audience.
Therefore I say it is absolutely necessary that the student should have, to some extent, mastered the sciences, especially those who are intended for the pulpit, the court of justice, or the public plat-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
form: for it is an established fact that a graceful 7	O
and well-connected speech, is much sought for, highly appreciated, and very much admired by all.
Posterity will admire and revere those noble souls who appty themselves with devotedness and sincerity to the acquirement of these sciences, that they may, with more facility, be able to defend and protect their country, and render assistance to their fellow-man. Behold the immortal Daniel O’Connell, the Liberator of Ireland, what great and extraordinary works he achieved in his time! How did he accomplish this?—was it by force of arms? No, it was not: it was by the force of eloquence, and his close attention never to violate not even a letter of the law.
His understanding was great and comprehensive; his genious rich and powerful; his manner of thinking and acting ingenious, elegant; and even charming. His deep researches in moral philosophy and law excited the admiration of all those great dignitaries of England who, in spite of all they could do, both by intrigues and flatteries, invariably gained his case, and gained for his country the greatest of all blessings—Catholic emancipation.
These are the fruits of elocution and eloquence —well known to all, and palpable to every common observer.	R. W. O’K.
The Elizabethan Drama.
In glancing over the literary annals of a nation, we are forcibly struck with the fact that in the rude time of its early history—when the people were comparatively unlearned, and the resources of art less cultivated—poetry flourished more, and reached a loftier standard of general excellence than it afterwards attained when the sun of science and education had cast its resplendent rays upon the nation and refined the people. In England, this fact is particularly noticeable in regard to dramatic poetry, which, from the middle of Elizabeth’s reign until the end of that of James I, was the most dazzling, not only of the poetry of the period,but of any in our literature. No other age presents such a splendid array of dramatic writers —no other possesses dramas so pre-eminent for originality and poetic sentiment. During this era Shakspeare, Beaumont and Fletcher, Ben Jonson, Massinger, Ford, Shirely, Webster, and others, form a brilliant constellation, and their gigantic powers of thought marvellously developed the English drama, and produced compositions which are among the rarest poetic gems in the casket of literature. Their style is singularly beautiful. Their diction is marked by a fascinating simplicity, while their scenes abound with intensely rich creations of fancy.	-
In selecting figures of speech, they do not confine themselves to any particular range, but they-draw them indiscriminately from the inexhaustible fountain of nature. When we compare the narrowed manner of the French dramatists in choosing their -	■ v	, o
embellishments according to classic rules, with the wide-spread ramblings of the Elizabethan school,
we are forced to acknowledge the vast superiority of the compositions of the grand old English masters. Another peculiarity in the works produced by these seemingly inspired writers of this golden period is that their characters discourse in unsteady and irregular dialogue, like real men and women; while in the Continental drama every speech is ostentatiously set forth in pompous declamation.
French dramas are inferior, inasmuch as their studied and digested speeches are not characteristic, since they are not natural. As works of “ eloquent argumentation,” we do notdeny them the first place; but as true representations of nature— as exact portraits of human character, as vehicles of the virtues and passions—we hold them inferior to the effusions of the old English dramatists. But although the compositions produced by the Elizabethan masters abound in excellencies which cause them to far outshine the dramas of any other period, although they are master-pieces, displaying elegance of diction, rich creations of transcendent genius extended flights of poetic fancy, yet they have faults; and that these faults are numerous and glaring cannot be denied by any one not carried away by an idolatrous love. They sometimes allow their florid passages to degenerate into downright bombast; again, they are often sometimes heavy and inelegant; but by fartheir most unpardonable fault is the employment of low, vulgar and obscene expressions and allusions; for although we may make some allowance for the customs of the age in which they wrote, we cannot, by any means,deem these customs an entire excuse for their maleficence in these respects.
But if the faults of those writers are to be severely condemned, their excellencies are to be highly extolled; and the common verdict of critics is that their works are among the most imperishable monuments ever reared by dramatic genius. The judgment of Lord Jeffrey is so just and impartial a criticism of the age about which we are writing that we have been tempted to quote it: “ When we look calmy and candidly,” he says, “to the works of our eaily dramatists, it is impossible, we think, to dispute, that after criticism has done its worst on them—after all deductions for impossible plots and fantastical characters, unaccountable forms of speech and occasional extravagance, indelicacy and horrors—there is a facility and richness about them, both of thought and of diction,—a force of invention and a depth of sagacity, an orignality of conception and a play of fancy, a nakedness and energy of passion and, above all, a copiousness of imagery, and a sweetness and flexibility of verse,—which is altogether unrivalled in earlier or later times, and places them, in our estimation, in the very highest and foremost place among- ancient or modern poets.	E. F. A..
“So you did not succeed very well with your school in Illinois?”—“No; I had to give up at the end of the first month.”—“ Did you use the blackboard much? ”—“ No, it was too large: but I used all the other furniture in the room that wasn’t nailed down.”—Graphic.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	239
Christmas.
Festa dies agitur totum celebrata per orbem, Quo Deus Omnipotens nobis aliquando promissum Perficit ingentique homines miseratus amove
Visitat et mundi Dominus fit parvulus Infans.— Credimus teternum ccelo descendere Verbum. .Nomine Christus adest: pura de Virgine Natus Prodiit in lucem ut deleret crimina terne Innocens, tenebrasque prius depelleret atras, Quam divoe Fidei mysteria sacra doceret.
Hie jacet ignotus cceli terneque Creator;
Hie veluti solium Puero prresepe nitescit;
Vix commune potest stabulum reperire Tonantis Filius, et Regem regum coluere silendo Rustici, ubi quondam pecudes recubare solebant. Mox Magi venient aurum, thus, myrrha ferentes, Qui Puerum eximiis Hominemque Deumque decorent Muneribus, stellaque viam monstrante, remotis Gentibus infundant reduces nova lumina Christi.—
Hie etiam Puerum divina carne jacentem Miramur, miramur adhuc! Hominisque Deique Vivum corpus adest sacris speciebus amictum Hie Jesus reside! quern manducare jubemur.
Nos Deus Omnipotens, quamvis pauperrimus Infans, Diligit, invitatque ut puro pectore corpus Sumamus, veram et possimus vivere vitam!
3d Latin Class.
Death of the Abbe Tirebouchon.
With the last cablegram from Europe came the news of the death of our old friend, the Abbe Tirebouchon. He died at Bicetre, in the 85th year of his age. His last words were: “ Avec moi ex fire le dernier lien entre la science et la religion revc-lee?1 But then he was insane. -.
The spirit of skepticism and infidelity in our day stalks abroad with such unblushing effrontery that we are not surprised at hearing some benighted individuals express doubts even concerning the existence of the Abbe Tirebouchon. Since Betsy Prig astounded the venerable Sairey Gamp, by remarking- with regard to Mrs. Harris, the said Mrs. Gamp’s perpetual referee, “I don’t believe there’s no sech a person—so there!” the world has never been shocked by so wanton an exhibition of unbelief. They ask — the skeptics—what are his claims to recognition in the .literary and scientific world?—what are his publications?—they are unknown in France. Evidently, because he never published anything, in the narrow, modern sense of the world. His metho'd was to visit orphan asylums, and other places where youth is educated, and there teach the children the sublime truths of science set to the music of familiar airs. Among those still remembered are the Planetary System, to the air of Cadet Ronsselle\ the Rules for Solving Equations of Higher Degrees, to the air of La Mere Angot, and the Circulation of the Blood, to the air of Le Roi d'Yvetot. At last, with ex
traordinary labor, he succeeded in setting a complete Table of Logarithms, carried out to twelve decimal places, to the air of La Marseillaise, and he had all the orphans in France singing it, when it was suppressed as revolutionary in its ultimate tendencies by the tyrannical government of Napoleon III. This broke the good old man’s heart. He made a bonfire of his invaluable manuscripts, and if a few of them had not previously been piously purloined from him by a member of the Faculty of Notre Dame University,-Indiana, while crossing the Arar in his company, all his labors would have been completely lost to the world, or would survive merely in the uncertain oral traditions of the orphans. When they were last heard singing his Circulation of the Blood, they had mixed it up inextricably in the Planetary System with an occasional Rule for Solving Equations of Higher Degrees interspersed. The manuscripts rescued by the enterprise- of the member of our Faculty above alluded to, have appeared in the form of translations in the pages of the Scholastic.
The Abbd leaves a niece alone to mourn his loss, the daughter of his only sister—a- lady who, having no dowry but a scientific education, married into the noble family of the Counts de la Chan-donne. This niece—Mlle. Isabelle de la Chandonne —is celebrated for her literary talents, composing poetry in seventeen different languages, and dictating to four amanuenses, whom she keeps constantly busy. Like the celebrated Buffon, this lady always composes en grande tenue,—white satin and pearls, generally, with a fan which cost 50,000 fr., with which she sometimes administers a sharp rap over the knuckles to such of the amanuenses as show signs of somnolence. Exquisitely beautiful, and the heiress to unbounded wealth, she has refused several distinguished offers of marriage from the Duc de la Croque-Mitaine, and other scions of historic families. But she fears that matrimony would interfere with what she justly considers.her duties to the literary culture of the period. It is whispered that even M. Thiers, when President of the French Republic, offered to divorce the excellent Mme. Thiers, if Mlle, de la Chandonne would consent to “share with him,” as he phrased it, “the Presidential Throne of France.” But the advances of 11 le vieux better ”—as, with perhaps more force than_elegance, she styled him—were repelled with indignation and a more than usually energetic rap of the formidable fan. Mlle, de la Chandonne is now composing a polyglot ode no the death of her uncle.
Betscher Bottholme D’Ollaire.
She was a very pretty young person, and he was trying to talk his best: “I am a Sophomore,” he said, at one of her questions.—“ Why, how can that be? You were a Sophomore last year. You— but she saw his discomfiture. “ Oh! I see,” she said, with the’sof test look of mystification, “ you have two Sophomore.years at your college.”—Yale Record.
<
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, December 21, 18S5.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth vear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art; Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the Universitj’ of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students’ should take it.
Terms, Sr.^o per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
Frank H. Dexter,	r. J. Goulding,
F. J. Hagenbarth,	T. J. Cleary.
—The Scholastic wishes all its readers A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
—As the Scholastic will not appear again before the end of the Christmas vacation, the publication of the present number has been delayed in order to present the report of the celebration of President Walsh’s Patronal Festival, and several other interesting items.
—On Friday evening, the Rev. J. B. Cotter, official lecturer of the Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America, entertained the students with an instructive address on the subject of Temperance. The speaker’s words made a deep impression upon his auditors, all of whom, at the conclusion of the address, arose and took the pledge for one-year. A marked impetus has thus been given to the cause which cannot but have its beneficial effect upon all concerned. -
- * * -
We are glad to see that the movement happily inaugurated at Notre Dame has been adopted by other colleges of the Congregation. At the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, which is flourishing under the able presidency of Rev. Father O’Keeffe, a spirited lecture on this subject was recently delivered by Rev. John
O’Brien, with the result of establishing a permanent organization among the students, o	o
Silver Jubilee of Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S- C.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Rector of St. Bernard’s, Watertown, Wis., for a number of years President of Notre Dame, will celebrate the Silver Jubilee of his ordination next Christmas Day. The occasion will mark a joyous and memorable event in a useful, varied, and happily successful career in the sacred ministry, and will call forth the congratulations of hosts of friends and well-wishers. During the past quarter of a century, Father Corby has held a series of important positions, each of which has been filled in a manner to do credit to his noble qualities of mind and heart. Beginning, in i860, with the Rectorship of the then young parish of St. Patrick’s, South Bend, continuing through a four years’ service as Army Chaplain during the Civil War, followed by a ten vears’ Presidency of Notre Dame,—a period which covers one of the most trying epochs, in the existence of the College, namely, its total destruction by fire, in 1879, and its subsequent marvellously rapid rebuilding,—Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States, Founder and President of the College of the Sacred Heart at Watertown, and on to his present position, there is presented a record of years of efficient and successful labor, fraught with the happiest results in the cause of religion and education, conferring benefits upon, and endearing the worthy laborer in the vineyard of the Lord to, the many who, during those eventful years, have, at one time or another, been under his direction. We, of the Notre Dame Scholastic,—founded under his administration—may well be permitted to add our own to the numerous congratulations of which Rev. Father Corby will be the deserving recipient at Christmas-tide. We offer him sincerely our best wishes for many additional years of usefulness in his sacred calling—the glory of which, it is our earnest hope, may be fitly enhanced by a Golden Jubilee.
Ex intimis cordibus dicimus nos
Ad Multos Annos!
Presentation to Rev. President Walsh.
On yesterday (Sunday) afternoon, a very pleasant event took place in the college parlor, when the lay members of the Faculty met Rev. President Walsh, and formally presented him with a magnificent gold chalice as an expression of their esteem and good will. ' Prof. Stace, in the name of his fellow-Professors, made a brief address, of which the following is the substance:
“ Rev. Father President :	•
“ We have met on the Eve of your Festival to wish you many happy returns of the day, and to offer you a testimonial of our sincere regard—a regard which, you will allow us to say, increases steadily with the number of years during which we have been associated as workers in a common cause. Among men whose bond of union consists in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
earnest work for one of the most serious objects that can engage their attention—the education of Catholic youth— all the stale commonplaces which form the staple of what is commonly known as an ‘address,’ would be totally out of place. No room here-for turgid magniloquence or sickly sentimentality; still less for any wretched attempt at poetry. In the selection of the gift we offer you, we have been guided by two considerations. First, it seemed to us that a chalice was especially appropriate to the dignity of the priesthood, and secondly, we hope it will remind you of us at the .time and place when we most wish to be remembered—when you stand before the Altar of God to offer that Sacrifice by which the spiritual life of mankind is continually renewed. We conclude, Rev. Father, by asking your blessing on ourselves and on the common cause in which we are all engaged.”
Rev. President Walsh was taken completely by surprise, and deeply moved by the spontaneous expression of affection. He replied, briefly expressing his thanks, and cordially reciprocating the sentiments which had inspired such an offering.
The chalice is of solid silver, washed with gold, and richly ornamented. It forms a beautiful and appropriate testimonial of the bond of union between President and Faculty which, we may hope, will long continue.
The St. Gecilians.
The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of the University gave its Twenty-eighth Annual Winter Entertainment on the evening of Saturday the 19th inst. On account of the close proximity of the pa-tronal festival of Rev. President Walsh (the 21st inst.), the exercises were fittingly made complimentary to him. The fine weather, excellent sleighing and clear moonlight night encouraged the attendance of many distinguished visitors from our neighboring city, so that at half-past six a large but select audience had assembled in Washington hall. The gentlemanly ushers of the St. Cecilians were on hand, and did their duty gracefully in providing seats and programmes for the visitors.
The entertainment was opened by the University Band with a well-executed overture. Master E. Porter then read, with good effect, an ode dedicated to Rev. President Walsh. It will be found published on the first page of the present number. The address from the students was delivered by .Mr. S. Murdock, who, in appropriate terms, expressed the affectionate sentiments entertained towards their worthy President, congratulating him upon the good which he had achieved. A beautiful little'address from the youthful Minims was read by Masters C. Mooney, E. Scherrer and
Nester.
Then came the great event of the evening—the presentation of the drama
■	“ IF I WERE A KING! ”	.
This play, written expressly for the Cecilians, is one of the most popular in their repertory. The plot is substantially as follows: In the first act shepherds are discovered watching their sheep near the Bay of Ischia. They find a letter announcing that the Prince is to be drowned, and that a conspiracy has been entered into against the King of Naples. The letter closes with an allusion
to “ two brothers ” that puzzles the shepherds. A shepherd boy of superior appearance, “ Genaro,” enters and is greeted with affectionate reproaches for his long absence. After a while he falls asleep, and is left to rest in quiet, but soon awakens, and in soliloquy reveals the fact that he has that day saved the Prince from drowing, has been rewarded, and promised the lasting friendship of the royal heir to the throne of Naples. This event seems to have aroused in the youth an ambition for something higher than his present condition, and he alludes with bitterness to the crulty of his overseer, “ Banquo,” but despairs of escaping from it, when “ Banquo ” himself enters, and abuses and menaces “ Genaro,” who turns and defies him. The overseer leaves the stage, venting his rage in threats. “ Genaro,” discouraged, is about to go as commanded to tend the sheep, when he is joined by his little brother “Valerio,” who enumerates the wrongs he has suffered, and is assured bv “ Genaro” that he shall never be subjected to the like again.
Conspirators enter, and discuss their plan for the assassination of “ King Ferdinand; ” but“ Genaro,” < under cover of a large tree, overhears their conversation, and is startled to find “ Banquo ” a bribed accomplice in the projected treason and. regicide. “ Ruisco,” “ Gonsalvo ” and “ Banquo ” are the conspirators. “ Ruisco,” being the king’s cousin, has determined to betray Naples into the hands of the Spaniards (the Spanish Naval General, “ Cesare,” being in the secret), on condition that when “Ferdinand” is dead Spain will recognize him as King of Naples. “ Ruisco ” discovers “ Genaro.” Alarmed, he questions him, to find if'anything had been overheard. “Genaro” boldly rebukes the villain for his presence in this lonely place at such an unseasonable hour, biit gives him no satisfaction, and “ Ruisco ” leaves the scene, undecided whether to kill “ Genaro ” or not.
Left alone, the shepherd immediately summons his companions, and, telling them all, declares his determination to take them with him to Naples to inform the king in time to prevent the crime. In the next scene, “ Genaro,” considering the dangers that hang over the kingdom, expresses his desire to be possessed of power, of armies, fleets, fortifications, etc., that he might be enabled to execute justice, protect innocence, encourage virtue, and make the world happy. He falls asleep on the green sward, and, dreaming, sings “I wish I were a King.” At this moment the royal cortege passes. The king overhears bis wish, and, resolving to give the shepherd boy a taste of royalty, steps from the litter and orders that “ Genaro ” be carefully laid upon it, and carried in this way, asleep, to Naples. In the palace “Ferdinand” collects his courtiers and tells of the joke he is playing, informing them that they must treat the new king as if he had reigned for years, and that he abdicates his crown for three days in favor of the shepherd. While yet asleep, the major-domo of the palace observes a a remarkable white lock of hair on the head of “ Genaro,” and is struck by the fact, because this is peculiar to the present royal line of Naples.
The youth awakens, wonders at his surround
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ings, is obsequiously greeted by courtiers, and, though quite mystified, finding all persist in treating him as a king, he resolves to embrace this providential opportunity to rescue the kingdom from impending danger. Meanwhile, a meeting of the conspirators takes place and their confidence of success is shown.
The scene following finds “ Genaro” assembling the entire court. From the throne he announces the intended attempt to assassinate the king; point-incr to “ Ruisco” and “ Gonsalvo,” he orders them to be searched, and conclusive evidences of guilt are found. The royal joke turns out a miraculous defeat of treason and murder. While this is going on, Spanish forces are moving upon Naples, and as “ Ferdinand ” is listening to the story of the white lock, the alarm is given, and he rushes out to battle.
“ Alberto,” the prince, hears the cannonading, sees the flames, and the palace in disorder, enters, calling pitifully for his father, when “Genaro” meets him, and they recognize each other.
“ Genaro,” left alone, is attacked by a party of * brigands in the pay of “ Ruisco,” with that villain at their head, who is about to slay him for having defeated the plot, when “ Cecato,” a shrewd shepherd, who with his fellows had come to Naples to give information, inflicts summary justice, and the shepherds “Genaro” and “ Cecato” leave, tired of royal life, for their home, glad to know that “ Ban-quo,” will never torment them again. “ Banquo,” seeing the turn of affairs, and meeting with much trouble with brigands, being arrested and nearly murdered once or twice, determines to leave the world and play the hermit until danger is over. The qualms of a bad conscience torment him, however, and we see that crime carries with it its own punishment; for this overseer had stolen “ Genaro ” and “Valerio,” princes, from the palace in their infancy, being bribed by “ Ruisco.”
Naples once quiet, after the defeat of the Spaniards, “Ferdinand ” sends for “ Genaro ” to reward him in a manner becoming the great service he has rendered. In Naples the identity of “ Genaro” and “Valerio” with the stolen princes is attested, and the youth, who as a simple shepherd had saved the life of the prince and the throne of the king, finds himself at last heir to the crown he has rescued in so singular a manner from the grasp of the usurper.
As may be seen, the drama abounds in thrilling situations and scenic effects such as to call forth all the elocutionary and artistic resources of the performers. On this occasion all the exigencies of the play were met in a most satisfactory manner. The costumes, rich and tasteful were very appropriate, while the scenery was in perfect keeping with the varied movements of the drama. The performers were well up in their parts and entered into them with a spirit which kept alive the interest of the .audience and reflected credit upon themselves. “ Genaro,” the principal character, was admirably sustained by Master P. C. Cavaroc. E. J. Darragh as “Ferdinand,” and J. Garrity as “ Alberto,” princely in their bearing, were all that ; could be desired. “Valerio,” the youthful brother of “Genaro,” was well presented by R. Oxnard.
“ Banquo,” the harsh overseer, met a fine representation in Master A. A. Cooper. P. Brownson, who took the part of “ Ruisco,” appeared a veritable dark and bloody conspirator. J. Courtney was true to his character of “ Don Gonsalvo,” the Spanish nobleman, led captive by the wiles of the Italian schemer. W. Wabraushek as “Cecato” supplied all the humor of the piece, and acted perfectly the ungainly, but withal sensible shepherd boy. “ Melchiore ” was well taken by R. Newton, and “ Stephano,” chief of the brigands, was fittingly represented by D. C. Regan. Among the others who did well, but whom this hurried report will only permit us to name, were: M. O’Kane, as “Silvio”; E. Porter, as “Philippo”; J. Fisher, as “ Baptisto ”; E. Dillon, as “ Alonzo ”; F. Long, as “ Marino”; W. Arts, as “ Orazzo”; W. Houlihan, as“ Marco”; F. Nester,as “Beppo ”; P. H. Levin, as “Verdi ”; C. Spencer, as “ Carlo”; L. Chute, as “ Lupo”; C. Ruffing, as “ Guido ”; E. Berry, as “ Mardzo”; L. Preston, as “ Tomazo ”; E. Ewing, as “Urso”; C. West, as “Leandro”; J. Fitzgerald as “Lucio”; H. H. Robinson, as “Pedro”; and T. A. Goebel as “ Cerano.” The closing remarks were made by Rev. President Walsh, who congratulated all who took part in the entertainment, and gave some wholesome advice to the students in regard to the manner in which they should spend the holidays.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Catholic World for January has the following table of contents: “The Christmas'Rose,” by M. F. E.; “A Still Christmas,” by Agnes Rep-plier; “ATour in Catholic Teutonia,” by St. George Mivart; “A Cablegram, and What Came of It,” by Nugent Robinson; “ The Legend of St. Alexis,” by Aubrey de Vere; “ The Fault of Minneola,” by William Seton; “Solitary Island,” by Rev. J. Talbot Smith; “The Apology for John Brown,” by J. R. G. Hassard; “Domenico’s New Year,” by Thomas F. Galwey; “Old Galway,” by J. B. Killen; “A Legend of Judea,” by M. W. L.; “The Knickerbocker Ghost,” by E. L. Dorsey; “The Priest at Castle Garden,” by Rev. John J. Riordan.
—With the January number, Donahoe's Magazine begins.its fifteenth volume. It is an interesting and instructive periodical, and deserves well of the reading public. The “ Memoir of His Eminence John Cardinal McCloskey ”—by Dr. John Gilmary Shea—which appears in the present number is a priceless memento of our first American Prince of the Church, and imparts valuable information concerning some points of the early history of the Church in our country. Besides, there is a collection of readable articles, which it would take too long to name. The Editor promises still greater attractions for the new volume, and we sin-cercly hope his enterprise will meet with all the encouragement it so well deserves. The Mao--azine is published at Boston, Mass.	.
—The Passenger Department of the Chicago,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
243
Rock Island & Pacific Railway announce the publication of a new and valuable work, whose scope and intent is best expressed on its title-page, which reads as follows: “Voltagal, Genius of Electricity,” or Ned Benson’s Adventures and Talk with one of the Genii, by “A Man” of the Rock Island Route—respectfully dedicated to the Boys and Girls of America, by the General Ticket and Passenger Agent of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway. It is an appropriate sequel to Watt-Stephens on steam and its uses, which attained such a popularity a year ago. It is a carefully-written pamphlet of So pages elegantly printed, and will be sent to any applicant on receipt of io cents in postage stamps. Address, E. St.John., Gen. Ticket and Passenger Agt., C., R. I. & P. Ry., Chicago, Ill.
Noel! ‘ Voici le Redempteur!
Farce qu’ils ont ferine ieur temple de Bellone, Ils chantent que la paix regne dans 1’univers. Et dans 1’ergastulum, des esclaves aux fers La chaine courroucee horriblement resonne. Des vaincus dont la chair s’ensanglante et frissonne, Les vainqueurs sans pitie qui disent de beaux vers, Voila leur paix! . . . Satan en rit dans les enfers: Snr ce monde romain Satan regne en personne.
Enfin 1’heure a sonne pour ces triomphateurs. Place au pauvre opprime qui saigne et qui travaillc. Pour 1’elever a lui, Dien s’abaisse a. sa taille. Accourez, ses amis, doux et humbles pasteurs, . Venez voir le Sauveur dans son berceau de paille.
Et vous, anges ailes, chantez dans les hauteurs!
L. E. {French Classi)
Local Items.
—A Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year !
—Turkey next Friday!	.
—“ You amiable old porcupine!”
—The Cecilians have taken the cake.
—Gus’s xvhitc elephant dodge did not work.
—Another most beautiful coat has been procured.
—Procure a copy of the Scholastic Annual for 1886.
—Our friends out West must needs look to their laurels. .
—The Sorin Cadets are procuring handsome military suits.
—The next issue of the Scholastic will appear early next year.
—Our friend John is going to take a sleigh-ride to the sea-shore during the holidays.
—The St. Cecilians return an unanimous vote of thanks to Prof. J. F. Edwards for kind favors.
—The St. Cecilia Censors—Masters Cooper, Regan, Myers and Courtney—did their duty nobly.
-—Rev. President Walsh and Father Zahm have
the thanks of the Minims for donations to their reading-room.
—The Minims’ pl ay-hall is much improved by the addition of a fine roller skating rink, 100 feet long, and three new handball alleys.
—The number of visitors who attended the Cecilia exhibition was very large. We regret that our hurry in going to press prevents the publication of their names.
—Rev. President Walsh says the best wish that can be formed for' the Scholastic year is that six months after Christmas may be as satisfactory as . the four months preceding.
—Rev. Father Regan, Prof. Hoynes, Bros. Stanislaus, Alexander, and Lawrence have the thanks of the Cecilians for favors received in connection with their entertainment.
—Rev. President Walsh has presented each of the three reading-rooms in St. Edward’s Hall with a life-size picture of Very Rev. Father General. The recipients return thanks for the much-prized gift. -
—At the banquet yesterday, in honor of the pa-tronal festival of President Walsh, interesting and appropriate speeches in response to toasts were made by Profs. Hoynes, Howard, Johnston, Mr. G. E. Clarke, and the Rev. President..
—The snow on the lake has not been allowed to interfere with the skating. With commendable industry, the boys have scooped out race courses, tracks, etc., which permit the enjoy ment of skatorial sport in all its native elegance and pristine beauty.
—The patronal festival of Rev. President Walsh was observed by anticipation yesterday. Solemn High Mass was sung by Father Walsh, assisted bv Rev. Vice-President Zahm, and Prefect of Discipline Regan, as deacon and subdeacon. The sermon was preached by Rev. S. Fitte.
—Signor Gregori, the great Roman artist at Notre Dame, has a son in Italy who is also an artist. Several of his productions in the shape of Christmas cards are for sale at the Tribune store. They are exquisitely painted, and are offered at the low price of 75 cents each.—South Bend Tribune.
—The Librarian of the Lemonnier Library returns thanks to Maj. Henry F. Brownson, of Detroit, for several curious law-books published in the last century; to Signor Gregori for a rare Italian Work on Art; to Percy Smith for Travels in Northern Regions.
o	*
—During the past two weeks, the classes in the Preparatory and Commercial Courses, and in the Course of Modern Languages have been visited and examined. Much satisfaction has-been expressed by the examiners at the evidence of goodwill and progress on the part of the students.
—Ori Thursday morning, Requiem Mass was. offered for the repose of the soul of John P; Kinney, of the Class of ’So, whose death was noticed in the Scholastic last week. The deceased was a prominent member of several college organizations—the Thespians, Philodemics, and Boat Club —at whose instance the Mass was celebrated.;
244
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Prof. William Hovnes was absent four days last week, having- been called to Chicago in connection with the trial of a very important law case in the Superior Court. Gen. John Gibbons, of ’68, and Prof. Hoynes represented the plaintiff, and achieved for him a signal victory, the jury bringing in a verdict for $5,000 in his favor.
—Very Rev. Father General honored the princes with quite a lengthy visit last Monday. He examined the Elocution Class, and while expressing himself highly pleased with some, be said there were a few whose articulation was not as clear and distinct as he would wish; that he would not be satisfied until all read fluently and well. The Minims return their beloved patron thanks for his kindness and condescension, and hope that he will soon favor the class with another visit.
—The 10th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held in St. Edward’s Hall on Monday, Dec. 14th. Compositions were read by Masters Cobbs, Bailey, Sweet, Lan-denwich, Crotty, Smart, Dunford, Piero, Peck, and Chute. While each member deserves certain praise for his paper, the composition of F. Cobbs, descriptive of his visit to Niagara Falls last vacation, was considered the best. Masters Munroe, of Brooklyn, N. Y., Sullivan, of Helena, Montana, and Nester, of Marquette, Mich., were elected to membership.
—One of Wheeler & Jappan Standard SteamPumps has lately been placed in Science Hall, and works like a charm. It is admirably adapted to its present purpose and position by reason of a great improvement in the valve gear, which does away with all noise usual with pumps. The manufacturers have done nearly all the pump work for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy the past ten years. So we can recommend them as trustworthy, honorable gentlemen in all their business relations. They have a large pump factory at 49-51 North Jefferson St., Chicago.
. —The third regular meeting of the Senior Ar'-h-confraternity was held Sunday, Dec. 20th, Rev. T.E.Walsh,C.S.C.,presiding. Paperstreating on the history of the Greek Church, and on the v en-eration of relics were read by J. Kleiber and M. A. Dolan. Rev. A. M. Kirsch delivered an interesting discourse on the researches recently made in old literature of eastern countries, especially in that of Syria, showing that the doctrines taught by the Catholic Church in those countries in the third century was the same as that taught in our own day; and that Mie Church has ever guarded against the introduction of new doctrines. Messrs. C. Stubbs, J. A. Ancheta, and F. J. Hagenbarth were appointed to prepare papers for the next meeting. Before adjourning, the President announced that at the beginning of the next session the society would be reorganized upon a different plan. ,
-—The Sodalist (Cincinnati) has the following notice of the dramas prepared and published by Prof. Lyons:	,	: .
“Our readers know, from experience, that appropriate pieces for dramatic representation, and especially such as
are written for male characters only, very seldom embody the essentials requisite for success in Catholic circles, because they either lack in interest of plot or arc objectionable on moral grounds. Now, the well-printed pamphlets before us are part of a series of dramas, which the enterprising editor and publisher spared no pains to render acceptable to the most fastidious taste. And we think that, as to splendor of imagery and versatility of style, he has equalled many of the greatest writers: What renders these dramas all the more acceptable to amateur performers is, that for each one there is given a synopsis of the scenes, the cast of characters, relative positions, etc. We trust the publisher may in every way succeed in what must be to him a labor of love as much as it is an undertaking of usefulness.”
—Signor Gregori has just removed from his easel an ideal portrait of Rt. Rev. Dr. Egan, O.S.F., First Bishop of Philadelphia. There is no portrait in existence, so the picture has been painted from descriptions of that prelate given by Archbishop Carroll, and Mr. M. I. J. Griffin—the energetic historian of “Catholicity in Philadelphia.” The picture represents the Bishop in the garb of a Franciscan monk, with gold pectoral cross and chain and purple zachetto. The artist used a bold brush when painting the picture, and he has been very successful in imitating Rembrandt’s manner of disposing of effects. The portrait is intended for the Archiepiscopal residence at Philadelphia, where it will serve as a monument to perpetuate the memory of Bishop Egan. A duplicate will be preserved here at Notre Dame in the Bishops’ Gallery. Before painting the portrait, a sketch in pencil, by Gregori, was submitted for adoption to His Grace Archbishop Ryan.
—Among the interesting contents of the Scholastic Annual for 1886 may be mentioned the following:
“St. Cecilia” (Poetry); “A Nation’s Favorite”: “In-iana ” (Poetry); “ Floral Odors “ In a Louisiana Forest” (Poetry); “ The Church and Science”; “ By the Gunnison River ” (Poetry); “ Strikes Wm. Onakan; “ The Phrenologist in Love” (Poetry); “University Life”; “On Finding Pansies ” (Poetry); “ Roderigo ”; “ Exactitude ” (Poetry).	■	.
—The subjects of the essays in competition for the Collegiate Medals in the Classical and Scientific Courses are as follows:.
Classical Course—Senior Year.
1.	A Thinking Substance is Necessarily Spiritual.
2.	A Critical Analysis of Shakspeare’s “Julius Caesar.”
3.	The Rank of William H. Seward among American Statesmen.
Scientific Course—Senior Year.
1.	Recent Conclusions of Geology.
2.	A Critical Analysis of Shakspeare’s “Julius Ctesar.”
3.	Advantages and Disadvantages of reading works of Fiction.
Junior Year.
1.	Electric Lighting; Its Past, Present and Future.
2.	Chief Justice Taney. .
3.	Books.
Those competing for the History Medal will be required to present two essays which, in length, must be not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) columns of the Scholastic. The subjects in this course are: - - ■ .	:
1.	The Age of Dante.
,2. The England of the 18th Century.
—The Director of the Historical Department
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
245
gratefully acknowledges the receipt of the following contributions: From Rev. J. C. Carrier, of St. Laurent College, Montreal, portraits of Right Rev. Archbishop Fabre, and Right Rev. Mgr. Smeulders, Apostolic Commissioner to Canada; from Mr. Fred Combe, 2 silver quatrini; from Miss Emily Brent, manuscript sermon of Archbishop Carroll, First Bishop of the United States; from Hon. B. J. Webb, manuscripts of Bishops Flaget, Brut£, and Father- Tissier, Superior of the Sulpicians; from Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, several valuable relics; from Rev. Geo. Montgomery, of San Francisco, interesting manuscripts; from a Friend, Life of Archbishop Carroll, by John Carroll Brent, formerly in the Library of St. Joseph’s Church, Philadelphia; History of the Diocese of Pittsburgh; History of the Diocese of Vincennes; History of Catholicity in New England States; History of Catholicity in Kentucky; History of Catholicity in South Carolina; History of Catholicity in Oregon; History of Catholicity in New York; History of Catholicity in the Diocese of Buffalo; Life of Bishop Chevereus, of Boston; Life of Archbishop Spalding; Life of Bishop Brute; Funeral Discourse on Bishop Brute, by Dr. McCaffrey; Life of Bishop Quarter; Life of Bishop Flaget; Funeral Orations of Archbishop Purcell, Bishop Neuman, and Cardinal McCloskey; Life of Bishop Timon; Life of Bishop Neuman; Life of Archbishop Hughes; Letters of Bishop England; Works of Bishop England; Works of Archbishop Hughes; Funeral Oration of Archbishop Hughes; Theses of Archbishop Spalding; Funeral Oration of Bishop de la Hailandiere; from Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, Dictionary of the Chippewa Language by Bishop Barraga.
.—At the Twenty-eighth Annual Winter Entertainment of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, complimentary to Rev. President Walsh, the following was the
PROGRAMME :
Grand St. Cecilia March.................N. D. U. C. B.
Dedicatory Ode..............................E. Porter
Address from the Students................. S.	Murdock
Music..................................... Orchestra
Duet..............................M.	O’Kane, E. Riley
Address (Minim dep’t)... C. Mooney, E. Sherrer, A. Nester Prologue....................................G. Myers
“IF I WERE A KING.”
.4 Drama in Four Acts, Composed, for the St. Cecilia Philo-malhean Association by a Member of the Faculty.
Dramatis Persona:.	'
Genaro, Shepherd-King...................P. C. Cavaroc
Ferdinand, King of Naples...............E. J. Darragh.
Alberto, Son of the King...................J.	Garrity
Melchiore, First Courtier..................R. Newton
Cecato, Chief Shepherd................W. Wabraushek
Valerio, the Shepherd-King’s Brother.......R Oxnard
Ruisco, Cousin of King, and Conspirator, P. VD. Brownson Don Gonsalvo, Spanish Ambassador, and Conspirator,
...............Jos. Courtney
Bozza, Major-Domo of King’s Palace .......G. Meyers Banquo, Overseer of Shepherds...........A. A. Cooper
Stephano, Chief of Brigands.............D. C. Regan
Silvio J	f M. O’Kane
Philippo I '	■	| E. Porter
Baptisto }*	Shepherds.	J. Fisher
Marco |	| W. Houlihan
Tomazo J	L. Preston
.........E. Dillon [........W. Arts
I	F. Long
P. H. Levin
Alonzo, General of the King’s Armies Orazzo '
Marino
Verdi
Beppo J Courtiers, Chamberlains, Pages. J Carlo
Lupo
Guido
Leo, Royal Usher......................
Lucio J
Pedro	I
Urso	}-
Cerano | ■
Eduardo J
Hugoni '
Crescio
Giovani [ Ludivico
Stello (
Fabiano j
Mardzo £
Jacobo j
F. Nester C. Spencer
L. Chute
C. Ruffing ....C. West
J. Fitzgerald . H. Robinson . E. D. Ewing T. A. Goebel
S. Holman
Brigands.
Royal Guards.
Attendants.
Pages.
TABLEAU.
W. Borgschulze F. Smith H. McConn C. Shields E. Prudhomme J. Jacobs ( E. Berry I J. McVeigh
Epilogue...................................J.	Garrity
Closing Remarks.....................................
. Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Aubrey, Burke, Bolton, Becerra, Bowles, Burns, D. Byrnes, Baca, A. Browne, Becker, Conlon, J. Crowe, Congdon Waiter Collins, Chapin, Crilly, Cusack, Carbajal, Fred Combe, Craig, Dempsey, Duffin, De Haven, Dexter, Dolan, Finlay, Forbes, Ford, A. A. Gordon, A. Gordon, Goulding, Gallardo, Hamlyn, Hagerty, Houck, J. Hampton, Hagenbarth, Harris, Harrison, Howard, Hull, Harless, Holden, A. Jones, Judie, Jackson, Jess, Kreutzer, H. Kenny, J. Kenny, J. Keegan, Karst, Kleiber, Latshaw, Long, W. Luhn, Martinez, Murphv, McNulty, Mathers, McCartney, Murdock, McErlain, McGuire, Miller, Moon, A. McDonald, Neill, O’Rourke, Ott, P. Prudhomme, C. Paschel, H Paschel, Perley, Padilla, E. Ryan, T. Ryan, O- Ryan, Remish, E. Riley, Rothert, Rochford, J. Reagan, Rodriguez, Rahilly, Redmond, Snapp, C. Shaide, Stubbs, Saviers, Sheridan, Stickney, M. Strasser, Triplett, W. Williams, White, Wiley, Wagoner, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Masters Adlesperger, Adams, Austin, D. Ackerman, H. Ackerman, Akin, Benson, Brabrook, Blakeslee, Boose, E. Benner, F. Benner, Bowles, Curtis, Cleveland, M. Colina, Courtney, T. Cleary, Cooper, Chute, G. Cartier, Cavaroc, Clarke, Coles, Chaves, Dougherty, Dillon, Darragh, Dickinson, Ewing, Epple, Frain, Finchk, Flood, Fisher, Fitzgerald, Fitzharris, Grothaus, Goebel, Galarneau, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Gordon, Hoffman, Houlihan, T. Hake, A. Hake, Holman. Harris, Hiner, Inderrieden, Jewett, P. Jacobs, N. Jacobs, Jeffs, Jacobi, Joyce, Klaner, Kern, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levin, Luther, Long, McConn, Meehan, McVeigh, McPhee. McIntosh, Myers, McNamara, Nealis, R.Newton, Noud, Nussbaum, Nester, Nations, O’Connor, Oxnard, O’Kane, Portillo, Press, Prudhomme. Preston, Porter, Regan, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson. Rose, Ramirez, F. Smith, J..Smith, Short, Shields, Senn, Spencer, Steele, Scherrer, Sandoval, L. Thompson, Talbot, Tewksbury, Thurston, W. Vanselow, Vandercar, Valasco, Warner, Welch, Walsh, W. Wabraushek, Wagoner, West, Williamson, Woodman..
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bailey, Bull, Barger, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Chute, Cobbs, Campeau, Crotty, E. Doss, L. Doss, Dunford, Dewald, F. Falvey, T. Falvey, E. Falvey, Farmer, F. Garber, E. Garber, Griffin, Grant, Graham, Healy. Haney, Inderrieden, Jones, Jewett, J. Kintz, A. Kintz, O. Kintz, Keeffe, Kellner, Klaner, Landenwich, F. Mainzer, Moncada; McIntosh, Morgan, McGill, McCourt, McNulty, Martin, Murphy, Mason, Mooney, Munroe, Nes ter, Nussbaum, C. Nealis, B. Nealis, O’Neill, Paul, Piero, J. Peck, F. Peck, Quinlin. Ramsey, Riordan, Stone, Steele, , Sullivan, D. Sweet, G. Sweet, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, A. Smart, W. Smart; Tillenburg, S. Titus,-E. Titus, Taft, Williamson, H..Wormer.	'	- ’	.
246
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. O’Connor, Portillo, L. Smith, Walsh, Hayes, Grothaus, Redmond, Adlesperger, Emmons, L. Newton, Brabrook, J. Hampton, Bodley, Noud, A. Hake, T. Hake, Senn, Neill, McConn, Houck, E. Prudhomme, W. Akin, West, A. Ruffing, Boos, McNamara, Meyers, Aubrey. Spencer, W. Harris, T. Ryan, McPhee, E. Hampton, Scherrer, Fisher, F. Nester, C. Inderrieden, L. Thompson, Tarrant, f. McIntosh, Jeffs, Redlich, Press, Dickinson, J. Doss, H. Jewett, J. Crowe, Austin, Nealis, Dempsey, Forbes, N. Jacobs, F. Jewett, Galarneau. W. Vandercar, Cain, Bacigalupo, Darragh, F. Garrity, Martinez, Daly, Fitzharris, H. Ackerman, Chapin, Sandoval, Ramirez, Jacobi, Cavaroc, Clarke, Luhn, Stickney, Rodriguez, Gallardo, Cusack, O’Donnell, E. Coady, Keegan, Ford, Kenny, H Long. De Haven, Holden, C. Bowles, Harrison, H. Vandercar.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Cobbs, Landenwich, Piero, D. Sweet, Ramsey, Moncada, Chute, Crotty, Campeau, McNulty, McIntosh, Dunford, Mooney, A. Smart, Bailey. Riordan, B. Nealis, S. Titus, F. Peck, Kellner, Nussbaum, Graham. Williamson, Murphy, McGill, Morgan, C. Scherrer, Inderrieden, E. Doss, Sullivan, Nester, Jones, J. Connors, E. Scherrer, L. Doss, E. Connors, G. Sweet, Munroe, Tillenburg, Dewald, Worm er, Mainzer.
An Interesting Incident.
Chicago, Dec. 15.
To the Editor of the “Inter Ocean”:
In The Inter Ocean of Saturday appears a very interesting- editorial article in reference to the late © «
Walter L. Newberry, his numerous charitable projects, and the princely bequest set apart to establish a free public library in Chicago. Your appreciative article is well merited, as he has given proof of his philanthropy and public spirit in a most practical way, and his memory must ever be dear to the people of Chicago.
The reference made to the sad affliction that has attended the Newberry family, resulting in the death of all its members within a few years, is as touching as it is true. I heard the day before, or Friday, an incident in connection with the death of Mr. Newberry that greatly emphasized the melancholy fact, as stated in your paper. I shall briefly relate it, as it may be of much interest to many of your readers, as it was to me.
It appears that about seventeen years ago Mr. Newberry died at sea, while on his way to join his wife and daughters, who had preceded him on a visit to France. The evening before his death he was apparently as well as usual, and he ate supper with the other passengers. Opposite him at the table was a Catholic priest, with whom he spoke at some length in reference to his failing health, and his wife and daughters, who were waiting for him at the port of destination in France, and the pleasant anticipations he entertained of meeting them on his arrival. He stated that he was from Chicago; and as the clergyman was well acquainted here, it turned out in the course of subsequent conversation that the\r had a number of common friends in that place and vicinity. Mr. Newberry retired at the usual time, complaining that he felt very ill and weak. Next morning he was missed from, breakfast, and a little later the passengers were
startled to learn that he had died during the night.' © ©
A few hours afterward the officers of the steamer began to make the customary preparations to commit the remains to the deep. Fortunately, however, the clergyman whose acquaintance he had made the evening before interposed and very earnestly and warmly protested against any such proceeding. He said that the widow and daughters of the dead man were anxiously' expecting his arrival at the port of destination, and that it would be cruel and shocking in the extreme—almost too much for human nature to endure—to deprive them even of the last poor privilege of looking again upon his face and laying away his remains with their own hands. He appealed to the physician, and the latter referred him to the captain. He then saw the captain, related such facts as seemed calculated to arouse sympathy, called attention to the age of the deceased, and represented that it could do no possible harm to take the body ashore and deliver it to the stricken family. The captain declared it to be an imperative rule to consign to the ocean the remains of all who die on shipboard; but, affected by the circumstances of Mr. Newberry’s death, he said that he would yield to the clergyman’s request if .the physician could likewise be persuaded to do so. Then the physician, a most humane person, was seen, and after a brief interview he consented to keep the body on board till the arrival of the steamer at port, and said that he would personally deliver it to Mrs. Newberry. All this-he faithfully did, and the clergyman, not being acquainted with the family, started for Rome. The physician, however, narrated all tlie facts to Mrs. Newberry, and even gave her the name of the clergyman through whose instrumentality the remains of her husband were brought into port.
Some weeks later the clergyman in question, being still in Rome, was greatly surprised one day at being accosted by a young lady who asked: “Are you not the Rev. Father Sorin, of the University of Notre Dame, in Indiana? ”—“ Yes, that is my name,” he said,—for the clergyman referred to is no other than the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. She then stated that she was Miss Newberry; that she had ascertained the facts in regard to the death of her father; that the physician stated that the remains would have been’consigned to the deep but for the intervention of Father Sorin, and that she wanted to thank him for his kind offices on behalf of her mother, her sister and herself. Father Sorin never met her afterwards, nor did he ever meet any other member of the family, but he felt deeply touched by her manifestations of filial devotion.
It is not improbable, in view of all the circumstances, that the lamentable death of Mr. Newberry had much to do with the accelerating the death of his daughters, who were so tenderly attached to him; and as for Mrs. Newberry, all know that to the last moment she was an example of patient resignation and silent melancholy—true to the obligations of a bereaved widow, and faithful to the duties of a sorrowing mother.	H.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	247
; Saint Clary’s Academy.
,	One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The visits of the Directress to the Theoretical Music Classes have been commenced. On Satur-/	. day evening two classes were questioned on pri-
mary principles.
•	—Visits have been received from Gen. Thomas
Ewing, Yonkers, New York; Mr. K. R. Murphy, ‘ Mr. H. Clure, Col. T. H. Keefe, Mr. J. L. Cum-i mings, and Miss Maggie Fay, Chicago; Miss Katie ; Delaney, Pittston, Pa.
i	—Very Rev. Father General presided at the
\ election of the Society of the Children of-Mary, > which took place in his parlor, on Tuesday at u o’clock a. m., Rev. Father Saulnier also being present. The officers are as follows: President, Miss M. Bruhn; Vice-President, Miss A. Heckard; Secretary, Miss L. Carney; Treasurer, Miss M. Scully; Librarian, Miss S. St. Clair; Sacristan,
i Miss A. Donnelly.
i	—The reception of Children of Mary, con-
1	ducted by Very Rev. Father General, took place
I	in the Chapel of Loreto, on the Feast of the Im:	maculate Conception. The following young ladies
were received to full membership in the society: The Misses M. F. Murphy, A. Egan, A. Ried-inger, E. Coll, A. Henry, N. Meehan, M. Stafford. Aspirants, the Misses S. McHale, E. Lyons, M. Monahan, L. Meehan.
—The festival of the Translation of the Holy House of Loreto was piously observed on Thurs-} day by the Children of Mary, who received Holy :	Communion in the facsimile of this “most ven-
j	erable sanctuary in the world,” at Very Rev.
i	Father General’s Mass. They partook of the
“Pilgrims’ breakfast” in the dining-room of the o	O
pastoral residence. Masses were celebrated in the Chapel in honor of the day by Rev. Father O’Gara McShane, of Wilmington, Ill.; Rev. Father J. F. Clancy, Woodstock, Ill., and Rev. Father L. Saulnier.	'
The Entertainment.
The important acquirement of that branch of education which renders the young lady an agreeable member of society is one not to be despised. The object for which the drama “ New Arts ” was written by its venerable author, and for which it has been regularly presented at St. Mary’s from year to year —and even often in the year,—is to show the relative position of this branch in the Academic curriculum.
It is as the key-stone to the arch, as the engine to the ocean steamer, or, better still, as the heart to the human body. Without it, there is no education worthy of the name. Cultured, kindly deportment is indispensable to a lady.	-
Much as we may object to an excessive formality, any one of sound mind must at once acknowledge the danger that would inevitably attend the abolition
of all formalities. But who shall decide at what point they are to be safely dispensed with? This is no longer a question with those educators whose wisdom and experience have given them a true insight into the wants of the youth of our day.
Forms are necessary in our domestic and social intercourse; they have been established from time immemorial. Now,- more than ever, should they be studied and scrupulously employed, since society is now writhing under the self-induced wretchedness which is a natural consequence of disregard of Christian forms.
To impress the fact by contrast, note the liberty assumed by our modern “ young society,” which is sufficient for itself—and, forsooth, needs no sur-veillancCy however kindly; and we mention the contrast, because the forms taught in “ New Arts” are the bulwarks of vital morality—the foundation of all that appertains to sound Christian customs. Suppose, for example, the young lady of our fair Columbia never left a visiting card with her own name separate from that of her mother— as-is the case in repectable circles of Great Britain; or, in other words, suppose no young lady went out unattended by her mother, or an equally safe chaperon, how many dangers would be saved the daughters! how many regrets would be spared the mother! Let parents compute, if they can, the hours of painful anxiety, the sleepless nights they would have saved themselves by bringing up their daughters to respect such a custom. This contrast puts the matter of non-formality in its mildest aspect.
The play “ New Arts ” deals chiefly with the fundamental principles which render the person agreeable, and the defiance of which is constantly placing young people in embarrassing and awkward positions, often completely counteracting the advantages of an otherwise superior training.
Without the proper instructions, and the docility to make use of them, far from commanding the admiration of others, a young girl, by her uncouth, uncultured attitudes, even in standing, sitting, walking, or conversing, may become an object of dis like and even of disgust. She will probably be left to the mercy of every ridiculous fashion, which is current to-day and despised to-morrow. But, thoroughly trained and well grounded in proper manners, their acquirement will render her at all times self-possessed. She knows what is the accepted rule. In following it she is safe.
It is unnecessary to urge a point, which to the thoughtful mind is self-evident; but many a one has found too late his misfortune in permitting himself to practically ignore the truth that ease, grace and propriety of manner are not the acquisition of a day. They come from an intelligent and steadfast regard for the good they achieve—from unceasing and constant practice. To enlist the earnest attention of young ladies in that which to them is so manifestly important is the object of the frequent presentation of “New Arts.”
On Tuesday evening, the drama was presented in an entertainment complimentary to Very Rev. Father General, according to the following
7	0	O
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
programme:
Fest March............................H. Hoffmann
Misses Carney and Horn.
Glee..................................Vocal Class
“NEW ARTS.”
.4 Drama in Three Acts. Written for the benefit of the Schools of Holy Cross, by Very Rev. E. Sorin, SuperiorGeneral C. S. C.
Prologue........................... Miss	A. Donnelly
Song...................................Vincent	Wallace
Miss B. English
Persons of the Drama. Madame Affable.....................Miss	S. St. Clair
Miss Eastlake......................Miss	L. Williams
Miss Holmes.....................'.	.Miss G. Wolvin
Mrs. Fairbanks.................... Miss	R. Fenton
Miss Rosecommon....................Miss B. Lauer
“ McPherson......................Miss L. Walsh
.“ Clark..........................Miss	A. Donnelly
“ Everett.........................Miss F. Carmien
“ Faraday.........................Miss S. McHale
“ Carson.......................Miss	L. Clendenen
“ May.............................Miss	C. Shields
“ Copeland...........................Miss	A. White
“ Carloman...........................Miss	H. Rose
“ Grundy.......................   Miss	E. Allnoch
“ Fish.........................Miss	C. McNamara
“ Delemy...................'......Miss G. Stadtler
“ Toby............................Miss	L. Meehan
Ladies of the Reception.
The Misses J. Barlow, A. Heckard, M. Munger, L. Carney, M. Chute, M. Fuller, L. St. Clair.
Act ist.
Norwegian Sattarella........................Hababier
- Miss M. Bruhn.
Act 2D—Grand Reception.
Diavolino.....................................Bendel
Miss J. Barlow.
San Sisto..............................George	H. Miles
Miss 31. Fuller.
Song..................2.............Nightingale	Trill
Miss M. Bruhn.
Act 3d. Schilfleider.............................Hans	Seeling
Miss Chute.
Tableau:—“ Our Lady Help of Christians.” Retiring March................Misses	Carney and Horn
The young ladies performed their parts in a manner to call forth the unqualified praises of the Very Rev. author of “New Arts,” and also of Rev. Father Fitte, of the University, and of Rev. Father Shortis. The music of the programme was excellent. The Glee charmingly rendered without accompaniment. Our Lady Help of Christians, represented by Miss Bertha English with the lovely groups of youthful faces and forms around her, formed a beautiful Tableau.
The remarks of Rev. Father Fitte, commendatory of the performances in “ New Arts,” were very encouraging. The Misses L. St. Clair, L. Williams, G. Wolvin, R. Fenton, S. McHale, A. Donnelly, B. Lauer, and L. Walsh were especially successful in the characters they assumed. In fact, not one who took part failed to reach a high point of excellence. . The “ Reception ” was complete and left nothing to be desired. The fine playing by Miss Barlow, the charming recitation by Miss Fuller, and the bird-like song of Miss Bruhn were each very cheering and delightful. The singing by Miss B. English and . the playing of the Misses Chute, Carney and Horn were in perfect keeping with the choice entertainment oh which Father General may justly congratulate himself. .
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	>
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Allwein, V. Barlow, Bruhn, A. Butler, Blaine, Brady, Blair, Blacklock, Brown, Carney, Clendenen, Chute, Chaves, Claggett, Coll, Car-mien, Cox, Dillon, E. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, A. Duffield, Dart, Desenberg, B. English, A. English, A. Egan, Fuller, Fehr, Farnsworth, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Griffith, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon; Gu;se, A. Heckard, Horn, Hummer, B. Heckard, Henry, Haas. Haines, Keenan, Kearney, Kearsey, Kearns, Kingsbury, Kennedy, Krapf, Lange, Longworth, Lyons, Levy, Laskey, Lawrence, Munger, Morrison, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, S. McHale, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. McNamara. C. McNamara, Monahan, H. Nagle, North, Rowley, Riedinger, Rose, Robb, C. Scully, L. St. Clair, S. St. Clair, Sullivan, M. Scully, Stadtler, Shields, Shephard. Stafford, L. Trask, Williams, Wolvin, White, Wynn, Walsh.
2d Tablet—Misses Faxon, Lauer, Livingstone, Murphy, Morse, Otero.	’	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
• Par Excellence—Misses E. Balch, M. Barrs1, O. Boyer, S. Campeau, M. Cox, M. Clifford, M. Coll, M. Duffield, L. Griffith, F.. Hertzog, T. Haney, A. Keyes, E. Martin, M. Mason, McEwen, O. Parmelee, B. Pierce, C. Prudhomme, M. Paul, G. Regan, M. Robinson, E. Sheekey, H. Smart, B. Snowhook, M. Smith, L. Van Horn.
2d Tablet—Misses T. Balch, A. Schmauss, F. Steele.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, L. Caddagan, M. Goetz, F. Johnson, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, M. Philipps, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, F. Spencer, J. Wallace.
ART DEPARTMENT.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
DRAWING FROM THE CAST.	.
ist Class—Misses Ewing, Lang.
2D Class—Misses Van Horn, Fehr.
^d Class, 2D Div.—Misses Butler, M. F. Murphy, C. Griffith, G. Donnelly, Clendenen.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
3d Class, 2d Div.—Misses C. Scully, C. Shields, Rose, Brown, N. Meehan, Egan, A. Schmauss, Mason, Lew, E. Sheekey, Fenton, Stafford, Steele.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses Stadtler, F. Kingsbury, Considine. ‘
PAINTING ON CHINA.
Misses A. English, A. Duffield, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, M Otero, Walsh.
PAINTING ON WHITE VELVET.
Miss Rowley, Keyes, Considine, Leahigh.
LUSTRA PAINTING.
Misses Fuller, McHale, Rose, Rowley;
OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class—Miss Heckard.
2D Class—Misses Kearney, Rowley, Cox.
3d Class—Misses S. St. Clair, Nagle, McHale, Leahigh, Keyes.
. GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Donnelly, N. Meehan, L. Meehan, C. Shields, Guise, Longworth, Blacklock, Allwein, Kingsbury, Haas, Kennedy, Livingston, Desenberg,-Henry, Haines, North, Lyons, Kearns, E. Coll, Trask, Faxon, Chaves, Monahan, Lauer, M. McNamara, C. McNamara.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Van Horn, Keyes, T. Balch, Paul, Martin, Pierce, Parmelee, Smart, Haney, Odell, Schmauss, M. Duffield, M. Coll, Goetz, Philipps, Qualey, Wallace, .Caddagan, Burtis, F. Johnson, Spencer, Rhodes, Blaine, Lee, Prudhomme, Hertzog, Lindsey. ,	,