44 What is it, a new star?” • 66 Yas I Dolores Delicious in a FORD
Play-by-Play Story of the Week
Have the SCHOLASTIC sent regularly to your family.
We’ll MAIL the bill.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS - Main Building
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
COLLEGE PARADE
A couple of years ago, a certain state university in the South brought a high school athlete to the institution on a so-called “scholarship.” For one year he was zealously trained and watched over. The following year he failed to return. After an extensive search, he was located at a Western school. A state official who was interested in the Southern school ordered the youth to return or his father must sacrifice his position with the state.
The upshot of the whole affair was that the lad’s entire family was transported to the state of the Western college, and his father was given a better job.
University officials at large find themselves unable to look aghast at this deplorable condition, because of the use of “scholarships” in their respective institutions. The difference between college and professional football players is that the latter don’t have to waste their time in college.
Any students residing in the dormitories who have guns in their rooms are requested to call at the Dean’s office for the purpose of registering them.—Colgate Maroon.
Propaganda for Fr. Farley's one-man campaign.
A warning is issued to all students that the following offenses will be considered sufficient cause for fines by the Student Council:
Smoking in classrooms or hallways. Chewing of tobacco in classrooms. Wearing of hats in the buildings. Ungentlemanly conduct in general.
—The Aquinas.
—o—
No aspersions intended—A students’ survey conducted at Northwestern showed the professors to be guilty of the following faults outstanding among many others:
Odd color clothing combinations.
“Riding” students.
Using sarcasm.
Making incomplete statements.
Faulty pronunciation.
Professor Kipp of the law faculty, University of Bonn, Germany, was forced to resign because his maid patronized a Jewish butcher. At the University of Berlin two prominent professors of international law were retired for similar reasons. Professor Koehler, world-famous psychologist, resigned as a protest against the treament of his colleagues. It is unfortunate that the records of some of the world’s finest universities have been marred by selfish political aspirants.
THOUGH large, the Bell System is simple in structure. Think of it as a tree.
Branches: 24 associated operating companies, each attuned to the area it serves.
Trunk: The American Telephone and Telegraph Company, which coordinates all system activities.
Roots: Bell Telephone Lahoratories and Western Electric, whose functions are scientific research and manufacture; Long Lines Department of A. T. and T., which through its country-wide network of wires links together the 24 operating companies, handles overseas service; Advisory Staff of A. T. and T., which advises the operating companies on all phases of telephone operation and searches constantly for better methods.
Working as one, these many Bell System units enable you to talk to almost anyone, anywhere, any time.
Why not call your folks tonight? For lowest rates, call by number after 7 P. M.
October 18, 1935
Three
THE PIER AT SUNSET
Four
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
October 18, 1935
No. 4
COTILLION INAUGURATES 1935 SOCIAL SEASON
Chairman Charles Callahan Its top hats and tails. . .
FOOTBALL DANCE
The Senior Class will bring the Cotillion week-end to a gala close tomorrow evening with a dance at the Progress Club.
The dance will be open to members of all classes and the price of admission, usually a source of annoyance to wallets already ravaged by Cotillion expenses, has been tactfully handled by the charging of only a dollar for each couple. One of the better known local orchestras has been engaged to provide the music for the occasion. An invitation to the festivities has already been extended to the members of the Pitt squad. The Progress Club, where the dance will be held, is located on Colfax Avenue.
General Chairman Joseph R. Foley has announced the following committee chairmen under whose direction the dance will be conducted. Music, William Darcy; Reception, Lee Moorman; Decorations, Arthur Vervaet; Patrons, William Bowes; Tickets, John Busichio; and Publicity, Bert Baur.
By Harold A. Williams
Notre Dame’s first social event of the year, the annual Sophomore Cotillion, will get under way this evening at nine o’clock when approximately 350 couples will dance to the music of Ben Pollack’s orchestra at the Palais Royale.
Guest of Honor at the Cotillion will be Miss Jane Wolf of Saint Mary-of-the-Woods and Cleveland, Ohio, escorted by Thomas Mulligan, Sophomore class president from Cleveland, Ohio. Queen of the Cotillion will be Miss Edith Catherine Adamson of Geneva, Ill., guest of dance chairman Charles Callahan of Lexington, Mass.
The ballroom is decorated with a huge illuminated “N. D.” placed at the far end of the dance floor and Notre Dame monogram blankets hung along the walls, Chairman Callahan announced. He also said that the management of the Palais Royal guaranteed the Dance committee that the check room will be cleared fifteen minutes after the dance is over.
Ben Pollack, who is playing for a Notre Dame Sophomore Cotillion for the first time, is coming from Chicago, Ill., for the dance. Pollack is well-known among the students for he has played at such places as the Blackhawk Restaurant in Chicago, the Silver Slipper in New York, the Hollywood Restaurant in Cleveland, apd in various musical comedies and movie shorts. Accompanying Pollack will be the beautiful and talented Dorris Robbins, star of Ziegfield’s Follies, and his regular group of entertainers. Arrangements have been made with South Bend’s radio station WSBT to broadcast a portion of the dance.
The Prefect of discipline, Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., in announcing regulations for the dance, said that Cotillion permissions will extend until two o’clock; the dance ending at one. He also stated that students may use automobiles over the Cotillion week-end provided that they are registered in his office in advance.
A special section on the Pittsburgh side of the field is reserved at the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game tomor-(Continued on Page 7)
President Thomas Mulligan
. . . for the Sophomores tonight.
PEP MEETING
With a card of speakers including Ted Husing, famous CBS sports announcer, James Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Neivs Times, and “Pat” Manion, perennial favorite of rallies, the second pep meeting of the year will be held at 6:45 tonight in the gymnasium. Cotillion goers are requested to attend as the rally will be over in plenty of time to permit them to dress.
The program will be directed by “Kitty” Gorman in the role of master of ceremonies. He will be introduced by Thomas Murphy, president of the S.A.C.
Husing is expected to do a bit of impromptu “doping” on' Saturday’s game with Pitt. Costin will reminisce on outstanding features of previous encounters between the Irish and the Panthers, while “Pat” Manion will furnish the principal address of the evening. In accepting the invitation to speak Manion promised to “shoot the works.”
Athletic Director Elmer Layden will be asked to say a few words and it is expected that the acting captain will be announced at the rally.
Gene Tobin, chairman of the S.A.C.
(Continued on Page 9)
October I 8, I935
Five
FINAL PLANS ANNOUNCED FOR THE STUDENT TRIP; TICKETS ARE $8.80
WRANGLERS POST PLAN FOR INTERHALL DEBATES
On Sale Monday and Tues.
According to Hal Stine, recently appointed as S.A.C. chairman of the student trip, detailed arrangements for the exodus to the Ohio State game at Columbus, November 2, have materialized during the past week.
Stine, with the help of other S.A.C.
Hal Stine
Chairman of the Student trip. members, will be in charge of the ticket sale which will be open only on Monday and Tuesday of next week, October 21 and 22. The price of the railroad and game tickets combined will be $8.80. . It has been stressed by the S.A.C. that all students should remember that the ticket sale will close definitely on October 22.
The Pennsylvania Railroad has been selected to transport the expected five hundred or more student itinerants. This route goes by way of Logansport and then east. The termination of the railroad trip will be in downtown Columbus, where trolleys will make the final two and a half minute trip to the stadium.
A ticket agent from the railroad will be in the Athletic Office to take charge of the railroad tickets, October 21 and 22. These railroad tickets must be presented with the Athletic Coupon Books to obtain student tickets to the game. •
The start of the eventful trip to Columbus will occur at 6:30 a.m., Saturday, when trolleys will leave the Notre Dame campus for the Pennsylvania Station. This convenience will be provided at the expense of the S.A.C. fund. The Pennsylvania train will leave South Bend at 7:00 a.m. and will arrive in Columbus at 12 o’clock, E.S.T. The time of the return trip is as yet somewhat uncertain. It will probably begin shortly after midnight in order to allow the students to reach the campus for the 7:00 o’clock Mass, Sunday morning.
SCRIP. . .
Editor Maurice Tombragel has announced that Scrip, the Notre Dame literary quarterly, will make its initial appearance for the year on Nov. 8. The short stories, essays, poetry, and articles will be almost wholly the work of students this year although it is planned to have contributions from faculty members appear from time to time.
Tombragel wants the students to realize that the magazine is maintained solely as a means of publishing their own stories, essays, and poetry. The columns of Scrip are open to all students and each is invited to submit any material he may have on hand. Everyone connected with the magazine is most anxious to give every student a chance to gain experience in writing for publication. All manuscripts should be mailed or delivered to the editor in the tower of Morrissey Hall before Nov. 1.
Bernard McCormick and Robert R. Stapp have been appointed associate editors of Scrip for this year.
JOURNALISM LECTURES
Three men, two of them nationally famous, spoke this week before the journalism students. This afternoon Ted Husing, who is at Notre Dame to broadcast the football game tomorrow for the Columbia broadcasting system, addressed the journalism majors in the basement of the library. He spoke of journalism in its relationship to the radio field. ,
Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, spoke Thursday evening at 7 o’clock on different phases of the journalistic life with special emphasis on the sports department of a newspaper.
Mr. F. A. Miller, editor and publisher of the South Bend Tribune, spoke Tuesday morning in the journalism rooms in the basement of the library. He was introduced by Dr. John Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism.
Mr. Miller spoke at length on the policies that a successful editor must follow and the attributes a good newspaper man must possess.
“A paper or any of its members,” Mr. Miller said, “should never submit to a threat for it will prove both financially and morally disastrous.”
“Money,” he said, in relating qualities newspaper men should have, “should not be the first consideration of journalists. But rather they should be interested in their work.
By Paul A. Biagioni '
The first debate of the inter-hall season ■will take place on or about October 28, according to an announcement of the Wranglers, the University Forensic society. In the past this activity has received attention and popularity foi’ it is the usual custom to select one or more varsity
Eugene Malloy
Wranglers’ Prexy
debaters from the interhall competition. Conducted by the Wranglers this activity has always been a marked success.
The defending champion this year is Walsh Hall, now in possession of the traveling Lemmer Trophy. The halls have been divided into two groups: The Freshman - Sophomore group, and the Junior-Senior group. To eliminate a team two defeats will be necessary. The judges, who will give a critic decision, will be selected from the faculty. The final debate to determine the holder of the Lemmer Trophy will be held at St. Mary’s College.
Dick Meier has been appointed as chairman of the interhall debating. Assisted by Clifford Brown he will draw up the schedules and choose the judges.
The list of coaches for the halls is as follows:
Freshman, Charles Boyle; Dillon, Pierre De La Verne; Brownson and Carroll, James Burke; St. Edward’s, Robert Weaver; Lyons, Joseph McGrath; Morrissey, John Heywood; Sorin, Robert Schmelzle; Corby, Clifford Brown; Walsh, to be appointed; Alumni, Edward Boyle; Badin, Charles Meyers; Howard, Gene Malloy.
Squad tryouts have already been held in Dillon and Morrissey Halls. In the event that anyone interested in debating has - missed the notices posted on the campus he should get in touch with the coach of his hall as soon as possible.
S i x
The Scholastic
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS ISSUE "SANTA MARIA"
UNIVERSITY THEATRE ANNOUNCES PLANS FOR THREE PRODUCTIONS
The initial issue of Santa Maria, official organ of the Notre Dame council of Knights of Columbus, is scheduled to appear on Wednesday Oct. 23, according to announcement from Editor Robert L. Grogan.
“Santa Maria will follow somewhat the same general form as the last year’s paper,” Editor Grogan said,
Robert L. Grogan Watch the circulation grow.
“but will be issued monthly, about the 20th of each month.”
This year’s editorial staff is somewhat larger than that which served Editor Ray Martin last year. Paul Foley has been appointed Managing Editor, while Ray Martin has been selected for the post of Associate Editor. In addition to these the writers include William Gomber, William McNamara, Thomas Foy and Timothy King.
“We hope to make this year’s Santa Maria a true help to the council.” Editor Grogan said to his staff at their first meeting. “It is the only means we have at our disposal to serve as a connecting link between the members on the campus and those who have graduated but still keep their membership in Notre Dame council.”
The first issue will contain the announcement of plans for the first Communion breakfast of the year to be held in the faculty dining hall on Sunday, Oct. 27.
Arrangements will also be made known concerning the proposed schedule for the bowling teams to be organized by the council this winter. It is hoped to have these plans definitely set in time for announcement in Santa Maria.
The third regular meeting of the council will be held in the Walsh Hall club rooms, at 7:45 p.m. Monday, Oct. 21. Lecturer McNally promises interesting entertainment and refreshments. .	'
PRESS. . .
Famed newspapermen and advertising experts from all sections of the United States and foreign correspondents from the news centers of the world will address college newspaper editors and business managers who are assembled in Chicago for the annual convention of the Associated Collegiate Press, the national college press association.	.
Heading the list of famed newspapermen who will speak at the convention sessions to be held in Chicago’s famed Medinah Athletic Club, October 18 and 19, are Leland Stowe, Paris correspondent of the New York Herald-Tribune and Pulitzer prize winner, and Carroll Binder, distinguished foreign expert of the Chicago Daily Neivs.
Among the outstanding speakers who will speak at the round table sessions for the convention which has as its theme: “Building the College Newspaper” are Harry B. Rutledge, managing director of the National Editorial Association; Dr. Ralph D. Casey, dean of the University of Minnesota school of journalism; C. D. MacDougall, editor of the Evanston News-Index and lecturer in journalism at Northwestern University; Prof. Kenenth E. Olson, director of the Rutgers University school of journalism; and Chester Oehler, of the Lord and Thomas advertising agency.	.
The highlight of the convention will be the annual banquet of the Association to be held in the beautiful grand dining room of the Medinah Club on Friday, October 18. Grant Olson, advertising manager of the Sheaffer Pen Company, will be the principal banquet speaker. ’ ,
Notre Dame will be represented by John Moran, editor of The Scholastic, William Dooley, business manager of publications and De Lancey Davis, editor of the Dome.
COTILLION
Continued from Page 5)
row for Cotillion guests who have already made arrangements through the Athletic office for special tickets.
The Cotillion week-end will be climaxed tomorrow evening at the Football dance sponsored by the Senior class at the Progress Club. Howard Cusack, Senior class president, has not yet announced the orchestra that will play for the dance. Tickets for the affair will be §1.00 a couple.
Expect A Large Turnout
The University Theatre will present its first play of the year, according to present plans, on Wednesday evening, December 4. The play to be given has been selected but will not be announced until it has received
Professor Albert Doyle New life for the theatre.
the approval of Rev. John O'Hara, C.S.C., president of the University.
Mr. A. L. Doyle, professor in the department of speech and director of the University theatre, announced that within a few days bulletins announcing the call for those wishing to take part in the first production will be posted.
Two plays, in addition to the one to be given in December, will be presented to the student body, one in February and the other in June.
Mr. Doyle is hoping for a revival of interest in the theatre by students on the campus. In an interview Wednesday the director said, “I would like to see as large a number as pos- ~ sible turn out- for the University theatre when the first call is published. There will be absolutely no favoritism shown to those who have taken part in University productions before but each and every actor will be selected only because of his ability to fill the part. It will make no difference whether he be a freshman or a senior. The actors will be chosen solely on merit.”
The play now under consideration of the president of the University has for its setting the southern states. The play, a highly dramatic one, calls for a cast of ten actors. Mr. Doyle believes that the play, if approved, should find wide popularity with the students on the campus.
“If the students cooperate in showing an active interest in the University theatre,” Mr. Doyle concluded, “our plays should be highly successful.”	‘
October 18, 193 5
Seven
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE HOLDS FIRST MEETING
Fred Cox, a senior pre-med from San Antonio, Texas, was elected to lead the Academy of Science at the initial meeting Tuesday evening, October 8. The society selected Robert Ervin, a senior pharmacist, vice-president; and Christopher Landry, a sophomore pre-med, secretary.
An executive committee composed of the moderator, vice president, and three other members was elected. Members of the executive committee are: Paul Doyle, Donald McKay, and John Manning. This committee appointed Francis J. Murray, senior pre-med, as publicity representative.
The meeting was formally opened by the new president who set forth briefly the aims of the organization, stating that with the co-operation of its members a very successful year would follow.
The Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science and moderator of the society, delivered the opening address of the year in which he related the historical background of the club, its progress through the years, and the advantages -which it extends to its members.
FACULTY CLUB
Professor John A. Scannell, head of the school of Physical Education at the University, addressed the members of the Arts and Letters Faculty Club at a dinner given at the Morningside Hotel, Monday, Oct. 14.
“The Notre Dame School of Physical Education has three principal functions” the speaker said. “To train leaders in physical education; to orientate and train the classes entering the University each year in the tradition of clean and spontaneous sport; and to see that physical training at the University is made real physical education.”
Professor Scannell went on to point out the history and development of physical education as a part of a university education. He called attention to the fact that more and more schools are sponsoring minor athletics for the good of the sport itself rather than as a means of advertising or publicizing the institution. He pointed out the many teams at Notre Dame, ranging from fencing to soccer which receive little or no public attention but which are fostered solely on their own merit.
“A great impetus was given the movement after the great war,” Pro- . fessor Scannell said, “when, it was discovered that sixty per - cent of American young men were physically unfit for front line service.”
Speakers at the dinner in addition
Thomas Joseph Murphy entered Notre Dame from Newport, R. I. . . . Hobnobs with butlers in the summer on his fish-peddling route ... Was the life of last year’s Chicago Club dance and has present head man Luke Tiernan worried. ... Is a well-known figure among Rosary girls in
the Windy City . . . Also played Henry VIII in Indianapolis. . . A man of vision, he’s already signed up a Barbara from a well-known eastern women’s college for this year’s Senior Ball. ...	’
Athletic inclinations lead up the fairways and hall football . . . Manages to get in the way on a hand-ball court, too . . . This year’s freshman still snicker at his platform ability. .' . . Swears somebody pilfered his speech . . . Used to room with ex-Scholastic sports writer, Nick Connors, and on occasions borrowed his new shoes. ...
One of the best Junior' presidents in school history . . . Was the only man on his ticket to win . . . An indication of his popularity . . . Present S.A.C. president and responsible for Student Trip to Ohio State . . . For relaxation likes a pipe and a periodical . . . Spending his second year in Howard, and has advanced upward one floor ... Is a Commerce man, loves grocery stores and aspires to bean-selling in Boston, which sounds profitable. ...
to Professor Scannell included Professor David Campbell, President of the Faculty club who introduced the new members of the University staff, Professors Corbett, Maxwell, Fitzgerald and Hollis, and Professor Francis Moran of the English department who acted as toastmaster.
HOLLIS LECTURES ON SAINT THOMAS MORE
“The really dangerous revolt in the non-Christian world today is not the revolt against faith but the much deeper revolt against reason,” said Mr. Christopher Hollis in his second lecture Thursday evening, when he declared the canonization of St. Thomas More a triumph of reason.
Last night’s lecture is the second in a series of bi-weekly lectures by Mr. Hollis, English economist and professor at Notre Dame.
Mr. Hollis said in part: “St Thomas More is not the first Englishman to have been canonized. But, if he is not the first of English saints, it can yet fairly be said of him that he is the first of English-speaking saints. He and St. John Fisher are the only two English saints who lived at a date when the English language had come into existence. They are the first of English-speaking saints.
“St. Thomas’ martyrdom differed from that of other martyrs in that it was quite unsupported. He was unsupported by general public opinion around him. Public opinion, while it was shocked at the cruelty of his death, yet had no sort of understanding of the cause for which he was dying. There was at that date no sort of general appreciation that Henry’s changes were in any way putting Englishmen out of the Catholic Church, and only a handful of people in England had any notion at all what the fuss was about. More than that, St. Thomas, unsupported from without, was in some ways unsupported also from within. The doctrine of Papal headship of the Church was not a doctrine to which he was at all specially attached. , At one time he had been inclined to think that headship was a man-made thing. The general habits of the’ Faith to -which he was intensely attached he was not asked to deny. He died for a single isolated point of truth simply because it was the truth and for no other reason.
“The really dangerous revolt in the non-Christian world today is not the revolt against faith but the much deeper revolt against reason. Mr. Chesterton has said that St. Thomas is an important man today but not nearly so important a man as he will be in a hundred years’ time. That is certainly true. For with every day there comes more clearly the gigantic paradox that ‘it is only Christian men guard even heathen things.’ In St. Thomas you have sanctity defending humanity. In the last resort sanctity • is the only champion to whom humanity can safely entrust her defense.”
The Scholastic
Eight
FIRST "SCHOLASTIC" NEWS ON AIR TODAY
CAMPUS OPINION
GLEE CLUB PREPARES FOR ACTIVE SEASON
By Gregory Byrnes
At 3:15 this afternoon The Scholastic began its radio career. The inaugural program took the form of a 15 minute digest of news from the columns of the campus weekly. It is planned to make this Scholastic period a regular feature every Friday afternoon at the same time.
The period was divided between the news and sports staffs, each group giving a summary of the different stories appearing in their respective sections. The account of the final Cotillion arrangements was presented in full, for it was, naturally, the biggest story of the week. The approaching student trip was also prominently featured. To add a humorous touch the column entitled “From the Files of The Scholastic” was included as was the Campus Calendar, especially the section of the latter dealing with the lectures for the coming week.
The sports section of the program was composed of sport stories in condensed form as well as a summary of the two sports columns “Splinters From the Press Box” and “On Down The Line.” A short summary of the history of the Pittsburgh-Notre Dame football classic and a special pregame story written especially for the Scholastic by the editor* of the Pittsburgh University Daily followed. This week’s sport feature dealing with the Athletic Publicity Department of the University was summarized as a conclusion to the initial Scholastic broadcast.
Lindsay Phoebus and Gregory Byrnes represented the news staff. Joe Prendergast, Arch Gott, and Jim Waldron handled the sport section.
NOTICE
The Prefect of Discipline’s Office has announced that beginning tomorrow, a special street car will leave South Bend for Notre Dame at 11:45 p.m. every Saturday night.
This new arrangement was instituted to counteract the insufficient number of cabs operating in South Bend since the recent taxi strike. With the extra crowd of Saturday night shoppers in town, students, in the past, have been unable to secure cabs after 11:30. The special street car will permit students to sign in be-. fore twelve as it will make no stops on the way.
ATTENTION
Ticket sale for the Ohio State student trip will take place on Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 21 and 22, in the A. A. office, Main Bldg.
Ed. note: This is the fourth in a series of snapshot intervieivs with students about campus topics. The writer this week chose six upperclassmen at random and asked:
“Would you like to see the University Theater sponsor a revival of the Linnet type of production?”
Dan McLaughlin, Senior: “Yes, because, in the past, Linnet shows were most successful and met with great approval from the students.”
Daniel McLaughlin “The Linnets_met with approval.”
John Ryan, St. Ed’s: “As for the revue type of entertainment, ‘Thanks For The Blow’ was an entirely satisfactory show, from the view, both of the entertainers and of the audience. As a participant in ‘The Vagabonds’ I think something was lacking. Give us a show that will not demand too much of the limited talents of the students and that will still be possessed of a sufficient amount of collegiate sophistication.”
David Flynn, Walsh: “Unquestionably there is room for a dramatic musical organization on the campus; the absence of such a group last year was conspicuous.”
Jim O’Donnell, Corby: “I think it would be an excellent idea. It gives the fellows an opportunity t6 express their dramatic ability in singing and dancing.”
Frank McDonald, Corby: “Yes, because alL the students are given a chance to display what talent they have, if any.”
Jack Baker, St: Ed’s: “No, because the lighter form of entertainment can not be put on properly with the facilities which are available on the campus.”
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, Head of the Music department of the University, has announced that the personnel of the University Glee Club will be cut once in December and again in February. At present the following members are practicing daily:
First Tenori: R. Morrison, D. Vogt, W. O'Brien, R. MacDonald. J. Fooney, J- McGlynn, J. McLaughlin, T. Cassidy. S. Borzilleri. A. Selna, J. McAuliffe, J. McAlpine, and N. Aleksis.
Second Tenori: R. Ducey. T. Hines. J. Sullivan, O. Kane, Jr., R. Devine, J. Ryan, L. Phoebus. I. Goldman, J. McNeill, W. Barth. M. Leahy, F. Patka, J. Rotondo, G. Smith. R. Detaranto, G. Faller, J. Gorman. F. Carroll. H. McDonagh, J. Mulligan, P. Larmer. D. Murphy. F. Mastropietro, and M. Maceri.
First Bassi: A. Butler, R. Cardinal. J. Mur-rin, L. Boyle, F. Schaefer, F. Reidy, M. Fin-occhiaro, J. Saggau. R. Mazanec. J. Murphy, F. Barbush, G. Kerwin. G. Morris. R. Trousdale, G. Kilarjian, J. Thatcher.' R. Heywood. R. Foley, L. Donnelly, N. Jandoli, T. Kavanagh, D. Hickey, H. Johnson. S. Partyka. J. Manion, E. Weiler. B. Smithton. L. Sutton, G. Sauter. J. Mulderig, J. Graham. T. Maher, and P. Surace.
Second Bassi-: G. Miller. C. Rooney. R. Holtz, A. Davidson, J. Kirsch, W. Mahoney, D. Monaghan, F. Zintak, E. Neaner. A. DiBrie na, T. Quinlan, W. Kiely, R. Cronin. H. Jo-hantgen. C. Jansky, J. Pawlowski. E. Peter.' W. Fegan. J. Caulfield, C. Colgan. H. Gardner. E. Brower, C. Norton. J. Larson. L. Giragi, and B. O’Toole.
DEBATING ANNOUNCEMENT
All those interested in trying out for the varsity debating team are requested to meet in the basement of the library at 12:30 p.m., Monday, Oct. 21, according to announcement from Professor William J. Coyne this week.
The question to be discussed this year is: “Resolved, that Congress should have the power to override by a two-thirds vote a decision of the Supreme Court holding an act of Congress to be unconstitutional.”
PEP MEETING
(Continued from Page 5)
committee in charge of the meeting, announced that the University Band ■will meet the student body outside the dining halls immediately after supper and will conduct the march to the gymnasium.
“We are endeavoring this year to get away from the usual trite flag waving,” Chairman Tobin said. “We hope, to have the earnest co-operation of the students in a sincere effort to show the team that the morale of the student body, is really keyed up. The hollow exhorting means little—it is really the general spirit behind the team that we are striving to crystallize in the pep meetings.”
October 18, 1935
Nine
THE COLLEGE ACROSS THE WAY OR NOTES ON AN OLD TRADITION—SUNDAY AT ST. MARY'S
.	By John Hurley
On any Sunday morning in Corby and Walsh, in Alumni and Lyons, in any of the residential halls, you can hear the oft-repeated question, “Got a nickel? I wanta call St. Mary’s.” This question, youthful freshmen, has been asked by blase seniors, knowing sophomores, and other first year men equally as green as you since six Sisters of the Holy Cross congregation moved St. Mary’s from Bertrand, Mich, to its present site “across the road” way back in ’85. It is, we might even say, a tradition, seldom spoken of but always present.
There are two ways to reach St. Mary’s, a fifteen minute walk over a ■well-beaten path around the lake or a fifty cent cab ride around the golf course. Popular opinion for the past few years has been in favor of the fifteen minute stroll — a result perhaps of the crash of ’29. There are those, though, who claim the popularity of the lake stroll is because the warmth of a St. Mary’s greeting seems doubly pleasing after a brisk walk.
St. Mary’s, always imposing ■with its magnificent buildings and beautiful lawns—not to mention the “lake” —presents an especially formidable front to the uninitiated. Girls in groups of twos and threes wander past covertly surveying the men from Notre Dame. Sisters, in the usual black habit, stroll casually by, possibly marveling at the “classiness” of the Sunday suits of the one-day Finchleys from Notre Dame.
At two, or shortly after, on every Sunday afternoon from- September to May, seniors and freshmen alike converge on the right (formerly the left) wing of the college, the unofficial reviewing stand. Windows upon windows offer a vantage point to the charming young reviewers hidden from below by protecting drapes. However, a quick glance upward and you may be fortunate enough to distinguish a pretty face peeping through an opening.
The fashion parade over, a girl in black and white in the reception hall asks whom you are calling to see. “I’d like to see Susie Smith, please.”
Around you there is quiet confusion. You notice the class president murmuring to his political leader. A mental notation to see what kind of girls, they “rate”— Off at
the side two dejected-looking “Casanovas”— “Stood up?” you wonder. Soft music of an afternoon orchestra drifting out of the large room at the left—a glimpse of couples dancing— “Will Susie ever come?”—McGutzky and his stooge (apologies to Father Cavanaugh) engaged in animated conversation. At last! There is Susie.
What to do? Take a walk, or just sit and chat? The same old questions! Deciding on the chatting—there is so much to be said—you depart for the parlor to find a cozy corner.
The parlor, goal of every real Notre Dame man, is warm and intimate .with its thick-carpeted floors, soft chairs and large, beautifully draped windows. Little groups form. Four here, six there, two in the corner, absorbed, happy, oblivious. From nowhere the song “When You Went to Old St. Mary’s and I Went to Notre Dame” pops into mind.
A ceaseless hum of conversation fills the room. Notre Dame “he-men” laughing softly, murmuring quietly—wondering to yourself at the adaptability of these Notre Darners as Susie does her part to keep the hum unbroken.
Couples ^drifting to and fro — others coming in, their faces a rosy red from the snap of a cold autumn day—.
Bits of sentences from the couchs’ other occupants, mingled with Susie’s chatter—the Army game—new windowpane check—Chicago week-end—.
The shadows grow deeper; subdued but efficient lights are snapped on. The parlor is filled with a mellow glow lighting the faces of happy “gals and guys.” It’s nearly five.
. Back to the reception hall—hats and coats appear—the hum of the parlor deepens into a drone—It’s more the Notre Dame atmosphere out here.
Goodbyes are said. Parting warnings are heard. “Don’t forget to write —• meet you at the Oliver at three—fix Frank up, now—.” The exodus back to. school—the long, strung-out line of “wolves”—no more St. Mary’s for another week—.	,
Yes, youthful freshmen, such is the custom of Notre Dame men, on any Sunday morning, on any Sunday afternoon.
CALENDAR
Friday, October IS
University radio broadcast at 3:15 by Scholastic staff. Scholastic staff meeting, editorial rooms, 6:30 p.m. Pep meeting for the Pitt game after supper. Sophomore Cotillion, Palais Royale, 9700 p.m., music by Ben Pollack’s orchestra.
Saturday, October 19
Football, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, Notre Dame Stadium, broadcast WSBT 1:45 p.m. Cross-country meet -with Pittsburgh, 11:00 a.m. Movie, Washington Hall, “The Informer” with Victor McLaglen, 6:30 and 8:15 "p.m.; Football dance, Progress club 8:30 to 11:30.
Sunday, October 20
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m. Officers meeting, Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall club rooms, 10:30 a.m. Interhall football at 9:15 and 2:30.
Monday, October 21
University radio broadcast over WSBT, 3:15 p.m., K. of C. meeting, Walsh club-rooms, 7:45 p.m.; Ticket sale for student trip, Athletic office..
Tuesday, October 22
Lecture by Desmond Fitzgerald, Washington Hall, 8:00. Broadcast from campus radio station, over WSBT, 7:30 p.m. Ticket sale, student trip, A.A. office.
Wednesday, October 23
Meeting Charles Phillips Cracow club, Law Building, 6:30. Meeting Campus Radio group, 6:30 Radio studio.
Thursday, October 2U
Radio broadcast by sports commentator, Jack Robinson, over WSBT 3:15 p.m. Lecture by Christopher Hollis, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
LECTURE SCHEDULE
The titles and dates of the remaining lectures to be delivered in Washington Hall by Professors Fitzgerald and Hollis are:
Mr. Fitzgerald:
Oct. 22—“Ernest Hello.” .
Oct. 29.—“Leon Bloy.”
Nov. 5—“Gerald Manly Hopkins.”
Mr. Hollis:
Oct. 31—“Queen Elizabeth and the Religion of all Reasonable People.”
. Nov. 14—Charles II.
Nov. 26—The Founding of the Bank of England.
Dec. 12—English Capital in America.
Jan. 9—Karl Marx.	.
Jan. 23—Disraeli	-
Feb. 6—Booms and Slumps. .
Feb. 20—Charles S.. Parnell.
, March 5—The Last Ten Years.
March 19—Economic Nationalism.
April 2—The Unity of Europe.
April 16—Monarchy.
Ten
The Scholastic
WITH OTHER EDITORS
(Ed. Note: How are the students of other University campi reacting toward the national crises facing American college men today? With this, the first of a series of editorials from the pens of other writers, we will present the most significant thought appearing in the leading collegiate publications. The folloiving is from “The Syracuse Daily Orange” of Oct. 8 and is particularly timely in view of the past week’s events.)
WAR’S HORRORS
Fighting Opens in Adowa:
What do we know of:- war? We were too young to remember what happened during the Great War. We may have been told that it is “sweet and fitting to die for one’s country.”
What do we know of war? Do we know as Ernest Hemingway does that:
“In modern war there is nothing sweet noi" fitting in your dying. You will die like a dog foi- no good reason. Hit in the head, you will go quickly and cleanly, even sweetly and fittingly, except for the white blinding flash that never stops, unless perhaps it is only the frontal bone of your optic nerve that is smashed, or your jaw carried away, or your nose and cheek bones gone so you can still think but you have no face to talk with.
“But, if you are not hit in the head, you will be hit in the chest, and choke on it, or in the lower belly, and feel it all slip and slide loosely as you open, to spill out when you try to get up. It’s not supposed to be so painful but they always scream with it. It’s the idea I suppose. Or have the flash, the slamming clang of high explosive on a hard road and find your legs are gone above the knee, or maybe just below the knee, or maybe just a foot gone and watch the white bone sticking through your puttee, or watch them take a boot off with youi' foot a mush inside it, or feel an arm flop and learn how a bone feels grating.
“Oi* you will burn, choke, and vomit, or be blown to hell a dozen ways, without sweetness or fittingness; but none of this means anything. No catalogue of horrors ever kept men from war. Before the war you always think that it’s not you that dies. But you will die, brother, if you go to it long enough.”
That is modern war.
What can we do about it? Mr.
Hemingway has a solution:
(Continued on Page .22)
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
In old Science Hall Father Hope was instructing one of his rational psychology classes. The boys were on the edge of -their seats listening to an enthusiastic explanation of some involved abstraction, when suddenly an unceremonious interruption came in the form of a terrific banging from one of the laboratories below. Father Hope paused patiently until the racket ceased and then resumed where he had left off, not, however, without first remarking with a sigh, “Well, it looks like science has been taking another pot shot at philosophy.”
G
You wouldn’t believe it, but there are a number of seniors who like the refectory food so much that they eat two meals to the average student’s one. The result has been the organization of the Notre Dame Breakfast Club. Any morning after nine o’clock you’ll find John Murphy, Bob Czizek, Jerry Lambiente, Tom Fennelly, and other unmentionables belonging to the group holding session in the caf. Over* steaming mugs of hot coffee and crisp slices of buttered toast the gourmets wrangle, rant, and rave by the hour, now debating about the football team or the University, another time rehashing week end experiences, but more often spicing the conversation with belly-busting jokes. Czizek, a University of Iowa transfer, has yet to repeat any of his stories. The object of the awe and the admiration of the rest of the club, he has been elected its honorary president.
©
Like the coffee shops of old London, the caf is the favorite gathering place of all the local celebrities. Lee Moorman, our own Jim Farley, Howy Cuzak, the seniors’ F. D. R., and literary Harry Cozad are regular habitues of the spot. Howy and Lee no doubt are usually engaged in discussing some new political coup. One never knows what Harry’s doing. He can always be depended upon, though, to be toting some odd bit of literature around with him. •
©
Skipper Sal Costa has in his room a strange contraption which he says is a ship’s bell. Only the elect like himself, -however, can tell , the time by the affair , which .automatically rings out the hour every fifteen min- . utes. But if you want to. retain your sanity, I wouldn’t advise your, trying to tell the time of day .by it. Accord; ing to the chapel clock it’s a quarter-
after ten, but Sal’s bell has just rung eight times. We’re all at sea.
©
Now that the pushy season has opened, our indoor athletes are once again in their prime. What joy it brings to their naive hearts to see the salt shakers skim gaily back and forth across the gleaming table tops. How they thrill as the twirling shaker teeters precariously at the end of the table and, after a tense, breathless moment finally settles on the mark. With what utter abandon and intense preoccupation they display a finesse and a technique that astounds the observers. But of the numerous enthusiasts none is so skilful as that rules committee of one and past master of the art, Jim Fooey. A natural and a champion in his own right, “Flash” Fooey, as he’s known to his tablemates, is seemingly invincible. We’re willing to bet that the east hall hasn’t a man who can stack up against him; that is, if we had a farthing in our jeans to wager.
It’s been rumored that Ralph Cardinal is very much in favor of organizing a club, the purpose of which would be the fining of any of his associates guilty of uttering a nasty remark in his presence at table. According to Ralph’s system, such criminals would be penalized a nickel every time they committed a like crime. Too many of his meals have been spoiled lately by the tactless remarks of certain friends. We suggest that he wear ear muffs.
6
We hear tell that no few members of the senior law group have been made choleric, not to say indignant, by our little crack in last week’s column anent the possibility of their finding it a bit difficult to find means of support after graduation. Well, fellows, all we can offer is that well known old bromide: it was all meant in good, clean fun. We are prejudiced neither in favor of nor against the law seniors. Please keep in mind the fact that any individual, organization, or group on this campus is always fair game for the well-intentioned broadsides fired by this department.
•
Remember the fellow who entertained three hundred guests last summer? Well, he’s also the boy who, during vacation rented his beautiful physique to the world’s greatest photographer. He posed as a primitive, nude warrior, equipped with bow and arrow. Why, M.M.!
October 18, 1935
Eleven
IN ILL JUGGLED VEIN
CAF SMOKE
Engineer Walt Troy of Corby is getting more out of his education than most ... he has rigged up his room with a maze of engineering devices which make living possible in the grand manner. When the alarm goes off in the morning, a string pulls
Watch Paul Guaneri in band practice, if his pants were up any higher the cuffs would tickle his chin.
Ed Smith takes more showers than anyone we know . . . Radio songbird Francis Schaefer rather forgot his theme song over that Notre Dame
EXTRA!
Funk and Wagnails (it’s a dictionary in case you don’t know it): gives the meaning of cotillion as follows: a square dance or series of round dances. This will undoubtedly cause something of a revolution in Sophomore circles. After all, it’s about time this wise class knew what they cause such a noise about each year!
“Who’s that fellow over there?” “He’s the only Soph at the Cotillion.”
the clothes off the bed, lets down the window, turns on the heat and starts the radio . . . “Streaky” Themes beat Miller Mallet for the presidency of the Cincinnati club; perhaps being the best ice-man in the home town last summer (by his own admission) plus his new store teeth had something to do with it.
Bob Lewis undoubtedly sleeps more than any other law student . . .
broadcast the other afternoon . . . You can usually tell the old timers because they invariably forsake the new sidewalks for the old cinder paths . . . Bob McDonough-receives more mail than anybody else in Howard Hall . . . Tom “S.A.C.” Murphy received a letter from San Francisco, the writer being a girl named Cleveland, who resides on Hampshire st., sounds almost like “The Tale of Three Cities.”
Good Old Cotillion!
I’ll never forget the Cotillion. My date started in the evening by saying she was glad the dance was at the Palais because she likes those Spanish places. Then when she found out that the dance floor was upstairs she said: “Oh, climb one flight of stairs and save—I headed that one off but she went on to praise the orchestra, saying it was a wonderful band—so good, in fact, that her high school had hired it for their Thanksgiving dance. The first time we traded a dance she came through with: “I want to struggle wit th’ bloke wot brung me,” but I suppose that I should have expected that. When the crowd gathered for* the £ group picture she actually thought that refreshments were going to be served, but I can forgive that. I can forgive anything and everything but hei* final crack of the evening when the flash went off: “Good Lord, the party’s raided!”
I wish I could forget the Cotillion!
Advice to those who bring Silly Girls to the Pitt game:
That a passing attack has nothing to do with appendicitis.
That the slips handed to the referee by opposing substitutes are not excuses for coming late—
That a cut-back is not injured—
That none of the men out there in white is Elmer Layden—
That sitting on the fifty yard line does not mean you’re in the way of the players—
That the man with the long chain measures the distance and not the ball (you can also inform her that at all times the ball remains the same size.)
That no measurement is necessary for the band to play between halves—
That you would be out there in uniform if it were a very important game and if it were not the Cotillion week-end.
Then there is the football player who slowly turned around after every play so that reporters would be sure to get his number.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.................Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN ........................... Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST ................... Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei_____________________________________The	Week
William V. Ellis_______________________________________Art	Editor
News Staff
Paul Foley____________________________________________News	Editor
Robert L. Grogan_________________________Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus____________________________Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan________________________________Paul Biagioni
Irwin L. Goldman Harry A. Baldwin
Robert F. Ervin_______________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie----------------------------------Bertram	Smith
Harold A. Williams____________________________________John	Hurley
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker_________________________________Co-Sports	Editor
James A. Waldron_________________________________Co-Sports	Editor
John Cackley__________________________James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett_____________________________________Michael	Crowe
Allen Bride____________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley, '26______________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
October 18, 1935
THE WEEK IS SEVEN DAYS LONG
Tomorrow a good many thousand people will converge on the stadium to see Notre Dame attempt to overcome a jinx which has followed the Irish for the last few years. The band will go swinging down the field, the cheerleaders will work themselves up into a frenzy and the student body in general will yell itself hoarse. But after the final whistle has blown and busy wires are carrying the story of Notre Dame’s success or defeat to millions of anxious followers throughout the country, what of the team?
To the players, Saturday’s thundering ovations will be mere memories by Sunday morning, but Saturday’s bumps and bruises will linger on. The cafeteria quarterbacks will gather over cokes to pick out the game’s high spots, but the players will nurse Saturday’s souvenirs as they buckle down for a hard week of scrimmage in preparation for the Navy game. There won’t be any cheering crowds—no bands, no spectators, no newsreels. Just a long, tough grind behind the locked gates of Cartier field.
Congratulations are always in order for certain individuals on their fine performances, but what we advocate is continual enthusiasm which should be manifested not only on Saturday but on every day and for every one on the team. On the gridiron the players can take care of the situation, but off the field it is the duty and privilege of the rest of the student body to keep them in the proper mental state.
Remember this during the week, and drop that occa
sional word of encouragement which means so much to the members of the squad. Whether its Pitt or Notre Dame that comes out on the long end of the score Saturday, don’t forget Northwestern, Ohio State, Navy, Army, and Southern California have still to be met . . . and conquered. Give the players the pat on the back which they deserve—and will get from those of you who recognize and appreciate their efforts on Cartier Field these short, grey afternoons.
•
YOUR NAME, PLEASE!
No, we’re not taking the census, despite the heading of this editorial. We are referring to the unsigned letters received by The Scholastic within the last ten days. In our first issue of the current academic year we stated that our columns would be open for your comments on any subjects “from Hitler to hometowns.” We merely require that your communications be in good taste, and, as is the universal custom, that they be signed. The latter requirement seems to have occasioned some doubt and misgivings. We do not require signatures- in order that the faculty may swoop down on some brash critic, for if, in the first place, the missives are not in good taste, they will not be considered. Our aim is merely to answer each writer to the best of our ability—and we do not feel free to do so if the writer is unwilling or ashamed to sign his name.
We refer particularly to letters signed “The Law Club of Notre Dame” and “One of .the five Irishmen in School.” Doubt as to the authenticity of the first letter was aroused by the indirect method through which it finally reached The Scholastic. The writer of the second missive had very little to say but he chose to cloak that little under a poorly selected pseudonym. If the writers of these letters will limit themselves to two-hundred and fifty words and will sign their names, we will be glad to open our columns to them.
•
CORSAGES
For the past several years the custom of wearing corsages at University formals has been frowned on. The Scholastic has always contended that the cost of a dance is sufficiently high without adding other expenses to the bill. This is nothing new, as many universities have long abolished the corsage as an essential bit of dance equipment.
Corsages often embarrass a student to the extent of paying more for a few flowers than for admission to the dance itself. Many absolutely cannot afford this luxury, and out of consideration for them and their guests, corsages shouold not be worn at the Cotillion tonight; nor at other class dances throughout the year.—I. L. G.
•
THE MONOGRAM
One of the first things a freshman learns is that high school letters, numerals, and athletic insignia of any kind are taboo on the campus. Tradition has decreed that the only ones privileged to wear decorations of this sort are those who have won them while representing Notre Dame on the field or court. The Notre Dame monogram is an official insignia. It can be awarded only at the discretion of the Board in control of Athletics, and is given on official sweaters to those athletes who have merited it. Consequently, the monogram is out of place on the backs of jackets, rain-coats, and windbreakers; the individuals who wear it there are guilty of violations of the University regulations and of Notre Dame traditions.
October 18, 1935
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
SNARLING PANTHERS SEEK FOURTH STRAIGHT
NEW FACES IN IRISH'S FORWARD WALL INJURIES HAMPER IRISH FOR ALL-IMPORTANT GAME TOMORROW IN PRE^ME DRILLS
"Mike" Layden May Play
By James A. Waldron
Some few centuries ago a great oppression was in progress against the Irish. The Sons of Erin were defeated by the enemy for several years. Finally a doughty band of Irish under Cormac O’Neill met the enemy and routed them in the famous “Battle of the Biscuits.” There is a modern oppression going on in the football world today. The “Fighting Irish” of Notre Dame have been clawed into submission by the fierce Panther of Pittsburgh. For three consecutive years the mighty beast has roared its challenge at the Irish and three times Notre Dame has come away defeated.
From last year’s Pitt club only two regulars are back, but one of them Verne Baxter, star end, is out with injuries. His place is being taken by rangy Vince Sites, with Frank Sou-chak, a fine pass receiver on the other flank. Although he wasn’t good enough to make the freshman team, Averell Daniell will hold down one tackle post with the 195 pound Art Detzel driving in plays from the other side. Detzel was last year’s wrestling captain and one. of the strongest men on the squad. Hard charging Bill Glassford will team up
Pitt Fullback
Francis “Mike” Layden “I’ll try my darndest.”
with Dante Dalle Tezze at the guard positions. Nick Kliskey will attempt to fill the shoes of last year’s star, George Shotwell, at the center post.
■ The Pittsburgh offense is studded with great backs led by the only other regular from last year’s varsity, Bob LaRue. This fast, shifty right half back will lead interference for the speedy Hub Randour, Navy’s headache last year, or Bill Stapulis, triple threat star. Leon Shedlosky who ran back a punt 60 yards against the Irish last year, will alternate with LaRue. Frank Patrick, an East Chicago boy, has the call over Bob McClure for Izzy Weinstock’s old post at fullback. Johnny Michelosen, a smart young sophomore, will be the field-general with the 205 pound Arnold Greene as his understudy. Johnny Wood, one of the finest kickers the Panthers ever had, will be a capable reserve.
After three years of oppression the Irish of Notre Dame are going out to fight the second “Battle of the Biscuits.” Elmer “Cormac” Layden has told his squad, “We’re going to fight Saturday, win or lose.” Watch out Pittsburgh!
By Gene Vaslett
With the double problem of facing the Pittsburgh menace tomorrow afternoon and attempting to replace the loss of John Michuta, regular tackle on the varsity, confronting him Head Coach Elmer Layden sent his charges through a strenuous week of drilling in all phases of the football game.
Michuta’s loss for the rest of the season was a terrific blow to Irish football prospects. X-rays taken at Mercy Hospital in Chicago following the Wisconsin game showed Michuta to be suffering from a head injury believed to have been received seven years ago in a Golden Gloves boxing match. It will be remembered that Michuta was the Golden Gloves Heavyweight champion of Detroit several years ago. Coach Layden has decided that Michuta cannot be used again this season so the tackle’s college career has ended.
Two outstanding candidates for the vacated position stood out during this week’s drill. Either Art Cronin or Frank Kopsack who understudied Michuta will receive the first call tomorrow afternoon.
Pittsburgh will meet an Irish team that has been well drilled in fundamentals throughout the practice sessions. Coach Layden stated that he has yet to see a team that couldn’t be beaten by good blocking and tack-(Continued on Page 23)
Bob LaRue
Fourteen
The Scholastic
CERNEY'S 'B' TEAM WINS OVER OUCHITACOLLEGE
OPPONENT'S SLANT ON GAME AS GIVEN BY PITTSBURGH SPORTS EDITOR
By John Cackley
Keeping pace with their ‘big-brothers’ on the varsity, Bill Cerney’s “B” squad kept an undefeated record intact by smothering a powerful Ouachita eleven 25-0 last Saturday in Little Rock, Arkansas.
The Irish grabbed the lead early in the game, and from then on their smooth functioning offense was never threatened. The Baptists, who in 1934 captured the state college title, were totally unable to cope with the Greens’ versatile running and passing attack.
McGrath scored the first touchdown for Notre Dame in the initial period, while Schmidt intercepted an enemy pass deep in his own territory and galloped sixty yards for the second marker.
Neither aggregation was strong enough to push over a tally in the third stanza, as both relied on straight line plunges. The final quarter found the Gold and Blue, who incidentally were under Jake Kline’s tutelage on their southern invasion, taking to the ozone in a desperate attempt to put the contest on ice.
Saffa, flashy halfback, broke into the limelight by tossing Shakespear-ian-like heaves for his cohorts to snag, in their efforts to increase the percentage of points. McCormick was on the receiving end of one, while Gibbs tucked in the second to weave and sidestep his way 44 yards to the uprights.
Smith, Emanual and Battaglia gave a good account of themselves in the forward wall, while Arboit and Hoban looked fine in the secondary.
Notre Dame completely dominated activities in the manner of first downs by chalking up 11 to their op-pontnts 7. The fracas characterized the second consecutive victory for the reserves, having trounced Niagara 25-12 in the season’s opener.
FOUR IN A ROW?
1909—Notre Daxne, 6; Pitt., 0.
1911—Notre Dame, 0; Pitt., 0.
1912—Notre Dame, 3; Pitt., 0.
1930—Notre Dame, 35; Pitt., 19.
1931—Notre Dame, 25; Pitt., 12.
1932—Notre Dame, 0; Pitt., 12.
1933—Notre Dame, 0; Pitt., 14.
1934—Notre Dame, 0; Pitt., 19.
1935—	?	?
CORRECTION
In last week’s Scholastic the double column sports head on page seventeen was incorrect. It should have read, “Cartier Field, Famous Site, Was A Gift Of The Late Warren A. Cartier, C.E., 1887.”
Jock Sutherland
HISTORY . . .
Pittsburgh, facing its toughest schedule in recent years, will meet the rejuvenated Notre Dame team Saturday in the ninth meeting of the two schools. The Panthers’ ship of victory riding the crest of a successful season is seeking its fourth successive victory over the Blue and Gold. Both teams are undefeated and victory will assure the winner a place in the football sun at the end of the current season.
In 1911 Pitt was held to a tie by a weak Notre Dame team in a game played on a wet, soggy field. The Panthers were the heavy favorites to win and outweighed the Irish ten pounds per man. Yet the Gold and Blue returned with a scoreless tie and a moral victory. The two teams resumed relationships in 1930, when Pitt in 1929 claimed that they, and not Notre Dame, should be entitled to the role ■ of National Champions. That year, before a crowd of 72,000 fans who were anxious to see the outcome of the grudge match, another great Irish team decisively trounced the Panthers to the tune of 35-19. Schwartz and Savoldi collaborated to make four of the Irish five touchdowns while holding the Panthers to 19 points garnered when the reserves were playing.
The Irish suffered their first defeat in 1932 when Mike Sebastian led the Pennsylvanians in a drive which upset all the dope and returned the Blue and Gold on the short end of a 12-0 score.
The Panthers, by repeating in 1933 and last year, made it three in a row.
Both Squads Undefeated
By -Charles A. Ruch
PITTSBURGH, Pa.,Oct.17 — (Special)—Floodlights up on the practice field and sun lamps down in Trainer Bud Moore’s Stadium offices are burning late this week as the Pitt Panthers make ready for their annual battle with Notre Dame.
The floodlights are shining down on lengthy practice sessions at Coach “Jock” Sutherland and his assistants attempt. to knock off some of the rough spots in the team’s play. The sun lamps are baking injured ankles and legs in attempt to prepare eleven men for duty without offering them a set of crutches.
A quick look at the Panther varsity-leaves you with the idea that here is a detail of men who have just .come out of a skirmish in the Ethiopian war. The general appearance is discouraging enough, but it is only when you get the ends into one corner that the horror of the situation leaves you limp, which is, by the way, exactly what most of the wingmen are doing.
Vin Sites and Frank Soucha, last Saturday’s starting terminals, are able to stick out only two good legs between them. Paul “Bomber” Shaw, sophomore of promise, is doing his bombing this week while standing on one foot, while Bernie McNich, junior end, is keeping in fashion by nursing a series of leg ailments. It is not to be supposed that the situation is so bad that the Panther ends don’t have a leg to stand on. The trouble is that very few, if any, of them will have a couple of good underpinnings carrying them onto Cartier field Saturday.
If you’ve been doing any crying (Continued on Page 19)
Hub Randour
Pitt Halfback
October 18, 1935
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
FAMOUS PERSONS AT
PITT, IRISH CONTEST
By Cy Stroker
This column is usually devoted to the introduction of an active member of a Notre Dame team in an effort to give the reader an insight into the personalities of the men who make the term “Fighting Irish” famous in the sport world. This week we are diverging from that purpose to speak
about John Michuta who is no longer an active member of the Irish football squad. An old injury, received during the course of his boxing career and recently aggravated by his strenuous work in football, has put John definitely out of the athletic picture for this, his last year of collegiate play.
Michuta was born in the quiet old New England town of Greenfield, Mass., some twenty-two years ago. In 1918 he moved to Detroit where he received his elementary education
and where he started on the athletic career that culminated in his position as the best tackle on the present Notre Dame football squad. In his high school days he was a three letter man, playing football, basketball, and baseball. In the last named sport he was captain for two years. He was
well known as a heavyweight boxer in the Detroit Golden Gloves tournament in which he reached the finals.
During the 1933 season John vied with Tom Roach for the right tackle position on the Notre Dame varsity. His first game was the Indiana game of that year and in this contest he showed the driving spirit which has made him the nightmare of every Irish opponent since. After proving his worth in that game, “Mich” saw regular service in most of the remain-(Continued on Page 22)
The nation’s sports writers and announcers are once again meeting on the Notre Dame campus to give their readers and listeners their accounts of the Pitt-Notre Dame football game.
Representatives from all the large Eastern, Mid-Western, and Far Western newspapers will be present as well as the outstanding sports announcers of the radio.
Foremost among the radio men will be the famous team of Ted Husing and Les Quailey who will recount the game for the listeners of the Columbia Broadcasting System. Pat Flanagan will announce for WBBM of Chicago while Quin Ryan of WGN will tell his listeners of the progress of the game. The South Bend station WSBT will carry the broadcast locally with Jim Britt doing the announcing.
The list of the pressmen who will cover the game is as impressive as any yet seen at Notre Dame. The Chicago Tribune will send Wilfred Smith; the Chicago Herald-Examiner will be represented by its sport columnist Warren Brown; the Chicago American by Jim Gallagher; the Chicago Daily News by Jim Kearns. New York will read Francis Powers’ account of the game in the New York Sun.
Herb Simmons of the Chicago Times, Lou McKenna of the St. Paul Despatch, Winthrop Lyman, United Press representative, Paul Mickelson of the Associated Press, J. P. Gallagher of the Los Angeles Times, Chet Smith of the Pittsburgh Press, and Sec Taylor of the Des Moines Register and Tribune complete the list.
On The Enemy's Trail
TO DATE:
Pitt defeated Waynesburg, Washington & Jefferson, and West Virginia.
Navy defeated William & Mary, Mercer, Virginia.
Ohio State defeated Kentucky. Did they beat Drake?
Northwestern defeated DePaul and was defeated by Purdue.
Army defeated William & Mary, and Gettysburg.
Southern California defeated Montana and College of Pacific and was defeated by Illinois.
THIS WEEK:
Navy plays Yale.
Ohio State plays Northwestern.
Army plays Harvard.
Southern California plays Oregon State.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
SO THEY SAY
DEPARTMENT OF SPORTS PUBLICITY IS AN EFFICIENT ORGANIZATION UNDER PETRITZ
Doc C. W. Spears rallied his tired and weary Wisconsin Badgers for five thrilling minutes today, but they wound up with another sick headache as one of the strongest Notre Dame football squads in years smashed and buried them under an avalanche of points, 27 to 0.
Fighting their hearts out despite injuries and a one-man rebellion staged during the week by Clarence Tommerson, spirited halfback from LaCrosse, Wis., the Badgers put up a surprising battle for a time only to get their third straight defeat.
Over almost every scoring avenue known to football, Notre Dame rushed over a touchdown in the first and second periods, two more in the third, and then called it a day as Coach Layden gave all except two of his 46 players a chance to show their wares. —Paul Michelson, in the Associated Press.
Striking through the air when a stubbornly inspired Wisconsin line more than held its own on the ground, Elmer Layden’s Notre Dame football team evened its long series with the Badgers here this afternoon before 26,000 people by a score of 27 to 0.
The winners were far from being as impressive in victory as such a wide margin might indicate. The usual smoothness was missing from their running attack, for most of the afternoon, and it was not until the field generals started calling on the passers that the Irish began to score. —James M. Costin, sports editor, South Bend News-Times.
Notre Dame’s manpower went on parade in Camp Randall stadium here this afternoon as Coach Elmer Layden turned loose an army of 44 players to overwhelm a powerful, but poorly coordinated Wisconsin eleven, 27-0.
Using every player but his brother Mike, who was on the bench with an injured knee, the Irish mentor proved conclusively that the Notre Dame system needs fine reserve strength in order to be successful.
All the Irish scoring was done in the first three quarters, three of the four counters being the direct result of well executed forward passing plays.—Jack Ledden, Sports Editor, South Bend Tribune.
WARNER'S FULLBACK
Dave Smukler, the fullback from Temple University, has been stopped cold in his first three games this year. It certainly is quite a blow to Glenn S. (Pop) Warner, his coach, who rated him above the great Jim Thorpe and Ernie Nevers.
By John Cackley
“If it’s information we have it,” states genial Joe Petritz, ’32, Notre Dame’s well-known publicity director in the sports department. Although his activities are many and varied, that in a general way sums up the
Joseph Petritz “Knoivs all the answers.”
situation. Among the diversified duties encroached upon the Irish scribe include the supplying of 300 writers every Saturday during home games with working accommodations, being custodian of the press coop, listening to the numerous tales of visiting reporters (while “loaning” them cigarettes), and dispatching stories each week to 500 newspapers narrating the Green’s supremacy in the athletic world. Incidentally it may be well to mention that the press box ranks as the most modern and up-to-date construction of its type in the country. Beside the regular seating facilities, there are in addition seven radio booths, a ‘rack’ for the cameraman, two statisticians provided for the announcers (page Murdock), two men who take care of the lineups and substitutions, and the splendid service given to guests. All of this comes under the management of Petritz, who has succeeded in performing an excellent task.
In reality Joe is ‘the Department,’ but recently he has had an assistant appointed, Charles Duke, who has proved to be of tremendous help. On the average mail streams in to around thirty letters daily, requesting facts on this or that football fracas which he strives to give accurately. That Petritz’s job is not an easy one can readily be seen. Not content
with being on hand from early morning until dusk in his two-by-four office, Joe is invariably off to some distant city taking charge of advance copy concerning the Gold and Blue before they arrive on the scene of battle.
Bi-weekly releases are issued for the big papers so that the fans and ‘alumni-at-large’ may be kept well informed on the progress of the pigskin outfit, basketball team, cinder artists, and what not. Ninety radio sports commentators, and- four syndicates have these bulletins available for their immediate use. Cuts of the coaching staff, players, and managers are sent to approximately 100 newspapers throughout the mid - west. Without a doubt Petritz has the most complete football dope sheet of its kind, giving reference to every individuating thing that has to do with the squad, games, and opponents. Notre Dame reaps profitable rewards from publicity, and thousands of dollars are spent annually for this cause —a worthwhile thing to say the least.
Joe will furnish literature by the yard, column inch, or what have you, and typed in a satirical, elevating, or cynical manner as the paper may demand. Often he will receive perhaps a query from California desiring to know who made the longest drop-kick on Cartier Field and when; or some columnist on a New York sheet will want to find out the number of uniforms distributed to the hall squads: and then again maybe an editor of the County Enterprise would appreciate a list of all Podunk’s ex-greats on the frosh aggregation.
It is very seldom that an inquiry can trick Joe, and leave him without an answer. His theme song resembles that of the Boy Scouts, “be prepared.” Petritz stands ready at a moment’s notice to ship an interested party Coach Layden’s picture, an account of the gym burning a few years ago, or a resume on just why Notre Dame doesn’t go through the season undefeated when they have such Irishmen from the ’ole country as Wojcihowski, Pfefferle, and Carideo donning the moleskins. Every Friday night preceding the next day’s contest an informal get-together is had for the coaches, sports writers, and announcers at one of the local hotels —just another well-planned idea that has resulted from N.D.’s publicity office.
,Too much credit cannot be bestowed upon Joe Petritz, and much of the Fighting Irish’ success at home and abroad can be traced indirectly to his untiring perseverance.
October 18, 1935
Seventeen
IRISH SMOTHER WISCONSIN OUTBURST
FINAL MATCH CLOSES
TO WIN THIRD GRIDIRON CONTEST 27 - 0
FALL TENNIS TOURNEY
By Cy Stroker
The Notre Dame football machine rolled along its victory road last Saturday to defeat the Wisconsin Badgers 27-0 and even up the series between the two teams. The contest was decidedly one-sided but was not the push-over that Notre Dame expected.
A crowd of 26,000 people gathered at Randall Field to watch a Wisconsin team, rumored to be weak from previous defeats and internal dissension, become suddenly inspired and throw a scare into Layden’s men by bringing the ball deep into Irish territory. Runs of sixteen and seventeen yards by the Wisconsin backs in
John Michuta
Lost for the season.
the first few minutes of play put Notre Dame on the defensive. Although the ball soon changed sides, the Irish saw that this was a team to be reckoned with.
An aerial attack on the part of Messrs. Shakespeare and Wojcihovski brought the play out of Irish territory and finally wound up with a score -when Bill the Bard ran into the Wisconsin end zone to snare a pass from Vic. Soon after the first score, Coach Layden sent an entire new team into the game and this aggregate made another score in the second quarter when Andy Pilney hurled a pass into the waiting arms of Joe O’Neill. The work done by Pilney was the best so far this season and showed that Andy is returning to his 1934 status on the team.
The scores in the first half of the game seemed to take the heart out of the Badgers, for they tossed away many scoring opportunities by punting soon after- they took possession of the ball, with , one notable exception. On the opening kickoff in the third quarter Tommerson caught the ball on his own ten yard line and galloped up to the 43 yard stripe. But again Notre Dame recovered the ball on downs and started another parade (Continued on Page 21)
CROSS COUNTRY
Coach John P. Nicholson
To-morrow morning Coach Nicholson’s cross country joggers will attempt to demonstrate to the football squad just how to down the Panther by twisting his tail. The Pittsburgh tliinlies arrived with the football team and have high hopes of gaining a victory that will prove a forerunner to the main attraction in the stadium.
Last year the Irish" hill and dalers” journeyed to the Smoky City where they were completely outclassed by the Pitt runners. Coach Nicholson says he has a good bunch of boys this year, however, and expects better results. Pitt lost some outstanding runners by graduation, but they still retain a strong aggregation headed by Kirkpatrick.
The Irish team is bolstered by the return of Leo McFarland and Francis, both of whom were out last year because of illness. In practice runs this year they have both shown enough form to warrant them a position on the varsity crew. An improvement has been noted in the veterans from last year, Hennessey, Gott, Kenyon, McKenna, McGrath, and Karl. Gormley, a second year man who has displayed a great deal of promise, and Hoyt will round out Nicholson’s hopes.
The meet will begin at eleven o’clock in the morning when the long-winded boys will leave for their three and a half mile trip around both lakes and back through the campus to finish in front of the gym. It is hoped that those who are unoccupied at that time will turn out to see the finish.
Joseph Martin McNulty, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, is the new tennis champion of Notre Dame. He won a terrific five set match from Captain Joe Waldron by scores of 5-7, 7-5, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. Displaying some of the best tennis seen on the courts of Notre Dame for years, the two varsity men battled for two and three - quarter hours before McNulty won the contest.
The red-headed stylist charged the net from the outset but was soon driven back under the power of his opponent’s forehand. Waldron’s placements were nicking the line and he mixed the power of his forehand and backhand with soft drop shots. After dropping the first set, McNulty
Joseph Martin McNulty “He Sally’d forth.”
settled down to a defensive game, playing on his rival’s errors, and won 7-5.
Hitting soundly off both sides, this year’s captain raced the Oklahoma boy back and forth across the court as he took the lead by winning the third. McNulty increased the tempo of his game and once more stormed the net as Waldron’s shot began to lose their sting. The last two sets produced some of the most sensational volleys ever made on a Notre Dame court. The Tulsa boy was making seemingly impossible gets as the Irish captain strove to gear up his lagging game. Both boys showed themselves to be real champions with the better man coming, out on top.
In the early rounds all the favorites advanced to justify their seedings.. The two Georges, Cannon and Feeley, defeated Roeser and Connell respectively. McNulty, Vervaet and Prendergast also won their fourth round matches. The quarter-finals saw some very good contests with Captain Waldron' defeating his teammate Cannon, and George Feeley gaining a semi-final post by winning over Gay. In their semi-finals tilts, Waldron and McNulty met tough opposition. “Jersey Joe” took over Feeley while “Oklahoma Joe” won a torrid duel from Prendergast to gain the finals.	'
The Scholastic
Eighteen

By Joe Prendergast
RESERVE FOOTBALL...
THE ‘B’ TEAM
While the varsity football team is rolling along in an impressive fashion, the doings of the “B” team must not be overlooked. During the last two week-ends the boys, coached by the efficient Bill Cerney, have just about had things their own way as they steam-rolled over* Niagara University, 25 to 12, and sort of hoodwinked the representatives of Ouchita College in Little Rock, Arkansas last Saturday, 25 to 0. The greater part of the members of the “B” team are sophomores experiencing theii' first taste of college competition. These yearlings along with the veterans of last year’s “B” squad make up a well balanced outfit that is plenty hard to defeat. The next contest for the “B” team is listed for November 2 in the Notre Dame Stadium. This is the same date that “the punt heard around the world” will’be echoed in Columbus as the Irish and Buckeyes tangle. Those amongst the students who do not make the student trip will be able to witness a game on the campus. This is the first time in a number of years that the “B” team has scheduled a home contest and the spectators are bound to see a real ball game.
DIVIDED BY FOUR
Here is a little item taken from the editorial page of the “Daily Californian,” the official newspaper of the University of California at Berkeley:
“Reports from the South say that Howard Jones is pointing his Trojans for Zuppke and Illinois and that he doesn’t care about beating Cal or Stanford. Or Washington, ..Pittsburgh and Notre Dame.”
These are just rumors and are to be taken with a large grain of salt after seeing what the Illini did to the vaunted Trojans last Saturday.
SEEN AND HEARD
Sport writers and radio announcers are equally guilty of the mistake of calling the Notre Dame Irish, the Ramblers. This is old stuff by now, but this voice from the wilderness of Sorin will stubbornly insist on the right designation for the representatives of the Notre Dame teams. Another error which many writers also make is the habit of referring to the Notre Dame Stadium as the Notre Dame Memorial Stadium which is grossly incorrect
(Continued on Page 20)
October 18, 1935
INTERHALL FOOTBALL GAMES PLAYED
IN FLASHY, ROUGH AND TUMBLE STYLE
Coach Bill Cerney, mentor of the Notre Dame reserves, rarely sees his charges in action, in fact he hasn’t witnessed any of the “B” games thus far this year as he has been given various scouting assignments to cover for the Irish varsity. But between Saturdays Bill trains his reserve men as though they were to meet the Army varsity the next week-end.
The “B” team is not going to meet the Army team this week but two weeks hence they will travel to Champaign and play the Illinois reserves in a game which will probably test the mettle of the thus far undefeated reserve team. The “B’s” are scheduled to play a home and home series with the Illini this year and are desirous of scoring a clean sweep of the series as the Irish are scheduled to meet Illinois in 1937 in a varsity tilt. Since both teams are composed mainly of sophomores and the same men will probably meet again in two years it will be valuable to either team if they can gain a decision over the other which they will play in what will probably be one of the football highlights of 1937.
In preparation for this game the Reseiwes are being put through a rigid schedule of fundamental drills this week. Blocking, tackling, and charging have received the attention of the players and little has been done in the way of scrimmage, Cerney is leaving that until next week.
When the reserves trampled over Ouachita team last week several glar-ink weaknesses of blocking were noticed and the first half of the week found the B’s doing little else but blocking during the afternoon while the latter half of the week was devoted to tackling and charging.
Pin EDITOR
(Continued from Page 15)
over the plight of Pitt ends, don’t put your handkerchiefs away until you take a peek at the tackles. The six foot, four inch gentleman over there with his arm in a sling is Ave Daniell, junior tackle, who did some noble work against the Irish last year. George Delich, who comes from out around the South Bend territory, will have to locate, another good leg before he can show the neighbors what a whale of a tackle he is for Pitt.
By comparison, the rest of the Panthers are pictures of health and the Pitt coaches have not yet given up hope of sending eleven men out on the field without using one of the cheerleaders.
By Mike Crowe
Each game in the second round of Inter-hall football played last Sunday on Cartier Field was characteristic of football as it was played in the old days. Every type of play was used as the contending teams battled to win. The five games played were packed with thrills which pleased the fairly large crowds attending them.
The teams composing Group II played Sunday morning. St. Ed’s downed Off-Campus 12-0. The Brownson gridders nosed out Dillon 6-0. Morrissey failed to appear for their scheduled game with Carroll, last year’s titleholder. What can be wrong with Morrissey? Perhaps they had heard of the Carroll prestige and too, they may not have the men with the same fighting spirit which the other hall teams displayed Sunday.
Sunday morning the battle waged between St. Ed’s and Off-Campus was outstanding. The edge in weight held by the burly St. Ed’s men turned the tide in their favor. The two elevens battled to a scoreless tie in the first half. With five minutes remaining in the third quarter, the fireworks exploded. A beautifully executed pass from McCambridge to Rooney scored the first six points. It was a thirty yard toss. Rqoney, after receiving it, sidestepped two tacklers in a brilliant thirty yard run for the score. McCambridge caught a punt in midfield shortly after this and aided by splendid blocking negotiated the distance to the goal line to ring up St. Ed’s second and last touchdown.
Off-Campus made a big hit with the crowd because of their pep. Their quarterback always called out, “1-2 Hip, Let’s go, 1-2-3.” When number three was called, you could look for action.
A fight was nearly started in the second quarter. The Off-Campus left tackle complained of unnecessary roughness on the part of St. Ed’s right halfback. No individual fight began then but the boys got revenge later in the game. Even the headlinesmen were involved in a number of disputes.
The red-shirted Off-Campus team will be dangerous in coming games. The winners, St. Ed’s, will be hard to defeat. The latter appeared to be in the best condition.
Dillon’s fighting team succumbed to the Brownson “Roughriders” in the other morning game. The lone score came in the third quarter when Piercecchi (you pronounce it) swept around his own left end to give Brownson the victory. Both elevens (Continued on Page 22)
Nineteen
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
(Continued from Page 19)
ON DOWN THE LINE
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:—
When DETROIT won the World’s Series, it was the first time since 1931 a team has come through after losing the first game . . . ADRIAN (JOE) RACE, promising sophomore guard of Notre Dame, is the brother of ED RACE who starred for U.C.L.A. at Los Angeles last season . . . JOE LOUIS collected §18,000 for each of the 12 minutes he was in the ring with MAX BAER . . . They’re calling DIXIE HOWELL, who coaches the Mexico University team, a “Latin from Tuscaloosa” ... It looks like AUBURN’S football team is claiming the title NOTRE DAME once held as the team which traveled further than any squad in the country. This year AUBURN will cover 4,936 miles, nine of its ten games are away from home . . . Four WISCONSIN boys have held the Notre Dame senior football managership in five of the last eight years. AUGUST GRAMS (1928-1929) and JOHN GRAMS (1931) are LaCrosse boys and brothers. ANTHONY WIRRY (1932) and his brother GEORGE (1935) are from Racine. . . PITT lost nine regulars by graduation but the new crop of operatives defeated the old crop, 10 to 0, in a regular sixty-minute ball game last spring . . . JOHN WOOD, a junior at Pitt, can be used at either halfback and is perhaps the best punter Pitt ever has had. He never played for the Panthers, having been hurt last year and the year before.
SHAKESPEARE HAS AN UNDERSTUDY:
When WILLIAM VALENTINE SHAKESPEARE, the “Long Island Bard,” sings his swan song at the end of the current football season an understudy will take his place. A “brotherly love” follower will take the place of the poetic muse when the name of WILLIAM PENN is added to the Notre Dame football roster.
FORMER IRISH STAR HONORED:
FRANK J. SHAUGHNESSY, captain of Notre Dame’s 1904 football team who recovered a Kansas fumble and ran 105 yards for a touchdown in his senior year has been honored by PRIME MINISTER R. B. BENNETT of Canada. He was recently presented with a large trophy in recognition of his lifetime of service in Canadian athletics—football, hockey, and baseball. The award is unique in the annals of Canadian athletics.
Twenty
KID BROTHER:—
GEORGE IRELAND, iron man of the Notre Dame basketball team, has a brother who is a mighty fine freshman football player at Wisconsin. In a scrimage against the varsity, he scored three touchdowns. Too bad the Badgers couldn’t have him eligible as a running mate for that one-man backfield, ED JANKOWSKI.
Jim Scarf pin
Pitt Guard
FENCING
Blades flash lightning-like through the air as the two youthful opponents strive to land the telling “touche.” Suddenly the guard of one of the contestants drops for a slight second and in the same instant his adversary leaps inside the vulnerable spot and scores his point. This is the type of action that has been taking place the past week as the fencing team rounds into form. Practising each afternoon in the apparatus room the boys have been soaking up some of the tricks of the trade from their mentor, Pedro deLandero.
Although the team does not' anticipate any intercollegiate competition until at least the end of January, Mr. deLandero feels that all this pre-season training and instruction will have the boys in great shape by the first meet. The schedule this year will embrace practically the same colleges as that of last season. It is to be remembered that the fencing teams waded through an eight meet schedule winning from Illinois by default and decisively trimming in fine style Cincinnati U., Wittenberg, Northwestern, Michigan, Purdue, Washington U., and Chicago. Being triumphant in every meet, the Irish are quite optimistic for the coming season because three of last year’s regulars are back along with three of the second team and all the winners of the Frosh tourney held in the spring.
ANOTHER HORSEMAN MAKING GOOD
Norman L. Spar who selects Liberty’s All-American football team has compiled a list of head coaches now active in the game, rating them in percentage of games won and lost and Harry Stuhldreher, coach of Villanova, ranks first with a percentage of .875. The former quarterback of the “Four Horsemen” has been coaching ten years at Villanova, has won 57 games, lost 9 and tied 7.
CASUALTY
John Michuta, sterling right tackle on Elmer Layden’s varsity football squad, will be out of action for the rest of the season. This adds another obstacle to hurdle in the troublesome line problem that has fallen the lot of Joe Boland, line coach. Michuta has a head injury which did not bother him until last week. An X-ray was taken and the proof showed two small bones on the side of the head to be injured. Michuta was playing the best football of his career during the course of the past three games giving a grand exhibition against Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh. Scrap Young, Irish trainer, said, “Michuta in the Carnegie Tech game played one of the greatest games I have ever seen a tackle play anywhere.”
SCORECASTS
Most of the boys picking the games last Saturday took a lacing and this corner was no exception. Out of 25 tilts, we pulled 17 out of the hat correctly. Our record for the season now stands at 53 wins, 17 losses and one tie. This week the Irish-Pitt struggle has the predictors very much upset. We look to see Elmer Layden’s proteges come under the wire first with just a little to spare. Here they are. (Please note Robinson).
NOTRE DAME 13; PITTSBURGH 6.
Michigan State 20; Boston College 6.
Navy 19; Yale 10.
Dartmouth 26 ; Brown 0.
Army 12; Harvard 0.
Fordham 13; Vanderbilt 6.
Holy Cross 19; Manhattan 6.
Colgate 27; Lafayette 0.
Ohio State 19; Northwestern 6. Pennsylvania 20; Columbia 12. Princeton 26; Rutgers 0. Syracuse 13; Ohio Wesleyan 0. Kentucky 14: Alabama Poly 0. Duke 21; Georgia Tech 7.
North Carolina State 13; Georgia 7.
Rice 14; Southern Methodist 7.
Tennessee 19; Alabama 7.
Purdue 26; Chicago 13.
Creighton 14; Drake 13.
Catholic U. 6; Detroit 0.
Nebraska 26; Kansas State 0.
Minnesota 27; Tulane 6.
Wisconsin 10; Michigan 0.
Santa Clara 7 : California 0.
Oregon State 14; Southern California 7. Washington 6; Washington State 3.
.	TheSchclastic
WISCONSIN GAME
(Continued from Page 18)
toward the Wisconsin goal posts. Alternate drives by Carideo, Shakespeare, and Wojcihovski brought the ball to the Badger 31, from where Shakespeare passed to Fromhart for a gain of 16 yards. At this point the three merry backs continued their interrupted drive and Carideo finally pounded through center for a touchdown.	.
The third score was followed by another wholesale substitution on the part of Notre Dame. Not to be outdone by the starting squad, this team again drove the Badgers back in a consistent drive for another touchdown. The score came when Andy Pilney plunged off right tackle and ran forty yards for the final score of the game.
Although no score was made in the last quarter, there was plenty of action for both sides. Don Elser hit . his stride with several spectacular plunges and thereby proved that he is ample competition for Carideo’s job. Andy Puplis, sophomore quarterback, was put into the game for a few minutes and in that time almost succeeded in raising the Irish tally. Catching a punt on his own goal line, Puplis cut his way through the entire Wisconsin team but was finally brought down by the safety man after a seventy yard run. Altogether, the number of Laydenmen who saw
action in the game totaled forty-four.
The contest brought out some interesting facts. One is that Millner and Becker are boys to be considered as far as top-ranking ends and guards are concerned. Both were making tackles all over the lot and Millner showed his ability to run down under punts to snare the receiver.
Another point is that the team has two weaknesses, one: letting the opposing team add up yardage on the run-back of punts. Aside from Mi-chuta’s several brilliant tackles on this score, Wisconsin many times threatened the Irish goalposts. In the tougher games to come, this fault may be a source of disadvantage for Notre Dame. The other fault was the large number of off-sides called on the Laydenmen. More than thirty yards were gained by the opponents through this penalty alone.
■ Several men who had up to this time not seen much action, showed that Notre Dame has an ample supply of reserve strength. Bob Wilke at left half played with the finesse of a more experienced man. Larry Danbom proved the claim that he is one of the hardest plunging men on the squad. As a full-back Larry drove through the Wisconsin 1 ine again and again in the last quarter for substantial gains. Joe O’Neill at end proved too speedy and elusive for the Badger defense when he took Pilney’s pass for a touchdown.
The lineups:
Notre Dame	(27)		Wisconsin (0)
Millner 			T.F				Benz
Pfefferle 		—		LT..		 Jenson
Lautar		—		LG..		 Hovland
Pojman 		—		C—		Clauss
Becker 		—		RG_		 Nellen
Michuta		—		RT..		Golemgeske
Peters 						RE..		 Nahnske
Fromhart 					QB...		 Windard
Shakespeare .	—			LH...		Tommerson
Wojcihovski	—		RH...		 Jankowski
Carideo 		—		FB...		 Neubauer
Score by quarters:			
Notre Dame _________7 6 14	0—27
Wisconsin __________0 0	0	0— 0
Touchdowns: Shakespeare. O’Neill, Carideo. Pilney. Points after touchdowns: Fromhart (2), Stiiiey.
Referee: Masker (Northwestern) : umpire: Schommer (Chiago).
STORY CONTEST
A Barnard senior, Elizabeth Hall, was the winner of the National College Short Story Contest held by the magazine Story in which 224 universities and colleges in every state were represented. Miss Hall’s manuscript which was awarded , the first prize of $100 is called “Two Words Are A Story” and it appears in the November issue of Story published Oct. 15.
Notre Dame wras represented in the contest by Maurice Tombragel and William A. Kennedy.
PANTHERS CLAWED IRISH IN 1934, 19-0
October 18, 1935	Twenty-one
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 16)
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
(Continued from Page 19)
CHICAGO CLUB
The Chicago Club, under the direction of President Luke Tiernan, made an auspicious start in its activities for the year at the initial meeting of the organization held last Thursday evening, Oct. 10.
The first session brought an unusually large turn-out to take part in the election of a freshman vice-president. In the balloting Bart O’Toole was successful, being opposed by John Wolf and James Dunn.
The Chicago organization amended its constitution to read that all students residing in a twenty-five radius of down-town Chicago will be eligible for membership.
SCHOLASTIC AVERAGES
A bulletin recently released from the office of the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, concerning students with averages of 90 per cent or over offers the following interesting information:
At present there are 148 students attending the University with averages in this class and of this number 10 have averages of 95 percent or over. Fairly equal distribution of these honors is clearly noticeable when the respective hours of credit for each class is taken into consideration. The Sophomore class leads with 61 whose averages are above 90, while the Juniors have 50 and the Seniors 37 among this “top flight” of scholars. The College of Arts and Letters has the greatest number closely followed by the College of Commerce and the College of Science.
A scholastic average of 97.41 per. cent gives Richard Henry Meier, a Junior in Arts and Letters, the highest average in the University. Less than two points Meier is John Schem-ner, also of the College of Arts and Letters. Leading the College of Engineering, Commerce, Science, Law, and the Department of Physical Education come Joseph F. Froning, Francis E. Bright, Christopher L. Landry, and Ennio B. Arboit with verages of 94.93, 94.83, 94.50, and 90.64 per cent respectively.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
displayed good defensive play, but offensively, they were practically powerless.
Group I played their three scheduled games Sunday afternoon. Sorin and Alumni battled to a scoreless tie. Howard walloped Badin 19-0. Corby defeated Lyons 8-0.
Of the three afternoon games, the Sorin-Alumni affair was the hardest fought. Each team scored twice but the markers weren’t counted because penalties were called during the touchdown jaunts. During a crucial point in this game a bee made its appearance behind the Alumni line which was on offense at the time. From the shouts of the Alumni center, he had more fear of the bee than any of the Sorin players. He cried out, “Hey, wait a minute, there’s a bee on me.” The crowd got a big kick out of that incident. At one stage of the game, a Sorin guard was offering to whip any Alumni man. After cooling off he consented to let his ten teammates help but no scoring plays were called. Thus the scoreless tie.
Corby’s small, speedy gridders were much superior to Lyon’s. Though the score was but 8-0, it does not indicate the margin of superiority the juniors had over the sophomore team.
Howard, showing a strong offense, whipped Badin decisively 19-0. The men from Badin were completely outclassed. Howard must be seriously reckoned with as a dangerous contender for the championship.
The schedule for Sunday follows: GROUP I
Oct. 20, 9:15 a.m.—Corby vs. Walsh, Cartier N; Badin vs. Sorin, Cartier S.; Alumni vs. Howard, Cartier Oval.
GROUP II
2:30 p.m.—Brownson vs. Freshman, Cartier N: Carroll vs. St. Eds., Cartier S; Morrissey vs. Off-Campus, Cartier Oval.
WITH OTHER EDITORS (Continued from Page 11)
The only way to combat the murder that is war is to show the dirty combinations that make it and the criminals and swine that hope for it and the idiotic way they run it when they get it so that an honest man will distrust it as he would a racket and refuse to be enslaved into it.
Meanwhile:
30 Planes Drop Bombs.
Invaders seize Ethiopian Adowa and Adigrat.
2,500, including Women and Children Killed by Bombs.
Roosevelt Warns Americans Against Traveling on Belligerent Ships. ’
■ 20 out of 5,000 students attend Ethiopian-Italian discussion at faculty club.
ing games throughout the 1934 season.
During the three games that Notre Dame has played this year, John has been as much of a shining light as any of the spectacular backfield players. In the Wisconsin game especially his superior play was manifested. He brought down Badgers time after time at the spot where they caught an Irish punt. His tackles behind the Wisconsin line caused the men from Madison more worry than they probably care to remember. The holes he opened for the Notre Dame backs were wide enough to allow the Wisconsin band to pass through, — if the band members hadn’t been peeking out from behind their instruments far up in the stands.
In addition to his work on the gridiron John also plays baseball and is one of Coach Nicholson’s standbys as a weight thrower on the track team. He will probably be in condition again by the time the spring track season opens in March.
Off the gridiron, John is one of the quietest fellows on the campus. His studious nature evidences itself in the high scholastic average he has rolled up in Physical Ed during the last three years. For diversion he reads books on physiology and related subjects. Likes to listen to Wayne King. Occasionally a rumor drifts back from the Metropolis of the South of the golf course that “Mich” has been seen in the company of a sweet something, identity unknown.
PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL
With a plea for co-operation and aid, Carmi Belmont, elected leader of the Presidents’ Council, opened that organization’s 1935-1936 administration.
The Council, according to Belmont, will support the S.A.C. stand in respect to the status of the outlawed Metropolitan club of New York.
The Presidents’ Council intends to institute an intra-club athletic association this year to form leagues for the participation of basketball, handball, soft ball, and track. Embryonic plans call for the regulation and supervision of these activities by an athletic committee representing the Council and member clubs.
The club charters will be issued next week. There are certain revisions from those of previous years. On October 31 all clubs will be asked to forward to the Council a report of their summer activities, a corresponding financial report, and a personally signed membership list. Other finari^ f cial reports will be called in from time to time.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
IRISH CLUB
Next Wednesday evening Oct. 23, at .7:45 in the auditorium of the Law bunting, the Irish club will hold its initial meeting of the year. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss plans for the year and to welcome new members. Freshmen are eligible for membership, and an invitation is extended to all students who are interested.
The club is looking forward to a very active season. Among the unusual undertakings that are planned are a revival of the Inter-club Basketball League, a handball tournament, and a bridge tournament. Several prominent guest speakers have been invited to address the club from time to time during the year. Smokers and the usual large Communion breakfasts will round out the program.
CINCINNATI CLUB
The latest addition to the Presidents’ Council is Matt “Streaky” Thernes who was elected to head the Cincinnati Club at the annual election on Monday, Oct. 7. The new prexy is well known to campus sport fans as he has won monograms in both football and baseball. When interviewed concerning his plans for the year, he merely stated that the club would attempt to hold a Christmas dance despite the fact that one has not been held for several years.
Thernes won the election from his fast talking opponent, George Miller Mallet, by a two to one majority. In all, fifteen votes were cast, Thernes garnering ten while Mallet trailed with only five votes.
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
" 222 /2 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
It is our aim to give you everything that is expected in a good pair of glasses.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
INJURIES HAMPER
(Continued from Page 14)
ling and followed this statement by having a long session of tackling practice Monday afternoon.
Tuesday the linesmen underwent a hard line scrimmage in which blocking received the greatest attention, with the second team line facing the regulars. The Freshmen donned Pitt uniforms and employed Pittsburgh plays Wednesday to scrimmage against the many varsity aggregations. Thursday was spent in going over the mistakes made during scrimmage the day before and this afternoon the varsity entered the stadium and tapered off the week’s work with a light workout on the field where they will meet the Panthers tomorrow.
Injuries were scarce following the Wisconsin game, with the exception of the discovery of Michuta’s old injury, and all the members that participated in the Wisconsin game are expected to be ready once more tomorrow. Mike Layden has recovered from his injury of the Carnegie Tech game and is reported to be ready for the game with the Panthers. If it is found that Layden will not be able to play, Wojichovski will be ready to take over his position. Vic’s performance in last week’s game showed he was ready for first string competition.
FOR RECREATION, SWIM AT THE
Natatorium
1044 West Washington Ave.
For Ladies and Gentlemen
One of the finest Swimming Pools in the country.
Week days, 12 to 9 p. m.
Sundays, 2 to 6 p. m.
❖
Admission Fee includes / I JC suit, towel, locker, sunlamps and plunge.
One Low, One High Springboard.
Private Parties can be arranged.
Phone 3-8611
TURLEY LEAVES FOR ITALY
John P. Turley, Assistant Professor of Latin of the University, stopped at Notre Dame recently on his way from St. Paul, Minn, to New York City. Mr. Turley sailed Oct. 12 on the Italian liner Conte de Savoia for Genoa, Italy, where he will spend a year studying Roman Law at the University of Pavia. He has the distinction of being the first American student to enter that institution. He will return to Notre Dame next September.
PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL IN CHICAGO
it See the Bears and the Cardinals play Football as the experts play it.
SCHEDULE OF GAMES
Chicago Bears vs.
Brooklyn ...... Oct. 20
Green Bay ..... Oct. 27
New York ..... Nov. 17
Detroit ....... Nov. 24
Cardinals...........Dec.	1
Chicago Cardinals vs.
Bears...............Oct.	6
Green Bay ..... Oct. 13
Detroit ’....... Nov. 3
Philadelphia .... Nov. 10
Green Bay '..... Nov. 28
Go via South Shore Line I
Fast South Shore Line trains take you direct to Randolph Street_thence you transfer to either elevated or surface lines direct to Wrigley Field.
from SOUTH BEND
ROUND TRIP
For more information, phone 3-3111 or write C. W. Veach, City Pass. Agt., 301 North Michigan Street, South Bend.

October 18, 1935
Twenty-three
MR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY,
NOTRE DAME, IND.
... but, after all is said and done, it’s the cigarette itself that counts
... the question is, does it suit you?
That Chesterfields are milder and taste better is no accident. . .
when it comes to a cigarette that will suit you . . . you want to think whether it’s mild, you want to think about the taste
The farmer who grows the tobacco, the warehouseman who sells it at auction to the highest bidder, every man . who knows about leaf tobacco will tell you that it takes mild, ripe tobaccos to make a good cigarette.
In making Chesterfields we use mild ripe home-grown and Turkish tobaccos.
.. for mildness
.. for better taste
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.