MAY 11, 1962
THE WHITE PALM BEACH DINNER JACKET . . . 29.95
Enjoy summer formal occasions more with your own cool, frosty white Palm Beach dinner jacket. These handsome jackets fit perfectly . . . stay white . . . shed wrinkles . . . can be washed or dry cleaned.
GILBERTS
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
IN JULY
IN AUG
IN JUNE
No Carrying Charge
If you need a new summer formal . . . clothes for vacation or business wear . . . get it now or when you need it and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . one-third in August. There is never interest or a carrying charge to pay for this convenience.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY STORES
GILBERT'S
3
On Campus Max Shulman
(Author of “I TTas a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
CRAM COURSE NO. 5: SHAKESPEARE
Continuing our series of pre-final exam cram courses, today we take up the w’orks of William Shakespeare (or “The Bard of Avon” as he is jocularly called).
First let us examine the persistent theory that Shakespeare (or “The Pearl of the Antilles” as he is affectionately referred to) is not the real author of his plays. Advocates of this theory insist that the plays are so full of classical allusions and learned references that they couldn’t possibly have been written by the son of an illiterate country butcher.
To which I reply, “Faugh!” Was not the great Spinoza’s father a humble woodcutter? Was not the immortal Isaac Newton’s father a simple second baseman? (The elder Newton, incidentally, is one of history’s truly pathetic figures. He was, by all accounts, the greatest second baseman of his time, but baseball, alas, had not yet been invented.) It used to break young Isaac’s heart to see his father get up every morning, put on uniform, spikes, glove, and cap, and stand alertly behind second base, bent forward, eyes narrowed, waiting, waiting, waiting. That’s all—waiting. Isaac loyally sat in the bleachers and yelled, “Good show, Dad!” and stuff like that, but everyone else in town used to snigger and pelt the Newtons with overripe fruit—figs for the elder Newton, apples for the younger. Thus, as we all know, the famous occasion came about when Isaac Newton, struck in the head with an apple, leapt to his feet, shouted, “Europa!” and announced the third law of motion: “For every action there is an opposite and equal reaction!”
(How profoundly true these simple words are! Take, for example, Marlboro Cigarettes. Light one. That’s the action. Now what is the reaction? Pleasure, delight, contentment, cheer, and comfort! And why such a happy reaction? Because you have started with a happy cigarette —a felicitous blend of jolly tobaccos, a good-natured filter, a rollicking flip-top box, a merry soft pack. As Newton often said, “You begin with better makin’s, you end with better smokin’s.’ ’ Small wonder
* * ♦
As the slings and arrows of outrageous finals loom closer, perchance the makers of Marlboro are not untoward to offer this friendly suggestion: Get thee to a library!
4
they called him “The Swedish Nightingale!”).
But I digress. Back to Shakespeare (or “The Gem of the Ocean” as he was rib-aldly appelated).
Shakespeare’s most important play is, of course, Hamlet (or Macbeth, as it is sometimes called). This play tells in living color the story of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, who one night sees a ghost upon the battlements. (Possibly it is a goat he sees; I have a first folio edition that is frankly not too legible.) Anyhow, Hamlet is so upset by seeing the ghost (or goat) that he stabs Polonius and Bare Bodkin. He is thereupon banished to a leather factory by the King, who cries, “Get thee to a tannery!” Thereupon Ophelia refuses her food until Laertes shouts, “Get thee to a beanery!” Ophelia is so miffed that she chases her little dog out of the room, crying, “Out,
out damned Spot!” She is fined fifty shillings for swearing, but Portia, in an eloquent plea, gets the sentence commuted to life imprisonment. Thereupon King Lear and Queen Mab proclaim a festival—complete with amateur theatricals, kissing games, and a pie-eating contest. Everyone has a perfectly splendid time till Banquo’s ghost (or goat) shows up. This so unhinges Richard III that he drowns his cousin, Butt Malmsey. This leads to a lively discussion during which everyone is killed. The little dog Spot returns to utter the immortal curtain lines:
Alack, the play forsooth was sad and sobby, But be of cheer—there’s Marlboros in the IMyl	© 1062 Mu SbulmM
GLANCES
The freshmen-sponsored sprinkler party and the subsequent rollicking social activity is spotlighted along with reports of the storm effects and damage done on the band trip through the South in “News and Notes”... page 9.
Former news editor John McCabe takes over as Scholastic chief and appoints new editorial staff ... page 10.
Commentary on student government activities by Art Graham; elections in campus organizations revamp leadership, and new officers announced... page 11.
The publication explosion is investigated by Peter Clark who reports on four new campus-centered efforts... ■ page 12.
The savagery of the storm is featured in Brian Beck’s photo essay of the bleak side of spring at Notre Dame... page 16.
Canon Gabriel articulates the aims and advantages of intensive research through John Pesta’s coverage of the Mediaeval Institute . . . page 18.
Kibitzer’s Komer provides bewildered bridge players with happy talk, and John McGuire scans the local sources of theatrical and cinematic entertainment “In Town and Around” ... page 20.
Senior Don Gelhausen, Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, merits St. Thomas More Award ... page 23.
Pros and cons of steel versus fiberglass poles are discussed by Mike Terry and Frank Froelke, ND’s two top vaulters ... page 27.
Action photos of this spring’s Old-Timer’s game... page 28.
Sports department analyzes the play and import of the Old-Timer’s action, and pans the football future ... page 29.
Rev. Harry Baker, C.S.C., tells of ND’ers in the Southern Missions . . • page 37.
The SCHOLASTIC i» entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It ia represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC, t* printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185,, Notr» Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material b® comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Vol. 103 No. 21
May 11, 1962
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOAAAS WEISS
associate editor	'
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
nows staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stapp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Whorton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E.' McGowan, Brian Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Pesta, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD
Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
sports staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys, Bob Scheffing, Tom Kirtner, Joe Ryan.	■
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky. photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Dalum.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge. veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
James creagan
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
THOSE MACHINES AGAIN: It’s too late to do anything about it now, but a lot of seniors are wondering why the change in senior exam dates, moving the final date back four days, was not announced earlier. The movement of the test deadline from May 23 to May 27, due to the benefits brought by the new business machines, will disrupt the well-laid plans of many a graduating senior. Perhaps, in view of the record number of administrative changes this year, the provident man should have expected something like this; we only hope there is no repetition of the February IBM debacle which delayed registration then. Some of us are betting pretty heavily on that June 3 date.
HARBINGERS: Last Friday the warm weather brought out some of the usual springtime phenomena: water hoses, sunbathers, noisy crowds of freshmen in search of something to get excited about. We note also that two retiring senior WSND announcers tried that evening to stage a 36-hour marathon broadcast, having barricaded themselves in the studio and announced their intentions over the air waves. The listeners aparently thought it was going to be a good show, and kept the lines busy with encouraging calls. Unfortunately, the broadcast was abruptly terminated at 12:30 a.m., after only two and a half hours. The harried station manager, after hearing the ebullient pair dedicate a “twist” number to President Hesburgh, armed himself with wire cutters and braved the heat of the steam tunnels to cut the transmission line.
Our sympathies, we must confess, are largely with the madcap performers who were given the hook. The marathon affair had been cleared with the administration beforehand, and it seems a shame that a few hypersensitive reactions had to put a most undignified end to what was becoming a harmless good time for all.
CONGRATS: Those who attended the lecture given last week by Miss Flannery O’Connor were treated to what was certainly one of the best public lectures delivered this year. Congratulations are due to the communication arts department for sponsoring her appearance here.
MAY THOUGHTS: We have felt all year long that the new policy first proclaimed this year by the administration eschewing all forms of compulsory attendance at religious services is a wise one, the only possible one consonant with the type of student now at Notre Dame. Thus it is that the apparent attempt to improve attendance at the May Day procession by such semi-coercive means as closing the Main Library appears ill-conceived. First of all, if this kind of action were really necessary to assure a respectable turnout it would be a very sad admission of the lack of vitality of the most important, probably finally the only real, aspect of Notre Dame tradition. But more than this, it is very questionable whether such closings actually improve attendance at religious services (or other ceremonies, for that matter) by so much as a single soul. Worse yet, those for whom the use of the library facilities happened to be a matter of necessity at this particular time (and there were some) could only be embittered by what must seem an arbitrary and even insulting action. Those so inconvenienced by the lockout were not very likely to attend the procession in consequence, aside from the fact that it was postponed because of rain after all.
COURAGE: Occasionally the otherwise well-hidden reservoirs of journalistic acumen at Notre Dame burst forth from their self-imposed obscurity and bravely respond to our optimistic call for additional staff members. If this aberration is welling-up inside any heretofore uncommitted individual, please contact the Scholastic, Box 185 before the condition passes.
— W. & Z.
5
OUR COVER: “South Pacific" is the theme of today's cover. The mixing of red, yellow, and blue tries to convey the color and feeling of the romantic islands in the Pacific. See South Pacific.—TOM HANSEN
the fourth dimension: TIME
... still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculation—and surprise.
OUR MOST ACCURATE CLOCK IS THE ATOM!... we can measure time by the motion of particles inside it. Our "atomic clock" will vary only 1 second in 3000 years.
A KINGDOM (Plus a Queen) FOR A WATCH!... it actually happened. During the war, an American G.l. traded his gold watch for an entire South Sea island. (To sweeten the deal, the tribal chief offered to in-
clude his daughter.)
AN ELECTRIC WATCH FOR MEN, the Hamilton 505, requires only ten billionths (.00000001) of a horsepower! Its tiny energy cell (pictured above) lasts as long as two years without replacement
Looking for a really impressive watch? The Hamilton 505 Electric for men is the most advanced in the world. And Hamiltons for ladies are truly lovely things that can be worn on all occasions. The Hamilton Watch Company, Lancaster. Pa.




t fffle ri fl iw flt wfa e aaito

REPERCUSSIONS
ON LANGUAGES
The Department of Modem Languages appreciates the notice given it by the editors of the Scholastic and the generally sympathetic tone of their editorial entitled “Gift of Tongues." While the members of the Department agree with much of what was said, they feel that a more extensive background would have been helpful in the composition of the editorial. It is simply a question of comparison and awareness — comparison between Notre Dame’s Department and that of comparable colleges and universities, comparison between the present and former situations of the Department, and awareness of the Department’s present efforts and ideals. For example, the courses offered by the Department ■ compare favorably, both in variety and quality, with those of most universities. Besides four-year sequences in French, German, Italian, and Spanish, there is a three-year sequence in Russian which will be extended to a fourth year. Portuguese has been offered since the war and was reintroduced this year because of sufficient enrollment. Polish has been given at student demand as a regular course and has been offered as recently as 1959-60. Courses in Celtic are offered. Besides these programs, the staff stands ready to offer courses for which there is an individual need.
The editorial’s statement that the Department cannot “even prepare a secondary school modem language teacher who can meet the requirements of the state of Indiana” is most vulnerable. For many years Notre Dame has been certifying in Indiana, and other states, language teachers taught by this Department. Indiana’s present requirements, comparable to those of New York for example, can be met with a minimum of 18 hours in one language as long as a total of 40 hours in languages is taken. However, the recent “Teacher Certification Revision,” to become effective in September 1963, requires 40 hours of concentration in one language, or 46 if the student did not have two years of that language in high school. The Department, under the present system by which the Dean permits a certain number of students to continue language study in the Sophomore year, is set up to meet even these new requirements. Those who are Freshmen this year will still be able to qualify for certification. It is the future Freshman, barred from a lan-(Continued on page 24)
The Scholastic
6
A Hardy Perennial
Spring, to be prosaic, has come to Notre Dame, bringing with it such perennial delights as flowers, Bock beer, high-school tours of the campus, leaves, grass, sunshine, and the seasonal increase in suspensions and probations. But there is one sure sign of the times that always tells me more surely than anything else, even the surging throb of the dance of life (indicated in Sorin by a renewed proliferation of the vermin) that the vernal equinox has been passed, and that summer is not far off. This is the appearance on the University bulletin boards of the annual Spring Regulations.
The sight of this little dittoed sheet every year is enough to send me rooting fondly in my locker for my Haspel Sir-Perior and my Madras cummerbund. Nothing, unless possibly the distribution of free gin-and-tonics at the Huddle, could have a more salutary effect on my morale than reading once again those inspiring words, “Never are the roofs of residence halls to be used for purposes of sun bathing.” Ah, the ecstasies into which I am whirled as I read that I am not to take university-owned blankets out of the hall or appear on the basketball court without a shirt of some kind! It’s springtime! The only pretty ring-time! Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, towitta-woo!
I must add, however, that the title “Spring Regulations” strikes one as a bit unfortunate. One gets the feeling that spring itself is being regulated, and it is difficult to suppress visions of such items as “Flowers are to bloom no later than 1400 hours on 1 May,” or “Birds residing within 100 yds. of any residence hall or other university dormitory buildings are not to sing after the hour of 7 in the evening or before 6 in the morning. Singing is allowed at other times, provided it is carried on in a restrained and dignified manner.” This, I am sure all will agree, is an unfortunate association to be attached to a document which ought to bring unalloyed joy to the bosoms of all who look upon it.
* * *
I have received word from a well-informed source that the next item in
May 11, 1962
the University’s bag of academic tricks is a bold stroke of educational pathfinding. The Dalai Lama is to appear at Notre Dame in September as a Distinguished Professor. A small lamasery is already being constructed on the shore of St. Mary’s Lake for his accommodation. (The D. L. will be attended by a small retinue, but his yaks will be lodged at St. Mary’s, where it is felt they will be more at home.) Initial speculation that he was to teach a new course in comparative religion has subsided in the face of reliable though unofficial word that he will instead be attached to the Department of Biology, where he will contribute to the dispersal of universal knowledge by instructing all enrollees in the care and feeding of the yak.
It is felt that his acceptance of Notre Dame’s offer solved a rather ticklish problem for several liberal universities who have no official religious philosophy. The Dalai Lama, as you know, claims to be the Supreme Being, and it was felt that in a place where no religious attitude may be discounted, some embarrassing points of etiquette might arise. At Notre Dame, however, the prevailing opinion on such matters is quite clear, and the Lama, having been informed that we are all hopelessly benighted heathen, appears perfectly willing to accept the consequences of this regrettable state of affairs. We of the Notre Dame family all join in saluting His Omnipotence and wishing him a long and mutually advantageous stay.
* * *
After due consideration of all the criticism, criticism of criticism, and criticism of criticism of criticism that has appeared in the recent pages of this magazine, I have come to the conclusion that I was right in the first place: If there’s anything duller than criticism, it’s constructive criticism. In accordance with this radical, socialistic belief, I have decided, along with a few who feel as I do, to form a Campus Defamation League. This organization is to have no other purpose than the sheer irresponsible denigration of whatever fails to please its members. In this way we hope to preserve from extinction in a welter
by CHARLES BOWEN
of goodwill and sincerity the fine old arts of scurrility and invective. The society will meet at least once every couple of weeks and after the preliminary burning of a book or two, the members will read their manuscripts of abuse towards some chosen object. The best papers will be selected for an anthology to be mimeographed on rice paper and carried about by the members, or eaten whenever it becomes expedient.
* * *
The first crop of senior essays is rolling in to instructors, and on the upper floors of O’Shaughnessy Hall the initial burst of unbelieving laughter has already quieted down to a steady chorus of gagging. The History Department has announced, as usual, that the combined footnotes of all its papers would, if laid end to end, reach from the department office to Frankie’s Rathskeller. Although it is too early for any announcements of the winners of the various prizes, all the departments are buzzing with rumors and a few predictions may be ventured by the well-informed prognosticator, if we can find him this week end. In the meantime, scuttlebutt places the following as strong contenders:
Most thorough coverage of subject: Honore Flip of the Communication Arts Department, who submits a fiftypage treatise on “The Immy and its Function in Marbleshooting.”
Most intense concentration of effort: George Plasma of the English Department — 200 pages on “The Table of Contents in the Modern Library Edition of Vanity Fair."
Most ambitious undertaking: Peter S. Hyphen of the General Program, with “A Thomistic Criticism of the Universe.” 23 pages.
Most puzzling essay: Myron Mellish, who astounded the Modern Language Department with 45 pages of “Some Observations on the Interpolation of the Omega Function, with applications in Ring and Lattice Theory.”
Finest work of fiction: John Bellairs, who submitted to the English Department his collected letters to the Marshall, Michigan Draft Board.
7


lively Joyce RieeJowa State’63
Swophone-pUying Joyce Rice double* on obo* end has been a Baton-Twirling National Champion
lives it cp with this lively One frow foro’62: the New Galaxie SOOAl!
Lively Joyce Rice is a Homecoming Queen who likes all sports, including this red-hot, new Galaxie 5OO/XL. The rugged XL gets road-scorching performance from a crackling 4O5-hp Thunderbird V-8 that is precisely controlled by a 4-speed stick shift. Handsome bucket
seats, a Thunderbird-type console, and smart appointments are all “ah” inspiring. Go debonair in the sleek
hardtop, or tan your hide in a sun-drenched aproductof convertible. See the new XL at your Ford
Dealer's ... liveliest place in townl motor company
THE RITES OF SPRING
Two violent events have occurred at Notre Dame since students returned on April 30. The day students returned a small tornado (giving more credence to the proposition that the weather turns terrible with the advent of students; the two preceding weeks of vacation saw warm and pleasant temperatures at Notre Dame) ravaged the campus (See page 16). Last Saturday night, students attempted to have a riot with little success.
The tornado wove its vengeance principally along Notre Dame avenue, where trees were sucked up out of the ground and tossed about, two cars (one a new, red convertible)
were partially demolished, the Morris Inn’s awning was blown away, a large slab of sidewalk was buckled, and one student suffered a mild concussion when a tree fell on his head. The student, Brian Conway, junior commerce major from Kansas City, Mo., was reported in “fair” condition at St. Joseph's hospital.
Two members of the labor force building the new library suffered severe injuries when the storm blew them off the iron framework. Lowell Murphy was blown off the second floor scaffold and suffered a fractured left wrist and a back injury in the process. Paul Siegmond was also blown off the second floor and he received a fractured hand and a deep cut on the arm.
May 11, 1962
Other casualties included O’Shaughnessy Hall, where part of the roof came off and several windows were sucked out and blown in, Lyons Hall, which also lost several windows, and Dillon Hall, which suffered perhaps the most terrible blow when the storm blew down its television antenna.
* * »
Last Saturday evening approximately 1000 students tried to riot with qualified success. The disturbance began as a water fight on the freshman quadrangle, and then moved quickly to the main quadrangle, growing in size and anxiety.
Badin Hall jvas"the first stop. Students took hoses attached to the outdoor sprinkler system and began spraying water on Badin’s normally quiet inhabitants. This affront was too much for Badin’s pride and soon fire hoses were mustered. Several fights broke out and the invaders quickly abandoned Badin for Morrissey. Morrissey put up an even stronger fight, for they mustered fire hoses and wastebaskets.
Those hit by the wastebaskets went home but a sizeable number continued to the Circle. There the valiant group rocked incoming buses. One bus, containing girls arriving for the evening’s mixer, went home, never to return. Fr. Collins showed up before things got completely out of hand, waved his hands, and the group meekly dispersed.
As soon as Fr. Collins left, the group re-formed but now was split in two. One group went to St. Mary's and made off with nothing. Another went to the Student Center, where the mixer was being held. They tried to break the door down, couldn’t, and they too were left with nothing.
* * *
If events at Notre Dame the last two weeks have been unsettling, reports reaching the Scholastic indicate that many students had a rather intoxicating time at several southern spas during vacation. The Bermuda press bureau was so impressed with one Notre Dame group that they sent out a photographer to immortalize their coming.
The picture above is what the photographer found, and what he found appears to be a high state of bliss. Notre Dame students are, from left to right, Gerald Koerner, Jack
Kelleher, Ed Linden, and Bob Corrao. The girls (whose addresses the Bermuda bureau refused to send) are (from the left) Susan Teffner, Tracy Crosson, Carlyn Scioto, and Joanne Mackie. .	-	(
, x-A MILLION FROM LEWIS
’The Frank J. Lewis Foundation of Chicago has donated $1,000,000 to the University of Notre Dame’s $18,000,000 building program for the erection of a graduate residence hall for Sisters, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh recently announced.
The gift will be augmented by a $500,000 matching grant from the Ford Foundation which is committed to award one dollar for every two dollars it receives up to June 30, 1963, under the terms of its Special Program in Education.
“The magnificent gift of the Frank J. Lewis Foundation will benefit the nation’s entire Catholic educational
COME TO THE FORE
system,” Father Hesburgh declared. “Whereas it now takes five summers for a teaching Sister to earn a master’s degree at Notre Dame, Lewis Hall will provide a year-round campus home for nuns, enabling them to receive such a degree in fifteen months. In this way,” he said, “the new hall will accelerate the graduate training of the devoted women who constitute the heart of Catholic education in America.”
The specific location, capacity and
9
other architectural details of the new hall have not been determined. Lake other residence halls at Notre Dame, it is expected to include a chapel, lounge and study or recreational facilities in addition to student rooms. Construction of the new building is likely to begin in 1963.
In announcing the Lewis gift and plans for the new hall, Father Hes-burgh pointed out that Notre Dame has been a national center for the graduate education of Sisters for more than forty years. Today the approximately seventy Sisters enrolled in Graduate School during the regular school year are housed in a remodeled 75-year-old campus convent.
Among its alumni, Notre Dame numbers 53 Sisters who hold doctorates, 1,400, with master’s degrees and approximately 300 who earned undergraduate degrees on the campus. Nearly 1,500 nuns have attended the University’s summer sessions in recent years. The constitute a virtual cross section of Catholic education, representing thirty-five states, 108 religious orders or congregations and some 250 schools and institutions.
The late Frank J. Lewis, to whose memory the new hall will be dedicated, received an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame in 1954. Earlier, in 1953, Lewis and his wife provided funds for a bus shelter at the entrance to the campus.
HAZO GIVES POETRY AWARD
Samuel Hazo, Associate Dean of Arts and Letters at Duquesne University and a graduate of Notre Dame, recently established a $50 prize for the best group of poems submitted by a Notre Dame graduating senior. The first award will be announced at the spring, 1962, exercises.
The group of poems may be of any length. Deadline for the competition is May 12, and entries should be sent to 318 O’Shaughnessy marked for the chairman of the board of judges, poet John Logan.
DOME
IBM cards to be exchanged for 1962 DOMES may be picked up in 2nd floor student center on May 17th and 18th between noon and 5 P.M.
ID cards must be presented for an IBM card.
NEW EDITORS FOR THE SCHOLASTIC
Former news editor, John McCabe of Evanston, Hl., has been appointed editor-in-chief of the 1963 Scholastic. Majoring in political science, he is a three-year member of the Dean’s List and a frequenter of the International Relations Club.
Assisting McCabe as associate editor will be Jack Ahem, a Dean’s List student from Chicago, Hl.
This year’s sports editor for the Dome, Ahem is a member of YCS, will be senior delegate to NFCCS, and holds a Jewel Tea Scholarship.
Holding over for a second year as features editor is Tom Hoobler, a sophomore English major from Cincinnati, Ohio. Tom Hoobler, like Emily Dickinson, is nobody. He is not on
JOHN McCABE, JACK AHERN
the Dean’s List, not a member of the Blue Circle, and does not admit to ever having heard of the Committee on Academic Progress. He writes short stories, is working on a novel, and is a member of The Scribblers. According to Hoobler, his success as features editor has resulted from the fact that “Dogs, children, and old ladies seem to like me.”
The features staff will remain essentially the same. Carl (T. S.) Wiedemann will return as drama and literary critic; Larry Sicking w’ill continue to contribute his inimitable drawings; Frank McConnell is expected to again accept free tickets in exchange for reviews of musical events. John Pesta will be the author of articles that examine campus happenings from the viewpoints of genius or insanity, depending on his mood; finally, suave Tom Cullen will represent the features staff at all events that require suit, tie, and dignity. New members are Brian Barnes and
Dick Gibbs who will write the movie column.
Next year’s news editor is Jim Wyrsch, junior General Program major. Wyrsch has worked for the Scholastic two years, is co-chairman of the A.B. Advisory Board, a member of the Christian Social Democrats, and a member of the Academic Commission. News staff members include Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, John Buckley, Vince DeCoursey, Dick Maher, Steve Stuecheli, Don Wharton, and a cast of thousands.
Back for a second engagement as sports editor is John Bechtold, political scientist from Flint, Mich. Assistant editors will be Terry Wolkerstor-
fer and Joe Ryan, though it is expected Bob Schelling, Dave Fuys, and Frank Hinckey will be needed to protect Bechtold from the wrath of disgruntled coaches and players.
Returning as business manager to manipulate the books is Jay Ward, junior political science and med major. Tom Dalum and Rich Roggeveen will serve under him as circulation manager and advertising manager respectively.
Pat Saxe, next year’s art editor, joined the staff in 1961 as assistant art editor and will continue as a graduate student in commercial design.
Remarking on the role of next year’s magazine McCabe has this to say;
“General campus awareness of the pitiful lack of student-faculty-administration communication has been a wholesome and welcome sign in the past two years. Beginning with the (Continued on page 32)
The Scholastic
10
Campus Organizations
In the spring the campus organizations’ fancies turn to electing officers, accepting new members and forecasting changes, all of which are to become effective in the fall. The following is a rundown on the doings of several such organizations.
THE BLUE CIRCLE accepted 24 new members after the spring interviews. The group includes 17 students from the AB school, three from Commerce (that is, the College of Business Administration), two each from the science and engineering schools.
Chairman of the Circle for the coming year is Tom O’Connor, a junior in the combined AB-Engineer-ing program with a major in engineering science. Tom Schlereth, a liberal arts junior majoring in history is vice-chairman, and Paul Lehner, an accounting major in commerce, is secretary-treasurer.
Newly inducted members include freshmen Ed Burke, Nass Cannon, Tom Gaffney, Doug Lovejoy, Ramon Murphy, Jack O’Connell, Mike Rieder, Tom Phelan, Nick Sordi.
Sophomores Paul Charron, Jim Frasor, Laury Gott, Joe O’Neil, Paul Tierney. Juniors Joe Brown, John Cunningham, Kevin Hart, Dick James, John Macleod, Scotty Maxwell, Frank McDonald, Bill Vasu, Jack Walker and Pat Williams.
Nick Harkins was recently elected president of the Glee Club for the coming year. Gerry Witt is vice
NICK HARKINS, AL KILLILEA, TOM O'CONNOR
president, Dave Stasa is the secretary, and Mark Laboe is treasurer.
Glee Club plans for next year include a tentative Thanksgiving tour to the Detroit area possibly ranging into Canada. At semester break, St. Louis and central Illinois may be visited. The Easter tour will start in Maine and continue southward to Washington, D.C.
YCS officers for next year are president Al Killilea and secretary Dick Giloth. Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., is the Chaplain, and Bill Staudenheimer is the editor of Action, the YCS newspaper.
YCS plans are for a student referendum this spring on sending a petition to Rome in favor of the vernacular in the Mass. Other plans are for a permanent student-faculty lounge to further informalize student-faculty relations and a symposium on birth control.
The FORENSIC SOCIETY (debate club to you) will have the following officers. Chris Lane, a senior in the General Program, will continue as president. Vice-president is Jim Murray, a senior history major. Tournament Director is Ray Kelly, a senior English major, and Freshman Directors are Ron Kerner, a sophomore engineer and Larry Petroshius, an AB sophomore.
Officers for the FINANCE CLUB are Ralph Long, president, Nick Harkins, vice-president, and John Schmidt, secretary-treasurer. Herb Black is the Commerce Action Council representative.
Bob Fitzgerald and Vince DeCoursey are the president and vice-president respectively of the KANSAS CITY CLUB. Secretary is John Collins, and Tom DeCoursey is treasurer.

THE NEW FRONTIER
Kevin Hart, Notre Dame’s new Student Body President took over the chair from Chris Buckley Monday night, Stay Senators and the new Senate officers were elected, there was the usual handshaking, applause, and laudatory comments between the incoming and retiring administrations.
The new Stay Senators are Haid-inger, Schlereth, Ellis, Walker, Vitul-lo, Vollmer, and Lehner. Senate officers are: Haidinger, vice-president; Ellis, secretary; Kavanaugh, treasurer. Every year the Senate votes for the “Three Best Senators.” Those selected this year were Castaldi, Ellis, and Hart.
Former SBP Buckley participated in a National Affairs Seminar in Washington over the holidays and reported some of his experiences to the Senate. Buckley said that among the prominent people he had met and talked to were Bob Kennedy, J. Edgar Hoover, and many Senators. He said that everyone was interested in what was going on at Notre Dame and that many of the students from other schools were looking to Notre Dame for leadership in the NSA.
Joe Simoni announced that the international commission is instituting a big brother program and general orientation for incoming foreign stu-'dents. Dennis Flynn reported that only 220 bids had been sold for the Freshman Formal and that the dance had been opened up to the sophomores.
Greg Weismantel announced that Dick Gregory had not been a financial success. There was a loss of $1800. The first semester, (Limelighters, Brothers Four), proved that big name entertainment can pay for itself. Perhaps with experience and more discretion in the selection of entertainment, next year will be more successful.
A motion was passed denying the Senate the power to mandate the Hall Presidents Council to handle activities not under the HPC’s jurisdiction. The Senate appropriated $100 to Joe Simoni for his trip to Northern Rhodesia this summer under the auspices of Operation Crossroads Africa.
Next year’s Senate officers are all capable and experienced men. Hart was Junior Class President, Ellis was Sophomore Class President. Haidinger was student body treasurer and the organizer of the card stunt section. Kavanaugh has been president of Farley Hall and was a member of the Senate this year.
11
May 11, 1962
2nd Annual
ROD and CUSTOM
CAVALCADE
MAY 19-20
SAT. (12 ..Noon-Mid.) SUN. (9:00 A.M.-10:00 P.M.)
Featuring the Mid-West’s Finest. . .
CUSTOMS • HOT RODS COMPETITION CARS
ST. JOS. COUNTY 4-H FAIRGROUNDS
Jackson and Ironwood Rds.
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
ATTENTION Frosh-Soph Only
•
Interviews tor positions on 1962-1963 SCHOLASTIC BUSINESS STAFF Now Open
Here's your chance to: 1) GET STARTED IN EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 2) GET VALUABLE BUSINESS EXPERIENCE 31 EARN EXTRA MONEY
See JAY WARD Monday through Friday between 6:30 - 7:00 p.m.
304 Dillon
NEW PUBLICATIONS ANNOUNCED
Imagination and interest in four separate fields, coupled with the inadequacy of, or dissatisfaction with, available media have produced a quartet of promising new student publications. Science fiction, humor, science, and the major areas of thought are each handled in one of the new magazines.
The first of the projects to reach the public is Enigma, an amateur science-fiction magazine edited and published by the ubiquitous senior, J. Bay Jacobs. Ably illustrated by Jon Prusmack and Tim Moriarty and containing seven original stories, Enigma’s first issue is a surprisingly good example of what an independent publication can achieve. The first issue was printed by the offset process to save expenses, but will probably be given a more professional format as circulation grows.
The name itself is an accurate description of Enigma’s object: imaginative speculation. As might be expected, some of the stories are excellent, some good, and some trite. J. Bay himself is represented under several nom de plumes, but he indicates that future issues will feature many new authors. With the improvement that must come with experience, Enigma should prove to be a successful outlet for this specialized field of entertaining writing.
Of the remaining efforts. Leprechaun, the appropriately-tagged humor magazine, should be the first to reach the printer. In content and intention Leprechaun greatly resembles the original Juggler which was published years ago on this campus and considered one of the best collegiate humor magazines at that time. Several members of the old staff are now assisting Tim Wright and his staff of English majors in their undertaking.
Wright, a junior from Indianapolis, heads a group consisting of junior John Manning, who is Associate Editor; soph Tom Dumit, Copy Editor; junior Vince Labarbara, Layout & Managing Editor; and soph Ken Gigax, Business Manager. A regular staff of writers (all anonymous) and cartoonists—Larry Sicking and Bill Kebler—comprise the remainder of the staff.
The first issue, hopefully planned to appear this month, will be offset printed and similar in size and format to the Scholastic. It will sell for $.25 a copy.
Naturally, as a humor magazine, Leprechaun’s standard weapon will be irony and will attempt to satirize
the comical complexities of campus life. The initial issue will be aimed specifically at the campus audience familiar with the targets of its wit. Future attempts will move beyond Notre Dame for subjects, but will always recapture local absurdities through regular columns and features. The editors emphasize that their intent is not to criticize, but to make people laugh through skilled use of language in the difficult art of humorous writing.
The two more serious publications are fittingly more closely tied to the University. In an attempt to publicize the ability and imagination of the science college the newly elected science senator, Larry Kavanaugh, has initiated interest in a Science Quarterly, which will probably appear next fall. The staff will be ” chosen by Dean Rossini from applications submitted by several leading science students. The magazine will be financed much as the Tech Review — through national advertising and automatic subscriptions to all science students.
Kavanaugh, who is handling the organization until a staff is chosen, emphasizes the variety of subjects for the Quarterly. Major articles will concern a wide scope of topics: the many research projects going on in LOBUND, the labs in Nieuwland, and the computer center, and original articles by undergraduates. Regular features will include little-known facts of the various fields of science, advice on graduate schools, scientific speculation, and news of the science clubs.
Perhaps the most ambitious of the four is Centrum, a magazine of the major areas of thought. Founded by three A.B. juniors, Tom Kapacinskas, Lawrence McGinniss, and Jack Ahem, Centrum proposes to publish papers in the fields of philosophy, political science, business, and general science.
Papers will be accepted from any contributor and will receive the attention of an editorial board of seniors majoring in the particular field of the paper. Authors will be helped in preparing their work for publication, and the editors will select several to constitute a general topic for each issue. Members of the faculty will assist the staff.
The magazine will be assisted financially by private endowment and will have a format similar to the University’s Review of Politics. This scholarly journal will be published quarterly at $.60 a copy.
J. Peter Clark
The Scholastic
ATTENTION!
•	PREPARE PROPERLY FOR YOUR TESTS AND FINAL EXAMS!
•	MONARCH REVIEW NOTES---------THE FASTEST GROWING NAME IN REVIEW OUTLINES ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE FOLLOWING SUBJECTS.
•	THESE OUTLINES ARE GEARED TO THE MATERIAL COVERED IN YOUR TEXTBOOKS. CHECK BELOW TO SEE HOW MONARCH REVIEW NOTES CAN AID YOU IN STUDYING FOR YOUR COURSES!
•	Review Notes for PALMER—History of the Modem World
•	Review Notes in AMERICAN HISTORY SINCE 1865 keyed to MORISON & COM-MAGER, Vol. 2
•	Review Notes in ECONOMICS keyed to
McConnell
•	Review Notes in POLITICAL SCIENCE (American Government)
•	Review Notes in BIOLOGY—with sample exam questions & answers
•	Review Notes in CHEMISTRY—with solved problems
•	Review Notes in PSYCHOLOGY—with sample exam questions & answers
•	Review Notes in SOCIOLOGY—with sample exam questions & answers
•	Review Notes in MUSIC HISTORY
SOLD AT:
SOUTH BEND BOOK SHOP
130 North Michigan St.
South Bend, Indiana
MALOLO® TIKI STRIPE terry lined jacket printed with rows of authentic Tiki Gods. $8.95. Hawaiian cut trunks $5.95. Both of 100% cotton in colors of 'orange, green or blue on white.
MALOLO® KEY WEST terry lined jacket in 'orange and green color combinations woven of seagoing 100% cotton $8.95. Teamed with Hawaiian cut cotton trunks $5.95.
SPINNAKER STRIPE launches brilliance in knit combo of *navy/red and brown/yellow. Cotton blazer $8.95 over Hawaiian trunks $7.95. Cotton and rubber square rig knit trunks $6.95.
fflg iWWW JMM Ei a

(with an All-American Look)
Brighten the shoreline scene in brilliant swimwear created in the great
American tradition... guaranteed to command raves from your admiring crew!
TRANSPACIFIC sets sail in bold color and stripes. Fleece lined pullover $5.95 atop knit trader length deck pants $7.95. "Yellow or red combinations of seaworthy 100% cotton.
MALOLO® KON TIKI rugged woven jacket with embossed, authentic Tiki head on jac and trunks $8.95. Hawaiian trunks $7.95. Both of cotton in colors of "natural, yellow. pewter or blue. '
MALOLO® MIDSHIPMAN, banded with bold trim. In "white, natural, pewter or navy. Windworthy jacket of cotton gab $7.95, Hawaiian length Lastex cord trunks 6f acetate, cotton and rubber $6.95.
"featured color
Catalina, Inc., Los Angeles. Calif., Another Fine
Kayser-Roth Product.
May 11, 1962
13

LOUIE’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
Complete Outfit — $7.50
222 S. LAUREL Phone AT 7-0575
9 Blocks West of Michigan St. Between Washington And Western On Laurel
Erik the Red had no choice-but Vitalis with V-7 f ~ \ will keep your hair neat all day without grease. } Vitah» Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® |	<
with V-7® fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease.Trv Vitalis today!
SENIOR FINALE
This evening the Senior Class gathers in the Stepan Student Activities Center for its final social event. “Reflections” is the theme of the Senior Ball, and the Student Activities Center has been decorated in white and gold to befit the occasion. Reflecting pools and eight-foot candles surround the dance floor, which will be bathed in colored lights. Tables with places reserved for all skirt the decorations beneath the Center’s sloping ceiling.
Miss Terri Corsina of Los Angeles will reign as Queen. An honor graduate of St. Mary’s, she attends the ball as the date of General Chairman Greg Weismantel.
Friday night’s activities will be followed by a dunes party Saturday, a Communion Breakfast Sunday, and the Military Review on Sunday after- ■
TERRI CORSINA
noon. The seniors will enjoy 3:00 permissions for the ball.
Assisting Weismantel in making preparations are executive chairman Al Sell, business manager Ron Van-nucki, assistant business manager Fran Grau, decorations chairman Bob Hoffman, and publicity chairmen Tom Sleeper and John McGuire. Greg Premo handles accommodations, while Greg Risch and Phil Yawman cover IBM and tickets respectively. Rich Gilgan is in charge of refreshments, Charlie Wong of special effects, and Dick Meece of favors. Joe Bracco made arrangements for the Communion Breakfast. Paul Schellhamer arranged for the breakfast speaker, Fr. Imbiorski of Chicago, while Mark Marquardt acted as class advisor.
The Scholastic
14
[ Check your opinions against 1‘M’s Campus Opinion Poll *21
O Which would take more courage?
mm
LUNAR
□ ship to the New World (in 1492) □ rocket to the moon (in 196?)
&
© Is it true that “clothes make the man?”
© How did you choose your present brand?
□ Yes □ No □ Sometimes
□ "Smoked around” till I found it □ Stuck with the one I started with
L&M gives you MORE BODY in the blend, MORE FLAVOR in the smoke, MORE TASTE through the filter. It’s the rich-flavor leaf that does it!
W OXWBQ1 $M1AM * XO9<H1
UCGCTV t MvERS TOBACCO CO|
4IUMMII
HERE’S HOW MEN AND WOMEN AT 56 COLLEGES VOTED:
%9T-%£1.....M %V8"”%E8"" punoje po^ouis

%W’"%SS........sauiiiotuos
%6E""%I£.............. °n©
%L ”"%trl.............sax
.... uoow A
%W%ZL----PIJOM monV
F L&M’s the filter cigarette for people who really like to smoke.

The ancient cultures of Greece, Rome, and Israel fused during the Latin Middle Ages and have come down to our time in the art, philosophy, and literature of those years. Examined in a modem light, the intellectuality and spirituality of the past can reveal much that is instructive to the present. To conduct such an examination is the particular purpose of the Medieval Institute.
Historical inquiry must be handled on a scientific basis. What is uncovered must be interpreted in terms of modem man’s own knowledge and revelation. Something more than special courses is needed to perform an accurate historical analysis — something that will combine the fulltime scholarship of professorial research with the vigorous interest of students who will sustain that research.
The Medieval Institute differs from departments in the University that offer courses as part of a whole field — of philosophy, of history, or of literature — for its program is extended over the various fields of learning within the limits of the medieval centuries. At the present time there are five full-time Fellows enrolled in the Institute, working either toward a Master of Medieval Studies (M.M.S) or a Doctor of Medieval Studies (D.M.S.) degree. Each follows a general program along with his field of major interest, which can be language, education, literature, history, or philosophy The available courses require a broad knowledge of medieval history and sound preparation in Latin. Students seeking an M.M.S. spend two years in residence and prepare a research dissertation. Those seeking a D.M.S. spend five years in residence and publish a dissertation, with the final two years given over to research.
An undergraduate in good scholastic standing is occasionally permitted to participate in the work. Also, from time to time, special “survey courses” are offered to large segments of the undergraduate community. The “survey” is a less intensified approach to historical and intellectual movements. But — and especially for the student specializing in fields little touched by the Humanities — its rewards are many.
The history of education, of university tradition, and of the intellectual and social aspects of medieval schools are of particular interest to pie Institute. Central to this work *s the Institute’s library, under the direction of Dr. Francis Lazenby, housing a collection of photostats, microfilmed manuscripts, reproduced
IS

miniatures, and old and new editions • of source materials. All are supplemented by specialized studies and periodicals for current reference.
Some fourteen thousand volumes are available for research. Included in the collection are numerous rare books and manuscripts, many never, translated into English. Certain original works, written longhand in Latin, are priceless. An important part of the Institute’s work is, therefore, the transcription, reinterpretation, and editing of these documents. A fine collection of original engravings portraying medieval university life has also been assembled.
Over the years the Institute has undertaken a program to gather writings of the Middle Ages from countries behind the Iron Curtain. An expensive project, funds have been provided by the University Ad-
CANON ASTR1K GABRIEL
The Scholastic
al 3lns>titute
by John Pesta
ministration and the Michael P. Grace Trust. As a result of this effort, the Institute has gained a reputation as the finest center in the United States for material on the medieval history of central European areas.
The Institute’s future is brightened by the fact of its acquiring one of the richest libraries in the world —the Ambrosia, founded by Cardinal Borromeo in Milan. Merely bringing the library to Notrer Dame will be a half-million dollar project.
While in recent years "centers” of research have been established at several American colleges, the Medieval Institute remains the only organization in the country which conducts systematic research on medieval education. The project of founding such an institute at Notre Dame was first conceived by the Reverend Philip s. Moore, C.S.C., in 1933. In that year special courses were offered in the Graduate School. It wasn’t until 1946 that the University President, the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, established the Medieval Institute. Having previously directed the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies at Toronto, the Reverend Gerald B. Phelan became its first Director. In the fall of 1952, the Institute became a special center within the Graduate School. The Reverend A. L. Gabriel, Canon of Premontre, was made Director, with the Reverend Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., his assistant
Canon Gabriel remains today as pirector of the Institute. After studying at the University of Paris and at Budapest, he directed the French college conducted by his order in Hungary and was a professor at the University of Budapest. Just before coming to Notre Dame he attended the Pontifical Institute at Toronto,
May II, 1962
invited there by Prof. Etienne Gilson.
Author and lecturer as well as scholar, Canon Gabriel has been lauded with honors from the world’s major universities. In 1950 he was a visiting member of the Institute for Advanced Learning at Princeton. Nine years later he traveled to Luxembourg on a Fulbright professorship. He has lectured many times at the University of Paris. His lecture trips have also taken him to Munich, Oxford, Lille, Strasbourg, and other schools. Indeed, the continuing success of the Medieval Institute is assured by the fact that these universities recognize the richness of its holdings and work closely with its Directors.
A Fellow of the French Historical Society, the International Free Academy of Science and Letters, and the British Royal Historical Society, Canon Gabriel is the author of several ' important works. Among them are Robert de Sorbonne; Student Life in Ave Maria College; and, Skara House at the Mediaeval University of Paris. The first was written in conjunction with the seven-hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Sorbonne. It examines the financial wizardry of the college’s founder, his background, his ability as an organizer and administrator. The second book explores liturgical, intellectual, administrative, and economic life at fourteenth-century Ave Maria College, and contains detailed information on the students’ activities in medieval Paris.
Skara House, in its description of Franco-Swedish cultural relations and the history of the earliest colleges, stands as the Medieval Institute’s contribution to the European tradition of cultural interrelations. Treating of the activities of students and masters, the book is a valuable addition to the history of Swedish influence at the University of Paris. For this work the author received the personal thanks of the King of Sweden and of the Swedish ambassador to the United States, as well as that of Charles DeGaulle.
Alongside his personal writings, Canon Gabriel edits with Father Garvin the “Texts and Studies in the History of Medieval Education.” Father Moore and Father Garvin are editors of the “Publications in Medieval Studies," which began in 1936. At the present time, Canon Gabriel is editing the tenth volume of a documentary history of the University of Paris.
Canon Gabriel emphasized that we should not seek to re-establish me-(Continued on page 21)
19
Vidius 4o/*ner
Jerome Brady, our alumni rabble-rouser out West, would have been proud of our little “disturbance” last Saturday. Nobody carried any placards; but the little animals certainly had the Notre Dame spirit. I suspect it to be upon observation that it is a mixture of frustrated libido, emergent super-ego, dominant ego, and elemental id, according to old Doc Fraud, Ferd, or whatever his name. Frankly, it’s just as well that they “recreated in a destructive manner without objective deliberation or constructive purpose,” to quote a psychologist I know. Saving the world is a losing proposition; people prefer to stay damned.
Hell’s bells; I didn’t come to save you, boys and girls, but to lead you further down those paths of sin. Never accuse me of being a party pooper. Today it is our task to consider the trial bid, a bid which I have found so many people ignorant of despite its possibilities as an important weapon in offensive bidding.
Bidding the proper contract, as you well know, is not merely a question of point count; hands counting up to 30 points have gone down at game, while in extreme cases the right 8 or 9 points between the two hands makes a grand slam. The nebulous factor is called fit and is based on your evaluation of your hand’s usefulness after having heard the bidding. Honors, either doubleton or sitting in front of overcaller in his suit, have very little value; while a queen in partner’s suit assumes the importance of an ace. From sad experience I’m sure that you have tried to play misfit hands in no-trump and found that it’s generally impossible to set up partner’s suit with a singleton, worthless doubleton, or void. In contrast, in a suit contract, a worthless tripleton or a doubleton with short trump can be a deadly holding. This is the job of the trial bid to enable partners to evaluate the extent of their fit
(Continued on page 22)
20
Of Special Interest. The University Theater will present South Pacific this week end and next (May 10, 11, 12 and 17, 18, 19). The show is by Rodgers and Hammerstein, magicians in the field of musical comedy. It would be superfluous to describe the plot. And you have all heard the music. The University Theater has a tradition of excellent musicals and this one, under the direction of Father Harvey, promises to be no different. Tickets will be . on sale this week — all week — after 4:00 in the Washington Hall Box Office. The show starts at 8:30. Admission costs $1.50.
The Presbyterian Players will give their presentation of The Grass Harp this week end. 333 West Colfax. The show is by Truman Capote and the players do a creditable job.
Two campus clubs have reported movies this week: The California Club will show The Gazebo, with Debbie Reynolds and Glenn Ford, at 7:00 and 9:00 in the Engineering Auditorium... Saturday, May 12.
The Dixie Club will show Pal Joey with Kim Novak, Frank Sinatra, and Rita Hayworth, in 123 Nieuwland on the 13 of May (Mother’s Day).
The Student-Faculty Film Society will present its last feature: a series of films by St. Mary’s renowned artist Norman LaLiberte. They will be shown this Sunday, May 13, at 8:30 only, in the Engineering Auditorium.
The Avon. There will be a double feature for the week. The main show is Saturday Night and Sunday Morning. It is an English picture in the tradition of Room at the Top. The second feature, Man to Man, stars Yves Montand and is something of a second-rate production. (Saturday: 6:45, 9:45; Man: 8:15.)
The Colfax. Experiment in Terror is centered in San Francisco. It is the usual cops and robbers affair where the police track a psychopathic criminal. On the order of Psycho: eerie. Glenn Ford is the bright and daring FBI agent who plots to trap the “killer,” Lee Remick is the fair lass who is used as pawn by both the police and the criminal, and Ross Martin does a good job of seeming insane. All of this and Candlestick Park too. It is reputed to remain plausible while at the same time maintaining enough suspense to keep you glued to the edge of the seat. (Experiment: 1, 3, 5, 7, 9.)
The Granada. Tennessee Williams has written some very good material, and he has written some very second-rate material. I feel that Sweet Bird of Youth can be classed as second-rate Williams — though anything marked Williams is highly billed: and righteously so.
Sordid, angry, and bitter — per usual, the story concerns a swain (Paul Newman) whose romance with Geraldine Page is simply to fill the void before he makes it big in Hollywood. He wants, and wins, Miss Heavenly Knight — but not for long because she likes doped cigarettes better than she does him. Typically Williams. (Bird: 1, 3, 7, 9.)
The State. John Ford has been famous for his Westerns. This, he claims, is the best of them all. The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence stars such notables as John Wayne, James Stewart, Lee Marvin, Andy Devine and Edwin O’Brien. It is a "blood and guts saga” out of the West for lovers of the West. It seems, too, that adult Westerns have finally come to Hollywood. Perhaps it is about time. (The Man: 1:34, 6:30, 9:00.)
The Scholastic
'Institute'
(Continued from page 19) dieval times. He says rather, “We want to revive whatever message the Middle Ages have for the Space Age. The message of the Middle Ages is that the aim of study is not only knowledge, but also the acquisition of wisdom. Wisdom is what you learn; knowledge is what you teach.” The medieval world stood distinguished in two large systems: the secular state and the Papacy. Between these two realms the universities had their own third voice. This voice, he contends, gave the balance to the virtues of the two larger systems. The fortitude of the state and the piety of the Church were molded into workable machinery by the power of wisdom. By its blending virtue, the university fulfills its primary aim, which is to educate for life, not only for a technical education.
How to do all this? “The power of the universities in public affairs must be reconstructed," says Canon Gabriel. “Why is it that our great universities have leading intellectuals, young and old, yet can’t form opinion as Medieval universities did? I’d like to see our modern universities take a Position more often.” Basically, what Canon Gabriel wants to do is to reaffirm the ideals of wisdom and friendship that have vanished from our educational system. The student should be led to see the joy of learn-mg. not be rushed through college to attain a degree. The answer lies not in a revival of the medieval system, but in an application of its
Storage for Winter Garments only $2.95
PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
“IT ISN'T" necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don't pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
1st corner across the river on the Bus Une
^Iay 11, 1962
worthwhile features to present problems.
In one of his papers Canon Gabriel states: “When we examine the history of education and educational facilities in Western civilization we find that the fourteenth century is strikingly similar to our own, particularly with regard to the problems created by the increased demand for learning. . . . The main purpose of the founding of colleges was to produce good scholars, who would bring peace and unity to countries tom by wars, dissensions, and injustices, and to have good students possessing a perfect balance between piety and learning.”
Enlarging his scope to the whole of medieval social life, Canon Gabriel explained that, “In the newly founded colleges the intellectual elite became segregated from the crowd of ordinary scholars, and one more step was made toward realizing the idea of an aristocracy of learning, which was not afraid to assert that the virtue of wisdom — acquisition of learning — assures a supremacy of the non-noble over the noble.” Ideally the scholar of the fourteenth century would take his place alongside the lord and noble landowner as a social equal, playing an important part in a tightly structured hierarchial society. Perhaps the most blessed aspect of early university life was the achievement of a pleasant equilibrium in moral and intellectual education.
To acquaint today’s scholars with the richness of the past, the Medieval Institute has developed their program of research and inquiry in depth into the dynamics of medieval society.
The Notre Dame Bookstore's
SUGGESTED READING LIST No. 9
THIS WEEK’S FIELD IS
POLITICAL SCIENCE
The Human Condition, by Hanna Arendt, Anchor $1.45. A study of the central dilemmas facing modem man, “the combination of tremendous intellectual power with great common sense makes Miss Arendt’s insights into History and Politics seem both amazing and obvious.”
The Genius of American Politics, by Daniel Boorstein, Phoenix $1.35. “A profound and imaginative inquiry into the essence of the American political tradition.”—Karl W. Deutsch.
Up From Liberalism, by William F. Buckley, Hillman Books $.75. An easily read, admittedly biased view of the movement of American politics, by one of the most controversial of modem editors.
The Origins of Russian Communism, by Nicolas Berdyaev, Ann Arbor Paperbacks $1.65. Berdyaev studies communism from its very root origins, giving a balanced, scholarly, and interesting account of those origins.
The Myth of the State by Ernest Cassirer, Yale University Press $1.45. The author shows how the irrational forces symbolized by myth and manipulated by the State constantly threaten to destroy the independent mind of civilized man. He traces the origins of that myth from prehistory through the Rise of the Modern Totalitarian State.
All these books are available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
21
1
casual look with built-in comfort
and looks once you try
them. Ultra-soft glove leather, with built-up arch, extra toe room and crepe wedge sole for unbeatable comfort, indoors or out. Natural Tan, Brown, Black.
CONGO BOOTS $12.95
Here’s the rugged looking casual boot with built-in comfort, that’s sure to “score” in everyone’s book, all year ’round. Built-up arch for gentle support, softest glove leather, extra toe room and long wearing crepe sole. Tan, Brown.
ARCH-LIFT SANDALS
For real summertime living, there’s nothing as comfortable as Dr. Scholl’s ARCH-LIFT Sandal with the built-up arch for built-in comfort. Keeps feet fresh and alive all day. Fin- *	- _
est leather. Black, Brown. $12.95
Dr. Scholl's
FOOT COMFORT SHOP
132 N. Michigan Street, CE 4-7471
'kibitzer'
(Continued from page 20) before bidding game. Let’s take an example.
S AQlOxx i H Axx | D KQJ10 | C x
If the bidding has gone 1H - 2H, the holder of this hand can see two possible losers in hearts, one in clubs, one in diamonds, and one in spades for five. A doubleton heart in partner’s hand and the king of spades would put game on ice, while anything short of the ace in clubs would be worthless. This suggests two approaches. The first is to bid three hearts and ask partner for either shortness, a supporting honor (king or queen), or strength concentrated in aces. The other alternative is to bid three clubs, asking partner to devaluate his hand if he has any significant club strength outside the ace. The former is called the long suit trial bid; the latter unsurprisingly the short suit trial bid.
Let’s now consider the various kinds of hands that partner can have. Without a maximum or good fit, responder simply bids three spades. For example he may have S Jxxx | H xxx | D Axx | C KJx or a hand less rich in high card count Consider, however, this hand: S Kxxx | H QJ10 | D Axx | C xxx. With a maximum in both fit and in count, responder goes immediately to game. A hand less rich in count is S Kxxx | H KQxx | D xxx | C xx; still, a raise to game would not be too daring. S Kxxx | H QJIOx | D x | C xxxx is a hand for which responder could not be condemned too vigorously for going to game. Hands like the above and its predecessor require judgment; if partner is a bit gutty, game is too tight; yet with some partners, game is a moral certainty.
An important thing to remember in defense against these fit games is that they are close ones which depend a great deal on good splits to bring the contract. If judging from your hand, declarer’s suits are splitting well and/or his finesses are working, a double would be foolhardy. To the contrary, you can double on less points than you passed when you know that you have a good holding over your opponent’s suit and things seem to indicate that partner holds a similar holding over his partner’s suit. These hands can be worth a mint if declarer gets flustered and doesn’t quite do what he should. The same thing goes for no-trump contracts where you have good holdings.
—Wally
kecdlGMasii&iA.
SPORTSWEAR
Now two locations:
• Downtown, Michigan at Washington
Open Mon. & Thurs. nights
•Town & Country Shopping Center
Open every night 'til 9
22
The Scholastic
Win your letters in style!
Sharpen up in trim ’n tapered POST-GRAD SLACKS
You're every inch a man in PostGrads, America's favorite slacks! Slim, smart and traditionally styled with belt loops and cuffs. In washable Du Pont Dacron* polyester blends; also in a slew of colorful all-cotton fabrics. Get yours at stores that know the score... $4.95 to $10.95.
The Peace Corps has need for 10 instructors in physical activity in their Puerto Rican Camp. These instructors would assist in teaching physical education and would participate in the general activities of the camp, i.e., building houses, holding discussion groups, and supervising activities of other kinds.
Those interested may contact the Peace Corps headquarters in Washington, D.C.
LOCKERS and PACKING TRUNKS
From $9.95 plus tax ★
SMALL DEPOSIT HOLDS SELECTION ★
HANS-RINTZSCH
Luggage Shop
YOUR GIFT CENTER MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
Doh’t envy	them
____	•DUPONT TRADE MARK
May II, 1962
h-i-s
AVAILABLE
AT
GOLDBERG’S
MEN'S STORE
324 S. MAIN ELKHART, IND.
ST. THOMAS MORE AWARD
The 1962 St. Thomas More Award, an award given in recognition of outstanding accomplishments in the field of the student apostolate, will be given to Don Gelhausen, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus. This award was established in 1956, and is sponsored by the Young Christian Students of Notre Dame. It is intended to give special honor and recognition to the senior student who has done outstanding work in the apostolate, and whose
sense of personal dedication to this work has been a motivating factor in his life.
During his four years in the Knights at Notre Dame, Gelhausen has accomplished a great deal. He is a member of the Fourth Degree, was last year's and this year's delegate from Council 1477 to the Indiana State Convention of the K. of C., was Catholic activity chairman for two years, and also was youth activity chairman. He is the first person in recent Notre Dame history to have been Deputy Grand Knight and Grand Knight in successive years. Under his direction, the Knights sent more than $4000 to the Bengal Missions this year; he has also helped further the Knights' blood donor program.
A sterling silver medal of St. Thomas More and a parchment citation of merit will be presented to Gelhausen on May 27, at a breakfast at the Morris Inn following Mass in Alumni chapel at 9 o’clock. The breakfast is open to all, and tickets may be obtained at 407 Badin. Speaker for the breakfast will be Father Hans Rulke, C.S.C.
23
V1
MS M£ MM MSI AB MB M* MS MS fl*
MM KM MB MH 889 HM MM 8B
| | Mother always !
It’s your	'	,	. ..	.	|
}	8	I	told	me	to	I
tapered shape	i	i	, .	.	..	., ,. ..	1
H H J look for the blue label : and your	:	!	!
hopsacking look	ll	1
XL IX	$ S	| ‘‘ww^k	I 8
TR^T GA| HIP	* *	S
kHUU £VL Hit ...	.	।	|
- -	SAoe og C&i*y3tb*4-	-
«	«	<
% # % MM MM MH ISC SM MM MS	» MM *» *« « «* »» «*
% s I /
NEWS BRIEFS
Approximately 100 volunteers from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are expected to participate in tomorrow’s Third Annual Help Week, sponsored by the Blue Circle.
Ten institutions are to get the assistance of these workers in the all J day project. Hospitals, rest homes, | churches and the like will be aided ; in an effort to promote good will be- : tween the students of Notre Dame and the citizens of South Bend. Buses will leave the Circle Saturday afternoon at 12:45, and return at 5 or 5:30 ...
Students from Notre Dame, in con- , junction with Project Hope, will conduct a Hope Day in the South Bend area on Saturday, May 19. The purpose of this day will be to collect funds for the S.S. Hope and to propa- 1 gate the Hope idea itself.	,
24
Nobody’s really suggesting romance will be yours if you wear U.S. Keds.But it is true that Keds are the best-fitting, the most comfortable, good-looking and long-wearing fabric casuals you can buy. Because Keds are made with costlier fabrics. With an exclusive shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned innersole. In short, with all those "extras” that make them your best buy in the long run. Head for your nearest Keds dealer. Get that Keds look, that Keds fit...GET THAT GREAT KEDS FEELING!
'Both U.S. Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks of
United States Rubber
Rockefeller Center, New York 20. New York
'Repercussions' (Continued from page 6) guage course under the Common Freshman Year plan, who will, indeed, be unable to satisfy the new requirements for certification.
If this is true, it is not because of the Department’s inability to offer the necessary courses. The “paucity of good courses” mentioned in the editorial is a phrase that does not reflect the reality. A quick glance at the catalogues would show that the Department offers from six to eight advanced courses every year in each of three languages—French, German, and Spanish—plus the other four-year sequences mentioned above. This may not be opulence, but there is variety enough to take care of a major or elective sequence without repetition.
For years the Department has been acquiring a professional staff with the expectation of offering graduate studies during the regular academic year and not just during the summer sessions (the editorial is not strictly accurate in stating “there is no graduate program at all”). These efforts culminated in formal requests—together with the outline of a program and the professors to teach in it—■ to the Academic Council for the extension of the graduate program to the regular academic year. The requests were turned down.
In answer to the editorial’s concern over the “miserable state of our own Modem Language Department itself,” a catalogue of accomplishments could be proffered. As early as 1955 the Department requested and finally acquired an electronic “Ian; guage laboratory.” As early as 195 (Continued on page 32)
The Scholastic
i

Which diamond is a girl’s best friend?
Every girl knows “a rose is a rose is a rose.” But is a diamond a diamond a diamond?
The smart girl who cares (about beauty and value) knows there’s more to a diamond than meets her eye. Even under magnification, a diamond reveals its inner secrets only to the eye of a trained expert. That’s why America’s College Queens have chosen their “best friends” from among the award-winning designs of the world-famous Artcarved selection.
Every Artcarved diamond gives you more than the beauty which meets your eye. The quality and value of its inner beauty is also certified by a written guarantee that is recognized and respected by leading jewelers everywhere.
If you want to be sure of the inner beauty and value of your diamond, see your Artcarved jeweler. Ask him to show you the styles chosen by America's College Queens.
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
Two of the lovely designs chosen by America's College Queens. From $100.
JACOBS JEWELERS I2I W. Washington St. South Bend
May 11, 1962
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
JHAMONPIRINGS

Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet................ $	60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $425.00
Bride’s Circlet...............  $	30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
•*
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
121 W. WASHINGTON
CE 4-1311 at
Artcarved
25
26
Like Riding A Slingshot:
RUGBY
Vaulting with the Glass Pole
by MIKE TERRY and FRANK FROELKE as told to TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
To the vaulter, what are the basic differences between the steel and fiberglass poles?
TERRY: With the steel pole, you have something to pull against after you plant the pole; there’s a support under you. With the glass pole, it feels like there’s nothing to hold onto. In fact, the first time I tried a fiberglass pole, I felt like I was falling backward in mid-air as the pole flexed, and I panicked and let go.
The big difference, of course, is that the glass pole returns the energy you put into it. When you plant a steel pole, your shoulders absorb the impact, but when you plant a glass pole, the pole itself absorbs the energy and bends. It returns the energy as it straightens out, and in effect catapults you over the bar. It’s just like riding a slingshot. It takes all the work out of vaulting.
' How does the technique of vaulting with a fiberglass pole differ from that used with a steel pole?
FROELKE: Some vaulters — like Rolando Cruz — still use the glass pole like a steel pole, without bending it.
But if you make use of its flexibility, there’s all the difference in the world in technique. With the steel pole, you pull, turn, and push off in one quick, smooth motion. But with the fiberglass pole, you pull, wait while it bends down and straightens back up, and then turn and push off in a split second.
To make maximum use of the whip action of the glass pole, some vaulters are now planting their pole one or two steps early, and bending it while they are still on their feet and running. You can really bend hell out of it this way, and the energy the pole returns is tremendous.
TERRY: I’d say it takes more talent but less work to be a better-than-average vaulter with the new fiberglass pole. When the pole bends, You just lay back on the pole and it automatically rocks you back and gets your legs up. You just have to turn and let go. Because the pole does so much of the muscle work for the vaulter, it can carry the average college vaulter to about 13-6. But You get a man who works with the Pole, and you’ve got a 16-footer.
The pole can also compensate for
May 11, 1962
a lot of mistakes in your steps or swing. If you plant early or late with a steel pole, your vault is thrown completely off. But a fiberglass pole bends almost the same way even if your steps are off, and in bending makes up for your error. Fiberglass vaulters develop highly individual techniques. Aubrey Dooley, for example, spreads his hands very wide, and after he plants, he pulls down on the pole with his high hand and pushes up with his low hand, in order to bend it as much as possible.
Is it tough to switch from a steel to fiberglass pole?
FROELKE: If you have an experienced teacher who knows the technique and problems of vaulting with a fiberglass pole, it’s easy. Otherwise, it’s a real problem, because you make all the same mistakes that everybody else has made before you. I know. I’ve even done a complete flip. But I’m getting it now, and I figure that I’m going to go over 15 feet either this season or next.
TERRY: I think it’s rough, because the timing is completely different. You have to lay back on that pole and stall, and it’s hard to get accustomed to. But maybe its just that I’m chicken. To use the fiberglass pole right, you’ve really got to have guts.
DAVE TORK Associated Press
Holder of the world's record (pending) gets maximum flex from his pole.
With Mike Murphy leading the way, Notre Dame’s rugby team scored a 16-0 win over the St. Louis Rebels in a home game last Saturday.
The Rebels, one of the top teams in the Midwest, have to their credit a tie with the powerful St. Louis Bombers, considered by many as the best team in the nation.
From the start play was rugged. About five minutes in the game Murphy tackled a Rebel, causing him to fumble. The 6' 5" 225-pound forward scooped up the loose ball and drove 10 yards for the score. Ed “Puddles” McCarron converted, and the Irish led 7-0.
Midway through the first half, freshman Ed Mauro scored from 15 yards out. Shortly before halftime Murphy scored again to give the Irish a 13-0 lead.
The Rebels, who had not even gotten out of their own territory in the first half, came out with a lot more spark in the second and forced the Irish to make several fine goal line stands.
The final tally was highlighted by a 50-yard run by Denny Zylack, who then passed to John Keeley. He, in turn, threw a scoring pass to Lee Fullerton, making the final score 16-0.
After the game there was a banquet for both teams. Awards were given to Denny Zylack, the team’s most valuable player, Bob Mier, the most valuable back, and Harry Steele, the most valuable forward. Gay Pang received an award as the most valuable second team player.
The triumph over the Rebels gave the squad a two game winning streak. The Irish had finished up their Easter schedule with an impressive 6-0 win over Villanova, last year’s Eastern champions.
In other games played during Easter, Notre Dame lost to Columbia, 14-0, and tied Princeton 9-9. The Tigers are one of their area’s ranking teams and hold a victory over Columbia.
Tomorrow, Wisconsin will provide the opposition, and then on May 19, the terrific St. Louis Bombers will be in town for the game of the year. The undefeated Bombers have been scored upon only once, and that was by the Rebel team which Notre Dame defeated last Saturday. Several former All-Americans, including captain Frank Huff of Navy, and a few players who performed in the National Football League are on the Bombers roster. The game will start at 3:00.
27
Old-Timers Action
28
Voice in the Crowd
Granted that the Old Timers, bolstered by an outstanding contingent of graduating seniors, had one of their finest squads in years. Granted that captain and top running back Mike Lind didn’t play. Granted that for the first time the freshman team played with the Old Timers. Granted that the main purpose of the game is not to run up a score. Still the Varsity looked ragged in this year’s Old-Timers contest. And perhaps worse, as a unit, they were dull.
The final score was 13-0 in favor of the Varsity, as compared to last year's 50-7 slaughter. This alone, however, cannot be used to judge the two performances for as Coach Joe Kuharich said, “It wasn’t really a game last year; the Old Timers were out of shape and gave us many scoring opportunities.” It is also true that this year the freshmen played with the Old Timers whereas last year two freshmen, Frank Budka and Paul Costa, were the stars in the Varsity’s overwhelming victory.
EVALUATION
However, the fact remains that the squad which faced the Old Timers would have a hard time next season against the imposing teams on the Irish schedule. The Irish, as a unit, just didn't jell throughout most of the game. The line was the chief problem. The Varsity running backs rarely were given the holes needed for an effective ground attack. On defense the line was continually trapped by the Old Timers. Even though the Old Timers never penetrated inside Notre Dame’s 25-yard line, the Varsity’s defensive lapses would have permitted most of the 1962 Irish opponents to score easily.
One of the few bright spots was the quarterback position which featured the improved passing of Daryle Lamonica and the continued brilliance of Frank Budka, who provided the single highspot of the game by connecting with Frank Minik on a spectacular 62-yard pass play for Notre Dame’s first score. Other stars included defensive ace Bill Pheiffer and top freshman prospects Norm Nicola and Don Hogan.
Since the purpose of the game is to get an over-all impression of the squad, nothing was lost in the game. I hope that the weaknesses found in the game will be corrected in the early weeks of September before the crucial opening test with Bud Wilkinson’s Oklahoma eleven, for much progress must be made between now and Oklahoma to insure a successful season.
NEXT SEASON
As Kuharich said at his postgame press conference when asked to compare the potential of last year’s and this year’s squads, “Much depends on whether Mike Lind, Jim Snowden, and Jim Kelly stay healthy.” Added to this could be the realization of the potential some of the team appear to have. An example of this was pointed out by Joe Doyle in the South Bend Tribune: “If Paul Costa ever decides to run like Frank Minik, the big one can be a great star.” If Costa and some others develop, the team will be more than ready for the likes of Oklahoma. If not, and if the. lack of depth’in the line is not remedied, a few key injuries could make 1962 another, bl^k. year; for;, the Irish.	..... .. . ..
—John Bechtold
May 11, 1962
29
CANOE TRIPS
Quetico — Superior Wilderness
Camp, swim, fish, cruise and explore in the world's greatest Canoe Country! For men or women. A few hours from home. Only $6.25 per person per day for Grumman canoe, all necessary camping equipment, and choice food. Write for free colored folder, food list and map: Bill Rom’s CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota.
by BOB CH1APPINELLI



lecSrolux
Scholarship Award
...plus excellent summertime earning opportunities for
Here is a threefold opportunity to make this summer vacation the most profitable and valuable you have ever spent:
1.	Qualify for the $1,000 Electrolux Regional Scholarship Award, offered by the Electrolux Corporation to help you meet tuition expenses during the coming academic year.
2.	Many men are earning up to $200 a week and moreduringthesummermonths.Thissame opportunity is available to you.
3.	Gain valuable sales and business experience in one of America's most successful sales organizations. This experience will be of value to you throughout your lifetime. -
For full information on the Scholarship Award and to apply for your summertime earning opportunity, mail the coupon below, or consult the Yellow Pages of your telephone directory for the nearest Electrolux Branch office.
I I I I I I I I 1
Mr. J. A. Rubino, Regional Sales Manager, Electrolux Corp., Dept. | 819 Busse Highway, Park Ridge, Illinois	|
Please send me full details on the Scholarship Award and informa- | tion on my summertime earning opportunity.	|
Name I
Address_________________________________________________________ ।
College I City_______________________________Zone_______State_____________ !
(The Regional Scholarship Award is available only to college	!
students employed in the Electrolux Midwestern Region.)	j
Major League baseball’s loss is the | Army’s gain as far as the Fort Lewis j nine of Seattle, Washington, is con- . cemed. The post is able to field a team i of eight major leaguers, plus a pitch- ‘ ing staff which includes six men with i Triple A experience.	•
Biggest name in the Big League group is Yankee shortstop, Tony	|
Kubek, who, with Ray Webster of	j
the Red Sox and first baseman R. C. j Stevens of the Pirates, gives the ' soldiers an exceptional but infrequent- : ly needed double play combination. / Gene Leek of the Los Angeles Angels rounds out the infield at third base.' i
Deron Johnson of the Athletics, ! Jim McAnany of the Cubs and George ; Thomas, another Angel, man playercoach Bob Taylor’s outfield.	;
Taylor, the property of the Braves,	j
shares the catching chores with Gary Cowan of Denver.	;
You might expect such a team to do pretty well against most of its opposition, and, judging by its opening ! 45-0 win, it probably will.
But all is not well in Washington. There is a move afoot to break up the team because of an army rule ; which limits a post team to 25% professional ballplayers. Since a dozen or more of the reserves also have professional experience, the team has approximately 75% too many pro- ■ fessional players and will probably soon have to content itself with ten , and fifteen run margins.
Phil Wrigley, who engaged in a bit of baseball pioneering when he instituted the ten-men managing system, could and should continue as a trailblazer by firing all ten at once.
* * *
Meanwhile, over in the American League, it seems that Roger Maris won’t hit 61 homers nor will Whitey Ford win 25 games but, the way things go for the Yankees, Clete Boyer and Ralph Terry probably will. In any event American League baseball is becoming more uninteresting than ever.	-
* * *
William J. Mahoney, former track star and coach for Notre Dame, was recently appointed Ambassador to Ghana by JFK.
The Scholastic
50
Bob Dubois and Joe Echelle New and Old Captain.
Soccer
In what was by far the greatest win in its brief history, Notre Dame’s soccer team shut out the powerful Washington University of St. Louis team last Saturday in a charity game played at Sikeston, Missouri.
Last season Washington U. had an 11-1-1 record, which included an 8-0 lashing of Notre Dame. The Bears lost only to the national championship runnerup, St. Louis University. Unique and spirited 3-2 type of defense held the Bears in their own den while Notre Dame was scoring three goals, two by Joe Echelle and one by Charlie Wong.
Goalie Hans Hermans was brilliant in the goal for the Irish, who held last year’s number-one collegiate scorer, Magid Kria, scoreless.
Besides Echelle and Hermans, Captain Bob Dubois and center-fullback John Poelker were outstanding. Jack Mackenzie, fullback and cap-lain of the Bears, was Washington’s top performer, but Notre Dame’s back Bob Chou, took honors as the finest performer on either side.
Bowling
The Notre Dame bowling team came within one game of winning their second consecutive Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference championship in finishing second to St. Joseph’s of Rensselaer, Ind. In their final match of the season the Irish needed four of the five games lor the championship, but were only able to take three of them — losing one by four pins.
The team was lead this year by Jr- Tom Schroeder’s 200 average for the fifty games. Behind Tom was Al Knobloch (187), Bill Lieber (185), Tim Kelley (185), Dan Laux (184), Jim Lewis (183), and Mike Bentley (183).
11, 1962
Help Stamp Out TRAVEL SNOBS
with Novelty Luggage Stickers
Amuse your friends and help stamp out name-dropping tourists with these colorful luggage stickers of actual U.S. cities and towns!
Only $1 for 10
10 or more, $.10 each—Less than 10, $.15 each
Ovantity Stickers
AMSTERDAM. Missouri _______ATHENS, Texas
RAftDAQj Florida RFPLINj Connecticut CAIRO. lllindi nymM, Georgia —______FLORENCE, New Jersey ftFMFVA^ Alabama ft! ASOOW. Montana —______HAVANA, Illinois
Quantity Stickers
______JOHANNESBURG, California _____LISBON, Main*
— LONDOM| Kentucky 	MADRID, Iowa ——.—MILAN, Tennessee 	MOSCOW, Idaho , ,	— PARIS, Arkansas
------ROME. Now York ■ ■ —VIENNA, West Virginia -----WARSAW, Indiana
NAME.
ADDRESS-----------------------------------------
CITY ZONE------------------------------STATE---------
Send Cosh, Check or Money Order (no stamps, pleastl Tot
NOVELTY DECALS
P. O. Box 7027	St. Louie 77, Missouri
POWER-KNIT
Only Jockey T-shirts are
Power-Knit to keep their fit
The Jockey Power-Knit T-shirt is man-tailored . . . from the exclusive nylon reinforced Seamfree® collar that stays snug and smooth ... to the extra-long tail that stays tucked in. It’s Power-Knit with extra top-grade combed cotton yarn to take the roughest kind of wear a man can give it . . . and still not bag, sag or stretch out of shape. It’s a Jockey ... -the man's T-shirt... Power-Knit to * | Uv keep its fit.
^Jockeur^
It	VWtO	WCOWORMLO.	*‘»C.
31

CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leading Barber Shop •
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair •
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
$35 a week spare time assured Fund Raising plan for clubs
•
Write for particulars
- •
HUNTINGTON HOUSE
2901 Otis St., N.E.
Washington 18, D.C.
clap hands! here comes
FRIDAY, MAY 18 8:30 P.M.
Morris Civic Auditorium
TICKETS — $2.50, $3.50, $4.50
On Sale at:
273 DILLON or MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM
New Editors
(Continued from page 10) “abolish the Scholastic” vogue of 1961 and taking a more constructive turn this past semester with the numerous plans for a student-faculty coffee hour, an undergraduate quarterly review of student scholarship, a daily newspaper, and more recently a science quarterly, this consensus has demanded the Scholastic actively participate and/or support all such endeavors promoting greater departmental and organizational cooperation.
“In accordance with this more ‘activist’ attitude we will attempt to lower the artificial barriers that now separate the students and faculty from each other and above all from the administration.
“With new channels of communication and an intensive recruitment program to secure quality personnel, the Scholastic will be in a better position to offer more comprehensive, accurate, and responsible news and editorial coverage.”
'Repercussions'
(Continued from page 6)
the Department began experimenting with new techniques, new methods and new materials, so that foreign language teaching at Notre Dame is radically different today not only from what it was immediately after the war, but even from what it was five years ago. There are currently two experimental classes under way, one in French and one in German, utilizing the latest materials, the results of which will be appraised and compared with the regular classes. Every spring freshmen classes are informed of courses open to a limited number of sophomores the following year, and interested students are asked to indicate their specific areas of interest (prac- , tical language courses or literary courses). There is a departmental representative available, not only during the choose-your-major period, but at all times. For years there has been a Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico in conjunction with Mexico City College. The Department was the first to inaugurate a foreign film series right after the war, and abandoned it recently only after other groups moved into the field. The Department has contracted with the Government for National Defense Education Act Summer Language Institutes since 1960. That was the first year after the inception of such Institutes, and there were in that summer (1960) only 37 in the entire country. This summer the Department will train 54 more secondary school teachers of foreign languages in a similar Institute.
In the face of this, the Department deplores with the editorial that “there is only a total of 10 senior modern language majors.” Nevertheless, this number represents an appreciable increase over the past few years. Moreover, a merely quantitative outlook is not enough. Foreign language study is admittedly difficult; it demands the acquisition of new skills and techniques ; it requires an appreciation of the nuances of the language which is akin to art appreciation; it calls for knowledge of a literature, versification, modes of thought, patterns, and values different from those to which we are accustomed. If these are the reasons for the “apathy” and “meager interest,” then it is not the Department of Modem Languages that is in “the miserable state.”
Robert Nuner
Acting Head
Dept, of Modem Languages
The Scholastic
32
TENNIS
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame tennis team will host Southern Illinois in its tenth outing of the season.
Notre Dame opened this season strong by defeating Bradley University, 8-1. The team followed this with a 5-4 victory over Kalamazoo College. During Easter vacation, the Notre Dame team participated in the Cherry Blossom Tournament in Washington, D.C., but sustained losses against Georgetown, (5-4); Indiana University, (7-2); and George Washington University, (6-3). On Wednesday, May 2, Notre Dame was shut out against Michigan State in a match at Notre Dame, 9-0, the first such defeat in several years.
Notre Dame has a home match next Saturday against a tough Iowa team which has already beaten Michigan State this season. On the 14th of May, Detroit will be featured on the N.D. campus and on the 16th Toledo will oppose Notre Dame.
BASEBALL
Notre Dame’s fighting nine successfully upheld the Irish honor by compiling an 8-4 record in games played before, during, and just after Easter vacation.
The Irish squad opened the season with a 6-4 conquest of Purdue, and immediately followed with a 7-0, 8-6 sweep of Indiana. Notre Dame’s Big Ten domination ended in an 8-5 defeat by Northwestern during the vacation.
The Irish finished the vacation schedule with victories over Lewis College, Bowling Green and Toledo and defeats at the hands of Western Michigan, Michigan and Toledo.
Last week end, the Irish made use of two big innings to sweep a doubleheader from highly rated Ohio University. Phil Donnelly, who entered the game with a .34 earned run average, pitched the Irish to an 8-1 first game victory, featuring a six-run fifth. Al Cooper tripled in two runs in a five-run seventh and gained a 6-3 decision in the second game.
D*RWTURB0W
\OPTOMITRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-S777
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing ★
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS BREEN’S Jeweler
325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-3630
SIC FLICS
MGGITT & MVtftS TOBACCO CO.
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES! AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
May 11, 1962
33
ESSSI STUDENTS E5SS
STOP
“EXAMINATION PANIC"
... Master the Secret of Study ... Get Better Grades
Revolutionary study method taught by prominent professor and consulting psychologist. It's as easy as it is rewarding. The professor tutors you from a 12"-33‘A L.P. record. You play it at your convenience. This wonderful way of studying can be yours today. Record aloum complete with instructions, $7.95 prepaid. Send check or money order to
CTG RECORDING STUDIOS, INC. 3930 LINDELL, ST. LOUIS 8, MO.
Complete Equipment for:
• TENNIS
• GOLF • FISHING • ARCHERY
★
RECO SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main St.
"Look for the Log Front"
Track
Notre Dame’s 22-man track team leaves by chartered plane for Columbia, Mo., today for only its second dual meet of the 1962 season and a chance to compete against one of the top teams in the country, the University of Missouri. The Irish defeated the Tigers in an indoor meet here two years ago by five points but have to be rated underdogs tomorrow. A look at Missouri’s personnel shows why.
The Tigers boast excellent mile and two-mile relay quartets, four pole vaulters who are consistently around 13-9, and shot putter Don Smith, who has a 58-foot meet average.
Notre Dame won its second dual or triangular meet in three tries last Saturday by triumphing over Purdue and Memphis State on the Boilermakers’ home track. Altogether the Irish took eight first places, scoring heavily in the field events, to roll up a total of 7114 points to 64 for Purdue and 14% for Memphis.
Captain Mike Giacinto and junior Carl Ludecke traded first and second places in the discus and shot put. Ludecke’s winning toss in the shot was 50'5%". Kevin Walsh and Bill Yaley picked up monograms Saturday by virtue of their respective first place and second place finishes in the half-mile and two-mile runs.
On April 21, Notre Dame was represented in the Ohio Relays by a small but effective team which spoke quite well for itself. Ludecke, the strong man from Manhasset, N.Y., hit a career high in the shot put with a first-place heave of 54'1 y2". Pete Whitehouse, first in the 220-yard low hurdles in last Saturday’s triangular meeting at Lafayette, ran 14.5 for the highs at Columbus and picked up a first place. Teammate John Mulrooney, first in the highs at Lafayette, was third at Ohio.
At the Drake Relays April 28, Carver and Ludecke took fifths, and the shuttle hurdlers finished third.
Cool, clean Old Spice After Shave Lotion always gets you off to a fast, smooth start. Feels just as good between shaves as it does after shaving. Rates A-OK with dates. 1.25 and 2.00 plus tax.
"™,on"S
S M l_l U T O Nl
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
NABICHT CAFETERIA
★
1415 Lincolnway West
AAA Approved Cafeteria ★ FREE PARKING
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ONLY!
fl
1ST	.< RCA-V1CT0R
__.,e t Console Stereo PR>*’t I Phonograph...
I 4 speeds, I 4 speakers, <	AM-FM tuner.
CERTIFICATES
7th PrlM
8th Pr!z«
BOX
3rd
GENERAL ELECTRIC Clock-Radio Sleep-snooze alarm, muted slumber switch
PRIZE
RCA-VICTOR Portable Stereo Phonograph...
4 speeds,' three speakers.
PRIZE
* CAMPUS CLUBS! ORGANIZATIONS! INDIVIDUALS! ”
FABULOUS PRIZES!
SAVE VICEROY PACKS
son PACK OR FLIPOPEN

2nd

a

ENTER THE BIG
a a


if
> T	I
EMPTY PACK CONTEST NOW! I
®

M4**.
1 UfiW Til U/IN Just save empty Viceroy Packs I null IU II111... you may win one of these
I
1
exciting prizes for yourself or your club. The group or individual collecting the most packs wins the first prize. 2nd prize goes to the second largest number of packs collected ... and so on. Eight exciting prizes ... all to be awarded on this college campus! Plan to enter ... plan to win. Start saving Viceroy packs today! Ask your friends to help you!

GET COMPLETE RULES AND TURN IN EMPTT PACKS TO
TURN IN EMPTY PACKS
HUDDLE
MAY 12th — Between 8 and 5 Entries accepted this date only
May 11, 1962
35
□ « OoO‘
rm rm rm. rm
o o
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAO-THE FARM • INDUSTRY • ANO THE AGE OF SPACE

o o :O
:O • o •o
• o
■ o
No! But scientists and engineers at Ford’s research and scientific labs do deal in perpetual notions —and they have more than a few about what might be commonplace in the future, some of them just as startling.
Studies at Ford involving new energy sources and improved materials may help bring jet-propelled cars with gyro stabilizers... automatic driving controls ... flying automobiles and wheelless vehicles that glide on a cushion of air . . . vehicles propelled by atomic energy... plastics with the strength of conventional metals ... adhesives that replace welding ... radar and other electronic controls to assist or replace the driver in many situations.
Basic studies in these and other fields are just part of a continuing program of progress aimed at reinforcing Ford's leadership through scientific research and engineering.
o
0
6
The Scholastic
36
FORUM
A SOUTHERN BEGINNING:
ND’s RESPONSE
by REV. HARRY BAKER, G.S.C.
I MERELY want to paint a picture — a picture of a realistic thrust into Latin America that began with a need in the states. A Notre Dame man conceived the idea; another two collaborated to bring it into being. And today the picture includes enough Notre Dame men and St. Mary’s girls to make one think he’s at an Alumni meeting. Jim MacDonald, Dan Griffith, Tracy Osborne, Mike Terry (all of ’61), Rosemary Hoefer, Rosemary Hughes (both of ’61) and Caroline Quick (’60) are all reasons why the locale of a new missionary group called V.T.S. might aptly be called “NotreDameland, Texas.”
What are they doing here? They are all just part of a grass roots apostolic movement which is one of the more promising lay apostolic groups in the Church, the Volunteer Teachers Service. It is the finest example of Catholic Action, a generous, buoyant, unaffectedly holy group which takes the talents and enthusiasm of college graduates and presses them into the service of Christ.
It all began with a need, and V.T.S. was bom and grew with the generosity of response to the need. A school here in the heart of Texas—Killeen by name (after a Catholic Irishman who worked on the Santa Fe Railroad) —
needed to be staffed and there was no one to staff it. The pastor and his assistant began with a shoestring and a few dedicated lay people. Through several turbulent years the few people have emerged into a well-knit, confident group that has not only taken care of Killeen’s needs, but has branched out as well into the needy parishes of Dallas, Austin, South Carolina — even to Chile and Alaska! Since the Notre Dame-St. Mary’s contingent has joined V.T.S. they have helped to take Texas by storm. This coming year they are moving into more needy areas — Devine, Texas (just south of San Antonio); Irving, Texas (near Dallas); perhaps to Alamo and Laredo, closer to the Mexican border. All in all V.T.S. hopes to staff some seven to ten schools in the heart of Texas area.
This year, for V.T.S. (Papal VolunTeerS), it is consolidation in Texas and a firm step into Latin America. In May of this year the Volunteer Teachers group will begin an intensive, long planned move into Panama. At the request of Bishop McGrath (’38) the youthful organization is sending close to ten of its members to work in and around Panama City, people who have had “on-the-job training” in Texas and have proven
37
May 11, 1962
themselves as missionary timbre. Then with the help of this really great authority on Latin America — who brought to the Notre Dame campus the enthusiasm and interest in Latin America he had already developed in himself — V.T.S. hopes to move into Argentina (Buenos Aires) and Chile (Santiago de Chile) where already they have been warmly encouraged to come — the Cardinal Archbishop of Buenos Aires beckoning, and in Santiago at least three specific offers by the Precious Blood Fathers.
“The program of the Volunteer Teachers Service is ‘formation through action.3 At times one becomes leery of this slogan, but here it has worked33
By sending qualified, trained teachers, who have been trained in teams and will work as teams, to work in nerve centers of student life V.T.S. hopes to be a bit of the leaven that may gradually transform Latin America. It hopes to put the lie to a statement of one of the Chilean Bishops to a V.T.S. member working in Chile: “The question is not: ‘how are we going to overcome communism?’ The question is: 'how are we going to live under communism within the next several years?’ ” Of course, it is in connection with PAVLA that V.T.S. is initiating and will work out its South American program.
I ^UE to the solid well planned growth of V.T.S. Fr. Fred Underwood (’52) and the newly elected lay director of the group, John Benson, decided that a plane was next on the list of needs. The plane—a used four-place Piper Cub — has been bought on faith and a few hundred down. It will help shrink Texas and Panama down to traveling size. Fr. Underwood himself is a seasoned pilot (1200 hours of flying time in the Pacific during World War II as a B-29 pilot) and will do most of the flying himself. One of the other members of the group has his pilot’s license.
The program of the Volunteer Teachers Service is “formation through action.” At times one becomes leery of this slogan, but here it has worked. Certainly the teachers are intent upon their own holiness, but the consciousness of what this means grows with their involvement with the work at hand. The teachers
become conscious that they are the Church, the “hands of Christ,” and that if certain needs are to be filled then they have to fill them. But in their attempt to bring others to Christ something is quite obviously lacking if they themselves have not met Him. They can hardly lead others to Christ in the apostolate of Catholic education if they have not given themselves to Him.
To help them the VTS’ers have a well-organized spiritual life which consists of daily Mass, spiritual read
ing, mental prayer, rosary and visits to the Blessed Sacrament. They have weekly spiritual conferences and each member is expected to choose a spiritual adviser and see him at least once a month. For the most part the above is left to each one’s sincerity and spirit of dedication. But great help is given by the mere fact that V.T.S. is a community.
In fact this is what helps to explain the success of V.T.S. in four short years of existence: the sense of teamwork and group solidarity, the leaning heavily on the example and encouragement of companions. There is individuality and spontaneity, to be sure, but for the most part V.T.S. moves as a team and accepts the chal
Notre Dame men with V.T.S.: (left to right) Mike Terry, Tracy Osborne, Jim McDonald, Dan Griffith.
lenges and difficulties as a family. Here at Killeen, the “family” consists of two married couples, four single girls, and six single men. They all have living quarters near or on the parish grounds.
The spontaneity and family spirit manifest themselves in different social activities: to Dallas for the state fair, Austin for the rodeo, cook-outs, horseback riding, Mexico at Thanksgiving time. But all of these activities are in the larger context of service for Christ — first here in Texas, then, in connection with PAVLA, a channeling of our finest members into Latin America.
A late development in V.T.S. is a catechetical program to be initiated in Austin this summer. This program will use the facilities of the two universities in Austin as well as the “on-the-job training” afforded by actual catechetical teaching in Mexican par-, ishes. All of this will be structured around a solid catechetical-theological-apostolic formation. People trained in this summer program will be placed in already defined areas, catechetical work in Panama, or will work in Austin prior to their eventual placement in Latin America. The author of this present article will help organize this pilot program.
I have simply tried to paint a picture. A picture of a movement that is succeeding because of a need . . . and because of a response to that need triggered by God’s grace and fed by generous hard work. Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students have helped this youthful apostolic movement to reach its present level of success. It is hoped that they are not the last ones to help.
3S
■ r t fen
| From the
“Cum Laude Collection”
_ onTHe
BnqhTeiRSiDe
A lighter look in the traditional geometric designs so favored by the college man. Arrow presents them this spring with a tapered body for a trim fit styled with button-down collar, and back pleat.
Long sleeves $5.00 Short sleeves $4.00

> in casual fashion
Arrow sport shirts with authentic flair... naturally favored by the man of defined tastes. Light colored subtle prints on quality fabric... well-turned out in the traditional button-down collar. You’ll be proud to wear these sport shirts from our Arrow Cum Laude Collection.
Long sleeves $5.00 Short sleeves $4.00

IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
It's what's up front that counts
filter cigarette. Smoke Winston!
PI LTER-BLEN D makes the big difference in taste. It’s the good taste of rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially processed for filter smoking. Fine tobaccos and the pure white filter make Winston America’s best-selling
Also available in crush-proof box.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

,Ga«ETTe


QQ
