“Let’s get to the bottom of underwear!” cries aesthete
“DEVASTATING!” trills Tippitoes Thweet, leading ivory-tower dreamer and culture-lover. "Yes, those clean, smooth lines... that exquisite fabric... the implacable honesty of its design...no wonder Jockey brand Underwear is also preferred by sensitive souls everywhere! Just try them, Oscar...you’ll be Wilde about them!”
Yes, college men choose Jockey comfort/
Tipprtoes may be right about their looks, but most men buy tailored-to-fit Jockey for true comfort! No wonder, either—because...
13 separate contoured pieces are carefully crafted into one smooth-fitting garment.
Newiy>developed heat resistant rubber in
Jockey Shorts
^GILBERT'S
Has the Largest Selection of
COOPERS
JOCKEY
UNDERWEAR
of all styles in
South Bend
Shorts.... $1.20 up
T-Shirt.....$1.25 Sleeveless
Undershirt s . $L00
Your best buy in underwear is Coopers from
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Open Every Evening till 9
Arrow Gordon Dover Seen As Campus Favorite For ’53
Button-Down Oxford Classic Overwhelming Favorite Of College Crowd
Special STUDENT Rates
FRESHMAN DANCE SENIOR BALL
All signs point to a big year on campus for Arrow Gordon Dover—the neat, button-down Oxford so many young men prefer. Available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
»H------------------
— SHIRTS • TIES < UNDERWEAR * HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS —
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
•	Over 600 suits to choose from.
•	All styles and sizes
•	Bovs’ 2 to Men’s 56
•	No deposit for ND students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. Due to lar^e demand please place your orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell. Come in todav for vour fitting.
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend
In the Oliver Hotel Bldg.
April 24, 1953
3
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
CANOE TRIPS
into Quctico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.85 to $5.40 per person per day. For free information write.
CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, BILL ROM, Box C, Ely, Minnesota
‘Grumblers’ Grumble Again
Editor: The
article
Operation Chowhall;
which appeared in the Scholastic last week, seems to give only the Dining Hall “gourmets” side of the argument.
There are story, and statement grumbling
always two sides to every here we are referring to the
concerning the “continual of the student servers and
their seeming indifference to the job.
The “grumbling student server” is out of bed and on the job while a vast majority of the enrollment are still enjoying the confines of their sacks. When the clock strikes 8:10, there is usually a mass migration to the chow hall, and as a result, many of the “grumblers” are late for their early classes.
The “grumblers:
counter while past, making quality, then quantity, and
300
stand behind the or so students file
remarks about the poor asking for a greater taking on a look of mis-
treatment when asked to show their cards. Another favorite pastime of theirs is to creep past the counter in a trance over a letter, and thus causing a holdup of the line.
They don’t seem to realize that it isn’t the servers who make up the menu and prepare it, and that they, the students, stand in line about twenty minutes a day, as compared to nearly four hours for the servers.
Our advice to these self-styled gourmets is to stop worrying about where they want their gravy placed, and concentrate on the hustlers who jeopardize their whole schedule by delaying their meal a few more seconds.
Dan O’Malley Charlie Durand Pat Jones John Polking Larry Chabot and the rest of the “grumblers.”
PINK SLIPS READY
Off-campus students who have mid-semester deficiencies may pick up their pink siips at the Academic Affairs office on the first floor of the Main Building, it was announced by Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C.
4
The Scholastic. ®
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
Whether through rain, or whether through snow . . .
Functional Music Inc.
Besides having to battle with the II-lini last Friday, Jake Kline’s basebailers found themselves up against a delayed siege of mid-winter clime. To keep their fielding as sharp as usual, Jake’s protegees had to rub their hands vigorously and blow away the snow flakes before every pitch.
But despite the weather, Cartier “Stadium’s” spectators never had it so good. The people who spend spring in that little wooden shack down the first base line managed to steal some records from WNDU, and some phonograph material from the Audio-visual room. The result was that instead of just a bunch of data on the game, the little shack produced the Notre Dame Victory March and an interesting collection of other marches, via their questionably acquired equipment.
Inspired by music blaring from the loudspeakers, the crowd began stamping on the boards, thus keeping their collective feet warm. We have learned from reliable sources that the music will be continued during the remainder of the season. As with the foot-stamping marches, there will be an effort to match the music to prevailing weather conditions. Come the tropic season (if ever) we may hear something from the exponents of so-called “cool” music; George Shearing and the like.
Be a Birdman
“Look up in the sky!”
“It’s a bird!”
“It’s a plane!”
“No. You’re all wrong. It’s a helicopter!”
The first three stared with honest appreciation at the wisdom of the last, and said mournfully, “Sorry, lost our heads.”
Several local residents have managed to get their tonsils badly sunburned while watching the ugly machine buzz around like a lost hummingbird. There was a certain amount of philosophising on the lack of privacy brought on by such contraptions, and a great deal of marveling at the intricacies of modern aeronautics. When the word began to spread that the helicopter was here to
spread some pretty propoganda for the Air Force, interest in the wir.dmilling phenomemon began to wane.
The Studebaker Cinema
Remy Hammes and L. O. Gates sneered at the zillion candlelight searchlight and the zeplin that dangled over the Granada theatre. Out in front of the Granada a 120-horsepower Studebaker bravely tried to pull a Studebaker covered wagon that used to get itself pulled by a couple of sturdy draft horses.
Inside the theatre a crowd heavily sprinkled with ND students found out all about the life and loves of the Studebaker Corporation and decided it wasn’t much worse than the Granada’s usual bill of fare. Besides, it was all for free. Admission was by invitation only, and they were passed out lavishly.
Study Hour
Many seniors are faced with compre-hensives. Unlike many of their trembling cohorts, a certain group of political science majors has devised a pleasant and stimulating procedure for boning up.
At approximately nine o’clock the group boards a south bound bus, heavily loaded with notebooks and good intentions. At 9:05 the group dismounts from the bus and enters a secluded little pub. They arrange themselves around a circular table, open their notebooks and begin to argue about the order in which U. S. presidents took office. Soon the
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
discussion digresses to take in the political aspects of the White Sox, the political aspect of St. Mary’s girls, and the political aspects of other diverse subjects.
At 11:15 the group boards the northbound bus. With good intentions fondly-renewed, the group admits they have had a stimulating and enlightening evening, but that they had better get up early tomorrow morning and breeze over their notes again.
Who Is Morrow
Tonight a heavily perfumed Rockne Memorial will play host to several hundred heavily perfumed young ladies and their dates. Basketballs will be supplied to all those who find Buddy Morrow tiring, and there will be a basket set aside so dance patrons can amuse themselves in a game of “Horse.”
The Week fondly wishes fine, mild weather for dance-goers. Nevertheless, romantics are advised to bring their parkas if they are planning to escort their girlfriends out on the Rock sun porch, or veranda, or patio, or whatever you want to call it.
Bottom of the Week
... to the golf course, the Bus. Ad. majors go.	.
$ 1,000 EASY 1 Campus Agent Wanted
We are looking for an agent to sell nationally advertised drawing instruments to entering engineer-o o ing freshmen this fall. Verv high o	o
commissions. Write: Sales Mgr.. Empire Engineering Supply Co., P. O. Box 114. Canal St. Sta.
New York 13, N. Y.
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
April 24, 1953
5
APRIL 24
AVON (through the 28th)—The Girls of Pleasure Island contribute little in the way of entertainment. Despite what the title may imply, it’s one of those South Sea island things.
COLFAX (through the 29th)—John keeps his head, Rita keeps a veil, and the Colfax keeps Salome (B) around for another week.
ROCKNE MEMORIAL (9:30 to 1:30)—The juniors and their dates will be decked out in all their finery tonight for the Lamplighter Serenade, with Buddy Morrow’s music. With all that chlorophyll in the park setting, the “Rock” will be completely unrecognizable.
PALACE (through the 30th)—Titian-haired Arlene Dahl doesn’t look much like an Arab in Desert Legion (A-l), but Alan Ladd doesn’t seem to mind. In Tangier Incident (A-l) George Brent thwarts three Red espionage plots.
STATE (two days)—We wonder if the manager- will have as much trouble getting people in the theater as he did putting these titles on the marquee: The Ghost of Crossbone Canyon and The Man From Thunder River.
APRIL 25
ENGINEERING BUILDING—The Engineering Open House will feature some tours of the building beginning about 10 a.m., but the day’s high spot will come at 1:30 with the (ha!) chariot races.
GOLF COURSE—Notre Dame’s hopeful par-busters battle bunkers, trees, and Valparaiso. Doubles in the morning, singles in the afternoon.
SOUTH BEND COUNTRY CLUB (6 p.m.)—Next item of the Prom weekend calendar is a dinner-dance for the juniors and their guests. Dinner’s at 6, dancing from 7:30 till 11:30 to Don Gels’ music.
ROCKNE MEMORIAL—Before they give the Rock back to the athletes, the Student Senate and the Engineers will use it for another dance. This one’s informal and costs $1 with an activities card.
APRIL 26
MORRIS INN (10:15 a.m.)—Junior Prom-goers who don’t forget to set their clocks ahead will wind up the weekend with a Communion Breakfast.
GRANADA (five days)—If things get dull, there’s always Cairo Road and The Laicless Breed (A-2), but we don’t guarantee they’ll help.
RIVER PARK (four days)—Ivanhoe is back in town.
APRIL 28
CARTIER FIELD—Kline’s nine meet the Boilermakers of Purdue.
STATE (two days)—Sealed Cargo and The Woman on Pier 13. South Bend’s theaters are really going all out for this fad of featuring double bills with related titles. (The Colfax missed the boat by not showing The Seventh Veil along with Salome.)
APRIL 30
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30 p.m.)—Now that Father Smyth is back on his feet, the belated seventh session of the Marriage Institute will finally be held. Topic: “Your Children—Home Training and Sex Instruction.” If you threw away your ticket, you better have an honest face.
SHRIMP IN THE BASKET $1 with all the trimmings
B-M HAMBURGERS 25$ with or without
Complete Home-cooked Meals at all times
BOWL-MOR GRILL Across from South Shore
HEALTH I SPOT I
SHOES
For
Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
Junior Lamplighters your date for the Lamplighter’s Serenade deserves the very best in flowers . . .
you can be sure of getting the best when you order her corsage from South Bend Floral . . . our corsages are fresh, fragrant and perfectly made to put that sparkle in her eye without putting a dent in your wallet.
We’ll be glad to assist you in choosing the perfect corsage for her dress.
South Bond Floral 114 S. Michigan 3-8227
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 April 24, 1953 No. 22
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO .................News
FRED C. ECKART ......Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE .....____Features JOHN F. SAND ........ ....Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN .......... Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
Dilemma of the Dances
On the Palais bandstand last Saturday evening, a Student Senate representative apologized for the inconvenience caused students and their dates through the inefficient bus service from Saint Mary’s to the dance. The apology’ followed from the fact that only one bus was scheduled for the evening and only made one trip. Those who were unable to get on this bus had to pay the usual NIT fare.
Actually his statement could have been more inclusive since it only covered one of the complaints directed at the dances this semester.
Perhaps those responsible are not among the people who have to stand in line 20 minutes to check their coats. Moreover can thev be ignorant of the fact that while the Student Senate dances had shown a profit of over S500 by the end of last semester, the admission price remains a dollar.
We hope the managers of these dances will take into account the large crowds which will converge on Notre Dame during the remaining spring weekends. These people will expect something better of our dances than has been seen so far.
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bosse, Dick Callaghan, Jerry Campbell, Irv Carrig, Doug Cole, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Tom Hartzell, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward, John Manion.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywiniski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Maliason, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Member of Catholic School Press Association,_ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: No, it isn’t a student’s room in one of the campus residence halls— it’s the corner of the band room in Washington Hall, made into an elaborate set for the Department of Journalism’s entry .into the moviemaking business. For the pictorial story of Shake Doivn the Thunder see pages 20 and 21.—Photo by Bill DeCrick
A Look Back, and Ahead
As far as interest in campus activities is concerned, the school year often effectively ends for seniors around Easter. After Easter a senior looks toward the Senior Ball and graduation, but finds it difficult to become interested in any long-range plans affecting students. This, then, is the time for juniors to be sharpening their planning swords for next vear. It might also be the time to review questions which were posed in this column in the first issue last fall, with an eye for this year’s accomplishments and next year’s possibilities. The questions of last Sept. 26:
“Will the young-minded hecklers at pep rallies wise up to the fact that nobody considers them comedians except themselves?” Most of them did wise up, but some still seemed to desire a rostrum all their own. Perhaps the only complete solution would be wadded handkerchiefs in the mouths of these few, who can cause an infamous branding of the entire student bodv.
“Since the freshmen and sophomores have been given greater privileges this year, can upperclassmen be so honored?” Not so one could notice, they haven’t. That is, unless 12:30 permissions on Saturdays are counted, and such permissions were in vogue for everybody last year except during Lent. Fond hopes can still be entertained for the Senior Ball weekend, but this question is primarily food for next year’s thought. And any proposal in this realm requires much thought, logic, and persuasive power.
' “Will everybody get on the ball and make the Commerce Ball a success, thus insuring repetition of this very desirable event?” No question about this one. The Commerce Ball proved conclusively that the football season will support more than one big dance.
“And will rumors of a Student Union materialize into something concrete?” Union, no, but the Activities Center awaits only money and contracts. The plans have been completed. In this, as in everything else, every bit of planning done in the Spring promises activity in the Fall. Everything done now means that much less to be done in the Fall. The Commerce Ball was pretty well set at this time last Spring. It’s never too early to start.	.
April 24, 1953
7
Max Adler Co.
D* RW TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST ----OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces”
----EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel	4-5777
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
•	BETTER SERVICE
•	BETTER WORK
•	LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.
Smart . . . Sturdy . . . Washable
3-WAY
SPORT JACKET *4.95
Wear it for sports, for work, for smart leisure . . . you’ll enjoy this fine washable jacket right through
the summer. Tailored of finest quality denim with knit collar, cuffs and waistband . . . zipper closing . . . and roomy slash pockets. In light blue. Slacks to match, $4.95.
BOTH NICE!
Chrysler and Plymouth at
MOULDER MOTOR COMPANY
215 So. LaFayette
A Suggestion—Why not drive a new car home for the folks. The purchase price in South Bend is probably much less than at home. See . . .
Jack Moulder, Class of ’38
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
Michigan at Washington
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
8
The Scholastic
Morrow’s Music for Juniors Tonight
Prom, Dinner Dance Top Weekend Card
Submerged in the gay 1890 atmosphere of a garden fantasy and the filtered rays of a modern 1953 moon, 550 Junior promenaders and their “best ladies” will waltz to the mellowed yellow music of Buddy Morrow and his orchestra in the Rockne Memorial from 9:30 until 1:30 tonight.
The “Lamplighter Serenade” motif, with its light blue sky suspended over a scene of soft garden lamps and stone walls surrounding a colored fountain, will be graced by the royal presence of queens Miss Sallie Ritzenthaler and Miss Eileen Hennessey.
Miss Ritzenthaler, a freshman at Marymount College and a native of Mansfield, Ohio, and Miss Hennessey, a freshman at St. Mary’s College and a native of Bloomington, Ill., will be escorted by general co-chairmen Phil Bolin and Ray Moran respectively.
Morrow, prominent RCA recording artist and a comparative newcomer to collegiate bandstands, will feature vocalists Frankie Lester and Marcie Miller along with the sophisticated strains of his music-making ensemble.
Before forming his own melodious aggregation in 1950, Morrow worked as a featured trombonist for several bigname musicians including Eddie Duchin, Artie' Shaw and Jimmy Dorsey.
Billboard Magazine presented Morrow and his orchestra with the title of “The Nation’s Most Promising Band” in 1951. His most popular- recordings include the current favorites, “Night Train” and “I Don’t Know;” and “Rose, Rose, I Love You!”
The big dance tonight will be the first feature of what Moran and Bolin promise as “one of the most extravagant Junior weekends in the catalogue of Notre Dame’s social calendars.”
Coronation ceremonies will get underway at intermission time when the' grand march opens with Junior Class President Jim Richards and his date, Miss Clare Hansen, of Sparta, Wis., leading the company of class officers, dance
MISS SALLIE RITZENTHALER
Royalty . . .
chairmen, and their dates to the bandstand.
Intermission entertainment will be provided by a segment of the world-renowned Notre Dame Glee Club and, later, by ND’s prominent violinist, Leo Michuda.
Additional sideline attractions have been placed in the Blue and Rose rooms where continuous piano music will be provided for those who want a more secluded atmosphere. Both rooms, in addition, will be decorated with various park scenes.
The Student Voice Station will also carry a half-hour program of Morrow’s music into the campus residence halls beginning at 10:30 p. m., Station Director Tom Knott announced.
Residence curfew for the prom-goers is 2:30 a.m., and car permissions for the weekend extend until Sunday noon.
Parking facilities for tonight’s affair have been reserved in the rear of the Social Science Building and Lyons Hall, in the lot adjacent to Fisher Hall, and on the Circle.
Guests of Honor will include: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president; Rev.
MISS EILEEN HENNESSEY ... by Lamplight
Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; and Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C.
The various college deans and their wives will serve as chaperones for the affair.
Tomorrow night, 175 of the Junior weekenders and their guests will attend a dinner dance at the South Bend Country Club, where Don Gels and his campus contingent will provide the rhythms from 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. Dinner will be served from 6 to 8.
A Senate-sponsored dance has also been scheduled at the Rockne Memorial for those who are not attending the dinner dance.
Sunday’s nine o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church has been set aside for the Juniors and a Communion Breakfast will follow at 10:15 in the Morris Inn, with Rev. Thomas F. Cady, C.S.C., scheduled as guest speaker to round out the weekend.
Other committee heads, beside Bolin and Moran, include: tickets, Jack Ross- • hirt; decorations, John Reidy; breakfast, Ron Mazzoli; general weekend, Bill Guilfoyle and Joe Springer; business, Gene Howley; entertainment, Jack Ryan; and publicity, Jack Sand.
April 24, 1953
9
Frosh Dance Leaders Zahm Leads in Blood Drive Pledge Race; Plan Final Touches Campus Still 1400 Pledges Short of Mark
A “Serenade in the Sea” theme will prevail in the Rockne Memorial gym for next Friday’s Freshman Frolic, as Chairman Nick Mavigliano and his cohorts swing into the final week of preparations.
According to Bob Morsches, chairman of the decorations committee, the Rock’s entrance will be converted into a gangplank which leads to the “sea.” Marine plants, fish, and corals will combine to give the main room an un-der-the-sea effect, while Bob Kirk’s dance music will emanate from a giant sea shell. Corsages, though optional, will probably be abundant to add more color to the motif.
Refreshments will be provided in the Old Anchor Inn, and dance-goers will hang their wraps in a simulated Davey Jones’ locker.
Mavigliano expects some 400 couples to swing and sway to Bob Kirk’s strains from 9 to 1 on Friday night as the gay weekend gets underway. On Saturday afternoon the Varsity-Old Timers football tussle, according to Coach Frank Leahy, is sure to provide fine enteitainment for the first-year men and their dates. Another highlight on the agenda will be the presentation of the annual student musical, Brute Farce, that evening.
After Sunday Mass at 9 o’clock, 90
THE FRESHMAN FROLIC COMMITTEE
All Set to Invade Davy Jones’ Territory
Notre Dame blood drive leaders report that Zahm leads in the residence hall race for highest percentage of pledges as the drive enters its final 10 days still far short of its goal.
Signed pledges number about 2600, with only 1500 of those ready in all respects to give blood. The discrepancy is due to the lack of signed parental permission cards, necessary for all those under 21, and the anonymous leaders are pleading for the return of these permissions so that they can begin drawing up a donation schedule. The scheduling process is complicated by the
couples will attend a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn. Tom McNeill, who is engineering the affair, has engaged his father, Don McNeill of “Breakfast Club” fame, to be toastmaster. Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, C.S.C., and Edward “Moose” Krause will be guest speakers.
Also assisting Mavigliano for the 1953 edition of the Frosh Frolic are the following committees and chairmen: Tom Caplet, hotel reservations; Jack Casey, blind date bureau; Dave Granger, business; Mike Kiley, tickets; Walt Peeney, refreshments; and Bob Hilger, publicity.
Senior Ball and the preferences of the prospective donors, and thus becomes one of the most harassing and timeconsuming details of the drive.
The residence hall compiling the highest percentage of pledges will receive an engraved plaque, symbolizing the “true American Spirit.” Morrissey Hall has announced that it will claim the plaque, and has challenged all halls to outdo its performance. However, Zahm Hall now leads with 90 per cent of its 285 students pledged, and is, at the moment, far ahead of Morrissey.
Zahm’s next-door neighbor, Cavanaugh Hall, has the dubious distinction of having the least pledges signed, and drive leaders express the hope that “a little of Zahm’s freshman enthusiasm will rub off on the neighboring sophomores.” The campus-wide average to date is about 55 per cent pledged per hall.
A chart has been placed in the lobby of the Dining Hall, showing in thermometer' fashion the number of pledges received and the drive’s goal, and a sign-up table has been manned during meal periods at the same place. In addition, halls are still being canvassed as the drive leaders refuse to quit short of their goal.
The Red Cross has completed and published its plan of operation for taking Notre Dame’s blood. The plan provides for a maximum of 800 donors a day and thus allows for rejections. The blood will be taken May 4-8 at Children’s Hospital, corner of Notre Dame and Angela Avenues. The Red Cross will be on the job from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day.
Each hour 100 donors will be scheduled, and the Red Cross emphasizes the necessity of rigid adherence to this schedule in order to avoid confusion. Students will be given cancelled cuts to meet their donation appointments.
A free lunch will be available after donations. It is recommended that donors eat nothing within three hours before giving blood, and that fatty foods should definitely not be eaten during this time.
Volunteer registered nurses, nurses aides, and staff aides will be furnished by the St. Joseph County Chapter of the Red Cross, and will be supplemented by student workers. The students will serve as typists, runners, and the like, and will assist in unloading and setting up equipment at the Hospital on May 3.
The Scholastic
10

HIGHLIGHTS OF PARENTS-SONS WEEKEND
(I.) Group Watches Football Scrimmage; (R.) Father Hesburgh Addresses Parents
Traditional and New Campus Sights Arouse Interest of 150 'Mom and Dad' Teams
“How tall is the statue atop the Dome? Is the statue really made of gold? Young man, could you tell me where the golf course is?”—these and numerous other questions were asked by a throng of 300 parents who participated in Notre Dame’s first Parents-Son Day last Saturday.
Answering these many question^ were members of the Blue Circle who conducted guided tours throughout the campus. Points of special interest shown to the parents were the newly completed Nieuwland Science Hall and the ever-interesting LOBUND Institute which was inspected by some 200 parents. These and many other sights “heard so much about but never before seen” were visited by the parents.
From early registration in the lobby of the Morris Inn until a last-minute stroll across the main rectangle Sunday afternoon, the parents were feted with such varied activities as an ROTC drill exhibition given by the Air Force and Army drill teams, a baseball game between Notre Dame and Illinois and an unannounced intrasquad football scrimmage in the stadium, and a series of movies on campus life at Notre Dame.
Eating cafeteria style, the parents joined their sons for a typical noontime meal, featuring a choice of pork chop or meatloaf with the usual trimmings.
Climax of the day came at dinner when Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
C.S.C., Notre Dame’s president, spoke to the parents. Stressing informality, Father Hesburgh said, “I want you parents to feel you belong here at Notre Dame as your sons are the main part of our University.” He considered the Parents-Son Day “definitely pointing to the beginning of a tradition,” and “next year we hope to invite the parents of all the classes with a respective ‘day5 for each.”
Filling the two middle aisles at the 9 o’clock Mass Sunday morning, the parents were addressed by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. Father Burke advised the sons to “go to Communion and offer this as a gift to your parents for all they have done foi* you.”
When asked his opinion of the first Parents-Son Day, Thomas W. Carroll of the University’s department of public relations, briefly added, “A most tremendous success.”
FINAL MARRIAGE SESSION
The seventh session of the Marriage institute will be held next Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Rev. James Smyth, whose talk was cancelled last month due to illness, will speak on “Your Children—Home Training and Sex Instruction.” Also included will be the widely acclaimed Christopher records on sex instruction.
AB Educators Begin Seminar Here Today
Seven eminent authorities in the field of Christian higher education today will initiate a three-day seminar here on the program of philosophy and theology in the University’s College of Arts and Letters.
The seminar is being sponsored by the committee on Self Study at Notre Dame which is operating on a grant from the Ford Foundation to examine the relation between philosophy and theology in the College of Arts and Letters and the relation between philosophy and theology taken together to the rest of the program.
The discussion will concern the objectives of a Catholic liberal college in contemporary America and a tentative curriculum which will bring the Christian wisdom of the past to the problems and achievements of present-day culture.
Among those participating in the seminar are Jacques Maritain, University of Notre Dame; Dr. Anton C. Pegis, president of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto; Rev. Dr. Ferrer Smith, O.P., professor of theology at the Dominican House of Studies, Washington, D. C.; Rev. Dr. John Courtney, S.J., professor of theology at Woodstock College, Md., and editor of Theological Studies; Dr. George N. Shuster, ’president of Hunter College, New York City; Canon Bernard Iddings Bell, University of Chicago; and Dr. Arnold S. Nash, University of North Carolina.
April 24, 1953
11
Paul G. Hoffman Will Address Delegates At World Trade Conference Here May 12
Mr. Paul G. Hoffman, presently chairman of the Board of Directois of the Studebaker Corp., will address the Sixth Annual World Trade Conference here May 12. His topic for the dinner conference at the Morris Inn will be “Free Trade for a Stronger Free World.”
Hoffman, formerly an administrator of the Economic Cooperation Administration, has been with Studebakei, intermittently, for 42 years.
Starting as a dealer-salesman in 1911, Mr. Hoffman rapidly rose to vice-president in charge of sales in 1925, and then to president of the corporation in 1935. In 1948, he assumed his position in the EC A, resigning in 1950 to accept the presidency of the Ford Foundation, a post he held until last March when he again became associated with Studebaker.
Mr. Bender, chairman of the conference, also announced the schedule. The conference will open in the morning with registration in the Commerce Building. This will be followed by a panel and discussion period in the Engineering Auditorium. Those attending will then proceed to the Morris Inn for luncheon.
In the afternoon there will be another panel and discussion period followed by refreshments in the Rockne Memorial. The conference will be brought to a close with dinner at the Morris Inn. Mr. Hoffman will be the guest speaker at the dinner.
Mr. Bender pointed out that “a university campus meeting such as this is unique in the United States; and, we believe, our first annual meeting in 1948 was the initial meeting of this type.”
In addition to this Mr. Bender further cited four reasons why such a conference should be held at Notre Dame.
The first reason the chairman mentioned was that “Edward N. Hurley, the donor of the College of Commerce building, was widely known as head of the United States Shipping Board in World War I, and the official name of our building, The Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce indicates the College’s concern with world trade.”
He further stated that “to help the world trader keep abreast of the rapid movement of events, meetings such as the Notre Dame World Trade Conference play an important role.”
“The conference provides a common
meeting ground for business men, students and faculty,” Mr. Bender went on to say. Lastly he pointed out that this conference integrated with the Foreign Marketing division under Professor Bott is a definite aid to students preparing for world trade careers.
PAUL G. HOFFMAN
Free Trade For a Free World
Lawmen Plan May I Dance At South Bend Country Club
The South Bend Country Club will be the scene of the 1953 “Spring Law Refresher” on May 1 from-9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Committee Chairman William MacMillan has announced that Don Gels and his orchestra will be on hand to supply music for the students and faculty of the College of Law. Formal dress is optional.
Robert Maley and Walter Clements, co-chairmen of the program committee, have announced that a theme on a “Study Schedule” style has been chosen for program and decorations.
Tickets, which are priced at $4 and open to law students only, are available through class representatives of the Student Law Association.
The Locations Committee is headed by William Roche, while Dick Globensky will handle favors. A date committee is headed by Bill Fleming and Don Bebe-nek. The Ticket Committee is handled by Dick Hodges, William Pollard, John Houck, Stan Herlinger, and Walter Clements. Bob LeMense and Joe Gargan are in charge of publicity for the dance.
Candlelight Procession Opens May Devotions
May devotions to the Blessed Mother will be ushered in by the traditional campus-wide rosary recitation-student procession to the Grotto for ceremonies next Thursday. A holy hour will be held at the Grotto.
W.ith the ringing of the bells from Sacred Heart Church at 7:55 p.m., each hall’s residents will form into the processions which will converge upon the Grotto. Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., will lead the rosary by means of loud speakers at the Grotto.
Upon arrival at the Grotto, the students will make a dedication to the Immaculate Conception and renewal of baptismal promises. A short sermon will follow, and the devotions will close with Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
The devotions have been shifted from the traditional May 1 date • in order to avoid conflict with the Freshman dance and the Mother’s Day Novena, which will begin May 1. The Spiritual Activities Committee of the NFCCS is sponsoring the ceremony. .
Throughout the month of May adoration will be held in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., followed by Benediction.
“The adoration is intended primarily for seniors; since it will be their last opportunity to participate in spiritual activities at Notre Dame,” Rev. Charles Carey, prefect of religion, stated. He went on to say, “We hope to have at least one senior in every half-hour period.”
Pledge cards will be distributed by the Third Order of St. Francis.
Wranglers Announce May I As Deadline For Applications
The Wranglers, a campus discussion group, have announced May 1 as the final date that aplications will be accepted for membership.
In order to be considered for membership, applicants must be undergraduates, with a serious interest in the objectives of the group, and must maintain an average of 85 per cent or better.
Applications stating qualifications and reasons for seeking admittance must be filed with the chairman of the Wranglers Membership Committee, 47 Sorin before the deadline.
Each member will be expected to prepare papers for the weekly discussions.
12
The Scholastic

'Brute Farce' Directors Polish Up Tunester, Mobster Rehearsals as May 1 Curtain Nears
With only one week of rehearsals remaining, director Walt Swift is concentrating on adding the finishing touches to the student musical, Brute Farce. During the' past week he has assembled the seemingly unrelated scenes into the full length production which will be presented at Washington Hall May 1-5. “We’re in fine shape,” he says.
Tickets for the show went on sale last Wednesday in the Dining Hall. Since all seats are reserved, students will be allowed to choose their own seats from a floor plan of Washington Hall.
Representatives will canvas the halls starting April 28.
Beginning Sunday, the tunesters will rehearse to the music of Don Gels and the Lettermen, who have suddenly become an orchestra through the addition of three violins. Gels himself will not conduct, this task being assumed by Pat Tobin, arranger for the show.
Most of the Lettermen are veterans of last year’s show and are well heeled in the ways of musical production.
Music by Rossiter and Becker
Music for the two and a half hour show was written by Seniors Bob Rossiter and Geary Becker, who are making their first attempt at writing a musical. Earlier in the year, Don Gels played one of their compositions To You at a victory dance. Emulating the style of Rogers and Hart, the boys have come up with a ballad, Face to Face With Love which promises to be a highlight of the show. With Becker writing the music and Rossiter putting it into words the two hope to write musical comedies after graduation.
In the romantic lead as Alice, Wilma Burke, a St. Mary’s College voice major, will sing the Becker-Rossiter Face to Face With Love. No new-comer to show business, she has appeared in the Summer Stock productions of: Where’s Charlie, Finian’s Rainbow, Up in Central Park, and Carousel at the Iroquois Amphitheatre, Louisville, Ken. The girlfriend of a football hero in the show, she hopes to make a career in musical comedy.
Opposite Miss Burke in the role of Tom, will be Gerry Boehling, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Although this is his first attempt at show business, Boehling is expected to croon to the unconcealed delight of his girlfriend, Alice.
The farcical element of the play will be introduced by two characters, Homer, an
intellectual bookworm, and his little friend, Dionella. Homer, alias Gerry Godwin, is staged to endure situations which would try the best of the bookworms. His “better half,” Dionella, who is Denni Egry off-stage, will prod the funny bone of the audience with hex* antics in pursuit of Homer. She has appeared in several Summer Stock productions in Canada.
Romance in the Freshman Class of Peabody University comes to the fore as Jim Kinnane and Gayle Baumer team up as a singing and dancing twosome. Flaying the parts of Johnnie and Janie, their duets will feature I’m Surprised At You and some fancy stepping to School Is Back In Business. Miss Baumer is a Freshman at St. Mary’s, majoring in speech.
Crime and a Gun Moll
As the mother of Slim, Doc, Pug, and Buzz, sharply dressed hoodlums of the show, Joan Crawford of St. Mary’s will tell the audience that I’ll Never Look Good In Red. Although she plays a sentimental gun-moll in the show, she will pursue the more sedate role of a home economics teacher after graduation. Her sons, Slim, Fred lonata, Pug, Frank Brennan, Buzz, Marty Brennan,
DANCERS REHEARSE STEPS FOR MAY 1 OPENING “The Best Foot Forward”
and Doc, Joe Sassano, are to proclaim Crime Is Back In Business at the outset of the show to set the scene.
The part of Mrs. Rollingstone, President of Peabody U., will be portrayed by Mary Jane Paden. A grad of Purdue’s Home Economics Department, she will sacrifice some of the dignity of her assumed title by singing Mamma’s Coming Home to Roost.
Appearing in her third musical at Notre Dame, Hildegarde Vargyas will reveal the secrets of how to trap a man in Let Alotta Line Out. Playing the part of Mrs. Rollingstone’s personal secretary, she will provide the same kind of comedy she did in Vile Bodies. She has played in numerous South Bend performances, notably the Vagabond King in which she played the lead part of Margo. She has played in Summer Stock for three years in the West and intends to go into that line of work at a later date. At present, she is employed with the Expoi-t Advertising and Sales Promotion Dept, of Studebaker. She also appeared in the South Bend production of Annie Get Your Gun in which Earle MacVeigh played the lead. -
Supporting characters in the play include: Bill Bleakley as the vice-president of the college, George W. Boehm as the “super star” detective, Snead, John Maher as “Larry” and Kevin Begley as the bodyguard, Jim. The Peabody coach will be Jamie Patterson and Don Rath-geb will play the Dean.	"
April 24, 1953
13
MOOT COURIERS IN SESSION
The Scene: Supreme Court of Hoynes
Barrett Names Seniors Eiberger, Bebenek Co-directors of Notre Dame's Moot Court
Forsaking a long-standing tradition of the Notre Dame Moot Court, Mr. Edward Barrett named senior law students Carl Eiberger and Don Bebenek co-directors of the organization at the April 14 banquet .in Mishawaka. Formerly, only one director headed the court.
The appointments were made with the approval of faculty directors Robert Sullivan, Barrett, and Dean of the Law School, Joseph O’Meara. The new directors, who succeed David Thornton in that capacity, were appointed on a basis of their performance in Moot Court activities and their administrative abilities.
Others on the board that does the planning for all Moot Court activities are Abdallah Samuel Adelo, executive director; James Bleyer, junior chancellor; and T. J. Bergan, director of public relations. Adelo is the only returning member of the board. He served as director of public relations during the past year.
In addition, freshmen and junior certificates of award were presented to those who participated in their respective arguments. Senior" gavels were also presented by Mr. Barrett.
The new executive board is in charge of the junior argument finals to be
held June 13. The winners of these arguments will represent Notre Dame’s College of Law in the National Moot Court finals next Fall.
Participating in the semi-final arguments this past Tuesday and Wednesday were four members of the new executive board—Bebenek, Bleyer, Bergan, and Eiberger. Others who were vying for a place in national competition were Wilbur Pollard, Jack Bradshaw, Carmi Belmont, and Joseph Helling. This group of eight outlasted 24 other junior lawyers in the race for the coveted Dean Manion Award.
This award was established by former Dean of Law Clarence (Pat) Manion, who was instrumental in starting the Moot Court at Notre Dame in February, 1950. Since that time participation has been open to all students in the College of Law on a voluntary basis.
The scheme for the entire competition in the Moot Court centers around an imaginary “Supreme Court of Hoynes.” The contestants are judged on their written briefs and oral argumentation of the case. Even though they are paired off with two men arguing for the appelant and two for the respondent, the winners are selected on a purely personal basis.
Hank, Doherty Debate For Title atWest Point
The “Arguing Irish” are now competing in the annual National Championship debating tournament held by the United States Military Academy at West Point, N. Y.
William Hank, a junior, and Charles Doherty, a sophomore, are representing Notre Dame. Both are in the College of Commerce. They are accompanied on the trip by Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of Forensics, who has coached ND debate teams to five finals in the past eight years.
Hank, vice-president of the debate team, and Doherty will have completed eight preliminary rounds by tomorrow morning on the national topic, “FailEmployment Practices Legislation.” The top teams will then engage in further rounds until the champion is determined.
The debaters survived a vigorous elimination campaign to earn a place in the tournament. The United States is divided into eight elimination districts. Notre Dame’s district is composed of colleges in Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Michigan.
On a date set by the central committee, approximately 25 top teams gather in each of the eight districts for the final district elimination rounds.
This year’s district elimination rounds were held in early March at Michigan State College. Four other Midwest teams, in addition to Notre Dame, survived and are currently at West Point. These include Case Institute of Cleveland, Michigan State, Augustana and the University of Illinois at Navy Pier.
Army ROTC Unit Undergoes Two-Day General Inspection
Next Thursday and Friday the Army ROTC unit will be inspected by a group of officers from othei" college units in the Midwest.
The inspecting team will be composed of Col. Clarence C. Clendenen of Michigan State College, Lt. Col. John C. Jeffrey of the University of Wisconsin, and Major John C. Goodlett, also of Michigan State.
Representing the armor, engineering, and quartermaster corps, respectively, they will check the files, records, teaching methods, and drill procedure of the Notre Dame unit.
Last year Notre Dame received a “good” commendation, which is the highest mark attainable.
The Scholastic
14
Senior Boll Machinery Perks on All Cylinders To Orientalize ND Drill Hall Into a Shangri-la
“Only an A-bomb can ruin this year’s dance,” remarked a Senior Ball committeeman. “And even then it would be a colorful spectacle.”
An atom bomb may be unlikely but the colorful spectacle seems assured. With only two weeks to go before the Drill Hall portals open on the May 8 formal, Co-Chairmen Jim Pfohl and George Higgins and their aides are intent on convincing some 630 seniors and their dates that the Navy barn is really
HELP WANTED
The Senior Ball Decorations Committee has issued a plea for all able-bodied seniors with no more than four thumbs per hand to help disguise the Drill Hall. No knowledge of Chinese is required. Work will begin tomorrow afternoon at 1:30.
“Shangri-la” and four hours of dancing there adds up to “An Evening in Paradise.”
This oriental theme is being carried out not only by the decorators but by the program and refreshment committees as well. The program cover design, adapted by Bob Karlsberger from a Japanese print, shows in shadow-outline form an Asian couple standing under a parasol. And Ed Condon’s waiters will be decked out in Chinese finery.
Whether the waiters 'will serve some beverage from the Far East is still uncertain, although it is rumored that “Merlin” Condon has been brewing some exotic concoction with his chemistry set all week.
Meanwhile Bob Schaefer, Ed Graham and Ralph Argen have divided all their little helpers into wreckers and builders. Schaefer, Pat Mulrooney, and Howie Scribner have masterminded the destruction of the temporary rooms in the Old Science Building, clearing it for the Student Senate and garnering free wallboard for the Ball decorations.
Artist Graham’s construction division has been transforming these materials into oriental objets d’art in its Walsh-basement studios. Completed so far are a huge vase, two rickshaws, a few dragons, several patio walls and “pidgin Chinese” signs, two flights of stairs, and a “big surprise.”
Work on the interior of the Drill Hall will begin tomorrow afternoon. Permission has been granted to construct an outdoor patio between the hall and Cartier Field.
Decorator Bill Unger of blood drive fame, has expressed concern that his fellow workers may lose more blood through occupational hazards than to the Red Cross drainage project.
While only the seniors and their ladies will cavort in Shangri-la May 8, a Student Senate dance there the fol
lowing night will enable everyone to “go east.” Only the seniors will hear Ray Anthony, however.
Other weekend activities arranged for- the seniors by Dick Harvey and Walt Stuhldreher include a Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn after 9 o’clock Mass Sunday, May 10.
Hotel Chairman Clair Trinkley advises all seniors who have reserved rooms for their guests in the Morris Inn to verify their reservations. No deposit is required.
Publicity Chairman Don Carbone has disclosed that the South Bend Tribune will feature the Ball in its Sunday Magazine section in late May or early June.
The Senior Ball program, Carbone revealed, will be radically different. Its
THE MEN BEHIND SHANGRI-LA
Stage-Setters for “An Evening in Paradise”
size—9” by 6”—makes it difficult to dangle from one’s wrist, but he guarantees it will fit into a tuxedo pocket. The program, with attractive tassel and suede-paper cover, includes pictures of the campus. Another- new wrinklet: even the men will receive a copy.
With preparations for the Senior Ball nearly complete, everyone is looking ahead to May 8 happily—with one exception. Business Manager Joe Costanzo has to pay the bills.
Sommer Announces Annual Freshman Speech Contest
The annual Freshman Oratorical Contest, open to any student who has not completed two semesters of undergraduate work, has been announced by Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, director of Forensics. Entries will be accepted until April 27.
A cash award of S10 will be given to the membei- of the Freshman class, who, in the opinion of the judges, delivers the best oration on a subject of his choice.
The oration must not be less than eight nor- more than 11 minutes in length.
Any freshman who wishes to enter should submit his name to Professor Sommer, Room 328, Main. Building.
Semi-finals will be held May 4, at 7:30 p.m., in the Law Auditorium.
April 24, 1953
15
THE ECAD TC SLCCETT
“Notre Dame Glee Club Gets Plastered.”
This headline appeared in the South Bend Tribune after the club’s concert in St. Hedwige’s Auditorium in South Bend; it wasn’t as .incriminating as it would seem. On that fateful night at St. Hedwige’s Auditorium the curtain stuck, a hefty stagehand tugged at the stubborn cord, and a bushel of plaster pulled loose from the ceiling and sprinkled down on a tux-clad Notre Dame Glee Club.
The Glee Club poses in the courtyard of the New Orleans, La., State Prison, scene of one of many concerts.
Such unscheduled performances prove that Prof. Daniel Pedtke needs more than a good ear; he also needs a good sense of humor. During his 15 years as director of the Glee Club he has had more than his share of hectic moments—and chuckles.
Many Difficulties Arise
Take the .incident at Rome, New York. John McCabe, a baritone, became sick. As he stood there weaving, he suddenly lurched forward; the singer in front of McCabe pushed him with his elbow, and McCabe tumbled back in place. Mr. Pedtke, glancing that way, noticed the glassy look in McCabe’s eyes, but before he could warn anyone, McCabe began swaying from side to side and then fell to the floor. Two fellows picked McCabe up and carried him to the side of the stage, returned, and the Glee Club finished the concert.
Anyone ever connected with the Glee Club knows it is noted for leaving late for a trip and sometimes even arriving late. A few years ago one fellow learned his lesson the hard way, and the expensive way, too. He missed the bus as it pulled out from Richmond, Ind., headed towards Portland, Ind., so he hailed a passing taxi and rode all the way to Portland. The bill amounted to over twelve dollars—an expensive way to learn the virtue of punctuality.
A Sleeper, Too
Then there was the case of John “Horizontal” Hereford. A first tenor, Hereford slept through a concert. After the completion of the program, some of the fellows decided to play a joke on him. They returned to the hotel where he was sleeping and laid out his fulldress outfit on the bed next to him. Then they woke him and told him that Mr. Pedtke had called on him to sing a solo in “Notre Dame We Hail Thee,” and he had fainted. Since his mind had been blank for the evening, Hereford knew no better, and believed his buddies. For weeks he apologized to Mr. Pedtke for fainting on the stage.
Mr. Pedtke likes to recall the days when the Navy V-12 program was at Notre Dame. Day after day for two years, a Petty Officer marched the Glee Club members into the practice room. No one spoke throughout the practices and when the bell rang, and the officer shouted “Attenshun,” the men stood up and cleared the room in short order. Mr. Pedtke realizes he nevei had it so well, because today the daily practices sound like a women’s gathering at an annual card party.
Speed Means Nothing
Often the driver of the chartered bus takes a big part in some of the harrowing experiences of the club. In Boston he went zooming down the wrong way on a one-way street, zigzagging back and forth between cars. While cn
another trip, a policeman stopped the bus driver for going twenty miles over the limit. Using the usual late excuse, the driver pleaded his case to no avail to the officer. Luckily, some of the sponsors of the concert were members of the city council, and no charges were pressed.
Just last year, the club had a trip scheduled for the west coast betwee i the semester break. Shortly before exams ended, a terrific snow storm hit California, stranding a train in Donner
Pass. At first scheduled train However, the their okay.
it was doubtful if the could make it through, railroad officials gave
As the train crept slowly through the treacherous pass, the engineer kept the usual shrill whistle-blowing silent, for fear that it might start another avalanche which would bury the train. The train made it through, being the first one to reach California since the storm. On the same train, the singing Irish had their luck with them. During a twenty-five minute layover at Denver to change tracks, everyone left the coach to grab something to eat. Luckily, the only things on the train were the suitcases and other belongings of the club. While the railroad workers were switching tracks, the reserved Notre Dame coach jumped the rail and overturned.
There Are Rewards
However, all of the club’s activities
When there’s a breather in the schedule, the Glee Club utilizes every moment of it. This is a beach scene in front of the West Palm Beach Bath and Tennis Club.
5^;
Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the
Irish have made five appearances
The singing
on
Town”
show.
The
club also did a benefit show with
and Jimmy
Durante.
The “Toast
of The Town”
the National Broadcasting
In 1942
This year the club made its annual
aren’t hectic, on successful
It has built a reputation performances through the
the the the
Sullivan’s “Toast of was the club’s fifth Sullivan since his Only a quartet paryear, but since then
Smith had a show in town, and Glee Club was requested to sing music in the background during program.
Ann Blythe in Chicago Stadium before a crowd of 20,000, the largest the club has ever sung before. At this same showing, the Glee Club met Pat O’Brien
appearance on Ed the Town.” This performance with start in television, ticipated the first
years. When the premier showing of “Knute Rockne — All-American” took place in South Bend in 1938, Kate
Company celebrated the centennial of Notre Dame with a play depicting the 100 years of Father Sorin’s establishment. The Glee Club sang the songs, and Mr. Pedtke wrote and arranged the orchestral background.
Mr. Pedtke also recalls the letter the club received from PostmasterGeneral Walker after a concert in Chicago. In the letter, Mt Walker complimented the club for the professional performance given.
the whole outfit has taken part.
But the plaster, sickness, sleepers, snow storms and bus drivers of yesteryear aren’t really a thing of the past. Every year incidents, new and old, hectic and humorous, mark a Glee Club tour. And for Prof. Pedtke and troupe, one incident never changes. That’s called success.
Nothing like a game of rotation for a bit of relaxation — especially if you have cuts left in your 1 1:30.
< i'
•*3	RIGHT: You can always get some ad-
vice in a pool hall. Take the guy with t	the hat, for instance. He’s always in
i:	here—you’d think he owned the place.
"Waif a minute, Mac! It’s rather evident that you haven’t played this game. In the first place your holding the cue incorrectly. Now the proper. .
“Now if I were you, I’d play a combination on that eight ball—and use a lot of reverse english on the cue ball or you’ll follow the eight ball in.
"I shouldn’t take the time but the guy never takes roll call, anyway.”
Behind the
Eight Ball
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
asked for er
it’s
the
part of the pool business.
several broken always available
thousand games and cues to his credit, is for advice — whether not.
Pool Hall Percy is
aggravating
And there’s
SE saa
A Shark
Pool, whether it be rotation, eightball or billiards, can be a relaxing form of entertainment — or an aggravating one. The local recreation parlor offers both entertainment and aggravation — and a lot of laughs.
Take the case of the gentlemen pictured in the story. Three of them are intent on a little serious pool. However, Pool Hall Percy, the pool shark with a
one in every pool hall. Muff a shot and he’ll laugh and offer technical advice; make a tough combination and he’ll tell you that your position is nothing short of lousy.
How to deal with a Pool Hall Percy? The best weapon would seem to be a cold-shoulder. However, there are times when even this fails — ask the gentlemen pictured in the story.

You re really not much more advanced than your buddy. Now the correct . .
. . . approach for the next shot would be—ugh—this. Try for a combinationdouble-bank shot. How you made the last one. . . You don't mind a little advice?”
LEFT: ‘‘It’s obvious that I’m not wanted



■	- — - Jg J->

—nor strong along
Yeah, game
is my advice. After a hint as as this, they’ll just have to get
without me. They so crude.”
there’s nothing like
of pool—even
for
are crude.
a relaxing the novice.
Everett Warren, cinematographer, takes a light reading for a sequence featuring Mrs. Louis J. Joubert.
"9loll ’8m!”
Photos by BILL DeCRICK and DANA WEITHERS
The Department of Journalism is doing everything but fly in sand from the Holy Land to make a motion picture called	J)oirn the Thunder. With the co-
operation of the Audio-Visual Center the journalists are learning how to do documentary films—“magazine articles in motion." The picture is growing out of a course called Television Techniques. It tells the story of how the Victory March was written and how from its humble beginning, in the basement of Sorin Hall, it went on and on around the world. Some of the sets being constructed on campus include a Chinese village, a prisoner of war barracks, and a Burmese jungle. The journalists, who are preparing themselves for the new visual journalism demanded by television, hope to have their 14-minute film ready by the end of the semester. On the production Professor Edward Fi>cher is writer-director, and Mr. Everett Warren is in charge of photography, .-ound recording and lighting.
Professor Edward Fischer, writer and producer, works out camera angles on a miniature set in his office.
The crew shoots a 1909 sequence of the room of the Shea brothers, students who wrote the Victory March.
lip
journalism major, applies makeup
to Pro-
Birder the man
who plays the role of Professor who rejected the Victory March.
Robert Zier, fessor Cecil Peterson,
Ellen Dooley, daughter of William R. Dooley of the Placement Bureau, plays the role of a bobby-soxer in a short sequence taken in the Faculty Lounge.
The glee club and band have been photographed and
recorded for their parts in the semi-documentary film.
every sequence with a slate that
Dick Daley
gets in
shows scene-and-take number to facilitate film-editing.
!■>
The students in “Television Techniques" borrow or build their props and set them up according to the shootings schedule. In a few minutes this scene was changed. . .
... to a Chinese street scene that could easily be mistaken for a scene in San Francisco's Chinatown. In reality, it’s the ND maintenance shops.
Sport . . .
A select gi’oup of seniors toddled across the Dixie last Saturday, and engaged an equally select group of St. Mary’s juniors .in a softball game. Notre Dame won. Compliments are really due to the St. Mary’s administration for sanctioning the game, and to the girls who didn’t at all act like the cautious prudes that vicious rumor would have them be. We’re in favor of more of this informal trans-dixie activity.
More Sport . . .
It seems that if a person knows what a baseball looks like, he is immediately qualified to make spring pennant predictions. Mr. Werner, of this column, •claims to know what a baseball looks like, and so with no more excuse or authority than this, we will present his pre-season picks.
First, however, a word about Werner’s predictions: Mr. Werner in the four years he has spent at Notre Dame has made many bets on pennant and World Series winners. He has never won. A sample yeai- might be 1951 when Werner picked the Indians and the Dodgers. The Yanks and the Giants won the pennants. At this point, our mastermind chose the Giants to sweep the series, and consequently was out five dollars.
For anyone who cares, Mr. Werner’s selections follow:
American
National
Giants	Indians
Dodgers	Chisox
Braves	Yanks
Phillies	Browns
Cubs	A’s
Reds	Nats
Cards	Bosox
Pirates	Tigers
Mr. Werner’s choices are based on his own private system of invincible ignorance combined with a maximum of prejudice. Oh, yes, the Indians will win the series, foui- games to three.
No Directions . . .
A series of clandestine meetings during the past week enabled us to seize upon some material by the No Directions Group. This week we offer a preview of their writing which we will give further consideration . . . some
time. Read and meditate on “The Metaphysics of the Monsters and the Human Beings”: . . -
The people milled in the street, close-packed against a burnished building front that rose chunky and two dimensional against the sky. Here, a grey faced woman—her features flat patches of doughy matter—kneaded an elbow into the stomach, of a woman and then bulled her way to the shop windoiv. Here, a child with brown curly hair licked the sticky memory of a lollypop from his fingers and squashed the whiting tip of his nose against the pane of glass. Here, a young man, his face impaled on the cardboard stiffness of a collar, wedged behind his briefcase and squeezed into place before the window. The people thronged and grunted. The combustible stench of massed and warming flesh ballooned its odor and hovered above the viscid press of the crowd. In the shop zvindow was a mirror, the focal point of reference now. The people gazed intent, alone to each other and to their individual surface image. Shoving, pushing, herding together, their gaudy consciousness of self stifled all else and human beings merged with monster in the focus.
Footnote: The motto of this group is “To Nowhere With Difficulty.”
Modern Science:
Lately mankind has been besieged by (Continued on Page 31)
“They never consider us managers when they order the sweaters."
WNIIII Mike (tatter
A year ago this Spring, WNDU tried to serve both campuses here at Notre Dame, Ind. The St. Mary’s transmitter was a fine experiment, but it just didn’t work out. After a big special show and all kinds of publicity, the transmitter was off for repairs more than it was on. Finally we decided that it was better to construct a whole new trans-mittei- than try to work all the bugs out of the old one. So, we fixed up the old one and put it to work feeding the Notre Dame campus, and started building a new one for St. Mary’s.
The new transmitter has been ready to go into operation for about a month now, but after waiting for the new lines to be put ,in and everything, we could only cover the campus for about a month this year if we put it in as soon as we finished it. And, since we hope to be in new studios at the beginning of next year, we’ll make a big thing of it and inaugurate the new St. Mary’s transmitter along with the new studios at the beginning of the semester.
The girls on the othei- side of the highway probably have good reason to be somewhat skeptical about all this. I can’t guarantee anything at this early date, but we do really think that we’ve got all the bugs worked out of the system this time. Anyway, we hope to see all the gals on the line next fall.
If all works well, it will raise our audience potential over the 4000 mark, which is quite a large figure for a college station of that type, and if our hooper ratings don’t change much, we’ll probably have one of the largest actual audiences in college radio. Many stations of our size and type feel lucky if they have 200 or 300 listeners at a time. We now can count on over 2000 for some of our programs . . .
This evening at 5:30, Bill Bleakley will feature a special taped interview with Helen Hayes on his rescheduled “Everyman” show. After a review of Mrs. Hayes’ new play, “Mrs. McThing,” which is now playing in Chicago, he’ll have Helen Hayes on for about five minutes.
It may be a little late for this, since six games have already been played, but I would like to remind you that WNDU is again broadcasting all of the home games of the Notre Dame baseball team this year. The way the team
22
The Scholastic
has been playing ball this Spring, everyone who can, should be out at Cartier Field for the games, but we’ll have each game from the first pitch to the last put-out for those who can’t make it over there.—Bryan Coughlin
Srad [Notes
We hope you have already bought your ticket to the Communion Breakfast in Morris Inn at which Father Hesburgh will address the graduate students and their guests. Before the breakfast to be held on Sunday, April 26, Father Beichner, Dean of the Graduate ,School, will say the Mass . . .
The Indiana Philosophical Association met in Terre Haute last Saturday, on the campus of the Indiana State Teachers’ College. Dick Spurney, besides being in attendance, was one of the speakers at the meeting . . .
For the past two months we have witnessed an innovation on our fair campus; the University library offering an eight-hour service on Sundays. One of the prime causes for the change was the urging of the graduate students, and ironically enough they are the very ones who are not to be found within the revered vault of wisdom from one to nine on Sundays. No doubt this queer twist has been a source of concern to Bill Setty and the rest of the library staff to whose unselfish aid we must all at one time feel indebted . . .
Those who are used to being welcomed when entering the Chemistry Department’s mysterious laboratories with noises—made popular by The Man in the White Suit—which sounded something like blop-blop-blop-blop, will be surprised to notice that this noise sounds quite differently nowadays. It is more like ping-pong-ping-pong. No, it isn’t a revolutionary discovery made by our efficient fellow graduate students. It is the accompanying noise of the life-and-death struggle of the entrants to the department’s ping-pong tournament. Leon St. Pierre, Jim Sturm and other aces have already achieved near-perfection in the art of the little white ball, but members of other departments are anxiously waiting to challenge the champion . . .
Our own Top of the Week: a highly successful lecture and reception for the foreign students. Our own Bottom of the Week: only six ND graduate students among those present.
Bob Wray
Ivan de Huszovsky
One of the most striking characteristics of modern American journalism is the prevalence of books, articles, and columns dealing with psychiatry and the problems of the troubled mind.
As a matter of fact, interest in psychoanalysis and in the unravelling of personality have become so widespread as to outweigh in many instances the readership of news, sports, and society. This trend has become so extreme that every newspaper in the country has some kind of column devoted to solving the problems of emotional maladjustment in our “high tension society.”
Both Commendable and Unfortunate
In a sense this great arousal of interest is highly commendable. It obviously shows that the American people are consciously striving to understand and improve themselves, to acquire a more mature philosophy of life, and eventually to achieve happiness of some kind.
Yet, at the same time, this trend is unfortunate—unfortunate because it indicates a people already torn with selfdoubt, insecurity, and neurotic states of one sort or another. It is rather pathetic to hear of middle-aged adults in the prime of life so unable to face life realistically and so incapable of making a decision as to turn to a sympathetic newspaper columnist for what obvious words of advice that may. be proffered.
“They’re mine, I tell you—mine!”
A Lack of Character
What factors are responsible for this plenitude of worried minds? Certainly not “fast” society or world insecurity as some would claim; nor are dominating or over-protective parents necessarily the cause as another school of thought would insist. Rather, the mental ills of our nation can best be explained in terms of excessive secularism, a lack of faith in a guiding principle (God), and more summarily, a general lack of character.
Much has been said about this elusive thing called “character” and its great influence on an individual’s ultimate success and stature. But yet, it is largely disregarded by the average person, probably because of its very obviousness and difficulty to acquire.
What actually constitutes character? I once heard it said that personality is what one seems to be, reputation is what others think he is, but character is what he really is. And there is certainly considerable truth in that distinction.
Something Positive
More specifically, a man of character is one who lives according to certain values and principles and takes the everyday problems of life in stride. Thus, courage, moral stamina, and selfdiscipline are perhaps the most essential elements of true character. Contrary to a common conception, moral standards alone do not constitute character. While it is true that a person of good character adheres to moral standards, yet a person of weak character may also adhere to moral standards simply because he lacks the courage to do otherwise.
Here, then, is an important distinction. Character is not something negative. It is only when it is sought for its positive values that it enriches the life of the individual.
The Heart of the Matter
Of all character traits, the virtue of courage is probably the most essential. Not just physical courage, but mental, moral and spiritual courage as well. Certainly the ‘ ability to face adversity and conquer it is one of the most priceless gifts one can have. Other important character traits are self-confidence, (Continued on Page 30)
April 24, 1953
23
Student Chow Hall Workers Dish Up Heated Replies to Debated Courtesy Complainees
BY PAUL FULLMER
“Operation Chowhall,” concerning various phases of the Dining Hall service, shifted into a higher gear this week as the courtesy subject of employees and students became the kindling for some heated controversy.
The phrase stating that the “continual grumbling of the student servers and their seeming indifference to the job” is responsible for much Dining Hall friction and has caused severe consternation among the student employees.
Tom Stubler of Dillon Hall reverses the line of blame and states that, “I do not. think we do half of the grumbling. In fact, I believe most of the abuse originates from the other side of the rail.”
As may be seen in the letter to the Editor appearing in this issue, the servers feel that they unjustly bear the brunt of student indignation over the quality and quantity of the portions.
Clet Lee of Dillon feels that “the fellows complain too much about things over which we have no control. We must work under strict regulations and are not allowed to alter existing orders. The Dining Hall should be a source of income, not a means of absorbing student abuse.”
Most students are rather indifferent to the attitude of the employees. The two minority factions uphold the alternate views. One faction contends that the fellows on the inside of the counter handle the food in a rather lackadaisical, haphazard manner.
Conn McCarthy contends that, “I have noticed a lack of courtesy and indifference among the servers for a long time.”
Others such as Frank Maier of Cavanaugh Hall state that, “My only feeling in regard to the Dining Hall service is one of pity for* the poor fellow who has to simultaneously pour gravy over mashed potatoes and ease a spoonful of slippery lima beans with the other, while nudging a pat of butter with an elbow.”
The checkers have a legitimate “beef” over the presentation of Chow Hall identification cards. Jerry Miller, who resides in Lyons Hall, mentioned that, “Most of the fellows bring their cards, but those who forget them expect us to relent even though our job may depend on the decision. The quick flash of a card is not always sufficient for us to
check it, especially if the billfold is upside down. Although checking is the easiest job, it is made the hardest by this small group.”
A compromise is suggested by Fran Romance of Alumni Hall, who suggests that, “There are always two sides to every story. The grumbling does not proceed from an ardent desire of the student employee to hear the tone of his grumble. I truly believe that a more cooperative attitude on the part of those on the other side of the counter would eliminate the grumbling. However, permit me to apologize to anyone whom I may have offended.”
Name Hadlock Head Of Regional NFCCS
Notre Dame’s Harry Hadlock is the new president of the Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students. One of three nominees for the office, his victory came on the first ballot at the 10th regional congress Sunday at St. Joseph’s College nearRensselaer, Ind.
Hadlock, a junior pre-med student from Alumni Hall and Erie, Pa., succeeds Miro Pregelj of St. Joseph’s and will serve till next year’s regional congress. .
In addition to Hadlock, Notre Dame was represented at the congress and regional council meeting by Marshall Desmond, Joe Conwell, and Don Carbone, outgoing regional vice-president, forensics chairman, and Overseas Service Program chairman, respectively, and by John Sontag.
With some success, the Notre Dame delegation sought to introduce several constitutional reforms in the regional structure to improve its services to the students and to reduce operating costs to a minimum. Although not all the reform measures were accepted by the congress, Hadlock as president may be able to steer the region toward the desired ends.
Before attempting the regional reform, Notre Dame completely reorganized NFCCS administration on campus.
Last week the Senate unanimously approved the new campus revision and also a request for a $600 budget for the next school year, approximately half
the amount allocated for the current academic year.
NFCCS sought the lesser figure because “it would not feel justified in using more until it is able to increase its service to the campus co-curricular clubs.”
The campus and regional revision plans are the work of Carbone, Desmond, Hadlock, and John O’Connell and were recently aproved by the campus NFCCS council. The council then disbanded, placing full authority and responsibility on the senior and junior delegates, who are now directly responsible to the Student Senate.
Action was taken because of the tendency to emphasize administrative structure at the expense of service to the campus clubs.
Hope for similar reforms nationally was boosted by Hadlock’s election, for the regional president is a member of the NFCCS national council.
Notre Dame also won a reduction in regional dues from $200 to $80, thus enabling the University to remain in the region. The revised budget, introduced by Notre Dame, grants a dues cut to each of the regional schools. St. Joseph’s College voluntarily bypassed its reduction.
The University had been put on probation by the regional council, but probation was withdrawn after Hadlock’s election. Similar action was taken with regard to St. Joseph’s last year.
Other new regional officers are Jane Michael of St. Mary-of-the-Woods, vicepresident; Elaine Frederick of St. Francis College, secretary; and Pat Cutter of St. Mary’s (of Notre Dame), treasurer.
SENIOR LIFE-SAVING COURSE
Any interested ND student is invited to report to the Rockne Memorial pool on April 27 at 6:30 p.m. for the Senior LifeSaving Course.
Anyone not physically handicapped is eligible, and junior life-saving is not a prerequisite for this course, which will consist of 15 class hours and a two-hour written exam.
All classes will be taught from 6:30 to 8-.30 p.m. and periods will be arranged so as to avoid conflicts with any Tuesday night physics, or other classes.
The course will be completed within three weeks and is offered free of charge.
24
The. Scholastic
Purdue, Northwestern Next ND Foes
* 1
Irish End Home Stand With Boilers Tuesday
BY BOB FROLICHER
The Notre Dame baseball team will close their present home stand against Big Ten competition next Tuesday when the Irish nine tangle with the Purdue Boilermakers. The following day the Klinesmen will travel to Evanston, facing the Northwestern Wildcats in a one game stand.
Coach Hank Strain’s Boilermaker forces are led by senior Norm Banas, veteran first baseman. Banas, who has been one of Strain's power hitters for the past three seasons and clouted .318 in Big Ten play last season, has been moved up to the clean-up spot this year.
Other Boilermaker mainstays are Phil Mateja, shortstop, and Ray Yurick veteran third-sacker, Mateja hit a respectable .302 in conference competition last year, while Yurick was the Big Ten’s top fielding third baseman in ’52 when he made only one error in 38 chances for a .980 average.
The mound staff is headed by junior southpaw Ray Rosenbaum who had a 3-1 record in Big Ten and Dennis Blind, (3-2) who was also an outstanding basketball star. Other hill veterans include: Bob Dobson, Tommy Thompson and Frank Clark.
The Wildcats, who meet the Irish twice throughout the season, are strengthened by the return of 16 lettermen. Heading an all monogram infield is Don Blaha, first baseman. Blaha ranked among the leading Big Ten hitters last spring with a blistering .400 average and was also picked on the AllAmerican team of the N.C.A.A. Coaches association.
Pitching seems to pose the biggest problem for Coach Fred Lindstrom. Only one regular, George Barvinchak, who ended conference play with a 2-1 record, is back. However, Lindstrom is counting heavily on Don Zitek, Mark Eng-dahl, Bob Pitt, and Ed Vanek.
After battling to a 4-4 tie in the opening game of the series with Iowa, the Irish bounced back the following day and dumped the Hawkeyes 8-2 behind the six-hit pitching of Jim Gibbons. It was Gibbons’ third victory of the season.
STAN KONOPKA
Notre Dame’s . . .
Leftfielder Roger Braun paced the Irish attack on starter Ron Schaefer with two doubles, his fourth and fifth of the year. Splurges of four and three runs in the fifth and sixth inning respectively iced the game for the Irish.
A two-run homer by Hawkeye Cocapt. Jack Lindquist in left center accounted for both Iowa markers.
The Notre Dame nine then split a two-game series with Illinois, taking the opener 13-2 and dropping Saturday’s encounter 8-0. Seven hits was all the Illini could garner off Stan Konopka as he chalked up win No. 3.
All the Irish reached base at least once, unpredictable first baseman Dick Rosenthal pounding out three hits in five trips to the plate, a triple and two singles to lead the onslaught. Notre Dame scored all 13 runs in the first four frames. After this relief hurler Carl Ahrens settled down and held the
Irish scoreless the remainder of the game.
The Illini avenged their defeat the next day shellacking Notre Dame 8-0, and limiting the Klinesmen to only four hits, Gibbons suffering his first setback of the season.
Triples by second baseman Jerry Miller and first baseman Bob Moore, and three hits apiece by catcher Bruce Frazier and Moore paced the Hlini assault.	.
The Irish went down to their second straight defeat when the Wisconsin Badgers dropped Notre Dame 6-4 last Monday.	.	...
Jim Pa vis started for Notre Dame, but Jerry Donnelley relieved him in the third, after the Badgers scored once in the second and twice in the third. Again Rosenthal helped the Irish cause, clouting a triple that knocked in two of their tallies.
This marked Wisconsin’s ninth straight win in a thus far undefeated season. However, none of the Badgers 12 hits were for extra-bases. Second basement Dave Costigan and centerfielder Mark Tremblay led the Irish, each pounding out two hits.
JIM GIBBONS . . . Big “Two”
April 24, 1953
Last Period Spree Brings Blue 29-21 Victory Over Green; Lattner, Worden Pace Winners
in the backfield; Captain Don Penza and Paul Matz at ends; Art Hunter and Frank Varrichione at tackles; Mav-raides and Sam Palumbo at guards and Jim Schrader at center.
BY BILL
All-American Johnny Lattner scored two fourth-quarter touchdowns last Saturday to lead the Blue team to a 29-21 scrimmage victory over the Greens. One of Lattner’s scores was a beautifully executed 85-yard run.
For three periods, the two squads battled on almost even terms. The Blue, made up largely of 1952 starters, scored a quick tally early in the first quarter when halfback Joe Heap streaked 50 yards off tackle. Neil Worden, a Blue standout all day, sent Heap on his way with a key path-clearing block. Mavraides added the extra point to make it 7-0. From that moment till the start of the fourth quarter, the game was a defensive donnybrook with both lines charging and hitting hard, blocking any attempts to cross their respective goal lines.
Schaefer Directs Green
Just before the half ended, freshman quarterback Don Schaefer fieldgeneraled his Green team down to the Blue two-yard line on a sustained drive. There, the vet-laden dark shirts stiffened and socked the Greenies back to the six; then took over on downs.
Late in the third quarter, Green quarterback Bob Martin was nailed behind the goal while attempting to pass. The safety gave the Blue a 9-0 lead.
Whether it was a general slowing down of the defenses or a general waking up of the offense, things began to happen point-wise with the start of the fourth period.
The Blue seemed ready to turn the game into a rout as they did the previous week when they drove downfield for their second touchdown. The first stringers were back in action after a quarter rest and began to eat up big chunks of yardage. Lattner slanted off his own right tackle, shoving aside a would-be tackler, for the final seven yards. Mavraides converted again and it was 16-0.
Gaffney Breaks Ice
The Green attack then picked up momentum. After the ensuing kickoff, the predominantly freshman Greens struck quickly for their first score. John Gaffney, a hard runner, broke through guard for 35 yards and the touchdown. Bobby Arrix added the extra point. Score: 16-7 Blue.
NOONAN
The Blues quickly regained control of the situation with the aforementioned 85-yard prance down the sidelines by Lattner. The deceptive junior ace took a pitch-out from Ralph Gugli-elmi, cut outside, and was away with the help of some mid-season blocking by his teammates. Mavraides made it 23-7.
Freak Play Helps Losers
Worden capped a long drive a bit later by bucking over the middle from a few yards out to make it 29-7. The Milwaukee senior was the workhorse of the drive. Mavraides missed the point.
Soon after the Green scored on a freak play. With the ball on the Blue seven, Quarterback Schaefer elected to pass. Dan McNamara was the intended receiver. Blue linebacker Tom McHugh batted the ball away from McNamara, but the unpredictable pigskin bounced off Blue safetyman Tom Carey’s shoulder and into McNamara’s arms for the touchdown. Gaffney split the uprights, and the score read: Blue, 29; Green, 14.
With the seconds ticking away, the Green scored again. Dick Washington, speedy Negro halfback, scampered the final 15 yards and Gaffney again converted.
The starting lineup for the Blue was: Guglielmi, Worden, Heap and Lattner
QUARTERBACK BOB MARTIN (81) CONVERGES WITH THREE BLUE TACKLERS Green Offense Falls Short in 29-21 Setback
Starting for the Greens were: Schaefer, Washington, Nick Raich, and Paul Reynolds in the backfield; Gene Kapish and Benedict Zajeski at ends; Fred Poehler and Bob Ready at tackles; Jackie Lee and Pat Bisceglia at guards and Dick Szymanski at center.
Met Club Softball Underway; Group Plans Elections, Dinner
The first game of the recently organized Met Club Softball League was played on Tuesday. Under the supervision of club President Don Mulvihill, American and National Leagues of five teams each have been formed and a six-week playing schedule drawn up. A tentative league playoff and series with the Chicago Club winner are also on the schedule.
Annual Met Club officer elections have been slated for May 12 in the Dining Hall. The movie Domi to the Sea in Ships will be shown at a club meeting at 7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium that night.
Plans have been completed for a club membership chicken dinner free of charge at the South Bend Shrine Club on May 13. Election results will be announced at the dinnei- and softball awards will be given. On the evening’s agenda also are activity awards to club members.
26
The Scholastic
Hall Diamond Teams Play First Contests
BY WARREN ASHBAUGH
Despite the disposition of the weatherman, Spring has arrived, and the Notre Dame interhall athletic scene has returned outdoors once more. Both the baseball and softball leagues swung into action last week.
The baseball opener was played on April 14. Lyons defeated the Connecticut Club, 3-1, and Morrissey beat the Air Cadets, 3-2 in a pair of tightly pitched games. Captain Fred Turner of Morrissey was the day’s only hitting star. His triple with two on in the ninth inning was the decisive blow.
Softball action started last Monday with three of the scheduled six games being played. The Irish Club trounced the Syrian-Lebanese Club, 17-1; Badin walloped the Alumni gold team, 23-4, and Alumni Blue won over- Dillon Blue, 15-12 in three wide-open games. The Aesculapians beat A.C.S. and Chicago defeated Buffalo in forfeited games while the St. Louis-Indianapolis game was postponed by mutual agreement until May 3.
Szekely Directs Basebailers
The baseball league is divided into three four-team divisions: Gold, Blue, and White, all under the direction of Mr. Ernest Szekely. Several halls have two teams represented. Dillon, Zahm, the Connecticut Club and Lyons are in the Gold League; Cavanaugh, Dillon, LaRaza, a team of Latin American boys, and Howard are in the Blue League, and the Air Cadets, Morrissey, Cavanaugh, and Zahm are in the White League.
League games are to be played every weekday at 3:30 p.m. until April 28. The two top teams of each league will then compete in the double elimination playoff series.
Softball Includes 30 Teams
The softball setup is much larger with 30 teams being divided into four divisions—the Blue and the Gold Leagues, made up of hall teams, the Club League, and the City League. The Alumni, Dillon, Zahm, and Law Club Blue teams, together with Sorin, St. Edward’s and Farley are the Blue League, while the Alumni, Dillon, and Zahm Gold teams and Badin, Howard, Lyons, and Off-Campus are the Gold League.
The A.C.S. Club, the Aesculapians, the Irish Club, the Syrian-Lebanese Club, the Law School, the K. of C. and the Air Cadets all have teams in the
Club League. Chicago, Detroit, Pittsburgh, St. Louis, Kansas City, Milwaukee, Buffalo, Indianapolis, and Rochester all have teams in the City League. This is the regular interhall softball league under Mr. F. R. Maxwell of the Physical Education Dept., not to be confused with the “outlaw” league being sponsored by the Met, Chicago and Engineering Clubs. Softball games will be played each weekday except Thursday at 3:30 p.m. At the conclusion of the regular season the winners of club and city leagues will vie for the right to meet the winner of the playoff game between the winners of the Blue and Gold leagues.
Returning Lettermen Bolster Tennis Hopes
Eight of last season’s nine monogram winners and the nation’s seventh ranking junior tennis player in 1951 hold the Irish tennis team’s hopes for the current season. Co-captains Ken Ang-yal and Ray Smith, both seniors, lead the list of returnees, while newcomer Wally Clarke, a sophomore, has replaced graduated captain Tom Overholser, and threatens to capture the team’s No. 1 spot.
The starting six include: Clarke— No. 1, Angyal—No. 2, Smith—No. 3, sophomore Maurice Reidy—No. 4, senior Matt Tuite—No. 5, and junior Don Crowley—No. 6. Three more monogram winners in reserve for the Irish are possible contenders for starting berths. These are juniors Chuck Gallagher and
KEN ANGYAL, RAY SMITH
Co-Captains lead “Racket” Squad
Dick Simons and sophomore Bill Reale. Others who should see action for Notre Dame’s tennis squad are juniors Gerry-Finney, Don Kennedy, and Ron Mazzoli.
In the words of Coach Walter Langford, “We figure to be definitely stronger than last year when we compiled a record of seven wans and three losses.” He goes on to say, “I would venture to say that we have a good chance to go unbeaten this season. The two teams most likely to trip us up would be Michigan State and Indiana, who, like ourselves, have almost their entire 1952 squads back again.” Both the Spartans and Hoosiers defeated the Irish last season.
The weather has hampered practice sessions to date, but the season doesn’t really get started until May, and by then the weather should have improved. An early season match was scheduled here on campus Wednesday with the University of Wisconsin, but the outcome was not available as this issue went to press. The Irish are now idle until May 1 when they travel to Evanston, Ill., to face the Wildcats of Northwestern.
The remaining 1953 tennis schedule: May 2—Iowa at Iowa City
8—Michigan State at East Lansing 9—Michigan at Ann Arbor
14—Marquette at ND	-
15—Western Michigan at ND
16—Detroit at ND
18—Indiana at ND
19—Purdue at Lafayette .
23—Pitt at Pittsburgh
June 22-27—NCAA meet at Syracuse
Irish Sailors Out to Retain Indiana Crown Tomorrow
Tomorrow the Notre Dame Sailing Team will journey to Lafayette to defend their Indiana Championship crown against Indiana, Purdue and DePauw.
Last week the Irish finished third in the Michigan Invitationals held on Lake Whitmore at Ann Arbor. Michigan, amassing 140 points captured first place, w-hile General Motors Institute, a guest team, came in second with 129. Notre Dame compiled a total of 127J4.
The meet was held in a slight breeze on Saturday, while the teams competed in light snow squalls Sunday. Skippers for the Irish include: Don Matthews, Ed Rodgers, Bill Streeter, and Bob Swindeman.
After the top three, the other seven participants crossed the finish line in the following order: Purdue 126, Northwestern 120, Bowling Green 110, Syracuse 108J4, Fenn 105, Ohio Wesleyan 103, and Detroit 95.
April 24, 1953
Irish Vaulters Hope For Double Victory
Today and tomorrow, weather permitting, Notre Dame’s track team will take part in the Penn Relays at Philadelphia and the Drake Relays in DesMoines, Iowa. In hopes of winning the pole-vault in each meet, Coach Alex Wilson is dividing his star vaulting duo, sending Jim Harrington to Penn and Joe Springer to Drake.
Harrington will be the only Irish representative at Philadelphia, while Springer will travel with the rest of the squad to Des Moines.
After being deprived of their chance by the weather last week, Harrington and Springer will be out to duplicate their winter feats in the outdoors for the first time this season. Both, of course, are aiming at the 14-foot mark
By Jack Sand
The NCAA’s Winter Offensive . . . rehashed
When the NCAA sport-mongers quietly eradicated the two-platoon system, most big time college football schools were caught unprepared. Consequently, twelve years of specialization was washed down the drain, with an overabundance of gridiron talent remaining to make it just that much tougher on the coaches and twice as rough on the gridders themselves. Rightfully the NCAA should have provided a “sneak preview” by stating that within the next year or so the two platoon system would be abandoned, thus giving the bigger schools a chance to revamp their material. As it stands now three weeks of spring practice is entirely too short a time to drill a squad like Notre Dame on the essentials of going both ways. Actually it seems all the “Board of Destroyers” had on their minds when they flattened the two platoon was to save the small colleges. What
they did instead was persecute the big ones.
Was the Two-Platoon System More Confusing?
But what about the spectators? How will they react to this sudden change? Part of the criticism of the two platoon system was that it was too confusing for the average fan to watch 11 men gallop onto the field and minutes later see 11 men dash off. Now that the single platoon has come back into effect the amount of traffic on the field will be cut down considerably, but does this eliminate the fact that the unwary spectator will not get lost in the shuffle when offensive lineups switch to defense. In the case of Michigan State it doesn’t, simply because every offensive man switches to a completely new position on defense—with the exception of the ends who are the only stationary targets.
Under Coach Frank Leahy’s present system, it shouldn’t be as difficult to figure out who’s who just as long as you keep your eye on the guards, the center, and the backfield. To see what is meant, let’s consider what happens when Notre Dame’s offensive team loses the ball and goes on defense.
Starting off with the ends we find Capt. Don Penza and Walt Cabral still anchoring down the Irish five-man line at the flanks. Left tackle Frank Varrichione remains at left tackle except that he’s split farther apart from the end. Actually Varrichione could be called a guard when the right side linebacker moves up to form a seven-man line. The same thing applies io Art Hunter at left tackle, who incidentally has been switched around quite a bit since he started playing football here. Two seasons ago Hunter was fiBst-string center; last season he was converted to a starting end; this fall you’ll find him at tackle.
Now the actual confusion begins as right guard Minnie Mavraides moves to the head or center of the line, while offensive center Jim Schrader moves in back of Mavraides as middle linebacker. Left guard Sam Palumbo drops back from his guard slot to become right-side line-backer, with fullback Neil Worden moving up to back up the left side of the line. If Worden and Palumbo move up to form a seven-man line they automatically become tackles.
According to the Leahy pattern of things the quarterback will most likely switch to left-halfback, which means that either Ralph Guglielmi or Tom Carey will help defend the outer pastures. In like manner, offensive halfbacks Johnny Lattner and Joe Heap will drop back as defensive halfback and safety man respectively, thus completing Notre Dame’s 5-3-2-1 defense, which becomes 7-3-1 when the linebackers move up.
The only question that remains is—are you confused? If so, don’t forget to grab a numerical roster before the Oldtimers game on May 2.
IRISH SHUTTLE HURDLERS (F-B) Baker, Newquist, Campagnone, Powell
they bettered during the indoor campaign. Harrington went over the mark three times; Springer once.
The vault twins, however, are not the only Irish threats to win events. In the shuttle-hurdle event, ND’s foursome of Ed Powell, Jim Baker, John Campagnone and Harvey Newquist rate among the favorites. The ND hurdlers won their only indoor outing in this event in the Michigan State Relays on February 14.
In the distance events, the Irish will be represented by Norm Feltes in the Quarter Mile; Dick O’Keefe, moving tip from the Quarter, in the Half Mile; George Helfenstein in the % Mile; Jack Alexander in the Mile and Harry Snyder in the Two Mile.
In the Mile, Alexander, Notre Dame’s
28
The Scholastic
Notre Dome Baseball Statistics
(12 games, including Wisconsin game, April 20)
BATTING	G
John Reynolds, p ..................   3
Roger Braun, If .................... 12
Mark Tremblay, cf ................... 7
Stan Konopka, p ..................... 6
Jerry Donnelley, p .................. 2
Joe Ridge, cf .....................   8
Dick Colloton, 2b .................. 12
Dick Farrell, c ....................... 3
Dave Costigan, rf .................. 11
Hal Reilly, ss ..................... 12
Len LeRose, 3b ..................... 12
Dick Rosenthal, lb ................. 12
Dick Gaberik, c ..................... 11
Jim Gibbons, p ........................ 4
PITCHING
Stan Konopka ............................
Jerry Donnelley .........................
Jim Gibbons .............................
Jim Pa vis ..............................
Jim Dalton ..............................
best distance runner, will renew his track rivalry with Drake’s miler, Dewey Johnson. Earlier this year in the indoor C.C.C.’s Alexander dethroned Johnson in the mile event. The Drake star had nipped Alexander in the 1952 C.C.C. meet.
The final two Irish entrants will be Jack Shea and Jack Sassano in the discus. They will be competing against some of the best in the Midwest.
Last Saturday’s triangular meet in Lafayette against Purdue and Indiana was canceled because of snow and cold weather. It was unfortunate for the Wilsonmen since they were not then able to send any representatives to the Kansas Relays. Coach Wilson had elected to send his entire squad to Lafayette.
I
I
Golfers Stay Unbeaten; Host Valpo Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s golf squad remained undefeated last Monday as they trounced Louisville, 11-1 and tied Kentucky, 6-6 in a triangular meet at Louisville. The Wildcats showed no courtesy to the host school, whitewashing the Cardinal linksmen, 12-0. Joe Moresco paced Notre Dame with a 74 while Captain Tom Matey, “Slats” Terry and Larry Eaton added 75’s to the Irish total.
The Kentucky-Notre Dame match was nip and tuck to the final green where Terry clinched the tie with a difficult 25 footer. Guy Brewer of Kentucky took medalist honors with a 72 while
AB	R	H	RBI	2b	3b	HR	Avg.
2	0	1	0	0	0	0	.500
49	14	19	19	5	3	0	.388
19	0	7	5	1	1	0	.368
14	1	5	3	0	0	0	.357
6	1	2	0	0	0	0	.333
34	7	11	6	0	0	0	.323
48	12	15	5	0	1	0	.313
7	0	2	0	1	0	0	.285
51	8	14	6	2	0	0	.275
48	7	13	9	0	1	0	.271
53	12	13	3	0	0	0	.245
51	11	10	7	0	3	0	.196
37	5	6	2	1	0	0	.162
13	1	2	1	0	0	0	.154
G	IP	SO	W	H	W	L	Pct.
6	38 1/3	22	24	28	3	0	1.000
2	12 1/3	7	11	11	1	0	1.000
4	31	25	8	32	3	1	.750
2	9	4	4	15	1	1	.500
1	3 2/3	0	4	8	0	1	.000
Bud Humphries’ 77 led Louisville over the Standard Country Club layout.
Tomorrow, the Irish golfers will play Valparaiso on the Notre Dame course. Last year, Father Holderith’s team topped Valpo, 8%-3j/a.
Inter-American Conference Scores Huge Local Success
Abetted by an eventful social weekend, the Inter-American Conference came to a close here last Sunday, a booming success. The conference was sponsored by the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
In view of the conference’s objective —the betterment of relations between the United States and the Pan-American countries—a report of the discussions and proceedings are being sent to the Organization of Central American States to demonstrate the interest of American college students in Pan-American affairs.
Since this year’s meeting was so sue-' cessful, it was decided to hold two conferences next fall. A Fall conference will be held at St. Xavier College in Chicago while another will be conducted here in the Spring.
The conference was directed by Chairman Adolfo Calero. He was assisted by Jacobo Tefel who will be the chairman of next year’s conference here. Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., faculty advisor for the Latin-American club, aided in organizing the conference.
High School Profs Plan -Summer Convention
Should the high school curriculum be constructed for- the 40 per cent of the students who go on to college, the 60 per cent who complete their education • .in the secondary school, or is there some middle ground?
This troublesome question will be uppermost in the minds of 100 high school teachers when they convene on the Notre Dame campus July 10-12 for the annual meeting of Notre Dame’s History Teacher’s Club. They have chosen for the theme for their* meeting, “What About the Other 60 Per Cent?”
“All efforts to improve the teaching of history in high schools, or to intensify this curriculum, meet with the assertion that 60 per cent of those who attend high school do not go on to college and that it is unfair to plan the curriculum for the 40 per cent that do,” Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., moderator of the group said today.
Our schools and their students are bound to- suffer if the present trend continues, Father McAvoy declared. “The removal of history and other traditional subjects from the curriculum will lower the academic standards of the high school to that of a trade school,” he said. “All our young people, regardless of whether they are to have a college education, have a right to be trained in the highest cultural and historical traditions of the country.”
ROTC Presidential Drill Plans Made For May 2
The annual Presidential Review by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be held on the afternoon of May 2 on the drill field opposite the Morris Inn.
Guests and their wives will include Rear Admiral Francis P. Olds, commandant of the Ninth Naval District at Great Lakes; Major General Walter L. Weible, deputy commander of the Fifth Army, Chicago; Col. Ray N. Hiller, representing the headquarters of the Air ROTC, Montgomery, Ala.; and the Hon. John A. Scott, mayor of South Bend.
At 1:30, the party will proceed to the drill field for the review. The assembled Army, Navy, and Air* Force units will be inspected by the officers and Father Hesburgh. Presentation of medals and awards to outstanding cadets and midshipmen of the units will follow. The troops will then pass in review to close the ceremony.
April 24, 1953
29
Capf. Luongo Announces ROTC Assignment On Summer Cruises for Irish Midshipmen
Notre Dame’s Navy ROTC unit will have approximately 150 of its midshipmen assigned to the Navy’s three Summer practice cruises and training operations. They will be among some 8,600 midshipmen from the U. S. Naval Academy and NROTC units of 52 colleges and universities.
Captain Frank P. Luongo, Jr., commanding officer of the unit here, recently announced the general schedule which the men from the unit will follow. They will sail aboard some of the 54 ships, which include the Missouri, Wisconsin, and loiva.
The Navy designs its Summer training program to give potential officers the chance to “learn by doing,” and to provide immediate contact with the many phases of naval operations. This includes actual training and classroom studies in engineering, gunnery, navigation, communications, and tactics.
Rear Admiral E. T. Wooldridge, U.S.N., will be in overall command of the practice cruises, flying his flag in the Missouri.
A group of 55 middies from here will
It’s fun and easy, too, to be popular if you learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. Thousands, who never thought they could, have become experts this simple way. You see, Arthur Murray has developed an exclusive method called “The Magic
Step To Popularity,” that gives you the key to all dances in just one lesson. Even beginners can master this simple, basic step in almost no time. So don’t let gay parties and thrilling popularity pass you by. Come in to Arthur Murray’s now.
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. Wayne St.	Phone 2-3339
weigh anchor from Norfolk, Va., on June 8 for a two-month cruise in South American waters, returning to the point of departure on August 5.
Ports of call include Rio de Janeiro and Santos, Brazil; the Naval Station at Trinidad; Colon, Panama; Cartagena and Barranquilla, Colombia; Willemstad, Curacao; and Barbadoes, British West Indies.
The training force will consist of the battleships Missouri and Wisconsin, heavy cruisers Macon and Albany, the aircraft carrier Saipan, and 25 other vessels.
Only one Notre Dame midshipman will take part in the European cruise which will leave Norfolk on July 13 for Edinburgh, Scotland, and Oslo and Bergen, Norway. Following a stop at Copenhagen, Denmark, the fleet will rendezvous and sail to Guantenamo Bay, Cuba, for gunnery training. The vessel will head for Norfolk on August 31.
Besides the battleship loiva, 12 other ships will take part in this cruise.
A Caribbean trip will be the assignment of 36 contract seniors, lasting from
July 20 to August 29. The point of departure and return is Norfolk.
Embarking on 11 ships, the middies will call at Colon, Panama; the Naval Station, Trinidad; and hold gunnery practice in the Guantanamo Bay area.
Forty-six members of the junior class will receive amphibious training for three weeks at the Naval Amphibious Base, Little Creek, Va., followed by three weeks of aviation training at Corpus Christi, Texas.
Special training is in line for 10 of the middies who are seeking commissions in the Marine Corps. This training will be administered at Quantico, Va., from June 22 to August 2.
The Other Side
(Continued from Page 23) sincerity, virtue, truthfulness, reliability, determination, and an abiding faith in God. The better one is able to inculcate these traits into his being, the stronger, and more successful he will become.	'
Finally, self-discipline lies at the very heart of character formation. For character is largely what a person makes of himself. While it is true that environment and training play an important part in character building in early life, the fact remains that a person’s destiny lies largely in his own hands. The eminent philosopher, Ortega y Gasset, declares that “it is false to say that in life circumstances decide. On the contrary, circumstances are the dilemma, constantly renewed, in the presence of which we have to make our decisions. What actually decides is our character.”
The Five Areas
Thus, the importance of character building cannot be overemphasized to the collegian about to assume the tremendous responsibilities of life. For no matter how successful he might become materially he can never know the feeling of success if he has not acquired self-mastery and a serene inner life.
Witness for example the numerous breakdowns that occur to some of our nationally-known entertainers, sportsmen, and statesmen. While they seemingly possess every material advantage, their lives are still failures because they lack a certain integrity of character, integrity in the five fundamental areas of human endeavor — physical, mental, moral, spiritual, and social.
And a man of character is essentially a man of integrity.—Tom Foote
30
The Scholastic
Allied Chemical, Packard Motors, Insurance Firms Top Placement Interviews Next Week
Students who are officially registered in the Placement Bureau are eligible to sign up for the following interviews to be conducted Monday through Friday the Main Building:
The Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. will be seeking mechanical, electrical, and civil engineers to serve as safety engineers and loss prevention specialists. The representative will be here on Monday.
Also on Monday the Hartford Accident and Indemnity Co., a national insurance firm, will interview AB and Commerce graduates for field duties.
Tuesday the Burroughs Adding Machine Co. of Detroit will interview accounting majors for such work in the home office. There will be no selling duties.
Law graduates for the claim department and AB and Commerce graduates for the sales department will be sought by the Chicago Motor Club on the same day.
A representative of a Marshall Field-owned organization will also be on campus to interview students interested in Summer or fulltime employment with Childcraft (children’s books). Openings are available in or near all home towns.
Wednesday, AB and Commerce graduates will be. interviewed by the Continental Casualty Co., an accident and sickness insurance firm, for varied insurance work on the non-selling side.
The same day General Chemical Division of Allied Chemical & Dye Corp., Chicago, will see chemical and mechanical engineers, chemists, and physicists with B.S. degrees. Summer opportunities will be offered in the same fields for sophomores and juniors.
A representative of the Gary Sheet and Tin Mill, Gary, Ind., (division of U. S. Steel) will interview all students interested in Summer work in Gary.
Group meetings will be held in the Placement Bureau at 9 and 10 a.m. and 2 and 3 p.m. It is preferred that interested students attend one of these meetings. Individual interviews can be arranged for other hours during the day for those unable to attend the group meetings.
Thursday the Packard Motor Co., Detroit, will be seeking mechanical engineers and metallurgists.
Also on Thursday the National Bank of Detroit will interview AB and Commerce graduates for training as credit analysts, junior managers and investment analysts. Law graduates will be sought for training in trust adminis
tration.
Friday a representative of Montgomery Ward in Chicago will interview graduates with any degrees. Opportunities are open in various parts of the country in operating and supervising, merchandising and buying, accounting and auditing, retail store management and advertising training.
Those qualified for and interested in the above interviews should report to the Placement Bureau, Main Building, immediately to secure appointments and to get company informational material and employment application blanks.
Once Over Lightly
(Continued from Page 22)
a series of inane inventions which seem to indicate just how much man has lost faith in himself. Among the enormities recently perpetrated upon the human intelligence are such monstrosities as a machine which collects parts merely to reproduce itself, a nameless mechanism of seven hundred moving parts which does nothing but operate, and (soon to
has excellent opportunities for COLLEGE GRADUATES
in AERONAUTICAL • MECHANICAL ELECTRONIC STRUCTURAL • PRODUCTION
ENGINEERING
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at Faikchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxear* and other projects for the U. S. Air Force. . Faikchild provides paid vacations and liberalhealth and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
M most ms mshme csareasnsN
I AIRCHILD rfiwtaftlJwiiicn HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
be released by the same inventor—as you may have read in Life magazine) a complicated counting machine which counts nothing. These are machines to be reckoned with. But the award for the greatest insult to the mind should be given to a new computer recently reported in the Nets Yorker. • This contribution is a machine which lets you know whether you are comfortable or not. It is quite possible though that this sort of gadget might be a necessity for some people.
Correction, Please
Last week this column carried the message that The Juggler was scheduled to hit the local newsstands this week and added a little note to the effect that “but with the Ave Maria Press one can never tell.” It seems that the printing delays are due to the installation of a huge new press at the Ave which will cut production for the next month or so until it is in operation. The Juggler's next issue, along* with many other magazines regularly handled at the Ave, will be printed elsewhere. Never fear, though—the local printing establishment will continue to turn out the Scholastic every week.
Gerry Voit Walt Werner Jack Dilenschneider
April 24, 1953
Sure way to bring on the dancing girls
Wythe-medium spread soft, collar with stays.
Pinoreed —short, round point, eyelet collar.
To be a guy with the dolls, you’ve got to take the subject of shirts seriously. Best way is to study the smart Manhattan styles—with comfort and long wear built in. Why not stop in your Manhattan men’s shop today—see many more most-for-your-money values in distinctive Manhattan menswear.
Concert Band Wins Southland Plaudits
Traditional roll-out-the-carpet receptions mushroomed into a theme as the Notre Dame Concert Band played to and won warm audiences on its initial Dixieland tour during the Easter vacation.
Police escorts met the Southwardjourneying band in seven cities, and an Orlando, Fla., and Charleston, S. C., the day of the concert was declared “City-Wide Notre Dame Day.”
High praise was extended to the band for its music, but even more for the fact that it was one of the few Catholic organizations that had toured the South.
Unlike the Glee Club which had toured the Northeast in previous years, this was the initial venture into the South for the band. Bishop Grecco of Charleston said that during his more than 25 years in Dixie no other Catholic group had dared to do what the Notre Dame band attempted.
Although the band is under-manned, carrying only 46 members instead of the usual 50, it has been classed among the best to come out of the university.
A program of wide variety was presented. It ranged from The Overture to Tannhauser to Muskrat Ramble, a number played by a Dixieland combo made up of five members of the band and directed by Mr. O’Brien. When the novelty feature, Casey Jones, was presented everybody got into the act, even the two bus drivers, who acted as a bird whistle and late passengers.
The band presented 22 concerts in 13 cities throughout ten states. Although the audiences were not as large as they were on previous trips, they were more enthusiastic. The band was presented with 15 souvenirs, more than .it has received on any other three trips combined.
“It was a novel experience for both them and us,” commented Conductor O’Brien.
"The House of Jazz"
FOR REI ORDS TRI
, ■	: • •• L o-
JAZZ ■ DIXIELAND • POPULAR CLASSICAL • BLUES
Mall .* !<'	: o' r» in the ( oiinlrv
I r.'.- ( ataiou*
412 Mich, eolith Bend. Ind.
32
The Scholastic
Capsule Corner
Agricultural Marketing Talk Wednesday
The Department of Marketing of the College of Commerce will sponsor a symposium on agricultural marketing, entitled “Marketing from the Ground Up” at 7 p.m. Wednesday evening. Miss Alice E. Haggans, educational director of the Chicago Board of Trade, will present the principal address.
The symposium has been organized and will be operated completely by students, and it is the first of its kind to take place on any college campus. The co-chairmen are Robert W. Krop and Ronald Davis; Roger Wachendorf is secretary; Walter Flaherty is handling the advertising, and John Serano the art work.
Marketing Professor Edgar L. Schna-dig, faculty adviser of the group, has announced that the public is invited to attend.
Gurian Publishes German Article
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, director of the University’s Committee on International Relations and editor of the Review of Politics, has completed another article on the Soviet Union. This article is written in German and deals with current Soviet Foreign Policy, contrasted with the events that have laid its foundation.
The article, entitled The Church and the State, will be published in a Catholic encyclopedia, originating in Munster, Germany.
S+oeller Wins French Fulbright Scholarship
John A. Stoeller, a senior commerce major, has been selected as one of the 1953-54 Fulbright scholarship winners for further study in Europe, it has been announced by Rev. Paul E. Beich-ner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School.
The University of Nantes in France has been selected as the site of the advanced exchange study by the Notre Dame winner.
Father Beichner, the campus Fulbright program adviser, states that “Mr. Stoeller is to be congratulated, not so much for receiving the scholarship, although that is indeed a great thing, but because he was the only under
graduate student of the University of Notre Dame, with an enrollment of 4,500, who applied for this award.”
Stoeller, a resident of Glenview, UI., and an off-campus student, copped one of approximately 240 stipends for study in France.
Fulbright grants are included in a total of 900 grants for graduate study abroad in the academic year of 1953-54 under the United States Educational Exchange Program.
Funds used under the Fulbright Act are foreign currencies obtained through
SPALDING
GOLF BALLS AKE LIFETIME WHITE
RESISTS SCUFFING, BRUISING, STAINS
SpALDING does it again! Adds a spectacular new permanent whiteness to the game’s greatest golf balls.
New Lifetime White, exclusive with Spalding, is the brightest, whitest white ... the toughest,
SpaldinG
Sets the Pace in Golf
surplus property sales abroad. Under executive agreements with the foreign governments, exchange programs are being carried out for the academic year with 25 countries.
Students wishing to go abroad for the 1954-55 academic year, after completion of their undergraduate study, should apply between May 1 and October 31, 1953. “It is suggested,” Father Beichner adds, “that all interested students consult faculty advisors and also make any necessary language adjustments.
highest gloss white of any ball you ever played.
Proven by "torture tests,** Spalding LIFETIME WHITE resists scuffing, bruises, stains... won’t yellow or chip ... keeps its sparkling sheen for life.
There's a Spalding golf ball for every game and pocketbook. See your golf professional or dealer.
April 24, 1953
By Paul Zalecki
The back cover to the pocketbook •edition of The Young Manhood of Studs Lonigan fairly well indicates the theme of the novel by posing the question, “What’ll we do?” Its answer puzzles not only the fictional hero -of this work by James T. Farrell but •escapes many others, who in no way resemble Studs, in seeking happiness.
If one has few interests life can be •empty and listless. It certainly would he dull if one had little to do but kill time. It would be a mere existence to be like the man who never reads the afternoon paper at work because then lie has nothing to do when he goes home in the evening.
Undoubtedly everyone gets bored. At times little if anything seems important. This condition however is vastly •different from facing life as a matter •of daily boredom.
Troubling Question
Probably this question of what to do is not very troubling or pertinent for the college student. As a rule he can keep occupied with little difficulty. For one thing, his studies should take up some of his time.
If a student is conscientious, he has little opportunity to stagnate intellectually. In other respects, there are activities, like the Junior Prom this evening, that keep life interesting. Generally college life is fast moving. Though it may be oppressive and overburdening at times, it seldom lapses into monotony.
After graduation, when one has already got his start, this quick tempo might easily change. For the first years out of school the situation might not be too different from now. If nothing else, one’s ambitions, new adventures, and added responsibilities should carry one along for awhile.
Eventually the glimmer and glory of being out of school can wear off, as life transforms itself from an experience to a routine. It is safe to say that after 15 years of working in one place, it hardly could be engrossing in the way it was the first few years.
Boredom not Inevitable
Still it is not inevitable that one becomes bored as he gets more settled in
his ways. Doubtlessly many at the age of 20 find life a drudgery, while for the man of 60 it niay be enriching, rewarding, and exciting.
Indeed life should become more enjoyable as one grows older. When one has the rich experience of a full life upon which to build and to expand, he can enjoy the fruits of carefully developed tastes and interests.
Such a man should not be faced by the question of what to do, in the sense that he can find nothing to hold his attention, nothing he likes, or nothing he can do. It should not bother anyone who is liberally educated.
Education means much more than the mere acquisition of some professional skill. Education for life means just that: life is not limited to the third of the day spent at the office/ but takes the other hours as well. Fundamentally it is the rest of the day which should make living worthwhile. Regardless of how much a man may enjoy his work, it still is work.
A liberally educated man can live more fully because he better understands life. He also can take advantage of its more enduring and satisfying enjoyments.
A Full Life
Reading a good book, of course, or analyzing the international situation is not all there is to life. It can well be that the man who has never read any of the classics or indeed • has seldom read may not be bored at all or, more important, may lead a full life.
The one who*takes a real pleasure in his family may be happier and in a
•OVIUO UNOS* AUTMOBITV or THE COCA-COLA COMPAMT ST
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
sense more successful than the high-paid business executive. After all, the most important values in life are not economic, regardless of what Marxian thinkers or those influenced by them may say.
To regard college as only the preliminary to some professional position is to miss its real importance. It is probably just as much a misconception to think that college offers the only road to a liberal education. Many who have never gone to college may have profited from experience and thus gained what is called a liberal education.
Regardless of how a liberal education is obtained, it not only keeps one from being bored with the dullness of day to day existence, but also helps one to succeed in his undertakings.
The one who succeeds is the man with ideas and interests, the man who sees life’s responsibilities and demands not as a stumbling block but as a challenge, the man with the courage to do what interests him. What is more important, even if it is just a change in emphasis, such is the man who finds happiness.
Aquinas
Library
and
Book Shop
HAS
Mother’s Day Cards
BOOKS FOR MARY'S MONTH
■
110 E. LASALLE ST.
34
The Scholastic
HALLMARK CARDS INVITES YOU TO AN IMPORTANT TELEVISION EVENT
MR.MAIW EVANS
in his two-hour television production of WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S
HAMLET
ON
THE HALLMARK HALL OF FAME
with MISS SARAH CHURCHILL
Sunday afternoon, April 26, nationwide on NBC Television
Hallmark Cards proudly presents for the first time on television this complete two-hour, streamlined version of the most popular play ever written—Shakespeare’s immortal "Hamlet.”
It will star Mr. Maurice Evans with one of the most distinguished companies ever to appear on television.
This special program is brought you by Hallmark Cards and the fine stores that feature them, as part of a year ’round program of bringing you "the very best” in entertainment.
Every Sunday throughout the year Hallmark Cards invites you to two dramatic programs honoring men and women—both famous and little known—who have helped make a better, happier world.
Every Sunday — NBC Television Network. The Hallmark Hall of Fame on TV starring Sarah Churchill. Directed by Albert McCleery.
Every Sunday night— CBS radio Network. The Hallmark radio Hall of Fame starring Lionel Barrymore. Directed by William Gay.


"When you care enough to send the very best”
NOW... 10 Months Scientific Evidence For Chesterfield
A MEDICAL specialist is making regular bimonthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After ten months, the medical specialist reports that he observed ...
no adverse effects on the nosez throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
MUCH MILDER CHESTERFIELD IS BEST FOR YOU
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.