The Notre Dame Scholastic
291
	
COMMENT	
The Notre Dame Scholastic
□
The lethargy which usually follows any sort of vacation is present on the campus again. Probably the approaching Christmas let-up is responsible. Some have the days counted, others have carried their compilations to the hours. We admit that it is pleasant to think of a two weeks’ rest but at the same time we should not forget that the intervening days between now and December 19 are just as important as any; they should not be wasted so that plans may be made for whoopee parties. The professors are still on the job and all maintain that they will show no sympathy, so the best thing to do is to forget about vacation until it arrives and in the meantime “crack the books” . . . the semester exams come shortly after Christmas.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus I
Founded 1872
	Editor-in-Chief Emil L. Telfel		
.-Isst. Managing Editor	Managing Editor	ztssf. Manayiny Editor	z
Neil C. Hurley	John E. Bergan	John A. Kiener	
			
	Associate Editors		2
	James J. Kearney		2
	Edward R. Brennan		
	Austin Boyle		
	Edward E. Brennan		
	James Carmody		?
Campus Clubs	Make-up Editors	Music and Drama	
W. Leslie Raddatz	Alfred E. Gall	Frank E. Seward	2
	Walter V. Beesley		2
			
College Parade	Feature Ed'tor	The Week	Z
Daniel C. Williams	James K. Collins	Richard J. O’Donnell	Z
			
	News Staff		
	Lloyd Teske, .Vcirs Editor		
William C. Karl, Assistant Neu-s Editor			z
Willia.II Fitzgerald	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Dunda	2
John Conley	William Corr	Sanguinet Williams	-
Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Lawrence Prybylski	
	Walter Johnson		2
	Sports Staff		2
	Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor		
Cleve Carey	George Belting	T. Edward Carey	-
James E. McFeeley, Jr.	James Kearns	Irving Halper	z
Business Staff
John F. Stoeckley, Graduate Manager
John R. Blanda, Local Circu'ation Mgr.
Andrew McGuan. Foreign Circulation Mgr. Raymond J. Naber John P. Hess
James H. Robke, Local Advertising Mgr.
James L. Rizer, Foreign Advertising Mgr.
Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin
While attention has been centered on the football team and its accomplishments, little thought has been given to other activities important in student life. At the present the University theater players are working in earnest to present their first production of the year in “Twelfth Night.” The University theater has been active for many years on the campus and has given the students a high type of splendid -entertainment. The appreciation of its efforts has not been all that should be expected in a student body as large as ours. Pure prejudice against anything other than musical comedies presented in local theaters has kept the Washington hall audiences at a minimum. This is a situation which should be remedied. The legitimate stage has been slighted, there is no doubt, and efforts are being made to restore it to the popularity it enjoyed prior to the advent of the “talkies.” The University theater has gone on in spite of the poor attendance and this year has mapped out a program of noteworthy productions for the benefit of the students. It is our duty to support our dramatic departments and we should lend our support to those who are trying to give us good clean entertainment.
W. V. B.
Vol. LXIV
DECEMBER 5, 1930
No. 10
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week—/?. J. O’Donnell_______________________
“Twelfth Night” to Be Presented—William W. Corr_ Coming Events—William C. Karl-------------- John Stoeckley Appointed Publications Manager___ Pre-Law Men Form New Club------------------ Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward------------ Scholastic Staff Reorganized--------------- A Man About the Campus—Daniel C. Williams-- Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan- College Parade—Ramon G. Smith--------------_____
The Wink________________________________________ Campus Clubs—Leslie Raddatz_____________________ Editor’s Page___________________________________ Trojans Test Notre Dame—John A. Kiener—_________ “We’ll Have Fair Teams”—Cleve Carey and Henry Asman Kaydets Sink in Muddy Grid—T. Edward Carey______ Splinters From the Press Box____________________ On Down the Line________________________________
292 293 294 295 296 297 299 3C0 301 304 305 306
307 308
309 310 313 320
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
292
Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
w E have been severely criticized by one of the few subscribers who hurry through this column for devoting most of the space in it to a discussion of the events of the past week end. He states that the title at the head of the page is very deceptive. Perhaps he has been misled. Perhaps he has a rebate coming to him because we make no mention of the Thursday breakfast in the dining hall or the ten o’clock Mass in Badin. But, after all, we have only a thousand or so words in which to cover the occurrences of the past seven days, and our choice of topics is limited. Furthermore, the Scholastic, unlike the Hearst sheets, is printed a few minutes before it is distributed to eager readers. It passes through a complicated embryonic process before it is eventually born, and therein lies the reason for the frequent complaints against news which because of its antiquity is no longer news. In most cases a football week end is of more common interest than a Tuesday evening meeting of the Oshkosh club. Upon this presumption, we have spent, or would you suggest ‘‘wasted” a large amount of space, time, and energy, if you will pardon the metaphysics, on the days of, before, and after, a gridiron holiday. If this be objectionable to that great majority of the population of the United States which we are privileged to call our public, two or three letters addressed to this column will suffice to change its policy. If the letters are vehement enough, the column will die a sudden death.
F RESHMEN politicians and orators have come into their own during the past week. Wednesday evening witnessed the opening of the interhall debating season, and this afternoon saw the first-year youngsters gathering to choose their class officers. Howard and Carroll were the opposing teams in the initial engagement of the scedule. These ex-stars of high school forensic societies made their initial appearance before the local public amidst a bombast of arguments, logical and not so logical, based in some cases on brains and in others on bluff. They exhibited all the gestures and stage tricks which in other years made the home-town audiences gasp with awe and admiraiton. The fresmen wranglers may not have the quick wits and the graceful presence of the varsity debaters, but they certainly have as much if not more, determination. They are to be commended for the work they are doing, and for passing up the informal evening bull sessions for the more formal and by far more truth-restricted debating activities. In a group of Irishmen the gift of swift and certain speech which legend confers on those who have kissed the Blarney Stone are supposed to be unusually common. This may account for the success which Notre Dame debating teams have met with for many years. The argumentative faculty seems highly developed in these parts. If, after living four years on this compus, a man can’t hold his own in any dispute, whether it be with a traffic cop or a student of Einstein, he has not taken full advantage of the opportunities that Notre Dame offers him.
w HILE we are yet alive, we might as well proceed to the recent past and mention a few bits of fact and fiction connected with the old Army game which was worked again with some success in Chicago last Saturday. It seems as though West Point and Annapolis got their football dates mixed. “Anchors Aweigh” would have been a far more appropriate theme song for the afternoon than the Army victory march. The soldiers could have used a couple of anchors very ably, could they have fixed them to the feet of Marchy Schwartz or to the trained toes of Frank Carideo. The performances of these boys was enough to sit through forty days and forty nights of rain to witness. As it was, if the heavens had wept much more the west side of the stadium would have been acting as a breakwater for the heaving waters of the lake. The sodden skies in one way contributed to the economic depression and in another way helped a few of the poor and needy. The scalpers were the worst sufferers. The morning of the game saw the Stevens lobby resembling the New York Stock Exchange on the morning of Black Thursday. The air was filled with the wailing and gnashing of teeth of unfortunate pasteboard investors who saw thes now and rain wash the bottom out of their stock. But the poor newsboys benefitted. The Chicago Tribune justified its claim to being the world’s greatest newspaper. Its volume permitted it to cover more damp seat space than any other daily in the Windy city. The doctors in the Loop reaped a harvest, as did the vendors of cough medicine, and—er, cough medicine.
T HE labors of a football player are arduous, but now is the time we begin to appreciate the rewards he reaps. Who wouldn’t straggle through eight or nine weeks of gruelling work for the climactic pleasure of spending more than seven days away from this snow and sleet and wintry wind? Climbing out of a cold bed onto a colder floor is all the more difficult when you are conscious that the fellow who lives in the next room is at the moment sleeping in a cozy room out in California, with a warm sea breeze blowing in through the window, and the nearby sound of the ocean rivaling the saxaphone-like sobs of his snoring. Wallowing in the mud in old Cartier field must have been nothing more than fun if the players had in their minds the realization that it would all culminate in a jaunt to the land of perpetual sunshine and milk and honey. (California papers please copy.) Of course, they have to go up against one of the hardest gridiron outfits in the country tomorrow afternoon, and there may be a few broken necks and twisted ears in the course of the game, but the California sun is a panacea, and no wounds or diseases last for more than a day in its perfect clime. And if you don’t believe that, ask Larry Mullins when and if he returns.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
293
"TWELFTH NIGHT" TO BE PRESENTED BY UNIVERSITY THEATRE, DEC. 16 & 17
Hartzer, Beirne, Ryan, Merdzinski, Bryan, McAveney, Desmond, Phelan and Mihan to Take Part
' “Twelfth Night,” one of Shakespeare’s best comedies, has been selected by Professor Frank Kelly as the presentation with which the University Theatre will open its fifth season on the stage of Washington hall during the week preceding the Christ-
• mas vacation. The dates for the performances will be December 16 and 17.
As is the custom of the University Theatre, South Bend ladies will play the female roles. Miss Julia Huff, I	Miss Irene Pyle, and Miss Maurer,
|	who is connected with South Bend
High school, are in the cast. It is through the courtesy of South Bend women who have maintained an interest in campus affairs that the production of plays containing female characters has been possible.
Students who will take part in the play include Norman Hartzer, Roger Beirne, John E. Ryan, George Bryan, Marry Merdzinski, Marshall McAveney, Gerald Desmond, J. Edward Phelan, and Donald Mihan, along with \ others who have as yet not been se-
lected from the group trying to secure parts.
When interviewed about the play he is to put on, Mr. Kelly said that Notre Dame students who think that they are the originators of the art of “goofing” are mistaken, since the idea was originally Shakespeare’s. Mr. Kelly explained that “Twelfth Night is one of the greatest 'goofing parties’ in all literary history.” He said that another feature of the comedy is the famed drinking scene so often referred to by contemporary critics.
According to Mr. Kelly, several of the men who will appear in this play are the equals of professionals seen in the various parts. “Therefore it is hard to see,” he said, “how the show can be anything but successful, even with an audience as critical as the students.”
In the past five years the University Theatre has produced very few Shakespearean plays. “Twelfth Night” is the first one presented since “The Taming of the Shrew,” which was played last year.
“FOOTBALL REVIEW” TO
APPEAR ON CAMPUS
DECEMBER 12
The 1930 Football Review is nearing completion and will appear on the campus December 12, according to an announcement made by Joseph Petritz, editor. Two outstanding improvements over last year’s issue are that it is to be larger, containing 112 pages, and that it is to have an imitation leather cover.
Reviews of all the games by noted sports writers, and stories from the Notre Dame angle will be included in the publication. It will also contain articles about the various Notre Dame players. One of the features will be an all-opponent team selected by the Notre Dame coaches and players.
Special stories have been written for the review by Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune; Frank Wallace, a Notre Dame alumnus on the sports staff of the New York Daily News; Warren Brown of the Chicago Herald and Examiner; Bert McGrane of the Des Moines Tribune; Jack Elder, former Notre Dame star now associated with the Chicago Herald and Examiner, and James Armstrong, editor of the Notre Dame Ahtmnus. Feg Murray, noted sports cartoonist, has made a drawing especially for the Football Review-.
Campus writers have contributed special articles on the new stadium, its dedication, and other interestingfootball side-lights at Notre Dame this year.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
HEARS PROF. ENGELS
Professor William Engels of the Biology department addressed the Academy of Science on last Monday, December 2. His topic was: “The Life of Little Known Seventeenth Century Physician, Doctor Nathaniel Bilson.” Only one incident in the life of Doctor Bilson has come down to present times.
According to Professor Engels, Doctor Bilson set out with a Captain Thomas Jones and his crew of twenty-two men who were seeking a new route to the Orient. When the men were stricken with scurvy, Doctor-Bilson succeeded in saving the lives of fifteen of them in spite of the fact that at this time scurvy was one of the most fatal diseases. Professor Engels told of the method that Doctor Bilson used to effect the cure.
CHICAGO ALUMNI DANCE
PRONOUNCED SUCCESS
Those who attended the Army ball in Chicago Saturday evening were enthusiastic in admitting that the alumni club sponsored a very gala affair. Both the Balloon room and the Gold room of the Cong-ress hotel were filled to capacity for the dance which lasted from ten until three. In the Balloon room, Johnny Hamp and his orchestra entertained, while one of Jean Goldkette’s bands furnished the melodies for the other floor. The Gold room was decorated with the pennants which were used on top of our new stadium this fall, while one end of the room was adorned with a huge “Rockne” banner.
According to Chairman Walter Kelley the informal invitation dance given by the Chicago Club of Notre Dame on Friday night at the Congress hotel also drew a large attendance.
“HUDDLE” APPEARS IN BOOK FORM
Huddle, the football novel written by Frank Wallace, an alumnus of Notre Dame of the class of 1923, was issued December 4 in book form. Mr. Wallace has written several short stories but this is his first novel. It has been sunning as a serial in College Humor.
NOMINATIONS HELD FOR FRESHMAN OFFICERS
This noon the freshmen nominated candidates for the offices of their class in the gymnasium.
The two highest candidates for each of the offices in this primary will be eligible for election to those offices next Friday afternoon, at which time freshmen may ballot their choices in the gymnasium.	‘
294
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
FRIDAY, Dec. 5—Scholastic staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Main building. —Commerce Forum meeting, 7:30 p. m., north basement of library.— Buffalo club meeting, 7:30 p. m., old Law building. — Chicago club meeting, Library, 7:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, Dec. 6—Football, Notre Dame vs. Southern California at Los Angeles, 3:45 p. m.—Movies, “Bulldog Drummond,” Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Dec. 7—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Dec. 8—Immaculate Conception, no classes; Masses as on Sunday.—A. S. M. E. inspection trip to Chicago.—K. of C. meeting, Walsh hall chambers, 7:45 p. m.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Kalamazoo, Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, Dec. 9—Louisiana-Mississippi club meeting, 6:45 p. m., old Law building.—Press club meeting, Library, 7:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 10—Engineers’ club meeting, 7:45 p. m., north room of library.—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30, Howard hall “rec.”
THURSDAY, Dec. 11 — Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., journalism room of library.—Football banquet, University dining halls.
SETON HALL COLLEGE
WIRES “GOOD LUCK”
TO FOOTBALL SQUAD
Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, received a telegram yesterday from Joesph P. Bradley, president of the Blue Circle of Seton Hall college, wishing the Notre Dame football squad good luck in their game with Southern California. The message was as follows:
“Editor, Notre Dame Scholastic, “Notre Dame, Indiana.
“Blue Circle of Seton Hall college wishes Notre Dame squad every good fortune against Southern California.
“Joseph P. Bradley, President.”
On behalf of the squad, who are now in California, the editor expresses his sincerest thanks to Mr. Bradley and Seton Hall college.
NOTRE DAME “LAWYER” TO ISSUE SPECIAL DEDI-
CATION NUMBER
Joseph Guadnola, editor of the Latvyer, has announced the issue of a dedicatory number of the publication of the Law school. Several radical changes have been instituted in order to make the Laivyer a better magazine.
The dedicatory number will contain a brief history of the Law college by Dean Konop; a description of the new Law building and of the dedicatory exercises; the dedication speech by His Eminence, Patrick Cardinal Hayes, and sixteen full page cuts of the new Law building.
Beginning with this issue, the Lawyer will be issued quarterly instead of monthly, as has been done in the past. The number of pages has been increased to 150 in order to accommodate the numerous articles and reviews written for the publication.
N. D. PROFESSORS DISCUSS NOBEL PRIZE AWARD
A fortnight ago an article by Professor Charles Phillips concerning the selection of Sinclair Lewis as the winner of the Nobel prize appeared in the South Bend Neivs-Times. In it Professor Phillips criticized Lewis for his one-sided attitude toward American life and customs as well as for his writing of “journalese” rather than of literature. A week later Editor. McCready Huston of the Netvs-Times, a man well known to all Notre Dame students for his novels as well as his newspaper work, took up the cudgel in favor of Lewis.
On the heels of all this discussion comes the December issue of the Catholic World with what the editor of that magazine calls an “interesting and judicious estimate” of Lewis by Professor Camille McCole. Under the title “The Future Significance of Sinclair Lewis,” Professor McCole’s article gives a comprehensive and sympathetic review of Lewis. Agreeing with Professor Phillips, Professor McCole bases his criticism on the charge that Lewis is one-sided in his portrayal of American life.
Mr. Huston defends Lewis not because he writes as a journalist but because he is a journalist. The discussion so far has been a lively one and should be interesting to Notre Dame students.
SCHOLASTIC STAFF MEETS NEW HEAD AT MEETING
A meeting of the Scholastic board was held Tuesday evening for the purpose of introducing John F. Stoeckley, new graduate manager of publications, who comes to Notre Dame to fill that position left vacant by the resignation of Harley L. McDevitt. A member of the class of ’25, Mr. Stoeckley was on the staffs of the prominent campus publications, and he noted the progress made in these magazines during his absence.
The speaker explained that he wanted to become acquainted with the member of the staffs, assist them in any way he could, discuss problems with them and receive any suggestions the members might have to make. Another point stressed by Mr. Stoeckley was that the editorial and business staffs both should be inter' ested in each other because this is necessary for any paper to function properly. By doing this he stated it will be easier for the business men to solicit ads and the students will find the news more interesting. In driving home his point the speaker gave out his definition of co-operation which he said simply meant working together.
This year Mr. Stoeckley expressed the desire to have annual banquets; and also at the end of the year to reward the members with charms in appreciation for their work.
Remarking that as a whole he found “the Scholastic in good shape,” the speaker concluded his remarks by calling on the heads of the various departments for suggestions or criticisms pertaining to their particular job.	.
HALPER APPOINTED TO “SCHOLASTIC” STAFF
After a consideration of the various applicants for positions on the staff of the Scholastic through an inspection of their ability for getting news and their capability for handling it, only one new appointment has been made. Irving Halper, a freshman at the University, has been appointed to the sports staff, to assist the new sports editor, Henry Asman.
Three men are at present being considered for addition to the staff. They are Joseph Degnan, Edward Stephan, and Richard Molique. Announcement will be made at the regular meeting of the staff tonight in regard to their being accepted. .
9''
The Notre Dame Scholastic
295
JOHN F. STOECKLEY APPOINTED MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS
Has Had Wide Business Experience in Publication Work
John F. Stoeckley, A.B., 1925, has been appointed to the position of graduate manager of publications at Notre Dame, succeeding Harley L. McDevitt, who is now associated with the Conde-Nast Publications, Inc. of New York City.
Mr. Stoeckley spent eight years at Notre Dame, entering the Notre Dame preparatory school in 1918. He entered the University proper in 1921 as a student in the College of Commerce. In his sophomore year he transferred to the College of Arts and Letters. He took an active part in publication work during his last three years at the University. He wrote for the Dome in 1924 and was contributor to it in 1925. He acted as associate editor of the Juggler and news editor of the Scholastic. He was also night editor of the Notre Dame Daily which was published for about a year and a half beginning in 1923. Besides his publication work, Mr. Stoeckley found time to belong to the Glee club for four years; and he was also a member of the Knights of Columbus.
Since he left Notre Dame in 1925, the new graduate manager has held various positions in the business world. Immediately following graduation he became assistant advertising manager of the Johnson Motor Company, then located in South Bend. Shortly afterwards he went West where he held several positions. He
LIBRARY OBTAINS MANY NEW BOOKS
Among the books acquired by the library recently are the following:
Biography—The Masters of Modern French Criticism, Irving Babbitt; Roosevelt, The Story of a Friendship, 1880-1919, Owen Wister; William Wordsworth, His Life and His Influence, G. M. Harper; Labourers in the Vineyard, Giovanni Papini.
came back to Chicago and was engaged in publicity and advertising work in connection with Marshall Field and company, Walgreen Drug company and the Publix Balaban and Katz theaters. During that time he was assistant manager of the Uptown theater, in charge of exploitation. He also did personal publicity work for theatrical people including such well-known stars as Wallace Ford and Harriet MacGibbon. Mr. Stoeckley has had much experience along the line of buying engravings, advertising, and other interrelated publication work.
On being questioned concerning publications at Notre Dame Mr. Stoeckley said: “I believe that our publications today are decidedly a credit to the student body and the University. I do not believe that there has been a period when the personnel has been any finer, and I feel that the publications have kept pace with the material growth of Notre Dame.”
During the conversation Mr. Stoeckley contrasted the improved business methods of Notre Dame publications today with those in existence when he was a student. He mentioned many of his interesting experiences while doing publication work, especially on the Daily, and said that the work he did on the publications while at Notre Dame furnished a good background for his commercial activities afterward.
Drama—Anna Christie, The Emperor Jones, Eugene O’Neill; The Shakespearean Drama, D. J. Snider; Characters of Shakespeares Plays, William Hazlitt.
Philosophy—Kant’s Critique; Problems in Logic, C. H. Patterson.
Fiction—The Bright Shawl, Joseph Hergesheimer; Men Without Women, Ernest Hemingway.
SMITHBERGER TALKS TO FRESHMEN AT CONVO-
CATION
At the second freshman lecture held in Washington hall on Tuesday evening, November 25, at 7 p. m., Professor Andrew Smithberger spoke on the “Value of Students’ Time.”
He explained that just as St. Paul encountered perils so does the modern collegian experience danger. They are, namely, the perils of proximation, of the lock-step, of selfishness, and finally the perils of youth or time. This last' is the most important since youth thinks it will never die, and therefore that it has unlimited time in which to begin the doing of things. The fault of this view was shown by Mr. Smithberger with such examples as Keats, Shelley, Ruskin, Mendelssohn, and Einstein, all of whom had done their best work before they reached thirty.
As our chief aim, after graduation, is to make money, and our success is gauged by the monetary yard-stick, Mr. Smithberger concluded with the quotation from an old sage, “We can never be what we might have been, but we can always be what we maybe.”
GLEE CLUB RECEIVES PRAISE FOR RADIO PROGRAM
That the glee club broadcasts on last Friday night from Chicago were a distince success is evidenced by the interest aroused in many quarters over the Notre Dame songs and the praise given the men under Professor Casasanta in many news articles.
At 5:30 p. m. the glee club broadcast over the hook-up of stations WMAQ, WOR, and WLW, sponsored by the Williams Manufacturing company. On the Armour hour over a National Broadcasting company network the glee club sang again. On this same program the radio audience listened to a short sport comment by Coach Rockne.
- Along with the glee club on the Williams program was Coach Dick Hanley of Northwestern, who gave an analysis of the two teams, Notre Dame and Army.
In their program the glee club rendered “When Irish Backs Go Marching By.” This was the first time this piece has ever been rendered in a radio broadcast and was favorably received by the many listeners who wrote in praising the rendition. Letters were still pouring in at this late date.

296
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PRE LAW MEN MEET WITH LAW STUDENTS TO FORM NEW CLUB
Professors Clarence Manion and William Rollinson Address Assembly
About 100 pre-law students, together with members of the Law club, met last week in the new Law building to discuss the formation of a Pre-legal club.
Professor Clarence Manion, introduced by Norman Hartzer, a senior lawyer, told the men at the meeting that it had been thought advisable to form a Pre-legal club to keep prospective law students in touch with the Law school, and to help them decide whether or not they really wanted to study law. Professor Manion urged the pre-law men to subscribe to the Notre Dame Lawyer, as another means of establishing closer contact with the Law school. Subscriptions to this publication, he said, had formerly been confined to lawyers
ALUMNI BOARD HOLDS
MEETING IN CHICAGO
A meeting of the alumni board of directors was held in Chicago on November 29. The alumni program for the remainder of the year, more notably the progress of the living endowment fund, was discussed. Plans for universal Notre Dame night and the June commencement were also included in the discussion. Detailed announcements regarding these events will appear later.
ENGINEERING NOTES
The Notre Dame Student Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will conduct an inspection trip through the Westinghouse plant in Chicago on next Monday. The trip through the plant will comprise four or five hours, during which time practically every department will be visited.
The monthly meeting of the Engineers’ club will be held next Wednesday evening. Herbert Perry, chairman of the program committee, is making efforts to secure a very prominent South Bend citizen as speaker.
and alumni, but it was now especially recommended to pre-law students so that they become accustomed to the phraseology of the law. This would be a great help to them when they actually studied law.
Professor William Rollinson, a member of the Law college faculty, also addressed the meeting. In his talks he too stressed the advisability of subscribing to the Lawyer.
William Kirby, Edward Dailey, Paul Dailey, Roger Brennan, George Higgins, Francis Marley, Charles Hanna, John Nichols, William Kenefick, and John Cooper were appointed to a committee which is to meet on December 9 with a committee from the Law club to formulate plans for the organization of the pre-legal club.
ARMSTRONG TO ATTEND
MEETING IN NEW YORK
Mr. James E. .Armstrong, alumni secretary, will leave for New York next week to confer with the executive committee of the American Alumni council in discussing preparations for their annual convention to be held at Atlanta some time in April.
While in New York Mr. Armstrong will meet with the president and the chairman of the executive committee of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. This organization plans to hold its convention at Chicago in April. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago is to be their host.
FOOTBALL BANQUET TO
BE HELD DECEMBER 11
The Notre Dame club of St. Joseph valley has announced that the annual football banquet will be held December 11 in the University dining hall. Tickets this year will be limited to one thousand, and individual applications two to each person. Reservations can be made through the alumni office.
FRATERNITY MEN HAVE HIGH SCHOLASTIC
AVERAGE
The scholastic average of college fraternity men throughout the country is higher than the general scholastic average of all male undergraduates, according to a statement made today by Alvan E. Duerr, chairman of the scholarship committee of the Interfraternity Conference. This statement was made in a report at the annual meeting of the Conference at the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York City, to delegates of seventy national fraternities having a total membership of 750,000 men, of whom 60,000 are undergraduates.
The Conference, which during the last twenty-one years directed its efforts toward developing college fraternities as a co-operative element in the American system of college education, has for the past five years laid special emphasis on scholarship. In each of those years the Conference has made an exhaustive statistical survey of the scholarship of fraternity and non-fratemity men in 125 colleges and universities throughout the country where there are more than four fraternities. The data for such surveys was furnished by the administrative authorities of the col-
>
■ leges.
“Each one of these years,” Mr. Duerr declared, “has shown consistent improvement over its predecessor. For the college year 1929-1930 the complete returns from 125 institutions having a male enrollment of 200,000 show that the fraternity men’s average is somewhat more than one per cent higher than the average of all men undergraduates, and almost two per cent higher than the average of non-fraternity men.”
JUDGE CAIN ADDRESSES VILLAGERS
Judge William Cain, a member of the faculty of the College of Law at the University, was the principal speaker at the regular monthly dinner meeting of the Villagers club, Monday in the Rose Marie tearoom. Judge Cain spoke on “The Present Status of Divorce in the United States.”
Following the talk initial plans were made for the second annual Christmas Formal dance. The affair will be held this year on December 26, in the Palais Royale ballroom. A leading Chicago dance orchestra will furnish the music.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
297
GRADUATE SCHOOL WILL HOLD FOREIGN LANGUAGE EXAMINATIONS ON JAN. 16
According to regulation of the Graduate School of the University of Notre Dame (page 215 of the official University Bulletin), the candidate for the degree of master of arts or master of science is to take the examination for certificate of reading knowledge of foreign language before the end of the first semester, if he be doing his work for the degree in the regular school year. The examinations in foreign language for this school year will be given at 4:00 p. m. on Friday, January 16, in Room 222 of the Main building, by a board of three examiners in each of the languages in which examination is needed. The examination will be a serious test of the candidate’s ability to read the foreign language intelligently. The examination for fulfillment of the language requirement may not be taken in a language used as a major subject or as a minor subject in the course for the advanced degree.
EDUCATIONAL CONFRA-
TERNITY HEAR SPEAKER
Miss Helen Dernbach, supervisor of the vocational guidance department of the city schools of South Bend delivered a very impressive talk to the members of the Educational Confraternity Monday evening in the journalism room of the University library. More than 30 members of the organization and their friends were present.
Miss Dernbach outlined the work of the vocational department as carried out in the secondary schools of the city of South Bend. The speaker stated that vocational guidance begins in the upper grades of the junior high schools and it is here that the student chooses a vocation to follow throughout his high school course. Counselors in the schools chosen by the vocational department guide the student through a very competent course during his study.
A short business meeting followed the talk which was the first of a series to be delivered throughout the school year. President Carroll Murphy and Dr. Kuntz, head of the department of education at the University, delivered short talks. The next meeting of the organization will be held on Monday evening, December 15.
« Music And Drama »
Well, the week-end was a great escape from the theatrical wilds of South Bend, and we managed to see “A Month in the Country” with the Theater Guild, “Hotel Universe” at the hands of the Goodman players, “Three Little Girls,” and the much-heralded “Hell’s Angels.” This last was a disappointment, for though the two air sequences are undoubtedly the finest ever filmed, they are so hampered by a mediocre and unoriginal plot that the picture can never be called great. Money, years, and lives do not mean so much after all if there is no inspiring significance to guide them. “The Big Parade” and “Wings” were fine and were popular primarily because they were the first of their kind on a large scale, but “The Enemy” and “All Quiet on the Western Front” are still the great war pictures. Why? Because they are thematic, and without a theme that has something fine in it, no movie, play, or novel can be great. There must be an appeal to the intellect as well as to the emotions. This is all personal opinion, of course, but it is the conclusion reached after a few years of reading and theater going.
“A Month in the Country” was superb in every detail. The Theater-Guild prepared two years for it, and the production was worth every minute. Not for a long time have we seen such perfectly executed scenery and costumes. The settings were extremely colorful, each color blending and contrasting so as to delight the eye, and it seemed that each costume was made with an idea in mind of the effect it would create against the scenery. As for the acting—well, remember that Alla Nazimova and Earle Larimore headed the cast. Mme. Nazimova in the role of Natalia Petrovna portrayed a member of the Russian genteel aristocracy and proved that even in 1840 a married woman could feel misunderstood, have suppressed desires and that eternal preying instinct of woman. James Todd as Alecksei Nikolaevich Bieliaev was the “catch,” and Earle Larimore was Mikhail Aleksandrovitch Ratikin, Natalia’s platonic friend who straightened things out with the wronged husband. The first act and the first scene of the second act created atmos-
phere and character but did nothing else, and we began to wonder if that’s all the Russians did. The last acts, however, changed our ideas and could put some of our modern technicians of the drama to shame. “A Month in the Country” was our introduction to Russian drama, and we are thankful that it was so excellently interpreted for us.
“Three Little Girls” is the most charming operetta we have seen in a long time and is in the class with “Blossom Time” and “The Student Prince.” The plot is a sweetly sad story of unrequited love in the Vienna of the last century, and forty years and three generations are required before the happy ending is at last reached. The music is the kind we like to listen to, and if somewhat reminiscent of old favorites as “Kiss Me Again,” it at least has good prototypes. Natalie Hall has a glorious voice which she blends well with that of Charles Hedley. The best musical numbers are “Love’s Happy Dream,” the “Letter Song,” and the “Jewel Song” from Faust, which is interpolated in an appropriate place. A revolving stage was used, and the waits between scenes was no longer than was required for the characters to walk from one room to the next or into the garden. “Three Little Girls” is now in its third month and is highly recommended.
We must defer “Hotel Universe” and Walker Whiteside’s “The Chinese Bungalow” until next week.
VILLAGERS TO DANCE TO-NIGHT
The Villagers Club will hold their first informal dance of the Winter season tonight in the Palais Royale ballroom. Chuck O’Grady’s orchestra will play the program of dances which will be from 8:30 to 11:30.
FR. MILTNER TO LECTURE AT ST. JOSEPH HOSPITAL
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will deliver a series of lectures at St. Joseph’s hospital on the “Ethics of Nursing.”
298
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Campus Opinions
>-------------------------------*
“What do you think of the ‘Scholastic’s’ editorial policy?”
James Downs, Morrissey hall, junior—“I am heartily in accord with the present attitude of the Notre Dame Scholastic. Good, constructive criticism of campus institutions by the student newspaper is worthwhile. It is especially so at Notre Dame. The editors are bringing to the notice of the student body things they should know regarding campus organizations.”
Robert L. Pendergast, Sorin hall, senior — “The Scholastic editorial policy this year is in numerous ways superior to that of past years. Open and timely criticisms of campus activities have been most noticeable and in many cases praiseworthy. Topics, vital to student life, have been discussed in an intelligent and direct manner. Fearless criticism of undiplomatic moves on the part of representative student organizations, such as the Blue Circle and the S. A. C. has shown intestinal fortitude heretofore lacking on the part of the Scholastic. The editorial sheet, for the first time in my recollection, is certainly worth the reading.”
Alfred C. Stepan, Badin hall, senior, and president of the Spectators— “I am glad to see that the editorial policy has emerged from its catering passiveness. There have been several courageous editorials. The school is changing. If certain institutions refuse to change accordingly, competent observers should comment and do so forcefully. Why be hypocritical? Why not speak our thoughts? Hello week, vigilance committees and other synthetic aids to school spirit bespeak a “Rover boy” complex. I think these vitalized editorials make the Scholastic a far more interesting magazine, and a truer, indicator of the better campus thought.”
Leonard F. Horan, Badin hall, senior—“I thoroughly approve of the Scholastic’s editorial policy. It seems that the editor is expressing the opinion of a majority of the students. The awakening of the Scholastic to campus problems and the voicing of an aggressive editorial policy has been one of the features of the publications year.”
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGIATE REGISTRARS OFFERS SCHOLARSHIP
University Registrar Announces Details of Award To Stimulate Interest
Robert B. Riordan, University registrar, has announced the notice of the yearly fellowship of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars. This fellowship, which amounts to $1,000, is awarded yearly in order to stimulate interest and encourage graduate study in preparation for work in the field of the college registrar.
' The fellowship is offered under the following conditions:
1.	The applicant must hold a bachelor’s degree from a fully recognized college or university. Graduates of institutions accredited by the Association of American Universities will be given preference.
2.	On or before March 1, 1931, the applicant must submit the following to the Fellowship committee: (a) Record of undergraduate work; (b) Statement of age, training and experience; (c) Statement of proposed plan of graduate study and thesis problem; (d) Name of the institution at which the graduate work will be pursued; (e) An unmounted photograph.
3.	The fellowship will carry a stipend of $1000 for which no service shall be required and will be granted on the understanding that full time is to be given to graduate work.
4.	The fellowship may be approved by the committee for any institution (a) which holds membership in the American Association of Collegiate Registrars, (b) which in the opinion
F. J. McCarthy, Walsh hall, junior —“I believe that the editorial policy of the Scholastic, although somewhat severe at times in its criticism, has done a great deal of good, in that it has caused various factions on the campus to think, and has made them realize that they are under surveillance. It has awakened an interest in campus activities. Criticism, where • deserved, rather than praise, is the medium through which organizations may be bettered.”
of the committee offers adequate facilities for graduate work in the fields of administration of higher education or of business administration, and (c) which agrees to offer through its registrar’s office such contacts with the actual working of the office as the time of the fellow may permit him to make with advantage, and such use of its records as may be required by the fellow in preparing his thesis material.
5.	On or before September 1, following the award of the fellowship, the American Association of Collegiate Registrars will deposit the sum of $1,000 with the institution selected, for disbursement to the fellow in equal monthly installments during the academic year, or in such other way as may be satisfactorily agreed to by the institution concerned and the Fellowship committee of the association.
6.	During the year the holder of the fellowship will, without payment of dues, hold membership in the American Association of Collegiate Registrars, receiving the publications of the association and the privilege of attending the annual convention for that year but without the right to vote.
7.	The recipient of the fellowship, in turn, agrees to furnish for publication in the Bulletin if desired, an abstract of the thesis submitted for his degree and one complete copy of the thesis for the files of the committee.
] NOTICE! J
E Students are again reminded : f to visit the Lost and Found de- = = partment if they have lost any = = articles. Articles left in that = = department and not claimed = = within 30 days will be turned | = over to the poor.	|
...miniiiniiffl
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
299
"SCHOLASTIC" STAFF REORGANIZED;
HURLEY AND KIENER PROMOTED
New System of Editing Installed—-To be Explained At Meeting To-night
At a meeting held last Wednesday afternoon in the editorial rooms of the Scholastic, Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the publication, announced a complete reorganization of the stair of writers and the editorial board, with a corresponding change in the methods of editing and publishing the Scholastic.
In the process of the reorganization Neil Hurley, a junior in the A. B. school, and John A. Kiener, juniorin the College of Commerce, became » the new assistant managing editors. James M. Carmody and Paul Hallinan juniors; and Edward E. Brennan, James Kearney, Austin Boyle, and Edward R. Brennan, all seniors, have been promoted to positions as associate editors.
•	Lloyd Teske takes Neil Hurley’s
. place as news editor, while Daniel C.
Williams edits the “College Parade,” to replace Ramon Smith, who resigned. In complete charge of the sports material will be Henry B. As-	man who replaces John Kiener as
*	sports editor.
In order to systematize the work incident to publishing the weekly, Editor-in-chief Telfel has devised a schedule whereby a certain number of men will be present during both morning and afternoon on publishing • days. Reporters and men on the edi-
TEAM TO ARRIVE IN LOS ANGELES TO-NIGHT
The varsity football squad will arrive in Los Angeles at five o’clock this evening for the game tomorrow with Southern California, the final opponent on the team’s 1930 schedule.
Beginning its journey last Monday afternoon from Chicago, the team made a stop-ovei- Wednesday at Tucson, Arizona. Short practice sessions were held Wednesday afternoon and yesterday morning and afternoon.
torial staffs will be arranged in groups and allotted certain periods during which they must be in attendance at the office of the publication, in order to take care immediately of any matters attendant on the publishing of the weekly. Failure to adhere strictly to the schedule will incur dismissal from the staff. This method will make for greater efficiency.
Being printed now is a style-book for the use of the men working on the Scholastic. The book embodies a set of rules for the handling of news materia] as to spelling, abbreviation, proper- terms of address, structure and the like. All written matter must conform to the directions listed in the book. There will be printed, also, sheets of symbols used in reading proof and editing copy, with directions for their use in making up the finished copy. The whole system— work schedule, style-book, and copy sheet—is intended to increase efficiency and quality in the publishing of the weekly.
There is to be a meeting tonight in the Scholastic office on the second floor of the main building at which the details of the new system are to be outlined. Every member of the staff is requested to, and must, attend. The meeting will be held in the Publications office at 6:45 p. m.
Last night the team began the final lap on the journey to the coast.
Tomorrow morning the team will hear Mass and receive Communion at St. Paul’s cathedral. They will leave for South Bend Sunday .evening, arriving here at 12:54 Wednesday, December 10.
While at Tucson the varsity remained at the Hotel Santa Maria. In Los Angeles the Notre Dame headquarters will be at the Ambassador hotel.
FOURTEEN PLAY FINAL GAME OF N. D. CAREER
Fourteen men will be playing their last football games as Fighting Irish of Notre Dame tomorrow when the varsity meets Southern California in Los Angeles.
Captain Tom Conley, Johnny O’Brien, Tom Kassis, Bert Metzger, Frank Leahy, Dick Donoghue, and George Vik are the seven graduating this year. A like number of backfield men will also be wearing the blue of Notre Dame’s grid eleven for the final time. These backfield men are Frank Carideo, Bernie Leahy, Marty Brill, Bucky O’Connor, Clarence Kaplan, Larry Mullins, and Al Howard.
FR. THORNTON, TELFEL,
READ TO SCRIBBLERS
On Wednesday, December 1, the Scribblers held their weekly meeting in the recreation room of Howard hall. Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, read a story, “Casualty,” and the Reverend Francis Thornton, read a poem.
This precipitated the discussion about the nature and the gravity of psychological realism. Father Thornton, who is well informed on contemporary movements, said that there was a new movement begun about six years ago in France and only now reaching the United States. The movement is away from realism intrinsically.
CATHOLIC MISSION CRUSADE TO CONVENE
JUNE 29
The seventh national convention of • the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade will be held at Niagara university, Niagara Falls, N. Y., June 29-July 2, 1931, according to the announcement of Msgr. Frank A. Thill, national secretary.
Student and faculty representatives of 3,000 Catholic educational institutions will take part in the convention, which will also bring together a number of noted Catholic missionaries from the home and foreign fields.
Approval of the convention place, date and preliminary program has been given by the national executive board of the Crusade, which includes Archbishop John T. McNicholas of Cincinnati and Archbishop Francis J. Backman of Dubuque, as well as by Bishop William J. Turner of Buffalo, in whose diocese the convention will be held.
300
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About The Campus
A man has to be a Walter Winchell or a Pinkerton detective to find out anything new about Frank Carideo. Half of the people in the United States know what he looks like, and three-fourths of the freshman class can tell you what kind of breakfast food he eats. All these intrusions upon his personal life are the price he pays for being an All-American quarterback.
Back in the days when the “Big Three” were on top of the pigskin perch, the football hero was supposed to be a long-jawed, hulking steamfitter weighing about 230 pounds, who more than likely would bust out at the semester because of a failure in Geography I. Nowadays, although some cave men still star at football, a large share of the plaudits of the game have gone to men who can hit the books and the line equally well— such men as Carnegie’s Harpster, a Phi Beta Kappa; “Death” Dooley of Dartmouth, an excellent scholar who could even write poetry good enough for publication; and Cornell’s Pfann, who became a Rhodes scholar. Frank Carideo is in this class. During his last three years at Notre Dame his batting average in the scholastic league has been well over 87%. During both his sophomore and junior year he won the Keach-Hering award for the highest scholastic standing among the monogram winners. And if you think that is all the versatile Frank can do—well, do you remember the “Monogram Absurdities” last year, when he played in a comedy skit with Savoldi?
Frank is also a basketball * player. His ability at basketball has been overshadowed by his football renown, but he has, in the past, given a good account of himself on Coach Keogan’s quintet. Although not a member of the track team, he showed enough speed in the football relay races to warrant him a place on most of the track teams of the country. And now, just to show that he hasn’t opened up his bag of tricks completely, he’s going out for debating. This gives us the hope that our debaters might not have to orate to the empty,.chairs of Washington hall this year. A quarterback delivering a rebuttal would be as rare a treat as a class poet hitting off-tackle.
Frank started on his Dick Merri-well career at Mt. Vernon (N. Y.) High school, where he was a four-letter man for two years, and piloted his football team to the championship
Frank Carideo
of Greater New York. Dean academy was his next Alma Mater. He stayed there two years, and was named AllState guard in basketball and AllNew England quarterback. Dean academy, thanks to Mr. Carideo, won the New England championship in both football and basketball, defeating such teams as Exeter, Andover, and Worcester academy. When he came to Notre Dame in 1927, he went out for freshman football. Until spring he was at halfback; Rockne thought he had the makings of a quarterback—and from then on anybody can tell you the story.
Frank lives under the rafters in Badin hall in one of those slantwalled rooms reminiscent of an artist’s studio. It is distinctly decorated in the football motif; pictures of athletes, of football games, and a thousand and one articles of football paraphernalia can be found about the room. Frank rooms with Jim Carideo, who though not an athlete, but an engineer, is Frank’s right-hand man. “After a game I have to go back to the room to find out about my weak points. Jim is my coach, manager, and general advisor,” said The Quarterback, smirking a sour smirk at his room-mate.
The only hobby for which Frank has time at present is football. He is
SECOND ELIMINATIONS
FOR DEBATERS TO BE
HELD ON DEC. 15-16-17
Thirty debaters successfully negotiated the preliminary eliminations conducted during the past week by the Reverend F. J. Boland, C.S.C., varsity debate coach. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, December 15, 16, and 17, are the dates set for- the second eliminations, to be held at 7:30 p. m., in Room 219 of the Main building. The procedure in these trials will differ from the first in that rebuttal will be required of each speaker. Names of the successful candidates, their assignment and the date of their trial follow :
Monday, December 15—Affirmative: Hanna, Driscoll, Fox, M. Garrigan, O’Meara; Negative: O’Shaughnessy, McIntosh, Wilson, Baer, McGreal.
Tuesday, December 16 — Affirmative: Burke, Meehan, Johnson, O’Malley, Ratigan; Negative: Phelan, Crowley, Scott, J. Garrigan, Kirby.
Wednesday, December 17—Affirmative: Pick, Barlow, Cline, Keefe, Belting; Negative: Boyle, Maginnis, Hannon, Darrow, Allan.
“JUGGLER” DEADLINE IS SET FOR DECEMBER 7
Deadline for the Christmas Number of the Juggler has been postponed to Sunday morning, December 7. AH copy, drawings, and ideas for drawings must be in the hands of Editor Jack Dempsey, 325 Sorin hall, by Sunday noon. According to Dempsey, the cover for the Christmas Number is a beautiful pastel by Joe Lop-ker. A feature article is being-written especially for the Juggler by Mr. Gilbert Keith Chesterton. Thus, -Mr. Dempsey said, there are at least two incentives for contributors to appear in the Christmas Number, not to mention the possibility of making the editorial or art staff.
The Christmas Number of the Juggler will be placed on sale on Decem-bei* 16.
studying for a B. S. in Physical Education, but is not absolutely certain that he will coach next year. “I suppose that I will coach,” he said, “but I’m all through playing the game after this season.” So Packers, Bruins, Cardinals, and Giants, you’ll have to look somewhere else for a quarterback.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
301
F"’
NOTRE DAME GRADUATE
DESIGNS COSTUMES FOR
GOODMAN PRODUCTION
“Costumes by Richard Sullivan,” an item appearing in the Goodman theater program of last week, was of special interest to Notre Dame men. The Richard Sullivan mentioned is a graduate of the University’s College of Arts and Letters in the class of 1930. The production for which he designed the costumes was the Goodman theater’s new stage version of “Oliver Twist,” dramatized very effectively by Muriel Brown.
Mr. Sullivan, class poet of 1930, former literary editor of the Scholas-(	TIC, and winner of the William
Mitchell award for playwriting in Professor Phillips’ English 25 class, is now a student at the Chicago Art Institute. His costume designs for “Oliver Twist,” which were accepted for production in a competitive con-•	test which drew forth the best talent
of the Goodman student forces, have been praised for their sympathetic interpretation of the difficult Dickens period, and for their striking harmonization and ensemble.
Mr. Sullivan has recently completed •	“Our Lady’s Tumbler,” a new play
based on the medieval legend of the Juggler of Notre Dame. The play has been accepted for reading in the Goodman studio. He has also done a set of costume designs for the Good-man’§ forthcoming production of Sierra’s Spanish play, “Cradle Song.”
« Glances at the Magazines »
ENGINEER TO SPEAK AT MEETING OF CHEMISTS
The Notre Dame group of the •	American Society of Steel Treating
and the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical society will hold a join meeting at the University of Notre Dame, in Chemistry hall, on Friday evening, December 12, at 7:30 p. m.
*	Mr. Jerome Strauss, chief research
engineer for the Vanadium Corporation of America, will be the speaker, and will adress the combined groups on the subject, “Vanadium in Industry.” He will discuss the history and development of vanadium, including •	ore occurrence, extraction, physical
and chemical properties, and applications.
All students interested and the public are cordially invited to hear Mr. Strauss.
Mr. Edward J. O’Brien, in the introduction to his Best- Short Stories of 1930, has something to say about the magazines that is well worth repeating. Mr. O’Brien is recognized as an eminent critic of letters, especially of the short story. His annual collection of the best published short stories necessitates constant and first-hand acquaintance with all the literary periodicals, and his summing up of trends and influences in the magazines during the past year is interesting. For instance he asserts that the best short stories are being published in the small magazines founded by the younger writers who either were refused space in the older magazines altogether, or were offered terms too disagreeable to accept. This explains the high quality of The Gyroscope, a mimeographed quarterly founded last year, in whose four issues Mr. O’Brien discovered six of the best stories of the year. Three periodicals of small circulation, The Midland, The Prairie Schooner, and The Frontier, receive high praise: “In these three most of the significant new American prose writers first appear” —the writers of the future.
Other magazines recommended to discover “the more experimental writers of the future” are The Hound and Horn, The Miscellany, Pagany, This Quarter, U. S. A., and The Southwest Review.
Concerning the lapse of the older magazines, Mr. O’Brien says, “The time has now come when the established literary monthlies must consider seriously how to adapt themselves to a new generation of readers. The. death of The Century Magazine is not without meaning. The public is now quite ready and indeed eagei-to read the better younger writers, but it is being put off at present with most competent second-best. Scribner’s Magazine, it is true, is aware of the new wind on the uplands, and is cautiously printing two or three of the more prominent younger writers who appear to be safely canonized.” He believes that a new national monthly is needed, and suggests that the best way of providing this at present is a combining of forces of The Midland, The Prairie Schooner, The Frontier, and possibly, The Southwest Revieie. If The Midland chooses to take the lead in this matter
I am convinced, after many years’ reflection, that it has the same opportunity to crystallize the best expression of contemporary national life that The Atlantic Monthly was able to seize upon its foundation, and that Harper’s Magazine enjoyed a generation ago. Two generations ago Boston was the geographical center of American literary life, one generation ago New York could claim pride of place, and I trust that the idea will not seem too unfamiliar if I suggest that the geographical center today is Iowa City . . .”
But the address of The Midland is no longer Iowa City, since its editor, Mr. John Frederick, joined the faculty of the English department here at Notre Dame, and set up headquarters for his publication in Chicago.
In The Best Short Stories of 1930 are printed twenty stories, which were selected in number as follows: from The New Yorker 3, Transition 2, Midland 2, The Gyroscope 2, The Prairie Schooner 2, The Frontier 2; Scribner’s, Harper’s, Bookman, Commonweal, Yale Review, Hound and Horn, and Saturday Evening Post, one each. Of the authors ten are men and ten are women, most of whom are appearing in Mr. O’Brien’s collection for the first time.
Anther fascinating “If” article is in the December Scribner’s. “If Lee Had Not Won at Gettysburg” is by Mr. Winston Churchill, the prominent English statesman and soldier.
College of Law
Mr. Elmo L. Wright of the American Law Book Company, delivered a lecture to the law students on the subject of short cuts in the use of logs. The lecture was illustrated with stereopticon views.
Professor William Cain of the Law faculty addressed the Villagers club at their monthly dinner on Monday evening, December 1, at the LaSalle hotel.
302
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HOWARD HALL DEFEATS CARROLL IN FIRST DEBATE OF SEASON
On Wednesday night, December 3, the interhall debating teams began their season under the direction of the Wranglers when Howard hall upheld both sides of the question, “Resolved: That the several states should enact legislation providing for compulsory employment insurance to which ths employer shall contribute.” Howard defeated the Carroll hall team.
Victory was given to the Howard affirmative, coached by Neil Hurley and represented by Messrs. Linton, Blish, and Sanduskey, on the basis of their clever presentation of their arguments. They showed the need for the plan as well as its practicability while the Carroll team failed to prove the many fine points which they advocated. James O’Shaughnessy coached the latter team.
When the Howard negative faced the Carroll affirmative they emerged
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO MEET MONDAY
Notre Dame Council 1477, Knights of Columbus, will hold its regular bi-monthly meeting next Monday evening at 7:45 in the Walsh hall council chambers. Grand Knight Louis Buckley states that some very important business relative to the welfare of the council will be discussed and urges all members of the council to be present.
Lecturer William O’Malley promises that some very good campus talent will be on hand to provide entertainment.
JOHN LAUX AWARDED SNAPSHOT PRIZE
John F. Laux, a junior in the College of Engineering, has been awarded the first prize of five dollars, in the snapshot contest by the 1931 Dome. The judges of the contest were Paul Hallinan, editor of the Dome and Alfred E. Gall, snapshot editor of the Dome.
More than 150 snapshots were turned in — action pictures, football scenes, views about the campus, student foolishness and interior scenes. The winning snapshot was an interior view of Morrissey hall chapel. The
victorious only after a bitter war of words. While the Howard team displayed a better organized presentation of matter, the Carroll team made too great use of generalities. The Howard negative team was coached by Tim Benitz and Jack Driscoll while John Wilson guided Carroll.
Judging the merits of the debaters were Louis Buckley of the Arts and Letters faculty and Louis Hasley, candidate fcr a master’s degree.
Tonight the teams from Freshman and Brownson will debate on the platforms of the public speaking rooms in Walsh hall. The question is the same for all the debates in the interhall league. Edward Phelan, president of the Wranglers, and Charles Hanna are coaching Brownson while the Freshman team is coached by William Kirby.
judges experienced some difficulty in picking the winner of the contest and it was only after a third impartial judge chose the picture that the prize was awarded.
The following men, however, deserve commendation for the snapshots they turned in: Frank Oberkoetter, Mart Dowling, and John Capitolo. Students are urged to turn in more snapshots, since the next contest period closes February 1.
COACHES TO SELECT ALLAMERICAN TEAM
Four of the outstanding football mentors, comprising the All-America board of football coaches, will meet in Los Angeles this week-end to select their All-American team for 1930. The members of the board include: Coach Knute K. Rockne of Notre Dame, T. A. D. Jones of Yale, William Alexander of Georgia Tech, and Glen “Pop” Warner of Stanford.
These men, representative of the various parts of the country, will select a team that will be a mythical All-American selection for the Christy Walsh syndicate of American newspapers. Their choice is considered as being the official selection of the year.
PROBATION STUDENTS
MAKE TRIP TO STATE INSANE ASYLUM
Under- the guidance of Professor Leo Kuntz, the members of the junior class majoring in probation and sociology, went to Logansport, Ind., on Thursday to make a trip through the state insane asylum. Leaving by bus the students made the 70-mile trip to Logansport and returned last night.
This trip to the state insane asylum is an annual feature of the school year for the students in sociology. A group of about 35 men which included a few seniors who are majoring in the department of sociology and probation, amde the trip.
NEW DIRECTORY GIVES
ENROLLMENT FACTS
Figures from the new University directory show that the city of Chicago has the greatest enrollment of any single city, 354 students constituting the “windy city’s” representation. South Bend ranks second with 184 students. Other cities having over 150 students at the University include Detroit, New York City, Saint Louis, Milwaukee, and Saint Paul.
Other figures noted in the book were, that every state in the Union is represented in the University’s enrollment. Six foreign countries also contribute men to constitute a most cosmopolitan student body.
By the enrollment from states, Indiana ranks first; Illinois, second; Ohio, third; New York, fourth; Pennsylvania, fifth; and New Jersey and California are tied for sixth.
The new directory is truly a comprehensive record of the 1930 Notre Dame student body.
HOLD BREEN MEDAL PRELIMINARIES ON
DECEMBER 15-16
The preliminaries of the Breen medal contest for oratory will be held on December 15 and 16, according to Professor Kelly of the department of speech. This contest is open to any undergraduate in the University.
Original orations of not more than ten minutes in length are required. . Contestants must file their names with Mr. Coyne of the speech department before next Wednesday, December 10. The time and place of the preliminaries will be announced later.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
303
PROFESSOR RAUCH NEW FACULTY
CHAIRMAN OF STUDENT PUBLICATIONS
Has Had Much Experience With College Publications
' The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced yesterday the appointment of Rufus William Rauch, professor of English, as faculty chairman of student publications. Mr, Rauch will succeed Fathei- Carroll who is now with The Ave Maria.
Mr. Rauch was born in Dubuque, Iowa. He attended Columbia Academy there, graduating in 1920. From Columbia Academy he went to Columbia College, where he received his bachelor’s degree in 1924. His graduate work was done at the University of Iowa, where, in 1925, he received
"DAILY TROJAN" SCRIBE TRACES ND-SC RIVALRY
By Joe Clarke, Sports Editor, The Daily Trojan (As written for the Notre Dame Scholastic)
The friendly rivalry that exists between Notre Dame and Southern California have started in the fall of 1926, when the Ramblers traveled to the land of sunshine to meet the Sons of Troy at the Los Angeles Coliseum. Notre Dame won that game, and through their clean play and great sportsmanship a spirit of friendliness and understanding sprang up between the two universities, such as is seldom seen, when the student bodies are two thousand miles apart.
The rivalry is not all with the teams, or with the students. The brains behind the teams are also rivals for grid supremacy in the coaching field. The first meeting of Jones and Rockne was back in 1921, when the Iowa Cornhuskers kicked the ducket into the next state by upsetting Notre Dame, 10-7. Aubrey Devine was the captain and quarterback of the Iowa team. This game goes down in Howard Jones’ diary as one of his greatest victories. '
With the signing of Jones as head coach at Southern California, a new page in football history was started, and after looking over the material during the first year he asked for an intersectional contest with Notre Dame. So the first game was played at the Coliseum. It was in this game that the foxy Knute Rockne put little
his master’s degree. In the fall of the same year he started teaching at Marquette University.
In 1927, he came to Notre Dame where, in the past three years, he has given courses in lyric poetry, survey of English literature, middle English, and Chaucer. This year he is lecturing in Shakespeare and English drama. While at Columbia, Mr. Rauch edited the Spokesman, the literary ’ quarterly of the college. He is keenly interested in college journalism, and, under his direction, it is felt that the high standard of our local publications is sure to be maintained.
Parisien in at the half and one of his left-handed passes caught the Trojan secondary defense asleep and the game was won. This tied the rivalry between Jones and Rockne up tighter ye.t The score of the game was 13-12. After this close battle the east and middle west began to realize that the far west could produce teams that ranked with any of them.
In the return game played in 1927 at Soldier’s field before 117,000 milling and jamming fans, Rockne sprang into the lead and won again by a 7-6 score. The only excuse the Trojans had for this defeat was the muddy field, something unknown in Los Angeles. These two intersectional contests cemented the greatest athletic friendship of recent years between the schools, and another game was requested, so both universities signed on the dotted line to meet again. This time it was to be in Los Angeles again.
It was a hot fall day and the Coliseum was packed to capacity plus. Southern California was hailed as the greatest team on the coast. Although the Ramblers had had only a mediocre season, still the intense rivalry between the two teams spurred them on and the game took on a national aspect. It was a Southern California day, and the Trojans walked off the
PICK AND O’MEARA JOIN WRANGLERS CLUB
John Pick and Thomas O’Meara, sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters, were formally introduced as members of the Wranglers club at a banquet held by that organization last Monday evening, December 1, at the Joan Tea room in South Bend. The main speakers of the evening were J. Edward Phelan, president of the club, and William Kirby.
SPECTATORS HEAR PAPER BY JOHN PICK
At the meeting of the Spectators in the journalism room of the library Thursday evening, December 4, John Pick read a paper on Nietsche, the German philosopher. The paper aroused much discussion among the members who asked Mr. Pick to prove some of the apparent contradictions concerning Nietche’s philosophy.
Mr. Emil Telfel and Mr. Thaddeus Xelowski will read papers at the meeting next Thursday evening.
field on the top side of a 27-14 score. They were entirely happy, for they had defeated Notre Dame foi- the first time and incidentally had again tied the coaches’ wins at two all.
Last year the Mighty Ramblers of South Bend, before a record crowd at Soldiers’ field, defeated the Thundering Herd of Los Angeles by one point, the score board showing 13 points for Notre Dame, and 12 for Southern California when the last whistle was blown. This year Notre Dame will enter the game as favorites due to its clean slate, while S. C. has dropped one game, that to the powerful Washington State aggregation. Once more Rockne and Jones will match wits and again tens of thousands of spectators will watch the warriors battle for intersectional supremacy. The outcome will only be determined after the last whistle has blown and the fifth game between the great middle western university and the pride of Southern California has been put down in the grid books as finished.
We of Southern California are proud to be the only western university on Notre Dame’s schedule, and we feel that to be there shows that you respect our power. Oui- relations have always been of the highest grade, and it is the sincere hope of all Trojans that these annual battles between our universities will continue.
304
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
And Still Another Going Wrong
At St. Edward’s university in Texas, a Student’s Activities council has been established.
Here’s The Proof
Tests conducted at the University of Minnesota show that students study better when listening to jazz music on the radio. It was found that there was less distraction when the loud speaker was vibrating.
These Poor Co-eds
At Idaho, Sunday dates must terminate at 7:00 p. m. All women students will be permitted to ride in automobiles between the hours of 4:00 p. m. and 6:00 p. m.
No Smoking
Most of the papers this page receives from colleges for women bemoan the lack of rules permitting them to smoke. Freshmen in such colleges are tempted to go to state universities, and upperclassmen argue that smoking on the sly is beneath the dignity of a modern young woman. They smoke anyhow; why not make it legitimate ? The same might hold for the 18th Amendment, hey ?
Cheap At Half The Price
A University of Wisconsin graduate made tests over the last three years which show that the actual playing time of a football game was 12 minutes, 22 seconds. He kept a stop watch in his fist, recording only the time during which the ball was in motion. This article, appearing in the Scientific American, laments the fact that much time is wasted and that a spectator paying five dollars for a ticket to a game is really paying $24.25 per hour to see the ball in motion. At $3 for a ticket, he is paying $14.55 an hour. The Scalpers and their victims probably think that some games are worth the price.
Yale Speaks Out
The Yale Daily News is much perturbed by the news that next year Yale will be forced to play eight football games, only one less than the games played this year. The editorial speaks of football as an industry in which the team is formed into a high-powered machine by a series of practice games. The suggestion is made that a team play only two or three traditional rivals “who would be willing to agree that football is, after all, a sport and not primarily a war or a big business venture.” Yale should take the lead, continues the editorial, “debunking the football.”
What The Well-dressed Man Will Wear
According to the Daily Nebraskan, the well-dressed man will wear, this Fall: 1 coat, 1 vest, 1 pair of trousers, 1 shirt, 1 tie, 1 undershirt and shorts, 1 pair of socks, 1 pair of shoes, 1 topcoat (possibly an ulster, huh?), 1 hat, etc. Handkerchiefs, garters, belts and suspenders are optional.
Brown Bear Glides
The Brown university Glider club is a very promising organization. The club has an instructor; it has a glider; it has $200 in the treasury; and the club members are all so anxious to get “up in the air” that they have paid their dues without a fuss.
Education By Hook Or Crook
A student at the University of Toronto recently spent a night in the brig upon a charge of smuggling. The jailed one, when questioned by the judge, said that his college education depended upon the success of his bootlegging activities.
O Tempora, O Mores!
Dartmouth has abandoned freshman hazing; five faculty members have served more than 50 years at Princeton; 190,000 candy bars were consumed at Nebraska last year, and the Cornell Sun thinks that “collegiate” is a word that may be applied to us, although it now means something entirely different than when co-eds thought the song by that title was “cute.”
Much As We Hate To
We must talk about the co-eds again. They always seem to be up to something. Now at Ohio Wesleyan university, they had a riot the other day. Compacts, lipsticks, blacked feminine eyes, and torn dresses were the result. The battle between the sophomore women and the freshmen dittoes started when the sophomores decided to enforce the tradition that freshmen women wear berets. The frosh ran the sophs off the campus and into the city streets. It ended when the police department sent a call to the fire department for water and threatened the battlers with tear-gas bombs. The dear, sweet things took the hint.
Would You Believe It?
Someone published recently the, results of an investigation on how much money was spent by men students at the University of Washington. November 25 saw the close of a three-week beard-growing contest by the sophomores of that university. The sophs must have been so shocked by the disclosures of the investigation that they decided to economize on shaves at least.	'
The Notre Dame Scholastic
305
♦ THE WINE
Bewail Joe Dripp, The Stevens gyp.
He tried to walk Out with his grip.
QUICK WINKS
The girls’-head cover Joe Lopker has drawn for the Juggler’s Christmas number . . . Those who know say it’s the best thing he’s done and worthy of the big-time magazine field . . . The Bard in Chicago Saturday morning wondering whether to buy spats and look like a racketeer or get galoshes and look like a street-cleaner . . . And ending up by getting both . . . ’Sallright, they went on a charge account ... Walt Scholand, ’30, who was here on an over-sized week-end, traveling east . . . “Spike” McAdams is reported to have had a swell time with the reserve team on the Thanksgiving trip to Nashville . . . We’re just going on like this, choking the sobs behind our smile, until we get the cleaners’ bill for the week-end debris . . . Laugh, clown, laugh . . . That’s what we get for sleeping in our new galoshes . . . Add another to the famous questions of the ages . . . “Why do we always have to be standing on the curb when a Yellow Cab starts to splash mud?”
ON RETIRING
I dropped my shoes upon the floor, I gazed at them an hour or more— Looking at me, you would have thought I’d never seen a shoe before.
I turned the covers on the bed,
I fixed the pillows for my head, And then I put my slippers on, And paced and paced the floor instead.
I dreiv my knees up on a chair, I knelt a pious hour there— But it was all false ivorship, dear, Because you’re not intended for a prayer.
—Camries.
We have at hand a scathing, scorching, scrunching indictment of the Scholastic which one of our assistant managing editors found in the Main building. This is straight. Among the twenty points included we note that this publication’s “main purpose seems to be to knock the University’s campus organization.” Whatever that is. “Its heated editorials attract considerable attention from students.” Horrible crime: “Its style of writing is an attempt at the modern.” Shameful, indeed. “It has too high an opinion of itself.” So there, Mr. Scholastic.
BEAUTY
I have seen
The splendor of sunrise
Above snow-capped hills;
I have watched	■
The shimmering gleam of moonplay
On summer seas;
I have felt
The majesty of dawn
’Midst the lark’s mounting trills,
And yet—
Beside the blue-bells in your eyes, And the dear red curve of your lips, What are these?
—Attache.
Our unknown critic further lambasts the feeble Scholastic- by affirming dolefully that “Some of its criticisms harm the student body.” We’re sinking lower and lower. “It is a waste of money.” Referred to the business staff. “The facts it records, might, if unnoted, go unknown.” Surely a profound criticism of a school paper. “It might profitably be issued at a more opportune time.” On the night before Christmas, perhaps? “Certain of its departments might well be dropped.” The “Wink” trembles. “It usually manages to be interesting despite the staleness of much of its news.” A break at last! And just when we thought the poor thing would have to be discontinued. It will never be as long as we keep finding stuff as funny as that to put into it.
COMPLAINT TO OVER-ZEALOUSNESS
“Your ivarmth of love I can feel, Yet you are the only one That always bores me to tears,” Said the icicle to the sun.
—Vagabond Lover.
Vagabond Lover. Hmm. We’ll shoot the first man who mentions Rudy Vallee.
We have just received a suggestion that we undertake a campaign for entering the University cow at the Live Stock Show in Chicago. We can think of nothing which should please the faculty better. Just a football school, eh? We can show ’em. Let’s bring down the Notre Dame cow and give our agricultural school a break. Show’ the farmers what the Irish city slickers can do with other animals besides mustangs, goats, panthers, bulldogs, wildcats, and Army mules. And if further proof of our agricultural attainments be needed, w^e shall enter as Exhibit A the inmates of Sorin sub in a bull session.
• —The Beamy Bard.
306
Dame Scholastic
CAMPLJ CLUDJ
DOME
According to Editor Paul J. Hallinan of the Dome, a feature of this year’s book will be the inclusion of the rosters of the various campus organizations. In this way each member of the club will receive recognition. Early last week cards were sent out to the secretaries of the recognized campus clubs. Any secretary who did not receive one should send his club’s roster to W. L. Raddatz, 450 Morrissey hall, as soon as possible.
HYDROGEN AND PILLS
Chemistry hall was the place of the last meeting of the PHARMACY club. Tuesday was the day. Edward Draves read a paper on “Hydrogen Ion Concentration,” while Charles Quigley spoke on “Pills of Ten Thousand * Efficacies.” Interesting and well received were both papers.
The Pharmacists closed the meeting by making final plans for a banquet to be held tomorrow evening at the Rose Marie tea room.
BULL FIGHTS
The last meeting of the SPANISH club was held in the old Law building. After Mr. Guiffre had read the minutes of the previous meeting Edward Roxas, Spanish sophomore, gave members a detailed description of Spain’s famed bull fights. , The Roxas talk was made more interesting by the introduction of pictures.
At the close of the meeting, members asked questions in Spanish and English.
THREE GOALS
More than twenty-five members of the TEXAS club met in the old Law building last Wednesday evening to choose a chaplain, elect a secretary, and decide upon a smoker. Under the direction of Texan President Joseph Dunne they did all three. Chaplain is the Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C. Chester Barbeck of San Antonio is secretary. The smoker is to be held this evening in the K. of C. room in the basement of Walsh hall.
Last Wednesday’s meeting was the first of the year for the TEXAS club.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The COMMERCE FORUM will hold a meeting in the north basement of the library at 7:30 this evening. Forum Secretary L. T. Lane announces that important matters will be discussed.
The BUFFALO club will meet tonight at 7:30 in the old Law building.
The CLEVELAND club will meet sometime next week to make final plans for the club’s Christmas dance and for a special car to Cleveland before the Chris'tmas holidays.
AIR-MINDED MINNESOTANS
At its meeting last Tuesday, the MINNESOTA club almost definitely decided to charter two airplanes to carry impatient Minnesotans home for the Christmas holidays. This is probably the first time in the history of clubs at Notre Dame that this has happened.
The MINNESOTA club Christmas dance will be held at the Hotel Lowry in St. Paul. Orchestra for the occasion will undoubtedly be that of Ted Weems, nationally known to owners of phonographs and radios. As yet no definite date has been decided upon for the dance.
The next meeting of the club will be held Sunday morning, at which final plans for the dance and the trip home will be decided upon.
PLANS
Last evening the NEW JERSEY club held a meeting to make final plans for its banquet in the lay faculty dining hall on Tuesday, December 9. The principal purpose of the banquet is to welcome the new members. The speaker will be the Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., formerly of Paterson, N. J.
DANCE
This week’s meeting of the DETROIT club was a continuation of the club’s last meeting which decided upon Detroit’s Book-Cadillac Hotel as the place for the club’s Christmas dance. Members gathered in the old Law building on last Tuesday to make more definite plans for the night of December 30 when the dance will be held.
SCHEDULES
Clubs on the campus have been working together during the past week to pick a definite meeting time in order to comply wit hthe order of the President council. As soon as each club has selected its time of meeting it will retain that schedule for the remainder of the year.
BODY
President William Dreux of the FRENCH club reviewed the various parts of the human body at the club’s meeting last Monday evening. Since its foundation some weeks ago the club has each week studied a few of the parts of the body. To secure credit for being in the club members must turn in a paper at the next meeting on the matter studied so far. In preparation for this examination was last Monday’s review.
The suggestion made by the Reverend Conrad Hoffman at the last meeting concerning a French newspaper was dropped an account of a dearth of funds.
The next meeting of the FRENCH club will be on Monday, December 15. On account of the holiday there will be no meeting next week.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
307
EIIHIT PAGE
ANTIDOTE FOR LETHARGY
Football seasons cannot last forever; the doldrums of the winter months will soon be with us. If new outlets for student energies are not soon found, we face the usual winter of pool, bowling, downtown shows, and “bull sessions” which have perenially settled on the campus. Luckily for us we have the opportunity this winter of participating more fully than ever in one of the most valuable of extra-curricular activities—The University theater. Already Washington hall, too long dark and empty, is springing into new activity.
The University theater is no abstraction, existing only in the pages of the University catalogue. It is the melting pot for the talent of the campus. In addition to entertaining, it aims to develop expressional talent that lies undeveloped in the students. Men are selected for parts in the plays as much for their expressed willingness to become acquainted with the mysteries of the stage as for their already acquired ability. Artists, musicians, writers, actors, and those who would be actors— all can play an important part in the productions which are being planned for the winter months. When one considers that last year an unknown freshman played one of the leading roles in that excellent play, “Journey’s End,” and that others with no previous experience starred in the same production, the cosmopolitan character of the University theater becomes doubly apparent. No student, even if he has been at Notre Dame only since September, need feel that he is not welcome to participate in the theater’s affairs. In fact, the greater the interest shown by the students, the greater will be the scope of the University theater’s activities during the coming months.
The cultural influence of the University theater is more widespread than appears on the surface. Students in the drama classes of Professor Phillips are afforded the opportunity to submit their fledgeling dramatic attempts to a baptism of fire before a student audience. Those who are in Shakespeare classes find that an acted version of Shakespeare adds to their appreciation of the humanity and genius of the world’s foremost dramatist. In fact, “Twelfth Night,” now being rehearsed by the theater, is at the same time being studied by the Shakespeare classes of the University. After all, Shakespeare wrote his plays to be acted; the written play tells only half
his story; we cannot appreciate his plays to the fullest unless we see the acted version before us on the stage. Nothing can break down the awe of Shakespeare in the average student so well as a Shakespearean play, which allows the student to get on speaking terms with the true worth and interest of Shakespeare.
The prospects for a Notre Dame repertory company were never so bright as at present. We have in school this year almost the entire casts of- “Julius Caesar” and “The Taming of the Shrew,” successes of previous years. With the “Merchant of Venice” under consideration, and “Twelfth Night” already in process of development, a rather comprehensive assortment of Shakespearean productions are available. Professor Phillips’ play-writing classes have brought forth a number of one-act plays, the best of which will be produced by' the theater in the coming months. Choicest of all the plays written under the direction of Professor Phillips is the three-act play, “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,” written by Richard Sullivan of the class of 1930. This play, which won the Mitchel award for the best original drama written by a Notre Dame student, has been considered so excellent that it will be produced at Notre Dame this winter. We hope that the theater will also produce a play direct from Broadway, such as “Journey’s End,” which was a tremendous campus hit last year. Let Broadway give us another “Journey’s End,” and we feel sure that the University theater will present it on the campus. This program for the winter months is the most ambitious in years; it gives promise of an unparalleled triumph of dramatics at Notre Dame.
There is no reason that a play which has been carefully prepared for a month or more should be left idle after it has been presented for two nights in Washington hall. Other groups in South Bend and the surrounding country, such as high schools and civic organizations, would be only too eager to see a revival of the theater. There is no doubt that they would support a Notre Dame dramatic company. In the last few years a bare handful of good plays have come to South Bend. If the University theater could present to these people a varied selection of fine plays a great step would be taken to convince these people that Notre Dame is known for a variety of activities.
308
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
TROJANS TEST 1NOTRE DAME
Perfect Season is Aim of Rockmen as They Meet Southern Cal.
THE final yardage of the straightaway in a hurdle race is always the most exciting and so it will be with Notre Dame tomorrow. Nine high hurdles have the Fighting Irish covered, just barely nicking the last two but luckily staying put, and now the tenth is the final long dash to the tape. The contest tomorrow with Southern California ’way out on the Pacific coast finds both teams traveling neck ’n’ neck; Notre Dame wants to win to keep her record spotless and the Trojans are lapping their tongues deep in the bowl of atonement with unkindly expectations of making-amends for the close defeat they suffered last year on Soldiers’ field.
Fans of the golden west find a strong team from the “east” pitted against a very powerful team from the west, one which has come up very strongly since its opening contests, scoring altogether 382 points against its opponents’ 39.
The standard of the Southern California offense is amply shown in the figures that tell the tale of an average of 557 yards from scrimmage gained
B’			
•	PROBABLE LINE-UP		
z	TOMORROW		
=	Notre Dame		So. Calif. =
z	Host	LE	Wilcox e
z	Culver	LT	Hall |
?	Metzger	LG	Baker E
5	Yarr	C	Williamson E
	Kassis	RG	Shaw E
z	Kurth	RT	E. Smith E
	Conley (c)	RE	Arbelbide E
z	Carideo	QB	Duffield I
s	Schwartz	LH	Apsit :
=	Brill	RH	Pinckert E
=	Mullins	FB	Musick E

in the eight games before they met the University of Washington eleven on Thanksgiving day.
Howard Jones, Trojan mentor, is another advocate of the Glenn Warner wing back system and has developed a bone-crushing backfield to add injury to insult. Southern California will be the sixth opponent Coach Rockne and his men have met this season that uses the Warner system. Navy, Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Northwestern and Army have all gone down to defeat under the charges of Rockne’s rough riders. And as our good friend Roundy has oft repeated, “write your own ticket.”
Jones’ main trouble has been in deciding which quarterback to use; he has two of the country’s finest in Marshall Duffield and Orv Mohler. The former will no doubt get the starting assignment mainly because of his greater experience. Duffield is a fine field general and a high class ball carrier.
An almost sure bet for All-American honors is Ernest Pinckert who will be at the right halfback position for the Trojans. There is one assurance that Marty Brill and Pinckert will be carrying on a little duel of their own for both are blocking backs and only lately this season have come into prominence as ball-carriers of no mean ability. As running mate Duffield will have Apsit, who may be remembered as the lad that caught the pass from Duffield which accounted for the first score in last year’s game. At fullback will be Musick, also of last year’s outfit.
On the line at the ends will be Wilcox and Arbelbide, the latter another prominent choice for national honors. Arbelbide is big, fast and aggressive; a bear on offense and a veritable stone wall on defense. Tackles will be Hall and E. Smith, with Baker and Shaw at the guards. Baker is generally accepted as one of the nation’s finest, a fast running guard and a heady man on defense. Wil
liamson will hold down the center job, adding considerable weight to the heavy Southern California front wall. , Coach Jones’ boys go into the tilt tomorrow with only a 7 to 6 defeat at the hands of the strong Washington State outfit blemishing their otherwise perfect record. The other eight games on the schedule were won very decisively; Los Angeles branch of the University of California was the first victim, 52 to 0; Oregon State next, 27 to 7; Utah Aggies, 65 to 0; Stanford, 41 to 12; Denver, 33 to 13; California, 74 to 0; Hawaii, 52 to 0, and the University of Washington was whitewashed 32 to 0 on Thanksgiving.
Odds are about even as the two teams take to the gridiron tomorrow, the west favoring her own sons and the east and middle west banking on the Rockmen to come through for their 19th consecutive -win in two years. And with that win will come automatically the ? — well Captain Tom Conley and his teammates will be fighting for more than just a victory tomorrow. Speed will mean a lot on this last straight-away race and both teams have shown that they possess it in copious quantities.
(■jiiM'tteiiiiititiiiiiiiiimtttmiiiiutiimiiHiitttitiitiifiiiiiiii
j STATISTICS OF THE 1
I	GAME	|
j First Downs:	e
|	Notre	Dame,	5.	=
:	Army,	3.	1
f Yds. Gained From Scrimmage: i
:	Notre	Dame,	188.	=
=	Army, 63.	=
|	Forward Passes:	=
|	Notre	Dame,	1 completed of 8 z
|	for 3 yards.	E
|	Army, 1 completed	of 3 for no |
f	gain.	:
|	Penalties:	e
E	Notre Dame, 20 yards.	e
!	Army, 45 yards.	:
Eb................  mi..............
The Notre Dame Scholastic
309
"WE'LL HAVE FAIR TEAMS,
Coach George E. Keogan
I OPINE COACHES
Keogan and Nicholson Have
Same View Regarding
Their Squads
Coach John P. Nicholson
On Monday night the sport curtain will roll back once again and the basketball season of 1930-31 will be officially under way, with Notre Danie opposing Kalamazoo college of Michigan. This year’s squad faces the toughest schedule any Notre Dame team has ever encountered and there is going to be quite a lot of speculation as to just how this year’s varsity is going to shape up. Coach Keogan has stated that he expects to have a “pretty fair team” and whenever he is this optimistic we may reasonably expect exceptionally good results.
Donovan, Smith, McCarthy, Kizer „ and Busch of last year’s team were lost at graduation and their absence will be sorely felt. There is, however, a wealth of new material which should, before the season is well under way, make a representative team. Five letter men have returned, among whom are Crowe, Newbold, Gavin, De Cook and Tom Conley. Crowe and Newbold at the forwards with DeCook at center appear at this writing to form the nucleus of the present Varsity.
The entire personnel of the squad as announced by Mr. Keogan includes as forwards: Crowe, Gavin, Newbold, Schumacher, and Teders; centers: De Cook, Schrader, Butorac, Thune; guards: Jaskwich, Conley, Ferris, Baldwin, Staab, Johnson, Burns and
Oelerich. The starting lineup will include, De Cook at center, Ferris and Johnson at guards, and Crowe and Newbold will start at the forwards.
The first five teams to oppose the Blue and Gold five are Kalamazoo, Dec. 8; Northwestern, Dec. 12, at home; Purdue, Dec. 15, at Lafayette; Pennsylvania, Dec. 19, at home; Illinois Wesleyan, Dec. 30 at Bloomington. The complete schedule will appear shortly in the Scholastic. Games have been aranged with five Big Ten schools including Purdue, last year’s champions; Army, Pittsburgh and the national champion squad of Syracuse.	'
TRACK PROSPECTS FAIR
“A fair team — not a world-beater —but pretty fair.” So says Coach John P. Nicholson of his 1931 Notre Dame track team. A few good men have been lost but at least one veteran in each event will be back again this year, and many promising candidates from last year’s frosh squad are out for practice. The men received their equipment last Monday afternoon and will work out three times each week until after the Christmas holidays when practice will get under way in earnest.
The high jump is “Nick’s” biggest problem for the indoor season. John
Abernathy, co-holder of the Central Intercollegiate record for the event, failed to return to school, leaving Bob Darling the only varsity man trying out for the team. Darling was out of competition for the greater part of last year and as a result is in rather poor condition.
McCormick and Nichols have had experience in the sprints and will be aided by Kelly and Dilling of the freshman team. Captain O’Brien and Bailie, both holders of records in the hurdles, are starting their third year of competition. Bailie is also available for the broad jump, as are Ab-batemarco and D i 11 i n g, who made names for themselves in this event as freshmen last year.
In the quarter-mile will be Alex Wilson, British Empire champion, Bradley, Scanlon, and Kuhn with, varsity experience, Mickey Macbeth, also of Canadian Olympic fame, and Kelly, who is in collegiate competition for the first time. The loss of Captain Joe Abbott will be felt in this event and in the half-mile. Joe Quigley and Brant Little are proven halfmilers and Macbeth and Wilson may be used in this event if the occasion demands. “Nick” is depending upon Quigley, however, to bear the lion’s share of the burden in the mile to-
(Continued on Page 314)
310
The Notre Dame Scholastic
KAYDETS SINK IN MUDDY GRID UNDER FIGHTING IRISH ATTACK
NOTRE DAME 7, Army 6. And Notre Dame still trods the trail of unbeaten football teams. For the third successive year Notre Dame has taken the measure of the Cadets in this annual grid classic. Playing on the rain-soaked sod of Soldier field, Chicago, the Fighting Irish annexed their eighteenth straight victory.
It was Notre Dame’s game from start to finish but not until the last four minutes were the Rockets able to score. On the same play that gave Notre Dame a victory over Northwestern a week before, Marchmont Schwartz galloped 55 yards behind perfect interference for a touchdown. Frank Carideo place-kicked the extra point that won the game.
Army scored on a blocked punt just six plays later. King, left end for the Cadets, leaped in the way of Carideo’s punt and fell on the ball behind the Notre Dame goal line. Army sent in Broshous, their drop-kick specialist, to try for the extra point but he was smothered by five Notre Dame linemen before he could get the ball away.
The heavy going made anything but straight football impossible and both teams resorted to punting and watching for fumbles. Carideo gave the Rockets a big advantage with his kicks, averaging 42 yards for 14 punts, and on two occasions kicking more than 65 yards.
Notre Dame’s shock troops started the game and outplayed the Cadets during the first quarter. They penetrated to the Army 10-yard line but lacked the punch to score.
In the second quarter the Notre Dame varsity entered the game, and Army substituted a new backfield. All the playing during this quarter was done on the Army half of the field and Notre Dame had the ball on the 12-yard line when the half ended.
Twice during the third quarter the Fighting Irish threatened, but they lost the ball once on a fumble and again on downs. Notre Dame recovered Stecker’s fumble on the Army 11-yard line as the quarter ended. Schwartz tossed a lateral to Brill which put the ball on the six, Brill hit guard for two yards, and then
Schwartz was stopped on the line of scrimmage. Carideo dropped back to try for a field goal but his kick barely left the ground.
The ball was brought out to the 20-yard line, and after two exchanges of punts the fireworks started. A clever sequence of plays drew the left side of the Army line out of position. A simple off-tackle smash executed to perfection and Schwartz was off for 55 yards and a Touchdown. The sloppy grid prevented any side-stepping, Schwartz depending on speed alone, but that was enough. This run of Schwartz’s was only a sample of what might have occurred quite frequently had the footing been good.
Army’s touchdown was the result of relaxation on the part of the Notre Dame linemen. The Fighting Irish forwards crashed through on the next play so decisively that they atoned in full for their one mistake of the game.
The Cadets’ heavy line had a distinct advantage because of the condition of the field but they were outplayed during all four quarters. The West Pointers failed to make a first down in the second half, and two of the three that they made during the first half were the results of penalties against Notre Dame. Carlmark and
The Fastest Way
There is a necessity, at this particular time of year, for considerable hurried travel to and from Chicago. The hourly service of America’s fastest electric railway meets the demands of the busiest student; the appointments and service of its dining car and club car trains answer the needs of the most meticulous.

Trains every hour on the hour to doivntown Chicago
YOUR EYES
Have them examined every year
QCCASIONALLY we hear someone boast of the extreme long life of his glasses — as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
L^MDNTREES
102 W. Washington St.
2221-2 S. Michigan St.
j

The Notre Dame Scholastic
311
Messinger, the Army ends, caused many Notre Dame plays to go awry, but they were out of the picture completely when Schwartz was galloping towards their goal line. Stecker was the outstanding Army player and is undoubtedly one of the best defensive backs of the year.
This was the seventeenth game between Notre Dame and West Point and became Notre Dame’s twelfth victory. Army has won only four of the contests and one game ended in a scoreless tie. Army’s defeat was the first of the season for them and also the first that they have suffered under the regime of their new coach, Major Sasse.
COLUMBIA AND N.B.C. TO BROADCAST GAME
It is practically certain that the football huddle will be in favor at Notre Dame tomorrow with the definite announcement today that both-the Columbia and National Broadcasting systems will carry the Notre Dame-Southern California game. The broadcasts with introductory information will begin at about 3:4-5 central standard time over both networks. Ernie Smith, premier coast announcer, will describe the game for Columbia
ECONOMY!
WARREN AND STAHR TO OFFICIATE AT GAME
Coach George E. Keogan has announced the officials for the opening basketball game of the 1930 Notre Dame season with Kalamazoo next Monday evening. They will be H. C. Warren of Chicago and John Stahr of South Bend. The game will begin at eight o’clock ■ and students will use the south entrance of the gymnasium, presenting their athletic books to gain admittance.
SPEED!
Notre Dame
Army
O’Brien ............LE.......... Carlmark
Hoffman ............LT............. Price
Greeney ............LG............ Humber
Butler ..............C............ Miller
Pierce .............RG............. Trice
McManmon ...........RT............ Saurez
Mahoney ............RE......... Messenger
Jaskwich ...........QB............ Bowman
Lukats .............LH............ Fields
O'Connor.............RH........ Sebastian
Hanley .............FB.............. Herb
Save the Price of a Gift!
COLONIAL STAGES
The Busses The Students Ride
Score by periods:
Notre Dame .............0	0	0	7—7
Army ..............0	0	0	6—6
Touchdowns—Schwartz, Trice. Points after touchdown—Carideo.
Substitutes: Notre Dame—Mullins foi- Hanley, Schwartz for Lukats, Brill for O’Connor; Carideo for Jaskwich, Kosky for O’Brien. Culver for Hoffman, Kassis for Greeney. Yarr for Butler, Metzger for Pierce, Kurth for McManmon, and Conley for Mahoney.
Army—Carver for Bowman. Stecker for Fields, Kilday for Herb, King for Carlmark, Malloy for Messenger, Frentzel for Sebastian, Armstrong for Suarez, Summerfelt for Humber, McWilliams for Carver, and Broshus for Frentzel.
Officials—Referee, Joe Magidsohn (Michigan). Umpire, John Schommer (Chicago). Field judge, Nick Kearns (DePaul). Head linesman, J. J. Lipp (Chicago).
FROSH FOOTBALL MEN
OUT FOR CAGE TEAM
The second call for freshmen basketball was issued this week to give the members of the frosh football squad opportunity of trying out for the yearling cage squad. The fifteen men who remained after the last cut made by Coach Clarence “Ooney” Donovan have been reporting for daily workouts this week along with the newcomers and another cut in the ranks of the yearlings .will be made shortly. A final and last cut will probably be announced just prior to the Christmas vacation.
TYPICAL LOW FARES One Way. Ro. Trip
LOW RATES EVERYWHERE One Way. Ro. Trip
New York ......$19.00	$34.20
Pittsburgh ..... 9.00	16.20
Cleveland ...... 6.75	12.15
Youngstown .... 7.65	13.75
Buffalo ...... 10.25	18.45
Detroit ....... 3.75	6.75
Toledo.......... 3.75	6.75
Cincinnati ...$	5.95	$10.70
Louisville..... 6.00	10.80
Nashville .... 10.00	18.00
St. Louis.......6.00	10.80
Chicago ......‘2.25	4.05
Columbus ...... 7.50	13.50
Dayton ......... 6.00	10.80
Reliable Connections
All reclining chairs All Steel Busses Frequent Schedules Busses Everywhere
Tickets and information see
Leo Kletzly, / Morrissey Hall
SAFETY!
COMFORT!
312
The Notre Dame Scholastic


■fa—a-----a--a a—a-----a—a---a—a---a—a—a a-----a a---a a---a.^.
Baby Grand Portable Radio
Just the Radio you want for your room.
Complete $68.00
Philco Baby Grand Console Complete $88.00
Terms if desired.
j	Full line Men’s Furnishings	f
I	-
I	School Representative:	I
| JIM BAKER, 164 St. Edward’s Hall I
I	|
I	MICHIGAN at COLFAX	I
♦-----—-----—----------—------—------------
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage
G
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK [ s
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	I
BANK	I
I
FIRST NATIONAL BANK	|
E
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	|
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS	I
BANK	I
I
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST	।
COMPANY	।
UNION TRUST COMPANY	j
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	I
-----*--------------------------•------•------------------
IVinter Time Sport Equipment Needs
CCM Shoe Skates, pr.............$8.25 to	$12.25
Skiis, all sizes, pr............ 1.00 to	8.00
Leather Jackets................. 9.00 to	12.50
Skating Gloves, pr.............. 1.00 to	4.00
Sweaters ....................... 4.00	to	12.00
Sweat Shirts, Sweat Sox, Chess Sets, Ping Pong Sets.
A NEW FOOTBALL GAME “QUARTERBACK”—$2.00
Recreation Equipment Co.
THE “RECO” STORE
Leaders in Sporting Goods 113 N. Main Street
I I I
I j
I I E
I I
I i i i E
1
E I = I
I I
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY —U. S. ARMY STORE
330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Hot Specials
For Cold Wet Days
Men’s 4 Buckle Galoshes $4.00	on
Values	O Jr
E
E
Men ’s Field Shoes TWO FULL ® DOUBLE SOLES
I
E i E I *
I _____________________________________
| MEN’S FELT-SLIPPERS —ALL SIZES 59c E i MEN’S FLEECE-DOWN-UNION SUITS $1.39
WOOL-SWEATERS $1.95 to $4.95	1
--a—a—--—a—------------—---------——
The Notre Dame Scholastic
313
i
Splinters From the Press Box
RULEMAKERS RULE.
Even our own Knute Rockne is not the only one having his troubles with the rulemakers who apparently are trying to do their best to rob athletic teams of their key point of success.
Mr. Rockne has his shift troubles and the Cleveland Rosenbloom’s, winners of the American professional basketball title for two successive seasons, also have theirs. It is somewhat closely aligned to Mr. Rockne’s trouble, inasmuch as it concerns the pivot play.
The members of the American pro league got together in lawful session and counted out this particular brilliant play. Now it so happens that “Dutch” Dehnert, member of the Cleveland team and former Celtic ace, has gotten this play down to ultra perfection. Putting two and two together it is relatively easy to understand why the rulemakers ruled the pivot play out of competition.
THE KEOGANITES.
Almost like an orphan in a storm, Coach Keogan’s basketball men face their opening game with apparently no interest being shown by the student body. The lateness and terrific interest of the football season in a way softens the non-enthusiasm being shown the basketball team.
The loss of Donovan and Smith, the finest pair of guards the middle ■west has seen in many years, is a distinct blow to the team’s chances. Not quite so low, however, when one is informed that Keogan has several ambitious young lads ready to step into the places left vacant by Donovan and Smith. They deserve more than an even break.	'
OUR DOPE BUCKET.
This cold weather has frozen up the bucket somewhat but there are still a few heavy icicles hanging around the sides. The biggest chunk we find is the New York University vs. Colgate tussle-designed for some charity pur
pose. It gives Macaluso another chance to run his scoring column higher but also enables us to pull a sleeper and pick the N. Y. U. team to win by a nose.
Western Maryland is still undefeated but not untied in three years of play and their traditional rivals, Maryland, will try to blackmail them tomorrow. Detroit goes south to New Orleans and ought to bring back some smiles from Loyola. Florida and Tennessee will try their disrobing act again this year; last season they doffed jerseys; it became so hot. Tennessee will this time, not Florida.
Lest we forget Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish are out on the west coast
| PROBABLE SCORES 1 j TOMORROW	j
E	N. D. 21, So. California 14. =
E	Pennsylvania 13, Navy 7.	=
E	Florida 20, Tennessee 6.	=
Z	x
:	Georgia 13, Georgia Tech	0.	E
= North Carolina 14, Duke 7.	‘ E
|	N. Y. U. 7, Colgate 6.	E
E West. Maryland 14, Maryland 0. j E	Rice 20, Iowa 7.	=
E	Detroit 14, Loyola	6.	=
H	□

Fresh Smokes at Cut Prices
HELLO MEN!
«
40c box of 50 Cigarettes
30c
Old Gold, Camel, Chesterfield and Lucky
S
i I 3
3
8 I 8
I I i I a
a
Strike.
15c Smoking Tobaccos, 2 for..................
5c Cigars, 6 for........
box of 50 ...........
7c Cigars, 4 for .......
box of 50............
10c Cigars, 3 for.... box of 50...............
13c Cigars, 5 for. box of 50..............
15c Cigars, 4 for _.... box of 50 _________..
... 25c ... 25c $1.98 ...25c $2.95 ... 25c $3.75 ... 50c $4.85 .. 50c $5.85
3
3
3
3
8 I 8 I
I
I I * STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
3 8 I
I I 8
3
8
8
*
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
3
3
I
3
a
314
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ready for Southern California tomorrow afternoon. If the field is fast you can look for high scoring by both teams, but not too much. Comparison of scores would give Navy the advantage over Pennsylvania but don’t be misled; the Quakers have another good game left in their system.
COACH-WRITERS.
No other football season has seen such an abundance of famous (and infamous) grid mentors turn to the noble profession of newspaper writing. Apparently most of these so-called “experts” did not have a successful season planned for them and they turned to the next opportunity.
It wouldn’t be so bad if the coaches confined themselves to a critical comment of the season, especially about the entire country’s teams. Instead the newspapers are being cluttered up with explanations and flimsy reasons for this or that team being robbed of a victory or even moral victory.
We hope that by next year the syndicates will have ferreted out the good and the bad. The bad can stick to coaching but we’d like to see the good combine both — if they are able to slight neither in doing both.
GIVE ’EM A HAND.
We are certainly proud of the way Coach Rockne has brought the Fighting Irish up to their 18th consecutive win; and not a bit less proud of his very capable assistants.
What Rockne feared most at the beginning of the present season was the lack of first string linemen from last year’s team. It was enough to discourage even the most hardened. Rock relied upon his chief assistants to bring, the line up to the standard which was needed to match the fast backfield he knew was already in the melting pot ready for use.
“Hunk” Anderson as line coach has instilled the fighting spirit into the boys and brought the guards and tackles into a state of development which is nothing short of miraculous. To Tim Moynihan went the job of prepping the center men, and to Ike Voedisch as usual fell the strain of developing and polishing the ends. Jack Chevigny of course has been no little help in the backfield. His presence has enabled Rock to take more of a general supervision over practices than ever before.
To these men then we want to give thanks and heap upon them all praise that is possible. Theirs has been no
sinecure; their job has been to educate and they have done it well.
Not to forget for the moment the real Punch-Back of Notre Dame— our hats are off, Mr. Rockne!
WE’LL HAVE FAIR TEAMS, OPINE COACHES
(Continued from Page 309) gether with Biggins and possibly Troy who showed promise as a distance man in frosh meets last year. Howrey and Grimes, the latter a sophomore, will probably have the two-mile grind to themselves.
Brill, Hoffman, and Mortenson leave the shot put pretty well taken care of. Although they are not potential record-breakers each of these men has-proven to be a consistent performer. Johnson, Fishleigh, and Slattery give Coach Nicholson three veterans to count on in the pole vault and the same might be said about them—they are consistent even if not brilliant.
The schedule has not yet been completed but if those of past years may be taken as fair examples of “Nick’s” schedule-making we may rest assured that the Notre Dame track stars will not suffer from lack of strenuous competition.

PLAYING Sunday thru Tuesday Dec. 7-8-9 Bert Wheeler - Robt. Woolsey The Nutty Stars of "The Cukoos” in “HALF SHOT AT SUNRISE”
Coming Wed.-Thurs. Dec. 10-11 BEBE DANIELS in “ D I X I A N A ”
1 I J 1 I E I
I E
I
I E I E I E I
Deforest Sound You Can Enjoy!
Pictures Coming Soon HAROLD LLOYD in “Feet First” * *
AMOS ’N’ ANDY “Check and Double Check” * *
Buster Keaton Comedy Riot “DOUGHBOYS”
CTPAKin ”x25c
I IX	I ^1 I J Balcony 15c
Children 10c
E I E I
Atkinson Poplin	1
Ties,	I
Woven and tailored	I
I
in Ireland by R. Atkinson	!
and Co. especially for	«
us.	|
I
$2.50	|
fl
I I
I
♦ ♦ ♦	I
I I
I
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear ■ * .......................................
The Notre Dame Scholastic
315
“SCHOLASTIC” PRESENTS 1930 ALL-INTERHALL
FOOTBALL ELEVEN
In conjunction with the twelve coaches of the vai’ious hall teams and the director of the Department of Physical Education, the Scholastic with this issue presents the 1930 allinterhall football teams.
The abundance of excellent material on all of the teams entered in the past season made the choice of the first three teams a very difficult problem.
Outstanding among the selections for the places were Robinson, Howard hall, for the center position; Jane, Walsh, for right end; Conti, Lyons, for quarterback; and McCarthy, of St. Edward’s for left halfback on the mythical all-interhall team. Their consistent work throughout the season drew the attention of all of the coaches and fans and their selections were almost unanimous.
Several men, including Giorgio, of St. Edward’s and Igel, of Freshman hall, lost out for first team places only by a narrow margin. In many cases it was so close that only a few votes difference made the selections possible.
1930 ALL-INTERHALL TEAMS
FIRST TEAM
SECOND TEAM
THIRD TEAM
LE	Sandera (How.)	Giorgio (St. Ed.)	McKiernan (Car.)
LT	Colechick (Fr.)	Woods (Ly.)	Reidy (Ly.)
LG	Hamilton (Cor.)	Connelly (Off-C.)	Young (Br.)
C	Robinson (How.)	Holland (Car.)	Andrews (Off-C.)
RG	Coughlan (Soph.)	Igel (Fr.)	Reuland (St. Ed.)
RT	Steepler (Cor.)	Hargrove (Br.)	Cusano (Morr.)
RE	Jane (W.)	Brennan (Cor.)	Mikes (W.)
QB	Conti (Ly.)	Collins (Soph.)	Rahaim (Cor.)
LH	McCarthy (St. Ed.)	Kozak (Off-C.)	Crosard (Fr.)
RH	Law (W.)	Grundeman (How.)	Carney (Br.)
FB	Bohnsack (Ly.)	McCarthy (W.)	Disser (Fr.)
SOPHOMORE WINS FROM
RIVER FOREST DODGERS
Playing the River Forest Dodgers in the Oak Park, Ill., high school stadium Thanksgiving day, with the mercury hovering around the zero mark, Sophomore hall’s eleven crashed through the stubborn Dodger defense in the last four minutes of play to score the only touchdown of the contest. Halperin, Sophomore husky, carried the ball over the last line after a 10-yard sweep around right end. His attempt to convert for the extra point was wide.
A large crowd braved the biting cold to see the game, which was played for charity in Oak Park. Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C., Alex Wilson, coach, and Ed Sargus, manager, accompanied the team which was composed of these players: J. Collins, Gru, Bodo, Gunder, Gough, A. Collins, Jackson, Lennartz, McCue, Halperin, Hurley, DeLay, Seaman, Fayette, Zsore, Quenan, Freehill, Coughlan, Enright, Blackwell, Osborn, Lynch, Helfrick, Scanlon, and Doorley.
Corby hall’s game set for play at Andei’son, Ind., was postponed because of adverse weather conditions.
STARTS SA TURDAY
fOLFAY
THEATRE VW
THRU TUESDA Y
A man with a past to forget—and a woman from nowhere! On the brink of Hell in vivid, colorful thrill sated— “Morocco”
They meet! This dare-devil Legionnaire, the ravishing beauty who scorns men. Pent-up love flames! A drama beyond all reason with
Marlene Dietrich
------ ADDED ----
VITAPHONE
SOUND	VODVIL
~ Gary Cooper -
A Paramount Picture
ONE OF THE PUBLIX THEATERS
Adolphe Menjou
----- ADDED ---
PARAMOUNT
SOUND	NEWS
316
The Notre Dame Scholastic

FORTY N. D. MEN MAKE CALIFORNIA TRIP
The Notre Dame football squad which is in Los Angeles today preparatory to the Southern California tussle tomorrow comprises:
Ends—Conley, Kosky, O’Brien, Vik, Mahoney, Host.
Tackles—Kurth, Culver, MacNa-mara, McManmon, Donoghue, Hoffman.
Guards—Kassis, Metzger, Pierce, Harris, Greeney, Terlaak.
Centers—Yarn, Butler, Rogers.
Quarterbacks — Carideo, Cronin, Jaskwich, Murphy.
Halfbacks—Schwartz, Brill, Koken, Lukats, Kaplan, O’Connor, Leahy.
Fullbacks—Mullins, Hanley, Howard, Staab.
Besides the above men, Dan Halpin, Joe Lauerman and Jack Saunders,
head football men, and Equipment Manager Tony Schreiner made the trip.
FOUR HORSEMEN OF ’24 TO PLAY AGAIN DEC. 14
Knute Rockne will not be able to be present but the Notre Dame Four Horsemen of the team of 1924, Miller, Layden, Stuhldreher, and Crowley,
Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
Your good deed for today
OrchestraEvery Wednesday 10M to 11 p. ni. E. S. T.-a—e-Coeat to Coeat NBC Network
a
Pause
that refreshes
No matter how busy you are—how hard you work or play—don’t forget you owe yourself that refreshing pause with Coca-Cola. You can always find a minute, here and there, and you don’t have to look far or wait long for Coca-Cola. A pure drink of natural flavors—always ready for you— ice-cold—around the corner from anywhere. Along with millions of people every day, you’ll find in Coca-Cola’s wholesome refreshment a delightful way to well-being.
The CocnCoIa Company, Atlanta, Ga.
9 Million A Day^ it
CW-4
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
317
will meet the New York Giants’ professional team in New York on December 14 for charity, it was announced this week.
Mayor* Jimmy Walker, following a conference with his unemployment committee and newspaper men, decided that the game would go through as scheduled even though Rockne would be unable to attend. Walker was confident that he could make suitable arrangements to bring the Four Horsemen to New York although their former mentor could not make tire trip.
WHERE
NOTRE DAME
MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
ALLBRAN
I&1
A WARNER
Prejenw
Creations
IN cpie latest ' ‘Weaves
fINEJT MRHH'
-AN D
ZEPHYR YARN!
employed to insure
EXCEPTIONAL
Service
J PerfectFittingSweater
•with perma_fi.fr seam
The men who stand out in college usually have an abundance of energy. They need health to carry them through the whirl of undergraduate activities.
One of the greatest menaces to a healthy body is constipation. Its poisons undermine the system, and cut down your efficiency.
But you can banish constipation so easily. Just eat a delicious cereal: Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN. Two tablespoonfuls daily are guaranteed to give relief. You will enjoy it with milk or cream—fruits or honey added. Ask that Kellogg’s All-Bran be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
All-Bran
318
The Notre Dame Scholastic
'J
to New Haven ... the FAVORITE pipe tobacco of college men is—
WHEREVER college men pause to load their pipes you’ll see the familiar blue tin of Edgeworth!
At California, at Yale, at Williams and Cornell... in America’s leading colleges and universities you will find Edgeworth the favorite smoking tobacco of the college man.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their choice. Try Edge-worth yourself. Taste its rich natural savor that is enhanced immeasurably by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process.
You will find Edgeworth at your nearest tobacco shop—15^ the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“ Ready-Rubbed ” and “Plug Slice.” All sizes, 15*! pocket package to pound humidor tin.
RESERVES BEAT VANDERBILT "B” TEAM BEFORE 8,000 IN CHARITY CONTEST
LaBourne, Vejar and Connolley Star In 58-0 Rout
Led by Lefty LaBourne, who scored three touchdowns, the Notre Dame “B” team easily defeated the Vanderbilt university “B” team at Nashville on Thanksgiving Day. More than 7,000 poeple saw the game which was played for the benefit of the Nashville Community Chest.
LaBourne made his three touchdowns by off-tackle slants and wide end runs. Connolly scored twice, once on a 47-yard run around his own right end. The other touchdowns were accounted for when Vejar, the starting quarterback, went down the sidelines for 65 yards and a score, and a few minutes later McKeever took a 35-yard pass from LaBourne and raced the remaining 40 yards to the goal. Banas also tallied after a 30-yard run.
The reserves’ offense was at its best of the season. So well did they run off their plays that spectators said they could have beaten the Vanderbilt university varsity that day.
The defensive playing was up to the standard of the offense and stopped every drive launched by the Southerners. Kitty Gorman, George Kozak, Len Bice, Tom Mehaffey, and Harry Wunsch stood out for their fine defensive line playing.
The team was received before the game by Governor Henderson of Tennessee, Ed Nenon, a prominent city official of Nashville, and various members of the Notre Dame Alumni club of Tennessee. The Community Chest committee honored the reserves with a banquet following the game.
The team was accompanied by Coach John Nicholson and Junior Manager Joe McKeon. The trip was one of the best of the year, and closed the season for the reserves. By winning this game the reserves finished the year with a record of eight victories and one defeat, losing only to the Wisconsin Reserves and winning from such teams as the Indiana Reserves, Northwestern “B” team, Saint' Viators, Michigan Teachers, Indiana Normal, and Duquesne.
The Reserve team also provided very formidable opposition for the varsity during the practice sessions.
Players participating in the various Reserve games during the year were:
Vejar, Gorman, Aug, Agnew, Kozak, Mahaffey, Bice, McKeever, Holman, Bierne, Abbatemarco, Bassett, Meyer, Wunsch, Coughlin, Kremer, Foley, Dilling, Banas, Massey, Cousino, Led-ing, Van Rooy, Moller, Bassett, Connolley, Rhors, La Bourne, Lukats, Hanley, Brancheau, Kreiz, and Oscar Zoss.
Comfortable shoes mean a lot. Alfred’s famous tubular ice skates have special form-fitting shoes... assuring the highest degree of comfort. Everything about them is perfect and fine. And they are very moderately priced.
The Choice of Champions
A Quality Outfit for Beginners
Made and guaranteed by jttfreiL Johnson Skate fttmoani] 2*** KNssUi Ass.Cl!isigs USA With Htttorjohnson
Obtainable at Leading Sporting Qoods, Hardware and Department Stores
3
The Notre Dame Scholastic
319
STEPPING INTO A MODERN WORLD
I*

6-ton reels of cable distributed with the speed of perishable food
A carload of telephone poles laid down a thousand miles away within 36 hours after getting the order! Rush calls of this sort must frequently be handled by Western Electric, distributors for the Bell System.
But even more remarkable is the regular day by day flow of telephone supplies. The Chicago warehouse—one of 32 in the national system—
hardies 1,4C0 orders a day. In 1929 more than $400,000,000 worth of equipment and materials was delivered to the telephone companies.
Distribution on so vast a scale presents many interesting problems to Bell System men. The solutions they work out mean much in keeping this industry in step with the times.
The opportunity is there!
BELL SYSTEM
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
320
ON DOWN THE LINE
'Ed* flow to this
VvA >
Urgent ... yet as various as a young girl’s whims...a syncopated steeplechase of Ole ManTrouble.. .Mister, you sure got music when you dance to Victor Record No. 22558!
I
I
Arden and Ohman — no lusty ivory-ticklers quite like them — record this Broadway wow for Victor with their own most understanding band.
Note list below. Each is a meaty wallon — matchless of its kind. Victor records what you want first . . . and the greatest orchestras and artists, from jazz to symphony, record for Victor — exclusively!
HEAR THESE!
Victor Records
22558—"I GOT RHYTHM” and "EMBRACEABLE YOU”
Arden & Ohman Orch.
22512—"WILL YOU REMEMBER VIERiWA” and
"I BRING A LOVE SONG”
Leo Reisman & Orch.
23010—"PENALTY OF LOVE" and "LOVIN’ YOU THE WAY I DO”
Rubber Riley & His Mileage Makers
23015—"MY MAN FROM CAROLINE” and "I LIKE A LITTLE GIRL LIKE
THAT”	Joe Venuti & His Orch.
Victor Records
. . . BOBBY JONES’ leading lady in his coming moving pictures will probably be Calamity Jane . . . MICKEY COCHRANE, Athletics’ catcher who starred on the gridiron for Boston university once drop-kicked a 53-yard goal against Brown . . . WALTER HAGEN and HORTON SMITH, golf’s all-star professional team were getting $50 an hour in New York for teaching Tom Thumb fans how to putt the pill . . .

3
. . . PAT PAGE and' his first assistant, WALLY MIDDLESWORTH are left-handed . . . maybe that explains Indiana’s puzzling attack . . . France’s future Davis cup team will consist of left-handers entirely . . . FERRIER, LA SENERRE, MAGALOFF, GLASSER and BOUSSUS are the port-siders who will battle for France . . . Captain “FOOTS CLEMENTS of the Alabama football team has a younger brother known as “LITTLE DOGS”. . .

<
MEL HEIN, Washington State College center, has never had a “time out” taken for him in the fifty-odd football contests he has played . . . CHET WYNNE, former Notre Dame star, will wed December 27th . . . An Omaha femme is to be the lucky bride . . . Furthermore GEORGES CARPENTIER completed the cycle of the boxing classes, starting as a flyweight and finishing as a heavyweight . . . JOHN DRESHER, guard on the Carnegie Tech team is captain of the football squad for the second time . . . he is the first to receive this honor at the institution . . .
t
. . . LIONEL CONACHER, who is termed the greatest athlete ever turned out by Canada, has competed for more than a hundred teams in hockey, lacrosse, baseball, and football . . . GEORGE DE STEFANI, Italian tennis player who competed in the Davis cup eliminations can play equally well with both hands . . . he often upsets his opponents by shifting his racquet ... in 1897 the O’ROURKE brothers refused to report to the Boston Nationals because they objected to paying $20 for their uniforms . . .
