
Tbenewbladesws. Norelco. 
-· ... 
( : ~{ : . 
•.·.... . ........ . 

Wewon. 
In an independent test, some indepen­It has three shaving heads that float, dent men shaved one side of their face to follow the curves of your face. with a platinum or chromium blade. Our blades are rotary. So they shave 
They shaved the other side with our in every direction. (Because your beard Tripleheader 35T shaver. grows in every direction.) When they finished shaving, we had And we make our shaving heads them feel their faces. ultra-thin. So it's possible to get a 
7 out of 10 said our Tripleheader really close shave. And practically im­shaved them as close or closer than possible to nick or cut yourself. either the platinum or chromium blade. The Tripleheader comes in a Cord and 
Some ofthemen were surprised. a Rechargeable But, frankly, we weren't. model. Becausethe N orelco Tripleheader is a Either way, you 
. totally different kind of electric shaver. · can't lose. 
Ho,elco® 
You can't 9ee •IITcleser• 
. @1970 North American Philips Corporation, 100 East 42nd Street, New York, N. Y. 10017. 
october 9, 1970 notre dame, indiana


scholastic 
volume 112, no. 5 


I etters .................................................................... 4 editorial ........................................................... :.... 5 markings 
a new wall for the huddle/jack fiala ............ · 6 a new rock in the fieldhouse/phi/ glotzbach ........................................... :.......... 8 my '57 chevy can beat yours any day!/john stupp ........................ 1 0 gall umping gourmet//eo j. mu/chahy 12 
week in distortion 
·········································· ·14 the voice and the silence/ jim coburn ................. . 16 the dust in not without its power/steve brion, rory ho/scher ............ 20 student priority number one/ chris wo/fe ...................................................... 24 an old song becomes beautiful/ tom booker ...................................................... 26 some thoughts on the art of dying/john stupp ..................~ ......................... 28 coming distractions/football ............................ 31 
sportrivia/don kennedy ············~························· 32 last word ............................................~ .................. 34 
editor-in-chief: steven brion art direction and photography: gary cosimini managing editor: bill mitchell/ associate editor: carolyn gatz assistant editors: steve dixon, jack fiala, rory holscher, john stupp, bill wilka/ assistant managing editor: greg stidham sports editor: don kennedy business: howie sutton/ circulation: cliff zmick public relations: jeff noonan/ faculty advisor: frank o'malley staff: john balkwell, tom booker, tim burke, greg chinchar, jim coburn, chuck donovan, bob garvey, phi! glotzbach, jim guarino, joe hotz, bill kakish, nick kiernan, dave kravetz, tom macken, dan merges, mike mooney, leo mulchahy, joe nescio, joe runde, steve schaefer, martin siravo, mary ellen stoltz, victoria vanpatten, rick whately, bill wilka business and circulation: mike casanova, dan hogan, william pelletieri photography: jim hunt, michael lonier/ artists: kim kri$toff, ginny maloof 
The opinions expressed in the ScHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the ScuoLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished weekly during the school year except during vacation and e.'Camination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at AVE MARIA PREss, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the ScHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScHOLASTIC. 
Editor: 

I ~ould like to ask your assistance in publicizing a very worthwhile charitable project which is in des­perate need of volunteer help. I am referring to the March of Dimes campaign. This Saturday, before the Army game (and on November 14), volunteers for the March of Dimes will be soliciting contributions in the area of the stadium. In the past this campaign has relied primarily on high-school students from the area. This reliance naturally limited the effectiveness of the campaign -as few people were willing to fight the traffic to get to campus on a football Saturday. This year· the March of Dimes is asking the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community for their help.' 
The MOD Squad -as this year's campaign publici­ty has dubbed the volunteers -will assemble in Room 128 of O'Shaughnessy between 10:45 -11:00 a.m. There they will pick up a cannister and a MOD Squad button; no other preliminary sign-ups or commitments are necessary. Those interested need only come. Col­lection cannisters will be returned to the same place between 1:15 -1:30 p.m. to give students time to get to their seats for the kick-off. 
Volunteers will have the opportunity that morning to meet some of the children born with birth defects whom money raised through the MOD assists. Also, there will be volunteers there from both N.D. and 
S.M.C. for those interested in socializing while they 
collect contributions. Albert J. Brenner Morrissey Hall Community Relations Commissioner 
Editor: 

Despite my enormous admiration for the Benedic­tine way of life and especially for the Benedictine community of Mount Saviour, I am afraid I have to disclaim the statement that I spent "several years as a member of a Benedictine monastic community." (THE SCHOLASTIC, September 18, 1970, Page 21.) The back­ground of my interest in the contemplative life is much more complex. 
William G. Storey Associate Professor Liturgy and Church History 
Editor: 
Last year's graduation ceremonies at Notre Dame and St. Mary's were conducted in traditional fashion. Students wore caps and gowns and the commencement speakers (with the exception of senior class president 
Jack Crawford) said very little. 
In the course of the preceding year, numerous suggestions were made on both campuses to modify the ceremonies. Perhaps the most sensible and least con­troversial of these was the proposal to forego the traditional caps and gowns and to donate that money (approximately $4 per person) to a specified charity. This particular proposal was nonpartisan and apoliti­cal; that may disappoint some and please others, but it should broaden the appeal -and hence the financial return -of the plan. If undertaken seriously, this in­novation could yield as much as $25,000 for Vietnamese orphans, the Logan Center in South Bend, or whatever. The deletion of caps and gowns from the ceremonies could be noted and explained in the graduation pro­gram. 
Another proposal applies only to Notre Dame: that students consult on the selection of the commencement speaker. (St. Mary's already has some system of this sort.) Evidently, speakers have up to this time been largely selected and acquired by Father Hesburgh. There were rumors last year that Nixon was to speak; apparently he was invited, but decided against coming. That invitation itself is an indictment against the system now in use. The commencement speaker should not be selected according to his fame, even according to his political beliefs, but rather according to his wisdom. This is, of course, a more difficult commodity to measure, but Notre Dame is a university and the task of measuring wisdom (rather than fame, wealth, or opinion) seems more in keeping with the hopes of a university. It is not outlandish to select men from the Notre Dame campus as candidates. 
Finally, ·there were plans -plans which collapsed -to hold supplementary events over the commence­ment weekend. These events were designed to evoke discussion among graduates and their families. Again, these events would best be planned not with a view to spectacle but rather with a view to honest evaluation of the-issues that confront college students and their families. And again there need not be importation of talent; men like Fathers Bartell, Burrell, and Dunne are in fine positions to evaluate the sympathies of the students and their families. 
I have decided to send this letter early in the year since the formulation of graduation plans occurs then -behind hidden, if not closed, doors. 
Rich Moran, '70 

Third Floor LaFortune 
The Observer has lost its editor-in-chief in two con­
secutive Septembers. Which is easy enough to under­
stand. 
The day-to-day maze of problems facing the writers 
and editors of a daily newspaper is complex enough; 
when the same maze faces writers and editors who are 
also part-time students, the problems often appear 
without solution. 
The specific problems cited by the paper in its suspension issue last week included these: more money, better training and expanded academic credit. 
Observer Publisher Guy De Sapia believes the prob­lems are primarily financial. We wonder about the cause-effect relationship he establishes between more money and better quality, but then we can afford to: we receive a subsidy from the University. 
The Observer presently receives about $10,000 from a $2 fee tagged on to students' fees. It also makes money from advertising and circulation, but DeSapio insists that it needs more for salaries and to purchase printing machinery. We agree. 
We wonder, however, about De Sapio's plan to get the needed funds. He has suggested that the SCHO­LASTIC and the Observer merge, with the SCHOLASTIC becoming a weekly supplement of the Observer. The SCHOLASTIC would be printed on newsprint at a substan­tial savings, the Observer would have all the money it needs, and there'd be a little left over to give back to the sagging general fund of the University. 
The presumption implicit in this plan and explicit in its rhetoric is that the SCHOLASTIC provides a kind of dessert following the Observer's meat and potatoes. The Observer, that is, supplies the hard news; the SCHO­LASTIC the reflective comment. The Observer is essen­tial, the reasoning goes, while the SCHOLASTIC is some­thing the University could do without. 
We believe the SCHOLASTIC to be more reflective, more creative and, therefore, more worthwhile than the Observer. If we didn't, we'd be working for them. 
We believe, however, that the Observer has the potential of providing more accurate and more thought­ful reporting and analysis of daily events than it has been doing. In other words, we support the effort to improve the Observer, but not to the tune of wiping out the SCHOLASTIC, or wiping it under the Observer's rug. 
The campus needs the kind of tension · created by maintaining two separate publications. Financially, this university can't pay them each $58,000-and we realize this magazine should not be immune from the belt tightening which is going on all over. 
Both publications must enlarge their visions of themselves beyond respective budgets: the SCHO­LASTIC needs to improve quality in ways a budget cut won't necessarily destroy; the Observer needs to im­prove in ways more fundamental to its problems than finances. 
The Observer's focus on daily events must become more accurate and thoughtful, and the paper must grow beyond the chaos of daily deadlines. The SCHOLASTIC must gain an increasing awareness of its readers, with­out getting enveloped in the no-where land of the "hard news" illusion. The Observer needs to become more reflective; the SCHOLASTIC more communicative. 
With this line of reasoning in mind and acknowledg­ing the limitations that come with the size and purpose of the University, it would be wise to locate areas in which the two campus publications could cooperate without jeopardizing each other. Business and circula­tion management is obviously one of these; sharing writers might be another. 
However this must take place in a manner that will preserve the integrity and quality of each publication, and recognize the important inherent distinctions be­tween a magazine and a daily paper. 
Abandonment of competitive back-biting and polit­ical maneuvering and movement into beneficial cooper­ation might eventually produce a wedding of the two journals. We're not sure this is a good idea. But whether or not it is, it is highly unlikely if the maneu­vers of one publication cause the rape--financially or otherwise--of the other. As any marriage counselor would admit, shotgun weddings have an affinity for disaster. 
A Ne-w Wall for the Huddle 
THE Huddle has ~ new look this year; no more booths with sliced-up, slick green vinyl seats, no more uncheery black walls, and (its most conspicuous change) no more mural with the wincing, grimacing hulks of flesh and muscle wrapped in football uniforms. 
The monstrosity of a ·mural had been part of the Huddle since it first opened in 1957. That particular year was a rather fertile one for murals on the campus as undergraduate artists adorned not only the Huddle, but the boxing room in the Fieldhouse, the Rathskeller, and the Lyons Hall Chapel. 
The one in the Huddle, however, has had a rough go at winning an appreciative audience ever since its unveiling. The football coaches that year denounced it as repulsive, members of the Administration thought it grotesque and disgusting, and that year, and nearly every one since, the SCHOLASTIC has thrown in at least one dig against the work. ­
But now the mural lies hidden under a layer of serene, inoffensive knotty pine paneling. It's a lot more comfortable without it, but one feels a sort of melan­choly munching on a pasty Huddleburger and staring off at the innocent camouflage. The_ monsters of the mural aren't around to intensify the gloom of a rainy Tuesday night and they no longer stare you down as you use the Huddle as a sanctuary against the home football game crowd. The gloom and the terror of the Huddle are gone, but so is its character. 
But not many feel such an attachment to the work, or are the least bit nostalgic at its disappearance. For thirteen years the mural had probably come to accu­mulate every odium of insult. in the American language (not to mention spitballs and catsup smears). What was it that finally tipped the balance and sent the Neanderthal men behind the boards? 
For the student who calls himself a Huddle mural fan, the immediate reaction was that it must have been those corrupters of the arts sheltered under the taste­lessly gilded dome. Edmund Price, director of food services and prime suspect number one, flatly denied that it was his doing, adding in fact that he thought the mural had -a "certain charm" to it. The Director pointed out that he is here as a servant of the students and consequently that he conforms to their wishes. He said it was the students who wanted the mural dis­posed of. His seemed to be a completely incredible story, perhaps even a cover for some higher-up who made the foolish decision, so the investigation pro­ceeded to suspect number two. Father Wilson, Vice­president in charge of business affairs, proved to be as clean as the newly painted Huddle walls. "No, the students considered it a decoration that had been up long enough. They wanted a change and I agreed with them." His story coincided with Price's, so the credibility was there; yet one could only imagine what the Sistine Chapel would look like if the Vatican had such a whimsical business director! 
The not too terribly thorough investigation finally revealed that it really was the students (via Student Government) who requested the eradication of the mural in question. The arguments against the mural were twofold: the piece was offensive and ugly, and it seemed symbolic of brawny masculinity, the blood­and-guts manliness that really is not manliness at all. 
Unfortunately for the mural's sake, the people in Student Government didn't piece together their q.wn reactions to the painting and discover the statement that the artist was making in the work. 
"I guess you could call it a homily on the over­emphasis of that kind of manliness that the artist found repulsive," stated Professor Robert Leader of the Art Department, whose student, Michael Todd, painted the Huddle mural in 1957. "Superficially it was full of the ballyhoo characteristic of Notre Dame football, and of the Huddle crowd. But that ballyhoo was no more than a disguise for the satire of the artist's statement. Certainly it was never a beautiful piece, but that was an integral part of the message." 
.. 
. t ' 
if_ 1 
., ' . ! ' ! . 
I : l ..: 
.l : /F' 

Commenting on the satire's new disguise, Leader mused, "Now isn't that what we so often do when we're confronted with something we don't understand ... we cover it up. Well, now the Huddle is comfort­ably innocuous and doesn't offend anyone." 
Todd, one of the most highly respected sculptors in • America today, is currently working at the University of California at San Diego. When informed of the demise of his mural, he registered no surprise. It was as if it were something he had expected from Notre Dame for the past thirteen years. Asked about Leader's interpretation of the work, Todd replied, "Yes, that's correct." 
Todd will be visiting the campus in November as a guest artiat, and wanted to know if the place had changed much in recent years. The first impulse is to say "Yes" emphatically and proceed to delineate just how much more refined the student body is today as compared with that of thirteen years ago. But that's a hard thing to tell an artist whose work was ironically both preserved and destroyed by a misunderstanding. 
-Jaclc Fiala 




A Ne-w Rock 
Tte r,:.iYe:·si:y _.\::s Cc11mcirs dab: rhat The old Fie:dJ~0~5e c0:1!3.ir~s ide-?J space for la:rge projects has !."\tt:1 f!.l~l~· ,·erifled. ?0~ the f0:-r:1er site of pep ;cllies !:\.-.,,-h\,.1~~e5 a :~\\·a1r~·-011e b!ock of Indla:ia lin1esto11e ,,·:!ich :s s!o,,..!:y 2.ssu.r:.'li:1g !.:le r·eeogr!iz.able shape 0f a :i:::~!~e-3. scu1p::i~e.. )f~:;.!1~-pe,opie are a,,-are of Lhe s:one t1!c,:.~. b:1~ fe,\· ~110\\'" cf :l:e ::~a:-: \\-1:o is e!lgaged. i11 1he ;i;ti~e55 l.,: :r...1:1~0r:11ing it.. 
Tl:e scu~p-rt.~:-is 3~0:J:e:--Joe Fa:il.. C.._.S..C... a ::1.1ain­

w~..,:-k :~... :· ~i::g-·s Colle~e. \Yfi~es-3a!7e. ?ennsyl\·a:r.ia. T!1e s:3.::..:e \\'"i:i g:-ace 1::e ":i.."):'"j~-elf :be 5c!:,0or5 r:e\,-1:­cc::1;"!t:1:t.~;._~ ;:=::·5~c:~l e,..:::::.s:it--i:: ~11ildi::g , 2. ;•e...,-er5-e 1y·pe ,._"1f ::--~:1~--s.~:::5 !.J ~ 3.: \,-0:-~ te:-e" ,,-te:re i: ,,ill exhor: ;~.~s5~!-s:i~-:'"'"'\ 0,-eTt~2:::e ::.il i::~: sb.2c.~ls ~b.eir ;,oren:iall~­:r:.:.e:-::.:e-~ s.e}\-e5_ 31··"--':r:e:-E"a::l is :::re:--es:e-6. in free-co::::. 

~:1...1 :-·~ L·..:::'-!~~: 1.."): ::::.:1cl: -,,-=:_fc_~ :-0::!j !:a\-e bee:: C·'Y1­~:ru~.:: 3.5 :::!:::.;::i::~ !:~5 5p:.:-l:... 3:'.::+::=.e:-?2:il"s pa5~ i::­
-.. -.. . .., .... ..... .. ... 
c_.::ces :~:: ~-e::.:-5 0: s:.:~e:\'"l~.:~:~ 2~:1::.:!:g ~::c g::-"O~::c5 ::::~::::~.:::.::;.::~"'£' 2: S:c::e-:.:~11 C.)l!ege ,•.-.l:2:-2 ~e-~~su :-211 a -...\-e_:~1:: :::::::f" ~::.l:'~ ;I:: f:;.~:. 3:--0:.::~:--?a:11 ....,-25 2. -=r~er:C 


l~~} 3:--2:.::5"' ?:;::l ,l:-5 .?~:C\'i-ej '!:C 5:-.JC~-1L"!~~ ?-:-_ L3.;..:2-~ 2.: X-2-:Te D-.a.::-1e =u:-~=--:=e :::0!!:_~s: ~:: :--e~m:?C. 


:~ "-o::-'k 2f :..:.~~ G.:=-..:=..~ :=._\..~:--~o~:.~ -;;;--c•oj~-e=-. 3...l::--~~~ ~e t.~-::~-:. BC ~c~: ...p:'t..15!..l:-2~2 t;, IT:2­


Brother Faul works with rock to utilize the power inherent in its mass, and in fact, his completed sculp­rnre (prospectively entitled, Follou:ing The Spirit) will suggest much of the original stone's unpolished coarse­ness. The sculpture portrays a stylized man breaking out of the rock to reach his destiny of freedom. All that for:rr.erly restrained him crumbles to the sides as the figure is frozen in his moment of exhilaration. The implied reference to ::\Iichaelangelo's ''Bound Slave·• is intended. but Brother Faul's man seeks a resurrection not from himself. but for himself. And abO\·e all. the context of the work remains firmly terrestrial. There is no ethereal extension abo\·e conflict (ala Giacometti). nor is there loss of a Nietzschian anguish at the pain of o\·ercoming. 
Of course much remains to be accomplished. Brother Faul can only talk (hopefully) of completion by spring. But then. a particularly relished aspect of this \•:ork is the absence of any definite deadline. 
As to the location of his work. Brother Faul could nm: be happier. The Arts Center pro\·ides room enough to view the sculpture from a distance and more-than­adequate space in which to work. And surprisingly B!·o..her Faul does not consider the continual question­ing he l'eCeh·es -caused by his location -to be any hindrance to his work. In fact. he yiews it as a chance re appraise his own conception of the project. 
But perhaps most importantlv. the com·erted Field­houSe effecth·ely dwarfs the stone so that it does not appear as awesome as it might were it placed in a S..."11!::ller studio. Brother Faul is quick to admit the i:=elings of intimidation with which he first approached the project. And. although familiarity has succeeded i.Tl ··5b.rinking"' the size of the rock a bit: he is still grate­ful for the opportunity to move awav occasional!;. 
In fact Brother Faul is left with onh-one-main w0rry: what happens to the temperature in;ide the Arts C.c11ter when the temperature outside begins to drop? 
-Phil Glot::bach 
•

Ill the Fieldhouse 



My '57 Chevy 
Can Beat Yours Any Day!.. 
'  ,,  
~­- - 
''  
''  '  
- - :.•­ -. ='  ,  - -,  -- : -_,_,.-'  
- .  - - 
- - -,  - -­ .  - :-_ -; -­-;. - :.  -_ ­ -. -_­-.  - -'  
- '  -­ -­ . - :  ;"  - --,  - .  -­. -~  - - 
- .  - '  ' . .,..  ' . ---,' -_­ ·; - ;  - _-­ ::  
- r  •  •  ~  • ,  •  .,­::  '  •  • ••  •  
-­ ,-­ -: '  -_  - -. -­ ~  . -­- .  

--... ' -.---._ . 
-_ -_: · -_. -. . -· --' -__ _-_-=--~ -:~ ---_ -.· ~ -: _,• -­
. Last summer I took a girl to the drive-in and during the intermission she became rather boisterous; in fact, she went so far as to insult the driver of the car next to ours. Now I am forced to admit that this in itself is not an unusual event (anyone who has ever spent time driving.from one burger lane to the next will agree with me)-the female hopes to incite her escort to heroic acts of virtue, often forgetting that her male companion is in no way heroic or virtuous, just a trifle bewildered. Well true to course, the driver of the car next to ours proved to be a greaser of enormous physical stature (I confess, I swore I saw him detach his Hurst floor shifter and utter something in a semi-primitive tongue). At any rate, I was in no position to do battle with a Neanderthal; besides, the light was dim and how was I to know if he_ was carrying a gun, or a knife, or the four-speed stick. I mention this, because some of my friends often confuse my common sense with cowardice. For me there is no distinction between the two. 
Later, while meditating from a safer distance upon the previous incident, I was forced against my will to admit that I felt a certain kinship, a certain admiration for the greaser in his struggle to assert himself. I was moved to follow this line of thinking from two stand­points. One, the greaser is a dying breed. A minority among minorities. I thought of the expeditions which have been sent to Africa and the Far East to secure the salvation of animal strains near extinction, and the thought struck me-why not an expedition to save the greasers. After all, I rationalized (with good radical masochism), he was only acting to preserve his race against the no-good, long-haired fairies like me. The thought wasn't enough to send me running to the barber, but I couldn't help feeling a twinge of emotion at the thought of a world devoid of hamburger joints and drive-ins. 
The second thought struck me soon after I was recovering from the first. Here before my eyes was the pristine struggle between Eros and the automobile. Certainly it was this very struggle between the erotic and the mechanic that moved Nietzsche to inquire: 
"What power was it that freed Prometheus from his _vultures and transformed the myth into a vehicle of Dionysian wisdom?" 
The vehicle is obviously the '57 Cheyy with the gray primer on the hood. I am forced again to think of an article I read in an old Evergreen Review some years ago about a man who sexually assaulted cars. Now this isn't unusual (as anyone wh-o has hung around the drag strips will attest), however it was this fellow's twisted mentality and moral sense which led him to unnaturally engage in penetration from the rear (an uncommon position). Now this is all neither here nor there, but the thought struck me-probably 50% of the next generation will be born with Hurst shifters instead of genitals. Now if this isn't as Nietzche sug­gested, Die Gebu,rt der Tragodie, then I don't know what is. 
In this first of an. irregular ongoing feature, the SCHOLASTIC shares with its readers the culinary wis­dorn and curiosity of Leo J. Mulchahy. Through a guided tour of several of South Bend's srnalle1· and (in some cases) stranger patisseries, boulangeries, and eateries, the column will offer alternatives to those in the cornrnunity tired of dining hall meals, tired of green or yelww or chartreuse stamps, tired of giving mo'i}eJJ to K-Mart and A&P -or just tired and searching desperately for new sensual delights. 
Sindlinger's Grocery, 430 Lincoln.way West (two or maybe thre_e or four blocks past the Kroger 8u'f)el"­
?>mrket). 
Behind a chest-high counter, the kind that in 'childhood appeared no less than six stories tall, stands a man wearing spectacles and sporting a clean white apron. "The sauerkraut," he says, "should be ready in a few weeks. We're just about down to the last of what we made last spring-nothin' but juice left now. Come back and try some, if you like." . 
The outside of his store is adorned with a sign that bears one huge star and the words, "Sindlinger's Grocery." Inside, the small room is crowded and chaotic with shelves that display everything from Cold Water All to dill pickles to honey "direct from Ross Apiaries in Wilkerton, Indiana." Outside, it is one more in an army of small businesses competing for the scraps left by A&P, Kroger and the rest. -Inside is a world K-Mart never dreamed of. 
Smiles. And samples of whatever catches the eye. And sausage, and sauerkraut and bacon (at 89c per pound) cured and cut as you watch by Frank Sindlinger. Rings of knackwurst and bolognas, garnished with small bits of parsley. Straw brooms stacked in one corner, a bandsaw to cut ribs of beef, chopping blocks that shine from six coats of varnish, massive rounds of sharp New York cheddar or mild Swiss, and apparently endless rolls of brown paper and string. 
A thousand things to touch. A 'thousand more to look at, across counters and through display windows and on shelves. Not a single shopping cart. Not a single conveyor belt, nor a numbered badge, nor a faceless cashier. Things noticed in childhood, forgotten when old. 
In some one of his stories, one that appears in the standard fourth g~ade reader, G. K. Chesterton quotes an old s~oemaker: "Bootz," he says, "is an Art." So too is sausage-curing or sauerkraut-making. Through the door of Frank Sindlinger's grocery is a world not much different from his father's father's, or whoever it was that first opened the store in 1891. -Except that beyond the glass-top counter and outside the front 
window are Lincolnway West, Kroger's.  Past the door  
--is a  world where Bootz is not an  Art.  And the fear  
that the world inside will not last.  

-Leo J. Mulchahy 
Le1 TheWishington Monddy 
take)OD inside 1he system 
wtth disciplined fact-finding and lively analysis that will help you understand what needs changing and what needs support. This exciting new magazine gives you an insider's knowledge of our system of politics and government-where it breaks down, why it breaks down, and what can be done to make it work. 
Its writers include Pulitzer Prize-winning reporters like Seymour 
Hersh, Nick Kotz, and Jerry Landauer; brilliant social scientists 
such as Yale's James David Barber, Harvard's James C. 
Thomson, Jr., and Brandeis' Philip Slater; and people who have 
actually worked in the system and write with the authority of 
experience: Bruce Oudes, formerly of USIA, writes about "The 
Great Wind Machine"; Arthur Ross, former Commissioner of 
Labor Statistics, explains "The Data Game"; Robert Benson, 
formerly assistant to the Comptroller of the Department of 
Defense, tells "How the Pentagon·can Save Nine Billion Dollars"; 
and a former Air Force intelligence officer, Morris Blachman, 
writes about "The Stupidity of Intelligence." 
Let these people take you Inside the System now-with our 
special introductory subscription of just $5 for one year. In 
addition, you'll receive a free copy of Sam Brown's widely 
acclaimed Washington Monthly article, "The Politics of 
Peace," in which the organizer of Students for 
McCarthy and coordinator of the Vietnam Moratorium 
analyzes the peace movement-"a fascinating cri­
tique" (The New York Times) . . . "absolute candor ... deserves to be read in full and pondered by 
anyone concerned with public affairs" {The 

Washington Post). 
•
¦ The Washington Monthly : : 1150 Connecticut Ave. N.W. ¦ ¦ Washington, D.C. 20036 ¦ 
¦ • 
: Please send me a free copy of Sam Brown on "The Politics of Peace" and : 
¦ 
enter my subscription to The Washington Monthly at $5 for one year (one-¦ : half the regular price). My $5 payment is enclosed. : 

¦ 
Name _______________________ ¦¦


¦ ¦ 
¦ 
•¦ •¦ 
¦ Address ______________________ ¦
•¦ •• 
: City ____________State ____Zip ___ : 
•• •¦
• ¦ 
: (This special offer is good only through December 31, 1970} ml : 
¦ • 


-The vVeek In Distorti·on 
students, reform the corporations
The Real Issues Only in Pakistan or 
and extend the frontiers of knowl­
Most Other Places 
edge." A most unrealistic set of ex­
The following letter ·was one _of pectations. three sent to the _SCHOLASTIC for When ritual and the world of busi-Declares our · own Rev. Theodore possible publication. · They first ap­-ness· clash within one situation, the :Hesburgh: '_'The way things are go­peared in the Washington Evening results are amazing. Take the recent ing rio· intelligent guy in his right Star., and were forwarded by one situation in Pakistan· where a strike · -mind would want to be a university Conrad Drexel, who wrote:_ "These by · goldsmiths temporarily halted administrator~" letters express what seems_to me to the _traditional practice -of draping be the real issues involved -in the couples at weddings with costly 
Letter-from· an Editor
Ky, McIntire Vietnam story." ornaments of gold. To cope withthe -­
situation,. ritual adapted to reality -----------------­SIR: You recently called the Rev. · (disguised as labor disputes), ·and A lot of people (particularly such Carl McIntire a "right-::wing· funda-garlands :fa:shioned with rupee cur­·_-queasy types as publishers, advertis­mentalist radio preacher." Why do' rency notes were used. Most value_d, . ··ers and backers) continually ask us you call him a right winger? He -however, -.were_ garlands. eri,twined ·why.we print so much anti-Nixon represents all that -is decent and with U.S. greenbacks, exceedingly. propaganda. "Why beat a dead · honest and respectable :iri America hard to come. by in Pakistan._ Vari­horse?" they say, not without an and you should stand for the same ous I>akistani newlyweds were heard -appreciation for metaphor. things he does. What's wrong in to ·offer thanksgiving for not having Well, the National Lampoon is deserving a decent civilized nation· been residents of Polynesia (where pleased to announce it has discov­in which to live? To_ ·hear some large wheels of sandstone were used · ered that President Nixon has been people talk I get the impression it is· _-as currency) during _the-·crisis. · planning, in s·ecret; one· of the most wrong. -_ exciting rock festivals ever con­
Dr. McIntire is_ trying to preserve ·ceived for_ America's young people. 
our heritage-the things that made Tentatively planned to be _held
Apotheosis
our country_ great such as liberty, _in the Grand Canyon, the Festi­. freedom,-and free speech. A man . val of Reconciliation_ will boast who will not fight to protect these Explains Marvin Levich of Reed practically every rock and super­rights does not deserve his freedom. College's presidential selection ·com: -group, including Sly and the It is high time you and thousands mittee: "We begin our search for a Family Stone, and Johnny. Winter. of others got on the firing line with college president by looking for a Rumor has it that the Treasury De­Dr. McIntire and did something to man with the qualities one associates partment has offered an undisclosed save our country from the enemies with God." Father Hesburgh, who sum to McCartney for a final gig that seek to destroy decent civiliza­as a priest probably has a better feel with the Beatles at the Festival. tion instead of criticizing everything for this standard than many of his Free food, shelter and Port-O-Sans the man says. ~ecular counterparts, ands, "We are ·will be provided by the army engi­.Ruby Thompson :E!Xpected to a<;hieve peace, clean up · neers, who have been told to expect · Staunton, Va. -pollution, educate twice as many over 1,000,000 to gather -in the his-
THE SCHOLASTIC. · 
toric gorge. Peter Max posters have ·been commissioned to publicize the free event, and the date will be an­nounced later this month in a special Presidential news conference. On the third day of the Festival, our sources reveal, the vast crowd will be treated to an aerial ballet by the 
U.S. Air Force's renowned Blue Angels. The aerobatics will include, as a grand finale, a display of sky­writing. Zooming over the heads of the multitudes, three of the smoke­streaming silver birds will inscribe a peace sign in the. heavens to an ap­preciatively oh-wowing audience. 
The fourth plane will drop the bomb. 
Housekeeping_ and House-Keeping 
Reality intrudes upon even the most sublimely oriented. After -three weeks of existence as a Christ­
ian Community, one of the local communes found themselves bar­ricaded (well, almost) into their house by a mound of accumulated garbage. In search of the location of the city dump, the residents phoned the . South Bend Trfbune. They didn't know, but recommended going right to the top (which seems apt advice for a Christian Community). So the next phone call went to the home of Mayor Lloyd Allen. Mrs. Lloyd Allen, wife of said mayor, doesn't know where the city dump is either (file that somewhere, you muckrakers). She, however, is a woman of vast resources, and the City Engineer does know where the city dump is .. Problem solved. 
Rumors now abound that the house of the Christian Community is about to be sold-things have even proceeded as far as the owner giving tours to probable buyers. An opportunist in Dillon is accepting betst on the approach that will be used to thwart this latest intrusion of reality. 
Gems of Wisdom 
When you think your life is in a fix, consider the typical weather we live in and then consider the sun­flower planted in Flanner's pit. 
Heard in The Huddle 
. . . and we held a tumultuous meeting behind barred doors, at­tempting to revive a defunct Qb­server. When, behold, our founder, Robert Sam Anson, appeared and breathed life into our presses. But I would not believe it was he until I was able to thrust my hand into his typewriter. 
... cramming 

OCTOBER 9, 1970 



The Voice and the Silence: A Backward Look 
THE Observer: born as the illegitimate son of Robert Sam Anson and the Voice (which died in childbirth) on November 3, 1965, died September 29, 1970. Two days later it was miraculously resurrected. 
In that time, resiliency and the obstinate desire to be "an independent student newspaper" have remained, and the paper has been shaped by the consuming pres­ence of three men: Anson, Bill Luking, and Guy De­Sapio. Each has gone far beyond the role of editor to reach and control the lifeblood -changing tone and style without the overt manipulation and politics of an elaborate demarkation of a new regime. At first glance, the successive politics attributed to each appear radi­cally different -Anson's free-swinging liberalism against DeSapio's cautious, deliberate attempt to make the paper work -but the bulk of writers; night ed­itors, and columnists cannot be broken down into this or that period. So all that is certain is that the phe­nomenon exists: the Observer is a motherless child that has been beaten, humiliated, and exalted in its temperamental youth, and now finds itself struggling with pangs of self-awareness and destiny. · 
Anson explained the genesis of the Observer in a SCHOLASTIC interview on May 5, 1967: 
I left the SCHOLASTIC for a number .of reasons. The SCHOLASTIC seemed to be a. very going con­cern. Extremely talented people. I thought it was going to be given some direction during the course of the year. And certainly my presence on it was not indispensable (I sometimes think now that I was ·indispensable). The Voice was the· leakiest of sinking ships, incredibly bad by all standards, in taste and journalism. Mostly accuracy. All in all, a hideous publication. In a way my decision to go to the ·Voice, now the Observer., was motivated in a sense by kindness to dumb animals. And cer­tainly there was a bit of egotism involved in being 
· master of your own ship. There was so much to be done. 
Despite Anson, the early Observer was also. full of inaccuracy, typos, and lousy photography (when it appeared); but it was yellow journalism cliched to the fullest. There was a certain vicarious thrill to its style: a combination of elitism and exciting (if incon­sistent) reporting. Against the fiasco of the Berkeley Barb story containing "screw" (for which Anson and Steve Feldhaus were threatened with dismissal), the coverage of the Man-of-the-Year Award to General Westmoreland and the investigation of double stan­dards for athletes were responsible. They contributed to the Observer's crusade for "sensible" reform. As • one of its columnists, Betty Doerr, always said: "It was written for fifty people and everyone else just wished they knew what we said." 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


-,i-------------------------------------------------­
PAT COLLINS was Anson's News Editor; he inherited an irregular and sporadic publication in 1967. It was a year of political affiliation and alienation: the election, Chris Murphy and the General Assembly of Students, Daley's Chicago, and the SUMMA Challenge. All this material was transformed in columns written by Den­nis Gallagher, Tom McKenna, and Jay Schwartz; cumulatively, they represented some of the best ma­terial published in the paper's first five years. 
.,, .,·-"
Out of this array came Bill Luking, quiet and very 
-:..: .-. 
~ . -­

quick; with the demanding qrganizational ability to .. push a daily and the sensitivity to work with such diverse personalities as Chris Wolfe and Michael Pat­rick O'Connor. It was Luking, perhaps more than anyone else, who gave the Observer depth and direc­tion. Anson's occasional accuracy achieved the respect of students and political recognition from the faculty and Administration. But from an occasional happening, the Observer became under Luking an established daily -with a features page, notable columnists, regular sports, expanded format, competent news reporting. 
Luking had opened the year with a joint ultimatum with Richard Rossie and Bill Cullen (then Editor of the SCHOLASTIC) demanding an evaluation of the Univer­sity's function and direction. This same inspection was applied to student organizations. At the same time, the Observer was published twice weekly; the first step was selling the paper with a program on football Sat­urdays. Advertising was solicited and format ex­panded from four pages to eight on Friday (now three times a week). This expansion was not unnoticed: it became obvious that the Observer was a political force and as such attracted a full spectrum of interested writers. Those volunteers -Don Hynes, Kathy Cecil, Chris Wolfe, Betty Doerr and the rest -besides offer­ing memorable and occasionally eloquent columns, gave Luking the manpower to go daily, first as an experi­ment and finally as an integral part of the institution. 
This new power did not go untried; crises abounded but Luking was always there, ready to spend all night on a story or harass. anyone on policy, jobs or coffee. The year's most significant event was the Pornography Conference in early February and the fiasco it pre­cipitated. The day after the raid (the film Kodak Glwst Poems had been confiscated by South Bend of-
OCTOBER 9, 1970 
Robert Sam Anson 

Apathy was the crime; the Observer was the bludgeon to awaken involvement. . . 

ficials responding to a complaint by the California Legion of Decency, the Observer published a special edition; the move was important because it represented a commitment far beyond editorial policy. In following this up, Luking became involved with trying to estab­lish restrictions against further invasions and gain some vindication from the Administration. This led to a tenuous relationship with the ill-fated and much­censored Vacilline -co-authored by Observer colum­nists Hynes, Cecil and friends. Out of much maneuver­ing and animosity on both sides, the legal necessity of some sort of advisory board became apparent; yet the control of the paper was secured for the editors. A little-known change in structure now protects the paper from censorship; a board -of students and faculty -was established to choose succeeding editors and bear the responsibility of further editorial outrage. Luking left the Observer at the end of the year in a preeminent position at Notre Dame:. the power he had worked for was used weUand wisely. 
IT had been a political ye~r -·.the year t~ be involved. Apathy was the crime; the Observer was the bludgeon
. . 

to awaken involvement and spearhead the liberal ma-
f l, 
" 

jority. It asked for reasonable solutions to tradition­bound problems, and questioning was a daily process. Luking at once fueled the enthusiasm he found and resonated from it. But the pitch of activity only evolved toward a level of mediocrity: the job of turn­ing out the Observer was suicidal for all who indulged, and the paper's quality suffered because of this. 
After_ some executive shuffling early in Septem­ber of 1969, Tim O'Meilia became a columnist, Guy De­Sapio took over as Editor, and as the first concession to the immensity of Luking's energy, the position of Publisher was created and filled by Don Holliday. Policy shifted to a more conservative stance; the daily routine was confirmed and expanded with a Features Editor, (Tom Ehrbar), national news coverage from UPI, and an attempt at political commentary from Ed Roickle, Tim MacCarry, Mike Kelly and others. But the routine started taking its toll, as those more experienced and less committed left to join the staff of the SCHOLASTIC, Dome and Juggler. Freshmen and sophomores were promoted to fill the gap; the paper initiated a folksy, couo·quial approach to anything beyond news. For a while this was refreshing and tastefully done, but it was soon out of hand. The characteristic attitude was more damaging than any loss of credibility, because it prevented any serious writers from joining the staff. 
Graduation took Ehrbar and others, and the staff this year is raw. Unlike Anson, DeSapio is constitu­tionally unable to generate the news; what is left as local news often has a redundant, stale cast to it. So the Observer, while physically producing five issues a week, is reduced to reporting the wire services, an occa­sional bulletin from the Administration, the Student Union calendar,·. and an occasional feature.. It was 
. in this situation that Bach as Editor and DeSapio as Publisher . found themselves last week.· The Observer needed to purchase new equipment; Bach did not think it feasible.· After some· soul-searching and a pep talk by Robert· Sam Anson· (fresh· from his excursion in Cambodia)I Glen· Corso was elected Editor. The silence was broken; th·e Observer once more resumed publica­
tion. · 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
... and spearhead the liberal majority. 

But this does not change the real problems: it is a very difficult job to publish a daily and maintain consis­tent quality. DeSapio would like some money from the University to cover editors' salaries (although the paper operated at a profit last year, improvements and inci­dentals will absorb most of it), and expanded academic credit from the Communication Arts department ­both of which senior SCHOLASTIC editors get now. How­ever, the real solutions operate on other levels. Some­how the paper must gather about it people of great dedication and imagination, people capable of trans­forming it into the power it so briefly was. And the money, though from the University, will have to come from someone else's budget. Furthermore, even if these proposals w~re only temporary measures -until the Observer could pay its own salaries -the Administra­tion might well like to assume control over the paper's financial aspects . . . which could lead to an actual censorship board. This potential crisis seems remote now; but five years ago, the Observer was launched by Father Hesburgh's taking issue with "screw." 



Jim Coburn 




the dust is 
I suspect this proposal will strike most of my audience as fantastic, but so, when you think of it, is the present state of affairs -a vast educational enterprise built entirely upon a caste of learned men whose learning has no relevance to the young and even seems to alienate the young from both education and culture. It is a vision of madness accomplished. 

At least some of those who went to the Library Auditorium last Wednesday (September 30) to hear a classicist named William Arrowsmith spealc on "Teaching and the Liberal Arts" m'U8t have been a bit shocked, at the strength and urgency of what they heard. Among them were several memhers of the SCHOLASTIC staff. The essay that follows draws on the text of Arrowsmith's speech, two articles written by him in the last few years (in Arion: VI, 1, Spring 1961 and The Center Magazine: III, 2, March 1970), and a hurried seven a.m. conversation the morning after his talk. It can only serve as a '[JQ,rtial synopsis, an impres­sion of the man and his message--and hopefully as an invitation to further, deeper consideration of the solu­tions he offers. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

not without its power 
arrowsmith and a dream of wisdom 
THE words are from an article William Arrowsmith wrote in the spring of 1967 for Arion, a magazine he co-edits. They, are, in miniature, the substance of his message, the source both of his despair and of the radicalism that characterizes his solutions. Education in America, he would tell us, is a wasteland from the primary level to the most prestigious universities and colleges. It is racist, it produces "mass illiteracy," it isolates culture as the possession of a select and schol­arly few, it represses curiosity, and perhaps most seri­ous of all it offers no moral or spiritual direction to a generation "capable of moral outrage in a morally out­rageous world." 
When Arrowsmith spoke at Notre Dame last week, his message was passionate and compelling. Drawing on statements made by American Indian chieftains and texts of tribal council meetings, he contrasted the values inculcated by American education in the 20th century with those that characterized the American Indian and pre-Socratic cultures. For the Indian, the earth was Mother and Teacher, while the white man has valued it only for the material wealth it can bring him. Arrowsmith recalled a Shoshone Chieftain's answer to the white materialism: 
You ask me to cut the grass and make hay, and sell it, and to be rich like the white man. But how dare I cut my mother's hair? Shall I take a knife, the plow, and cut my mother's breasts? My young men will never work. Men who work cannot dream, and wisdom comes in 
.... 
dreams. 

At first the statement appears far-fetched, to say the least. After some consideration, however, the earth­mother analogy seems completely natural. Where does the substance of all things living come from, if not the earth? The Indian recognizes that the earth pos­sesses an energy of its own -an energy far greater than man's. Therefore, the earth deserves respect. 
This recognition seems simple enough. Why, then, have white men missed it for so long? The answer, Arrowsmith says, can be found in the last sentence of the passage quoted above. In the dream, the Indian encounters forces which he recognizes as being beyond himself; he considers these encounters to be the basis of wisdom. The whiteman's wisdom, on the other hand, does not recognize any force that is beyond his own scope. All power resides within himself. It follows that the earth or anything else that is outside him, is val­uable only to the extent to which he can use it. This disposition explains many evils which are all too obvi­ous yet continue to characterize American Society and its educational institutions in particular: terrible waste of natural and human resources, violence. and racism so ingrained as to be almost ineradicable. 
ARROWSMITH feels that these and related problems have reached a point of crisis. Something had better be done soon, or it will be too late. This sentiment is a common enough one in these times, but when Arrow­smith voices it, one realizes that he is not indulging in idle speculations about apocalypse. He has a sense of why things are gone wrong, and he is optimistic enough to venture some specific proposals for making the situ­ation better. 
Since the worst difficulties are rooted in moral ego­ism, the most appropriate way to eliminate them is by eliminating the egoism itself-by replacing it with a wisdom like that which the Indians (and pre-Socratics) possessed. In other words, Western whiteman must learn to recognize a larger, non-personal force: the vastness of nature, or a community of all men. · 
This is a difficult necessity, and given the current lack of political leadership and vision, we must look toward the colleges and universities to reverse our present, fatal way of regarding life. Right now these institutions are scarcely better equipped than the rest of the society to provide the impetus for so massive a 
OCTOBER 9, 1970 
t' 



men who work cannot dream, and wisdom comes ill dreams 
change. However, they possess (or at least it must be opportunity to see in their texts and in the lives of their hoped that they possess) the important advantages of teachers, both the nobility and the possibilities offered flexibility and a willingness to experiment. by the wisdom of the Indian culture. In that wisdom 
With these things in mind, Arrowsmith offers two lies a possible end to the personal and cultural violence sets of specific proposals. The first is designed to peculiar to Western man. change the goals and methods of undergraduate educa­tion, which is now constricted by an over-emphasis on specialization and scholarly research. He believes that THE second half of Arrowsmith's vision is more undergraduate studies must be vivified and must serve specific. It concerns plans for what colleges can do at as the University's heart beat-nurturing and feeding this point to establish the kind of common culture in the energies of its students: which moral values and the "priorities of the spirit" 
can grow.. It is the blue-print for the university as a The function of the university is not to repress corporation dedicated to protecting the public interest. or paralyze those energies, but to suggest how they The move is a dangerous but terribly necessary one-­might find meaningful fulfillment and creative simply because that institution is the only one capable direction. John Gardner writes: "One of the most of simultaneously promoting "the general enlighten­difficult problems we face is to make it possible ment" and fusing the powers of intelligence and con­for young people to participate in the great tasks science. A few of these proposals: of their time. . . . Instead of giving young people the impression that their task is to stand a dreary • use of educational technology: with McLuhan, Ar­watch over the ancient values, we should be telling rowsmith feels the universities must "involve them the grim but bracing truth that it is their themselves" in plans for computerized learning task to re-create those values, continuously in their and programming. If not, control over curricula own behavior." This, ironically, is what the young and even educational assumptions will pass to are now saying to us, insisting, clamorously and those large corporations already in the field. It is incoherently, that the university should enfran­in the university's and the public's interest that chise and corroborate, through action and moral this tranfer be avoided. involvement, their conviction that human courage and compassion and initiative matter. • support for community colleges: in the near future 
such institutions will be educating forty percent · This imperative must be taken seriously. The student of the college population, most of whom will come cannot learn of compassion and initiative from a text from "th~ lowest socioeconomic level." At stake is alone: such qualities can be taught only when they this nation's commitment to universal education. are embodied and exemplified, by men whose whole "One of the highest priorities in American educa­lives are devoted to making those qualities live. Action tion is for a new and valid kind of 'general edu­becomes as necessary as contemplation. Scholarship cation'-the general education that these commu­must be subordinated, so that students may have the nity colleges, with their 'non-academic' students, their vocational orientation, and their two-year programs, so obviously and desperately need." But they will require what Arrowsmith terms "bold and experimental approaches," radically different from what goes on today. 

• 
criticism of mass media: "The mass media are almost wholly exempt from serious or sustained criticism, and this exemption is, given the influence of the media on our lives, both intolerable and disastrous. For better or worse, our lives are shaped by what we see and hear, by the informa­tion made available to us ... And the criticism of the media is surely a task compatible with the function of colleges and universities-their char­ter, as educators of almost everybody, to protect and promote the general enlightenment." 

• 
creation of a national newspaper: Arrowsmith sees no technological problems here. "The University," he says, "must deliberately create anew those in­stitutions-such as new colleges, newspapers, etc.-for which it now trains personnel. . . . The general corruption of the American press and the wretched standards of newspaper journalism are not something the university can reasonably be held responsible for; yet the university cannot realistically train personnel for such a press unless it either consents to the general corruption or strives to create a genuine alternative-which_ means a different kind of newspaper, a press to which a man need not seli his soul in order to work." 


There are more such proposals, equally interesting and frightening-because the risks are great. Who will control this national newspaper? What will prevent it from becoming a monolith,, a central information (and propaganda) agency? The questions and dangers are as in.finite as the possibilities. 
Arrowsmith himself is acutely aware of the risks, but would tell us they must be taken. American educa­tion must extricate itself from the impotence and sterility that now plague it, so that it can become the dynamis for a culture-wide change in our ways of thinking; otherwise, the future of our culture is dark, the road leads to destruction. Again, the Indian can teach us; Arrowsmith concluded his talk last week with a letter from the chief Seattle to President Polk: 
Day and night cannot live together. The red man has ever r.un before the white man, as morning mist before the morning sun. But your proposition seems fair. My people will accept the reservation. We will live apart in peace. The words of the white chief are the words of nature speaking to my people, speaking out of a dense darkness. 
It matters little where we pass the remnant of our days-they will not be many. A few more moons a few more winters . . . tribe follows
' 
tribe, and nation nation like the waves of the sea -that is nature's order. Regret is useless. Your decay may be distant, but it will surely come. Even the white man whose God walked and talked with him as friend with friend cannot deny this destiny. We may be brothers after all. We shall see. . . . 

·steve brion & rory holscher 

! 

perspectives 

student priority nuniber one 
IT is very difficult to write an essay which accuses . many people of a fault. The reader automatically tends to become defensive, either moving on to another article or proceeding to read the essay with a rather critical attitude. All that the writer can do is to dis­claim any attitude of superiority with regard to the fault, freely admitting that he is himself subject to that which he describes, and ask ·the reader to hear what he says with an open mind. 
The fault of which I speak is usually experienced at some· time by just about everyone. An example is· the feeling one gets when he tries to recall _the contents of something he has read and can produce only a brief and meaningless generalization. It is understandable that not every book a person picks up is read well. But the problem is that the sketchy sort of perusal that a detective story gets is not what the academic matter in university education deserves. . 
And this is what I believe to be the major·defect of liberal education today ( a~d liberal education includes those liberal:studies in the science, business, and engi­neering curricula).· Education ·in .liberal arts is second rate at Notre Dame ·and most other places primarily because students do not want to or do not know how to study· well. . 
This essay is not concerned with the problem of stu­dents not wanting to study~ Given the generally espoused notion that everyone should get a college education, there is no .way to prevent universities from being crowded-and overcrowded-with people who have little desire to pursue the development of the 

Chris WOife 

intellect. The sobering thought ·is that students who do have some desire to learn usually do not know how to go about it. , . . 
Many students will object to this. Students with good marks might especially feel slighted since their good marks often reflect hard work. And this points 
.out the worst thing about grades: It is not the oft­bemoaned mark-mongering ~f those ·who care about only their 4.0: It is the fact that many people who get good marks are fooled into believing that they are really studying well. · · 
. The symptoms of the inability • to study · properly are numerous. 
Hardly anyone devotes .more than one reading to even a difficult book. People assume that if one reading of their books can get them A's in their courses, then only one reading is necessary ( because of their superior capacity to retain reading ma.terial, maybe). And it is enough for an A -but not for a good education .. 
Knowledge is not assimilated. Within-hours or ·weeks after a final the course material is forgotten, except for a few generalized impressions,. some in­teresting tr~via, and the names of a few good books that you qm use in a conversatio11,. or on a date, or ·at an interview. 
When course material is studied well, it is still often not a starting point for reflection which will yield a greater depth .of understanding and good critical evalu­ation which will be remembered for more than a short time. • 
Kno~ledg~ attained from different sources is rarely 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


brought together, even though insights obtained in the 
reading of, say, a good novel can and ought to be 
brought to bear on study in history, political theory, 
philosophy, and other liberal studies. The liberal stud­
ies all say something about Man and about men, so 
knowledge attained in any one particular field gen­
erally has ramifications in other fields. 
And the best symptom of all, to my mind: the class 
reaction when a professor walks in, sits down, and 
says, "Well, what do you have to say about the book?" 
Silence for a short while. Then a generalization about 
a particular part of the book or about its style. Or 
maybe a tentative remark about an alleged flaw. Or 
a statement of general approbation or disapprobation. 
Anything but a cogent presentation of the thesis, the 
premises, evidence, and reasoning involved, and a 
thoughtful evaluation of these. And if one or a few 
individuals do present something like this, . discussion 
is minimal because most people have not given careful 
thought to them, much less made sure that they could 
articulate such thoughts. 
Admittedly these are generalizations. There are ex­
ceptions to all of them, of course. But on the whole 
I. believe that observations such as these can be made about the study of many of even the best students at Notre Dame and elsewhere. 
These are only some examples. For a reader who is interested in seeing a more clear-cut critique of poor study habits of these kinds, the best source is John Henry Cardinal Newman's The Idea of a University. In the first chapters after the basic lectures he describes the· examination of two Latin students, one of whom has studied .poorly and is left with only general and inessential knowledge, and the other of whom has studied well arid knows what he ought to. The descrip­tion tends to inculcate in the reader a realization that he should make some radical changes in his study methods. 
( Some people will try. to dismiss the problem. by simply contending that they do not have enough time for studying as well. as they would like to. And this objection is -up to a point -justified. But, granted that doing things well requires more time than is avail­able, what follows? Does one try to do everything half-well, or does he do as much of the most important matter as possible very well? Ideally, the latter; in fact, the former.) 
HAVING been given the symptoms, one wonders about the reasons. As far as the students go, it would seem simply to be inertia. They don't study well because they have not been taught to do so and because they are lulled by good marks or indifference or general opinion into thinking that the problem does not exist. There is no way out of the problem as things stand ­until people become aware of it. 
It is difficult to arrive at a method of bringing the problem forcibly to people's attention. The faculty 
OCTOBER 9, 1970 
might contribute to the solution of a problem they have helped to create. The lack of rigor in testing and grading is part of the reason that many people think (unjustifiably) that they study well. As long as the fac­ulty have to go through the grief and trouble of giving tests and marking them, they might as well make it worthwhile by making them a more accurate indication of a student's level of study. The standards ought to be especially raised in the higher ranges. Theoretically C is the "average" student's grade -in fact average work usually earns a B. It will not solve everything, but more rigoro~s tests and grades are at least some­thing that will contribute to the realization of the problem. 
But grading is not the primary concern of this essay. Its purpose is mainly to encourage people to evaluate their own methods of study with a critical eye, and to try to improve . those habits with help from those who can offer it ( and there are professors who are willing to devote time to this, if only to make the ground in which they sow seeds bear more fruit). If an increasing number of students -and especially t.lie better ones-do not do something along this line, then universities will not be able to provide the well-edu­cated men who must be responsible for excellence in our society. 
Chris Wolfe is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in Government. A past Observer columnist, he ha,s occwpied a spotlight as first and foremost cam'f)US voice for the conservative stance. 
........ , 
~ '-' 
, ~i:;j\_~ 
.. ,:_~~,<r 

Each week the SCHOLASTIC will make this column 
available to a member of the University community to eX'[)lore and comment upon any issues of general interest to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of the SCHOLASTIC. 
I.
'

. . , 
. . -. . ' ' . -.. . .. . '. . . . 
THE classical guitar is a finely versatile instrument. In the hands of a master guitarist it becomes a sensi­tive tool for exploring the emotive content within a broad spectrum of musical structures. The composi­tions of the baroque and classical periods are often interpreted on the guitar, as well as the more familiar melodies originating in Spain and South America. Yet this range of musical potential is essentially prob­lematic to the guitarist: he must master several vari­eties of musical thought (no easy task), and develop a styie which will accommodate all these very different traditions. 
In two debut recordings made in 1966 and 1967 Christopher Parkening demonstrated a remarkable grasp of Bach and Wei_ss, representative of the baroque period, but a less exciting feel for the music of the Spanish masters, Sor, Tarrega and Villa-Lobos. With his new recording, Rornanza) Parkening returns again to the Spanish idiom to focus on a tempting theme for the guitar: the Spanish romantic piece. The album's orientation has brought Parkening under some criticism for selling soft romantic soap, somewhat in the man­ner of Andy Williams. Yet this is basically unfair; Parkening shows at least two conscious improvements in musical style. He has acquired a new texture in playing Spanish music, and he demonstrates a willing­ness to experiment with new arrangements of tradi­tional songs. 
It is a difficult business to describe the role of texture in the interpretation of music. Parkening's development might best be understood by way of con­trast with another guitarist, John Williams, whose playing is often criticized as being "mechanical." There is a certain quality, a tactile quality, missing from Williams' performance. In his debut album Parkening seemed to suffer from the same deficiency: his playing was precise but not inspired. In Romanza) this elusive, tactile quality suddenly appears -inde­scribable, but noticeably there. 
Christopher Parkening: Rorna:nza (Angel Records, 1970, $4.98) 






an old song 

Parkening's initiation into the sometimes-hazardous role of innovator was prompted by his cousin, Jack Ma,rshall, who arranged the traditional Spanish ballad known simply as "Romance" to include several dis­cordant harmonies. That Parkening recorded this 


becollles beautiful 
arrangement in the face of inevitable conservatist criti­cism indicates the extent of his new feel for Spanish music. Moreover, it demonstrates good taste; he and his cousin have transformed an old song into a beau­tiful one. 
SucH apparently minor indicators of musical develop­ment are important in considering Parkening, more so than most other recording guitarists. Parkening is ex­tremely young (24) and of unusual nationality for a guitarist, American. Few classical guitarists make early concert debuts; Parkening was 16. There has never been a major American guitarist, at least not in the classical field; but Parkening is so American that he was even born in California and holds the fly-casting record there. His stature in the music world will cer­tainly become greater if the small improvements in style are compounded regularly. _ 
Parkening's selection of compositions for the new 
album are particularly satisfying. He presents three 
works by the modern Spanish composer, Heitor Villa­
Lobos: Etude No. Il, and Preludes 1 and 3. The two 
preludes are most representative of the composer's 
ability to establish distinctive melodies within a con­
stantly shifting chordal framework. Two nineteenth­
century Spanish composers, Tarrega and Albeniz, are 
also interpreted by Parkening. 
Tarrega is often referred to as the father of the modern classical guitar. Although such epithets are usually assigned by enthusiastic biographers, there is no doubt about Tarrega's preeminence in developing a body of musical literature strictly for guitar. "Capricho Arabe," often considered as Tarrega's finest composi­tion, is played by Parkening with the full benefit of his improved feel for Spanish music. Albeniz wrote all his music for piano, and with such heavy Spanish fla­voring that his compositions are inevitably included in any concert or recording that intends to delve into the Spanish sound. The piece included in Rcmianza is "Rumores de la Caleta," which is heard less often than Albeniz's "Leyenda" or "Tango Espanol." 
Critical comment cannot proceed further than to recommend or not to recommend an album for listening. That is still perhaps the ultimate and most accurate appraisal. Many things in Parkening's recording are worth thinking or talking about; all of it is worth listening to. 
tom booker 


some thoughts on the art of dying 
DEATH is inextricably connected with film. The film­maker would be hard pressed to find anything to place before his lens which is not already in a process of decay or disintegration. The filmstrip itself, the camera body, the camera lens, the actors, even the film-maker himself are in varying stages of decay, varying levels of death. W'ithin this format, life can be effectively viewed as death in action. Films do not endure, neither does life endure. Someone who says, " . . . the cinema is a rifle ... " may be right. Under the presumption that the weapon is indeed loaded, and in fact aimed in some direction, one has to raise the question, who is the victim? The actors? The film-maker himself? The audience? 
Life seems to endure because it presents the illusion of a cyclical nature. Similarly, the cinema pretends to capture minute elements of life and present them, frame by frame, often under the guise of art, in a way that presupposes existence, and enforces that very ex­istence by its presence. In fact, one is tempted to think of art as a means of life, yet both the mover and the moved are open to vulnerability. At all points along a given line or plane, it might be correct to say that all movement is in the direction of death, and that what paradoxically appears as existence is in reality az:other stage on the road to decay. 
On the level of reality (and what an unsavory term that is), the film-maker cannot escape the fact that what he is filming is death. The actual filming of death need not be limited to a portrayal of characters or per­sonal relationships, but may also extend itself into the realm of the so-called "underground," where abstract qualities of light, colors, or sound may be the primary emphasis and motivational factors. Inasmuch as these elements are entwined with the physical nature of film, the physical nature of sound systems, then death is indeed present. However, statements such as sound will always exist, or blue will always be blue, even in a world of the dead, may be considered as diversionary tactics, since who would be present to know if blue was blue, if indeed there was no human existence to relay this information? Abstractions exist at the core of the cerebral concrete, and maintain their abstractness and their transcendence, only because of the temporal. Deny the temporal and paradoxically one has to deny the transcendent. Perhaps this is what Kierkegaard 
meant when he said, "But a paradoxical and humble courage is required to grasp the whole of the temporal by virtue of the absurd, and this is the courage of faith." By virtue of the temporal, the film-maker hopes for transcendence. 
DEATH may be one of the last realms in which the male can safely express himself. In the area of war­fare this has largely been deferred. Developments in missile power, bacteriological warfare, and the like, have largely destroyed the personal qualities of war. It is quite impossible then to say, with any degree of credulity, that one can still "fight like a man." Alas, one of the few areas of struggle still available is on the domestic front. Both Easy Rider and Joe attest to this fact. However, here again the personal element has been superseded by the symbolic element. So the male is thwarted. Try as he might, he cannot act in the traditional male role. The male prerogatives of combat and physical violence (bravery in the face of personal danger) are becoming outmoded. In the cine­ma, violence has degenerated into symbolic disaster, and the tragic heroes inspire neither hatred nor com­passion, but only confusion. 
In the fall issue of Film Comment, Charles Hampton touches upon a similar theme: " ... the sudden vanish­ing of David Hemmings into the child world of the invisible tennis ball at the end of Blow Up, and, in a more traditional manner, by the aerial backing shot of the burning motorcycle which ends Easy Rider . . . each is death, but each evokes the beauty, vitality, playfulness of the childhood pastoral. Our ambivalent feelings toward these endings are the result of the juxtaposition and subsequent breaking of mutually incompatible genre expectations." In a world di­vested of traditions, the tragic hero can only be viewed ambivalently. In a world of mutually incompatible genres (in the case of Eas'IJ Rider, the head world and the straight world), it is impossible to straddle both with any degree of safety or stability. Any attempt to do so results in destruction. This schizophrenic sense runs rampant throughout both Joe and Easy Rider, but strangely enough, only in the world of the male. Sexual union proves to be a means of straddling the gap physically ( especially in Joe), but the unconscious consequences may be disastrous. There is no similar means of straddling the gap by males of both genres 
OCTOBER 9, 1970 
short of homosexuality, and again, that is courting disaster, given the circumstances. Disintegration in the cinema is primarily male disintegration. 
The drug mythology that permeates much of_ today's films introduces the possibilities of psychological death on the screen. Again, in both Joe and Easy Rider, drugs are viewed as an essential part of the schizo­phrenic approach to male disintegration: 
The widespread use of such hallucinogens as peyote, marijuana, LSD, etc., as well as pep pills, goofballs, airplane glue, certain kinds of cough syrups and even, though in many fewer cases heroin is not merely a matter of chang­
, ' 

ing taste in stimulants but of the programmatic espousal of an anti-puritanical mode of existence -hedonistic and detached -one more strategy in the war on time and ,vork. Bul it is also (to pursue my analogy once more) an attempt to arrogate to the male certain traditional privileges of the female. ·what could be more ,vomanly, as Elemire Zolla was already pointing out some years ago, than permitting the penetration of the body by a foreign object which not only stirs delight but even (possibly) creates new life? 
As Fielder suggests, drugs may be connected to a new male/female schizophrenia. This is the most har­rowing conclusion of all. In Blow Up both sexuality and death are present only as a means of perception, observation, and manipulation. The closer Hemmings approaches either, the more distorted they appear. Death is merely disappearance, sex becomes merely picture taking and voyeurism. Perhaps one cannot even straddle the incompatible genres of the male and the female without destruction. This schizophrenia is of the deadliest kind. 
john stupp 





Juggler 
Notre Dame's journal of literature is now 
available at special 
subscription rates. 
"A fine beast of a magazine" -]. Michael Yates 




----------------------~ 
Subscription: 3 issues only $2.00 mailed off campus and out of town delivered on campus. 
Make check payable to: 
Juggler Box 583 Notre Dame, Ind. 

Name -------------------------------------------------­
Address ---------------------------------------------­
____I_____ ---.. 


coming distractions 

Senator George McGovern, an also-ran in '68 who may also run in '72, will talk about butter, not guns at 
4:30 p.m. today at Stepan Center. 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre opens its season next Friday in Washington Hall with a produc­tion of The Sea Gull, by Anton Chekhov. Players in­clude Lenore Wright, Jim Hawthorne, Missy Smith, Mark Genera and Jack Fiala. 
Ti-Grace Atkinson, perhaps the most radical, sep­aratist speaker for the Feminist movement, will speak October 11. 
The Gary Burton Jazz Quartet will be here one week from Saturday, courtesy of (but you still pay) the Contemporary Arts Festival. 
A string quartet from Amsterdam will perform the Sonata Da Camera October 20 in the library audito­rium. Doc Severinsen's Generation Brass will be here October 23. The CAF also will bring the Second City Players on the last day of this month. The group is from Chicago; they see themselves as actors and revolutionaries, insisting the two are inseparable. 
Lee Harwood, who read here last spring and wrote the wonderful line, "I will put down the poem and go and lay by my love. It is late and this madness cannot go on forever, thank God," will read in the library audi­torium November 1. 
The combined chorus of Notre Dame and St. l\lary's will perform Friday the sixth. But Sergio Mendez and his Brazil 66, probably at prices over most heads, will be at the Convo that Sunday. 
Jane Fonda, who hates the war, will be here that Monday; Bob Hope, who doesn't seem to hate it all that much, will tell some jokes Nov. 14. 
Leo J. Mulchahy, noted culinary columnist, is ex­pected to appear on campus soon, pending contractual negotiations and policy adjustments. 

football 
Notre Dame over Army-Too bad they couldn't have gotten Jefferson Airplane for tomorrow night's con­cert. 
Arizona State over Washington 
State-The Sun Devils are finally breaking into the Top Ten in foot­ball after years of baseball domina­tion in the NCAA. 
Penn State over Boston College­
Joe Paterno is finally back home in the East, apparently the only place he can win this year. The Eagles are undefeated in three games. 
Georgia Tech over Tennessee-­
The McAshan-led Yellowjackets are now 4-0, but meet their first formi­dable opponent at Atlanta tomorrow. A win here could push the 'Jackets into the Top Ten, adding a little 
OCTOBER 9, 1970 
more class to their Nov. 14 meeting with the Irish. 
Pittsburgh over Navy -The ­Panthers will also be carrying a pretty impressive record with them when they invade South Bend in November. 
Ohio State over Michigan State­
This just isn't Duffy's year. Look for Woody Hayes to try for more than a~ 29-point victory margin just to impress the pollsters that the Buckeyes are better than the Irish. 
Southern California over Stanford -But not by much. The Indians are still smarting from last week's up­set by Purdue and, for what it's worth, they have the homesite ad­vantage. Last year SC won in a squeaker, 26-24. 

Purdue over lUichigan-The Wol­verines had a tough time with a spirited Texas A&M team last week. A Purdue win here could show just how dominant ND is to supposedly strong Big-Ten teams. 
Nebraska over Missouri-Sports nlustrated thinks the Huskers are better than the Irish. It will be in­teresting to compare the results of this game with next week's ND­Mizzou clash. 
Texas over Oklahoma-At the "neutral" site of Dallas. A nation­ally televised clash sure to be a lot more entertaining than the zoo­show at ND Stadium tomorrow. 
Record to date: 13 Right, 6 Wrong, 1 'fie. Pct. 684 
31 


This puzzle, specificaJ,ly designed to tie yau in knots for Hornecoming Weekend) is the result of 6 lwurs combined effort of SCHOLASTIC Sports Editor Don Kennedy and a friend, Pat Donovan. 
Anyone who can solve this 'f}11ZZle in less than an hour wins a free trip.) financed by the autlwr. · 
ACROSS 1-All-time Irish scoring leader (football) 6-Number of points scored by Purdue in 1970 against 
ND 

7-First Japanese pro-baseball player to play in the 
Majors 13-Last pitcher to win 300 games in-the·Majors 14-Won Reisman Trophy in 1962 15-Irish placekicker on the Huarte-Snow team 16-Nickname of Red Sox outfielder -who attended ND 17-Black pitcher for the Dodgers from 1949-'58 (ini­
tials) 18-Right-hand~d starter for the 1970 Astros 22-Goose eggs 25-Princeton back drafted_ by Jets with Namath and 
Huarte 27-Scored touchdown that broke Oklahoma's winning 
streak in 1957 28--Magazine of the boxing world 29-Nickname of fighter who died of injuries sustained 
in a bout with Emile Griffith 30-No clue here, I'll give you a start with the letters or 
31-A cheer 32-His baserunning boner cost the Giants the pennant in 1908 35-Purdue defenseman who thought the Irish "didn't 
hit very hard" in 1969 36-0wner of the New York Yankees 38--What Namath almost quit football over in 1969 39-0utfielder-first baseman who went to KC from 
the Yankees in trade for Roger Maris (initials) 40-Nickname of Expos' Laboy 41-NHL Rookie of the Year in 1964-'65 · 45-What McLain, Karras and Hornung _have· in coin-_ . 
49-In tennis, the term used to desci:ibe a mistake on 
a serve 50-Mascot of DePaul (sans the color) 52-Quarterback for the Irish from '57-'59 54-Catcher who was a member of tlle original Colt 
.45's 55-Number of games the Irish have tied at neutral sites 58-Sports magazine that seems to hold. a grudge against ND 59-Opposite of depart (!know it's not sports, but it's 
the only word that fits) 60-What some people think Joe Namath is 63-Winning pitcher in last game of the i964 World 
Series 67-Position that Billy Cannon played for. the Raiders 68--What Namath and Mantle both had trouble with 69-The Preacher 71-Original home of the team that later became the 
New York Yankees 74-State that Ed Gulyas hails from (first three letters) 75-Same as 22 -· across 76-Bob, Don, Jackie and Thornton are a few of these 77-He threw the "eephus ball" 
DOWN 1-N.Y. Jets' first-round draft choice in· "1967 (from ND) 2-From 1959 to 1961 Paul Hornung had this claim to 
fame in the NFL (2 words) 3-_Goalie who allowed Bobby Hull's 51st goal in 1966 4-:-In baseball you either win -lose 5-This league holds the edge in All-Star game victories 6-Same as 6-across 7-Nickname·of the Buccos perennial second-baseman 
won (2 wds.) : ,: .. ·. 8-Johnny Raye's new home 46-His eighth-inning single drove in 51-dow:n to_ ac-9-·Ni~kname of 1-across count for the only run in the first -game ·-of the . · -"l~Golf's_ leading money wiriner in 1967. (first name) 
1948 World Series  11-Won NL home-run title in 1967  
47-Home of the NHL's Kings (initials) ·  .  12-·Ad---, opposite of. Ad-out in tennis.  
48-First name of racehorse that won the triple crown  -14--Scored first Irish touchdown against MSU in ·1969  
in 1919  ··  16-A cheer.  

19-Fighter who beat Jersey Joe Walcott for heavy­
. weight championship in 1949 (initials) 20-NL batting champ in 1955 (initials) 21-U.S. Open winner in 1964 (initials) 23-0ne of the guards on the 1969 Irish basketball team 24-Winner of the 1960 NCAA ·basketball tourney 26-U.S. President who spent much of his time playing 
. golf 32-The Big Red --­33-This hinders a fielder's chance at the Golden Glove 34-Last Ivy Leaguer to win the Reisman Trophy 36-Only team to win both the NCAA and NIT tourneys 
in the same year 37-Nickname of pitcher Belinsky 42-First part of one of the nicknames for Archie 
Manning's school 43-Latin for "that is"; abbreviation (sorry, another 
case of "the only thing that would fit») 44-One of the brother combos in the NHL (last name) 45-His teams have been in the top ten for the past 
six years 48-Relationship of Dick Sisler to George Sisler 
OCTOBER 9, 1970 
49-Number of years Terry Brennan coached the Irish . 51-He was ruled safe in a disputed pickoff play by Bob Feller and Lou Boudreau in the 1948 World · Series 53-Jim Bouton's last major league appearance was asan--­
56-·Second-baseman for the · Cubs from 1902 to 1913 
57-Rushing leader and MVP of the AFL in 1966 
69-In poker, the small wager placed before the deal 
61-What Harry Howell was last year 
62-What most AL owners would like Charley Finley to do with the Oakland A's 63-Abbreviation of 52-across' first name 64-What you load an air rifle with 65-The Barber 66-A Spanish bullfight cheer 70-Same as 75 -across 72-First two letters of the last name of Kentucky's 
high scoring center last year 
73_,Last two letters of last name of Packer end who caused many problems for the Chiefs in the 1967 Super Bowl 
In modern times, the ancient SCHOLASTIC_ -has displayed an identity problem, -vacillating be­tween the formats of a news magazine, a liter­ary journal, and a magazine of opinion and com­mentary. Its strengths have been a bright staff, imaginative-design, an occasional insightful single-theme issue, and three prodigious teacher evaluations. Its weaknesses have been an ideo­logical inbreeding, ari under-use of a faculty . whose diverse opinions could provide a counter­point to the relative sameness of student rumina­tions, and an elitist mentality which -has­answered charges of dwindling readership ·with:. "We influence the small group which sets the tone on campus." 

The paragraph re:.printed above is part of a letter sent to this office this week; it will appear as a column in the next Alumnus magazine, accompanied by a list of credentials to substantiate the critic's authority and capability. Traditionally, arguing from authority. is the weakest of ~ctics-especially when the "authority" is simply wrong. Most of the specific charges made here are questionable (for example, the magazine has used faculty members in each of the first four issues pub­lished this fall), but .finally minor. What is infinitely more serious and discouraging is the attitude that char­acterizes this _passage and the rest of the column. 
This attitude requires some examination, especially with a view toward the ScH0LASTIC's position on campus. If is the same set of assumptions that gave birth to the "Protestant ethic" in America. · Criticism of this -phenomenon has become so 'familiar as to be cliched. But that fact makes the problem not a bit less serious. What most critics fail to realize is that this ethic, beyond merely institutionalizing a Success moral­ity, has in effect shut us off from a whole set of per­ceptions, a way of knowing. 
The Jeffersonian admiration for the working man 
t 
I 
the last word 

has been transformed into a perverse and fatal religlon which hates those who refuse to work like everyone else-w:hether poor or rich. Leisure is identified with wealth or with laziness. Reflection_ and the search for knowledge are derided as superfluous-a "dessert" perhaps. ­
But leisure is not necessarily aristocratic. And re­flection is not necessarily "elitist." Nor is the upiversity a Metropolis. It is, or should be, a_ community of people seeking moral growth and the tools with -which to become better people. It should be an institution that ·shows us how to act weli-how to be, in Frank. O'Malley's words, "men of courage, spiritually formed, incapable of dissociating ourselves from social and his­torical changes, capable of alleviating suffering caused by them." 
It is only through reflection that we act well. It is only after asking the most serious and sometimes dis­turbing questions that we begin moving toward knowl­edge. That most of us refuse to confront, no less ask, those questions only makes them . more urgent and important. 
If there is any distinction at all between the uni­versity and the metropolis, if indeed the university has any meaning, it is exactly in its ability to ask those questions, to place understanding before usefulness. Those priorities cannot be termed "elitist" or "aristo­cratic"; they are, as William Arrowsmith makes clear, of the greatest importance. , 
Goethe, in 1830, wrote this in a letter· to. h.is friend Sorel: · .­I have never bothered or asked, in what way I 
-_was useful to society as a whole; I contented 
..myself with expressing what was good and true. 
<That has certainly been useful in a wide circle; 
:-but-.thaLwas not. the aim, it was the necessary 
result. 
, -Steve Brion 


When you know it's for keeps 
Happily, all your special moments together will be symbolized forever by your engagement and wedding rings. If the name, Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a selection of . many lovely styles. He's in the yellow pages under "Jewelers." 

~psake® 
REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS 

Rings from $ I00 to $ I0,000. T-M Reg. A. H. Pond Company
,------------------------7 
. I HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I 
f Please send new 20 page booklet, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" I and full color folder, both for only 25c. Also, tell me how to obtain the beautiful 44 page Bride's Keepsake Book at half price. F-70 f
I
I . I 
IN•m•-------------1 


I . I 
f Address•----------------------J
ICity,___________co•. ______ I 
Is,.,.,__'--_______________z;p . I 
I I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Students -Europe for Christmas, Easter, · or summer? Employment opportunities, charter :flights, discounts. Write for in­formation (air mail) 
Anglo America Association . 60a Pyle Street Newport I.'\V., England 


SUIT YOURSELF ... 
.. 

The Campus Shop has suits ... in depth ... in 3-buttons . . . 4-buttons . . . 6-buttons . . . vested ... blazer suits ... single-breasted ... Edwardians ... 2-pants ... wools ... blends ... and in YOUR favorite shade. Stop in ... suit yourself. The prices and terms won't stop you. 
Complete selection of slacks, shirts, sweaters, etc., etc. 
Use the exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy: 
,vear and enjoy your apparel now and pay 
One-third in January/One-third in February/One-third in March 
NO INTEREST OR CARRYING CHARGE 
---~--­
~~~ 







· LIER 
----___J<"", 
ampu,~ho
.......___

~ 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 




